Paradise on earth. Utopia. Few existed on earth. Fewer still in the air or under sea.
Also, paradise for whom was the question. If you meant ‘some people’, you could call some nations ‘paradises’ for the elite. For all was harder. And even then, the word generally only meant a place where people were free from disease, monster attacks, war, or banditry.
That was already beyond the Walled Cities, the ken of the Great Companies of Baleros, and the Kingdoms of Terandria by and large. They had 90% success rates, 99% success stories—but they always had loosely-held borders, slums, places where neglect led to suffering.
True utopias where such things were truly once-in-a-year occurrences or only occurred during total catastrophe? So few. And they tended to become targets because of how nice such places were. And if such nations guarded their borders, they tended to become military aggressors and so…
For a hundred points, add the following qualities: a stable utopia of at least four decades, where plague, monster attacks, and war did not trouble its civilians. For two hundred points: no starvation, free education and/or employment, access to medicine, and housing. Options also included higher-grade magical luxuries, an abundance of artistic or creative outlets, and reclining sofas.
That was a hard standard to meet. And a few utopias did qualify. There was Khelt, the undead kingdom of Chandrar, the Kingdom of Keys in Terandria, the Archmage’s Isle of Heiste…
But that was a list. To really break down what made each nation special, one had to know what each utopia had to offer. And what each lacked.
“It is, of course, impossible to compare the Archmage’s Isle of Heiste to Khelt. It is Izril’s only settlement qualifying of the title of ‘utopia’. Truly, it may be called such because it was built—a sensible decision by one of the Archmages of Wistram. She had the foresight to sequester and then construct her private paradise, which, upon her death, became the Archmage’s Isle. An abundance of plant life, carefully selected to provide fruits and nourishment from around the world as well as floral blooms of surpassing beauty. The isle itself has sumptuous housing, magical enchantments that protect and provide; indeed, magical familiars, Golems, and other servants. A utopia, I shall admit. But one with a flaw.”
The voice was precise, although it had a faint echo. Well-spoken, commanding, and slightly sneering. It waited for a response. After a second, someone replied.
“…What’s the flaw?”
“The Archmage’s Isle can barely provide for two thousand residents. And they would consider that crowded. There is no way to expand said isle either, since the [Archmage] who created it lies dead. Thus, the isle is fragile against overpopulation, such that they must routinely cull their numbers. Well, that is a necessity, but it is also highly endangered by invasive creatures who would consume the entire isle. Let alone Crelers; tunneling beetles nearly laid the utopia low.”
“Mhm. Beetles. Sounds nice to live in, though.”
“One may assume so. However, society within utopias matters. Consider the House of Minos. Another utopia, insofar that its citizens are without the most common of troubles. Even so—their society prides itself on the ephemeral qualities of honor and a warrior’s tradition. It must rely on volunteers to staff its navy and army to keep itself safe, and whilst I would laud the King of Minotaurs her nation more than Heiste—it too suffers the flaw of society.”
“The King of Minotaurs is female?”
A sigh. Or a sound like a sigh.
“Yes. The title is…as for the Kingdom of Keys, I would say the paranoia of its citizenry—not to mention the unique culture—interferes with its qualification as a utopia. Are you familiar with the Kingdom of Keys, Samal? Of course you aren’t.”
“Nope. What’s it like?”
The speaker was a [King]. Or rather…a King. Also, undead. He was named Fetohep of Khelt and his eyes flashed golden in their hollowed sockets as he reclined on his throne and spoke. On the nature of utopias, he was an expert.
“Doors upon doors. Each part of the kingdom, a passageway into the next. The outer…layer of the kingdom itself is a gateway that must be entered. Yet entire fields and farmlands lay beyond. An enemy must first bypass the gateway by force of arms—or keys of their own. Thus, safeguarded, Samal creates inner gateways. And its citizenry has taken that to an extreme. They lock everything with the same keys, obsess over what is theirs. To be great in Samal is to have a key to every lock. To be poor is to have a key only to the fewest things.”
“Makes sense. Is it nice to live in?”
“I would place it below the Silent Dome of Baleros—which is a maintained utopia for their honored elite. As I stated earlier, a utopia that caters only to a few could include even Roshal. But true paradise is far more challenging. It is simple enough to make one man live like a [King]. To make all live like [Lords] is far harder. And yet, I declare Khelt to maintain such a place. True, if I must list my nation’s flaws, it is our reliance upon water and the labor of the undead. Neither of which is a crucial weakness, but flaw exists. However, compared to other nations which must train and maintain armies…”
“Mhm.”
The undead ruler, Fetohep, paused. The reply was…well, the absent sound of someone who was clearly doing something else and making a ‘I’m listening’ noise.
It was not something he, Fetohep, ruler of Khelt for over six hundred years, was used to hearing. He balefully eyed the glowing crystal, hovering next to his throne, surrounded by a suspended, faintly-inscribed ring of oscillating gold.
A more permanent version of a speaking stone, which could be tuned to receptors at great distances. This one was currently tuned to Esthelm, Izril. And a young man was holding it against his ear as he fiddled with some mechanical parts.
“…Are you listening to me, Kevin of Liscor?”
“Er—absolutely, your Majesty!”
There was a hurried shuffling sound, as of someone sitting more fully upright and guiltily putting something down. Fetohep paused pointedly.
“My words are not so light as to be put after other, mundane activities, are they?”
“No, sire. Not at all…er…”
“Er, what?”
A pause, and the sound of someone scratching their head. At last, Kevin came out with it.
“Not to insult your Wise Majesty—but it’s just that, um…”
Fetohep waited, nodding at the proper address. The young man did vary it each time, which Fetohep appreciated. After a second, Kevin just came out with it.
“I’d hate to offend your Majesty. It’s just that, well, I’ve been learning of utopias and their qualifications for um, the last six hours, King Fetohep. And I uh—have work to do. Not that I can’t make time for our best client! But I…”
Another moment.
“…I have to pee.”
“Ah.”
The undead ruler thought about this. Then he imperceptibly moved his head and checked the ceiling. He noted the Skyceiling was displaying a markedly different time than when he had first called Kevin. The ceiling could, at will, reflect the open sky above. It had been about midnight when he had decided to educate Kevin on Khelt’s greatness. Now it was dawning.
Six hours of nonstop illumination on Khelt and utopias. Kevin would not normally have been so indecorous, but stopping Fetohep was like trying to stop a sandstorm. He would have to make a salient point and to interrupt him was to offend.
“I forget mortal qualms. Very well, Kevin of Liscor. Go perform such…bodily functions. Then, we shall discuss what you believe is a utopia.”
“Er—very good your Majesty. Only—”
Kevin wanted to sleep. And eat food. And not do that. He looked around—then Fetohep heard a crash.
“Oh no! I think it might be a monster attack. Someone’s calling the alarm! I have to—I’ll have to—”
“A monster attack?”
Fetohep’s voice reflected extreme skepticism. He did not hear the warning horns or bells—just a crash as something was hurled against a wall. He was about to point that out when the speaking stone went dead.
The King stared at the floating communications device. The flames in his eyes narrowed to pinpoints. Visible fury passed over him—
Then was gone. Emotion did not rule Fetohep. But he was…peeved at the obvious slight. He indulged in the rare emotion for a second.
Then—he had second thoughts. If there was one thing an undead being of centuries was good at, it was introspection. Moreover, Fetohep had not had the Skills in life, but he had learned what some [Mages], [Strategists], and other great thinkers like [Secretaries] had mastered.
True introspection. First he was angry. Then he questioned why he was angry. He questioned if he, Fetohep, was wrong. He tried to take the mortal position and found himself wanting.
“Six hours is long by mortal spans. Moreover, young men rush about. He has a business of his own to run. Perhaps I interposed my will overlong to provoke such desperation. He is not a fool.”
The ruler of Khelt nodded to himself, already processing the event coolly. After a second his glowing eyes burned a bit brighter as something else occurred to him.
“Midnight is also not an appropriate time to be awake for many. Ah.”
How he forgot such things. Fetohep smiled—or he would have smiled if he bothered to make facial expressions—or he would have smiled if his dead flesh were capable of such intricate muscular motions—as he recalled one such memory.
He had once inadvertently killed fifteen diplomats in his first century of reign by inviting them to gaze upon the wonders of Khelt. Which had included some rooms that were quite without air. He had demanded to know why they would not stand in his presence right before they expired for lack of oxygen.
The memory was amusing in hindsight, even if he had been mortified at the time. Fetohep wanted to recall it to…he looked at the speaking stone and his eyes flickered.
Ah. It was dead. And the person he truly wanted to talk to—either of them, really, but one in particular—was not here.
Something strange. Fetohep of Khelt did not move from his throne, where he had sat for three days. Straight. Without getting up to pee, without so much as budging an inch. He didn’t scratch himself, he didn’t twitch, or even breathe—he had been as still as a statue.
For three days.
Oh, he spoke. He had been speaking quite a lot, really. And that was…odd.
Yes, very odd. Why did he want Trey Atwood, or his sister, to be sitting there, perhaps on the floor, perhaps in the dining room where he would sit upon a throne there too and tell them about the inadvertent story of the dead diplomats—and then the numerous times he had intentionally killed them?
“Strange.”
Fetohep mused, because his mind was reminding him of some truths. He did not divide his consciousness up into parallel selves like the [Mages] did—but he had mastered the art of smart [Witches]. Introspectiveness. And he recalled—
He had not always been like this. In fact, a year ago? This was what his days would have been like.
Sit here, unmoving, silently maintaining and arranging the undead legions of Khelt. Sit and think. Or sit and be still, and let time pass like water unto sand.
He had passed entire weeks like that. Fetohep had once sat for five months without moving, without speaking, until he was roused to investigate a murder of passion that had taken place.
He recalled it quite clearly. And even if he seldom got close to his five-month record, he would still sit for hours or days unending without needing to so much as speak.
His servants came and went. They cleaned the palace, but they did not interrupt him except when he was needed. And that was surprisingly seldom.
Khelt had set up its society such that its ruler only needed to maintain and change what they willed. Fetohep was more preoccupied with border matters, trade, than he was with his people.
And frankly, it was fine. For Khelt…was a utopia. And its king had been content with his paradise in the sands because his people wanted for nothing. He had spent six centuries thusly, participating in some wars, defending his nation a few times, but really…making sure everything ran the way it had.
Only—now—something was wrong. The King sat there for sixteen minutes and forty three seconds and he was aware of sitting there. And a new thought emerged. One that had not troubled him since his death, but as a mortal man he had sometimes known.
Sands take me, I’m bored.
Fetohep looked around. His head moved; then he spoke.
“Pomle.”
The speaking artifact floated away and another appeared in its place. A large scrying mirror, perfect, highly-enchanted—Fetohep gazed into it.
“Are there any Sparring Events today?”
He was referring to the new practice in Pomle; fighting arenas where one could bet on two fighters—or even groups—who would battle until one or the other was defeated.
A new concept. However, not original. Gladiator arenas had existed long before even Khelt. In fact, Nerrhavia was beginning to broadcast its own gladiatorial matches, in its great arenas. Other nations were doing the same—even Illivere was going to broadcast Golem Testings, which Fetohep was very interested in.
As he peered at the empty arena and realized…it was dawn…Fetohep was already summoning the [Messages] of the scheduled Sparring Events to his mind.
Let’s see. Level 42 [Martial Artist] –specific class unknown—versus eight Level 20+ [Martial Artists]! Two Level 30+ among the eight. Oh, now that did sound interesting!
He reviewed the details. Hm. Even more fascinating. It listed ‘Dullahan’ as species for the Level 42 [Martial Artist], and gave a gender. Male. And since it was eight Level 20’s—well, the odds were still in the higher-level’s favor, but not by much.
Fetohep’s keen mind and undead memory presented him with options of who this could be. Even in Pomle, such a level was rare. Male, Dullahan…he was put in mind of the [Armored Fist] class of martial arts, who prized extreme resilience.
And if that were so, few Level 20 [Martial Artists] could take down someone twice their level, even with such numerical advantages. Now, a Garuda might be in trouble, but this?
Fetohep summoned another artifact; a Scroll of [Messages]. He spoke, and a quill wrote on the message, auto-transcribing his words.
“Fetohep of Khelt wagers a sum of eight thousand, six hundred gold pieces on the Level 42 [Martial Artist].”
The [Message] was transcribed, the bet laid in. Fetohep experienced some satisfaction as the odds instantly adjusted as the [Bookkeepers] taking bets on the event took note of his wager.
