Fetohep quite felt like he’d fallen into a trap. But if it was…he tapped his fingers on the armrest of his throne.
“Wistram News.”
The scrying mirror flickered to life. But it did not show…Wistram. Fetohep wished he could visit. And why not? He was Fetohep of Khelt!
…But dangers lurked beyond Khelt’s borders and he had to be here to protect it. He was a king.
Chained to a throne. The ruler of Khelt’s eyes burned in the darkness of the room.
No.
And yes.
He missed Trey. For the first time in centuries, Fetohep felt…lonely.
 
—-
 
The fifth day and fifth tale of the Emir Yazdil took place with the Terandrian Lord Alchremm, who had dined and taken Emir Yazdil’s hospitality for nearly a month. However, his disdain for the nation of Roshal was clear and he would soon return to his continent without signing a contract for mithril, despite the Emirs’ best efforts.
Even Yazdil had seemed to fail. But Lord Alchremm had yet to leave despite his hatred for Roshal for two reasons.
The first was that Yazdil was a consummate host and hired actual [Servants] to wait attendance on Lord Alchremm instead of his [Slaves]. He ensured the [Lord] had no lack of Lailight Scintillation’s wonders, and made the trip worthy of even a Terandrian [King]’s enjoyment.
The second was that over the course of his stay, the [Lord], who was unmarried, had met a charming [Slave] upon one of the outings. She was a beautiful woman—Human, like him—and was both educated and skilled at almost any activity imaginable. A [Concubine] in truth, and one that the [Lord] was soon fascinated by.
However, she was a [Slave] and on this day, the [Lord] finally approached Emir Yazdil with a request.
“Emir Yazdil. I have come to meet one of the [Slaves] among the employ of Roshal. Miss Chenera. And I have found her both intelligent and witty and…undeserving of this life as a [Slave]. With your assistance, I would like to purchase her contract and set her free, that I might marry her. I…ask your help in this regard, as I do not know her master and had not inquired.”
Though the matter was said to have been private, the [Lord] Alchremm made the mistake of asking Emir Yazdil as they dined in a restaurant, rather than private company, and their entire conversation was later retold to all those interested. The Emir, in this moment, had his bodyguard, Iert, silence what was said thereafter and hide it from conversation, but it was not hard to guess what was said.
Soon, Miss Chenera, who was indeed the highest class of [Slave] within Roshal, a gem amongst diamonds, appeared. However, her master did not. Lord Alchremm was confused, and then turned to Emir Yazdil.
“Where is her owner?”
The Emir then smiled—and the Naga replied.
“Surely you know I have more than Iert, Lord Alchremm.”
The [Lord], who had met few of the Emir’s servants, was startled—then embarrassed. He made the same request, to the Emir this time.
“I cannot give you my mithril mines, for I still object to Roshal. But I cannot simply leave Chenera here. She has…expressed affection for me, and I would marry her. What must I do to set her free?”
It seemed to all that the Naga had the Lord Alchremm at his mercy, but to everyone’s surprise, the serpent [Emir] simply raised a hand.
“I will revoke her contract and set her free, Lord Alchremm, if that is both your wish.”
The [Lord] was of course, startled, but delighted. He thanked the Emir and was in the midst of celebrating when the [Slave], Chenera, interrupted.
“Master Yazdil. Please, do not free me.”
The [Lord] was quite astonished and hurt as she promptly threw herself on the ground and begged to remain the Emir’s servant. He turned to her, and demanded.
“Miss Chenera! Did you not love me? We have exchanged secrets. I was most taken with you.”
Reportedly, the [Slave] looked up at him and then replied sincerely.
“I enjoyed your company, Lord Alchremm. However, I was told by my master, the Emir Yazdil, to do so. If I were to choose between the two, I would rather remain a [Slave].”
“Even should I marry you and make you a [Lady] of Terandria?”
“Even then, Lord Alchremm. I adore what I have here, and beg your forgiveness.”
The [Lord] was hurt beyond words and rose to leave. However, it was the Emir Yazdil who bade him stay. He was most upset, and spoke to the [Lord] and his [Slave] thusly.
“Lord Alchremm. I beg your forgiveness, as I meant to send one of my finest servants, Chenera, to be a fitting escort about Roshal. She is superior in all ways, as you noticed. Her will is her own, however, even now, and I cannot gainsay that. But as a token of friendship, I offer her to you as a [Slave], then.”
The [Lord] was most taken aback, and still hurt and vengeful. He did not respond then, but later in the day, he accompanied the woman back to his ship, which would set sail for Terandria.
The other Emirs were most confused by the turn of events. When one, accompanied by the Emir Darsul, reproached Yazdil for not demanding something in return, the Naga was apparently celebrating with his close friends. He looked up and answered the angry Emirs.
“Lord Alchremm has freed Chenera, as he vowed. Yet she is herself a [Slave] and even if he does marry her—which I doubt—I do not believe she will change who she is. I will wager you, Emir Mydre, that Lord Alchremm will return to us within four months and have changed his mind. For he now owns a [Slave] by a different name.”
And such was his conviction that all the Emirs believed him. Soon thereafter, it was said that Lord Alchremm had scandalized his kingdom by owning [Slaves]. And Emir Yazdil was said to be most contented by the news.
 
—-
 
Fetohep of Khelt toured his treasury on the sixth day.
The wonders of Khelt, which he had shown only a fraction of to Trey and Teres lay open to him. Each artifact a marvel; treasures like the Diamond Swords of Serept made or acquired by rulers of old in plenty.
He himself had added to that collection, paying vast sums for artifacts. After all, gold came and went, but objects of old kept their value. When danger came to Khelt, they would be used unstintingly.
“During the Creler Wars, you see, Trey, King Razzimir hesitated long over unleashing the full sum of Khelt’s vast armories. His journal I possess; I shall allow you to read of it later. He writes of his regret, that caused so many of Khelt’s own and Chandrar’s nations to fall as Crelers grew in strength.”
Fetohep turned his head. He saw the young man…
It occurred to the ruler that he might have a problem. He banished the spectre of friendship from his mind. But continued the monologue nonetheless.
“I understand his hesitation, in truth. He unleashed arrows, potions for his [Generals] and those of Chandrarian nations fighting the plague. He gave artifacts away, and they were lost destroying the foul things. Potions that could not be replaced, used in an instant, to little effect sometimes. But it had to be done. We of Khelt guard our treasures that we might spend them like water when the need arises. But it does seem…Dragon-like, does it not?”
He stared at the armory of weapons, each glittering in its place. No hands to use them. His perception as undead ruler was that this was necessary. But would the man, Fetohep, have agreed?
“I am Fetohep of Khelt. By my will—unseal the Apothricarium.”
He walked out of the armory and came to another place. The undead guards, who were cut far above mere skeletons, watched even him. Fetohep walked past them as the magical barriers unsealed.
There were guardians inside the great vault that held Khelt’s potions and alchemical artifacts. They stirred as Fetohep entered, recognized him, and refrained from attacking. Fetohep nodded to himself; he would have been more worried if they’d failed to threaten him.
Paranoia about thieves? Even Dragons would be impressed at the lengths Khelt’s rulers had gone to.
He walked down shelf after shelf. Although—they were not precarious, flat, bookshelf-like designs, but specialty-made [Alchemist] shelves. Each bottle had divot and holder, such that even earthquakes would not knock them out of place.
More than that? The room was airtight, highly enchanted with the best [Stasis] spells of their kind. Not mere [Preservation]. Hah!
“Was this where the diplomats all expired?”
Fetohep thought it was. He paced past Potions of Greater Healing, Draughts of the Well, a very tightly sealed Tincture of Oblivion—it was the kind of stuff that gave rise to legends. Drop that tincture in the wrong place and you got a sleeping castle. Throw in an angry [Druid] and there was a sleeping [Princess] and a place covered in vines, guarded by spirits of the forest.
And more. So many potions—but you could burn through them in a single battle if you wanted to. If you were not careful, and treated each one like it was irreplaceable.
“My great Queen Xierca. You labored long to restore the Apothricarium to this state.”
Fetohep halted. About a thousand paces in, the neatly labeled and sorted potions…ended. Yet there was a lot more room in here. But each shelf was empty. He shook his head.
Each ruler of Khelt was different. King Izimire. He had been kind. So kind his people became lax and fell into dark ways. He was a lesson in failure.
“He depleted this vault, Trey Atwood. Look. He spent potions upon his people. I understand his love. But I do not condone. You understand I bought the Yellow Rivers cure despite the need elsewhere? I would do so again. But if one of my subjects were to be brought to me, dying, and the only cure was a Potion of Greater Healing? I would only use it if the subject were…truly valuable. Despite the pain it would cause me.”
He shook his head, waiting for a response.
“Because Izimire thought the other way. And look. He emptied this great vault in his reign. Used Potions of Regeneration for children who had suffered accidents. He made his people incautious of their own frailties. My predecessor filled this vault and I have done likewise. But look.”
He reached out.
“We have so few left. Even in Khelt, this paradise of ancient times.”
Fetohep removed a single potion and gazed at it. A Potion of…he brushed at the beautiful glasswork on the bottle, admired the enchanted container, in itself worth a small fortune.
It would be so easy. Just one potion. And he had more. But was it worth the cost? One boy…even if he took the one it was meant for.
They were not his. They were not even the twins Atwood. Fetohep still…stood there. Holding the little bottle. At last, he stirred.
“Alas, Trey Atwood. I am not so kind.”
He put the bottle on the shelf and turned away. Cost and reward. The vault sealed behind him. He was not wrong. Not now, not with the same decision he would have made a hundred years ago and any other time in his reign.
But he wished the young man had been there to reproach him for it.
 
—-
 
The Emir Darsul tried to kill Emir Yazdil nearing the end of the week. It was a mighty plan, which had been conceived of by the foolish Emir for years. Yet it was the insult to mighty Fetohep of Khelt which began the treacherous night in full.
Fetohep of Khelt had paid four dozen of the finest [Assassins] in Roshal to slay the Emir on this night, and approached the Emir Darsul to remove Yazdil from power. In his undead wisdom, the ruler of Khelt did not expect the [Assassins] to triumph.
Indeed, upon that night, two thirds of the hired killers were seen to make half-hearted attempts. A crossbow fired wide, spells which destroyed a stall ahead of the Emir or far behind—and eight men and two women with names like ‘Yazdil’ met their fates.
Some of the Assassin’s Guild did try in truth. Yet, the Emir Yazdil remained untroubled, even if his bodyguard, Iert, was seen to vanish from time to time throughout the day. The Emir’s security was unquestioned, unthreatened even by Khelt’s ire.
Yet that was not the true nature of Darsul’s plan. Like Fetohep, he expected no aid from the Assassin’s Guild, who owed much to the Emir Yazdil and whose Guildmaster was said to be in Yazdil’s debt. The [Assassins] were only to distract the Emir’s security, even lull them into thinking this was the true attack.
On the sixth night, the Emir Darsul unleashed his Djinni.
He had possession of one of the great spirits of old, which had built such nations as the Shield Kingdom of Merreid, and whose children, the Jinn, had once spread across Chandrar far and wide until their end.
Even the weakest of their kind could slaughter Gold-rank adventurers, for no mundane weapon could hurt them, and magic was their blood. And the Emir Darsul did not possess a weak Djinni.
It was the reason why he was Emir so young. The dungeon had unearthed the artifact holding the Djinni, along with all its riches and made him so powerful he could insult Emir Yazdil to his face, and make even the most dangerous in Roshal walk quietly around him.
A Djinni is not to be used lightly, even so. An incautious command would see him dead, and even a Djinni cannot protect one from a blade in the dark.
But such was his enmity that Darsul used his great treasure this night. Cunningly, as well, and it was thought that Fetohep of Khelt advised him on the plan.
Instead of sending his Djinni against the Emir Yazdil, who might have guarded himself well against such dangers, being a man of intelligence and understanding the dangers of such opponents, Darsul commanded the spirit to find Yazdil’s treasuries in his palace and empty them. To take his opponent’s wealth and destroy everything that could not be carried away.
In addition, he armed the Djinni with three artifacts of destruction, including a Wand of Disintegration, that the spirit might be unmatched even if the Emir Yazdil had other Djinni. He bade the spirit go, and the Djinni was set loose.
To say this was a mighty threat against Yazdil was no understatement. Even if he had Djinni of his own, he might well lose them in battle, and thus he and Darsul would lose irreplaceable servants. Moreover, the battle could well destroy his palace. His bodyguard, even great artifacts might be nothing compared to a wrathful Djinni.
And yet…the night was quiet. Emir Darsul paced in his study, or so it was said by his servants, fretful and furious, but hoping that his servant had eluded all guards and was now removing Yazdil from power. It would be a sweet victory and all the more powerful if Yazdil woke with nothing to him. He would not remain Emir for long, then, penniless.
After all—money was only money if you held it safely. In the same way, power in Roshal depend on who held the leash. More than one [Slave Master] had ended up just like all their possessions.
