“This is so. I have them myself.”
“Then, Lord Alchremm, if one of these folk were to tell you they wished to be a [Knight], or an entire family, a village, asked to leave, would they be allowed to?”
Reportedly, the Terandrian [Lord] frowned mightily.
“That would not be acceptable. I would need them to work the fields and they are part of our lands.”
“So you would prohibit them.”
“I see what you are doing, and it is not the same.”
The Emir shrugged lightly.
“Then let us say it is not. However, let us consider prisoners of war. I have seen them paraded in my visits to Terandria, dragged out and humiliated. Are they slaves?”
“No. They are prisoners of war.”
“Are they not collared and chained? Do they have free will? I have heard prisoners—half-Elves—rotting away in dungeons for centuries, unable to die, without right or liberty. Is that better than slavery?”
To this, Lord Alchremm fumed as he searched for a response. The Emir Yazdil’s arguments were well-liked by his fellows, who jested long at the [Lord]’s expense. But the Emir once again silenced them (enraging some, who felt he was altogether too accommodating to such a rude man), and spoke.
“I do not have issue with anyone who will tell me they despise slavery and make reasoned arguments against it. That is their will, and I will accept that even if I disagree. What bothers me are those who object to slavery and point to Roshal as the heart of all evil, while ignoring and condoning it in their lands. Lord Alchremm, I beg you stay at least a few more days to reconsider.”
The Terandrian [Lord] could hardly have missed how angry some of the other [Emirs] were, and consented with ill-grace despite his distaste. Thus, the Emir demonstrated his serpentine tongue regardless of form.
What was said next was most important, though. As the Emirs and [Slave Owners] engaged in hot debate around the subject and morality of slavery, the Emir spoke in private company, but the contents of which were spread across Roshal in a heartbeat.
“By different names, we maintain the same institution. Roshal is open about it, but hypocrisy I loathe. Munificent and ageless Khelt in all its glories makes better slaves of its citizens than I ever could.”
This provoked uproarious laughter and good humor by all for Khelt was not beloved in Roshal as it forbade slaves. The Emir was not content to let his remarks lie there, however. He remarked to the others as they began to jest about Khelt and its ruler.
“I do not mean to impugn the ruler of Khelt himself. Rather, I have never met Fetohep, but seen and heard of him and I pity few others as much as he. I have seldom seen a [King] chained to a throne as Fetohep of Khelt.”
Such remarks were made in a private gathering, but they were repeated throughout Roshal and more jokes made at Khelt’s expense. It was reported they reached Fetohep of Khelt in time, and the undead ruler’s wrath monumental. However, the Emir Yazdil reportedly had no memory of making the remarks at dinner.
“It was a passing observation, then. The argument around slavery is not one I tend to recall my debates in. Others say ‘this should not be so’. I say it is so. There we disagree and I go about my day.”
 
—-
 
The fourth night occupied Fetohep without a hint of boredom. He finished paying all the [Assassins] and arranging Emir Yazdil’s horrific murder and then relaxed.
Unfortunately, most people had about a third of their day occupied by sleep and other mundane, time-wasting events like eating, excreting, and so on. Fetohep was extraordinarily efficient, and thus found himself sitting on the throne.
He eventually stood up. He reached out mentally and summoned Khelt’s warriors.
Undead skeleton-warriors, armed in rusting metal, rose from the sands as Fetohep walked out of his palace. His servants remained in the palace.
Fetohep stood in a circle of undead warriors. Some had been simple citizens of Khelt. Others had actually fought. All were warriors now.
When they rose on Khelt’s land, they were stronger, faster, deadlier, imbued with the knowledge of combat. Elsewhere? Mindless, weaker. Fetohep’s power extended across his domain and weakened with every mile. If he could have, he would have sent a hundred thousand undead to Roshal for the insult.
But that would be a hundred thousand bodies lost to the desert, turned into an undead horde that might well attack another nation or simply be lost. Fetohep had to rely on politics and gold abroad. But in his kingdom? Even the King of Destruction would beware invading Khelt.
Still. His armies of the dead were one thing. Yet the ruler in this moment had forsaken his robes. He had put on armor.
He carried a halberd, enchanted, made of the famed adamantium metal, the weapon he had carried in life. It hurt the eyes to behold. The undead warriors stood in a vast circle around Fetohep, a thousand of them.
After forty one minutes of standing there, Fetohep removed his helmet. He took each piece of beautiful, enchanted armor off, and then planted his halberd in the ground.
“Foolish.”
That was all he said. He turned and began to walk to his palace again. Then he looked back. The glowing eyes of the skeletal warriors, only bits of emaciated flesh left, stared at him. Fetohep hesitated.
“And yet.”
He reached down and touched his chest, covered by the thin cloth. Bemused, Fetohep lifted his hand, flexed it, then touched his chest again.
“…Why do I think I can feel it beating?”
The ruler looked around. The undead skeletons stirred. Their eyes glowed and their jaws rattled. They rushed forwards in a silent mass, swords slashing, worn shields raised. Spears jabbing—
Two hours later, the servants saw the ruler of Khelt return. He had neither his armor, nor his halberd.
“Clean my armor and weapon and return them to my rooms. The bodies shall return to the ground soon.”
He instructed them. The servants looked out into the courtyard.
The halberd and armor still lay there, untouched. The thousand undead lay in piles. Fetohep had tossed the sword he’d seized down when he left. The King was thus amused and bemused the rest of the day, and spent the rest of it touring the armories of Khelt, recalling old legends or inspecting artifacts.
 
—-
 
The fourth legend of the Emir Yazdil revolved around his bodyguard, who was mentioned before.
He was being entertained with some of the other foremost men and women of Roshal by one of the new Emirs—a Stitchman who had made vast fortunes on a dungeon unearthed far to the east recently. He had paid for adventurers and [Porters] and, when the dungeon was discovered to hold vast treasures, made rich. The lowly [Slaver] and [Merchant] had become an Emir before he was thirty.
And he was arrogant enough to consider the Emir Yazdil a rival. So much so that he displayed his wealth, artifacts, even a captive Djinni before the Emir in a show of glory that impressed even the others.
It was said that the Emir Yazdil ignored all but the Djinni, whom he exchanged some polite conversation with, and had only eyes for the younger Emir’s [Slaves].
“Your personal harem contains beautiful women the world over, Emir Darsul.”
The younger man puffed up at the compliment, but maintained his dislike for the Emir. So his response was both condescending and arrogant for all who heard it.
“Of course, Emir Yazdil. They are [Ladies], adventurers, [Mages], and more, the finest the world has seen. And you have…neither concubines nor servants?”
Only Emir Yazdil’s bodyguard was present, who was notable for having saved the Emir’s life just a few days ago. The Emir did not seem to take offense.
“I have never desired concubines, and Iert is enough to pour drinks and watch over me here.”
His modesty infuriated Emir Darsul, who saw it as a slight that the Emir had not brought a fitting escort. He reportedly snapped back.
“Ah, but if you had a harem, Emir Yazdil, could you surpass mine? We both have gold aplenty, but I have spared no expense in finding the finest [Slaves].”
Indeed, he had even outbid the Emir on several occasions and was known to spend gold like sand. Once again, the Emir did not rise to the insult, but replied steadily.
“I said your [Slaves] were fine, Emir Darsul. But I did not say I envied you. For it seems to me that not a single one loves or admires you. Nor, I think, if I took off their enchanted collars, would any of them remain.”
“And what does that matter? I do not require loyalty from my possessions.”
“I consider it the perfect mark of a [Slave Master], myself. For instance, my bodyguard, Iert, has neither enchanted collar nor bindings on him. If he were to desire to leave, or attack me, I would not be able to stop him.”
At this, all the other Emirs were quite unsettled and looked at Yazdil’s bodyguard, who was nearly of note as the Emir himself.
Iert, who was until now, nameless, was a Gnoll with reddish fur, like the redwood tree, who was born of [Slaves] and raised in Nerrhavia. He had become a [Gladiator], and became champion of Nerrhavia’s greatest arena, the Coliseum of Glass, and won his freedom.
Of course, that was before he was twenty, and then went on to become an adventurer, who some say might have become a Named Adventurer. But as such stories go, he grew arrogant and soon ran into debt, upon which time he became a [Slave] again.
It was then that the Emir took him into his employ, and not much was seen of Iert for ten years as the Emir himself rose to power. When he reappeared, the Gnoll was his bodyguard.
Now, scrutinized, the Gnoll bowed. The Emir Darsul, very much taken aback, demanded to know how this was.
“Did you suborn his mind with potions or spells?”
“Not at all. Or should I say, I do not enchant him to obedience.”
“Then how do you sleep at night?”
“Very comfortably, with him watching over me. You see, Emir Darsul, you possess slaves. I train mine, into becoming what I believe makes them best. And they are, of course, loyal. Happy too, is that not so, Iert?”
“I am happy, Emir Yazdil. Or I would point out that I was not.”
The bodyguard’s response doubly enraged Emir Darsul, who by now had developed a great loathing for the Emir Yazdil, quite aside from Fetohep of Khelt’s own involvement in Darsul’s enmity (this was known only after the fact). He sarcastically turned to the Emir Yazdil.
“And what if you were to end up dead in your bed, with your trusted servants having slain you and taken all your possessions?”
The Emir thought quite long about this, then replied levelly.
“I would consider that a failure on my part. If such a thing occurred, I would have no one to blame but myself. I trust Iert completely to do whatever I ask of him. And since the most basic thing I would ask of him is not to kill me, I do not think twice about it.”
The other Emirs laughed at this and complimented Yazdil, which did not enrage Emir Darsul further because he was most likely at the peak of his fury in any case. However, he happened across an idea which caused him to smile and suggest to the Emir.
“Why do you not prove it, Emir Yazdil, and order your bodyguard, Iert, to run about like a dog and fetch whatever you toss.”
To this, the Emir was visibly upset.
“I would prefer not to.”
“Because your servant would refuse?”
“Because it would distress him, and therefore, me.”
The Emir Darsul then smiled and insisted.
“If he will not do this, Emir Yazdil, who is the master and who is the [Slave]?”
The Emir, who had not been enraged until this moment, grew quite angry, but to the surprise of all, his bodyguard promptly did as the Emir Darsul had requested. Upon completing the tasks, and the Emir Yazdil tossing his plate, Yazdil excused himself.
He later remarked to his friends in the hearing of all those on the street on the way back from the party on the event as follows:
“I believe that was one of the most painful experiences I have had to witness in my life. Certainly to you, Iert.”
“It was nothing, Emir Yazdil. I merely wished to prove to the Emir Darsul that your methods had no flaw.”
Such loyalty inspired the other Emirs to be impressed even more with Emir Yazdil’s methods, and it was certainly true that no one had ever heard of Yazdil’s slaves running away, which was quite common to Roshal. Thereafter, rumors began circulating that Yazdil and Darsul were mortal enemies, the truth of which became evident soon thereafter.
 
—-
 
On the fifth day, Fetohep of Khelt found himself pacing.
Pacing around. Which was such a strange action for him to be doing that he stopped at once and called for a drink.
The only thing undead could really imbibe were types of mana. Maybe crushed bone, which they could use to fortify their skeletons.
Fetohep employed [Chefs] who could make such dishes, and the rare treat was death magic-infused liquor. It didn’t really taste since his taste buds were long gone, but he savored its effect upon his being, like a shot of flavored energy for the soul.
What was wrong with him? Even his servants could tell that something was off. The King of Khelt sat there, pondering his strange actions of late. He’d called Kevin in the morning and made the young man list off all the new bike projects he was working on this morning.
What was it? The ruler recalled the last time he had sat here, in the dining room. There had been a young woman. And before that?
The young man with the iPhone. Who had shown Fetohep his world’s wonders. Who had listened and…
“So that was it.”
Fetohep murmured. The servants stirred, as he put the cup down, ready to serve it again. Fetohep sat back and announced.
“I have been poisoned.”
The servants dropped their possessions. One ran for the doors; another called for Khelt’s immortal warriors to—Fetohep lifted a hand.
“Stop.”
He’d definitely misphrased that. He calmed the panicking servants and sent someone to retrieve the [Chef], who’d gone running for his life at Fetohep’s words.
…The Ruler of Khelt decided to take his thoughts to his throne room, without an audience. He sat there.
He had meant it, even if he hadn’t meant it the way his servants had taken it.
“Poison.”
It was a terrible thing. He felt as though he could remember his heart beating. He was restless, antsy. He desired things to occupy his time. And he looked upon his people and saw them as…mundane. He wished they would make more of themselves, even as part of him knew they were content and would not level because of it.
All because one young man had made him remember what it was to be mortal. All because he missed Trey Atwood, and having someone to talk to.
“What a terrible thing it is. Flos Reimarch. That boy is either a lucky fool, or an intelligent fool. But then, his great strength was always the bonds he forged with people.”
