It was this meeting of worlds which had forced him to think ahead. He always did. Yazdil’s one goal was to keep things mostly as they were, and that wasn’t easy. And the trouble was that these children were everywhere. Wistram had some. And the Blighted King others…the King of Destruction…
It was going to ruin things. Upheaval, unrest…the Naga glumly thought about the future. He had never wanted to conquer things. It was so much work when you could have children—not that he had any—or create a happy place for yourself.
Let the King of Destruction rule and rage and the other nations clash. As far as the Emir was concerned, the stronger the better. If Earth did come—it would be war, or at least, a new world.
His only goal was to make sure Roshal, and he, survived it.
To that end, he had repurposed these rooms, expanded them. Past the rooms where he sometimes spent hours with Iert and his most trusted people, unlocking the electronic devices—or playing those little funny games—past the maps he’d made, ferreting out clues to where more children were.
He kept his ears open when he was Human. The Singer of Terandria—now there was someone he would love to have. What beautiful style! What talent! Ah, but that was a challenge.
There was the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Also on his list.
The Last Light of Baleros—he was almost certain it was one of Kent’s [Doctors]. The Blighted King’s ‘Heroes’, Rémi Canada, Joseph…
It was easy to find them. They stood out. And the ones who shone, he wanted. He had some…rather ordinary ones. Yazdil desired the ones who had not only lived, but flourished.
“That poor girl. Ah, if only those foolish Drakes weren’t so bloodthirsty!”
The Naga complained. Just when he’d found her, she was killed! And she seemed so extraordinary. Antinium? He had always wanted one, but feared they were too…insectile. Now, he was itching to meet one and see if they could be turned into a masterpiece.
It was like that extraordinarily fun game on one of the little devices the Earth-children had brought. Iert thought it was a foolish game. Yazdil had felt like the game was meant for him. Collect and improve. Someone on Earth understood how he lived.
If he had to compare his class or explain it, it was like a [Gemcutter], or perhaps a [Chef]. You had raw ingredients and material. You made something better with it. Made people happy.
And yourself, of course.
He did not want war. He did not want strife. But never let it be said that he did not prepare properly, or did not understand such things. Yazdil had acquired experts in every field. And he employed what he did not collect.
In this case? The [Alchemist] had labored long. He—and the four assistants—had been part of the Mad Ones, who had ended up as [Slaves]. Now, the slightly-crooked man approached the Emir.
“Yazdil. Yazdil! Success!”
“Is it the kind of success I should observe behind a forcefield?”
The Emir had already changed his rings for a Ring of Protection. And he was ready to slither behind the barricades in the wide room. The [Alchemist] was rubbing his hands together.
“No! Maybe! But we’ve finally figured it out. Look!”
He pointed. The Emir peeked around the edge of a reinforced mithril-plated barricade and saw a still-hot tube-thing in the center of the underground room.
“Ah. It didn’t explode?”
“It didn’t explode. And you should see what it did to the wall!”
Emir turned his head. He sighed.
“I liked that wall. Can you replicate it?”
He eyed the tube. It was a large one, and there were dozens upon dozens of busted-out copies. Made of types of metal—steel, Dwarfsteel, mithril, even enchanted wood! But all had been torn apart.
“Of course. But we have to test how much it can handle. And how many times it can work before it explodes!”
The [Alchemist] threw up his hands happily. The Naga sighed. It was hard keeping him on track.
“Good. Then test. And try the smaller ones?”
“They’re too small. Why make a small one if you can make one the size of a wagon?”
Yazdil rubbed at his head.
“So you can carry it, Tinn. So you can carry it.”
“Ah. Well. We’ll work on that. But how many would you like? We’ve been experimenting with the…the…assembly idea. It works. Will you sell them?”
“No.”
The [Alchemist] looked disappointed and hurt. Yazdil clarified.
“That is, not yet, Tinn. Why sell it? Produce it, and we will store it away. Improve your designs.”
“We need more sulfur. That’s the tricky stuff. The charcoal is easy, and the [Alchemists] have the other materials. We’re even experimenting with magical additives…”
“If you cause another earthquake, I am going to make you work on the other projects.”
The [Alchemist] hesitated. The recipe for black powder was one thing—but then he’d decided to add blazepowder, and other explosive alchemical ingredients to the mix.
That was one reason why progress had been set back, and the thirty-plus [Alchemists] and assistants were down to five. Yazdil had been most upset and was scouting for people who fit his exacting criteria.
“It will be used, though?”
“Oh yes. A time will come for it, Tinn. Until then, be safe. Work hard.”
The Naga looked past him, at the smoldering cannon prototype as the assistants gingerly cooled it. Put in the powder hot and it might detonate. Another important lesson.
He had never desired conquest. And still did not. He would rather let the other world lie, but he had no idea why the two worlds were meeting. Yazdil wanted an end to it. But he prepared for the worst.
If the worlds met, or the ideas from Earth came to fruition here—and they surely would—things would change. The ideas of Earth might inform this world, and Roshal come to trouble.
Well, they had tried before. Terandria, other nations. To usurp or steal or shut down. Let them come. Roshal was his. This was his world. The Naga twined around Tinn possessively as the [Alchemist] muttered that he was too busy for sex!
If you would take my world away from me, come. The Naga would hold onto what was his until the last.
