“Emir Yazdil. Has someone rendered you helpless? Or am I to leave you here and call for a [Concubine]? Or shall I untie you?”
The Gnoll stepped past the table, ignoring all three objects, and gently pulled the gag down. The Emir Yazdil blinked up at him as the blindfold was also removed.
“Untie, Iert. How is Darsul?”
“Dead. They are telling stories about you in the marketplace.”
“Are they?”
The Naga smiled. He stretched as Iert cut away his bindings and stood, unabashedly naked. The Gnoll bowed his head.
“The Seven Legends of Emir Yazdil. One for every day of the week. I can repeat it for you, if you wish.”
“I would like to hear it myself. And Mak’erieen?”
“Enjoying her day in Roshal. She will be back by nightfall.”
“Good.”
The Emir stretched. Iert looked around and found his clothes, neatly folded in a corner of the room. The Emir preferred loose clothing when he was a man. He walked over to retrieve them and heard a cracking sound.
Like…sinews and tendons snapping. Iert held still, waiting. He turned; and the Naga was rising, his serpentine scales flickering orange-yellow in the light.
Shining, polished, sinuous. The Emir preferred to be a man in most companies. Because to look at him as a Naga was to see him for what he was. Far more dangerous than the scholarly man.
He smiled at the Gnoll. Iert picked up the clothing and tucked them away; they weren’t needed now.
“Was that a test, master?”
“Of course it was. Were you at all tempted?”
The Naga looked at Iert, teasingly. The Gnoll sighed.
“No.”
“Not even a little bit?”
“What would I be tempted for? Tell me, has anyone ever failed that test?”
“Not when it was actually me. Ah, my scales are dry from sitting so long. I thought you’d be back hours ago. You had breakfast, didn’t you?”
“Blackberry tarts.”
Without being asked, Iert fetched a container of very high-quality scale cream. The Drakes made it, as well as Lizardfolk. The Emir let the Gnoll apply it to his dry scales, sighing. His tail slowly began to curl around the Gnoll’s legs. It was a habit; Iert ignored it.
Yes, he could well imagine it. Someone would come across the Emir. Just like that. And in their wrath, even if they hesitated for a long time, they might take up the dagger, or scroll, or key, or all three. And stab the Emir to death, or teleport, or use the key.
Then they would wake up.
The Naga twined about his most beloved servant. Some things they said were true. Such as the fact that Emir Yazdil prized people more than artifacts or animals. Darsul had collected a harem. Yazdil desired more than that. Gender did not matter. Attractiveness did not matter.
Competence and loyalty did. And the Naga was possessive.
“Do you want anything, Iert? You’ve worked hard this last month.”
“If I think of it, master, I will tell you.”
“Please do. Tonight, you, the Djinni, and I shall dine. No parties, no gatherings for a few days. It is all done. Darsul’s holdings—”
“I will inform his people and replace them as need be. Or send Cuaqua to do it.”
“Send her, or do it tomorrow. You will relax, today.”
“As you will.”
The Emir sighed. The Gnoll diligently applied the scale-cream without even rising to any of the bait. He was too serious—but that was how Yazdil had made him and he would have it no other way.
The Naga uncurled. Now was not the time. Later, perhaps, he would see what Mak’erieen was like. He was always curious about Djinni—although he would never offer her the test he sometimes teased Iert with.
“I am going down, Iert. You will indulge yourself today.”
“Will you leave the palace?”
The Gnoll calmly met Yazdil’s eyes. The Naga pouted.
“No. Not without informing you.”
“Then I will indulge myself.”
The Gnoll finished; the Naga shook himself, luxuriating in the fresh feeling all over his body. Calmly, his servant bowed.
“Dinner, then.”
And left. And finally, Emir Yazdil was alone, triumphant, not the figure of stories in Roshal’s markets, but just the Emir.
What was the difference? Well, the first was that when Yazdil was alone, he hummed. His head bobbed to the rhythm of the cheery song as he slithered out of his rooms. His body glided down polished stone rather than carpet; all the easier for him to move around like this.
The second was that he had [Slaves]. He was a [Slave Lord]. An [Emir], rather. Not nearly as many as his fellow rulers of Roshal, but each one hand-picked.
Each one unique. There was a [Master Archer] Garuda, cleaning the floor. Here was a [Slave] who had beaten everyone, including the Emir, in games of chess.
Extraordinary, and loyal. Each one would have untied the Emir and called for the alarm if they’d found him naked and gagged. He had not lied to Darsul.
‘Only a poor master thinks that owning someone is the same as possessing them.’ The stories had gotten that wrong, too. The fool Darsul had never understood that.
Down through his palace, past the smaller staff, who took their leisure even as they worked. If one had seemed distraught, unhappy, or discontented beyond maybe mere annoyance with stubbing their toes or so on, the Emir would have stopped and asked why? His servants would never go to another master for want of more.
Yet they were all [Slaves]. The Emir hummed as he went down another ramp; stairs were a terrible thing for Nagas, Centaurs, and other species who did not suffer the tyranny of them well. He was smiling, relaxed.
These were the differences between Fetohep and Yazdil. Well, some of the differences. Where Fetohep sat, Yazdil seldom held still. Whilst Fetohep preoccupied himself with his nation, Yazdil did not. Darsul had been a rare, annoying occasion where he had to work against a young man determined to make the Naga his foe.
And whereupon Fetohep had probably forgotten all the pleasures of mortal flesh, Yazdil luxuriated in it. Between two species even. He drank wine, he socialized, he made liaisons with lovely people of every kind. He loved it all.
And lastly, Fetohep was bored. Yazdil was not. If there was any trouble in the Naga’s mind in this hour of victory, it was what lay below.
Reflexively, Yazdil used his arms to reach for something he carried at all times. A simple Potion of Calming. It would not do to have another attack, such that he was rendered trembling until Iert dragged him into bed with him.
No indeed.
 
—-
 
Down, down, through the rich hallways of the Emir’s palace. He was rich. Fetohep-rich? Well, perhaps richer. Not in age, but Yazdil controlled a portion of Roshal, one of, if not the richest ports in the world. They were the center of the slave trade, and there was no other comparable economy save perhaps that for war.
And Roshal could do war as well. Their people crisscrossed Chandrar and parts of the other continents, taking ransomed prisoners, trading…
The Emir had everything he could want. He had all the people he could want and was always looking out for more. He was not always happy; he could be in terribly petty moods.
For instance, he had sulked for nearly two weeks when it came out that Empress Nsiia had been made a political prisoner rather than taken captive by another nation. But if you asked the Emir Yazdil what he wanted to change about ‘now’, he would say, ‘absolutely nothing’. And have Iert show you the door.
And he meant it. Really, truly, he wanted this to be his life. And why not? Who could really want more? There were [Kings] who would beg for this life.
That was why it was so disturbing, so unfair. The Naga sighed as he stopped in the bowels of his palace, over the leyline of magic. Where his security was strongest, and where not even the greatest [Assassins] or [Rogues] or spells would penetrate.
This is where he created his servants. It was not a place Iert or any of the others liked to go.
Yazdil had modeled it after the Assassin’s Guild. He had studied other organizations and the Guild of Assassins in Roshal had ways of training their Ranks. Yazdil did not have the thousands of years to perfect his methods, but he did well enough. They had created a cheap, practically zero-cost training course for creating competent, if low-level [Assassins] who were very loyal.
It wasn’t hard. Yazdil could do it. All he needed was a cornucopia-type artifact which could provide somewhat nourishing food, a pocket-dimension, and of course, a system whereby new [Assassins] were trained by old ones.
But as cheap as that was, Yazdil paid for more…effective methods with his people. He passed door after door, some of which led into entire complexes by themselves. Plenty of space. People in progress.
He stopped at one. The Emir took a sip from the potion and sighed. This was…a special case. Normally, he selected only the best. Someone with a talent that defined them, or maybe just physical beauty, a perfection of something. And he would improve them, make them better than when they met.
That was skill. That was art. This would not have been Yazdil’s first choice. But the uniqueness…
Well, he wasn’t acting like he normally did. The Naga pushed open the door. He slithered in. Someone jumped as he entered the rather nice home.
Bedroom, living room, even a kitchen and bathroom. It was a nice place to live, if you forgot that there was no door out until the Naga opened it. It closed behind him as he smiled.
“Hello, Kent. Are you feeling better today?”
The young man stared at the Emir Yazdil. He looked…ill. He had been sick with the flu. One of the lovely young women that the Emir had brought to make Kent happy had made him sick.
“I’m—better, Emir. Thank you.”
He looked pale. The Naga double-checked his amulet was secure; like Rhir’s hells he was catching this.
“I hate to trouble you, Kent. But I would simply enjoy it if you were able to spare me an hour or two. It’s that day again.”
“Of course, Emir.”
Kent smiled, a bit strangely. Yazdil sighed. He could have gone to another room. He was…working…with the others. This young man had been first, though, and Yazdil had been incautious, upset.
“Have you had your drink today?”
“Not yet. Should I…?”
“By all means.”
The young man looked around, licking his lips. There, amid the rooms he had tried to make like home, artifacts, entertainment—usually lovely company, except that he had been sick—was a prepared amphora. It was always kept full, and now, the young man absently rose and filled himself a cup of shimmering green.
The green became a midnight purple as the liquid swirled around. Neither color looked foul; it was an elegant drink, with depth. It didn’t even taste badly, to judge from his face.
“Better?”
The Naga inquired after a moment. Kent Scott started; he was staring ahead, lost. His pupils had widened and he looked far different as he sat down at the table. Now, he did not fidget, or suffer from the flu. He was elsewhere.
“I remember being…born.”
That was all he said. Yazdil sighed.
“I know, Kent. But try to focus. Where we left off; if you need more of the curative for your flu or feel sick, tell me.”
“I will. I feel better. I remember being sick. I’ve been sick…thirty one times ever.”
The Naga nodded. Interesting how disease was so difficult in either world. But that was not what interested him. He produced, with his tail, a little journal and flipped it open. The Naga also produced spectacles; he had excellent vision, but they let him lock onto the little words even from a distance.
“Kent, Kent. Focus. We are on history, today.”
“The history of what?”
“I believe, Rome. Tell me about Rome, Kent. You said you studied them?”
The young man’s pupils widened further. His irises practically swallowed; it was unnerving. He spoke, without a hint of uncertainty, but slowly.
“I did not learn all their names. But Rome began with Augustus, Caesar in 27 BC. Followed by Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, and Nero. They comprised the first dynasty we studied in my history class. I was busy telling jokes and never saw the next page. The next Emperor was Titus, son of Vespasian. After that, I lost track of the order…”
“But you remember what they did? Tell me about what they did, Kent. And then we’ll talk more about machines. Have you tried drawing in more detail?”
The young man licked his lips. He had sketches nearby, which he’d labored on—even had [Artists] help him with.
“I have. Emperor Augustus was the Emperor of Rome, after the last Caesar, Julius…”
Yazdil listened, making notes himself, asking questions. The problem with this was that Kent would repeat every little detail, not judging the content, only recalling.
Yet he did recall with such perfection. A true shame that he was not an excellent artist—or that he had never studied chemistry, biology, or the sciences to the degree Yazdil might have desired.
But he had studied history and there was more. Oh, this was just for Yazdil to understand.
He already knew how Rome had fallen. And by the same token; he knew that Rome was far, far in Earth’s past. He knew that nowadays, Rome was a memory and there were different nations in power.
And they had firearms, planes, tanks, advanced sciences, electricity…the Naga took a sip of his potion to calm his nerves.
 
—-
 
He spent two hours with Kent, then told the young man to lie down. The memory-draught always took a toll, and the young man had used it for a long time, and quite a lot of it. Yazdil was far more careful with the others.
The others. Children from another world. The Naga nearly downed the entire Potion of Calm right then and there. And if Iert was here to complain—
“Why now?”
The Naga’s tail curled up in vexation. To anyone else, the revelation of worlds apart might have been so grand. So exciting. To Yazdil, who wanted nothing? It terrified.
A world with hungry nations, entirely Human, and an advanced civilization lacking magic, but far superior in metal and science? Yazdil hated it.
Moreover, he knew people. He was an Emir of Roshal and he had seen his fellows rise and fall. If Earth were to fully come into contact with this world? How quickly the collar would change hands. An entire world of Humans. No guesses who they would side with.
The Naga decided not to visit the others. They were in progress, and his people did not need him interfering. When it was time, he would learn from them. He had most of what he needed already, really.
There were more spaces in the Emir’s palace. He had dug down, down, creating secret places while keeping all that was fun and innocent above. It was not his passion to be ambitious. He had everything he wanted!
