He had helped fund Pomle’s matches. And he had cultivated a reputation for making the correct wager. Fetohep had a 68% success rate, which actually peeved him; he’d had a losing streak this last week.
He didn’t bet much. And he had, in fact, increased Khelt’s treasury, albeit by small amounts.
It was just a hobby. But it was odd that it was his hobby. He hadn’t needed one.
Nor did Fetohep spend long on the match. He would watch it of course, and that would happily fill oh, maybe thirty minutes? But it would be hours later, alas.
“Wistram News Network.”
The scrying mirror flickered to life. Fetohep saw a Drake speaking and sipping a cup of tea.
“—just waking up, I’m Noass, bringing you today’s news. The King of Destruction’s war with multiple Chandrian nations rages on with a development in battle; Mars the Illusionist’s forces were pushed back after intense fighting between—”
“Next. Wistram Music.”
A new channel appeared. Fetohep heard a quartet of violins playing. He listened for a minute as the Dullahan musicians played. Was this a recording? He tapped a finger on his armrest to the beat. Then sighed.
He’d heard this song before. A Dullahan classic. The king’s voice had more irritation in it now.
“Wistram News Network.”
“—war in Ailendamus on the other hand has seen—”
“Nerrhavia’s Wonders.”
Another magical connection. It was less…precise, since the network wasn’t maintained by Wistram. But it was of an [Explorer] heading down a river. Fetohep recognized it as the Channel of Borendivual, one of the largest in Nerrhavia.
“And here we are headed to a dangerous section where the famous leaping crocodiles of Nerrhavia await! The [Guards] are ready, and we believe this early they will be napping…we shall cross this part of our voyage through the great Kingdom of Nerrhavia, before you glorious viewers will be witness to a battle between [Gladiators] in our capital city’s arena! Do not miss it, at midday—”
“Wistram News Network.”
He’d seen the Boredivual himself. He’d fought said leaping crocs as a living man and had no desire to see Nerrhavia’s pet [Explorer] show off his kingdom’s glories and praise it every two minutes. The [Gladiators] were interesting, though. Fetohep checked for bets and placed one while the scrying mirror flickered back to the Drake at the desk.
“—later, Drassi and I will be interviewing a [Blademaster] of Baleros about combat styles. Tune in at ten for that. Just before midday—”
“Hm.”
At last, something interesting. Fetohep was always willing to listen to talk of combat; even if he could have given the two Drakes a more educated discussion of the art of blades. He had been a [Warrior] in life, after all.
But he would listen, critique, or laud the [Blademaster] as the case might be—perhaps even ‘call in’, as the network sometimes allowed. He had listened to himself twice pointing out flaws in the broadcast.
Quite, quite enjoyable when that happened. But none of this stemmed his boredom now. Fetohep drummed his fingers.
There were exactly three channels he had access to at this moment. Wistram News, Wistram Music, and Nerrhavia’s Wonders. More were being developed of course, but few had the magical know-how and resources to put on such shows.
And of those that did, he needed to wait while the attuning crystals or spells were brought to Khelt. How vexing.
Not that Fetohep had needed any of this. But now…after listening to the Drake for another second, Fetohep spoke.
“Nerrhavia’s Wonders. Again.”
“—my leg! Empress preserve us, they’re—help, help—”
Fetohep watched as a screaming man went over the side of the boat. A crocodile—easily three times his size and many more times his weight—launched over the boat, dragging another [Guard] down. The [Explorer] was grappling with one, and these crocodiles were ancient, massive, with scales like steel.
“Ah, how interesting.”
The King of Khelt smiled. He watched until someone cut the feed and sighed. Always when it was getting good.
He flipped back to Wistram News Network just in time to see Noass commentate on the live-deaths and embarrassment to Nerrhavia in real time. Although Fetohep was pleased to see the [Explorer] survived, mainly by hacking his way through croc after croc. Some as long as thirty feet tried to drag the entire boat into the water. He and the surviving crew ran along one and leapt to shore at which point Fetohep lost interest.
Now there was real entertainment. And then it was gone and Fetohep was waiting for the next thing. He wanted hundreds of these news channels, and recalled Trey telling him about that in his world. Fetohep recalled the device and show and suddenly wished he had one. And still, his thoughts demanded.
What was wrong with him?
 
—-
 
Fetohep of Khelt was a powerful ruler of a utopia. But not, as some might assume, a well-known one. He was not a famous ruler like Flos of Reim, who was practically his neighbor.
Because Khelt did not do things. It was a bubble nation, aloof from the affairs of the world unless circumstances most dire intruded.
Similarly, there was another kind of ruler—if not in name—who existed in a paradise for the chosen few. Who was also unknown in the lists of the great rulers of the world unless you knew of him. In which case, he was very famous indeed.
Emir Yazdil of Roshal was a figure of stories. If you walked through the markets of Lailight Scintillation, the grand and fabled marketplace of Roshal, one of the wonders of the world, you could, while buying some curio uncovered from ancient ruins or a rare or priceless artifact—or a [Slave]—hear stories about the most powerful, most famous of Roshal’s [Emirs].
He had many names. One of them was ‘the Naga.’ And a curious visitor might well inquire to such person willing to make small talk, of which there were many, what had given him this title.
Each answer inevitably led to the Emir, and there were countless people who had seen, claimed to have seen, or at the very least, knew an acquaintance of a friend’s distant relative, who had been there when the very event took place.
The point was that the Emir was fabled. As close to the ancient greats of old as the King of Destruction. And the Emir was certainly richer than most [Kings]. He was more powerful than many monarchs too because Roshal was a titan among the many nations of Chandrar, a city-state whose power and reach was unmatched.
At least, that was what Roshal said. And the Emir’s grand reputation existed in Roshal alone. Outside of it? He was just one of the [Slave Masters] that the other ignorant nations dismissed. Which was obviously a fool’s point of view.
Roshal was ruled by [Slavers]. But it was crude to say it so. Say rather that among the many interests of the [Emirs], [Slave Lords], and other powerful [Merchants], aristocrats, and individuals of note, slavery was not only legal but reveled in. And once again—among them all Emir Yazdil was the most famous.
There were seven stories about him that were told this week alone.
 
—-
 
On the first day, Emir Yazdil was, while resting in his palace that sat among the many citadels of Roshal, minded to take a hunt. He had tired of the thousand thousand sights in the crystalline fortress of his home. It was said that he had bought the enchanted glass citadel from a disgraced [Prince] who had ordered his Djinni to convey the citadel to Roshal in a single night.
Certainly, it had not existed in Roshal until thirty years ago. Now, it shone, even among the hundreds of other palaces built by the ruling elite of Roshal. It sparkled, and Lailight Scintillation below it, the Grand Bazaar, one of the largest markets in the entire world was also abuzz with life.
For gold, you could buy weapons from Derithal-Vel. Dwarfsteel, light and strong. Or—if your tastes ran towards food, any manner of produce from Oteslia, or Baleros, or ingredients for alchemy, like Eir Gel. Everything came to the markets.
And if you had lots of gold or great favors with the right people, as money was secondary to favors or other trades, like valuable goods or even magical contracts that allowed one to command mercenaries into battle, you might buy something better than mere food or furniture.
A [Slave]. From Chandrar, or Baleros—seldom Izril or Terandria, whose nations were more recalcitrant—but of every kind. Drake, Dullahan—even the Gazers of Baleros were a commodity in the bazaar, however seldom.
Even half-Giants—but of course, one would have to win the auction and be very rich. But you could buy them. Or a Djinni.
Or a Demon. For the riches of Roshal and pride of the slavemasters was great, but even they send aid to the Blighted Kingdom. Just the month before, Emir Yazdil had sent fifty ships laden with riches for the Blighted King and thus earned the gratitude of Rhir. He could have sent a hundred times that number, that was the excess of his wealth, which even the Drake Wall Lords of Salazsar would have envied.
And today, all of this bored Emir Yazdil. He ignored the supplications of his fellow [Emirs] to join them in entertainment. He scorned the company of Roshal’s most bewitching courtesans, who could command thousands and tens of thousands of gold pieces for a single night.
He had no seraglio, or harem, so there were no designs on his attentions there. Such was the Emir’s boredom that it was only a suggestion from his foremost slave and bodyguard which roused him.
“Perhaps the Emir would care to hunt?”
That piqued the Emir’s interests. He immediately organized a hunt. The fact that there was no great animal spotted was not an issue; he would find one and go to one.
Within the hour, a hundred flying carpets left Roshal, bearing the Emir, his great friends, or the ones currently in favor, servants, bodyguards, and experts to find him the quarry and excitement he sought. And the quarry they found was a Grand Elephant, larger than most of its kind and thus a titan, wandering the plains. A lone bull, inexplicably separated from a herd.
The hunt began as the [Emirs], [Slave Masters], and great friends of the Emir and he himself began to hunt the Grand Elephant. They cast enchanted spears from carpets or rode on horseback if they were more daring, because the bull elephant soon began to prove that it was not herd-less for lack of strength.
The thick hide resisted even low-grade enchantments. And the great creature rampaged at the servants and [Hunters], crashing through lines of pikes, even boar-spears. An [Archer] shot an arrow through the animal’s head, but even a [Piercing Shot] only lodged in the bone of its skull.
The Emir watched, using a wand as he and the others hung back, watching the battle take place. Hundreds of spears were cast, and a number of enchanted ones, and the elephant’s strength wavered.
Still, it fought on. And the Emir paused to remark that this beast was equaled only by one other. When enquiring minds of his friends asked which one, he nodded at the wounded Grand Elephant, still fighting.
“I once had the pleasure of meeting the former Empress of Beasts and her great friend, Thef. A Grand Elephant augmented by Skills. Yet this lone bull fights alone and without.”
Indeed, the Grand Elephant did not flee or give in, even as its blood ran across the ground. Eventually, the hunt brought it to its knees. And still, the mighty creature raged, swatting down the [Hunters] daring enough to close to try to finish the job. No poison had been used for fear it would ruin the meat and besides, it was a hunt, and poison was not sporting.
It was as the jaws of the hunt closed and the great bull was finally breathing its last that the Emir raised a hand. A Human hand this day; he cried out for all to hear.
“Enough! Halt your spears! Bring me potions and salves!”
The confused [Hunters] and servants stopped. The Emir called out again, and bewildered, his servants rushed forwards. Had he been hurt?
No. The Emir demanded they apply the best potions and salves to the elephant. The animal was tended to by potions worth more gold than those that held them. Within ten minutes, it was on its feet.
It was said that the Emir and the bull looked at each other as the bloodied but healed animal stood. Then, Emir Yazdil nodded to the creature.
In response, the Grand Elephant charged and would have trampled the Emir and gored him in an instant if it were not for the Emir’s foremost servant. The Emir was quick on his feet, but the elephant far greater. But his dedicated bodyguard (of whom more will be said later), seized him and leapt upon a carpet.
The Emir was flown away as the bull elephant rampaged about for another minute, then stormed away. In much chaos, the hunt dissolved, with the friends of the Emir not sure what to think.
They found him laughing, beside himself, as he watched the great elephant go. In much good humor, the Emir turned to the others and explained.
“Such a fierce animal—I couldn’t bear to see it turned into meat, and the tusks ivory! It was a champion among its kind, and I was honored to have met it.”
Bemused, one of his companions who dealt in both animals and people remarked.
“There are a hundred [Beast Masters] who I could summon to make that beast worthy of riding palanquin upon, Emir Yazdil. Just say the word and I will make that animal twice as strong, with hides that would defy even the greatest [Lancers].”
The Emir smiled and shook his head, for he was a Human today.
“Mydre, my friend—it is a grand thing you offer. But then it would not be a fierce, solitary animal, but a possession. And I do not care for that. Nor would he be mine. For I do not know how to tame animals. People I know, but I will let that beast go in peace.”
Thus cheered, he returned to his palace and held a banquet the rest of the day, in the best of spirits. And true to his word, the Emir owned no great, striped cats, no exotic birds, not even hunting dogs or a menagerie like some of Roshal’s [Slave Lords]. He owned only people, and called them his great treasures.
 
—-
 
Fetohep of Khelt arose from his throne. His servants, thus alarmed, flocked to him, but asked nothing. Merely followed, waiting for his will.
“I shall walk my city today.”
The undead ruler’s words caused a stir—his appearance as he descended the long, long steps from his palace, even more so.
It was rare for Fetohep to walk in his city, for all Khelt was a city of marvels. Each building, as Trey Atwood had once seen, artistic. They had all the time in the world to make their city beautiful. And in this true utopia, the citizens wanted for nothing. They could eat and drink and sleep away their entire lives and some did, or devote themselves to art, a passion.
Fetohep asked nothing of them save they obey his laws. If one left, they might never return. But who would leave?
