As I gazed at my palm, I felt a resurgence of memories alongside my healing. I had gorged on the interdimensional energy for a long time, and in turn, the faculties of my armor expanded. It felt good, like becoming something greater. In tandem, a sadness spurred forth. I would only get further and further from a life like this as time passed.

A part of me accepted that. Another part raged against this machine made of momentum. Either way, as Joshua left his bar's main room, I turned to the wall, gazing at the blank stone. I could only take every day one step at a time, by grounding myself, I could achieve a sense of purpose in my life.

And my purpose was to move. It was time to enact change.

Chapter Begin

I hopped up out of the cot, trying not to let myself get caught on a snag in the worn mattress. After passing the rooms and out of the bar's central entrance, I experienced a sleeping city. Here, in the outskirts, the gloom of a twilight left activity far lower than during the day. As I closed into the central parts of Springfield, light and life washed over the city.

Bars had music once more, the thrumming base and hypnotic sound muffled from the walls of the buildings. Multicolored lights beamed from within, and the rumble of a crowd carried through the glass windows like a stampede. Many people congregated and talked along the parks of the city, the seating arrangements hosting a different clientele than we first imagined when building them.

Business people spoke through mana-based radios, each of them carrying a series of rudimentary enchantments to do so. Other young levelers lived the high life, stepping past clubs and hangouts designed for their entertainment and credits. A few less scrupulous individuals even sold selective ingredients along the streets, though none of them touched anything directly illegal.

Beyond the shops and downtown, I passed toward the true heart of the city - Mt. Verner. In the air, I never noticed the differences here. On the ground, they were undeniable. The density of enchantments, magic, and machines rose as I got closer to the peak. Wealth from the college, mechanical industries, and medical centers poured into these communities.

The same banisters below Mt. Verner hung from walls and pillars alike, though their density paled in comparison to the underground area. As they garnered enormous wealth, the prolificism of machinery also expanded. No one owned cars, but a few owned mana constructs that helped ward the home or clean up the nearby street.

At night, I found ethereal entities mirroring skeletons. They wielded scythes and wore straw hats. While their owners slept, these apparitions cut their grass, pruned their hedges, and helped plant flowers or weed gardens. The work that once was handled by a class of manual laborers was replaced by magic entirely.

Aside from the apparent wealth, the bolder designs emphasized the use of enchantments in the designs. One home floated off the ground entirely, only held aloft by gravitation and a single spiral staircase leading upstairs. A dry set of sand and stones spread out beneath the home, and the Japanese dry garden caught the eye like an amethyst surrounded by jade.

Another home had a spherical pool, one held together once again using gravitation. It spiraled above the house, and a set of enchanted armbands would help keep anyone on the pool aloft. A few fixed seating spots would help guests lounge in the pool while creating waves in the floating blue marble. When undisturbed, the waves continued in an eternal set of spirals around the water. It was utterly stunning.

After walking beyond the base level of Mt. Vener, I tread past the guardian golems. They saw right past my cloak, and once inside, I headed into Torix's college. The grandiose hallways had changed from raw rock to embroidered brick or sculptured stone. I never noticed as I simply swam from one place to the next, but this was no longer an underdeveloped hiding place from Yawm. It was the center of a burgeoning empire.

My empire.

An intense feeling of inadequacy flooded over me, and I held back my knee's sudden urge to wobble. I gulped before taking a breath and silencing the wave of emotion. Stepping past it all, I walked back into the third layer of the underground fortress. At the entryway to Torix's college, a set of enchanted doorways were closed.

Above them, on a set of molded marble, a set of mana engraved words read:

Tread forth whilst others idle, and separate yourself. Go forth into that unknown, and in your enlightenment, bring the world alongside your discovery.

Ad Infinitum.

It was an inspiring quote, likely written by the founder himself. As I opened the doorways, I entered a permeation of additional buffs. When fully revved, I hardly noticed them, but in my weakened state, they increased intelligence, willpower, and perception. I wasn't the only night owl enjoying the buffs, either.

Many students walked about, none of them idle or sitting still. Here, amongst the intellectual elite of the guild, most took the willpower perk that eliminated the need for sleep altogether. They never even considered resting when there was work to be done, and their sheer excitement for academia and study ignited my own desire for understanding.

But it wasn't the time to read or research. As I walked in, I suppressed the enchantments on my cloak. My presence and aura surged, and the busy library went silent. No steps walked or paced amongst the hallways, and the flipping of pages quieted. I spread my hands.

"Hello, everyone. I'm Daniel, your guildleader, and I have a mission for any who are eager to listen."

Over the next few minutes, a group formed, and I paced back and forth while using my speech voice. I detailed three different missions, each of equal import but carrying entirely diverse skill sets. The first mission involved the study of the permanent portals from Marcella's Infinity Plaza.

I wanted to create a mission to research and develop those portals across every planet I owned in my empire, and I would fund any research into the matter. If we gained that technology, we could eliminate the persistent warping costs from using Schema's portalling systems. Any local industries could be expanded and proliferated across every world, enabling far easier access to goods, including defensive treasures that would keep people alive.

The second mission detailed the creation of a runic inscription company. I would be creating a guild-led organization that sold defensive talismans, prearranged runic configurations, and stabilized mana stones for generic power needs. This would help modernize the outskirts of my guild while filling in a need that hadn't been shored up for or by adventurers.

The last request I made was for the creation of a guild-led alchemical company. We had the rare advantage of being able to maintain dungeons long-term, resulting in a much better understanding of the eldritch under our purview as a whole. Using that knowledge for empowering elixirs, concocting cocktails, or portioning potions could help fill in the other gaps for our guild's industries.

I found a receptive audience from a backend standpoint. It took a while to wear down their oppressive sense of awe before I began getting honest answers as well. No one here wanted to stop their research, but they relished a sense of direction and purpose for the fields they were already interested in. I recruited those already involved in the fields I asked for or those interested in learning the fields.

After organizing an initial set of groups, I messaged Torix about the operations while telling them that I'd be here at the same time tommorrow. The more students and competent professors they could inform, the better. It only took two hours, and I constructed a firm framework for these future organizations.

And this was merely the beginning.

After leaving the college, I paced over towards the dungeoneering branch at Mt. Verner. As was the case with most organizations, their headquarters rested on the second floor. There, I found a nearly sleeping receptionist who almost relieved themselves at the sight of me. A quick conversation later, and I had Isa Antoun, the dungeoneering lead, heading to her office.

I stepped past the hallway, and I couldn't help but appreciate the rustic approach she took to the dungeoneering main branch. A few taxidermied eldritch hung on the oak walls, and the subtle scent of tanning agents lingered from them. A few odd chemicals escaped my knowledge, likely a treatment designed to keep the eldritch from reviving.

Beside me, maps and charts covered the walls alongside experimental armor or weapon pieces. A few dots detailed dungeons, and the data points changed color depending on the severity or need for clearing. The grizzled dungeoneering veteran approached while wearing her leathers coated in the same materials.

Sleep still sank its claws into her eyes, but despite her weariness, Isa sharpened at the sight of me. She reached out a hand.

"Daniel, it's good to see you again."

I grasped her hand.

"You as well, Isa. Sorry for waking you and calling on such short notice."

She shook my hand before scoffing.

"I understand how tumultuous your schedule is, sir. There's never a need to apologize for doing so much for the guild. After all, it's better I work around what you're doing than you work around me."

A pang of guilt hit me, considering how lazy I'd been the last few weeks.

"Don't mention it. Now, I've got a few guild operation expansions I wanted to run by you."

"What did you have in mind?"

I raised my hands.

"I'm planning on making a forestry clearing operation."

Isa crossed her arms, the muscles rippling in her forearms.

"Really? We already cleansed the largest of them."

I nodded.

"We have, but we need to dispatch the middle-tiered ones as well. I had the idea of having my golems carry search parties out into the wild and have groups of adventurers clear them out."

Isa winced.

"Sounds like a lot of work."

"I'll have the Speaker's offer up contractual rewards. We also need to help get people to actually fight the monsters instead of only trying to harvest goods from dungeons."

Isa flushed red.

"Oh, so you've heard about that?"

I smiled.

"I've lived it. Recently, that is."

She eyed my cloak.

"So that's what this is all about. Hm. We can definitely make it happen, though I'd prefer a more organic approach. Forcing the issue doesn't lead to the change we're looking for, usually."

I stepped to my side, bumping a chair. It flung away before I grabbed it, cracking the wood.

"Dammit. Anyway, get people who are willing to fight and have the awards exceed the payments for simply returning goods. We need people to get leveled, asap."

"Is there a reason? It helps motivate those asking questions if I can give them an answer."

I gazed at a set of maps.

"There's going to be a massive expansion in the danger of different dungeons here soon. I need as many prepared people so that I won't have to spend all my time protecting them."

Isa's eyes widened.

"Do you think there'll be an invasion by Elysium?"

I shook my head.

"No, but it could be worse. We're working with a lot of unknowns, but suffice it to say, we're going to need as many strong individuals as possible. That also means keeping the forests and terrain as clean as we possibly can so that our world isn't overrun. Can you do that for me, Isa?"

She gave me a salute.

"Absolutely."

I raised a fist.

"Good. Start harvesting more from the eldritch, like energized portions of their bodies. We can use them to create a backbone for an alchemy industry. I also want to start up armory competitions with rewards rivaling dungeon clearing. Upper-tiered smiths will even get my legacy and rings as awards."

Isa spread her hands.

"But your golems create all the mana we need, and your armor exceeds-"

I met her eye.

"Isa. Listen to me. I can't be there for everyone. I will lead billions and then trillions of people in time. If my guild can't fend for itself without my direct support, then we'll lose large portions of the population if anything happens."

Isa leaned back, and she gulped as if waking up.

"I...You're right. Of course, you're right. I'll get on that as quickly as I can."

I put a hand on her shoulder.

"You've done well for my guild. I trust you to handle this promptly, but right now, you need rest. Get some sleep and start hacking away on the project tomorrow. I would've waited, but right now happens to be the only time I'm free."

She shook her head.

"You live an insane life, sir."

I scoffed while lowering my hand.

"A little, yeah. You do as well, though, don't you?"

She smiled, the expression full of menace.

"Killing monsters is my every day, sir. Nothing strange about it."

I turned away.

"It was good seeing you again. Take care, alright?"

She saluted.

"Of course, sir. You as well."

After heading out, I passed by the stone masonry along one wall and a slab of granite on the other. The contrasting materials gave it greater variety and more visual fullness. I never noticed those details as I rushed back and forth like a madman, trying to finish everything all at once. At the end of the hallway, I walked down the stairwell before heading back outside the mountain proper.

Passing the wealthy suburbs of the town, I enjoyed watching two hummingbirds play with a mana construct, the energized being looking like a miniaturized hawk. By now, the sun crawled up overhead, covering the growing city in shades of orange and yellow. Passing the beautiful shades and vistas, I walked back into the Northern edge of town where Joshua's bar resided.

There, I headed down the stairs to find Joshua up and handling a shipment of different brews. A man in uniform carried a platform holding a dozen cases, and an antigravitational panel kept it afloat. As I passed by, I eyed a few of the drinks.

