"What are those?"

Joshua gave me a nod of recognition.

"These? They're the standard local beers, wines, and meads we like to buy weekly. Recently, the meads have been flying off the shelves."

I nodded.

"Are the bottles enchanted?"

Joshua and the uniformed man laughed. Joshua nudged the delivery man.

"Can you believe this guy?"

The delivery man's hands shook, more as a feature than out of nervousness.

"He's got a...A good sense of humor."

Joshua gave the delivery man a shake.

"Hey, take care, Micky. Say hello to the kids. We can have dinner on Thursday."

Micky gave Joshua a jittery nod.

"Absolutely. I'll let them know you'll bring the c-candy they like."

After he headed out, I helped Joshua tote the caskets inside. As I carried three of them, Joshua sneered.

"Show-off."

I pointed down.

"Sorry about that. I can just put them here, then?"

Joshua recoiled.

"Now, I didn't say all that."

I smirked. We headed inside, and Jamal was already up, planning the rest of the day out. As I paced down, he turned and spread his hands.

"Ah, Daniel, it's good to see you."

I walked by, letting my feet creak the boards.

"Good to see you too. Let me offload these."

I set the caskets near the bar where ice enchantments helped a series of fridges stay cool. Beside them, blocks of quintessence powered the enchantments. Jamal eyed them.

"It's hard to buy quintessence like that. It works far better than normal origin mana, and it's more stable, too."

I pushed each casket in front of each fridge.

"I thought the golems handed out these crystals like their candy?"

Jamal rolled his eyes.

"They do, if you can get their attention, but there's thousands of people flooding into Springfield every day. They're spread a little too thin to just hand out mana all the time."

I wondered about building a mana-based power network, but I put that on the back burner for now. Once finished moving the stock beside its appropriate place, I walked in front of the bar.

"What are you working on?"

Jamal covered a set of documents.

"Woah, now. These are top secret until the other two wake up."

Speaking of, Nissa and Jasmine walked out, their expressions a mixture of vampiric apprehension for light and being poisoned. Joshua trotted over, and he made four glasses of his tonic this time. As I grabbed my glass, I gave everyone a cheers as Joshua stocked the drinks. As the day started, Jamal moved his documents and spread his arms.

"Behold. Profit."

The guy had already inventoried our gains and sold off quite a bit of our haul. He'd done such an extensive and rapid job of it that I couldn't help but think the guy was a natural merchant. Jamal raised three fingers.

"Guess what this is?"

Jasmine leaned against her hand.

"How many brain cells you have?"

Nissa raised a hand.

"How high you can count?"

Joshua and I stifled a laugh before Jamal gave them both a tight smile. Jamal nodded.

"Oh, you both are so very clever. Truly, I'm blessed to be with you both."

The ladies high-fived while drinking their tonics. Jamal shook his hand.

"This is the number of digits we gained from our last mission's profits. 120k in total."

Jasmine nearly spit out her drink. Her eyes widened before she gulped down as if swallowing a stone. She sputtered.

"No way. 120 grand? The fuck?"

Jamal put his hands on his hips.

"That's right. We just made more than we have in the last six months."

I kept looking. Jamal frowned.

"Ahem?"

I turned to Joshua.

"I think he's talking to you."

Joshua facepalmed. I pointed at myself.

"You mean me? What?"

Jamal pinched the bridge of his nose.

"It's a lot of money, man."

My eyes widened.

"Oh. Ohhh. I see. Good. That's, it's good."

Jamal shook his head as if dealing with an idiot. Perhaps he was. He raised a hand.

"I figured we should give the new guy a sign-on bonus. A gesture of goodwill, so to speak."

Jasmine nodded.

"I don't see why not. He played his part."

Nissa sighed.

"If we must."

I blinked.

"Sign on bonus? I thought I was being tested."

They gawked at me in disgust. Nissa murmured.

"You expected not to be paid? Ew."

I peered back and forth.

"Not really, no. I expected you guys to go out on a limb, and trust me. This is my repayment. I'll take a portion of the next haul."

They laughed far harder than they should have before Jasmine wiped a tear from her eye.

"Time after time."

Jamal took a satisfied breath.

"The guy is a joke machine. A real comedian, I tell you."

Nissa shook her hand.

"It's the timing that gets me."

I waved a hand in frustration.

"Alright, whichever way you guys want to split it, I'm good."

Jamal broke down the profits for a while, and he gave a detailed set of documents showcasing where and how he sold everything. After getting it handled, he showed the 127,291 credits. He gave me a 38k cut while they each got 30 thousand. I tried my best to get them to not give me anything, but they wouldn't accept it.

It felt like stealing from the poor, as self-serving and arrogant as that sounded. Either way, I hadn't wanted to take the money, but there was no genial means of stopping it. After Jamal distributed the credits, he raised his hands with excitement.

"So, I've been thinking of how to use this sudden influx of cash flow."

Nissa shook her head.

"Absolutely not."

Jasmine leaned against the countertop.

"I'll listen, but don't expect much."

I sat down at the bar as Jamal raised his hands.

"I want to start up a sub-guild here at Joshua's bar."

As if someone defecated on the floor, the ladies' faces crinkled up. Jamal crossed his arms.

"Ok, so what in the hell's the problem?"

Nissa leaned forward.

"This money is going to my bookshop, period."

Jasmine shook her head as if tired of the conversation before it even began.

"Jamal. I'm going to travel with the money. You know that. I've been wanting to see the eight world wonders after systemization since it started. I want to see what's changed."

Jamal's eyes dimmed a bit.

"That's...I can see that. But here's the thing, if we invest in a sub-guild, we can get new perks and get other adventurers working under us. The passive income could support those, er, loftier pursuits."

Nissa massaged her temples.

"I never wanted to be an adventuring guild head."

Having hopeful eyes, Joshua peered at Jamal. The barkeep raised his hands.

"I won't say any more than this, but everyone needs a home. Guild or not, you all are always welcome here."

Jasmine reached out and grabbed Joshua's hand. Jasmine smiled.

"Thanks. After I finish seeing the world, I know where to come back to."

Joshua peered away, his eyes itchy all of a sudden. He coughed into a hand.

"As long as you know."

Nissa grinned.

"You know, you've always been a big softy with us. Why is that?"

Joshua gulped.

"You three remind me of some people I used to know. That's all."

A depth resided in that statement, the hurt, longing, and scars intermingling into something sacred. Jamal shook his hands at Jasmine and Nissa. The leader blinked.

"Guys, neither of you is ready to leave the Earth or travel to its dark corners yet. We have to get some levels, maybe even some classes before we're prepared to do something like that. In the meantime, we can use the sub-guild as a way to officialize our status. It'll give us access to better missions and more profits in the meantime."

Jasmine raised a fist.

"You don't get to reach into our pockets and decide what we do with our money."

Nissa sneered.

"We all risked our lives out there. We all contributed. It's not right to tell us what to do here after it's all said and done."

Jamal shook his hands.

"I'm telling you both, this isn't just for me. It'll help us all."

Nissa stood up.

"I'm about to say some things I'll regret. Excuse me."

Jasmine furrowed her brow.

"You can't keep telling us what to do all the time. We never elected you as our leader or our tyrant."

Jamal hit the bar.

"Oh, come on. We barely talked about."

Nissa raised a hand.

"We've talked this over so many times. Stop acting like we're not exhausted with it. By now, you know what we think. You're just trying to wear us down."

As Nissa took a step away, Jamal turned to me.

"Before you go, let's hear what the new guy has to say."

I gulped as they all turned to me. Jamal gave me a nod.

"Well?"

I blinked.

"Me?"

Jamal gave me another hurried nod.

"Yes. You."
