The first Aroido launched forward, his Domain shaped into a spear. And then came all of them, all of them holding spears, both in Domain and in conjured weapon, all racing to kill, the water not obstructing them at all as they flew.

Domain combat was not like normal combat, Erick thought to himself, as he turned his Domain into a cutting edge, and lined up his sword with the first Aroido’s spear. A normal spear hitting a normal sword would result in two forces shearing left or right, depending on how the weapons were held and likely a whole bunch of magical factors. Domains were all used in different ways, too, and using two different Domains against each other was a lesson in magical technique and power. But in this case, Force against Force, the outcome was based on strength of conviction and willingness to follow through; Force, in other words.

The Apparent King had a certain weight behind his sword that was greater than any collection of dungeon masters, even when facing those dungeon masters inside their own dungeon.

Another technique to ensure one’s Domain won against all others was to simply use more mana than the opponent, and that’s where Aroido might have won; a dungeon core had multiple hundreds of thousands of mana that its dungeon master could use at any given time. Erick only had 55,000, and since this fight was inside a dungeon, inside this space inside the Darkness, the Script did not assist him with lowering those mana costs.

Even so—

Sword met spear, and spear evaporated. That particular Aroido practically contorted as the shock of his broken Domain ripped through his body, followed fast by Erick’s sword. It was not a clean cut; not when Erick empowered his blade as much as he had. Aroido turned to chunks of meat, filling the water with more red clouds.

Vanya was having trouble doing the same to the Aroidos that went after her, but that was only because three of them went after her, thinking her the major problem here. The last Aroido had been aimed at Soltic, holding his own spear and following right behind the first spear wielder. The last guy hesitated when he saw how fast the first one died, though.

Soltic flickered with Force, launching right into the water, unconcerned for the thickness of that liquid because he had coated himself with anti-friction magics and more, all carefully applied to give him leverage and freedom of movement inside the water column. In a flash he closed the distance with the faltering Aroido. That falter meant that one died even quicker.

Soltic hurried to help Vanya. Between the two of them they managed to kill all three remaining Aroidos, though the last one had started to flee before they could cut him down.

Hovering in the watery abyss, uncaring for the crushing water all around, Soltic asked, “Descend?”

Vanya was already casting [Mana Reading], from the looks of it—

She pointed down and to the right. “There.”

They went, fast as they could, to end this as soon as possible.

The dungeon had been on high alert as soon as Aroido demanded it work to contain Soltic and Vanya, which is what brought the ancient rivergrieve to bear against them. The dungeon went on catastrophic alert as soon as Soltic and Vanya had dispatched 6 of its 7 dungeon masters. The water boiled with monsters, too many types to easily count coming out of every possible hiding hole in every nearby stone tower. It wasn’t enough. Soltic and Vanya killed them all.

Then the water actually boiled, and Soltic and Vanya weathered the heat with their various Force spellwork. The only thing that died were all the corals and kelps and otherwise all around; even more things that created mana for the dungeon to take. It was killing itself to kill them, and soon, it couldn’t do that anymore.

Soltic and Vanya dipped down through four more layers of alternating light and shadow water before they came across the Radiant Coral Eel, in its full-sized ‘wyrm’ form, but this time they did not let the boss kill itself on Vanya’s monowire. They didn’t give it a chance to do anything at all, for Soltic carved it through as they passed, his sword spreading the [Strike] of his [Force Domain] throughout the entire beast, ripping it apart far beyond his actual sword strike.

The core lay just ahead. Somewhere.

Vanya took a moment to try and locate it. Book magic flashed weakly in her open hands, once, twice, and then a third time— She pointed to a spire of stone, covered in coral like all the rest of the stone spires in this dungeon. It was hard to see down here, in the depths, in the deep shadows. Mana sensing was even harder.

But Soltic advanced first, and he encountered an anomaly. His mana sense was useful out to about 20 meters down here, but at this spire of stone, unlike the ones they had passed on the way down, he got nothing. There was nothing beyond that coral and rock and kelp. And so, there had to be something.

Soltic swiped his sword across the stone and the stone broke, falling inward, pushed by water pressure. A room opened up on the other side and water filled that room. Soltic allowed himself to flow with the water, for he could see what was inside the room now.

Vanya followed, and then she blocked the hole in the stone spire with a quick [Force Wall]. She did not take her eyes off of the room, or off the person in that room, who was now sitting in saltwater, kowtowing to Vanya.

Aroido, the seventh, said, “Please don’t kill us.”

Vanya said, “No one is killing you.” Then she glanced at Soltic and then made a pointed look at Aroido. Soltic got the message and stepped forward, enveloping Aroido in his [Force Domain], locking the man down and making him gasp as Soltic broke the little Domain that the guy had been holding onto; for safety, or to attack, Soltic couldn’t tell. There was no time for words, though, to soothe egos, to inform, to calm anyone at all. Vanya strode past Aroido, to the core. She put her hand on the core as she said, “Hello, Dungeon 6.”

The core was a perfectly spherical gem about the size of an adult’s head, white and grey. Internal facets caught all the light in the room and transformed that light into a symphony of grey sparkles. From above and below the core, flowed mana; thick as thick air from a [Cleanse]. There probably should have been more mana flowing into the core than there was; the flow looked almost anemic.

Soltic took in the rest of the room.

The room itself was set up almost like the living room of a nice wooden house, and Soltic and Vanya had busted in through the picture window. To the left and the right were dark wood staircases leading up to individual rooms, while down here, in the back, was a kitchen. A living room held around the core, along with couches and small tables, kept at a respective distance from the core’s flows, but close enough to be with the core, when they wanted to be. Soltic got the impression that the Aroidos would maybe sit around the living room and watch the ocean with the core.

It was probably a nice life.

They probably had a lot of incidents with water coming into the space, though, because they had a solution for all the water Soltic had let in. The calf-high water was already down to ankle-deep, and further vanishing down grates here and there around the room.

“We’ll make this up to you, Aroido,” Soltic said. “I swear. You and all the rest of your brothers.”

Aroido glared up at Soltic, but he bit back his words. And then he lowered his head, and faced the ground, muttering, “Do what you have to do—”

The air began to swirl near the core, faintly at first, and then with a soul—

Vanya said, “That would be the first Aroido you killed, Soltic. Should take another minute to manifest. We’re lucky that this core is so weak, or else we would already be facing him.” She focused on her hand, on her connection to the core, and the core dimmed and shuddered. Vanya opened her mouth and her voice came from the entire dungeon, “I know you can hear me in there, Aroidos. If you do anything else besides renounce your dungeon master status, then we’re going to kill you as you come out until the core is drained of all mana and too weak to summon you ever again. This will perma-kill you. If you renounce your status, you can take yourself to the surface, and then you can walk outside and link up with any of the other dungeons.” She said to the Aroido Soltic stood over, “This goes for you, too. Renounce your status now, and we’ll let you go free.”

Aroido twitched for a moment in utter fury, and then he breathed out, “Give me a minute.”

“If you do not comply in 10 seconds then Soltic will cut off your head.”

“Fine!” Aroido twitched again, but this time his skin momentarily turned translucent. A pulse of grey and white mana flowed away from him like a settling fog. As that fog rolled across the ground, turning to threads of power to follow the flow into the core, Aroido said, “There. It’s done.”

“Let him go, Soltic.”

Soltic stepped back from the still-kowtowing man.

Aroido spared a glance toward the swirling air, where the next Aroido would appear. He said to Soltic and Vanya, “If no one actually dies from this then your trial will be lenient. Exile, perhaps. If you cause catastrophic harm, then the sentence will be death.”

Vanya said, “As I said before, our goal is not to cause harm, but I am going to fully remake the dungeon.”

Aroido gasped, sudden worry writ deep in the lines of his face. “A full remake?! What are you going to do!”

“For now, the dungeon will be exceedingly hostile to anyone coming inside. Once I have increased the security of this land to prevent anyone from barging in here and taking over, and once I am secure, then I will be reopening the dungeon to delvers. It’ll be a few days. A week. If you want to play along, Aroido, you can. None of this needs to end up in the courts. You don’t need to be reprimanded by the Regency for allowing us in here. We don’t need to press counter-charges for your threatening to multi-kill us, thus exposing your multiple repro status to the world.” With perhaps more venom in his voice than necessary, Quilatalap said, “And you can let me do the job that Sininindi herself invited me here to do! I have just about reached the end of my charitability, Aroido. Do not test me further.”

Aroido had been about to say something—

Soltic spoke up, “Tell Everbless to continue sending mana and monsters into this dungeon. That is how we will know that you aren’t working against us and our Goddess-Given mission.”

Aroido scowled. “How in Sininindi’s name are you not interventioned!”

“I have a lot of godly blessings, Aroido. Lots of them. I couldn’t tell you which one it is in particular.” Soltic said, “Vanya is working on hers right now.”

Aroido paused in worried thought, and then he paused for another reason altogether.

The swirl of grey and white mana near the core finally began to materialize. The first Aroido, the one that Soltic and Vanya had been talking with before the conflict started, suddenly appeared, nude and standing on the wet ground. “Well then. I suppose I know when I’ve been outclassed.” He asked, “May I retrieve my clothes?”

“You may not,” Vanya said, her hand still on the core which it had never left. “Disconnect now. I’ll transport your items up to the surface tomorrow. I will try to keep them separated by room, and I will not snoop except to stuff the stuff into boxes.” She pointed with her free hand at a door set into the side of the room. “Take the swim to the surface.”

Aroido flickered translucent and grey-white power settled out of his body like a heavy fog. As that fog swirled toward the core, Aroido used a bit of mana to conjure some pants, and then he went to the door at the side of the room. He opened it, paused, then said, “I will ask Everbless to continue supplying mana and directing monsters to dungeon 6.” He turned to Vanya. “If we catch waves of you having opened a dungeon entrance somewhere else, and we will, if you have, then this subterfuge is ending violently.”

“Your terms are agreeable.” Vanya said, “Now leave. Your brothers will be following you soon.”

That first Aroido left through the double door, using some Force to keep the water controlled, to not flood the living space beyond. Some water escaped, though, but like the water that Soltic had let into the space, it flowed away into grates in the ground. Aroido escaped, too, rapidly ascending through the water column that was Dungeon 6. Soltic lost track of him in his mana sense rather fast, for he was rushing upward as fast as he possibly could.

Soltic said, “I didn’t get the impression that he would betray his word, but he could be lying.”

“He’s the only one of us who is good at lying or at putting up with you normals,” the last Aroido said, the one that Soltic and Vanya had encountered here, by the core. “That’s why he’s the Face.”

Soltic stared at the last Aroido.

The man rapidly added, “But he didn’t lie about that decision! We’re gone. We’ll follow his plan— your plan.” Aroido 7 still had some anger in him as he glared at Vanya. “What is your plan, anyway?”

“To do exactly as I said I would; I’ll make this whole series of dungeons into a Grand Dungeon. In that land, you will all find lives exactly the same as you currently have, or better. Whatever you want. I imagine your brother spoke to you about our grand plans? You could be a part of the city, or even the water dungeon.”

Aroido sighed, “Gods above. Fine. Don’t tell me. I would like to leave now.”

Vanya gestured to the door.

Aroido left.

In several more moments, the cloud of grey-white mana popped out another Aroido; the one that Soltic had killed second by crushing his Domain and rending him apart with a single slash of his sword. That Aroido said nothing as he pulsed with grey-white fog, and that fog rolled across the floor, to lift up near the core and settle back inside. That Aroido did not bother putting on pants as he left for the door.

Water flowed into the living space and flowed out the grates in the floor.

One by one, each Aroido appeared in the order they were killed, and then they left behind their connection to the core like a flowing fog. Each bit of fog that swirled into the core seemed to make the core brighter. By the time the second to the last Aroido had left his dungeon master status behind, a dollop of clear liquid began to drip from the bottom of the core, like a raindrop that would not fall.

That would be the new dungeon master slime. With all the vanishing dungeon masters, the core was naturally working overtime to produce a slime so that it could maintain consciousness. Without the Aroidos supporting it, it would go back to sleep; to autonomous functions.

