Vanya was ready to accept the slime, though, to allow it to copy her. The dungeon wouldn’t be asleep for long. Excitedly, seriously, Vanya muttered, “This is going to be the best dungeon I’ve ever made.”

Soltic spoke up, “You say that about every new dungeon.”

Vanya waved him off. “And it’s always true.”

The last Aroido manifested from the air, lingered a moment, just looking at Soltic and Vanya. He said, “I hope this works out.” A flicker of grey-white power left his body and swirled into the clear drop at the bottom of the core. That drop fell to Vanya’s hand, and Aroido looked halfway to an emotional response. But he was still Aroido; still a copy of a man who was a noble for many years of his life. In control of his emotions, he simply turned and walked away, muttering, “Good luck.”

The final Aroido left, ascending through the dungeon’s water column, fast as he could go.

The core glimmered with saturated light; it was fully exposed, for the radiant coral eel boss could not reform while Vanya was in contact with the core. The core couldn’t really do anything on its own, not with Vanya’s hand on it, except for recreate its dungeon masters, and probably only because Vanya allowed that to happen.

Vanya wasted no time giving the commands she could give. “Suspend all resummoning. Manual control.” The air filled with a splash of black boxes and one major central box, and Vanya relaxed a fraction. She still kept her hand on the core, though; she was not fully relaxed at all. “Ah. Good. They left like they said they would… Ah.” She read the boxes. “Okay. It’s worse than it looks. Uh. I’m going to need your help, Soltic.”

Some of the black boxes were maps, dotted with color-coded life and its location inside the dungeon space. Others were full of words. The main one was a readout like what Aroido had shown them, but it was not at all what Aroido had displayed. That first Aroido had given them a false readout for the dungeon.

Soltic believed this readout a lot more.

- -

Intake average of last 10 days: 130,000 mana

Outflow average of last 10 days: 65,000 mana

Masters: NONE

Boss: Radiant Coral Eel <resummoning suspended>

Current Overall Judgment: UNACCEPTABLE.

Notification 1: Monster enrichment <UNACCEPTABLE>

Notification 2: Environmental enrichment <1%>

Notification 3: Delver enrichment <UNACCEPTABLE> <RULE VIOLATION>

Notification 4: Due to the nature of the current iteration of this dungeon, minimal base mana is granted to whomsoever defeats the boss, with a usual base mana of <1/party#> per defeat of the <Radiant Coral Eel>

Primary Notification: <THIS DUNGEON WILL BREAK IN 6 DAYS>

- -

Soltic said, “It said ‘untenable’ before. And that notification about breaking wasn’t there.”

“And the outflow is about half of what Aroido had shown us.” Vanya said, “Everbless was the only reason this place exists at all. It needs… It needs so much work. Entrances for monsters around the island’s coast would be a great start. To not be so cramped and vertical is the next largest change. The Rule needs to change, too— Well. I can’t do that part. My repro will have to. I’m a little jealous of her, actually.” Vanya frowned, then dispelled that frown and said, “Display current Ruleset.”

Another black box appeared.

- -

RULES:

1) Delvers may only work in Elemental Force <NOTICE: This rule is a violation as per delver enrichment guidelines. This rule is not fully enforced.>

- -

Vanya paused. She could not believe what she was seeing. And then she exclaimed, “It’s a single rule! One! That’s it. By the Dark!”

Soltic asked, “What do you need me to do?”

Vanya ripped herself away from that downward spiral of thoughts. Then she thought for a second, organizing a list of tasks, as the newly-born dungeon master slime burbled atop her free hand. The clear slime had already doubled in size, as it sucked in grey-white mana from the air all around it. And then Vanya grinned, and asked, “Would you give a prayer to the Dark, consecrating this place and asking for support in the remaking of this dungeon?”

Soltic frowned at her, saying, “That’s almost embarrassing for me to do.”

“This place is going to need the support, especially if the Aroido’s don’t keep up their end of our swordpoint-bargain, which is a very real possibility.” Vanya said, “I could do it, but then Sininindi would get pissed at me for inviting the Dark that deep into her life. If you do it, then she can’t say shit. Besides, didn’t you once make a dungeon for Rozeta, Koyabez, and Phagar?”

“Okay okay okay. You probably have a thousand other reasons you could spout off, too. Fair enough. I suppose I need to work fast, too...” Soltic steeled himself— He paused. “Where should I ask?”

Vanya smiled warmly. “Give me a minute to stone-up some of the largest breaches of security that are currently ongoing, and then you can put your hand on the core, and sing a little limerick.”

“Ah. So you want the Big Spells,” Soltic said, sarcastically.

“Yes,” Vanya said, without remorse. And then she concentrated in a sideways direction, and then blinked a few times. A pulse of air came out of the core, washing away some unknown ephemeralness in the room. “I tagged us as monsters, which was easy for you with your core, but took a bit of doing for me. You should transform back to Erick now. No one is watching and I cleared out all spying influence.”

Soltic transformed into Erick as easily as he could on the Surface, where the Script helped with all that. “Any other requests?”

“Simple, short. A consecration to the Dark, a request for Sight and Assistance. Whatever else you want will work, too. Maybe asking to keep out everyone who is not us. Just give me... a little more… There.” Vanya pulled away from the core, wincing a little as she flexed her hand. All the floating black boxes vanished. Vanya stepped away, and then used both her hands to hold onto the still-growing dungeon master slime. “When Vanya can, she’ll institute some Rules that will prevent anyone else from coming in easily. I’m thinking that instead of having delvers only able to use Force, I’ll make them only able to use Elemental Death. That’s a pretty good barrier to entry.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “That will definitely keep people out— Until they contact someone at Frostflower, or unless they have some Death Mage somewhere… But I suppose you can deal with those small variables.”

Vanya smiled. “I can. I suspect it’ll be at least a week until I get a real threat to my security. With any luck at all, I will be able to survive that problem. So go ahead and place your hand on the core, and ask for Melemizargo’s Sight upon my endeavors here.”

Erick chuckled a little bit at Vanya’s insistence for speed, but speed was necessary right now, when neither of them knew what was happening with the Aroidos outside the dungeon. So Erick stepped forward, and placed his hand on the core.

It was like touching a beating heart made of crystal, that was not beating at all.

Erick had never actually done this before… It was kinda nice. Oh sure, he had heard Quilatalap talk about this all the time, and he knew what happened because Jane had told him what would happen, too. But this was nice.

For Erick’s mana sense fully expanded, filling the entire dungeon from top to bottom.

It was almost like being a part of Yggdrasil, or watching the world through Ophiel, but calmer. Quieter. It was perfectly sensible, too, which was something that Erick had needed to work on to get to that point with Yggdrasil and Ophiel. There was no need to put in that mana sensing work here, though.

Erick suspected that all this Sight was a taste of power, given to delvers who touched a core, to make them want to learn mana sensing for real.

For Erick saw the dungeon from kilometers above, where stone barges floated atop water, and the dungeon entrance was a simple black disk hanging in the air —closed, for now— to kilometers further down, where gold grew in wires in the water, like precipitating crystal. Monsters roamed everywhere, eating everything they could, for their masters were gone and the next master wouldn’t exist for another few hours. The rock spires that served as biomes, which floated in the water like kilometer-large sleeping whales, served as hiding spaces and living spaces for everything. Many of the monsters roamed between biomes to hunt each other, now, killing each other instead of going after the fish that the Aroidos’ had cultivated in these depths.

It probably didn’t usually look like this.

This was a broken neighborhood, and Erick suddenly felt a familiar need welling up inside of him. The need to help; the need to secure. The Aroidos would come back, and so would all of Storm’s Edge, and the dungeon would be filled with bounty at that time. With Quilatalap at the helm, there would be no more dungeon breaks, and Everbless might get a proper education on dungeon matters, which he seemed to enjoy, and none of the Aroidos would be worried about being killed and replaced.

Everything could be made better, after all.

Erick’s core shimmered inside his [Illusionary Soul], his true self finally being allowed out into the world again, so Erick dismissed that hiding magic. [Illusionary Soul] had remained strong even when they entered into the dungeon today, because Erick had been holding tightly onto that spellwork, but the illusions had served their purpose. The time for hiding was over.

He smiled, and spoke,

“The consecration of a nation

“begins with a land reformation.

“So that is what we’re doing now,

“With Quilatalap at the prow.

“Melemizargo! If you’d please?

“I’d ask of you, make this a breeze

“and help bring learning to this land

“to make a dungeon, oh so Grand.”

It was a simple little poem, not meant for much at all except to truly draw Melemizargo’s Sight, or to at least let the God of Magic know that he was being spoken to. Honestly, Erick could just call out to the Dark and probably get a response, but he was working magic here. He liked working magic sometimes. He rarely got a chance to really do that these days.

The mana seemed to think that, too, for it was kinda sleepy while Erick spoke, but then it woke right up at Melemizargo’s name, as though it had been relaxed and then prodded to action.

And then suddenly, the entire dungeon flexed.

Surprise took hold of the world.

And then mana, Dark and full of power, began to flow into this liminal dungeon space. From behind every coral and below every rock, from between the beams of light from above, and swelling up from the depths like a rushing explosion, Darkness returned, with a great, thrilling laugh.

“Erick!”

Melemizargo’s voice came into the world long before he appeared himself.

A single one of the God of Magic’s eyes appeared beyond the hole in the wall, filling the space entirely with its glowing white enormity. Melemizargo laughed again, and ripped away the top half of the core room, like a giant ripping the roof off of a house. Water did not flow in; instead, everything suddenly became air and water at the same time.

“Hello, Melemizargo,” Erick said.

Melemizargo was exactly as giant as he desired to be. A hundred meters was all that was visible, though. His great black serpentine neck, massive black wings that filled the ocean with billowing darkness, brilliant white eyes, and a face full of white fangs that pierced that darkness.

He smiled, saying, “You’re finally back!” He settled down, chuckling. “We have so much to talk about, Erick. Welcome back.”

Erick blinked a bit. “What do you mean, ‘back’?”

“You don’t know—” Melemizargo rapidly understood something that Erick did not. “You used that [Onward] about eleven or whatever years ago. Rather nasty malformed cast of that magic. Caused you to miss the last decade. But now you’re back and I can tell you how you did that wrong so that you will never do that ever again!” He leaned in a fraction, which was a dozen meters for him. “I must say it was quite rude of you to leave Veird like that, but I knew you would be back soon enough; soon as something caused you to want to come back to us all.” He looked around. “Was it a grand dungeon that brought you back? No no. That can’t be it— Oh! Wait. Of course.” He grinned, happy as could be. “You requested that Yggdrasil's seal be removed. I must say that I did not actually expect that request to come from you, but I am most pleased at this action. In retrospect, obviously that request came from you.”

“Uh,” Erick said, pretty sure that Melemizargo was… Somehow wrong? About his words? How to broach the question of his sanity, though? Perhaps over a talk? Yes. Sure. “Let’s talk.”
