Entering a dungeon with its master at your side was a completely different experience than entering one normally.

Mainly, there was no automatic magic purge, which was fantastic. If Soltic or Vanya had been exposed with Everbless and Aroido right there, then that would have resulted in a [Return], and them needing to solve that problem. Thankfully, that did not happen.

All that really happened was the appearance of some black boxes, hovering in the air inside the safe space at the beginning of the dungeon.

Soltic and Vanya entered Dungeon 6 just before noon, with Aroido and Everbless’s smaller form leading the way, and not ten seconds later, they could see the problem for themselves. Every dungeon had a ‘user interface’ malleable to the wants of the dungeon master, but they didn’t call it that here, they called it a dungeon interface.

According to that interface, the problem was a lot more than either Soltic or Vanya expected.

- -

Intake average of last 10 days: 130,000 mana

Outflow average of last 10 days: 102,000 mana

Masters: Aroido Tidewalker, Aroido Tidewalker, Aroido Tidewalker, Aroido Tidewalker, Aroido Tidewalker, Aroido Tidewalker, Aroido Tidewalker.

Boss: Radiant Coral Eel

Current Overall Judgment: UNTENABLE.

Notification 1: Monster enrichment <LOW>

Notification 2: Environmental enrichment <1%>

Notification 3: Delver enrichment <LOW>, <Too much Force Magic, not enough other magic>

Primary Notification: Due to the nature of the current iteration of this dungeon, minimal base mana is granted to whomsoever defeats the boss, with a usual base mana of <4/party#> per defeat of the <Radiant Coral Eel>

- -

Aroido (one of 7! Maybe more!) awaited Vanya’s judgment alongside Gold Taker, who spun in the air like a tumbleweed made of red tentacles and one great central eye.

Soltic waited, too, though he already saw a great deal of issues without needing Vanya to speak about them.

After several moments to think, Vanya said, “I will start with the good things. No one who delves this place would ever notice any of these problems without being explicitly told about them. It is a good dungeon, on its surface. Perhaps the lack of base mana granted to a killer of the boss would tip off some people, but only those who aren’t ready to delve in an advanced dungeon like this, who only have a few mana to their name, anyway.”

Aroido said, “Please get on with the bad things, Miss Vanya.”

“Okay.” Vanya rapidly said, “Gold Taker is an interloper in this entire dungeon environment. He is not listed as a boss, so he must have several [Familiar]s which exist in every dungeon at the same time. I assume he personally does work every day to ensure that the rules of the dungeon are followed. Knowing this, it is no wonder that this place looks a lot more organized than it actually is. Gold Taker cannot continue to do this if you want this dungeon to produce actual quantities of gold, and proper learning.”

Gold Taker sank in the air as Vanya’s words hit him hard, his tentacles turning lifeless as he landed on the stone floor, his voice soft, “But I’m doing… Good…”

Aroido sighed, then gave a half-heated frown toward Vanya. “That is unkind.”

“I’m about to be a lot more unkind, Lord Tidewalker, but I take your meaning.” Vanya said to Gold Taker, “You cannot participate in the dungeon like you are. Instead, you can work on the back end, ensuring that the rules are followed without actually interacting with people at all. That is what a normal dungeon master does, for the repros are the only ones who can actually change and work a dungeon without harming that dungeon. All people like you and me can do is to set up the system, grow what works, and trim what doesn’t work. That is it.”

Gold Taker looked up from the ground, and he looked angry. But he did not physically lash out. He just scowled, saying, “I don’t like you.”

“That’s fine.” Vanya continued, “As for the notifications, I can fix the third one through connecting the dungeons together and making the systems we have spoken about. When all the Elemental Dungeons are working, then the delver enrichment problem will go away. I suspect, based on what I think you have here, that the Water Dungeon will be the only one which works out well, at first. Therefore, I would change this dungeon here into the Water Dungeon, and do the other dungeons another day.

“The monster enrichment problem is likely an issue of space and dungeoneering, and it is bewildering to me that this is a problem at all. All you have to do to make monster enrichment not-a-problem is to corral the monsters properly and to build environments that they individually love, but which by that love, locks them to those areas. You can’t really close off any part of the dungeon from any other, but you can certainly incentivize monster habitats and actions.

“But the real problem there is that you’re killing more monsters than you’re growing. These are charnel houses; not the habitats that they should be.

“I assume from what I have seen outside that Gold Taker is the only reason at all that these dungeons aren’t collapsing all the time. He’s feeding them mana, and keeping the monsters in here happy. So that’s a good thing he is doing, and it is something that we need to keep happening for a while.” Vanya added, “Honestly I thought Everbless was doing that, so this is a strangeness for me… What were we saying?”

Gold Taker scowled at Vanya’s loss of track.

And then Gold Taker stabbed her with an ethereal tentacle, ripping out a spark of divine fire that rapidly vanished, as he declared, “I’m Everbless, stupid hag! Tell me what I do wrong!”

A moment passed.

Aroido sighed deeply.

Vanya’s eyes went wide, as recognition spilled into her soul; for Everbless had removed her intervention himself.

Soltic blinked a bit, unsure what to do now. He and Vanya had spoken before coming here, that if anything horrible should happen that he would reverse time and they would tackle the problem together, but neither of them had considered that Everbless would get angry with Vanya for not knowing the truth and then just… remove the intervention himself.

Could they just…

Could they talk their way into gaining full access to the dungeon? No need to fight at all? That would be the preferred option, and the one they were initially working toward, days and days ago, but when the intervention appeared it had changed things. Erick had been willing to go to war, and it was only Quilatalap’s decision which had stopped that from happening. And now, that intervention was gone.

Removed.

Just like that.

Soltic waited for Vanya to decide on the course of their actions going forward. And she did.

Vanya went down to one knee, saying, “Sir Everbless I—”

“No no no!” Everbless got off the ground, floating upward, his tentacles spinning wildly as he declared, “No worship! No no! Tell me what wrong with dungeon!”

Vanya paused, then looked to Soltic, then back to Everbless. She got off the ground, saying, “It’s… It’s a good thing that you’re feeding these dungeons mana, or else they would have collapsed long before now. Um.” She centered herself, then said, “I thought you were a sapient octopus, or something, granted Script access through… something. I’m not sure how to approach this issue with you as a World Tree and connected to Sininindi and— Well. I am a teacher of magic, most of the time. Am I here to teach you magic? Is that why I was Called?”

Aroido silently watched from the side, his eyes skipping from Vanya, to Everbless, and then finally to Soltic. Since Soltic was furrowing his brows at the appropriate moments, Aroido judged that Soltic was still under the intervention, and that was good. He had failed to step between Vanya and Everbless when Everbless had gotten angry, before he removed the seal on Vanya, because, apparently, Everbless liked to remove the seal from people so they could talk straight with him. But Aroido was ready to step between Soltic and Everbless; very ready.

Soltic was still ‘interventioned’, and Aroido would keep it that way, for now. Which was very, very good. If Everbless had tried removing something from Soltic and found nothing to remove, then there would be a lot of questions.

So for now, Soltic just had to act lost every now and then.

This was fine.

… Ah! And Soltic’s anti-touch magic would prevent Everbless from touching him, anyway. This was good. Erick almost laughed at the whole situation, but that would be bad for any number of reasons.

Everbless retreated from Vanya’s question a little. “… I know enough magic. I learn myself.”

Vanya said, “Well okay then.” Then she turned to Aroido. “All seven of you are masters of this dungeon. Are you in every dungeon? Are there 49 of you?”

“There are 49 Aroidos. The original was fond of laying at the bottom of the ocean and doing almost nothing, and we inherited that trait. Most of the time we’re [Polymorph]ed as anemones or rocktangles or coral, and filtering the mana into heavy bands down in the tanks to keep the monsters happy. It’s actually a really pleasant experience to be an anemone at the bottom of a pool, so I would ask you to keep your judgments to yourself.”

Vanya raised her eyebrows, but then lowered them, saying, “I would never judge someone for their preferred Familiar Form.”

“… Huh.” Aroido said, “You actually mean that, too. I suppose an immortal would know something about odd Familiar Forms.”

Vanya smiled a little. “I do.”

Everbless suddenly asked, “Have you tree?!”

Vanya easily said, “I have been a tree before. It was pretty calming.”

Everbless squealed a little, then turned on Soltic, asking, “Have you tree?!

“… Um.” Soltic pretended to have an intervention problem. “Why would I be a tree?”

Everbless saw what was happening. He pulled out a tentacle—

And Aroido rapidly stepped to Everbless’s side, saying, “Gold Taker. Don’t do that to him. He’s not approved to know.”

Everbless’s tentacles relaxed. “But they trees! I want talk trees!”

Soltic pretended not to know what was going on, but inwardly, he was happy that Everbless was listening to someone, anyone at all. It boded well. Maybe he was a good kid, like Rozeta had said.

Aroido said to Soltic. “You may be approved in the future, but for now, some secrets will remain secret.”

Soltic said, “… Okay,” as though he wasn’t understanding at all.

Everbless seemed a bit sad about that before muttering, “No one knows me.”

“I’ll talk with you, Gold Taker, and so will Soltic eventually.” Vanya pulled the conversation back to her. “I’m fine with working with 49 of you, but that will make it a lot harder to implement the dungeon designs I wish to implement. I might need you all to move to another dungeon for a while.”

“It’s horrible for us, too.” Aroido said, “But the Regent wants us all able to override each other, so that one person can’t commandeer a dungeon on their own ever again. In order to change anything we’ll likely have to disengage from whatever dungeon you want to alter first, and then move back afterward.”

Vanya looked a little surprised. “I expected more pushback on that.”

Aroido happily said, “This all works terribly, but it does work when we make it work.” He looked to Everbless. “Though Everbless is the only reason it really works at all.”

Everbless spun a little. “I know The Rules!”

Aroido added, “And since we got you in here several hours early, and since we Aroido can simply undo anything you implement, let us begin with the full tour, and then we can get to the restructuring. It all looks complicated right now, but the setup right now is barely above normal setup. Here— This will help, first—” He waved a hand, and the entire dungeon changed.

Every single thing everywhere turned into mostly-clear Force. The stone road turned to glass. The waters turned absolutely clear. The corals became almost invisible. The abyss at the bottom of the first floor vanished from sight.

The entire dungeon stood revealed below. Or most of it, anyway.

It was an aquarium ark, filled with millions of fish and kilometers upon kilometers of towering coral and stonework hiding places and depths for fish to inhabit, and hunt within. Kelp of all sorts grew at all levels of the place below, like green hairs floating upward to reach for artificial suns which illuminated the waters here and there, like a thousand pearls hanging in the ocean. It was like any of the downflows or upflows in the Underworld, where water flowed up or down throughout the world, as the physics of Veird decreed.

Another wave of Aroido’s hands caused a large, multi-person-sized bubble to rise out of the nearby waters. The bubble then opened, like a submersible, revealing a standing area and a ring to hold onto around that area. Aroido and Everbless went in first, with Aroido saying, “This is the common way for us to give real tours of the place. It’s actually the new monster transportation system, though— For the more cooperative monsters, anyway. It’s quite secure from the dangers down below. Come on in.”

Vanya easily followed, with Soltic close behind. Vanya said, “I assume it grabs monsters and drags them down?”

“If we’re lucky enough to have that option. Otherwise we Aroido create a mana channel and simply lure the monsters to the appropriate locations. That luring is what the majority of us Aroido do every day and night.”

The bubble closed up, and as they began to descend under the waves.

Soltic felt a little bit of childlike-wonder as they descended through a group of shimmering silver fish, and watched a great black shark chase the fish, and completely ignore them. He also had a small hunger pang, but he ignored that for now.

