She studied her new Kobold Light Mage carefully, making her a better set of robes to wear. She decided her little mage would look quite impressive in a set of frostweave gear – all she needed was to raise her to level eighty or so. Her new insight about her shrine was dangerous though. Obviously, she would tell Aunt Lira and her closest friends, but she decided then and there that she would tell no one else – not even the guild – they did not need to know the full extent of her capabilities.

And Naia, she decided; her little friend was a dungeon after all. Ali was certain Naia had not created a shrine of her own yet, although she wasn’t exactly certain how that might be accomplished – after all, she had skipped whatever the usual process might be by virtue of inheriting ownership of her father’s shrine before she was even a dungeon.

She returned her attention to the rapidly recharging shrine and the rustling swish of the mana winds it was generating.

Variant: Dazzling Rogue added to Imprint: Kobold.Variant: Radiant Archer added to Imprint: Kobold.Variant: Radiant Spellsword added to Imprint: Kobold.Variant: Arcane Mage added to Imprint: Kobold.Variant: Blood Mage added to Imprint: Kobold.

The Blood Mage was particularly interesting, wielding its own blood as mana it could make flying blades and shooting shards, but without the ridiculous regeneration of the Aman Rak Trolls, she doubted the class would have nearly the same staying power.

Her eyes rested for a moment on something she had just glossed over initially: the non-combat class options. There were a surprisingly large number of them, and even more appeared when she chose mana affinities for the Kobolds.

Why would a dungeon make non-combat minions? It was a somewhat tricky question, and one she wasn’t certain she would get a satisfying answer to, but she wasn’t just any dungeon, and she had her own burning curiosity to satisfy, so she created a few.

Variant: Librarian added to Imprint: Kobold.Variant: Blacksmith added to Imprint: Kobold. Variant: Sunlit Herbalist added to Imprint: Kobold. Variant: Trap Maker added to Imprint: Kobold.

She stopped when she finally drained her shrine to empty and then returned to the library with her new little horde of Kobolds following along behind her like a brood of ducklings, passing through and exiting on the first level.

Her challenge arena was surprisingly busy, but she guessed she had grown more used to the strange prickle of knowledge and mastery experience trickling in more or less continuously. To her surprise, her new archery challenges were already in use, and mostly by her Elven guests – Coria fired arrows with incredible grace of form and a determined frown on her face, while a couple of new adventurers looked on in admiration, clearly taking notes.

Ali left them to their training, happy to see that they were finding some use in her facilities before making her way over to the beginner section where Vivian Ross was conducting a class. She didn’t interrupt, content to wait till she was done before letting her know about the shrine feature, instead summoning her magic to create a couple of new arenas for her newest minions. She could at least give the recruits something a little more fun than a Kobold warrior and a slime to work with.

When she was done, she glanced at her remaining Kobolds.

Librarian – Kobold – level 1 (Arcane) x2.Blacksmith – Kobold – level 1 (Fire) x3.Sunlit Herbalist – Kobold – level 1 (Light) x3.Trap Maker – Kobold – level 1 x3.

She set the herbalists loose in the Forest Cavern with instructions to learn how to tend to the plants growing there. She hoped they would be able to level up in the wildflower gardens, but she had no idea what advantage they may provide to the dungeon in the long run. She made a mental note to have a chat with Basil. He might well have a few ideas.

Then she teleported the trio of blacksmith Kobolds to the anvil and forge, leaving them with instructions to assist anyone using the forge for blacksmithing and maybe practice their craft when nobody was around. Maybe Thuli’s apprentices can make them some tools.

After dropping the Trap Maker Kobolds off in the sewers, she led the two golden-scaled librarians into the library itself, hoping to find Ryn so she could introduce her to her newest assistants.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
