“SIR! I suggest you put Mr. Haddon down right now.” The gruff voice said. “Very, very gently.”

Jim turned to look at where the voice came from, and saw two security guards in the doorway. One stood and the other knelt on one knee, and both had their guns drawn and pointed right at him.

“Don't shoot!” Lisa and her mother Mary cried out at the same time. The tears on their faces that flowed in a constant stream matched as well. Two more guards appeared in the hallway behind the two in the doorway, then the two windows in the side of the room opened up and an armed guard peered into each of them.

“You are surrounded, sir.” The gruff voice said. “Let. Him. Go.”

Jim didn't take his eyes off of the two security guards and opened his hands. Ren had been prepared for this and braced for what was going to happen. His feet hit the floor and he bent his knees to try and lessen the impact; unfortunately, he was too close to the table leg and whacked his knee. Everyone winced at the loud wooden thump sound it made, and Ren grunted from pain and tried to sit down.

Unfortunately, since that knee could no longer support his weight properly, Ren overcompensated when trying to balance and plunked down hard on the wooden chair. He gasped loudly from that impact and took in a huge breath, which hurt his chest even more than being held up by it did. He coughed in response, which made it worse, and he grabbed onto the table to hold himself steady and to stop himself from sliding off of the chair. However, all he really wanted to do was curl up in a little ball.

“REN!” Lisa yelled.

“I'm... fine.” Ren managed to say through the pain; but, neither Stella nor Lisa laughed at the joke.

“Step away from the table, sir.” The gruff voice said, and Jim stepped back and away from Ren. Stella and Lisa went over to him.

“Ren, can you sit back and let go of the table?” Stella asked as she knelt by the chair.

“M-maybe.” Ren said, and she helped him ease back to rest on the back of the chair. She saw a little bit of blood on the side of his shirt.

“Oh, damn!” Stella said and took off his tie and started to open his shirt.

“What is it?” Lisa asked.

“I think one of those tiny rib fractures became a break and...” Stella pulled his shirt out of the way and saw a small wound. “Yes, it punctured the skin.”

“The police are on their way.” One of the guards in the hallway said.

“P-police?” Mary looked around frantically.

“Call an ambulance, too.” Stella said. “I can't set this without knowing how much damage there is.”

“Oh, god.” Lisa said.

“I didn't do that.” Jim said as the security guards handcuffed him.

“Yes, you did.” Stella said. “Lifting Ren up by his shirt compressed his chest.”

“How was I supposed to know that?” Jim asked. “He didn't yell or anything.”

“I... didn't want... to give you...” Ren panted. “...the satisfaction of... hurting me.”

“Ren don't talk.” Stella said. “Depending on if that rib shattered or not, a piece of bone might get in your lung.”

Ren nodded, and they all waited for the police and the ambulance to show up.
