As the shockwave of massive Celestial energy beams fills the air, thousands of tendrils of royal Vibration-enforced Celestial Energy connect the back of this defensive array toward Maria and me.

Her ice blocked the attack's blunt impact while my Fire siphoned out over half of the impact's force.

The excess energy from this attack comes flowing down these tendrils, mainlined into our greater forms to be processed instantly.

Neither of us wastes a moment and uses this raw power to form attacks of our own.

The array dissolves as we absorb it back into our energy forms too, and two waves of red and blue light fly back over the ocean.

The red fire in a compact flickering ball, no more than 2 million kilometers wide, and a glistening ice spear less than a million kilometers thick, but sharpened with a point as fine as a needle at its tip.

Both attacks rocket back through space, dominating the environment.

Waves crash and swell in their way, but the compact divine threads and Royal vibrations strengthening them break through this raw Celestial sea with ease. Massive holes break through the waves, and reality bends under their weight.

The fireball and ice spear veer toward each other, then begin spinning around one another to build up more speed and invigorate the other's attack.

Once within a few billion kilometers of the monsters, the attacks release this built-up momentum and separate, targeting separate beasts.

The fireball slams into the neck of the closest Hydra's head, and the ice spear collides with the edge of the tortoise's shell.

The attacks may seem small against these creatures that raise their bodies dozens of billions of kilometers above the sea.

However, on impact, our two attacks explode and release their own raw power.

It is devastating.

A massive fireball explodes, instantly incinerating the neck of the Hydra I've hit. Its head disintegrates from the pressure, and the two closest heads nearby it are caught up in the blast.

They begin to crack and fragment from the pressure of the blast, then are consumed with flames, melting to pure celestial energy on the spot.

The furthest two remaining heads have a long enough time to react and plunge themselves deep beneath the sea.

Beside this eruption of flames, Maria's spear of Ice breaks through the tortoise's shell, causing an explosion of its own, large enough to blow off one of its legs and a massive chunk of its defenses.

The areas exposed to the blast are all covered in a dense blue and sparkling layer of ice. It begins to spread, cracking this monster's shell more, and seeping toward its head.

The shockwaves that follow disrupt all of the waves around us, imprinting a crater of gravity into the sea.

Horrific roars of Ancient Beasts echo through the air, and the massive disruption of the environment creates clouds of Celestial Energy, and chaotic bursts of consolidated sea essence, fire, and ice that burst through the air.

It is an immaculate sight to see, as the ocean has been carved out, and the zone itself quivers from our arrival.

In response, the two massive black sentinels do not run.

Instead, insidious rust and bronze-colored auras burst out from their cores. The Vibrations of a shared Royal infusion burst out from both of them.

At first, I watch the freezing shell of the tortoise stop cracking off and falling into the sea. Instead, a bronze-colored energy manifestation of a shell begins to grow back, and its eyes glow bright with fury. Maria's icy wave of poison has stopped spreading.

Where I've managed to destroy three Hydra's heads, I watch six grow back, and they are all bright orange-red, burning with an intensity that pushes the sea back even further than it already has.

–

At this very moment, in the Green Zone of the Upper Realm, a critical amount of zone-breaking cracks are opening up in space within a white chamber deep inside the fortress.

Unlike the times the zone cracked before after the death of Miriel Vermillion, and Maria's Ascension breakpoint, the cracks in space within this chamber are now reaching the outside zone.

The ancient white arrays that spin within this room, and growing and circling the entire fortress, all speed up.

Many onlookers can see the ancient automated systems moving, but no one can sense them, or feel any energy output. It's as though they are just untouchable holograms, operating at a level far higher than any low-quality ether commands in this zone.

The cracks in space that split out from Abby and Seraphel's Divine Cores begin fracturing the perception of this white room.

The visual of the white-eyed wyvern before them cracks and starts to fade away. It has been long dead, but memories from its soul still dictate its personality. The Wyvern's eyes are full of hope, and a smile forms on its mouth while it watches the two green cores completely turn to cyan.

The last remnants of its soul dissolve into the room as pure Celestial energy, and raw Royal Vibrations. They are all absorbed into the last living wyvern and the immortal healer carrying the inheritance of the wyverns from the lower realm.

White waves of energy become infused into the glyphs of her staff, and both of their vibrations mutate and go through a final shocking change once the white Wyvern's final memories imprint on their consciousness.

The legacy of a Royal Wyvern is transferred, and a new mutated Royal path is formed at the same instant that these two both gain the experience from killing this monster as though the system is witnessing this ancient white wyvern's death.

Their bodies glow bright cyan, and the room fills with so many cracks creating rifts to the cyan zone, that all six walls fall away.

Only cyan threads exist around them, but they are in the storm between realms, only being protected by the High-quality ether commands of the Fortress.

Instead of letting them leave, this legacy chamber has one final command programmed into it.

In the shape of what the room looked like before, a bright white glow shimmers in this storm of cyan threads that surrounds them. Then, everything flashes bright white for a fraction of a second.

All of the arrays in the Green Zone's fortress power down and slowly stop spinning.

Abby and Seraphel finally wake up out of their trance of enlightenment, with their Celestial Forms flowing with unbelievable power and bright options to [Rank Up] glowing in their system notifications. When they look down and take in their surroundings, they do not recognize a thing.

Below them is a bright cyan city floating above the clouds. The air is full of dense Celestial energy, and the presence of thousands of High Noble Vibrations hits their senses from below all at once.

–

On the far side of the Cyan Zone, in Lucian Morvale's Palace full of guards, many of them sense this disturbance in the zone but are not able to report the news.

At the back of the palace, the Family Head's throne is empty.

This is because he is in an extremely well-guarded chamber deep below his palace, resting at the bottom of the cyan zone.

It is guarded around its outside by many more High Noble Demons, yet he is the only one allowed inside.

Lucian calmly stands inside a heavily fortified room, with nothing but a silver reactor at its center.

His arms are crossed, and his eyes are closed.

The Family Head's mind is connected to a communication channel that links all of the zones of the Upper Realm.

To him, the world around him is dark, like an isolated void hidden from reality. It is a secure channel; all Lucian sees right now is a Dark Blue Armored Demon holding a five-faced clock, and the outline of a Purple Demon high above him with white wisps circling around its being.

"The Overseer has promised us access to the seal once confirmation of the final threat has been dealt with. Confirm this, and we can move on to the final step; double-checking that the Cyan Zone and Dark Blue Zone's structural reinforcements are ready for the shock this will put on the Upper Realm. Sacrificing the Green Zone will be quite disappointing to see, but necessary to preserve our existence."

Lucian smiles and sends packets of information holding in-depth scans of the Ravine when he checked on it a decade after the Realm wave began showing no signs of life from the threats that are spoken of.

"Here is your proof. One of my old projects killed them. Even if he didn't, humans can't survive a thousand years in their base forms. There is no way out of your prison."

Snapshots of the Ravine every few hundred years after follow, but the only interesting reading is of the Temple that the old Ancient Royal spent millions of years wasting his life around. There have been long periods of time where he lured whole generations of Demons toward it and expelled immense amounts of ether to try breaking the rift above just like this.

No damage to the only exit of this prison was made, and the Imperial seal limits all core breakthroughs for manual ascension.

This cyan-cored demon sends the rest of the footage with full confidence.

As the Purple Demon receives this information, oddly, Samir Vanguard flinches and looks over his shoulder...

Lucian's eyes become sharp, as he's never seen this machine-like family head act this way.

Samir speaks abruptly and out of line, "I'm sorry to interrupt. My Sentinels have managed to hurt each other somehow in their friendly spar... I—"

Lucian turns his back too, as the sensation of an extremely old Royal's Vibrations touches his senses. It's very different than it used to be, but there's no doubt of what this demon feels. He speaks out of line as well, "There's... a Wyvern in my Zone... I don't know how this happened..."

Before Lucian or Samir can get another word out, purple threads fill the entire mental void, putting pressure down on both Family Heads to an extreme neither of them have ever felt.

The Imperial Family Head's Voice echoes through their minds, "You have made a grave error. The Intruders still live, and they stole the Legacy of the Creator. Do you know what this means...?"
