I floated out of the giant bone colossus and walked back into reality. Standing in the sea of writhing bones, I found the waves lessening in height and impact. After a while, they turned back into the shining hills from before. The solidified mass fell back into shards of rainbow bones, and the algae began regrowing overhead.

As the algae encroached from all sides, I stared at the black hole Leviathan. It gazed back at me, its endless void indifferent to the struggles on this planet. I closed my eyes, breathing in the poisoned air and finding it fresh and inviting.

Once more, I had endured.

Chapter Begin

For a moment, I stayed in silence. Around me, nothing ushered forth. The behemoths hadn't reformed, and neither had the algae. No minor battles took place in the skies. Below, it would take days or perhaps weeks for primevals to repopulate along the ground. This left little in the way of sound outside the wind and the gentle whistle of the wind.

It was as silent as Leviathan-7 had ever been.

My eyes widened as I recognized why. I'd awakened the mass of bones we stood on, and it had purged the entire land of anything left alive. Racing back toward my cities, I winced. Even imagining what happened to them and the rulers within was painful, let alone seeing it. As I crossed miles of the bright abyss, the glowing forcefields cropped up in my view.

No buildings stood, and holes littered their foundations. The writhing tentacles of bone pulled my golems below, killing all of them. They reduced the city to rubble in the process, but the bones missed the pillars spread throughout my towns. It was as if a thousand earthquakes leveled the city to a powdered mass.

Beyond the stones, the metallic sides of the cities warped into coiled circles like crowns held over a flame. The protective barrier extended from those wobbly outskirts, though gaps in the fields leaked in radiation, gravity, and toxic air. Passing several of them, I reached the city where the rulers settled.

When I looked at it, I found no one staring back at me. They were all dead.

I silenced that panicked thought, and I landed past the outer forcefield. Walking around the masses of rubble, the central monolith of the city tilted to one side like the leaning tower of Pisa. The seismic event scattered the shops across the ground like someone bombed the place. No Hybrid rulers lingered in the ash and stone, this place empty of all life.

Wielding gravity wells, I searched the place by turning it upside down. I flipped each crushed building one at a time, seeking anyone or anything left alive. After an hour of my searching, I found nothing remaining. They were all missing, meaning the bones siphoned them deep below the surface. Perhaps worse.

Finding little else to do, I reached my town's monolith, where life thrived hours ago. I sat down and leaned against it while considering my prospects. Shalahora's demise meant our contract expired, but I still wanted to wipe the Old Ones from the face of this plane. He'd have his follow-through even after dying.

Peering at my hand, the only rulers that made it were the ones in my pocket dimension or those in stasis at Valgus's lair. Well, if I had to guess, the entire expanse flooded with the psionic fluid, meaning they died from drowning or being assimilated. Tapping the ground, I peered at the rough approximation of a city and found a reasonable base to build over.

The blue cores were still in the pillars, and I owned many in storage. I would still have my cities for the deal with Schema, so I'd have access to this absolute hellhole whenever I wanted. Great. Just great.

I rested my head in my hands as reality set in. Everyone died. Every single person. Before guilt set its claws in me, I took a few breaths and considered how I handled the situation. At worst, I could've become the holder of Baldowah's avatar. My body would've become a pawn for Elysium, one of their most potent.

They would've used me to take over planets or worse. Every surviving ruler would've been dipped into the psionic liquid, and they would all die. If I had to guess, they'd have recreated my cities and used this planet to spread Hybridized primevals across the galaxy. It was an ingenious plan since my deal with Schema wasn't tied to my mind. They'd have taken me, the planet, and guaranteed Schema's eventual doom.

By simply surviving that encounter, I saved a lot of people. Despite my logic, I convinced no one that I was some hero. I threw the rulers into the fire to protect myself. I shook my head, knowing I couldn't have done anything. My circumstances dictated my outcome. Again.

I'd failed to save almost anyone in Springfield, but a few survived. On Giess, I got a couple gialgathens out, but everyone else died there. Considering further, I got the Eltari out of their eventual demise. Of all my accolades, that was the closest to absolute success. As for the skeptiles, I freed them from 'indentured servitude,' as Obolis called it.

Reminding myself of my successes pepped me up, and my guilt lessened. I was no god, and I shouldn't bear the cross of one. While I let that peace come over me, the algae regrew over the cities, reaching the center of the ossuary once more.

Behemoths began erupting from the algae, and they battled in a faint haze overhead. Layers of algae blanketed the shining hills, and light beams leaked through them. After a while, shadows crept over the surface. Shadows crossed the ground, and the eternal war commenced.

From beside me, the city's monolith cast shade. Spawning from the darkness, Shalahora oozed out. He peered at me,

"We meet once more, Harbinger."

I stood up and hugged the Sovereign, and he returned the gesture. His immaterial form felt cold, like hugging an icy cloud. However, it still heartened me like a warm campfire, and I smiled at him, "It's good to see someone made it."

"There are others."

I raised my brow. From Shalahora's arms, the psionic restraints holding Valgus fell.

I said, "You kept these?"

Shalahora coalesced into a bipedal form and placed a fingertip against his forehead. Shalahora pulled out something like a memory, and Obolis gazed at me from it. Chaos erupted around him, and he pointed at me.

"We've uncovered a pocket dimension within these gauntlets."

I took in a sharp breath. Of course. They could've hidden within the same place the remnant had.

Obolis cast a spell.

"I'm passing on the sensation of the magical signature used to open and close this. Use it to let us out after you've made the city safe once more."

I clapped my hands.

"Ah, man, you guys really pulled through, huh?"

Shalahora murmured, "We have."

"Hah...Then why don't we get this place back up and running?"

Shalahora nodded, and we got to work. I took several hours constructing quintessent golems. Once crafted, they cleared the rubble and rebuilt this settlement's metropolis, streets, and infrastructure. I went around the place and fixed the bent dimensional fabric along the city's edges before scrapping it.

As I touched the fabric, it bent like putty. I pulled it apart, gawking at its frailty. Scrapping the metal, I created more material and made new metal rings for the cities. After creating an airtight seal around the town, the homeostasis runes cleared out the poisoned air, unstable gravitation, and crippling radiation within a day.

Once the settlement was recreated, I sat and stared at Valgus's shackles. These held the rulers. After rubbing my temples for a moment, I pulled back up the memory of Obolis. He used a strange mana signature to activate a few runes on the inner section of Valgus's shackles. I grabbed those restraints, trying to make the same mana.

The strange material absorbed my mana and converted it into two different spells. The first effect isolated my mind from the ether around me. They made existence feel like walking into someone else's home on accident. The discomfort was palpable, and I wanted to return to where I belonged.

I couldn't. The shackles operated with an absolute effect, and once activated, the chains fed on whatever mana I poured in. The psionic isolation occurred after that. Even after using them for a few seconds, I was sure of their immutability. The only way Shalahora and I had interacted with Valgus mentally was because the remnant had wanted us to.

How they did that, I had no clue.

The shackle's other effect created physical isolation. The more mana I poured into the chains, the more they disconnected me from the surrounding world's laws. Gravity pulled on me less. Temperature no longer passed over me. Hell, I couldn't even feel the ground or my surroundings. The shackles numbed me like a tranquilizer, but it was no negligible effect on my mind. This was as tangible as time and inevitable as death.

As with the psionic isolation, the physical disconnect strengthened with more mana. It reminded me of all the feats that Valgus performed because of these shackles. I gawked at the exotic artifact, their origin mysterious and their effects unexplainable.

And now, they were mine. Hell yeah.

I rubbed my hand against the alloy, finding no similarities between it and other metals. I tried pulling on chains, but they remained as unwavering as Valgus. After thinking about it for a while, I searched for the power source fueling the metal's invincibility. I found nothing but a strange sensation oozing out of the shackles.

I flinched. Blegh. These had spawned from the Old Ones. Pondering how the shackles stayed so stable, I considered other avatars. Yawm used atomic fission or fusion to power his mana, like an elemental furnace. Lehesion wielded some esoteric, far-off energy source that kept him topped off at all times. I gazed at the chains and bands, wondering if an Old One also fueled these.

I found no answers to those questions, but I still tampered with them for several hours. I figured out a little more information, but not much. They absorbed any amount of mana poured into them and enacted an effect equal to the energy put in. In fact, these acted as a genius holding cell for Baldowah's avatar.

That entity couldn't control the mana it released as it relied on the raw effect of the energy to handle anything in its way. This metal would both contain and feast on that mana, and it converted the host of the avatar into an invincible entity at the same time. The host then acted as an unbreakable cage for the avatar.

Clever as this was, something went awry along the way, and the avatar gained control of the host. Remembering the avatar's mind magic, that had to be how it wrestled control. The other entity lived a life, but this avatar only worked on a singular skill by comparison. The difference in commitment led to a difference in outcome.

A painful one. The other tortured entity lost control, and Valgus took over his identity, enacting Baldowah's will. My guess was the host was punished afterward, and considering the origin of the shackles, an Old One decided on the sentence.

A chill ran down my spine. The Old Ones seemed to be at the root of more problems the more I uncovered. In a way, they acted like cancer, warping anything they touched for the worse. I winced as memories of the tortured soul passed over me. It died whenever Valgus's body disintegrated into a hateful mush, but it lived for eons in hell.

Remembering my contract with Shalahora, I could've put myself into that position by signing it. Even 30,000 years of freedom would be a blip compared to the purgatory an Old One conjured. However, I wasn't like the host of the avatar. As Shalahora mentioned, nothing from this plane could exceed the Old Ones.

I wasn't of this plane. I was one.

Either way, uncovering the full extent of Valgus's history could help me stop my corruption. Same with Shalahora. Getting ready to act, I rolled my shoulders, amping myself up. No matter how I solved my problems, they required blood, sweat, and tears.

Spurred to action, I tried making the mana signature Obolis used to close and open the shackle's pocket dimension. After several hours, I made no progress. Obolis was an expert magician, and while I was a potent sorcerer, I lacked his technical skills. If I kept at it, I'd waste the rest of my stay here on Leviathan-7.

I abandoned the pursuit. I'd hire a mana specialist and get the job handled after getting back from the lottery. Instead of banging my head against that metaphorical wall, I changed tactics. I sat down with Shalahora, and we delegated duties.

Shalahora would check on the stored rulers that Valgus had captured. They were likely gone, but it wouldn't hurt to check. After that, he'd find any other rulers left on the planet. In the meantime, I'd finish rebuilding my cities. We needed several up and running so that they'd maintain long-term safety. Getting to work, I generated more constructor golems before making guardians for each city.

This required hundreds of golems and several days of manufacturing. Having plenty of time to think, I mulled over the conflict here. It had been a total bloodbath; if I guessed right, less than thirty rulers survived. If I was optimistic, perhaps a few rulers scavenged out in the wastes of Leviathan-7. However, Valgus had hunted them down for a while, meaning there wouldn't be many.

Those facts left a bitter taste in my mouth. I gave my best go at keeping these people safe. I really had. In the end, I squeaked by while having everybody slaughtered. Anytime I wondered about the situation here, my mind wondered about Earth. This battle would've crushed my home into a fine powder.

No, it would've evaporated it. Disintegrated, maybe?

Either way, I would've destroyed everything and everyone without even meaning to. I had to be pre-emptive in handling threats moving forward. First in that line-up was Elysium. They'd proven capable of insidious methods while being resourceful, cunning, and motivated.

