"My shades uncovered it."

My arms flopped to my sides.

"Well, why didn't you say so? Let's go get it."

"It is precariously positioned."

"Ah, I still want to see it."

"I knew you would. Follow."

We flew off. As we passed over the ossuary, I raised a hand.

"How much are you going to donate to Schema?"

"A minutia less than whatever you decide upon."

"Ah, to keep me on top? You don't have to."

"It is to enable your growth. There is a mountain to pass, and we will do so one step at a time. You will be our guide."

I frowned, wondering how Schema would handle these rewards. After a few more minutes of traversal, we reached the old base of Valgus. The enormous caverns stretched vast distances, and we crossed over the emptied prison cells.

I said, "So they were right beside it the entire time?"

"In a sense."

I gazed at the vast grotto and imagined the liquid rainbow bone flooding it. Having that much energy coursing through this creature must've left it exhausted or invigorated. I couldn't tell. Regardless, these caves reminded me of the veins in a beast, like the liquid bone was blood. I murmured,

"It's like flying through an artery."

Shalahora said, "There is no semblance. It merely is."

I raised a brow. Shalahora reached the pit where Valgus's camp set up shop. I landed beside him, and the steady pulse of the ground quaked beneath us. A radiant hum overwhelmed all other sounds, so Shalahora thought over.

"It is down there."

We dove into the abyss, the shining, opalescent bone offering ambient light. The deeper we went, the more pressure I experienced. At the bottom, my eyes leaked silver blood, and my bones rattled from the force of the pulses. I laughed, my voice gurgling.

"This heart's pretty, glah, absurd, isn't it?"

Shalahora wavered like a flag in the wind. He couldn't speak, only telepathically saying, "It lies there."

We crossed a set of tunnels deep beneath the bones, leading to a vast, overwhelming expanse. At the center of it, an enormous dungeon core radiated out. The dark sun carried no depth, like a two-dimensional object. It simply siphoned the light and energy around it, feeding upon the energy pooling nearby. It warped nearby reality.

I shook my head at the monstrosity, "It's...Colossal, like a Spacial Fortress."

Shalahora thought, "It is far more. This is the beginning of some unique, unconquerable entity."

"An Old One?"

"No. They are more than can be made upon this plane. However, this exists at the cusp of godhood, a monstrosity without limit and a system feeding it without end."

I put my hands on my hips, "Huh...Wanna take it with us?"

Shalahora gawked at me, and his shadowy form plumed out for a moment. "How would you do that?"

I smiled.

"A little bit of dark magic, so to speak."

"Your pocket dimension will not capture something of this size."

I cupped my chin.

"Hm, as is, maybe. I should be able to return and get it out of here...Eventually."

Shalahora turned away.

"A source of power may become a source of pain."

The shadow wisped away in trails of darkness. I gave one last glance at the dungeon core, the depths of it reminding me of Leviathan. The black hole siphoned everything, an agent of destruction hell-bent on its own growth. In the end, this core was no different, a consuming menace.

As I flew away, I hoped I wouldn't become the same.
