Even worse, I wasn't safe against them, no matter how powerful I became. The ends justified the means to them, and I was in their way. No matter the reasoning I presented, they wouldn't stop either. Elysium would win this battle against Schema or die trying. I had no intention of seeing the hellscape they'd create if they did win. They also breached our treaty and attacked me.

They thought they were facing a hill to walk over, but they were wrong. I was a mountain, and they would die in my shadow. They wanted war? Oh, I'd give it to them.

Easier said than done, of course, but I resolved myself for the aftermath. The problem was that Elysium wasn't my only enemy. I'd be comfortable establishing my position if they were, but my reality was far different. I had to prepare for my second biggest threat - Schema. This 'lottery' proved every fear I'd ever had about the guy.

He was unrelenting, uncompromising, and, at the end of the day, a machine. In a way, Schema was more dangerous than Elysium since the AI established the rules everyone lived by. Because of that, the AI decided when we died based on how he enforced those rules. I barely crawled out of Leviathan-7 with my mind intact, and Schema's conditions caused that.

Even worse, my other guildsmen could be pulled into this situation. Only Torix would've survived via his phylactery, but I doubted anyone else could've made it out of here. Althea could've researched the local fauna and mimicked their biology to survive. She could've avoided Valgus, given her phasing abilities.

Kessiah could've healed herself while hiding somewhere. She'd have had a rougher go at it. Torix's body was the best built for the situation, so he might not even perish. Even Hod might've escaped into a shadow like Shalahora had. He could've waited several months before Schema warped him out. Hell, even Amara might've adapted, considering she was an eldritch.

A slight grin cropped up on my face as I considered my guild's prospects. They'd probably make it, but other guilds wouldn't. There's no way Florence would've survived this, and Helios would've struggled. As my guild expanded, I'd face similar problems.

I snapped out of my disquiet. Anxious contemplation accomplished nothing, and my time here was finite. I kept crafting my golems over the next week, the new models showing improvements over the older ones. Before, a pack of five could hold a primeval back using tactics. Now three could maul weaker primevals without resorting to steady, controlled aggression.

It left me curious about my own abilities. Needing a break from the crafting, I controlled the rainbow bone near a city. I erected walls of the stuff, and after amassing several layers, a dome formed. I molded out a depression in the center, completing the arena. After a few minutes of searching outside, I found a fresh primeval in the ossuary.

The weaker primeval peered around for rainbow bones to devour. I got its attention before trapping it in the arena. The ice primeval reminded me of another I fought when I arrived here. While weaker, the formidable eldritch spawned void ice with its steps and chilled the air across the dome.

We clashed in the center. I pushed it back while standing over it. It crushed into the ground, its legs breaking. It shattered its arms and rolled away while I chased it. Swinging in a circle, it sliced at my throat. I angled an arm, molding my armor to create a shield. The primeval's glancing blow scraped upward before I smashed my hand through its chest.

Spikes of my armor erupted from within, and the primeval howled out. It swung once more, and I deflected. It tried spitting cold gunk at me, but I pulled it away with gravity wells. The primeval even tried a suicidal explosion. I crushed its skull, where the energy coalesced before it detonated.

Walking out of that explosion, I brushed ice shards off my shoulders. Picking up several blue cores, I peered at them for a bit. I needed a bit more oomph against me. Taking a more adventurous approach, I fought two primevals at once. Once more, the desperate, ragged edge of desperation grew in me, but it didn't consume. It emboldened.

A stone and star primeval wrestled against the confines of the arena. I tackled the rocky eldritch, and it cracked against me. The stones swirled before the beast slammed into my side. It left a dent before I struck its side. Powder erupted, cloaking us in a dark cloud. Underneath the haze, my runes glowed through the gloom.

Stretching out a hand, telekinetic constructs covered my limbs while gravitational augments controlled my weight. I evaded four rapid swings from the stone monster, keeping my balance. It stumbled forward, and I smashed its face and shoulder. From behind me, the star primeval darted in, and I rolled to evade it.

It bounced off the wall, coming back my way. Liquifying myself, I flowed around it before solidifying in front of the stone primeval. Our strikes collided, erupting a shockwave within the dome. The star primeval trembled, its body dissipating. I noted that weakness before crashing with the stone primeval once more.

The star primeval regrouped before dashing against my back. I spawned a hole in my chest, and the star primeval impacted the stone one. Magma ran between my fingers in the shockwave's aftermath, and both primevals sprawled across the ground. I gazed down at them before pulling them together with a gravity well.

I lifted my arms overhead and smashed downwards with dozens of gravity wells, strengthening my blow. An eruption of kinetic force splattered the remnants in every direction. Stone smothered fire, and energy melted stone. The primevals perished, and I pulled five blue cores from the ground.

After passing that test, I wondered where my limits were, so I fought three at once. Ice, stone, and star, the primevals quarreled in the confines of the space. I fought the stone one first, and the ice primeval stabbed at my back. Wondering how well my armor held up, I let it land the blow.

The ice blade dented five inches deep before I swung backward. I shattered the ice blade and the primeval's arm. A stone slammed against my temple, whipping me sideways. I rolled across the ground before the star primeval slammed into me.

I slammed against the wall of the arena, my eyes wide. They ganged up on me, the three charging my way. I smiled while cracking my knuckles. It took several hours, but I crushed them without smothering them in singularities. Standing amidst the carnage, I peered at heated spots of bone and shards of void ice in the arena.

This was fun.

Taking a risk, I pulled out my elemental furnaces. I usually kept them in my pocket dimension while fighting so that I didn't destroy them. However, they amped up my potential, so I took them out. I practiced using them against a single primeval first. It made the conflict even easier than before, and the same was true facing two.

Against three, the conflict had a similar level of difficulty compared to fighting without the furnaces. It wasn't because the elemental furnaces didn't help; to the contrary, they kept me in the running. I struggled with the pressure, knowing I could lose something permanently. It made me restrict my strategies and tactics.

Those reservations weakened me, and the primevals exploited that weakness. It took several days to get myself into fighting shape with the furnaces out, and it helped soothe the otherwise overwhelming tension. With that pressure alleviated, I handled three weakened primevals within an hour, a record for me when not using unconventional tactics.

After getting that sorted, I pinned myself against four primevals. Before grasping victory, I pulled the furnaces back into my pocket dimension. I used my rushing singularities trick to evaporate them, but it left a bad taste in my mouth. Taking that out of the equation, I faced four once more but with a rule in place.

I couldn't pocket the furnaces. Either I won or lost them.

At first, the jitters left me ineffective and unable to function. Several minutes into the fight, I got my footing back. I regained my total composure, becoming a machine on the battlefield. The hard-fought battle left me high on victory for a while.

However, I had one last test. I put myself against five primevals at once. Taking a moment to meditate on the conflict, I silenced my mind. With the furnace rule, I channeled mana from them into myself. They split atoms, turning nuclear fission into raw mana. I assimilated the coursing flow, my runes glowing.

Time accelerated, and my surroundings slowed. I shot into the dome, ready for war. The swarming eldritch turned towards me before darting like frothing, twitching insects. They reached the edge of my dimensional wake, and I shoved my disintegrating minds into theirs. They writhed, my torment becoming theirs.

Since facing Valgus, I uncovered this tactic. I wielded my time magic's excruciating execution as a weapon, having my enemies experience it as I did. It came with the benefit of augmenting my mind magic. The primevals'  psyches splintered with me like we all walked on coals.

Being accustomed to it, I shot forward with my runes charged. I unloaded a slicing uppercut, a shockwave erupting from a primeval's back. A water primeval rushed towards my back, but I molded away from its strike, pulling my elemental furnaces with me. The primevals swarmed from all sides, and I flooded out, solidifying above.

I struck like a kinetic chain of gravity wells and physical force. As they swarmed me in midair, I kept them at bay, firing each of my strikes like a cannon. Sonic booms erupted from my fists and behind me, my position blurring from the physical impacts. I jittered in my position from each collision, and whenever overwhelmed, I flowed away.

I redirected enemies with gravity and telekinesis alike. I cleaved off my arms and legs, melting the dimensional fabric and splattering it over certain primevals. I even used basic runic detonations to disable primevals at critical moments, all while keeping the furnaces safe. These tactics let me stay at the center of their assault, decimating one primeval at a time.

It required an enormous mental strain, and in the end, I crushed five at once after an eight-hour, all-out war. It was my current limit, one I'd forged out over the many years of battle since Schema's system arrived on Earth.

And it wasn't enough. I needed more.

I planned on getting better after arriving on Earth. I needed a break from Leviathan-7 for a bit for my sanity, but I'd return to this place. It was a forge where I purified myself of weakness like a crucible purging slag from steel. Even if it felt like dying, it would keep me alive; at times, living meant marching through death.

That concept weighed on me when Shalahora returned the reports of what happened to Elysium's trapped rulers. They all died as I expected, their bodies submerged in the rainbow bone around them. The spikes kept erupting from within, the bodies experiencing pain even after the minds died.

We killed them one at a time, each execution being an attempt at mercy. It left me solemn, and I fell into my battles with the primevals as an exercise but also as an escape. I found joy in fighting, though not to the extent Valgus had. Hell, some part of me wondered if Baldowah's avatar was still alive and feeding me this bloodlust.

But that wasn't it. I missed executing something real and tangible, and it reminded me of boxing before Schema arrived. I found a home in the familiarity, even if I chased nostalgia a bit with the excursion. Regardless, it gave me a way of passing the time as I waited for the lottery to end.

I met with Shalahora for a final talk during the last few days. We met up at the center of the ruler's city and standing in the monolith's shadow, I raised a hand to the guy.

"Man, that fight with Valgus was crazy, huh?"

Shalahora murmured, "It was a slaughter for both sides."

I frowned. So much for subtlety.

"So...What are your plans after the lottery ends?"

"I will find sanctum on your homeworld, wherever you offer it. Once firmly established, I'll assist with whatever you need for the next few decades before I am called to action by my Old One."

"Wow. That's a quick turnaround."

"I intend on abiding by the contract. What of you?"

"I'll be focusing on getting some distance from Schema. After that, I'll consolidate my resources."

"Why would you put distance between you and Schema?"

I gestured to everything around us.

"This. This is why."

"If you pull from Schema too quickly, it shall take your rewards from you."

I frowned.

"Schema's rewards are double-edged. He restricted me from using primordial mana for months to years. I'd lose an enormous amount of my fighting potential."

"Perhaps Schema restricts you for reasons you've yet seen?"

"Or Schema pulls me down, so I'm with the rest of the pack."

Shalahora shivered.

"Then do as you say. Limits are often in place with good reason."

"Yeah, but for who? Anyways, let's just say I've got a lot of work on my way. I'll hunt down Elysium once I've got everything handled."

"You still wish to face them?"

"I don't really have a choice."

Shalahora's form trembled.

"You have more choice than you are aware of."

"You'd have to be stretching a choice's definition."

"Or expanding it."

"Eh, maybe." I leaned against the monolith. "Either way, I'll be having you help out a few of my guildmates. Two assassins could learn a lot from you."

"I shall pass on what I can."

"I'll also need you to talk with a Ruhl I know. I'm hoping to connect a few dots."

Shalahora's eyes narrowed, "A Ruhl? You associate with hiveminds?"

"Associate? I was made by one. Well, sort of."

Shalahora's eyes widened, and he leaned towards me. I raised a hand.

"I'll tell you later after we handle business. Valgus mentioned finding some kind of advanced dungeon core, and I wanted to-"

