“My King.” Helena said and put her hand through the space and rested her hand on his forearm. He led her to the apartment door and opened it, then escorted her down the hallway. “I think I prefer your other outfit, My King.” She said with a red face.

Ren chuckled and took her to the end of the hallway, checked the All-Seeing Mirror, then cast the Portal spell. Helena looked at the portal, then at Ren, and turned her head to look at the apartment they had just left.

“It would have been very rude of me to just appear inside their apartment.” Ren said and took her through the portal and they appeared in front of the Main House in his county.

“Wh-where are we?” Helena asked as she looked around and saw a lot of buildings.

“Walen County in the Human Kingdom.” Ren said and opened the front door of the Main House. “This is the Main House.”

“Did you build all of this?” Helena asked as she stepped into the small lobby. “This is a Main House?”

Ren chuckled and took her up the wide set of stairs to the second floor, then over to the apartment door and knocked. The door opened and Frikara stood there.

“We felt you appear.” Frikara said. “Who is this you have with you?”

“Lady Frikara, this is Helena Brignash.” Ren said. “She is a healer and has joined our House.”

“You mean our unregistered House?” Frikara asked with a smile.

“She wanted to leave House Lodur, and...”

“Say no more.” Frikara said. “Everyone! We have a new member of our House!”

“Hello!” Lusinia said. “Welcome.”

“Hi!” Andrela said and waved.

“Good morning.” Navruth said. “It will be nice to have a dedicated healer around.”

“Would you like something for breakfast?” Verwynn asked, and the other maids laughed. “What? She looks hungry.”

“You could say hello first.” Frikara chuckled.

“I can greet her formally later.” Verwynn said as she stirred the pancake batter and looked at the healer. “How many do you want?”

“I... I couldn't possibly...” Helena tried to say no, then suddenly Frikara had a hold of her arm and dragged her into the apartment.

“Verwynn has been getting better at making pancakes.” Frikara said and took Helena over to the small kitchen. “Sit.”

Helena sat without question and Verwynn smiled at her and used a small ladle to put the pancake batter on the hot flat griddle while Frikara sat down beside the healer.

“They smell good.” Ren said. “Can you make me a small stack?”

“No.” Verwynn responded and grinned at him. “I'll make you a big stack.”

“That sounds even better.” Ren smiled. “I'll be right back.” He left the apartment and closed the door. The sounds of sawing and hammering were heard an instant later. The other maids went to the kitchen and sat down around Helena and Frikara as they waited for breakfast. They didn't have to eat; but, they liked the taste of food and enjoyed these times together.

“You... you're all his Ladies.” Helena said and felt completely out of her depth.

“Don't fret over that.” Navruth said. “As an unregistered House, we don't have to follow strict protocol.”

“I don't know how... wait, how does that even work?” Helena asked, confused.

“We don't have to run it.” Frikara said. “No designated lands in the Dwarven Kingdom, no designated population... well, except for you.”

“No businesses to keep track of, or taxes, or anything else needed to run a House.” Lusinia said. “Of course, despite not really having anything to do, being his Lady has its own benefits.”

“Does it ever.” Andrela leaned back and rubbed her slightly distended belly. “I can't wait for him to be born.”

“You're pregnant?” Helena asked, and she nodded. “Congratulations!”

“Now say that to the rest of us.” Frikara said with a smile.

“You... you can't... are you serious?” Helena asked, clearly shocked. “All 5 of you are pregnant?”

They all nodded slightly and felt her dismay, and she let out an exaggerated sigh.

“I am going to be so overworked.” Helena said.

That made all the maids laugh, and Verwynn put a plate of pancakes in front of Helena and passed her the syrup. Helena didn't know what to do with the small bottle and just stared at it. Andrela took pity on her and poured a little bit on one of the pancakes, then cut it off and used a fork to poke it and held it out for her to taste it.

“Go ahead. It's really good.” Andrela said.

Helena eased forward a little and opened her mouth, then took the bite of pancake into her mouth and chewed on it. “By the gods!”

“I told you.” Andrela handed her the fork and the syrup, so Helena poured some syrup on the rest of the pancakes and started eating.
