“Good. Then here’s what we’ll do. We have [Laborers] and other volunteers working already, but I want [Guardsmen] assisting and patrolling for moths down every street. Be vigilant! Not all the moths might be dead, and the last thing I need is for someone to get their tail bitten off. Here’s how we’ll patrol. Klbkch, Relc, you head down Ancestor’s Walk. Circle the city. Guardsmen Tkrn, Euriss, check Market Street. Guardsmen…”
The [Guardsmen] named began forming up in pairs or checking their gear. They were still grumbling, but that was the nature of all guardsmen, universally. Klbkch and Relc heard the others chattering as they walked towards the doors.
“Ancestors, I hate those things. First we kill the damn moths, now we have to carry them?”
“And in the rain of all things? Dead gods! Let’s just toss them off the walls, why bother cremating?”
“You fancy hauling a stinking carcass up all those stairs?”
“At least that way they’ll be eaten. Water’s rising. Soon we’ll have to lock the gates. Tonight, maybe.”
“The fish’ll be coming any day now. Once they swim up from whatever hole in the ground they live in. Or come down from the streams.”
“At least they’ll have plenty to eat. That means we pull in more of a harvest.”
“Yeah, but what they’re eating is bugs. You think of that? That means we’re eating bugs because we eat the fish.”
“They can’t be that bad. I heard that crazy Human girl shouting about selling cooked moths from the walls. Did you see her inn? Completely wrecked! There’s a sea of dead moths floating around the hill!”
“Cooked moths? You’d trust her cooking? She sells acid flies!”
“To be fair, they’re really good if you add honey.”
Klbkch and Relc exchanged a look.
“Interesting. Hey Klb, did you hear how Erin’s inn was?”
“I believe it survived the battle, though it was heavily damaged. She incurred no casualties.”
“Really? Wow. Hey, are you free from your stupid Hive duties tonight?”
“My ‘stupid Hive’ is well-attended in my absence, yes. Although I resent the implication.”
“Yeah, yeah. But do you think we could take a look?”
“I can’t swim. Or are you suggesting you carry me the entire way there?”
“Hah! You wish! I could totally do it, but nah. Guess what I saw on the way here?”
“What?”
“Guess?”
“I refuse.”
“Come on…”
“You will tell me eventually.”
“Nuh uh.”
“Your childlike response only solidifies my certainty.”
“Okay, fine. Guess what I saw?”
“Again, I refuse to guess.”
“Oh, come on…”
The two [Guardsmen] walked out of the doors on patrol. Klbkch and Relc, the Senior Guardsman duo. They were a good pair, if odd. One was a precise, almost perfect example of a [Guardsman] who happened to be Antinium. The other was a war hero who slacked on his job and was tolerated for his ability and little else.
They lifted moth corpses, argued, and worked tirelessly for six hours until they stopped at a door set into a wall. It was plain, inconspicuous, and was definitely not supposed to be there, given that the wall in question was Liscor’s western wall. Klbkch opened the door and stepped through.
“Hello? Miss Erin—”
He raised his voice as he entered a dark inn. Boarded up windows leaked rain into the inn, and the fireplace and [Light] spells illuminated the rest of the inn. Klbkch and Relc blinked as they saw something scuttle across the floor and heard an angry voice.
“Argh! It’s another one! Mrsha, get me a boot! Not that boot, get me my bad boot!”
Erin and Mrsha chased the tiny moth across the floor. Erin raised the boot as the Gnoll handed it to her and threw it. The boot spun through the air and crushed the moth. Erin cheered and looked around. Her eyes widened as she spotted the two [Guardsmen].
“Klbkch! Relc!”
“Hey! I thought this place was totally wrecked!”
Relc walked into the inn, laughing and looking around. Klbkch entered after him, and his mandibles opened wide with surprise.
“Ah. This is unexpected.”
Pawn looked up as he, Olesm, and the Horns of Hammerad ate at the one good table in the inn. They were the only ones sitting on chairs. But the floor, newly cleaned and washed, was covered with bodies. Painted Soldiers sat and ate from bowls filled with stew and sipped from special tankards designed to be held by their awkward grips. They looked up as Klbkch stared around.
“Hey, did you hear about the special dinner for the Soldiers? Come on in! I don’t have any more tables, but I’ve got plenty of food still!”
Erin ushered Relc and Klbkch into the room, beaming. She took the boot from Mrsha and made a face at the oozing carcass.
“Ew. Mrsha, can you wash this outside? Thanks!”
“Whoa. What’s with the huge room?”
Relc gaped at the giant common room, stunned by what he was seeing. Klbkch stared at the empty stage and wide room. He tilted his head thoughtfully.
“I detect the presence of a Skill.”
“Gee, you think? But what the heck is it?”
“Like it? It’s my [Grand Theatre]! It was filled with dead moths and stuff, but we’ve been working all day, and we’ve washed it clean! I also have the second and third floor cleared up! Well, mostly. I think Bird’s tossing moths off the roof right now.”
On cue, Relc and Klbkch heard a muffled thump outside and Bird’s voice.
“One moth goes splat, two moths go splat-splat. Three moths go splat-splat-splat.”
And then another voice which neither [Guardsman] recognized.
“Splat, splat, splat.”
“Ooh, Numbtongue’s singing! I bet he thinks we can’t hear him.”
Erin grinned up at the ceiling. Relc shook his head in amazement.
“What’s with the big room, Erin? I heard you had Goblins—which is totally fine by me!”
He raised his claws hurriedly as Erin turned back to them.
“Totally fine. I’m just here to eat. I’m not gonna cause trouble, okay? Klbkch and I stopped for a drink since we heard your inn got trashed. Looks better than I thought, actually. Right, Klb?”
“Indeed. My partner’s wild speculations are quite groundless. Erin, I am pleased that you are well.”
“Hey, I’m glad you’re well too, Klbkch. How were things in the Hive? Are Belgrade, Anand, and Garry…?”
“All unharmed.”
“I’m good too, Erin! I killed tons of moths! Hell, I held the wall pretty much on my own.”
Relc waved a claw excitedly. Erin laughed at him.
“I bet you did. Come on, take a seat and I’ll get you some food. Or rather—Ishkr? Can you get drinks and stew for Relc and Klbkch?”
A Gnoll came out of the kitchen. Relc chortled with glee as he saw the dark beverage in his glass mug.
“Alcohol? That’s good stuff there! When did this happen?”
“A lot’s been going on! Come on, sit. There’s a nice place by the fire.”
Erin sat with the two [Guardsmen]. She smiled broadly at them, and Relc grinned back as Klbkch raised his mandibles. For a few seconds they recalled another moment, a long while ago, where they had been in a similar situation. Then the inn had been run-down and old. Now it was filled with Antinium Soldiers, and they ate on the floor. But as Erin added a log to the fire, and Klbkch and Relc argued over who got the bigger bowl of stew, it felt like not much had changed.
“So, Klbkch.”
“Yes, Erin?”
The Antinium looked at her as Erin twiddled her thumbs together. Relc was inhaling his stew and washing every bite down with a gulp of ale, happy as could be. Erin looked somewhat nervously at Klbkch as she spoke.
“My inn’s wrecked. Klbkch, can I pay you to fix it? Bird says the Hive is probably a mess right now, so I can make do for now. But if you could spare a few Workers…”
She trailed off hopefully. Klbkch pondered her request as he ate stew and then nodded.
“The Hive is indeed recovering, but there is a finite number of Workers and Soldiers needed to remove the corpses. The tunnels can barely accommodate a single giant moth as it is. Your request will not impose a strain on the Hive’s resources. I will send a small team up shortly.”
“Oh, really? Wow, I’m so grateful!”
“I appreciate your gratitude. However we will have to charge a fee, and lumber will be an issue.”
“Don’t worry about that! I can get some from Celum, and I have coin! Olesm gave me money for tonight, and I’ve got acting money coming in! Well, I’ll have more once I get the inn fixed up again.”
“Acting money?”
Relc and Klbkch exchanged a glance. Before they could inquire further, a sorry-looking Stitch-Girl sitting in a corner of the inn far from the fire raised her mug.
“That money had better come to me, Erin!”
Octavia’s eyes were bloodshot, and she looked despondent as she drank. Erin coughed. Relc gave Octavia a weird look.
“What’s her problem?”
“Octavia’s sort of upset. We, uh, used her potions up during the battle. And I can’t pay her back just yet. I haven’t seen the Silver Swords or Halfseekers yet, and I don’t know if they want to pay her back.”
“Sure, just leave me without any coin for all my hard work!”
Erin winced as Octavia came over to complain. She glared at Erin, Klbkch, and Relc, although she kept well back from the fireplace.
“My stock of potions is gone, and I’m ruined without some kind of reimbursement! Why, the cost of the ingredients alone is—”
“Miss Octavia, may I assume that all the potions lost were used in the defense of Liscor?”
Klbkch calmly interrupted the [Alchemist]. She paused.
“That’s right. And without me charging a single coin, by the way! I did my civic duty—to another city no less! And do I get a word of thanks? Nooo—”
The Antinium nodded.
“We will reimburse you the costs of your lost wares, Miss Octavia.”
“Say what?”
The Stitch-Girl broke off. Klbkch tapped his fingers against the side of the bowl, speaking clearly.
“Give me a full receipt of your lost items tomorrow morning. I will have you sign, under truth spell, and we will offer you a fair sum close to market value for your lost potions. Liscorian law states that services or items used in the defense of the city must be repaid at appropriate price to their respective owners. You may be able to claim some money yourself, Miss Solstice.”
“Really?”
Erin brightened up. Klbkch nodded.
“Your inn was used as a staging ground for multiple adventuring parties and both Celum and Pallass’s City Watch. You may also be able to charge all three cities for use of your magical doorway in transportation, although the cities may claim fair use of a magical artifact in times of war. I will review the relevant information and inform you of whatever reimbursements I deem fitting.”
“All right! You heard that, Octavia? You get money, and I get money! Thanks, Klbkch!”
The [Innkeeper] smiled. Octavia looked stunned. Klbkch nodded towards her.
“Will that be satisfactory, Miss Octavia?”
“What? Um. Yes. Thank you. Thank you! Pleasure doing business with Liscor! And might I add that I hope my potions were of great service to the city? I would be more than happy to provide as many potions as necessary—”
Erin rolled her eyes and pushed Octavia back towards her seat. Relc watched her arguing with the Stitch-Girl and sighed.
“Reimbursements?”
Klbkch nodded.
“Part of Liscorian law. A staple of most Drake cities, in fact. You would be aware of this if you ever took the time to review the laws you enforce.”
“That’s what I’ve got you for, Klbkch old buddy. You do all the boring stuff.”
“That is sadly accurate.”
Relc laughed. The big Drake sat with Klbkch on the floor, drinking lightly. He looked older than Klbkch remembered. But then, they’d been partners for nearly seven years now. Relc looked into the fire.
“Hell of a week, huh, Klb?”
“Indeed, Relc.”
“Glad you made it out of there. When that scrawny Worker guy, Pawn, or whatever, came out of the Hive, I got worried, y’know?”
Klbkch paused with a spoon of stew raised.
“I…was not aware of that.”
“Hey, it’s not like I thought you were dead or anything. But you did die once.”
“That is true.”
The two sat in silence for a second as Erin circulated the room, offering more stew to the Soldiers who raised their bowls silently.
“Seems like this dungeon’s causing lots of trouble, huh?”
“To put it mildly.”
“And there’s an entrance that leads right up to your Hive, huh?”
“A recently discovered breach in our security, yes.”
Relc eyed Klbkch.
“Right, right. Just like how the dungeon suddenly appeared one day. The Antinium had no idea whatsoever. You guys just happened to know exactly where the entrance was.”
The Antinium was unmoved by Relc’s stare. He casually lifted his mug and drank.
“Your skepticism is wounding and hurtful.”
“Tell that to Captain Z.”
“She is aware of much of the Hive’s doings.”
“Yeah, and I bet you tell your Queen everything we’re doing too.”
“That is a fair assessment, but flawed in one respect.”
“What’s that?”
“I don’t bother her with your trivial antics.”
The Drake glanced at his partner. Klbkch’s face didn’t change one iota as he drank. Relc grinned.
“Bastard.”
“Not precisely.”
“Glad you made it out safe. Glad Erin’s good. Even if she does have a weird inn.”
“Indeed.”
“Magic doors, huh?”
“They appear to be quite useful.”
“Well, here’s to that. And surviving another day. Moths are one thing, but Captain Z’s going to work us both to death. Glad you’re with me old buddy. And it’s a good thing the Soldiers are pulling the morning shift too, because I’m not rolling out of bed for dawn patrol!”
“You never do. I agree with your optimism, however.”
Relc grinned and lifted his drink. Klbkch raised his hand, and the Drake and Antinium gently chinked mugs. They drank, and then Erin came back.
“Sorry! The inn’s a mess, but all the bodies are out, and all I need is a few Workers to fix it all up! Plus, I’ve still got my customers! We’re actually doing really well if you ignore all the moths and water outside.”
“Really? You’ve got customers coming in later tonight?”
Somewhat skeptical, Relc eyed Erin. She grinned at him.
“Hey, I know the inn’s a mess, but the Players of Celum said they’re still willing to put on a show, and there’s plenty of people willing to stand, if it means seeing them! Once the Soldiers finish their meal, I’ll call them through and start making popcorn. You want to see a play?”
The two [Guardsmen] exchanged a glance. Relc frowned. Klbkch clicked his mandibles together.
“What is a ‘play’?”
“You mean you haven’t seen one yet?”
The two shook their heads. Erin’s smile grew wider. Relc and Klbkch looked at each other again.
Some things stayed the same. Other things changed. But there was always something new here.
 
—-
 
