“Enchiladas! Sort of. I made them as close to the real thing as I could, although the hot sauce tastes different. Here! I think I have one table that’s not destroyed or covered in dead moth.”
She ushered the bewildered adventurers, Lyonette, and Mrsha over to a table. In short order, Erin came back out with cups, milk, and utensils. Though Ceria was very confused, she began eating and realized she was famished.
“How did you make all this?”
Erin gave Yvlon a blank look as the woman tried to talk and inhale her food at the same time.
“What, this? I have [Field of Preservation], remember? All my food in the pantries is good! Heck, the dead moths are probably still preserved too. Which is sort of a problem because it turns out there are things living in them.”
“What?”
Every head turned to stare at the moths. Erin nodded.
“Olesm came by this morning! Swam here, actually. He told me there are larvae living in the moths! And small moths hiding too. We need to clear them out of the inn before they lay eggs. Pity—I was going to see if I could fry them.”
It felt like Ceria was half a step behind Erin’s train of thought. She saw rain falling through a hole in Erin’s wall as the [Innkeeper] beamed and refilled Mrsha’s mug.
“Fry them. Moths?”
“Yup! It was going to be this promotional thing, you know?”
Erin stepped back and raised her hands, pitching her voice like a food vendor.
“Breaded moth legs! Moth wings glazed with honey! Get your roasted moths here—first plate is free!”
She dropped her hands.
“But I don’t think people want to eat moth larvae, so that’s out. Anyways, I was hoping I could get you to help with some stuff after breakfast. Anyone want seconds?”
The Horns of Hammerad stared at her. Lyonette started to smile, and Mrsha sat up, tail wagging happily. Yvlon blinked at Erin and then pointed.
“There are holes in your inn, Erin. Aren’t you concerned?”
“What, those? Nah. They can be fixed.”
Pisces leaned forwards, looking amused.
“And the dead moth bodies?”
“Cleanable! Lyonette, we’re going to need a mop. Or maybe to buy some mops since I think they all got smashed. Can you go into Celum and get some?”
Lyonette opened her mouth. Ceria had to cut in.
“How are you going to fix all this, Erin? How in the world…?”
She waved her hands to take in all the mess. Erin just smiled at her.
“I’ll do it one step at a time, Ceria. It’s a lot, but hey, I’ve handled worse. Remember when my inn exploded? I’ve rebuilt before. And this time I know how to do it right. Speaking of which—hey, you lot, how’s it going?”
She turned and waved. The diners at her table jumped as Bird and the Redfang Goblins walked in. They were all wet, and as Erin waved at them, they waved back. Well, Bird and two of the Goblins did. Headscratcher and Rabbiteater waved, the other three Hobgoblins just nodded or grunted or, in Badarrow’s case, ignored Erin entirely. They moved towards the pile of moth corpses and, as Ceria watched, began hauling them towards the doors.
“Everyone good? I’ve got more food if you want it! Just let me know if you need to take a break! Headscratcher, you good? Badarrow? Badarrow? Okay fine, you’re good.”
Erin waved at them. Bird paused and waved back with one of his four arms.
“Look Erin, a baby bird-moth.”
He picked up a tiny Face-Eater Moth that had scuttled out from behind one of the moth corpses he’d lifted. Bird snatched it up and inspected it. The tiny moth shrieked and tried to bite his hand. He lifted it up and crunched it between his mandibles.
“Ew.”
Erin’s optimism wavered as Yvlon made a face and everyone else at the table save for Ksmvr and Ceria had to pause in eating. She pointed at Bird as he ate his snack.
“No eating moths where we can see, Bird. And no eating larvae either.”
“They are not birds. I will not eat them.”
The Antinium Worker nodded happily. He carried the moth out, and Erin turned to the others.
“I’ve got the Redfang Goblins dumping the moths outside. We’ve already tossed all the other moths in the water.”
“The water?”
Ceria had to go look and see. She gasped when she saw the flooded landscape. Yvlon whistled softly, and Ksmvr groaned. Pisces just shook his head.
“That will be problematic.”
“I heard this is what happens, but it’s another thing to see it in person.”
Yvlon shook her head, amazed at the rising water level. She stared at Liscor in the distance.
“It’ll be a tough trip to Liscor. We might have to swim part of the way—and I don’t want to try that in armor. Are there monsters in the water, do you think?”
“They emerge during the rainy season. Whether or not they will appear during the start of the season is unknown.”
Pisces spoke calmly, his eyes darting to the moth corpses being hurled into the water. The Redfang Goblins seemed cheerful enough, and they were still wearing their ‘Security’ armbands in the bad weather. They’d slept in the basement since their rooms were destroyed and seemed well-rested, as if yesterday’s fighting had been a normal day for them.
“I guess we can find a boat but—”
Ceria was turning to confer with the others when they noticed Ksmvr was shaking. The Antinium stood in the doorway of Erin’s inn, staring at the water and trembling violently. Yvlon looked worried.
“Ksmvr. What’s wrong?”
“The water. So much water. Water.”
The Antinium’s voice was a whisper. Pisces glanced at Ksmvr, and his brows rose.
“Ah. The Antinium cannot swim.”
“Oh. Oh. Oh no.”
Ceria and Yvlon exchanged glances. Ksmvr was shaking as he looked at the water around him. Ceria knew that the Antinium Hive was based underneath Liscor. She wondered if Ksmvr had ever seen so much water before, or if he had stayed in the Hive all his life. She gently pulled him back.
“We can stay in Celum, Ksmvr. You don’t have to go to Liscor. It’s alright.”
The Antinium jerked and turned to Ceria. To her surprise, Ksmvr shook his head violently.
“I cannot abandon my team! I will take a b—boat. I am not weak or insufficient to the challenge! Please, allow me to—”
He fumbled for words. Yvlon laid a hand on his shoulder, and he stopped himself.
“Ksmvr, it’s alright. If you can’t swim, it’s natural to be afraid. The Antinium must fear the water after the last Antinium Wars…”
“They do. It is terrible. So much of it. We—”
Ksmvr babbled as the Hobgoblins passed by. He stopped as Bird lugged another moth out of the inn and trundled down the hill. The Worker happily tossed the moth into the water right by the edge, ignoring the rain pelting him. He was singing another nonsense song.
“Water, rain, water, rain! Throwing birds in the water in the rain! If I fall I will drown! Water, rain, water, rain!”
He walked back up the hill and past the Horns of Hammerad, singing happily. Ceria stared at him and then at Ksmvr.
“Okay, most Antinium fear water. But it’s okay.”
“I would never disgrace myself—”
“Hey! Look at all that water, huh? That’d make getting the Antinium over here really tough, right?”
Erin cheerfully popped up, making the Horns of Hammerad jump. She smiled at Ksmvr.
“Hey Ksmvr, don’t worry about the water. I’ve got a plan! It involves fixing my inn and all I need is Pisces’ help!”
“You do?”
The [Necromancer] looked startled and then blinked.
“Ah. Wait a moment. I understand completely.”
“You do? Well of course you do.”
Erin rolled her eyes as Ceria and Yvlon gave her uncomprehending looks. She nodded to Pisces.
“Think you can…?”
He smiled slyly.
“It would be a few minute’s work, provided I can gain access to Liscor and locate a suitable location.”
“What location?”
“For my door, of course!”
Erin grinned at Yvlon’s suspicious look towards Pisces. She pointed towards her inn, at the magical door.
“I have one to Pallass and Celum—and I can connect it to more places too, you know! Pisces, I have a few of those mana stones Typhenous ordered. Can you give it a look?”
“At once.”
Pisces rose, smiling with his self-importance. Erin winked at Ceria.
“Magic doors solve everything. Think I’ll have trouble getting the Antinium to work on my inn? Well, if they don’t have enough wood, I’ll get some from Celum. The only trick will be making sure someone isn’t waiting on the other side! I wonder if I can make the door switching from place to place automatic?”
The half-Elf shook her head.
“Erin, you amaze me. That’s a brilliant idea!”
Erin snorted.
“No, it’s not. It’s the same idea I’ve always had. I’m just doing the smart thing with it. Anyways, that means you can go to Liscor easily, Ksmvr. No boat, no risk of drowning!”
“Oh.”
The former Prognugator stopped shaking. He looked at Erin and then at the water.
“But I was willing to risk my life for the group.”
“Yeah, but you don’t have to.”
“But I should. I should ride a boat to demonstrate my willingness to—”
Yvlon put a hand on Ksmvr’s shoulder, and he stopped. The armored woman smiled at the Antinium.
“Ksmvr?”
“Yes, Comrade Yvlon?”
“Be quiet.”
The Antinium went still. Erin smiled at the Horns of Hammerad, and they grinned back. She leaned on her doorframe.
“So, anyone level up last night?”
Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr all raised their hands. Erin grinned.
“Wow! Who got what?”
They looked at each other. Ceria opened her mouth, and then Octavia kicked the door open, slamming it into Pisces as he approached with a mana stone. She glared at Erin.
“Money!”
Erin turned to look at her. Octavia opened her mouth to shout and took in Erin’s destroyed inn. She stared at the Face-Eater Moths, the broken furniture and glass, and then at Erin. A flash of guilt crossed over the Stitch-Girl’s face.
“Okay, we’ll talk about it later.”
She guiltily went to close the door and saw Pisces glaring at her. He had a bloody nose. Octavia paused.
“I have a healing potion for that. Want one? It’s only…”
She hesitated. Pisces was giving her a death-glare as he pinched his nose to stop the bleeding. Octavia sighed.
“Let me get you a bottle.”
Erin stared at Octavia’s back.
“So she’s got a conscience. Who knew.”
She smiled. Ceria looked at Erin.
“Octavia was talking about how many potions we used. I’d like to repay her, but the cost…you don’t happen to know how to deal with that, do you, Erin?”
“…Nope.”
The [Innkeeper] drummed her fingers on the doorframe. Ceria sighed. Erin laughed a bit.
“One thing at a time, Ceria. One thing at a time. Now, tell me. Can you fix the holes in my walls? I really want the rain to stop pouring in. A bit of ice magic would probably keep it out long enough for me to do a patch. Yvlon, do you mind helping the others haul dead moths? If you don’t mind the ick. And Lyonette’s going to mop—once Mrsha has breakfast. Now, once Pisces opens the portal to Liscor…”
 
—-
 
It was evening by the time Senior Guardsman Klbkch found himself checking into Liscor’s City Watch barracks. He signed himself in, noting his irregular hour, and then mustered with the other [Guardsmen] on duty. Watch Captain Zevara was addressing a tired group of Gnolls and Drakes. She nodded to Klbkch as he entered the semi-circle. She looked tired, though she had slept for half the day.
A Drake looked over and grinned as he saw the Antinium. He nudged Klbkch.
“Hey Klb.”
“Relc.”
The Antinium nodded to his partner. Relc grinned as he flexed an arm, looking no worse for wear.
“You missed a heck of a fight up here. Tons of moths came out of the dungeon. Crazy fighting on the walls and explosions and huge monsters!”
“I am aware. The Face-Eater Moths attacked the Hive before the siege of Liscor. We were engaged with the enemy while you fought above. So I was thus, in fact, participating in the fight, albeit in my respective area.”
“Oh yeah? Well…we got like ten of the huge bastards. What do you think of that?”
“I believe we slew fourteen.”
“What? No way!”
“We presented their heads in Liscor’s central square earlier today. Did you completely miss their presence?”
“Um…no?”
“Attention!”
Both Antinium and Drake instantly stopped talking, and the other Gnolls and Drakes stopped their chatter as well. Watch Captain Zevara looked around.
“Senior Guardsman Klbkch, good to see you up and about. Do you have another report on your Hive?”
She and the other [Guardsmen] looked to Klbkch. He paused.
“No further news to report, Watch Captain. The moth attacks have ceased, and the Hive continues to repair. Casualties in the Hive were…substantial. However, we held our ground thanks to my subordinates’ efforts. We might have lost three times as many were it not for our fortifications. As it is, we stand fully ready to support Liscor in reconstruction if needed.”
“Thank you, Senior Guardsman. I doubt we’ll need the Antinium’s abilities for the most part. The walls held, and the damage to the city itself was minimal. But the rains are falling, and I want to be sure there are no leaks in the walls! The water’s rising fast, and this monster attack came at the wrong moment. Added to that, we’ve received word from Olesm, our new [Strategist]—”
Zevara paused to let the murmurs of surprise die down.
“—that all these moth corpses might be hiding larvae or smaller moths. Wall Lord Ilvriss has recommended to the Council and me that we collect the bodies and burn them with mass mage spells. Or dump them off the walls. Either way, that means we have a fun new activity to keep us busy!”
The [Guardsmen] groaned and began to mutter complaints. Zevara raised her voice.
“Stow it! This is a city-wide issue. If we don’t control the corpses, we’ll be swimming in those bastards soon enough. Tell them, Klbkch.”
She nodded to the Antinium. Once again all eyes swung to Klbkch. He nodded and clicked his mandibles together precisely before speaking.
“The assessment of [Strategist] Olesm and Wall Lord Ilvriss is correct. Insectile monsters survive eradication by allowing their young to infest new sites and lay thousands of offspring when they reach maturity. A city that fails to properly account for after-battle cleanup may find itself dealing with a permanent population of such insects in the future.”
The Drakes and Gnolls standing around him blanched. Watch Captain Zevara turned and gave the other guardsmen a weary nod.
“You heard him. Double shifts for all but the wounded, and we work night and day until the bodies are gone. We can’t clean the ones up outside the wall though, Klbkch. Will that be a problem?”
“No. The water will eradicate the young, as will the local wildlife.”
