The rain fell. The pounding drops soaked into the already saturated soil of Liscor, pooling into lakes and ponds in the valleys, relentless. The rains covered the grass and chased the living indoors. And brought the waterlogged corpses of the Face-Eater Moths to the surface.
From the walls of Liscor, the Floodplains could be seen stretching to the base of the gargantuan mountains in the distance. In every direction, the ground was filled with pale white corpses of moths, some bloodied yellow, others scorched or torn to pieces. The moths were dead. Most of them. Some still moved weakly, dragging their wings across the ground. But they were no threat anymore.
Liscor had won. The walls were still littered with dead bodies. And yet, the cost had taken its toll on the city. They had paid in blood to hold the walls.
Not that you would know it to stare at the walls today. As Watch Captain Zevara wearily greeted the rising sun, she saw only Face-Eater Moth corpses being hammered by the rain. Liscor’s dead had already been recovered and cremated, buried, or otherwise laid to rest. Otherwise they would have had to deal with the undead this morning as well.
“Report.”
She turned her head, feeling her body protest the motion. Zevara had barely put her head down for more than an hour since the battle on the walls yesterday—just long enough to level up twice. She hadn’t gained a Skill, though. That was a sour plum that made her resent her long watch through the night. But when she stared at the Antinium sitting next to her she reconsidered voicing her bad mood.
Klbkch was sitting next to the battlements, letting the rain wash his body clean. The Antinium’s head was bowed, his carapace cut and still covered with fluids from battle. He looked tired. In Zevara’s experience, if an Antinium looked tired, it meant they were exhausted beyond belief. He didn’t seem to have heard Zevara’s statement. She wondered if he was asleep. She hesitated. But duty was duty.
“Senior Guardsman Klbkch.”
He started and nearly unsheathed the twin swords at his side. He had been asleep! Zevara wondered how intense the battle in the Hive had been for Klbkch the Slayer to have passed out during his duty. He stirred, realized he had been sitting, and leapt up.
“Watch Captain, my apologies—”
“Sit back down. You need rest.”
Zevara yawned. Klbkch hesitated and then leaned on the battlements next to her. It still felt strange at times to have an Antinium—much less the infamous Slayer—under her command. But at the moment Zevara just saw another [Guardsman]. One of her best, in fact.
“Klbkch, report.”
“Walls are secure. The Face-Eater Moths have been driven off. The Hive is still recovering, but we estimate damages will be repaired within two days at most. We have Painted Soldiers on standby should more threats emerge. As per your request, I have allowed my subordinate, Pawn, to relieve your [Guardsmen] by posting his Soldiers on the walls. He has not reported any incidents as of yet.”
“Good. Did I—did I ask you that before?”
“I believe so.”
“Ancestors.”
Zevara closed her eyes briefly. She turned her head and stared down the right wall, where Antinium Soldiers were indeed standing to attention. The rain battered their dark shells but failed to wash away the bright colors on their bodies. She wanted to ask Klbkch exactly what the strange patterns meant, but he had been evasive every time she asked. She eyed the lone Worker walking from Soldier to Soldier, pausing to talk to them.
“That’s your subordinate? Pawn? I thought the Antinium—”
She yawned hugely.
“—thought they didn’t have names. Isn’t he supposed to go crazy?”
“That is a misconception. Aberrations arise in most cases revolving around an Antinium’s name. But Pawn is an Individual, capable of thought and action.”
“That’s new?”
Klbkch nodded. Zevara yawned again.
“Dead gods, the Walled Cities won’t like that.”
She realized she’d said that out loud, and her heart leapt in her chest. But Klbkch only nodded.
“I believe they will not. But include in your report that they are few in number at the moment. And we are committed to honoring our agreement with Liscor. The Painted Soldiers are a new unit dedicated to this effort.”
The Watch Captain turned to Klbkch. He knew she was reporting to the other cities? Wait, of course he knew. He wasn’t an idiot. But hearing him address her secret duties out loud was—
“The Painted Soldiers? Is that a formal designation? Some new creation of the Antinium?”
Maybe he was tired enough to reveal something by accident too. Klbkch shook his head.
“It is an informal phrase. The Soldiers are functionally no different from other Soldiers. Their unique appearance is meant to foster trust.”
“Well, it certainly makes them stand out.”
Zevara shook her head, eying the Soldiers. It was very rare to see Antinium in Liscor in any numbers. Normally, having them on the walls would be the cause for alarm. At the moment though, Zevara imagined that Liscor’s citizens slept soundly knowing they were there. They certainly allowed her to give her guardsmen a night’s rest.
“I’m grateful, Klbkch. Just tell me one thing—your Soldiers won’t panic because of the rain, will they? Or the heights?”
Klbkch had been nodding off. He jerked upright.
“The water? I do not believe so, Watch Captain. The heights are no obstacle to the Antinium, and the rain is only rain. Once the Floodplains fill to capacity, the Soldiers may experience…uneasiness. Until then, they should be unhindered.”
Uneasiness? What did that mean? Zevara clenched her jaws to avoid yawning again.
“Right then. Well…how much do you trust your man—Antinium—Pawn?”
“Pawn?”
Klbkch hesitated for the first time. Zevara noticed it, although she was too tired to wonder why. He nodded slowly.
“Pawn is…quite capable. He will lead the Painted Soldiers into battle competently, if that is your question.”
“Could he hold the walls?”
“By himself? Against most threats, yes.”
“And he’ll alert you if any danger threatens the city?”
“That is correct.”
“Well then.”
Zevara was swaying on her feet. She looked around, lowered her voice, and then slowly lowered herself below the line of the battlements. Klbkch stared at her.
“I am still on duty. Wake me if something happens or when the other [Guardsmen] start reporting. Until then, I’m taking a nap. You’re welcome to do the same.”
She leaned back and felt her head loll against the hard stone almost immediately. Klbkch stared at her. Then he saluted.
“Excellent orders, Watch Captain.”
He sat back down. Within moments both he and Zevara were asleep. The rain fell onwards, covering the landscape. Liscor slumbered. It had won, but no one was celebrating. They were all asleep. The day after the battle was quiet. Liscor’s heroes slept.
This is how they woke.
 
—-
 
Pawn was still awake the day after the battle. He walked the walls, past unmoving Antinium Soldiers standing in the rain. More still patrolled the streets below. Pawn would visit them soon, though his body cried out for rest. But the Painted Soldiers had been fighting nonstop all day yesterday. How could he lie down before them?
And he had a duty. The incense censer was heavy in his hands, and the rain pouring down threatened to extinguish the embers within. He protectively covered the top of the censer with two of his hands as the other one swung the censer, wafting incense as he passed down the wall.
It was barely noticeable, what with the smell of dead moths and rain all around. But it was noticeable and that was what mattered. The Soldiers stood as he passed behind them, speaking quietly.
“We remember Blue Circles, who leapt from the walls to bring down an enemy four times his size.”
Click.
The mandibles of the Soldiers standing on the wall snapped together. It was a faint sound, but every Soldier on the wall made the same motion. All at once. All four walls of Liscor echoed with the sound as Pawn paused a moment. He spoke again.
“We remember Jilted Lines, who fell while holding the southern wall against the moths.”
Click.
The sound was one. Pawn’s head was bowed. The rain washed over his carapace, unrelenting. He saw a Soldier standing in front of him, bleeding faintly from one leg. Pawn rested a hand on his arm and muttered a prayer. Perhaps it didn’t help. Perhaps it did nothing. But the Soldier stood taller as Pawn passed. The Worker spoke on.
“We remember Leaves of Trees, who was crushed by a giant moth as it landed.”
Click.
The Soldiers stood, proud, wounded, sentinels watching for movement. If a moth so much as twitched, they rushed over to stomp it to death. They stood on the walls, listening to Pawn as he passed on round after round. Even when they could not hear him, when Pawn was on a distant wall, their mandibles still snapped together.
Click.
They listed the dead by heart, each one of them. Again and again, as Pawn prayed they would find a better place beyond. The Soldiers stood quietly as the sun rose and the skies brightened. But the rain poured on, on the dead, the wounded, and the living.
Click.
 
—-
 
Olesm thought he heard a strange clicking sound as he wearily got to his feet. He shook his head, rubbed at his earholes, and blearily looked out his window. The rising sun made his eyes open wide, and he shot out of bed.
“I’m late!”
He was supposed to report to duty on the walls every day at—Olesm flailed around his room wildly until his sleepy panic was replaced by memory. Oh! Liscor, the battle, the moths—Zevara had told him to rest until he was ready to replace her. Wearily, Olesm rubbed his face. He could have slept another day, but he knew Zevara was on duty until he relieved her.
The Drake hurried to toss some clothes on his body, avoiding the dirty rags he’d tossed in one corner of his room. He hurried out of his small apartment and onto the streets. The streets, filled with dead moths. They littered the ground like so much trash. So many. The Drake still couldn’t believe that Liscor had fought them off. If he closed his eyes, he could remember the laughing moths coming up the walls, the sounds of screams, the boom of the enchantments going off—
For a few seconds, the Drake’s pulse raced and he reached for the sword at his side. Then he remembered. They were dead. The moths were dead. The rain had chased them off. Olesm stared at the sodden bodies and shuddered as he saw something move underneath a moth’s wing.
“Dead gods, what…?”
He carefully approached the wing and nearly leapt out of his scales as a tiny moth scurried out from beneath the wing of a larger, dead moth. He cursed and stomped at it, and then yelped in horror as he saw several larvae oozing out of the same place.
“Ancestors!”
Olesm wasn’t willing to stomp on them with his boots, so he drew his sword and speared the larvae. They oozed as he cut them, and the Drake backed up, shuddering as he stared at the other moth bodies.
“Are they infesting the other corpses? Damn it, we’ll have to burn the lot!”
“That was my thought. Although it’ll be a trick getting the bodies flaming in this deluge. Young Swifttail, it’s good to see you up!”
Olesm whirled. He saw a Drake in gleaming armor marching towards him, followed by several Drakes on patrol. Wall Lord Ilvriss looked tireless despite not having slept for over a day. He nodded to Olesm as the Drake stared at him. His escorts were certainly showing signs of fatigue.
“Wall Lord! I didn’t expect to see you up!”
Olesm hadn’t expected to see anyone up at this hour. Wall Lord Ilvriss just smiled, turning his handsome face to regard the moth corpses with disgust.
“Did you think I’d be asleep, young Swifttail? Far from it! Remember, Liscor’s citizens are already waking, though her defenders are catching up on rest. I’m patrolling to show everyone there’s nothing to fear. Although these damned moths do worry me, even in death!”
He glared at the body and larvae that Olesm had killed. Ilvriss nodded at a Drake standing behind him.
“Burn it.”
The Drake [Mage] raised her hands and wearily shot a jet of fire at the corpse. It didn’t want to burn, but the sustained flames eventually cooked the moth. Olesm saw a few wiggling shapes trying to escape the burning moth and shuddered. Ilvriss nodded in satisfaction, and the mage lowered her claws, panting. The moth’s corpse hadn’t been incinerated, but the heat had probably cooked anything inside of it.
“Good work. We’ll have to come up with a more effective solution soon. Consider the issue, Swifttail—I’d appreciate your thoughts.”
“You are too kind, Wall Lord.”
Olesm bowed. He hadn’t actually wanted to meet Ilvriss, certainly not this early in the day. He liked the Wall Lord—well, sort of—and Ilvriss liked him. And Olesm certainly respected the Drake. He’d seen Ilvriss cutting down Face-Eater Moths left and right during the battle without pausing to so much as rest. But the Drake was a bit much to deal with.
“Well, I, ah, I’m honored that you’re working so hard for the good of the city, Wall Lord Ilvriss. It truly is inspiring. I was intending to go and relieve Watch Captain Zevara of her duties.”
“Were you? I saw you off not six hours ago! Good soldier! That’s the kind of spirit we need!”
Ilvriss smiled approvingly. Then he looked Olesm up and down.
“You seem taller, young Swifttail. Tell me, did you level at all last night? I thought you must have!”
Olesm gulped. He really hadn’t wanted to get into it. Oh well, nothing for it.
“I did, Wall Lord. I, ah, gained two levels?”
“Two? Excellent! We’ll celebrate that later—ah, but I’ll hold off on drinking. Nevertheless, it deserves a party! Several of my men leveled as well. Did you gain any decent Skills by any chance?”
The young Drake hesitated. He shouldn’t say it. It would definitely make Ilvriss focus on him, and Olesm really did want to relieve Zevara. But he was bursting to say it. He fought silently for a moment and gave in. Ilvriss would find out sooner or later and he’d be hurt if Olesm didn’t tell him right now. Besides, Olesm really wanted to say it.
“As a matter of fact…I obtained my [Strategist] class from leveling up, Wall Lord. I’m now a Level 30 [Strategist]. I gained the army Skill – [Vigor of Champions] as well.”
Ilvriss had been nodding to some of his men, scanning the street. At Olesm’s words his head whipped around, and his eyes went wide. He stared and then was roaring and clapping Olesm on the back in the next moment.
“Strategist?”
His voice was so loud that Olesm saw Drakes and Gnolls opening their shutters to stare. Ilvriss shouted as his escorts crowded around Olesm, slapping him on the shoulders and making the young Drake wince. Ilvriss was ecstatic.
