“A Level 30 [Strategist]? My dear young Swifttail, how did you not mention that right away? Ancestors! By the walls of my city, that’s a cause for celebration! Don’t be modest! A Level 30—most [Tacticians] take another 5 levels to reach that class! We have a prodigy here! And what Skill—”
“You’re too kind, no, it’s really not—”
“Nothing? Ancestors, Swifttail, there’s such a thing as being too modest! That Skill’s not anything to dismiss either! I’ve heard of [Vigor of Champions]. That’s a Skill any [General] would be proud to use! Come, use it on us!”
He gestured at his escort. Olesm hesitantly did so, visualizing Ilvriss and his men as part of his command. Instantly, he saw several of the weary Drakes straighten. Ilvriss clenched his fists experimentally.
“Incredible. The fatigue’s not gone, by any means, but I could fight another battle here and now! Young Swifttail, this is more than just a level up. This calls for—Weille, run to the Tailless Thief. Tell that [Innkeeper] to prepare a celebratory feast for young Swifttail! We’ll toast his new class! And invite his friends and family too! I’ll buy out the inn for the day!”
“That’s really not necessary, Wall Lord. Really—”
Olesm tried to back away, but Ilvriss wouldn’t hear of it. He had a hand on Olesm’s shoulder like a steel vice, and he was beaming widely as his tail wagged on the ground.
“Swifttail! Modesty has its place, but this is phenomenal news! I insist you come with me—and I should give you a gift to celebrate the occasion! Come, let’s go and—”
“Wall Lord!”
At last, Olesm managed to raise his voice enough to slow Ilvriss. The Drake blinked as Olesm tried to find an excuse to get out of an all-day party.
“I truly am grateful, Wall Lord Ilvriss. But though I’d be glad to celebrate with you—at another time—I feel I must replace Watch Captain Zevara on duty. She’s been awake all night, and I would be remiss if I abandoned my duties to celebrate!”
He bit his tongue as he finished, hoping Ilvriss wouldn’t take his words amiss. The Drake [Lord] stared at Olesm for a long moment, and then he nodded slowly.
“Well said, Drake. Well said!”
He clapped his hands together, and his escort, following his lead, applauded as well. Ilvriss kept nodding his head as he turned to his followers.
“You hear that? The model of a Drake! This young Drake—no, this [Strategist] is exactly what we need in Salazsar’s army! Not an hour after gaining a new class and he still thinks about his fellow Drake! By all means, relieve Watch Captain Zevara, young Swiftta—Olesm. She certainly deserves her rest. We’ll continue our patrol as well!”
He nodded authoritatively, and Olesm saw several of the Drakes behind him wince, clearly longing for their beds. But Ilvriss was animated, filled with energy from Olesm’s Skill. The young Drake coughed.
“Well, I’ll be going, Wall Lord. I’ll, ah, look forwards to seeing you later.”
“Certainly! We’ll postpone the celebration. Mind yourself on the walls though.”
Olesm paused.
“Is there danger, Wall Lord?”
Ilvriss grimaced.
“Possibly not. But the Antinium are currently holding the walls and patrolling the streets. Those damned colorful ones. They appear to be doing their job, but keep an eye on them and watch your tail.”
He glowered as if Antinium Soldiers doing a Drake’s job was a personal affront. Olesm nodded. He’d rather have the Painted Soldiers on duty while the City Watch caught up on their needed sleep, but he kept that to himself.
“I will. With your permission, Wall Lord—”
He backed away. The noise of his meeting with Ilvriss had stirred some of Liscor’s residents out of their beds. Drakes and Gnolls cautiously emerged from their houses, staring with revulsion at the moth corpses. Some waved to Olesm, and the Gnolls, having heard everything Ilvriss shouted and probably everything Olesm said, congratulated him on his new class. Olesm smiled, ducked his head, and tried not to wag his tail as he hurried towards the walls.
“Watch Captain Zevara? I’m relieving you. I’m terribly sorry, but I—oh!”
Klbkch and Zevara both started as Olesm came up the stairs. They got up fast, pretending they hadn’t been asleep. Olesm coughed as Zevara rubbed at her face.
“Olesm! We were just resting while Pawn—what time is it?”
“Just past dawn, Watch Captain.”
She scowled as she blinked blearily.
“So early? Go get more sleep. I can, uh, keep watch—”
“You should rest, Watch Captain! I can handle things—we only need an officer on duty. I don’t have to be on the walls all the time, just on call. The Antinium are holding the walls—let me relieve you.”
Zevara tried to protest, but she yawned hugely and gave up.
“Alright. Alright I’m—I’m going to sign off. Just until noon! I’ll be back up and relieve you then. Senior Guardsman Klbkch—you’re relieved as well. Get at least four hours of sleep.”
“Yes, Captain.”
The Antinium and Drake stumbled down the stairs, nearly slipping on the soaked stone. Olesm shook his head as they left and then looked around the walls. Antinium Soldiers on duty turned towards him and then swiftly away. They didn’t stop scanning the landscape. Olesm had no idea what to do with them, but he spotted a familiar figure doing the rounds.
Click.
There it was! That strange sound he’d woken up to! Olesm hurried towards Pawn as the Worker waved some kind of smoking object in front of him.
“Pawn!”
“Olesm?”
The Worker looked up. Olesm smiled in relief. He hadn’t been sure the Worker was Pawn—they all looked too alike—but Pawn was somehow familiar. Olesm gestured to Pawn and the Soldiers standing on guard.
“How are you? How are your Soldiers? What’s, ah, the clicking about?”
The Worker tilted his head as if confused.
“I am well, Olesm. My Soldiers are able for duty. Those present are only minimally wounded. We are conducting a mass for the departed.”
“The depart—oh.”
Olesm’s good spirits sank for a moment. He stared at the Antinium and remembered the Soldiers fighting on the walls with the guardsmen. Too many Gnolls and Drakes had fallen as the moths swarmed. Antinium too. True, Pawn’s Soldiers had come later in the battle and only a few hundred had entered the fray, but Olesm had heard Klbkch’s report. Moreover he had seen—
The Drake turned his head and stared down into one of Liscor’s main squares. He could see a bit above the roofs of the houses from this point. Not much, but enough to see the heads of fourteen giant Face-Eater Moths that the Antinium had carried out of their Hive.
When Watch Captain Zevara had angrily demanded why Klbkch hadn’t sent up every Soldier under his command he had offered the heads as proof of the Antinium’s battle underground. Just the thought of how many Antinium must have died to fight that many moths made Olesm shudder.
“Your Soldiers. Did they take many casualties?”
“Many? Not many. Not by Antinium standards. But more than none, which is too many.”
Pawn shook his head. Olesm stared at him. The Antinium Worker seemed different than Olesm remembered. Just as quiet, but more reserved. More…somber, perhaps. Olesm stared down into the streets where an Antinium patrol was marching.
“Your Soldiers saved a lot of lives, Pawn. The city is grateful.”
Indeed, the Soldiers on patrol weren’t getting nervous looks so much as amazed glances by the citizens who had heard of the Antinium’s underground battle. Pawn nodded slowly, as if that had never occurred to him.
“The city’s gratitude…is a good thing, I think. My Soldiers simply did what was ordered. What was needed.”
“Nevertheless. As Liscor’s [Strategist], I offer you my heartfelt thanks. Without you, we could not have held the walls.”
Olesm bowed slightly and felt a tingle in his chest. Liscor’s [Strategist]. He felt giddy at saying it out loud, and then guilty as he saw Pawn hunch his shoulders.
“Yes. I only wish fewer could have died.”
And what could Olesm say to that? Pawn was right, but he seemed focused on the dead. The Drake coughed and looked around for inspiration. With nothing coming to mind, he defaulted to what he knew.
“Well…I’m sure Liscor will offer you a formal sign of gratitude. And, uh, we’ll probably give the Hive a war gratuity for your fallen. I know that isn’t much, but I hope it will help your Soldiers’ uh…families? Friends? Comrades?”
He looked hopefully at Pawn. The Worker paused and one of his hands reached up to scratch at the top of his head.
“War gratuity? What is that?”
Olesm hesitated. He tried to explain.
“War gratuity’s, well, money paid to fallen soldiers for fighting. It goes to their families…uh…to their closest relatives…to…”
Pawn just looked blank.
“The Antinium have no such practice. If the city is offering coin for the sacrifice of Soldiers, I am sure the Hive will appreciate the money.”
“But it’s for the Soldiers. I mean, they deserve something for their efforts. Do they get a—a break or a reward for fighting?”
“A reward? We will rest after being relieved of duty.”
Pawn noted Olesm’s dismayed face and shrugged.
“A Soldier does not ask for benefits, Olesm. He exists to fight. There is no need to reward his duty.”
“But he should get—”
Olesm broke off. He stared at Pawn and shook his head.
“Never mind. You know what? Can you stay in charge for the moment? If there’s trouble, send a message to Wall Lord Ilvriss or Watch Captain Zevara. I’ll be back in less than twenty minutes!”
“We will stand watch. That is what Revalantor Klbkch has ordered.”
Pawn nodded, and Olesm hurried down the stairs. He knew he shouldn’t leave the city, but he had to. Maybe Pawn and his Soldiers wouldn’t receive any recognition besides gratitude from Liscor’s citizens. Maybe their Hive didn’t reward them for service or honor the fallen. But Olesm, as Liscor’s new [Strategist], could probably see to it that the Antinium got a hot meal while on duty.
He remembered something about them not being able to eat bread or wheat products. But, fortunately, he knew one [Innkeeper] that specialized in meals for Antinium. Olesm practically ran out of the gates as the Soldiers on watch obligingly opened it for him. He stared in dismay at the sea of corpses and the actual sea of water filling up the plains. It was already deep enough in parts that he had to splash ankle-deep through some parts as he tried to keep to the highest hills.
Tomorrow he’d probably have to swim to get to Erin’s inn! And that was only if he was suicidal—the moths’ corpses bobbed on the water, but they wouldn’t be there long. The rising waters meant more creatures would be appearing soon, and they ate anything in the waters. Olesm ran, slipping, the rain pelting his scales, and grinning wildly. He was a [Strategist]! He was a [Strategist]!
Then he fell into a giant valley filled with water. The Floodplains were flooding. Hence their name. And soon the city would well and truly be impossible to attack. As for the inn sitting on the hill, well, it might get a lot fewer customers. Because the waters were rising.
 
—-
 
It was raining. Erin stared at the droplets falling as she got up. The water was hypnotizing as it came down in droves. It was almost exciting to see it fall, to watch it cascade downwards and show off nature’s unrelenting power. It was also a bit too close for comfort, as Erin was currently watching it pour down through a hole in the side of her inn.
“I think that’s not a good thing, you know?”
She sat in the ruined common room of her inn and stared around. Her inn was wrecked. Dried moth blood was mixing with rainwater and dirt on the floors. Glass and broken wood littered the floor in places, and all of her windows were smashed in. If Erin turned her head, she’d be able to see a huge theatre stretching far behind her—filled with Face-Eater Moth corpses. They’d been piled up, pushed out of the main room to clear a path to move around. And that was just the ground floor. Erin knew her second and third floors were still filled with their dead bodies.
She was sitting on one of two remaining chairs, staring at the rain. Snoring filled her inn, despite the wreckage. It came from the basement. Of all the spots in Erin’s inn, the windowless kitchen and basement had been untouched. Bird and the Redfang Goblins had elected to sleep there. The others were in Octavia’s shop, or in Liscor. There was nowhere else they could rest as the rain poured in from the places where walls and windows should be.
“Holes in my inn. Holes in my inn. I have a holey inn. Which isn’t that funny.”
Erin blinked around at her inn. She didn’t actually feel that bad. She just felt grateful to be alive, really. After yesterday, she would have been grateful to be sitting out in the rain. Well, not grateful, but it would have beaten having her face eaten off by a horde of angry moths.
They’d won. Liscor had fought off the moths. But the cost—Erin glanced out of a hole in her inn. Well, the cost was just a bit problematic, that was all.
And yet, she was up. She was alive and—Erin’s stomach rumbled—hungry. And Erin had no doubt her guests would be just as hungry when they woke up. And they’d probably be happy, despite not having beds…or chairs…or rooms anymore.
Because they’d probably leveled up. Erin understood that leveling was like having a birthday. It was almost always a good thing and a cause for celebration. Okay, maybe not if you’d just become a Level 4 [Laborer], but a Level 43 [Foreman]? When people reached Level 20 or Level 30, they often hosted massive celebrations with tons of celebratory gifts.
She wondered who had leveled and what they’d gotten. Erin knew she’d leveled, but she was sort of ambivalent about it. She’d become a Level 35 [Magical Innkeeper]. But she’d gained no Skills. And when she stared around her wrecked inn, her desire to wildly celebrate sort of drained away.
“Woo. Yay.”
Erin waved her hands weakly as she peeked out one hole of a window.
“Darn it! They wrecked my outhouse! Both of them! How am I supposed to pee? Just squat over the hole and—wait, that would work. But it’s raining!”
She scowled around the inn and turned her head to the dead moth bodies.
“This is all your fault, you know.”
They didn’t reply. The moths were very dead, cut to shreds, pierced by magic, burned, crushed, and in one case, bitten to death. Bird had done the biting. Erin went over to kick the nearest dead moth. She had second thoughts when she stared into its open stomach. And she had third thoughts when something inside the moth wriggled and came out.
“Gah!”
