The entrance to the city stood open ahead of them, a thirty foot tall purpose-built hole in the sixty foot stone wall, a pair of iron-bar portcullises rolled halfway up to allow egress. People walked in and out, past two guards that looked bored of their jobs. One of the guards was a blue dragon person, but the other was the most gorgeous man Erick had ever seen. And also the tallest. And also the most slightly green, which wasn’t as offputting as Erick thought it would be.

The man was eight foot tall, muscular, with a jaw that could cut steel and piercing blue eyes. Black hair and strong arms. Those breeches were too tight, and that open flap in his shirt? Exquisite. Erick certainly wasn’t complaining. And Oh My God, there was another beautiful giant in the shadows behind the first one. A woman this time, darker green than the man, with large assets and flowing, sun-kissed hair.

“Jaw off the floor, Dad. They’ve seen us.”

Erick schooled his face as the Most Beautiful Woman walked toward them, a spear in her hand and a swagger in her steps. Oh, wow, those green eyes. Wow.

“What’s a pair of humans coming from the wrong direction want in Spur?”

Erick smiled. “I have no idea what you said, but it sounded lovely.”

“We’re looking for the registrar for a translation spell and some guidance, if possible.” Jane said, “We’re not sure how this all works, but I couldn’t find a translation spell in the Script.”

Beautiful Woman shook her head. As she spoke, tiny lower fangs sometimes appeared. “Ach. What language is that, Ghemm?”

“Fuck if I know.” Gorgeous Man said, “I’m not a polyglot.”

“You’re close, though!”

“Not anything I’ve ever heard, but the sentence structure sounds like it might be similar to ours.” The man shrugged and frowned, revealing larger lower fangs than the woman’s. “What’s more important is that those canteens look like the work of that Incani Registrar on the other side of the forest. I don’t see any magic on them, and I get the feeling that they’re rather low level, so my recommendation is to just send them to Irogh.”

"Does this sound good to you, Jane?”

Jane calmly said, “No idea, but their body language looks fine.”

“I don’t like how the guy is looking at me.” Beautiful Woman said, “You do it.”

“He’s eyeing me, too.” Gorgeous Man spoke to the blue scaled dragon person, “You’re up, Rookie.”

The blue scaled man rose to his feet. Beautiful Woman said something, pointing from Erick and Jane to Bluescale. She repeated her words and Bluescale waved them forward as he began walking into the city. He turned around after a few steps, waving them in again. Message received. Jane and Erick followed Bluescale into the noisy city.

Too many unknown words filled the air, like noise in a school cafeteria. It was disorienting. It was wonderful. A thousand conversations were going on everywhere at once, because this was the marketplace that serviced the farmlands. The crowds! The noises! The smells! The smells alone would have driven Erick crazy, if this was a marketplace on Earth and he had money to spend, but this was somewhere on Veird, and here, for now, the people were the main attraction.

Scaled people of every color of the rainbow and stone, though shades of red were the most common. People with horns and skin from red to blue, though mostly they were shades of purple, like that first registrar. Beautiful giants. So many beautiful giants. What the heck was up with these giants? How was every one of them so perfect? Okay, maybe he shouldn’t stare like that. They noticed the staring. Let’s look at something else. Oh. People made of metal, but shaped like the other types of people, though wearing what looked like clothes made out of their same-color metal skin. There’s a steel dragon person. A dark black, beautiful giant man. A silverish dragon person. What’s up with that?

Erick supposed the city was pretty great, too. But it was standard stuff, really. Here, in the marketplace, there were covered stalls and crowded roads. Past those he saw stone buildings, wide roads, and glass windows. Deeper into the city, past this market stall's part of the marketplace, were people hawking wares on blankets, some with artful three-foot-tall stacks of fruit, some with piles and piles of melons, or grains. Most of the goods he had seen were fruits and grains. There weren’t many meats, but there were definitely some. Those were dried sausages over there. Lots and lots of headless chicken bodies hung up in that stall. They didn’t look prepared in any way. Maybe they were magically preserved? Oh man. Erick was hungry. He was thirsty, too. He would have loved to have an apple. His mouth would have been watering if he had any water to spare. Man, was he thirsty.

Like a gift from god, they rounded a corner and suddenly there was a communal water fountain. Attached to the wall in a shaded alcove, just outside the marketplace, the large fountain poured three streams of perfectly cylindrical water from an upper level basin to a lower basin on the ground. The calm-looking streams of falling water made no noise as then plunged into the lower level of the fountain. Two people were in line, three people were filling containers, but with three streams the line emptied as Erick was watching.

“Excuse me.” Erick caught Bluescales attention, then pointed to the fountain, holding his canteen upside down to show it was empty. “May we?”

Bluescale waved them to the water fountain.

“I didn’t know what I was gonna do if he said no.” Jane rushed to the fountain, immediately filling her canteen. “Yeeeeesssss.”

It took four seconds to fill up his canteen. He drank down half of that, then felt like he could lie down and sleep, right there on the street. But he didn’t, of course. He refilled his canteen, then rejoined Bluescale and Jane. She had kept herself more composed through the whole experience than he had.

“Good water?” Bluescale said, “I know how you feel. I’ve had to go on forest walks, too.”

“Ah. Yes? Maybe.” Erick gestured enthusiastically at the water, smiling and saying, “Very good water.”

The buildings were larger now that they were further from the gate. Grander, too. Most of them had carved pillars, or fresco facades. Some of the outsides even had ‘neon signs’ that were more holograms than visibly connected to any surface, like standard neon would have to be. Though these signs weren’t like the mostly-gaudy nature of neon signage back home. All of the floating, glowing letters here were muted white with black outlines, and had images to go along with the words. That place was obviously a restaurant, with two utensils crossed over a simple plate. Over there was a sword and some variation of what was probably an anvil. Food place again. Clothes. Clothes. Clothes. Food again.

Everyone was wearing really nice clothes the further they got down this street. Three people so far had scanned Erick and Jane up and down in obvious judgment. There were some jewelry shops. Another jewelry shop. That corner storefront was covered in gold, or maybe it was an illusion. If it was an illusion it was a very good illusion.

“I think this is the really nice district.”

Jane silently nodded. Bluescale looked backward, smiling.

They rounded the gold store and walked down a different street. The buildings here were even taller, but the people were few and far between. Trees occupied what was likely incredibly expensive land, creating small parks here and there. Water flowed in bubbling fountains, adding much needed moisture to the air. The desert was far away from this place.

Apartment buildings. Apartment buildings. Some sort of guildhouse. Merchant guildhouse, probably, what with the floating images of coins hovering on the outside of the second floor. Legal businesses over there, for sure. There’s a courthouse, maybe, redscale guard lounging on the big steps. Do all courthouses have huge steps leading up to the building—

We’re going up the courthouse steps.

Erick spoke with awe in his voice. “This is a hundred times nicer than what I expected out of a settlement.”

“Yeah,” said Jane, simply. “But those buildings over there… They’re empty.”

“What?” Erick looked backward. “Oh? That one’s even missing the top few floors, now that I can see it from this angle. And you know? There aren’t that many people. Not enough to account for a courthouse this big.”

Jane whispered, “There’s no one here except for that guard laying on the steps.”

Bluescale guard led them past the redscale guard relaxing on the courthouse steps. The two of them spoke in passing, Redscale waving Bluescale off, Redscale only sparing a momentary glance at Erick and Jane. Up the stairs, between massive pillars holding up the front of the courthouse, they walked into the building. Past a pair of massive stone doors, there was an empty guard station. Bluescale walked right past the empty station. The inside of the building was grey granite floors with black and white inlay, grey marble pillars and arched stone ceilings. Sunlight fell through skylights here and there, but the courthouse would have been dark if not for floating yellow-white light orbs hanging in the archways. Bluescale led them past the center dome. A massive yellow-white light orb hung in the center of this central space. It was obviously a globe. One shining dot on its surface glowed brighter than the rest. Erick wanted to study it, but Bluescale was already moving on.

Jane glanced at the globe, too, but she made sense of it with just that tiny look. “We’re almost in the middle of a continent, but there’s water to the south. Maybe a way to the ocean. We might have ended up there if we took a right perpendicular to our path to this place.”

A flat-grey metal dragonperson was suddenly there, walking forward but with her face down, reading papers. She stopped and looked up, startled at the appearance of three people in her path. Greymetal looked at Erick and Jane, her face twisting. She shouted at Bluescale. Bluescale shouted back. Greymetal said something calmer. Bluescale pointed down the hall to an office with a blue door, very similar in color to the blue boxes of the Script.

Greymetal lit into Bluescale, pointing at Erick and Jane’s canteens. Bluescale lit right back into Greymetal, saying something else, looking pointedly at Erick and Jane. He repeated his words, miming them to drink from their canteens.

Erick and Jane readily complied.

Greymetal frowned. She said something else, then exaggeratedly looked away. She walked away, saying something that was probably unkind, because Bluescale clacked the claws of his left hand together once, like he was trying to make the sound of one hand clapping. Greymetal whipped around at the tiny sound, glaring daggers. Bluescale made the gesture and sound again, right at Greymetal. Greymetal huffed, but walked away.

Those two did not like each other, at all.

Erick and Jane followed Bluescale to the blue door. He knocked. They waited. There was a response from the other side. Bluescale opened the door, saying something to someone, maybe to them, maybe to the person inside the room. A deep voice called out from inside the room, and Bluescale ushered them inside, past the blue door.

Understated opulence was the inspiration for this room. Smooth lines, comfortable furniture, bright lighting. One wall was entirely of three large waist to ceiling glass windows, with the central one open. The room was nice. Then they crossed the threshold of the room, and suddenly it was even nicer because they had stepped into air conditioning.

Erick let out a groan of happiness.

A small laugh escaped from the eight foot tall new Most Handsome Man in the world. He was obviously the registrar, being that he was the only person in this room and he was sitting in a large white chair behind a large white desk. He said something to Bluescale. Bluescale responded. There was an exchange, then Bluescale left the room and closed the door behind him. Erick tried not to stare at the registrar, but that would be asking for too much.

Seriously. What were these people eating? This guy was stacked, and his greying hair only made him look better. Unless there were immortal shenanigans afoot Erick and him might have been of a similar age. If not for the man’s inhuman perfection, Erick would have definitely hit on this dude. Maybe he would anyway. And yet, he was hesitant. Erick was happy with his body. His various lovers over the years had always been happy with him, too, and those that weren’t didn’t leave any lasting impression. Feeling intimidated like this was new.

At least these beautiful people weren’t human.

They probably weren’t human.

Frick. What if they were human? Was Erick ugly as sin?

The man spoke, and even his voice was perfect, though his words did not match his lips. “So you’re the two humans from that crash in the desert that my counterpart warned me about. Mind telling me what’s up… Hmm.”

The man stared at Erick. Then he looked away and typed at the air. He glanced at Erick before returning to whatever invisible screen floated in front of him. He glanced at Erick again.

Now Jane was looking at him, silently demanding to understand what he had done.

He hadn’t done anything! What’s with all these judgmental stares!

“Hmm.” The Most Handsome Man cleared his throat, moving right along. “The leading theory is that you two are outsiders from some part of the Planes that the Script never touched. That happens. Rarely, but it does. If you’d like, we can go ahead and make that your official story.”

