“Which ones?” Liao Zhu asked, looking at her with amusement as he tugged at his mask, straightening the snarling fangs. “That you are her secret shadow, crafted by her mother and left to grow among the mortals as an experiment? Perhaps the one in which you are secret lovers in the vein of the Duchess’ own escapades? Or mayhaps you refer to the rumor wherein ‘you’ are merely the gown you wear, puppeting a hapless commoner who surely couldn’t have risen to such heights on their own.”

Ling Qi gaped at him and in her head, Sixiang snorted.

“Told you wearing the same dress all the time was a bad idea,” her muse laughed, voice carried on the wind.

Ling Qi grimaced. “Hush, you,” she grumbled, glancing out of habit at the empty air where Sixiang’s words emanated from. “No,” she ground out. “I mean the rumors regarding our recent absence.”

Liao Zhu regarded her silently, his bombastic amusement fading away in a moment. “A serious matter then. Let this Senior Brother apologize for his jape then,” he said, sketching a bow. “I am afraid that I have been too busy to immerse myself in the Sect rumor mill recently.”

Ling Qi sighed. “It’s fine,” she said. Perhaps it was best just to be blunt. “Bandits slipped over the border and stole something belonging to the Duchess. They sacked a town and ran off. Lady Cai and I were sent to take care of it.”

When she looked at Liao Zhu, she found him looking at her gravely, arms crossed over his broad chest. “I see. Your first real combat then?”

“I wouldn’t say that,” Ling Qi murmured. “I’ve fought beasts and spirits lethally before, and… once, there was a barbarian, but…” Even for a savage, he had been more monster than man, and in any case, he had killed himself before her arrow could land.

“It is not the same. You took lives then?” he asked gently.

“Many, and one directly with my own hands,” Ling Qi replied. Even with her senses extended across the battlefield, the ones who had fallen in her Mist seemed more distant, perhaps because of how many ways her attention had been divided when the blow fell. Not so the renegade Bai.

“It is a hard thing,” he said neutrally.

“How do you deal with it?” Ling Qi asked. “I mean, I suppose you mostly deal with barbarians, but…”

“Not so. My hands are crimson with Imperial blood as well,” Liao Zhu interrupted. “Bandits, deserters, and even those who defect, seeking to join our foes. I have played judge and executioner for them all, and…”

“And?” Ling Qi asked cautiously.

“And the look of life and spirit fading is much the same, Imperial or barbarian,” he finished grimly. “However in this one thing, your Senior Brother can only be of limited help.”

“Oh,” Ling Qi replied, feeling deflated. Some part of her had hoped that he would have some wise answer that could put her doubts to rest.

“I have told you before of what I seek. I seek to find ways to prevent people from falling into the extremes of vice and crime, and when that fails, I seek to deal precise and exact justice, cutting with the precision of a surgeon’s blade, removing only the most diseased of tissue in the name of bringing health to the body of the Empire,” he continued. “To that end, I have ended lives. To that end, I must never cease questioning the rightness of my actions. If solace and acceptance is what you seek, I cannot help.”

<No easy answers, huh?> Sixiang murmured, and Ling Qi felt the phantom touch of a hand on her shoulder.

“I guess it was silly for me to expect there to be one. I even had a bunch of great spirits telling me that things were complicated,” Ling Qi said wryly. “I’m sorry for wasting your time, Senior Brother.”

“It is not wasted. I remain a font of powerful advice,” the older disciple replied, some of his humor returning. “Junior Sister, you will face such choices again and again in this cruel world of ours. Do not allow yourself to become convinced that lives are without weight. That is the path of the tyrant and the butcher. Neither should you be excessive in your mercy however. Weigh the lives that fall into your hands, and consider the value of each one, the good and the harm that it might do if left unsevered. When you have, then you can make your choice in good conscience.”

Ling Qi remembered the village’s broken walls and ruined fields. She remembered her glimpse of still smoldering buildings and bloodstained streets. She considered the things that she was only just becoming aware of, the potential for violence and instability that the raid had created, spreading far beyond any one village. She tried to weigh it against dead faces in the mud and a cracked tangle of frozen limbs.

“I don’t think I like this,” Ling Qi said quietly.

“If you did, I would be deeply concerned, Junior Sister,” Liao Zhu said wryly. For a moment, he looked as if he was going to tussle her hair like a fond older brother, but he seemed to think better of it and turned away. “Regardless, you should seek to settle yourself. You have only a few days until the exercises.”

Ling Qi straightened up and nodded. She would just have to keep walking her path, doubts and all.
