Images of all these bursts of ether flowing into the lower zones simultaneously hit my consciousness, but an angry yell pounding in my mind catches my attention.

"What have you done? How is this possible?"

Marcellus' voice still echoes in my mind.

All of his Demonic Essence is being digested deep below my origin body's advanced primordial aura, saturating into the inner glyphs of my sacred body. The High Royal Vibrations, and all energy associated with the system, have already been devoured and pulled into my being.

Even the dense strands of purple divine threads that were still holding the white orb in place, upon its destruction, are blasted outward, and both Maria and I pull this power into our own astral forms.

The absurd amount of high-quality ether pouring into my glyphs, and also the ether pool at the base of my soul, did momentarily make me lose touch with reality for an instant. However, now that my senses have returned, they are heightened by hundreds of times.

Every dense river of white ether that flows into me expands my senses further.

Just a handful of this refined energy is more than the entirety of the purple zone's past stores.

My eyes and intuition become so strong that I can even begin to decode and perceive energy waves that have happened in the past.

It is easy to watch the flow of the high-quality ether in the air, and track every single particle, then predict where they all came from moments ago. It is like an intuition-fueled reverse version of my foresight skill.

Clear in my mind, I can now see what every single glyph used to look like before they exploded this way.

It is no surprise that it had to hold so much power... in order to seal the outer edges of an entire galaxy, and a divine construct on top of it. But also to account for minimal ether leakage in the arrays that could last for trillions of years.

I quickly understand how perfectly timed my slash with Maria's really was...

When I look past our blades that are still interlocked and stare deep into her soul through her eyes, all of this understanding only compounds faster once we bounce what each of us has seen off each other's minds.

Yet, the angered yell of a Demon somehow still reaches us. "You will not ignore me! You fools! You have not only ruined my life's work, but you have severed the core of immortality that you are bonded to. It was your only hope of becoming an Overseer!"

Marcellus laughs loudly into our minds, and slowly it becomes less angry and more filled with a maddened, hopeless tone. "Actually, this is not so bad. Now that you have disrupted the natural progression of the source, the true Overseer will grace the origin plane with his presence to clean up this mess. The least I can do is take you out once and for all for him!"

Finally, the blinding white mist of the ether blast starts to spread out, and I can see the zone around me.

The entire barrier of the central domain is shattered and shredded apart. Some of the silver threads holding it together are scattered outward to the far edges of the zone, while the majority of them have been thrust upward along with a large amount of ether.

The bright white flash in the sky where Ember sat is still far too bright for me to make out.

The only thing I can see is a thick orange and blue aura forming back together into the outline of a Royal Demon.

"I already told you. I have defeated death! There is nothing you can do to kill me—"

Both Maria and I break from our interlocked blades and turn to our side, swinging again to release long-range attacks.

These two crescents of blue ice and red fire are filled with extremely dense white glyphs that make it feel as though the weight of the swords themselves is hitting this Demon's aura.

The Advanced Primordial Aura shadow of Marcellus is broken in two, and one half catches fire with metallic flames while the other becomes covered in sparkling ice and begins shattering.

It is an extremely strange phenomenon. The refined, high-quality ether glyphs we wield have vibrations and aura pouring into them, allowing them to exist in both the physical and Advanced Primordial Aura space at the same time.

On impact, as these complex arrays activate and explode, it makes the body Marcellus believed to be invisible act just like any other physical form.

He has no blades to attack us back with. The chaotic daggers carved with ancient demonic glyphs shattered to unrecognizable dust in the explosion of the white orb.

The Demon's eyes grow scared again. "No... It's this power again... I do not understand! Mana-based lifeforms like you were never meant to ascend outside of the system. It makes no sense. The Demon's Legacy was different because of this fact! It was the Creator's Only weakness! This- This can't be! If this is not true... then... I must survive..."

Through the cracks in the ice on half his aura body, and through bubbling burn marks, there are slivers of aura that still leak out. The orange-blue chaos energy reforms into a smaller Demonic Form far below his body that is being destroyed in the air.

Marcellus tries to slip away, shrinking down in size, and follows one of the streams of high-quality ether away from the center of the primordial forest. Moments ago, it would have looked like he just disappeared in the wind. However, our senses have evolved far too much from this ether blast.

Every moving stream of ether in the air nearby feels like it's a part of me. Seeing a few particles shift a hundred quadrillion kilometers away when Marcellus slips away and changes directions is extremely easy to spot.

Enormous white, red, and blue glyphs form behind our feet and create circular propulsion arrays that explode and leave strange dents and miniature cracks in the air behind us.

The sensation of dark space behind these cracks hits my senses, but my target is where my main attention lies.

Both Maria and I dive forward with our blades in front of us like spears.

Massive tears in the thick high-quality ether atmosphere appear as we streak downward and stab through the retreating Demon's neck and back with our swords.

The orange and blue energy form is pinned to the zone's floor, right between a clearing of primordial trees.

A miniature white dome of creator's legacy glyphs pulses off of us, and our advanced primordial aura is imbued, making an energy-tight seal. Then, enough raw energy to kill this Demon a thousand times over is released through our blades.

The Imperial Family Head is completely obliterated, and his will is truly exterminated once and for all from the purple zone of the upper realm.

I only release my hold on the barrier around us once the full, unfractured raw memories from this Demon finally begin to flow into my mind.
