Jake had moved forward with his assumption that Artemis would succeed in her breakthrough and gone to clean up a bit. He’d even considered making a banner or something, but ultimately decided against it, as in the event where she somehow failed, that wouldn’t go over well.

Still, no matter what, cleaning himself up and making sure his clothes weren’t covered in remnants from alchemy experiments by changing into something more casual was the least he could do to look presentable. He’d even decided to order some good food and drinks for the two of them if a celebration was in order.

With everything ready, all that was left was to wait. Jake sat in the living room reading a book about bane poisons when he had a premonition that something was about to happen, primarily caused by him feeling a familiar gaze upon the palace, which tended to be a prelude to teleportation.

He closed the book and stored it away, and less than a second later, the familiar wood elf goddess appeared in the living room. Instantly, Jake knew that something was different. First of all, this wasn’t an avatar like the many times he’d seen her recently, but definitely her real body. Secondly, she felt stronger than Jake had ever seen her before, instantly making Jake smile.

“Congratulations.”

Artemis looked at him and smiled back. “This may sound hyperbolic, but I couldn’t have done it without you.”

“Hey, don’t sell yourself short,” Jake said as he teasingly bowed. “Such is unbecoming of you, my queen.”

Artemis chuckled and walked over as she put a hand under his chin. “You may raise your gaze.”

Jake did as told while Artemis leaned forward and planted a kiss on his lips, which he naturally reciprocated. Artemis didn’t hold anything back and dragged him into a hug, not letting Jake go as she pushed them to both fall onto the couch, Artemis on top of him.

Artemis pulled back and sat up as she looked down at him. Without saying anything, she placed a finger on his chest, making his shirt begin to disintegrate, much to Jake’s surprise, as he looked up at her with a raised eyebrow.

“I thought we were taking things slo-“

“Jake,” Artemis said as her own clothes began to disappear. “I don’t believe this queen gave you permission to object.”

He just stared up at the goddess as he couldn’t stop smiling. “This lowly one apologizes for his insolence.”

“You’re forgiven,” Artemis said, pressing him down. “Assuming what happens next pleases this queen to her satisfaction.”

“This one shall do his utmost,” Jake answered as he gladly moved to fulfill the royal decree.
