The remainder of Ranthia and Avyna’s journey proved to be less exciting. The idea of two people travelling at night through a warzone seemed ludicrous, but the region was vast, the sightlines were poor, and the odds of encountering anyone—even those travelling along similar routes—were minimal. Which was why the encounter with the shimagu ambush was so unexpected.

And then, a bit further into their journey, a Reman scouting patrol intercepted them. Because clearly ‘minimal odds’ had ceased to have any and all meaning.

Thank Xaoc, Ranthia knew the men and women, and they recognized the returning couple before any of them did anything uncharacteristically foolhardy. After a brief exchange of greetings, the scouts rushed back to Remera to carry news of their approach—which raised serious questions about whether or not the messenger bird had ever reached the new base commander.

They took their time for their final leg of the journey to make sure the scouts brought word first. After all, neither of them had any desire to unwittingly test Remera’s defenses. The sun was brightening the eastern horizon by the time they finally arrived to find Remera’s gates wide open and a surprising amount of fanfare awaiting them. Namely, a full assembly had gathered to welcome them home. The new base commander, along with his second and his set of advisors—not a familiar face to be seen among them—were front and center. Behind him was a crowd peppered with familiar faces eager to exchange greetings with Ranthia and/or Avyna. Glorine and Gailla were there, of course. But many of the legionaries were just as unfamiliar as the base’s new leadership. It seemed that transfers had, if anything, only increased in her absence.

Before the assembled, the new base commander formally—far too formally, it was outright stifling and awkward—greeted “Sentinel Grace and her consort” and invited them to lunch on the following day to get acquainted and to discuss the strategic role of Remera in the coming years of the war. When he departed, Avyna’s silent amusement at being called Ranthia’s consort became open and musical, and they went through the glacial process of greeting the others that were gathered. But even Ranthia was more engaged and interested than she normally would have been. Not only was she still feeling more like herself than she had felt in years, Remera was home, and she had missed it.

Not that it helped her absorb any of the names she heard.

It was still a tremendous relief when they finally reached their home. Glorine and Gailla had done as promised and kept Avyna’s plants alive, which meant that Ranthia and Avyna were able to dump their bags in a corner and share a quick shower to free Avyna from the grime of their journey. After that, they settled into their sorely missed bed and fell asleep before Ranthia could work up the energy to do anything more.

The next day Ranthia helped Avyna haul goods back to her neglected shop until it was time for her meeting with the new base commander. And overall, Ranthia thought the meeting went surprisingly well. The new man didn’t immediately strike her as dramatically more capable than his predecessor, but at least he was seemingly far more open to her input. Avyna used the opportunity to meet with his advisors and seemed confident that her reign over the base’s economy would continue unabated. Time would tell just how accurate their initial impressions were.

Armed with the lessons and, well, healing that the [Mind Healer] had granted her—reinforced with continual letters back and forth—Ranthia returned to war. She was happier and felt far more whole—far more like the Adventurer that she once was—than she had in a very long time. Even better, she had learned to truly trust Avyna. There were days where she fell short of where she aspired to be, but the jealousy and possessiveness that she had walled herself behind had largely melted away. Her insecurities and fears no longer defined and ruled her. After all, if she truly loved Avyna, she needed to trust her partner implicitly, under all possible meanings of the word. It took time, but as the years passed, Ranthia found that she no longer needed to tether her happiness to some idealized, goddesslike version of the woman that she loved. Truly, the real thing was better than anything her paltry imagination could conjure.

It helped that the new base commander was true to his word. Ranthia was properly fielded against the shimagu, and the stupid towers were abandoned. When a shimagu twin arrived, Ranthia was there to push them away from the main engagement and keep them occupied. The one caveat was that the base commander didn’t want her to escalate a combat engagement, which was (more-or-less) fine with her—if she held back a little, the shimagu couldn’t just train a twin to specialize in countering her. She had no intention of reinventing the troll twin’s fatal mistake.

The best part meant that, when the shimagu failed to bring a twin with them into the battle, she was there amongst the other legionaries and their stalwart allies. She was able to save lives and cull the parasites that threatened Remera.

As the Legions recovered from the Disaster of Flame and the average levels of the legionaries increased, Remera at last resumed its primary function. Legions and other Coalition units were often hosted by the base while they resupplied and prepared for strikes against targets deep within shimagu territory or when they returned with varying degrees of triumph under their collective belts.

And when Glorine and Gailla popped in unannounced with a few small gifts to surprise Avyna on her birthday and found Ranthia serving her beloved’s every whim while wearing nothing except the skimpiest and least functional apron elven [Artisans] could dream up, Ranthia was able to swallow her reflexive embarrassment and owned it—and she even got ideas. The next year, Glorine and Gailla were treated to dinner for their tenth anniversary, cooked and served by two beautiful and charming serving wenches—which let the married couple focus on one another for the night while their every need was met.

“At this rate I’m going to go completely grey before the season ends!” Gailla’s complaint heralded the couple’s arrival for dinner.

“You look lovely, stop worrying so much.” Glorine playfully chided her wife before she waved to Ranthia and Avyna. The food wasn’t quite done, but that was fine—Glorine and Gailla were used to making themselves at home.

Though Avyna had to nudge Ranthia after her friends’ concerns about aging left her briefly distracted—neither of them wanted the sauce to burn! After all, meatbaths made the dish incredible, but a light application of a peppery sauce elevated the roast to an even higher level of deliciousness. Ranthia nodded to her beloved and refocused, forcing herself to swallow her own guilt for the moment.

Her closest friends (with apologies to Tertia for being displaced by time and distance) were concerned about their signs of aging while Ranthia was exactly the same as the day that she met each woman—and it wasn’t as though she meant to hide the truth, but she hadn’t ever gotten around to telling them about her own immortality. Still, terrible misstep in her friendship or not, she wasn’t about to ruin any aspect of their dinner. Her pride as an unskilled cook would never allow it! Honestly though, she was overdue to finally tell them. It had been roughly nine years since she and Avyna returned to Remera, which meant it had been… gods and goddesses, about eighteen years since she had met Glorine, and not much less since she met Gailla.

What could her friends have possibly made of the lack of changes to her own appearance?

“Okay Ran, be honest with me… have you taken a [Chef] class without telling us?” Gailla’s demand wasn’t where Ranthia had feared where that question was going.

“Practice makes as close to perfect as you can get without the System’s influence.” Ranthia replied, unable to keep the note of pride out of her voice. She really had fallen in love with cooking and was proud of every minor tweak and innovation she discovered that made the resulting meals just a little tastier. Alas, there were depths of flavor that her friends lacked the vitality to appreciate, but at least Avyna could appreciate those.

“She’s just jealous because there’s only like… four things she can cook.” Glorine playfully threw her wife under the proverbial wagon.

“So complains the woman that caught a pan of vegetables on fire the other day!” Gailla melodramatically retorted.

“That was last month!” Glorine protested, moments before she succumbed to her own giggles.

Once the shared mirth settled down Avyna served them the stronger drinks that she had chilled using an enchantment and the mood settled into something cozy and contemplative. …Which left Ranthia inwardly squirming until she finally had to say something.

“This is awkward to say after so long, but after your talk when you came in… Well, I’m supposed to keep this quiet, but the two of you deserve to know that I’m also immortal, like Avyna is.” The words tumbled from Ranthia’s mouth. They weren’t quite the exact words she had planned to say, but her mind seemed to have lost the lines she had inwardly rehearsed while she finished preparing the meal.

“…Um, we kind of figured.” Glorine admitted a moment or three into the resulting silence.

“Ugh, I’m so sorry for not telling you, I just—” Ranthia started trying to explain herself.

“Ran, let me stop you there. I have two questions.” Gailla interrupted. She waited for Ranthia to nod before she pointed her thumb at Avyna. “Does your immortality have anything to do with you having sex with her pretty much constantly?”

“No! I actually seized before I even met her.” Ranthia admitted. Her mind wanted to insist that the words were an accusation that she needed to defend against, but that was nonsensical. But even almost a full decade of effort wasn’t enough to completely heal her of her ridiculous fears, unfortunately.

“Mmhm. And I assume it isn’t anything you could use on us?” Gailla seemed unsurprised at the first answer.

“No, it’s unique to one of my classes and only affects me.” Ranthia decided to forgo the entire explanation.

“Then I’m not mad. It’s your business girl, and I can definitely understand wanting to keep it a secret. Not that it’s hard to notice for anyone that’s been around since day one.” Gailla replied with a shrug.

Glorine nodded alongside her wife, then changed the subject by asking Avyna about when her promised new books for her shop were going to arrive.

And Ranthia just sat there, feeling like an idiot both for waiting to tell her friends and for expecting her overdue reveal to be some dramatic revelation that left them in shock. The weight of the moment amounted to almost nothing. She had, once again, managed to underestimate the people around her.

[*ding!* [Image Recall] has reached level 400!]

Ranthia groaned with relief and flopped bonelessly onto the chaise lounge. She could feel the mounting headache pressing against the back of her eyes after that practice session, but that was nothing new—if anything, she was to blame for refusing to stop until she finally got the level. She was still grateful to her beloved for helping her to come up with the training exercises. Creating images from scratch, without relying on her own self as a base, was complicated and exhausting, but [Image Recall] was clearly loving the effort.

The biggest gripe that she had was that, even after several years of running the exercises (well, while shimagu activity permitted it), her results still felt ‘off’ every time, for reasons that were increasingly difficult to identify. Something was just… slightly incorrect about the images every time, and rarely were any two wrong in quite the same way. Still, it was great training, even with the headaches and mental fatigue that it invited.

“<How did it go that time, my lov—oh. Oh dear.>” Avyna froze almost the instant that she passed through the privacy curtain.

“<Oof, I knew it wasn’t good, but it’s that bad?>” Ranthia’s unfamiliar and uncanny face pulled an unintentionally exaggerated wince.

“<…Perhaps you should return to your normal body, my love. And remove that image.>” Avyna pleaded, only half-jokingly.

Ranthia sighed and nodded her consent before she shifted back to one of her usual images and dismissed the new one.

“<Thank you! Glorine delivered your messages that arrived with today’s convoy, my love. There are multiple scrolls from a sender in Remus that is unfamiliar to me, as well as a letter from your [Mind Healer]. I shall bring you the cipher book in a moment.>” Avyna offered Ranthia a sweet smile to accompany her cruel, cruel words.

Ranthia whined with only mildly exaggerated despair.

“<I already have a headache; I can’t unravel an encoded message from that fiendish elf! I will perish, Gemheart. If I make the attempt my mind will shatter, and I will be a drooling mess for my final days!>” Ranthia made her desperate appeal for mercy.

“<If that is the price I must bear, I shall. I will not be solving and translating this one for you.>” Avyna answered solemnly.

Which was fair, Avyna was neck deep in trying to solve the deep budget cuts that Legion Command had inflicted upon them, which was threatening to undermine the base’s fundamental viability for the year. Unfortunately, that was often the price of success—their safety net was getting revoked so the Legions could shove the funds at those that failed to get their spiraling expenses under control.

But still!

Ranthia made a piteous noise, but Avyna remained bereft of mercy. Ranthia took a deep breath or eight before she made her own way through the curtains, where the promised messages awaited her upon the table. The tightly folded, clean paper from her counselor promised a long message that discussed her fictional distant kin—all code that had to be translated, an obnoxious measure to ensure Ranthia’s privacy while she discussed her most private thoughts remotely with the woman—waited next to a neatly bound set of nine scrolls.

The letter that required Ranthia to use a book to transcribe the actual message (let alone reversing the process for her response) promised to be painful, so Ranthia shamelessly chose to forgo any and all pain for the moment. She untied the bundle and plucked the first scroll from the pile.

Salutations Sentinel,

