After hammering out the details, we reach an arrangement which works for us both, though I don’t think it’s fair when she threatened to box my ears for haggling. Regardless, once our deal is struck, I hand the poop pan to a Death Corps soldier to clean, wash my hands, and bring Yuhuan to meet her ward. Though she gives me a strange look when she finds out she’s to look after Song, the Tyrant shrugs and accepts her charge with indifference, though she perks up when she learns Song is Mila’s sister. Initially, I figured Lei Gong would protect Song while I kept Jochi and Daxian, but the grimy old drunkard doesn’t exactly inspire confidence. Besides, my Martial Aunt will probably feel much safer with a woman to watch her back, though I almost have a heart attack when Pong Pong pokes his head out of Mama Bun’s fur to glare at Yuhuan.

I completely forgot about the bad blood between them, but the Tyrant doesn’t even notice. Whatever methods the Ascendants used to track him didn’t tell them what manner of beast they were tracking, else they would’ve figured it out by now. By all appearances, Pong Pong is merely a tiny, adorable turtle I spoil because he has a lovely shell-pattern. Nothing about him suggests he’s a True Divine Turtle, capable of wielding the power of creation to match or perhaps even overpower a Divinity, but from the looks of things, he certainly recognizes the woman who chased him around for weeks without rest.

Using my Aura to soothe Pong Pong’s temper, I draw Yuhuan’s attention away from him and Song’s Runic breastplate. “If you don’t mind me asking, why do you want a Spiritual Launcher? They’re unwieldy and proved ineffective against the Demon.”

Oddly enough, Yuhuan responds with uncharacteristic enthusiasm, leading me to believe I could’ve asked for a lot more than I did in exchange for a gun. Pulling a Runic rod from her belt which I recognize as twin to the one Jorani had, she gestures at the carvings and says, “I spent years developing a weapon meant to dispatch a Peak Expert even in the hands of a mediocre Martial Warrior, and this is the culmination of my research. A touch of this rod contains more power than a hundred of Lei Gong’s lightning bolts, but such power means nothing if the enemy can simply dodge the attack. I considered using a crossbow, but they could not provide enough speed without extensive preparation, and while bows could, they also require a lifetime of practice to master, so most of the runes on this rod are to ensure it moves fast enough to connect. However, when I heard about what happened with the Water Demon, I knew I could use such a weapon to launch a redesigned version on this runic rod, one stripped of everything aside from sheer power.”

Holy shit. Runic bullets which hit a hundred times harder than Lei Gong’s lightning bolts would be nice but... Struck by a flash of genius, I race back to my room to grab my notes, ignoring proper officer decorum in all my excitement. Shoving the relevant documents into her hands, I ask, “Do you think you could design a Rune which can generate an explosion?”

While Yuhuan scrutinizes my notes, I explain the concept of cannons the best I can, and her eyes slowly light up in excitement. I’ve got everything in place except for the explosive charge, and a few simple changes is all I need to get this working. The cannon itself is easy enough to make and can remain mundane, all I’d have to do is add a slot in the back to slide a Runic Rod into. Airtight would be best, and maybe a locking mechanism to hold it in place. Ooh, some cannons open up at the back right? Maybe the Runic Device could slide in there with a handle sticking out, and then you affix the back of the cannon to hold it in place. A Martial Warrior would be needed to provide the Chi, but otherwise, this could totally work, with nothing for a fire happy Demon to set off. I wouldn’t even need a Runic Rod for every cannon. Two or three cannons to a team, with two being reloaded while the third sits ready to fire, raining iron death upon Defiled and Demon alike. Five millimetre bullets didn’t do enough damage, but let’s see if Pudge can shake off a two and a half kilogram sphere of iron crashing into his fucked up mouth, and worst comes to worst, the team can abandon the cannons and run away with the Runic Devices.

This is great news, plus Runic bullets for my Spiritual Gun means my weapons won’t be a complete waste. Whooooo!

There’s still a lot of trial and error to go through, and funding Yuhuan’s research process is going to be expensive as hell, but I’ve got time to waste while waiting for reinforcements, more coin than I know what to do with, and an intense desire to kill Defiled in the thousands. Besides, if the Enemy is stockpiling Demons like Pudge, then we’re going to need something to even the odds. Once Yuhuan has enough details to work with, she storms off to find somewhere to work and leaves me alone with Song and the animals.

Guan Suo too, as he pops into existence to ask, “What were you doing last night boy? You better have a good reason for displaying Purity for so long. Kept me up half the night with your shenanigans.” Nose wrinkled in displeasure, Guan Suo shakes his fist at me and says, “Playing around with your Chi so much is like making a racket in the middle of the night. Pei! Rude is what it is. I’m an old man who needs his sleep.”

“Sorry.” A side effect of my new Chi Devouring abilities I suppose, which means I shouldn’t do it if I’m trying to stay hidden. “I got lost in my work and didn’t know it would bother you. I’ll avoid practising at night.”

“Back to binding water, are you?” Guan Suo’s Sending catches me by surprise and I nod before thinking better of answering. I mean, I can probably trust him with something like this, but if he finds out about the Heavenly Energy I’ve got tucked away in my Natal Palace, then our relationship might turn sour. Birds die for food and men die for wealth, or so the idiom goes. “Well, show me what you’ve been trying, and maybe I can help point you towards the right questions so you’ll stop making such a ruckus when you should be sleeping.”

Lacking the ability to Send from a distance, I ask, “Don’t you mean the right answers?”

“No boy.” With an air of solemn wisdom, Guan Suo puffs at his pipe and Sends, “You need to find the answers on your own, but some answers are more useful than others.”

...The worst cryptic sayings are the ones that make sense.

Still, I’m not one to turn down free advice, so I grab the gourd of Chi Water from my yurt and bring it out to practice. Both turtles show marked interest when I uncork the gourd, but I wave them both away to show them this bathwater is mine. Just to be safe, I dump half of my Core’s Chi into the water, which sets Ping Ping to singing once more, but the big girl calms down after a liberal dose of loving, yet remorseful Aura. Despite investing so much Chi into this, I still feel no connection to the water within, but perhaps a copious amount of Visualization and Intent will help.

Taking a seat in the grass, I place the gourd on the ground with my palm over the spout, willing the water to rise up to touch my hand. It’s not far to travel since the gourd is filled to the brim and my hand hovers a hairsbreadth above the opening, but after long, focused minutes of effort, my palm remains dry save for a trace of sweat. Throwing in the towel, I turn to Guan Suo for advice, but the old half-beast merely raises a single long, white eyebrow and Sends, “What in the Father’s Maw are you trying to do? Do you need to pay a visit to your latrine tent first?”

...I am not constipated, but I refuse to declare it out loud. Shuffling closer to Guan Suo, I wave away the clouds of acrid smoke and take his hand, Sending, “I’m trying to make the water rise up and touch my hand.”

“See,” Guan Suo drawls, blowing a cloud of smoke directly into my face, “Now I know you don’t know shit. How about this. Tell me what you know about Awakenings and we’ll go from there.”

Doing my best to think through the coughing, I Send, “Well... Manipulating water is like binding a weapon. The water must become a part of you, your Chi flowing through it without thought or guidance, and only then will you be able to control it. It’s different from what other Awakenings in that they simply use their Chi to mimic their respective Elements, rather than controlling the mundane versions outright. Tenjin can create a spark with Chi, but if it sets off a wildfire, then he would be helpless to control it unless he binds the physical fire, whereas if I bind this water, then I can use it, but not any other ambient water around us.”

“Uh huh... and where’d you hear all this?”

...In Elder Ming’s journal and from Mila. “Why does it matter?”

“Because it’s not entirely right.” Shrugging, he adds, “Not to say it’s wrong either, but the viewpoint is too narrow. Take a step back and forget about manipulating or controlling your Element.” Pointing at the gourd, Guan Suo asks, “If you wanted to empty the gourd without turning it upside down, how would you go about it? Not with Chi, mind you, but with your hands or whatever.”

“I dunno. Shake it?”

“Okay. And what if you wanted to move the water around inside without spilling?”

“...Swirl it.”

“Then how would you make the water come out of the gourd and touch your palm, like you were trying before?”

“...Squeeze the gourd, I guess, though it’d probably break.”

“Any other bright ideas?”

“Drop something inside to displace the water. That’d make it shoot up, probably.”

“Exactly.” Leaning back with a smile, Guan Suo acts as if everything should be apparent from his pointless questions. Seeing I still don’t understand, he scoffs and Sends, “Bound or not, water is still water. There are rules to follow, and having Chi doesn’t mean you can break those rules. You’re trying to make water do something it cannot physically do without outside assistance, and no amount of Chi will change that.”

“...But the water Demon made a shield and tentacles with his water. Tenjin can make hypnotic patterns and realistic animals of fire with his Chi.”

“Can he now?” Nodding in approval, he shrugs and says, “Forget the Demon, and Tenjin is talented, but do you think he was talented enough to do all that during his first year? What’s more, why compare yourself to him? You’ve already said this is a different method, so why would they follow the same rules?”

...Right. Learn to crawl before you walk. How many times will I make this same mistake?

“Get you gone now and let an old man nap in peace.” Guan Suo waves me away, but adds, “There’s one more question you should ask yourself. Why bind water? I’m not saying you should or shouldn’t, but right now, you’re going through a maze by following directions from people who have never been there. Quit worrying about how others do things and focus on your own Martial Path. You spend so much time lost in your thoughts, so maybe try thinking for a change.”

With much to think about, I thank Guan Suo for his time and sit and stare at the gourd. So many questions, with no one to tell me the answers.

One step forward, with a thousand more to go. Such is life, trials and tribulations without end.

...

God I hate that phrase. It’s so... depressing.

Chapter Meme
