Sighing, Kairon shook his head. Okay. Well, not overly helpful but it’s something. Let’s say it takes several days for the first essence, and maybe a week for the second in the worst case. That means we should be able to complete at least two research projects before even the earliest estimates of a paladin arrival would occur. Maybe even three.

Assuming Sythara succeeded, that was.

The city had four districts, which meant they could pursue any of those four brands of research and presumably use the benefit immediately. However, Kairon wasn’t keen on choosing void nor brood.

Void due to its long, knowledge-focused nature, and brood because it was derived around food and consumption. Things that his city certainly didn’t lack.

Logically, that left the demon with two viable options he’d been stuck between. Two options that could offer immediate benefits. Wrath or universal.

When it came to wrath, he assumed it might offer new warriors to spawn, better facilities for those warriors, or something else entirely along the same vein. The issue was that he hadn’t even built the training grounds for his troops yet. What if he got an upgrade he couldn’t even utilize? Still, new troops would be something he could use right away. Or a new building of war. And when you factored in the sigil…

On the other hand, universal. Its outlying reactions fascinated him, but at its core it was the most mundane. That said, those universal buildings his city sported were a foundational part of everything they did. The camps for population, and spawning grounds for new imps.

He juggled the options in his head.

“Sythara, tell me this. How many choices will I get?”

“Choices?” She clicked her tongue. “For this first brand, do not expect any. I would be grateful to have even one granted. In the future, mmm.” The demoness made a noncommittal noise. “After this first attempt, we can speak of methods that may allow for the choices you speak of.”

“So what you’re saying is to see this first brand as a pilot of sorts, and the next one to be more ironed out?”

She hesitated. Something about his phrasing and the idea of doing better the second time gave her pause. “I suppose,” Sythara said finally. “But… for the improvement you seek, we will need to speak more of what it will cost me.”

“Could we discuss that method to use now?”

Sythara smirked. “Greedy child. No, not today. I need to ensure the communion is as I understand. Then, we shall speak. Understand?”

Kairon grunted.

So for this first brand, I am taking a card from a blind hand. But the second one I might have real choices?

With that news, his decision was simple.

Of all the districts, the universal buildings were the most diverse. Getting a random choice from that would have the highest likelihood of something he could actually use. Then, for wrath, if he did get those choices… He could go all in on something that would truly matter for the battle.

There was a third option. “Sythara, if I wanted to research two wrath brands in say… ten days. Could you do it? You said there will be more interference for the same district.”

She hummed thoughtfully. “If they both were successful due to the squabbling you were doing, I… I am unsure. Maybe. Maybe not. If you choose two different brands, however, I would be able to.”

Seeing Kairon’s face light up, she rushed to continue. “If both brands are successful. Remember, child. There is no guarantee of this.”

Mulling it over for another minute, Kairon finally made his decision. For today, they would research universal. Then, as soon as possible, they would brand the wrath totem. That should give them one notch in each, with the wrath brand hopefully having a higher chance both of completion and choices.

Kairon selected yes.
