Erick had a surreal moment of being an important person. Then he discarded that, and said, “Mage Ishibo and I will talk for a while, then.”

Hangzi nodded, saying, “Then the day’s business is concluded. Please be prepared to cast more of these [Delirium Charm]s as needed. We approve of the ten day duration, but we will need to contract you for further casting of this spell, perhaps every nine days. I expect this to be an acceptable timetable, considering Ophiel can fly anywhere you wish.”

Ophiel twittered in violin sounds to hear his name.

“I’d be happy to do that.” With sudden curiosity getting the better of him, and because he felt that the question might be applicable, Erick asked any of them, “Do you know of any ways to extend the duration of an active spell? Or have anyone that knows more? Also I need to talk to someone about how a Doctor is able to make their [Draining Ward] painless.”

Ishibo’s eyes lit up as he almost spoke, for sure almost giving a litany of answers, but he slammed his mouth shut again.

Hangzi was caught unprepared for a moment, a blank look betraying his lack of an answer, but then he calmly said, “I will have Elder Varo get back to you on that.” He glanced to Ishibo, “Or maybe Mage Ishibo has an answer?”

Given the go-ahead, Ishibo rapidly said, “Extending the duration of a spell is near impossible. The problem lies in that active magic is not the same as simple mana. Imagine a meadow and a stream through all the seasons; winter, when it’s frozen, summer when it’s lush and green, and all the rest. This is mana. Magic, however, is a lightpainting of a specific scene within that entire year, taken from a certain angle known only to the caster. This is the problem with restoring active magic, to extend duration, and thus it is near impossible. But it is only near impossible! There are Class Abilities that allow for the extension of spell duration, and this is the easiest way to make one’s own magic last longer. As for making someone else’s magic last longer; this is a matter of precisely restoring the spellwork that went into the magic, so this part is mostly impossible for ten different reasons. Simply injecting mana into an active spell is more likely to disturb the ‘moment in time’ that is an active spell than it is to restore that spell to vibrancy.” He added, “I have no idea how Doctors make their [Drain Ward] painless, but I can find out!”

Erick smiled. “Okay. Sounds like you know some stuff, then. This should be acceptable.”

Hangzi said, “Then Devouring Nightmare will leave you to do your magics. Please don’t blow up anything too important, and direct your larger spellwork toward the open air outside of your house, or do it elsewhere entirely. Thank you.” Hangzi gestured toward the guards, who lowered the crate containing the City Shield to the ground; Ishibo hadn’t been carrying it, the guard had. Then Hangzi said, “Good day to you, Archmage Flatt.” He said to Warzi, “Come along now,” as he walked toward the door.

Warzi didn’t immediately follow. Instead, he looked up at Erick, and whispered, “Thank you.”

“You’re welcome,” Erick said, smiling.

Warzi hopped to it, following Hangzi out of Erick’s residence. The soldier followed.

Soon, it was just Ishibo, Erick, and Poi in the room with the box. At this point, Erick took his seat, and Ishibo took his, fighting to keep his smile from his face the entire time. Poi came over and poured the tea for Erick and Ishibo, as Erick decided where he wanted to start with this guy. He looked like a rather normal looking human, maybe 35, of pale skin and brown hair and eyes. Not a demi? Probably not.

Erick asked, “Tell me a little bit about yourself.”

Ishibo instantly said, “Accredited by Holorulo Cabal when I was twenty, attached to Devouring Nightmare when I was 25 after they noticed I was rather proficient with large-scale magics, and with large-scale enchanting. Three years later, I gained the right to call myself a Mage of Devouring Nightmare, and was raised to a minor noble title because of that. I’ve been making City Shields at a rate of about one a month since then. My highest tier of well-made magic is tier 7. I’m not an archmage yet, but I hope to be in the next few years, once I work out the crimps in a particular spell I’ve been working on that will add anti-Spatial Magic effects to my City Shields.” He added, “It’s practically the only thing that prevents them from being used for normal operation, outside of monster surges.”

Well that was a bit surprising. Anyway! Erick discovered why this guy was here. He was practically an archmage himself.

“Congratulations on being so close.” Erick asked, “Did you participate in the recent war?”

“Yes!” Ishibo said, “I did. Of course I did. Mostly in and around my own buildings. We were hit hard and often, as Devouring Nightmare’s enchanting houses are a big target. Most of my magic is defensive in nature— Oh yeah. I’m a Warder.” He continued, “So I protected that which I could protect. I wasn’t out there like you. I don’t even have a proper [Familiar] yet.”

Ishibo seemed like a good guy as well as truly honest and enthusiastic. Erick was convinced this would be fine.

The guy was obviously digging for whatever nuggets of information Erick felt like dispensing, but that was to be expected. Erick was getting a lot of information out of this exchange, too; theoretically. He hadn’t heard anything groundbreaking yet, but he was sure it was simply a matter of time.

Erick said, “Sounds good. So what makes a City Shield work? Do you have the original Tears of Aloeth somewhere in Songli, too?”

Ishibo chuckled, saying, “I wish we had a Tear! No; all we have are diagrams and codes and the principles behind the Tears. Oh! If we had a Tear, then we could make these Shields work so much better!” He added, “Did you hear about one of those artifact Staffs of Cooperative Casting that they had given out at Candlepoint? I mean! Of course you did. I theorize that having one of those staves would make these City Shields work much better, too, since the entire idea and spellwork behind these things is designed upon principles of cooperative casting.” He said, “But we never got one of them, no matter how much I tried to get the acquisition approved.”

Erick said, “Sorry to disappoint, but I have no idea where any of those items ended up. None of those items were directly inside Candlepoint, anyway. Each item was shipped individually from Ar’Kendrithyst to Candlepoint whenever someone handed in enough dark chips, but with the fall of the Dead City, everything scattered to the winds, including all the artifacts.”

Ishibo looked like he had bitten into a lemon. He backpedaled, saying, “I didn't mean to presume that you had one, just—” He stopped himself, then said, “So? City Shields! I’ve been making them for a while. They’re not simple enchantments. They’re practically machines.” He gestured toward the crate. “Want to open her up?”

Erick made a quick gesture of white light toward the box. With deft flicks of strength, the nails holding the crate came out of the wood, and the box began to fall open. Erick helped the crating fall to the side, placing the five sheets of wood against the wall. Ishibo smiled as his work was exposed.

The City Shield was half of a cube on the bottom, with a silver sphere nestled inside that cube that was about the same size as the cube. The sphere rotated gently in its housing, for it floated inside its base, while the four corners of the lower base each had indentations upon them that resembled hand prints. Now that Erick had observed the item for a little while, as he and Ishibo talked, he knew much of what he wanted to ask about the whole thing. The cooperative casting was the largest question.

Erick asked, “So tell me about your machine. What do you tell a layman when they come to operate it?”

Ishibo lightly shook his head, saying, “We don’t allow laymen to operate a Shield. They’d just break it. But! Ah. It only takes a month of training to learn how to cooperative cast. Most mage soldiers are required to learn how to do this, anyway, or they don’t get their accreditation.”

“… So tell me how you cooperative cast.”

Ishibo startled. “You’ve never… Ah! Well… You have [Force Wall]? That’s the spell the Shield is based upon. All you have to do is match your own casting of [Force Wall] to the spell already imbued in the Shield; like how the Singers harmonize their own magic together in order to increase the effects of their Songs.” Ishibo said, “That’s all there is to it, but it’s easy to break the Shield if too many people imbue it incorrectly, so we have everyone learn to cast [Force Wall] a specific way and then the machine unifies those pieces into a whole. The specific casting is either hexagonal [Force Wall]s for a full-scale deployment, or curved rectangles for normal deployment.”

Erick scrunched his face as he looked upon the machine, inspecting it with both his lightform and his mana sense, and all his other Sights. Broadly, it seemed to be a machine of two parts. The base was a reservoir of some sort with the walls of the tank having a layer of core dust inside the silver metal. The handprints led to runework and crystal rods, which led to the tank, but the tank was empty at the moment.

The silver sphere was a lot more complicated. It reminded Erick of the [Force Wall] gridwork that he had seen Tenebrae turn into a manacycler that produced a curved, round shield, but on a much larger scale.

Erick said, “Correct me if I’m wrong, but it looks like the tank somehow collects mana, and then it purposefully injects that mana into a massive manacycler, empowering some sort of [Force Wall], but on a massive scale.”

“Ah!” Ishibo smiled, proud, as he said, “The sphere is more complicated than a manacycler, but some of the principles are the same. The main thing here is in how the Shield collects magic, not mana. It’s like that question you posed about extending the duration of a spell. It’s nearly impossible to work with other people’s mana that they’ve already injected into their magic, but it is very possible to work with the magic that people start off in harmony, in order to make that harmony rise to a level far above the original magic. You can achieve the same thing with a City Shield that you can with a hundred casters all cooperatively casting at the same time, but that is another near impossibility. So we’ve circumvented the issue by having a machine that takes in magic, keeps it in potentiality instead of active, and then harmonizes it all into one framework, which then outputs the magic that you would have had if you had a concert of a hundred casters going all at once.”

Erick smiled a little.

Keeping magic as ‘potentiality’ instead of as active? Brilliant sidestep to the issue of gathered mana! Also, maybe he needed to ask Kaffi about cooperative casting lessons.

And!

Could he cooperative cast with Ophiel? Everyone had said ‘no’, but why not? He hadn’t even tried. Now seemed like a good time to try.

But that led to another question:

Why did Ophiel have his own mana?

Since the mana Erick had was a part of the hole in his soul… did Ophiel have a hole in his soul, too? Erick glanced over at his [Familiar]. According to [Soul Sight], there was a whiteness inside of the little guy that was barely denser than it was last week, and about a thousand times thinner than a normal person’s soul.

Well… A person’s mana pool was inside of them, but it wasn’t really inside of them; it was a part of their soul, and there were probably a lot of implications, there, when it came to why Ophiel had his own mana pool.

Eh.

That line of thinking was not profitable right now. Erick set aside his questions about Ophiel’s ability to have mana of his own.

Erick looked to Ishibo. “It seems like you could use any specifically attuned mana to make this City Shield work.” He asked, “Could you use atmospheric mana to power the Shield?”

Ishibo said, “I don’t know how to make atmospheric mana do anything. That stuff is practically useless.”

“… Why not? Because it’s already clouded with too much intent?”

“Exactly.”

“So why not [Cleanse] it first?”

“Well…” Ishibo backtracked, “You want the intent. But just a specific kind; the kind you’re using. The random amalgamation of atmospheric mana is too random to get anything done. [Cleanse] will reset atmospheric mana to balance and make all resulting spellwork in such a space act normally.” He added, “And even that is such a minor balancing that it’s not really necessary, unless you’re dealing with a really dirty space, in which case the balancing will have more than a minor effect.”

“How about running atmospheric mana through a tube of antirhine, first? And then you run that empty mana through some sort of filter to add in the necessary intent. It seems like the usual ‘filter’ for this sort of addition is people, and their souls, but what if you just had [Force Wall] spellwork act as the filter instead.” Erick chanced, “Or! How about you ignore all of that, and use atmospheric mana, but with a [Drain Ward] that sucks up only the [Force Wall]-aligned mana in the air?”

For the first time, Ishibo did not answer immediately. He paused in thought, then he said, “Filtering through a curtain of Extreme Light would be less dangerous to the workings of the item. More room for error, anyway.”

“… Okay. That’s a good idea, too.”

Ishibo smirked and chuckled, happy for the praise, then he said, “But you can’t trap mana inside a cage of Extreme Light.”

