[Gate] was still far off, too, but once he got that, he could hand that spell over to Yggdrasil, and then Yggdrasil could connect separate safe spaces together.

As for something that was closer to here and now, [Teleport Lock] seemed a lot more necessary now than it seemed months ago, back when Erick was trying to figure out how to lock down a Shade from escaping from combat, and also how to negate the Lock that every Shade had, in order to escape from a Shade if necessary.

So many ideas!

And quite a lot of time to do them all, too.

Not too much time, though.

He’d need to solve a majority of these problems sooner rather than later, because Candlepoint would need them. Now there was a city of problems that were unmatched in the entire rest of the world. With the Shades gone, it was only a matter of time till someone got the fool idea to attack that place. Luckily, Candlepoint was doing fine, for now, according to the messages Poi was getting. It was getting built up, and envoys came into the city all the time now, but still no traders. Candlepoint was self-sufficient, though. Soon, it would be producing excess. People were actually wearing real clothes now, too, instead of whatever scraps they could find! The fish in the lake were growing up, and spawning. The land was turning lush with life and the future looked good!

Life was looking up!

It was only a matter of time before someone wanted what Candlepoint had, and they decided violence was the best way to do it.

By the time Erick got to bed, he had gotten rather far with his ideas of city protection, but he had not solved anything at all. Tomorrow, though! Tomorrow, he could solve some future problems.

- - - -

The alchemists of Star Song did not show; apparently they were in the middle of making great strides with chelation, and they could not leave the potion house.

Erick got the distinct impression that he would need to seek them out himself, if he wanted to see how they, and Tadashi, were doing.

Maybe tomorrow… or the day after.

- - - -

The sun peeked up above the eastern horizon, while the clan mountains of Holorulo were surrounded by an ocean of fog that had drifted in from the Wanzhi River, hiding much of the ceremonial land below and making the clan cities seem like giant ships at sea. It was a good view. Erick enjoyed the sights, as he ate a simple breakfast of cinnamon rolls and fresh coffee on the open third floor of his temporary housing, listening to birds caw and chirp in the cultivated forests nearby, and then listening to Ophiel as the [Familiar] mimicked the birds.

He was glad for the coffee. He had found some people growing the trees when he had rained over in Alaralti, so it was a simple matter to get some proper coffee from those growers. It was a fine blend, too, as the people there were tenth generation Classed Farmers; a small branch family under High Clan Severing Crescent. They had altered Erick’s initial plant into something slightly less bitter, with hints of vanilla. There would likely be lots of similar coffee varieties in several decades and lots more people drinking the stuff, for coffee was great for waking up; tea simply couldn’t compare.

Erick glanced downstairs with his mana sense.

Poi was in the kitchen —which was set up for a Cook, no doubt!— getting himself some of the cinnamon rolls that Erick had made; he’d be up here soon enough. Jane and Teressa were both still asleep in their own beds. Teressa seemed to be doing alright. Jane was doing fine, too. She was still working under Patriarch Mirizo Star Song in order to fulfill her end of the bargains Erick had made between her and them, but she would be sleeping in the same house as Erick, every night, which was great. The deployments to the Underworld had been canceled, too. With all the restructuring required due to the recent war and the loss of personnel, Jane had even agreed to monster hunting duty above and beyond their bargain.

Killing monsters was a big responsibility of the clans of Songli. It was a big responsibility of anyone who donned the mantle of political power, here in Nelboor, or anywhere else, actually.

But keeping people safe from other people was another matter entirely.

Erick had started breakfast with two cinnamon rolls, but he had only gotten through one and a half when the need to create overtook him. He stood up, then walked to the edge of the third floor, to look down upon the land beyond his rooms, beyond the edge of the clan mountain, where fog hid everything.

He had once heard Archmage Opal, of Spur, say that she had been working to make [Teleport Lock] for the longest time but had never quite gotten there. Even so, surely she must have had some marginal successes over the years.

A marginal success would be fine, for now.

Erick channeled mana though his hand, listening to the sound of [Teleport]. It was the sound of a journey, and of another place and time. Of other roads taken instead of the one currently underfoot.

In his other hand, he channeled the mana of Destruction, and heard the end of all things.

With a twist of thought, Erick combined the two, into something less, and yet more. It was the sound of stability and solid choice. A destruction of other paths. The finality of here and now.

The addition of [Ward] was a natural addition to the other two magics; to denote a space for the effect.

A trio of Ophiel sang alongside him, feeding into the music with their own, strengthening the whole into a cohesive harmony.

In this new space, fate would follow as fate demanded. Reality would not be subverted by the casual blipping of those who could. Specific subjectivity collapsed. Stability reigned for as long as Erick would allow it, with the initial restrictions of the spell going far beyond simple [Teleport], touching all aspects of Spatial Magic.

Erick smiled as he cast into the air before him.

A white shimmer blossomed five hundred meters away into a sphere, then suddenly expanded to brush against the railing in front of Erick. A kilometer wide spell! Erick had been hoping, but to see it actually work filled him with joy.

He had inundated a small part of the world with stable static, which then vanished like disappearing fog. But the sphere of denial was still there. Erick stuck his hand forward, into the spell effect, and felt the solidity of the magic holding his form in one place, and no other.

It was a bit itchy, actually.

Ah.

It felt like the [Teleport Lock] he had experience back in Last Shadow’s Feast.

A blue box appeared.

Spatial Denial, instant, super long range, 500 mana

Limit the capabilities of all spatial magic in a super large area. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick smiled. Oh, how far he had come! Last year, he had no clue how to do what he had just done, but this year? He had grown a lot, and this latest spell proved it. He was happy for what he had managed to do, yes, but also conflicted.

Why did everyone say that [Teleport Lock] was difficult?

… Hmm.

At a thought, an Ophiel flew inside the effect. With another thought, Ophiel tried to [Teleport] exactly one hundred meters through the space. Ophiel blipped white—

And appeared three meters forward.

Hmm.

Not a perfect Lock, then.

Okay. So maybe, for a moment, Erick was full of himself.

He was allowed to be a little full of himself sometimes! He had earned that. But still… Yeah.

“This is not [Teleport Lock], either,” Erick mumbled to himself.

Having come up with his breakfast in hand, Poi spoke up from the table behind Erick, “Try having Ophiel blip into the space from outside.”

Erick silently nodded, then did exactly that. Ophiel lightstepped a good four hundred kilometers away, and then attempted to [Teleport] into the exact center of the [Spatial Denial].

Ophiel came back into existence about a meter into the edge of the effect. He was nowhere near his true destination.

Erick’s eyebrows went up. “Oh! It’s not perfect! But it works against people entering the space!”

Poi smiled as he bit into his cinnamon roll.

Erick ran a few more experiments with his new [Spatial Denial], and discovered that moving around inside the space was possible, but almost every Spatial spell he had was suppressed to near-uselessness. [Blink] got Ophiel a half-meter forward. [Teleport] gave at most five meters, and that was pushing it. [Teleport Other] was similarly denied… Which was something Erick would just have to live with. This was a good spell. Not perfect! But good enough.

Good enough to prove a theory true; that he could cast denials targeting whole schools of magic.

These denials would be necessary to provide safety in defended locations. Erick could likely create the same ‘Denial Magic’ for all the schools of magic out there. [Stoneshape] suppression would be big, in order to keep people from tearing down structures with people inside of them.

And then he could link those spells to a [Draining Renew] or a [Draining Renew Elemental], to keep those spells active over a population, preventing the worst sort of attacks that were possible under the Script.

But there were more spells to make than the most obvious ones. The results of one such spell were directly underfoot.

Devouring Nightmare’s clan mountain was made of the same tree-like, stone-like, super lightweight material that was present in every single stronghold of Songli. Whatever it was, it was immune to [Stoneshape] by virtue of not being stone, and that was wonderful. It was probably some sort of specialty [Treeshape], or something. It probably wasn’t nanotubes though, or other carbon-based ‘stone’, how Erick initially thought it might be, for if it was, then it would have burned up when exposed to fire. And worse: small chips of the stuff would break down into asbestos-like health hazards. The Health provided by the Script might protect most people from such hazards, but Erick didn’t want to contribute to any potential problem.

Plus, if these mountains were a nanotube-situation, then that would mean some people inside Songli knew enough about the particle physics of carbon in order to make a spell out of it, and that seemed too far-fetched.

He likely could ask around, and someone would tell him how the mountains were made.

… Now that he thought about it, before he went and made a spell that would cost him a week of downtime should it prove incorrectly made, he should probably ask around about clan mountain creation. It might be a variant of [City Shape], which required nothing more than a dozen spare points, and then that final leap into odder materials. Perhaps into a [Metaltree City Shape] or [Stonetree City Shape] of some sort.

Anywho.

He could make a [Stoneshape Denial] spell, exactly how he made his [Spatial Denial], and replicate some more of the Void Song’s capabilities, but on his own terms.

Erick smiled as he remembered back when he first tried to make denial spells in order to make the world safer. He went too far, too fast, and the mana helped him to make [Zone of Peace] while the Script almost killed him in return. He had come a long way from that time in his life, though.

He held out a hand and channeled mana through [Stoneshape]. It was the sound of solidity and strength, except under his control, or anyone who cast such a spell. It was stability put to use in odd ways.

Combined with the sounds of Destruction, Erick edited out everything except for the stability, creating a pure sound of a settled land, unmoving. Sleeping, perhaps. Unable to be roused to anyone’s needs. [Ward] helped to designate the space of the effect, as it always did. Ophiel helped with choral song.

And it sounded stronger than the music that came from [Spatial Denial].

Erick cast.

The sky before Erick blossomed with white light, then faded into nothing. Not even static. The effect was there, but it was tiny, and there was no stone in the space to be affected, anyway.

A blue box appeared.

Unmoving Stone, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the land to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Erick smiled. He would need to do some experimenting with that one. This could be the perfect spell to use against assassins with [Stone Body], too. Maybe. Some testing would be required. Erick canceled the spell, and the faint white glow in the air faded back into the mana.

He moved far down the list, to the denial of Light, so he could test the spell out against his own lightform. Theoretically, his own Domain could serve the same function, but he couldn’t go putting up his Domain everywhere he wanted, all willy nilly. Someone could learn how to poke at it and take it down, no doubt; no, his Domain was to be used only when he needed to pull out some big magic, or big defense.

These denial spells would be like half-domains, where no one was allowed to cast certain spells.

Thirty seconds later, after listening to the magic of light, another spell blossomed to fill the sky and then faded into the background. Another blue box appeared.

Unmoving Light, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the light to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Erick had Ophiel turn to light, and then step into the sp—

Ophiel struck the side of the spell effect like both he and the spell were made of gelatin, instantly eliciting a squawk from the little guy. Unhappy flutes filled the air as Ophiel extricated himself from the space like pulling himself from quicksand. When he was finally free, he slapped the spell effect with his wings, causing the light to ripple under the small effect.

Erick cast a [Luminous Beam] into the space, cutting through the spell like it was nothing, disturbing the spellwork with its radiation. [Unmoving Light] burst into so many motes of light that drifted away on the breeze, to vanish back into the flow of mana crossing the sky.

