… Erick recast [Unmoving Light], and played around with smaller spells. A few [Lightballs] exploded like fireballs against the edge, but did not reach the interior. Ophiel flew inside under normal [Airshape] means, then tried casting a few of Erick’s other light-based spells. [Shooting Star] conjured a tiny dot of light that drifted through the air like a dandelion seed. [Broken Light] spat tiny glints of light forward, crossing centimeters, instead of meters. [Luminous Beam] cast from inside the space broke the spell again; [Luminous Beam] was unimpeded in all ways, it seemed.

With [Lodestar] active, and inside the space, all of Ophiel’s spellwork returned to normal. Not supercharged, though. Just normal. Domains could get around this sort of spellwork, but not fully.

… And then Erick had Ophiel flex his sunform, breaking the [Unmoving Light] with a flick of power.

So it looked like these spells had nothing on Domains. Good to know.

They were still good spells.

Erick moved on.

Soon, he had the full suite of ‘Unmoving’ spells.

Unmoving Shadow, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the shadow to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Unmoving Water, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the water to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Unmoving Fire, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the fire to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Unmoving Air, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the air to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

By the time he finished the last one, people from other nearby pagodas were watching the show. A pair of old women watched from a balcony while they enjoyed their own breakfast. A trio of young male nobles watched from higher up that particular pagoda. Others watched from behind curtains, trying to be circumspect about it.

Teressa had joined Poi on the roof, behind Erick, also watching.

Poi spoke up, “Do you want to go talk to the people you Blessed, and ask them questions? The warden of that place asked about twenty minutes ago, but you were working. Also, later today they’re going to question Raidu if you wish to be present.”

Erick frowned, the weight of the world once again crashing down on his shoulders. He said, “I suppose… Let’s go do that. And then we’re not doing anything important for a week. At least.”

Teressa smiled. “Sounds good to me.”

Erick added, “Thanks for waiting till I was at a good stopping point, Poi.”

Poi had ruined the mood, as he likely knew he would, but stuff still needed to get done even when Erick felt like he was already at a breaking point.

Poi said, “You can make them wait on you. All you have to do is tell them that they have to delay their own time tables to better fit your schedule.”

Teressa glanced from Poi to Erick, asking, “Was that even a question? Of course you can make them wait on you, Boss.”

Erick frowned again, feeling uncomfortable with that. Erick supposed he ranked a bit higher than some warden somewhere. It was odd to think like that, but… Yeah. They were right.

And yet, Erick wasn’t willing to do that. After this, though… After this, it was time for a break. This Worldly Path was supposed to be a vacation!

- - - -

The commune for the Blessed was much better than the one the orcols had made near Treehome.

A clan mountain of High Clan Severing Crescent loomed in the distance, looking like a proper mountain in the middle of perfectly flat farmland. All around that large mountain were farms, and people tending to those farms. Rice paddies, wheat fields, orchards, and the like.

But over here, in the middle of some rice paddies and fishing ponds, the commune was made out of the same stuff as the clan mountains, and it was shaped like a clan mountain, but it was more like a clan hill. At barely fifty meters tall, with only a few house-like structures scattered across the forested surface, this place looked like a summer home for some noble family. Someone had put up a Solid Ward around the place. Maybe it was from a City Shield? Just to keep people out of the place? But what about Spatial Magic? It seemed like there was none active, but maybe they just had runes in the walls inside.

They probably had runes in the walls inside. Anti-[Teleport] runes seemed like a pain in the ass; Erick’s own spellwork wasn’t perfect, but it was better than runes in the walls.

An important man greeted them at the gate, saying, “Welcome to the Paddy House, Archmage Flatt. I’m the manager, Olariz Severing Crescent.”

Erick replied, “Thanks for having me. Now let’s get a look around, shall we?”

Olariz hopped to it, leading them down the walkway toward the Paddy House, toward the main doors, speaking all the way. This place was apparently a guest house for problematic individuals, under the oversight of Severing Crescent. The main defenses were the shield, cast by him, the manager, as well as many runes layered throughout the location to block off most magic. But the ‘guests’ were tattooed anyway; the runes were just there to prevent their casual extraction by other parties.

Erick approved that Olariz cast the Solid Ward shield himself.

Olariz led them past the check-in station, and up a small path to the front doors of the guest house. Soldiers in white manned those doors, but inside, there were no soldiers on duty.

Erick could see through the entire place with his mana sense, and he saw all the people he had Blessed, as well as the people overseeing the Blessed. All of the former assassins and elites of Terror Peaks had tattoos swirling around their bodies, like chains of void, constantly pulling out their Mana and their Health. Other than that, they all looked healthy. No one was locked in a cage, either.

This was a lot better treatment than Erick had expected.

Everyone walked wherever they wanted, and more or less acted like they were guests, and not prisoners.

Some ‘guests’ were cooking in the kitchen, in teams. Others were talking in small groups with each other here and there. Some were alone, and gently weeping. Everywhere, there were workers in white, some seeing to the needs of the people with [Cleanse]s or other small spellworks, or simply standing guard in conspicuous places. Erick spotted Beniza Wounder, the assassin who had been wrapped around the soul spear in [Air Body] to hide in the mana of that heavily enchanted item. Beniza was currently working on a loom, hand-making some sort of fabric. Not a single guest was on the first floor, though.

This place down here seemed only for the servants and otherwise.

Olariz explained, “In addition to the Solid Wards around the guest house to keep our guests safe, we have security measures in place to keep them off of certain floors. This first floor is the only one that is completely off limits, though, since it’s servants quarters. All servant hallways are off limits to them. Thankfully, they’re rather unlike our usual guests. They’re calm and sad, most of them, but they’re not violent, which is a miracle considering how we acquired them.”

Olariz seemed like a decent guy, he even seemed sincere when he called these prisoners ‘guests’. Erick listened to him speak of the workings of the guest house, and how every one of the guests had been questioned already. If Erick wished to read those transcripts, he had but to ask.

Erick turned to the man, and said, “Actually. That sounds like a good idea. I want to read them all.”

Olariz nodded, then walked a different direction, saying, “Right this way, then.”

The manager led Erick to a medium-sized tea room with the walls made of cubbies, each of them labeled with the name of a guest, and each filled with folders of papers. They had space for a hundred guests, but only 45 of them were currently in use.

Olariz asked, “Is there anyone you wish to know about in particular? I can help narrow down your search.”

Erick rattled off, “Beniza Wounder, and two others that you think exemplify the problem of Terror Peaks, and two that you feel could be released without trouble, and without the restraining tattoos.”

Olariz kept a professional facade up and active, but inside, he had some turmoil.

Erick added, “I’d like your opinion on release. That was the idea behind the creation of the Blessing of Empathy; to allow people to repent for their sins, doing as much good as they could to try and flip the scales of justice back into positive karma.”

Olariz’s turmoil vanished; replaced by awe, and a little bit of envy, and terror. He kept all of that perfectly hidden behind a mask of propriety, but Erick saw most of all of it. Olariz took a moment to gather his thoughts, and Erick let him.

Olariz said, “I feel that your Blessing does what you intended, however, the idea of repentance, when held in the minds of certain people, will result in unexpected outcomes, some of which might be undesirable if they are released at this moment.” He went to the shelves and plucked out a folder to set it on the table in the center of the room. “Beniza is as good of a study case of this as any of them. She blames her failures on the people who ordered her into committing heinous acts. She does not recognize that she is responsible for her own actions. I fear if she were let loose at this moment, she would find someone else’s will to enact, and then do whatever they said as long as they could make her believe that she was doing the right thing.”

Erick breathed out. “Ahh… That’s…”

That was a lot of things, for sure.

With a firm voice, Erick decided, “What I’m hearing is that Beniza needs a proper guiding hand. Will Songli give her that guiding hand? Or will I need to remove these people from your care?” Before the man could answer, Erick asked, “What are your qualifications for being in charge of this place?”

Olariz panicked for a brief moment, then a calm descended upon him. He stood straight, and said, “I am the seneschal of this paddy house, and have been for the last fifteen years. When I was young and foolish, I was on the path of destruction, but the guards of Alaralti caught me and gave me mercy. I was interred at a different paddy house for a year, under the same protocols that are still used in every single paddy house in Alaralti; draining tattoos, easy work, therapy, and calm spaces to live. Every day, I talked to people who helped me get over myself and get my mind on the right path, and afterward, I wished to help others get back on the right paths as well. Thus, I got my accreditation at the Main House, and was assigned this location. Every day, we help people recover from War Response. Every day, we help people deal with the trauma of blood and death, and any of a hundred different maladies of the mind. This is a place of healing, sir, and I have helped to make it such for a long time, so I do not appreciate being disparaged like this.”

Ah?

So it was like that?

Erick rapidly reevaluated everything that he had seen so far, and…

Okay.

Erick’s eyes went fractionally wider. He was more than a little stunned, for he had no idea that places like this existed. He felt a little foolish himself, for being so unwilling to see where his actions had placed these Blessed people, for fear that he had taken them out of the fires of war just to see them crushed under the heel of Songli.

It was Songli’s right to kill enemy soldiers, after all…

Wasn’t it?

No.

Wait.

Erick had a moment of surreal disconnect, and then the moment passed.

Enemy soldiers, once subdued, should not be murdered offhand. They were non-combatants at that point. Erick took a metaphorical step back from himself. He should have kept closer tabs with the people he Blessed. If he had, he wouldn’t have been blindsided like this.

… The real solution here was to rely more on others. Everything about Songli had told him that it was a decent place, for he had yet to see anyone murdered offhand by a noble, and he was beginning to suspect that that was state-sponsored propaganda to keep the commoners in line.

Erick came back to the conversation, and said, “I had believed that when you said ‘Paddy House’, you were referring to the name of the location. But what you meant was ‘paddy house’; an asylum. A place of healing for chronic mental illness.” He added, “Sorry about that. I was not aware these places existed on Veird, or here in Songli. I was always under the impression that the Mind Mages helped with this sort of thing, but no one else did anything.”

Now that he mana sensed the area again, and looked to the room he was in, he saw many hallmarks of this being an institution, rather than a ‘guest house’ of Severing Crescent. They likely used the term ‘guest house’ to make the place seem less… like it was.

The hallways were organized. The rooms were laid out in precise manners. The ‘servants corridors’ were locked, only to be opened by keys kept on the belts of the orderlies. They likely called them ‘servants’ instead of ‘orderlies’ in order to also make the place seem less sinister.

Olariz seemed taken aback by Erick’s apology. He said, “Well. Then. Thank you for the apology.” He brushed past that, and returned to the folders in front of Erick, saying, “Songli is prepared to give these people proper care, but some might not ever be fit to return to the world. Some of these people are heavily damaged. Some just sit in their rooms and won’t leave. Some won’t eat, and those people will be fine for a while, but eventually we’ll have to force feed them. We are doing what we can, but even we cannot provide miracles.”

“I understand. Thank you for your help with this. I hoped that by Blessing these people that they would become functional members of society, but I can see that was a far-off hope. It will take time.”

