Erick watched as the draining space began to fill with his own base mana, reaching the same density as the other Drain. Soon, it reached the same density as the atmospheric mana, and then, with equilibrium approaching, the drain on his mana was lessened. Erick theorized that [Draining Ward]s naturally ended when the drain was filled, because there was nowhere else for the mana to go.

And… Yup!

The [Draining Ward] popped when it saturated; the spell ending because there was nowhere else for Erick’s Mana to occupy. With the spell burst, the stolen mana just vanished, off into the air like so much spent spellpower.

Erick threw a [Cleanse] at his own, free floating mana. That white mist instantly turned to thick air and vanished into the manasphere. Huh.

Odd.

So there were a few things going on here.

Looking back on [Draining Void]:

Draining Void, instant, close range, 500 mana

Drain WIL Health and Mana per second from every target in a large area. Lasts 24 hours. Lasts longer based on resources drained.

That spell had Void in it, which allowed it to Void the Mana and Health inside, keeping drain highly active so that the spell would literally never reach equilibrium, which was the main killer for normal [Draining Ward]s.

[Draining Void] was using those resources in order to stabilize itself, for Erick had put in some of his Permanency-thoughts into that spell when he was making it, even if he didn’t realize he was doing that at the time. It was just best practices to include that particular spellwork into all his [Ward] stuff, after all.

So.

Erick had already made a Drain spell that supported itself, but he had made it in the heat of battle, so it was likely inferior to a properly made Drain. A properly made Drain seemed ripe for applying a true Permanency-type framework to the Drain.

So what was needed here were a few new spells. Maybe only two.

A Drain, but not with Void, that would collect mana, and also stabilize itself to Permanency, while also filling up a reservoir with mana that could then be used by other spells. Primary concern here would be ensuring that the Drain kept itself active above the needs of whatever spell came afterward. Two reservoirs, then? One for the Drain, another for everything else? Yeah, sure. Sounds fine.

And then there would be a whole new line of spells that used the mana gathered by the drain in order to support themselves to Permanency, along with all their personal spell effects.

The important parts here were getting the Drain physically (mana-cally?) right, which seemed easy enough. There probably needed to be some sort of [Cleanse] in there, to turn the gathered mana into balanced mana…

Oh yeah. That’s a good—

Or maybe not. Erick’s white mana from the popped [Draining Ward] had vanished into the manasphere when he did that.

But whatever the case about [Cleanse], there was still the problem of getting subsequent spellwork to use the drained mana.

Erick had never heard of anyone ever using ‘atmospheric mana’ to do anything. Everyone either used the mana that was in themselves, or in magical items…

Ah. But!

Elementals used atmospheric mana to come into existence! There was something there…

… But what was it…

Something… mmm…

Like.

It couldn’t be as simple as having a [Conjure Force Elemental] that supports itself off of the gathered mana, could it? A [Conjure Force Elemental] that casts the spell that it is charged with casting, using the mana that has been drained for it to use?

… Could that be it?

A [Draining Elemental]? Or something?

… Could he just make [Draining Elemental]s that were permanent living spells? [Draining Elemental, Anti-Teleport]? [Draining Elemental, Domain of Light]? [Draining Elemental, Call Lightning]? [Draining Elemental, Gate]?

[Draining Elemental Withering Slime].

Erick had a tiny gasp.

Like lightning crashing across the sky, or a wind howling in the distance, Erick felt he suddenly stood upon a distant shore, watching a storm on the horizon, only minutes away from crashing over him and turning his world to rain and turmoil.

He was onto something. He knew it.

He had to sit down and think, and so he did. He rapidly arrived at some questions he needed answered.

The zeroth question was did these spells violate the Propagation Ban? Maybe? Maybe not.

Moving away from that roadblock thought—

The first question was: How did the Class Abilities of Doctors allow them to make [Draining Ward]s painless, or unnoticeable? Maybe he only needed to see a Doctor’s [Draining Ward] in order to see what was happening there. Solving that issue was likely the work of a single telepathic message and a trip to whatever Doctor felt like humoring him.

The second question was: Is there a way to use atmospheric or gathered mana to cast spells? This City Shield had to use mana given to it by a person, didn’t it? Such a thing was not the same thing as the mana collected by a [Drain Ward] at all… Or was it? Answering this question would likely necessitate… Probably a single telepathic message to Elder Varo to point him in the direction of Eralis’ finest mages, or whatever expert they had in the field.

These City Shields were likely made by someone, or maybe even a group of someones, right? They weren’t just old artifacts they still used from a thousand years ago, or some shit like that, were they?

Oh! And here’s an odd thought: Could he just make a physical mana conduit system, like the manacyclers Tenebrae had shown them, to cast the spells he wanted cast?

… But that wasn’t the same thing as [Renew] at all; it was making enchanted objects again. But… After thinking on it for a minute, Erick decided that he probably could go this route, but then he’d have to figure out how to make the mana of other people flow through a space.

Probably doable?

If it was doable, someone else likely already did it.

But. Hmm.

Could it be as easy as having the [Draining Ward] flow the mana through the manacycler?

Would that work? It probably would.

But! That wouldn’t be [Renew]. It would be cobbling together a bunch of different systems to get the effect he wanted out of just one spell.

… Erick shoved a lot of those stray thoughts into ‘Plan B’.

And then he went back to literally poking his [Draining Ward], to see if his hypothesis as to what was happening continued to reflect what he was seeing.

Forty-nine [Draining Ward]s of various make later, Poi interrupted, saying, “Patriarch Hangzi and Young Master Warzi are arriving in a minute.”

Erick smiled wide—

And then he winced. Ah. Dammit. He had no treats for guests! Well… He had just moved in, right? They shouldn't expect him to have anything like that, would they? And besides! Hangzi should be bringing him a welcome gift.

… Which he was, actually.

- - - -

Erick opened the door and saw Hangzi standing there in brilliant white robes with black trim, with a gold half-cape over his right shoulder. Warzi was a miniature version of his older brother, but without the gold addition. Behind them were three guards in white and black, surrounding a hovering [Force Platform] that held what could only be the City Shield. The item was currently in a wooden crate about a meter square, with the item inside filling much of the box.

The only oddity in the small gathering was the third man, who wore white and black robes, but with the addition of a curling dragon and parting clouds upon his back, done in iridescent white embroidery; it was Rozeta. He had to be a mage of some sort, and though he was the picture of perfect professional restraint, Erick saw in the thrum of his heartbeat and in the casual wideness of his eyes as he looked up at Erick that this man was excited to be here.

This would have been a fine start to the meeting, but Erick suddenly felt under dressed again. He had no excuse, except that he didn’t like wearing his expensive stuff when he was making magic. Sure, [Mend] was a spell that existed, but Erick had an ingrained need to set aside his nice things when he knew he was going to make a mess.

Erick ignored that tiny train of thought and pulled back from the open door, saying, “Greetings. The foyer and the front rooms have no [Prismatic Ward] so you may move freely in these spaces. Come on in.”

Hangzi replied with a nod, and walked in, following Erick to a front room, where Teressa had already set out tea under a [Heat Ward], waiting for everyone to arrive and sit down. Warzi and the unknown mage followed, the crate floating behind the mage. Two of the guards stayed outside to stand to the left and right of the entrance, while the third followed into the room and took a stance in the corner, mirroring Poi’s own stance in the opposite corner.

Warzi had walked silently, but strongly, his head down but his mana sense obviously wide open; he twitched. Whatever he was reacting to was happening far outside of Erick’s own mana sense.

“Please sit,” Erick said, gesturing to the tea and the seats around the table, before sitting down hims—

“We cannot,” Hangzi said, “For Devouring Nightmare is on a tight schedule at the moment. Thank you for your hospitality but we will have to forgo your offering and accept it some other time.”

Erick did not fully sit down, so it was easy to straighten back up. “Perfectly understandable. Then—” Erick turned to the boy, and said, “I have a present for you, Warzi. First, you can read what it does.” He handed over the blue box for [Delirium Charm]; both to Warzi, and Hangzi. The mage at Hangzi’s side probably had a mana sense, too, for as he read the spell’s box without being anywhere near it, his pulse beat fast.

Warzi’s and Hangzi’s hearts beat hard as they read the spell.

Without waiting for permission, Erick cast the spell, coalescing a drop of white light into his hand, saying, “I wasn’t able to make it Permanent, but I was able to make it last ten days. With any luck, another one of my great spellwork goals will solve this Permanency problem, but I fear I am a ways away from that goal.”

At this, the unknown mage could not contain himself anymore. “Perma—!” He asked, “What sp—” He cut himself off twice in quick succession, his lips pulling between his teeth to keep his mouth shut, fully aware that he was out of line.

Hangzi didn’t even flinch at the guy’s outburst; he must know the man well. Like, obviously he knew the man well, or else he wouldn’t have brought him here. But this guy was able to get away with breaches of protocol without anyone batting an eye, and that meant something.

Erick smirked at the new guy, then held out the charm to Warzi, bending down a little to get closer to the kid’s level. Warzi looked upon the orb in Erick’s hand like it was the most delicious candy that he ever wanted. He almost took it, but he stopped himself at the last moment.

Hangzi watched, silent, but when his brother didn’t take the offered charm, he asked, “What’s stopping you, Warzi?”

Warzi suddenly got over his hesitation and grabbed the bauble, holding it in his hand like he never wanted to let go. And then he flinched at some outside force, and held the charm tighter. He frowned.

Before he could start crying, Erick said, “Try holding it against your wrist.”

Erick summoned another one, and showed him. The charm wrapped gossamer threads around his wrist, and expanded out its mana sense blocking sphere. Suddenly, everything past three meters was invisible.

Warzi breathed out in sudden, blinding relief—

And then Erick removed the charm from his wrist, canceling the spell at the same time. As the charm turned to glittering mana that vanished back into the atmosphere, the mana sense blockage vanished.

Warzi’s eyes went wide again, distraught, and that was enough of an impetus to get him to activate the charm properly. Once set against his own wrist, the pearl sent out threads and wrapped solidly around the little boy’s wrist. The mana sense blockage came back, and Warzi smiled, relaxing.

Erick let the moment linger for a little while longer, before saying, “If you need the size of the sphere adjusted, I could do that with some minor Shaping at the next casting. Let me know how this works out for you, okay?”

Warzi looked up at Erick, and nodded, silently. A few small tears of happiness escaped from his eyes, but he quickly brushed them away and stepped back to stand by his brother. He was such a proper little kid. At his age, he should be running around and playing, or at least speaking up when spoken to. Maybe he could open up now that his world had been closed off a little.

Hangzi smiled a little to see his brother so happy. Then he turned to Erick, and discarded that obvious emotion. “Devouring Nightmare thanks you for your service. Let it be known that there are approximately thirty other young children in Songli also afflicted with a wandering soul. Seeing this success here, Devouring Nightmare wants to know if you would be amenable to helping those children, as well.”

Erick happily said, “Of course I can do that! Just tell me where, and I can show up and hand out some charms.”

Hangzi said, “Then I will have Elder Varo contact you about these arrangements. For now, let us move on.” He turned to his mage accompaniment, and said, “This is Mage Ishibo. He is one of our crafters of City Shields. He is here to answer all of your questions about this City Shield, and to show you how this one works. It would be easy to get you unenchanted City Shields if you wish to see one before they’re enchanted, but please do not break this fully enchanted one and expect us to hand you another. Mage Ishibo can likely repair this one if you don’t break it too badly, so please keep that in mind.”

So introduced, Ishibo bowed past parallel to the ground, saying, “Sir!” Then he rose, and waited.

