In that moment, Olariz saw something in Erick that he felt the need to crush, and so he said, “In my humble opinion, your Blessing is divinity itself. Every single one of these people planned to die in war fighting enemies that only existed in their minds. And now they aren’t going to die in that war. Now they want to help others instead of killing them. This [Blessing of Empathy] is a holy spell and it should be employed more, in more wars the world over.”

While Erick was suddenly reeling from that—

Olariz continued, “Sure, there are problems right now. But problems can be worked through when murder is no longer an option, and you have taken away that option from them. Some of our guests are calling it a Curse, and trying to figure out how to get rid of it, but in time, I know they will all see it for the Blessing it truly is. So while our guests cannot say these words right now, I know they will want to say them to you later, so I will say them in their stead: thank you for Blessing them, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick felt a well of uncomfortable emotions; a distant hope, perhaps.

“Ah…” Erick glanced away, then said, “Thanks for picking up the battle where I left off.”

Olariz nodded, resolutely, then said, “Then I will leave you with their paperwork. If you wish to speak to any of them, let a guard know and the person can be escorted to you. I have one such guard stationed outside of the room for your use. I ask you not to show up in front of the guests themselves, though, for some of them are truly having trouble coming to terms with their new life.”

Erick nodded.

Olariz pointed out a few cubbies of people who matched what Erick had asked to see; people ready to move on soon, and people who were truly problem cases. And then he left.

Erick started reading.

An hour later, he had gone through every single case file.

What he read was story after story of people at war with themselves, and their pasts.

He knew how he would have helped these people back on Earth. Mostly, he would have handed them off to other social workers who specialized in cases with post traumatic stress disorder. But he knew the broader strokes. And this paddy house was doing all of them.

Talks with therapists. Talks in groups. Minor chores to keep the body busy. Exercise. Meditation. Medication with various alchemical compounds, including blue weed and pills with names like ‘Restful Blue Days’ and ‘Tranquil Pond’. They even had Mind Mages coming in every day in the afternoon, to talk to whoever felt like talking, and apparently a lot of people felt like talking; there were signup sheets because there were so many volunteers.

Erick’s heart went out to these people, for they were trying. They had been here for ten days already, some only for nine, so the initial disaster of a changed life was already starting to pass for some people.

All because of his Blessing.

He felt a strange sort of validation. A joy in the pit of his stomach. Half of that feeling was due to his own actions, but the other half was the fact that these people were in good hands.

Of course, they had been questioned over their involvements in the war, and those parts were also in their paperwork. There was no such thing as psychiatrist-patient confidentiality, here. Erick had no doubt that these papers were copied and sent off to any Clan who asked after them.

From what Erick read, all of these people were goaded into war, doing exactly what they did all the time, which was follow the adamant will of Patriarch Xangu and Scion Raidu and all the rest of their Elders. They were all soldiers. They were little more than pawns.

Elite pawns, sure. Assassins, soloists like Jane, spearheads of the campaign one and all, but still pawns.

Erick put the folders back into their proper locations in the shelves. He knew that these people were in good hands, for every single base report had a front page with an overview of the person in question, and every one of those had a section for a target release date. Many of those sections were empty, but some of them were at 1 month, or 2 months, or one year. Some of these people were eventually going to be released. Maybe most of them.

Honestly, Erick should have expected that.

Songli didn’t kill captured soldiers.

The Antirhine Elixir had been the usual solution to the problem of captured enemy combatants, but now there was another. And if these reports were to be believed, then a lot of the therapists and guardians writing these reports truly approved of the Blessing as an alternative to the Elixir.

Erick wanted to congratulate Olariz on his way out, but the man was currently talking to some former Terror Peaks soldiers upstairs, and he didn’t want to disturb the man; that conversation looked intense. So Erick just told the guard on his way out that he approved of what was happening here, and that he would be checking in occasionally, if they didn’t mind.

The guard, of course, went dead silent as he stared at Erick, then rapidly acknowledged that he was being talked to by an archmage, and that he would relay Erick’s message right away!

Erick let the guard go do that, as he looked to Teressa and Poi, saying, “Now to talk to Raidu.”

With a wrap of light, Erick stepped the three of them to the next destination.

- - - -

The Palace of the Eternal Court.

That was the name of the building in front of Erick right now. He had seen the place as he lightstepped in, and every so often when he sent Ophiel flitting by, but none of those experiences compared to standing there on the steps of the palace.

In overall shape, the building was like the Courthouse of Spur, or the Capitol Building of Washington DC, but hundreds of meters tall and a kilometer wide and with a staircase of a hundred steps leading up to the front doors, with both stairs and doors much, much larger than they needed to be. The whole place was a work of columns and sloped gold roofs and tall, tall windows, built to withstand hurricanes and quakes.

Everything inside the Royal City was much, much larger than it had to be.

This was one of the few ‘public’ buildings in the capital city, and as such there were people of all walks of life walking up and down the court stairwell, right alongside Erick. Just like them, he and his people had come up to this place from the Teleport Square to the south of the Palace of the Eternal Court.

Erick suspected that the placement of the Teleport Square and the grandeur of the sight ahead of him, was intentional. Walking in from the east or the west would not be nearly as impressive.

Well. Like. Duh.

People built structures to be impressive when they wanted them to be impressive, Erick.

Erick smiled, adjusted his good robes a little, and then kept right on walking up the staircase, toward the doors that everyone was filling through.

Ari stepped out from a side door, behind a column, right as Erick reached the top. She wore a plain white dress, and was flanked by two stern-looking women in white. Right away, Erick saw a problem. It was nothing specific, but it was a lot of little things. The look in Ari’s violet eyes. The stance of her ‘guards’. The way she wore a rather innocuous golden necklace that was enchanted in some way, and that a few other people in the crowd instantly recognized the necklace and thus turned deferential or scared, but tried not to show it.

Ari saw that he saw her problem, but she did not seem to want to speak on her own problems, as she shook her head a little. Her guards didn’t seem to notice Ari’s obvious breach of protocol, or whatever it was; they, like a lot of people in the immediate area, were completely focused on Teressa, towering above everyone at three meters tall. It wasn’t every day you saw an orcol in Holorulo.

Ari spoke up, “Welcome to The Palace of the Eternal Court, Archmage Flatt. Please follow me.”

At her words, her guards locked eyes with Erick, returning to their proper duties, whatever those were.

And now the moving crowd was looking at him, too.

Apparently, archmages ranked above orcols!

Erick left the suddenly-silent and staring crowd behind as he followed Ari and her guards through a separate door, set to the far left of the main entrance.
