Chapter 170

Matt sat with Liz as they waited for their table at the restaurant with anticipation. This was quite literally their first break in the last three years, and they were savoring every moment of it.

They only got the break because April and Kurt both vetoed Luna's suggestion of last-minute training as they were approaching Minkalla proper. Apparently, the view on approach was unparalleled in all the realm, and missing it was a sin. Luna herself didn’t even fight it too much, and agreed to cut them loose.

Minkalla, unlike most worlds, didn’t allow people to teleport into it directly, and forced people to fly in through chaotic space. Thanks to something thought to be tied to the planet’s cycles, Minkalla sucked in all free mana and essence from the entire star system, making it impossible to build the kind of infrastructure that teleportation nodes required. The only exception was at distant space stations, like the one they’d come from which need a ship to bring people in instead of the normal planet to planet teleportation.

When they passed through some invisible point, Matt got firsthand experience with the phenomenon. It was like they had traveled through a wall that had been built. At one moment everything was normal, and at the next, there was quite literally no ambient mana at all. When he tested it, and released some mana into the air, it vanished seemingly into nothing, sucked away faster than Matt’s peak Tier 11 brain could process. Essence would probably yield the same result, but he couldn't test that, so he had to take Kurt’s demonstration on it. His manager’s second in command demonstrated an exposed essence stone being drained nearly instantly, with the contents being aggressively pulled towards the massive planet.

Apparently, the essence couldn’t be contained as well as mana could, which was the only reason that mana powered technologies still worked in Minkalla’s influence at all.

Ominously, he had written that, “Minkalla is hungry and greedy,” before silently laughing.

Still, it allowed for what was called a once in a lifetime view, and if it was enough for Luna to allow them to skip out on an evening of training, he wouldn’t dare miss it.

Aster hadn’t waited, and immediately went to the beast-only deck of the luxury ship to find some bonds to play with.

She called over her shoulder that she loved them, but needed some time alone as well, especially after their last three years of being within arms reach of each other.

That left him and Liz free to purchase the ludicrously expensive fine-dining experience for twenty Tier 16 mana stones. It was expensive, but they had been delving so far up, and so often, they didn’t even feel the cost. Once they started delving Tier 15 rifts, they had the chance to get Tier 20 skills, and despite how rare of a reward they were, they had delved enough to get lucky a few times. Their only limiting factor was their own Tier, and the difference between their own and Tier 20 skills, which put a massive burden on their spirits to use them.

They were eager to enjoy some luxury after their years of constant delving, and they both primped and preened beforehand to look their best. They had ‘masks’ in the form of a bracelet that obscured their appearance for all but themselves, which was just fine for them. They only cared about looking their best for each other.

And Liz looked as fine as ever. She was wearing what she referred to as a ‘Torch’ outfit, preferring the aesthetic that came with being a fire mage over the patterns and colors that she’d normally wear as a blood mage. Still, the Tier 12 fabric shimmered in oranges and reds, almost as if the garment was made of actual fire, as she walked. Her hair was let down for the first time in quite a while, and it spilled down her back like its own river of faux flames. She was still wearing her most critical items, of course. On her right hand, an engraved silver and copper-colored storage ring shone like so many diamonds, while her left hand bore a plain, fingerless black glove and a freshly polished but otherwise featureless silver ring.

Matt had the silver ring’s twin on his own hand, next to a golden ring embedded with countless tiny mana stone shards gleaming with every color of the rainbow. On his other hand he had two paired, obsidian rings which held their portable house and spatial ring that his rewards from the tournament had come in. The rest of his outfit was primarily based around that color scheme, with a silver, sleeveless, tunic-like shirt over black pants, and a golden band on each arm. His hair had been cut for the first time in three years, turning it from a blond rat’s nest back into a shortly-cropped and clean hairstyle.

When they were led into the dining room by an impeccably dressed waiter, they saw a massive wall of glass that spanned fifty feet high, and stretched on for what seemed like a mile along the horizon.

Matt whistled as it came into view. His spiritual sense said it was between Tier 20 and Tier 30 glass- a quick check on his AI confirmed that the ship was made of Tier 25 materials- and around ten feet thick. He was glad of it, because any rogue asteroid wouldn’t result in them struggling to breathe in a vacuum during their dinner.

At Tier 11, it wouldn't kill them for at least a few hours, but it wasn’t something he wanted to deal with.

As their waiter sat them down, they nodded to the other indistinct couples, who were also quickly seated in rapid succession. The restaurant was supposed to time their visual arrival to Minkalla to right after dessert was finished, after all.

Looking at the tabletop, Matt inspected the vase of flowers that had been placed there, and noticed that they were actually made from metal. Notably copper, bronze, and aluminum, with each petal polished to a sleek shine.

Liz noticed he was observing the flowers and asked, “What’s so special about them?”

Matt pointed at the arrangement and said, “Each metal flower has obvious imperfections and scratches” He pointed them out and traced the lines as he talked. “Except, each has to be deliberate. They are perfect in their imperfection. Look here. Instead of clean welds where the connected metal should be indistinguishable on the join, there are small beads of metal that formed when the weld was created. That seems like a mistake, but when you look closer, you see each bead is exactly the same size and shape. It’s like a master artisan was trying to recreate the work of an amateur. The little bits of steam that seem to be coming out of them isn’t uniform, but they’re also perfectly placed to show off the flower's beauty.”

It made for a unique aesthetic he had never seen before.

Liz nodded along. “It is pretty, I'll admit that. The inanimate made to look alive.”

As they watched the sun grow brighter amongst the starry backdrop of the distant star systems in a stunning display, they simply chatted. They had been together for decades, and the last three years had been brutal, even by their standards. But they had been together, which was what truly mattered. Even so, they always had something to talk about, and they continued to do so while admiring the view.

In a rush, the first course of their meal came out to everyone all at once, and the waiter explained the intricacies of the dish before leaving them to enjoy.

The meal was so good, Matt and Liz almost forgot about their final dessert until the ship announced, “Minkalla will be visible in twenty minutes.”

They were still a bit far out, but when they Tiered up to Tier 11, more information became available to them because of their higher status. Most of it was still locked away, and not freely accessible until Tier 13, but Luna had drilled basically everything there was to know about the planet into their heads. It got to the point that Matt had once even heard Liz muttering Minkalla’s exact diameter and mass in her sleep.

As their dessert came out, they were able to see a small dot that grew larger by the second.

Matt had only taken a few bites of the brownie confection when he started to be able to see it, and his jaw practically dropped. Sure, he knew the exact position, size, and appearance of each of the three hundred and sixty spires on Minkalla, but it was another thing to see them for himself.

Massive spires of bronze and copper towered above any height that the metals should have been able to support, let alone while moving massive cogs that were the size of most planets.

Even through the vacuum of space, he felt like he could hear the clicking of gears and chains as they rattled and clanked, interspersed with puffs of glowing steam that rose from smokestacks releasing their exhaust to space.

Despite the sight, and though he had no real context for how the planet normally looked in-person, it seemed… dull. The metal wasn’t shiny, all of the mechanical components looked like they were moving lethargically, and the brass seemed darker than it should be.

Logically, it made sense, as a new cycle was about to start, preparing to re-energize the entire planet. Yet it also struck Matt as somehow incorrect. It was like seeing a dragon sick and withered. It clashed with the image he had created in his mind and resulted in a cognitive dissonance that just felt wrong.

The feeling only became worse as the sheer size of the world became clear. It was almost too massive for what it had first appeared to be.

Nobody really knew what Tier the planet was, just that it was above Tier 30. But grasping anything above that benchmark was impossible for the Tier 14 and below cultivators who could enter the place. Even with all of his prior knowledge, Matt couldn’t help but feel like the planet shouldn't be able to exist. Metal beams that long couldn’t support their own weight, let alone raise and lower boxes that were larger than moons.

At Tier 40, or even Tier 50, could something like that work? Surely not… even then, they didn't have the strength to span those distances unsupported. But there they were, right before his eyes.

The metal wasn't the only oddity. The steam from the stacks shouldn’t be pluming in a place with no atmosphere, but there it was.

Minkalla shouldn't exist, but it did.

It was beautiful.

It was awe-inspiring.

It was daunting.

The longer Matt watched, the more unsettled he felt.

He and Liz reached for each other's hands at nearly the same time.

Like most of the other diners, they sat around and watched a while longer. But eventually, they got up as other ships started to appear in their view. The various vessels began congregating as they approached one of the eight smaller, repurposed planets that served as Minkalla’s moons.

Each of the Great Powers had their own satellite moon orbiting around Minkalla proper, and the pair joined the rest of the participants as they boarded smaller descent vessels departing for the Empire’s world-moon.

As soon as they landed, they were in their armor and ready for a fight at any moment, despite how unlikely such a blatant assault was. Once Matt was comfortable enough to relax just the slightest bit, he was struck by the absolute lack of essence on the moon.

It made the world feel unreal, like it was made from cardboard and tissue paper. Matt felt like he could use a single finger to punch a hole through the planet without issue.

He could tell that the man made structures were at least made of Tiered materials, but none were above Tier 7.

They landed with a swarm of other landing ships in an open-air tower that was hundreds of floors tall, allowing thousands of ships to stream in and out without impeding one another. Once inside, they found a dozen workers who directed the arrivals to a check-in station deeper inside the honeycomb-like building.

He and Liz were in their Quill and Torch Masks, but neither was personifying the alternative identities. Thankfully only a few people stopped and asked for autographs and the like.

They wouldn't be using the personalities or skill sets when inside Minkalla; they were only donning the masks to conceal their identities. If they weren't wearing them, they would’ve just used the same ones they had on at dinner, but going as Quill and Torch would raise fewer questions.

The masks needed to be seen entering the moon, at the very least.

Matt and Liz were both surprised by the volume of people waiting to enter Minkalla. With the Empire hiding so much information until Tier 11, they had expected fewer participants. But as ships disgorged their passengers to leave, and were instantly replaced, the numbers began to add up. That most of them were Tier 13 or 14 made sense, he supposed, as it was when most of the valuable information actually became available. It was probably intentional on the government's part, if he was being honest.

Aster got to skip all of this, as she was technically being smuggled onto the moon, and Minkalla itself, but the pair had to stand in line like everyone else.

And the line was long. It took them nearly six hours to reach the front, where their identities were scanned and verified before they were allowed into a room with a number of others.

When the seats were full, a grizzled-looking old man walked onto the stage and pointed a finger above him, where an image was projected.

“Minkalla. A land of opportunity and hope. One can enter its steamy depths as a child and leave an adult. But it's not all sunshine and rainbows. This isn't a briefing of what different things you can expect if you enter Minkalla, what fantastic treasures lie within its depths. This is a plea for you not to enter.”

No one had expected the old man to say that. He seemed the type to shove them into the fire and tell them to figure it out. Instead, his words had an honest ring to them that all of them felt.

