Matt and Liz shot each other a look through their masks. Luna had already explained this and more in their training. The old man's speech just seemed to be a way to get people to turn back from entering Minkalla. It wasn't anything they and everyone else didn't already know. Really, it was just like a longer version of a briefing they had before boarding their shuttle. In the end, it didn’t seem to work, and only a couple people returned through the doors they had come through.

As they went through a few more in-process procedures, the number of arrivals started to overwhelm their sense of scale.

It was a never-ending stream of lines that only grew longer as more and more ships arrived.

It was so bad that staff walked around offering snacks to everyone waiting. There was even a service to hold one's spot in line for trips to the bathroom, as long as you weren’t close to the front.

It was frankly ridiculous.

But once they were done, they exited the spaceport and were spat out onto a normal, if busy, city street.

As they walked to their accommodations, they saw that every shop was selling Tier 14 equipment and gear. Talismans and potions were abundant, along with survival gear and rift-made mana stones. It seemed that every shop sold some variation or combination of those goods, with others just specializing in one space.

The other most common shops were those that sold armor and weapons. Half the shops were selling their own specialized gear at extortionist prices.

Tier 14 armor should not sell for Tier 16 mana stones, no matter how much the proprietors extolled their goods’ abilities. Seeing the prices, Matt was happy that Luna had he and Aster regear with Tier 14 armor before they left the Empire proper.

That had been expensive, especially the custom pieces, but not to these inflated levels of prices.

When they arrived at their lodging, Luna teleported them to a separate location where they exchanged their Quill and Torch masks for blank masks that wouldn’t give anything away.

With them on, Aster looked like a general medium-sized quadruped of unidentifiable species. Better equipped, they were able to wander the city together as they waited for their final member to arrive.

It was interesting to see the city so packed, as normally the moon didn’t hold that many people during the off cycles. But when a new cycle was happening, the city filled to bursting as it struggled to contain millions of people for a few months.

It took Queen another week, but she had reportedly made a longer trip than they had. Still she still arrived with plenty of time to spare for group training.

Minkalla was close to the eruption that would herald the new cycle, and as it neared, the time estimate got more and more accurate. With a little less than two months left, they had the event timed down to the hour.

Queen had to go through the same onboarding process they had, but hours later, she also was free.

A few hours after that, they were finally able to meet up.

In their Quill and Torch masks, Matt and Liz sat with Luna off to the side as they waited for Queen and her own manager to enter the heavily secure room in Luna’s personal portable home, which hovered in a reserved space for those types of residences.

Liz turned to Luna and asked before their guest arrived, “And it's a good idea to tell Queen everything about us?”

Matt rubbed his finger along the webbing of her hand. He appreciated her defensiveness, but they had been over this, and he did agree with Luna’s reasoning. For all it stung that they hadn’t even been allowed to tell the Unbroken everything, but were expected to tell a comparative stranger. Still they needed full trust for what they were about to do.

“It’s better for you to go in alone rather than hide something from a teammate in a place as dangerous as Minkalla. But if you choose to not team up with her, you’ll almost certainly be forced to Tier up before you get the best rewards.”

Matt smiled under his mask. Liz was always worried for him, but they had been given preliminary psychological evaluations of Queen months before this. They had exchanged them after they reconfirmed their intentions to go to Minkalla together. Neither party had been particularly eager to share something so frank and personal as a psych-eval, but they sort of knew each other after communicating over the last three years.

Everything said, Queen was trustworthy, and wouldn't expose Matt’s Talent for no reason. Or for any reason, really. But it was still a scary thought.

All that aside, Luna was right. Minkalla was dangerous for Tier 14s, let alone Tier 11s like them. The safety briefer’s speech still rang in his ears, as had a thousand and one similar speeches Luna had given them in private. She was confident that they’d be able to survive the place at Tier 12, and that they would survive long enough at Tier 11 to reach Tier 12 if needed. But if they wanted the best of the still-unnamed rewards, they needed to go with Queen and stay Tier 11 the entire time.

If Matt went in there hiding behind the separate identities of Quill or Matt, they wouldn’t stand a chance. He needed to use his full kit, old and new skills alike, to even have a hope of reaching the core at Tier 11, and getting whatever reward awaited them.

And Queen seemed trustworthy from everything they had learned of her. She had told them a little about her brother, who she had needed to practically raise herself after her parent's divorce and mother's death.

As someone deprived of his parents, he sympathized with her about her lack of a caring father and mother. It was cruel and wasteful of something precious and beautiful. Family shouldn’t do that to each other.

Matt also understood Liz and her own protectiveness of him.

It was nice, but unnecessary at this point.

Half an hour later, Queen walked through the door alongside a blonde with vibrant purple eyes and a teasing smile that kept trying to creep on her face.

Queen waved at them as she sat down.

The blonde was the first to speak. “I’m Carol. Manager extraordinaire.”

Luna raised her index finger while somehow looking bored and attentive at the same time. “Luna. Manager.”

Carol explained. “It's customary to have the managers introduce themselves, first for the Pathers when doing something like this. Talents and real identities alike are closely hidden secrets. As managers, we are trusted to keep secrets, but if you want us to leave, we will. If either of you don't agree to do your little tell all, now is the last chance to back out. Minkalla is dangerous, and we can't have misgivings.”

Matt shrugged and looked at Liz. Even with masks on, they could read each other, and neither cared about the other manager. Luna had already explained that managers were under strict control on what they could and couldn't say, and that they were trusted and well vetted. Beyond that, they were all under strict surveillance in case one of them tried anything shifty.

Privacy didn’t exist for a manager.

That was enough for them not to worry about Carol.

It still felt weird to reveal everything, but Matt was the first to reach up and pull off his mask.

Liz did the same a moment later, and Queen mirrored the motion heartbeat later. As soon as they did that, Aster burst into the room and scampered onto Matt’s lap as she introduced herself.

“I’m Aster and also on the team, but I’m not a part of the secret identities, so I needed to hide. It's nice to meet you! You did really good at the tournament. I was rooting for you to do well, and you did!”

Queen looked overwhelmed by the sudden onslaught of the exuberant fox, but it gave Matt time to inspect the woman who had been under the mask.

Her skin was dusky and her hair dark like the normal complexion of those in the Detrual section of the Empire. Her hair was surprisingly long for a melee fighter, and now unleashed from the mask, he could see it was kept in a tight bun on the back of her head.

Her eyes were what caught Matt.

They were steel gray, like Shen Ruogang, the woman he was trained by in the Legacy he earned during the Tier 10 tournament. Their eyes were similar in the fact that they looked sharp enough to cut through steel with a single glance.

As Queen finally brought her attention from Aster, she looked from him to Liz before her eyes narrowed.

Her first words were, “So, which fighting style is the real one?”

Matt shrugged, “Both. I’m a blademage. I was just holding back most of the mage as Matt, and most of the blade as Quill.”

Queen slammed a fist down on the table. “You cheated me out of a real challenge of blades. I want a rematch. No bullshit this time.”

She turned to her manager and growled. “And you! You said the teams that got managers early were limited, but you never said there was a real blade fighter. I feel scammed.”

Matt couldn’t help but smile. Her being upset that he had sandbagged in their first fight was not what he had been expecting. Not at all.

It was so odd and honest, he could only admire it. Though now that he thought about their first interaction in the Masquerade lounge, where she ignored them when she found out they weren’t blade wielders, it did make sense.

Queen turned to Liz, and with hope shining in her eyes, she asked, “You don't happen to be a secret blade user?”

When Liz laughingly said no, Queen looked to Aster, who just looked at her paws. “I don't really have the thumbs for it...”

Queen looked dejected at the confirmation that they didn’t use blades, but then turned back to Matt and moved to stand up. “Let's have a real spar.”

Luna coughed. “First, we need to go over Talents and how you can interact with each other. I have a more than extensive training regimen set up for our next seven weeks. You'll get all the fighting you want then.”

Carol chimed in as well, “And we need to go over how Minkalla works and the strategies. It's random, but we have a lot of information, and you need to learn it all. No bullshit of hiding data at this point. You need to know everything we have, and you'll learn it all. We won't know what you'll face in Minkalla, but we'll prepare you as best we can.”

Matt nodded absently, shutting out the part of his brain that wanted to break into the ‘spires of Minkalla’ song he’d come up with to memorize just that. He wasn’t sure if Queen already knew everything, or if Carol was just starting to tell her now. He paused, now that he thought about it, Carol might be making sure that Luna hadn’t hidden any information from them.

Carol’s ever-present half grin bloomed into a true smile as she said, “And best of all, we can plan for the rewards you'll aim for.”

Matt and Liz sat up in unison, looking at Luna. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Queen do the same with her manager, but he was mostly preoccupied with being very happy that Luna was nodding along with Carol’s words.

Carol looked to Queen, and their fellow Pather started talking. “I’m Susanne. I'd rather you call me Sue or Queen rather than Ann or Annie if you have to shorten it. My Talent is about calligraphy, and not useful to my fighting style as of yet. But although I'm working on expanding what my Talent considers a writing utensil, I'm a far cry from getting it to work on my greatsword. I used my Legacy to get myself a bit of spatial power with my Concept. It’s a greatsword Concept which I always keep active and on me.” She raised her right hand where, on a bracelet like a little charm, hung a miniature greatsword.

He inspected it with his spiritual sense and Concept, only to find it packed with power. Susanne might have miniaturized her signature weapon, but she hadn't shrunk its power. “My Concept is all about polishing out the imperfections with me and my sword. We are one and the same. A pair, but the same whole. I improve, and my sword improves. In less fancy terms, it benefits directly from my physical cultivation and self-buffing skills, as well as my willpower, which is itself rated as extraordinary in both control and strength. My Concept is strictly external, but the armor I got as my reward from the Tier 10 tournament gives me a lot of the same benefits that an internal Concept does, so long as I’m using my actual Concept, which is always.”

Susanne tapped the table, thinking for a moment before saying, “I’m also very good at using a lot of general Concept powers, like flight, and most of my strategy is built around that fact. I also have a few skills that help me punch through really tough defenses and fight against multiple opponents. My Legacy gives me some spatial abilities which I use for offense and maneuvering around the battlefield, so ranged opponents find it very difficult to get away or stay away from me. Can’t teleport myself with it yet, but I’m working on that. Even without that, I have a speed oriented [Dash] that allows me to close the gap, but I haven’t had to use it that much since the tournament.” Susanne chewed on her lip a little before nodding. “That's the basics, anyway. Anything else is better learned when we fight.”

Matt whistled to show his appreciation at Susanne. Honestly, he was beyond impressed that her skill was natural. It also reinvigorated his desire to learn from her.

Fighting someone better than yourself was always a good way to improve.

Aster hopped to her feet and introduced herself. “I’m Aster, and I used to be an ice fox, but I changed my bloodline to winter, which made me a lot stronger. I’m generally support, but I can help out with a few new spells, and I have a few good debuffs to weaken and slow the enemies, which is helpful when attacking higher Tier rifts. I also can hit really hard if I have enough ice to manipulate. I’m super excited—”

