“Please turn away. If you leave now, the Empire will reimburse your travel expenses, and you can continue on living. If you change your mind at any point before you choose to enter Minkalla itself, that offer stands. Please take it. If you must, absolutely must go in, come back when you’re at the peak of Tier 14, and between cycles. Even for the older people out there. Just come back later and take it slow.”

The old man paused and looked around, but when no one moved in the auditorium, he slumped, and the image above him changed to one highlighting and labeling each of the moons circling Minkalla.

The image distorted Minkalla and each moon, making them seem more equal in size, but it served its purpose.

“If you are here, and don’t know what Minkalla is, I implore you to please leave and come back once you do. You are far too under prepared if you know nothing this close to the cycle. We don’t hide information if you’re Tier 13 or above, but the Empire still encourages you to avoid this place, even at that point. We and the other seven Great Powers each possess territory in this wasteland of death. Each of us send in our youth throughout the years, but between cycles, it’s not as dangerous. Do not misunderstand me, it’s still a deadly place, with one in ten delvers never returning, but it’s far, far better than at the start of a new cycle. Yes, the best rewards can only be found at this time, because the planet and its now greater population of monsters have been reinvigorated. But I can assure you… you will not leave with whatever spoils you recover. Come between cycles, after the glory-seekers are done and the Sects, Republic and Federation have left. You’ll get almost as much, if not more than you’ll get now, since you’re each four times less likely to die trying if you wait. Yes, it’s true that once you go in and come out, you can’t return, rejected just as surely as if you’re over Tier 15. But, and I will say this time and time again… Minkalla. Is. Not. Worth. Dying. For. For most of you, it doesn’t matter if you enter once or one hundred times. Most of you will die in your one and only delve. If you heed my warning, and venture into the depths in-between cycles…? Most of you will live. At least more of you will live.”

A small lava lamp appeared over the image of Minkalla, and the man narrated what was happening. “You could think of a cycle in Minkalla as being like a lava lamp. After a while, the ‘lava’ inside gets out of sync, all of it falls to the heating rune to be warmed, and then it all rises up at once. It’s not exactly what happens in Minkalla, but it’s close enough. We are currently about two months out from the next eruption, where all the floors will be filled and reset. When that happens, all of you poor souls will enter, and few will exit.”

The old man paused as if waiting for someone to leave, but once again, no one did.

“As I said, the other Great Powers all send in their young, but there are elite ranks from each that you must be wary of. The Young Masters from the Sects, the Heroes from the Guilds, the Alphas from the Monsters Collective, the Slayers from the Federation, the Gladiators from the Republic, the Chosen from the Corporations, and the Knights from the Clans, along with the Ascenders from the Empire. They are all the leading prodigies of each Great Power, woe unto any of you who encounter them. If you do chance upon one of these elites, run away and let them have whatever they want. It's not worth getting in their way. And yes, even watch out for your fellow delvers from the Empire. You shouldn't kill each other, but nobody above Tier 15 can enter, or even see into the planet. We can’t stop you. No one can stop you. Just you, and whatever morality you have and hold onto. But the real danger for most of you will be the other average cultivators.”

When he said that even Ascenders would be dangerous to the other cultivators, he paused his gaze on on both Matt and Liz in their masks before tearing his eyes away.

The image on the screen changed and transformed into a list.

“First, ourselves and our allies. The Conglomerate of Guilds. If you can avoid it, don't fight them. They are our only true friends in a large, dark, and scary realm. We won't pursue any deaths at all that happen inside Minkalla, but any occasion of a fight between us and our friends would be... Disappointing. AI recordings don’t work down there, so proof and belief will be minimal, thus you are free to behave however you wish. The Guilds will send in around fifty million people. That’s about the minimum that any Power sends in.”

The man paused and sighed, and went on a tangent. “Remember, only people below Tier 14 can enter, and the average is Tier 13, as are most of you. If you see a Tier 13 or Tier 14, the smart thing is to run away. They are probably stronger than you, but you should be able to escape. If you see a Tier 12 or, worse yet, a Tier 11, run faster and hope you haven’t caught their attention. If they're strong enough to go in at that low of a Tier, you will be throwing away your lives to fight them. Individuals at those Tiers are monsters that us ordinary people can't compare with. Equate them to the very best Pathers you see on the news, who have a good shot at making it to Tier 20 or Tier 23 on The Path, or even possibly completing it. Despite having a Tier advantage or two, you can't beat them. If you see a Tier 11, you have no chance to beat them. They wouldn’t be here if they were too egotistical to know their strength, which only means that they are a true monster expected to complete The Path. Do you dare to risk your life on beating Duke Waters if he were only two Tiers weaker than you? If you think you could, you are wrong. If you believe yourself fortunate, and that the Tier 11 in front of you is simply delusional… you will not be lucky.”

The old man looked at them again, and Matt felt like he could see through them.

He knew he couldn't, as he could feel Luna personally enhancing their Mask’s privacy enchantments to make them look like they were Tier 12. But the old man didn’t seem to need more than his eyes to see who they really were.

“We, the Empire, sadly send in around two hundred million youths, despite our best efforts. But our mortal population is much larger than that of the other Great Powers, so we send in a smaller percentage of our total population. We have quadrillions of citizens, after all. The Clans send in around one-fifty to two hundred million, depending on the cycle. Same with the Republic, The Monster Collective, and the Federation. The Corporations send about as many as the Guilds, around fifty million people. Sometimes more come, but the average stays pretty steady around that number. Finally, the Sects send in around four hundred million kids. That is a significant percentage of their youths in the proper Tier range, and each of them are ready and willing to cut your throats at first sight. Treat every interaction with the Sects as a life and death fight, as they don't need a reason to want to kill you. Remember, for most of you the masses of the other Great Powers are who you need to worry about. Not the rare, strong participants. Minkalla is large, but we are sending over a billion of you in at once, and the deeper you go, the less space there is, forcing you together.”

The image changed again. “These are the last few things I’ll be telling you. All of you should go to an information broker and get their full-day presentation and explanation package. The Empire even subsidizes them, so all you need to spend is your time. If you want to spend a bit of money, watch the one recording we have of the interior, courtesy of one lass whose Talent let her bypass the normal restrictions on AI recordings a couple centuries ago. But my point is, Minkalla, at the start of a cycle, has seven floors packed full of death. In addition, each floor has a rewards arena and a breakthrough point. If you’re lucky enough to get to one of them, take a good hard look at yourself and leave if you think you might not make it. Getting something is better than nothing, it’s not wasting your one shot. If you come out alive, let alone with even a minor prize, you’ve beaten the odds.”

Behind him, the Sects name enlarged and showed a ninety percent fraction of a pie chart. “The Sects will lose about ninety percent of the people they send in. A horrific number. Most of them won't die because they're weak, but because they push too far, and get killed by a monster or enemy cultivator. But in the end, most of them won't come back. Dead is dead and it doesn't matter how you end up that way. Ourselves, the Guilds, the Republic, and the Clans all have about a forty percent return rate. Most of you will die for the same reasons as the kids from the Sects. The people with the best survival rating are the Corporations and the Federation, at around sixty percent. Historically speaking, they are more conservative in their delving, and have a much better survival rating because of it.”

Matt nodded while endless drills from Luna replayed in his head. Sixty, forty, ten. Don’t push too fast, don’t overcommit. They should be fine, but they still needed to not die as priority number one, and had been told in no uncertain terms that they were to push to Tier 12 if they were too overwhelmed. Though how they were supposed to do that without any ambient essence, he didn’t know. Presumably, it was linked to the planet’s rewards, being the one thing that they didn’t know. Luna hadn’t wanted to distract them from their preparations with ‘idle dreams’, but they’d spent the last year learning about every possible floor theme that they might encounter, every challenge that had ever been recorded, and even the sorts of puzzles that had historically gated off reward rooms.

He wondered if they’d be pushed to get one of the one-day briefings, then figured that they probably would. Luna was obsessive at the best of times, but the preparation for Minkalla had been on another level. April probably had one scheduled for them already, and just hadn’t informed them yet.

The old man glared at the crowd and growled. “Be like them. The deeper you go, the better the rewards, yes, but the greater the danger. The monsters at the highest layers of Minkalla are only fresh Tier 14’s, but the deeper you go, the stronger they are, until they get to the peak of Tier 14. Also, for any of you who are at the peak of Tier 14, and want to advance to Tier 15 to get an advantage in Minkalla. It won't work. We even have what happens if you try recorded, because people never learn their lesson.”

The old man poked at the air interacting with his AI until a familiar video started to play behind him.

A young man in Sect robes laughed on the screen as he monologued about how at Tier 15, he could defeat all of them. Except mid-sentence, he exploded in a fine mist of blood and bone. It was gruesome, but not unfamiliar, as Luna had made them watch Wendy’s entire recording eleven times. With all the rewards edited out, of course, because Luna was still Luna.

“If you advance to Tier 15, you die. You aren’t ejected from the planet, like if you try to enter at Tier 15. You just die. Not a single person has ever circumvented that rule. We have lots of reports come in every year about a few attempting it because of their Talent, some cracked skill, or something else. It never works. Don't even bother trying, you will not be the first to somehow survive. I don’t care if your Talent is literally ‘will not explode as a result of reaching Tier 15 on Minkalla.’ It. Will. Not. Work.”

The old man lowered his head from where it had been fixed on, as he stared at someone on the other side of the room for a few seconds before finishing up. “Minkalla is dangerous. Killing each other is expected, and even encouraged by the planet. The deeper you go, the more likely you end up as someone's prey. If you are Tier 13 and normally delve up to Tier 14, statistically speaking, you can get to the second floor without too much issue. If you are Tier 14 and delve Tier 15 rifts, you can probably make it to the third floor. At that point, just leave. Escape with the prizes you have, and don't push further. Anything beyond the third floor can’t be quantified with statistics, as so few make it back from that point. You only need to meet one elite ready to pick your corpse clean of any gathered treasure. The real Monsters in Minkalla are the other people. It’s practically just luck to survive after the third floor, and you. Will. Not. Be. Lucky.”

He pointed to the screen, “Don’t be a part of that sixty percent death rate. Eighty percent of that comes from pushing past the third floor. Be smart and leave.”

As he looked over all of them, he added. “Let me remind you that you can change your mind at any time. Please, just turn back now and value your lives. Come back mid cycle and have a much safer time. Push to floor four, even five then. You’ll get less rewards per floor, yes, but you can go deeper and still survive. You’ll still get the deeper floor rewards. The people who go mid-cycle come back with more, and come back more often than those who try to go in at the… optimal time. It's only optimal if you are strong enough to survive. For the vast majority of you here, believe me when I say, you are not. You will be eaten by a monster, or serve as cannon fodder for the best and strongest.”

With that, the man left, and the doors opened to staff directing them to various locations.

