A twitch of jealousy passed through Adam. He would have loved to serve in his father's stead. He would have done anything the Starhawk demanded if it meant saving his town, if it meant protecting his friends. But it wasn't to be. He wasn't to be. In that very moment, he knew he was dying, knew there were things inside him broken, almost certainly beyond repair.

And unlike when he fought the Recollector, he wasn't scared. Not scared at all. Instead, he felt a sense of peace, as if he were an empty vessel. He had done everything he could, strained himself beyond what anyone could ask for, and now he'd fallen—fallen, but not been beaten.

Blackedge was swallowed by brighter and brighter colors as a massive fissure opened over it. The town rose, and just as it did, Adam noticed a massive shape descending from on high. The Tarrasque returned, and trails of frayed incandescence clung to its body. It screamed out, bellowing the Starhawk's name, bellowing vengeance against Roland Arrow. But just as it was about to tear through the town, just as a tidal wave of devastation was dragged in its wake, Blackedge vanished entirely, passing into that eldritch outside that bordered reality.

Adam laughed weakly. Laughed as, even though the fate of his town was uncertain, for even though he didn't know what was going to happen to his friends, to his family, Blackedge would not fall at the hands of the Tarrasque, nor would it be destroyed by the Ascendants. No, for a little while longer, his home would endure.

And then the Tarrasque struck the ground, and Adam exhaled. The world shook. The surface upon which he lay was sundered utterly and completely. Adam found himself flung away, and once more he was weightless. He surrendered himself to the sensations. Yet, a moment before a massive piece of debris descended to greet him, a cloud of static shadow clashed over his form and clenched him tight, drawing him across space itself.

And somewhere during the teleportation process, the darkness of Dimensionality became the darkness of unconsciousness.

Now he was back, still alive, but wishing he wasn't. The pain was bad. “Broken Felling Moon!” Adam cried out as a rush of fire seared through his every nerve. His eyes snapped open fully, and he found himself staring up at a brightly lit ceiling. The Gate Lord blinked a few times, trying to clear the blurriness from his vision. His ears were ringing as well, and his heart hammered inside his chest, threatening to burst from his ribcage.

He was still severely disoriented, but he saw spell patterns dancing around him. He was inside a teleportation anchor of some kind. Adam shook his head. No, not a teleportation anchor.

This resembled a medical chamber. He saw a strange, twirling mechanism hanging over him, and it had dangling blades and small fingers twitching on its underside. As it drew back, a cube-like face looked down at Adam, and the many eyes that dotted it flickered.

Automaton, Adam thought. His mind felt sluggish, but he recognized the mechanical entity for what it was.

"A pair of clusters reconnected," the mechanical Pathbearer declared, and it leaned back. A whirling, whirring sound followed, and Adam tried to turn his head. It was a considerable struggle for him to do even that. To his right, he saw a tall, elven woman clad in a white coat.

She wore a transparent face shield made from glass, and specks of Adam’s blood dotted its oblong surface. She regarded him without expression, and a faint hint of red mana seeped out from her fingers. That was the color of Biomancy, and if he could see it right now…

Adam took a look at his notifications, and his eyes widened. He hadn't gained Biomancy, but most of his skills had taken a massive leap.

Skybearer’s Strength 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Hydromancy 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Repulsion Shroud 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Tactical Overseer 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

My Toughness leveled over ten times, Adam thought to himself. How hard did that damn Tarrasque bloody hit me? And how am I even still alive? Broken Moon, why am I alive… Gods, the pain…

"Is he stabilized?"

The elven Biomancer looked away from Adam and gave the unseen speaker a nod. "He is, Master-Avatar."

"Good. Leave us."

"Master-Avatar," Adam muttered. The room around him darkened momentarily, and Adam thought they were turning off the lights. But then he realized he was on the verge of blacking out again. He shook his head, forced himself to stay awake. Though fatigue and agony gripped his body, he wanted to face whoever held him prisoner and tell them to sit on a knife.

Three thumping steps sounded in the now-empty room. Three thumping steps that made Adam's pulse climb and his anxiety worsen as he looked up at his captor for the first time.

Adam let out a miserable sigh—which turned into a vicious sneer.

"City Lord Stormhalt," Adam slurred. He tried not to, but part of his mouth wasn't working right. "I should be calling you father-in-law by now, but alas, some unforeseen problems interrupted my wedding. You wouldn't happen to know who caused them, would you?"
