While Yan and Lin readily agreed, Zheng Luo tried to slip away without notice, an oddly prudish woman considering she walked around in public with her cleavage on full display. Stifling a sigh, Mila grabbed Zheng Luo and pulled her along, adamant to integrate the fussy Imperial into their household before Rain’s return. It’s not that Mila particularly liked the woman or even enjoyed her company, but she was Rain’s concubine and they were stuck with her, so it would be best if everyone got along. Already Mila could see fractures forming in Rain’s extended absence, with Lin’s brattiness driving them apart and a budding rivalry forming between Yan and Zheng Luo.

Why Mila cared about keeping Rain’s harem conflict free, she couldn’t say. Mila was utterly outmatched by the others, so she would only benefit if the harem fell apart. First and foremost, there was sweet, adorable Lin, whom Rain doted upon the most. In all his letters, Lin’s name would always come first and its contents largely addressed to her, while the others were spoken of in passing if he remembered them. With her large eyes and round cheeks, Lin’s youthful features had yet to mature, but that didn’t detract from her charm and allure. With her supple, honeyed skin and long, silken hair, Lin was undoubtedly on track to blossom into a kingdom-toppling beauty once her baby fat melted away and her... womanly assets bloomed.

Then there was sultry, seductive Yan. With her defined, sculpted features, pale, jade-like skin, and plump, cherry-pink lips, her appearance was reminiscent of the fairies of myth, the Mother’s true daughters crafted in Her own image who descended from the Heavens to aid Her Chosen Sons. Granted, those were made up stories to elevate the wives and concubines of those legendary heroes, but were one to paint Yan as a hornless, long-haired maiden, it would undoubtedly become a textbook portrait of classical beauty. Not only this, but she was closest to Rain’s heart, his best friend and most trusted confidant. Even without her insurmountable beauty or wide, provocative hips, Mila was no match for Yan’s raunchy humour or her throaty, captivating laugh.

Speaking of classical beauties, one couldn’t forget Zheng Luo. While Yan fit the profile of a fairy from Heaven, Zheng Luo might well be one, her features flawless and physique unmatched, a slim, buxom goddess with long, slender legs and shapely, elegant feet. As if physical perfection weren’t enough, the Imperial Servant possessed a brilliant mind and admirable work ethic, labouring tirelessly day and night in her office on the second floor to grow Rain’s budding merchant undertaking into a veritable enterprise. Under her brilliant management, Rain’s income had finally surpassed his expenditures, no mean feat for a profligate squanderer and bleeding heart philanthropist like him. What’s more, no matter what they needed, Zheng Luo could procure it. Whether it be outrageous quantities of preserved shrimp for Rain, first rate binding materials for Papa and Mila, or Runic Inscription supplies for Taduk, if it took longer than a few days to arrive, Zheng Luo would all but kowtow in apologies for the lengthy delay.

Last and least of all was Mila, a dour, jealous, harridan of a woman who nagged and threatened her betrothed about every minor detail. With hair which tangled like a rat’s nest and pale skin dotted in ugly freckles, she couldn’t compare in attitude nor beauty. Small wonder why Rain would praise Lin, sleep with Yan, goggle at Zheng Luo, but only tell Mila to not be jealous. Such was her lot in life, to be the shrew and bully in Rain’s otherwise perfect marriage.

Even wary and watchful Li Song wasn’t immune to his charms, willingly delivering herself to his power so she could fight at his side...

Stupid Rain and his stupid, licentious ways. Why couldn’t he be more like Junior Martial Brother Fung? They weren’t even betrothed, yet he wrote a poem or sonnet everyday for that ice queen, Ryo Seoyoon...

Discouraged and disheartened by her bath-time revelations, Mila stewed in silence until it was time for dinner. To welcome Yan, Charok cooked a sumptuous feast and Papa, Taduk, and even Yan’s bodyguard Kyung joined them, but Mila was in no mood to celebrate. Perhaps noticing her low spirits, Lin sat down beside her with a pot of fruit wine, smiling her toothy smile as she poured Mila a cup. Warmed by the rare show of consideration, Mila drank it down and inwardly scolded herself for her catty and hateful thoughts, further proof she had the worst personality among her future sister-wives. Barely able to taste Charok’s delicious food, her foul mood continued to plummet as the night wore on, drinking every time she found more proof of her failings. Maternal Yan making sure Tali and Tate ate all their vegetables, Zheng Luo dining with perfect poise and impeccable manners, or Lin repeatedly refilling Mila’s cup no matter how quickly she downed the fruity alcohol. They were all so beautiful and perfect. How was Mila supposed to compare?

Something cold and wet pressed against Mila’s lower back and she yelped in surprise, spilling her cup in the process. Frightened by her reaction, Banjo shrank away and took his cold, wet nose with him, his gaze lowered and eyes sad because he knew he’d done something bad, but wasn’t sure what. Feeling remorseful about scaring Banjo, it disappeared when Mila saw Papa feeding Baloo on the other side and she snapped, “Stop feeding the animals table-scraps! It’s not good for them and it encourages them to beg.” With the floodgates opened, her ire burst out as she flew off the handle, venting her frustrations on the people around her. “Taduk, you’re a grown man. Stop pushing your vegetables around and eat them. Zheng Luo, this is a family dinner not a formal event. No one will be offended if your eating area isn’t spotless. Tate, don’t think I didn’t see you throwing your eggplant to Jimjam. He’s a cat, he won’t eat it, and it could make him sick if he does. And you.” Turning to Kyung, the only person at the table still eating, Mila scowled and asked, “Were you raised by wolves?”

Rather than answer, Kyung responded with a throaty growl, pulling his bowl close as if ready to fight to defend it. None of this kept him from stuffing his mouth, inhaling rice, meat, and vegetables as quickly as his chopsticks delivered it. Incensed by his shameless reaction, Mila slammed her chopsticks down and stood to beat him senseless. “Outside, you manner-less cur, lets see if a guard trained by ‘Great Teacher’ Du Min Gyu fights as well as he eats.”

“Mila please.” Intercepting her on the way over, Yan grabbed Mila by the waist and pleaded, “He means no offence, he’s never tasted Charok’s cooking before and got a little too excited. Kyung, there’s plenty to go around so please behave yourself. Come sister, sit down, there’s not need for violence at the dinner table.”

Papa and Charok chimed in to smooth things over, so Mila shot Kyung a glare and returned to her seat, her cheeks burning from the alcohol and embarrassment. The spilled wine had been wiped dry and her cup filled once more, so Mila downed another cup and glowered at the unrepentant Kyung, wishing she could Send and tell him how lucky he was Yan had stopped her from trouncing him. So what if he proved himself Alsantset’s match two years ago? Even though Mila had been cooped up in the forge for the better part of a year, that didn’t mean she’d neglected her Martial Path. In fact, creating so many Spiritual Weapons had honed her senses to the extreme and helped her make great strides along the Martial Dao, specifically with regards to controlling her Blessing. Though she Awakened at a young age, Mila had yet to reveal it to the world at large, but when she did, her name would rise to the Heavens as she claimed her place as Number One Talent in the Empire.

Whatever, so what if Mila wasn’t the best wife? She had plenty of other admirable qualities and Rain loved her so he would have to accept her flaws. Even if he placed her last in his heart, if he dared treat her poorly, then Mila would beat him to a pulp and complain to Mama and Papa so they’d beat him too.

Might makes right, in war and in love.

Chapter Meme
