Her answer was immediate. "A top level room for myself—one with a wide ledge for Marteen."

"It needs to get a lot of sun," the Silver added.

"Done," he said.

Kenzie's eyes narrowed. "I want top-grade food privileges. Enough for at least three—no, six months."

"Done."

"I want a real apology."

"I'm sorry," Arthur said again, without hesitation. "I should have reached out to you before, though with what me and my friends have been through... I'm not certain you would have survived it."

"Has the danger passed?" Marteen asked with an edge of nervousness. She was not a fighter.

Again, Arthur decided that honesty was the best policy. "I don't know, and that is why I need people on my side. people I can trust."

"You mean that you need Marteen's nose just as much as you need my insight," Kenzie said.

Now they were getting into the heart of the matter.

Arthur laughed. "Of course I do. The reason for needing you around is obvious. I got betrayed by a head servant a few hours ago. But more importantly, I need Marteen to sniff out anyone and everyone who would make a good dragon rider."

"Why?" She arched an eyebrow. "Trying to build up the ranks of creepy assassins?"

That last question sobered him. "This doesn't have to do directly with Blood Moon. You must have noticed the eruptions are coming more frequently."

"Of course I have. We're not fighters, but we aren't blind."

He gave her a look. "The scourglings aren't doing that because they're growing weaker."

Any idiot could figure that out, but the truth was even worse. There were fewer dragon Mythics in the world then there were Scourge-Gods, and the balance of power seemed to be slowly sliding to the scourglings."

She must have seen the grim certainty in his aura because she paled. "I don't think I like whatever you’re thinking."

"You don't," he agreed. "And it's something I can only tell you about in full once we're away from here."

She let out a long breath and exchanged another look with her dragon. But Arthur had known Kenzie for a long time. He'd had her loyalty the moment he agreed to her terms.

"Okay," she said. "We're in. I assume we're leaving on the fly?"

He nodded. "Before Whitaker is alerted, preferably. But there's still a few things I need to do."

"What's that?"

“Carley. I want to get her out, too, if I can.”

“Oh, that little assistant of yours?” She rolled her eyes. “She’s toadying up to Whitaker now. Don’t bother.”

He hesitated. “And he’s allowing that? Even though I was the one who brought her here?”

She smirked at him. “I doubt she’s told him who she worked for before. And you know Whitaker. He’s—”

“Incompetent. Yeah.” Arthur sighed. He shouldn’t be surprised Carley landed on her feet, though he hated the thought of her wasting her time working for an idiot.

Nothing he could do about it now. Moving on, he looked to Marteen. "Is there a colony of rider-less dragons around here?"

"The wild dragons?" She seemed surprised. "Yes, why?"

"Because if you're going to sniff out people, we're going to need the dragons to go along with them," Arthur said.
