The change in the bossman was startling to behold as his anger was replaced by guilt and self-recrimination. His sword dropped to the ground as he stared into the trees, and Jorani could almost read the thoughts behind them. How could I have done this? Am I a monster? Will the Mother forsake me for my actions? They were the same thoughts Jorani had after his first raid, when he came across some kids hiding in a cellar while bandits plundered their village clean. He hadn’t killed anybody, in fact, no one had died at all since the villagers were wise enough to pay their ‘taxes’, but even then, Jorani felt monstrous to the extreme for taking from people who already had so little to call their own. The bossman’s situation was far from the same, but he was harder on himself than anyone had a right to be. Shuffling over to nudge Monk Happy aside, Jorani extended a hand to the bossman and said, “I know ye didn’t see em, else ye wouldn’t have attacked, but the milk has been spilled and the damage done. Best ye can do is not make the same mistake again.”

Oddly enough, the bossman seemed to understand Jorani, or at least he didn’t struggle to comprehend it. Pulling him up on his feet, Jorani watched the bossman study the Defiled tribesmen for long seconds, with his focus lingering on the children hiding in the shadows. He didn’t move or react in any way, but Jorani felt his pain upon seeing how frightened all those kids were, but there was nothing else to be said. Out in the battlefield, even Jorani might not spare a Defiled child, but it was clear these they were trying to make a better life for themselves, and he could not bring himself to deny them even a chance. Granted, he didn’t expect any of this to work out and could only pray these Defiled all died before making it out of the Arid Wastes, but maybe they weren’t all that different from regular folk after all.

Because Defiled or not, they were ready to die for their children, and that had to be worth something. The barest minimum at least, since even wild beasts would fight to defend their young, but it was better than nothing.

Running out from her ring of Concealed guards, Lady Mei Lin made her way to the bossman’s side and took his hand from Jorani’s. “Thanks Jor-Jor,” she chimed, so charming and utterly unfazed by the hostilities. Then she forgot all about him as she drew the bossman’s attention, and the change was startling to see, his tensions melting away as he gazed into her eyes, though his self-deprecating attitude remained firmly fixed in place.

Turning to the crowd of monks, Jorani took a moment to consider what he should say, whether to warn the monks of Defiled tendencies or maybe threaten the Defiled tribesmen to behave. In the end, after taking another look at the children in the trees, Jorani merely sighed and tossed his rucksack aside. “Alright,” he began, striding over to the crowd to get a better view of their construction efforts. “Looks like y’all are buildin’ a village, so let’s get it done.” The Defiled didn’t seem to understand him, so he looked to the monks instead, namely Monk Happy who was beaming from ear to ear. “Well? C’mon now, we burnin’ sunlight here.”

The Brotherhood meant well, they really did, and Jorani didn’t have the heart to dissuade them. He really hoped he was wrong and these Defiled would really forsake the Father and become proper people again, but if there was killing that needed to be done, he would gladly do it in the Brotherhood’s stead. By helping them out, not only could he see how the Defiled behaved with his own eyes and draw his own conclusions, but he might even win their trust and make his job easier if the worst should come to pass.

Flashing a smile at the kids in the trees and doing his best not to see their faces, he grabbed a stack of timber and prayed things would never get that far.

Chapter Meme
