Maybe it was just Heaven’s cruel fate, or a quirk of the Mother’s humour, given how he was a half-rat and she a half-wildcat. To quail before her predatory stare was only natural after all, especially since he wasn’t wearing his suit of Runic Armour. Daxian never let those suits out of his sight, and since he was off doing Mother knows what, Jorani was left to do without. A good thing though, seeing as he was just a small, thousand-man commander, one who would be utterly helpless to resist the covetous Peak Experts after his Runic Armour. The only reason he hadn’t been inundated with demands to hand it over was because everyone knew it really belonged to Gang Shu, and few families were powerful enough to risk an Ancestral Beast’s ire, even one who’d taken injury like the old bastard had. Well, this and the fact that Jorani’s slight build meant his armour didn’t fit too many Martial Warriors, given how he was shorter and slimmer than most. A shame the bossman was even shorter and slimmer, else Jorani would’ve asked Daxian to give the second set to him, but such is life, as it were, and there was nothing any of them could do about it.

At least the bossman still had some years of growing left to do, and it wasn’t unheard of for Warriors in their early twenties to hit one final growth spurt. Amazing as the man’s talents and accomplishments might be, his lacking height left much to be desired.

Or so one might think until they watched him go toe to toe with a Peak Expert.

Jorani heard the din of battle long before he spotted them, and he sprinted ahead to see if he could help, but what he found left him shocked and speechless. At first, the blur of motion made it all but impossible to tell who the participants were, and from the sounds of things, Jorani would’ve assumed there were a dozen Warriors trading blows in the general vicinity, but then the fighting paused for all of a second revealing the bossman and Monk Happy as the culprits. Perplexed anger rolled off the bossman as he stood with sword in hand, his emotions directed at Monk Happy standing across from him, but with no answer forthcoming, the bossman’s patience wore thin and the whole kerfuffle started up again.

Reaching for Balance, Jorani steadied his breathing and found Enlightenment as the world slowed around him, which brought the bossman’s conflict against Monk Happy into reasonable view. Though Jorani still had difficulty following their every movement, he could at least watch the general flow of battle play out. Always on the offensive, the bossman pushed forward with blade drawn and teeth bared, seeking to fight his way past the smiling Monk Happy. Calm and understanding were etched across his face, the cheerful Monk fighting with almost casual ease as he fended off the bossman’s flurry of attacks. Neither one were going for the kill, with the bossman’s sword arcing in crippling cuts rather than killing thrusts, and to Jorani’s eyes, it seemed like he had at least three such opportunities to end things. In contrast, Monk Happy’s spade twirled lazily about, more concerned with keeping the bossman away as opposed to protecting the wielder, but regardless of their pulled punches, there was no denying their superlative skills.

Jorani didn’t even have the words to describe it, but every strike, parry, block, and step seemed to contain countless mysteries of the Martial Path within, and he lost precious seconds trying to unravel those mysteries in real time as opposed to committing the whole thing to memory for later study. Lacking even the time to curse himself for the mistake, he fought the urge to blink and watched the battle unfold and felt himself improving just by being here. There, that step from the bossman was a variation on Stalking the Dragon, but not one Jorani had ever seen used, a long, quick step when most kept that particular Movement short and sweet, but somehow, it just made sense. Then there was Happy’s rejoinder, Dances in Grass, cutting off the bossman’s route forward and even driving him back several steps without putting either of them in any real danger. Back and forth they traded blows, zipping about the few meters of clear space they had, but while the area was tiny and limited, they utilized it to the fullest.

A short Cloud-Step saw the bossman soar over Monk Happy’s head, but the portly man snagged the bossman’s ankle and tossed him away. Somersaulting through the air like a circus acrobat, he landed on solid nothingness and propelled himself back forward, shaving a few tenths of a second off his landing time to hit the ground running, only to stop short to block a swing from Monk Happy. Sword met spade and the former rebounded away, taking the wielder with it as both sought to circle around the obstruction, but regardless of which direction he headed, the bossman found that unyielding spade blocking his way.

Speed, power, technique, these two had it all, and only now did Jorani realize just how strong they both were, far beyond Daxian and in a realm all Martial Warriors dreamed of but only a select few would ever reach.

This was a battle between Peak Experts at the very least, not quite on the level of Lieutenant General Akanai’s epic contest against Bai Qi, but nowhere near as far as Jorani would have once expected. Even though he’d just seen the bossman Cloud-Stepping with his own eyes, to progress this far in a single year was downright impossible, especially considering the bossman was supposedly a cripple who shattered his Core. Who knew if that was true anymore, but Jorani never really believed it, not entirely. Maybe the bossman’s Core had shattered leaving him weakened and wounded, but a cripple? Never. Even with his broken weapons and shattered Core, he still kicked the stuffing out of Gen on the fields of Sinuji, so there was some fight in him yet.

That was Jorani’s thinking at least, but it seemed like the bossman had hidden more than anyone suspected. A Peak Expert at twenty-one, now that was a feat which had thus far been unmatched. Maybe some genius Imperial Clansmen could match up, but here in the outer provinces, people would’ve called the bossman an unrivalled genius if he reached Peak Expert a decade from now, and still a rising dragon if he succeeded another decade after. That was the measurement of a Peak Expert, with most Martial Warriors seeing their fortieth birthday before progressing that far along the Martial Path, and it wasn’t unheard of for even Warriors of note to succeed only after they turned fifty or even sixty years old.

But for Falling Rain? Twenty-fucking-one, after starting his training late at the age of twelve. Truly an unmatched genius, to the point where calling him a rising dragon seemed like an insult to his potential. No, he was already a dragon ascendant, one poised to shake the world with his Martial accomplishments, in addition to the change he’d already brought about through politics and finance.

Though they seemed more or less evenly matched, Jorani soon realized this was far from true, because despite their heated exchange, Monk Happy was doing his best not to hurt the bossman, but the same was not entirely true in reverse. As time wore on, the bossman’s patience started slipping and his attacks grew more vicious and reckless, no longer throwing measured cuts aimed to slice tendons and impair movements, but rather wild swings meant to remove whole limbs or cut into vital organs. He still refrained from dealing any killing thrusts, so there was that much at least, but Monk Happy stood his ground and fended off the bossman’s attacks without so much as touching a hair on his head.

And then the bossman snapped, and everything came to a standstill.

Playing the last bit back in his head, Jorani pieced together the sequence of events. The bossman snarled and emanated a rage unlike anything Jorani had ever experienced before, a primal fury promising death to his foes and any who might aid them. There was no hatred there, only wrath and violence, like a howling gale or raging storm, a burning wildfire or cascading avalanche, a force unleashed and power unrestrained.

Or was unrestrained right up until Monk Happy’s smile slipped and he overpowered Rain’s fury with a rage all his own.

If Rain was a forest fire, then Happy was an erupting volcano, one large enough to set the whole world aflame. Gone was the friendly monk and in his place was an avatar of rage and violence, one whose features were twisted in almost comical anger as he loomed over his foe with one hand pressed firmly against the younger man’s chest and paying no mind to the sword resting against his neck. Despite having come so far, the bossman still wasn’t willing to kill Monk Happy, but despite all his struggles to escape, it seemed as if Monk Happy’s palm weighed ten-thousand kilograms and refused to budge even a single millimetre.

“Enough,” Monk Happy uttered, his chest and shoulders heaving not from physical exertion, but the effort of reining in all his anger once more. “You will not harm them, not while a monk of the Brotherhood still draws breath. Cut me down and another will take my place, so give in to darkness or stay your hand.”

Good to know Jorani wasn’t the only one weaker than Monk Happy, though it raised the question of why the portly fellow saw fit to spar with him in the first place. Either way, upon hearing the monk’s statement and seeing the bossman struggle to understand it, Jorani finally tore his eyes away from the conflict and saw what all the fuss was about. Several metres behind Monk Happy sat a ramshackle little village, one that wasn’t there the last time he visited. Monks of all shapes and sizes stood shoulder to shoulder in a line guarding the village inhabitants, the latter of which held all manner of tools and weapons with which to defend themselves. They looked like they knew how to use them too, and as well they should, for each and every last one of them bore the mark of the Father’s foul touch upon them.

For this was a village of Defiled, here on the doorstep to the Brotherhood’s monastery.

Ugly was too simple a word to describe it, for these Defiled were not in any way hideous, unpleasant to gaze upon. There was a wrongness to them that was evident at first glance, but not something as obvious as a defect or disfigurement, though they had their fair share of scars and blemishes. It was the same gut reaction Jorani experienced when half-wildcat Li Song studied him like a threat, an instinctive fear and loathing of the other party. They were Defiled as Defiled could be, coated so thickly in sin one could simply sense it by looking at them, every bit the Father’s foul minions as Demons and Wraiths. While Jorani had known the Brotherhood’s doors were opened to the Defiled, it was another thing altogether to see them come together and support an entire tribe.

And supported they were, for those tools they held were meant for building new homes, better, sturdier ones to replace the ramshackle shelters. Already, Jorani could see a few such examples, homes which were not exactly expertly built, but far more serviceable than a bunch of twigs and leaves thrown together to provide shade. The Brotherhood was teaching them to build, and from the looks of things, cook and clean as well, for Jorani spotted fish and game roasting over campfires as well as wet clothing hanging on lines. For what it was worth, there were no Defiled Weapons amongst them, only wood axes, saws, shovels, and even sturdy wood poles, but he knew they would put up a damned hard fight if push should come to shove, and he had no intentions of pulling punches if things were to get so far.

The Brotherhood’s ideals were lofty and noble, but grounded in reality, they were not. These were Defiled, plain and simple, and leaving them alive was a risk he would not care to take. Best if they were...

Hang on...

Striding forward into the village, he absently greeted the monks he recognized and noted a few new faces in the crowd, but his attention was fixated on something else. Peering past monk Bones, he stopped in his tracks and realized why the Brotherhood were so adamant about protecting these Defiled. “They got their kids with them,” he said to no one in particular, before turning to the bossman with a disappointed stare, unsure what else to say. Seeing the bossman’s blank stare, Jorani moved aside and pointed into the trees at the splash of colour that caught his eye. The bossman saw it too, saw the kite clutched in the trembling hands of a frightened young child, one maybe five or six years of age. There were other children also spread about, some hiding in the trees while others peeked out from behind doors or other hiding spaces that were none too effective, and Jorani imagined there’d be more he couldn’t see.

