The keep was stone. Impressively tall, but short. Apparently, it was expanded with each generation. Flos slowed his pace; Teres could hear a commotion coming ahead of them, from the throne room. He stared at the servants cowering in the stone entryway and gestured around it to Teres.
“The first time I walked these halls was as a boy. I was…fourteen? Fifteen? Maybe fourteen. King Treland had made an incursion into Reim, hoping to take our lands after my mother’s passing. After repulsing him, I saw how he treated his own people and resolved to end his threat once and for all.”
“What happened? I mean, how did you defeat him?”
Teres expected that was the start of Flos’ famous exploits, but he shook his head.
“I couldn’t defeat him in outright battle. So I used trickery, of course. His armies were stronger. He was a much higher-level [King] than I at the time. So I divided my forces. Gazi—she was with me, even back then—helped me lead a small force north, around his troops. Treland hadn’t expected that, and we took the walls by surprise. He’d left only a token force behind.”
“Oh. And then?”
Flos’ face was shadowed. He stared ahead. The doors to the throne room were thrown open. Two [Knights] lay on the ground. One’s faceplate had been bashed in. The other was clutching at his groin.
“I found him on the battlefield and challenged him to personal combat. He accepted, so I killed him there. Calliope was a young woman, then. She held a grudge because I could have ‘spared’ him. It was the middle of battle and his army would have rallied around him if I had not executed him, rather than accept his surrender. Ah, how long ago was that? It feels…like only a moment has passed since then. A moment and a century.”
Then he entered the throne room. Teres heard a blather of voices before he entered, shouts, and then dead silence. She walked forwards and saw a tableau.
Here stood the King of Destruction. His sword was sheathed at his side, and he wore plain clothing—well, plain for a monarch, though she knew he had armor on underneath. And there was the court of Queen Calliope.
They had…nobles, courtiers, a Master of Ceremonies, [Knights], [Ladies] who might have been in waiting, pages, servants, even a steward of their own. But they were the backdrop. The true actors to the scene stood on the dais surrounding the throne at the back of the room.
Three of them. One was Mars. Her shield was on one arm, and her sword drawn. She held it lazily, pointed at a woman with a crown sitting still in the chair. Queen Calliope. Next to her, his sword drawn and aimed at Mars, was Prince Siyal.
Teres had seen him once. He’d been a [Messenger] who’d brought news of war. She remembered an angry young man and found her memory hadn’t lied. Prince Siyal’s face was flushed, and the expensive sword in his hands was held in a double-grip. Mars didn’t appear bothered, though the sword was nearly poking her in the cheek. She was only a few steps away from Queen Calliope, who stared past her at the King of Destruction with burning eyes.
Queen Calliope. She was…well, she looked like a [Queen]. In that she had an expensive dress on. And she had a crown, although that was silver rather than gold. But other than that? She didn’t look like Flos, who had the bearing of a hero of stories. Calliope just looked like a middle-aged woman, hair going to grey but artfully concealed by some kind of hair dye that hadn’t been applied recently enough to cover a few hairs. She looked normal.
Perhaps that was most telling of all. Because when Flos walked forwards, the room shuddered. The King of Destruction slowly walked towards the throne. Mars stepped back, sheathing her sword as Flos came to a stop, still far away from the throne. He spoke quietly, but with that same echo Teres had heard yesterday.
“Twice now, Hellios has made war on Reim. Once, Treland invaded and I took his head. The second time? You have cause for fury, Calliope, but you acted poorly as ruler of your nation.”
“Flos of Reim. You will answer for your crimes against Hellios.”
Queen Calliope’s voice shook, but whether with rage or fear it was hard to say. Her eyes were locked on Flos and her hands were white on the armrests of her throne. Prince Siyal hadn’t lowered his sword, only pointed it at Flos.
“Threaten my mother, King of Destruction, and I will—”
Flos raised a finger. Prince Siyal’s mouth snapped shut. Teres could see him trying to open it furiously, but both monarchs never looked away from each other. Flos shook his head.
“Tell me, Calliope. Was vengeance worth the cost?”
“You murdered my husband after he surrendered.”
“He attacked Reim. I challenged him to a duel. He lost. I did not despoil Hellios, though it was within my power. Now, you send your armies against me. Twice, Calliope. Should I repay you for the lives of my people you slaughtered as they fled towards me?”
Queen Calliope’s face didn’t move, though the rest of the court visibly drew back.
“Do it. And the world will see you for the monster you are.”
For a second, Teres saw Flos’ eyes narrow. He glanced around the room, and she thought he was measuring up every life there. Weighing them. Standing next to the throne, Mars looked around, her gaze cold, her smile taunting. But then the King of Destruction shook his head.
“I do not come here for your head, Calliope of Hellios. I do come for your kingdom. I would have Hellios join Reim, have your people work with mine as equals and your armies and mine march to the ends of the earth together.”
The intake of breath was sharp. Calliope glared at Flos.
“Never. We would rather die than join with you. That is Hellios’ answer, Flos of Reim. And Germina would answer the same in a heartbeat, if you have not asked them already.”
Again, Teres sensed that the room wasn’t quite on Calliope’s side. Even her son, Siyal, gave his mother a glance before glaring at Flos. The King of Destruction spread his hands.
“Germina has agreed. The Quarass of Germina was dead, but now she has risen. And the new Quarass has pledged to join her kingdom with my own.”
The Quarass lives. The murmur that went through the court was short-lived. Calliope glared around, then compressed her lips.
“My answer stands. What will you, then, King of Destruction? Or—will you accept this? Withdraw your forces from Hellios. When the last of your soldiers is gone, I will accept an alliance with your kingdom.”
Teres glared at Calliope as more murmurs sprang up. She saw Mars roll her eyes and mime to Flos a punching motion. The King ignored her. But he did stare at Calliope with something like disgust.
“I trust you less than the Quarass of Germina. I will not settle for an alliance, even sealed by blood. I require your abdication, Calliope. You will not be harmed on my word as a King. But Hellios will be part of Reim. Until such time as it is earned back.”
“What?”
The word burst from Siyal’s mouth at last. He strode down the dais—a man and a woman threw themselves at him, stopping him from approaching Flos. Siyal struggled and then shouted at the King, face flushed.
“You dare to claim our throne? By what right? King of Destruction or not—”
He fell silent as Flos looked at him directly once. Siyal paled as Flos glared.
“Yes. I dare, Prince Siyal. By what right? By right of conquest. Or did you think this was a negotiation? Do you think you held off Mars with that sword? If I ordered it, she would clear this room of life in a minute.”
“Thirty seconds.”
Flos ignored that too. He pointed at Siyal, who’d gone pale.
“Did you think my words were an idle boast? I could erase Blalevault as easily as Hellios. I could empty this city and wash your stone buildings with blood. I should. By rights, I should, to make up for Hellios’ slaughter of my people. For war. I do not because I remember that the people of a country do not answer for the monarchs’ crime. So I offer your mother—and you—this one opportunity. Take it, or I will take your lives.”
Siyal backed up a step. Then he half-looked at his mother. She stared at him, and Teres wondered what kind of a mother she had been. She got her answer as Calliope dipped her head slightly. Siyal froze, then turned. And he raised his sword.
“Flos of Reim. I challenge you to a duel. For Hellios! To the death!”
The throne room was silent. Teres saw one of the people around Siyal, the man, trying to pull him back. The woman was sobbing, pleading with him. Flos stared at Siyal and then looked at Calliope. This time, Teres felt his fury like a hot brand, burning her chest.
“He is your son. Low, even for you, Calliope. Or did you think it would work? If so, you understand nothing of why your husband fell.”
“Your enemy is me, Flos of Reim! I challenge you—”
Siyal paused as Flos looked at him again. The King of Destruction shook his head.
“I refuse your challenge.”
“Then your honor is forfeit! Leave go of me—”
Siyal struggled forwards, but stopped as Mars blocked his way. There was no smile on her face this time as she placed her blade in front of his chest. Flos looked at Siyal.
“Do not throw away your life, Prince Siyal. If you raise your blade against me, Mars will answer you. And she is not merciful in battle.”
The young man hesitated, raising his blade. Teres prayed he wouldn’t try it. Siyal glanced at his mother again, but she gave him no cue this time.
“I—better to die defending my home than to see it destroyed! You would tear Hellios apart and destroy our legacy!”
The [Prince] hurled the words at Flos, as if trying to convince himself. Flos sighed. But he faced Siyal more readily than Calliope.
“No. Recall what I said to your mother. I take Hellios, but only because I find its ruler unworthy of it.”
Now there was another conversation happening. A different tone than the raw contempt between Calliope and Flos. Siyal wavered, his sword loose in his grip. Teres thought she could have disarmed him with a single blow. If Orthenon had seen Siyal’s grip, he would have smacked the [Prince] across the head.
“Then—Hellios is to be mine? If my mother abdicates?”
Mars rolled her eyes. Flos was more patient and just shook his head again.
“Are you worthy of it? No. But you might be, in time. You are young, foolish. But I have seen worse become the best of men. Your mother will not rule Hellios, but you might. Here is what I offer. Serve me, Siyal of Hellios. Win battles in my name. Grow, [Prince], into a man who could lead your country. And I will restore Hellios to you. Not just your lands of now, but the lands Hellios held in days of yore.”
“What?”
The court was shaking. From fear, something like incredulity was blossoming. Hope, worming its way out of despair. Siyal shook his head.
“You don’t own those lands! And Hellios was mighty! In our founding—how do you offer kingdoms so easily?”
The King of Destruction spread his hands. He turned to face the room, slowly looking at the faces around him.
“How now? Boy, I am Flos. One day, I will rule all of Chandrar and the lands beyond it. Why should I not reward my loyal vassals? But a kingdom must be won by valor and service. So that is my offer to you, as a [King] to a [Prince]. Will you accept it?”
The [Prince] wavered. He stared at Flos white-faced. And Teres saw his sword-tip lower. Or maybe his arms were just tired? But the voice came from the throne, harsh and unrelenting.
“Siyal will never serve you, Flos of Reim. And I will never leave this throne.”
Flos looked up. Calliope was staring at him. She stood, then. It was a grand gesture as she pointed down at Flos. But she still seemed smaller.
“If you wish to take Hellios, it will not be with false promises. Do as you did in decades past, Flos of Reim. Or begone from my sight.”
She glared at Flos. And he bowed his head. Teres saw him close his eyes. Then open them a moment later. Flos sighed. Then he shrugged.
“So be it.”
He began walking towards Calliope. Flos strode up the throne room, casually, as if he were going for a stroll. But he drew his sword. And his eyes were locked on Calliope’s head.
Teres felt a surge of cold panic run through her. He wasn’t going to—now? Here? Just like that?
The suddenness had caught everyone else off-guard as well. For a moment, Teres saw them make the same incredulous assessment. Then the terrifying realization that Flos was serious.
“The Queen—”
Several warriors lunged forwards. But they stopped when Mars turned to face them. Siyal was on the floor, choking, clutching at his throat where she’d struck him. Flos kept walking. Calliope backed up, sat down on her throne. She stared at Flos. He came up the dais steps, two at a time. He raised his sword as the noise reached a furor behind him, and Teres ducked behind Mars, her sword drawn too. And he—
“Enough! I yield. I abdicate. I abdicate.”
The words burst from Calliope’s lips. She stared up at Flos. He paused, sword in hand. Slowly, he sheathed it. Then he nodded.
“Do it, then.”
With all eyes on her, with trembling hands, Calliope lifted the silver crown from her head. Flos took it. Then without looking, he hurled it across the room. Someone whimpered. Calliope stared at Flos. He nodded.
“Good. Then I accept your crown, Calliope. Let it be known that you have abdicated and that I take Hellios as my own. Prince Siyal will not become [King]. But I pledge upon my own crown that should he prove his worth, I will grant him Hellios.”
He turned and walked down the steps of the dais. Siyal scrambled up onto all fours. He coughed and then shouted with a strangled voice.
“Do you think I’ll serve you just like that? King of Destruction?”
Flos didn’t bother to slow as he walked past Siyal.
“No. But if you are a true [King], you will come for your kingdom.”
To that, there was nothing Siyal said. He lowered his head as Flos strode past Mars and Teres. Silently, the two women followed him. Flos was nearing the doors to the throne room when Calliope shouted at his back.
She was on her feet now. Tears streaked the makeup on her face. No longer a [Queen], just a woman. But she still hated him, Teres could see.
“Are you pleased with yourself, Flos of Reim? Or must you take everything from me on the tip of a sword? My husband and my home, and now my son?”
Flos turned once at the doors. He put his hand on them as Mars stood at his side. A King and his vassal. He looked old, then. Old and disappointed. He stared back at Calliope. And it was disappointment, more than his contempt, more than his fury, that made the woman quail.
