Case in point. The next day, after a long night of riding, sleeping after being pestered by Flos to describe various military scenarios and then what Oreos were like, Teres woke up after four hours of sleepy riding to find they’d passed into Hellios and were nearing its capital. It was…nothing like Ger had been.
If the capital of Germina had been quiet, discontent, simmering out of sight, Hellios’ capital city was a full-blown boil with a grease fire on top. Flos’ army was camped outside of its gates, and Teres could see arrows as well as scorch marks on the earth. Fresh ones too; a new volley was launched and landed well clear of Flos’ army camped well outside of the walls of the city.
Hellios had fallen, and the city had been taken, but Flos’ army had withdrawn from occupying it after Orthenon had decided it wasn’t worth the casualties it would take to hold it. Part of that reasoning probably had to do with the person he’d stationed in charge of the army.
“My king! I’ve longed to see you!”
The instant Flos approached the camp, a tall, bodacious woman dressed in very form-fitting armor ran out to greet him. She was tall, impossibly fair of skin, and had the kind of beauty that inspired the words bodacious, exquisite, delectable, and, uh, beautiful.
Mars the Illusionist stopped in front of Flos’ horse, beaming up at him. Teres glanced sideways at her as some [Hostlers] raced forwards to take the horses of the other soldiers. She dismounted as Flos, laughing, leapt from the saddle.
“Mars! How goes it, my [Vanguard]? I see that Hellios still has some fire!”
The woman pursed her lips, looking vexed but only for a second. Luscious lips. That was another phrase. She needed no makeup, and her skin was perfect despite the heat. Teres could see some of the male soldiers—and two of the female ones—giving Mars a long look. She tried not to stare as well. Flos appeared impervious to Mars’ charms, however. The [Vanguard], one of Flos’ infamous Seven, led them to the center of the camp.
“The defenders shoot arrows at us any time we get within range, milord. But they’re smart enough not to sally out or sneak out—at least, after the last eight times they tried. We have them cornered, and they know it. They don’t dare attack so long as I’m here.”
She reclined on a chair, her body languid, her molded breastplate gleaming in the sun. Teres stared at her chest. She met Mars’ eyes as the [Vanguard] winked at her.
“Hello, Teres. Like the spell? It’s a new look.”
“It’s great. Do all of your illusions have huge breasts?”
“They attract attention. And arrows, strangely enough. I can’t count how many [Mages] have seared me straight across the chest rather than aim for my head, for all it looks unguarded…”
Mars sighed, and her lips curved up in a smile that would win any heart. But it was all an illusion. Teres knew that, although she had to fight to remember that when a stray gust of wind blew Mars’ hair or she wiped a bit of dust from her gleaming, gilded armor.
But that was Mars the Illusionist for you. She hid her true form with spells. But illusion or not, she was the most powerful of Flos’ servants, at least in level. With her present, Hellios’ forces cooped up in the walls of their city wouldn’t dare sally forth. Teres had seen Mars fight in a battle only once. When she had, she’d been unstoppable. Invincible.
Still, Mars was hardly a leader like Venith or Maresar, and the camp showed it. She’d left the organization to a [Strategist] under her command, and apparently she’d spent her time in camp sparring, taunting Hellios’ defenders, or drinking and gambling.
“A true soldier to the last. But I need a way into that city, Mars. Would you care to walk with me?”
“After a month spent staring at the walls and listening to their weak insults? Walking with my sovereign? You don’t have to tempt me any further.”
Mars leapt up. She grabbed Flos’ arm, and laughing, he followed her. The two walked through the camp as men and women raced forwards, but Flos walked through them with a single sentence.
“I intend to take Hellios myself.”
And that was it. The [Strategist], one of Venith’s men, fell back with the others. They didn’t ask how Flos intended to do it or if he was crazy. The King of Destruction wanted to take Hellios with just Mars and Teres. So they watched, and the [Soldiers] dashed out of their tents and cheered Flos’ name.
King of Destruction! Teres could feel the reverberation in the air as they approached Hellios’ capital. Blalevault was a city set into the side of the mountain, hence the reason why the defenders couldn’t go around Mars’ army in the cover of night. But it was well-fortified, and the walls were imposing. Flos stopped at the point where the arrows littered the ground. Behind him, his army spread out, chanting his name.
“Flos!”
The roar came from thousands of voices. Hellios seemed to shake with the sound. The King of Destruction raised a hand, and his army roared. Teres, standing next to him, shook with the sound, but neither Flos nor Mars moved. She was smiling up at him, and he was smiling at her. Like the oldest of friends or lovers. That was how Flos looked at all of his Seven. It was a look to make Teres jealous, for only her bond with Trey was more intimate.
Hellios had spotted the King of Destruction. They’d heard him long ago. Teres could hear someone blowing a horn and saw people racing across the walls, filling it. Archers, [Knights], she saw several draw their bows back.
“Incoming. Stand behind me, Teres.”
Mars warned the girl. She raised her shield as the first arrows flew. They were over three hundred meters away from the walls by Teres’ metric reckoning, but a few arrows still flew all that distance. Then one shot from a bow aimed straight at Flos. It fell through the air, aimed at his face—
The arrow snapped on Mars’ shield as she lifted it. The [Vanguard] poised like some kind of action hero, lifting her shield over Flos’ head. The King of Destruction held still as Hellios loosed more arrows, but whoever had shot that arrow must have used a Skill, for none came closer.
“Hellios! I have come to speak with your Queen! Open your gates and let us enter in peace!”
Flos bellowed the words at the walls. His voice was so loud! Teres winced. She saw the bows stop loosing arrows. For a second, there was silence, then she heard a distant shout.
“Sands take you, King of Destruction!”
Someone on the walls bellowed the words back. There was a shout and more sound as the defenders screamed and jeered. The sound was a cacophony with few words Teres could hear, but what she could make out was all foul.
Flos’ army shouted back, but they fell silent as Flos raised a hand. Mars glared at Hellios.
“The barking of a defeated army, Your Majesty. They can’t hold out for even a day, and they know it. And Orthenon has the rest of the country locked down. Do you want me to send the army forth? We can take those walls.”
“No. I won’t waste lives. Ours or theirs. This is simple enough, anyways. Hellios might not be Germina in terms of loving their Quarass, but they are still loyal.”
Flos walked forwards, heedless of the second volley of arrows that fell short and the fireball that exploded after only a hundred meters in the air. He raised a hand and pointed at the walls—the jeering redoubled in volume as the people on Hellios’ walls dared the King of Destruction to come closer. But Flos only looked at one person.
“Mars! Enter the throne room. If anyone threatens my subjects or myself, put Queen Calliope to death and slay everyone in the castle! My army, if I or Teres should fall, burn Blalevault to the ground and erase Hellios from every map in the world.”
The people on Hellios’ walls suddenly went quiet. Behind Flos, his army roared his name. Teres turned to stare at Flos. He wasn’t smiling.
Mars was. At his command, she strolled forwards, her bright red hair, the color of today—last time it had been purple—streaming behind her in the wind. Her face was bare, her armor beautiful. But it fooled no one.
Here came Mars the Illusionist. Teres saw the defenders pull back as one. Then they began firing and loosing spells as she came within range.
Hundreds of arrows struck Mars in the face, across her armor, and, yes, across her breastplate. A [Fireball] exploded, engulfing her in flames. Someone threw a bolt of lightning. Both standard spells. War spells that could kill a group of [Soldiers] in a single blast. But when the smoke cleared, Mars was walking forwards. Her pure skin wasn’t scratched. Her armor gleamed.
An illusion. But the Mars underneath was just as unharmed, Teres knew. The knowledge made Hellios’ defenders quail, then redouble their assault. Teres watched as they shot quivers full of arrows at her, and then, when she was within forty feet of the walls, they just gave up.
“Open the gates. Or Mars will cut every soldier on the walls down.”
Flos bellowed at Blalevault’s walls. They hesitated, but this time, Teres could sense the fear on the distant figures. The gates opened, and Mars strolled through.
“Our turn.”
Flos calmly walked forwards. Teres stared at him and then walked after him, cringing as the walls grew closer.
“Wait! But should we let Mars—”
“If they were going to shoot me, they would do it regardless. No, they’ll refrain, tempting a target as I might be. And those who think to kill me will be held back by those who fear for their lives or their families.”
“Are you sure?”
Flos looked back over his shoulder.
“No. So you need not accompany me, Teres. But I will protect you if someone tries.”
For a second, Teres debated staying as Flos walked onwards. But perhaps it was his nature as [King] or maybe it was her. She followed.
Mars was through the gates by the time they arrived and heading up the street. Blalevault was organized such that the street leading through the central gates led straight up towards the keep built into the back of the mountain. Teres saw that while the defenders had given up, some were still trying to hold her back from the palace.
They couldn’t stop her. Teres saw a man fling himself at Mars. He was as tall as her illusion and broader still, but when he tried to stop her with a bear hug, she just kept walking. His legs began sliding, and he scrabbled for purchase. He couldn’t so much as break her stride and ended up being dragged ten feet before she kicked him off her.
“After Mars.”
Flos walked through the gates. Teres stared up at the faces on the walls. Hundreds of eyes stared hatred and fear at Flos. If she had time, she would have stared at Hellios’ impressive walls, built up from thick-cut blocks of stone, or the architecture of the city, which was all stone, intricate work compared to Germina’s simple mud huts, but terribly lacking in color despite the colorful roofs. If she had time, she would have seen the people, judged the condition of Hellios’ defenders after a month of defeat. But Flos was walking so fast that Teres could only see a blur of faces.
They were all there. Helliosians, the people of Blalevault. Staring at Flos, some clearly trying to shout insults at him. But fear and his presence held their tongues. Flos walked up the street, glancing to his left and right, his face impassive. What he felt, Teres couldn’t guess at. He was moving too fast. He’d spent two days in Germina, blending in with the people under his illusion spell, listening to them. But here he was nearly at the castle when someone threw a rock at him.
“Flos!”
The King was already turning. His sword was in its sheath, but it slashed the rock into fragments before the word had left Teres’ mouth. The crowd gasped and drew back in horror. The King of Destruction turned and pointed at the culprit. She froze, tiny hand lifting a second rock.
A child. A girl, who was instantly shielded by her mother. The people of Blalevault stared at the girl in horror and then at Flos, remembering his vow. The King of Destruction studied the girl for a second and then shook his head.
“Children don’t count.”
The breath that the crowd let out was like a gust of wind. Flos paused as Teres stopped by his side. He looked at the child holding the rock.
“I hate you! Die, King of Destruction!”
She struggled in her mother’s grip. Children were supposed to be cute, but there was nothing cute in the way this girl’s face contorted. Her mother held onto her.
“Don’t, spare her, Your Majesty, please!”
She begged as Flos drew closer. The people around the woman drew back. Teres saw a few men clench their fists and thought that if Flos hurt the girl, they would attack him, order or not. But that wasn’t what Flos did. He bent and looked down at the girl.
“Why do you hate me, child?”
The girl went still for a second in her mother’s arms. She looked up.
“You killed my da.”
Then she threw herself at Flos. Her mother had to drag her back. Flos looked at her, then around at the citizens of Hellios. They stared at him, and the same hatred in the girl’s eyes was in theirs.
Then Teres understood. Hellios was different from Germina in one way. The people of Germina had hated Flos for killing the Quarass. For bringing war to the country. For all these things, they hated Flos, but Hellios’ hatred ran deeper. It was darker. And Flos knew it.
“What is your name, girl?”
He looked down at the struggling girl. She shouted defiantly in his face.
“Delani of Hellios! You’ll die! Queen Calliope and Prince Siyal will cut off your head!”
She screamed, red in the face as she tried to kick at Flos. Teres saw his shoulders slump for a second. Then he knelt.
“Quiet.”
And the girl was. She held still, flushed with rage as Flos looked at her. He spoke quietly to her, to the watchers.
“I did not make war first, Delani of Hellios. I understand that does nothing for your heart. But do not waste your life here. Grow. And wait. And find me when you are older if you still bear a grudge. I will be waiting.”
Then he stood up and kept walking. There was only silence after that. Delani’s mother dragged her away, and no one else attacked Flos. Teres followed him. It was a long road up to the keep.
“They loathe me in Hellios twice-over, Teres. There are no memories of my reign over them that are pleasant. I have taken this city twice now. Both times, I was hated. I fear Hellios will be harder to rule than Germina by far. But I will not have it stab at my back a third time.”
Flos spoke quietly as he entered the open doors to the castle. The wooden gates looked…cracked, as if Mars had rammed her way through. Teres stared at three bodies in the entryway. They looked unconscious, rather than dead.
