“Would that you had never invaded, Calliope. Would that Treland had never taken arms against me. Had that happened, I might never have been known as the King of Destruction and we might have lived in peace as neighbors. But, I think, we would never have been friends.”
Then he turned and was gone.
 
——
 
They left Blalevault in silence. No one stopped them. If anything, the people were relieved. News of what had passed in the throne room was already spreading. And the people were…wary.
They did not hate Flos one bit less. But he had offered them something. Like Germina, it was a deal. A chance, a way out besides death. They could rise up, or they could bide their time. Wait and take the King of Destruction’s offer.
Teres thought she knew what they’d choose. But Flos didn’t seem happy, for all he’d won a bloodless victory. He gave curt orders in the camp. Watch the city; he didn’t trust Calliope, for all she was no longer [Queen]. Then he retired to Mars’ tent.
Teres found him inside, drinking a cup of wine with the [Vanguard]. Mars was talking softly, but she wasn’t as provocative as before. She’d switched guises; from a redheaded beauty to a younger woman, still flawless, but more like a soldier, with short-cropped green hair.
“Teres. Come in. We were talking about the past.”
Flos looked up. He took a gulp of his wine as Mars sat back and motioned for Teres to join her. There was a cup of wine, and Teres accepted it, drinking a bit and grimacing. Mars drank the poorest of wines, but Flos didn’t seem to care.
“I don’t know if Siyal will accept my offer. Either way, it will be a long time before I trust Blalevault to a small guard. Orthenon will have to work hard to keep the city from erupting in plots. Then again—Hellios was manageable in my first campaign once I let them fight their enemies. Which they have many of, thankfully.”
“Do you think that Queen will give you trouble, Flos?”
Mars spoke softly, using Flos’ name for the first time Teres could remember. Flos shook his head, staring into his goblet.
“Calliope? She’s not brave or clever enough for true dissent. And she’s lost her class. Her Skills too, some of them. She’ll keep some Skills, gain a new class. But she cannot take back her abdication. Nor will her people forget. Siyal is the one who will decide their fates, if anyone from her line does.”
Mars nodded. She offered Flos a refill from a wineskin, and he took it and drank again. Teres gulped. She looked from Mars to Flos.
“Were you—were you actually going to cut off her head if she didn’t say anything?”
She didn’t know if she wanted the answer. But to her surprise, that made Flos laugh. He looked up, grinning slightly.
“Kill her? No. Calliope must have thought so. But I had no intention of killing her in that moment. I was going to slice that damn throne in half. Take her crown, break it. Maybe spank her like a child.”
“What? But that’s so…”
Teres almost said childish. But Flos was smiling, and Mars was giving her a thumbs up.
“Why shouldn’t I? And it would work better than you think. A [Queen] needs dignity, Teres. More than a [King], sometimes. And Calliope is prideful. I’m not in the habit of killing more than I have to, despite what the rumors about me say. And I don’t kill monarchs. Usually.”
Teres paused. That begged the question.
“How many rulers have you killed?”
Flos looked at Mars. She held up a number on her fingers, balancing the cup between her thighs. Flos shook his head and counted on his fingers.
“Er…sixteen? No—twenty-three if you count…often in battle, we’re drawn to each other, you see. And when I was first starting out, other rulers thought they could best me in battle with their [Champions]. That stopped when Mars joined me, but I suppose I came to them after that.”
“Twenty-three?”
“It happens. I don’t think of it as a good thing. And I don’t plan on killing any rulers out of turn, Teres. Calliope was a fool. But she had cause to hate me. Hellios does.”
“But you didn’t start the war. They did. And you spared them. They wouldn’t have done the same if they were in your shoes!”
Flos shook his head slightly. He looked tired now. Tired, when he had been full of life in Germina. He looked as old as he was, that was it.
“What did that ever matter? They have cause. That child has cause. And I will not take their hatred away. I will bear it. That is what a [King] does. For Reim, I will take the hatred of my enemies. For my kingdom, I will be a monster. But Teres—sometimes it is hard. I am glad you were here to see a day when I was not forced to be that monster.”
He looked up. Teres saw him smile again. So she sat on a rug in Mars’ tent. And she said the first thing that came to mind.
“This is awful wine. You know, I heard there were magical wines in this world, which we don’t have. But this is terrible.”
“Hey, we’re in a camp outside of a city famous for exporting stone. What do you want?”
Mars protested. Flos laughed.
“This is terrible stuff. But I’ll drink it and gladly. Still, when we get the chance, remind me to show you some magical wines, Teres. They are quite lovely, although you can sometimes taste the magic in them. [Mages] love the stuff, but I prefer…”
He began telling Teres a story, and Mars chipped in, grinning. Teres sat and listened to the King of Destruction as he forgot his gloom and became lively again. And she thought that was why she was here. She and Trey could do what all of Flos’ vassals and armies and Skills could not. So she kept him company for a while as Hellios fell to the King of Destruction and the Quarass sat on her throne and looked to the future.
This was Chandrar. Believe it or not, this wasn’t that out of the ordinary as days went.
 
——
 
As Teres and Flos drank in Mars’ tent outside the capital of Hellios, two nations away, a young boy perched in the window of the tallest tower in Reim. Not in the window of the tower, of course, but on a stool just on the edge. Trey Atwood wasn’t suicidal. He stared across the nation of Reim, north and east, as if he could see his sister there. Of course he couldn’t, and any mental link with his twin sister was purely in his head. But he liked to imagine he knew she was well.
“There you are.”
A quiet voice spoke behind Trey. He yelped, nearly fell out of his stool, and windmilled desperately, although he was far from the window’s ledge. He fell onto the ground and looked up.
Four eyes returned his gaze. The fifth, main eye was shut. But Gazi’s sharp-toothed smile more than made up for its lack. The half-Gazer knelt. She was wearing her brown scale armor, and on her back was tied the claymore she never let leave her side. Trey backed up on the ground, babbling.
“Oh please, not more training. I’m tired, I don’t want to be hit with sticks or cast spells while blindfolded, and if you make me dodge your sword again, I swear I’ll jump and die and—”
“Shush.”
Gazi raised a curiously segmented finger to her lips. Trey went quiet. The Gazer put a foot on her chair and stared out the window. He saw one of her four eyes twist downwards. Another stared at him, and the other two rolled around, exposing the whites of her eye. Checking the staircase behind her and the floors below.
Gazi, or Gazi the Omniscient, one of the King of Destruction’s Seven, waited for Trey to get up. She glanced out the tower and shook her head.
“If you jumped, you might not die.”
“What?”
She grinned at him, an unsettling smile that had too many teeth and sadistic malice. Trey knew it was a fake smile Gazi used, but it still intimidated him.
“If you lived, which you could, you’d break both legs but not die. With healing potions, you’d be on your feet in a month. Sooner if my lord used better quality potions on you. Which he would. But you would wish you’d be dead.”
Trey shuddered. He edged away from the window. Gazi looked at him.
“You don’t like heights. Why did you come up here?”
“To escape you. I thought you were going to make me train.”
“It’s for your own good. If you aren’t accompanying my lord, you should be working to improve yourself. And if you fear heights, you should be cured of that.”
“No thanks. Please? Just let me look out. I’m waiting for Teres to get back. They’re done with Hellios now, right?”
Gazi tilted her head.
“Yes. Orthenon received a [Message] not an hour ago. He is preparing to ride to Germina and Hellios to arrange a system of control. We must have their resources, not to mention their warriors.”
“Flos got both nations to cooperate? Just like that?”
“He is the King of Destruction. But no, it will not be that simple. There will be unrest, but that is a job for the King’s [Steward]. And for me.”
Gazi indicated the sword on her back. The famous Named Adventurer and [Scout] was known for her ability to catch spies and plotters. Trey wondered if she would be fine with her wounded eye. Someone had damaged it before she returned to Reim. But Gazi seemed confident.
“If you say so. I just want to see Teres.”
And Flos. But Trey didn’t say that out loud. He both admired and hated the King of Destruction at times. Admired for what Flos was and hated because he allowed slaves. Because he was still someone who would kill thousands to rule the world. Strangely, that was why Gazi seemed to have taken Trey under her wing. It was a mixed blessing, because of all of Flos’ Seven, Gazi was the one who scared Trey the most. Orthenon didn’t count.
“Well, we will all be back in time for his return. Orthenon moves faster, and I will wait for his arrival. But in the meantime—”
“No training, please?”
Trey begged. Gazi gave him a sinister curve of the lips.
“Not yet. I was going to say there’s someone on the road.”
“Is it Flos? Teres?”
Trey heard a sigh as he scrambled to the window. He stared out across the roads leading to Reim, the capital city of Flos’ small kingdom.
“What did I just say? No. It’s someone you know, though. See if you can make them out. Use the spell.”
“The spell? But—”
A foot kicked Trey in the back. He screamed a bit and grabbed the window.
“Okay, okay! Don’t do that again!”
“Cast the spell. You’re capable of it. And you don’t need the staff. Do it with your hands. Concentrate…”
It was hard to do that with a steep drop below and Gazi’s impending foot threatening him from behind. But Trey had been taught by Gazi, and she was surprisingly good, if ruthless, at teaching magic. He concentrated, pulling a strand of magic from a reservoir in his body he hadn’t known existed. He wove it upwards, focusing on a spell. Trey spoke.
“[Farsight]. Ow!”
His vision zoomed in, accompanied by a stinging pain as his pupils frantically sought to compensate. Trey blinked and then stared at the tiny dot that he’d spotted coming down the road. His eyes widened. He saw a caravan of dark-skinned travellers. Camels, a wagon, no, a box with wheels completely covered from the sun. And leading them was a veiled girl he knew.
“Nawalishifra! She finally came!”
Gazi nodded. She leaned out the window carelessly besides Trey.
“She swore an oath. And it seems she’s brought much of her tribe with her. Good. My [King] has lamented the lack of a good [Blacksmith]. We have a few, but…let us greet her.”
“How?”
Gazi turned. Trey froze as he saw all four eyes turn towards him. He gripped the edge of the window, but he felt a hand on his.
“Gazi? Gazi, how—no, no, no—”
 
——
 
“So, we have arrived. Strike my hands, but this journey was long. And we would have made it quicker had you dung-beetles not gotten half the carts stuck in the sand. This is Reim, is it? It seems too poor to be the home of the King of Destruction.”
Nawalishifra Tannousin, or Nawal of the Tannousin clan, stopped and shaded her eyes as she stared up at the palace that was Reim’s capital. Behind her, the caravan of Tannousin warriors and clanswomen and clansmen stopped. They had travelled for weeks and were dusty with grime. Their passage into Reim had taken three stops as [Soldiers] halted them, but each time, Nawal had spoken their name, and they had let her pass.
Now she stared up at the towers and then back at the walls of the city. Reim was circular, and it had towers jutting up at regular intervals across each wall. Much like a crown. In fact, she had heard that the towers had come to life and shot lightning down at the army that had besieged Reim not two months past.
The thought of so much devastation made Nawal shudder. But still she stood by her words. Tall as the citadel was, she could see the places where stone had eroded. The city, for all it was bustling, was too plain and the people too underfed, too poor. Was this truly the home of the King of Destruction, whose grandeur and terror had conquered a continent?
A low voice from behind Nawal made her turn. One of the senior clanswomen, who was like Nawal, veiled, lowered her voice and hissed at Nawal.
“Nawalishifra, remember what the [Headman] told you, and the elders. Mind your tongue! You have sworn an oath, and the King of Destruction sent part of his payment, but you are not to offend! You are a woman—”
“Do you think I do not know that, you sand clod, you? Bezha, do I not bleed monthly? Do I not have breasts? Am I not veiled? Do not speak to me of what I know. I will mind my tongue in the presence of the King of Destruction and his servants, and not before.”
Nawal glared irritably at Bezha. She heard a sigh from the older woman.
“Only know that you are here because no one else was suited and you made an oath, a foolish oath!”
“How was I to know that the master of Trey Atwood was the King of Destruction himself? Were it any other man, my boast would have been true. And it will still be true, the sands take me if I lie!”
“Do not be overconfident!”
Bezha snapped back. Nawal tossed her head, but kept silent. In truth, she was afraid. She was the best [Blacksmith] of the Tannousin clan since her father’s passing. But she was young, not of the level he had been, and she feared the King of Destruction might scorn a weapon made by a woman, for all he had claimed otherwise.
If the elders and [Headman] could have sent anyone else, they would have. But Nawal was the only one skilled enough to work Naq-Alrama metal flawlessly. So she had come, and if she failed to uphold her vow to forge the King of Destruction a blade beyond what he had ever seen before, her tribe would surely suffer his wrath.
