Someone far slighter than an orc, far more slender, and clad in a visage of death. The man's translucent body shone with a hue of ethereal brightness, the color that of the moon's fragments blessing the surface of a placid lake. But it was the fact that Shiv recognized who he was looking at which left him frozen entirely.

His Non-Sequitur trembled once more. This time, nothing stopped the vision from reaching its culmination. Nothing stopped it as he gained a flash, an instant of insight that consumed all he saw.

Where there had been an ethereal apparition was now a man, one Shiv had seen once before, in the ruined wilderness of the Abyss after they'd defeated the Lance of Dragon-Knights. His emotionless, dark-skinned face was clean-shaven, but for a thin goatee decorating his chin. His eyes were dark, and his long, flowing mane bled into the blackness behind him. The very shadows moved in tandem with their sovereign, bending to the man's will, coiling around him, folding and trembling with every footstep, with every movement he made. And below the man's thin face, an armor shaped in the design of a skeleton gleamed bright, with a brilliant gem crusted at its center. A brilliant gem that burned with vitality, with Necromancy, with Animancy.

A brilliant gem that stood at the heart of Valor Thann’s torso.

The vision ended. Valor remained.

Color and depth left the Legend’s features, but the ghostly outlines Shiv had come to know were still there. The shadows didn't cover him. The shadows didn't hide him. Silent and expressionless, he drifted closer to Shiv, and as he approached, as the Deathless tried to process what he was seeing, the true mirage finally broke.

He saw through Valor's ghostly form, then, and glimpsed the creature behind it.

Bleeding through Valor's face was the large, gray visage of an orc.

The first thing Shiv noticed about the Culturist was his smile—that ever-present, ever-serene smile that belonged more on the face of an artist savoring his own work rather than a bloodthirsty monster about to tear into unwilling flesh. The tusks jutting out from his lower jaw and the rest of his teeth were thin and sharp, and his piercing, bright yellow eyes were full of curiosity. They were barely visible beneath his wide hood, designed in the aesthetic of a horned owl and shrouding the top part of his face. The fabric of the cloak that it was connected to appeared like a billowing mesh that a hunter would wear, except covered entirely in gray-brown feathers. Flakes of gray peeled away from its edges, dancing in the dark.

In the orc's hands was some kind of—Shiv blinked as he realized it wasn't a spear. It was as long as one, but it was hollow—no, barreled. It had the design of that weapon Adam had taken from the Aviary agent he'd eliminated back at Gate Theborn when he was trying to secure the Animancy Core.

A rifle, Can Hu had called it. A rifle with a golden blade attached below the tip, radiating pulses of Chronomancy.

But more than any of this, it was what covered the Culturist’s body below his cloak that drew Shiv's gaze. Because there, worked into a larger, lesser set of armor covering the Culturist’s skin, was a skeletal torso, shaped from a gleaming material that didn't belong to this world.

"Oh, so you recognize him. You recognize what my old enemy used to look like." The Culturist sighed. His form flickered, and for a moment, Valor’s ghostly form returned, superimposed over that of the orc. "You are not his usual choice of disciple. In fact, I'd say you're quite the opposite. Brutal, overwhelming, destructive. Perhaps the little bit of cunning is what he appreciates. That inclination toward deception and ambush. But you aren't nearly subtle enough, and you're not so attentive. Neither is your friend, lamentably, despite his impressive Awareness Skill. Roland has not prepared his spawn well enough.”

Shiv clenched his jaw and did his best to appear unshaken.

"That one of his missing pieces?" Shiv asked. His eyes were locked on the gleaming chassis. Suddenly, an entirely new threat had revealed himself in this fight. And a new objective.

The Culturist nodded. "It took a substantial effort to seize the Torso of Valor Thann back from the distant world he lost it on. Or should I say the distant world that Udraal cast it aside on? It is tragic and frankly quite insulting for a child to do such a thing, but so very, very beneficial for me. I already possess a Legendary-Tier Stealth Skill of my own, but compared to what resides inside this mere piece of his soul, I fear my affinity for darkness and being unseen remains utterly eclipsed."

The shadows in Shiv's periphery went still, and soon it was like he was hovering in a periphery of darkness, a true, endless void, where only he and the Culturist remained.

"I expected to be impressed when I claimed his torso for my own." The Legendary orc looked down and chuckled as he chastised himself. "I was a fool. What this armor offers is an experience. It's insight into everything I did wrong leading up to my Delve. I'd thought I understood what it meant to be subtle, to be quiet, to be unseen. But this? This is magnificence. Gaining this torso, I found myself a master catching a glimpse of true, peerless genius."

The orc reached up at something unseen, his fingers twisting in a specific gesture, and his face contorting almost in pain. "It is such a perverse thing, I will have you know, to realize that despite all the work you put in, despite everything you've given, despite all your struggle, you didn't get it, and you will never truly get it, not without the aid provided by another. Can you imagine realizing that without being shown by another, you would have never been able to reach the apex under your own power, and been none the wiser all your life?”
