The Fairwoods are like an Integration within Integration. You feel the change in the air the moment you enter. There's a presence there that settles upon you, settles into you, that watches you like an unseen stalker. Sometimes you can even feel it tugging on you, deliberately stabbing your emotions or inflicting dramatic changes in its realm to get you to play your role.

And you need to learn how to play your role well if you want to survive.

There is a reason why most Fairwalkers are people who walk the Paths of the Bard or Artisan. You need to understand the structure of a story, how characters are meant to react, and play off of one another. From there, you can subvert the story's expectations and bring it greater pleasure, or you can try to change your role entirely. Deliberately going against the confines of the narrative structure, however, will see you struck down—no matter what your Tier.

Strength alone isn't going to save you here. I've seen would-be Fairwalkers spawn in at a village gateway or some peaceful forest clearing and immediately act as they do on Integrated Earth. They tear through the scenery, they shatter buildings, they try to bend the locals to their will, but the locals here are immortal and have seen more of our kind pass through and perish in more ways than you can possibly imagine.

The Fairwoods are insidious. This realm will give you skills that ostensibly strengthen you, but in truth make you conform to a shape that is easier to slay. Are you a Pyromancer or a Pathbearer specializing in your Physicality? Do you like to oppress and burn the villages you enter? If so, congratulations! You're gaining a skill that specifically allows you to shape yourself into a dragon. Your physical attributes will explode while your magic climbs into the stratosphere.

And then a wandering Fae Knight-Errant will drive his sword through your chest because that's what Fae Knight-Errants do: Slay dragons. Protect the people. Play their role.

When you receive a Narrative Skill, understand that it is both an opportunity and a trap. Study what you can do with it. Understand that you are not simply being blessed and allowed to grow greater without consequence. You are meant to go on an aligned path, to perform a set series of actions. These actions are formed by your prior decisions. Even if you are not destructive, even if you don't seek to burn and enslave the world through strength alone, know that you can very well be listed as a fool among the people and rendered an Aesop for stupidity if you prove unwise too many times.

Within the lands of the Fae, the hand of the System wears a playwright’s glove. Read a story. Read all the folklore you can. And even then, if at all possible, don’t go.

We're not meant to be there. We are not characters intended to be in their story. We will not return if they break, mutilate, twist, or kill us, but the Fae will, and they have performed this play countless times without fail.

You are not a conquering hero about to change the world. You are just a novelty item that the actors are using to amuse themselves.

—Tale, Torment, and Triumph: Fairwalking and Why You Shouldn’t Do It, by [Removed Per the Decree of the Republic Inquisition]

313

To Break a Curse [X]

“Shiv! Just the man I wanted to strangle. I was going to come find you, but now that you're here, I can be spared the trouble. Tell me, what have you done? What terrible, foolish, and utterly mad thing have you done? Surprise me. Give me stress ulcers. Nothing will make me happier. Nothing at all!”

Adam's greeting wasn't exactly what Shiv had expected, but the Gate Lord did have a great many responsibilities these days. Managing the massive group of refugees and the conditions of a developing Gate, along with several different Quests that held great ramifications for failure and grand rewards of success, were bound to wear on anyone's patience.

The sheer frustration leaking over the telepathic strand that connected both Shiv and Uva to him was palpable. Adam was sailing toward the Tutorial bunker at record speeds. Shiv also glimpsed something else from his friend’s perspective: wards were being layered over the surface Gateway and a concentration of war-ready dimensionals zipping across the air in active formations as well.

Maybe Adam was more than a little overwhelmed. Maybe something was actually happening.

“What is happening? Why are so many people gathering at the surface Gateway? Are we under attack?” Uva's mind was rife with urgency. A jungle of Psychomantic threads exploded out from Shiv’s dormant Gate Piety body, seeking fellow Sisters or anyone who could inform her about the unfolding situation. Shiv felt splinters break away from her mind, each one a fragment of her collective ego, but capable of serving as their own consciousness all the same. Her stacks began their conversations while the bulk of her remained present, interrogating Adam. With every person she connected to, it seemed like her cognitive processing and reflexes grew a bit faster, while her brain suffered no obvious overheating or strain.

“Way to make my Bifurcated Processing seem pathetic,” Shiv thought aloud. He pulled up the skill and rubbed his chin.

Bifurcated Processing 86

He might be able to evolve that skill with a few more deaths. He'd let it languish by the wayside as he did all he could to level his Eldritch Physiology. “Might want to be a bit more strategic there. An evolved Multi-Tasking Skill might just end up as actively usable or beneficial for my weird biology instead of setting it on fire.”

The sound of Adam clenching his teeth so hard they began to creak interrupted his musings. “Shiv, I'm not asking you about what skills you want to evolve. I'm asking you what you have done to cause a few THOUSAND Prismatic Guard members to camp outside the Surface gateway, demanding your head on a plate!”

After a moment of surprise, an amused snort escaped Shiv. “Oh, nothing, really. I was just helping Irons with his investigation into what happened to Melissa and her sister. Might’ve smashed a few hornet nests and kidnapped a few Inquisitors, but—”

“You did what? Without bringing me along? Without consulting me in detail?”

“I asked earlier; you said you were busy.”

“I was busy trying to run a Gate and make sure everyone from Blackedge is settled. There was a lot to do, and I distinctly told you to wait before doing anything drastic!”

“I didn't do anything drastic,” Shiv shot back. “Not even anything out of the usual. I was just looking into the missing orphans again. Doing some surveillance stuff, capturing some Inquisitors to interrogate them, killing some bastards who are trying to kidnap children—speaking of which, how are the orphans?”

“Felling traumatized, Shiv! How the hells do you think they would be? You obliterated their caretaker in front of them and drenched them in her viscera!”

“She obliterated herself on me, alright? It's not my fault she slammed into me and splattered like an egg against the wall. And what would you have had me do instead? Just let them take the kids? Give Daughter more bodies to torture and waste? I wasn’t going to let the Inquisitors take them.”

“And that is what the small army is here for? Eight orphaned children? Is that why the Prismatic Guard is beginning to set up siege camps outside our Gate? Or is there perhaps something else you did?”

Shiv hesitated. “Well, look, I was working something else out with Irons. He told me that we need someone with a higher rank to figure out where they're bringing these kids and what they're doing with them. I decided to go back to the scene of the crime to capture someone like that. Originally, I was going for one of their Investigators, but then I got attacked by Assassins and caught one of them before Daughter, Harlock, and Halsur killed me. Maybe that’s kinda why.”

An intrusive thought overflowed from Adam: he imagined slamming himself headfirst into the ground, just shattering his own skull and enjoying the blissful peace of death in a place absent from Shiv’s hyperviolence. “Shiv… I thought you said something about not playing the System's game. I thought you said something about telling strife to… to mate with its own corpse.”

“Oh, yeah, I'm not doing this because the System's forcing me to. I'm doing this because I'm trying to help Irons. In fact, he was the one who gave me some new rules for how we’re doing things.”

“Captain Harry Irons, the most level-headed man I know, told you to bring an Inquisitorial prisoner back to our Gate after being spotted engaging Inquisitorial forces in the open streets of the Republic?” Adam was practically choking on his thoughts.

“Well… sort of. He didn't say I should bring them back here to Gate Piety exactly. Or who to capture exactly. Or that I should fight them in the open or anything. I was trying to stay stealthy at first, but then they ended up ambushing me pretty good. And things just developed from there. I had to adapt. I didn’t think—“

“I know, Shiv. Sometimes, that’s your continued and greatest problem. You don’t think. You don’t suffer the consequences, but while you're the only Pathbearer who can come back from being dead, you're not the only person who possesses a modicum of free will!”

Shiv was about to reply when something hit him in the back of his head. An empty can of beans bounced off the floor, and Shiv turned to see Jessica glaring at him with folded arms. “Let me guess, you’re here to chew me out for the same thing Adam is?” he asked.

She raised a sharp eyebrow. “Depends. Is he currently chewing you out for performing a snatch and grab on a Hero-Executioner of the Inquisition and murdering a bunch of other people ?”

A near-innocent grin spread across Shiv’s face. “Wow, Jessica. I think the System should give you a Divination Skill if you don’t have one already.”

Her facial muscles did what he could best describe as spastic acrobatics. She went through a chain of near-inscrutable reactions before her eyes flared with outrage while her lips quirked upward in incredulous amusement.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: She currently dances on the edge between violence and laughter. Your flippant nature has caught her off guard, while all your actions make her want to cut you down. Be diplomatic but audacious, and you might chart a path forward without any undue bloodshed.

“What the fuck, kid?” Jessica finally managed. “What the hells are you even doing? And why?”

“The straight answer is that your guys keep kidnapping orphans for Daughter to use as meat suits. Trying to stop that, mostly. Was trying to kidnap someone who’s a bit higher up so we—uh, I can properly set the operation on fire. Shit developed from there. I’m sorry if this annoys you or something like that, you know?”

Comedy 13 > 16

The tiny swordswoman’s eyes bulged like they were being birthed out of her sockets. “You… Sorry if you annoyed… You… You audacious fuck.” She gritted her teeth to hide a shiver of laughter. “Take this seriously.”

“I am! About as seriously as the Inquisition takes sacrificing children to Daughter. I'm not doing this for fun or to smash up the capital. I'm doing this because children are being fed to some false god! And there's nothing you can say to justify that. Don't bother trying to deny it either. Even you’re not dumb enough to miss what they’re doing.”

The Giantsbane was just about to say something else when another part of his sentence clipped her like a cart tumbling downhill. “Wait, even I’m not dumb enough? You want to explain that?”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Careful, now. We stand between the borders of temerity and madness. Choose the former, defuse her offense, but don't step back from the claim. Keep her off balance. Run the edge with her.

He adopted a pitying expression and shook his head. “Jessica, I don't know how to tell you this, but… If you can relate to me and if you get along with me that easily and if you struggle enough to laugh at my stupid jokes… I'm afraid you're not that smart. I’m afraid we’re similar kinds of stupid. Must be that incest baby thing coming back to bite you.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: I have no idea if that was wise. Or if we crossed the line. Start moving your Severed Shadow deeper into the Tutorial just in case.

“Shiv!” Uva hissed. “Are you trying to provoke her into drawing her blade?”

“This might be the way to avoid her doing just that,” he replied.

Uva suffered mental damage trying to accept his claim. “How does that even work?”

“Because I mean what I just said: I think she’s a pretty similar kind of stupid as me. And if she doesn’t cut my head off—”

“I should fucking kill you.” Jessica tried to seethe. She tried, but she couldn’t. She was remarkably bad at hiding her true feelings. There was agitation, disbelief, and even jagged shards of animosity in her emotional core, but she was also charmed.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 150 > 153

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Heh. We are geniuses when it comes to defusing mentally unwell women.

“Fuck yeah, we are!” Shiv cheered.

Then, his jubilance winked out like a candle flame between two fingers as a cord of cold wrath tightened around him. “Some things should best remain hidden. How unfortunate for you.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Oh, no.

A Glimpse of Perspective: You daft Omenborn knave! You have thrust yourself ass-first upon the angered metaphorical cock of your lady-love’s ire.

Gardener of Doubt: Perspective… why must you describe this most straight relation in the most homoerotic of ways?

A Glimpse of Perspective: Because of what she used us to do to ourselves.

Gardener of Doubt: I thought we agreed to never acknowledge that.

