“I’m sorry?” Shiv whimpered internally.

“You will be,” Uva whispered back. She let a rush of promised punishments glide over into his awareness.

“Sage! Gardener! Glimpse! Save me!” Shiv screeched to his skills.

“UVA! UVA! YOU DUMB—I AM HERE WITH BOTH OF YOU!” Adam howled as he slammed face-first against the bunker, as unwanted scenes and nightmarish memories tore through his mind, a bystander caught in the crossfire. “I DON’T WANT TO KNOW THIS! YOU’RE SHOWING ME TOO! YOU’RE SHOWING ME—AGH! I FEEL TOO MUCH! I FEEL TOO MUCH! AGGHHH! MY MIND! MY SOUL!”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Let us commit mass suicide to dispose of all our bodies, flee with our Severed Shadow, and start a new life on another world.

“So, what the fuck's your plan now?” Jessica asked, completely ignorant of the horrors.

“I mean…” Shiv turned and gestured at the gateway. Its surface shimmered with Dimensionality, and from the other side came an assortment of refreshing floral scents. “I kinda have to break a Curse, you know? I was thinking about heading over to fairy land and getting that done for a change of pace.”

Jessica looked at him as if he were completely insane. “You know the Prismatic Guard is going to try to raid this Gate, right? You know they're going to send in saboteurs, Shadows, Assassins, Thieves—”

“Yeah, I really don't think so. Not that they'll be in that much of a hurry anyway.”

The Giantsbane's eyes rolled as if she'd just sustained a concussion. “Kid, what the fuck are you talking about? I got a direct notification from headquarters that they're going to begin massing outside of Gate Piety.”

“Oh, they're still in touch with you. That's great. You tell them that maybe they want to consider doing something else instead. Because there are a lot of orcs inside this Gate. Don't tell them anything else. They can come to their own conclusions.”

“Shiv! Shiv! We’re not risking an active war with the Republic!” Adam howled, stumbling and slamming from wall to wall like a ball bouncing down the hallways of the bunker. He was in a hurry for no reason. He couldn't come across and enter the Tutorial because the Slipgate was currently active, and the portal connecting Gate Piety to the home world of the Orcs was now tuned to the Fairwoods instead.

“You're bluffing,” Jessica said.

“Yeah, I dunno. Maybe kind of. Who knows? I certainly don't. I don't even really care that much. But I do know this: I can practically appear anywhere because of the Slipgate. I can swap with a bunch of different bodies across the world. Maybe I can do some more horrible things. Right now, I'm not targeting the Republic itself, mainly just the Inquisition and all the bastards who keep trying to feed orphans to a literal monster god made out of nasty black shit.” Shiv grinned. “The way I see it, the Republic's drawing its sword to threaten us, but I'm technically already inside its body. If I decide to cut in whatever direction, I think I can do a lot more damage to them than they can to us.”

At the sight of Jessica tensing, however, Shiv just shrugged. “But I'm also not going to do any of that anyway. You tell them—actually, you know what? You don't need to do anything, Jessica. This isn't your business, it's mine. I'll see if I can solve this quickly.”

Before anyone else could respond, Shiv's Severed Shadow drifted into the room and fully manifested. Its body flared bright red for the briefest of instances in senses while its Cape of Innermost Depth billowed dramatically behind its edged form. Rusty appeared in Jessica's hand, and she entered a defensive posture, but he didn't attack her. Instead, he just turned his back to her and had his Severed Shadow fling a magically locked notebook out from his cape. He caught the Sync-Letter with his physical body and immediately began preparing to have a correspondence with his estranged bitch of a grandmother.

Jessica's eyes widened as she realized what he was about to do. “Wait, no, Shiv, don't open—”

Shiv flipped open his Sync-Letter. The contents began thusly:

My dearest fuckwit,

That was about as far as Shiv read before he was disassembled on a molecular level.

The world went white. His physical body died in an instant; his orichalcum-hard body shattered like sugar glass. The bunker fared even worse. The continent-shaking words hit him and his surroundings like a bomb of bombs. Veronica's most recent correspondence was more than mere words; it was infused with her collective ire and imbued with sound, force, soul magic, and wrath, and it manifested from within the Sync-Letter as a Rhetorical lance four hundred kilometers long and a kilometer wide that punched a clean wound through the bunker and gouged an apocalyptic path through the sprawling orc encampments and past the Tutorial's distant horizon.

The earth was split down to the deep bedrock. The sickly clouds were disemboweled, revealing a firmament made from screaming stars and enchained worlds for the first time. Colossal links of crystalline matter were threaded through various worlds, and they surrounded the Tutorial itself like a belt of celestial horror.

Hundreds of thousands of orcs simply ceased to be. Everything in the path of Veronica's greeting was reduced to less than rubble, not even dust lingering in the aftermath. It was like some divine titan, larger than the world, had carved a clear path of unmaking through an entire section of existence. But Shiv knew better. Shiv knew that this wasn't an act of the divine. This was simply the doing of an extremely powerful Legendary Pathbearer who held the true reins of the Yellowstone Republic.

When the translucent lance dissipated after a few seconds, pretty much everything around and behind Shiv was gone. It looked a bit like he was standing at the edge of a cliff face that bordered an unnaturally thin ocean, only that said ocean lacked any water.

Despite all this, however, the Sync-Letter was utterly untouched. Not even the pages had been ruffled. The Tutorial's gateway also endured, though its surface was far more turbulent than ever, rippling like tides dashed into a frenzy by the rising of a colossal Leviathan. And then there were Shiv, Uva, and Jessica. The first hadn't survived at all. He was still on the scene because his Severed Shadow couldn't be destroyed by pure force while in its Revenant state, but he felt a pulsating ache from the Animancy infused within Veronica's greeting.

Lacking a physical form and nested within Shiv's mind when the attack struck, Uva was protected but stunned at the Councilwoman’s awesome power. She was spared any injury but shaken where it mattered. But ridiculous as Veronica's Rhetoric Skill was, Shiv found himself even more impressed by Jessica, who had somehow parried the world-scarring blast. Rusty’s size had increased to be wider than Jessica's body, and his length vibrated dramatically, but behind it, Jessica stood shielded by the flat of her sword and utterly unharmed.

But not unstrained.

Shiv noticed her right arm trembling, saw the shaking in her legs. Withstanding Veronica's Rhetoric was a magnificent martial feat on its own—but there was still a tremendous gulf between the two women. A Legend though Jessica was, Veronica was one greater, one higher, one overwhelming.

Worst of all, one not even present.

For a Pathbearer to exert so much power from afar was… absurd.

Shiv looked behind himself and took in the carnage, watched as tides of lesser orcs toppled from crumbling structures and spilled into the deep channel the Councilwoman’s lance had left in its wake.

Well. Looks like I have a new feat of destruction to top.

And just then, he noticed a faint trail, a tether of crimson leading out from the Tutorial back to some place far, back to the Republic itself. Shiv's reaction was automatic.

Veronica had taken a jab at him, and so he would return the favor. He slashed out using his Severed Shadow, unleashing the full might of his cutting aura. A slicing projection traveled along the tether and zoomed across dimensions. He waited with bated breath for a few moments, but unlike with the dimensional archer earlier, he felt nothing land. He felt nothing split or break.

Something told him that Veronica had dodged the attack entirely or somehow parried it.

“That woman is supposed to be your grandmother?” Uva's metaphorical insides tightened with anxiety and disbelief. Try as she might, she couldn't imagine amassing such power for herself, not even in a thousand years.

Shiv’s eyelid twitched. “Nah, she's just a deadbeat bitch who shits out kids and forgets about them after. I can respect the power, but I will always despise the woman.”

“And that's why I told you not to open it.” Jessica sighed. She surveyed her surroundings and threw her hands up in disbelief. “Listen, you need to go make things right, because you're not the only one with weird bullshit skills. If Veronica really wanted to, she would just drop a bunch of flyers into your Gate. I want you to imagine what might happen to everyone inside Piety when they start randomly opening and reading these letters.”

Shiv paled. High-Tier Rhetoric was absolute bullshit.

The Challenger is amused by this family feud.

“Oh, fuck off, you fat, gray bastard,” Shiv spat.

“Shiv, Uva, what just happened? Everything just went white on your end. Was… Did Veronica shout part of the Tutorial apart?”

“Yep, took her just about three words,” Shiv grunted. “Felling hells. Alright. I’ll make this quick. See if I can get her to piss off or something. Give me a second.”

“Shiv…” Uva cautioned.

“No! Shiv! Stop! Where are you going?” Adam cried in desperate terror. “Whatever you're thinking, whatever you're planning to do, don't do it without telling me. Tell me what you’re planning to do.”

Shiv triggered a new resurrection. A fresh physical body stumbled out from his Severed Shadow and immediately resheathed and activated its Eldritch Physiology. Its flesh began to shift, and he shifted his focus over to the new body—had it step into his cape.

“I'm just going to talk to her,” Shiv said aloud as he vanished into the dimensional fabric. “Try doing the reasonable thing and getting the Prismatic Guard to piss off.”

“You intend to talk to her after her words did that to us?” Even Uva thought he was mad now.

Jessica pressed her lips together. “You know, the smart thing for you to do is just write back to her.”

“Didn't I tell you I was stupid like you?” Shiv replied from inside his cape.

A low moan of pain sounded even deeper. From within the forest of alloy, a brutalized, limbless Inquisitor begged for a savior or a quick death. “Ascendants, help me!”

“Broken fucking Moon,” Jessica growled. “What the hells are you even planning on saying to her?”

Shiv just laughed. “No idea. I'll figure it out when I see her. What's the worst that can happen? Besides, it's probably going to be pretty easy to solve this anyway. Just one last detour before I head into the Fairwoods.”

Adam all but started screaming instead of forming words. “Shiv, Shiv, what are you doing? What in the godsdamn hells are you doing?”

But before anyone else could intervene, Shiv's bladed heart grew bright, and a gap split open upon the surface of reality. He switched places, allowing the body of what looked to be a sickly boy to tumble through from the existential rupture he left behind. Then, less than a second later, a gap formed within the boy's chest, and he was cast back through another gash upon the fabric of Integration as the Severed Shadow returned.

Substantially lighter than before.

“Alright,” Shiv said, speaking telepathically through his shadow. “Dumped my new body and the Inquisitor out. Adam, if the Prismatic Guard does anything stupid, just let my orcs cross over to the surface. Also outlaw literacy.”

“How in the Broken Moon am I supposed to do that last part?”

“Put lead in the water or something,” Shiv mumbled. “Veronica's words can't hurt us if we're all too dumb to understand them.”

“That's not… how her skill works at all…” Jessica looked close to despair. But she noticed how the Revenant was fading from sight, turning back into a silhouette, and read from its dormant body language that Shiv was no longer there mentally. “…Why do I even try with him?”

“Because somehow, he always manages to make it work. No matter how foolish or absurd his strategy.” Uva huffed mentally. Then, she realized who she was talking to and returned to her aloof posture. “Not that this should be any of your business. You are with them, after all.”

“We are supposed to be,” Rusty said, sounding more resigned than sour.

“We are,” Jessica insisted. “It's just that things right now are messy, and I’m keeping a closer eye on you. So that you don’t do anything against the Republic.”

“Like what the Deathless just did,” Rusty concurred.

“Yeah, like—oh, come on, Rusty, you backstabbing prick! I’m—I was gonna—we’re helping solve that now, aren’t we?”

“It seems to me that the Deathless left of his own accord to face Veronica in an ill-advised confrontation. But perhaps I am reading things poorly. I am but a simple sword, after all.”

The swordswoman glared at her blade. “You're getting real cute with me today. I’m still loyal. I am.”

“Your will, my iron, Wielder. Truth is what you will it to be. But I fear the boy may yet be more delusional than you.”

Jessica paused to consider that. “Fuuccckkk, I really should have gone back with him. I could still—”

