Pride.

Contentment.

And complete, utter insanity.

There were no other words to describe the scene unfolding before this Sovereign’s eyes, one buried behind Falling Rain’s cold, distant gaze and deep within the confines of his deranged mind. The transmigrator made for an uninspiring sight, hanging limp and slack in this Sovereign’s grasp with ribs, chest, and back shattered and lungs filled with more blood than air, yet his amber eyes burned with defiant impudence even at the bitter end. A half-smile graced his bloody lips, not a warm, amused smile or heated, defiant one, but one overflowing with scorn and mockery as if he held the upper hand here, rather than the reverse. This was not courage or bravado, for though the boy had plenty of both, he lacked the fearless spirit of a dauntless hero willing to die for a noble cause. No, this was a gaze of reluctant resignation, a begrudging admission of defeat he was unwilling to wholly embrace. Falling Rain had given this effort his all, fought tooth and nail in an ill-conceived attempt to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat, one so overwhelming he knew he’d never had any hope of victory to begin with, yet he cared not for the consequences of his failure because he believed it merely a single step back in his Path, rather than the obvious end this Sovereign intended.

What was this if not insanity, Falling Rain’s total lack of any awareness regarding his current, dire circumstances and a rejection of reality without blinking an eye?

A special sort of madness this, the ability to see the facts laid out before him and arrive at an absurd and illogical conclusion. Despite having witnessed this Sovereign’s strength first-hand, Falling Rain was still indignant over his loss, for the transmigrator possessed arrogance unmatched and believed himself superior to this Sovereign in every way except age. This unfounded hubris would almost be comical were it not also infuriating to the extreme, for this Sovereign could have killed the boy a thousand times in a thousand different ways during their first exchange, and countless times thereafter. Only this Sovereign’s magnanimous curiosity allowed Falling Rain to struggle for so long, that and the hidden Nascent Immortal protecting him, and yet the boy wholeheartedly believed that he could have emerged victorious if not for luck and happenstance.

Why else would he be so unresigned to his fate? Even now at the moment of his death, Falling Rain maintained that he’d achieved some small measure of success, having succeeded in the role laid out for him by the Heavens Above and thus deriving satisfaction from this insignificant accomplishment. A most vexatious and illogical outlook regarding his ultimate defeat, one which robbed this Sovereign of much satisfaction, for he had been eagerly awaiting the moment when Falling Rain’s hateful smirk fell away and the rage in his eyes gave way to desperation and despair. This Sovereign had expected him to struggle to his last breath, perhaps even plead for mercy or appeal to this Sovereign’s grace and goodwill. Instead, Falling Rain made peace with his fate and maintained that his efforts had planted a seed of progress and potential, one which would eventually see the populace rise up to topple this Sovereign from his throne, a transition inevitable as the changing of the seasons from which there was no escape.

Or at least that’s what the transmigrator wholeheartedly believed, demonstrating a level of blind faith and baseless conviction which went beyond the fanatical.

In reality, while the boy’s book of ideas and innovative spirit had already spread like wildfire across the Empire, it would amount to little in the end. Weapons like crossbows and Runic Cannons would certainly place more power into the hands of mortals and their ilk, but Falling Rain was downright delusional if he believed this Sovereign would be overthrown so easily. Even if the powerful weapons depicted in the transmigrator’s memories were to become widespread, this still wouldn’t be enough to vanquish him on their own, for this Sovereign was the Eternal Emperor, a Nascent Immortal who had long since cast off the shackles of mortality and was no longer beholden to the cycle of reincarnation. Even if a thousand Runic Cannons firing in concert were to render his physical form to a pulp, this Sovereign could find a new host to inhabit as easily as turning a hand. A fact his foe should have accounted for, considering how he unravelled the mystery of this Sovereign’s eternal existence so quickly, almost as if he’d been expecting it all along. Another mystery that, but one this Sovereign was confident he would solve in time, unlike the growing enigma which was Falling Rain.

As absurd and illogical as the transmigrator’s confidence and conviction might be, there was a quality to Faith that one should always be wary of. One could not reason with faith, nor could one easily go against it, for the faithful paid no heed to logic or rationale. That was the definition of faith, to hold complete trust or confidence in a belief, without any need for proof and at times in spite of it. In recent centuries, the Brotherhood used charity and beneficence to wrest the hearts of the people away from this Sovereign’s grasp, which was why he took steps to remove their influence from the Eastern Provinces, and then the outer provinces in turn, but they were merely the latest in a long string of would-be religions cropping up within the Azure Empire. At first, he took a hard stance against all religions and sought to uproot all denominations of faith wherever they sprang up, but one might as well try to remove all the air from a room or empty out a lake with two hands. In time, he learned to change tack and quietly did away with all the sham religions and pagan beliefs of yesteryear by encouraging the now wide-spread but vague belief that the Emperor was the Chosen Son of Heaven, and in turn, the Mother Above. Not only because the common people of the Empire rested easier by believing in a higher power, but also because in this Sovereign’s eyes, this was merely the truth. The Heavens had blessed him with the strength to conquer the Azure Empire and sheltered him from the calamity that rendered the rest of this world’s landmasses only a half-step up from uninhabitable.

Might made right, this was an undeniable fact, yet in spite of having learned this lesson repeatedly today, Falling Rain refused to accept the facts as they were. The boy’s faith in technology and collective humanity were fallacious and even somewhat self-contradictory, for there were plenty of logical arguments against them. How many innocents would die once his crossbows and Runic Cannons made their way into the hands of warlords and bandits? How many non-combatants had died to those city-destroying explosives depicted in his conjured memories? What of the progress lost in terms of the Dao once humanity’s focus was split along two divergent Paths? This Sovereign could argue until his voice grew hoarse and spring turned to autumn, yet he suspected Falling Rain’s conviction would not be shaken, for there was a power inherent in faith that this Sovereign was unable to wholly quantify, an allure to it that every mortal in existence was susceptible to. Faith was almost necessary for most human existence, for faith represented an unending wellspring of hope and a reason to aspire to more than mere survival.

Or in Falling Rain’s case, a reason to fight on to the bitter end in spite of all the odds stacked against him.

Once again however, the transmigrator boy evaded death by the narrowest of margins for this Sovereign wanted to use him to draw the hidden Nascent Immortal out of hiding, and once again, Falling Rain used his continued existence to annoy this Sovereign to no end. Rather than quietly accept his defeat and submit to his unenviable fate, the fool rushed headlong towards it, disappearing from this Sovereign’s grasp and appearing within his host’s Natal Palace. A feat so unexpected this Sovereign stood stock still for a half-second in shocked surprise, unable to come to terms with what just unfolded before his very eyes. This should have been impossible, for how could one bring the material into the immaterial whilst remaining unchanged and unaffected by the transition? Had Falling Rain merely dispatched his soul, then there would be no need for surprise, but the transmigrator had made his way into Liang Wu Sheng’s Natal Soul in body, mind, and soul combined, somehow slipping through what should have been an impassable blockade in ways this Sovereign could only imagine. What’s more, this marked the second time today that Falling Rain’s soul passed through the barriers formed by Liang Wu Sheng’s Domain as if they didn’t exist. A barrier created for the express purpose of stopping this very thing from happening, and one which Falling Rain treated like air, coming and going as he pleased without so much as leaving a ripple in his wake.

A wave of horror and nausea almost brought this Sovereign to his knees as he considered the implications of this act, one which shook the very foundations of his Dao. Could this Sovereign have erred in his Path? Falling Rain’s Refined Physique was already superior by every measurable metric, and he was even able to bring his combined body, mind, and soul into the Void with seemingly little more than a thought, a feat this Sovereign would never have dared to even think of, much less attempt on his own. The dog was capable of doing the same, for this Sovereign realized how the floppy-eared hound was able to phase through the sand at will and emerge unscathed. The creature wasn’t hiding under the ground to avoid attacks, but rather leaping over to the Void and reappearing in reality a short distance away, a distinction which made all the difference in the world. One foot in both worlds, straddling the divide between the real and immaterial, was this the true meaning of One with the Heavens and One with the World? If so, then this Sovereign had stepped foot down a dead-end Path, for he had long since abandoned his physical form in exchange for an eternal Spiritual existence, one which had served him well for all these millennia, or so he thought. Was his lack of a physical form to call his own the reason for his lack of progress and inability to even discern the next step? If so, how could he remedy this? What should be his next step moving forward? Would he have to abandon all these millennia of preparations and accumulations to start over anew?

This crisis of conviction in this Sovereign’s personal Dao was only exacerbated by his Natal Soul’s amused derision, cackling up a storm in the back of his mind while mocking this Sovereign’s panic and lacking comprehension. There was a sense of superiority as well, as if his Natal Soul had known these facts all along, but those memories were guarded too tightly to access without time and effort both, and this Sovereign had none to spare. Putting aside his crisis for the moment, he retreated inwards whilst leaving a strand of Will behind to control Liang Wu Sheng’s body and guard against surprise attack, for the hidden Nascent Immortal was likely still lurking about just waiting for an opportunity to strike. Why he or she had not attacked already was a mystery to be sure, but now was not the time to contemplate the thoughts and motivations of an unseen assailant, for there were more pressing matters to attend to. All this Sovereign could do was ready himself for an ambush, for fleeing outright might well embolden his hidden foe and spur them into attacking.

Arriving within Liang Wu Sheng’s Natal Palace at the speed of thought, this Sovereign personally secured his throne against intrusion before fixing his attention upon the invader, Falling Rain. It irked this Sovereign to look up at the transmigrator, for he’d chosen to float above the court rather than appear upon it as a petitioner, a conscious decision which spoke volumes to his inborn arrogance. That being said, even though Falling Rain was ostensibly here in body, mind, and soul, this Sovereign would never have been able to guess it, for the transmigrator appeared no different now than he did in life, like a bloodied, bedraggled prodigal son dressed in poorly fitted robes and lacking any and all adornments save for the hairpin just barely holding his hair together in a bun.

No, that wasn’t entirely true, because there was a profound significance to his presence that was not there before, an invisible pressure that both emanated from him and drew everything in towards him. This wasn’t the weight of presence this Sovereign was more familiar with, one which hinted at the attainments and accumulations of one’s Dao and their compatibility with it, but rather a more subtle veracity to Falling Rain’s existence that was difficult to determine much less define, as if everything in the Void was slightly blurred and indistinct save for his presence and his presence alone.

A subtle yet unequivocal distinction which remained in place even after Falling Rain divided himself into an army of ten-thousand amber-eyed Natal Souls.

Ten-thousand exactly, no more and no less, information gleaned by this Sovereign’s Spiritual Senses the instant those Natal Souls appeared within Liang Wu Sheng’s Natal Palace. An impressive feat considering Falling Rain had already divested himself of an untold number in reality, a last-ditch effort to swing the battle of Shi Bei in his favour despite knowing that this Sovereign intended to kill or capture any and all survivors. More evidence of the boy’s insanity, yet a high-functioning one as his Natal Souls wasted no time in launching a barrage of wildly varying attacks all directed towards this Sovereign’s throne.

