As for the remaining three attacks, this Sovereign allowed himself a moment to better study each of them in turn, for they were all of great interest to him. The secrets behind Unravelling remained closed to him for now, but it was only a matter of time before he uncovered those secrets for himself. As for the powerfully Amplified fist, this wasn’t Fist Intent, but rather an extreme form of Amplification that empowered a single attack through the use of containment, proper timing, and directed flow. An impressive achievement making full use of almost every facet of Amplification, but in this Sovereign’s eyes, there were better ways to achieve the same amount of force, since this required something along the lines of several seconds to unleash outside of the Void. As for the tidal wave of Water Chi, this Sovereign could well have sent any Elementally Blessed Soul to easily counter it, but he left it untouched so he could study Falling Rain’s comprehension of the Dao of Water, which as expected were mediocre at best. There was too much wasted effort trying to control the tidal wave and not enough spent embodying it, making the Water Chi a pale reflection of the actual water it was supposed to mimic. This in turn took away from the strength of the attack, which was only so formidable because Falling Rain committed a larger portion of his Will to Manifest it here inside this Sovereign’s Natal Palace.

All this took a long time to describe, but transpired in an instant, a single moment of chaos which erupted into calm stillness once the threat was readily dealt with. As the denizens of this court of souls fell back into their ranks, this Sovereign hid his fatigue and exerted his Will once more to place himself above Falling Rain, for the ten-thousand Natal Souls had all been spent, leaving only a single Refined body, mind, and soul behind, one which was here in the flesh as well as the spirit in some incomprehensible way. The boy’s wounds were still Healing, but slowly to match the speed of mending in reality, and with perceived time moving at the literal speed of thought here in the Void, it meant Falling Rain’s wounds might as well not be Healing at all. A pleasant surprise all things considered, since this meant this Sovereign could now afford the luxury of capturing the boy alive. The hidden Nascent Immortal had yet to act, and even if they did, it would only take an instant to subjugate the boy here in Liang Wu Sheng’s Natal Palace, a moment this Sovereign was more than willing to spare alongside a little extra so that he could revel in his moment of triumph.

“Such hubris, such sin,” This Sovereign crooned, sneering down at the hateful transmigrator who’d brought him so many grievances and frustrations. “To challenge this Sovereign within his Domain where his authority reigns supreme. You were defeated in reality, but you had no hope of victory here in the Void, for this Sovereign’s attainments in the soul far outstrip his attainments in the body and mind.” A mistake to mention this disparity, for it brought back his crisis of conviction which he had yet to resolve, one he’d set aside for the moment using sheer force of Will and nothing else. To distract himself, he continued to disparage his foe by pointing out the error in his thinking, saying, “Your greatest attack might cause this Sovereign some discomfort, but one ten-thousandth of your strength is not enough to even scratch an itch.”

“Quantity has a quality of its own,” Falling Rain replied, his measured cadence a match for someone quoting a phrase. A nugget of misguided wisdom gleaned from his past life’s memories no doubt, one based on a flawed comprehension of strength and the Dao both. “But it’s okay.” Still calm and confident as ever, the boy stood there with shield and glaive in hand while his sword floated overhead. Time slowed as his armour formed around him, a set based on Imperial Armour worn by the favoured sons of the Supreme Families, but rather than the dragons those Noble Scions favoured, Falling Rain’s armour bore depictions of his favoured pets. A fly in the ointment of what would otherwise have been a dignified appearance, one several steps up from his dishevelled, ungainly appearance in reality, but even without the armour and trappings, Falling Rain’s Natal Soul possessed poise and gravitas that his physical self lacked. Odd considering how he was technically here in the flesh, but this Sovereign cared not to understand why as he readied to capture his prize in hand before returning to deal with the hidden Nascent Immortal in reality.

Only to freeze in surprise as the boy continued, “This is all a diversion anyways.”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A calm serenity washes over my body, mind, and soul as time comes to a standstill.

Not across all reality as we know it, but within the confines of my mind as I push the State of Enlightenment to new limits made possible by the completion of my Refined Physique. Bullet time, as I like to call it, for reasons I cannot remember, yet I find amusing all the same, but now is not the time for mirth and merriment. My inability to take things seriously and resist the urge to crack wise has bitten me in the ass before, but here and now, I cannot afford to make any mistakes, because the chips are down and I have everything riding on success. Thus, in accordance with my recent revelation regarding cultivation requiring a thorough understanding of one’s self in order to understand the Dao, I need to be serious for a moment and face a harsh truth about who I am if I am to have any hope of snatching victory from the jaws of defeat.

Namely the fact that I am arrogant beyond all belief.

Granted, I’ve already acknowledged this as an issue more than once, and yet I have never taken any steps to correct it. Why? Because in my infinite arrogance, I figured I had good reason to be arrogant. I am a man with memories of another world, a world which has far surpassed this one in almost every conceivable metric. I’ve seen grand works of art made by the most celebrated artists, and listened to the greatest symphonies of the ages played by the finest musicians of my time. I’ve studied or borne witness to all manner of momentous occasions, and am more educated than most nobles would care to endure. I have scoured the dark depths of the world wide web and seen all the horrors it has to bear, whether it be lemon parties, blue waffles, or two girls with one cup, to say nothing of all the hateful rhetoric and ignorant echo chambers I’ve had the displeasure of stumbling across. I’ve also seen the wonders to balance it out, from people helping people to all manner of adorable animals curled up in blissful harmony, plus hilarious memes and other miscellaneous good shit.

So you could say that I am a man who has seen more than the denizens of this world could ever imagine, and because of this, I have always maintained that I know better.

Not in an obnoxious, ‘um ackchyually’ sort of way, but rather in a sense where I rarely care for the opinions of others and tend to go my own way once my mind is made up. That’s on me mostly, and not just because of my past life’s memories, but rather a character flaw I developed all on my own, with a little bit of help from my deadbeat Defiled birth parents. They wanted me to compete, to fight for resources in order to survive, but I decided that was stupid and I would much rather die, a decision I made long before I became reacquainted with the glory of indoor plumbing. Since awakening to my past life’s memories however, I have identified with Rayne far more than Amigui, because let’s be honest, Rayne had a lot more going for him. That isn’t to say Amigui has nothing to offer, but if given a choice, I would much rather be a transmigrated fish out of water than the boy who murdered his brother in order to survive, only to immediately give up on life once again, but alas, I am both Amigui and Rayne, a truth I continue to reject even now. Harsh facts, but ones which I must face in order to move forward from here, because like it or not, my arrogance has grown into a massive problem which needs to be resolved.

Because in my arrogance, I have placed the memories of my past life up on a pedestal, extolling their virtues and the lessons they’ve taught me, while ignoring most of what I’ve learned over the course of my current life. I have come to accept that I am no hero brought forth by the Heavens to right all wrongs and bring Balance to the world, that I’m just a guy, ya know, as opposed to that guy, and that’s okay. So what if I’m not destined for greatness? Even if I die here today, this world will survive without me, but more than that, life will go on. Since I’m not some hero of destiny, my failure does not mean the end of the world, so it’s not as bad as I’ve built it up to be. Sure, death will suck, and many people will die alongside me as the price of my hubris, but such is life. I’ve done my part, lit a figurative spark which could one day grow into a blaze of progress and advancement, one brought about by the people of this world even if I’m not there to lead them every step of the way. I’ve shared my perspective, put my ideas out there, and hopefully, society as a whole will see that there is something of value to be gleaned from what I’ve shown them and the ideas I’ve introduced will become more widely accepted.

So why is it that even after acknowledging that I am no one special, that I am not, in fact, a hero fated to save the world, do I continue to insist on shouldering the massive burden of defeating the Eternal Emperor all by myself?

In a word? Arrogance.

I still want to be the hero, but like I said, I’m not that guy, so while my army of ten-thousand Natal Souls serves as distraction, I Conceal my true self and do something I should’ve done a long time ago, but in my arrogance, refused to.

I bow my head, press my hands together, close my eyes, and pray.

Not to the Heavens, or to the Mother Above, or to any other god, deity, devil, or otherwise who may or may not exist and be listening from on high. This prayer is nothing like the ones I make so often, appeals to a higher power to just make all my problems go away. A contradiction, I know, because I have a bias against all religion in that I am almost completely certain that no higher power exists, and yet I often beseech said higher powers for help all the same. Why? I suppose because in the grand scheme of things, I find comfort in the prospect that the possibility still exists, that there could be some all-powerful being looking out for me from on high. In truth, even though I believe none of my previous prayers have ever been answered, it would be inaccurate to claim that the Heavens, or the Mother, or some other deity has never offered me a helping hand, because I don’t know that for a fact, not beyond the shadow of a doubt. Over the course of my many trials and tribulations, I’ve had more than my fair share of dog-shit luck to get me out of some really tight spaces. My little brother’s mercy, my father’s greed, my slavers’ incompetence, and stumbling across what might well have been the only group of people within a thousand miles willing to help out a sickly and tormented slave, these are but a few of the happy little accidents that helped me get to where I am today, to say nothing of my good fortune of stumbling across Blobby and Pong Pong in succession.

So yea, it is entirely possible that there really is some higher power looking out for me, albeit one far more tolerant of pain and suffering than I would care to endure.

That being said, even if this is the case, my prayer now is not for them, or even an anthropomorphized Energy of the Heavens which may or may not possess a form of Will all of its own. Instead, I pray to humanity, because I have always had faith in other people, because when you get right down into the brass tacks, humans are generally pretty okay. Hardly a glowing recommendation for us as a species, but a fairly impressive accomplishment, all things considered. Sure, humans are capable of great evil and destruction, but most people are a pretty decent bunch, a fact which I have empirical proof to back because if they weren’t, the Empire would have a hell of a lot more Defiled and Demons running loose. The Eternal Emperor and the powers that be like to think that fear and a lack of strength keeps us all in line, but that’s like saying most people are going around thinking, “I could steal, murder, and rape so much if not for those stupid laws.” Which is dumb, since most people refrain from doing those things because that would be a dick move, and not solely because some higher authority tells us it’s wrong.

So people are generally good, and while there are many, many, many exceptions to the rule, you also have to remember to focus on the good, which will almost always far outweigh the bad.

