Credit where credit was due, it all made for a most impressive sight. There was no rhyme or reason to the manner in which this army attacked, no discernable pattern or coordination to be found as each individual Natal Soul struck in whatever manner they pleased. The majority were Manifested shards of Sword Intent, most of which were shaped as such, but only a handful resembled the sword he wielded in the physical world, and only one was an exact match. Most of those replicas were larger and more ostentatious, with some being entirely different in shape and appearance, with short swords, long swords, curved swords, wavy swords, almost every conceivable type of sword under the sun. There were also a number of shields and glaives mixed into the attacks, but the attack they dispatched were functionally no different from the swords. There were some weapons which were not hurtling towards this Sovereign like an arrow in flight, and instead arcing towards him as if to chop him down where he stood, while a select few remained in the hands of their wielders and emitted glaring beams of light or some other such nonsense. One sword’s blade even stretched out into a flowing curtain of water, water which was sorely lacking in attainment and comprehension compared to the flowing barrier maintained by the hidden Nascent Immortal, an attack which would amount to almost nothing even if this Sovereign allowed it to strike him.

A far cry from the three Natal Souls who transformed into the weapons themselves, a single sword, shield, and glaive to perfectly match his weapons which radiated threat and death comparable to what this Sovereign sensed in reality.

While sword attacks were most common, there were also plenty of rifles, Runic Cannons, crossbows, and even hunting bows scattered amongst the Natal Souls, which this Sovereign could not afford to treat lightly. Having learned his lesson more than once, this Sovereign fixated not on the ranged weapons themselves, but rather on the projectiles said weapons deployed. There was one, singular bullet radiating with the same overwhelming Intent of death and destruction which almost claimed Liang Wu Sheng’s life, but the rest varied wildly in perception, a similarity shared by the swords which this Sovereign only now just noticed. As noted before, Falling Rain’s Sword Intent was calm and serene, or at least it had been before the final Refinement of his physique. Though the various strands of Sword Intent imbued into the myriad weapons before him still gave off a sense of tranquil composure, there was now a fathomless depth and intensity to the calm serenity, a weight to the Sword Intent that made it no less unyielding than Solitary Sword Zhang Jun Bao’s fierce and deadly Sword Intent. It was the difference between a sheathed sword held at the ready and a drawn sword pointed in threat, both conveying the same general message in their own unique ways.

And now Falling Rain’s Sword Intent had transformed yet again, or perhaps it would be more accurate to say Falling Rain transformed it. Some of those Intents became even more gentle and placid, while others became berserk and uncontrolled, and still others tread a fine line between restrained and unchecked, as well as variations representing a wide range of everything in between. The same could be said of his projectiles, with a handful exuding a wild, uncontrolled Intent of almost pure Destruction, while others quietly emitted an air of Death and finality, so infinitely close to touching upon the secrets of Death Energy and Destructive Intent yet at the same time seemingly far from success. Difficult to say, for this Sovereign’s attainments in both areas were inferior to the examples seen here, though this was not to say that the boy’s attainments surpassed his. No, this was mere luck and happenstance, a frantic, final attempt to defeat this Sovereign by trying everything all at once.

It wasn’t just Sword, Destruction, and Death Intents on display here, but also a myriad of other Intents scattered across a wide range of Daos, ones this Sovereign had no name for but recognized all the same. The Unravelling force which rendered Runes impotent and ineffective shaped in the form of cloud, a pure force of physical might cycled and Amplified a dozen times over before being unleashed with a fist-like Plated Domain, the overbearing force of a tidal wave of Water Chi bearing down upon the Natal Throne, these were the most potent threats among Falling Rain’s eclectic arsenal. Then there were the more eclectic attacks, such as one Natal Soul whose arms had transformed into those of a bear which he intended to use to pummel this Sovereign, or another driving an armoured carriage that appeared imposing and impressive at first glance, but was merely an empty shell devoid of all comprehension and attainments regarding the contraption’s inner workings. There was a Natal Soul hurling a javelin thicker than most men, one with a rounded tip and fins on the base to ostensibly stabilize it in flight, while another hoisted a hammer bristling with electricity in a pale mimicry of the blonde, Lightning Blessed Warrior this Sovereign saw depicted in the boy’s memories.

In truth, this display left this Sovereign no choice but to acknowledge Falling Rain as a formidable talent, one unlike any since the dawn of the Empire, for only a handful of individuals were able to push him this far in a battle of life and death. If given another thousand years, Falling Rain might well rise up to challenge this Sovereign as his peer, or perhaps even surpass him at that, but alas, the boy’s attainments were diverse in scope and shallow in depth, a flaw he tried to mend far too late. The boy had reached into his armory and thrown everything all at once, hoping there was something in there that would prove powerful enough to secure a victory, but he might as well have prayed to the Heavens above and plead with them to strike this Sovereign down. Impressive as this array of attacks might be, all it showed was that Falling Rain’s comprehension was sorely lacking, and because of this, he’d erred from the very first step of his last, desperate stand.

This wide-range of attacks proved he possessed the ability to injure this Sovereign if given the chance, for there were a number of examples that might well have grievously injured his Eternal Soul. Doubly so considering this Sovereign’s current state, making this a most daunting tribulation indeed, if not for the fact that every last one of Falling Rain’s attacks was powered by a mere one ten-thousandth of his Will. A laughable fraction of a meagre amount to begin with, Falling Rain would have been better served placing all his hopes and dreams into one, singular attack back by the full weight of his Will. Only then would he have had a chance to grievously injure this Sovereign, assuming it actually hit. With Falling Rain’s cumulative strength divided between ten-thousand Natal Souls however, a singular attack would find it difficult to break past this Sovereign’s defenses even without the advantage of holding ultimate authority within this Natal Palace, to say nothing of his Imperial Robes of Office which served as a Dharmic Icon here in the Void, and were far more powerful than the Runic Robes of Office he wore in reality.

That being said, he still dared not take any of these attacks head on, for he’d erred before by misjudging gauging the strength of Falling Rain’s attacks twice before, and this Sovereign cared not to make the same mistake thrice. To deal with the vast majority of Falling Rain’s attacks, a wave of this Sovereign’s hand was all it would take, a singular effort of Will to bring his Authority to bear, but even as he exerted his Will and anticipated the boy’s crushing look of disappointment, he found that the attacks were not so easily dismissed. Despite this Sovereign’s Will rising up to meet them, the myriad of desperate attacks continued bearing down upon him, a most menacing sight even weakened and divided as they were, forcing this Sovereign to take extreme measures to defend himself.

Left with no other palatable choice, this Sovereign could only expend a modicum of effort and resources to ensure victory no matter the cost. With little more than a thought, the denizens of the silent court of souls moved to intercept the attacks, targeting the ones this Sovereign was certain were unable to hurt him as well as the ones he was unable to determine. Matching like with like, this Sovereign regretfully manipulated his captured souls to deploy all manner of Weapon Intents to counter Falling Rain’s attacks, expending what little remained of their Prana with no intention or ability to make up for the loss. First Brother Wu Shen’s soul countered a thousand Sword Intents on all his own, while Yang Kai’s flames rose up to consume no less than eight-hundred attacks, a number which could have been much higher if not for the fact that this Sovereign was forced to empower their souls with Prana drawn from Liang Wu Sheng. Unwilling to overtax his current host’s life force, this Sovereign could not allow his sworn brothers to shoulder the entire burden of defense, forcing him to spread the responsibilities out among more of his souls so as to make certain nothing unexpected was able to break through.

A most regrettable action, since this would render many of his collected prizes inoperative and functionally worthless, little more than empty shells that would fall apart without this Sovereign’s Will to hold them together. At least he could draw some solace from the fact that he could demonstrate ability comparable to Falling Rain’s accomplishment of controlling thousands of souls all at once before emerging victorious in a battle of divided Wills.

The second Emperor of the Azure Sea was an individual whose soul had been supplanted by this Sovereign’s Natal Soul whilst still in the womb, meaning the Third Emperor Jian Chen was the first individual to ascend to the Thone after this Sovereign. At the time, he had yet to master the art of subjugating a host soul while leaving it intact, something which required a more subtle touch, and as such, Jian Chen’s soul had been damaged beyond repair in the ensuing struggle for control. A damaged and broken husk of soul, it was no match for the proud and defiant man he was in life, one who staked it all to claim the throne, and in doing so invited calamity down upon himself. Not much of his attainments had been left behind, but this Sovereign had seen enough of the man’s Dao to drive it in his place as Jian Chen drew the massive, two-handed sword hanging off his shoulder and brought it down to meet an anemic arrow hurtling feebly towards this Sovereign’s throne. The two forces clashed, and the sword emerged victorious, scything through the force of Will holding the arrow together and eliminating it from existence, whilst Jian Chen’s soul remained untouched.

Evidence of how weak the arrow was, rather than the strength of Jian Chen’s sword, but this Sovereign had chosen this match-up specifically because he was unable to comprehend the attainments behind the arrow, and the exceedingly remote possibility of losing Jian Chen’s soul was an acceptable risk. Though the specifics differed greatly, the same general scene unfolded itself a thousand times as this Sovereign’s captured souls dealt with the vast majority of Falling Rain’s attacks in the blink of an eye, leaving only the most dangerous instances behind. Namely the three Natal Souls who’d transformed into the Weapons themselves, three distinct projectiles emanating pseudo-Destructive Intent, pseudo-Death Essence, and a mix of the two respectively, and the other three eclectic attacks he’d noted before. These he dealt with himself, paying special attention to each one as he focused his Will upon them.

The sword came apart at the seams and dissipated into nothingness under the weight of this Sovereign’s Will, while the shield and glaive resisted for a moment longer before dispersing in the same manner, but if he were to do it again, this Sovereign would have chosen a different tack. A minor clash was all they exchanged, and yet the Sword Intent imbued into those three attacks had been strong enough to pierce through his Will and cause minor injuries to his soul, and in turn, his body and mind as well. Little more than a slight discomfort, not even enough damage to be considered an actual wound, but unpleasant all the same. As for the bullets, those he avoided outright by Deflecting away, only to discover that they were being Guided unerringly towards him by the Natal Souls who delivered them. Rather than waste the effort to block those formidable projectiles, this Sovereign dispatched Fourth Brother Tian Yi to deal with the Natal Souls instead, a job far beneath the greatest assassin this Empire had ever seen, but one he accomplished with next to no effort at all.

