They were right in that usually no faction would bother to... except Jake was a Chosen. Even ignoring his close personal relationship with Villy, no god would accept someone killing their Chosen. A Chosen was the prophet of a god, and in many cases, their mouthpiece among mortals. Killing a Chosen was a personal offense to a god, and revenge was more about pride than the person who was actually slain.

“You’re absolutely clueless,” Jake scoffed at the A-grade. “Let me make it absolutely fucking clear and make sure that truth-teller of yours is watching. If I die in this minor world, I can guarantee you that every single one of you will meet the same fate, and this entire world will be erased from existence.”

He had tried playing nice and used veiled threats and implications at most, but it was clear the time for those kinds of things had long passed. Now, it was time to directly threaten them with annihilation, and he truly did believe what he was saying. He knew Villy well enough to know that he would destroy this entire Minor World, and not just because he wanted to avenge Jake as a person. If he allowed someone to kill his Chosen without absolutely devastating consequences, it would undermine all he’d been working on with the Order’s expansion. The natives of Venus would just be another warning to the rest of the multiverse.

And if Villy didn’t take revenge, then he at least hoped Artemis would. She seemed like the type who would.

Further leaning into threats, Jake used a card he’d been saving and wanted to avoid using if he could, in part because he really didn’t want to risk the mental resistance, but he felt like he needed to do it anyway.

Without any warning, Jake used Invocation on Pride of the Malefic Viper as he unleashed the divine aura of the Primordial while speaking again.

“I-“

Jake didn’t even get further as the presence of the Horned Slayer crashed down on him, this time with a bit of actual energy infused into it. Under the pressure from a near-peak A-grade, Jake’s Pride of the Malefic Viper crumbled as his soul experienced a sudden shock, nearly knocking him unconscious from the backlash of having his skill broken.

“You can posture and mimic all you want, but it isn’t going to work,” the Horned Slayer said in a slightly mocking tone as he moved toward Jake. “The terms have already been laid out, and you really have no choice. All you’re doing right now is lessening any goodwill we have and making things harder for yourself. That, or you’re actually looking to die.”

The words rang in Jake’s head as his mind was still shaken, and beneath his mask, blood poured out of his eyes, nose, and mouth, as his soul had suffered some severe damage. As he saw the Horned Slayer approach, only a single thought struck him.

Could I harm him if I did that?

Jake felt his heartbeat as his Bloodline responded, ready to heed his will should he choose to make his final stand. He doubted it would lead to anything... but he wanted to at least see if he could make one of them bleed if it came down to it.

“Not gonna talk? Fine, I’ll give you some time to recover, but it won’t change anything. Make the smartest decision of your life, because there’s no leaving alive unless a Soul Contract is signed. No help is coming, and-“

The Horned Slayer stopped himself and whipped his head around as he stared downwards. Jake also felt it and instinctively shifted his gaze below, where he saw the world shifting as a massive, scaled beast ascended towards them, its aura overshadowing every other A-grade present.
