“Puppy becomes human!” Grick cackled and walked over. He patted the top of my head. “But Grick likes when puppy looks like puppy better!”

Between Lily investigating every inch of me, and Grick ruffling my hair, I felt a little overwhelmed.

Okay, come on, guys!

I shook my head away from his hand, whipping my new human hair around my head.

“See? Weird, isn’t it?” said the fox. I looked over to see her pushing aside some bushes in her human form. She folded her arms and assessed me for a moment with her golden eyes. Surprisingly, she didn’t make any quips or laugh at me. She walked over and held out a hand. “Here, try standing.”

I put my paw—hand—in hers and let her help me to my feet. Lily sat on her haunches nearby, tail wagging like crazy as she watched with the utmost fascination.

Soon, I was back on two wobbly legs, but I noticed something else odd. The fox was tall. Really tall.

I looked down at myself as realization dawned. I let out a low rumbling growl, but it was far less intimidating in this small human throat.

I was a kid!

Oh, come on! This sucks! I can’t fight like this!

“What’s the matter?” The fox’s head canted.

I suppose it made sense. Technically, I wasn’t even half a year old yet, but at least I didn’t morph into an actual baby. Dogs did age much faster than humans, after all. Actually, that’s not quite right, either, because even that would make me only three or four at the most in dog years, but this body seemed to be more like that of a ten or eleven-year-old.

Maybe it was based on my development stage? Those were not exclusively tied to time, after all. Or maybe humans grew faster in this world as well? I had no way of knowing one way or another.

The fox chuckled. “Fighting’s gonna suck outside of your normal form. I tried learning to use knives before, but gave it up. I just use magic or revert to my normal form if I need to kill something. But you can worry about that later. Start with the basics.”

Then I remembered the whole reason I did this in the first place. I started moving my mouth, trying to talk.

“Aaah… ammph th-th-thuu…”

Uhg! What is with this tongue?! It felt so flat and meaty!

I started moving my mouth around and licking at my chops… uh… well, they weren’t really “chops” anymore.

But I did notice a nice sharpness, and as I moved my tongue more carefully along my teeth, I confirmed I still had fangs. I carefully moved my hand up and felt along my teeth with my thumb. They were smaller than my usual ones, but still sharp enough to prick my skin if I wanted. So much for looking harmless. Well, I guess the small body would help with that.

I lowered my hand and tried speaking again, forcing my lips and tongue into different shapes. “Th… thhhh… ah… uh… I…”

Okay, “I” is a good start, I guess.

“I… aaah. Am…”

“You are…?” The fox purred playfully.

“Shaat aahp!” I snapped at her.

She chuckled. “Bet you’ve been waiting to say that to me for a while, huh?”

I narrowed my eyes at her, but couldn’t help grinning.

“Anyway, practice moving around and talking,” the fox said as she paced away and then flopped down by her bag. “You just changed, so it’s just a matter of realizing things don’t move as they do in your natural form. But you should catch on pretty quick.”

Taking her advice, I started with some shaky steps around our little campground. Each one became more certain than the last, and I quickly at least got to the point of not worrying about falling.

Lily pranced alongside me, looking up curiously the whole time. I smiled back down at her with my kinda-wolfy teeth.

“Rirr. Rrrr. Lull. Lulli… Lily!”

I finally got her name out properly, and Lily returned an emphatic “Yip!”

READ NEXT CHAPTER NOW!
