He turned his attention back to Mephistopheles, and said, “I agree. Do it. Prepare the land.” He turned his attention to the blue sky. Clouds still hung here and there; remnants of his earlier attempt at adding clouds to the sky. They weren’t thick enough. The sun was starting to beat down hard, through those thin clouds, to turn the shadows of the city into hard lines, despite the rainbow lights still edging every black building. Except for the three people in front of Ophiel, standing in the light, every other shadeling stuck to the shadows beside the buildings. The brightness was too bright.

With a look to the blue roof of the world, Erick cast more control into the sky. This time, he took more than a flashing second to make sure the spell went up properly.

Clouds roiled out of the clear blue; fluffy white things at first, that multiplied into stretches of grey, and became a layer of shadows blanketing Candlepoint. Shadelings stepped out of the deeper shadows, to walk around in the half-light courtyard of the Crystal, some smiling, some wary, some with looks of awe upon their faces. Even Mephistopheles seemed to relax for a second, before returning to his solid stance, facing Ophiel. Slip smiled, openly, showing white teeth behind his dark lips. Zaraanka relaxed, and did not bother with holding herself strong any longer. She sighed out, then rubbed the side of her neck with one hand, muttering about how she needed a smoke.

Erick spoke to the crowd, “Tear down what needs tearing. Build up what needs building. Make lists of items that are needed and wanted in the city, though I know you will need to make most of it yourselves in the coming weeks. But for now, prepare the dead, how you wish to prepare. We will respect those who have passed on.” He asked, “Are there any immediate needs that I can provide?”

“The dead are dead, the living are saved, and the spiders are gone. What will come will come.” Mephistopheles said, “But we need food and water.”

“Then you will have it.” Erick turned Ophiel toward Zaraanka. “Your desires?”

“I need [Mend]s and [Cleanse]s. The summoned slimes do not get everything.” She said, “We have no healing, either. No healing, Spatial magic, or many utility spells. Most of us don’t have [Ward], either.”

“Healing will be difficult. I will work on that.” Erick said, “But [Mend] and [Cleanse] can be provided.” He had Ophiel cast a dense air behind him, toward the Crystal. A 7,000 point [Prismatic Ward] took hold across the Crystal, and in the open air exchange station at the base of the structure. Ophiel almost disintegrated; that cast took most of his form. This Ophiel was made after Erick had taken off the crown. But that was okay. Ophiel turned to light then slipped down into the protected space, under the Crystal, and began regenerating his mana, while simultaneously stretching out his lightform body to touch Zaraanka’s torn pink dress. “[Mend].”

The woman’s dress flexed out, returning to what it once was. But she, herself, was still dirty, in a subtle sort of way, with patches of mud in her hair and scuffs on her knees. She tried her best to be clean, but it was not enough in the face of this disaster.

“[Cleanse].”

Dirt flowed away on thick air.

Zaraanka smiled. “Thank you.”

Tendrils of light stretched out from Ophiel, into the shadows, touching broken things and turning them whole in gentle glitters of white light, as Erick said, “[Mend] and [Cleanse] will be provided here, whenever, for now. Just come up to the counter and get some spells cast. Later, I will enchant some wands of those spells and give them out.” He turned Ophiel’s eyes toward Slip. “Your needs?”

Slip looked away, then forced himself to look back. He said, “Uh. We’re good. We’ll keep the peace and all that. Tear down the broken and rebuild the fixable, for sure. Move the bodies… My guys’ll do that.”

“Thank you.” Erick spoke to the crowd. “I’ll release a [Mending Aura] in a minute, but before that: Who’s a farmer? Step forward. Let’s grow some lunch, or at least repair what is out there. But that’s it, for now. If you wish for nothing else, please return to your homes, and work on clean up. More information and planning will be forthcoming, and likely flow from Mephistopheles, Zaraanka, or Slip, or maybe even me. But like I said: I am a support. I am not here to rule. My hope is that you can live lives free of Ar’Kendrithyst, and all other factions out there, for now. The future is yours if you work for it.”

Several people stepped forward from the crowd, volunteers for the farming, while half the crowd began to vanish, turning away, their eyes the last thing visible as they became shadows and left the courtyard. Others, not too eager to leave yet, avoided the volunteers as they stepped around to the sides of the Crystal, holding hands on their ripped shirts, or ripped pants, or other smaller, broken items. Erick dealt with the repairs, first.

With a flex of magic, Erick extended Ophiel’s lightform across the whole Courtyard, and filled the air with a gentle, almost invisible glow. Pants knitted, returning to like-new. Tattered shirts became whole again. Broken walls became whole. Rags became actual clothes. Shoes repaired, but some shadelings only had half of their pairs. [Mending Aura] did not replace completely lost items. But still, this was good.

For a moment, Erick came back to himself, in Spur. Everything seemed surreal, for what he had just witnessed was the single greatest community building effort he had literally ever participated in. He remembered helping out after those hurricanes, or working with Spur’s Community Garden Council, or all those office politics back on Earth…

Nothing as large as what he had just done, with this many hurt people, had ever gone as well as it just went.

Part of him was worried at it all being an act. That he was being set up by some greater power. And maybe he was—

Scratch that. He was most certainly being set up by at least one god. Bulgan had straight-up said so.

But people still needed help. And what he had just witnessed was fantastic. Erick had just laid out a plan, and people followed it! Amazing! Sure, there were some questions and concerns, but that was normal. And it was a little odd that every person Justine had mentioned had survived the spiders and all the rest, but they wouldn’t have gotten to their current status as leaders of this volatile community without being able to survive as well as they had.

All in all, seeing Mephistopheles take charge, even if it was a power grab, was nice. Seeing that he already had some sort of tiff going on with Zaraanka was good, too. Erick could use that, if it was real.

Slip was odd. Erick had no idea what to make of the hiding-Shade. But. Eh! Whatever.

When you got to be a certain age, seeing things come together well, without too much trouble, was better than sex. It was practically a divine gift.

Erick smiled to himself, back in Spur, as he faced Ophiel toward the volunteers, while simultaneously tapping off smaller scale cleaning and repairing spells over the crowd. He had noticed who these farming volunteers were well before this moment, and before his bout of introspection, but it wasn’t until now that he actually took a look at them. There were seven farming volunteers. One of them was known. Redscale, of a normal height and stature. Slightly muscular from working in the fields all the time. Valok looked about as good as Erick remembered, save for his eyes, which were a swirl of cloudy grey light.

Erick tried to think of what to say. Another spoke before he could.

Mephistopheles walked closer to the Crystal, closer to Ophiel, inside of his [Primatic Ward] behind the counter. He said, “Before you get into all this farming shtick. We need some things. [Mend] and [Cleanse] wands. Rods of [Treat Wounds]. Clean water and sewers. Bulgan did not care for making anything lasting. He left messes everywhere. We need a sewermaster. A real one. Classically trained in dungeoneering. Bulgan killed ten of them, and we never got any replacements. But those are just the basic necessities.” He said, “We need something to remind us of some good times. Good food is necessary now more than ever. We need a feast, Erick.”

Zaraanka had walked up with Mephistopheles. She added, “Wine! Cheeses! Meat and bread. Dark gods I miss bread.” She suddenly added, “And I want the good oils for my men and women. We will not reopen our pink doors with low grade castoffs.”

Erick blanked for a good five seconds. “… What?” He had heard the term ‘Pink Doors’ before. It was a euphemism for a bordello. He almost shouted, “No! Gods no! What the fu— No. No prostitution. Find another line of work.”

“Bah!” Zaraanka said, “Don’t be such a prude. We have nothing the rest of civilization would want. No industry! No products! And nothing to occupy our time except for sex, drugs, and sexual drugs! We need certain things to make life in this dark hole tolerable. Oils and perfumes and—”

“Please.” Erick said, “Stop. We can revisit this discussion another time. It may be that my visceral reaction to prostitution is wrong. But I will need to talk to others to see if I am in the right, or not.”

Zaraanka said, “But Lord Flatt—”

“No.” Erick said, “Do not push me on this. You will have your say on another day.”

Mephistopheles laughed, then said, “You heard the man! No prostitution! You’re out on your ass, Zaraanka! And not in a good way.”

Erick turned his attention to Mephistopheles, saying, “And you. I need you to keep your anger contained. We are all in a new world right now. We will build small, and work our way up. It may be necessary that I allow prostitution in Candlepoint, but there will be no disharmony at this time.”

With a smile and a laugh, Mephistopheles turned to Zaraanka, and turned solemn, saying, “Apologies. The trials of the day have been many and varied.”

Zaraanka went stiff. She said, “I must apologize, too.” She added, “But enough of that, for now. There is one last topic that must be broached, before the day is done. What currency are we using?”

“Rads,” Erick said, having already thought about Candlepoint’s currency long before today. His dump of a million darkchips on that building over there, of which many were stolen while Erick wasn’t watching, cemented his decision. “Darkchips are a nonsensical currency. I don’t know how money will work out in Candlepoint, especially when people need to eat those rads to survive, but if some people want to start hunting mimics, they can. I suggest most people remain inside the city, though. I can gather more rads without you all risking your lives outside the city walls. The rest of the world is still watching you.”

Zaraanka smiled, gently. “Thank you, Lord Flatt. Thank you for allowing us to hunt, again. We won’t take risks, but being able to feed ourselves is a great boon.” She added, “If you must outlaw the First Profession, then we can do well becoming farmers of rads. I haven’t killed a monster of my own volition in decades!” She laughed. “Oh! This is good. I like this.”

“… Okay. Good luck. Don’t get hurt. And if I must have a title, then it won’t be ‘Lord’,” Erick said. “And that’s enough minutia for today. I need this city repaired by tonight. People need homes to sleep in, and to barricade if necessary. I don’t know what else is coming, but I doubt it will be good.”

Zaraanka bowed deeply, then departed into the shadows like a vanishing spectre. Slip slipped away next.

Mephistopheles said, “Back to work! Thanks for taking the time, King… Master— No.” He teased, “Savior?”

“No,” Erick said.

Mephistopheles smirked, saying, “Thank you.”

Ophiel nodded behind the counter, under the Crystal. Mephistopheles vanished into shadows, headed back to wherever he was needed. Hopefully, Candlepoint would be okay with those three in charge.

Erick turned back to his volunteer farmers. “We’re making a feast tonight, while everyone works on cleaning up. So help me help you. What do you need?”

Valok looked to his fellow farmers, as they shared looks among each other. Then he stepped forward, when no one else would. Some of his people looked at him strangely, but Valok only had eyes to see Ophiel. He said, “The Farm’s a mess, but we can repair it. We can [Grow] the rice, the beans, the potatoes, the corn. Lettuce, tomatoes. All of that. But we’re gonna need meat brought in by you. We don’t have any chickens, or cows, or pigs. When Bulgan forbid us from fighting, that included butchering meat.”

“I can get the meat, the cheese, the wine, and the beer.” Erick said, “You fix up your Farms. You did well before. I know you can do well again.”

Valok’s posture hitched for a moment. The moment passed. He said, “Aye, sir.”

“You can call me Erick, Valok.” Erick said, “I’m sorry it took me so long to understand that you’re not a trap.”

Tears ran down Valok’s stoic face. He stood tall, and spoke with an even voice, “I don’t want my daughter to see me like this. I’m going to change back, as soon as I’m more stable.” He looked to his people. “A lot of us are. Gonna change back, I mean.”

An orcol man said, “Doubt they’ll let us back into Spur, though.” He added, “Good to see you again, sort of, Archmage Flatt. Ophiel. I’d like to take up the meat raising again, if you’ll get me cows and such.”

Recognition dawned, like a new day. Erick said, “Oh my gods— Mister Ooragh! I didn’t recognize you. You’re… younger?”

Daetroi Ooragh, the father of Apogough Ooragh, and the cattle rancher of Spur, before the Farms were destroyed by the Red Dot, stood in front of Ophiel, looking twenty years younger, and with cloudy grey eyes. The original man had a huge gut, but looking like this, he could have been Apogough’s older brother.

Daetroi laughed. “The Shades like their toys younger than they are. It’s about the only good thing that’s happened to me. Everything else has been rather shit, to tell the truth.”

Erick started, “Apogough—”

“Don’t tell me about him, please.” Daetroi said, “It’s difficult. I’m not near as stable as Valok, yet. He’s about the only one of us able to get close to that part of himself.”

A small murmur of assents passed through the gathered farmers. Erick looked to them, closer.

They were all people from the Farms of Spur.

‘Oh holy shit,’ Erick thought.

Valok noticed Erick’s attention. He spoke up before Erick could, saying, “Let’s not dig too deep in the pain. Let’s work on getting food in bellies.”

