Whether that was intentional or accidental, it got the crowd cheering, with many people standing, excited to see the legendary feat of someone fighting up Tiers, even if it was only one.

They cheered even harder as their newfound hero failed to disengage properly and was punished for it.

Legs and arms moving in unison, Rubert twisted around the woman. Her shoulder gave way a moment before her elbow, but she never stopped fighting back, even as her arm was mangled.

Her tenacity wasn’t enough, as down an arm, Rubert's hands faced little resistance as they slithered upward to grip her skull.

With a roar, he repeatedly slammed her head into the ground with hard thumps that became inadvertently synced with the crowd's pleased cries.

The blow before her skull was finally breached, she cried out as her body and weapon were both engulfed by orange flames, trying to force the Corporations cultivator off her.

The woman's screams were accompanied by Rubert’s, but both of them were drowned out by the crowd's cheers.

Before she could finish turning things around, the man withdrew his dagger from her side and drove it into her throat, threatening to drive it upward into her brain.

Spitting blood as he spoke through charring lips, Rubert growled out. “Surrender or die.”

The woman vanished after a brief pause but Rubert wasn’t given any respite.

Instead, he once more found himself above the central pillar, needing to choose another opponent. He wasn’t even healed by the strange realm, his wounds closing at a snail's pace.

At the same time, the black light in the central pillar grew. Its dark radiance cut through the smokey shell, basking the coliseum in shade for a moment before the ‘sunlight’ took back over.

Rubert’s gaze once more swept over them, but he ended up choosing the Clans team.

Matt instantly got a bad feeling when the team's tank stepped forward.

Rubert’s second fight was longer than the first, but much worse by every metric.

Having been able to see what limited abilities Rubert used, the dwarf, Kurndal, took his time bating attacks out, slowly whittling the higher-Tier opponent down.

If Rubert hadn’t been seriously injured in his first fight, it might have been close, but it became clear almost immediately he was no endurance fighter.

Kurndal didn’t push things too far, and when Rubert lay on the ground, an arm missing and his leg bent and twisted, the fight ended.

When Kurndal appeared in the center, he delayed pointing at anyone and turned to the bandit group. “My team is last, yes?”

The peak Tier 32 leader smiled as he affirmed the question. “We’ll keep you to last and won’t kill anyone as long as the fights are good. Hopefully we won’t even have to fight you guys.”

Matt wasn’t too surprised the Clans team turned ‘traitor’. There were no loyalties in a strange realm and they'd expected such things when they voluntarily walked into the trap, which was why they’d been so careful with Allie inspecting the strange realm.

If Kurndal expected leniency, he didn’t get it, but the bandit member didn’t try to kill him either, sticking to their deal for now.

As the victorious bandit reappeared in the center to pick his next opponent, his gaze immediately went to their team. An instant later, their platform bloomed into a flower as they were selected.

Liz was faster than the rest of them who also stepped forward, by virtue of there being two of her.

Both fighters appeared in a stadium half filled with trees like a new growth forest, while the other half grew increasingly muddy as a swamp formed.

The bandit lunged forward with a short spear, and Liz ran away deeper into the forest as if she was afraid.

A dozen of her split off with sparkles of not quite concealed magic, and the bandits laughed upon seeing their buddy chase after the ‘real’ Liz.

Seeing how Liz wanted to handle this, Matt almost felt bad. Almost.

One of them even tried taunting their group, hoping for a reaction.

Allie was the only one to react.

Looking up and upon meeting a bandit's gaze, the teleporter pointed a single finger downward. “The show is down there. You don't want to miss it.”

There was a pause as the man registered Allie's insult and he started to glower, but his attention was pulled away as the bandit caught up to what he thought was the real Liz.

The Tier 32 reached out to grab her neck as if she was an uncooperative child, but she slipped away and behind a tree, where two of her separated.

A spear flashed and pinned one of the Lizzes to a tree.

Red blood bubbling from between her lips, every Liz paused in their running to clutch at their ‘wound’.

As the bandits started to jeer, the impaled Liz stood straight and tittered in the man's face.

“Just kidding.”

The Liz pinned to the tree started to melt and twist, proving that he’d caught an illusion and not the real Liz.

If the bandit had known Liz’s real identity, he’d never have turned away to inspect the other Lizzes who had resumed their running.

However, he didn’t.

While his defenses were completely down, the melting Liz reared back and slapped the bandit as hard as she could, sending him stumbling.

The sound reached even them, but the large swelling hand print on his face shocked all of the spectators without fail.

They couldn’t understand how an illusion could strike out with so much power to punch up two Tiers. Without the publicized knowledge on their abilities, two Tiers up against such middling elites was child's play, let alone the three Tiers Matt hoped the strange realm’s audience would see Liz as.

Matt almost snorted when the man lashed out in his anger, demolishing the tree he’d pinned her to. Seeing the puddle of ‘blood’ that Liz had turned into, he stomped on it, covering himself in a mist of ordinary-looking red blood.

Roaring further, he wiped his face as he turned to the other dozen clones who had run away, intent on chasing them down.

Seeing his man lose control, the bandit leader turned to them full of piss and vinegar. “Is this how you want to play this? I’ve tried to be nice, to remain calm and not kill anyone. Now one of you humiliates Dom like that? Good. We’ll see how you like the next challenge.”

Allie said something Matt didn’t catch, as everyone else continued to stare at their group in shock. He made a note to save the reactions for when Liz finished her fight. While he was confident she’d win, it would be a hard fight if she wanted to do it without exposing her identity, though he believed in her and bet accordingly. It reminded him of their Tier 10 tournament in a way.

Dom, the bandit in the ring with Liz, unlike Rubert and the other Empire team's woman, wanted the fight to linger. Even with his anger pushing him forward with rage-filled roars, he never again struck to kill in a single blow as he tried to capture the ‘real’ Liz.

It wasn’t out of kindness, as they saw when Liz didn’t dissolve a clone in time; rather it was for torture.

Dom wanted to excite the crowd.

So did Liz. And she was better at it.

What Dom couldn’t see from inside the coliseum was that the crowd was going wild every time Liz escaped his grasp, but all the other teams had long since picked up on it. It resulted in even more strange looks with all of the other participants watching them warily.

While the pillar seemed to fill only between matches, the stadium's seating expanded with every second, and they quickly crossed a million active observers. The rate of growth showed no trace of slowing down, only speeding up as the tempo of the fight started to come to its conclusion.

None of the spectators bothered to look up from the sight below, their faces flushed as they cheered until their lungs burned.

Liz was down to one clone and seemed to have run out of energy, given that her single body was sitting on a moldy tree stump with her eyes closed.

Dom rushed in, screaming in rage, the swamp water sloshing up in large splashes that hid the battle from view.

Matt knew the gasps of disbelief would tickle Liz pink, and he didn’t miss recording the other reactions, though most of his attention was below.

Liz’s shield had blocked the spear thrust and deflected most of its accompanying spells’ energy to the side. A follow-up skill tried to get around her shield, but failed as she pushed the spearhead further away.

Throwing herself to the side, she dodged the follow-up strike to swipe out with her own spear.

Dom grunted as his hamstrings were cut, but he managed to keep his movements under half decent control as he started using more of his own spells.

A burst of maroon light pulsed out of Dom, healing most of his injuries and covering the ones that remained.

He tried to rush at Liz again, but she used the swamp water to deflect his attacks.

Matt heard cursing as the bandits believed they had figured out her true capabilities of being a water mage, but they had no idea she was only using her spear shaft’s growth ability to manipulate other elements with her [Ichor Manipulation]. They were fine if their identities got exposed, but they were trying to prevent that, and using her often overshadowed growth item was as good as any other cover.

To his credit, Dom even reacted correctly to learning she was a mage. Instead of trying to create distance, he rushed forward, trying to subdue Liz before she could gather further control over her ‘preferred element’.

If Matt was right, the bandits weren't bandits at all. He believed, like them, the bandits were using false identities to disassociate themselves from such unbecoming behavior.

Not that it mattered.

The fact they hid their identities only confirmed the group wasn’t politically connected enough to get away with such things.

There were no rules away from settled space and if they were so inclined, their group could have openly done the same thing. People might criticize them, but even if they slaughtered every group they forced into a strange realm, the other Great Powers wouldn’t do more than send a few strongly worded complaints no one would bother responding to.

When Liz slipped into the marsh and water copies started appearing, the man finally lost his cool. “When you finally run out of mana, I’m going to make you suffer like you’ve never suffered before. And I’m going to do it right in the open for everyone to watch, I’m gonna carve into you—”

Allie sighed as the man’s rants turned into obscene threats that escalated one after the other and she stopped taunting the bandit group.

Giving them a side look, she sighed repeatedly until one of the bandits lost their cool and demanded to know what she was sighing about.

Finally given the stage she wanted, Allie said, “I’ve never seen a single man talk seven others to their collective deaths before. It's kind of impressive, but I don’t want to waste my time taunting dead men anymore.”

Halting her water attacks, Liz reappeared and backed up, pretending to be out of mana. Seeing the opening he’d been waiting for caused Dom to charge. Blinded by humiliation, rage, and the Ichor that had long since infiltrated his body, he never saw it for the trap it was.

Inches away from Liz, Dom’s forward momentum halted, his spear trembling as it tried to cover the last few hairs of distance.

Golden bands of ichor, masquerading as radiant chains of solidified light, covered the man as the blood Liz drenched him in earlier was finally utilized.

Dom screamed, but Liz never even blinked.

Instead, she raised a single hand and slapped the Tier 32 hard enough to mangle the remaining unblemished side of his face.

Her hand came down for a second time, and the man was slammed into the swamp, causing an explosion of water.

Liz’s hand moved like a claw as she reached in and dragged him back out of the muck.

He spluttered, more out of a lack of understanding than the need for oxygen, but Liz gave him neither.

Her third slap was delivered as she looked upward.

She wasn’t looking anywhere near the bandit team’s actual location, but her message was very, very clear.

Questions started flying, but all of them stopped as the bandit’s body dissolved from the feet up.

Only when his head remained did she pause. “For the record, I was going to leave things at this point.”

Then in a flash, the rest of his head vanished.

Liz reappeared in the center as Dom fully died.

No one breathed too loudly, as if afraid to draw Liz’s attention, but that didn’t save the bandits.

When Liz turned her gaze to the bandit group, she pointed to the man who’d tried to slap Matt earlier.

“You.”

Her single word echoed through the silence as the pillar in the coliseum filled entirely with blackness, maxing out the strange realm’s rewards with her single performance.

Punching up three Tiers to toy with her opponent had earned her more than a single pillar's worth of ‘favor'.

The bandit leader stepped forward instead, but while Liz needed to fight harder, it didn’t change the outcome. His fighting early didn’t improve his chances of winning like he thought, but rather cost him his life. He was the only one who might have been able to challenge her if he’d been given enough time to pierce her disguise, but by fighting second, he squandered that chance.

Sadly, the consecutive defeats didn’t make the pillar’s darkness increase, despite the crowd growing larger than ever, having broken a hundred million from its singular million in the second fight. It did pulse after each victory, so they assumed it was something positive, but they weren’t sure.

Liz then turned her attention to the Tier 32 couple. “Mind if I start with you guys? You can surrender the moment the fight starts. If that loses us favor, well that's why I'm saving the Clans’ group for last.”

