The Corporations explorer looked like she wanted to say no, but when Liz didn’t force her hand, she nodded.

Liz, not one to break her word, immediately allowed everyone from the captured three teams to surrender. Even the dwarves did when it was clear they didn’t lose anything with the instant surrenders.

Instead of the strange realm ending when the last dwarf was defeated, their entire team found themselves standing at the base of the pillar.

A man appeared and smiled, but Matt could already tell from its vacant eyes that it was the strange realm’s creation.

“Only one reward, only one victor. Step into the pillar to claim your prize.”

Matt grinned at the final twist, intending to allow teammates to turn on each other to ‘claim the prize’.

Instead of fighting, everyone who was interested in the prize started debating and bartering.

Eventually, the prize went to Rah, who paid for the experience by bartering a third of his total reward share and out bidding everyone else. Not having entered Minkalla, he was eager for a similar reward. After spending a few hours inside, he created himself a companion none of them recognized.

It looked like a pangolin and a turtle had a baby. Each of its ‘scales’ were more like a hardened turtle shell, with distinct, if seemingly random, geometric patterns on each. It could only be a creature from Rah’s original Realm, or something from his imagination.

Radiating Earth mana, the creature dug at the now returned sand for a moment before flopping over and wiggling.

Sounds of cooing followed them out of the strange realm. As did several questions.

Mainly, they revolved around the ever-expanding crowd and what it meant to the pulses of darkness that appeared after Liz had maxed out the reward pillar. Nothing seemed to stand out, but it was far too deliberate to just have been aesthetics.

The best idea they could come up with was to leave a message near the strange realm and ask for others who entered to share what they learned.

Unsurprisingly, none of the other teams lingered to say goodbye or thank them. They’d probably guessed by this point who they were, but that was why their group came prepared with multiple identities.

They didn’t need good covers after all, they only needed to not be themselves.

Changing their identities and apparent Tier upward to mid-Tier 30, instead of newly advanced, they moved to what their stolen maps indicated would be a trading hub.

Along the way, Rah demonstrated why he chose the creature he did. The unpronounceable Tul’ull’luu’s scales were able to be enchanted without harming it. Best of all, they could selectively take on the properties of the materials eaten meaning Rah be able to further customize the enchantments he’d carve.

According to Rah even the original species wasn’t sapient, only as smart as an intelligent dog, but they could follow and learn commands and his pseudo-bond version had a direct link to his spirit, letting him directly tell it what he wanted.

What he described wasn’t what Matt and Aster shared, but it let the creature be trained far easier.

A few stops to gather high-Tier metals later, they arrived at the still establishing trading hubworld. While they arrived a little early, the corporation doing the scouting was already there and more than happy to let them officially buy what they’d already been using.

Updated map in hand, they set their sight on a pair of strange realms half a dozen planets away near the area that had only just been explored. In the third estimated breach point’s direction, the world was perfectly located at the edge of discovered worlds, leading many to flock to its location.

Their main goal was still the strange realm on a Tier 31 world that allowed the victors a flat cost reduction when casting a single type of elemental spells. Recently found, little more was noted on their new maps, but it was a prize everyone would flock to, and so they made it their main objective.

It wasn’t their only destination. Two strange realms, Tier 29 and 30 respectively, had been found on a Tier 31 planet along the way, and they wanted to hit it. The guild reported it as being swarmed as groups learned the Tier 30 strange realm could give people an [Inventory]-like space.

The Tier 29 strange realm was less applicably useful, but for those with a bloodline like Liz and Aster, it was possibly even more important. If the reports were correct and not exaggerated, it would let them expand a single one of their bloodline powers, something rarely encountered.

Not willing to pass up a second Minkalla-level strange realm, they planned their route and got moving.
