“Hey, can you even hear me? Someone wave if you can! I want a truce! Uh, an armistice? Parley! Is that only pirates?”
 
——
 
“Ridiculous. Who is that?”
Half of the students in the room were dying of laughter. The other half were just staring and shaking their heads. Venaz was slapping the table hard enough to make it shake. But Niers Astoragon was just staring.
“Her.”
He knew her. He had seen her in the battle for Liscor. And he—yes, he remembered her then too. Her voice echoed back to him. Peace. She was shouting for it, waving her flag at the Goblins. And they were just staring at her.
Niers’ heart hurt. He looked at the scrying orb and then away.
“Professor?”
Umina wasn’t laughing. She looked at the Titan. He glanced at her.
“Umina?”
“Would that work? Ever?”
The Titan stared back at the young woman. She was shouting as loudly as she could. He could hear her voice crack.
“Come on! We can work together! Goblins aren’t evil. They aren’t bad! It doesn’t have to be like this!”
“No.”
The Fraerling shook his head. He looked around at the laughing students and at Venaz, who was still guffawing. Niers picked up the nearest object—a tiny mug—and threw it at Venaz. It hit the Minotaur in the eye, and he roared in pain.
“No.”
Niers looked back at Umina. His gaze was sad and, suddenly, old. He gestured at the scrying orb.
“It would never work, Umina. But it isn’t something to mock, either.”
“It should work.”
The Lizardgirl spoke quietly. Niers nodded. He bowed his head.
“Perhaps—”
He waited. But in his heart he knew. The young woman waved her flag.
 
——
 
“Peace?”
The words were repeated with derision among the nobility. They stared at the distant figure. To them, her voice was so tiny that they had to have it repeated back to them. But the content had gotten through. Some crazed girl was shouting for peace. Tyrion exchanged a look with Jericha.
“She’s right in front of the Goblin Lord’s army, sire. And she is a resident of Liscor—from the Face-Eater moth attack. Should we send a rider to grab her?”
“No.”
Tyrion shook his head. He stared past Jericha, past the Goblin Lord’s army. He couldn’t even see the young woman. Nor could he imagine it. Peace? With the Goblins? With the Drakes? He shook his head again.
“Ignore her. She’s…”
He trailed off. What was she? Deluded? Insane?
“Wrong.”
That was the only word for it. Tyrion looked back at Jericha. He looked away. If this was some kind of stalling tactic or strange ploy, it was completely useless. It had bought seconds, and for what? No one was listening. The girl’s words were…pointless.
 
——
 
“Goblins are not evil.”
Reiss whispered the words. He heard them again, from the young woman. She shouted them at the army of Goblins. At him.
“I know you can hear me! Hey! Let’s talk! Don’t fight! We’re not enemies! I know you can be good. Just listen! Okay?”
He stared at her. She was just one Human. One, like the others. But she called to him. In his mind, he could sense those Goblins who were Chieftains. He could tell Rags was behind him. And Garen. He could even sense distant powers, far-off presences that might be Goblin Lords as well. But he had never felt something like this.
He could sense her. Not as a similar presence to a Chieftain but as an…instinct. Something in him that told him that ahead of him was…safety. A friend. And Reiss wasn’t the only one. The Goblins in his army stared at Erin. And they felt the same certainty.
There she stood. She waved the flag and told them to stop. Reiss listened, but the voice in his head was dismissive.
“A foolish attempt. Why would anyone conceive—ignore fools like that, my apprentice. That girl is not too far from a zombie in terms of intellect. And why she would assume…do I know her?”
“Who is she?”
Reiss stared at the girl. He heard a name in his mind. A memory. Rags speaking of someone, a friend.
Erin Solstice. And for a second, Reiss wanted to go forwards. He wanted to raise a flag of his own and go over to Erin. To talk. He hesitated. His master’s voice was impatient. But the young woman—Reiss began to urge his Shield Spider forwards. If—
 
——
 
“Peace! Rah, rah, peace!”
Erin was running out of things to say. But the Goblin Lord’s army hadn’t moved. She hoped. She smiled and tried to shout the optimism in her chest out to the world.
“We can work things out! We can do this! Yes we can! Truce! Let’s negotiate! I have an inn! Parley! Par—”
 
——
 
“Fire.”
Tyrion spoke the words calmly. He heard the word repeat itself and then the sound of the trebuchets swinging up. The groan of ropes. And then the sounds stopped. In utter silence, he and a hundred thousand Humans looked up.
A massive projectile, a chunk of stone rounded for flight, soared through the air. It flew high, high into the sky. It was joined by over two dozen other stones. From his seat, Laken Godart turned his head up and listened. He heard only the sounds of the trebuchet counterweights swinging. He did not hear the stones flying. Only, distantly, the thump of one landing. And then a crack as one struck Liscor’s walls.
The first stone struck Liscor’s walls near the base, creating a sound like gravel and thunder. The rest thudded into the ground in front of the city, raising huge plumes of mud and water. Erin ducked as the defenders of the city took cover. The Goblins, Reiss included, turned to stare at Tyrion Veltras’ army. The silence overtook the Floodplains. And it was deafening.
“No.”
Erin stared at the distant Human army. She thought she saw the trebuchets. They were slowly being cranked back. And indeed, they were.
Tyrion Veltras watched as the teams of [Laborers] and [Soldiers] struggled to fit another block under a trebuchet’s arm. Tessia, the [Engineer], shouted orders as they did, and each team of Riverfarm [Builders] and [Engineers] shouted, trying to ascertain where their shots had landed, adjusting for the next one.
“Prepare the next ranging volley on my mark. Repeat my instructions to aim for the gates. Select three trebuchets for misdirection. And send a [Message] spell.”
Tyrion spoke calmly. He waited, watching the people swarm around the trebuchets and then, suddenly, back away. He saw the [Engineers] confirming readiness and wondered if there was a way to make it faster. With Skills, with experience—how fast could they work?
This time, the volley of stones was placed around Liscor. One soared over the walls. The rest struck the wall, most landing near the base rather than the top. Tyrion smiled. And then they began loading the enchanted ammunition onto the third volley.
 
——
 
“Take cover!”
Zevara screamed at those below as she saw the stone flying too high. She ducked reflexively and saw a boulder half again as tall as she was pass over her head and to the left. It fell into the city, and the crash as it landed was tremendous. But by that point the rest of the boulders were smashing against Liscor’s walls. She felt the vibrations, heard the shouting.
“Report!”
“The walls are holding!”
Olesm peeked over the battlements. The stones had smashed against Liscor’s enchanted walls and left no marks. No—that wasn’t true. The debris from the rock was plastered against the wall, leaving chalky imprints. Were there micro fractures? Zevara wanted to believe there weren’t.
“Was anyone hurt by the one that landed in the city?”
“I don’t think so. We evacuated the houses, and our ground forces are too close to the walls. Here—watch out, they’re reloading!”
Olesm shouted at the others. They took cover. One of the adventurers, Halrac, drew an arrow. His bow was practically invisible—it was translucent unless you stared carefully and made the outline out in the air. It looked like he was just holding an arrow, but he aimed it at the sky.
“Can we shoot those things down?”
“I’ll try.”
The [Scout] snapped at Zevara. Ilvriss, who’d held his ground during the second volley, charged towards them.
“Zevara! I’m heading back to the city to coordinate the defenses!”
“I know. Go!”
Zevara whirled. Ilvriss took off. If the walls fell, one leader had to be behind the front lines. She turned back to the Human army.
“Olesm! Can we blast the trebuchets from here? Or use the enchantment spells to block the missiles?”
“We’re out of range of the trebuchets, but I can try hitting the stones. But the spells don’t aim well, and if I miss—”
They’d exhaust the limited spells they could use. Zevara cursed.
“Don’t bother.”
“Watch Captain! We’re getting a [Message] from the Humans!”
“What? Why?”
“They’re—they’re sending another apology.”
This time, the Drake [Mage] didn’t bother to ask for permission. He raised his claw to his temple.
“They’re saying—misfire. It was a misfire. The Humans regret the accident. They’re warning us to watch out for ‘stray missiles’. Should I respond?”
Zevara uttered a series of curses, and the [Mage] raised a claw to his temple.
“They’re saying another volley is incoming, adjusting their aim—”
“Duck!”
This time, the stones flew differently. And when they struck the walls, the sound they made was far, far different. One huge stone struck the walls and exploded into a ball of fire, sending searing jets of flame everywhere. Another just blasted to pieces, sending shrapnel up. A third made a thumping sound and fell to earth, completely undamaged. That strike made the walls vibrate.
“Enchanted munitions!”
Olesm cried out. Zevara grabbed the wall for support.
“Is everyone—”
She flinched as a spark of light erupted in the Floodplains. A missile had landed near the Goblins and exploded in radiance. Two more enchanted stones landed around the Goblins, who recoiled. One landed among a group of the Goblin Lord’s army and crushed two dozen Goblins before rolling to a stop.
“What in the name of—”
“The Humans report a connection with the Goblin Lord’s army. They said they’re correcting their aim again!”
“They’re taunting us.”
Zevara stared at the distant army. She looked at the three stones that had barely grazed the Goblin Lord’s army and then at the still-burning fragments of stone scattered at the base of the walls. And then she heard a terrible sound. A cry of alarm from the eastern gates.
“Damage on the gates!”
The Watch Captain froze. Olesm stared down and shouted for clarification. Word came back in moments—the gates were dented. Not broken, but the metal had bowed in from one of the shots.
“They’re trying to bring down our gates.”
Zevara stood on the walls, staring at the gates. They were the weak point of the walls. Like the stone, they were spelled, but the hinges could be broken. And the Humans were aiming for them. She saw the soldiers scrambling to reload the trebuchets and turned.
“Klbkch!”
The Antinium hadn’t ducked when the trebuchets had fired. He made his way over to her. Zevara shouted, though it was quiet.
“Where are the Antinium? Take down the trebuchets!”
“They are moving, Watch Captain. Wait.”
She had to. Zevara stood helplessly as Klbkch waited by her side. Her eyes were fixed on the distant trebuchets. She saw their arms reset, saw another boulder being dragged into place—
And then, suddenly, movement. The ground erupted, and black bodies spilled out. Zevara heard the cry go up.
“Antinium!”
They were attacking! The black bodies poured out of a hole close to one of the trebuchets. The Soldiers charged one, and the people manning the device fled. The surprised Humans fell back as the Antinium swarmed the trebuchet. They began tearing at it, hammering on the wood, trying to bring it down.
“Burn it! Do they have fire?”
“They are armed with a few alchemical weapons—”
Klbkch broke off. One of the Soldiers had struck the first trebuchet with something. Zevara saw a blossom of fire. Soldiers fell back, some burnt, as the trebuchet began to go up in flames. She heard a cry of celebration as the Soldiers streamed towards the other trebuchets. Another fell, the counterweight striking the ground as a Soldier climbed up and ripped a bolt out. A third splintered as its frame was broken. The Watch was cheering—
And then Zevara saw a hail of arrows cut down the Antinium. A [Fireball] blew a knot of Soldiers apart. At a distance, she could see adventurers and Human [Soldiers] advancing under the cover of mage fire. The Soldiers turned to this new threat, but they were surrounded. Cut off. They made for a fourth trebuchet, and another spell blew them to bits.
“No—”
Zevara watched in horror as more Antinium poured out of the hole, and then other tunnels appeared. But the element of surprise was gone, and the Humans had been waiting. The Antinium burst out of the ground and were cut down in moments. Zevara saw them making for the trebuchets—and failing to scratch the huge devices.
“The Antinium are falling back.”
Klbkch announced calmly as the last of the black bodies fell. Zevara turned to him.
“You can’t! The trebuchets—”
“—are too well guarded. We have lost too many Soldiers attempting to do more damage. More would simply waste lives the Hive does not have. I am sorry.”
The Drake looked back. The Humans were destroying the Antinium bodies, sealing the tunnels and blasting the fleeing Antinium. The trebuchets were still there, most untouched by the fighting. Out of two dozen odd trebuchets, the Antinium had gotten a seventh of them.
“No.”
But there was nothing to be done. Klbkch and Zevara turned as the Drake [Mage] spoke.
“The Humans report—accidental contact with an Antinium patrol. They regret to inform—no survivors.”
“Then it’s over. We can’t destroy them.”
Zevara sank down. Klbkch nodded. He was so cold. So calm, even for him. Zevara stared at the Antinium.
“We must hold the walls.”
That was all he said. The impossible. Zevara looked back. She saw the trebuchets loading and knew they would keep firing. Minute after minute, hour by hour. Day after day. She closed her eyes. Then she turned to the [Guardsmen] and adventurers.
“Prepare yourselves!”
They looked up. Zevara drew her sword. She pointed down at the Goblins, who had watched as the boulder struck the city. Only a few missiles landed around them, and even then, they rarely struck even an outside formation. Zevara stared down at the Goblins and shook her head.
“They’re coming.”
Across the wall, the Drakes and Gnolls drew their weapons. The adventurers armed themselves. The Goblin Lord’s army was beginning to march. They surged forwards across the Floodplains.
“She is still there.”
Klbkch stared down at Erin. She was still shouting, still waving her flag. He turned to Zevara.
“We must rescue her.”
“How?”
