“Oh. So we did not lose hundreds of Workers already?”
The Queen shook her head, amused.
“Of course we did.”
All the Workers looked up at her.
“But—”
“It was necessary. The Wall Lord uses truth detection spells. All the Drakes do when conversing with Klbkchhezeim. So he speaks only in truths. We are more than capable of moving through wet earth if we must, and we can vent water. But for this illusion—we sacrificed what we had to in order to make true his words.”
She waved her feeler at the dirt ceiling. Bird stared up at the Queen. She looked down at him and then remembered what he was. She hastened to reassure him.
“Of course, you would never be one of the Workers chosen for such a purpose, Bird. That would be a waste. Nor would the Individual Workers be used either. The others were simply Workers. Expendable.”
The Workers didn’t respond. Bird just looked up at the Queen. His voice was very small.
“I see.”
The Free Queen could hear Klbkch discussing more matters with the Drakes, but nothing of consequence. She sat back, tense, too impatient to even eat.
“We will not see battle joined for a while. The Soldiers above are expendable, though Anand and Belgrade will ensure their losses are minimal.”
Another female voice spoke up. The Free Queen turned and saw the other five Queens, five in one, and their vessel, holding the mirror up. The other Workers watched the mirrored Queens carefully. The Grand Queen’s voice was impatient.
“Klbkchhezeim insisted on sending more of a force than was necessary to defend Liscor. More than I projected for.”
“A necessary ruse. If Klbkchhezeim believes it so, we must trust him.”
“So it appears. However, will the Hive lack for defense?”
“No.”
The Free Queen answered shortly before the Flying Queen and Twisted Queen could voice their opinions as well. They were merely watchers, and noisy ones at that. She bent down to Bird, ignoring the voices coming from the Queens.
“We have time. When the Hive must be defended and Liscor’s citizens moved into it, the other Worker…Pawn…will take charge of the Painted Soldiers and other Antinium and lead them into the Hive. Until then, we wait. So then Bird, will you sing for me? For us?”
The little Worker looked up. He stared at the Queen and shook his head.
“I don’t want to.”
“Why not?”
“I am worried. And I am sad. And I am worried and sad for Erin.”
“Erin.”
The Worker called Pawn made a strangled sound. He had only been informed of the Hive’s plans in the last hour. He stared at the map.
“What if she’s in danger?”
“She will retreat to the city. It is only logical. And our Soldiers have orders to guard her person. So long as she is away from the walls, neither the trebuchet fire nor Goblins or Humans will threaten her until the evacuation is called.”
Belgrade reassured Pawn. Anand nodded.
“We will have Soldiers protecting her, Pawn. And Yellow Splatters and Purple Smile are ready to deploy if needed. She will be fine—we can even carry her into the Hive early if need be. She is quite safe in Liscor, right, my Queen?”
He looked up at the Free Queen. She hesitated.
“Yes. Perhaps.”
The Workers looked up as one. Bird tried to sit up.
“Where is Erin? She has left her inn? Right? Right?”
“She…will soon. Klbkch is asking about that. She will be in Liscor momentarily. Probably.”
The Workers stared up at the Free Queen. She stared through Klbkch’s eyes. He was looking at the inn. And he wasn’t worried…but he wasn’t entirely calm either. The Goblin Lord’s army was drawing nearer.
 
——
 
“Let’s go! Everybody out! Don’t wait—get what you need and move!”
Jelaqua roared at the adventurers. Her team and the Horns were packed and ready to go. They had been already; the bags of holding with their treasure from the dungeon were in Seborn’s possession, they had their gear on them and their possessions—the instant the Goblin Lord’s army had appeared, they were ready to move. But as luck would have it, the Flooded Waters tribe had still been milling about the inn and slowly moving south, past the city.
Since they were dragging their heels, the people in the inn hadn’t wanted to try and make their way through the crowd. Now they were feeling a tiny bit panicked. The Goblins were still far distant, half an hour away from the inn at their marching speed, but the sight of the muddy valley slowly filling with bodies was not a fun sight.
Added to the problem was a recent delay. Lyonette had insisted that they bring the Faerie Flowers in their soil beds, and so the adventurers were trying to unhook them from the walls. Mrsha was sitting, holding a buzzing Apista in her paws by the door. Jelaqua swore as Moore tried to unhook a flower bed.
“Just leave the damn thing, Moore! We can always grow more flowers, but not more heads!”
“Says the Selphid. We have time, Jelaqua.”
The half-Giant was calmer than Jelaqua was. She was remembering battles in Baleros and not happy. At this range, they could still be hit by a long-range spell, if there was a high-level [Mage] among the Goblins. There probably wasn’t, but every instinct from her time in her home continent said to leave now.
“Everyone done? You have the damn flowers? Okay, go, go, go!”
She thrust open the doors. Moore followed her out, protectively shielding Lyonette and Mrsha. Pisces and Yvlon were hot on their heels, and Seborn and Ksmvr were next. Ceria stood in the inn, heart pounding, and waved at Erin.
“Erin? Are you ready? We have to go!”
“Just a minute!”
The [Innkeeper] called from the kitchen. She hadn’t been nearly as panicked as the others, which Ceria could respect, but she was taking too long. Ceria paced back over to the kitchen.
“Erin? I know we have time, but we should be in Liscor now! come on!”
“I’m nearly there! I just need to get something!”
“Can I help?”
Erin poked her head out of the kitchen.
“No, just go ahead! I’ll be right on your heels!”
“I can’t go without you!”
Ceria protested, even though she wanted to go right now. But Erin was calm. She stepped out of the kitchen and faced her friend.
“Look, Ceria, Liscor’s right there. It’s just a jog, and I can climb up a ladder in no time. Give me a minute and go ahead without me. I just need to grab—uh, something.”
The half-Elf hesitated. Erin was being cagey, but she was making sense.
“You’ll be right along? You’re sure you don’t need help?”
“Absolutely. I just need to, uh, lock the doors. And make sure the windows are bolted. I’ll be fine, Ceria. Look, if I’m not out in five minutes, come get me, okay?”
“Sure. But you will be out!”
“Absolutely!”
The young woman smiled. Ceria tried to as well, but her heart was racing too fast. She nodded.
“Okay then. But hurry up!”
She left the inn. The Horns were waiting for her by the city as Ceria ran over.
“Where’s Erin?”
Pisces stared at Ceria. The half-Elf pointed back at the inn.
“She said she was getting something?”
“What, pray?”
“I don’t—look, she’ll be along! Let’s get up the ladder, though! One of us can get her if we really need to, but the less people scrambling up near the end, the better!”
That made sense. The Horns began climbing the ladders that had been thrown down for them. Moore, who’d had to create his own vine ladder to support his weight, was the last to arrive on the walls. Ceria felt a hand pull her up and stared at a familiar face.
“Dawil? What are you doing here?”
She exclaimed as the Dwarf hauled her up with surprising strength in his smaller body. He grinned and slapped her on the lower back.
“Ah, that’s for our glorious leader to explain.”
“Ylawes?”
Yvlon stared at her brother as he pulled her up with a grunt. She came over the wall, and the [Knight] nodded to her.
“Yvlon.”
“You said you were going!”
“I did say that.”
Ylawes looked half-ashamed as he shook his head. He hesitated and then sighed.
“I—had a change of heart. Yvlon, I can’t force you to do anything. But as your brother, as family, I won’t abandon you. If you’re staying until Liscor is lost or holds—I will too. And you can’t stop me from making that choice.”
He looked firmly at Yvlon. Dawil smiled. Ceria did too. Yvlon looked at her brother and slowly nodded.
“I—thank you, Ylawes. For everything.”
“Oi! If you’re done with the touching reunion, move out of the way! Falene’s broadcasting!”
A voice snapped at the adventurers. Ceria turned and saw Revi sitting next to Typhenous on some chairs. Halrac was standing at the battlements, bow in hand. The adventurers glanced at Falene, who was deftly ignoring all of them, and hurried over.
“Everyone up?”
“Moore’s having trouble climbing. Hey, Lyonette! Get Mrsha off the walls!”
“We’re going to Krshia’s house! Tell Erin to meet us there!”
The young woman called out. Ceria nodded. Revi scanned the press of bodies as one of the Drake [Guardswomen] shouted for hands to haul Moore up.
“Where’s Erin?”
“She’s—coming. She’s just grabbing something.”
Halrac turned. He glared at Ceria.
“You left her behind?”
“She’s coming! The Goblins are at least twenty minutes away, even if they were running!”
“True. Okay, let’s go over places. Ceria, you need to speak to Olesm. He doesn’t want your team on the walls because you’re not ranged. You get to sit in the city with the Flamewardens and the others, lucky you. Go talk to him, he’s over there.”
Revi pointed. Ceria nodded.
“Just as soon as Erin gets up. Is she out of the inn yet?”
She went back to the walls. Halrac stared down at the muddy ground. Ceria could hear reports coming in.
“Goblins—uh—neutral Goblins are still moving around the city! Slow pacing!”
“Just keep an eye on them!”
“Where’s Erin?”
“In the inn. I haven’t seen her leave it yet.”
Halrac stared down at the inn, a frown on his face. So did Ceria.
“I could go back down and see—”
“I’ll go if anyone has to. I am the swiftest.”
Pisces volunteered, sniffing. Halrac just frowned.
“What did you say she was doing?”
“Uh—”
Ceria’s heart was pounding, and she couldn’t make it stop. She saw Olesm and Zevara, Ilvriss, and Klbkch coming towards them. The [Strategist] raised his voice and called out to them.
“Everyone on the walls? Ceria, where’s Erin?”
“In the inn!”
“She’s not out?”
“No, but she told me—”
Ceria tried to explain. She stopped as she remembered how calm Erin had been, even with the Goblin Lord’s army bearing down on them. Slowly, Ceria turned and stared across the Floodplains.
There they were. Over a hundred thousand Goblins, marching towards the city. An army of green and black. The Goblins marched in ranks, the undead shambling ahead of them. Straight towards Liscor. As if they knew what was expected of them. And behind, the Human army spread out.
“Watch Captain! Wall Lord! We have a hail from the Humans! A [Message] spell!”
“Report it.”
Ilvriss snapped at the Drake [Mage]. The Drake spoke up loudly enough for all to hear.
“They’re—they’re sending an apology, Wall Lord!”
“An apology?”
Zevara looked incredulous. The [Mage] nodded.
“They’re saying that they, uh, regret that their pursuit of the Goblin Lord has carried them this far. They’re attempting to engage the Goblins now, but will respect Liscor’s authority if we wish to initiate combat first.”
A roar of indignation went up across the wall. Zevara’s tail slapped the ground.
“Who sent that, Tyrion Veltras? That insolent bastard.”
“Send a counter-message. Inform them that we will allow them first opportunity at the Goblins. And ask what their plan of attack is.”
Ilvriss calmly replied. The [Mage] did so and came back instantly.
“They say they’ll engage the Goblins at distance, Wall Lord. With a number of new weapons.”
“Trebuchets?”
“Yes, sir.”
Ilvriss looked directly at Falene and spoke slowly.
“Tell the Humans that under no circumstances will we allow the use of such weapons around Liscor. For fear of…incidental fire.”
“I’ve said so, sir. But the Humans—they’re politely stating that they don’t wish to take ‘unnecessary casualties’. They’re assuring me that no mistakes will occur.”
A silence fell over the walls. Ilvriss nodded.
“Well then. We’ll see how good their word is, won’t we?”
Zevara spat over the battlements. Ceria looked from Ilvriss’ grim face to Klbkch’s unreadable one. Ksmvr edged away from Klbkch, and Olesm stared around.
“Well—well then, I suppose it’s time.”
Time, yes. The song and dance was over. Ceria stared at the Goblins. So did the others.
“What’s taking Erin?”
“I’m going to get her—”
Pisces spoke at the same time as Jelaqua, Halrac, and Bevussa. The adventurers looked at each other, and then Ceria pointed.
“There she is!”
Relief filled the half-Elf as she saw the door to the inn open at last. Erin came out, holding something bundled in her arm. And what looked like a quarterstaff. Ceria blinked as Erin fumbled with her burden and tried to lock the door. She heard a few curious voices behind her.
“What’s she holding?”
“Someone get a ladder!”
“Took her sweet time, didn’t she? Well, that’s just like her. Humans in general, really—”
“It would be like her to fall, begin drowning in one of the valleys, and have us go rescue her, wouldn’t it?”
“Can she swim?”
“Did she bring a bed sheet? What, is she expecting to sleep through the siege?”
“Someone’s got to. Or did you think we’d man the walls all day?”
“Looks like she’s got a quarterstaff as well. What’s she doing with the—wait. Where is she going?”
The people on the wall stared. Erin was fumbling with the bed sheet and pole. And she was walking. Around her inn. Not towards Liscor. Ceria’s heart began to beat faster.
“Uh—maybe she’s going to the outhouse?”
“With the Goblins approaching?”
“Hell, I could pee off the walls.”
“Just pee?”
“She’s—not going to the outhouse.”
They stared. Erin was walking past the outhouses. Around the inn, down the hill. Away from Liscor. And she was still fumbling with the bed sheet. She was trying to insert the pole into it. Ceria’s mouth went dry.
“What’s Erin doing? Where is she going?”
The others looked at each other. Moore craned his head uncertainly.
“She’s heading towards the Goblins.”
“Is she insane?”
