The question was entirely rhetorical. But even for Erin this was—her audience was frozen in place. Spellbound by something that wasn’t a spell, but pure madness. Erin was going towards the Goblins. And now she had the pole on the ground and was running the sheet down it. And—Ceria squinted. It looked peculiar. Familiar. The bed sheet was white, and the pole was quite, quite long. And as Erin hoisted it over her head, it looked just like—
“Oh no. Oh no.”
Ceria took a step back. The others took a moment to see what she was seeing, then Halrac swore.
“Someone get down there and stop her!”
“She can’t be doing that! No!”
Olesm clutched at his neck spines. Ilvriss’ jaw fell open. Falene just stared, and the world stared too. Pisces looked down at Erin, and his eyes were wide.
“Is that—”
Ksmvr appeared and stared past Pisces. He nodded.
“It appears Miss Erin has a flag. A white flag. I believe she is going towards the Goblins in order to negotiate.”
“What, our surrender?”
The others stared at Ksmvr. Then Klbkch turned and snapped.
“Someone stop her. Now.”
Ceria lurched into motion at the command in his tone. She saw Bevussa spread her wings as Pisces put one leg over the battlements. Revi conjured one of her summoned warriors, and the wall sprang to life. Then someone blew a horn.
It came from behind them. Ceria’s heart nearly came out of her mouth. Zevara snapped around.
“What the hell was that? Report! Are we under attack?”
“Is it reinforcements?”
Olesm whirled around. A [Guardsman] was sprinting towards them. He skidded to a stop.
“Watch Captain! It’s the southern wall! They said the Goblins—the other Goblins—they’ve changed course!”
Zevara stared at the Gnoll in horror.
“They’re doing what?”
 
——
 
“Spread out. Send word to Lord Pellmia and Lord Gralton. I want the left and right wings to advance two hundred feet. We will encircle the Goblins from behind. If they deviate from the city, bombard them with spells. The instant we open a gap, Miss Arcsinger will employ her Skill and pull them towards the city. Inform [Emperor] Laken that I want the first volley to land on the eastern gates.”
Lord Tyrion snapped orders as his army deployed around him. The ranks of infantry took positions behind the riders, whose horses were pawing at the muddy ground nervously. Still—the [Riders] weren’t even mounted yet. They soothed their beasts, and the officers in charge allowed the soldiers to stand casually. They knew their turn wouldn’t come yet.
Everyone knew the plan. But only Tyrion could execute it. He saw the left and right wings moving forwards smoothly, filling the valley until the mud and grass turned into steep inclines. The Goblin Lord had no way to retreat.
“The Drakes are hailing us, sir. They want assurances that your trebuchets will not hit the city. We’ve received threats from Zeres, Oteslia—now Manus as well—”
“Lady Reinhart is issuing you a direct message, Lord Veltras. She offers you one last chance to—”
“—congratulations from King Theil of Terandria. He wishes us the best of luck—”
“—at least one [Mage] transmitting the battle from the walls of Liscor. Wistram is picking up the spell despite our requests to have the broadcast stopped. Do you wish to—”
Voices surrounded Tyrion, all begging his attention. But he was looking towards Liscor. There it sat. A large city, a Drake city. There were larger and more fortified cities, but Liscor was key. Strategic. Within its walls were nearly a hundred thousand souls, and it had withstood the Necromancer, the Antinium, and any number of Human armies over the years. But none of them had what Tyrion did. Trebuchets, weapons of war that did not rely on magic, and Goblins. They were marching ahead of Tyrion.
“Strange. They’re not trying to move around the city.”
“Perhaps they’re resigned to their fates. Or perhaps they knew what’s coming.”
The [Strategists] debated quietly to Tyrion’s left. He saw something buzzing past them, a green, flying insect.
“Watch yourselves. There are acid flies in the air. This is their season for breeding.”
The two men recoiled. One swatted at the acid fly, swore, and Tyrion sighed.
“Healing potion. Jericha, the progress on the trebuchets?”
“Nearly complete, sir. [Emperor] Laken is oversee—I mean, commanding the [Engineers]. We have the ammunition ready too.”
Tyrion turned his head. He saw massive chunks of stone, shaped into projectiles, being dragged into place. They had been quarried and hauled from the High Passes, and there were enough of them to besiege Liscor day and night. But he didn’t intend to sit around.
“Have the enchantments held?”
Jericha nodded.
“Yes, sir. Lady Ieka assures me that the first enchantments are all at full strength. We have unenchanted stones for the first two volleys. We can begin ranging shots on your order.”
“Hold, then. Wait for my signal. And keep an eye on the ground. Have our Gold-rank teams ready.”
“Yes, sire.”
Tyrion could feel the vibration in the air. He rode forwards a bit, staring at Liscor. The Goblins were approaching cautiously. They might now be in range of a shot from a particularly experienced [Archer] or from Liscor’s enchanted walls, but not from regular bows. The Goblin Lord had to be getting as close as possible so he’d spend little time being hit from Liscor’s walls before he was at the city. Tyrion stared at the mass of Goblins. Yes, they’d gone straight for the city. He’d expected to have to pin them between his mages and archers, funnel them towards Liscor. But there they were, marching along neatly.
“You are aware of what is happening, aren’t you?”
Perhaps the Goblin Lord was counting on holding the city. It didn’t matter. It all suited Tyrion’s plans. He saw them advancing and nodded.
“Move up two hundred feet. And then inform [Emperor] Laken to wait for my command.”
The army advanced another two hundred feet. They gave the Goblins a good gap, but they were well within range of Tyrion’s [Mages] and the trebuchets and only minutes away if his cavalry charged. But none of Tyrion’s forces were near enough to be targeted by Liscor. Tyrion nodded.
Now would be the time. He turned to Jericha and heard a raw voice. A man galloped towards him, sword in hand. Tyrion saw Jericha raise a wand and point at Yitton Byres’ chest.
“Jericha, hold!”
She stopped. Yitton halted in front of Tyrion. His face was a mask of both terror and pain. He raised his sword, and Tyrion subdued the urge to reach for his own sword.
“Lord Byres. What is the meaning of this?”
“My children.”
Yitton Byres gestured to the city behind Tyrion. A few of Tyrion’s escorts moved to surround him, but Tyrion motioned them back.
“They are in Liscor?”
Yitton nodded.
“Both Ylawes and Yvlon. I know it! Tyrion, you cannot allow them to—you must hold off the attack, give them time. Let me ransom my children or petition Liscor to let any noncombatants go! I beg of you!”
“Ridiculous.”
Jericha stiffened in outrage. Tyrion shook his head.
“Lord Yitton, I cannot oblige your request for two reasons. Firstly, time is of the essence, and I do not intend Liscor time to stall. Secondly—I remind you that this is not an assault. Yet. The Goblin Lord’s army is our target, not Liscor. To claim or insinuate otherwise openly would be problematic.”
“Do not lie, Tyrion!”
Yitton shouted. The man pointed his blade at Tyrion’s chest, and Jericha’s wand glowed with energy. Yitton took no notice. His face was pale.
“I thought you were a better man than this. Don’t stoop to subterfuge. You know what you are doing.”
The words stung Tyrion a bit. He shifted on his horse’s saddle.
“Very well. It is an assault, Byres. But what would you have me do? Call it off? For two people?”
Yitton shook his head. He looked at Tyrion, and there were tears in his eyes.
“My children are there, Tyrion. What would you do for them? Please.”
Lord Tyrion Veltras paused.
“I know. And I am sorry, Lord Yitton. But some things require sacrifice. If it were my own children—”
He paused for a long time and stared at Yitton’s face.
“—It must be done.”
“Then I am sorry too. Because I cannot let you do this.”
Lord Yitton’s grip tightened on his sword. He urged his horse forwards with a shout. Jericha lifted her wand.
“Alive.”
Tyrion turned his head. He saw the flash out of the corner of his eye, heard Yitton cry out. Several [Knights] rushed forwards and restrained the [Lord] as he half-tumbled from his saddle, his armor glowing where Jericha’s spell had struck him.
“Escort Lord Byres behind the lines. Keep him there. And assure him that if I can save his children, I will. Jericha, my thanks.”
“At your service, Lord Veltras.”
The two sat on their mounts as Lord Yitton was taken away. Tyrion heard him shouting, but he tuned the man’s voice out. He stared at Liscor. Now would be the time. Tyrion raised a hand—
“Lord Veltras!”
A [Scout] galloped towards him. This time, Tyrion’s brows creased in annoyance.
“What now?”
“Lord Veltras, there’s—a complication. Someone’s raised a white flag!”
“In Liscor?”
Tyrion’s jaw nearly dropped. The [Scout] shook his head. He pointed back across the Floodplains.
“No, sire. It’s—it’s a Human! A young woman—she’s approaching the Goblin Lord’s army with a white flag! And she’s shouting for a temporary truce!”
Tyrion stared at the man. His eyes bored into the [Scout]’s head. Then, slowly, as the entire army hung on his word, Tyrion raised one hand and felt at his right ear. He cupped his hand.
“What?”
 
——
 
“All is in readiness. Take the walls, and my force will teleport in. Hold the city for thirty minutes. Once the dead begin rising, you will be able to entrap Tyrion Veltras’ cavalry within the walls.”
Az’kerash’s voice whispered to Reiss. The Goblin Lord nodded jerkily. His eyes were fixed on Liscor. The Goblins in his army held still, nervous, staring at the city that would be their home.
There it was. A city on a hill. Only—something was wrong. The hill was muddy. There was water on the ground, and the city looked smaller and less grand than in his dreams. And Reiss could see figures on the walls. Drakes, Gnolls, even a half-Giant. It wasn’t like his dream at all. It was too real.
But his master was in his head. And Reiss was a captive. Or—no. Not just a captive. A slave. Was Greydath right? Was Garen? Reiss was afraid. He stared at Liscor and heard the whisper again.
“As soon as a gap opens, push your Goblins towards it. Send the undead first. They will explode in the gaps. Whittle down Liscor’s defenders. This battle is yours to lose.”
It wasn’t his, though. Tendons stood up on Reiss’ neck. He was him. He was Reiss. Wasn’t he? Was it Reiss who thought this or a Goblin who thought he was Reiss?
Zel Shivertail had given him that name. His master did not know it. That part was real. Reiss clung to that fact. His army slowed. Now they were just out of range of Liscor’s walls. Someone panicked on the walls and shot an arrow. It landed just short of the Goblins.
“Wait.”
Reiss croaked an order. His Goblins looked up at him uncertainly. They waited. Were they his slaves? No. They were loyal. Or was it just because he was a Goblin Lord? Did they have a choice?
“Tyrion Veltras will begin the assault soon. Soon.”
His master’s tone was gleeful. Reiss could sense his excitement, his elation. To Az’kerash, it was a victory, excitement. He did not measure lives like Reiss did. He was—happy.
“Wait.”
Reiss held up a hand. The Goblins looked up at him. The Goblin Lord had spotted something. He pointed ahead. A distant figure was approaching them. It had stopped on a hill. It was holding something. Reiss and his master stared. He stared at a distant figure he had never seen before. A Human, young and female. Holding something in her hands. She waved it. The Necromancer’s voice was incredulous.
“Is that—”
“A flag.”
Reiss spoke the words softly. He stared at the white flag. And his stomach lurched. Then he heard the voice. And the distant figure waved the flag. And seemed to be speaking to him.
 
——
 
As Tyrion Veltras rode forwards, cupping one ear. As Reiss and Az’kerash stared through the same eyes. Under the gazes of the horrified defenders of Liscor. Watched by the world through a half-Elf’s eyes. And to the listening Goblins, Drakes, Humans, Antinium, and all the rest. She shouted.
“Peace! I want a truce! Parley! Parley! Cease-fire!”
Erin Solstice waved the flag over her head, trying to make the bed sheet that was the flag wave in the non-existent breeze. She wished she’d chosen a smaller pole. The flag was heavy, and her arms were already hurting. But she kept waving the flag. The Goblin Lord’s army had stopped, and behind it, she could see the Human one. Distant ranks of warriors dressed in armor glinted at her.
Humans. Her people. More of them than she’d ever seen in one place in this world. Gathered for war. But it couldn’t be war. It shouldn’t be. The Goblins weren’t evil! And Liscor wasn’t a bad place! Erin didn’t know the history that had brought the Humans—led by this Tyrion Veltras—here. She didn’t care. She only knew what her heart told her. And it had led her here.
“Hey! Don’t attack! Let’s talk it out! Talk! Give peace a chance! War, is it really any good? Let’s talk about this!”
Erin shouted with her [Loud Voice] Skill. Her words bounced off Liscor’s walls, echoed across the Floodplains. It sounded awful to Erin. She didn’t have a speech. But she kept shouting, waving her flag. Her knees were shaking.
There were so many Goblins. And these ones were dressed in black armor. They carried terrible weapons and—if there ever was an evil army, it would be them. Their crimson eyes fixed on Erin. Like green demons. But that wasn’t them. This wasn’t them. Erin had to believe it.
“Peace! Say it with me! Peace! That’s all we want! Peace! Peace! Please? Peace!”
 
——
 
“Peace!”
“I don’t believe it. She’s going to die.”
Zevara covered her eyes. Ilvriss stared down at Erin. He agreed.
“She isn’t serious. Does she think that Tyrion Veltras will listen to her after coming all this way? That the Goblin Lord will?”
He shook his head. It was a foolish dream. But he kept his eyes on her. And he heard a voice.
“Wall Lord! Wall Lord!”
He glanced over. The [Mage] was staring at him.
“What?”
“The Walled Cities. Wall Lord, they’re asking who that is. Everyone can hear her, sir.”
“They can?”
Ilvriss looked at Falene. The half-Elf was staring at Erin. So was everyone else. Erin’s voice echoed distantly towards them.
