The little Cave Goblin quaked in fear. She hid, praying they wouldn’t go into the cave. And the Goblin army didn’t. Any other tribe would have checked the cave, but this one was under command. They marched on, and then Pebblesnatch heard the thunder of hooves. She peeked out again and this time didn’t even bother to stare. One look at the countless Humans riding on horses and the ones marching on foot, bearing arms, was enough to send her hiding again.
The second army was even larger than the first. And both began moving across the Floodplains. Pebblesnatch stayed where she was, terrified. The little red mana stone was clutched in her claws as she peeked outside. Now she was stuck. Pebblesnatch went back to the cave and wondered if she could get through the dungeon, but when she heard the clicking and agitated sounds coming past the walled-off section, she froze.
The Shield Spiders, who were quite invisible to her, were angry. They’d heard the drums and movement and were agitated. Pebblesnatch backed up and hid in the cave. She hid and quaked. She shouldn’t have come here. She shouldn’t! She was separated from the others. And she was stuck here.
Pebblesnatch was afraid. So she hid and tried to make herself as small as possible. The chef’s hat made a pillow as Pebblesnatch curled up. Waiting. She heard the sounds of the drums and marching and then silence. And then she heard thunder and war.
 
——
 
“The Goblins have moved away from the inn. They’re heading south. Small mercy for that.”
Ilvriss studied the map and sighed. One less problem. He spoke into the small scrying orb he held in one claw. The figure on the other side spoke tersely.
“It will help, but the real problem is how long you can hold out for. They’re early.”
“Yes.”
That was all Ilvriss said. He didn’t need to go to the battlements to see or even listen to the reports coming into the war room he’d set up. He’d seen the Goblin Lord’s army, and behind it, the Human one. They were here.
In thirteen days. Even faster than anticipated.
“Tyrion Veltras is nothing if not punctual. How soon may we have reinforcements?”
The hesitation on the other end was all the answer Ilvriss needed, really. The head [Strategist] of Salazsar checked his reports.
“The…the nearest group is the Winged Riders of Oteslia. They might arrive by nightfall, but they’ve been moving nonstop. They’ll be half-dead—if they had a day to rest—”
“And the next? Are there any armies? At all?”
“A—a local force of cities plus Pallass’ main force is set to arrive. If they march through the night, they could be there in two days. Secondary forces are moving behind them and should trickle in the next three days, which is when Manus predicts their force will arrive. If all goes well, Salazsar, Zeres, and Fissival could all converge a day after that, but it depends on luck as much as anything.”
“So two days.”
“At least. Pallass’ army can’t…they’d be able to provide relief, but until Manus and the other armies get here—can Liscor hold for two days? Five?”
“We shall see, won’t we?”
It would either be a matter of hours or days. Ilvriss didn’t know which. No one did.
“They have trebuchets. But if we can hold the gaps, we might make it. Then it will be attrition. First the Goblin Lord, then the Humans. They’ll be fresh, so we’ll face two waves.”
“If Liscor falls—it will be war. The Walled Cities will declare it at once. Liscor falling will not stand.”
The choice of words was darkly amusing to Ilvriss. He stared at the scrying orb.
“Hasn’t it always been war with the Humans?”
The Drake on the other end hesitated.
“Yes. I suppose so. But this will be all-out war. And we haven’t had that in…Ancestors. Decades, at least. At least half a century. A full-scale war? It’s not something we want, to be honest. Not right now. The Antinium complicate matters. Those damn bugs. We can’t even have a proper war without looking over our tails to make sure we don’t fight on two fronts. They changed everything.”
“Yes. They did.”
Ilvriss moved over to the window of the war room. From the third floor of Liscor’s city hall, he could see the eastern wall. It was filled with bodies. Drakes, Gnolls, a few adventurers…and Antinium. Over two thousand Soldiers stood on the walls, and four thousand more held the streets, along with a few hundred Workers armed with bows. The Hive had committed a majority of its forces, or so Klbkch had claimed. Those not present were preparing to assault the trebuchets.
“I will inform you of any changes at once. But keep the lines clear. We have visuals—one of the Gold-rank adventurer [Mages], Falene, has agreed to transmit everything she sees from the walls. I trust you have another orb to view the battle from?”
“We’re broadcasting it as we speak, Wall Lord. The entire world is watching.”
“Good. Maybe they’ll see the Humans’ treachery for what it is.”
“Perhaps. But Lord Tyrion’s army has no such visuals. He must have banned any [Mages] in his army from casting the spell.”
More pretense. It would be easier to deny what was going on. Ilvriss grunted.
“The truth will out.”
There was silence from the other end. Then the Drake spoke.
“You could leave the city, Wall Lord. There is the door set up. You could flee.”
Ilvriss looked at the scrying orb. His grip tightened.
“No, I could not. I am a Wall Lord. I could not run.”
“…I suppose you couldn’t. Well then. Ancestors protect you, Ilvriss.”
“Thank you.”
Ilvriss lowered the orb. He stood at the table and felt warm and cold. Cold, because he knew what was coming. Warm because—his eyes went down to the shining breastplate on his chest. The Heartflame Breastplate glowed. It did not burn—but he would activate the enchantment soon. To give those who saw it hope. He wore the legendary armor, the pride of his people, on his chest. He hoped he would be worthy of it.
“This must not fall into their hands. Not again.”
Ilvriss murmured to himself. He straightened and looked up as the door flew open. A panting Street Runner, a Gnoll, spoke, ignoring decorum.
“Wall Lord! Watch Captain Zevara wants you on the walls! The army’s getting closer and—”
“I’m on my way.”
Ilvriss strode for the door. He left the scrying orb behind and the war table. There would be time for strategy when battle was joined. Right now, he was waiting. They were coming closer.
 
——
 
“Predictions? Thoughts?”
Niers stood at his table, or rather, on a platform over it. He stared down at the three-dimensional, magical map of Liscor and looked around. His students stood with him, pieces in hand. They were ready to recreate the battle as it happened, and they had the scrying orb placed right next to the map. Niers could look through the eyes of the [Mage] casting the spell and hear what was going on on the other side, plain as day. Right now, he was hearing a lot of swearing and conversation between the adventurers.
“Holy hells. Is that—how many are there, do you think?”
“A lot of them. That’s what. You seeing all this, sharp ears? Want to get a better look for all the people watching?”
The [Mage] casting the spell shifted.
“Be silent, Dawil. They can hear everything you say.”
“Can you turn down the sound on that thing until we need to hear what’s going on?”
One of the students obeyed. They had to cast a spell to reduce the sounds coming from the scrying orb. Niers grunted. You needed a spell to activate even the best orbs, and you needed more spells to tune them. Anyone with magic could cast the spells if they learned them, but it was inconvenient. Why couldn’t there be a…a knob or something to change the volume? Well, that was magic for you.
“The Goblin Lord’s army is approaching the city. It’s larger than we’d anticipated. Closer to…a hundred and sixty thousand Goblins. But Tyrion Veltras’ army dwarfs them, with respect to Dwarves. Can Liscor survive the onslaught? Venaz?”
“It depends on how well their trebuchets work. If they’re any good, they’ll take down the walls, even enchanted ones, within the hour. But I don’t trust Human [Engineers]. Minotaur ones would do the job, but these? They might not even take down the walls in a day.”
The Minotaur frowned at the image of the Human army, barely visible and still streaming into the valley. There was no sign of the trebuchets, but Niers didn’t expect them to appear until they were closer.
“True. That’s one concern. But in terms of numbers alone, they outnumber Liscor’s defenders by a score. If it comes to breached walls—and it will—how well will they hold? Marian?”
The Centaur trotted back and forth restlessly. She hated battles like this.
“If—if they can plug the breaches, they could push the Humans and Goblins back. Again, it depends on how fast the walls go down, but they have Antinium in the city. They’re excellent builders. If I were the [Strategist], I’d have teams ready to fill any gaps. The main thing is to create choke points. Again, it’s all down to how quickly the walls fall.”
She eyed Niers nervously, perhaps worried that she’d given the same answer as Venaz. But it was the only answer you could give wasn’t it? Niers cursed himself. Why was he nervous?
“Correct. I suppose we’ll have to wait.”
He paced back and forth, staring at the orb and at the map. It was just another battle. And yet—he wondered if his opponent had fled. If he or she or it was in Liscor. Were they Olesm Swifttail? No, absolutely not. But were they there? The chess set had moved last night. But that meant…nothing. He forced himself to stand still. Wait. He had done this dance a thousand times, and he wasn’t even fighting this battle. Wait…his heart grew calmer.
“Professor. There’s something from the orb.”
Niers looked up. He saw the viewpoint shift. The student fumbled with the spell, and Niers heard the last of what was being said. It came from the Dwarf standing in front of the half-Elf. The one called Dawil.
“What in the name of beard oil is she doing? They have to leave!”
“I don’t know. Haven’t they seen the army?”
The view had shifted as the half-Elf controlling the spell looked away from the advancing army. Down towards an inn. The inn. Niers’ heart jumped. The two adventurers were joined by a third voice, out of sight, male.
“They must have seen the army. They’ll be here soon, Falene, Dawil. Don’t worry.”
“If you say so, lad. But they’re taking their sweet time about it. If I were them, I’d be running.”
“They’ll be here. If they aren’t, we’ll get them.”
“Sooner rather than later?”
“Give them at least five minutes.”
Niers frowned at the inn. He saw the viewpoint shift a bit as someone on the walls shouted at the adventurers. The perspective shifted, panning past rows of silent Soldier Antinium and [Guards]. One of Niers’ students, Wil, shuddered as he saw the Antinium.
“Hey, Falene! Are you broadcasting your image? Look over here!”
A Human with a warhammer raised it over her head. She waved her other hand.
“My name is Earlia, and I’m the captain of Gemhammer, a Silver-rank team. If anyone wants a powerhouse melee team who can—”
The viewpoint shifted back to the inn as the shouting continued. Niers’ lips quirked into a smile. He distinctly heard the half-Elf mutter.
“Idiots. We’re at war, and they’re showing off.”
Dawil sighed.
“They’ve never seen a war before. Let them have their fun. And hey, while I have the ears of the world, if there are any eligible Dwarf women—or ladies of any persuasion—”
The sound abruptly cut off, and Niers guessed that the half-Elf had muted her own spell somehow. He stroked his beard and smiled.
“That was a smart move, announcing their names.”
The tiny Fraerling commented. The other students looked at him. Umina hesitated.
“They, uh, sounded like fools to me, sir. And that’s hardly a good endorsement for their team.”
“True. But the name of ‘Gemhammer’ was just spread across the world in a single moment. To everyone listening. There are monarchs, [Generals], and even adventuring teams of renown that can’t boast of the same.”
His students looked at each other. Niers just smiled.
“The world stage. Remember it. And remember this. All of this—”
He waved at the map and scrying orb.
“—will change the world you’ll live in. Soon. As quick as lightning. If Liscor falls, even Balerosian companies might be hired on.”
“Will they fall, Professor? How do you think the battle will go?”
All the students looked at Niers. He knew at least one of them was probably transmitting or recording his words to send to those interested. Such was the nature of fame. But the little [Strategist] just shrugged. The Titan stared down at the scrying orb and spoke quietly as the Goblin Lord’s army poured across the Floodplains, slowly, towards Liscor. He could hear drum beats echoing across the plains.
“I wouldn’t care to wager. Not yet. Let’s just wait.”
He shifted from foot to foot. Waiting was hard. It felt like he’d been waiting a long time. But it was nearly, nearly—
 
——
 
“Time.”
The Free Queen spoke the words and knew it was true. Xrn and her army of three Hives was in place. Her Hive was secured. The army of expendable Soldiers was above, and another force prepared to assault the Humans—and fail. She could hear Klbkch speaking in her mind. He was on the walls, addressing the Drake who called herself Watch Captain. And the Drake Wall Lord.
“Our Antinium are committed, Wall Lord Ilvriss. However, we have run into complications.”
The Queen whispered the words aloud, repeating Klbkch verbatim for the sake of the Workers gathered in the room. Belgrade, Anand, Pawn, and Bird were all present. Bird lay next to the Free Queen, immobile, while Belgrade and Anand pored over their maps, ready to direct the Antinium. Pawn hovered about the table, nervous. Even Garry was listening, peeking his head out of the kitchen.
“Explain.”
Ilvriss’ voice was terse. Angry. The Free Queen could sense Klbkch facing him, cool and collected above. His words were steady as he replied.
“The water has yet to drain from the ground. As such, the Antinium are fighting to move through the muddy terrain. It will be far more difficult to assault the trebuchets. Regrettably, we have already taken hundreds of casualties simply tunneling towards the Human army.”
The Queen heard a curse from the Drakes. In the Hive, Bird looked up.
“We did? Will we not destroy the trebuchets?”
The Free Queen bent her head affectionately.
“No, Bird. That was never our design. The Antinium will fail to destroy more than one or two trebuchets on purpose. But we must lie to the Drakes in order to show good faith.”
