Not the fanciest breakfast I’ve seen, but it’s robust. I wonder if he has dessert afterwards or if that’s not a thing here...

Indicating I should eat, the Legate digs in without a word and I follow suit, freed of any obligations to pour tea or whatever since the Seneschal is right beside us. Though nervous about eating in such prestigious company, I figure I’ve already made an ass of myself in front of him before, so I might as well enjoy what might well be my final meal. Putting aside all my worries and fears, I sample each dish with a sip of tea in between and parse through the flavours, thoroughly appreciating the hard work and effort which went into this meal. Even better is how the food has already been portioned out for each of us, so I don’t have to worry about contesting with the Legate over the best parts, and soon, I almost forget I’m stuck in a room with the most powerful man in Central, someone who probably wants me dead.

Honestly, life’s not terrible right now. Things could be worse. I hope someone made food for Guan Suo, but if not, we’ll stop and get something on the way back. I could probably still eat after all this, regenerating flesh is hungry work.

Making sure to eat at the same pace as the Legate, we finish our meal in comfortable silence, but things get awkward again while the servants clear the table. Then again, I’m almost positive he doesn’t intend to kill me, because this doesn’t feel like a tense, murderous meal. Maybe this is all a ploy to lower my guard, but I can’t see why he’d bother, which means he’s trying to make nice. Again, I don’t understand why, but ignorance is a state I’m well-used to by now, and I’m slowly learning not to stress about it.

Very slowly. Glacial even, but it’s still progress.

Once the three of us are alone again, the Legate resumes our conversation with a question. “Tell me, why do you think I haven’t killed you?”

Oh fun. “Morale, I suppose, or perhaps you’ve had more important matters to deal with, like the Treaty and whatnot. I haven’t given it too much thought.” I sorta accepted it and carried on. I like to think it’s a part of Baledagh’s legacy, because he always had the strength to move forward regardless of the odds. Despite being burdened with all my flaws, Baledagh also had many admirable qualities about him. Daring, determined, and ruthless, he was the person I wanted to become, the person I thought best equipped to survive life in this new and terrifying world.

Baledagh alone wasn’t enough, but maybe if I keep the best from both of us, I can become someone better, the best person I can be.

“Not even close.” Proud and aloof, the Legate’s gaze no longer lingers on me, his apathy so clear it’s almost hurtful. “You live because you may still be of value. Though you refuse to work with me, you can still be used to my advantage. So long as my enemies believe you are my pawn, they will waste their efforts trying to turn you, and in doing so, will expose their hand. Not only will your continued existence conceal my actions, I will also benefit from your actions. In the eyes of the world, your successes will be my successes, and should you fail, then I lose nothing by cutting all ties and leaving you to the mercy of my enemies.”

I think this is all meant to scare me, but I don’t know who his enemies are or what his goal is, so honestly, it’s all white noise and static. Resisting the urge to shrug, I ask, “Why are you telling me all this?”

“Because,” he says, with a self-satisfied grin, “I expect your aid in carrying out this deception.” He doesn’t bother adding ‘or else’, but it’s implied. “Assuming your final answer is to my liking.” Noticing my confusion, his eyebrow rises as he clarifies, “You care nothing for Imperial Secrets. Why?”

Oh. This one’s the easiest to answer, because there’s nothing to hide. “I pursue strength so I may remain free, free from conflict, free from strife, free from worry, just... free. The Martial Dao is merely a means to an end, so you see why I refuse to trade my freedom for more strength.”

Taken aback by my answer, the Legate studies my expression for long seconds, and I do my best not to squirm. With a look almost approaching pity, he shakes his head and speaks softly. “I almost admire your foolish simplicity, Falling Rain. The freedom you seek does not exist, not for men like you or I. Service to a person, service to a cause, or service to your conscience, in the end, you are bound by circumstances beyond your control. You wish for true freedom, power enough to remain unfettered from all conflict or struggle? Not even the Emperor could grant you this request, for you’ll soon find that the more power you amass, the more fetters you accrue. There will always be a person, a cause, or a principle which you will serve, even if you think it’s of your own volition.” Dismissing me with a wave of his hand, he waits until I’m at the door to add, “I have a soft spot for dreamers, so my offer remains, though for how long I cannot say. Think on it, but not too long.”

After escorting me back to Ping-Ping, the Seneschal hands me a scroll with an Imperial seal, eschewing all the ceremony which usually goes with it. “I urge you to accept my young master’s offer. While it’s possible to find yourself a more benevolent master, no person alive will make for a more fearsome foe.” On that ominous note, the Seneschal holds open the drapes to my palanquin and I get in to leave, still reeling from the events of today. Logically, the best choice is to ally myself with the Legate, because I’m already suffering all the drawbacks and reaping none of the rewards, which is probably what he meant to highlight regardless.

Ugh. It’s too early for decisions like this.

Breaking the wax seal, I unfurl the scroll to read my orders and almost cheer with relief.

Finally. Deployment orders.

Enough politics. It’s time for war.

Chapter Meme
