"Correct," Veronica answered. "It is similar in a sense. My grandmother is no simpleton, nor does she forget everything, but she is a shadow. It's like watching someone you know get slowly boiled down to their basest traits."

"And that's because they're contained within the Great One," Shiv said, wagering a guess. "Because they're only made up of their feats and histories, their most important deeds."

"That is my theory as well," Veronica nodded, and Shiv caught a hint of pride on her face. "A single skill does not make an entire person, no matter how hard someone has used that skill, no matter for how long. Well done, Tanner.”

"Shiv."

"What?"

"Shiv is my name," he replied. "I’m not telling you again. We’re not talking anymore if I can’t even take that respect from you."

“Take?” Veronica said.

“Respect isn’t given in our world, is it?” Shiv asked, jutting his chin out at her.

Veronica nodded slowly, and rather than using his given name, she acquiesced. "Very well, Shiv, then. Is Deathless fine too?"

"Depends on who's calling me that."

"Well, Deathless, I suspect your soul might be a bit different than all of ours, after what Udraal did to you. But the point remains, who might you be if you only had that Legendary Skill of yours?"

Shiv thought about that and winced. “Violent. But with distaste for collateral damage. Still might be a bit messy though.”

"And by 'a bit messy,' you mean a harbinger of unspeakable amounts of collateral damage."

Something cracked inside of Shiv. Instead of it being an emotional wound, it was a literal injury. It wasn't anything severe, but the parting of a rib still surprised him.

Psycho-Cartography 81 > 82

Silver Tongue 39 > 41

Veronica frowned slightly. "Oh, you care about such things."

"You don't?" he shot back, a growl gliding in under his breath.

"I did," Veronica replied, "but I haven't been so untidy in years. I deal in precision now, just as you are trying to become more mature in your methods. I found a few of the wardens you encountered early on. They said you spared them."

"I didn't know if they deserved it or not," Shiv said.

“Deserved. What a precious notion,” Veronica muttered absentmindedly. "Perhaps all of us do, yet perhaps none of us do. It's hard to say, really. But hold that idea of drawing your personality from a single skill—and apply it to a god. The Strongest, the Songbringer, the Genius, the Deadly. These are not personality traits; they are simply qualities, boasts."

"Like skill names," he said.

"Like skill names," she agreed. "And that eventually wears you down. The Great One dreams, but dreams are murky things. They are not like memories; they're more like a blend, and eventually, as I spoke of entropy, parts of you are lost, irrevocably. Or so it seemed."

"Did the Starhawk succeed at all," Shiv asked, "with the whole fixing the other Ascendants thing? Or did he end up going straight to the ‘no more gods, share divine power with the people’ thing?”

"Oh, gods. Share divine power with the people? Matthew… That won’t solve anything. But no. The Starhawk wasn't quite like that then." The Councilwoman sighed. "He still had so much hope in his family. His loyalty was practically unrivaled. The Starhawk you see today is not the Starhawk I knew of yesteryear. Don't think he has preserved his own personality any more than the others. He’s as much a stereotype of himself as any of them.”

"So, the Starhawk's been decayed as well," Shiv said.

"Yes," Veronica acknowledged, "but he probably stands among the few that have become more moral since their decay. After all, he is the wings of justice, the noble, the executioner of evil." She hummed. "I remember him when he was just Matthew. He was a remarkable archer then, and a deadly Pathbearer. Still noble, still honorable. But the thing about nobility and honor, boy, is that it changes across the years. And when one is tribal, there is no individual feud. It is family against family, clan against clan."

Once more, Shiv began to delve into Veronica's deeper subtext. And this time, as he guessed, an uncomfortable weight spilled out along with his words. "The Starhawk murdered the innocent."

"Again, 'innocent'," Veronica mused. A few of the fairies drifted around her, and the Legendary Councilwoman frowned, shooing them away. Even as they giggled, her body glistened with mana, and the room seemed to dim around her. "Who can say what innocence is?"

"Sounds like an excuse to me," Shiv said.

"Come back to me in about a hundred years," Veronica replied with a humorless grin. But then the grin faded, and she reconsidered her words. "With how much conflict you're getting into, come back to me in about five years. By this point, you've probably spent more time in active combat than most veterans."

"Alright, now you're just buttering me up," Shiv said.

"No," Veronica disagreed. "You have to understand how fast most fights go, and that it is a coordinated affair, even if we are all individuals, first and foremost. You, meanwhile, have died over and over again, fighting things you had no business facing. Really, you are the System's favorite son."

"Yeah, not really feeling that," Shiv said.

"I would say you are. It keeps trying to kill you. And that, to the System, is the truest love of all."
