There was still a chance that a handful of fated sealbearers could exchange for the treasures. Sealbearers from established factions like Iz Tayn and Kaltosa Lu could probably figure out ways to pool their earnings. Nevertheless, Zac felt it more likely that most of the peak treasures would be brought out through underhanded means, like his upcoming caper with Esmeralda.

There’d definitely be a major change when the pillars were fully ignited. The going theory was that the Left Imperial Palace and the Ultom Courts would emerge. Their appearance would trigger the Fifth Pillar’s hidden ritual by drawing the accumulated Fate throughout the continent.

At that time, the memory domains would disintegrate and expose the items sealed beneath. It could very well trigger a final looting free-for-all, where those who’d positioned themselves the best would reap the greatest reward. After that, the selected few would be transported to Ultom while the others were sent out.

Ultimately, Zac wouldn’t place his hopes on an unconfirmed theory, whether it was for [Second Singularity] or the Primo’s treasure. He wouldn’t mind emptying his pockets if it meant completing his mission ahead of schedule.

“Don’t give up before we’ve entered,” Zac said. “We’ll get it one way or another.”

“I know. We have to, even if I have to hunt down every single Skybreaker myself,” Tavza said with a determination that allowed no leeway.

Sensing that the discussion was heading in a dangerous direction, Zac shifted to his earlier question about his bloodline.

“I’m afraid I don’t have answers. Bloodline Awakenings are rare even within our kind, and almost always performed within the lake. In those situations, it’s a natural process. Like your experience in the pond,” Tavza said.

“But not this time,” Zac pressed.

“The Abyssal Shores periodically provide the outer families with resources harvested from the depths. That’s occasionally enough to trigger a small awakening, especially when combined with the Bloodline Manual,” Tavza explained. “That’s how I evolved, though I’m somewhat concerned about advancing with an external source of death. I will have to ask my seniors to inspect my bloodline for mutations.”

“Not possible, then,” Zac sighed.

“If you’re right at the precipice, a powerful enough Abyssal Treasure might suffice,” Tavza said. “I’m afraid I don’t have anything suitable on me, though. You’d have to…”

“Head to the Abyssal Shores, I know,” Zac said, not believing for a second Tavza’s claim. An An’Azol descendant without a single Abyssal Natural Treasure? Please.

While Zac was thinking of ways to access Tavza’s reserves, there was finally some movement from Ogras’ side. A few cracks spread across the cocoon before the whole thing imploded. However, the condensed flames didn’t enter Ogras as one would expect. The shell holding Avīci’s powers of rebirth was dragged into the [Shadewar Flag] in the demon’s hands.

Next, a terrifying amount of energy was pulled out of the platform. Zac glanced at the sky, which suddenly looked angry enough to be mistaken for his own tribulations. The dots connected, and Zac wasn’t sure if he should be impressed or alarmed.

“What has he done?” Tavza gasped.

“I think he’s erected a purgatory of his own.”
