Erick stepped out of Benevolence, into a hole in the ground, and then he stepped through a few more intervening spaces, before he finally stepped down onto the serpentine roots of Yggdrasil, deep in the Underworld of Veird. He was now about 1,500 kilometers below the southern pole of the planet. This was a private location known only to a few, because even inside Benevolence Yggdrasil didn’t have that much privacy. Other people were always looking at the Benevolent Sky. This place, however large of a cavern it was with water inlets and light everywhere, was near-absolute in its secrecy, because Yggdrasil was able to keep it that way, and so he did.

“What’s wrong, Yggdrasil?” Erick asked, as he sat down on Yggdrasil’s white roots, looking up at his largest son.

A chill wind blew, as was normal in this area. There was no [Scry] eye in front of Erick just yet; just the light of Yggdrasil, and the coolness of the air.

Erick waited.

Yggdrasil’s eye appeared. “… I might have messed up, asking to be released from your soul.”

“You didn’t mess up at all.” Erick said, “Everyone wants what they want out of life, and you want to be your own person. It’s a perfectly reasonable request. When I made my own 100 year request for a divine seal on you, before you were born, that was a reasonable request, too, because none of us had any idea what Melemizargo would be like in the following years. If his sanity would hold. I think it is holding, but I also think he’s up to some shit.

“And I know we can’t hold him back forever.

“He’s cramped in this world, just like you’re cramped inside of me, and you want to be let out. It’s all perfectly reasonable to want your own freedom, Yggdrasil. Please do not think that you are doing anything wrong.” Erick said, “I knew this request of yours was coming for a very long time, and I think Melemizargo is just taking advantage of this, like gods do sometimes. They probably all knew this was coming eventually. And that’s because of course you want to be free.”

Yggdrasil listened, staring intently, his eye seeming to shine as Erick tried, and seemed to succeed, at validating him.

Erick continued, “And Melemizargo wishes to be free, too. Perhaps part of that freedom is the freedom in knowing what had killed the previous Cosmology, so that he can prevent that from ever happening again. That’s a perfectly reasonable stance to take, too.

“And I suppose that there’s never going to be an ‘actually good time’ to venture into that horror zone. So now, with all the stability we have and with Kiri being my backup— And Ezekiel, too… I suppose this is good enough for them to risk opening new worlds. And of course, you’ve proven yourself as a capable person, working that fish farm by Treehome, and helping people whenever they come to you.” Erick said, “So the only real question is: Do you feel comfortable being your own person, Yggdrasil? Do you feel comfortable, knowing that Melemizargo and others will be using you to open new worlds, if they can?”

“… I know I can stand strong against the storm... But I know that a storm is coming, father, and...” Yggdrasil said, “And I don’t actually feel secure in anything, father. When you were gone, I now recognized that time as a time of frozen winter. Nothing really happened.

“But now that you’re ‘back’, I feel like the ground shifted, and land feels good to grow in again. I want to poke my roots deep and grow taller. But I’m not sure where to grow, or how to grow.

“Maybe I want to be ‘independent’? That might be the word. Years ago you told me that you didn’t want me overseeing any work with House Benevolence, because you didn’t want to force that obligation on me. But I want an obligation, father. I want to be more than I am.” Softer, “People are telling me that they don’t trust me to be myself, and I want to prove that I am capable of being my own person.”

Erick wasn’t quite sure where to begin with all of that, but he found a place soon enough. “If you want to tell me who is talking bad about you, and if it’s a problem I can fix, I will fix it. But people talk bad about me all the time. I try to ignore it. Have you talked to anyone else about this?”

Yggdrasil strained as he said, “Gnowmi tells me to ignore them, too. But it’s hard.”

“I understand that. It is very hard to ignore the haters, especially when they start speaking falsehoods, and accusing you of preparing to do the worst to all of them.”

“Yes!” Yggdrasil said, “They think I want to kill them in their sleep! I have no idea how it started, but…” Yggdrasil turned away, then he turned back. “It’s tough.”

Erick nodded. “It is tough.” He asked, “Have you thought about how you want to prove that you’re capable of being your own person?”

“I’m not sure how. I like the fishery, but that’s not much proof at all.”

Erick understood.

Yggdrasil wanted to be his own person, but he also wanted people to like him. He probably had the Arbors at Treehome telling him how he should not try to please everyone, and Erick had said those exact words, too, but Yggdrasil was still young, and so he was still worried about things like that. His worries were valid, though, because if people didn’t like him, they would try to kill him, as they had already tried before.

Perhaps he needed more political experience?

Erick offered, “How about the political track at Candlepoint University? You could take courses there. But you’ve been watching me for over ten years, so that’s probably just as good of a political education as otherwise.” As Erick spoke his first suggestion, Yggdrasil went through a few unsure emotions, so Erick continued, “And yet, actually getting certified in political theory might help. You could try to test out of certification programs here and there. See how it goes. See what critical thinking theories you might be missing, that you can learn.

“You could also hold office hours, like I do. I can set up an office for you in House Benevolence that you can work through. Get you some assistants for guidance and otherwise.

“You could even try something as simple as making a life for yourself in some location, using only the money and magic you make in that life to get by. It will teach you a lot about how normal people live, and that’s an important skill to have, so that you don’t lose touch with the people you protect—”

“That one,” Yggdrasil said. “I’ll do that one.”

Erick nodded. “Okay. I’ll help you set that up—”

“I want to set it up myself.”

Erick smiled a little, saying, “That’s fine, too, but that’s not a public thing, and only when you’re in the public eye can you influence public opinion. If you want people to stop talking bad about you, or to at least get to know you so they won’t just listen to the uninformed opinions of others, then you gotta have a public presence. You gotta put yourself out there for interactions, Yggdrasil. I suggest you consider the public offices in House Benevolence.”

“… Okay. I will do that. I’ll get an office.” Yggdrasil stated, “By myself.”

Erick smiled softly, and said, “Okay. Then talk to Zolan and Kiri, and do not take on too much work. I trust you, Yggdrasil.”

“… I wish you would trust me less.”

A sledgehammer to the face would have been less upsetting.

Yggdrasil saw Erick’s reaction, his wide eyes and stilled breath, and spoke louder, “I don’t know what I’m doing, father! I’m just growing big, and that’s all! I’m barely able to talk to people. I’m not sure if some people are taking advantage of me or not! I don’t know what I am doing anywhere at all!”

Yggdrasil cut himself off there, unsure how to continue at all.

Erick softly, seriously, said, “No one knows what they’re doing, Yggdrasil. Everyone is just basing their actions on their own imagined view of the world. For there is no real Truth above Truth. Every social interaction is every imagined reality that people keep in their heads interacting with other peoples’ imagined realities. We’re all just learning how to navigate each other’s figments as best we can… And I’m not sure how to help more than I already am.” Erick felt it was finally time for the father-offspring talk. He had given this one to Jane a while ago, when she was 17. She probably only grasped the surface words back then. The specifics between that interaction and this one were wildly different, but Yggdrasil was in that same boat right now. Erick said, “I’m just a person, same as you. Same as Jane, same as Ophiel. For all my power and ability to see the future, and ability to change the future, I’m only as strong as I am in any given situation. I have no ultimate power to make other peoples’ choices for them. Sure, I have a [Blessing of Empathy], and [Reincarnation], and you have those too, but I know when to use them and when not to. Mostly, I don’t use power against others, because I wouldn’t want power used against me.

“And I make mistakes, but then I try to fix them later.

“You’re going to make mistakes, and you’re going to try and fix them later.

“That’s what life is.

“But learning opportunities abound! You’re young enough and not trying to oversee too much that you are allowed to make mistakes, and the consequences will be acceptable. Those consequences will rip your heart out and pain you for a very long time, but you’ll heal, and you’ll do what you can to fix those consequences.” Erick said, “That’s what I mean when I say I trust you.

“But if you’re looking for learning opportunities… Do you want to come to Dungeon Island with us? Make a body for yourself? Come with your sister, younger brother, and I, and see what the Dark wants of us all?”

Yggdrasil’s eye hovered there as Erick’s words hung in the air. He thought. And Erick waited. That’s what the big conversations were sometimes. A lot of waiting. A lot of thinking.

And so, Erick waited.

Yggdrasil asked the same question he had at the beginning, “Is wanting to be myself a big mistake?”

“No. That’s not a mistake at all, Yggdrasil. You’ll make a lot of mistakes, but being your own person will not be one of them. I can only suggest that you try to be the person that others can look up to, and rely upon. That’s who I try to be.”

“… Okay.” Yggdrasil added, “I… I don’t want to visit Dungeon Island right now. I want to have an office in House Benevolence… And I think I do want some arcanaeum certification tests.”

Erick smiled and nodded. Yggdrasil was figuring it all out, and trying to be independent more and more with each passing day. Erick hoped Yggdrasil wouldn’t become as independent-minded as Jane… And yet, Yggdrasil needed to be that independent and more.

This was for the best.

Except.

Erick said, “I would like to be there for you at the beginning, to help you on your path, Yggdrasil. That’s what fathers do.”

Yggdrasil’s voice was full of relief. “Let’s talk to Zolan together.”

“Sounds good to me.”

A quick step through a few [Gate]s landed Erick back at House Benevolence.

Once there, Erick spoke with Zolan and Yggdrasil, laying out how he understood Yggdrasil’s desires to prove himself to the world at large, and then Erick left them to it.

- - - -

Dungeon Island was not the original name for the largest of Quintlan’s three Australia-sized islands, located to the south west of the main continent. They were originally called the Three Sisters, and from largest to smallest they were named Infamy, Villainy, and Depravity. Before that, they were just one island, known as ‘Glorious Land’. There was no hint of that Glorious Land of 1,100 years ago, back before the Fall of Quintlan. The final death throes of the major dynasties of the last major survivors of the Sundering were filled with so very many horrors, not the least of which was the cracking of the Glorious Land into three different islands.

Different gods blamed each other, and also Melemizargo, but in the end it was just some mortal archmage who cracked the world and rerouted an upward waterways right up through the center of the Glorious Land, washing away much of that land, separating it into three different parts.

All of that destruction happened over 1,100 years ago, though, so aside from how the mountain ranges of all three islands were shaped away from the Font in the center, and some of the formations of the inner beaches showed ancient destruction, no hint of that cataclysm remained. All had been wiped clean, and then allowed to regrow wild.

Before the Teleport Lock, and from the sky, each land was so very similar to the other, that if one didn’t take care to track the sun and truly know where one was, then one might get lost down there. And that would be dangerous. Just like on continental Quintlan, these jungles and mountains and fields were full of death. Most of it ooze-related. Even so, people still braved these lands to delve into ancient strongholds, or to make new strongholds for use to hide out from the world. These islands were good places to hide, if you could succeed against the oozes, for [Teleport] used to be able to get people around these lands well enough. But ever since the Teleport Lock, the only truly safe spaces here were on the coast, in the cities that had only popped up in the last ten years. Whatever small measure of civilization anyone had made inside the islands, after the Teleport Lock went up, were gone.

And dungeons were everywhere.

But thanks to Erick and Jane’s spearheading of the Dungeon Guild, and thanks to the need for dungeon research, Infamy had been taken back from the oozes, and while people started setting up cities, Erick went on and cleared the other two islands and then much of Quintlan of oozes. Shade Hollowsaur and Treant did a lot of the major lifting on ooze eradication, of course, along with Zenipeq Frostflower, of the Fractured Citadel Frostflower, who was one of Erick’s first Benevolence Dragons. Zenipeq was still up in her frozen tower in central Quintlan, but the two Shades were… somewhere. Probably around Dungeon Island, and Ascendant Mountain in the Center.

Erick wasn’t sure right now, but he’d find out soon enough.

