“Four years. Ever since the Wizard of Anarchy lifted the Stairway to the Edge out of Quintlan and you almost died out there. Over the course of… A while, Melemizargo questioned me. Probing questions to see how on-board I was with this sort of idea, in theory, mostly. He had already seen me breaking dungeon cores for the last half a decade, but after Holo… Melemizargo started revealing to me some of his major plans. It wasn’t till the last month that I got a lot more insight into what he wanted. The full scope. You and I are probably on more or less the same page. I understand he told the gods everything.”

“… You were the original plan,” Erick said, realizing something important. “And then I shoved myself into this space. Or maybe the Relevant Entities decided they didn’t like Melemizargo’s original plan... But Melemizargo has been building you up to be the perfect delver into the Dark.”

“Yes.”

“And he expects me to stand back and support you.”

“I think so.”

Erick breathed, and then he explained, “I’m gonna tell you straight up some true facts, Jane, and you need to listen. If you died, I would go crazy. Everyone knows that, but here I am saying this. So you’re not going to do this incredibly dangerous shit. What is going to happen is I’m going to take your place, and make a copy of myself, instead of you making copies of yourself.

“AND!

“That has to be Melemizargo’s original goal—” Erick was going to continue, his rage kept in check by the need to get his words out, but then Jane got personally offended that Erick would think that Melemizargo would try to screw her over, or use her against him, or some other such order-of-events that Erick could barely comprehend right now due to the anger. “Don’t you give me that look, Jane, like I’m making up stories, or that I’m somehow implying that you’re not ‘good enough’ or some other imagined falsehood. I have never said you can’t do anything you wanted to do; don’t go imagining I don’t believe in you now. You’re better than that.

“BUT! But you talk of motivations of the highest powers of this world in one breath, and then state that you’re somehow beyond manipulation in the second. I know for a fact that I’m being manipulated right now.”

Jane demanded, “Then give me a solution, dad!”

“We both make copies, or some shit like that! And neither of us go into the Dark.” Erick said, “But that’s probably a manipulation, too! I’m almost 100% certain now that the copy of myself that I made earlier in this Path is the actual backup for whatever shit we’re walking into, and that Rozeta knew of this when she asked me to do that… Or maybe she didn’t. Actually. That’s more likely. Melemizargo is manipulating Rozeta, too.”

Jane stated, “And even if we are being manipulated, the Sundering still has to be permanently stopped, and that involves us understanding what the Sundering even was, which involves me doing this, whatever ‘this’ might be.”

“Involves ‘us’ doing this, Jane,” Erick said, “You’re not alone. I am not alone. We are not facing the end of a universe without each other.”

Jane frowned a little, another unruly tear falling. Her voice was softer as she said, “That works, too.”

And then Jane rushed to her father, and held him tight. For the second time in the same day, Erick spilled some tears on his daughter’s shoulder.

Softly, Erick said, “This is a right mess, isn’t it.”

Jane chuckled, a strained sound. “… Yeah.”

“So are we gonna hang out on Ascendant Mountain for a month while our repros —if they’re willing— go out and solve the Sundering?”

Jane softly said, “I’m pretty sure mine will want to do that.” Softer, “It’s not going to be that simple, though.”

Erick chuckled. “Probably not.” And then he said, “I guess you’ve had some time to come to grips with all of this, eh?”

“I have, dad. Sorry I didn’t tell you sooner.”

“Don’t worry about it. If this [Onward] thing is true…” Erick pulled back and looked Jane in the face, as he said, “Maybe you couldn’t tell me.”

Jane shrugged. And then she let go, and looked to the east, to the deep forest, and to the mountains beyond. “I bet Melemizargo put us here so we could get that out of the way before we got there.” She looked to Erick, saying, “He’s really not a bad guy… Except in the ways he’s a god and above everyone, I suppose.”

“… The only part of all of that which I am glad to hear you say, is how easily you mentioned talking to Melemizargo. That means you’ve talked to him a lot, and probably the surviving Shades, too. That means you’re rather comfortable with this sort of arena we’re walking into. You were doing that ten years ago, but...” Erick said, “I love how much you’ve grown.”

Jane smiled and chuckled, as she casually swiped her left hand behind her, entrapping an invisible shadowolf-variant in metallic threads, which killed it instantly. She didn’t bother to look at the monster she had killed, as she said, “Well that’s enough melodrama. Try a [Gate], now.”

Erick rolled his eyes, casting a [Gate] directly, and easily, straight from their forest path to the white dais at the center of Ascendant Mountain; the place that served as the ‘public’ part of Melemizargo’s throne. That had been Erick’s original [Gate] target. And this time, it landed.

Beyond a circle of white lightning lay a white land, ringed in clear crystal.

No one was on the other side right now, so Erick said to Jane, “Do you actually like Sitnakov? Because he pretends to dislike drama, but he’s a complete softy at heart who cries at movies and weddings, so if you don’t like talking about feelings with him you’re not going to land that man.”

Jane’s face heated up. “… Let’s not talk about that right now.”

- - - -

Erick and Jane stood upon a solid, flat surface of white crystal, kilometers in diameter. Crystal spires ringed the world all around. Shadows crawled in those spires.

And then shadows crawled across the world, blotting out the sun.

Melemizargo appeared upon his throne, his dark wings cast wide, his serpentine head angled down, and smiling. Glowing white fangs shone in the black.

“Welcome to Ascendant Mountain!

“And now to announce your task, Erick Flatt:

“You’re not only searching for the cause —and likely causes— of the Sundering. You’re going to plunder all of the knowledge I have of the Old Cosmology, and then you’re going to use that knowledge and power here on Veird in order to protect against every possible bad end.

“You don’t even need to go into any dungeons if you don’t want to.

“Or! You could make your own dungeon, and go through this whole ordeal with a lot less personal danger. Lots of options here."
