Cintro asked, “What should I tell people?”

Erick said, “Stay away from Ascendant Mountain, or prepare to lose your life, for we will be exploring the deep, unknown memories of the Dark, in order to understand, move past, and protect against another Sundering. It’ll be a healing experience, I hope. If nothing else, it’ll be us ensuring that the unknown causes of the Sundering will never again threaten Veird, or any of the other worlds yet to come.”

Silence stretched.

Concern was carved deep into the furrowed brows and frowns of everyone in the room, except for Jane and Erick. Jane was as stoic as a leader should be, and Erick loved seeing her like that. For Erick’s part, he still wasn’t sure exactly what was going to happen, either, so keeping his answers short was necessary to assuage fears.

But the tone was still getting too dark in here, so Erick lightened his tone, saying, “I’m rather certain that Jane and I will be able to solve this conundrum. All I need out of you is to keep doing what you’re doing, but maybe keep people away from the mountain while we’re there.”

Baxter spoke brightly, too, saying, “If that’s what the Wizard wants, that’s what the Wizard gets! Shouldn’t be too difficult for us at all! But you’ll come to town now and then to keep your sanity about you, yeah? We’ve got all the amenities that you ain’t gonna find out there in the Dark, right here in our little slice of paradise.”

Erick smiled in turn. “We’ll give updates when necessary. No news is probably good news, though.”

“Fair enough! Fair enough,” Baxter said. “You’ll be able to stay for dinner, right? Let us treat you to a feast.”

“We’ve got to give the same sorts of warnings to Jokun and Zawindi,” Erick said.

“I’ll invite Golgoro and Debiza here,” Baxter said, without missing a beat. “They’d love a good feast, and something tells me the little bit of information you’ve given us is not as satisfying as you could make it, Wizard Flatt,” he said with a sly grin.

Jane glanced at her father, and Erick could tell that she didn’t want to stick around.

And Erick had his own obligations, too. So.

Erick compromised, “We need to see the others, and then head on to the mountain. If we can be back in time for dinner, we will. Don’t wait up.”

“I’ll need to make it a feast to talk about you and yours when you’re gone, anyway,” Baxter said, good-naturedly. With an arched brow, he added, “And you can show up if you want.”

“That works,” Jane said. Then she asked Erick, “Shall we move to the next city?”

“Then we’re off.” Erick gave a nod toward the rulers of Aniduun, and all four of them bowed deeply in turn. Erick opened a [Gate] from one stone-keep room to another, then stepped through, already telling the startled receptionist on the other side, “Erick Flatt for a meeting with Golgoro, please.”

Jane followed.

Erick closed the [Gate] behind them.

- - - -

In a nice tower room that gave full view of the walled city of Jokun all around, Erick looked down upon the Southside river and the delta of that river, to the south. This river delta was only partially a monster road, and not nearly as well-used as the Westside River, north of Aniduun. The real monster roads of Jokun ran north of the city, because that’s where most of the mana flowed onto the land.

For the land north of Jokun was what faced the Font; one of the many upward waterways of Veird.

Far to the east, in between the Three Sisters, the ocean burbled up from the Underworld, creating something like a reverse whirlpool, ever-active underwater volcano, and a major flow of mana, on par with what Aniduun experienced coming off of the Duun Ocean. The Font was a major part of the water cycle of the Surface of Veird, for it brought water from over 3,500 kilometers below the Surface, to the Surface. The Font wasn’t visible from here; not even on a clear day, like today, even though the Font was 500 kilometers wide…

Sometimes the scale of it all really got Erick, and now was one of those times. He couldn’t see the Font from here, but what was visible was an ever-present cloud that hovered on the horizon in that direction, and never went away, while also reaching far, far into the sky. That cloud covered a full eighth of the horizon, and went all the way up to the Edge of the Script, which was comparatively close to the Surface, compared to the size of that ancient waterway—

The door burst open, slapping the wall with force, splintering a little as the orcol warrior king Golgoro Spinesnapper stood there, his clothes ripped up and blood still on him, though only some of it was his. His ax was sheathed on his back, but his hands looked like they were itching to grip that ax once again.

Golgoro fixed Erick with his eyes, asking, “Is it true? You search for the Sundering?”

“Aye,” Erick said, “It’s true.”

“Then you are a fool and all the gods should kill themselves and leave us out of it.”

Golgoro walked away.

Erick sighed a little, then said, “Always a direct sort of guy. Respectable.”

Jane nodded. “I like him, too.”

- - - -

In a nice room with nice couches and with a wonderful view of the expansive delta of the Northside River, a servant served steaming cups of tea that no one drank, and Erick delivered some bad news to one incani woman, named Debiza Gloriz. The leader of Zawindi, the Delta City, was a woman of many blacks, from her skin to her hair to her eyes and horns. If it weren’t for her white teeth, then one might think she was an adamantium wrought, but she was not wrought royalty. She was a very good stateswoman, though, almost the same as any queen in any other nation.

Debiza said, “This is a disturbing development. Thank you for the alert. Will you be joining us for dinner at Aniduun? My contemporary has expressed to me the nature of your visit before you arrived, but hearing it in person makes me want to think about it for an hour or two, and then revisit all of this in a more informed setting. A dinner party would suffice.”

“If we’re able to return to Aniduun for dinner, then we will,” Erick said.

Jane added, “But we’re off to the Mountain, now.”

Debiza gave a professional nod, and then she bowed, “Demons bless your journey.”

“And you as well,” Erick said.

And then he opened another [Gate].

- - - -

One could not step on Ascendant Mountain without passing the trials that surrounded the land, first.

… But Erick should have been able to bypass those trials with [Gate].

When Erick’s [Gate] opened up on the foothills of the giant mountain instead of directly onto Melemizargo’s throne, or rather onto the space in front of that throne, Erick did a little frown at the journey ahead, and then stepped onto the grasslands. Jane followed.

Erick looked up at the mountain ahead of him, and at the chain of mountains stretching north and south, going far, far out of his sight. He and Jane stood upon some gently sloping plains, but the size of those mountains made it like they were standing in a valley. Mountains of that size could only ever exist on Veird, or in other unnatural places.

“Can’t even see the city from here,” Erick said, as he stared ahead, at the expanse of cracked green, grey, and white that capped the world. “I’m honestly not sure where we are, exactly.” He pointed forward, toward the tallest peak. “That’s Mount Vesi, isn’t it?”

“It probably is.” Jane frowned a little as she studied the path ahead. Beyond this clearing it was all untrod jungle, filled with trees that mostly topped out at 50 meters tall, but there were a few wild ones that grew a lot taller than that. The shadows here were deep, even under the full sun. Jane glanced around at the clearing they were in, and asked, “Is this the only clearing in the area?”

“Looks like,” Erick said, as Ophiels flew up and around, scouting the area. Erick checked the near past, and then said, “This area wasn’t a clearing until two minutes ago. There’s still trees churned into logs and mulch just under the surface.” Erick sighed a little, and then he fixed his gaze on a deep shadow in the woods, saying, “Melemizargo. Is this little path through the forests necessary?”

Monsters roared in the deep forest. Birds chirped. Monkeys howled. Bugs buzzed. The sun beat down hard.

And there was no answer from the shadows at all.

Erick frowned. “Melemizargo?”

… Still no answer.

Jane began walking forward, leading the way, her body turning to glitter and prismatic light. She stepped—

She stumbled out of prismatic power, having traveled only five meters. She looked down at the ground, and at herself. She lightstepped, shadowstepped, and airwalked all at the same time, the harmonious blending of magic carrying her another grand total of... 5 meters ahead, almost to the treeline. She looked around.

Jane said, “There’s some impeding magic in the air… Oddly strong.”

Erick narrowed his eyes, focusing on the air, tapping into the power of his All-Seeing Eye. There was a certain sort of Darkness to the air. Erick pulled his Sight back, saying, “It’s divine magic. Melemizargo’s, I reckon.”

Erick started walking forward. He tried a full Step, and ended up traveling 5 meters, just like Jane had done. And then he controlled his stepping to something smaller, and easier. He stepped through real space, instead of through Benevolence and Light, moving fast instead of instantly, and that made all the difference. In a moment Erick stood next to Jane, waving a hand, opening [Gate]s in front of him—

The other end of the [Gate] appeared behind them instead of anywhere ahead. Jane turned her head around to see the other side of the [Gate], raising an eyebrow in silent question.

“It was supposed to open ahead of us.” Erick closed the [Gate]. “Anyway! Looks like if we traverse real space then we can go fast. No elementwalking, though.”

Jane nodded. She faced forward. “This is what happens in the Dark. You can move around through real space, but no stepping… At least I imagine that’s what happens in the Dark. I don’t actually have ‘darkstepping’, but I imagine Melemizargo has it, and can properly elementstep, unlike everyone else.”

Erick began walking, his steps moving him further than normal, but not instantly. He plunged into the shadows of the forest. Jane followed, keeping pace. And Erick noticed that Jane had something she wanted to say, but she wasn’t sure how to say it.

So Erick said, “So you’re on the Worldly Path, eh? That was just a bunch of ‘you can’t use [Teleport] to shorten the trip’. No actual restrictions on movement, though. Where did you end up going on your Worldly Path?”

“… Sorry I didn’t tell you about that.”

“There’s a lot you didn’t tell me about,” Erick said, as they passed by a dark hole in the world, nestled in the roots of a tree and a tumbled boulder. A small snail on the tree above the wild dungeon shot a Bolt of Decay at Erick, but he splashed that Bolt away with a flicker of light. He and his daughter continued on, attacked by a few scattered monsters here and there, but not actually threatened at all. When Jane remained silent, Erick continued, “How about we talk about what you expected to get out of this journey into the Dark, working for Melemizargo as his Paladin.”

More monsters.

More silence from Jane.

They both used Force or Light or Shadow or Benevolence to deflect attacks and step over deadfall, or around large trees, or through steel-strong spiderwebs that attempted to block the path, but which failed miserably when faced with Erick, and Jane.

“… I’m expendable, dad. That’s why I’m doing this. You’re not expendable.”

Erick perhaps killed the attacking prime shadowolf that was as big as a van with a bit too much strength behind his swipe. That monster turned to shredded gore and bone, and spread out across a good hundred meters.

Erick controlled his anger, and said, “You should stop protecting me, Jane. It’s not your place to protect me. It’s my place to protect you.”

“No,” Jane said, vehemently. “That’s too simple of a metric, and in its simplicity, it is incorrect.” Jane carved a slavering dog-like thing in half as it jumped at them. They continued onward. “You are a ruler of the world. You shouldn’t even be here. You should go back to House Benevolence and take up knitting, or something. Stay in reserve for when there’s another Wizard in the world that chooses to harm instead of help. We got lucky with the Anarchy Wizard and his wife. Another Holo could happen at any time. Another Blue Wizard could, too.” Jane briefly stared at her father, saying, “I am expendable compared to you.”

Erick’s heart broke as Jane called herself expendable, his control over his magic faltering. He slowed down. Jane stopped, and Erick stopped next to her. He looked at Jane and his voice cracked, as he forced himself to say, “You— You’re not expendable.”

Jane breathed, and nodded, her emotions kept on a tight leash. “You can lie if you want, dad. But I’d prefer it if you didn’t.”

Erick had no words.

Jane still had some words. “Another truth to be acknowledged is that we and Veird are in a moment of safety right now, brought on by you and House Benevolence—”

“And you, too! The Dungeon Guild was—”

“Anyone would have made the Dungeon Guild happen and I’m not even in charge because I know I do better work out there fighting, so that other people can be safe at home.” Jane continued, “I can pave the way. You can build the houses and the government. And that’s fine.” Erick tried to say something, but Jane just spoke louder, “Besides! I’m going to be copying myself tens of times up ahead so that at least one of us will be able to make it through this coming trial. But I’m still going into this trial. I do this so that all of the New Cosmology and all who come after won’t have to worry about the Sundering coming back to kill them all when they least expect it. This is important work, and it will be done, and I should be the one to do it so that you don’t die—” Jane’s voice cracked as a tear fell, “I want to keep you safe, okay? Let me do this for you. For us. For everything that is to come. You can watch from the sidelines. I’m sure the Dark will provide ample viewing ability and ample ways for you to pull me out, or save me. That’s probably why he got you involved at all.”

About a thousand questions tumbled through Erick’s mind.

The one that came up first, and largest, was, “How long has this been going on?”

