Much more varied horrors inhabited all of those lands, from shadowolves to spiders and murderous snails, all burrowing into un-mastered dungeons and then erupting in strength to go assault more dungeons, or to be assaulted themselves, and fight back or die. Dungeons broke all the time across this land, and people tried to make new, permanent dungeons all the time, too. The dungeons that succeeded were the ones overseen by people, and they became world-famous for the power that one could gain inside of them. But getting to those dungeons was to take your life in your hands, and step into the deadly forests, full of threats unknown. Every few months it seemed like a whole different ecosystem of monsters flourished and floundered in this land of jungles and death.

At least it wasn’t all oozes anymore.

… Erick had done what he could do, long ago.

Erick wasn’t a miracle worker— Not most of the time, anyway. And miracles were overrated. What was much more impressive, to Erick anyway, was the continued march of people toward civilization, and the drive to maintain in the face of death and destruction. That particular culture was alive and thriving here, under the guide of the Dungeon Guild, and the people who killed monsters.

Stepping through a [Gate], onto the white stone of Aniduun’s gatestation, Erick felt that where he had stopped, other people had picked up the work, and continued with enthusiasm. One of those people stood right beside him. Jane looked confident in public, wearing her grey and black Dungeon Guild outfit. Personally, Erick thought she exposed too much skin around the neck area, but she was usually technically nude out there when she was in a [Polymorph] form anyway, so it was what it was.

Erick wore white and black, as per normal protocols. Ophiel flitted on his shoulder, in the semi-organized shape of a crow with two or three pairs of wings, depending on what he felt like having, and around three eyes. Seven— No; nine eyes right now, though.

A hundred spires of varying heights and a thousand shorter buildings dotted the land, packed together into a minor metropolis 20-ish kilometers wide, ten kilometers inland, and ten more out to sea. Fishing farms floated out there, while vegetable farms grew inland. A river flowed north of the city, coming out of the mountains, and hitting the ocean in a deluge of white water. That river was the Westside River, and a lot more than just water traveled on that river.

Aniduun was built upon the southern coast of a large crescent harbor, south of the Westside River, facing the Duun Ocean, which was very much the largest ocean in the world. Here at this latitude, just like over at Oceanside, the wind blew in from the west, bringing with it a secondary ocean of mana that washed directly into this tamed land. Most of that river of mana followed the path of least resistance, which meant following the wide river, into the island. That river was the ‘monster road’ for much of this area.

Just a simple river couldn’t direct the massive flows of an entire ocean, though, or even a simple part of it, because mana always simply followed the path of least resistance. And so, just like with Everbless sculpting Storm’s Edge’s mana down monster roads, the people of Dungeon Island had a similar solution, but vastly different in execution. Dungeon Island actually had the original solution; Everbless had copied it.

For Aniduun was filled with a node network and defensive spellwork, too, just like all the rest of the major cities of the world. The network here supported massive, perpetually-cast [Force Wall]-type magics all throughout the land, and the manasphere rushed thick against those sculpted panes of Force.

The node network here also did their societal-protections different from everyone else, creating one of the most unique city-wide defenses found on Veird, because the people who lived here were special and simple Denial spells did not work on them. Aniduun was the ‘City of Ten Thousand Cores’, named that way because this area boasted the most amount of people with cores of anywhere on the planet, except for Shadow-controlled lands, like the lich-filled Fractured Citadels, or New Brightwater with all its shadelings.

Creating the node network here had been a mess and a half, and it continued to be a mess and a half. Cores were among the only ways that people retained power when under anti-magic influences, and with how all the people here delved dungeons, and got more true mana creation/regeneration, a vast majority of these people were able to make cores, and thus ignore most normal Denial spellwork to a certain degree.

Some of these people had become pariahs in their original lands, because they couldn’t be controlled anymore. Lotta humans from Greensoil for that reason. This land had its fair share of exiles from Nelboor, too, for that same reason. Former Cultists and current Cultists. The place looked like Candlepoint, really.

Erick kinda loved it here, for much the same reasons as he loved Candlepoint and all his normal haunts, but this was Jane’s space, and so he had stayed away for the most part.

And now people were noticing him and Jane. Took them a bit longer here than at Adventure City. 5 seconds as opposed to 3. Guards at the waystation focused on Jane, first, because she was the most recognizable and she spent a lot of time here. And then they recognized Erick and Ophiel, because they were Erick and Ophiel.

Jane glanced Erick’s way, wondering if she would be allowed to be in charge here.

Erick easily said, “It’s your show, Jane. Let’s see you run it.”

Jane nodded and walked forward. As guards suddenly walked around corners and stared openly, most of them not knowing what to do because The Apparent King was here, too. So Jane commanded their attention, giving orders that were easily followed. They might not know what to do with Erick being here, but they certainly knew what to do with Jane, and that was to obey.

Soon, Erick and Jane were out on the streets, and telepathic messages unfurled from every person all around. Neither Erick or Jane had called ahead, informing anyone that they’d be coming here, but this was a land used to emergencies. They adapted.

- - - -

The Dungeon Guildhouse of Aniduun was like the courthouse of Spur, or Candlepoint, or like the king’s castle in Storm’s Edge. It was not just a guildhall; it was a place of business and governance, for the land here wasn’t under the control of any one nation. Or any nation at all, really. These cities were research lands under the power of House Benevolence. A power which Erick never flexed.

In Aniduun’s case, their guildhouse was also a fortress, located on the north side of the city, overlooking the river, the city, and the ocean. It provided a major staging ground for all sorts of defensive measures against the monsters and dangers of this land. The city behind the guildhouse had only grown as large as it had because more and more people kept coming out here; most of them adventurers, looking to get back into the ‘killing monsters’ business.

So it was damned busy, all the time.

Erick and Jane managed to get past the wide open gates of the guildhouse, into the massive courtyard, before the guildmaster appeared in a flash of golden light, upon the stone stairs leading up into the main building. He had been waiting for them, and he had cleared out many of the people who would be in this courtyard to start with, but some people remained, probably because they just didn’t believe what was going to happen.

Baxter Swampwalker smiled brightly, throwing his arms wide, shouting, “Welcome back to the Island!”

A good ten people were in the courtyard, either talking with their small groups or caught between two different places, when Baxter shouted. Not too many people were alarmed by his shout. But then they saw Jane and Erick. There were some pratfalls. Everyone ignored those pratfalls except for the friends of those people, who quietly poked fun at the fallen, or helped them to their feet. Two people even mumbled that they didn’t believe it, which earned them even more ribbing from their friends.

Jane strode forward, uncaring for circumstance or decorum, as one does in places like this, and said, “Good to be back, Baxter. We’re here to see the state of the Island, and then we’re heading on.”

Baxter was a tall, strong man of blonde hair and barely-tanned skin, who anyone would be forgiven for instantly assuming was human, but he had incani blood in him; he was a demi. His eyes were unnaturally red-gold and he had tiny blonde nubs for horns which were mostly hidden by his hair. Those red-gold eyes flashed with joy as Jane spoke of staying for a little bit. He said, “Things are going great, far as I know. Come on in, though!” And then he turned and eyed Erick, smiling even more. “It’s good to see you, too, sir.”

Erick smiled a little, saying, “Jane is in charge today; I’m just a guest.”

Baxter’s eyebrows went up. And then he made a play, as he usually did. “So that means that Jane can talk to the talkers, and you and I can go check out a nice cafe by the water? There’s a new one with live music.”

Baxter was an incorrigible flirt who had absolutely destroyed marriages and other relationships in the past. But he was also one of the few archwarriors/archmages in the world, and capable of getting away with that sort of thing either through pure power, or through his stupidly handsome face, or because of the rest of him. Still, though, more than once Baxter had had a boot thrown at him from a disgruntled spouse as he exited a bedroom window in the early morning hours. Erick had personally tried to frighten him off with a transformation into his draconic form, when Baxter went a little too far with his flirts.

Baxter had seemed to enjoy that attempt at intimidation, though.

Erick had a much simpler way of dealing with Baxter these days. “I still have a boyfriend, Baxter.”

“He can join us.”

“… Ah. So that method no longer works on you. Why not?”

Jane had walked past Baxter, smiling a little bit as she left him with her father.

Smiling wide, Baxter stepped down the stairs into the courtyard, walking closer to Erick as he said, “I managed to make it through ten out of ten of Quilatalap’s dungeons this last month! My prize was a date with him and with you, if you also agreed to such a thing.”

Erick frowned a little. “Well… That’s… No.”

Baxter’s enthusiasm did not wane, but he did pull back. “I thought you might have come around because of that wager, but if that’s not what brings you here, then what does? Or is this all for Jane?”

Erick began walking forward and Baxter walked with him, as Erick said, “We’re headed to Ascendant Mountain. I suggest you tell everyone headed that way to rethink their journey until I give word otherwise, because while Jane is in charge, what is happening is my sort of show, if you get my meaning.”

Baxter’s eyes went wide, and then most of his friendly nature vanished behind a whole lot of deep thinking. He gauged Erick, and then Ophiel, and then he looked to where Jane had gotten off to. Erick’s daughter and one of the heads of the Dungeon Guild were currently in a meeting room, far beyond the gathering-hall-portion of the guildhall fortress, talking with the various people who oversaw this land a lot more than Baxter usually did.

Baxter was technically in charge of Aniduun because he was that powerful, but he would have lost this ultimate position of authority years ago if he wasn’t just as good at governing as he was at magic and swordplay. His ‘skill at governing’ was only mostly to appoint the right people to the right jobs.

It was a valid strategy.

Baxter asked, “Perhaps we should be in that meeting, if only to see past the security veils that they threw up into the room.”

Erick smiled at Baxter’s casual competence. Yes, there were security veils in that room with Jane and the other three people, and Erick was looking past them with an Ophiel on Jane’s shoulder, but most people would mana sense in that direction and only see a nothing-conversation, about the weather, or about population growth numbers.

- - - -

Erick went into the room first, disturbing and almost breaking the Privacy spellwork surrounding the place, but he also casually repaired and reinforced that spellwork through a bit of [Renew] magic. Baxter followed, magically making sure his disturbance to the spellwork was as minor as he could make it, but visually it looked like he wasn’t doing anything at all, except pretending to step over an [Alarm Ward] strung across the bottom of the door. There was no [Alarm Ward] strung across the bottom of the door.

Erick sealed up the magics behind them.

All conversation had stopped while the two of them had entered the room.

“Hello, everyone, good to see you again,” Erick said, breaking the ice. “Jane has already informed you of some of the danger coming this way, and I am reinforcing her message of that danger.”

Leona Carver was an 89 year old stern-grandmotherly human woman who had been a Pirate Queen in her younger days, and though she still had the Class she had left that life behind ten years ago. She mostly functioned as a variant Abyssal Mage, when she wasn’t the overseer of the Dungeon Research Department of Dungeon Island.

With a few looks from Leona to the others, the group allowed her to speak first.

“I like a good puzzle as much as the next woman,” Leona asked, “But is this Sundering research necessary?”

“It is necessary because the Relevant Entities have voted for it,” Erick answered succinctly, and yet not satisfying anyone at all.

By consensus, Olivia Stoneway was next. She was a rather young Stone Archmage, at only 30 years old, but she was already head of the Roads and Infrastructure department of Aniduun. She was responsible for the major defenses of this land, and for maintaining the node network. She got down to brass tacks and simply asked, “What sort of defensive preparations would you recommend?”

“All of them,” Erick said, “At a proper guess, though, I would put Elemental Void and Destruction threats higher on the list than most other threats. I’ll be adding a few spells of that nature to the front lines, far afield of the city. Don’t count on them, though, because I won’t be there to reinforce them, and we don’t know the actual threat yet.”

Olivia grumbled a little bit, her eyes narrowing on nothing as she looked away and thought.

Aniduun had no real mayor, but Cintro Prokop, a 60 year old demi Book Mage, was close to that sort of designation. He was technically head of ‘Civilian Relations’, but that was a Dungeon Guild department that only existed in Aniduun, under the power of Baxter.

