Finally, it was time.

After a few moments of the vortex taking its time to stabilise, I could tell that the realm had fully opened and was ready to receive its contestants.

“First disciple, Fa Xiaolan.” A lazy voice sounded from the front, where an elder was reading off a list. I’d seen him in the boat before, but I didn’t particularly care for him all that much.

Now, however, he was tasked with this… I really hoped they had good compensation.

I walked forward, keeping my gait natural and trying not to hurry, even though I wanted to.

My first Secret Realm as a Phoenix… That ought to have made anyone excited, right?

When I was finally in front of the portal, I didn’t hesitate and took a step forward, then the light swallowed me.

◈◈◈

“Ke Ke Ke…” An evilly sinister laugh sounded out in Hwei Badai’s ears as the woman entered the portal.

What’s so funny?

“Nothing… But she’d gotten much stronger in the past few days.”

Hearing that, Hwei Badai’s pupils shrank for a moment. How is that possible? Wasn’t she at the peak?

“I suppose not, though all my senses say that she is at the peak. I have no idea how she’d gotten stronger.”

Body cultivation? But she was swallowed by a fucking sea serpent; when did she have time to train?

“Oh, you’re still young, but you’ll see that in time, many people aren’t what they appear to be.”Yes, Master. Hwei Badai replied respectfully and took his eyes away from the portal where the woman had disappeared and turned his attention toward Peng Li.

He’s been quiet.

“He’s planning something. Be careful, since you’re going after him. Don’t do anything stupid, or rather, try to avoid him if you can.”

Yes, Master. Isn’t there a risk of you being discovered as well?

“No risk. I can hide my presence, but this sword… it’s quite something. If you can get your hands on part of this inheritance, you’ll have an easier time cultivating.”

Hwei Badai remained silent for a moment, then nodded.

I will do my best. His eyes burned with fury, and his palms clenched into a trembling fist as he remembered the face of the person who killed his entire clan.

The red eyes, the black hair, the robes stained with blood, and that evil smile… Hei Sha!

◈◈◈

There was a slight nauseating feeling when entering the secret realm, but besides that, there didn’t seem to be any inconveniences.

I landed, arrived, appeared? In a giant jungle. The trees were massive, with the smallest one being fifty meters tall, and the tallest one was as thick as thirty grown men circling it holding hands.

Its crown pierced the sky, and I had a hard time seeing where it’d ended with my current perception.

Needless to say, I was impressed.

The Qi in the secret realm was also… incredible! Deep, even ancient feeling. It couldn’t compare to the Qi of the outside world. It was so condensed and so thick with essence and energy that I felt like breaking through with just random dirt!

I took a deep breath and calmed down, talking myself out of such self-sabotage.

Remembering what Elder Su had told me, I started heading north.

She’d told me to walk, but walking and running were the same; one was just faster.

I kept to where north was, preferring to take the routes of the trees, jumping from branch to branch until I was away enough.

There wasn’t anyone else inside the realm beside me either, so I took advantage of the fact and changed back into a Phoenix as soon as I could.

Being in my original form felt much better than that human one.

The pants and shoes I’d grabbed into my dantian shrank to fit my better form.

With those meddlesome legs gone and the lack of wings solved, I’d shot toward the north far faster than before.

Without anything making me slower, trees and clouds passed by like a blur. The wind split before my beak, and my talons were ready to cut down any foes that were to stand before me!

Apparently, I didn’t have to wait long for something like that to happen. As soon as I’d gotten deeper into the jungle, two giant lizards shot out from the trees. I wasn’t flying high, so they could easily reach me.

Using Aerial Redirection, I’d dodged their first attack, but they weren’t ready to give up. Screeching loudly, they’d called upon more and more of their friends until a swarm of giant grey lizards with thick, ugly, and dirty scales and what looked to be a strange necklace chased after me through the trees.

The sight was very strange, but their agility surprised me.

Without knowing what to do about that, I’d decided that the best way to deal with a problem was to exterminate it!

Flying high from above, I opened my peak and let out a large wave of Pyro Breath. The leaves of the trees wilted under my power, revealing the worm-like lizards below.

They were worm-like because they were so concentrated.

When my fire hit them, it took a little while for many to die, but some weaker ones were instantly nullified and… Much to my dismay, gave no experience.

Which was a good thing, because I still had that reward and I didn’t want to waste it. I almost wasted it…

How awful…

However, instead of experience, something else rushed toward my body instead. The beasts turned into specks of light that entered my feathers, gathering somewhere on my forehead.

Ah, so that’s how it keeps track of points. Killing beasts gives points, then? What else gives points?

Since most of the lizards below were weak, I made quick work of them, gathering many, many points.

After the area cleared, I went down, looking for more targets. I couldn’t find any; not a single beast was in sight.

Deciding to make use of my Identify skill, I was glad to have done so. On the ground, hidden beneath many trashy plants, there were a lot of treasures!

Well, not that good, but good enough, and as a matter of fact, there were some plants that I’d needed for Yo Na’s elixir!

Oh, the thought of finally being able to get rid of the menace within my dantian was exhilarating. I couldn’t be happier to finally give him back to his mom.

The plants the elixir required weren’t easy to get usually, though. I did buy some of them when I was in the city, but some were still not available on the market.

If I can find them in here, then that would be amazing! And there are a lot of plants here, many that I could use for my alchemy. And just to be sure, I’m going to grab them all; you never know when you need one.

As I picked up my first plant, I’d noticed that a small amount of points had been deposited on my forehead.

Oh!

So gathering plants gave you points as well? Well then, don’t mind if I do!

While I had to be mindful of the time limit, I could just walk north while accumulating a lot of points, right?

Hehehe….

◈◈◈

An hour had passed since Fa Xiaolan had entered the trial, and it was Peng Li’s turn. He didn’t say anything and walked expressionlessly toward the portal, entering and disappearing.

When he came to, the arid desert heat hit him in the face like a giant blast of Qi.

His expression immediately changed to one of worry, as he had never been in such an environment

He knew how to act, though, and didn’t hesitate to take off his shirt and use it to protect his head from the heat.

That was also not to waste Qi.

Walking forward, his eyes scanned for a source of proper shade so he could collect his thoughts and formulate a plan.

The secret realm threw him inside that environment without any warning or instructions, but it was easy to figure out that the goal was to survive.

Main goal, anyway.

He believed there had to be a secondary goal of sorts somewhere, but didn’t know it yet, and couldn’t find out right away.

His most important worry was shelter. He couldn’t move the earth to make one, and his Reaper Qi was useless unless it was to kill something, and besides the sand, there was nothing in the vicinity.

With that thought in mind, he pulled out a canteen of water and drank until he was satisfied. He was delighted to find that the bags of holding were not limited in this place; otherwise he would have been in a small amount of trouble.

With his thoughts straight, he walked in a random direction. There were only dunes and sand as far as the eye could see, and nothing that hinted at there being any difference later.

He sighed, cursing his lack, and kept walking forward.

Peng Li didn’t have to wait long for something to happen, though. The sand shifted below his feet, and, driven by instinct, he jumped back more than one hundred meters.

Right as he landed, a giant worm, dozens of meters in length and a few in width,h swallowed the ground where he once stood.

Without a second of hesitation, he prepared to defend himself.

The worm, having already sensed the subtle shift in the sand, aimed its gaping maw at him and spat out all the sand it’d swallowed in many lethal projectiles.

Peng Li’s hands weaved into multiple hand signs,s and a barrier appeared all around him, protecting him from the attacks he couldn’t dodge.

Unable to gauge the worm’s strength, he could only guess based on the few hints he had; however, his lack of true combat experience was showing.

His movements were erratic,c and his steps were far too slow. Many projectiles hit his barrier, making it waver.

He bit down on his lower lip and activated the shifting skill, becoming untargetable and gaining some speed, closing the distance.

The creature’s massive body gave him pause, though.

How was one supposed to take down something that large?

He hesitated to attack, opting to dodge instead.

Unfortunately, that was his first mistake in that battle.

The moment he decided not to attack when the opportunity presented itself gave the worm enough time to spit out a powerful and dense sand attack that tore through the barrier.

It shattered in mere seconds, and hit him shortly after.

The shirt he held over his head got shredded to pieces, and many minor wounds appeared on his skin.

Thankfully, he still had the powerful skin of a Qi Condensation cultivator, so the only damage he took was surface-level.

Still, the wounds stung, and he couldn’t heal them. That was basically a death sentence if he couldn’t figure out a way to save himself.

Gritting his teeth, he rolled out of the way of a second attack and placed another barrier upon himself. That time around, he shifted straight toward the worm, using that technique twice in a row to close the gap further.

When he was just barely close enough, he’d activated a technique that linked him with the creature, and after a quick series of hand signs, it was time for him to attack.

There was no way to probe an opponent’s strength without attacking. He’d already found out that the worm was strong; he didn’t want to end up getting injured because of his carelessness.

Summoning a sword from his bag of holding, he increased its length with a technique and slashed at the worm.

The surface wound made the thing scream in agony, and the black Qi spread into its body.

There was no blood as far as Peng Li could tell, but that was normal. What wasn’t normal was how… strange the slash felt.

He couldn’t give it much more thought, though, as the worm attacked once again, and that time, it was serious.

Its body fell toward Peng Li with incredible speed. He was barely fast enough to dodge out of the way, but that wasn’t the end.

The worm rolled, forcing him to run. There was no way to avoid it immediately. Even if he jumped, it would be difficult to jump higher than the worm was wide, and if he wanted to run to either side, it was going to be a long sprint.

His brain strained as he thought of ways to avoid, dodge, or kill the thing.

Since he could wound it, he’d decided that he could do much worse.

The Qi was still there, still eating away at the thing.

Without thinking much, he pulled out a bow and shot out Qi-infused arrows into the thing’s body.

The more of the things stacked, the better. He’d only needed them to hit once, so the poison could enter its system; then it didn’t matter what happened to the arrows.

However, the wind created by the spinning beast paired with the large amount of sand being displaced meant that only one out of ten arrows was lucky enough to hit.

Gritting his teeth, he put those away and strained his body and Qi to run faster and faster, his eyes looking for some sort of safety.

Desperate, overheating, and also thirsty, Peng Li could only think of one thing.

He didn’t hesitate and summoned the Reaper Avatar, sending it forward toward the worm.

Either he died, or it died! There wasn’t any room for discussion, and Peng Li wasn’t just about to keel over that easily.

Feeding it as much Qi as he could, the thing endured the chaotic winds and sand, and with a clean, rapid swing of its scythe, it created a giant wound on its side.

Qi spread rapidly, and its screams drowned out even the rolling winds.

Peng Li was just about to run out of breath, and quickly dove toward the sand, hoping to live by a hair’s breadth while the Qi did its thing.

He hadn’t expected the screams to abruptly stop, and for nothing to roll over him while he ate sand.

Standing up and spitting it out, he looked toward the vanishing body of the beast, and multiple particles of light shooting toward him. At first, deflected them, but seeing that they didn’t do him harm, he’d accepted them.

Much to his surprise, they all gathered toward his forehead in a cluster.

His attention was drawn by the form of the reaper, who stared down at him with displeasure; however… He didn’t feel any discomfort!

The figure disappeared, and he was still fine.

Seeing that, a touch of excitement creased his lips, and his heart jumped with joy.

So that’s how it is…