The [Magical Innkeeper] shoulder-charged into the [Witch], and her hat ignited Belavierr. The Stitch Witch started screaming, and Erin stabbed her with the kitchen knife.
They vanished, rolling and stabbing at each other down a corridor. The [Innkeeper] was—laughing. Then, Lyonette took a deep breath.
“Hold this spot. No matter what! We just have to throw them back. The Necromancer…”
Her eyes swept around the [Palace of Fates], and she stood there, thinking. The Box of Incontinuity was like a threat. Best never used so you could keep using it, again and again. But if she had to…before Lyonette could decide, another figure stepped forwards. Another weary champion.
“Leave the Necromancer to me.”
 
——
 
The Necromancer of Terandria had extinguished the flames at last. He was creeping down the hallways, prepared to sneak out of this insane [Palace of Fates]. He didn’t know where the Goblin King was, but he’d seen Teriarch hit by the largest Harpy he’d ever seen.
His confidence in victory was decreasing by the second. He was the Necromancer. He was…
The Necromancer rounded a corner and halted. He was a Level 78 [Undying Lich]. But he was wounded, bereft of his minions and—a coward who’d run and fled.
That mattered. It meant he was weak.
A trio of figures were waiting for him down another hallway. Az’kerash halted uncertainly, then relaxed.
Just three men. Or so he thought at first. He eyed the three ordinary men…then his eyes narrowed.
One of them was leaning against a wall, looking exhausted. The silver-haired half-Elf pushed himself off the wall. He was talking to the others.
“—know where Teriarch is. We have to stop this one. Understand? He’s not going to be easy.”
“There are three of us. How dangerous could he be? The Tidebreaker bested him.”
Rhisveri Zessoprical snarled, but his eyes never left Az’kerash’s face. He was sweating, but he made fists and hopped left and right like an amateur boxer. The man in the back just adjusted his tie.
“The Tidebreaker was always stronger than his levels. No one can stop him but us. Remember—he always comes back.”
Viscount Visophecin’s eyes glowed faintly as the Necromancer lifted his rapier, no longer sure he was facing mortals. Taletevirion and Rhisveri exchanged a glance out of the corner of their eyes. The Unicorn nodded as he drew a sword.
“He’s undying. And he’s a Gold-bell duelist.”
That was all he said, and Az’kerash slowed and drew a rapier himself. He did not know why—only that he suddenly wished for his mortality back, his gift with the blade that came from his living half.
The Unicorn was pressuring him. And then other two—Rhisveri’s tattered shoes pressed down on the hallway’s floors as he lowered his head. The Viscount took a position behind him, and then Az’kerash realized none of them were ordinary, mortal men.
The Necromancer of Terandria hesitated—then he shrieked, an undead’s unearthly wail, and [Flash Stepped] forwards. Viscount Visophecin fired the first [Midnight Shard] spells; the [Necromancer] evaded each one and saw Rhisveri leap at him.
He ran the Duke of Ailendamus through the heart and heard a scream—and Rhisveri seized him. The Necromancer’s eyes widened.
A magical body. What is—
The Duke headbutted him, and the Necromancer stopped thinking for a second. His body activated on autopilot; a [Deathblast] blew Rhisveri off him, and he lunged.
He stabbed the Duke four times through the chest, so fast that Rhisveri’s body jerked back like a ragdoll—then the Necromancer realized he’d forgotten Taletev—
The Unicorn’s glowing blade stabbed Az’kerash, and Taletevirion rammed him up, off his feet, into the ceiling as the blade extended. The Necromancer fell down as Viscount Visophecin shot a hole through his throat. A gleaming sword slashed him across the face, chest, leg—
The wounds closed in a second, and the Necromancer grabbed the sword, screaming with genuine pain. The Unicorn refused to let go of his weapon so Az’kerash tossed the Unicorn down the hallway, and the [Necromancer] pointed a finger.
“[Deathb—]”
Movement at his back. The Necromancer spun, and Viscount Visophecin stepped out of his shadow. The Necromancer fired the [Deathblast] spell point-blank, and the Lucifen’s Warform took it. The grinning skull of his face opened in a snarl—then he struck the Necromancer across the ground, snapping his neck. The Necromancer got up, his neck snapping back into place, and Rhisveri and Visophecin crashed into him.
They were punching and firing spells point-blank, trying to keep him from casting magic. The Necromancer howled in frustration. The Unicorn was running at him, and Az’kerash tried to focus on him, but his spellcasting was—impeded—
Duke Rhisveri kept punching him in the head.
 
——
 
The Goblin King was fighting with Rabbiteater. One of them wanted to go back and slaughter everything. The other—refused.
The armored figure staggered through the [Palace of Fates], away from the exit, until he came upon another battleground.
Painted Antinium were kneeling on the ground. Curled up. A motionless [Apostle] stood there, the illumination of his faith winked out.
“Gone.”
The Goblin King began to murder them, scything down the Antinium nearest him, uncaring of who or what they were.
He didn’t like the glimmers of faith they possessed. Pawn saw the Goblin King and tried to lift his club, but his faith was fractured.
“Gone. She is…”
He came out of his trance as the Goblin King drew a sword and swung it at him. The [Apostle]’s club met the sword—and the Goblin King recoiled slightly as thunder rolled down the hallway.
The Painted Antinium gazed up as Pawn stumbled back a few steps. When he raised that old club, there was a cut in it. But the glow was back in the Antinium’s eyes.
“Our goddess has been slain. We are all damned, and I am first of them, for I failed to guard her. There is no penance great enough. But other Erins live. The way is not yet broken. Most importantly—who? wHO dId tHIs? They die.”
The Goblin King halted; he studied the Antinium and swung his sword again, almost experimentally.
“[Cleave the Mortal World].”
Pawn’s club met the blade, and this time, the blow tossed him down the corridor. He rolled, head-over-heels, and came to a halt—but he was alive and rose as more [Paladins] got to their feet. The Goblin King shook out his wrist.
“What class is this? I do not like it.”
He didn’t understand, and it unsettled him. No…he vaguely remembered this class.
From the origin of everything. Those who worshipped them. His rage began to intensify as he lifted his sword again.
Then someone stabbed him in the side.
It was such a shock that the Goblin King barely recoiled in time as red blood ran from his wound. Even distracted, Rabbiteater’s armor was proof against all weapons. But a Worker, a mere Worker, had drawn his blood.
He beheaded the Worker and stepped back as the Painted Antinium turned their wrath on him. Pawn’s gaze found the Goblin King like the beam of a lighthouse.
“Kill this one first. Then find Erin Solstice and guard her.”
The Goblin King snarled as he drew his blade in earnest. But his head kept swivelling. There was something else in the [Palace of Fates]. He had run into one of them.
They should not be here. The girl was right. But how? And where?
Where…were they?
 
——
 
Belavierr’s lungs kept filling with blood. The knife pierced her flesh, and she was burning. It was her eyes.
One of the many rings faded away as the [Innkeeper] held her.
A resplendent woman, covered in the gifts of the Immortal Tyrant, made a soft sound as she sat in the middle of a ritual circle. She blinked down at the flames covering her and tried to rise. Then she felt at the red stain spreading from her chest. She tried to stand again, fell, and began to crawl forwards.
Then the flames burnt her away. The [Innkeeper] kept stabbing, and Belavierr tried to conjure a nightmare to kill this dying woman. But her craft was gone. Then Erin Solstice seized one of the trailing threads coming from Belavierr’s very essence.
The Witch of Webs blazed and ran, shrieking. She was—
Dying. She tried to back away, and the woman was at her throat. Burning with every emotion she had ever lived, cackling.
Belavierr lost one life. Then another as black fire coated her face, blown from the [Innkeeper]’s mouth. She was so close—the other immortals were distracted. The Goblin King was missing.
Something—Belavierr ran into a group of strangers, who broke around her, shouting. She sensed the [Innkeeper] stop, and the Spider desperately tore the flames off her. She raised a ruined face that began to reknit, and saw the [Innkeeper]’s eyes focus on something other than her face for one moment.
The band of warriors halted uncertainly in the face of the blazing [Innkeeper]. One of them bowed ostentatiously, eyes locked in instantaneous admiration and love for the dying woman.
“Hello. Innkeeper Solstice. We are allies, it would appear. May I introduce myself? I am—”
The Naga wriggled forwards, ignoring his Gnoll bodyguard, Iert, who threw out a wary arm. Belavierr sensed the black flames around the [Innkeeper] deepen. The Spider hesitated, then scuttled back as Erin Solstice inhaled.
The Naga of Roshal had a moment to blink and recoil, then the [Innkeeper] breathed a wave of hatred’s fire over him and the servants of Roshal. Their door began to burn, and a screaming Gnoll burst out of the flames and slammed into the [Innkeeper]. She stabbed Iert in the side, the chest, then the face as the Spider fled her deadly foe.
A chance. Luck be mine.
She had only a few moments to gain distance between her and the woman, but it was enough. The Spider scuttled around a corner of the [Palace of Fates]. She knew the [Princess] with the box would be guarding the exit, and there was great danger in this place. Six dreadful mice.
But the Witch was not running aimlessly. She advanced through the corridors and found her quarry, who froze, again, when the Spider pounced.
 
——
 
There had to be a solution to all this. She had to think of it—but there was no time to do it. Yet in her heart, she knew that she had to find it. Somehow. But she just kept running—trying to save the pieces.
Roots Mrsha found the Redfang Five from the world of the beach running through the [Palace of Fates]. Or rather—trying to drag one of them with them.
“Headscratcher! Come on!”
Shorthilt turned and gave the Goblin Lord of Sorrows a slap to the face. But Headscratcher barely reacted; he was stumbling forwards, being carried by Numbtongue and Rabbiteater.
Erin was gone. Their Erin was…Shorthilt reached out, and the one-armed [Blademaster] from his world tried to haul the Goblin Lord faster.
“Pekona, Octavia, Garia, Snapjaw—they’re out there. Please, Brother. Run!”
Headscratcher’s head rose, and he managed a few more steps, but the Goblin Lord was covered in blue flames. He fell to one knee, dragging Rabbiteater down with him, for all the [Champion]’s strength, until Mrsha ran forwards.
Everyone! This way! I’ll take you to the exit!
The Redfang Five saw Roots Mrsha, not their Mrsha, dashing forwards with Dame Ushar. They hesitated. Headscratcher spoke, kneeling on the ground.
“No point. She’s gone.”
“Fight. You have to fight.”
Rabbiteater was hissing in his ears as he tried to lever Headscratcher up, but the Goblin Lord of Sorrows just regarded Mrsha.
He saw her own grief, like a leaden weight in her chest, and gave her a bleak smile.
“You’ve lost everything too. What’s the point?”
Roots Mrsha halted and composed herself as another panting figure caught up with them.
I’m going to run until I stop for good. Come on. Someone needs you. Another Erin. If we’ve lost everything, we have a duty to let no one else lose what we have.
That…worked. Headscratcher found the energy to push one leg up, and he half-rose. Then his face became another mask of humorous despair.
“And you, Numbtongue? You’re as hopeless as I am. What strange world is reality for you to be as sad as I?”
For a moment, the Redfang Five thought he was talking to their Numbtongue, who pointed at his face, mystified. But then they all turned and saw—the [Sybarite Soulbard].
The real Numbtongue, who stood, brotherless, his Dragonblood crystal sword in hand. He was badly scorched across his upper torso, and he had light cuts on his arms. He panted for air as he came face-to-face with the five Redfangs.
His beloved brothers, all together. While he was…
Numbtongue! There you are! Come on!
Roots Mrsha was relieved to see him. She dashed over, grabbed his hand, and pulled. Numbtongue jerked, and he took a few steps forwards.
“Come on. I’ll…get you out of here.”
He reached out for Headscratcher, but didn’t manage to touch the Goblin Lord of Sorrows. Headscratcher pushed himself to his feet, and they regarded each other. Numbtongue’s eyes were filled with a silent agony as he looked at his other self and his living brothers. Headscratcher took a few steps forwards. Then he whispered.
“Why are you so sad?”
The [Sybarite Soulbard] reached out to take one of Headscratcher’s arms, and bit one lip, like someone trying to keep something bubbling up in him from coming out. But then he spat it out, words like black bile from deep inside.
“You’re dead, brother. And she doesn’t love me. She doesn’t care for us. Not you and me.”
His eyes flicked to Rabbiteater, and the [Knight]-[Champion] blinked in confusion as the other Redfangs turned to him. Beach Numbtongue’s face was confused, but Headscratcher met the hurt, angry eyes of his brother from reality.
Without a word, he shoulder-charged Numbtongue into one wall of the [Palace]. The [Soulbard] managed a shout and one punch—then the two were hitting each other, though the Goblin Lord’s fists were ten times heavier than the real Numbtongue’s.
Stop! Stop fighting, you fools! We have to go!
The other four Redfangs and Dame Ushar tried to separate the two brawling Goblins, and Roots Mrsha was about to rush forwards, despite the risk of them falling on her and squashing her, when she felt all the hair on the back of her neck stand up again.
Oh come on. Doesn’t she have anything better to do? Roots Mrsha whirled.
The Witch of Webs ran towards them, trailing smoke and screaming.
Real Numbtongue and Beach Headscratcher stopped fighting instantly. They whirled, and every Goblin present charged the Witch of Webs. But she was so—
Badarrow’s bow snapped as he tried to loose an arrow. Rabbiteater’s charge at her turned into a sprawl as his armor and clothing inside of it fell to pieces. Beach Numbtongue’s guitar strings snapped across his chest. Shorthilt managed a slash which glanced off Belavierr’s clothing, too hard for him to cut—
