Monster? Roots Mrsha had never met anyone like her. She had never seen someone who had gained a class that changed…so much. But she did know this woman.
He had told her stories of the [Florist] who had become a person to the lonely Goblins, after all. And it was he who stumbled forwards, a man haunted by ghosts who had run into one more.
The real Numbtongue. He halted in front of the [Florist], and she flinched away from him, as if his respectable dress, his guitar slung over one shoulder, the air of civilization that clung most strongly to him made her fear being shunned or attacked. But the Goblin [Soulbard] merely opened his mouth and croaked.
“Hello.”
The [Florist] froze, and then she croaked back.
“Helo. i knw u. Rigt?”
“Yes. Can I…touch you?”
She hesitated again, then nodded, and Numbtongue slowly put his arms out. He enfolded the [Florist] into a hug against his chest, and he whispered, voice thick, as his hands touched her hair matted with blood.
“Hello. I’m Numbtongue. One of him. I wanted to tell you, while I still have the time…how beautiful you are.”
He embraced her so long the other Goblins began to get annoyed, all eleven of them. But then Numbtongue let go and gazed down at the faintly blushing [Florist].
When he turned, Roots Mrsha stood there, smiling. Numbtongue eyed her questioningly, and the Gnoll girl just wrote in the air.
Stay together. Head towards the way out.
“What about you?”
Headscratcher turned from the [Florist] and remembered the other Erin, fighting Belavierr. He broke away from the other Goblins, but Roots Mrsha just waved him on.
Get to the exit. Bring them there, then find the people from your world, if you must. But go, go.
The Redfang Five and the Redfang Six, plus the [Florist], were left standing there as Dame Ushar strode after Roots Mrsha. Another Goblin took a few steps forwards, and Numbtongue turned around. He reached for the [Florist] and caught her clawed hand.
“I have to find the rest of my family. Then, introduce you to them.”
He met the [Florist]’s eyes, and she nodded. Then the [Soulbard] was running, this agonizing, beautiful, painful palace shaking around him. And he asked of it only one thing.
This time.
This time…
Let the [Florist] live. Her and all the others.
 
——
 
The [Florist] and eleven Goblins reached the entrance to the [Garden of Sanctuary], and the small army of people standing there almost attacked her.
“Monster! F—wait, wait, there are Goblins!”
Zel Shivertail roared, and then heard what he’d actually said. The [Florist] flinched, but the sight of the Redfang Five sent their version of Lyonette and Mrsha running forwards.
“Headscratcher! Pyrite went out to search for people from his world! You have to help him!”
“We’ll do that. We—we saw Mrsha. And Belavierr. And this is our friend. Protect her, please.”
The Goblin Lord of Sorrows stumbled forwards, gesturing to the [Florist], and he saw that everyone who had reached the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s exit was still in the [Palace of Fates]. They were here.
Holding the door. Or waiting for the people they loved. The real Lyonette du Marquin ran towards Headscratcher.
“You saw my Mrsha? Where? Where?”
He pointed and had to explain that she had vanished along with Numbtongue. Lyonette sagged.
“If you see her—bring her back! Please!”
It was Zel Shivertail who gave orders as the confused Redfangs milled around.
“If you can fight, you’re with me. Classes! Is—that an ally?”
He pointed at the [Florist], who cowered. Orangepoo promptly began to swing his fecal slingshot menacingly, and Zel Shivertail eyed the Goblin. But then the [General] growled.
“She’s got a Blood-something class, doesn’t she? I’ve seen [Soldiers] with them. Just stick with us, and don’t attack until you hear the order given, understand?”
He pointed, and the Goblins and [Florist] saw how many corridors Zel was attempting to control. There were seven; the hallway that led to the [Garden of Sanctuary] had three connections on one side, four on the other.
The fact that Az’kerash, Belavierr, and the Goblin King had failed to reach this spot was a small silver lining in a magical hurricane. Zel Shivertail had fought off everything from an angry Truestone Golem to an army of evil slimes. But he had a feeling that the big players were starting to emerge.
He strode back into position and growled at a panting Courier.
“Report.”
Valceif Godfrey, the Ryoka Griffins, and other Couriers had run through the [Palace of Fates]. The young man’s sweating face rose, and he rasped.
“There are multiple worlds of Crelers—the cracks are getting big enough to let Adults through from some of them. The one good piece of news is that they’re killing each other. Aside from that—I saw the King of Destruction’s world fighting, but he was barely on his feet. They’re coming, fast. So are those soldiers from Rhir—the Painted Antinium are fighting everything they can see. Those were the worst worlds so far.”
“Got it. Take a break, then keep checking the corridors closest to us. I need more fortifications! Can we get anything from the inn?”
Zel roared at Lyonette, but she was preoccupied with that damn box she claimed was better as a feint. Or as a weapon of last-resort if an army or horror reached them. Valceif rasped again.
“General Shivertail, the only thing keeping the armies from reaching us is that Harpy and the Dragons. But they’re falling back.”
Zel Shivertail swung around.
“—What Dragons?”
He’d seen only one, and a Harpy had taken it out. Valceif blinked at him. He counted on his fingers.
“I think I’ve seen—six?”
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flames stood against the forces of Rhir as long as he could. But there were so many. They kept sending their [Heroes].
He blasted them with Dragonfire until their morale broke, and they ran screaming and burning, all their enchantments and levels availing them not. But they wanted that door.
They knew it was their only salvation, and they had too many [Soldiers]. They boiled up the hill, firing arrows and magic, and his scales were already ruined from multiple battles. He held his ground as citizens from this Liscor streamed past him, teleporting here in their desperation to flee.
How long did he buy? A minute? Six? Not long, then his back was against the portal. He could feel it there, calling to him. Safety, if only for a moment.
The Dragonlord of Flames refused to run. Not this time.
Not in front of her.
He howled and swept his breath across the ground. It lashed over the flinching figures—and baked over shields made of frozen time itself. The Dragonfire faded away—sent into the past or future—and the Dragonlord felt an oppressive chill on his bones.
The Blighted King had appeared. With him, hundreds of [Heroes] and his most powerful armies. They filled the Floodplains.
Their counterfire pierced his armor and knocked him flat. The Dragonlord tried to rise and saw the shafts of ballista bolts and arrows lodged in his scales. They refused to fall away, and he realized—
Magnetic tips. Which was useless against brass, but the other enchantments did work.
Gravity-enhanced lead munitions. They were weighing him down. Dragonslaying weapons used against the heavy Metal Dragons of the past.
They never forgot, the mortals. The Dragonlord tried to pull himself up and collapsed. His ‘good’ leg couldn’t support the weight. So he curled around the portal, determined to at least deny them that.
The first of the [Soldiers] arrived on top of the hill as more arrows fell, heedless of friendly fire, determined to slay him, and he tried to breathe fire on them—and had no more flame left.
Hot, I rage, he had once told Rafaema. A fire that grows only more intense through a battle until it goes out.
At last, he’d met his limit. The Dragonlord lifted a bleary face towards the first running figure and bared his teeth, to snap and bite until the last. Then someone spoke from just over his back.
“The situation appears hopeless. I suggest we retreat.”
That voice was irritating. Pretentious, deep, and too artificially scholarly. The second voice was even worse, because it was identical, but even more preachy.
“As do I, good sir. Just as soon as we remind this rabble of their place.”
The real Teriarch glanced up, and two vast Dragons’ heads peered down at him. He thought, for a second, he was staring at a two-headed Dragon or some kind of horrific Hydra wearing his face. Then the two Dragonlords stepped into this reality.
“More Dr—”
The two other Dragonlords of Flame exhaled, and the flames tore a hole through the remnants of The Wandering Inn. Below them, the army of Rhir hesitated, but the other Teriarchs just seized the real Dragonlord.
“This way, you fool. I would have retreated; this isn’t a defensible position.”
“Yes, quite. Oof. He’s heavy—”
They dragged him through the portal and back into the [Palace of Fates]. Teriarch lay there, then his head rose.
He saw two far healthier clones of himself standing there, one of them overweight and sluggish, newly-emerged from his cave, the other annoyingly trim.
“How…? We have to defend that spot!”
He almost went back through the portal, but one of them bit his tail and dragged him back.
“Impossible. We’re being overrun. Regroup. We’ve lost track of the Goblin King, and there’s six…dead things running around the [Palace of Fates]. This is one world.”
“They have hundreds of [Heroes]—”
Teriarch snarled, and the other overweight Teriarch lifted a claw.
“I just saw what I strongly believe to be an Ancient Creler waiting to get out in the wings of one of the worlds. I suggest we are all doomed and should affect a fighting retreat, like I did during the Battle for Sal-Korqaxx against the Nagatine Empire.”
Teriarch just stared at his other selves and realized only now how terrible it was to be in his company. The fitter Dragonlord, who was somehow more insufferable, chuckled into one wing.
“Aha. That’s quite rich coming from myself. Because as I recall, the Battle of Sal-Korqaxx was rather disastrous. Setting fire to random parts of the jungle and hightailing it out of there is not, one would argue, good ‘strategy’. But then, I’m merely the Archmage of Scales of Wistram. Active Lecturing Professor, 7th Circle, Suprima Magica Thaumaturge, Suprima Enchanter, S. Evocator, S. Abjurator…I have a scroll of my titles. Unlike you two, who would be employed as…?”
Teriarch ignored the ‘Archmage of Scales’ and panted at the overweight one.
“Why are you here? This is your world. I saw you run for it.”
Why the sudden change of heart? That Teriarch, the same one who had allied with Az’kerash and Belavierr and the Goblin King, coughed into one claw, and even the pretentious Archmage of Scales hesitated and lost his superior expression. They chorused.
“Sheta, of course.”
Oh. Of course. It was a fact that in many worlds, the Dragonlord of Flame would be alive. It was his nature. And so long as he was close to the real Teriarch, across his many incarnations—
He would never forget her. 
The Harpy Empress was rallying them. The three Teriarchs might have continued talking, but one of them snapped.
“They’re coming through the portal! Tactical retreat!”
He spat another jet of flame through the portal, then backed up, cursing, as Deathslayer Arrows struck the wall behind the portal. In fact, even the wounded, real Dragonlord was already run-limping away at great speed from the mortal peril behind them.
The army of Rhir followed after, and the three Dragonlords were flying now. Well, two of them while one limped fast as he could.
“Where is Sheta?”
“Trying to stop the damn Crelers!”
 
——
 
The King of Destruction had armies all entering through his portal. He could draw on multiple continents’ worth of soldiers from the world in which he had actually conquered everything.
However—he was forced to abandon his position out of necessity. The doors were continuing to open, and it was abundantly clear to him that he might well soon be in a position where his single world might be facing multiple worlds’ worth of monsters or enemy armies.
Crelers, if nothing else.
His veteran [Soldiers] had hacked apart the many threats coming out from the doors, including Crelers. They had minced larval Crelers, Juveniles, Adult Crelers—
The first Elder Creler destroyed half of Takhatres’ tribe, and the Lord of the Skies was covered in the blood of his people as he stumbled back towards the camp that the King of Destruction was recovering in.
“It—thinks. Half my warriors stopped breathing when they got near it. It’s leading them like a [General]. We can’t get close. And it’s not alone. There’s at least one more squeezing itself out. And something bigger’s there. Flos. All Seven of us have to battle them or…”
The King of Destruction sat up weakly and felt at his chest. The hand of that—strange man—had nearly killed him. But he’d survived rather than being erased like his people. He rasped.
“We have to find the exit. We push. Form a defensive line. Collapse the damn hallways, or just fill them with stone. Slow the Crelers down. We assail the exit. Move, and keep an eye out for those—things!”
Queravia interpreted the King of Destruction’s orders through her command of the battlefield.
“Strike groups. We will lead the one with His Majesty. Keep forming them and sending them from this position. Drevish, where’s the exit?”
“I’m trying. There’s…too many people fighting for it. Myself? And—it belongs to someone. A girl. Two girls?”
The Architect was sweating as he tried to make the right hallways appear, but he had more control of the [Palace of Fates] than most. The King of Destruction forced himself to his feet and drew his sword.
“For Orthenon. If you find that bearded man—gut him! Go!”
His [Soldiers] stormed down the hallways, meeting with the Crelers, the Painted Antinium, the forces of Rhir in battle, trying to hold the hallways. But they were all in pursuit of the same place as everyone else.
The way out.
On their way, the King of Destruction’s vanguard ran into the Elder Creler. The wounded [King] looked up and spoke.
“Huh. It’s got a lot more eyes. They get uglier, it seems.”
The Adult Crelers were the size of multi-story houses and could spit deadly projectiles that ripped steel in half like paper. They had huge, clawed legs like a spider, but far more than eight; they reared up with an upper body much like a Centaur, and their only weak spot was a softer underbelly with that orange intestinal jelly.
