He slammed her face through another section of the wall and leaned out of the way—a ray of blackness flashed past the three immortals, who ducked. The tip of the ray pierced Teriarch’s metallic mane and turned his hair black and dead—the ray bored through a hallway in the [Palace of Fates].
The Goddess of Death’s flailing arm produced black razor blades that slashed through the air around her. The Goblin King let the Crone go, and she stumbled to her feet. She took a step backwards.
He ran her through the chest and twisted the blade. The Crone’s eyes bulged in her head.
She disappeared without a word, and the Goblin King regarded the spot where she’d stood.
“So they are here. As I was promised. This place is feeding them. I must collapse it, then. Once I find the exit.”
So saying, he sheathed his blade and turned, as if nothing had happened. Az’kerash stared at the spot the Crone had been. His eyes slid sideways to Teriarch, and they shared the same thought.
Was this madness or safety, joining forces with…him?
The Goblin King focused on the immortals at last, and his voice was distant as he spoke. Uninterested in them or their memories.
“I am following a white Gnoll child. Tell me where she is, then stand aside or vanish.”
He didn’t recognize any of them. That stung their prides most of all. Teriarch opened his mouth, fire glowing in his throat. Belavierr lifted a hand, needles between each finger. Az’kerash flicked his rapier up.
The Goblin King’s hand tightened on the hilt of his sword, but he did abort his swing. The being behind that helmet seemed to weigh the foes in front of him and—hesitated.
So did they. Az’kerash was standing behind two legends of any world. He felt confident they could best the Goblin King…mostly confident. They could escape him if they had to.
The Goblin King was not invincible. Rather, he was eminently mortal as his many deaths proved. The right arrow in the right place could slay him if he didn’t dodge or defend against it.
The problem was that he could do…almost anything. The impossible could be realized through his countless Skills and abilities. This battle might cost the lives of at least one of the three, and they had not escaped their worlds just to die. In fact, his defeat of that Crone proved this was a golden opportunity.
The Goblin King might rage against the world, but he was no fool. That glowing gaze passed over the three immortals, and he lowered his blade and spoke.
“I seek answers and an exit. These things that wander the halls. Kasi—that woman. Things that should stay dead. How many are there, and where is the exit?”
The three immortal’s heads turned, and Teriarch coughed smoke into one claw.
“We seek the exit as well, er, Goblin King. As to those beings…we have no answers. We are all fake beings of manufactured worlds.”
“You are. Not I.”
He seemed amused by their antics, and part of the Necromancer longed to attack just for that. But the Dragonlord merely growled.
“Be that as it may. There is an exit, clearly. None of us can find it. Someone is holding it from us. Will you join forces with us? We will all perish here if this Skill vanishes.”
Belavierr and Az’kerash held their breaths as the Goblin King considered the offer. Would he take it? The figure glanced right, left, and then spoke.
“I agree.”
That was it. The Necromancer let out his breath, and the undead Revenant bound another spell into his fingers. Then—he felt confident he would survive.
The Goblin King, Belavierr, the Dragonlord of Flames, and the Necromancer of Terandria. No army, no force in this world could stand against them. The Goblin King pointed one finger down a hallway that shuddered into being for him.
“Erase everything. Forwards. [March of Annihilation].”
He was using Skills on them! The Necromancer shuddered—then felt the power invigorating his body. Reluctantly, he turned—and saw a corridor of fighting figures.
Painted Antinium. Soldiers of Rhir. Fleeing people leaving their realities—he realized the Goblin King had pointed them through the most crowded of places in the [Palace of Fates] on purpose.
He was smiling behind that helmet. The three immortals hesitated—then charged. Belavierr spat a mouthful of water, which became a roaring sea of filthy water that swept down the corridor. Teriarch exhaled, and the water became poisonous steam. The Necromancer pointed and laced it with death-magic.
The Goblin King exhaled and blew the spell forwards.
[The Tempest of the Six Wyrm Queens].
Life melted in front of them. The four beings strode forwards, the hallways scoured of life. A platoon of [Soldiers] was frozen where they stood, staring at the devastation and melted ground—Belavierr flicked her fingers and showered them with deadly enchanted needles. Az’kerash fired a [Deathblast] spell at the Painted Antinium.
“That way.”
The Goblin King took them left at an intersection, then left again. When he took them left a third time, Teriarch gave Az’kerash a side-eye—but they didn’t emerge into the same corridor as before. They were advancing down a long hallway filled with open doors and little roots emerging from some of them.
“Run! Run! It’s—”
A group of adventurers, the Horns of Hammerad, had returned with a small group of people, a caravan from their world of merchants and [Guards]. They caught sight of the Goblin King, Necromancer, Belavierr, and Teriarch and froze.
“Oh shit. R—”
Ceria lifted her wand, and Az’kerash struck her with a [Deathbolt]. The Revenant watched her collapse and heard a howl. Pisces caught Ceria, and the Necromancer touched his chest.
He felt…nothing.
“Good.”
He lifted a finger and spun. A second Ceria Springwalker, this one adorned with magical objects, fired at the same time as he did.
A frost spell froze the Necromancer solid—he struck her with a [Deathblast], and she collapsed.
The Necromancer cracked out of the ice spell a moment later, and the Archmage of Frost, Ceria Springwalker, sat back up as her amulet and circlet flashed. She rose to her feet—backed away.
The Goblin King’s head swung right and left as the Horns of Hammerad dragged the fallen half-Elf and Pisces back.
“Someone is hiding the exit from me. Two children. Mrsha. They cannot. That way.”
There was an odd note in his voice when he said that word. A microsecond of hesitation? The Necromancer saw the Goblin King waver, then raise a hand. He pointed, and another hallway opened up—and the Necromancer heard voices beyond. Panicked and loud.
“They’re coming! Your Highness! Don’t—”
A single figure appeared down the hallway and halted. Az’kerash lifted a finger as Belavierr produced a needle fit for a Giant. The Goblin King held up a hand.
“Lyonette?”
The [Princess] stood there with something in her hands. A…box. The Necromancer pointed his wand at her and paused. Someone spoke.
“Hold. My [Dangersense] is going off.”
The other three beings turned. Belavierr had held up a hand. She was eying the young woman from afar. Then she yanked something out of her robes.
“My tapestry of death shows me a burning death. Avoid.”
Teriarch hesitated, incredulous. The Necromancer eyed the [Princess], who was far too low-level to challenge any of them. The Goblin King raised a dagger to throw—then they thought about what Belavierr had just said.
Belavierr, the Stitch Witch. They all glanced at her, and the Goblin King took a step back. He pointed right.
“Around. That way.”
They just had to bypass the corridor the [Princess] was holding. The four immortals strode right and passed shattering doors.
The [Palace of Fates] was dying. Now, the doors were letting through everything. Air, sunlight or moonlight, depending on the time in the other worlds. Voices, begging for the portals to open.
Water. The [Necromancer]’s feet splashed through water leaking through one of the doors. He could see the beleaguered defenders of the exit now. His eyes focused on one of them.
“The Tidebreaker of Izril. Be wary of him.”
Zel Shivertail turned his head and froze as he saw the Necromancer aiming a wand at him. This time—Az’kerash swore he wouldn’t underestimate the general. Half his level or not—
The Goblin King was beginning to run down the corridor, a roar building in his throat. The [Princess] was running, trying to cover this hallway—but she was too slow. A little Goblin girl was standing at the door.
Asgra was guarding the way out of the [Palace of Fates] with a dagger, trembling in fear. She saw the Goblin King running at her, Belavierr striding forwards, and a desperate Teriarch shouting at her to get out of the way, and she didn’t budge.
It was all ending.
Someone had to bear the consequences, right?
Right. Just not children.
The Goblin King roared, and the [Necromancer] ran, wand glowing with a spell meant for Asgra. The two of them passed under the ceiling, shaking as pieces broke loose and came crashing down, dust sifting down, cracks forming around each and every door.
Water splashed underneath their feet. Seawater, if you wanted to be accurate. And then there was fire.
The Goblin King ran through a wall of glowing, pink flames, and the Necromancer saw a searing, bright line of flames a second before it coated him. He spun, trying to dodge—but the flames swept over him, and the Stitch Witch halted as the fire struck the Dragonlord of Flames in the side.
All three immortals caught in the blaze didn’t react at first. It was just fire. They—
The Necromancer tried to extinguish the flames with a [Void Room] spell, which sucked the oxygen out of the air. But the fire clinging to his skin didn’t go out. It didn’t matter; he was undead. It didn’t hurt.
It shouldn’t hurt.
But it did. The flames crawled over his skin, and the undead felt something burning. His…soul. What remained of it was aflame, and the undead had torn out of the piece of him that had been Perril Chandler and thought it made him stronger. But all that had done was reduce how much there was left, and the rest of it was being consumed.
Pain. Agony. He began to wail, a high-pitched scream of agony, worse than he’d ever felt. He flailed, trying to pull it off him—and the Necromancer burned. So did the Dragonlord of Flames. He screamed in shame and agony; the flames could not physically damage his scales, but they hurt. They burned with his every cowardice, his failures, his regrets. He collapsed, roaring, and Belavierr backed up a step.
The Goblin King had frozen. Flames were covering his armor, and his head had swivelled left and halted. The Stitch Witch was suddenly…afraid.
“Maviola El? That wretched [Knight] of flames?”
Her death at Riverfarm was suddenly flickering around her. A memory of fire. But who…?
She saw a door open, and more water poured out of it. An ocean’s worth of it—and a woman stood there, barely alive, smiling with a hat full of flames burning on her head.
“Grand Design? I’ve made my choice. [My Life, be Thou My Fire].”
The [Innkeeper] emerged from her door and strode into the [Palace of Fates] as Asgra lowered the dagger with its glittering edge. Lyonette came to a halt, and every head—everyone—turned to look at Erin Solstice.
The woman’s eyes were blazing hazel. The immortals took a step back.
The Necromancer whispered as the flames revived a candle of his mortality. His shame.
“The [Innkeeper].”
The Dragon rose, panting, eyes locked on her.
“The living flame.”
The Stitch Witch retreated.
“My death.”
The Goblin King’s voice was soft.
“…Erin?”
She threw her head back and cackled with laughter. The woman, the [Innkeeper], the [Witch] had no idea who they were, save for the familiar, armored figure and the stranger behind his eyes.
She didn’t care. She took a breath and blew a stream of flames of every color down the hallway.
Az’kerash emerged from the flames, running and tearing at the fire upon him, screaming. The Dragonlord was roaring as he fled, and the Goblin King—he threw up a hand.
“I killed you once. I shall do it again and silence his voice forever.”
He strode forwards as the Stitch Witch fled so fast her shadow stood there for a second before it caught up. The laughing [Innkeeper] ceased breathing flames at the Goblin King and leaned against one wall.
She could barely stand.
She was dying. Pieces of her skin were sloughing off and burning away.
The Goblin King lunged for her—
—And a ship ran him over. He smacked into the bow of a gigantic ship as it roared down the hallway of the [Palace of Fates], and the wave of water engulfed the Goblin King and hurtled him down the corridor.
[Bound Ship: The Wandering Ship]. The [Innkeeper] watched as the Goblin King was pushed down a hallway, and vanished as the [Palace of Fates] rippled. Then Erin took a few steps towards the door and stumbled. She nearly fell flat on her face, and someone caught her.
“Erin? Is that…”
Lyonette du Marquin held her up, the Box of Incontinuity in one hand, face white as she gaped down at the dying [Innkeeper]. Erin Solstice rasped.
“Not yours. I’ve come to make amends. Leave them to me. At least, one of them. I need a knife.”
Unconsciously, Lyonette reached for her belt pouch, but she didn’t have one. She helped the [Innkeeper] up—and someone stepped forwards.
Pyrite handed Erin a spare kitchen knife, and she met his eyes.
“Hey, stranger.”
“Hey. I’m Pyrite.”
She beamed at him as the flames on her hat burned, blue and pink and…
“Nice to meet you at last. Lyonette? Get everyone out of here. Where’s Mrsha?”
“I don’t—I don’t know where—”
Erin caught the [Princess]’ arm, and then she was right here. The [Innkeeper] that Lyonette hadn’t seen since the Winter Solstice. Her eyes shone, and she spoke to Lyonette like the woman was a child. Perhaps like she had spoken to Mrsha.
“I know it’s scary and falling apart. It’s always like that. You have to figure it out. Okay?”
She met the eyes of the [Princess], and her gaze turned, searching across the [Palace of Fates] for the child trying to hold it together, and Erin’s eyes were so very tired and weary. But then the [Innkeeper] winked at Lyonette, and the fire on her body blazed like the sun before it set.
“I’ll handle one of them.”
The [Palace of Fates] shifted—and the [Innkeeper] locked eyes with two running figures. Belavierr and Teriarch. The two immortals froze.
The [Innkeeper] charged at Belavierr, and a gigantic figure hit the Dragonlord of Flames like a freight train. Empress Sheta knocked the Dragonlord of Flames off his feet and shrieked at him.
“What are you doing, you coward?”
“Sheta?”
This Teriarch froze—and Belavierr recoiled.
“I wish to negotiate—”
“Nope.”
