She’s in the [Palace of Fates]. Somewhere else. She went to get her mother, Lyonette.
Mrsha wrote with her wand in the air, and Lyonette paled.
“You gave her a—”
Roots Mrsha’s gaze wasn’t flat or ignorant of her deeds. She just had no time to discuss it. Lyonette wavered.
“We have to find her. Can you make her appear or…?”
I’m trying. It’s hard. The [Palace of Fates] is breaking. Can’t you hear it?
“Hear…?”
They were following the stream of people running down the corridor, turning a bend. By rights, it should have taken them directly to the entrance of the [Garden of Sanctuary], but it didn’t.
Multiple wills were wrestling for the [Palace of Fates]. All of them wanted something.
Drevish the Architect. The King of Destruction. The Apostle Pawn. Belavierr—
And Roots Mrsha. She concentrated, and the hallways flickered—
—They were running through a familiar hallway of doors with roots sticking out of them, and Lyonette nearly slammed into a third Lyonette.
“Watch where you’re—huh?”
A younger [Princess] was panting, a little Gnoll girl in her arms. This one was smaller than Roots Mrsha, and she was whimpering. Roots Mrsha saw a Gnoll in armor put up his sword and blink as he nearly swung at Ser Dalimont. The Thronebearer stared, and the real Lyonette gasped.
“Brunkr?”
Ah. Ahh. Of course. Mrsha saw Brunkr, his Lyonette, and his Mrsha in the hallway, then a stream of Drakes and Gnolls. An [Innkeeper] shouting in front of her door.
“Hey, move it or lose it, people! Just go! Go! Whuh—is that Pisces? But I thought he was—”
The Erin Solstice of Brunkr’s world had spotted Pisces Jealnet from the world of the beach, and he stumbled to a stop when he saw her.
“Erin? Erin?”
He grabbed her, and the Horns of Hammerad from the beach world halted, along with the rest of the people who’d seen their Erin Solstice vanish. The younger [Innkeeper] was confused.
“What the heck is—huh? Huh?”
Brunkr’s Lyonette was just as confused.
“Y-you’re me! With Thronebearers? What’s going on? The door opened and we thought it was Future Mrsha with another warning, but—”
The real Lyonette was just as incredulous. Her eyes flicked to little Mrsha, and Brunkr.
“You’re me. And Brunkr. And you’re a—”
There was no mistaking the way Brunkr was holding Lyonette’s hand. The Gnoll [Knight] was panting as he glared at Roots Mrsha.
“What did you do? You said you’d leave me alone!”
The girl wrote a line in the air.
I’m sorry. It’s all falling apart. We have to get out of here.
She wondered how they’d all gotten out so fast; then Roots Mrsha saw the root sticking out of Brunkr’s world had turned into a gigantic portal, almost as large as the one in Pawn’s.
The worlds with roots in them were already open doors, so they were letting people out far faster than the others. That was something, at least.
But why was everyone coming out of their world? Brunkr’s world was open, and people were running into the [Palace of Fates]. Why?
Roots Mrsha could only assume—it was like an instinct. Like how animals fled before a wildfire, or just how fish needed water, not air.
Something was breaking down. Everything was; and when it broke, you could see what was impermanent, fragile.
This place based on Skills was conditional on the [Palace of Fates] existing. When your world trembled—you ran.
You ran and knew you were fake. Questioned everything that made you you. Lost your home. Lost your purpose and your identity.
She knew the feeling. Right now, the girl was standing in front of a door where the root growing into it was spreading.
Her door.
Roots Mrsha reached for it, then hesitated. She knew that this door led to another [Palace of Fates]; there was no way for her to reach her version of The Wandering Inn, even now. But maybe…maybe the roots would open a door back to the inn. Somehow.
If she could go back—what would she find? No mother, no inn? Just a squatting Titan reigning over a dead city?
The girl still wore the fancy red robes she had stolen from another timeline—and she regretted even that trick. Everything.
Roots Mrsha whirled away from her door and wrote in the air, as large as she could.
Run for the exit! Keep going, all of you! Don’t let anyone wrong out into the inn!
That broke the paralysis once more. Brunkr took his Lyonette’s arm and ran with her and his Mrsha, joining the stream of people racing for the exit.
The real Lyonette was panting, wide-eyed, but she turned to Roots Mrsha.
“What are you doing, Mrsha? You can summon the exit anytime you want, surely.”
Other people are hunting for it. I’m trying to keep it away from them.
The [Princess] wasn’t a fool. She cursed.
“Belavierr. Of course! Well—just take us to it, and we’ll get everyone through and close the door!”
On Taletevirion? On the others? Nanette’s out there.
The [Princess] hesitated, thinking as she glanced right, left, and then behind them. The [Palace of Fates] was being invaded in real time. How long did they have until an army was running down these corridors? 
“We’ll find them and—”
If we cut the root from the [Garden of Sanctuary], there’s no way we’ll get it back open. Rags and your Mrsha are here too. We have to get to the door and hold it, do you understand?
It was all so very clear to Roots Mrsha. Clear, impossible objectives. Dame Ushar whispered incredulously.
“They said an Elder Creler was in one of those worlds. We’re to hold the door against that? Against the Blighted Empire and the King of Destruction?”
Lyonette du Marquin’s chin rose, and she let out an unsteady breath.
“—The box. Get me to the exit and give me the box, and I can stop them. But the cost…”
She was afraid, and Roots Mrsha had an idea of what Lyonette was intending—she touched Lyonette’s arm.
Just hold that spot as long as you can. I’ll find as many people as I can and send them your way. Including Nanette. I’ll connect you with the exit.
She took several steps back, and Lyonette blinked stupidly at her.
“What? Don’t you dare! Mrsha—”
The [Princess] lunged for Mrsha, but it was too late. She vanished, and the girl stood there, satisfied.
I’m not your Mrsha, Mother. I have to find as many as I can. She turned—and someone was standing with her.
Dame Ushar had refused to leave. The Thronebearer’s face was grim.
“I’ve sworn to serve you, no matter what happens, Lady Mrsha. To the end. Bring us to Miss Nanette, and we’ll retreat to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Agreed?”
She was a good woman. Roots Mrsha blinked up at her, then nodded. They began to run.
 
——
 
The [Palace of Fates] was truly easy to understand in some ways. It was an infinitely branching network of worlds—but it still had a layout.
Hallways had to connect to each other. You could move them anywhere you wanted, but they still existed. Right now, the hallways that connected to the outside, to the exit and the [Garden of Sanctuary], were fixed in place.
A [Princess] had made it there, Lyonette du Marquin, and she was with the [Knights] of Solstice, the inn’s staff—virtually no one else. Everyone else was trying to get to her, but the rest of the [Palace of Fates] was in flux; you had to keep running until one of the shifting hallways finally connected you to the exit.
Other beings were wrestling for control of this place, getting in each other’s ways. Of course, there was one girl with control over the exit.
Roots Mrsha. She was preventing other people from finding it easily. So therefore, it followed that if you wanted a way out, you could keep running and searching.
Or find her.
The girl burst into a corridor ahead of the group fleeing from their world—the dwellers of the world of better days. It was Kevin who nearly ran her over.
“Mrsha! Where’s the damn exit!?”
He hollered at her, and she pointed over her shoulder as the hallways flickered.
That way! But where’s everyone else?
People ran past her, but she didn’t see Headscratcher, Pyrite, Moore, Halrac—Kevin whirled.
“They must have gotten separated!”
I’ll find them. Go!
The young man dashed past Roots Mrsha, and she searched around. She was having trouble finding people in this chaos, as much as he was. She was about to turn and sprint down another corridor to find Nanette when a door opened in front of her.
Which world was this? Mrsha tensed—then a quartet of people tumbled out into the [Palace of Fates], and her heart sank.
Oh no. Not them. She’d forgotten her sins.
The Horns of Hammerad from the looted vaults of Warmage Thresk burst out of the doorway, shouting. Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Pisces.
“Aha! I knew there was a trick to—where the heck are we? Is that Mrsha? Wh—duck!”
Yvlon threw them all to the floor as Dragonfire washed down the corridor. Mrsha glanced up; she lifted a paw, and the two roaring Dragons vanished.
“W-what’s going on?”
Pisces’ voice was shaking. Dame Ushar tried to explain to the Horns of Hammerad. She ended up just pointing.
“There’s a way out. Get to it, or you’re lost. Wait. Where are you going?”
At her words, Pisces’ eyes went round. He hesitated, looked at Roots Mrsha, then whirled and leapt back into the door where he’d emerged from.
Back into the Ruins of Albez. After a moment of hesitation, his team followed him.
“Where are they—”
Dame Ushar turned incredulously to Roots Mrsha, but the girl understood. Her eyes stung again.
Pisces was going to get his version of everyone he loved. He’d never make it from Albez to The Wandering Inn. Tears fell from Roots Mrsha’s eyes once more.
I’m sorry.
She hoped Mrsha, the real Mrsha, never had to see this. Never blamed herself for seeing these lost people. Then she felt her fur prickling. Roots Mrsha’s head snapped up.
Someone was coming down the hallways. Roots Mrsha raised a paw, and the presence disappeared—
Then the hallway in front of her flickered, and a [Witch] was striding down them again, eyes fixed on Mrsha. She flickered—vanished—
Reappeared a dozen paces closer. Mrsha backed away.
Dame Ushar raised her scroll, a gift of her new budget Skill, and a bolt of lightning shot down the corridor.
“Lady Mrsha, run, it’s—”
A jet of water struck her in the chest and sent Ushar flying. Mrsha glanced up, and a too-thin [Witch] pointed her wand at her.
Evil Nanette. Behind her…a woman who struck fear into Roots Mrsha.
Belavierr, the Witch of Webs.
“Ah. There is the reason. Leave the child alive, Nanette.”
“Yes, Mother. I get to fulfill my promise many times over!”
The [Witch of Sorrows] lifted her wand, and Mrsha tried to make them disappear again—Belavierr’s eyes paralyzed her.
“This is not the [Garden of Sanctuary], Mrsha du Marquin. I have waited ten years for this.”
Her smile stretched over her face awkwardly, and the girl saw Dame Ushar trying to get up before a wave of water swept her against one wall. The girl tried to move.
Children shouldn’t have undying monsters as nemeses. She struggled to howl, to use her powers of luck, her new Skills.
Nothing happened. Belavierr passed by the open doors, stepping under a crystal chandelier that the tip of her hat touched, and it tinkled. She peered at each and every door avariciously, and Mrsha cried out in her soul.
To the creator of this Skill. To the being who adjudicated it all. To fairness, if it existed. To Erin and this inn.
Just once, just once, give me something instead of more despair! Something to believe in. Or else she would stand in this eternal [Palace of Fates] in her soul, where the only thing that was ever good or true lay beyond a door and in a world that had never been.
Her tears rolled down her face as Belavierr bent down, and then the Stitch Witch’s head turned slightly left. She adjusted her hat again and inspected the perfect reflection of herself in the mirror.
A leering [Witch] with ringed eyes, stooping over a silently-crying Gnoll child with white fur. The image in the mirror was exactly the same.
Except for the giant Harpy, of course. Belavierr eyed Empress Sheta silently. The Harpy Queen’s eyes were huge and round, like an owl’s, and she stood stock-still. Her wings were folded around her, and her Human face was blank.
The Stitch Witch swallowed, a faintly audible sound, and it was either her divesting herself of her craft or just the moment, but there was a faint wobble of actual nervousness in her voice.
“I wish to negot—”
The [Empress] stuck her claw out of the mirror and smashed Belavierr into one wall of the [Palace of Fates]. The Stitch Witch made a faint sound as the talons dug into the marble. Evil Nanette squeaked.
“M-Mother?”
“Oh dear.”
Sheta stepped out of the mirror and tossed Belavierr with a flick of her claws. Then pointed one talon and spoke.
“[Brightstar Dragonlings of Iltanus].”
Flaming, tiny Dragons appeared and shot down the hallway. ‘Tiny’ as in still twice as big as Roots Mrsha, eyes glowing as they breathed elemental flame at the Spider.
Belavierr moved, mid-flight, twisted, and tossed out strings, which formed a cobweb that caught her. She landed, raised a hand, and shielded herself with her cloak. Then she whirled it, and one of the Dragonlings disappeared. Belavierr drew a pair of scissors and snipped another two in half, ignoring the flames.
Thin Nanette blasted the last one out of the air with jets of magic. Belavierr locked gazes with the Empress of Harpies. Sheta flicked a claw.
“[Brightstar Dragonlady Ameti’venia].”
A glowing Dragon, scales glowing with white flames, appeared in the corridor. The female Dragon inhaled; Belavierr strode away. Older Nanette screamed and ran as the Dragon exhaled, then gave chase.
Mrsha stood there as the Empress of Harpies studied her. After a moment, the vast Harpy raised her talon and gingerly poked Mrsha on the head with the barest tip of her talon.
“Do not despair. Not yet. One last time, I shall fly this mortal world and set what wrongs to right that I can.”
She waited, her feathers ruffling and raising by themselves with excitement, as the authority long lost to this world came to her.
The greatest [Empress] her species had ever known.
The girl just stared up at her.
Another immortal, come to do greatest good or greatest evil. The Empress eyed her.
“Have you been hexed by that…thing? I have never encountered the like, wearing a [Witch]’s class. Or—do you fear me that much?”
Dame Ushar sat up gasping and tried to throw herself between Mrsha and Sheta. The Harpy eyed the female [Knight] and moved her to one side with the sweep of a claw. Roots Mrsha wrote in the air.
Neither. I just wish I’d asked you questions, too. I wish I had been cleverer. I wish so many people will not die. I am so tired of my mistakes.
