He kissed Zel Shivertail swiftly on the lips, and half the Drake [Soldiers] dropped their weapons in a clatter like thunder. The Tidebreaker heard nothing at all. He touched his lips, and General Sserys turned. He grabbed his version of Zel and gave him a longer kiss, bending him over at the waist, raising one arm, as the [Knights] of Solstice, Lyonette du Marquin, and the Drakes and Gnolls of Izril watched.
Sserys waved his free arm for applause, then gasped for air as he straightened. He turned and gave Zel Shivertail an expectant look. A smile without any regrets.
The General of Izril slapped him across the face.
Gently.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin saw the slap. The Tidebreaker slapping General Sserys, both of them in the flesh before her. An impossible, iconic moment.
But the image of General Sserys french-kissing the Tidebreaker of Izril would be the scene that lingered in Lyonette du Marquin’s memory—forever.
Not just her. Everyone from the inn stood there as General Sserys swore and tried to punch Zel back. Lyonette breathlessly strode forwards.
“Excuse me—”
“Who’s this? Your replacement for me? Or just some random [Princess]? Begone, woman, we have a war to fight.”
The Tidebreaker, the older Zel and the younger one, both put Sserys in a headlock in what looked like an action of pure reflex. Lyonette swallowed.
“We have a problem, gentlemen. The Crelers. They’re coming. And multiple armies, not just the King of Destruction.”
She pointed, and all three Drake [Generals] looked up. Sserys swore and shaded his eyes.
“…Are those Dragons? Fuck, they’re running.”
Pink flames were blasting down the corridors as the Dragonlords of Flame retreated. There were four of them, but it didn’t matter.
The Blighted Kingdom was on the march, and King Othius the Fourth was surrounded by a vanguard of [Heroes]. The King of Destruction was also returning with every [Soldier] he could spare—but both groups paled in the face of the third wave sweeping down the corridor that had expanded to accommodate their numbers.
Crelers. An endless swarm of them, and like mountains of contempt, three Elder Crelers were advancing slowly down the corridor.
Three terrible mind-voices echoed towards Lyonette, and she felt sick to her stomach.
(The First of Spawns comes.)
(It comes.)
(Despair, for annihilation emerges.)
The First of…three Elder Crelers were bad enough. The sight of that army had General Sserys issuing orders, all his mirth forgotten.
“Battle lines. I want every [Soldier] coming from our world on here, at a sprint. We’re holding the line and evacuating everything into the exit. There’s no winning against three armies. Get out of here, Miss [Princess]. Civilians first. The rest of you bastards, get ready to die! Drakes don’t run!”
He raised a spear overhead, and the army around him roared as they set themselves against three corridors of foes. But the odds—
The first Deathslayer Arrows just erased a group of Drakes hunkered behind a [Wall of Stone] spell. Rhir’s army was firing them at everything it saw, the Dragons, the Drakes, Crelers—everything.
They were from the future. They had levels and technology on their side. Sserys’ army was from the past, no matter how important a moment it had been.
“I have to do it. I have to…oh, Eternal Throne have mercy on us. Everyone, go through the door. I—I need some people to help me, but—Ser Dalimont? Find Mrsha and bring her back. Both of her. That’s an order.”
Lyonette du Marquin felt terribly afraid as she lifted the last and final option up. The Box of Incontinuity was so small, and yet when she opened it and stared at the empty space within, she saw the end. Of herself, everything.
I’ll do it. 
“Is this woman crazy? Listen, get out of here before I throw you—”
General Sserys didn’t understand the significance of the box. He was organizing the people around him.
The Horns of Hammerad, the Redfang Six, the [Florist]—a version of Sinew Magus Grimalkin—all of whom saluted the smiling Drake.
They were all afraid and ready to run. Lyonette didn’t blame them. Her hands shook so bad she nearly dropped the secret weapon as she pulled it out of her bag of holding. The younger Zel caught sight of it and backed up a step, then reached out to prevent it from falling.
The [Princess]’ eyes clouded with tears. She had to do it to save as many people as she could. But she realized the truth and whispered.
“I don’t want to die. Not yet.”
She opened the Box of Incontinuity, and a hand grasped hers before she could put the secret weapon inside and close the lid. A cheerful, too-loud voice boomed in her ears.
“No one wants to die, girl. Who thinks like that? And why are you acting like this field’s lost? Seems to me we have the advantage.”
Lyonette had never heard the voice before, but the crushing grip and overwhelming presence—and stink of sweat—nearly knocked her off her feet. She stumbled, whirled—and locked eyes with a woman around her height, who had a slightly gap-toothed smile.
She was…well, not hideous. On the contrary, she was rather beautiful, but in her own way, not from thousands of hours of obsessive work. Queen Ielane would have corrected that gap in the teeth by any means, and this woman had not a hint of makeup on her ruddy cheeks that said she could and did drink.
Her chin was too strong. She was straight-backed, but not elegant. Her hair was a dull brown, without luster or conditioning—what you could see from under her helmet—with a long nasal guard that covered the bridge of her nose.
Oh—and she wore armor that was clearly matched only for the fit of it, not presentation, and her voice was far too loud. She slapped Lyonette on the back.
“Chin up, get some armor on, and put that back until there’s no risk of friendly fire. Who’s in charge here? Ah, nevermind, it’s me.”
“Wh—who are you?”
Affronted, Lyonette lowered the box and slipped the secret weapon into her bag of holding, and the [Queen] raised one eyebrow like a champion.
“Queen Marquin, ‘the Radiant’, at your service. Or Queen Marquin of the Single Breast, beloved heroine of Cyclops; I like that one more. And you are?”
Lyonette’s mouth opened, and nothing came out of it. She squeaked, and Marquin eyed her, then turned.
“Knight?”
Ser Dalimont’s mouth was wide enough to swallow Apista, but her inquisitive tone instantly made him lock his back and bow.
“Ser Dalimont of the Thronebearers of Calanfer at your service, Your Majesty!”
She laughed in his face.
“Just salute me! Thronebearers? That’s a stupid name. Almost as—did you just say Calanfer? That’s what I was going to call that new nation they just gave me.”
Her head turned, and she blinked at Ser Dalimont. Then at Lyonette. The [Princess] stuttered.
“T-t-t-you can’t be. You’re my great-great—how?”
Queen Marquin stuck a gauntleted pinkie in her ear and swivelled it around.
“Well, I was minding my own business with Mauri when a little Gnoll girl, cute as someone else’s button, opened the door I was in. Mind you, there was already this damn crack—but she had this root thing, and she said you needed my help.”
Mrsha. Lyonette spun.
“Where? Dame Ushar should have brought her back!”
“I dunno about any ‘Dames’. There were a bunch of Goblins with her, but eh, fair’s fair, everyone hates Crelers. I never saw what the fuss was.”
Marquin laughed. Lyonette’s eyes went wide, and she spun, but the [Queen of Radiance] clapped her on the shoulder. Her eyes were on the Creler army.
“No time to waste. Looks like three armies, and one’s filled with Crelers. Elders. Three of them. Mauri’s not going to slow them down long.”
“Mauri? Who’s Mauri?”
Lyonette was thoroughly confused. She knew the lineage of her entire royal family and all their Lightheralds and figures of note. No one in Calanferian history had ever been named ‘Mauri’.
Queen Marquin unhooked a mace from her belt and pointed it forwards.
“That’s Mauri.”
Lyonette heard a roar—and a hallway opened as one of the Elder Crelers shambled forwards. It turned—and the largest Dragon she had ever seen, covered in scars and green scales, crashed into the Elder Creler. It screeched, and Lyonette swore she heard it think-say the equivalent of ‘oh shit’—
Then there was Dragonfire. A trio of Dragons flew past the Dragonlord of War, breathing flames—each of a different color—and Lyonette gasped. Teriarch was flying next to two other Dragons, one with a mane like seaweed, blue-scaled like an aquatic sapphire, and the other as pale as ice, eyes flashing with rage.
“Those would be our Dragonlords. They’re buying us an opening. We don’t have long.”
The ambush had taken out one of the Elder Crelers, and the other two were reeling from the Dragonfire, but it hadn’t even dented the wave coming at them. Marquin strode forwards, and Lyonette went with her.
Even if it was Rhir’s hells itself, she would have gone. And this was, well, this was close enough.
“I—I—I’m your great granddaughter many times over. Your Majesty, I’m Lyonette, the 6th Princess of Calanfer.”
“Dead gods, who has six [Princesses]? That seems like a terrible burden on the mother. You must have fallen out.”
The First Queen of Calanfer was only thirty years old, Lyonette realized. And she had a horribly pithy mouth! She spat onto General Sserys’ boots as the Drake whirled.
“Who—”
“Fall in, Drake. I’m in charge here.”
“Excuse me? What did—”
Marquin kept striding, and she pulled everyone in her wake. They abandoned their positions, men and women of every species, and Lyonette kept babbling.
“I’ve been trying to live up to you. Well, to anything. I don’t…I don’t know how you did it. I’m barely a [Princess]. I don’t know what to do. I can’t even keep my daughters safe. How do you do it?”
The Queen of Radiance came to a halt in an intersection where she had a view of Rhir’s forces, the King of Destruction, and the Crelers. A Deathslayer Arrow blasted past her head, and her hair flew around her face. She turned and gave Lyonette a smile.
“How should I know? Having a kid? That fucking terrifies me more than war. You’re looking pretty good for a descendant of mine. Properly royal. But you need more confidence, armor, and a louder voice. That’s all.”
“Huh? Why a louder…”
A roar drowned out Lyonette’s question. The King of Destruction was shouting.
“All those who don’t wish to die, stand aside! I shall not slay you! I am the King of Destruction!”
The ranks of Rhir’s army parted, and the Blighted King raised a hand from his throne. Lyonette could barely see him, but she felt a strangely sickening presence as well as his authority roll over her. Even stronger than Marquin’s—he stank of death defied, but also power.
“I am the Emperor of Rhir and the salvation of this world. Stand down and join my army of [Heroes] or be swept aside.”
Not to be outdone, one of the Elder Crelers also thought-voiced its will.
(The end of your existence has—)
“I am Queen Marquin the Radiant! Foe of Crelers. You spineless cowards—what are you doing? The doom of Rhir is upon us! To me! To arms! To war!”
Marquin’s voice drowned out the King of Destruction, the Blighted King, and even the thought-voice of the Elder Creler. It was so loud that even with fingers jammed in both her ears, Lyonette was deafened.
The advancing forces of Rhir halted. Queen Marquin stood there and raised her battered, enchanted mace. She slammed it on her metal shield.
“Here we are! Again and again, you motherfucking shitspawn. In every world! In every place! You die! To me, I said! If you still breathe and remember honor or courage, to me!”
Someone shouldered past Lyonette, and she turned and saw a grizzled warrior from Marquin’s world. Another woman, who stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the Queen of Radiance. She had a sword in her hand, and she was slamming the pommel against her own shield. Then someone shoved Ser Dalimont aside, and they formed a line down the hallway.
The same warriors who had fought Crelers off their continent, Humans, men and women, half-Elves and Dwarves sprinkled among them, doing the same thing. Striking their weapons or fists against their armor.
The clash of metal filled the air. Thum-thum-THUM. Thum-thum-THUM. There were less than a hundred of Marquin and her bodyguards from her world, but she just stood there and beckoned.
To the forces of Rhir, who looked to their Blighted King and to her, facing down their mortal enemies. To the King of Destruction, who stood frozen with his vassals.
“Until the sun burns out! To me, to me! Not one step back! Come on, what are you waiting for!?”
The [Queen] whirled her mace around in the air, then glanced over her shoulder. The clash of metal on metal grew as General Sserys and both Zel Shivertails joined her. The [Spear of Drakes] wore an admiring expression mixed with annoyance that he wasn’t in charge. But he struck a sword against his arm, and the Drakes and Gnolls filled the hallway.
Then—the [Knights] of Solstice joined them, and the first [Soldiers] filled their ranks. Lyonette saw [Soldiers] bearing Rhir’s symbol stepping into line, staring at the Blighted King in the distance—then gazing at Queen Marquin’s back.
She heard what sounded like a gigantic sigh—and then the King of Destruction pointed towards the Queen of Radiance, and his army pivoted.
“Against the Crelers! To that [Queen]!”
He roared, and his army was streaming forwards. So were the forces of Rhir, ignoring the orders of the Blighted King. The Queen of Radiance never looked at either [King]. She only had eyes for the Elder Crelers, who wavered as they projected malice at her. She blew them a kiss, then gave them the middle finger.
“You, step back, great granddaughter of mine. You’re not ready for the front, not yet.”
She turned to Lyonette and winked, and the [Princess] stared up in awe at Marquin, though they were of a height.
“But how?”
She wasn’t the highest-level person here. Nor the most charismatic person that Lyonette had ever seen. She certainly had it and a powerful aura, but—Lyonette felt like she had met a true [Queen] for the first and only time in her entire life. Marquin turned her head and gestured to the people around her.
“It’s not hard. People know what’s right and wrong. They always have. Only, cowards and the self-serving always sing as loud as they can. All you need is to be the loudest voice in the room reminding them of what’s right. Loud voice. See?”
She winked at Lyonette, then took hold of the young woman’s shoulder and pushed.
“Go get your daughters. We’ll hold them off right here.”
