The goddess only stopped in her walk towards Mars when she was halfway there. Then she wrinkled her nose, as if scenting something incredibly foul even to her—and the dead goddess whirled.
“You? How did you…ah, Deviy. You have met a fouler end.”
Mars blinked behind her helmet, then twisted. She shouted—and Orthenon whirled and stabbed a figure behind him that had appeared without a word.
His halberd sunk deep into the staring figure’s head, cutting into the image of a handsome, dancing man. Or…someone who had once been that. A figure more graceful than the Lord of the Dance, a handsome diplomat, entertainer, and God of Passions—
Just stared at Orthenon as half of his face sloughed away. The King of Destruction’s steward wavered.
He was staring at a corpse. A true corpse; the left side of Laedonius Deviy’s head was empty. There was something inside his flesh. Not just one—the dead god reached out, and his arm extended and touched Orthenon.
The Steward disappeared with a cry of horror, and the King of Destruction paled.
“Orthenon? What is—”
Takhatres grabbed him and the King of Destruction reappeared a hundred paces away as the Seven backed away from the second foe.
Cauwine eyed the being whom she had known as Laedonius Deviy. She brought up her sword in a guard.
“Two…no, three. You, who wear his flesh. Do you even understand what you are?”
“I—I—IIIIIIIIIIIIIII am Deviy. Deviy. Dancer of…beloved…orship me? Hurts. Hungry.”
He spoke—with three voices, all in one, and Cauwine saw the King of Destruction’s army turn their attention towards this thing instinctively. She took a slow step back herself.
“If there is anything in you, Deviy, present your neck and I will end your suffering.”
The figure swayed, unresponsive, then it lunged for the King of Destruction. With a curse, Cauwine reached for Mars.
Both missed, but struck other [Soldiers] instead, eating their souls. Then the two dead gods were fighting, taking souls, trying to deprive each other of sustenance. Cauwine stabbed Laedonius through the heart and jerked back as long, wet fingers emerged from his chest, twisting for her. She danced away, then spun, and both she and the God of Dance were pursuing the rest of the mortals.
Flos Reimarch and his forces were in full retreat, even as he howled curses and promises of vengeance for Orthenon, his Steward. But the King of Destruction saw no victory in fighting the dead gods directly.
“Regroup at our door! Get me every [Mage] you can find and figure out what harms them!”
He was wild-eyed and snarling. The King of Destruction ran with the others, away from the two dead gods—and straight into the arms of a third.
A bearded man stood in the hallway, imposing, nearly as broad-chested as the King of Destruction. His eyes? More imperious still.
Tamaroth, the God of Rulers, had returned.
He stood just around the corner of a hallway, and there was nothing beyond him. None of Reim’s [Soldiers]—they had run straight into Tamaroth’s open arms. The rest of the Seven saw the threat and tried to dodge instantly.
“Your Majesty!”
Mars leapt left and pulled Drevish with her as Takhatres saved Gazi, Amerys, and Tottenval. Queravia recoiled as Tamaroth’s fingers reached greedily for her—
Flos Reimarch thrust his Gambler of Fates aside, and the God of Rulers touched his face. Laedonius Deviy and Cauwine saw the King of Destruction freeze as Tamaroth laughed. Flos’ face went pale, and his emerald green eyes drained of color. His head fell back—then snapped forwards.
He headbutted the God of Rulers with such force that Tamaroth went stumbling backwards. Then Flos’ eyes rolled up, and he collapsed into Mars’ arms.
“How…?”
The God of Rulers flexed his hands, confused—Reim’s vassals didn’t wait.
“Run! Hold them back!”
[Soldiers] charged the God of Rulers as his Seven carried the King of Destruction away from the three gods. The souls around the God of Rulers were consumed, and he strode after the fleeing army and King of Destruction, then halted.
“Cauwine. And…ah. Deviy.”
The two dead gods stopped, as surprised to see Tamaroth as he was to see what had become of the God of Dance.
“So you’ve returned.”
The God of Rulers seemed unchanged from his long banishment from this realm. Yet Cauwine could tell how exhausted he was, behind his façade.
Exhausted, yet he had acquired some strength as well. He bore the traces of another reality upon him. If he was here, then so was Norechl. Tamaroth’s tone betrayed nothing as he nodded to her.
“How could I not? This is my world, Cauwine. Do not interfere with my task.”
“Then shall we dance for it, God of Rulers, Father?”
She lifted her blade, swishing it between Deviy and Tamaroth, and the other two dead gods hesitated. She was the strongest here by far, but if both fought her…
“A truce once more. It does nothing to fight amongst ourselves while Emerrhain, Kasigna, and Norechl advance themselves.”
Tamaroth proposed the idea. Cauwine’s lips twisted.
“A second feast for us. I am here out of necessity, though I am ashamed.”
The other two ignored her. Tamaroth strode forwards, feeling at his forehead, as if that moment of defiance bothered him more than seeing what had become of Laedonius Deviy.
“This world belongs to us, and all within it. Do you weep for your sword when it breaks, Daughter?”
She sighed.
“Do you not, Father?”
Then they were hunting through the [Palace of Fates].
All six of them, the Crone, Tamaroth, Cauwine, Laedonius Deviy, Norechl, Emerrhain, the eternal, the divine. Dead gods.
The Maiden continued to watch.
 
——
 
An Empire of Rhir. Worlds fallen to Crelers. A victorious nation of Demons holding Rhir. A world where Sariant Lambs had become the overlords of everything.
Any reality you could imagine. All the doors were slowly imploding, unleashing beings desperate to—live.
Some of them foul, some of them innocent. But only the doors with roots in them had formed openings wide enough to let groups exit.
The Blighted Kingdom’s soldiers had stopped pouring into the [Palace of Fates], but the ones already here were intent on killing everything they saw. They were fighting and dying, but a group of the fanatical [Soldiers] had found the entrance to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
 
——
 
“Go through! Go!”
The real Lyonette was evacuating everyone she could. She turned and screamed at a Gnoll who leapt through the door.
“Ishkr!”
“Lyonette! I’ve got Laken and the [Witches] above, along with Relc, Valeterisa, and Rheirgest’s people. What can—”
The [Server] took one look at the breaking [Palace of Fates], heard the roaring in the distance, and stopped. Lyonette grabbed him.
“Get me the box! Get me the box and tell them to evacuate the inn—now!”
She shoved him; there was no time. Ishkr raced back up the ropes leading into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and Lyonette whirled.
“We have to hide this hallway. No one gets out who isn’t—right. Understand? Hold this line!”
She was speaking to the Painted Antinium from the future, the Knights of Solstice, her Thronebearers—everyone who could fight. They nodded, moving down other corridors, and Lyonette saw several vanish.
The geography of the [Palace of Fates] was ever-shifting, but she understood there were still rules. There was only one hallway that was an exit. Therefore, anyone trying to escape had to come here.
She didn’t have Mrsha’s powers; the [Princess] couldn’t reposition people, only move hallways if they were empty.
If someone reached this place—they had to be removed by force. And those soldiers of Rhir were already here.
“Your Highness! Down!”
Ser Dalimont caught the first bolt on his shield, and the explosion nearly took his arm off. He backpedaled, swearing; men and women in black armor had their enchanted crossbows and had formed a line down one hallway.
“Bad, bad guys! [Fireball]!”
Peggy pointed a wand, and a [Fireball] made the [Soldiers] take cover.
“The box! Get me the box! Keep them back!”
Lyonette was screaming. The inn’s staff were firing spells, using scrolls—magical equipment, bought with the inn’s vast gold reserves. But they were up against warriors from the future, who weathered the spells like they were Tier 1 magic. Then a hand touched Ser Dalimont’s shoulder.
“Leave them to us. Knights of Solstice—charge!”
Ser Normen shoved Dalimont back. He didn’t know what was going on, but the [Grandmaster] knew his job.
The inn’s in danger. This time, we have to hold them back. Jewel, Antherr, Vess, Durene, Ama—they were already wounded from fighting the evil Nanette and the Painted Antinium.
And Rhir’s [Soldiers] were using enchanted weapons from the future. Normen raised his shield as the [Soldiers] focused on him. He charged, mace raised, shield covering his helmet—
The first bolt took him off his feet, and he landed on his back. Normen stared up at the ceiling and felt like someone had ripped his arm off. He sat up and saw his arm was attached to his body.
That was good. But the Demas Metal shield was warped and on fire.
So was he—not his own green flames, but covered in an inferno.
“Normen!”
Antherr yanked Jewel back as the [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice sat there. Normen was burning—but he barely felt the heat.
[Greater Fire Resistance]. If it hadn’t been a fire-based bolt—he tried to move his shield arm.
“Charge. We have to get into…”
The [Soldiers] of Rhir were advancing. Durene raised her tower shield and screamed as another bolt blew it to bits. The impact sent the [Paladin] stumbling backwards, and Normen realized they didn’t have the defensive Skills to survive another volley.
But Lyonette was right behind them. If they retreated into the [Garden of Sanctuary], they might live, but all of the people here would come through.
Charge. The [Grandmaster] tried to stand. He counted.
Seven [Soldiers]…no, eleven as four more came around the corner. Sixteen. Twenty-one—
“Don’t damage the way out! Melee weapons! Take that door for His Majesty!”
The forces of Rhir switched to blades as the Order of Solstice tried to make a defensive line. Half a dozen [Knights] against…Normen staggered to his feet and saw Ser Dalimont taking a spot next to him.
“Don’t retreat until they’re all dead. Our fire never dies!”
He lifted his mace high and heard the roaring in his ears. Not ready. They were never ready—so they fought. Like Embraim.
Fight and die and hope next time…there was such a bitter taste in his mouth, and Normen turned his head to tell Jewel, or someone else, to retreat. One of them should live.
Instead, he locked eyes with two yellow pupils and a grim, green-scaled Drake’s face. He was wearing armor, and you could have taken him for a [Knight]…but Drakes didn’t have [Knights]. The huge Drake didn’t fit the class either. There was a grim aura of command about him. A sense that you were standing next to a wall. Like Normen had his back to the Walled Cities.
He…knew that face. This was the [Palace of Fates], after all, and everything was possible. But even so, Normen gazed at the face of the Tidebreaker, Zel Shivertail, in astonishment. Then the Drake clasped his shoulder.
“Brave. But sometimes you fall back. Not this time, I suppose. Get ready. [This Line Won’t Break]. [Unit: Lesser Magic Resistance].”
Suddenly, Normen’s unsteady feet were firm as a rock. He felt something rush through him as the Drake strode forwards, putting himself next to Normen.
“How…?”
Vess breathed, and Zel swept his eyes left and right.
“Where’s Mrsha? She promised me a door. All I see is a disaster.”
Lyonette du Marquin had suddenly forgotten everything and everyone. She breathed as her chest constricted in joy and agony.
“Zel?”
He smiled once, the awkward smile of a lonely, tired [General]. Then the Drake turned to Normen.
Even if they didn’t recognize him, the Rhirian soldiers had recognized the high-level Drake on instinct and slowed. Zel called out to the futuristic soldiers.
“You have one chance to surrender! Lay down your arms and you won’t be hurt!”
“Are you insane, whoever you are? They outnumber us three-to-one!”
Ama hissed at Zel. Her undead cat pawed the ground as she tried to animate more skeletons. Scottie the Scout Skeleton rose into the air, reborn, and lifted a rock. Zel Shivertail eyed Ama, then turned his head to Normen.
“You always offer the enemy a chance to surrender. Genuinely, with no bravado or ill intentions.”
“Because of honor?”
The [General] bared his teeth.
“No. Because it makes them wonder if they should.”
Then, Ser Normen wished he’d actually met the General of Izril and had a chance to learn something from him when the Drake was alive.
No time like the present. He hefted his mace and saw the [Soldiers] of the Blighted Kingdom hesitate. They brought up their crossbows again, and Zel Shivertail’s eyes narrowed.
“Don’t let them fire. Charge!”
He exploded forwards, running at the [Soldiers], and the Heartflame Breastplate burst into flames. They fired their crossbows at him, and Normen shouted. He saw Zel Shivertail’s claws slash, left-right, so fast—
The enchanted crossbows snapped in the air as Zel’s hands tore through the magic, destroying the bolts before they could activate. He emerged from the storm of projectiles like a dancer, pivoting past a crossbow bolt, breaking all the ones in his way.
An unstoppable wave that crashed into the first [Soldiers]. His claws pierced leather armor—he slashed through a throat and grabbed a sword, tearing it out of another [Soldier]’s grip.
His claws. His hands were proof against magic. And what did the [Soldiers] have without Rhir’s superior enchantments and armor? Just their lesser levels, training, and strength. A [Soldier] tried to bury her shortsword in Zel’s side, and his other claw slashed across her face. The Drake kept moving, and he had fought more battles than they had. Then the [Knights] of Solstice were at the [General]’s back, hacking and cutting, fighting with the [Soldiers] of Rhir.
Normen’s mind was a blur of concentration and reaction. Smash his acid-covered mace into a face. Use his Skills. Pivot—see one of Rheirgest’s summons leap onto the back of a [Soldier] who hurled it off, only for Durene to pick the [Soldier] up and throw them into a wall—
Then Normen was panting, and Zel’s voice was in his ears.
“They’re pulling back. Reform!”
Their first battle won. The Order of Solstice caught themselves, and the Tidebreaker saw the hallway full of [Soldiers] vanish. He grunted in surprise.
“Hallways keep shifting. Lyonette, do you have—?”
