Belavierr swept past Headscratcher and then slammed into his arm. She recoiled as his body shifted only slightly. She dodged right, trying to go around him, and he seized one arm. She slowed—turned—
The real Numbtongue stabbed Belavierr in the side, and she blinked down at the Dragonblood crystal sword embedded in her. Belavierr’s cheeks bulged; a spider crawled out of one eye socket, and she belched a wave of black spiders over the [Sybarite Soulbard]. He fell back, cursing, and she raised a hand.
She struck Headscratcher in the face with an open-palmed blow that cracked the floor he stood on. But the Goblin Lord of Sorrows didn’t move. He drew his axe and buried it in her shoulder, wrenching the blade deeper into her flesh.
One of the rings in Belavierr’s eyes dissolved. She recoiled—now needles were striking the Goblin Lord from head to toe, trying to force him off her. But he refused to let go. The blue flames coating his body were a shield, a weight upon the world.
The Stitch Witch pulled, and he refused to let go.
“Brothers. Get her.”
The first person to stab Belavierr in the back was actually Dame Ushar. She twisted the blade, then tried to yank Belavierr’s throat back and cut it. The Stitch Witch’s head flopped back as Ushar managed to saw through all but a flap of it, and the head spoke, upside-down.
“Do you think I have not seen this before? You—that burning woman—one single trick.”
Shorthilt slashed the rest of Belavierr’s head off, and it landed on the ground, continuing to speak up to Headscratcher. He refused to let go of the body, still straining to get away, as Rabbiteater, Badarrow, and both Numbtongues kept stabbing it.
“Thy strength is in grief. A trick. I have seen it before, many times, Goblin. Suffer.”
Get back!
Roots Mrsha wrote the warning too late. She was at the outskirts of the desperate fighting—she saw Belavierr’s head open its mouth and speak:
“[Grip of Lost Souls]. [Pure Despair]. [Wave of Apathy].”
The grey wave that burst from Belavierr’s head seemed to suck the color out of the air. As it struck all the Redfangs and Dame Ushar, rotten hands, spectral and transparent, rose from the ground and pulled everyone down. Everyone—including Headscratcher.
The Goblin Lord of Sorrows fell to one knee as the blue flames upon his body grew threefold, becoming a suffocating blanket that dropped him to his knees. He tried to hold on, but Belavierr’s body broke his grip contemptuously, then picked up her head.
She put her head back on like someone putting on a hat and drew a line across her throat. The flesh stitched itself together, and Roots Mrsha stood there.
Ushar? Numbtongue?
The [Knight] was lying on the floor, whispering, her grey-black, short-cropped hair trailing over her blank, staring eyes.
“Doesn’t love me. Doesn’t remember. Just a dream. Just a dream. Nothing matters.”
She was utterly consumed by the three spells that Belavierr had cast. The real Numbtongue was no better. He was kneeling, covered by hands that drove his head against the ground.
Roots Mrsha would have run or gotten help, but Belavierr was on her like a flash. She seized Mrsha by the throat and smiled.
“Hello, little key to the exit. Charm against flames, mine.”
She turned, casually, her weapon against the burning [Innkeeper] in hand. Headscratcher whispered.
“Stop.”
Belavierr was holding Mrsha up like a shield. The Stitch Witch’s eyes flickered right and left, gauging the strength of the Redfangs. Headscratcher was trying to rise, but his flames were dragging him down with each hand that clung to him. Roots Mrsha saw faces, empty eyes of the dead.
Redfangs. Garen himself. Goblins she only knew from Numbtongue’s stories. Leftstep. Bugear. Hundreds, clinging to the weary Hobgoblin.
Despite it all, the Goblin Lord of Sorrows was trying to rise. So was the real Numbtongue. The two highest-level Goblins strained, and Belavierr’s voice was silky, once more the cunning negotiator.
“I will not hurt her. Let me pass or she will suffer. Once I reach the exit, I will let her go. This, I swear upon my cr…my hat.”
She took a step forwards, still seemingly wary of the downed Redfangs, who had taken one of her lives. But they were all pinned. The lonely Numbtongue most of all. All his brothers were gone or dead. He couldn’t get up, even as his exhausted gaze found Mrsha.
Belavierr smirked, then whispered to the struggling, kicking girl in her grip.
“There is nothing but your failed dreams and nightmares here, you foolish child. You should have never opened these doors to begin with.”
Roots Mrsha was struggling to breathe; she jabbed her wand into Belavierr’s left eye, twice, as hard as she could, and the Stitch Witch didn’t even blink. So instead, the girl wrote in the air, snarling silently in defiance.
You’re the fool, Belavierr. This place is made of stories. I haven’t found a thousandth of all the ways it can break my heart, nor the moments that will make me smile. It’s in the blood of The Wandering Inn. There will always be hope and wonder just around the corner. Even for you.
Her eyes were on her Numbtongue, even if he wasn’t…hers. That brother who had helped raise her. Begging him to rise.
He could not. He was trying, but there was no spark, no fury and goodness that could see him fight any foe. Not like she remembered.
But please. 
The [Palace of Fates] continued to shake as the doors opened. There was a snarl—and Belavierr’s gloating cut off as she sensed more intruders.
The Witch of Webs swept around, daring the corridors of desperate worlds to produce the miracle the girl was so convinced existed. Belavierr’s eyes swept left and right, and she raised a finger as more figures poured out of a side passage. But it was just undead.
Bounding figures in foul rags, filthy and emaciated. Ghouls, fighting with each other. Belavierr sneered as one of them bounded towards the downed Goblins. She gave Mrsha a triumphant smile. You see? No miracles.
Just monsters.
The undead were fighting at the entrance to the hallway. One of them came straight for Belavierr and Mrsha.
The bounding figure leapt on Belavierr, and Roots Mrsha tensed, waiting for the claws to bite into her flesh. But the ripping fangs and the clawed fingers sank into the Stitch Witch’s arm instead.
The Stitch Witch blinked as the figure bit her and drew blood, despite her magical robes. She tried to shove the snarling creature away from her, but the panting, lithe creature just kept slashing until Belavierr put up a hand.
Panting? Ghouls didn’t breathe. Then Roots Mrsha saw two bright, yellow eyes fix on her—and the figure dropped, crouched—then leapt up until its feet were level with Belavierr’s chin and kicked the Stitch Witch.
That sent the Witch of Webs tumbling backwards, and her grip loosened on Mrsha. No—not just because of the impact. Mrsha rolled away as an arrow sprouted from Belavierr’s arm.
Shot from afar. The bounding figure leapt—caught Mrsha—and rolled to her feet in one motion. Yes…her.
She placed Roots Mrsha down on the ground, and she smelled of blood and desperation. Fear and rotten breath. But those eyes that fixed on Mrsha were unlike any undead in the world. Even Toren. And—the girl realized that all of the fallen Redfangs had frozen when they saw her.
The Ghoul—no, monster—no—the strange being leapt on Belavierr again as the Stitch Witch snarled. And the final clue was right there.
A bracelet of flowers hung from its wrist. One came loose as Belavierr hurled the strange creature away, and she struck the floor and rolled to all fours. Headscratcher’s head rose, just an inch, and his sweat-matted dreadlocks parted as he stared at that twisted face.
He saw no monster. But a memory that had not faded, just like the blossom that fell before him. A simple thing grown by a young woman with a single class.
A [Florist].
The Ghouls that had been coming down the corridor were gone. Dead—as the Stitch Witch hissed in genuine confusion, another arrow struck her. She snapped a finger, and a bow broke in the distance. Then the warriors who had followed the [Florist] dropped their bows. They charged.
The Redfangs saw them running, a singleminded rush towards the enemy, that familiar, suicidal charge. A grin on every face.
Goblins. Three of them were Hobs. Three were regular-sized Goblins.
Not the five Redfangs that Mrsha knew, but a motley crew of six.
Numbtongue’s head rose, and the hands pulling him against the floor, made of his grief, his deep apathy and despair—all of it left him. He forgot it all as he focused on those faces.
Six Goblins.
Leftstep. Justrust. Grunter. Bugear. Orangepoo. Patchhelm.
They halted for a second, in confusion, when they saw the foreign Hobs pinned to the ground. But then—each one focused on the [Florist] fighting the Witch of Webs. Then they followed their leader from the world where they had lived, and so had she.
The Goblins charged with a familiar howl on their lips.
“Redfang!”
Belavierr didn’t know these foes. They did not know her; they fought for the sight of a child held in the grip of a monstrous [Witch]. She hated that kind of busybody the most.
Just like the Singer.
Belavierr backed away, conjuring a rain of needles, but someone seized her before she could unleash them on the Goblins and Human woman. Belavierr gazed into a [Goblin Soulbard]’s wild, tear-filled eyes, and he threw her across the ground. The tall [Witch] staggered and caught herself—then raised a hand.
The Goblin Lord of Sorrows swung his axe into her arm and cut off her wrist. The hand detached in a line of unravelling thread, and Headscratcher howled in Belavierr’s face. She backed up another step.
Numbtongue ran her through the side again. He was on his feet. They all were. Belavierr’s eyes bulged in disbelief. She retreated further, casting more spells.
“[Complete Hopelessness]. [Drain Emot—].”
Shorthilt stabbed her in the eye with a sword, and she fell back, flailing at them now.
They just kept attacking, Goblins filled with too many emotions for her magic to eradicate. The [Witch] took a stumbling step backwards, striking at Headscratcher, Leftstep, and Rabbiteater, and someone tapped her on the shoulder.
“Hey, buddy. You forgot about me.”
The Witch of Webs whirled, and Erin Solstice tossed a jar of acid into Belavierr’s face. Then she snapped her fingers, and the grey flame of mercy coated the Witch of Webs.
The screaming [Witch] backed away as even the mad rush of the Goblins halted. The [Innkeeper] tackled Belavierr, and her eyes found Roots Mrsha’s. The Gnoll girl’s eyes filled with tears.
“Get them out of here.”
They disappeared as another of Belavierr’s lives burnt away, and then—everyone was panting, catching their breath, and Leftstep was windmilling his arms. He’d nearly run straight into the puddle of what he was pretty certain was acid. He began to take a step forwards, overbalanced, and someone caught him.
Leftstep took a big step backwards and turned.
“Whew. Thanks.”
He met the eyes of a foreign Hobgoblin, a handsome fellow with a goatee of all things, which looked stupid, but fit him—Leftstep focused on Numbtongue’s face, and his froze.
“No problem, brother.”
Numbtongue looked the Hobgoblin up and down, the thinnest Hob he’d ever laid eyes on. Thin—but he had a rapier in his hand he held like a master. And his feet.
He had on magnificent sandals, master-crafted and expensive.
But why sandals? The answer was…Leftstep just liked them.
Leftstep. Numbtongue’s hand was shaking as he took it off the other Hobgoblin’s shoulder and stood there. Lost for words.
Redfangs, twelve of them. Two Numbtongues. The rest of them…they understood what was going on. Of course they were here.
These doors contained every world. But this one? This…Patchhelm sat down, a regular-sized Goblin with a mithril helmet, and Rabbiteater tugged off his own [Knight]’s helmet.
“Patchhelm?”
He took a step forwards, then halted. Unable to go forwards and confirm this painful, beautiful dream.
Everyone was silent except for Dame Ushar and Roots Mrsha. The panting Thronebearer was wiping at the tears on her cheeks.
“Lady Mrsha, are you alright? Did that fiend hurt you? Watch out—”
That last bit was because the lanky, ragged figure of the [Florist] had crawled towards Mrsha. On all fours—she did resemble a Ghoul in many ways.
Too-thin, as if she’d starved, raw muscle standing out just under her skin. But she seemed…tougher than even average Ghouls, and her mouth and jaw were pronounced. Toothy. She was filthy from battle, and her ‘clothing’ was terribly ragged. Ushar bared half her sword and hesitated as the Redfangs, all of them, glared at her.
The [Florist] flinched back, but then the young woman’s yellow eyes seemed to shine with…something more than feral rage. She pushed herself up onto two legs and opened her mouth. She spoke, clumsily, haltingly, like someone trying to remember an unfamiliar language.
“H-helo. Im naaauut a monstr.”
The six Redfangs from her world formed up around her, wary, and Roots Mrsha hesitated.
I know you’re not. Who are you?
The [Florist] recoiled as the wand traced the golden letters, and the other Redfangs drew their weapons. Roots Mrsha blinked at them and realized—none of them could read. Perhaps not even the [Florist] in her state.
The Goblins and the…not-monster drew backwards until a figure picked something up off the bloody ground.
Headscratcher.
He held up that little flower, and it said everything. Leftstep’s suspicious expression became one of faint recognition, and his eyes found Badarrow’s bow, traced the curve of the [Sniper]’s nose. Focused on Headscratcher’s dreadlocks. Grunter, the biggest Hob of them all, carrying his notched axe, breathed a word.
“Headscratcher?”
“Brother.”
The two Goblins approached, sizing each other up. Reading each other’s scars, like an unfamiliar book. Then they clasped arms. The other Redfangs approached and recognized each other.
Justrust pointed at Badarrow’s face.
“You…Badarrow. Where your bow?”
“Broke.”
Badarrow kicked his bow that Belavierr had snapped. Justrust instantly pulled his own shortbow off his back. Badarrow took it, flexed it once.
“This sucks.”
Justrust punched Badarrow in the arm, then hugged him. The Numbtongue of the beach world peered at a Goblin who had a sling of something horribly foul.
“…Poo?”
Orangepoo lifted his sling filled with, well, his namesake and offered Numbtongue a hug. The [Bard] hesitated, then swept him up in a huge embrace.
The [Florist] knew them all as well. Her eyes found each of the Hobgoblins, finally cottoning onto the realization of who they were. Then she blinked water from her eyes. A monster’s tears.
