Emerrhain was lifting a hand when he lost it, then his head. The Goblin King stepped sideways, a [Carrying Step] that let him sweep one sword up and lop off the God of Magic’s wrist, then his [Vorpal Sword] cut off the God of Magic’s head with a soft snicker-snack sound.
Emerrhain’s wide eyes bulged in outrage a moment before the Goblin King grabbed his head and threw it into Laedonius Deviy. The broken God of Dance had been stretching his arms out to ensnare the Goblin King.
“[Eyes of the Twin Sun]. Burn.”
A pair of searing fireballs winked overhead, and the Goblin King tossed them at the four gods, Tamaroth, Emerrhain, Deviy, and Norechl, struggling to repair themselves and get away. They burned hot, bright, and screamed—but the Goblin King sensed it.
Mere flesh burned. The Goblin King…remembered this, and he concentrated.
The flames baking Tamaroth’s body took on a different nature. Suddenly, the bearded man was still aflame, still burning—
 
—And a King sitting upon a throne glanced down at the fire engulfing his seat of power. He jerked, trying to put them out—
 
A nomadic chieftain sitting on his horse in front of his cheering, whooping tribe turned as a wildfire burned across the plains he called his home. His eyes widened as he raised a weathered hand—
 
A flag waving over an imperium’s seat of power began to smolder and burn. Flames eating away at the fabric stained with the colors of nation and country—
 
Then the God of Rulers felt true pain. He screamed as the seat of his power diminished, and the Goblin King grunted.
“Yes. Just like that.”
He concentrated and raised his sword—like the headman’s axe, like the falling guillotine—and understood. This is how you died.
But not enough. He had to be a thousand ideas. A thousand ends to the idea of rulership. The next blow struck at Tamaroth, but it hit the wrong target.
Norechl, instead of the God of Rulers. The God of the Lost recoiled, and a thousand versions of it wavered—then rebuffed the sword-strike.
The wrong idea. The Goblin King tried to follow the first slash up, but Norechl raised a claw, and the Goblin King dodged—
Something. A scar of oblivion crossed the hallway and removed the air, the walls, and everything around it. It remained, a crescent of annihilation, as the Goblin King kicked Norechl away from him.
“Kill it! Kill—”
Emerrhain raised a hand, and the Goblin King pointed at him.
“[Flesh to Stone].”
The God of Magic turned into a statue, and a fist smashed his face to pieces. Like the breaking of a monolith inscribed with knowledge. The foundations of a library caving in—
Not enough layers of destruction. The screaming God of Magic still clawed at his face.
“Fight! Or—”
Tamaroth, Deviy, and Norechl were trying to get away. The God of Rulers had conjured his own sword to battle the Goblin King. But he was outmatched. He struck like a swordmaster, and the Goblin King slid around him with contemptuous ease.
[Lightspeed Reaction]. [Weapon Art: Titan’s Cleaver]. 
He had Skills. They had not. The God of Rulers lost ninety percent of his body, and the Goblin King focused. He stabbed the God of Dance and locked eyes with Laedonius Deviy’s twitching face.
“—What are you?”
“D-dance. Love. Passion.”
Deviy whispered as his face bulged. The Goblin King reached out a hand and ripped the face off. He stared at what was inside and shook his head.
“No. Mere force will do.”
He tore a squirming piece of Laedonius Deviy out of the God of Dance’s infested insides and crushed it in one hand. It screamed. Deviy screamed.
The gods were trying to get away. The Goblin King turned slowly, and at last found the figure who’d been walking around the edges of his battle. He swung his sword, the [Vorpal Sword] humming.
Cauwine parried the slash. The Goddess of Last Stands locked eyes with the Goblin King.
“Not I, not so easily.”
“Hmm.”
He pivoted on one foot, then flashed across the ground towards her. Six Goblin Kings appeared, cutting, locking blades with Cauwine in six different spots—the afterimages dispersed, and she reappeared, drifting backwards, eyes alight with joy.
The Goblin King raised his sword, hesitated—then disappeared. A pinpoint of air rippled, and a miniature black hole swallowed him. Cauwine’s delighted smile morphed. She spun to the God of Magic, who lowered his finger with a sneer of contempt.
“Emerrhain. That was my—”
The five dead gods flinched as the Goblin King exploded out of the black hole spell. His armor was badly rent, but regenerating. This time, even Cauwine lost her confident smile.
“—The Goblin King was never supposed to be that strong.”
Tamaroth backed up a step. The Goblin King pointed a finger, and a dozen bows appeared and shot arrows; but the God of Rulers threw out a hand, and the walls of a castle rose, blocking the way to him. Then the first soldiers appeared, summoned beings like Kasigna’s Draugr.
Emerrhain unleashed another spell, a wave of insects that could tear apart even Adamantium. Laedonius Deviy and Norechl both spat pieces of their body onto the ground, which bulged and grew.
Cauwine lifted her blade, and the Goblin King considered his foes.
Too many. Too powerful. Against one, he might end them—but here?
This place must end. They’re still incomplete, fleshless. But not for here and they’d fade away under even sunlight. 
He turned and strode away from the five dead gods. They hadn’t expected that. Cauwine frowned, then shrugged.
“I doubt I could best him easily.”
She whirled, and Deviy backed off as well, but Tamaroth, Norechl, and Emerrhain were out for blood. They pursued the Goblin King as the armored figure teleported out of the way of the insects and whirled his sword, deflecting a rain of arrows the God of Rulers tried to strike him with.
Then he was heading for the exit. The dead gods pursued him one corridor, then broke apart. Devouring souls faster, desperately, like locust swarms before there was nothing left.
Not even he could stop them. Not yet. The Goblin King walked with the same mission he had always had. If the swarm was too numerous, too difficult to kill, you destroyed the fields. You burned the crops.
The world.
 
——
 
Perhaps it was all hopeless. The Crone was cackling as she stole Drevish next. If even the Goblin King couldn’t harm her—then a being like Mars was helpless. She was trying to protect the rest of her comrades as the undead kept rising, cutting off the rest of the Seven’s escape.
Draugr—powerful undead conjured with the flick of a finger from the Crone. Any [Necromancer] would envy her contemptuous power.
Of course, it was all one kind of undead, however powerful, and so the Crone lacked creativity, art. She was, like the others, a common pretender to understanding what undeath was.
—But powerful. So it was hopeless. There was no way to beat her. Not for the beings made of the [Palace of Fates] Skill. The Crone was surrounded by her undead as she backed the remaining five champions of Reim into a corner of the hallway. A truly horrific monster pushed past the undead next to her, and Mars pointed her sword at it, then the Crone.
“A glorious [King] is gone, and with him, a dream that swept our world. He will be avenged.”
The [Vanguard]’s voice was heavy as she raised her shield. The Crone halted, amused.
“A man. I did not even know his name. I have beheld the end of a million kingdoms. That one’s name is already dying. So tell me, mortals. Did it even matter?”
She waited with a hint of genuine curiosity, leaning upon the memory of a staff, a leering Crone judging the living, the soon to be dead. Mars was silent for a moment, trying to muster the right words, for she had little gift with them. The rest of the remaining Seven struggled for a response to encompass their entire lives, their hopes and ambitions and failures and struggles—with mere words.
They hadn’t been here before, you see. But someone else had had a moment to think about it, and so he spoke.
The undead monstrosity, the being of bloated flesh and plagues, who stood above the Draugr as if they were mere toys, opened his rotten lips. Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer whispered in the Crone’s ear, and she felt a shiver run down her spine.
Déjà vu.
“My master was called the Putrid One. Did he matter? To me, he did. So here is a final, parting gift from the Goddess of the Inn and him.”
She twisted around, and he kissed her on the forehead this time. Then he impaled her through the chest with the crimson katana. A Dragonslayer’s blade.
The Crone staggered. She raised a hand and touched his flesh. Tolveilouka gasped—a tiny piece of his body came away and sloughed to the ground, and the Crone’s eyes went wide. Then he punched her.
A piece of the undead, regenerating Revenant’s fist fell to the ground, sacrificed. In return—Tolveilouka saw the Crone hit the ceiling and bounce off it. She struck the ground and rose, visibly unharmed.
He felt satisfaction nonetheless. The Revenant swung his arm and destroyed the Draugr standing around him. The others fell to their knees as he looked at them. Then his head turned to Mars and the rest of the Seven.
“What are you waiting for? Flee, mortal filth, and remember the Putrid One saved you.”
He cared for them not at all, but if it spited the Crone…Mars burst into action, sword cleaving apart more Draugr as the rest of her comrades fled away from the Crone.
“You again. Kneel.”
The Crone pointed at Tolveilouka, and he faced the Goddess of Death and all her authority. His body buckled, and he felt the urge to obey her, this being of supreme death.
But she was not his master. Either one of them, so the bloated warrior refused. He strode forwards and swung his sword towards the Crone. His blade sheared into her flesh, and she snarled.
“Kneel!”
She touched him again, trying to absorb his soul. Tolveilouka mercilessly cut that piece of him away, sacrificing it. He backed up as an arm fell from his body—and another sprouted from his shoulder, a withered limb that expanded and putrefied before her eyes.
“I am Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, woman. I do not crave your name. My master is the Putrid One. Remember that.”
“Filth. I am the Goddess of D—”
His hammer of a fist struck her into the ground. The flesh fell apart, and Tolveilouka spoke.
“My master is the Putrid One and Erin Solstice. I am Tolveilouka Ve’delina—”
He ducked an arc of white energy that emerged from her hand. She reached out, and her grasping fingertips missed him as he pirouetted back. Nimble as a dancer. Vast as a behemoth.
He buried the katana in her chest again.
“—Mer. Remember their names. Mine is Tolveilouka—”
She shrieked as she leapt at him, too fast to dodge; his flesh fell away, and the half-Elf beamed at her as he emerged from his rotten body and leapt aside. His flesh fell away, and he was panting, sweat beading on his body. But then he began to puff up like a rotten tumor bursting, and his katana rose.
It was hopeless. But that was not why you fought. The Crone howled at him, and the half-Elf roared.
“I AM TOLVEILOUKA VE’DELINA MER, YOU WORTHLESS WOMAN! REMEMBER MY NAME!”
The Crone refused to answer him. Refused to remember that name among the countless worthy foes she had forgotten and damned to oblivion.
—But the Maiden swore she would remember it.
 
——
 
There she was, not above it all in any physical sense, for she was nowhere. But watching. Just as she had been from the start.
Kasigna’s other half. The Maiden. She beheld it all.
Dead gods. The [Palace of Fates], collapsing. The doors were all open now, and mortals poured forwards, fighting for that exit. Because their worlds were collapsing. Coming undone.
The Grand Design could not hold this place together. Reality itself was trembling.
Worlds opening, and souls fleeing them. No matter what the Grand Design thought…the Maiden saw them as what they were.
Souls. An endless multitude of them being devoured by her kindred or lost to the void.
The Maiden thought it was so bitterly…wrong.
Ironic? That Isthekenous’ work should create so many lives and waste them? Perhaps, but mostly—wrong.
You see, she wasn’t down there, not like the Crone, consuming powerful souls and growing in strength. She wasn’t like Emerrhain or the remains of Laedonius Deviy or even Cauwine, who had come out of necessity to maintain her advantage. Tamaroth and Norechl had even returned, empowered from their flight out of this reality.
What had they brought with them? She could sense it upon them, traces of the world beyond. Plans, no doubt.
“Does it matter? Do you not see the pitifulness of this, my older self?”
Kasigna the Maiden was tired of it. She couldn’t have said what it was that had changed her perspective. Losing the Mother—being defeated at the Solstice. Her conversations with Zineryr, all of it.
“How incredibly petty we must seem to you. We were desperate. ‘We wanted to live’. That is the eternal refrain of all beings, from the smallest mortals to we of the divine. We are all, in the end, the same to you.”
The Goddess of Death reigned over all souls in the end, but she addressed her…betters. Not superiors, not in any hierarchy. Death was not part of any of that.
They were merely so much more than she in every way.
If you had forgotten them, in the chaos of it all, well it was easy to forget. Until one of them stood next to you, you forgot them.
Death. The intruders into this reality from beyond. No longer a dozen, oh no. All of them were here.
They stood, the guardians of the afterlife, the guides, the final judges and bearers of souls. She now saw part of why they were here.
A grinning skeleton with a scythe.
A smiling young woman wearing an ankh.
A doctor with a crow’s mask.
A judge holding a set of scales the size of the universe.
A blank-faced office-worker taking notes on a typewriter.
A knight in black armor, sword unbloodied, armor covered in gore.
Tʜᴇ Dᴇᴀᴛʜ ᴏғ Rᴀᴛs.
Psychopomps. Escorts of souls. Ideas. Whatever you wanted to call them, they had always stood apart from gods. They frightened even the divine, for someone had to be there when gods died.
But why so many? Perhaps, the Maiden thought, because they saw the same thing she did. She addressed them and the Grand Design, if it was listening. It was trying to hold the breaking reality apart. Kasigna saw the mortals below, versions of Erin Solstice, different Mrshas, the living—and the dead.
“I have always believed there was only one chance. There was never a way out of my afterlives save for true rebirth into the endless cycle. Never any exceptions, not for anyone. It is wrong to revive the dead. What would that mean for the living? It devalues life itself!”
She clenched her fists and then regarded her hands.
