She raised her shield as the first Elder Creler spat projectiles across the hallway, and barriers of magic rose to stop it. Lyonette du Marquin ran and glanced back over her shoulder. She saw Marquin raise that mace higher, and the [Princess] wept, then kept running faster.
Then—she believed she’d see her daughters again.
 
——
 
A wave of Crelers poured down on the mortals, a sea of legs and biting mouths. The Adults and Elder Crelers spat annihilation at them. Nothing should have survived that first moment of battle, let alone the [Queen] they aimed for.
Queen Marquin’s aura filled the [Palace of Fates] with a glorious light that had echoed in the memories of her people for six thousand years. A brave light, so much more beautiful than the mere celestial light of the Eternal Throne.
The shards of chitin dissolved before they could touch her. She met the first wave of Crelers and threw them back, mace swinging with a hundred arms, and the Tidebreaker and General Sserys were fighting in her wake, holding back the tide of Rhir’s hell.
The conflict drew everything into it; the King of Destruction’s forces, the army of Rhir. Even other worlds of foreign beings hesitated—then a group of the freed Truestone Golems plunged into the midst of the Crelers down one of the other hallways, killing the horrors. An army of Selphids wearing the bodies of living mortals did the same.
Crelers. One of the ultimate threats. A unifying force. What kind of being would flee in the face of such things? Or even worse…
The Blighted King couldn’t ‘run’, because he lay on that palanquin that kept his body fresh and protected him. He was screaming orders.
“The exit. To the exit, you traitors!”
Only his most loyal bodyguards were with him. His armies had surged into the fighting, and King Othius’ supporters hesitated—then shouted for the [Heroes] to cover their advance.
The [Heroes] were running. Triander, the [Hero] armed with lightning and his glowing twinblade, fled rather than fight his way into that glowing sea. They passed under the shadow of vast wings.
The Dragonlord of War was atop an Elder Creler, separating it from its comrades, savaging the monstrosity. The Elder Creler was stabbing her with all its legs, cutting her with its mandibles and biting—blood ran down her scarred flesh. She didn’t care.
She was laughing. The other three Dragonlords who’d fought in the Creler Wars—Teriarch, Khetieve, and Aeitendeske—flew around the two brawling figures, shouting at Mauri to get back so they could breathe their flames over the foe.
Aeitendeske—the last Dragonlord of the Wind, his scales pale like ice, his eyes shining copper and viridian. The air that blew around Mauri invigorated her and gave her speed, a sweet scent at odds with the odor of blood.
Khetieve exhaled water that healed her and poisoned the Elder Creler; Teriarch’s fire turned it to steam that burned only his foe, a righteous fire. And Mauri ripped off a chunk of the Elder Creler’s flesh and spat it out.
Larval Crelers squirmed in her mouth, trying to eat their way into her insides and consume and infest her. They squirmed—then realized they were melting.
Her very blood was acid so intense it was burning the Elder Creler. It was dying now, and it tried to use its mind to addle the Dragonlord’s or force her off it. It projected an explosion into Mauri’s face: compressed air and fire.
It blew part of her face off, and she beamed at the Elder Creler through a ruined cheek that showed the insides of her mouth. She dug her claws into the Elder Creler as it tensed all its legs to impale her—
The Dragonlord of War became a noxious fog, a miasma-cloud laced with fungal spores from a bog of legends in the shape of a Dragon. The poison cloud covered the Elder Creler—then exploded.
Mauri emerged, reforming out of the fog, as the blast ripped off half the Elder Creler’s legs. It even knocked down the other Dragonlords.
“Mauri! Watch your attacks!”
The Dragonlord of Waves roared as the explosion sent him tumbling across his back. He was upon his feet in a second, snarling at the Dragonlord of War. She was running on all fours towards the Elder Creler, unwilling to give it a second’s reprieve. They had to take all three Elder Crelers down fast.
Something else was coming. Khetieve raised a claw to cast a Tier 7 spell in support of his fellow Dragonlords and stopped.
His scales, which shone like opals, blue and green and purple, the iridescent colors of the sea, beautiful despite the soot and blood clinging to them, abruptly lost all color. The Dragonlord froze—tried to pull away as he saw a tiny figure standing next to him.
He had a moment’s time to cast a spell, and he did. The Tier 7 spell formed, aiming at the smiling man, but Emerrhain waved a hand, and it disappeared.
“Coward. Kindred, beware—!”
The Dragonlord of Waves rasped—then dissolved. Aeitendeske’s head turned as he banked around the fallen Elder Creler.
“Khetieve? That’s not his invisibility. What—?”
Mauri aborted her charge and slammed left, snarling, sprawling on her side with a desperate leap. The dying Elder Creler thought-spoke once.
(Are you…my God?)
A twitching hand touched its leg, and the Elder Creler tried to recoil, but Laedonius Deviy’s broken voice replied.
“N-n-n-not yours.”
The Elder Creler vanished. Teriarch’s head swung incredulously as he picked out two tiny figures.
“Watch out, Aeitendeske!”
The Dragonlord of Winds was quick, but he was still a gigantic figure. His wings opened, and he swept left, around the leaping swordswoman, Cauwine.
Straight into the grip of Tamaroth. The God of Rulers seized the Dragonlord of Winds as he hung in the air, defying gravity, and Aeitendeske tried to bite him, then exhaled a gale of wind that would have torn stone to pieces.
It did nothing at all, and the Dragonlord of Winds tried to pull away—then vanished.
Mauri got to her feet as she beheld four beings around her. The woman, Cauwine, landed as Teriarch backed away from Emerrhain, breathing flames that the God of Magic blocked with a spell.
“So that’s what that child warned us of. Worse than Crelers. Hah.”
She spat acid onto the ground and bared her teeth. The four gods were advancing on her, but three halted when Cauwine swept her sword out.
“She is mine.”
“One for each.”
Tamaroth agreed, though clearly annoyed. Emerrhain and Laedonius Deviy turned to Teriarch. The Dragonlord of Flames spread his wings.
“Mauri, retreat!”
He leapt into the air and turned. The Dragonlord of War did not. She was staring down the Goddess of Last Stands, seemingly aware of how fast her opponent could move. Mauri snarled once.
“I know it’s rich, coming from me, but have you no decency? Or are you the like that would ally with Crelers, coward?”
Cauwine wore a wry, bitter expression as she saluted Marui with her sword.
“We devour even their souls. It’s nothing personal, brave warrior, and I do regret it. But we are all yet incomplete.”
The Dragonlord of War’s head rose, and she averted her gaze from her unworthy foe.
“Spoken like a beast, not a warrior. Come, then—”
Cauwine darted at Mauri; Laedonius Deviy had been sneaking up on the Dragonlord of War from the side. The God of Dance slammed into the ground as Mauri stabbed him through the chest with a claw. The talon detached from her body as she whirled on Cauwine, Dragonbreath burning in her throat.
“Bleed for me.”
She fought for a minute. Then—snarling and biting—
The Dragonlord of War vanished.
 
——
 
Thousands of souls were clashing in the midst of battle. Bright, glorious ones growing stronger as the system of Isthekenous rewarded them for their deeds. Even Crelers had a soul, though they had no bargain that allowed them levels.
—They vanished, not by spell, blade, or Skill, but by the touch of those six. The King of Destruction was riding into battle against one flank of the Crelers when he saw the horde of squirming horrors swirling, then scuttling away, as if trying to escape…something.
“Hold! Call off the charge!”
He tried to halt the momentum of his soldiers, but they were striking at the foe, distracted. The first of Reim’s [Soldiers] attacked a fleeing Adult Creler, and the house-sized foe disappeared before her greatsword could even hit it. The woman recoiled—and the Crone’s fingers plunged into her chest, through her enchanted armor.
She disappeared, and the King of Destruction locked eyes with the Crone a moment before she leapt towards him. Straight through his [Soldiers]. They evaporated in front of her, and his horse reared as the King of Destruction tried to ride past her—that moment was all it took.
His steed dissipated even as Flos Reimarch tried to leap away, and the Crone struck him. They hit the ground, and the King of Destruction punched the old woman, her eyes glowing with the power of the grave. Once, twice—with such force that the hallway shook. But his strength was already sapped by Tamaroth. He raised another fist—then an expression of terrible resignation crossed his eyes.
He faded away. The Crone rose, and that glow in her eyes grew. Her authority, her very essence mended a bit more.
“Your Majesty!”
Mars had seen it all, and she tried to behead Kasigna. Her blade actually left a cut along the Crone’s neck—she leapt backwards as the Crone reached out for her.
“He’s…”
The Seven stood there, and then the warriors threw themselves at the Crone as Queravia shouted.
“No! Fall back!”
She whirled—and a line of Draugr materialized out of the air behind her. The Crone snapped her fingers, and a second rank of them appeared, cutting the Crelers off in the other direction. She teleported—reappeared behind Queravia, and the [Gambler of Fates] tossed one of her dice down.
“You cheat at your game.”
The die bounced and rolled onto the ground as she grew pale. The Crone didn’t dignify her with an answer.
Then there were only six of the Seven left, and Kasigna swung around, a touch faster, a moment realer. It was…so terribly unfair.
 
——
 
The dead gods were storming through the [Palace of Fates], harvesting souls. They were faster now, using the tricks of their respective domains. Emerrhain’s magic, Cauwine’s nimble swordswoman’s grace, Kasigna’s power of death—
A touch could consume all but the most powerful souls. It was indeed not fair; they were hunters without anything to fear here.
One of them made a game of it. Yes, that one who was forgotten even by its kin, at times.
Norechl, the God of the Lost, did not pursue the Dragonlords or the countless souls in the midst of battle. It had its own power it had taken after it had been forced to flee this world. So it hunted what it pleased, what gave it meaning:
Ryoka Griffin. Every version of her from every doorway it could find. The lost god was fast, like a hunting shadow, and it chased the Wind Runner—six incarnations of her.
Two Ryokas flew with the power of the wind, three more ran, one biked—thirty-two Ryokas were already gone. Consumed.
First, their loved ones. Then the Wind Runner herself. Each incarnation of Ryoka Griffin was missing two fingers on her right hand. The surviving six gazed back, some screaming curses at Norechl, the others just running, a weapon in hand for the last.
The God of the Lost leapt—and then there were five. It only halted as one of the Ryokas skidded to a halt.
“Sammy! Run!”
Their chase had taken them back towards this Ryoka’s world, and a pair of boys stared up at the God of the Lost as it reached for them. House Veltras’ [Soldiers] were consumed as they tried to protect their young [Lords]—Tyrion Veltras was already gone.
“Stop! It’s me you want!”
One of the Wind Runners held her arms out, and the others cried at her.
“You idiot, run!”
Norechl had forced this choice again and again. It ignored the Ryoka pleading with it, reaching for the two boys. Sammial had fallen as he tried to turn and flee.
First them, then you. So it hurts more.
There was no logic to Norechl’s actions beyond malice. No great gain, except that it found satisfaction in this. Except that it thought the Wind Runner mattered, even these false incarnations of her.
The God of the Lost lifted the idea of a hand towards Hethon as the older brother shoved Sammial back. A wispy, intangible limb as twisted and wrong as its cousins in the Seamwalkers.
Norechl touched flesh, and its grip recoiled. An outstretched hand was shielding Hethon’s face. The Goblin King’s armor was ruined, exposing a sliver of green flesh on his arm. But the armored figure—refused to be consumed.
“There you are. God of the Lost. Do you know me?”
Norechl did. It tried to back up with a suspicion of the future. Not again—
This time, the Goblin King seized the God of the Lost with one hand before ramming his sword through its body. He swung Norechl around as it tried to claw at him, then hurled the dead god into a wall—then slammed into it.
There was no care for anything around him. The Goblin King had only saved Hethon to spite the dead god. His charge would have killed the boy had Ryoka Griffin not carried him and his brother to safety. She was running with her other incarnations—Norechl was trying to get away too.
The Goblin King ripped the God of the Lost’s head off its body. Then he saw both pieces trying to run. He swung his sword through Norechl’s chest and grunted.
“This hurts you not enough.”
It was true; his sword and his strength were damaging the God of the Lost, but not in any mortal way. But it still—hurt—
The Goblin King picked up both pieces of Norechl and strode down the [Palace of Fates]. The God of the Lost was clawing at him, tearing his armor and flesh, and the Goblin King hesitated—then tossed both pieces of Norechl down the corridor.
One piece of the God of the Lost hit Emerrhain in the head. The other knocked Tamaroth off his feet. The God of Rulers shoved Norechl’s torso off him as he whirled.
“Who dares—ah.”
“Five of you? Disgusting. Die.”
Tamaroth raised a palm, and the Goblin King’s lunge crossed the long distance. His sword’s tip pierced Tamaroth’s hand and bone and stabbed into the God of Rulers’ brain, just past his nose.
The Goblin King twisted the blade, and Tamaroth cried out in pain. True pain as the ghosts of Kasignel had once inflicted upon him. All the mortal agony of a blade twisting itself through your head—the tingling shock of metal turning the grey matter in your head to mush.
—But it was just one layer of who the God of Rulers was. His core nature was authority, rulership, that of leaders. Like the Goddess Erin—the Goblin King was assailing his mere body.
Tamaroth’s face re-knit as he jerked off the Goblin King’s sword, recoiling.
“The Goblin King. His soul would be a prize ind—”
