But Adult Crelers had begun to harden and protect their underbellies with ‘ribs’ of claws. Adult Crelers were living hatcheries as well; Creler eggs lined their insides and they could birth them by the thousands given enough time. Their tearing, primary mandibles could rip apart the largest chariots with ease, and they thought and led their lesser brethren.
Elder Crelers were the completed version of Adult Crelers. Instead of the two giant eyes and the smaller ones hidden along Adult Creler bodies, they were the size of castles. Small castles, but still.
They had hundreds of eyes bulging across their heads, each one swirling with amniotic liquid—the eyes were both ocular nerves and Crelers mid-gestation. Until their birth, the Crelers were optical nerves for the vast being.
And the Elder Creler was encased in that armored chitin, tripled in thickness, that coated their bellies down to their tails. The many-flanged, poisonous spikes of the Elder Creler’s long tail dripped poison and destruction behind them, and they were almost sluglike on their rear, only it was armored flesh instead of slugs’ mucus bodies.
But the most notable change was their heads and their brains. They glowed with light, even within the dense chitin. Intelligence, so devastating that the psychic energy leaked out of the Creler’s brains.
Brains. Flos Reimarch counted one where the head of the centipede-like Creler’s brain would be in most creatures, hidden by those countless eye-eggs, and another in its abdomen. A third lower down in its midsection where it met the legs.
Each brain pulsed, and he heard a voice in his head, twisted as it was, as an army of its children stormed towards his people.
(Eat and devour, children. Leave the mightiest among them alive; infest and bring them here. These worlds shall all break and be remade by the will of She Who Sleeps. That one. Bring that one to me.)
The minds actually picked the King of Destruction up and began to carry him down the hallway until the King of Destruction concentrated his aura. The Elder Creler’s control over him faltered, and Amerys shot a stream of lightning bolts into the Elder Creler’s chest.
The spells didn’t even move it; half fizzled out before striking chitin. Amerys swore under her breath, and the King of Destruction rasped.
“Retreat.”
“Your Majesty, we can take it! We have to—”
Mars was ready. She was a Level 70 [Vanguard] in this world, and her sword made the nearest Crelers flinch away from her, but the King of Destruction just snapped at her.
“Retreat. There’s another one behind that Creler!”
In any other time, he would have relished this combat for his world-spanning empire. But not now.
(Send the children forwards. Do not pursue. Find the exit. The white child made of luck.)
The Elder Creler was evidently of the same opinion; larval Crelers swarmed after Reim’s soldiers, and the Adult Crelers fired their spikes at the King of Destruction’s forces, but they too held their ground.
“Queravia. Pull every Tier 7+ spell and relic out of our armies and erase them.”
The King of Destruction hoped they had enough. He had to find the exit and collapse the Creler’s world. No matter the cost.
How many of my subjects will I damn if I close the doors on them? The King of Destruction shoved the thought away. He didn’t have to choose—yet. All Flos knew was that he had to secure the exit or all was lost. He had one advantage over the Crelers: Drevish. The Architect pointed, and at last, the right hallway appeared.
The King of Destruction saw a single Drake [General] and a motley line of warriors between him and the exit. The [Princess] raised the box in her hands and said something, but the King of Destruction had no [Dangersense].
“Charge!”
His warriors stormed towards the Drake and the [Knights]. Flos himself followed Mars as she surged into combat.
The Tidebreaker met her with the [Knights] of Solstice, one world’s versions of the Horns of Hammerad, Liscor’s Watch—Redfangs, a [Florist].
He was brave, that Drake, but he didn’t have a chance. Not against Mars. She slammed into Zel Shivertail, and the strike force engaged the [Knights]. Their leader, swinging a mace covered in green flames, took a spear to his chest.
Their armor meant nothing. The Tidebreaker slashed at Mars, tearing apart her illusions, and she drove her sword into his shoulder. He was fast.
“Keep them alive. I need answers.”
The King of Destruction halted a [Soldier] about to impale Normen in the air, and he watched the [General] deliver a glancing blow to Mars’ helmet. She performed a zigzag cut that opened up his chest in a spray of blood.
“Surrender, or I might not have a chance to let you live, warrior.”
Zel Shivertail’s only reply was to leap at the King of Destruction. A bolt of lightning from Amerys blew him off his feet—he leapt back up, and the King of Destruction whistled.
“Who is this fine [General]? The Drakes had no one this good when I took the continent. But then, they kill all their heroes before they even reach battle.”
He favored the panting Tidebreaker with a sympathetic smile. The Drake twitched; something about Flos’ words hurt him more than his wounds from Mars. He took a step forwards, slowly, blood rushing from his scales, and Flos lifted a resigned hand.
“His arms, Mars. Hurry.”
He glanced over his shoulder. That Creler army was coming. Mars whirled up her sword, then twisted. Queravia’s voice snapped. The Stitch-woman rolled a pair of dice into a golden bowl floating at her side.
“Flank attack! Watch out!”
She actually pre-empted the strike to their flanks such that Reim’s forces were already pivoting and setting themselves when it came. Which was a mark of her level as a [Strategist]. The charging rank of Drake and Gnoll [Soldiers] stormed at the King of Destruction’s forces—then vanished.
Flos blinked—then the hallway on his other side flickered, and the wave of Drakes and Gnollish [Soldiers] hit Reim from their unguarded side. Queravia stared down at the snake eyes she’d just rolled.
Then a flaming arrow pierced Amerys’ barriers and struck her in the shoulder. Flos reached out and caught a second one before it could strike Amerys, dropping the flaming arrow. His head turned, and the second Drake [General] blew him a kiss.
“Strategy, darling, depends on the terrain. Get them! [Company, On Me]! [Charge of the Earth Dragon]!”
General Sserys of Liscor shot forwards, ahead of the combined army of the Walled Cities, and a company of warriors appeared next to him in the middle of Reim’s formation. Simultaneously, a second group of Drakes appeared from the same flank he’d feinted from and hit the King of Destruction from both sides.
Who is this? Flos and his forces were fighting on every side as the laughing [Spear of the Drakes] drove straight for his chest. The King of Destruction peered up as Sserys stabbed at him with a spear—
Mars kicked the Drake off his horse. Sserys landed, rolled out of the way, and his breastplate ate a second cut from the [Vanguard].
“Uh. Hells, she’s—”
The third blow tossed him all the way out of the ranks of his soldiers. Sserys skidded two dozen feet and stared down at the gashes in his armor. His eyes narrowed.
“Take out the King of Destruction! Get clear of that woman!”
Liscor’s army pressed in, but Amerys was firing bolts of lightning nonstop, and Queravia’s orders reformed their lines. The surprise attack became a desperate melee—a second Drake was fighting on the other side.
“Sserys, we can’t beat them!”
“Shut up and fight, Shivertail! All forces, charge! We won’t get a second chance!”
 
——
 
Zel Shivertail broke out of his trance when he heard the first voice. He turned and saw a Drake fighting with a pair of steel claws on the other side. He was smaller—not by much, but he looked centuries younger.
A younger Zel Shivertail was cutting up Reim’s soldiers on the other side as General Sserys tried to overwhelm the King of Destruction. But the level difference was too high.
“Reform. Fall back. Drevish, keep this corridor open. I want all our forces present.”
The King of Destruction retreated, and the soldiers cheered. Zel, the older Zel, recognized them. Liscor’s rough and rowdy mercenaries, forces bearing the emblems of their Walled Cities.
This was the alliance of Izril during the first Antinium War! This was the army that had pushed the Antinium back, the Gnoll tribes, Walled Cities, even Humans from the north!
And there he was, in the prime of his life, his thirties. General Sserys, the [Spear of the Drakes]. He mounted his horse again and cantered over to the young Drake arguing with him.
Zel Shivertail.
“Oh.”
Sserys was grinning; his blood was up, and he’d just given the King of Destruction a bloody nose. He spat.
“Damn. Was that Mars herself? She kicked the hell out of me. Come on, boys and girls. Reform! Let’s get them!”
“Sserys, we can’t. They were far higher-level than we were!”
“Nonsense! We won’t get another shot. Follow me!”
The [Spear of the Drakes] was galloping already, ignoring the younger Zel’s shouts. He…was always like that.
Sserys is a jerk. Roots Mrsha’s voice echoed in Zel’s ears, and he grunted.
“Yes. He really was. A thoughtless, brave—”
The Tidebreaker stuck out an arm as Sserys rode past him. He clotheslined the greatest [General] of the Walled Cities off his saddle and wished it didn’t feel so good.
Sserys’ eyes bulged as he halted in midair, but his horse kept going. He landed on his back for the second time in as many minutes, and stared up at the ceiling.
“General!”
Every [Soldier] leveled their weapon at the older Zel; he just rolled his shoulders as his younger self leapt forwards, shocked. They locked eyes, and the younger Zel Shivertail recoiled.
“What?”
“Hey. Who’s this tall drink of Amentus juice? And is he on our side? Because if he’s not, someone stab him.”
General Sserys shot to his feet, sword drawn and wary, but he eyed Zel up and down in a very approving manner. The Tidebreaker rolled his eyes.
“Oh, please, no.”
Never meet your heroes. Or your dead lover who looked different when you were older than he was. He folded his arms, wincing as it opened his cuts.
“Don’t be an idiot. You heard—him. The King of Destruction has you dead to rights. He’s only retreating to get his forces in order. You always find a brilliant opening and strike while the iron’s hot. But then you think you’ve got the entire battle won, you gigantic idiot.”
Every mouth around him opened as the Tidebreaker dressed down General Sserys of Liscor. The other Drake recoiled, and his eyes narrowed with his spitfire temper.
“You must be from another world, because I would have fed you your own tail if you mouthed off to me like…wait a second.”
He glanced at his Zel, then the older Zel Shivertail, and then his eyes widened.
“Wait. That little brat said…”
“Fall back. Get your forces around the door.”
Zel grabbed Sserys’ shoulder, and his heart leapt as he felt worn steel and sensed Sserys bristling. The [Spear of Drakes] opened his mouth, then swallowed.
“But the—”
“I’m the ranking [General] here. Fall back! Form the Pirissen Line, here!”
Zel Shivertail roared, and the soldiers around him hesitated—then streamed into position as Sserys nodded slowly. The Drake followed Zel, and then the younger Zel flanked him. They gawked openly at Zel.
“You’re…the real Zel Shivertail?”
The younger him managed after a while, and Zel smiled. He met Sserys’ suddenly nervous gaze.
“No. Just another Zel. The real one’s dead.”
“Oh. As that girl said. I died in the Antinium Wars, then.”
Sserys’ voice was unnaturally calm, and from the way the younger Zel twisted around and his mouth opened in shock, it was clear that he hadn’t been told. The Tidebreaker nodded, his eyes searching Sserys up and down.
“That’s right. Now I’m holding the door to reality. Are you going to help me or invade the world beyond for a second chance? Because you can run, but if you do, they’ll all come through.”
He nodded at the scattered bodies of Reim’s forces, the soldiers of Rhir, and everything else he’d battled thus far. Sserys searched his face, then strode forwards.
“Maybe after. But this isn’t the moment. So you’re the poor bastard I left to carry all the Walled Cities, huh? How’d that go?”
“I’m a pariah, and I was serving Magnolia Reinhart. What do you think?”
Zel snapped back. He was—angry. He didn’t want to be. He wanted to be elated, to embrace Sserys, to collapse into his arms and say all the things he hadn’t managed to. But he was just angry now, at this strange miracle. Sserys drew closer and peered up at him.
“How old are you? Forty? Damn. You look it. Twenty years later and I’d be fifty…what, did they blame you for my failures?”
Zel felt his heart thudding painfully in his chest, far more than the slashes Mars had inflicted on him. He rasped.
“What? No. They thought I was you. Then they realized I…was you.”
“Me? Oh. Me.”
Sserys’ eyes flickered, and he saw it. He always did. He was an idiot who couldn’t dance to save his life, who made huge tactical fumbles, who was arrogant, impulsive—and who could pick out a single needle of victory in a swamp. He knew their people.
“You poor bastard. Why do you think I’m just the [General] of a no-name, backwater city on the edges of civilization? Just like me? The Hero of the Antinium War, they’re already calling me. And that’s my fate and yours.”
“Yes.”
There was a look of such profound sympathy in Sserys’ eyes that the anger in Zel’s body drained away. He wanted to ask—did it happen to you? And he realized of course it had.
It must have. Sserys was talent in a bottle, but he was the [General] of only Liscor’s army when the Antinium War had struck. Every Walled City should have snapped him up when his talent was obvious. But he hadn’t ever left Liscor.
They understood each other, then, twenty years too late and both of them dead. But even then, it made him feel…so much better.
He had never been alone. General Sserys glanced at the [Soldiers] from the Walled Cities, who were stealing peeks at this older version of the Zel Shivertail they knew. Then he stood on his tiptoes, because even in boots, he was shorter than Zel by a bit.
“Well, if I’d known that, I’d have done this at one of our big speeches. There. Give them something to think about. Mwah.”
