The [Empress]’ imperious, affronted gaze softened. For just one moment, Roots Mrsha saw someone real there, not the imposing figure. Just someone else with so many regrets…Sheta bent down, and her lips brushed the top of Roots Mrsha’s head.
“So was I. You are a fitting heir to my [Palace], after all. But not yet. Not yet. Now, there are vermin within my greatest creation, the product of my folly. Let me offer you that feather of hope, child. Run. I will clean my palace of filth.”
So saying, she spread her wings, and Roots Mrsha closed her eyes. She tilted her head up, and the wind blew around her, carrying with it the faint smells of some vast, beautiful bird, perfume, mystery, and—wonders.
Then she opened her eyes and saw the Harpy flying. Hallways spread out before her, and the running people stopped as she glided past them.
 
——
 
Bird had her bow drawn, and she was firing at the [Soldiers] entering the palace. She was oh so afraid, because Mrsha was gone and there were bad people coming, including Antinium. She had to kill Belavierr—
She stopped as the Empress of Harpies flew past the tiny bug-queen with a bow. Bird’s purple eyes couldn’t grow any wider, but she halted, bow in hand, and the last Empress of Harpies laid eyes on her first Antinium in the flesh.
Both their hearts skipped a beat. The Harpy flashed past Bird in an instant, leaving only the memory behind. A single glance.
And the two women had had the same thought.
I wonder what that tastes like.
 
——
 
Which was which? They couldn’t tell, not anymore. Two Dragons fought, tooth and nail, both bloodied and wounded. It no longer mattered which had been first.
Whichever one stood when the other did not would take it all. As it always had been. No mercy. Not for this one. Never for this one. They both knew by heart the endless crimes and sins the other had committed.
One blew Dragonfire over the other; the second raked the face of the first with metal claws. They were destroying the [Palace of Fates]. No longer speaking, but roaring at each other, as they always had been—one step away from monsters themselves.
Nothing could separate them. No pleas, no force, no magic. They were seeking each other’s throats, blood in their eyes, when a voice spoke.
At first, they both thought it was just a memory. A familiar voice, sparked by dying neurons firing at their end.
Then, a wing hit both of them, so hard that they felt it. Both Dragons gaped up, and they raised their bloody, tattered manes and saw her standing there.
Empress Sheta, the last Harpy Queen, spoke as the Dragonlord of Flames’ eyes grew round.
“What are you doing? You, of all beings—killing yourself. For what? Here? Now?”
Two voices answered her. Two old men, suddenly transported tens of thousands of years back.
“Sheta? Is that you?”
“It’s just—oh, memory of gods. Why are you doing this to me?”
One turned away. The other tried to cover his eyes, shaking his head, as if denying this. Then the Harpy spoke again sharply.
She had Magnolia Reinhart’s angry voice, the self-righteousness of someone who still believed in right and wrong and that it should matter. All the intensity of the stare of Ryoka Griffin, desperation unto madness. Rafaema’s helpless frustration, and the nobility the Dragoness always aspired towards, always above her in her mind.
Her voice rang with the thousands of lives he had known. First of all. Sheta spread her wings and shouted.
“They need you! They need me—we are unworthy long-dead tyrants of immortality, but so are so many! What is the point if we do not fight for every second we owe them? My [Palace of Fates] is breaking—filth pours in from every door. So fly, Dragonlord! Fly with me, once more and never again!”
The two Dragons lying amidst their own blood and the flames of their battle gazed up at her—then at each other. They were endlessly weary, bloodied beyond belief, and they saw their death in this breaking [Palace of Fates].
 
——
 
They were coming through the palace. [Soldiers] of the Blighted Kingdom, throwing themselves forwards in an endless stream, killing everything in their path.
The first of the larval Crelers ran down another corridor, past more doors cracking—pursuing a Gnoll [Knight] carrying a girl in his arms and trying to shield a [Princess].
He whirled—and saw a [Soldier] of Rhir aim at him and the Creler with an explosive quarrel. The [Soldier] fired, and Brunkr threw up his shield with a despairing cry.
Then there was flame. It engulfed the screaming Gnoll, Lyonette, and Mrsha, and they clung together as it washed over them, a soft, warm river of flickering red.
Brunkr’s head rose, and he saw orange fire passing in front of him—but he felt no incineration. Nor did he see even his fur catch fire.
He twisted around—and the baby Crelers were ash. The [Soldier] and the squad melted—and the Brass Dragon stopped breathing fire.
“Wh—who is—”
Teriarch strode forwards, injured, scales torn, his mane covered with his own blood, and his eyes shone. He spoke.
“Keep running. I will hold them back as long as I can.”
“But who—?”
The trio gazed up at the Dragonlord, and he turned. The bulging door of skittering Crelers opened—they swarmed out of it, a pulsating mob of flesh and chitinous legs, smaller ones in front of horrific Adult Crelers and even vaster ones thinking behind them. Alien thoughts of death and glory for their sleeping…
They beheld the Dragonlord of Flames, and their confidence turned to terror a moment before he exhaled. The Dragon lit the [Palace of Fates] up like the dawn, and the shriek of Crelers filled the air. He kept breathing fire until the very doorway was aflame and nothing but ash and fire existed beyond.
Then he kept moving. Forwards—and the [Soldiers] of Rhir saw him charge towards them, roaring. They backed up, screaming.
“Dragon! Drag—”
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”, The Wandering Inn>
 
“—on!”
The [Hero of Turns], Jospiere, had just finished clearing out the first wave of low-level Goblins and he was advancing on the frozen adventurers when the flow of [Soldiers] entering the portal abruptly reversed.
“Oh, come on, get in there and fight!”
He roared as a few burnt [Soldiers] tumbled out of the door. They froze, obviously, and the [Hero of Turns] whirled, ready to kill whatever was coming through. Or retreat and let the lower-level [Heroes] take the hit.
He came face-to-face with a Brass Dragon’s head. The Dragon had emerged from the portal, passing by the giant Antinium who was kneeling and trying to fend off the [Soldiers], despite only having one hand left.
Jospiere froze. The Dragon was motionless. Of course it was—he began breathing again.
Evacuate. I have to get out of here. Wait. What are his stats?
A sick curiosity filled the [Hero], and he checked them. Unlike a person, monster statistics popped up differently.
 
Terrium Archelis Dorishe, Brass Dragonlord of Flames (Level Rating 80+++)
Species: Gargantuan Ancient Dragonlord (Brass)
Alignment: Neutral Good
Initiative: +14
Senses: Darkvision, low-light vision, heatvision, magicvision, soulsight 10 ft, energy flow 2000 ft, aurasense…(click to expand).
Languages: Old Draconic, Elvish, Dwarvish, Goblin, Common, Latin, Selphid A’tt, Old Gnollish, High Drake…(click to expand).
AC: 47, touch 29, flat-footed 35.
Hitpoints: 524/3,523
Damage Resistance: I am the Dragonlord of Flames.
Fortitude: You, who slaughter so cavalierly, shall die.
Reflexes: Wretch. Flee and burn.
Willpower…
 
The horror of the stats page on the Dragon transfixed Jospiere as he tried to come up with some kind of countermeasure for a monster of this magnitude until he saw the red text appearing. Then—he noticed something impossible.
The Dragon was…breathing. His head rose and fell, ever-so-slightly, as he inhaled, and his eyes were glittering with moisture. But that…was impossible. Jospiere was used to helpless statues who could only move their mouths. This was like a boss with special animations.
Or—his memory flicked back to Rhir—
It was like this thing wasn’t being held by his Skill—
The Dragon lunged and bit. Jospiere flung himself away; the jaws closed over another [Hero], who screamed as they ripped her to shreds. No one could move but Jospiere.
And the Dragon.
“It’s my—my turn. You can’t—”
Jospiere was on the ground. He got up and saw his movement points draining. He stared at the Dragonlord as Teriarch spat blood and flesh to the side. The Dragon’s response was to inhale. He swept his Dragonbreath left and right, incinerating the soldiers of Rhir and the [Heroes].
“Jos! Stop him!”
One of the [Heroes] shrieked, but the [Hero of Turns] was backing away. He retreated out of the inn, and the Dragon followed, knocking down the walls. Jospiere saw one eye flash, and a claw rose.
“[Disintegration Ray].”
He fired the spell at the [Hero of Turns], and Jospiere’s nerve broke. He turned and ran, screaming, as the Dragonlord appeared on the hill. The Brass Dragon set upon the [Soldiers] of Rhir, attacking them with impunity as their leader fled. Jospiere was at the teleportation mages, screaming at them to teleport him, and deactivating his Skill. He stumbled as everyone unfroze and looked up.
He saw a Dragon upon the hill, maw open, aiming pink flames towards him. The [Hero of Turns] shrieked—and Dragonfire covered him.
He burnt and screamed as he died. Reinforcements from Rhir appeared on the ground too late amidst glowing ash and halted as they beheld him.
The Dragon was howling up at the sky, a challenge to the Empire of Rhir. He spread his wings as the people fled past him and pointed.
The Painted Antinium gazed up at him and ran for the portal as the second wave of the Blighted Kingdom began falling from the sky. Too many [Soldiers] to count, and [Heroes].
Always [Heroes]. But this time…the Dragonlord’s eyes burned, and a hundred [Heroes] appeared in front of ten thousand riders armed with magic and steel.
Ready to slay a Dragon. Then, they saw him raise one tattered wing, and salute them. A simple gesture that transformed him from a mighty beast of war to—what?
Then, the Empire of Rhir hesitated, and their [Heroes], children of another world, came face to face with the truth behind the stories.
No mindless, savage Dragon stealing [Princesses], but a wounded, old warrior who spoke like a poet covered in sins and pride. An intelligent, merciless hero of days that had long since passed, promising them death if they advanced.
The Dragon’s eyes glowed, and he greeted the greatest empire of this world as he lowered his wings and set himself against the door.
People were still fleeing Liscor. Antinium, Drakes, Gnolls, Humans—many were coming via the portal stations. Hold the line. He had to hold the line.
“Slay the Dragon!”
An officer screamed those words, as they had and always would, and for the barest moment, they saw him smile. He whispered as he inhaled cool air through his burning lungs and turned it to fire.
“[Meteor Storm].”
Then he swept the Floodplains of Izril with flames, leaving scars that would not heal. Buying fragments of time.
Then, as if struck by a thought, the Dragonlord of Flames glanced right at a figure crawling into the inn—an old man with his worthless, irreplaceable hoard of treasures. Under an invisibility spell.
The Teriarch of this world gave him a mute, haunted, disbelieving look. Shame and cowardice ran through him as he crawled through the broken wall of the inn, fleeing. The true Dragonlord let him go.
This world contained the might of Rhir’s Blighted Kingdom at its worst; armies of [Soldiers] and [Heroes] armed with magic stood before him.
But every world was collapsing. The [Palace of Fates] was yet worse.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 1 — “Better Days”>
 
Now, they were all coming for the feast, just as predicted. Anyone could predict it, really. When a feast lay before them, the pestilence would come. Roaches and rats; viruses feeding upon the healthy.
Gods.
The first of them was the God of Magic, who had once been said to be the most knowledgeable of all the foreign deities who came to this place. Master of so many magics and arcane secrets. He had weaved the first spells of this world into being.
He had escaped the Last Box of the Gnomes—in this realm, at least. So long as the [Palace of Fates] endured, so would he. So Emerrhain revelled in it.
The God of Magic laughed at the little man trying to hurt him. He picked himself up off the ground, and he was split from shoulder to groin by a blow that had cleaved his flesh apart; he shouldn’t have been able to stand, but the pieces rose without regard for mere physicality, the torn muscles and structure, and reknit.
The Fraerling, Niers Astoragon, stood on the roof of The Wandering Inn; what remained of it. The roof was damaged and afire. The city was blowing alarms, and everyone was fleeing out of it.
Towards that portal in the air, held open by Ishkr. The inn was breaking.
Erin Solstice was gone. Niers Astoragon had seen her die, and he did not know who this man was. For once, he wasn’t questioning why or who or how this had come about. He was just…focused.
Kill him. The God of Magic took a step forwards as the galloping of hooves grew louder; Centaurs were racing around him, firing arrows, shouting. Half of the forces who had come with Perorn Fleethoof to Izril after the Meeting of Tribes.
The other half were dead. Wiped out. Or worse—eaten. Niers saw Emerrhain point a finger at him and snapped.
“Interception.”
He didn’t move. The ray that shot from the dead god’s finger was like a writhing snake made of orange light. It pierced the walls of magic that rose to stop it, honing in on Niers; a consuming, unstoppable spell—
Until a pair of Centaurs galloped past the God of Magic and the rope they’d strung between them clotheslined the God of Magic across the stomach. The spell disappeared as the God of Magic’s concentration broke. Niers saw Emerrhain’s eyes bulge; then he went flying. Quite far; the rope might have literally snapped him in half if he were actually flesh and blood.
“—Not alive at all. Closer to a Golem. The damage gets through, but it doesn’t matter. We’re not hitting him; it’s like fighting a supreme Djinni. Captain Basal. Take him away.”
The God of Magic was trying to stand back up from where he’d been hurled down the hill. He was functionally immortal; if you touched him, you faded away. He could cast magic that Niers estimated at Tier 6+ without limit.
A classic, immortal foe. But one with two weak spots the Fraerling had observed. The first was that he still had a body that could be moved by objects, if not people. The second was—he was hungry. He kept eating people, consuming them with a touch.
