“I forswore myself at the Winter Solstice. I broke my promise…no, I broke it long before that. I…died. I was bested, and still, I clung to life without the dignity to leave. Tens of thousands of years I lurked in the shadows, devouring souls. I compromised my own lands of death—destroyed it all, for what?”
She raised her eyes to the Deaths, then gazed down at the gloating Crone.
Are you not ashamed? The Grand Design’s question echoed in her mind, and the Goddess of Death answered.
“Yes. Yes, I am. This should never have been allowed to happen. Once, I was a fair judge of life and death. So let me judge this.”
She swept a hand over it all and focused on two beings. Mrsha and her first doppelganger from the [Palace of Fates], Roots Mrsha.
One was being carried through the [Palace of Fates], a red bandage on her side, and the other ran through the [Palace of Fates], trying to save all she could. When the [Fatebreaker Child] looked up, the Maiden met her eyes.
“It was not her fault. She should never have had the power to do this. If any mortal had the power, they would try. It never should have been possible. It is the trick of the Faerie King—! But more than that, it is the failing of our creation. You see that.”
All this death. The souls of the dead weren’t going to Kasignel or Hellste or Diotria. They were going…nowhere.
At first, they flowed into the Kasignels of their worlds, but those places were breaking apart and half-formed. These cloned people were going nowhere. Souls—dissipating. Being unmade.
Zel Shivertail stood before the people he had known, a dead man—a copy of him, both real and unreal, and it was wrong. The Maiden clenched her hands until the memory of blood ran from her veins. She whispered.
“It must end. All of this. I see why you are here. I beg a favor of you.”
She turned and knelt before them. It was not twelve she beseeched, nor a hundred. It was…
Multitudes.
From countless realities in countless forms. A skeleton, female, dressed in long, colorful robes held a globe in one hand, a scythe in the other. Nuestra Señora de la Santa Muerte’s skeleton head gazed down at the Maiden.
A fisherman peered up from his wooden boat, the afterlife shining through the eyes of the timeless sailor upon the sea of souls.
Judges. A jury of Deaths of every kind, every species. Every time and place—the Maiden shivered as she abased herself, bowing.
“I beg…a boon of you. Let me set it right. I have no right to ask it, save that I once earnestly strove to honor you, to honor my task. Let me end it all. I shall redeem myself. I crave only one thing. A fitting tool.”
She had never been a warrior. Never learned the art of weapons, though she had battled with gods. But she needed one now.
She was afraid they would not answer her, find her plea and intentions worthless—but then one of them smiled. A figure moved and offered her what she sought.
The bloody knight lifted his sword and planted it in the ground before Kasigna. Then another Death stepped forwards, and the fisherman offered her the rod with which he trawled the worlds.
Then more came.
They offered her their tools. A pair of hand-scythes from a grinning wolf. An hourglass, from another. A pair of withered shears to cut the strings of life—
A few of them offered her a combine harvester.
The Maiden stared at that last one—then reached out and chose a fitting tool. She lifted a reaper’s scythe in her hand, the farmer’s tool. She ran her hand down the blade, then bowed.
“Thank you. I shall not dishonor my station further. Now…”
The Maiden took a breath as she backed away from that congregation, who watched her every move. She swung the scythe, clumsy, and realized she had never performed this role.
She had been the Goddess of Death so long…but never the one who did the dirty work. Never the reaper woman. It humbled her.
The Maiden stood in the middle of nothingness, and the Grand Design fled her.
 
——
 
In the [Palace of Fates], the Crone raised her head.
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer was falling to pieces in front of her, unable to sustain himself. She reached out, and plucked his soul from his body, and the Revenant vanished with a sigh. A single piece of flesh fell to the ground, and the Crone reached for it, but it squirmed away. She did not pursue it. Instead—her head rose.
“What…are you doing? Me?”
She gazed towards that spot in oblivion, and drops of Kasigna’s blood ran down the handle of the scythe and fell into nothingness.
Kasigna the Maiden, the Goddess of Death, stood there, head bowed.
Then it came up, and she gazed down at herself. She swung her scythe.
Kasigna, the Goddess of Death.
Kasigna gasped in two voices. A cry—and the Maiden’s eyes shone in triumph, redemption, and sorrow.
Kasigna, the Goddess of Death.
The Crone screamed. She began shrieking and clutched at her chest as she howled at the Maiden.
“What have you done!?”
The Maiden spoke, her voice calm, as she cut away the very aspect of herself with a blade sharper than ideas. Her authority, her very nature, both for herself and the Crone. Sundered forever.
“We have lived too long, my beloved self. We do not deserve it. I have made my choice. I shall end it all. This palace, this tragedy, my foolish kindred—and you.”
She pointed down into the [Palace of Fates], and then the Maiden smiled like a grinning skull. Her voice was louder than everything else, the final punctuation at the end of reality. The proper voice of the reaper.
“Dᴇᴀᴛʜ ʜᴀs ᴄᴏᴍᴇ ғᴏʀ ʏᴏᴜ, Kᴀsɪɢɴᴀ.”
The Crone’s mouth opened, and she backed away. Then the Maiden leapt downwards into the chaos of it all.
The Crone fled, screaming.
Dᴇᴀᴛʜ ғᴏʟʟᴏᴡᴇᴅ.
