He turned, and she was crying at him. Weeping openly as the [General] stood there, but Zel Shivertail only threw her a smile for all her failed plans and broken promises. He seemed almost…relieved. Then he turned and barked.
“Magnolia! Get your people over here! Lieutenant Gershal, here!”
More people were emerging from his door. A very surprised [Lady] locked eyes with Lyonette du Marquin, and Normen exhaled as a nervous man brushing pieces of cheese from his face came stumbling after them.
“What a glorious end to it all.”
The words popped out of his mouth, unbidden, and Zel snorted.
“[Knights]. This isn’t the end. Just the beginning. They’ll be back. Hold this line.”
He put his back to the exit to the [Palace of Fates] and waited. The real monsters were coming.
 
——
 
Az’kerash, the Necromancer of Terandria, had lost Bea. Then Ijvani. Devail was gone; he’d been eaten when something had tried to climb out of a door. A Seamwalker.
His children were dying or dead, and he was just…running.
Nothing mattered. He wasn’t real. The Necromancer felt cold, empty, and his connection to his mortality was dying. He had left Pisces behind. Left the world to be devoured by that thing calling itself Emerrhain.
To live, he would do anything. Bathe in the blood of his homeland. Leave worlds to die.
He just wanted to live. That was the nature of the other beings he ran into, almost literally. The [Necromancer] stopped his [Flash Steps] and raised his rapier reflexively. On his fingers was a [Deathblast] spell, and he aimed the tip of one glowing finger at a panting, wide-eyed…Dragon?
“You?”
The Dragonlord of Flames nearly exhaled on the Necromancer, then the two stopped. Az’kerash’s mouth worked.
“You can’t be the one I—”
“Another Necromancer? I—I woke up and saw the portal.”
Another Teriarch spoke, his voice strained and confused. The Dragon must have fled his world. He whispered.
“I left it all behind. I want to live.”
I want to live. One of the greatest beings living, a force that had checked the Necromancer’s ambitions time and time again, said those words so pathetically. It struck a chord, and the Necromancer lowered his blade.
“A truce? I cannot find my way out. It is being hidden. A truce—then we shall discuss matters.”
The Dragonlord’s eyes flickered uncertainly. These two immortal beings wavered, then he dipped his head.
“I—yes. Until we escape.”
They turned, feeling the wrongness of the moment, but desperation had made stranger bedfellows. Then another voice interrupted them.
“Will you truce with me, Necromancer, Dragonlord? I too wish to live.”
Both twisted around, and Az’kerash saw the tall [Witch] walking towards them. Then his blood did chill, and he beheld the Witch of Webs. She seemed—pained, and he saw trailing strands of power behind her. As if she’d ripped pieces of herself out to get here. But she was still…
“Ally with you, Spider? Heartstealer? I—”
Teriarch snarled, then the Dragon’s face turned guilty, and he glanced right and left, down these endless corridors, and they all listened to the sound of reality shaking. Az’kerash was the first to speak, his mouth dry of spittle, his body a corpse. His soul fleeing in shame, leaving only the Revenant. The undead monster.
“I…agree. To live, I will destroy everything. I am the Necromancer of Terandria in the end. So be it.”
He reached for his chest and pulled something out of it. A twisting, writhing piece of him—his conscience? His heart?
The Necromancer crushed it in one hand and felt—calm. He forgot why he was so ashamed. The Dragon gazed at him with lost, empty eyes, and the Stitch Witch plucked something from the air and tucked it under her hat.
“A valuable thing indeed. I will weave it if we live. This is my daughter. She may live, or she may not. Let us go.”
Belavierr carelessly raised one fold of her robes, and Az’kerash realized she had been hiding a terrified young [Witch], too-thin and aligned with water magic. He gazed at the Nanette of the future and thought she would make an excellent undead. No other emotions stirred in his heart.
“Let us go, then. Someone is holding the way out shut. There are worse things than Seamwalkers entering this place. Together, we can force the way closed open. Kill everything in our way.”
The Dragon hesitated—then he dipped his head. The three most powerful beings in the [Palace of Fates] turned to go—and someone stood in their path.
An old woman.
The Crone.
The moment he saw her, Az’kerash recognized her as kith and kin to the one who had destroyed his world. Even the undead being felt a thrill of true terror—and he had to resist the urge to kneel.
This being rules me. He almost did kneel; the piece of him that would have resisted her was gone. But Belavierr hissed at them.
“There is nothing there. No magic, nor anything else. This is a corpse. Back! Do not let it touch you! The mice have escaped their cage.”
Mice? The Necromancer did not understand the reference, but the Crone merely smiled. She was an old woman, malice in every line of her smile.
“I am Kasigna, and thou art mine. Come.”
Like a child reaching for the largest sweets in the [Palace of Fates], she stretched out one hand, and the three immortals reacted at once.
The Dragonlord blew flames. Belavierr conjured a pair of scissors that flew forwards and snapped shut across Kasigna’s body. The Necromancer pointed, and a wave of death-magic swept down the corridor.
Kasigna walked through all three attacks, a grimace on her face. As if that had hurt her—but only in the way touching a too-hot piece of metal might. Her eyes were locked on them.
The immortals turned and ran, throwing spells and magic and flame back at the dead goddess. She was moving faster now, walking like Belavierr—each step eating away ground, taking her far further than they should have.
In fact, the striding Stitch Witch peered over her shoulder and saw Kasigna walking after her. The two were matched in casual stride—then Belavierr began to jog, uncertainly, as if she had forgotten how.
Too slow. Kasigna caught her arm. The Goddess of Death smiled, then her face grew confused. She halted a second, and Belavierr’s arm unspooled, bits of fabric and thread undoing themselves, turning to ash—the Necromancer saw Belavierr stumble, then begin to truly run. Her right arm fell to the ground as Kasigna eyed the bits of fabric and thread she had collected.
“Clever. For a mortal.”
She resumed her chase. Belavierr, now sprinting away, was regrowing her arm—it sprouted out of her body, reknitting. Az’kerash…doubted he could perform the same trick. So he ran faster, trying to get ahead of Teriarch. Despite his size, the Dragonlord was running fast.
Kasigna kept chasing them, ignoring the rest of the souls in the [Palace of Fates] in favor of this banquet. She was faster than they were, despite all their magic and Skills, and all three immortals realized one of them would die, despite their alliance.
Belavierr glanced back again, then put out one foot calmly. She tripped Nanette—and the thin Witch of Sorrows went sprawling.
“Mother! Mother?”
She fell, and Belavierr didn’t look back again. Kasigna passed by the cowering [Witch] without a backward glance, and Belavierr sighed.
Annoyed.
She left Nanette behind, and then they were peeking over their shoulders, trying to gauge when to turn and fight—when a sound interrupted the chase. A rumble—a quake in the [Palace of Fates] that made everything shake worse than before. Then Az’kerash realized it was no earthquake, but a voice.
A roar.
Undead or not, the Revenant halted in a moment of true apprehension and memory. He knew this presence. Az’kerash whispered.
“The Goblin King.”
Teriarch and Belavierr turned towards him, and he swivelled—Kasigna herself had halted. The Crone’s eyes flicked right.
“That one. Agh.”
To his astonishment, she curled one lip, then spat and retreated. The three immortals eyed each other, then spun from one threat to another. The roaring grew louder, and then—he was there.
An armored figure walking down the hallways, covered in gore, crimson light shining from a battered helmet. Az’kerash did not recognize the form he took, but he knew the presence.
They had all met him in one of his many forms. And they remembered it as he halted.
 
——
 
Eleven years ago.
The Necromancer of Terandria knelt, panting, disbelieving, before the single Goblin. His rapier was broken, and he was—outraged.
Outraged. This couldn’t be possible. He had clashed with the world’s greatest warriors in life, and in death, he was so much more…
He tried to rise, but the Goblin King pinned him with a glance. Velan the Kind…no, there was something else behind his gaze. His Goblin Lords were sitting or squatting behind the King and his small army.
So few Goblins had come south with the Goblin King. He didn’t need more. The Goblin King swung his arm, and another of Az’kerash’s undead was destroyed. The Necromancer raised one hand.
“Truce. Truce. We have mutual enemies.”
He croaked and saw that gaze assessing him. Weighing the odds of just…annihilating him against the benefits to be gained. The Goblin King spoke.
“Very well. Offer me…weapons.”
Weapons? Why did he want weapons? Az’kerash gritted his teeth. If it meant buying his life and a chance to reach the Walled Cities—he turned to his undead, which had borne the spoils of his wars in Terandria. He began to negotiate, but even he found it hard to meet that unblinking stare. Something beyond death itself terrified the Necromancer.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flames emerged from his cave and found the Goblin King there. The Dragon came ready for battle—and death.
There were only fourteen Goblins here. Teriarch felt insulted as he counted them. But one…one was a Goblin Lord.
Tallis Stormbreaker. The power of an [Archmage] in his eyes—a [Shaman], though. The Dragonlord inclined his head.
“You are the Goblin King once more. I presume you have come to claim my life?”
That being had come for vengeance, it seemed. Or to plunder the Dragon’s treasure. Either way, Teriarch had resolved it would cost Velan.
However—he did not hear the familiar voice coming from the noble-looking Goblin who stood, wearing merely robes. A [Healer]’s clothing. Indeed, the Goblin King was covered in sweat.
Agonized.
Velan the Kind raised his head from where his retainers were supporting him and rasped.
“Not him. I am him and not. I am…Velan. I have a favor to ask you, Teriarch of Flames. I know you from his memories.”
“A favor?”
Teriarch was on-guard, expecting a trick, but Velan wearily shrugged the hands of his friends off him, and Teriarch saw how many damned scars the Goblin had. His body was impressively honed by alchemy and medicine, even Drathian techniques. But he was…
“It is just me. Just—me. For now. I have blinded and kept him back.”
Kept who back? Teriarch knew Goblin Kings could be rational. He had even conversed with the Goblin Kings—briefly—seen the havoc they wrought. But never had he seen this kind of opposition. His mind flickered to conversations he’d had with Mauri, with the other Dragonlords.
Their legacies. If I help him perpetuate more death…
What did this one intend?
“—Speak. I am listening.”
Warily, he took a step into his cave as the Goblin King asked him for a favor, then pointed towards the salvation of Goblins or damnation delayed. The Dragonlord’s eyes wavered as he followed the finger.
Up. Towards the High Passes.
 
——
 
Belavierr raged. She screamed and howled curses in the face of the laughing little Goblin as the Goblin Lords held her back.
Sóve, the Island Queen, just cackled in Belavierr’s face, enjoying the Stitch Witch’s wrath. The [Witch] hissed at her.
“We had an agreement. You have breached it. I will have your eyes for it, Goblin King!”
“This thing? Nah.”
Sóve lifted something in her claws. A contract between them, sealed with blood, promising Belavierr the greatest of riches for her services. Souls and power and—
Sóve shredded the contract with her claws, and Belavierr’s eyes bulged out of their sockets. Impossible! Impossible! Nerrhavia had made that contract herself!
The Goblin King appeared merely amused as she brushed the pieces of the contract away.
“No contract exists that I cannot break. Flee, little [Witch]. Before I slaughter you.”
Belavierr was surrounded by the Goblin King’s warriors, and her contract was dust. Helplessly, she pointed a finger at the Goblin King.
“You—I shall remember this. You I ban from my services.”
A [Shopkeeper]’s only resort, a pitiful little oath. Those uncaring eyes swept over her, and a claw motioned her away.
“Leave, [Witch]. Until I have need of you.”
The Stitch Witch hesitated, then fled. Rarely had anything ever bested her thusly. She tried to plot vengeance, but to what end? What did you take from…
That?
 
——
 
“You.”
Three immortals breathed the word at the same time, and the Goblin King halted. He had a sword on his shoulder. His eyes swept over the Dragonlord of Flames, the Stitch Witch, and the Necromancer of Terandria.
He ignored all three of the legends of the world. The Goblin King reached out—and the Crone halted. She tried to backpedal, then caught herself, and then extended her hand.
Her fingers touched the Goblin King’s chest. His gauntleted hand took hold of her cheek, and they stood there.
The Goblin King didn’t vanish. The Crone licked her lips, and her voice, when it came out of her dry mouth, was suddenly uncertain.
“You. Do I know you? The heart of you. Have I met…you?”
All his madness. His eternal rage. It was suddenly gone from the Goblin King’s voice. When he spoke, Belavierr, a version of Teriarch, and Az’kerash heard the King of Goblins who had never been. An ancient, even fond voice. Aged beyond belief, and a child’s tone.
“No. Your kind never cared to meet us on those simple shores. I know you, Three-In-One. Goddess of Death. They called me the Goblin King. I watched you die.”
She stepped back, or tried to. That gentle hand tightened on the Crone’s head. She clutched at his arm.
“Then bow. We—”
The Goblin King’s hand became a vice. He turned and shoved the Crone’s head through the wall of the [Palace of Fates].
Casually. So slowly and deliberately, but with such inexorable force that the wall of the palace would give—or the Goddess of Death’s skull.
The wall cracked inwards, and the Crone began to struggle. The Goblin King pulled her head out of the crumbling masonry, and she pointed a finger at him.
“Die, thou monst—”
