He wanted the civilians fleeing Liscor. He wanted Niers most of all; whether that was ire towards the Fraerling or Niers’ level, who could say? The Fraerling watched as the Centaurs drew back, and the Lizaur, Captain Basal, galloped forwards.
The half-Lizardfolk Centaur never hesitated. He swung past the God of Magic, and a second Centaur lassoed the cursing Emerrhain, then passed the rope to Basal. The [Linebreaker Captain] looped the rope through a harness on his back and galloped away from the inn. Dragging the dead god across the Floodplains like a bag of straw.
That bought them a few seconds. Niers Astoragon turned his eyes away from the god.
“Move them out of here. Faster.”
The stream of people fleeing Liscor was the entire city’s population, and he’d seen them coming from Esthelm too.
Fleeing. Of course they were. They had seen the portal in the skies and realized this reality was fake. But an entire city’s worth of people were pushing, shoving, running, trying to flee.
Casualties in the thousands already. They’d never evacuate the city in time. Niers saw a group speeding up the hill towards him and knew who it was.
Perorn Fleethoof was racing towards the inn with Centaurs not assigned to the battle group. Many had children on their backs, and the [Strategist] was lending her speed Skills to the fleeing people. They streamed into the inn as she cantered to a stop, breathing hard.
“Niers! It’s all falling apart! We have to get them out of here! Faster! Our company—they’re trapped on Baleros!”
Trapped on Baleros far from the door, she meant. Niers thought of his Forgotten Wing Company, all his designs, his efforts, and it was all hollow. He spoke, staring off into the distance.
“Get through that door, Perorn. I’m placing you in command of everyone left alive. There’s a war in there. I’ll slow this bastard down. Close the door, if I don’t, after five minutes.”
Five minutes. The [Strategist] opened her mouth to protest. Then her head surveyed the inn.
Less than four hundred Centaurs were stringing more pieces of rope between them, preparing [Wall of Earth] spells, even long lances or spears, to deal with this foe. Her mercenaries, Fleethoof’s Gales, were gone.
“Hurt him. Nothing’s actually hurting him. Damage shield…but I swear, I saw him flinch, just once. When was it?”
Niers Astoragon was sitting now, one leg dangling off the roof. Erin Solstice was dead. He’d never gotten a chance—no. He’d never taken it.
“I don’t think I had a shot, anyways. But I enjoyed it. I should never have come here.”
Slowly, he rose to his feet and saw a figure appear on one of the hilltops in the distance. The God of Magic.
Captain Basal was gone. Perorn had known him for over a decade and a half. She drew an arrow, and Niers whispered.
“Run away, Perorn. I don’t need you here. Everything on this board is disposable. I think he can move between worlds. So there’s no point to even closing the door. But wasting his time?”
Oh, yes. They could do that.
“Come now, I thought the, what, ‘God of Magic’ was better than that! A single Centaur can drag you around like a sack!”
Niers Astoragon projected his voice as Emerrhain faced him. This time—he saw the spell coming and leapt for cover.
The roof of the inn exploded as something struck it. It seemed like a Dragon, but not one that Niers was familiar with. A roaring, Drathian-style Dragon, a long, sinuous, and elegant serpent with a mane and wide eyes, made of jade-green energy.
When the Fraerling rose, he saw a hole through The Wandering Inn. Screams. The spell had torn through the Centaurs and people fleeing. He could see Ishkr holding onto the root on the second floor of the inn, clinging to one wall as if trying to hold the dying inn up. Tears were running down the Gnoll’s cheeks.
“Secure that room. Ramp up there—run, Perorn!”
She was still hesitating. That honest second-in-command. Foliana’s adopted daughter, his finest student. The Fraerling tasted blood in his mouth, but he was grinning. That manic smile of the monster of Baleros.
The Titan. He didn’t want to send her off like this, but it didn’t matter. Niers twisted and sat up.
“Niers to Chaldion. Niers to Foliana. Do it.”
The God of Magic was already here. He appeared with a sonic boom of air, and the explosion and speed of his movement hurled the Centaurs around him through the air, already dead from the shockwave. Then he stepped forward, hands raised, and just—touched—the line of people fleeing from Liscor. Walked past them under the effects of a [Haste] spell, consuming the people as he harvested them.
Did it hurt? Was it healing him or giving him energy? What was he, a Seamwalker? A Vampire from the old texts? Niers didn’t know.
He wished he did know that it was agonizing, that the victims of this Emerrhain were suffering. That terrible knowledge would make this next part…the Fraerling’s head rose.
…A bit lighter on his conscience.
It didn’t matter. The Titan smiled like a weary traveller seeing the embers of a distant, warming fire. Perorn’s head rose as the skies swirled overhead and the winter clouds lit up like the dawn.
The first bombardment spells fell out of the sky, sent by Pallass. Then came the Forgotten Wing Company’s magic. All their long-ranged weapons. Every failsafe and last-resort measure they’d stolen from their foes, bought, or found.
All of it raining down on the Floodplains of Liscor. Not on Emerrhain’s position, no.
On Liscor. Liscor and the Floodplains, burning a line straight towards The Wandering Inn. Niers saw the first firedrop touch down over the column of fleeing civilians. Then someone seized him up in a fist.
“Niers!”
Perorn. The Titan didn’t even glance at her; he was watching the God of Magic’s reaction. The gloating figure looked up as the first spell fell, confused. Then one kicked him into the air. It didn’t harm him, but when he sat up, he seemed genuinely surprised. Then—annoyed.
Carrion being deprived of its meal.
“Starve it of its food. Get out of here, Perorn. That’s an order.”
The Titan saw a spell hit Liscor’s walls and crack them. Perorn dropped him. She backed away, and Niers got up, brushing at his lapels.
“This is Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros. If you have anything or anyone to save—run. The rest of you, with families too far or who have lost it all—hold this ground with me.”
He glanced right and left. Then saw someone try to murder him.
Spearmaster Relc leapt for Niers, screaming, and one of the Centaurs intercepted him. The Centaur took a spear to the flank, leg, guts—two more charged into the Drake, and Niers turned away.
“Retreat!”
The bombardment had two effects. It cost the God of Magic his prey—and it broke the will of the defenders to keep fighting. Someone else hurled an oath at Niers.
Earl Altestiel was being dragged back by Belchaus. Till this moment, the Lord of the Dance and Earl of Rains had fought with bitter resolve. Tears streaked down Altestiel’s face.
Erin Solstice was dead. And so was Queen Geilouna. The Bedtime Queen hadn’t had a chance. Altestiel would have fought to the end—Niers raised a hand.
When he turned back to Liscor, he saw only armageddon. Ash and light—and a single god standing amidst the destruction. Walking towards him with an admiring expression.
Of all of it—that hurt Niers most of all. But the Titan just pulled a spare hat from his bag, fixed it in as jaunty a manner as he could upon his head, and strode forwards.
Alone.
Perorn galloped back, and the defenders of the inn, Altestiel, the guests ran. Niers Astoragon strode down the hill towards the God of Magic.
He had something to say. Men like him always did.
“A fine gambit, little Fraerling. You would have made a fine champion for a God of Destruction. I am Emerrhain. Take my hand and witness my great works.”
He extended one hand, and Niers saw him for what he was. The Titan’s image of Emerrhain was of a Human man with spectacles, robes of a scholar or [Mage], and a matching face, someone in their late middle ages, grey in his hair, but dignified, educated.
But if Niers thought a different way—he could see a Drake with the exact same profile, or a Centaur, a smiling Selphid.
Emerrhain was just an idea, and he flickered from form to form. Niers could see him thusly, because the one thing the God of Magic would never turn into was…a Fraerling.
It was beneath him. Well—Niers smiled tightly, it was just as well.
If he’d turned into a Fraerling, Niers would have had someone kick him. The Titan spread his arms out.
“After all that, do you think I’d bend over and present my ass for you, you worthless piece of Creler turds? Had you any spine, you’d have fought someone on your level. I recognize a coward when I see one. A man of my stature is good enough for you.”
The God of Magic’s eyes narrowed at the retort. Oh, yes. He was trying so hard to be grand. Imposing. Not desperate.
“Fraerlings. Fitting heirs to the Gnomes. I have escaped the last trap of your glorious mentors, ‘Titan’. Now, in every world, your species will bear the consequences. So too will Erin Solstice. I have ret—”
A pillar of earth punched him off the ground, and Niers saw the God of Magic cartwheeling through the air. The Titan grunted.
“Shit reflexes on that one. Good to know.”
He turned his head; almost everyone was gone. The inn’s people, what few survivors from the bombardment there were—only Ishkr and those without anything left to lose remained.
Centaurs. Balerosians all, grim-faced, covering Perorn’s retreat. Barely more than three dozen; even the others had run rather than stay in this doomed world.
“Ishkr! Hold that door open for three more minutes, then get out of here!”
Niers roared at the Gnoll and saw Ishkr’s head turn towards him. Then Niers glanced right and left.
“Tarath, you bastard. You’re supposed to go with Perorn.”
“Someone’s got to buy time for our treasured commander to flee. Looks like that god-thingy is up and mad, Lord Astoragon. How’re we gonna put him down for good?”
The lieutenant’s eyes were shining wetly, but the [Soldiers] around him were all waiting for the Titan’s words. They had faith in him, even now, that he could harm this bastard.
Niers smiled at all of them, committing their faces to memory. He saluted them.
“Thank you. And I’m sorry.”
“Just give the orders, Lord Astorag—”
One of the Centaurs raised an axe, cheering—then a puzzled expression crossed his face. He recoiled a step, reaching out for Niers…
And vanished. In a flash of light. Tarath spun, cursing, to the God of Magic, but it wasn’t Emerrhain; he was getting on his feet, red-faced. The Centaur realized who had done it and turned to Niers.
“[Castling the Pieces].”
The Titan of Baleros teleported the Centaurs around him, all except Tarath. Sent them across the world, trading places with…he gazed up as the first of their replacements shimmered into being.
“General Diomedes. You made it.”
The Cyclops was kneeling, and his eye fixed on the ruined wasteland around Liscor, then on Niers.
“You’ve burnt a city to ash, Lord Astoragon. The same as the Goblin King, eh?”
His smile was faint. His eye threatened annihilation. But the Titan merely tipped his cap to him.
“I was never different from the Goblin King. I just respected more rules. That thing will eat the world. Look. If you want to run, give me three minutes of battle. Understood?”
More people were appearing. General Gloriam and his best bodyguards, every Named-rank adventurer or champion Niers had—
The Seer of Steel. Last of all was a Squirrel Beastkin woman, who appeared with a weary sigh.
“Never thought I’d see the end of a world. Mm. I don’t like him. What’s his favorite food?”
“Hello, Foliana. Us.”
The woman drew her blades, and Three-Color Stalker peered at the God of Magic, who had halted, seeing his foes.
“Yuck.”
The God of Magic looked delighted as he spread his arms grandly.
“A veritable feast, Lord Astorag—”
General Diomedes lifted a throwing axe from his belt and threw it. The God of Magic had erected a barrier spell of some kind, but the shockwave from the gigantic metal axe hitting his barrier still knocked him head over heels. The Cyclops followed it up with a beam of magic from his eye.
“PUSHING THE FOE APPEARS TO WORK. YOUR ORDERS, LORD ASTORAGON? MY PEOPLE ARE TELEPORTING HERE. CAN SOME OF THE DULLAHANS BE SAVED?”
The Seer of Steel observed calmly. He turned to Niers, and the Titan shrugged.
“The door’s closing in three minutes. All of you, get out of here. But we’re hurting that thing first. You’ve brought the weapons? It’s authority or faith. The bastard killed the Painted Antinium from afar. He only flinched once—when Queen Geilouna slapped him.”
“AH. I SEE. THEN WE HAVE A CHANCE.”
The Seer of Steel produced a gigantic mace from his bag of holding and hefted it. The Hammer of the North; an heirloom of Dullahans. The rest of Niers’ forces brought out weapons of similar nature.
The Titan of Baleros had no such weapon himself; the Fraerlings may have had kingdoms or that kind of system of governance, once, but such weapons were locked away in the vaults of their cities and had not the legacy he suspected they needed. So he just stood there on the hilltop, dirt crunching under his boots as he gave orders.
And walked. The Titan drank a little flask, and then he was growing, for a few precious minutes as big as one of the Tallfolk. He trudged away from The Wandering Inn. Counting.
One minute.
Two minutes.
After two and a half, he gave a single order and counted who made it. The last to reach the door was Foliana. She glanced back at him, and he waved, jaunty. She pulled herself through the door, fur shredded, and Niers saw the Gnoll, that brave [Server], hesitate—then pull himself through as well.
The portal didn’t close, despite Ishkr ceasing to hold onto the root.
“Damn. Thought not. Something’s gravely wrong.”
Niers Astoragon sighed and kicked at a clod of dirt. His feet crunched over cooling glass, and the air blew only hellfire around him. Spells were still raining down; it appeared like the end of the world. The Floodplains was a burning wasteland, a crater.
Appropriate. The Titan turned as a figure halted.
Emerrhain was wounded. He seemed like the same, imperious God of Magic, only now he had taken the form of a Fraerling, like Niers, tall and commanding, some Architect of the cities. Two Fraerlings masquerading as Tallfolk with the Signim running through their veins.
Pretentious cowards. Niers’ lip curled as he swung around. Yes, the God of Magic looked unharmed, but he’d taken some damage. However slight.
