In the distance, The Wandering Inn collapsed, and Emerrhain swung his eyes to the portal, then set them on Niers again. Vexation was in his icy tones.
“You have won a small victory, delaying me here, [Strategist]. You were even willing to sacrifice yourself to delay my entry into that place for a few moments. Tell me, did you love someone I slew that much?”
“The [Innkeeper].”
Niers’ voice was light, and he was relaxed as he reached for a weapon at his side. A sword, enchanted, sharp—Emerrhain’s eyes swung towards it, then up towards Niers.
“Ah. How amusing. You would have done better to cut your own throat, however. Your soul is more nourishing than a thousand of the others.”
He was still trying to pretend he was cultured, intelligent, not just a monster wearing the skin of decency. Niers pitied him.
The Titan was covered in ash and sin. He couldn’t stop smiling, and perhaps that unsettled the God of Magic. Or, perhaps, it drew him towards Niers for these precious moments, even now. As if he wanted to impress mortals.
“Out of curiosity, how much would you say a ‘soul’ is worth? Is mine worth more than taking a blow like the one the Seer of Steel gave you?”
The God of Magic’s lips twisted, and he hesitated, then answered with a sneer.
“It reaches parity, depending on the blow. But this delay costs me little. The doors are open. There are endless worlds to feast on.”
“If someone doesn’t stop you. The key is doing more damage than you take. Or delaying their advance.”
Niers agreed absently. He fiddled with something in his ear—an earpiece and spoke into it.
“You hear that, Perorn? Starve him out.”
“Yes, Lord Astoragon. Orders received. Fight well.”
Niers tossed the earpiece down and stepped on it, more for show than anything else, since it was too well-enchanted to break. He had the small satisfaction of seeing the God of Magic’s face grow slack. Then his head turned, and an invisible Centaur reappeared and cantered towards the door. She fired a single arrow; it flashed past Emerrhain’s face as he flinched.
Then Perorn Fleethoof fled into the portal. Wordlessly, the God of Magic turned back to Niers.
“Oh come now, you don’t think I gave all my orders verbally, did you? Within hearing distance of the enemy? I saw Ishkr let go of the root by accident when you first cast magic. He was trying to seal the door just now, not keep it open. A shame. I outmaneuvered you with all the pieces I had. But I just didn’t have a way to take you off the board.”
The Titan rolled one shoulder, sighing, like a grandmaster conceding defeat against an inferior opponent for reasons out of his control. An expert yielding to a blind, crippled, idiot child simply because he had only a single pawn against an entire chess board’s worth of pieces.
The God of Magic stood there, humiliated, then pointed a finger.
“Like Gnomes, your kind will suffer for this. Vanish, little Titan.”
He tried to cast a spell, to immobilize Niers, or to just erase the little Fraerling.
Nothing happened. Emerrhain stared stupidly at one finger, and Niers lowered his own finger.
“[Battlefield: Even Ground – No Magic, No Luck, No Skills, Only Strategy]. Not much use when I wanted the Seer of Steel to send you flying. Now, it’s just us. Show me what you can do without your little tricks, coward.”
One last barb lodged under the God of Magic’s skin. He strode forwards, magicless, but still able to destroy at a single touch. And Niers wasn’t that fast, even with Signim.
The Fraerling twisted back from the grasping hands. Emerrhain was so casual; he reached out with a smile. The Titan pivoted and slashed across the God of Magic’s throat and heard a chuckle.
His blade cut through the throat and did no damage at all. Niers glanced down at his shortsword and raised it bitterly, putting his other hand to his belt, reaching into his bag of holding. The God of Magic lunged for him, grinning, and Niers stepped back, dropped his shortsword and hit Emerrhain in the face with a wooden club.
He felt the God of Magic’s nose break and heard the cry of genuine, shocked pain. Niers almost kicked him as Emerrhain stumbled, then caught himself, and the [Strategist] followed the blow up with another to the back of the head.
He would have continued pounding the downed god, but Emerrhain rolled away, and stumbled to his feet, clutching a bleeding nose. It healed instantly, but Niers knew he’d felt that.
“How…?”
The Titan raised Pawn’s club. He’d gotten it from the Antinium as the [Priest] had fled. Then the Titan was laughing, a bastard and a monster facing another on the broken ground.
“Come on, you immortal little shit. There’s no dignified victory to win. Just me in every world! Come on, you coward, you—”
Emerrhain leapt at him, and the Titan of Baleros kept laughing in his face until those cold hands touched him. Then the world melted away, and he saw that face as he—whatever Niers Astoragon of this world was—became part of it.
Trapped in a wall made of souls, transmuted into the bones of a god. Subsumed into an idea. But the Fraerling’s last, eternal vision was of that frustrated, bloody face. A pathetic little man.
Just like him.
 
——
 
The God of Magic emerged into the [Palace of Fates], chasing the fleeing people. He looked from door to door, moving into the one closest to him with a snarl. They were all coming, now.
The dead gods, and there was nothing that could stop them.
Not even other gods.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”>
 
His name was Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, and he had killed eighty-nine of the Blighted Kingdom’s soldiers in secret.
It wasn’t his real name, of course. It was the name he had chosen for himself, instead of the lost, pathetic mortal boy he’d once been.
You got to choose who you wanted to be, that was the secret. Had his life been wholly happy? Of course not. But he had enjoyed those days with his master. A master he’d chosen to serve. Call him a dog, Pestilence’s Hound, a servant to a monster. Whatever you wished.
He had never asked for anyone to understand. His only judge was himself.
The undead, wearing a half-Elf’s remembered face, stood in silence. Not literal silence. A Dragonlord was roaring as he fought the armies of Rhir. A city was blaring warnings into the air, and people were screaming and running for the inn as the faithful of the Painted Antinium defended it.
—But it was all quiet for Tolveilouka. He gazed up and spoke.
“Master…? Lord Zacheales? Z-Zach?”
He used that silly nickname that woman had given his beloved master, and even if it would have earned him scorn and the Putrid One’s ire, the half-Elf would have welcomed it. For he knew he would never hear that voice again.
The Putrid One was gone. How, the Revenant didn’t know, but Tolveilouka felt his absence. He had wondered, for ages, if his master were truly dead. But the true disappearance of the Putrid One’s Skills, his authority, was undeniable.
Gone. And with him…the Painted Antinium around the inn, locked in combat with Rhir’s soldiers stumbled. Many fell. Some died on the spot, and Tolveilouka heard a cry.
So she had died too, that [Innkeeper] they believed in.
Both at once. He did not know where; the lands of the dead, perhaps. But Tolveilouka knew who had done it.
A Crone was cackling as she appeared in the Floodplains of Liscor. A withered woman, who appeared to him like a half-Elf ancient beyond aeons. But, simultaneously, like a rotted corpse with no true species.
A dead thing that terrified him, for she stood above him, above his master, above all beings of death. Part of him longed to obey her every command, but he did not move.
For it was she who had killed his master, he knew.
Kasigna, the Crone, had triumphed. She raised her withered hands skyward, and they were suddenly realer than before. She stood before the Painted Antinium, and something broke in their hearts and minds.
An idea died. In the [Palace of Fates], Apostle Pawn stumbled and fell to his knees. He turned his head, and that center of faith that had driven him cracked. His faith did not disappear. But the being to whom it belonged did.
“Erin?”
The Crone had been victorious. But her triumph had a cost. Tolveilouka saw the aged woman wipe at one cheek, and there was blood that ran from her body. Divine blood from a cut along one cheek.
She removed a shard of metal and tossed it to the ground; the blade of a kitchen knife vanished, like an idea. Then she began striding up the hill, towards the living.
The Dragonlord breathed flames at her, trying to stop her approach. But she walked through the flames with the power of the divine in her.
Towards the door leading out of this world.
Tolveilouka made no move towards her. He lay down and curled up. His soul, which had done battle with Dragons and the greatest warriors of his time, had no more will to continue.
Not until someone kicked him, at least.
It wasn’t a hard kick. The half-Elf stirred and sat up. He was hidden from sight; even the [Heroes] couldn’t see him. Nothing should have found him, save perhaps the Crone, but she had already left through the door; even the Dragonlord hadn’t been able to slow her.
A foot kicked him again, and the half-Elf spun with a snarl.
“Who—?”
Then he saw her. For the first time ever. He had stood before her mere shell so many times. Pondered erasing her. But he had never seen those lips frozen in that unchanging smile move.
Not until now.
Erin Solstice stood there, and she was no more alive than he was. She was…shimmering, like a half-remembered thought. A dying idea.
The Goddess of the Painted Antinium lifted a hand.
“I’m sorry. I lost. She took it all. My friends. Your master. My…faith. I couldn’t stop her. I didn’t understand the rules, and she’s old. Something from beyond the dawn of time, an elder God or something. I tried.”
She wore the bitterest expression he had ever seen. Tolveilouka reached out a hand, and the dying fragment of the Goddess of The Wandering Inn flickered. He could have erased her with a single gesture, as he had longed to do so often.
He didn’t. Instead, the Revenant, the finest creation of the Putrid One, lowered his hands.
“My master?”
“He tried to help me. I’m sorry, Tolve. She ate him too.”
“I know. I felt him go. Did he have any last messages for…?”
The Goddess opened her mouth to lie, and he turned away when he saw the truth in her eyes. The painful truth he had always known. In her way, she had cared more about him than his master did.
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. I couldn’t stop her. I’ve let them all down. Pawn. Everyone who matters. I’m sorry.”
She stumbled forwards, and she was fading away. She clung to his shoulders, and he felt her touch on his skin, a mere thought. The young woman whispered in his ears.
“Would you…hear my last request, servant of the Putrid One? In his name and mine?”
He bowed and whispered through a hoarse throat.
“Command me, my Master.”
She smiled as she let go and stood before him once. Then she pointed.
“Find that Crone. Make her suffer. Kill all of them, and protect everything you can.”
She asked it of him, another impossible, onerous task. But for once, the half-Elf knelt, and his smile split his face. He knelt and pledged it with all his heart.
“Thy will be done.”
He thought he heard a laugh, rueful and ashamed and relieved—then a sigh. When he raised his head—
She was gone.
The half-Elf knelt a moment longer, for that aggravating Goddess he had never understood. Then he rose and followed the Crone into that [Palace of Fates]. His task was heavy indeed, he realized.
The Crone was not the only one.
They were all coming.
 
——
 
“Oh, Mother. Oh, fate. I am bitter, for I am here again.”
A woman with a blade spoke from the middle of the [Palace of Fates]. She appeared as a door burst open and Crelers flooded into the [Palace of Fates]. The world that Teriarch had scorched had only been temporarily cleared of Crelers. An entire planet’s worth of vermin was still there, and now an Elder Creler crawled through. Or rather, parts of it; one leg filled the entire hallway, which had to widen to accommodate the horror.
(In the name of They Who Slumber. Eradicate it all! Conquer this place! Infest and destroy! Destroy!)
The Elder Creler was first of a vanguard to find what this portal was and slaughter all who lay before it. It came from a world where the Creler Wars had been lost. Vast towers of sacrifice rose in a land devoid of life, and an army without limit flooded around its legs, lesser Crelers shrieking victory.
Not quite the same as those given the right to level. But did they have souls? A hand touched the scrabbling leg, and the triumphant mind of the Elder Creler turned to confusion. Then fear.
It evaporated. Cauwine made a sound and spat. The Goddess of Last Stands shook her head.
“Unworthy of joining my pantheon of souls. A foul little dream conjured by one of my kindred. Vanish.”
The flood of Crelers slowed as they saw a being they could not comprehend. She swung her sword—and the door shuddered, then collapsed as she cut across it.
Screaming—a world twisted around the cut, then was dragged into the cut in reality.
Sundered. Cauwine turned from the door and strode across the [Palace of Fates]. She halted, as a hallway filled with [Soldiers] appeared before her, and a voice boomed.
“This is the war I have dreamed of! Forwards, my Seven!”
The King of Destruction was leading his armies across the [Palace of Fates], and his rampage was one of the most successful—his [Soldiers] fought or captured people and monsters from every world. They were cheering as his Seven cleared corridors, hunting for the exit.
The Goddess of Last Stands’ eyes brightened as she locked eyes with the King of Destruction. When he spotted her, Flos Reimarch’s eager face became, for a moment, apprehensive.
“…Hold. That is—I don’t know what that is. Be cautious.”
Amerys pointed a finger at Cauwine and fired a bolt of blue lightning. Cauwine cut the bolt in half, then in half again, so fast that the crackling shards of electricity ground themselves along the hallway in explosions of light and sound. She walked forwards, open-armed for the King of Destruction.
“Ah. A worthy soul. Take my hand, oh King Reimarch. You and I…are so similar.”
“Protect His Majesty!”
Another world’s Orthenon barked, and arrows flew towards Cauwine. She cut them out of the air, so idly that someone lifted a sword.
“Stand back. She’s mine.”
Mars the Illusionist advanced, and Cauwine beamed at her. A delighted smile—and a guilty one all at once. For the Illusionist had no chance of besting her.
