The metal squealed in agony before I wrenched it out of the wall. I ripped half the door out and shattered the stained glass holding it together. I continued pulling the metal weapon into my hand, feeding it into my palm using my fingers. It scrunched together like wadded paper before I tossed it behind me. After it let out a deep thump on the ground, I turned to Neel.

"So you're on good terms with this guy?"

Neel spread his hands.

"I mean...In a manner of speaking, sure."

I turned forward before walking through the doorway. It gave way under the weight of my momentum, and I entered the living room like a breaching round. I raised a hand and snapped my fingers. The chimney at the center of the rusticly decorated space exploded, revealing a soot-covered individual. A short, fat man covered in dark dust shivered. He murmured to himself.

"The Vietcong...They're going to get me."

I turned to him.

"You said that Billy-Bob wasn't from the army? You lying sack of sh-"

Neel shook his hands.

"Hey, it felt bad to be that predictable, alright? It isn't like I want to be a stereotype."

Billy-Bob turned to me, and he winced.

"They...They're finally here."

I set him down on an antique sofa.

"Hey. We're just taking a moment to look for some people."

Billy-Bob trembled.

"They've come. They're here."

I turned a hand to him.

"You've really outdone yourself with this source, Neel. Grade A Stuff, I got to admit."

Neel raised a hand before lunging to one knee. He got close to Billy-Bob, and Neel put a hand on Billy-Bob's cheek. Neel put his forehead against Billy-Bobs.

"Listen to me. You're just fine. I'm here with you."

Billy-Bob shivered for a bit before calming down. Neel pulled his face back and lowered his hand before smiling.

"We were wondering where the Hillside family was. Any ideas?"

Billy-Bob blinked before nodding.

"They...They. I can hear them."

I walked forward before ascendant mana surged in my runes. A menacing smile grew over my helmet before I siphoned the mana out of Billy-Bob using Event Horizon. He stopped moving and collapsed before Neel stood up and turned to me.

"What in the hell are you doing, boy? I'm about ready to smack you."

I turned to him, my voice heavier than iron.

"You forget yourself."

Neel blinked before taking a step back. He clasped his hands to fists.

"Gah. Just say what you're doing before you do it."

I narrowed my eyes.

"You've seen my guild and how I conduct myself. Show some trust while I save a tortured soul."

Billy-Bob stopped trembling before a wave of clarity washed over him. He took deep breaths before he peered up at us. He spoke in a New Yorker accent.

"I haven't felt this clear since the 2008 financial crisis."

Neel smiled at his old friend.

"You're looking like dirty, chewed-up shoe leather."

Billy-Bob took a breath before standing up. He brushed himself off.

"And you look like Colonel Kurtz if Marylyn Brando was anorexic."

They clasped hands like in an 80s action movie before Neel raised his brow.

"I missed you, you sonofabitch."

Billy-Bob looked up at me, fear palpable in his eyes.

"You don't have to worry about missing me for long. This right here's my sleep-paralysis demon. Just when I thought my head had finally cleared up, the vision's more realistic than ever."

Neel walked over.

"Demon? No. This is my grandson, so show some respect if you don't mind."

Billy-Bob nodded before reaching out a hand.

"Billy-Bob Delacroix."

I shook his hand.

"Daniel Hillside."

Billy-Bob's eyes widened.

"You? You're Daniel? That little shit?"

I smiled, but the expression didn't quite reach my eyes.

"In the flesh. More like steel at this point, though."

Billy-Bob took a step back. He eyed me up and down.

"Of all the people to succeed in the apocalypse, you were the last person I expected to see."

I frowned.

"Is that right?"

Billy-bob nodded.

"Oh yeah. I thought you'd go full psycho and kill your whole hometown."

A bit of mana leaked from my runes. Neel clapped his friends back.

"Billy-Bob's just regained his consciousness after a long sleep. He's not thinking with his right mind."

Billy-Bob blinked before looking up at me. As if realizing how physically imposing I was all at once, he fell back onto the sofa. He stammered.

"I...I-I'm sorry, Daniel, sir. I didn't mean any disrespect."

His fear gave me no joy, satisfaction, or contentment. If anything, I felt cheated out of confronting this asshole. Now, he wouldn't give me the chance to say my piece. Instead, he'd be whimpering out of fear the entire time. As if sensing the tension, Neel spread his arms wide.

"How in the hell did you fix him up so fast anyway? I always thought it was the Agent Orange that made him all loopy like that."

Billy-Bob shoved Neel's arm. Billy-Bob scoffed.

"You always think it's Agent Orange."

Neel's eyes narrowed.

"Cuz it almost always is."

I turned a hand to them both.

"I did a psionic checkup. He was struggling with mana poisoning. He had an embedded consciousness that was wrestling for control. I took it out by sapping his mana."

I pulled my helmet off my face, my appearance no longer as threatening.

"And you must have some pretty gnarly sleep-paralysis demons."

We took a few minutes to let Billy-bob relax, brew some tea, and get the guy hydrated. He'd crawled up his chimney in a panic after we arrived, and the ascendant mana drove his paranoia through the roof. He thought he'd contracted schizophrenia forty years ago when he was a teenager, but apparently, he'd managed his condition until the system started.

That fired off alarm bells. He shouldn't have had ascendant mana inside his mind until after the system started. To fix my curiosity, I sat down on a gravity well, and they were on the sofa. I leaned forward.

"I'm glad you guys are catching up, but we have some people to hunt down."

Billy-Bob frowned.

"Ah, is it the Hillsides? Are you here to even the score against Deryll after he smacked you good that one time?"

I raised a brow.

"You mean the backhand? No. I'm here to find my father."

Billy-Bob shook his head in disgust.

"Oh, Jacob's still alive? It's crazy how the worst of us seem to die last. He passed through a couple of years after the system started. I heard he escaped with some hussy into the Rockies."

I couldn't help but pity that poor woman. I glared at a window.

"We'll need something more specific than that. Do you have any more details?'

Billy-Bob scratched his chin.

"Huh. I don't know anything about Jacob, but I do know where the Hillsides settled down."

Neel scoffed.

"Sorry, Billy, but we're in a rush, so let's cut to the chase. Where'd they go?"

Billy-Bob shook his head.

"They settled down in Cherokee Ranch and Castle from what I last heard."

I opened my status.

"Isn't that a museum? Or like a wedding venue, right?"

Billy-Bob threw his hands up.

"What can I tell you? The original owners and a few other settlers died during the system's initial outbreak, and they were the first to take out the dungeon in the area. I actually think Deryll's the one that made it happen."

Neel frowned.

"Ugh. Piece of trash who beats on kids."

Billy-bob furrowed his brow.

"Didn't you do that too?"

Neel waved him off.

"But Jacob had it coming."

The simple statement was a reminder of who Neel had been and likely still was. I stood before rolling my shoulders.

"Come on. I don't have time to waste here."

Neel turned to Billy Bob. My grandfather smiled.

"It's good to see you're doing better than I expected."

Billy-Bob coughed up some soot.

"You weren't expecting much, were you?"

"Not a bit. Take care of yourself, you hear?"

"You too, and don't ever forget the vision we saw."

"I couldn't if I tried."

They clasped hands one last time before we headed out. As we walked onto the street, I turned to Neel.

"What was the vision you both had?"

Neel peered at the sky. He pointed up.

"See that there? There was a moon and an ocean of wine. There was something spiritual about the place. A voice told us to embrace consequence and finality. The certainty in that voice let me move on from the war. I felt like I could trust it."

I narrowed my eyes.

"When did that happen?"

"Ooh, probably the summer of 82. The hippy thing was long past its prime, but we were keeping it alive."

I smiled, the expression menacing.

"I've heard that voice too."

Neel leaned back.

"Really now? Did it help you move on from something hard, too? It doesn't look like it."

I scoffed.

"It gave me the courage to challenge beings greater than myself."

In the middle of the street, Althea materialized. Neel tossed one of his knives at her before she caught it between her fingers. She grinned.

"Did I scare yah?"

Neel's hand shook before he let it down.

"Sorry about that, but it's not the best idea to sneak up on veterans. We have a habit of reacting with force."

She tossed the knife back at Neel. With inhuman accuracy, it snapped into his sheath as she laughed.

"I'll take my chances. But uh, what did you guys find?"

I pointed off in the distance.

"Where the Hillsides are. You?"

Althea frowned.

"I learned how greedy people can be when you offer help. Again. These people asked if I could rebuild a ski resort. You'd think they lost their minds."

I shrugged before pulling everyone up.

"They might have, or maybe they were looking for the sweet taste of nostalgia."

Neel adjusted himself for a second.

"I think I'm getting the hang of this-"

He leaned over and vomited for a bit. He wiped his mouth.

"For sure. I definitely am. The projectile vomit lacked the same force, yunno?"

Althea laughed as I shot us forward. By now, Neel didn't want to throw up every thirty seconds as we flew. In ten minutes, we neared the supposed castle. It was an inspired design and rested on a hill that overlooked the rocky mountains. I will say calling it a castle felt like a bit of a stretch.

As we neared it, I shrank to someone a bit shorter than Althea. I molded my armor as much as I could before turning to Neel.

"Do you have extra casual wear of some kind?"

Neel scoffed while opening his personal storage.

"What for?"

I grabbed a T-shirt and jeans and began putting them on. After getting them over me and molding my helmet down, I looked as normal as I could. I floated ahead of Althea.

"How do I look?"

She smiled.

"Like a handsome soldier who needs more constitution."

I frowned.

"Ah, and girls say height doesn't matter."

Althea raised her brow.

"Most of them are lying, but I think it's a sweet thing to spare some feelings."

Neel grunted.

"As sweet as honey laced with Tylenol."

I frowned.

"That's a pretty specific example."

Neel narrowed his eyes.

"I had this lady try and poison me with it one time. She had me drunk before handing me some honeyed coffee to sober up on. The Tylenol was there to induce liver failure or something."

I raised my brow.

"Did it work?"

Neel frowned.

"Like a charm. I barely made it out of that lady's grasp alive. You see, she was necrophiliac. Wanted a big lug to hug her no matter what he wanted."

We neared the castle grounds, more like an excellent wedding venue than a european castle. After landing in the front, I gestured to Neel.

"Do you mind being the lead on this one? I want to lay low for now."

Althea turned to me.

"Would you mind explaining what the disguise is for? You're usually not someone who avoids making a splash."

I met her eye.

"I don't want to terrorize them when we meet. I feel like if I did, I'd lose this opportunity to confront my past."

They nodded, not needing another reason. We walked to the front entrance before Neel knocked on the door. After a minute of waiting, a large, burly man opened the door. Instantly, I got flashbacks as I saw his hand. The guy still wore his graduation ring and the same shit-eating grin.

"My name is Deryll Hillside. Who might you three be?"
