I flicked his forehead again. Neel rubbed the spot.

"It'd be real nice if a sexy grandma was rubbing my damn forehead instead of little ole me. Hell, it'd be even better if she rubbed somewhere else-"

I raised my hands.

"Will you shut the hell up?"

Althea burst into a fit of giggling. She kept laughing until tears ran down her eyes. She wiped a tear.

"Oh, I wish Kessiah was here."

I dragged my hands down my face.

This was going to be a long trip.

Chapter Begin

I walked over and helped pull Neel up.

"Don't you have to go pack or something?"

Neel grabbed my hand and jerked himself upright.

"You're right about that. I'll give you two lovebirds a minute while ole grandpappy gets a move on."

He gave my shoulder a pat.

"You did good, son. Like, real, real good."

He walked off towards the rehab center while shouting.

"I'm gonna have grandkids, everybody."

Althea shook her head with a smile on his face. I frowned. Althea turned to me.

"So what's going on here?"

I turned a hand to her.

"I was actually going to ask the same thing. What are you even doing here?"

She pointed at a building right beside the rehab center.

"I was checking out the educational and orphanage programs here in Chicago. So far, so good, but there are a few details I had to help them iron out. Anyways, lots of people ran in talking about how the Harbinger of Cataclysm was visiting the rehabilitation center. I went to check it out before seeing you and Neel."

I nodded, a mischievous grin on my lips.

"Ah, so now you're spying on me? Rude."

She smirked.

"Only when it's convenient."

She hit my arm.

"Speaking of, when did you plan on telling me about Neel? He seems like a great guy. Also, you're pretty mean to him. I heard you in the dungeon."

My eyes dimmed, a shadow looming in me.

"I've told you about my mother and father. Neel knew about what happened, and he never visited after my mother died."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"Oh...That's pretty unkind of him."

I nodded.

"We really needed his help then, and he let us down. He abandoned my grandmother as well to go off and get high. If anything, he's crumbled under even the slightest modicum of responsibility anytime it rears its ugly head in his life. He's just like my dad that way. Neither of them could handle pressure."

For some reason, I shivered. Althea put a hand on my shoulder.

"I know it's hard to talk about."

I smiled at her.

"It's nothing. Anyway, enough about my melodramatic sob story. We haven't talked in a bit, have we?"

She smiled up at me.

"We've both been pretty busy. I know you've been helping out with the golems and all that other stuff. It's honestly been pretty crazy out there. The dungeons, there changing into this entirely different, er, thing than what they were before."

I peered at the spatial fog.

"I know what you mean. It's like they're dropping slices from other worlds right on top of Earth, and we just have to deal with the outflow of monsters that flood out."

Althea put a hand on her hip.

"We got it covered, I think. It's just a bit...Worrisome, you know?"

I remembered my visions from Baldowah.

"Oh, trust me, I do."

Neel jogged up, having packed in only a few minutes. A dimensional storage ring carried that kind of advantage, but he strapped down plenty of gear to himself. On his sides, two knives made of my dimensional fabric oozed ascendant mana. He carried a series of vials full of different energies alongside a set of scrolls over his chest. It was like a wizard's bandolier.

Althea smiled at him.

"You look prepared."

He grinned her way.

"And you look stunning. Compliments aside, you can never be too careful. I remember this one time in Nam where six Viet Cong stormed our encampment at night. I was the only one in my troop sleeping on my rifle, and that's why I'm still alive while my buddies aren't."

I furrowed my brow.

"That's hard. It's not wonder you wanted to forget it all."

Neel waved his hand.

"The saddest part wasn't the Viet Cong coming at us. It's that I killed three of my pals when I panicked. See, I had done the right thing by putting my rifle under my pillow, but I hadn't mentally prepared myself to use it. That's why you can't just have a contingency plan. You gotta have the resolve and composure to carry it out even under duress."

Althea put her weight onto one leg.

"That's wise of you to say."

Neel stood taller. I frowned.

"You were high on meth, weren't you?"

Neel shrugged.

"Guilty as charged. Are we heading out?'

Althea shrugged.

"It's up to Daniel. I just handled my business and don't have anything I need to take with me."

I turned to her.

"You're coming with?"

She pursed her lips.

"Of course. Unless you're so ashamed of me that you don't want me to see your family."

I leaned back.

"Of course not."

She tilted her head, her hair swinging behind herself.

"Then prove it. I want to meet them. If we ever get married, they'll be the closest thing to relatives we get."

I winced at the prospect. Neel walked up and smirked.

"Honey, let's just say you ain't been missing much."

Althea smiled, the expression lethal.

"I'll be the one to decide that."

Neel gulped. He adjusted his potion bandolier.

"We gone then?"

I answered him by casting gravity wells over each of us. Althea and I elegantly hovered up while Neel scrambled back and forth. Neel shook his hands in frustration.

"I'm a bit too old to be carried around like some toddler-"

A loud, shearing crack echoed from his back. Neel nodded as his eyes closed.

"By god. My back hasn't felt this good since this one time two soldier buddies put me on a medieval torture rack. Painful, but by golly, it was worth it."

Althea and I stared at each other before looking back at him. Neel rolled his eyes.

"I lost a bet, but I had the last laugh...It ended up curing my sciatica."

Althea giggled before we flew up and out of Chicago. I couldn't travel as quickly as normal since Neel had wicked motion sickness. That gave us a few hours to chat. We found a conversational flow that usually entailed Neel telling an insane story before Althea laughed at my reaction to it. Despite myself, I had to admit it was so, so much more fun than spending my days alone crafting golems or training my mind.

But I never stopped training my excess minds. Not for a single moment. I was always tired, but my mind expanded to the point where I could handle it. Besides, it wasn't as if I needed all of myself to chat, and even having a single mind enraptured in the levity of conversation...It was an antidote to my disillusionment.

It reminded me of what I fought for and who I was amidst the mind-bending shenanigans I found myself knee-deep in all the time. As with all good things, it came to a close as we passed towns under siege. While passing any cluster of eldritch or struggling settlement, I landed, made a golem or two, and donated a ton of generated supplies.

Althea paired that with knowledge about how to contact our guild's services alongside a care package of common antidotes she made on the spot. Even Neel offered a course on basic defense skills and easy trees to gain. It was the grunt work that felt oh-so-fulfilling amidst this broken world.

My expansion mission gave us the means to help out the more densely populated parts of the world, but we lacked the manpower to arm every town with a helper. A part of me wanted to drop everything and just fly around beside Neel and Althea, helping people out and talking our days away. It was fun, light, and a change of pace.

But I would never let it happen. I was a golem of my ambition, and I would see it done.

After a week, we crested onto the beginning of the rocky mountains. The snowcapped bulwarks stood the test of time or the panic of an apocalypse, their appearances unchanged from when I last saw them as a child. Seeing the sheer height and size reminded me how small Mt. Verner really was. The majestic feature also exposed how beautiful Earth had been before every damn landmark was turned into some eldritch-infested hellhole.

Denver spread out beneath the peaks, parts of the skyscrapers torn apart by some unknown beast. It still carried that scenic vista if you ignored the plumes of smoke and distant roars from enormous monsters. As we came closer to Castle Rock, Colorado, Neel spat down on the ground.

"Ugh. I hate this town. I hate the Hillsides, too."

Althea frowned.

"What's wrong with this place?"

Neel took a breath.

"It's the strangest damn thing. Castle Rock ain't the richest part of Denver by any stretch, but if you come from the boonies, they had a habit of looking down on you like nobody's business. That was my experience, anywho. It was kind of like they moved this far up in elevation just so they could look down on everywhere else."

Althea's eyes widened.

"Where did you come from?"

Neel smirked.

"Lousiana. Bayou country and the world's hotspot for grilled gator. I got a mean recipe if you ever want to try it."

Althea murmured.

"Huh. Maybe Castle Rock doesn't like gator that much."

Neel laughed.

"They just like living up high so they can look down low, is all."

I raised my brow.

"Are you sure their judgment wasn't just a side effect of how you chose to live your life at the time?"

Neel frowned.

"Maybe. Maybe not, but I'll say this and drop it - they sure as shit judged you, too, didn't they?"

My eyes grew distant, and Althea peered at me, her eyes piercing. I sighed.

"Let's just get this over with."

As we went over the Southern part of Denver, the namesake of Castle Rock rose up like a bad punchline. Even as a child, I always saw the tiny hill and boulder on it as a distraction from the majestic mountains in the distance. It felt like the town itself was trying to steal a glory that wasn't their own, in a way.

Of course, those thoughts stemmed from my childish ideas at the time. Apparently, Neel agreed. He took a breath and opened his status.

"So the lead I got was from this guy called Billy-Bob. He was a guy I met in-"

Althea pointed at him.

"Nam?"

Neel leaned away from her.

"What? No. Billy-bob was a stockbroker from New York. He was one cutthroat guy before he lost his wife in a car accident. He moved out here afterward and basically turned into a hippy. We met when I tried finding a dealer in the area. It turned into a lifelong friendship after we got high on shrooms one time."

Althea's eyes widened.

"Shrooms? Like the eldritch?"

Neel scoffed.

"If they send you to another world, then sure. Why not?"

Althea put a fingertip to her chin.

"They do teleport a lot, but they're not high-level enough for planetary travel."

Neel frowned.

"Then they ain't got nothing on good ole shrooms. Psilocybin is a hell of a drug."

Althea rolled her eyes.

"Psilocybin isn't even that effective. It's not even that great at inducing hallucinations in monsters or for elevating pain tolerance."

Neel shook his head in surprise.

"You know about psilocybin but not shrooms? What in tarnation."

Althea pulled several syringes out of her backpack. Each vial glowed brightly.

"Yeah. I work with a ton of compounds. I use them to help me fight."

Neel's eyes widened in terror as she flashed the syringes. He turned away.

"That's...That's good for you. We should focus on the mission, though."

Althea formed angel wings on her back before diving down over the city.

"Sure. I'll search for the leaders and try to establish some kind of contact here. It shouldn't be that long before we find who's who and learn the lay of the land or whatever you guys call it."

I peered at Neel, my gaze scathing and full of menace. Neel wasn't even aware of my glowering since he wrestled down some demons of his own. He sputtered out.

"Let's do that. Daniel and I will go talk to Billy-Bob."

We split up, and the further we got from Althea, the more relaxed Neel became. As we arrived at a suburban home amidst the dilapidated residential areas, Neel landed without a care in the world. As we stood in the street, I stared at him with all my minds gazing his way.

"What was that reaction to her methods of battle?"

Neel blinked before laughing sheepishly.

"Oh, come on. It's crazy seeing someone carry around a bunch of glowing vials. And, uh, I just didn't expect little ole her to use something like d-drugs to fight. It just caught me off guard, is all."

I narrowed my eyes.

"You sure about that?"

He took a breath and met my eye.

"I am, son. I am."

I nodded before giving his shoulder a pat.

"Good on you, man. I was worried you were having an enormous wave of temptation at the sight of a few compounds, but obviously, I was overreaching. Anyways, let's go meet this guy."

Neel let out a held breath.

"Yeah, it's about that time."

As we stepped forward, Neel let me take the lead. I turned back.

"You're his friend, right? Shouldn't you be the one chatting it up?"

Neel rolled a hand.

"You tend to make a more lasting impression."

I raised my brow before stepping up the driveway. As I walked up the stairway, a hidden beatrap closed onto my leg, the bricks unleashing a set of metal teeth. They shattered against my shin plates, and I kept walking up. At the doorway, two logs exploded out of hidden pockets, each plank of wood thick enough to crush through car windows.

They pulped against my face, not even a mark left on me. As sap dripped from my cheeks, I turned to Neel.

"You never mentioned a ton of traps in your introduction to this guy?"

Neel hid behind me.

"It's just a part of meeting old friends. Can you knock on the door?"

I did, and three hidden compartments opened as a shotgun, a high-caliber sniper rifle, and a minigun fired at me. The bullets crumpled to dust against my metal skin, and I reached out a hand before pinching the barrels of the minigun together.

