“Folded up in the closet.” Stella said as she walked towards the door. “The packing tape is on top of them.” She left the room to clean the dishes. Denise went to the closet and pulled out the tape and pile of folded boxes. She unfolded one, ran the tape over the bottom twice to secure it, then started to fill it with things from the closet.

“We can sort it all later, so don't worry about keeping things separate right now.” Ren said. “Let's just get everything over there.”

Denise nodded and filled the box quickly. She made another one and filled it, too.

“Hand me a box.” Ren said, and Denise made one for him and he took it to the dresser. He sat it on the bed and emptied the top drawer into it, then emptied half of the next one to fill the box. “This one's full.” Ren said, and Denise came over to tape it up and gave him another one, then she went back to the closet and kept packing.

Stella came in and made a couple of boxes for herself, then left again. Ren and Denise continued to work for about an hour, and then the room's door opened.

“Hi, Ren.” Elise said, and her smile lit up the room

“Elise? What are you doing here?” Ren asked. “You should be at work.”

“I've brought the tech crew over.” Elise said. “Technically, this is work.”

Ren smiled at her. “I guess you're making sure the company's assets don't get damaged during the move.”

“If they are, the insurance will cover everything.” Elise said, and gave him a quick kiss on the lips. “You don't have to worry about me so much, Ren.” She said and smiled. “I'm a big girl. I can take care of myself.”

Ren used his finger to motion her closer, and she bent over to put her ear by his mouth. “I can't help it. I have to worry about you.” He whispered, then kissed her earlobe. Her hair covered what he was doing, so he took it into his mouth and nibbled on it a little. Elise took in a quick breath, and Ren sucked on it for a moment, then used his hand to wipe her earlobe off.

“Sorry, I couldn't resist.” Ren whispered to her.

“I'm not complaining.” Elise whispered back, gave him another kiss on the lips, and stood up. “We'll have this all set up and ready by the time you come over with the next load of your things.”

“Thanks, Elise.” Ren said. “You're more than I deserve.”

“You better believe it.” Elise said and winked at him, and saw that the tech guys had everything unhooked as they carried it out of the room. “It looks like they're done already.” She said a little sadly.

“If you're not there by the time we get there, there's something you should know.” Ren said.

“What's that?” Elise asked, curious about what she might have missed.

“I love you.” Ren said and gave her a hug.

Every time I hear that from him, it sounds so nice. Elise thought and hugged him back. Ren slid a hand down and pat the top of her butt a little bit.

“Now get that cute ass out of my sight before I loose all of my self control.” Ren said and grinned.

Elise snorted a laugh. “Now I'm tempted to stay, just to see if you will.”

“Do you want to ruin my perfectly mediocre attempt at helping to pack my own things?” Ren asked. “You horrible, horrible woman!” He said and laughed.

“All right, fine!” Elise said and laughed, too. “I'll have to wait until later to tempt and corrupt you.”

“I look forward to it.” Ren grinned at her. “See you later, Elise.”

“Bye, handsome.” Elise said and left the room.

For the rest of the morning, Ren, Stella and Denise packed up everything and loaded up Denise's car several times. She then went to the house and dropped the things off in the main lobby. It wasn't until they had the last few boxes stashed into Denise's trunk with the wheelchair that they realized they were finally done. Stella went back into the room to make sure. She checked all the drawers, the closet, the bathroom, and even under the bed. Everything was gone. She nodded and went back out.

“That's everything.” Stella said and got into the back seat.

“Finally!” Ren said and looked at Denise. “Home, Jeeves.”

“I am not your butler, you little stinker.” Denise chuckled and started the car. They drove to the new place and went inside. It didn't take as long to move the things into the elevator to take them up to Ren's room, or the dishes and things to the kitchen, or the bathroom items into Ren's big bathroom.

“I think we might have missed Elise.” Ren said and sat down on his bed.

“By a few hours.” Stella said. “You'll see her again soon.”

Ren nodded and sighed. “Now I have a problem.”

“Really.” Denise said as she brought in the last thing from downstairs. It was his rollaway table, and she adjusted it to fit over the new bed. “What problem is that?”

“I still need a little help in the shower.” Ren said and smiled. “Which one of you beautiful ladies would like to help me?”
