Ogras shifted, appearing before Tavza, who was lying unconscious in a hollow, tightly gripping the nastiest book he’d ever seen. The girl was alive—as far as the undead goes—but she’d seen better days. She was covered in scars, and Ogras frowned at the familiar aura they exuded. He’d seen damage just like it on Zac inside the Void Star. The kiss of Chaos.

Just what had happened after they lost communication? Was there a fallout between Tavza and Zac? Deeply concealed Killing Intent flickered in Ogras’s eyes as his spear appeared without a sound. This was the perfect opportunity to finish the job.

Ogras shook his head. He put away the spear and disappeared, bringing the unconscious lass with him. He had too little information, and killing Tavza risked ruining Zac’s plans. Worse, it might bring a heap of trouble on his own little head. Tava An’Azol was a bona fide princess, the kind that could cause trouble from beyond the grave.

Killing was out of the question, but he needed to take proper precautions. Ogras kept a frantic pace for an hour. After confirming there was no sign of his pursuers, he found a hidden cave.

‘Will these things work properly with her?’ Ogras asked as he dubiously looked at the set of manacles in his hands.

‘Uh, I think so?’ K’Rav answered, his voice laced with deadly levels of uncertainty.

Ogras frowned and added a restrictive necklace after fastening the chains to Tavza’s hands. He still didn’t feel safe. This was a proper tyrant with a Supremacy granddaddy. Who knew what methods she possessed? Thankfully, restraints were one thing Ogras didn’t lack after hunting dozens of heretics on his way back to Zecia.

‘Won’t she suffocate if you keep going like this?’ the spectral goblin asked, more out of curiosity than worry.

‘It should be fine. This girl is supposed to be some form of Death battery,’ Ogras slowly said, looking at the bundled-up Tavza with a frown. ‘Maybe we should play it safe.’

Ogras didn’t have any of those protective treasures designed for the undead, so he settled for tying a couple of Miasma Crystals to her limbs. Together, they formed something resembling a weak deathly domain. It was highly inefficient, but it should keep her safe for a moment. He finished his work by fastening a Miasma Crystal to her forehead.

Doing so, Ogras noticed two abyssal eyes staring up at him. His heart clenched, but he didn’t let it show. He calmly tied a knot at the back of Tavza’s head, properly securing the crystal.

“Hey there. How are you feeling, miss?”

“What—what are you doing?” Tavza asked, her voice shaking from barely contained rage.

Ogras looked at the little princess with interest. So her face wasn’t frozen in that know-it-all expression. If she didn’t have those scary eyes—Ogras shook his head. No, there are enough pretty flowers among the living. There’s no need to raid a crypt for companionship. The fleeting thought barely had time to form before Tavza’s scowl deepened. Damn, could the lass read minds?

Well, so what if you can? Try to complain, see where that’ll get you.

Naturally, Ogras wouldn’t say that out loud. He adopted a troubled expression. “Tough times call for difficult decisions. I was just attacked by my companion, and I can’t find Zac. Instead, I stumbled onto you covered in highly suspicious wounds. Having heard of Miss An’Azol’s great reputation, I had no choice but to inconvenience you until I understood the situation.”

“The wounds are of my own making,” Tavza said with frightening calm. “I have taken inspiration from Zachary Atwood’s unconventional path to create a powerful attack.”

“Then I feel like I should give you some advice as a longtime follower of Zac’s. Riding his coattails is fine, if dangerous. Trying to emulate his flavor of madness will only lead to disaster. Money and wits can’t make up for his dumb luck,” Ogras said.

“If you believe me, why aren’t you removing the restraints?”

“I would still like to touch base with our friend before making any hasty decisions,” Ogras said. “Not to worry, I’ll bring you along free of charge.”

The silence lingered for a few seconds before Tavza spoke. “I have a tracker in my Spatial Ring. If you unseal—“

“That won’t be necessary. I have my own tracker.”

“And yet you haven’t located him. You must understand that's not a good sign.”

“I’m sure he’s occupied. Slaying gods is a demanding job,” Ogras said, inwardly agreeing with her assessment. “In either case, we’ve already been sent into the inner region. We just need to head for the pillar, and Zac should pop up sooner or later.”

“The inner region? What does that mean?”

“Don’t worry, I’ll tell you all about it,” Ogras said as he hoisted Tavza over his shoulder—her head behind him so that he didn’t have to face her indignant stare. “It looks like our tail has caught up.”
