Ranthia had important questions. Chief among them was how the shimagu were reacting faster than Remera could, but the world wasn’t going to give her answers while she stood on the wall. And yet, no matter how tempted she was to just leap over, she instead moved back into Remera proper. Ranthia kept the legionaries—and a growing number of dwarves—in motion, but she needed to remain until the rescue party, at the very least, was ready. The risk of some idiot overriding her orders in her absence was too high.

The [Starship] had completed its remarkably controlled disintegration and scattered people, crates, and dulled arcanite across the wasteland, yet Ranthia lingered, shouting orders. The [Healers] had four powerhouses—including the dwarf she was fond of—gathered at the gates while the rest, along with their apprentices, prepared the medical tents. And a number of dwarves were ready to go.

Yet her rescue team was dismal—twelve volunteers, four of which were supposed to be assigned to the walls. But the base commander’s people were interfering, which meant Ranthia was left making a judgment call.

“Rescue and retrieval teams, move out!” Ranthia ordered, turning to the gates.

One of the base commander’s advisors was shouting to keep the gates shut, but the shrub-like dwarf with the incredibly bushy fusion of beard and hair was quick to point out a hell of a counterargument: they had enough strength to lift the gate themselves, so why bother denying the Sentinel’s orders?

The [Mages] on gate duty levitated the heavy stones, and Ranthia’s too-small team rushed for the crash site.

“We’ll get there ahead of the shimagu, but they’ll be too close to Remera before we get back!” One of the scouts Ranthia had worked with shouted to her—as if she wasn’t already all too aware.

“Rescue operations first, Sentinel Aurora and I will work out the rest!” Ranthia ordered with absolute confidence, not that she truly felt it.

There were twenty-some-odd legionaries littered about the crash site, several of which were wounded—some severely. But Ranthia breezed past them as she searched for the woman she sought. There! Sentinel Aurora was bleeding from a gash to her forehead, but she was on her feet.

“You realize Remera isn’t rated for landing, right?” Ranthia called out.

“If the generals won’t supply you correctly, you should try yelling at Night until he convinces Ranger Command to open the coffers!” Aurora spat in response, before her face stretched into a grin.

Yeah, that’s her alright. Ranthia breathed a sigh of relief inwardly, before she tore off her pouches of fused arcanite and threw them to the woman. Her fellow Sentinel caught them with an appreciative nod and stuffed her fingers into both as she pulled against the unattuned arcanite for precious mana.

By that point, her rescue team—and the upright legionaries—were collecting the wounded while the dwarves grabbed inert chunks of arcanite and what few crates and barrels had survived the crash. There wasn’t much cargo, but it had ended up scattered across a large area—it might have been at least partially controlled, but it was still a crash landing.

“Get moving, back to Remera! Aurora, with me—we need barriers to hold the shimagu back!” Ranthia ordered, falling back on the instincts she developed at the Unbreakable Image.

A chorus of wildly inconsistent assents answered her orders. Yes sir, yes ma’am, aye, as ye want, and more. But even with the delightful lack of uniformity of words, the men and women that followed her all acted as they were expected. The group got underway.

Four of the crash victims were in bad enough condition that, under ideal circumstances, Ranthia would have preferred to bring a [Healer] to them instead of risking their lives. But the shimagu weren’t making the situation ideal.

Ranthia led the way, joined one-by-one by her images as swiftly as she could form them. She couldn’t fill the battlefield with them, but she had enough lead that her eight images offered some measure of defense for those that followed.

“That’s so damned unnerving to actually watch.” Aurora muttered under her breath—and yet not nearly quietly enough—as she struggled to keep up with her faster coworker.

They made great time getting back to Remera, but Ranthia was already playing defense. Shimagu-infected ogres loosed thick, crude arrows that Ranthia intercepted with her knives or images, while [Mages] hidden within the bodies of bruisers unleashed ranged attacks of almost every element the System possessed. Sticky pellets of Ooze threatened to slow people down, jagged spikes of Earth sought blood and death, and the damned parasites even had a Sound [Mage] calling out fake orders with a rough approximation of Ranthia’s voice—though Aurora seemed to be readily able to tell the difference and was calling out “Ignore!” or “Act!” to mitigate the damage.

Once they reached Remera’s gates, Aurora threw up beautiful, curved panes of starlight to try to wall off the shimagu.

Yet the gates remained closed.

“Open the gates!” Ranthia ordered.

“Close the keeped gates!” The shimagu—clearly not an expert at Creation—tried to amp up the confusion.

Godsdamnit, the Sound [Mage] wasn’t even slowed down by Aurora’s barriers. Ranthia started to dance in place to build up the momentum she’d need to go over the barriers. If she could push the shimagu back with just her images—

“OI! OPEN DA FOOKIN’ GATES, YE ORC-SCENTED TURDS!”

The gates hurriedly rose, and the dwarven [Battlemaster] emerged, followed by eight of her people’s combat teams.

“Shieldstrike, tip o’ the pickaxe! Mashers, Maulers, Steelhand—follow ‘em up! Ironface, Dark Glory, Orcsplitters, Gorer, hold da line! You, Barrier Babe, can ye do a tunnel—with a fookin’ ceilin’?!” The woman demanded as the bells woven throughout her prodigious beard rang out.

“I… yes!” Aurora answered.

“Bully! Yer ‘ith me! Grace, you do you!” The [Battlemaster] pointed one of her fragile-looking hollow swords forward.

The people that followed Ranthia worked to get everyone and everything inside Remera, while the dwarves tore into the shimagu like a force of nature. Team Shieldstrike led one front into their enemies, while Aurora shaped a corridor of starlight that trapped others in a faux tunnel—with a woman that was at her deadliest in a confined space.

Aurora started cursing and rapidly drained Ranthia’s arcanite while she made a valiant effort to keep her cracking panes of Celestial material intact. Within, the shimagu were sundered into tiny pieces by the intense reverberations of Sound made physical—sharper than any blade. The dwarven [Battlemaster] just slowly bounced forward, as the bells and metal scales that she wore gave her all the Sound she needed to reign supreme in the enclosed space.

As awe-inspiringly terrible as it was to see the woman’s true potential, Ranthia couldn’t just stand there and watch—she formed her own wedge with her images and tore into the shimagu ranks. The defenders on the wall were taking their own toll from the shimagu; there was a reason their enemies seldom got so close to Remera.

The shimagu’s desperate push for Remera’s vulnerable, open gates ground to a halt and, mere moments later, devolved into a retreat.

The parasites had pushed too quickly and too far. They were scattered and were getting butchered, without being able to return the favor. Whatever [Leaders] that might have been able to solidify their resolve and get them into formation were either absent or had been outpaced.

Ranthia hadn’t seen such a brutal rout since her days of slaughtering shimagu civilians.

“That dwarf is terrifying; how did she get that high level without dying underground?” Aurora complained while a [Healer] tended to her injuries.

She had tried to pull the whole stoic legionary “I’m fine” bullshit while she bled, but neither Ranthia nor the [Healer] would budge since at least one of her injuries was a headwound.

“I mean, rock’s pretty tough. But seriously, can you tell me what happened?” Ranthia tried to pull Aurora back on track.

“Meh, fine. Walk with me, I want to check on Tullus’ condition.” Aurora announced.

For all her stubbornness, the [Healer] was already done and was waving them out.

“Okay, so, as I’m sure you can imagine, those of us without a cushy static gig have been busy since the Disaster of Flame two years ago—” The woman began.

“The what? Are you referring to the… Night of the Second Sun?” Ranthia interrupted, though she had to steel her nerves to even mention the incident that had taken Hunting—just over two years ago.

Gods and goddesses, she had never even thought of what that had to be like for Ocean, watching the name of one of his last true peers get added to the wall.

“Okay, are you playing some stupid game, or has someone seriously never told Launchpoint 8?” Aurora demanded in a stern voice.

“The base commander’s been in contact with Legion command, but I haven’t heard a damn word from Ranger Command or any Sentinel since you stopped showing up.” Ranthia retorted.

“…Fuck.” Aurora dropped her voice to a whisper. “Okay, so I don’t know what game’s being played here, but late year before last the Legions walked right into a big fucking trap. The biggest push Remus had done, to take a shimagu city, and instead we lost multiple Legions all at once. The city was primed to go up like a pyre.

“The survivors are scattered in pockets throughout enemy territory, and the shimagu used our weakness to hit hard. Launchpoint 5 fell during their push last year. Launchpoint 3 was the only one they didn’t hit—even Coalition City saw some action. Most of us Sentinels are still on search and rescue duty. The guys I brought were part of a group of survivors that seized a shimagu base, except these idiots got caught raiding the slimes’ supply lines. Forced me to land and reform the [Starship] to pick ‘em up from the dead end they’d wedged themselves into.

“Took out most of my arcanite. I was confident I could make it here, just fell a bit short since I had to jink and rush to avoid one of the shimagu’s newer tricks, a flock of ornithocheirus that follows an infected alpha.”

There was a lot to unpack in that explanation. Enough that Ranthia didn’t even bother trying, instead she acknowledged the grim news—and the explanation for the lack of support—and mentally set it aside.

“Good job with the landing, by the way. I was surprised your Skill didn’t just vanish out of the blue.” Ranthia spoke back up as they reached the next medical tent, once Aurora finished exchanging a few words with the apprentice [Healer] that met them.

“My Legion flight instructor drilled it into me that anything that goes up has to come down eventually. He convinced me to develop a Skill to mitigate the problems if I run out of mana or have something interrupt my flight. It’s a reserve Skill, gives me a touch more mana to control my descent, but I had too much momentum built up for its current level. Still, guess this was better than getting pasted.” Aurora replied, before she turned away, satisfied with the report about the condition of the man she was worried about.

Which meant it was time to speak to the base commander.

Even with the shimagu routed, Remera was somehow still in “a state of emergency,” which meant it took hours for the meeting to get underway. Aurora gulped tea like it was essential to her continued existence as she fought off her usual morning exhaustion. Ranthia waited seemingly patiently, fearing for her coworker’s overstuffed bladder.

But at last, the base commander entered and—without a single dwarf present, as usual—announced the meeting could begin.

“So, why the fuck wasn’t Sentinel Grace made aware of any current events of the war? The Disaster of Flame, Launchpoint 5’s downfall, and the current state of the Legions were all news to her.” Aurora chimed in, her tone bored and easy.

“My briefings were marked for my eyes only, and I was advised to keep things confidential beyond my inner circle.” The man replied, cool as a cucumber.

“Here’s a direct order then: she’s part of your inner circle, so share all updates directly with her.” Aurora snapped, every word precise and loud enough to rattle the tent.

“I will have to verify…” The base commander seemed to be somewhat cowed.

“Optio Favonis, I remind you that not only am I the Aurora Sentinel, but I still hold my rank as Specialist Tribune with the Legions, just to prevent idiotic questions about the chain of command—just as you are attempting to do. I repeat, that was a direct order.

“And so help me, if you respond improperly one more time, I will have you running laps across your own base, before the eyes of your own men! Is that understood?!” The woman tore into the base commander with the delightful weight of authority.

“Sir, yes sir!” The man was on his feet and saluting, just like a rookie legionary fresh from basic training that displeased a superior.

“With that settled: that shimagu base must come down. It’s imperative that I get back to Coalition City as soon as possible.” Aurora continued to run the meeting herself.

Even with Aurora getting back to her Legion roots, it still took two days to get everything ready. One of the legionaries that she had rescued was a decent Mirage [Mage] (Mirage, Sand, Sound) that specialized in group stealth, and the plan was to have him lead an elite unit to the enemy camp and set it ablaze, before they dealt with any targets of opportunity they could take out.

