“Feshi Weatherfur. I am delighted to graduate you from the Forgotten Wing’s Academy. As the Titan of Baleros, I declare you a full [Strategist]—a student of mine with the daring to go on an adventure. In your case, you also had the vision to listen when many would hear only what they wanted to hear. You were one of the few who understood the treachery at the heart of your people. When it mattered most—you were there. When your tribe needed you, you stepped up. These are the qualities of a leader. Remember that you have that capability in you. The days of your lessons are behind you. But I would not be your teacher without a final gift. Therefore…”
He gestured, and Perorn slowly opened a case. Wil inhaled, and Marian murmured as everyone craned their necks to see. Niers’ smile was back, just a bit.
“—It is the height of arrogance, I’m told, to give a bow as a gift to a Gnoll. But I notice you have no personal enchanted weapons beyond that dagger, and so I bequeath to you a weapon from our armories. A suitable weapon for a Chieftain who shouldn’t be on the front lines. It is called ‘the Sailor’s Signal’. It may not be Relic-class, but it came from one of my journeys at sea. I hope you find it useful.”
The bow looked like barnacles were still growing on the sides of it. It looked like the shaft was made of ancient coral—or some undersea wood, but when Feshi, breathless, took it and flexed it, she saw that it behaved much like a regular bow.
It was stiff. A shortbow—but one pluck at the ancient string and it felt strong, and she saw no sign the artifact was fraying.
“Try an arrow.”
Feshi didn’t know what to say. She took an arrow from a quiver that Perorn offered and put it to the string. Instantly—she saw the tip of the mundane arrowhead light up.
“It’s bright. Is that a [Flare] spell?”
It looked normal to Feshi—but everyone else covered their eyes against the glare. It lit up the entire gathering with a bright orange light. Niers winked.
“Try a shot.”
Feshi turned, aimed across the Great Plains, and loosed the arrow. It streaked up—then she saw the tip of the arrow brighten to what the others must be seeing. A streak of orange across the skies in an arc. When it landed—the detonation of light was blinding.
“It may be useful on a battlefield. Just be careful; your own forces will be blinded too.”
Perorn closed the case and smiled down at Feshi. The Gnoll [Chieftain] looked at the bow.
“Every arrow does that? Professor—”
He was standing to one side, making the students line up so they could say something to her. First was Marian, trotting on an artificial leg. The Titan looked back at her.
“Call it a graduation gift. I’m not giving Venaz an artifact. If you think it’s too much—call it a bribe for goodwill between your tribe and my company. Which is a gift by any other name.”
He looked at her then, and she snuffled. The Titan pretended not to notice as Perorn put an arm around her student. Perorn glowered at him. He just had to put on a show when he could say all this in private.
But that was his way. Niers Astoragon stood there and looked at Feshi. As her friends and classmates began to say goodbye, he came out with the last part. He spoke past Feshi as he looked to the others.
“Students. Am I going to expect all five of you back here?”
Wil. Venaz. Merrik. Peki…and Yerranola. Of all five, the Selphid was the last to nod. But nod she did. She looked at Feshi as the Chieftain turned.
These two were the best of friends. The Selphid gulped.
“Feshi. I want to stay. Part of me wants to stay. But I can’t. I…”
“This isn’t your people. I get it, Yerra.”
Feshi sniffed. Her nose was all stuffy, and she dearly wanted to blow it, but everyone was staring at her. But the Selphid instantly shook her head.
“No! It’s not that. I—”
She was lost for words. She grimaced; her weaker body, poisoned and still needing the antidote, moved within the Gnoll body she had been given. It was Merrik who figured out the words. The Dwarf put a hand on the hammer at his side.
“Feshi. That is, Chieftain Feshi. I hope that if I was ever in need of work, you’d think of a [Flagstone Farland Commander]. Barely Level 34, but with a lot of potential. A unique class name—you can write that down and make it a tongue twister.”
Peki’s head turned, and her beak opened. Wil blinked and cast his eyes sideways. Merrik was a [Stoneshorn War Leader]. Level 29…
No longer. Maybe it had been when he fought at the Meeting of Tribes or thereafter. But he had gained five levels in mere months. The Dwarf looked at Feshi, his eyes brimming with tears.
“Not just because we’re friends, but I hope you’d hire me. I would do it for a song too—but not yet. Not yet. It’s not just that I feel I have something to learn in Baleros. If ever you got an application from a Dwarf, an old friend—it should be at least from someone Level 40. I can’t help you. Not with your tribe. Not yet. You don’t need another commander. Give me a year. Two, tops, and I’ll put in my resume.”
“That’s what I was going to say. But he said it right—like the stupid Dwarf he is!”
Yerra burst out. She sniffed orange tears that leaked out various orifices including her ears. Kissilt muttered.
“Gross.”
Jekilt kicked him. Feshi hugged her friends and then looked at the Titan. The Fraerling looked amused and nostalgic as Wil nodded and Venaz awkwardly hugged Feshi.
“That’s a good way of looking at it. Students, I will see you in class by the end of the month or I will fail you every day you’re late. It is alright not to be ready—no one is when the time comes. But it is our wish, we teachers…even me…”
He looked at Feshi and exhaled. The young Gnoll seemed burdened, her back straightened, and she let her shoulders relax and her chin rise as the Titan spoke.
“Someday—Chieftain Feshi Weatherfur’s name and whatever the world nicknames her should ring across Izril’s shores. To Baleros. The dream of every teacher is that their students will one day surpass them. I’ll be waiting.”
Her head snapped up, and she finally met his violet eyes with her brown ones. He held her gaze with all the intensity in his body. And she blinked—but didn’t look away.
There was some artifice to this moment. He did have something to say of all his personal students, and it was always true—but he had graduated thousands. He always said what he said. They were never ready. That he wanted them to surpass him.
He had said the same thing to Tulm the Mithril. It was not for him to decide who he found worthy.
The thing about being a teacher was…you should make each student’s graduation feel special. It was about them. And someday—those words would come true. Niers Astoragon stepped back and bowed his head slightly.
Of all his regrets in this moment—
He wished he could have shaken her paw. But this would have to do.
 
——
 
It had been about four months now since the Meeting of Tribes. Four months, and Feshi still felt wounded, though she had emerged from the battlefield with almost no tangible wounds.
A good [Strategist] kept out of danger or they were a liability. She had learned that lesson, at least. But she wished, in part, she had gone out and been a shield.
Torishi. Iraz. Even Chieftain Reizet of Az’muzarre and Firrelle of Ekhtouch. A part of Feshi wished they were here, even if they had been traitors.
She was not ready for this. The Professor knew it. Niers had put on this little occasion for her, and she was truly touched.
But it scared her.
It brought home exactly how unprepared she was. How badly the Gnolls were hurt. She had overheard Deskie’s conversation with Pisces Jealnet. It was true. There were still Gnolls enough to fill your vision in a place like this wherever you looked.
But one sign of the devastation wrought on their people was this: before, if you came to the Meeting of Tribes, or any tribe, you might know one great Gnoll.
Honored Deskie, for instance, of Longstalker’s Fang. But the truth was there were probably five or six other Honored Gnolls that, if not as famous as she was—were still acclaimed and talented individuals who could do much.
Now? Now…say Honored Deskie of Longstalker’s Fang. Add in Honored Inkar and Chieftain Eska. Say ‘Feshi Weatherfur’ and associate that with the Weatherfur Tribe, and her [Chief Warrior] and…that was all.
Legends were dead. Some heroes of old, like Garsine or Gadiekh, had lived. But Xherw, Firrelle, Iraz—
They had no more great Gnolls to balance the Walled Cities. How soon before the Drakes came pushing in? Feshi was filling Torishi’s place, and she felt small.
She wanted to go back and tell Merrik he was wrong. That she didn’t just need him at Level 40—she needed him now. Part of Feshi wanted to beg for the Horns’ aid—but that would not save her people.
Gnolls had to replace those who had died. If she had gone to a younger Feshi and laid this upon the student’s head, it might have broken the younger [Strategist].
The Chieftain?
She sat and had cups of liquor with Perorn afterwards. The potent Glass Eye liquor in bowls they sipped from, so clear it barely reflected the night sky above. The Centaur sat on the grass.
“I hope you don’t hold it against Niers. He makes a show of everything, including his emotions. It’s impossible for that man to be genuine. It’s all a performance. I fear he’ll struggle with finding someone—well, he has had that problem as long as I’ve known him. Since I was a foal, actually.”
It was disconcerting for Perorn to talk to her like an equal. If the Centaur felt it or thought Feshi was too young—she knelt in the grass, eyes calm and sharp. Reassuring. Feshi took a shuddering breath.
“Professor—no, Perorn. May I be candid?”
The Centaur nodded with a smile.
“Please. I know how difficult this is.”
Feshi ducked her head. Her fur blew with the cold—no snow yet, but it kept falling on the Great Plains, and outside the encampment she could see thick snow piled up—and great tracks where Gnolls melted it to allow them to roam.
A cold winter for them. Yet she felt warm. Feshi was not collapsing inwards from the stress and pressure for one reason alone.
“You were raised by Three-Color Stalker…Commander Foliana. I never had the courage to ask.”
Perorn shifted her upper-torso to look at Feshi. They were sitting under an awning of Feshi’s tent, near a fire she had carefully set up not to threaten the tent but close enough to warm the two. A canvas roof shielded them.
“It’s not something I talk about…In those days, she was a Named-rank adventurer and I was a child she found. She collects things. Being raised by a giant squirrel who eats everything was an experience. I can’t say it made me normal. But perhaps you understand.”
Feshi was Torishi’s niece, and she had been gifted, a [Strategist] sent to Baleros. Yes—she understood the pressures of expectation and living in someone’s shadow.
“Part of me wants to believe Torishi is alive. The rest knows she is not. Her Skills are gone. She’s dead. And my tribe is reduced. Xherw, the Drakes, Belavierr…we may no longer be a Great Tribe. Our Chief Warrior Dormeth, Thoekha the Spearmaster, Thundercaller Samirhe…dead.”
Perorn listened quietly.
“You have a fine tradition of warriors and a base to rebuild. I have seen [Mercenary] companies rebuild from worse.”
“Am I that [Chieftain]?”
For answer, Perorn sipped from her bowl.
“…There is a saying among Forgotten Wing when it comes to responsibilities of rank. We have fine discipline, but Niers has always had a policy in our books on warfare that allows a subordinate to overrule a commander even in battle. It’s highly rare—I can count on one hand the number of times it’s happened. We investigate and form a tribunal if anyone survives, but it’s not an immediate death sentence like Drake or Dullahan military law would have it.”
“I like that. Gnolls would let it happen. Merish opposing Xherw is a rare example of that too. However difficult.”
Feshi murmured. Perorn nodded.
“That was how the Forgotten Wing company formed. Bad orders that got everyone killed—except for one detachment under Niers. He refused to lead them into a slaughter and took them into the dungeon…well, you know that story. Our doctrine is the same. If you are qualified and know it—you must step up. I think you’re the only person who can fill Torishi’s place.”
“Yes.”
The Gnoll was warm from the liquor, the fire, and from something else. On this cold night—she looked at Perorn.
“Do you have high hopes for me, Professor Perorn? The Titan told me he does—and I want to believe him. But I can’t help but notice…”
She too had realized there was some repetition to how Niers spoke. That, perhaps, he said this of all students. Perorn looked guilty. She stretched out her lame hind leg, sighing.
“That’s the problem with teaching brilliant students. I think he sincerely hopes the Gnolls will regain their footing, and I am certainly on your side, Feshi. The Drakes would have to pay me a lot for me to even consider attacking the tribes. But I am a [Mercenary].”
She was honest, at least. Feshi’s smile was pained—but it deepened. She sat there.
“I hope in time I will prove I was worthy of what the Professor said. I just fear…we study high-level rulers, Perorn. Like the King of Destruction and how his ambitions made him so famous. I thought, when we heard of how ego both helped and brought down such great empires—I thought I would be a logical leader if I had to be. Now? I fear I’m mad like them all. Is that a good sign or bad?”
“—How so?”
Perorn stopped with one arm lifting her cup of clear liquor up to her lips. She turned—and the ordinary Feshi, fur painted with colors, but not engulfed in a ray of light or moonlight like Torishi, sat there. She was no heroine—not yet.
Her class had not yet defined her to the naked eye. Yet she had one quality that might place her with Torishi or even ahead of her. One thing…
If Niers could have seen Feshi now, he wouldn’t laugh. He would have looked at her—like a rival, perhaps, or as someone on his path to madness. The wind blew Perorn’s greying hair as Feshi pointed down.
“I do not know whether I will save Weatherfur or lead it to ruin. But already, Perorn…I suspect the Titan sent you here as a kind of gift to the tribes. The bow I thank him for, but he might offer a bit more, wouldn’t he?”
“…He wants boats and allies a continent away. So yes, if there’s something he can give you within reason, he might consider it for a pact.”
She was sharp. Perorn saw Feshi staring down. Down—then the Gnoll’s eyes rose. And there it was.
A bit of madness.
