“[Sword Art: Arc of the Moon]!”
Her arm rotated, and Yvlon activated the Skill without a sword. She cut the air as Berr charged at her. And he slowed—let the blade-arm cleave the air in front of him—and merrily grabbed one arm. Yvlon changed her skin into deadly pointed quills, like a porcupine, but the Gnoll’s paws danced away. Then he grabbed her legs—pulled as he rotated her in a circle before she could morph her metal foot into—
And then she was flying again. Yvlon flapped her wings and thought Bird would literally call her ‘Silverbird’ or something silly li—
Then she hit the ground.
 
——
 
“…Is she dead?”
Ceria stopped laughing in a kind of awe and horror as she saw Yvlon thump into the grass and snow of the Great Plains beyond. She shaded her brows, concerned, but Yvlon sat up after a second. This time, she didn’t stand back up. She just lay down as Ksmvr ran frantically over to her and began to shovel snow off her.
“Dead gods, she’s tough.”
Wil observed in a kind of awe. Merrik had two handfuls of his beard.
“She’s tough? Berr just threw her like a toy! She’s Level 40!”
“And he’s Berr the Berserker. If Yvlon Byres beat one of the greatest Gnolls living so easily, we’d all be dead, Merrik. It’s a good lesson for her if he’s to teach her, eh?”
Someone put the Dwarf in a headlock. Merrik struggled—but Feshi was so happy to see her friends again that she only gave him a quick rub of his hair. Then she realized she was in the presence of guests and hurriedly tried to straighten up and introduce herself.
“Chieftain Feshi? I’m Captain Ceria of the Horns of Hammerad. And here is Colth the Supporter. Delighted to meet you.”
Ceria liked Feshi on first meeting—she was young, had a good sense of humor, and like the students—a [Strategist], sharp and progressive.
However, the Gnoll Chieftain of the Weatherfur tribe looked like she knew full well the weight of responsibility, so she shook Ceria’s hand seriously, then turned to Ksmvr and Pisces. Without hesitation, she greeted both—and she had another interesting quality.
“I am humbled by the Horns’ presence as warriors who fought so bravely to save my people. You are all honored guests, and I give you freedom to walk the camp—with the exception of the grand tent. Please, be welcome.”
She was direct and smiled at Colth, who bowed and presented her with a small box that turned out to contain treats and sweets from Liscor and First Landing. Another touch of a Named-rank adventurer meeting important potential clients.
However, Feshi was either humble or…she would bow her head and stare at the ground as if ashamed or shy—before meeting Ceria’s eyes and speaking directly. Then, if not talking, she would stare down…at the frozen ground and grass underfoot.
She didn’t seem that introverted, and Wil wrinkled his nose, but the Horns were amidst a flurry of people wanting to introduce themselves—and Yvlon was calling for Ksmvr’s help so she could make a good impression on Feshi. Then again, the flying woman had attracted a bunch of Gnolls to meet the Horns to begin with.
“What’s the lesson he’s teaching her? Anger management?”
Wil looked dubiously at Yvlon as Ksmvr helped her to her feet. It looked like her new Skill had run out—he clocked it at about fifteen minutes. Pretty good for Level 40. Fifteen minutes of being the toughest warrior around?
“Humility even at her new level?”
Venaz suggested. He was watching with Peki. The Garuda scratched her head.
“…Don’t let a [Berserker] grab you?”
Everyone laughed at that. And that included a light voice that came from a Gnoll—or rather, a Selphid using a Gnoll’s body. Yerranola was here, and she was standing right next to Wil, arm on his shoulders. She was sort of leaning on him, and she looked as cheerful as he remembered.
But more worn, perhaps? She still looked like the same old Yerra, even smelled like the Selphid preservatives, and she had the same energetic grin.
Surviving the poison made her look—older. The Selphid looked like Feshi, aged. She gazed around.
“Anyone want to take on Yvlon or Berr? I’d be all for charging in a year ago—right now, I think it’s better if we just watch and take notes. None of us are going to ever do that kind of thing. Even you officers had better keep away from those two in a melee.”
She meant Peki, Merrik, and Venaz. As officers who combined both leadership and direct combat classes, Yvlon and Berr were their worst nightmares.
Interestingly—only Peki opened her beak to object.
“I could fight them. So could Venaz with his greatsword.”
Everyone turned to Venaz, but the Minotaur, for once, didn’t extol the virtues of his personal attributes and species. He just exhaled.
“I’d rather hire them. Even if we clashed and survived—they’d tie down any officer they ran into. Then again, how do you stop one of the two?”
“Well, you can clearly throw Yvlon—or I’d bet trap her in a [Mud Pit] spell or something. Not sure what you’d do with Berr.”
Wil was surprised by Venaz’s change of tune, but he would believe Erin Solstice could do anything. The students broke into an interested chatter until someone interrupted their discussion.
“I am all for you children speculating, but as someone who has to deal with that kind of threat directly—the answer to Berr is an [Archery Captain] with [Volley: Piercing Arrows]. You keep the [Captain] back and hold off his charge with it. Sometimes, you go an entire battlefield without using the Skill. He doesn’t come at you—you don’t use the Skill. It’s like a counter—but if you use the Skill, you are then dead because he will charge and tear up any back line he wants.”
Every head turned, and Wil bowed respectfully to the Centaur watching Berr stroll over to Yvlon and help her up.
“Professor Perorn, you make it sound easy.”
Merrik grumbled, amused. The Centaur rolled her eyes.
“Easy? Merrik, the temptation to use a powerful Skill like that is something you have to hold onto the entire battle. Learning not to use a Skill is as vital as how to manage a Skill effectively. I have seen the Titan scare his opponents stiff thinking he’ll pull [Charge of the Strategist] out an entire battle. But he’ll just sit on it and threaten it the entire battle—which you have to take seriously or he will use it. That’s how you use and oppose a Berr.”
“Like a queen piece in chess.”
Wil murmured. All threat—you could bluff out an opponent’s hand. Then he felt someone else grab his head and give him a noogie as well.
“I knew Wil would make a chess analogy! I’ve missed you!”
Yerra laughed loudly as she clasped Wil to her chest. The [Lord] turned red, and Venaz nodded to Perorn.
“For however long we can stay—this feels like the Academy. Professor, we didn’t know if you’d be here.”
“I’ve riled up the Walled Cities. I’ll back off and come back. There’s a logic to how you work as a [Mercenary]. I wanted to meet the Horns of Hammerad anyways. Niers wants me to go to Liscor—but I would much rather support the tribes.”
“And we are grateful for your support, Professor Perorn. Or is it Commander now?”
Feshi’s grin was weary. Perorn looked at her, and the stern Fleethoof’s expression softened.
“Chieftain Feshi, that would be appropriate. I am a foreign [Mercenary] on Izril’s soil. I’m grateful for the Gnolls’ hospitality—but there may be times when the interests of my company clash with your people’s. I’m not looking forwards to that.”
Everyone quieted, and Wil’s smile and blush faded. Yerranola let go—and they looked at Feshi. The student would not be going to Zeres and on to Baleros.
The Chieftain of the Weatherfur tribe ducked her head—then seemed to raise it with an effort. She looked at the Horns of Hammerad, Gireulashia, Nailren, and even Colth the Supporter, who was respectfully hovering behind Berr, who swatted at him like an annoying fly.
Not as a fan of them or as a visitor, but as someone who had to weigh their lives and their goals. It was the weary look the teachers had. No more theory, no more practice.
Wil felt a part of the uncertain fear and nerves Feshi had to be feeling—and he wasn’t even in her shoes! She looked at him and smiled.
“Let’s make it fun while we’re here. Now, come. The Great Plains have changed a lot since you were last here.”
She pointed, and every head turned to the distant gathering of Gnolls. The plains were still torn up. The bodies had been burned—but Wil still thought he could smell the scent of death. He saw the grass had turned to mudlands in a vast swath before it reached a hill. A depression had formed around the hill as well; the product of magical blasts and a literal volcano opening.
The hill was the remains of Khoteizetrough, the Earth Elemental of the Gaarh Marsh tribe. It was flowering, and the depression in the ground around that hill had turned into a small lake. The water had been filled by the rain—and by the Skill that Zeres had unleashed that had turned part of the Great Plains to mud.
The First Tide Skill of Zeres and their army. 
Wil still remembered the sight of it. A hundred thousand Drakes marching over land—pulling the sea with them. Water, rushing past Zeresian [Marines], and a roar like a tidal wave. He thought he had seen how great armies fought.
They had been about to rush over Gnolls—enemies and allies alike. Sweep forwards and engulf the battlefield in a chaos of water. Only two things had halted them.
A line in the sand. The Beriad—a hundred Antinium [Crusaders] who held back the City of Waves for minutes. Fighting, surrounded on all sides—falling into the surf. And—the King of Khelt, charging into Zeres with an army of the dead who feared nothing at all.
After that day, Wil could claim he had seen great and terrible war. He had seen scrying images of Terandrian wars between kingdoms—[Knights] jousting each other, valor and virtue on the battlefield as entire regiments surrendered or a [King] was forced to yield in single combat.
It seemed to him that the Professor’s constant ridicule of Terandrian warfare was deserved. For Wil had seen a real monster on the battlefield. And Belavierr did not yield.
The fighting had continued, tearing up the ground so that it seemed not even grass would grow from the dirt—which had absorbed bodies and buried them deep. And amidst it all—that woman stood, casting down hails of needles that tore through flesh and bone and armor. She killed with a twist of her fingers, snuffed out lives by the hundred.
And still, he had seen people rising up to meet her. Rising—like the Chieftain of the Weatherfur tribe. A ray of sun shining down from the skies, and a Gnoll blazing with sunlight taking on the Witch of Webs. He had thought she would win—until the ground itself opened and dragged her down.
This battle had taken Chieftain Torishi, sending her down to her doom at the hands of the Stitch Witch. The fighting had spilled up the hill, around a fortress of wood and dirt—the place where the Doombearers’ allies had made a stand.
All of this—and Wil had been there. Hacking down a Gnoll with his hands covered in blood, seeing one of his clones—feeling a spear going through his neck. Shaking and shaking as he used his Skills. He had been right here. It felt like a dream.
Later, far later, Wil felt goosebumps as he remembered—but there were no more bodies. The ground was ripped up, and he saw how this land might never recover. Yet beyond this, despite it all—he saw one mote of true color besides the hill where the Earth Elemental lay.
Beyond this terrible battleground, something rose. A few holes had been put in it, but the colorful grand tent was still massive—and it overlooked a kind of permanent settlement of Gnollish yurts. Yet even now, Wil saw evidence of wood and even stone buildings going up.
“The Meeting of the Chieftains’ tent still stands.”
Venaz observed. Feshi shook her head.
“We call it the Meeting of Earths now. Visitors think it’s some kind of [Shaman] or [Druid] term.”
She smiled crookedly. Wil looked at her and knew partly what lay beyond there. He felt a thrill. Out of the ashes of the last era—came a new one.
 
——
 
“The Meeting of Earths? That’s a big tent to have a bunch of laptops. Maybe they’ve got a bigger version of that diorama of the solar-thingy?”
“Solar system. It probably has lots of drawings. We should check it out. Didn’t Inkar mention it? Maybe she’s got some of those pictures on her phone drawn out.”
Pisces whispered back. The two [Mages] knew that some of the Gnolls could hear them. Gire began giggling, and Ceria raised her brows.
Of course, they both knew about Earth. More than the Gnolls, no doubt. The big tent to hide the secret of Earth was appropriate—if slightly obvious.
The two Horns were missing a tiny bit of context. But they didn’t get the sly grins on the faces of some of the Gnolls, including Feshi herself. They were watching Yvlon and her introduction to the Wild Wastes tribe.
Pisces Jealnet watched as Yvlon Byres had to be half-carried by the Wild Wastes warriors to the settlement. Burly Gnolls, many [Berserkers] or [Barbarians] of one of the Great Tribes of Izril, were joking and complimenting her.
“Stop feeling my arms.”
She growled, but weakly. A merry Gnoll was marching them all forwards. Berr himself. He looked calm and friendly—and he had thrown Yvlon like a discus.
“Forgive my apprentices, Yvlon Byres. They admire anyone they think is tough—and you have a reputation. The Silver Killer of Izril. And friend of Mrsha the Doombearer! Mrsha the White! Mrsha the Infinitely Cute!”
“I can see you’ve met her.”
Ceria grinned, and Berr winked one yellow eye at the half-Elf.
“I was glad to hear she was well and with her mother, yes? But I was so sad to not meet Zeladona I nearly wept. Then again, she seemed intense. My apprentices would have lost too many limbs in the trial.”
“But Honored Berr, the chance to meet a legend is worth an arm!”
A younger Gnoll protested, and Berr skipped over. The Gnoll covered his head—so Berr punched him in the stomach. It looked light, but the Gnoll winced and clutched at his stomach.
“That’s what someone who’s never lost a limb thinks! Zeladona is a moment—your arm is forever! I don’t think Pallass’ warriors are as happy about their limbs. Besides—all that one knows is the blade. Miss Yvlon has much more than that to learn amongst us. By the way, the first thing to remember is that even a Troll could throw you like I just did, Yvlon Byres.”
“What? I must weigh…”
Berr’s eyes glinted.
“Yes, yes. You’re heavy and dangerous. All they have to do is be able to lift…half your weight? Then they just spin and spin and toss.”
“Centrifugal force?”
