“Mm. And so let me tell you what will happen if you walk away from me. You will get angry. You will lose yourself in battle, and Pisces and Ceria will either stay with you, or not, or learn to avoid you in the heat of your anger. But Ksmvr will not. He will realize he is perhaps the only person in this world who can calm you, can shield others from your wrath. He will do it again and again—and one day, in your blindness, you will kill him. Maybe not with your own hands, maybe by accident, when you mistake him for a foe. Perhaps in your fury you will just leave him to be cut apart by the enemy.”
Yvlon felt a chill on her metal arms. She felt sick at the idea—and a creeping, cold fear in the heat of her anger made her truly afraid, because she could see it happening.
“I don’t want that.”
“No. So there is your reason. Now, do you want my lessons or not?”
Berr faced her across the fire, and Yvlon Byres shook slightly. She clenched her hands, stared down at the silver—and then burst out.
“Honored Berr—would you listen to something shameful? Would you hear me out? I have—there’s a reason this is hard.”
She was red-faced, but the old Gnoll just walked around the fire.
“I’m listening. Whatever you say to me I will never repeat.”
Yvlon searched for words.
She was afraid to tell him what lurked inside her chest. Yvlon looked back towards the campfires, but all the Horns were far out of earshot. She hesitated—but the Gnoll who sat there was the greatest warrior she could hope to confide to. She could have talked to Colth—
But something in her said that Berr might understand. There was a connection there—be it in Skills or something else. That he was a stranger helped in some perverse way to lay out her true feelings that she was afraid to tell her friends. Perhaps because he could judge her impartially. Yvlon hung her head, and the words spilled out. A confession.
“I—I—want your lessons. I want control over my fury—and at the same time, I don’t want it. I thought I could be this perfect warrior like my brother is. Like my sister! But I’m not. I always had a temper, but I never showed it.”
She remembered the great desire to punch Ryoka’s face in, even back when she had been in the Silver Spears. Berr nodded. Yvlon stared at her arms.
“But every achievement I have made—in Albez, against the Adult Creler—I have been angry. I’m afraid that if you teach me control, you’ll make me weak. I’m afraid that—I won’t have the strength to put myself in the way of an enemy. Someday, our luck will run out. When it happens—I should be the first to go out fighting.”
Tolveilouka. She was shaking with the admission, breathing hard.
“I’m afraid that if you take it away from me, Honored Berr, or temper it—I won’t be brave enough. I’m not, on my own. When I faced Skinner, I ran away. I fear I need it.”
The [Berserker] heard her out, the confession Yvlon was too afraid to tell even to Ceria or Pisces or Ksmvr. She stood in silence, the cold wind across the plain blowing as the flames blew into embers. And what Berr said next was this:
“It is well I am not teaching you a lifestyle like a [Sage], Yvlon Byres. Because I will not take your anger away. What I will teach you will let you live longer, I think, and save your friends. But take away your rage? No. No, no, no. I am Berr. Do you think I, of all people and classes, would make you weaker?”
He tapped her on the chest, and Yvlon saw his smile, reassuring, through yellowed teeth. He was missing a few. She stared at him.
“Then what?”
The old Gnoll’s eyes gleamed. It was beginning to snow now, and the cold grasses picked up a few snowflakes falling from a shower over the Gnoll plains. Yvlon shivered; her metal arms made her more susceptible to the cold. But Berr’s voice drew her in.
“We are warriors. To the death. If you wanted to not be angry—I couldn’t help you. I would say, ‘seek out the Healer of Tenbault’. Use potions. Meditate or something. Our anger is an all-consuming thing. We will use it to kill—and kill great foes. I am only teaching you how to make it stronger. I think I know what I must teach you, now. Not to divert it, like I do to some. For you—you will learn to do what I do. Which is to stop yourself from lashing out—and to store it. I will teach you [Catch Yourself] and [Banked Fury].”
Yvlon’s ears pricked up. Two Skills? She looked at the old [Berserker] and realized he had never actually gotten more than a bit snide or annoyed the entire time she’d talked to him. Odd for his class.
“Would that work?”
He grinned wider.
“You want to be stronger, Yvlon Byres? I hear a lot of talk about control. But you are not like that, are you? You hit Level 40 days ago—and already you wonder, what will Level 50 be like? Hrm. Yes. I should have led with that. I will make you stronger. Stronger, such that your foes will fear you. Let me teach you the first lesson. No one fears a [Berserker] who is always mad. That is like…a dog who always barks, you see?”
Yvlon blinked at him. The Gnoll tapped himself on the chest.
“There is a saying among Humans, isn’t there? Fear the ones who are always kind? That is what you should embrace. Your friends know you to be angry. Your foes, too. So when you rage, does it scare them or do they think ‘ah, now I can use that against her’?”
He was making sense. Yvlon whispered.
“So you’re telling me to save it. Is that what you do?”
Berr, the kindly old man, looked at her. And his eyes were bright.
“It’s all within me, Yvlon Byres. I get angry. Very often. But I am a master of it—so I store it. Right here.”
He tapped his chest.
“All my rage. All my hatred. Sadness, too. It will never come out around the young of my tribe or even in sparring. But when I need it—it is there. And the foes of the Wild Wastes tribe, of Gnolls—even the Walled Cities fear it. That is what control will give you. When you rage, your enemies will flee or shit themselves enough to fuel a thousand campfires. When you use it—it will kill any foe.”
Yvlon’s eyes opened. Her reluctance—her nerves about Honored Berr teaching her—for the first time, became desire.
“Yes. Yes. Please teach me that. Can you? Does—I can’t even tell you’re angry, Honored Berr.”
He cackled with amusement. Then looked morose.
“Ah, I forget I am old. So stories of my youth are faded. Maybe I should show everyone more. I am angry right now, Yvlon. For you—I will show you it. If you truly want to see. So you know that you and I are made of the same flesh and heart. But I warn you—”
His cheerful eyes froze over a bit, as if with the cold.
“…It will not be pleasant. Even for a second. Do you want to see?”
Yvlon did. She did—even as her internal sense of danger began to spike. Somewhere distant, Ceria Springwalker looked up as her [Dangersense] began to ping softly. Berr inhaled and exhaled.
“Then stand right there. Oh—and use your [Aspect of Iron].”
“I—alright. [Aspect of Iron].”
Yvlon’s skin turned to metal. She felt heavier—and strong—but she was reminded of how Berr had tossed her. And he hadn’t even been mad, then. Her heart picked up, and her skin, metal, erupted into goosebumps.
It was just a second. She thought she even saw it. Like—a man opening a dam. Or a door. It wasn’t like drawing a bucket from a well. It was opening a door that led to a sea waiting to rush in.
You couldn’t harvest a tiny bit of it. It was all-consuming. The snow falling on her cold arms, her shivering—stopped. Yvlon Byres looked up a second—and rain fell on her face. Wet—but warm, no longer snow. It drizzled over the Gnolls around the fire, and they yelped. The [Barbarian] looked up and twisted around.
Honored Berr stood there for just a second, and the smiling Gnoll reminded Yvlon Byres as her head snapped down. Reminded her of something that was still in him, even months later. That he would never let go of.
“My son is dead.”
Yvlon Byres saw the old Gnoll’s face begin to—twist. His arms shook—and the grey fur still bearing hints of blonde rippled as he snarled. A look of rage over his face—an anger so fierce it made her heart jolt.
A father’s grief. A warrior’s rage upon seeing his people slaughtered. All his fury at Xherw. Everything—exploded out of Berr, and the falling snow turned to rain. Then steam.
His lip curled. Tendons stood out on his neck as his yellowed teeth came together. His snarl grew wide—wide—she thought it would tear the skin of his face. His eyes bulged and—
His face kept changing. Yvlon backed up, the woman made of metal staring. She had never seen—
Someone snarl so much his face distorted. His writhing muscles bulged as if flexing—but they kept growing. As if the contortions of rage were literally pulling his body, making it grow. 
His face. That look of grief and rage cracked with the sound of his jaws opening, and he was taller now. He had been shorter than Yvlon—now he was an inch taller than she was. Still growing. Rising—as if the smaller Berr could not hold back whoever stretched out of him, clawing at the sky. Then she realized who this was. A name for a different Gnoll—the terror of Drakes and his foes. This silent scream that tore the air—this face, twisted with fury such that she could not recognize the merry Gnoll in it—
This was Berr the Berserker.
Her bones were shaking. He had not howled yet, but the growl of fury vibrated her bones and organs and ears. That fury—Yvlon had no [Dangersense], but she knew she was in danger.
That fury had to have an outlet. She was braced for the charge. His paws would tear her metal arms off her body. Slaughter his foes in armor with his bare claws.
He—was going to kill everything. Gnolls, adventurers—Colth was on his feet and shouting, and the other Horns and Gnolls were staring.
It couldn’t happen. Yvlon was terrified. She felt part of Berr’s rage baking her metallic flesh—how could he halt it? How were you supposed to control that fury?
Two eyes red with blood, like a Minotaur’s, fixed on Yvlon, and she waited for violence. Berr stood there, and in the heartbeats between fury’s outlet and carnage—as that growl rolled over the Great Plains and echoed under the winter sky, he turned his head.
Then—the [Berserker] stared out across the tribes of his people and focused on something. Yvlon lunged to catch him—but the Gnoll did not move. He just looked out with the rage of a lifetime and the desire for nothing but destruction.
His eyes lit upon a Gnoll cub staring at him, one of the Wild Wastes’ Gnolls. One of thousands, gazing at Honored Berr in his fury.
Sinew to crush mithril moved as Yvlon grabbed his arm—feeling fragile and waiting—but then she looked up and saw it.
How did you hold that much fury inside you? How did you not let it vent out like it did in her rage that had killed an Adult Creler? The answer was…
Ksmvr stood in the Meeting of Tribes. And as Berr had said—even if she had the rage of Berr in her—she could not hurt him.
Would not. Berr did not look at Ksmvr. He looked at the young of his tribe, his Chieftain Perale, and his other sons, who watched him with trust. Honored Berr.
Yvlon saw the mountain of fury not vanish but compress. He grabbed it, that Gnoll, and pulled it in him. Into a box. Folding it into his frame as he shrunk and as that snarl slowly undid itself. Shrinking—with the willpower to hold it. The determination not to let them down.
And one more thing.
Berr shrank and relaxed—until he was light as a feather, and Yvlon realized she was holding him in a bear hug—and he was smiling and patting her head with a gentle paw. Then she saw him fully.
A great warrior, sitting. Sitting in the laughing Gnoll rubbing her head and asking her to let him go. Waiting. Waiting and waiting…for the moment he could let himself out.
Let himself exist—and that existence was pure destruction. On a battlefield, with no one but foes around him.
“It will be hard to learn. But they will fear you. There is no limit to this, Yvlon Byres. No foe I fear. Do you have the rage to bring Dragons out of the skies and crack the High Passes?”
He looked at her—and Yvlon Byres stared at Berr. She took one shuddering breath as the snow began to fall and felt just a hint of that being within Berr before she let go. Then she touched her own chest and said…
“Yes.”
 
——
 
An aura could split clouds in the sky. Torreb showed Orjin that as they sat outside on the second day. He grimaced, then showed Orjin another scar.
He had legions. His body could have been re-sewn, but Torreb trusted so few—and he claimed that his cloth body was stronger than any material he could want.
“My Skills change my cloth. It would take years to make this body as strong again—and I do not have the time. You see these marks on my shoulder? They ache. They do, now and then.”
They were…bite marks. A circular scar. Torreb’s grin was toothy as well.
“A Gnoll gave me that when I fought in Izril. It hurts sometimes, and I think—Berr is raging. I have fought so many legends. He gave me that when I killed his Chieftain. Another legend. Now dead. The ones that survive are not the ones who are most famous. Collos defeated me—but I outlived him. Which is greater?”
Orjin shook his head.
“Fame does not matter to me.”
“It matters to me.”
Torreb snarled. He touched the great club at his side and looked at Orjin.
“Do you know why I sit with this here? Do you know why, Strongest? Not just for you. I earned my name Torreb the Undefeated after I passed Level 60. Collos was dead—then I named myself that, and I never lost again. I swore I would make the name Torreb echo in Chandrar. It is why I was glad…that the King of Destruction waited so long to come back.”
They had been drinking late into the night. Or rather, the Fury of Skies had; Orjin was not much for the thick liquor the Lantern Lands produced, which they called ‘Soul Oil’ after the look and the way it seeped into your body over minutes after imbibing it. Torreb had continued into the day, and he was either maudlin, still drunk, hungover, or all three.
“I…was afraid of him. Afraid they’d call me to do battle against him and his Seven. Mars…I met her as a [Gladiator], not as the champion she is. I could kill her. She could kill me. I am afraid of that struggle. I am glad I am an old man, scarred and wounded. So old that they only dare hint to me I might return but let me retire.”
His pride was there, but there was a crack in it. Fear. Orjin had seen it sometimes, in warriors of Pomle. He poured out his heart to Orjin, as if the former Strongest were the only person who might get it.
Perhaps that was true. Torreb still had the thick, viscous, dark purple liquid in a cup. He drank from it.
