“—I will not reach Level 70 before I die.”
“It is only one level. You may live for a while yet, Torreb—”
“I. Will not. Reach it. Do not tell me how levelling works, Strongest. Do you know what the requirement to reach every capstone is?”
Orjin bit his lip. Torreb dispensed this wisdom along with reminiscing without care. He looked up, his eyes unfocused, and exhaled a plume of fumes that Orjin swore he could almost see.
“—Achievement. Perspective. Do you see? It gets harder the higher you go—but the secret I realized is that it requires a change in yourself. At earlier levels, it is small. Learning a new form of blades. Overcoming a great foe. But to reach Level 50—where you now are—you will need to reinvent part of yourself.”
“How so?”
Torreb shrugged.
“A great loss. A change in your body. Realizing what your martial art is. But you will change, Strongest. The Skills will shape your entire being. Vandum—has taken Collos’s mantle. His body will break magic—but that journal you found. Let me see it again.”
Orjin proffered the copy Salii had made for him. She had copied even the age of the pages, and Torreb handled it reverentially.
“He was Level 59. Before me. You see? I was Level 58…when he beat me, the last defeat I ever took. But I found my way forwards. Collos was stuck. He could not understand where to continue. So he never levelled. When I reached Level 60, my entire world shifted. I stood upon the body of a Jaw of Zeikhal and screamed that I would die if I was ever defeated again. I vowed it upon my life—and so I am terrified and was granted the power to change. How will you change, Strongest?”
He looked up, and Orjin did not know.
“This is why I have come here, Torreb. But could you not change again to reach Level 70? It might give you another decade.”
The old man was silent. Then he shuddered—and that look of terror passed over his face.
“No. No. You see? I’ve failed. I am too afraid to try. I do not want to throw myself against the King of Destruction or risk facing Mars. I am incapable of that change. I could slay a million lesser foes and never level once. You, though…a great achievement could make you Level 50. Defeating the greatest warrior in Chandrar, for instance. I am old. That is why I sit here, retired, in safety. I’m old and weaker. You are the Strongest. Despite the difference in levels—if you grabbed me and I had not this weapon in hand, there is a chance.”
He glanced at Orjin as the bladed club lay next to him. The [Superior Martial Artist] made no move. He had no intention. Torreb grinned—then he leaned over, and the air turned hostile. The fish fled—then turned belly up and rose to the surface as they fainted. The lanterns shining overhead twisted as their light seemed to avoid him.
“Do you want to try?”
He was ready to kill Orjin in that moment. Terror, a killing intent so great it was making pedestrians in the city below pass out or run, screaming, and the weight of his aura like a half-Giant, pressing Orjin down, all struck the former Strongest. Orjin said nothing, did not move, as sweat beaded on his back.
“Father! Enough!”
Itkisa shouted, and Torreb’s fury abated in a moment. He sat back, and tears sprang to his eyes.
“If you find your answer, Orjin, Strongest of Pomle, do not come back. Not at Level 50. Don’t touch my legacy.”
“I do not want to touch it, Torreb.”
The man furiously drank from his bowl again as his daughter strode over. The fish woke—and dove in a panic as Itkisa looked at the pond. Some kept floating, belly-up, dead of fright. But Torreb just nodded, emotional now.
“That’s why I like you, Strongest. You and Collos both never cared for that…what is a [Martial Artist]?”
And they were back to square one. But Itkisa interrupted the two.
“Father. Why don’t you rest a bit? You have disrupted the entire city, and you’re drunk.”
“I only drank…”
“A barrel, Father. A barrel of Soul Oil.”
“There was a time when I could have drunk three and pissed it. I wandered Chandrar’s Great Desert for a week and a half with not a drop to drink. Yet the ground quaked like my heart when the Jaw of Zeikhal rose—and I beheld a foe I could not defeat. So there I forged Torreb, like heroes of old had. Every day since then has been less glorious than that moment.”
The old man muttered. He drooped, but never fell asleep—not with Orjin nearby. And the warrior of Pomle looked at Torreb and had one conclusion.
“The greatest [Martial Artist], Torreb…is not one such as you. We have made a mistake. I have. I am not searching for a person. I am searching for a path. It is not I who am flawed; my martial art has no purpose other than strength. If we follow it, I, Vandum, we will all stop where you are. I must find what Collos was missing. I see it now.”
Torreb’s head rose—and he stared blearily at Orjin. Then his eyes brightened.
“Yes. Yes. I want to see it. Find it, Strongest. Itkisa. I will rest now.”
She helped him up, sighing. Then she turned to Orjin as Torreb walked unsteadily towards his quarters to rest.
“My father has always had a poor temper, Orjin. I hope you’ll forgive him. It’s a mark of respect, in his way. Your friend, the Fury, has finally roused himself from his own slumber. He claims he is dying. Perhaps you could fill a few hours until evening? Torreb should be up by then and in a better mood.”
“I understand.”
He ducked his head in thanks, and she followed her father. Yes, he had more to learn here and the war called to him. Salii told him all was well, but he felt restless.
Still, he was not entirely wasting his time. Or so Orjin believed. Itkisa interested him and the Fury of Skies was another element along with Orjin’s quest.
Besides…he thought it would be worth staying for one more reason. He had seen more than one legend of Chandrar. Orjin had lived in Pomle all his life. He had seen new stars like Nsiia, knew some like Xil, and now Vandum, and Salthorn by name. He had known Collos.
If he was right—Torreb did not have much longer to live.
 
——
 
The Great Plains sang that night. Gnolls singing Nailren’s new verse—and celebrating. It was not an entirely joyous event free of worry or pain.
They had lost so much. What they had gained, the tome, the knowledge of Earth—it could not mend those wounds. But it was a road forwards, and these people were great travellers.
Onwards.
There was something that Ceria admired in that. They were adventurers in spirit, these Gnolls of plains, who had travelled around the world. Perhaps, though, this was the knell of their species. Perhaps this age would be their last.
But they were going to go into it pushing for something new. Searching, digging down, travelling. Learning.
She had now visited one of the Walled Cities. Ceria had not had the time to view all of Chandrar’s great empires, but she had seen the strength of their history that was longer than Terandria.
Ceria had grown up in the Kingdom of Erribathe. She knew the foundation of Terandria’s traditions and customs and kingdoms. Baleros…not yet. Someday, she vowed, Baleros. And Rhir too.
The House of Minos where Calruz came from, the Empire of Drath—she wanted to see it all. A half-Elf’s life felt short for all of it, but she had seen Wistram and glimpsed the door that locked the true mysteries above.
In all her long travels, it seemed to Ceria that what defined something about the Gnolls was that air of…possibility. They had customs. They had traditions. But especially now, if the world changed such that stone became cheese, it might bring down a Walled City like Pallass. If Earth collided with this world in a literal sense, the Drakes might cling to their cities until they were brought low.
But the Gnolls would probably step off their world’s firmament and march onto Earth’s soil and go exploring. Not all of them, maybe, but they were reaching out. So the last proof of that was in her hands.
“Dead gods. Dead gods. Dead gods. Dead—”
“Yvlon. You’re drawing attention. Please stop.”
The [Armsmistress] had punched out a [Gladiator Champion] in the arenas of Nerrhavia’s Fallen with her bare fists. Right now, she was quaking in her sneakers. Her hand shook so badly she could barely take a bite of tiramisu.
Ceria—sipped from the latte and licked at the whipped cream on top. She felt at her ears again and encountered rounded skin, not the points she was used to. Then she glanced at her hands, or rather, the one that used to be bone.
Somewhat to her annoyance, it was a prosthetic one, not a fun skin-and-flesh one, but she rather liked that Yvlon had gotten lucky.
The simulation had apparently decided that instead of fake arms, Yvlon instead had a very fetching silver coat on with long sleeves and some trademarked logo on the back in the shape of House Byres’ crest.
They were rolled back right now, revealing her flesh-and-blood arms, which had tattoos in silver, and silver fingernails. Her pants were plain black and businesslike. She also wore sneakers, but that was because she hadn’t known how to dress herself leaving her apartment.
Pisces Jealnet looked like he normally did, with those square glasses, half-moon and so pretentious that Ceria couldn’t stop laughing about it. He had some too-white designer clothes that made him look like this world’s version of a fashionista, expensive.
The glasses weren’t even prescription.
Ceria had been wearing high-heels—and just like the [Prankster] and chaotic half-Elf, she had torn jeans and a t-shirt with some band’s logo on it. She also had a beanie. The heeled shoes were hard to work in, but Ceria had pulled up a chair and was putting her feet up with the heeled shoes dangling off them—which was getting her a look from the servers.
Ksmvr? He looked like some kind of student, with a blue jacket over a cardigan sweater, and he had on a tie. He beamed with all his teeth like a Drake or Gnoll and he had frizzy hair he would occasionally wrinkle then sniff at his hands.
He kept feeling at his nose, too.
“Comrade Pisces, Comrade Pisces. My sniffer-thing is leaking. This is disgusting.”
Ceria rolled her eyes with great fondness.
“Ksmvr, it’s a nose. You’ve seen noses the entire time you were with us.”
“I have never had one. I hate it. It is gross and full of things.”
“Please don’t show us.”
“Dead gods.”
Yvlon kept going, but she did manage to eat the tiramisu. Her hoodie’s sleeves were rolled back, and the barista who stopped with a second order of drinks looked down.
“Oh, wow. That is an amazing tattoo.”
Yvlon jumped and almost went to cover her arms, but the silver tattoos ran all the way up and down her arms, ending on her shoulders. They looked suspiciously like the strange forms her arms had taken during her fever dream.
“Um—thank you!”
“Where’d you get it? I have one myself—”
The smiling barista tried to chat up the nervous Yvlon, but to Ceria’s amazement, the man seemed to sense how wildly nervous Yvlon was and backed off after a moment.
“They’re almost like real people.”
She muttered to Pisces, and he looked up from reading a newspaper. He pushed his spectacles up and sniffed.
“That would be the—entire point of this Skill, Ceria. And I might add—we have our powers, even if we look objectionably Human in Ksmvr’s case.”
The Antinium blinked—and then nodded. He pointed up at one of the too-tall buildings.
“I believe I could climb all the way to the top with judicial hops. Should I attempt this, Captain Ceria?”
“Nope. The Gnolls will throw a fit if we interrupt their research—apparently you can destabilize the simulation if you fight enough. Berr apparently got the entire thing shut down for a day. Let’s enjoy the ride, enjoy the ride. Alright, who’s got the most money?”
Obligingly, the Horns emptied their pockets. Ceria was disappointed—until Pisces brandished something.
“You’re so behind these times, Ceria. Credit card. I’m told it’s the key to everything here.”
“Oho. Then I think I have a plan. As your fearless leader—the first thing is one of those movies Kevin can’t shut up about. Then I am going to find the most entertaining thing on the list that Deskie gave me. Um…paintball? Warriors like that, Yvlon.”
“I would rather sit here for a second. My stomach’s upset.”
Yvlon shuddered, but Ceria nudged her.
“Yvlon, you’re in another world. How often will you get this chance? Come on, look around!”
She pointed around the city at all the Humans and beamed so hugely the Horns all smiled at it. Ksmvr raised a hand.
“In that case, I would like to fly in a plane. I shall now line up and purchase a ‘ticket’ whereupon I believe I must wait for at least three hours. And apparently, you may be inappropriately touched or shouted at if you bring any edged weapons with you.”
Ceria hesitated.
“…Is that fun, Ksmvr? It sounds boring.”
“I am having a Human experience, Captain Ceria. If I get bored…hmm. Maybe I will do this alone. Comrade Pisces, I have a plea for our time after this ‘movie’.”
“I could indulge you, Comrade Ksmvr.”
Pisces was delightedly tapping at an iPhone. He was…Ceria saw a very explicit image, and Pisces slapped the phone as a decidedly inappropriate video began playing.
“Pisces, you rogue! Stop that!”
The Humans were staring in great disapproval, and a barista came over to tell Pisces that was definitely not allowed. Red-faced, he apologized then hissed at Ceria.
“I didn’t mean for that! I was looking up anatomy! I was told they had excellent documentation and got—I just typed in ‘intimate anatomy’ and then I was here and—”
“What’s the app-thingy I’m supposed to open? Which one did you use? So I can make the same mistake.”
Ceria ignored Yvlon’s glower as she innocently prodded at her phone. Ksmvr was tapping Pisces on the shoulder.
“Comrade Pisces, Comrade Pisces. After we are done with the movie, may we please go together?”
Yvlon raised one hand, peering at her fingernails—also painted silver.
“I’ll do it, Ksmvr. These two are going to be arrested by the Watch. What would you like to do?”
He happily took her hand and seemed amazed at the feeling of his fingers touching hers. Ksmvr wrinkled his nose.
“I would like to drive a car, please. I believe I have the requisite documentation.”
“A car…?”
Yvlon eyed the speeding things nervously, but then she shrugged.
“We can’t die. Why not?”
“Now you’re getting into the swing of things. And hey—there’s something about a ‘convention’. With swords and everything. Some ‘fantasy story’. You should go there and see if anyone’s got a sword.”
Ceria saw Yvlon brighten up at the familiar concept. Ksmvr clapped his hands happily.
