Pisces was impressed Berr understood the concept. The Gnoll frowned at Pisces. Then he laughed and slapped Pisces on the shoulder so hard the [Necromancer] winced.
“Ah, [Mages] and their words. Yes, call it that. They’ll centrifugal you, Yvlon. And if I was them, I’d centrifugal you off a cliff or into a spell.”
“That’s, er, not how you use the word, Honored Berr.”
Pisces hesitated. He was tempted to sniff. But the old Gnoll was slightly intimidating, even to one of his academic credentials. The Gnoll just slapped him on the shoulder harder.
“It’s fine, it’s fine! We’re Wild Wastes Gnolls. Barbarians. You [Mages] are very funny about words, yes? I suppose I should expect more now magic is upon us again. Well, never let it be said that the greatest good in the world comes without any downsides!”
Pisces blinked. That sounded like a compliment—then he saw one of Berr’s pale yellow-brown eyes wink at him.
Every Wild Wastes warrior in earshot laughed at this. He was—clever! Pisces was so flustered he fell silent—but then they passed by the place that had been the battleground where so many had died, and all fell silent.
The Gnolls stared at the dirt, the wound on the Great Plains, and Berr kept smiling, but silently. The Gnoll settlement was at least four miles away; only the intense flatness of the Great Plains made it possible to see so far.
“Er—Honored Berr. I wonder if Chieftain Feshi—that is, whoever is in charge here understands that the battlefield yonder is…filled with death magic?”
Pisces grew even more nervous. Honored Berr’s head turned as several Gnolls glanced up sharply.
“Chieftain Feshi is not in charge. But she is among many equals—yes, we know, Adventurer Pisces. Dead keep rising from there. We have saved most Gnoll bodies, and each one we find as undead we lay to rest. But I think it will unearth Drake bones and perhaps even long-buried ones for times to come, eh?”
“It will. And, er—it may attract undead for ranges up to a hundred miles.”
A Gnoll groaned, and Pisces hurried to clarify.
“Not all at once! Slowly! But any buried corpse, animal or otherwise not properly disposed of, might gather here. This is a phenomenon in necromancy—I don’t quite know how you would stop it…”
He was afraid Berr would grow angry or demand an answer Pisces didn’t have. The [Necromancer] had never actually thought of how you’d…de-magic an area like this. He hadn’t cared.
What a shallow [Necromancer] he was, as Az’kerash had said. No formal training. Pisces pointed weakly at the mound that had been Khoteizetrough.
“The earth magic and more plants might counteract it, but so much death…even plants will struggle to grow here.”
Berr listened in silence, scratching at his furry chin while staring at the wasteland.
“Yes, I know. Khoteizetrough is also lying there. Earth and death. The Gaarh Marsh tribe claims that even if they go back to their swamps, this mound will produce a bounty equivalent to parts of the heart of the swamp.”
“What will be done, then?”
Yvlon looked at Berr, who had agreed to teach her the instant she had presented her case. The first thing he had done was challenge her to that spar, and if he wanted to impress his credentials on her—Pisces supposed he had done that.
But Berr seemed relaxed. He looked at the death magic, the memorial to the Earth Elemental, and gave the Horns a very Gnoll-like answer.
“Why, nothing. Gaarh Marsh will keep some apprentice [Shamans] and some of their tribe here. They shall harvest the hill, help it grow.”
“But the death magic…the undead might try to tear down the hill. And they will threaten your people here.”
Yvlon pointed uncomprehendingly at the tents in the distance. Berr nodded.
“They will. So we shall send young [Warriors] here to quell the undead nightly. I think it is already something of a custom. What was the terrible necessity of patrolling this place to find the dead and stop the undead now becomes a way of life. In a hundred years, perhaps the ‘Nightwalk of Xherw’s Folly’ will become a rite of passage or a habit of any warrior who comes from here.”
Struck, Pisces looked at the old Gnoll and saw Berr staring ahead. The old legend of the Wild Wastes looked forwards in time—then back at Pisces.
“It is good to think ahead, you see. I am glad my Chieftain does it. But if we endure, I think we will take this place and make the best out of it we can. Who knows? Maybe Gnolls will run around raising dead bodies for fun like you.”
He nudged Pisces again. The [Necromancer] blinked.
“[Necromancers]? Are the Gnolls going to train mages, then?”
“Are we? Are we?”
The Gnoll raised his voice, and the warriors around him laughed. He slapped his chest.
“I am lazy, and I hate reading books. I would rather have stories told over a fire or them read to me—but are we going to train [Mages]? You are funny, Horns of Hammerad. You speak of the future as if we are not already in motion. Come.”
He pointed ahead, and Pisces saw in that growing place, that city, that Meeting of Tribes permanently enshrined here? Perhaps—a kingdom in the making? Or just a gathering that would not convene once every twenty years.
The [Mages] of the Gnolls were already here.
 
——
 
This was the place where tradition had met with lies. History and fact and tribes had taken sides. Truth and necessity.
Good and evil reduced it too much. That was how some people might tell the story, but Xherw had believed he was doing the best thing for Gnolls. There were certainly winners and losers, but the tribes had decided on more than just the fate of Doombearers here.
From the war in the Meeting of Tribes came magic. Magic…returned to Gnolls after so long. The new lands—and also—
The knowledge of Earth. So three things were here—Gnollish tradition, Earth’s knowledge, and magic, and they were creating something new in their place.
“Each tribe will send representatives here. I think that is the best way. We will not give up our old grounds to Drakes, for they will never return. But Gaarh Marsh will keep its [Shamans]—just as other tribes send their warriors to learn, young to mingle. Plain’s Eye was too powerful on its own. We must mingle at all times, not every twenty years.”
Chieftain Feshi Weatherfur told Gireulashia the conclusion the Chieftains had reached. It was not a consensus among all; many tribes were shattered or had simply left never to return. But the ones who had stayed had decided upon this.
“Will we call ourselves a nation?”
Gire asked the obvious, and Feshi avoided the answer immediately.
“We will need unified laws, at least. Rules for armies passing through this land. But it should be a trading place. Walls…that sounds too much like Drakes.”
“They have a point. Walls are nice. They keep most monsters out.”
“And have sewers? Gnolls whose entire job is to clean such things? [Landlords] who are paid just to own and upkeep land? I think that goes too far, Chieftain Gireulashia. A permanent gathering appeals to me more. Far more.”
Chieftain Perale of the Wild Wastes was one of the greatest [Chieftains] present along with Feshi. He wrinkled his nose at the thought of becoming City Gnolls, and Feshi agreed hesitantly.
“Perhaps more Gnolls will make cities—but here we should keep to the old ways. We have pushed forward many steps, Gire—but too far and we will lose the tribes that change slower. Theikha has said this, and I agree. Az’muzarre will never accept a city, and we do need their help.”
“Az’muzarre?”
Gire snarled reflexively. She looked around—then realized she had seen some of the famous tribe’s warriors in the distance. Feshi raised her paw.
“I know they took Xherw’s side. They are in disgrace and have lost much, Gire. I was the one who offered to let them stand sentry along the Great Plains. We cannot push out the other tribes. We are too hurt.”
“Even Plain’s Eye?”
The [Paragon] was angry, but Feshi’s rebuttal was swift.
“Plain’s Eye did not know what Xherw did. They have all been marked as Doombearers. That is painful enough for what they believe. And Chieftain Merish—would you wish him poorly? He has had to quell constant fighting, and he is taking his tribe to the new lands; they will never co-exist here. It is a difficult journey that he has already begun. Will you say he deserves worse?”
Gire hesitated. Merish had helped save Mrsha, even if he had been a Doomslayer before that. She kicked the ground.
“…That wouldn’t be what I’d say, no. Fine. Fine. Where’s the magic?”
She changed the subject, and Feshi pointed ahead. Gire looked and saw…the first part of this new gathering. In the center of a wide plaza in the midst of all the tents—and, it seemed, trees being grown by Gaarh Marsh—was a gathering of excited Gnolls.
They were surrounding, arguing over, studying, and occasionally turning the pages of something in the open for all to see. In fact—it was attracting a certain [Necromancer] and a half-Elf, who practically sprinted over to see—
“The spellbook of the Silverfangs.”
It was right there. Gire couldn’t believe it. She dashed over herself, leaving a trail of wind behind her. And the first thing she heard was—
“Waaaaaaaaaaaaard of Preservation! Ward of Preservation!”
A Gnoll was shouting as he waved a wand over a hand-carved wooden box with a lid. Some Gnolls were clapping their paws to their ears.
“Shouting it doesn’t make it work, fur-brain! You drew the ward wrong.”
“Did not. I have copied it perfectly!”
The Gnoll shot back. Another Gnoll was painstakingly drawing the rune straight off the spellbook as Gire, Pisces, and Ceria all stared. The young Gnoll—barely fourteen—compared it to the one the adult Gnoll with the wand was drawing.
“Yes, see? You have a crossed line here—”
“Oh. Damn. Let me try again. Ward of Preservation—”
Gire’s tail began to wag as Pisces peered at the pages of the spellbook. On one huge, glossy page filled with magical writings was the spell the Gnoll was presumably trying to cast. On another…
“[Ward of Purity] and [Ward of Preservation]? What? This spellbook has wards? No way!”
Ceria exclaimed as she read the magical instructions. Pisces stared at the box the Gnoll was trying to enchant, then turned.
“Are you trying to cast this spell, sir?”
The sweating Gnoll raised his wand and swished it back and forth as if to make the spell work.
“Humans? Wait—I know you! And yes I am! I think I’ve nearly gotten the hang of it.”
It took all of Pisces’ power not to smirk—Gire noticed his muscles straining with the effort. He turned it into a cough.
“I’m sorry, Sir Gnoll, but I have to inform you—[Ward of Preservation] is an exceptionally difficult spell for anyone outside of an [Enchanter] class to just…cast. Let alone learn! As you can see, it’s a triple-layer spell circle.”
He pointed at the ward’s insignia, which were, in fact, laid out on the page in three different spots—with an arrow connecting them. In short…it was how you wrote the ward down.
First one magical circle that you ‘connected’ to a more complicated rune on top. Then another—then another. It was how you drew magic—of course, more complex variations existed which required more than two-dimensional space.
Gire, from her studies, understood that some [Mages] had to take advantage of multiple ‘layers’ to create a working conduit. Get one thing wrong and at best the spell didn’t go off. At worst, something unpredictable happened. Ceria frowned.
“I can’t believe this book has [Ward of Preservation]. I thought it only went up to Tier 3 magic!”
The Gnoll gave her and Pisces a blank look as the [Necromancer] tried to save his time.
“This is Tier 3. The book says you can go up in power, but the base spell is Tier 3. And I think I’ve got it. I just had the rune wrong. Waaaaaaaaaaaaard oooooooooof—”
Some of the Gnolls were rolling their eyes, but the bemused Pisces looked offended. Not that he thought Gnolls were incapable, but Tier 3 magic was something a Level 20 [Mage] would struggle to learn.
“Sir, I could help you with a lesser ward. But in my experience, you work up to it. One does not simply cast [Fireball].”
The Gnoll obligingly stopped again for Pisces. He had a big top-hat—no relation to the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings—and a [Trader]’s coat with big, purple pockets and faux-gold trim.
“I know that. If I was learning the spell, I’d be more cautious. But I’m not.”
“Er…I don’t follow.”
Gire’s eyes lit up as she, true to her nature, figured out what he was doing in advance. The Gnoll flicked his wand, and she thought she sensed his weak mana pool—produce a spark more mana, and it flowed into the inactive ward.
“I’m just copying it outright. Far simpler. Duh. I won’t know how to cast it, but—[Ward of Preservation]! Hey, I got it!”
The ward flared into power, and Pisces nearly leapt into Yvlon’s arms in terror, thinking the ward had backfired. But it hadn’t. The magical activation made Gire’s own burgeoning [Mage] senses tingle. Then it just…glowed with innate power, sucking in magic around it.
“Aha! I did it! I…ooh. I feel woozy. Maybe it was too high-level after—”
The Gnoll looked around, put a paw to his head, then toppled over. Ksmvr helped catch him with another Gnoll, and they laid him down gently.
“He—he—he—”
Pisces gobbled with his eyes wide. All the Gnolls clustered around, oohing as the little box was inspected.
“Lovely work. He was shouting the spell all day, but he chose a nice box.”
“Careful, you idiots! Don’t disturb the rune or Vorm’ll throw a tantrum! Rightly so! He’ll want to put some varnish or protection over that right away or it’ll rub off.”
The Gnoll, Vorm, was coming around. Vorm, or Vormhir as he was known, sprang to his feet, lifted the box up, and crowed.
“Here it is! Here it is! I—didn’t realize how much mana it took. I poured three days of it into this damn ward. I suppose my emporium won’t spring up overnight—yet! But if I get eight Gnolls producing it…”
“How did you do that, sir?”
Yvlon was fascinated. Pisces and Ceria were terribly offended for some reason, but Vorm was only too happy to explain.
“I copied the spell, of course. Straight from the book. It’s so easy even I can do it. Me, a Level 7 [Copycat Spellcaster]! Well, it won’t be Level 7 tonight. Heh. Heheheheheh.”
He rubbed his paws together. Gire supposed he hadn’t really been fully out if he hadn’t heard a level-up. Pisces pointed at him, almost accusatorially.
“You—this is impossible! I’ve never seen a [Mage] just copy from a book like that!”
