“The greatest [Martial Artist] in the world is a [Spearmaster].”
“Mm. It may be true.”
Orjin sat cross-legged on a pillow in the most beautiful pavilion he had ever seen. Three Lanterns of Significance hung overhead, each placed such that the three lights overlapped in the entire mansion that sat at just the right remove from the Light-City of Meneretorre.
Well, it had just been called Menere once upon a time. But it had added the second part and constructed this mansion—and been gifted three of the greatest lanterns in the city’s possession.
Even now, the first Lantern of Aegis was keeping away the fireflies and other pests buzzing towards the water-filled gardens, another richness Orjin was unused to. He would have drunk from the water, but it was filled with expensive fish from around the world.
Besides, the Lantern of Dew collected water and, like the lesser stones that performed the same function, dripped constantly, a blue light streaming water to feed the ponds and this mansion’s wells. The last lantern was simplest.
The Lantern of Vigor made Orjin restless. The weary muscles he had—from sparring, the cut on his right arm—were all healing at a rate beyond even his Skills. In real-time, he could see the cut closing.
It did not save the Fury of Skies from needing to lie-down with a compress over his head. But it would bring him back up sooner.
As he sat upon a silk pillow, Orjin saw a long toothpick stab a piece of what looked like filament-candy. It was a wrapped, delicate piece of spun sugar—pale topaz, like the gem itself. Two cracked lips tasted the sugar, nibbling it, then put it down.
“Something’s in the center of this. What is it?”
“Toffee, Father. All the children like it.”
“I don’t. I don’t care for it at all. Give me a scorpion in syrup instead.”
“Yes, Father.”
A woman appeared, rolling her eyes. She looked matronly, like any number of [Innkeepers] or mothers—which she herself wasn’t. Of all of this man’s daughters, she alone had no children. She dressed herself in an apron; she’d been cutting bamboo shoots, another luxury, and the toothpick snatched one off a plate and inserted it into his mouth.
It was the kind of thing you could chew for ages: just roasted bamboo shoots. Patiently, the daughter put down the platter, and Orjin bowed his head to her. She was stout with thicker legs and plumper than most people in poor Pomle, and her hair was just black, her skin tanned.
Unlike the man sitting across from Orjin, reclining barefoot, she did not resemble a mass of calluses and scars. Her hair was not still seared a semi-reflective sheet of lightning-yellow from where magic had scarred it.
Her eyes were faintly orange, but not like his, like the boiling heart of a volcano. The daughter of Torreb the Unbreakable was named Itkisa, and she took care of him and managed the servants who helped keep up this mansion where he had retired.
Orjin liked her. Itkisa had seemed normal compared to the aura he had felt miles out from this city. Normal…but she spoke to Torreb like that.
“Don’t eat the entire plate, Father. Or you’ll have no room for dinner.”
She slapped his hand as it reached for a second shoot. The old man grunted. He waited until Itkisa was in retreat.
“[Generals] have not dared to speak to me so, much less slap my hand. You see what a chore family is? The greatest [Martial Artist] also has no children. No weak spots.”
“I do not know if that is true.”
This time, Orjin objected. Torreb switched the bamboo shoot to the other side of his mouth as Orjin took one and gently began to chew.
“You do not believe that? Why?”
The question was blunt—everything Torreb did was either blunt or sharp. Even meeting his eyes could be a challenge. When he was angry—and Orjin had not yet seen him truly angry—he could hit you just by staring at you.
The Fury of Skies, Solo…something…had made the mistake of arguing with Itkisa when she had joined their discussion about his cult. He still refused to understand why Orjin held it against him so.
“I do not believe your cult made it easy to simply walk away after women and men gave you everything, Fury of Skies. Nor were they all equals, even under you. At best, they were akin to those who follow warcamps and armies about. If you think that is equal to [Soldiers] or they cannot be mistreated—you are wrong.”
Like her father, she had no fear of speaking eye-to-eye to even a pair of Level 40 warriors. The Fury had insulted her lightly.
He was lying down. Orjin had never seen an aura manifest as strongly as Torreb’s. It was like—behind the withered form of Chandrar’s greatest [Warrior]—seeing a giant sitting there, cross-legged.
Torreb’s strength could manifest without him having to lift a hand. An aura’s blow had been enough to send the Fury of Skies flying through one of the paper-thin walls in the mansion. And Torreb hadn’t even lifted his blade.
Or rather—the long, edged club that he kept at his side, even now. It was seven feet long, made of some dense iron metal that looked like rust—and reminded Orjin of how people spoke of Gazi of Reim’s armor.
It was also, curiously, edged on one side while keeping a crushing side on the other. So a kind of mismatch between the two. Not that you’d do any traditional cutting with this hammer of a weapon. It weighed seventy pounds, and Torreb could swing it like a reed.
It was a Relic-class weapon they called ‘Torreb’s Fist’. The real name of the weapon was only known to Torreb. He had let Orjin lift it, a true honor.
Even being in his presence was an honor. Outside the mansion, Orjin knew, the city had aspiring apprentices, warriors who came to beg Torreb for lessons. His other daughters and various sons occupied roles as [Warriors], rulers of their own cities, and Torreb’s dynasty was flourishing.
He was eighty years old. A Stitch-man; Itkisa was a Human daughter, but most of his descendants were Stitch-folk. He was a Level 69 [Warrior]; the highest on the continent. Only Mars the Illusionist came close to his achievements, and she was younger than he was by decades.
Somehow, the Strongest was sitting next to him, so close that if Orjin stretched out his feet rather than sitting cross-legged, they could touch toes. Orjin knew he was no longer Pomle’s Strongest and Vandum had that role. But he couldn’t help it. Torreb kept treating him like that, and it was how Orjin thought before he caught himself.
Torreb lay on his side, chewing on the bamboo while he drank purified water out of a cup. Carelessly; it was crystal that didn’t match the style of this home, which he claimed was inspired by Drath and Chandrarian architecture both. Torreb noticed Orjin’s glance at the cup.
“Want one? It’s one of the cups I was given when I was in Terandria. Crystal clean enough not to taint purified water. I forget which kingdom gave it to me.”
“No. I was thinking.”
“What is the greatest [Martial Artist] to you? Mine would have no family.”
“It should not matter. Children or not—it is about perfection in style.”
Torreb grunted.
“So a spear.”
Orjin half-nodded.
“A spear has a reach longer than a sword. It is adaptable. But to me, the ultimate [Martial Artist] is even more universally capable. If you lose a spear, you lose your strength.”
“Fair enough.”
Torreb spat half his bamboo shoot into the pond and watched as the water turned into a cloud of fish fighting for it. He smiled, licked his cracked lips, and sipped from the water cup.
It amazed Orjin that Torreb had something as mundane as chapped lips to contend with. But then…he was old. He could repair his hair; no Stitch-man went bald unless he wished to, but he had turned his hair white to acknowledge his age. He could have built his body strong and huge, like his aura.
Yet his lifestring was fraying, and it seemed that the string that defined the Stitch-man affected his body. The Lantern of Vigor was here to make Torreb’s rest easy.
He had scars. If he turned and the loose robes he wore shifted, you could see a scar like wings across his back where an Adult Creler had laid him open. His marked hair and flesh were scarred from fighting one of the last [Archmages] to die after Zelkyr disappeared.
Here sat a legend. And here they were, discussing martial arts. Torreb gently touched the great club-blade at his side.
“You are not wrong, Orjin. I should have known any Strongest would be bold enough to say that to my face.”
His eyes flashed, and Orjin felt a wave of pressure on him—but he ignored it. Then Torreb relented. He sipped moodily again and spat. No fish erupted in a flurry this time as the spittle landed in the pond. If someone had done that in the oasis, Orjin would have kicked them.
He had the desire to do that now, unconsciously, as any Chandrarian from dry lands did to someone who sullied water. Just for a second—
The club rose and fell. Orjin’s kick back would have carried him out of range—of anyone else. But he saw a blur—and two eyes burning like a molten core.
Orjin’s arm was raised—he caught himself, and Torreb halted the blow on the veranda outside. The fish had vanished—the blade of that club hovered a foot from Orjin’s raised arm.
Then the Named-rank grinned.
“You thought about it.”
“I meant no offense.”
The club rose lightly. Torreb went back to recline on his side again. He had gotten up with the club in hand so fast from that position—
“It will happen again. I felt it, you know.”
“I will try not to—think of such things. I apologize, Torreb.”
The great warrior just waved a hand moodily. Orjin himself was unsettled. He could read someone’s muscles moving, sense the intent of a blow—Torreb felt even the desire to kick him like a physical touch.
“Sit, sit. I do these things for fun, Strongest. Tell me what the greatest [Martial Artist] to exceed you or I looks like. Barehanded, really?”
His lips curled, and Orjin defended himself as he went back to chewing on his own strip of bamboo.
“No. Merely adaptive. You were saying you were defined by the Relic.”
“Sure enough. Take it away and I can kill a score. But it is a Relic-class weapon. I see your point. I am beholden to this weapon—because it is better than any I have ever found. You know, I used a strange axe for an age? Nineteen years I carried a hookaxe which I hated. But I bore it because the edge could slice mithril and I had naught better. I gave it to my first son, and he is besotted with the thing. I? I would toss this weapon aside if you handed me anything better. So I agree, then. Not a spearmaster.”
Torreb grinned. Perhaps the question was a test. After all—the two were trying to solve an age-old question.
What was the greatest [Martial Artist] like? It was a question Pomle had tried to solve for decades, pitting warriors and styles against each other, and it was a silly question because it had been around since the dawn of time.
But the philosophizing between the former Strongest and Torreb, the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar, had a point. It was the pretext to something else—and Torreb indulged Orjin.
So the next thing Orjin said was controversial.
“The ultimate [Martial Artist] is a Garuda.”
Torreb paused, frowning.
“Because they can fly.”
“Yes. I know Xil—”
“I know him too. He can fly. Therefore, he is out of the reach of many of us if he needs to be. I dislike that answer.”
“Does it not make sense? I saw the Death of Magic—”
Torreb jerked, and the scarred flesh on his arm, criss-crossed from blocking countless blades with his skin, shivered. He waved it away.
“Don’t say that. Don’t—”
Orjin fell silent, and Torreb shook his head, bared old, yellowed teeth.
“If the ultimate form of combat is adaptive—then the greatest [Martial Artist] is…a [Mage]. For what is more adaptive and powerful than magic? Silvenia, the Death of Magic, or a Djinni is the greatest warrior, and we are insects waving steel and copies of that power around.”
That—hurt Orjin’s pride as much as Torreb’s. Orjin countered.
“But a [Mage] is not trained in the body.”
“Ah, but they could be. What if you had a warrior who honed their body and magic like a blade? Then the ultimate [Martial Artist] is a [Spellsword].”
Torreb’s eyes glowed challengingly. The former Strongest rested his hands on his knees as he thought. Itkisa came back with scorpions baked in syrup. She offered them, and Orjin took a bite as Torreb took three and was scolded.
“No. This is wrong. Your premise is correct, Torreb. If it were possible—the greatest [Martial Artist] might use magic and exceed any other. You, with your Relic, would exceed the same Torreb without. Yet…not everyone can practice magic. I was born without the gift.”
“I have only a drop of talent. Go on.”
Torreb leaned forward as Itkisa went to feed the fish from a basket. But she was listening. Orjin searched for words as he stared at the sky.
“The greatest [Martial Artist]—regardless of what weapon they use, what style—should be achievable by anyone. And they must practice a style that does not fall to the difference in enchanted blades. If they fight with their hands, a novice [Martial Artist] must be able to best a [Swordsman] of the same rank.”
Itkisa turned her head, and Torreb snorted softly.
“Impossible. A sword puts the advantage in a new warrior’s hands. Weapons advantage those with over those without.”
Perhaps more than he knew. Orjin thought of how Iratze had described guns. He exhaled slowly.
“If that is so—then Pomle’s entire method is worthless. If that is so—we should all pick up weapons. If levels equalize that by giving us bodies like diamonds and wings of our own, that is one thing. But if what we practice is useless or inferior, that is one flaw.”
He looked up, and Torreb bared his chest. He pointed to a long scar under one rib.
“Collos gave me this one. Before he died, when Pomle revolted, he defeated me, Torreb the Undefeated. My name, you see, only came when I was older. I outlived him, but he bested me with his hands. You want a warrior at Level 5 to best someone barehanded who holds a weapon. That is impossible, I think. But I tell you that your hands will threaten even the Deaths of Rhir in time.”
This was the answer that Orjin had come here to see. He saw the scarred flesh—like a winking eye of pale skin. Knife-hand. He bowed his head to Torreb.
“That is half of the answer I have come here to find, then, Torreb.”
“And the other half?”
“I do not know how to ask it yet.”
Orjin confessed. Torreb laughed, then rose. Itkisa looked up, and Torreb stretched.
