“They levelled. Cers is trying to be his…father. Shaman Cetrule. Oldr took Chieftain Iraz’s death badly. He keeps shouting that, even though it hurts so many. And they fight each other constantly. I’m sorry you had to see it.”
“The forbearance of some of the Gnolls amazes me.”
Pisces spoke quietly. If he had been half as vocal claiming Az’kerash was a hero, he could only imagine how badly his father would have beaten him. In fact, he’d been hit for failing to practice.
“It…Adetr is taking a lot of the blame for his tribe. I’m just glad there’s been no real fighting. Lots of smaller fights, but no Drake armies. No tribes have gone to war yet. Merish left rather than face it.”
Rose spoke quietly. Pisces thought of Yelroan and nodded heavily. He patted Yvlon on the shoulder.
“Good job on keeping your temper. Perhaps Honored Berr is already having an effect?”
Yvlon’s smile was crooked as she accepted a wet towel.
“I don’t attack children, Pisces. But if either of those two brats hits me again, I will bury them up to their heads in the ground. With dirt. Not violently.”
She clarified as Cers stared at her. She gave him another smile, and the boy ran off. Pisces hesitated.
Maybe she should start her lessons sooner rather than later.
 
——
 
The Horns, [Strategists], Ekhtouch, Nailren, and Colth were welcome guests that night. The Gnolls didn’t throw a huge feast, but Chieftain after Chieftain came to thank the Horns for their help, ask about Mrsha, and often, to meet the Horns—or the [Strategists]—for their own fame.
The one person who was the odd man out was Colth. He observed the Titan’s students and Perorn Fleethoof, that legend, trotting over to Feshi to talk about some ‘ceremony’ to the Gnoll girl’s surprise and minor paranoia.
Which was logical when it came to the Titan. Colth, though, didn’t try to poke his head up with all the Gnolls about.
He hadn’t fought for them. So he leaned on his Skills instead. Colth had met countless classes and learned from them all.
Including, as it happened, the [Layabout] class as well as [Outcasts] and [Riffraff]. All literal classes, if rare.
Sometimes, you wanted to be [Invisible to Decency] or have [Unnoticed Presence]. Like he’d told Ksmvr—there was a Skill for everything.
That meant most Gnolls left him alone, even Chieftains not concentrating hard on him. Colth strolled up towards the Meeting of Earths tent. He wanted to know the big secret. He had an inkling; The Wandering Inn was not very good at keeping secrets.
Unfortunately, he had only completed one lap of the tent—which was warded by [Shamans] and had two alert guards by the entrance—when someone seized his ear.
He let it happen with a groan. He could have dodged, but one did not simply cast Tier 3 magic. In the same vein—one did not want to offend Shaman Theikha.
“Ah, I remember you, you little scoundrel.”
“Shaman Theikha! You’re looking younger than ever! Vibrant!”
“Mm. And you are curious, Colth. Too curious. Come—don’t let this one in without my express permission. If you must snoop, you will do it with things I am comfortable with you snooping about.”
The great [Shaman] of Gaarh Marsh pulled him away, and Colth went in fear for his ears. She plopped him right back down in a seat at the feasting, and he looked around.
“Where has Chieftain Feshi gone?”
“I believe her mentors have decided to honor her one last time. A graduation. We will not disturb that—nor Adventurer Yvlon her training.”
Yvlon had sought out Berr the Berserker before he could get too drunk, and they had headed off. Colth wished them well. But what could a talented, perceptive—yet not-as-well-trusted—individual like he get up to?
He was happy to learn from an expert like Deskie, but Colth wanted to be part of this. Sadly—he hadn’t shown his loyalty to the Gnolls, and it was too late. And until he heard from someone else in his monthly contact, he wouldn’t know what the hell Erin had actually said that had the world stirring.
Theikha finally let go of his ear and turned. She sniffed loudly, then called out.
“There is one use for a too-talented Named-rank adventurer like you, Colth. And that is to put you with someone equally talented whom we must help—and who is just as equally difficult to get information out of. I introduce you to Wer the Wanderer.”
Colth the Ultimate Supporter looked up—and a Gnoll with white fur turned from where he stood, still alone even now. Wer, known as ‘Wanderer’ to the secret cabal of Gnolls who were debating if they still needed to hide, looked up.
The one Doombearer of old blinked at Colth, and the two sized each other up instantly.
Well, well, well. A competent man.
They both had the same thought. Colth smiled and stood up, hand outstretched. Wer shook it slowly, and Colth glanced at Theikha.
“What can I help such a famous Gnoll with, Shaman Theikha? Is this about expeditions to the new lands? Defending the tribes from Drake interests?”
He had seen Nailren talking with Chieftain Eitha of Hawkarrow, and Gnolls surely would be heading to the new lands already. Apparently, this Chieftain Merish and his disgraced tribe were already on the move. The Horns might be swept up in that, and Colth was along for the ride as they seemed to have a knack for finding events of moment.
Deniusth could claim to be ‘first’ in chasing the artifact thieves, but Colth thought he was the one with the real shortcut. And sure enough—Theikha raised one brow as her eyes glimmered with the spark of earth Khoteizetrough had left her.
“Partly, Colth. But I think someone of your expertise is wasted on something everyone is doing, yes? Wer, I have finally found you someone who might survive your Skill, yes?”
Wanderer looked unhappy as he came over to sit. Colth’s ears perked up as the Gnoll replied to Theikha.
“Honored Theikha—I can take us into the Crossroads of Izril, but my entry is not the same as the one the [Innkeeper] wants us to find. And I can only take the amount of people I can touch—maybe six at best. It is one thing to use them—another to explore. I nearly died exploring twice there and vowed to never try again. There are things in there that even the Stitch-Witch does not tempt. I did not see her leave the road.”
Colth stared at Wer—then at Theikha, and the [Shaman] smiled.
“She is not an adventurer. They are mad enough to try. Colth?”
He tried. Oh—but he tried. As Ceria glanced at them and sidled over to their spot, as Gire’s ears perked up—Colth suppressed it as best as he could.
But his smile? It was true and eager—but it also looked a tiny bit sinister as it spread over his face. It was just an unfortunate thing. Some people laughed like horses. He had an evil smile.
 
——
 
In the Great Plains, there was only one person with a smile more villainous and diabolical than Colth. That was because that kind of smile tended to scale with age and deed.
It was the ability to smile—or laugh—without a shred of self-analysis. Without embarrassment, to let out one of those world-ending guffaws in the middle of a crowded room. You laughed like that while you stood in a wasteland of flames or watched a castle falling to rubble.
You developed a smile like that if you had seen something that made you never care how someone thought it looked. But even a villain’s grin was only how it seemed to other people.
Sometimes you put that smile on your face to avoid showing something else. Like a grimace of sadness. Someone had to be the Creler in the situation.
Even if the moment didn’t call for it. Perorn Fleethoof rolled her eyes, but only when no one was looking. For the Titan was hamming it up and possibly also turkeying around at the same time. He stood there, not in a private ceremony as they had agreed.
The damn Fraerling was on his podium in one of the Forgotten Wing company’s classrooms, and he had somehow convened them.
All of them. He had pulled Cameral off the front, summoned Umina and Marian from their break. Kissilt was still muddy from the ride in; there was Jekilt, Xelic, Reniz, Angelica—
They looked almost like strangers now to the students in the Great Plains. Indeed, the two groups stared at each other with wide eyes.
Venaz took in Marian’s leg, and she nodded to his greatsword. Both looked—humbled in some way. Wil tried to catch Umina’s eyes, but she seemed embarrassed.
As if she regretted not going with him. Feshi was breathless.
“Professor?”
“That would be Lord Astoragon. Or Strategist Niers—gah, that sounds terrible—Chieftain Feshi. Class, this is a classic example of where personal relationships interfere with your duties. A former student of mine will have a nuanced and more friendly atmosphere with me. But in public, she should remember her status. Exceptions exist—they always exist, but I would caution you all to watch how you come across.”
“Dead gods, Niers. Rein it in!”
Perorn snapped at him. Feshi turned red under her fur, but the laughter from the class was also subdued. The Fraerling strutting across his podium turned to look at her, and for a second, he seemed sympathetic.
As if he knew all too well what was upon them. As if he regretted his lack of time and knew there was no choice. He had been in that Gnoll girl’s shoes.
Then that smile returned to Niers’ face. Erasing the [Strategist]’s sympathy and replacing it with—the Professor. But not a heartless Fraerling. Niers kicked a bell on the end of his lectern.
“Silence. Alright. The jokes are over. I have convened our class early for one purpose. I am at war against the Dyed Lands and the Jungle Tails company. Students—you had better return quick, because classes are going to be practical and failing grades come with a coffin.”
He smiled at Wil, Venaz, Merrik, Peki, and Yerranola. Then his eyes shifted to Feshi again.
“…But I am sorry to say one of our students will not be returning to us. This happens quite often, you see. Class, one of our number, Feshi Weatherfur, will no longer be a student in the academy. I am sure you have heard why. Time is unkind. It forces us to grow and to step into roles we are not ready for. Today, Feshi graduates formally. But the instant she took command of her tribe—she was no longer a student. She went first of you all. Who expected that? You, Jekilt, Venaz?”
He looked around, and a few students smiled. Feshi’s heart hurt as the Titan turned back to her and fixed her with an older look.
“You may not feel ready, Feshi. You may not be ready. Yet, students, I want you to look at her. At your classmate, whom you know well. Whom you have fought against in simulations and in homework and assignments. She’s passed you. She has the responsibility of an entire tribe on her back. There is no class I can teach that will give you the lessons Feshi will learn. There is no way any of you will catch her in levels.”
Niers took a breath and exhaled long. He was dressed as if he were about to lecture a classroom—so brightly, so the students could see a navy blue coat and green feather in his hat. His boots clicked softly as he turned, everything magnified by a speaking spell.
“I don’t envy her. I’ve been where Chieftain Feshi stands. If I knew what was going on—proof no one can know the future—I would have spent hours, months more giving her lessons. Preparing her for…”
Niers looked ahead blankly.
“Spirits. Treachery. Politics with the Walled Cities. Dead gods. There’s no time. I graduate you in four years and I feel like I’ve been teaching tadpoles who just grew a tail. It’s too soon for you lot, all of you.”
“Oh, come on, Professor. Some of us came to you as [Mercenaries]. I was thirty-one when I enrolled here.”
Jekilt protested mildly. The oldest and most accomplished student got a few chuckles. But Niers just turned his head.
“I thought Tulm, for all he was a genius, was too young when I graduated him early, Jekilt. Indulge me my sympathy. Indulge me this. For the next time Chieftain Feshi and I meet, I might be hired by a Walled City or her enemies to bring armies against her. And I will, for the right price. Every trick I taught her, all the forces of the Forgotten Wing company…there is a possibility that someday I will call upon Foliana and tell her what Feshi’s favorite food is. Which is Silkap on honey-baked rolls. Disgusting. You don’t mix sweet and savory like that.”
The students fell silent. Feshi gulped. Wil had the oddest urge, trying not to laugh about the food critique. Perorn?
She coughed, and Niers turned to her. That look of weariness faded. Perorn spoke crisply.
“Professor Astoragon. In this moment, be it too late, be it only formality—I would invite you to send your student off. Class, this is a tradition in our academy. Even if a student must leave us, for personal reasons, because they have begun their career early—because of death—they are not students. Rise now. Feshi Weatherfur. Please approach the scrying orb.”
The young Gnoll did. She walked forwards, fur patterned with Weatherfur dyes far brighter than the ones she’d had on Baleros. She had a kind of shawl; a cloak of bright fabric. No armor; Torishi had been wearing the armor of Weatherfur’s Chieftain when she vanished.
The artifact came from Honored Deskie. She wore the black diamond dagger of Serept at her side, and she looked uncertain. A Silverfang earring hung from one ear; a powerful charm on the other. A gift of Az’muzarre she had chosen because it was from an old tribe.
Old and new. Niers Astoragon faced her, still smiling like that, but the gregarious grin fading with each moment.
“Feshi. I hope you will forgive me. I am not the best at ceremony. I never have been.”
“You could have fooled me, P-Professor.”
She hesitated and didn’t know what to call him. Professor sounded right. One last time. Niers’ eyes glimmered, but he would have denied any moisture. He coughed into one fist.
“It’s all in fooling people. Bear that in mind. I have a little scroll…which Perorn will give you. Notes. I hope you’ll bear them with a grain of salt as I’m no expert on Izrilian politics. I dabble. I wish I could be there in person. But a Centaur will have to do a Fraerling’s job. Professor Perorn?”
His heart wasn’t in the jabs. So the Centaur, standing next to the orb, lifted a rather large scroll and passed it to Feshi. Then she drew something else out of a bag of holding. Niers spoke loudly, then.
