“Then we shall go to a movie! Then I shall ‘drive’ us to this convention, whereupon Yvlon can see how dueling is practiced.”
“I, uh, may spend some time on this internet.”
“Me too.”
Ceria and Pisces stared at the phone. Yvlon and Ksmvr gave them a look, and only one of the two had the decency to blush. Ceria rubbed her hands—then spread them and laughed. Moments before they were ejected from the outdoor café—she laughed and looked around this new world.
She had somewhere else she wanted to visit. The Horns of Hammerad got up.
They went to see a movie. Somewhere in the middle, Ceria got ejected for laughing too loudly whereupon she was found later being kicked out from a library. Pisces found a coroner’s of all things, and they tried to arrest him for inspecting dead bodies.
But it was hard to arrest a man who could quite literally vanish and [Flash Step]. By the time Pisces caught up to Ksmvr, he found a very sad Ceria being ferried around the city. She was sad mostly because Ksmvr had learned how to drive and spent an hour teaching himself, and he refused to crash a car into anything. She brightened up when she got to the convention center, though.
The Horns of Hammerad had no idea where Yvlon was for three hours—mostly because they had no ability to locate her since they had forgotten to register each other as contacts via phone or any other service. They only found out where she was when they saw a bunch of posts online following a certain young woman.
Yvlon Byres, holding an American football like she had no idea what to do with it, body-checking someone into the ground was all over the web, in video clips. After all, she might look frailer, but her arms and body were still tough as metal, and she was stronger than any Human thanks to her Skills.
It wasn’t even entirely her fault; some idiot had let her onto a football field. When she emerged, trying to dodge cameras and questions, Pisces, Ksmvr, and Ceria were waiting with ice cream cones stacked so tall she spotted them even in the crowd. Each one had ten flavors.
There was more to this simulation of another world, of course. Practical things, like Gnolls taking apart pianos in music schools and getting in trouble or ones busy searching up anything they could think of on the world wide web. But they let the Horns have their moment. After all…
If only they could be here in reality. Someday…Ceria shaded her eyes, pointed up, and shouted at the Horns as they ran past some very angry men who wanted a word with Yvlon the impossibly strong. Local law enforcement or this world’s version of the Eyes of Pallass.
“That thing! I want one! Horns of Hammerad—last one to the airplane doesn’t get to fly it!”
