“Books we have, Pisces. This is a teaching tome—remember? The best I’ve ever seen. Rihal Imperium—dead gods, you can copy spells right out! It’s not like having old Rievan saying ‘concentrate your mana’ and doing a stupid sketch on the board.”
Ceria snapped her fingers. The Gnolls laughed, but Vorm was too busy speaking.
“That’s right. It’s easy—well, it takes mana, and I would rather memorize this so I could quick-cast it—but it’s easy enough to copy a spell down. And look! It may not be large, it may not be as high-level as an [Enchanter]’s. But this box I’ll sell you for four gold, sir, and it will preserve anything you want in it. What do you say to that?”
He presented Ksmvr the box, and the Antinium scratched his head.
“I would rather pay two gold. It is not a big box.”
“How about three and ten silver?”
“Due to the nature of bargaining, I must now offer two and ten. Which means we end up on three.”
Ksmvr offered back. The Gnoll hesitated.
“Er—no. I want at least three and six silver.”
“Oho. I have been bested. Here you are.”
Ksmvr dug in his belt pouch until Ceria slapped his hand down.
“Ksmvr, I can preserve things…wait a second. Three gold for a box with [Preservation]? How big can you make that ward?”
“Bigger, I think, but it takes more mana to activate. This was a trial run. But give me a year—a month and I’ll be selling these. Do you know how much a Wistram-quality artifact like that goes for?”
Ceria frowned, and Gire’s perfect memory had the answer.
“I saw a box about the height of a nightstand being sold for a hundred and eighty gold pieces. It went down to a hundred and sixty-eight, but this was in the Walled City of Pallass. One imagines they go for more further out of a trading hub.”
“Exactly. Whereas mine will be cheaper, smaller admittedly—but I will ruin Wistram. And every other seller of basic charms!”
Vorm lifted the box overhead with something like a mad cackle. The other Gnolls had apparently heard this before and agreed absently. But Pisces and Ceria traded a shocked look.
“Dead gods.”
“I know. At least double the price to six gold!”
“No, Pisces. I think it might work! [Enchanters] are one person, but if you get eighteen Gnolls who can copy—wait a second.”
The Gnolls around the spellbook were reading from the pages, and now that Vorm was done, arguing over which page to turn it to. And they were learning from the spellbook, but in some cases—
Copying the damn magic!
“You can’t copy magic! Where is the magical training? The practice?”
Pisces objected on behalf of all [Mages], somewhat haughtily. Vorm patted him on the shoulder.
“I believe that is in the hundreds of years we were exiled from Wistram.”
“Ah—I only meant—”
The [Mage] grew embarrassed, and Vorm grinned.
“That may come. But we are Gnolls! World travellers—and yes, I will not deny it—copycats! Plus, this book is easy to learn from. So easy—see? There’s your [Mages] in training. Little rascals.”
A bunch of Gnoll children with wands had apparently forced the spellbook to a favorite page. They crowded around and then began to shout.
“See? See! It’s like that! [Wind Jet]!”
It was a Tier 1 spell that produced a blast of compressed air. Ceria and Pisces twisted around, and Gire ran over.
“Let me see. Let me see!”
She pushed the Gnoll children aside to get a good look—which wasn’t hard because most were Mrsha’s age. But the children had been accessing the spellbook for ages, so they all ran over to a contraption as one with red stripes on black fur like an inverse tiger pointed a stave.
“[Wind Jet]! Now do it right! Or I’ll go Berr on you!”
She raised a fist, and Berr, hearing that, laughed. Gire turned—and saw nine children including their leader raise their wands.
“[Wind Jet]!”
It was probably the only spell they knew. But the sight of nine children casting Tier 1 magic was a sight, even to Pisces and Ceria! And they aimed it all at a strange object that turned out to be…a giant tablecloth. The wind pressed, rounding the fabric as the white cloth billowed into—
A sail. And the little converted handcart with the mast pushed across the flattened ground and then to Gire’s awe—
“I’m doing it! I am the Wind Runner!”
Their leader screamed as she clung to the sailcart—like she had seen and heard the Wind Runner of Reizmelt would push with her wind.
“Let me on! Let me on!”
The other children instantly tried to climb up, and the precarious little sailboat slowed. Their leader kicked their paws off.
“No, there’s only enough wind for me! Push me! Keep casting!”
The sailboat got thirty feet, accelerating until the Gnoll children lost the spell—or ran out of mana. The crowing Gnoll in the seat laughed until she hit a rock—and then crashed. But she came out of the wreckage shouting.
“Let’s do it again! We need a bigger boat! And more people!”
“I can’t believe my eyes. It’s like—not even half-Elf villages have kids casting magic that fast. This is like—”
“Stories of magical kingdoms. I had heard that the Kingdom of Incantations, Tourvecall, was like this. But not even they have—these children can’t have been learning more than three months!”
Pisces murmured. The Gnolls beamed, and then Gire and the adventurers saw more Gnolls popping over to check something and trotting off.
“Excuse me. Can someone turn the page to [Firespark]? I want to learn the Tier 0 spell. I’m going on a hunt in two days. Could I learn it? It would beat not having kindling.”
A Gnoll [Hunter] nervously came forwards with a wand in his paw. The other Gnolls conferred, vouchsafing that he could do it in that time. One offered to give him pointers as they turned the spellbook to the page.
“We are going to copy all the wards and magic. There’s no holding spell—but there’s countless things an amateur can copy over. By Torishi’s will, I will become a [Mage] and my tribe will not want for artifacts.”
One Gnoll bearing Weatherfur’s markings vowed aloud. The Horns and students of Niers looked at each other. It was Wil who murmured.
“I should tell my father to stop backing and investing in [Enchanters] and the artifact trade. Or rather, send a caravan here.”
“It’ll take the Gnolls time to completely upset the world markets.”
Merrik countered, but Yerranola smiled widely.
“True! If they were alone. But you haven’t seen the newcomers yet. Not many Drakes dare to even get close to the Great Plains—but I heard Magnolia Reinhart is petitioning the Chieftains to allow her to send her own Humans here to study in exchange for vellum, paper, magicore, and all the things we need to do magic properly.”
“Magnolia Reinhart! That snake! Where’s my [Message] scroll? Damn—there’s no way House Kallinad can beat that!”
Wil rifled through his possessions then practically threw his bag of holding on the ground in disgust. He saw an opportunity, but the thing about opportunity was that it was always a race. And Magnolia threw elbows in getting there first.
This was one aspect of the new Gnollish gathering. The other—was audible to Yvlon as she spoke to Berr, who was watching the learning of spells with a smile—and, clearly, no interest in participating.
“Ksmvr, are you going to read the spellbook?”
“I am only exceptionally curious, Yvlon. May I?”
“Of course.”
She watched him run off and begin shoving Gire for a spot to see. Berr, watching, laughed.
“All these little Gnolls—there’s one fool who keeps casting [Flash Step]. He wants to become a Courier. And Honored Ferkr should be back soon. She has all the Gnolls not given magic innately running until they puke. Even some of my Wild Wastes tribe; she promises they’ll learn magic like she can.”
Thinking of Grimalkin, Yvlon nodded.
“It seems to work. Honored Berr, I hope I’m not taking your time with all this going on. I can pay, but I don’t need that much help. Maybe pointers—”
She saw the old Gnoll turn his head—and his look was amused.
“Yep. I’ll steal your gold. But you need me quite badly, I think.”
“I’m—not that badly off. I’m hardly a [Berserker] myself.”
Yvlon flushed. Berr eyed her.
“If you were, you might deal with this better. What was your aspiring class growing up? House Byres…”
“[Knight]. But I am an [Armsmistress].”
The Gnoll laughed.
“Humans and their [Knights]. No wonder you’re bad with your temper. You are not the worst I’ve seen—but bad enough, hmm? Especially at your level.”
“I’m really not—”
Yvlon almost raised her voice, then kept it cool and level. Berr, though, just raised his brows.
“Yes, you are very calm. I can see I have some work to do. Come seek me out later this evening once we are done with introductions.”
“I can manage my rage.”
The [Armsmistress] insisted. She wanted to make that clear. She knew she had work to do, but—she felt defensive. Berr raised his brows.
She realized he’d punched her in the jaw only after her face snapped back and stung. Yvlon cut her lips on her teeth. She lunged, arms turning into—
“[Drain Fury]. There you are. See?”
The haze of fury drained out of Yvlon in a moment—and it was a lot. The Gnoll caught her, and her morphing arms turned back to normal as Ksmvr, Ceria, and Pisces turned in alarm. Berr put Yvlon back on her feet.
“I…you just…anyone would be angry if that happened!”
She spluttered, and the [Berserker] laughed in her face. Yvlon felt herself getting angry again—but she was shaken.
He had drained a lot of fury in that moment, and bereft, she felt a lot emptier. How angry had she been…? The Gnoll nodded reasonably.
“Adventurer Yvlon—what you say is true. Anyone would be angry. But you are more dangerous than ‘anyone’, and I did not say that you alone would benefit from my lessons. Just that you need it most. When I am done with you, you will be at least able to avoid hurting your friends in battle. Come and I will teach you more. Now…”
He and Yvlon heard something, and Berr winced.
“Now, I will get a drink before the racket begins. The magic is all very well, and little children with spells make me think it was worth living to see the change of an era. But what it does to Deskie? She’s also sensitive about her silly Earth-things. She exiled me from her tent just for pointing out how it sounds.”
Sighing, he hurried off, shaking his head. Yvlon heard a loud plonking sound and an odd—well, it didn’t hurt her ears. But she imagined that a Gnoll who had to listen to it for ages wouldn’t find it so agreeable.
What was it? The answer was—the other thing Gnolls copied was from Earth.
 
——
 
The reason Rose hadn’t rushed out to meet everyone was that she was with Honored Deskie. Another gathering of Gnolls not interested in magic so much as the Meeting of Earths tent and what it contained were in a tent next to Honored Deskie’s.
The Longstalker’s Fang [Magical Weaver] was an odd person to throw in with the new world wholesale…until you realized the elderly Gnoll had a lot to love about Earth.
“Sewing machines. Spinning wheels. Techniques from Earth—I love their many knitting needles. But this I shall love—once we get it done. Is old Berr complaining about his ears again? Gire, come here, you silly child, and help us with this!”
The [Paragon] ducked into the tent respectfully, and her eyes lit up the instant she saw what was being worked on.
To Yvlon, it looked like a mass of long threads stretched out across beams of wood, all contained in a very complex…coffin?
“What’s with this thing? And that racket?”
Ceria put her fingers in her ears cheerfully, and Deskie scowled.
“It makes sound—we’re just lacking the hammers or whatever working properly. Chieftain Adetr, your people need to improve the levers and such.”
A Gnoll made of metal turned and stared at Yvlon—she was as struck by seeing another person made out of metal, as was he. But the last Steelfur Gnoll with metal in him turned and, with a deep sigh, bowed.
“Honored Deskie…my people are working with Chieftain Mrell’s and learning as much as they can, every hour. But this is complex. It’s probably the size of the…springs, here. We cannot just copy it.”
He touched a series of joints on one end of the interior of this odd device. Now Yvlon got a better look at it, she realized everyone was staring at the inner workings. The outer, once you closed the lid, looked simpler, if still odd.
Black and white teeth and three metal pedals were the front of this strange box—and when Deskie impatiently prodded one, a lever on the inside struck a string—and promptly missed part of it and jammed on the way back up.
“Well, do it faster. My string is not the problem—and I want to hear it.”
Her eyes shone—for here was a Gnoll who had gone to Earth and fallen in love with one object. Deskie, who had listened to all kinds of music all her life, had heard harpsichords.
But never a piano. She had made it her goal to bring one into reality, and it was apparently Steelfur who led the cutting edge of trying to reproduce Earth tech.
Adetr, the [Chieftain] of the Steelfur Tribe, looked put-upon. The great warrior was not at home with his new position—but he had an Earther to help, and Rose was delighted to see the Horns and ask for news of Liscor.
“I want to go back so badly—if only to see the new inn! But I need to help Adetr. We’re making pianos! And everything else. It’s so—cheaty!”
“Let me guess. They’re just copying stuff?”
Ceria looked amused. Rose waved her hands.
“Worse! They look up blueprints on computers, then come out with the exact measurements! Or one gets a temporary job as a mechanic—some of the Gnolls in the Jadehammers tribe are even worse, though. They’re trying to make a blast furnace, and Chieftain Mrell is on the hunt for titanium ore.”
“It only makes sense. Why should we copy cake when we can build something actually useful?”
Adetr muttered. Rose thrust an elbow into his side and winced. Then she grabbed Ceria’s hands.
“They’re so scary. Everything Earth does the Gnolls want to copy and ‘do better’. And magic, too! Did you see how they just copy down spells?”
“We saw it. It’s great. Um…how do they copy this out of computers? Dead gods, do you have multiple computers? And here I thought Numbtongue was the only one with an expert. And an addiction.”
Ceria’s brows wound together as she tried to parse through the confusing statement. She understood copying a design—it seemed incredible someone had the blueprints for this piano lying around, but maybe Inkar had a picture?
