Rose didn’t seem to realize the disconnect that was making Honored Deskie giggle like a child. More Gnolls were appearing, like Honored Satar who clutched a handful of papers to her chest. She had copious notes on her new history of the world, and she caught Rose speaking.
“Yes…but it’s so fast! Then again, Erin’s scrying spell nearly made me die of a heart attack. Tell me how it happened! Tell me about Zeladona! Tell me everything!”
“Rose. Honored Rose—I think you are making a mistake, yes? I don’t believe our visitors know about the Meeting of Earths tent. Or if they do, they seem not to realize what is inside. But we are on the same page about Earth.”
Deskie’s eyes twinkled. Pisces, Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr all turned and gave her a suspicious look. Rose clapped her hands to her mouth.
“No way. Inkar never said—?”
“We know all about it, the world of which we are mutually acquainted with, Honored Deskie. We have Earth rooms of our own in the inn. Quite informative.”
Pisces spoke slowly, but he felt a sudden premonition coming over him. Don’t sniff. Don’t sniff or sound superior. Because it’s going to come back and make you look stupid.
He had run into Erin Solstice too many times to not notice how the Gnolls were nudging each other or grinning. Ironically, it was poor Yvlon who nodded and smiled.
“We could bring more devices back from the inn if it helps the tribes. I’m sure that Erin’s friends would be quite willing to share if it helped.”
At that, one of the Steelfur Gnolls laughed so hard he doubled over. Adetr kicked his tribemate, but the Gnoll laughed and laughed. Until tears came to his eyes. Satar chuckled along as she bowed to them, and Ceria smiled at Krshia’s niece. The Gnoll who was doubled over in laughter stopped at last and exhaled.
“I’m sorry—I’m sorry, honored guests. It’s just—ah, you should see it! The things we paid for in the blood of tribes. What a gift. What great days! Better to laugh than weep blood.”
He turned away—and Satar’s smile turned pained. The Steelfur Gnoll walked off, chuckling—his fur tawny brown. He had not known that was the color of his fur he was meant to have. He had been born with steel grey fur like his tribe and lived with it all his days.
But Chieftain Iraz was dead. Few even said his name. He was a traitor.
“Satar…Silverfang? It’s a delight to meet you. Honored Krshia sends her regards. And, um, I have a bunch of letters from the Silverfangs in Liscor, and I think Chieftain Gire has brought supplies and gifts from Liscor.”
“My mother will be grateful for it. Aunt Krshia always thinks of her people here. How are they?”
Satar shook Ceria’s hands. She looked different than how Pisces had expected her to be. He remembered the nervous Gnoll stuttering on the broadcast he had seen recordings of, delighted and awed to know her people’s legacy had endured in stories.
This Satar was older, and it took him only a moment to realize why. Her tribe was in ruins. She had lost a member of her family.
Shaman Cetrule, the [Shaman of Purity], was dead. Something clicked in Pisces’ head, and he looked after the Steelfur Gnoll who had gone off. Pisces whispered to Ksmvr.
“Ksmvr—you studied the tribes.”
“I have furthered my education into the places we go, yes, Comrade Pisces.”
“How…how many tribes lost a Chieftain or Shaman or someone of importance?”
Pisces thought he’d been quiet, but Satar’s ears pricked up. She answered with a bow.
“If you are asking how many tribes lost an Honored member, Adventurer Pisces—the answer is all of them. If you are asking how many were lost in total…over four hundred is my count. Four hundred and forty-two. Not all tribes would have more than a dozen Honored Gnolls. Some, like Plain’s Eye, had hundreds.”
Pisces turned red.
“I didn’t mean to offend—”
Deskie interrupted, much to his relief.
“Offend? I am glad someone asks. You are Inkarr’s friends—how is the girl? Is she still with that silly Tkrn? Here is Honored Satar, who is one to offset so many Honored Gnolls who pass. She will record our history anew. We are torn, like a tapestry unmade by strife. We are rethreading it all, and she is one of the Gnolls who is recovering our history.”
Proudly, she touched Satar’s shoulders, and the Gnoll girl flushed. She bowed and held out a piece of paper.
“I am writing the events of Gnolls as I see them. It is not complete—but would you do me the honor of signing your names? I can then say I met the Horns of Hammerad.”
“Us?”
Yvlon blushed with embarrassment, but Ceria’s eyes lit up. She instantly scribbled her name down, and Pisces peered at her handwriting.
“Springwalker. That is the most disgusting signature I’ve ever seen. Something like this is more appropriate.”
He signed his name legibly with a flourish. Ceria pointed at him with a huge smile.
“You’ve been practicing your signature. And here I thought Yvlon and Ksmvr were the only people getting a new class. I guess Deniusth has a rival [Showoff].”
The Gnolls gathered around to meet the newcomers chortled as Pisces tossed the quill at Ceria, and Yvlon plucked it out of the air to write her name as if she were signing a legal document.
“We’re hardly that famous, Ceria. You’ll want to talk to Colth, Historian Satar.”
“Of course—but you were here, Adventurer Yvlon. You fought for the tribes. If anyone deserves to have their names written, it would be you. I am only sad I missed some of the legends who came to the Meeting of Tribes. But the King of Destruction signed his name. I levelled from that.”
“He did?”
Nothing would do but for everyone to see a page with Flos Reimarch’s huge signature followed by all the Seven who had been present. Satar held it up, smiling wanly. It was an odd feeling. Pisces had met the bandaged King of Destruction, but it felt at times like a fever dream.
Not reality like standing here and seeing Gnolls mingling around a piano. It had surely happened, though. The evidence was in Satar’s new levels. In fact—
“Satar! Honored Satar, we made a sailboat out of winds! Write us down, please? Emorah! I’m going to be a great [Mage]!”
The striped Gnoll girl who’d performed the spell earlier raced over, waving her wand with the gaggle of magical Gnoll children. Satar instantly fended them off, swatting with her paws as they leapt around her.
“No, and no! I told you, I am not writing down everything you do.”
“Please? Let me sign a page! I’ll be famous one day!”
The vitality of children never ceased to amaze Pisces. Some of them ran about, laughing, playing with magic as if this were still the Meeting of Tribes and this was all new and great. But perhaps that was a way of coping as well.
Every adult looked exuberant at times, bone-weary at others. There were no tears that Pisces saw outright, but perhaps they’d been shed and the Gnolls were just—continuing onwards after something they couldn’t give full voice to. Moving for the need of it. Pausing at times to remember.
He…knew how that felt.
“If I’ve offended your people, I apologize sincerely, Honored Deskie. I was only asking about the Honored Gnolls who fell to understand…I do not want to diminish the events that have taken place.”
Pisces murmured to the old [Magic Spinner] as Satar slowly wrote down Ksmvr’s full title, including his collection of trees which he was happily reciting from memory. The old Gnoll just gave him a bright stare that reassured him as she gently patted one hand.
“Young Human, it is hard to hurt us with words at this point. I understand. The truth is that you likely cannot see what we have lost. It is hard to see a gap in the ocean when someone takes a bucket of it. But we are not so unending as that. I would say—if you want to know what it has cost us, look for the Honored Gnolls you can find.”
Pisces gazed about the Great Plains. He turned and saw…Adetr, stomping off to deal with some Gnolls who needed help lifting a wagon stuck in the mud. Nailren, who might be Honored, was greeting the Hawkarrow tribe. Pisces saw Gire…Satar…he looked around for more clusters of leader and follower.
Honored Berr, for instance, strolled about with his crew of warriors. You could spot experts like Honored Deskie by their age, a certain quality of marking about them—or their followers, apprentices and Gnolls who helped them with their chores.
Pisces…looked, and he realized he didn’t see many such gatherings. He turned to Deskie, and her eyes were now overbright.
“How many remain…?”
“A better question. I am told you come to see one of our great [Tailors]. Shedrkh. He is here—though his tribe took Plain’s Eye’s side. More artisans were spared the fighting than warriors. The truth, Adventurer Pisces, is that we look plentiful here, and we have made this new gathering because we must. I think…when we count again and Satar writes it down, a fourth of all the tribes of Izril may have been said to have met their end this year.”
Pisces inhaled, and Deskie clarified.
“Not all were wiped out. But they will have to merge—they have lost their Chieftains or too many to continue as they are. Some have lost their lands to Drake cities—that is the cost.”
A fourth of all Plains Gnolls? Pisces looked around, and he still could not see it. Around him were more Gnolls than he had ever seen in any other place.
But that was just his simple mind playing tricks on him. He wished he could comprehend it, to respect and mourn it. He could not—but the signs were there.
The Gnolls of Silverfang were telling Ceria she had to see the inside of the Meeting of Earths tent, and the half-Elf accepted with great interest on behalf of her team. But later. Satar was taking them to see Chieftain Akrisa so they could present Krshia’s gifts and introduce themselves.
Deskie snagged Nailren by pulling with one paw as she took a seat next to the piano-in-progress. Wincing, the Gnoll stumbled over, and Pisces saw all the hairs on one side were pulling towards Deskie as if she had hold of them.
“Nailren, you thoughtless child. Stop singing your new verse of Great Plains Sing and give me Inkarr’s thread she’s bought me already. Let me see you. We shall have a cup of tea.”
He sighed as he produced bolts of cloth bought for Deskie from [Witches] and the north, and as the Horns navigated onwards, they came across a shouting little Gnoll boy.
He had orangeish fur crossed with brown, the brightest that any of the Horns had seen thus far on a Gnoll. He was also armed with a big training axe.
Not a training sword, but a fairly dangerous axe, weighted but made out of wood and blunted. It was heavy enough that Pisces, acquainted with practice weapons, guessed that it was a replica of the real thing.
An axe over five feet long—he would have called it similar to the blades Cenidau’s northern warriors used, long and straight with a hooked axe head on the end. They were called ‘dane axes’ for reasons that he had never actually figured out. He’d never known who nicknamed it, but the term was older than Cenidau.
Anyways, the weapon could be light in battle. Two to four pounds…but a practice weapon was weighted to build the wielder’s strength. This child of perhaps nine was holding one that could weigh ten pounds or more. His arms shook with the effort, but he was shouting and he had on an oversized piece of hide armor.
“I am Oldr Steelfur! I will become the next Chieftain worthy of Chieftain Iraz! The greatest warrior Steelfur has ever known!”
He was shouting on top of a wagon as he swung the axe around. Satar inhaled when she saw him, and Adetr spun.
“Oldr! Stop shouting that!”
Some of the Gnolls looked over with glares. But the little boy kept shouting.
“He was the greatest warrior of our people! I am going to replace him and bring back our fur! You—you traitor, Adetr!”
He howled at Adetr, and Rose looked anxiously at the last metal Gnoll—but Adetr just turned away from the angry Gnoll boy. Most of the older Gnolls seemed to visibly and consciously turn away rather than pick a fight with the child. With effort, Pisces saw—some walked off fast.
“Oldr, stop shouting. Come here and sit with me. If you truly want to be a great warrior, come and pay your respects to Chieftain Nailren.”
Honored Deskie called out to Oldr. The boy flattened his ears and hesitated as he saw her beckoning. Before he could make up his mind—someone raced up the wagon and launched into a flying headbutt.
With a cry, Oldr went over—the headbutt of the second Gnoll hit him straight in the jaw. He still held onto his axe—but he and the other Gnoll began punching and biting at each other. Right up until magic flared, and Pisces heard a shout.
“[Flame Paw]! Shut up! Shut up! Iraz was a traitor! Cetrule was the greatest warrior.”
“He was not! I’ll kill you! Cers!”
“Hey now! Cers, stop fighting with Oldr!”
Satar ran over. She tried to pull the second brown Gnoll off the first, and Pisces realized—this was her younger brother. And—he was using magic?
“That wasn’t a [Mage] spell. Is that kid a [Shaman]?”
Ceria raised her brows. She didn’t get an answer from Yvlon—the [Armsmistress] strode over and gently tried to free the two boys.
“Stop fighting, you two. Listen to your sist—”
Oldr had a bloody nose, and Cers had a knot on his head from the haft of the dangerously swinging practice axe. But his paws were on fire—Yvlon was fearless of the weapon or flame as her metal arms stretched to separate the two.
Unfortunately, the two furious Gnolls were so angry at each other that they kept fighting. Cers thrust out his paw.
“[Emberash Spray]!”
“[Hammer Strike]!”
A spray of hot ash and sparks blasted at Oldr as the other boy brought his axe down. Yvlon yanked them apart, and the axe rang off one arm. She winced. Then a jet of hot ash sprayed half her left side.
“Adventurer Yvlon!”
Satar was horrified. She’d leapt away. Cers and Oldr saw the [Armsmistress] recoil—but she didn’t drop them. Instantly, both of them went limp and stared at the Level 40 woman smoking slightly as ash cooled off her face.
“That…would have hurt your sister. Good children shouldn’t fight. Got it?”
A smiling Yvlon held both boys up so she could meet their faces. She was definitely smiling, despite the pain. Cers and Oldr looked at her teeth and nodded rapidly.
“I am so sorry—Cers, get our guest a towel and water. Oldr, something for her burns. If I catch either of you fighting today, I will have you both picking up cowpats for a month.”
Satar shouted, and they ran to do her bidding. She turned to Yvlon, who winced.
“Those were—high-level Skills for children.”
