“Then tell him—I would like experts. Not warriors. But artifacts. Tools. We have some knowledge, but I have called upon the Antinium. In time, I will want his company, himself, because he is an expert. Adventurers. But I want…[Diggers]. I am going down, Chieftain Perorn. My tribe will settle this land, but Weatherfur will remain here. Right here, where Torishi fell. I saw it. She fell perhaps miles, perhaps mere hundreds of feet. But I will find where the Stitch Witch sent her. The Kingdom of Gnolls.”
The hair rose on Perorn’s flanks.
“That place is surely a great treasure trove. And the most dangerous place I could imagine digging up. A Named-rank dungeon.”
Feshi just nodded.
“I will find Torishi’s remains. It will be my end, Perorn, or the salvation of my tribe. Is that mad enough to impress the Titan and Commander Foliana?”
Slowly, the Centaur raised her bowl. She touched it to Feshi’s and smiled sadly and distantly. The Gnoll was younger than her by far—but as she sat, her eyes tracing downward, as if trying to see through the seam of the earth…Perorn thought of a Squirrel Woman and the Titan whom she had seen so many times. Then at Feshi’s expression.
“I think it is.”
And she felt remorse. For all the people she loved and respected?
They were all a little insane. Feshi smiled absently, and she stared down.
Dig. Dig into her homeland. Into the heart of what was lost. No matter what she unearthed.
 
[Conditions Met: Strategist Chieftain → Strategist Chieftain of Reclamation class!]
[Strategist Chieftain of Reclamation Level 33!]
[Skill – Tribe: Shovels of Archeology obtained!]
[Skill – Epochal Earthworks Rise obtained!]
 
[Vow – I Will Find Her Bones, Or Perish Searching sworn.]
[Skill – Eyes: Guiding Light obtained!]
 
Chieftain Torishi fell under land, by the Stitch Witch’s eye. She found the Kingdom of Gnolls. There she waited. To show her people what they had forgotten.
In the halls of their past. Before she died—Chieftain Feshi would find Torishi’s bones and bring that entire lost chapter of her people’s history under the sun’s light.
That was the new Chieftain of the Weatherfur tribe.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres found the old Gnoll, Berr the Berserker, sitting by a fire outside the main Gathering of Tribes. He had no fear of monsters, and he had lit the fire to keep warm. He was tossing bits of something into the flames, and Yvlon’s nose wrinkled as she approached.
She had not realized this, but the Great Plains, being so grassy and tree-less, meant that Gnolls needed alternatives to wood. Some would harvest the long grass and burn it liberally—but another method that the Wild Wastes tribe used was traditional, if disgusting to the northern Human.
He was burning cow pats. Once dried, the poo was actually a very good fuel source. It stank, though the Gnoll seemed not to care. He looked up as Yvlon approached.
“Ah, good. Are you willing to pay me? I’ll charge you…hm…a thousand gold per day.”
“A thousand gold per day?”
He bared his teeth.
“I know you’re rich. Gold-rank adventurers are. It’s cheap to you.”
It probably was, but it offended Yvlon. She sat down, cross-legged, and took a breath. That was a mistake; the smelly fumes made her cough.
“Ten days would put me up to the cost of an artifact!”
“Hrm. Cheap, to master your own powers. I’ll even teach you one of my Skills.”
That made Yvlon’s head snap up.
“You can teach Skills?”
Berr flicked some grass into the flames.
“Yep. What kind of a famous [Berserker] would I be, to have pupils coming from Terandria and all over, if I was not good?”
Yvlon had seen the huge Human [Barbarian] that Berr had taken on as a student. He was drinking and dancing with Gnolls in good spirits at the fire. Berr nodded at him.
“He will be done soon, I think. He’s mastered one Skill.”
“What Skills do you have? That you can teach, I mean.”
Berr counted on his paws.
“Let’s see. I taught him [Divert Rage]. The best way to do it, I think. He will never be whole again, though. He slaughtered his family and friends in his fury. War will call him, and maybe, I think, he will meet his end there. I hope he will balance it. I cannot fix your life, Adventurer Yvlon. Only teach you how to manage this.”
He looked up at her. The Human shifted uncomfortably.
“I—I know I have to work on my emotions, Honored Berr. But I maintain that I am not a mindless—I have a Skill.”
“Yes. [Berserker’s Rage]. It’s bloody, isn’t it? The Skill?”
The Gnoll’s eyes seemed to glow by firelight. Yvlon glanced up, and he grinned.
“You have a different problem than that grieving man when he came to me. He knows he enters furies. He is a warrior like me who needed control. You? The first thing I must do, it seems, is convince you that you have a temper to begin with.”
“I know I do. I’m just not—”
“Like him? Like me?”
Yvlon bit her lip as Berr pointed at the bare-chested man laughing as he danced and then at himself. The Gnoll exhaled.
“Let me put it to you another way, Yvlon. When you enter your fury—when you fight—how does it feel?”
“Like I lose control. I forget pain and—attack.”
Yvlon flushed just saying it. It was embarrassing—Berr shook his head quickly.
“No, no. How does it feel? Does it feel—fun? Good?”
He eyed her, and she recoiled instantly.
“No. Of course not. I’m ashamed by it, truly. It’s a loss of control. No one should have that happen. I’ve just had—reasons—justifiable, I think, when I was angry. I fought an Adult Creler, and my arms were practically falling off. It’s a crutch I’ve relied on, and Colth pointed it out for me. I attacked my team. That’s why I’m here.”
Berr’s lips moved as he stared up at the night sky. He seemed—exasperated. Unlike every [Sword Tutor] or other instructor Yvlon had ever had, he didn’t have the professional veneer.
“My, my. I hear you saying things like a child. Repeating what you think it is good to say. Are you claiming to me unleashing your anger does not feel good? Is it not right to be angry?”
Yvlon was getting annoyed, and knowing he could probably sense it, she clamped down on the emotion hard.
“Not at all. But it is a weakness any opponent can exploit. It’s a vulnerability. Some anger is justified…”
“…But you would never fight angry if you could? Is not every warrior angry in battle? I have seen Golems fight—beaten them. Fury is what makes us different from them.”
“Not just fury, Honored Berr. That’s so—primitive. There’s also determination, valor, discipline—”
“You don’t respect anger, though. Humans sometimes act like that. Yet you are the angriest of your entire team by far. To hear stories of you attacking a Creler with your own arm, beating down thousands of [Guards] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen—”
“That’s an exaggeration—”
The Gnoll ignored her.
“—You did that when angry. If I took that away from you, you would be half the warrior you are. You are strong because you get angry. You just lack control. Or do you disagree?”
Yvlon did. She did not like that characterization of her. Especially because elements of Berr’s statements were hard to refute.
“Rage should not feel good.”
“Why?”
“It’s a moral failing.”
“Is it?”
The Gnoll’s blank face looked so unhelpful that Yvlon snapped.
“Honored Berr, your approach to wisdom doesn’t seem to have much nuance.”
At that, Berr began laughing so hard he rolled onto his back. He nearly laughed himself into the fire as he slapped at his sides and held his chest.
“Wisdom, she says! What am I, a [Sage]? I am a warrior, Yvlon. A warrior—I am not here to tell that [Barbarian] how to live well! I teach you how to fight. You—are a poor fighter because you attacked your team. If you want wisdom, go poke Theikha! Go ask Deskie if she’s found it, or anyone but me. Is there wisdom in charging into enemy lines? Is a [Berserker] wise? Did you come here to master your rage or not?”
His head rose, and he gave her a semi-annoyed glare. Yvlon hesitated. She had thought—this was akin to meeting some kind of [Monk] or—someone who would teach philosophy along with control of her emotions.
But it was not. He was literally Berr the Berserker. The morality didn’t factor in—in fact, she had the distinct impression she was annoying him with her quibbling about whether anger was a useful emotion.
“Th—I apologize if I’ve offended you, Honored Berr. Control of my rage will do. I just don’t think I have the same problems as some.”
He sat back upright and frowned at her.
“No. You do not. It is different with you—look yonder at my latest apprentice. He’s about to lose his temper.”
He pointed back over at the Human [Barbarian], and Yvlon saw the huge man, seven feet tall himself, taller than the average Gnoll, no longer dancing.
It seemed in the minute she’d taken her eyes off him he’d found a reason to get angry. Or rather, someone else had.
It wasn’t hard to figure out. The social dancing around the bonfires could get intimate. Which was fine, and this traveller and his companions had probably stayed around the Gnoll tribes for months, long enough to develop close bonds with the Gnoll people.
—Unfortunately, flirting with a fiancé, spouse, or whomever one of the [Barbarian]’s dance-partners was had gotten too intimate, and someone was objecting. Another Gnoll roughly the same height as the [Barbarian] had interrupted the dancing and was shoving the man away.
And the [Barbarian] was getting pissed. It was a hair-trigger. Even Yvlon herself, who had a bit of an anger problem, hadn’t ever seen someone go from laughing to snarling that fast. Wild Wastes Gnolls were watching, and two women—a daughter and wife?—were talking to him.
He brandished a fist—but the Gnoll was either stupid, fearless, or made the mistake of assuming just because they were the same height, that was all that mattered. Yvlon saw how much muscle the [Barbarian] had packed on and guessed he might outweigh the Gnoll by sixty pounds of fat and muscle.
Anyways, the brandished fist earned him a shove that sent him stumbling back. The [Barbarian] stared at the Gnoll, who raised a fist—and lost his temper.
“Hmm. Time to see if he’s learned his Skill yet.”
Berr was watching. He looked calm, but he had gotten onto one leg, resting on a knee, ready to move. The [Barbarian] threw his head back, howled in fury—a shriek of rage that had every Gnoll jumping back in alarm. He turned on the Gnoll—and then as Yvlon watched—brought his fists down.
“Damn you! Damn you with—mists-damned—hunting horns call you—Creler eggs in your eyes! Coward! I’ll—”
His voice was a stream of insults as the Gnoll and his partner stepped back fast. But the charge of the [Barbarian] and bloodbath didn’t come. To Yvlon’s surprise, he turned—and began to punch the ground.
He kicked at the soil, brought his arms up, and slammed them down, and a shower of dirt sprayed up. The [Barbarian] went kicking and punching, literally tearing up the soft earth. A cloud of dirt sprayed up as people stepped back, and Berr snorted.
“There. See? [Divert Rage].”
“He’s throwing a tantrum on the ground.”
It looked like that to Yvlon. Berr just smiled at her appalled expression.
“He is an angry man. He angers fast—laughs loud and comes out of it quick. It is a useful trick. That was one of his final tests. See?”
He pointed, and Yvlon saw, to her amazement, the Gnoll who had been pushing the [Barbarian] come over and clap him on the shoulder as the panting man knelt there. The [Barbarian] looked up—then leapt to his feet with a wild laugh.
“Honored Berr! Honored Berr, you tricked me again! Damn you! I did it, you see?”
He turned and shouted loudly. Yvlon glanced at Berr, and the Gnoll laughed.
“Wait, was that staged?”
“Mm. We are not stupid enough to let him go without making sure he knows how to catch himself, yes? You see, you and he both need my help. But he just needed to learn how to turn his anger aside. You…you get as angry as he does, but you don’t let it out as fast.”
Berr was analyzing Yvlon, and she folded her arms defensively.
“Definitely not. I might lose my cool in battle, but not that fast.”
“No, you keep it inside. Like a [Knight] in his armor until it’s so much you pop. Not better, just different. But you have some control. I spoke to your team. They tell me your temper has been getting worse. The straw for you was when you attacked them in a practice session. And a friend—a Goblin?”
He was referring to the Numbtongue incident. Yvlon turned red.
“I was provoked—but I have no excuse. I did attack them all.”
Numbtongue worst, but she’d hit Pisces and Ceria, and Colth had been spared only because he’d managed to take her down before she tagged him. And yet, there was a reason she still claimed she was better than the [Barbarian]. And that was…
“You did not hit the Antinium, Ksmvr, though.”
“No. I never would.”
Even when raging, Yvlon had not punched Ksmvr. Berr sat there, head cocked to one side. He nodded.
“No wonder you do not quite want to be here. You have more of an ego than that [Barbarian].”
“I just—”
“No, shut up. Hrr. You think you can maintain control without my help or with just ‘little lessons’. To first begin teaching you—it seems I first must convince you that you need to learn.”
“I’m here, aren’t I?”
She was getting really tired of this back and forth, but Berr just rolled his eyes.
“You are here because you feel you should be—but you do not exactly come to me begging, Adventurer Yvlon. You do not want it as badly as you should. I will now convince you.”
“Please.”
Berr stood up. He pointed to Ksmvr, who was running around with a wand in his hands—all four of them—with some Gnoll children. Yvlon squinted, and her mouth fell open with delight. Had he picked up a Tier 0 spell already? She wanted to go to him instead of wasting her time here. Right up until Berr whispered to her.
“You’ll kill him some day. With your own hands.”
Yvlon twisted around slowly. The flash in her pale blue eyes was far, far more dangerous than the [Barbarian]’s short-held rage.
“Never.”
Berr walked around Yvlon.
“You are angry. But believe me when I say it. I have seen this before. You will not hit Ksmvr if you break out into a fury against me. I believe it. He can calm you down. You love him like a great friend. A lover?”
“He’s like a brother to me. A little brother. I would never harm him.”
