“My sons and daughters and their children and spouses and more will be coming for dinner. Thanks to your [Secretary], they have all been lured in by these toffee-treats. Dine tonight with me, Orjin. Is that weak warrior still sleeping? You have time to find your answer.”
He picked up the club and walked across his mansion. Itkisa smiled at Orjin as the warrior rose, and he nodded to her.
“Would you care to use our baths or anything else, Strongest? We have clothes, bedding—”
“You are generous.”
The woman shook her head and gave the wandering legend a wry look.
“No. My father is rich enough not to care. And I think he finds your quest intriguing. You’ll have his attention some time yet. Especially because you are the Strongest of Pomle.”
“I am not any longer.”
Itkisa gave Orjin an appraising look, and he felt a light tingle run down his spine. She put the basket against her hip. Torreb claimed that she had taken the hardest job, caring for him rather than marrying. Itkisa in turn had claimed that no one would see her as anything more than Torreb’s daughter, an alliance to be won.
Orjin…wondered. But all the woman did was shake her head.
“That is not how he sees it. Come, you’ll lose hours to introductions, and my brothers may want to challenge you. They always do to warriors who win our father’s interest. Your [Secretary] truly did do a fine job, by the way. You would have had to wait in the bars or streets until Torreb went wandering.”
To that, Orjin could only agree. Salii had done what some people, Gold-rank adventurers, even Named-ranks of their own, [Warriors] and [Generals], all desired.
She had won him an audience with Torreb such that within a day of reaching this city, Torreb had personally told Orjin to meet with him, having already known his name.
 
——
 
The methods of Salii were simple—and unintuitive to many idiots. But idiots were everywhere. In any distribution of any nation of any species in the world—you had smart, clever people and dumb people and a lot of averages.
Someone had to fill the wide margin of people who fell for a trick or who didn’t reach the top. They were all the people who ran to the city of Meneretorre and expected, magically, to win an audience with Torreb.
In the same vein, these were the people who went to the Merchant’s Guild, heard they were now in possession of thousands of gold coins—and believed it. They would celebrate—even [Merchants]—and immediately send off goods or sign over deeds to land and property.
Not because they were stupid…well, not because they were that stupid. A clever [Merchant] who had made fortunes in good business could still be gullible because they trusted the Merchant’s Guild. If they backed the number, all was well.
So, for instance, you had a [Yellat Magnate]—yes, that was a real class—sending twenty thousand bushels of Yellats to a handsomely rich buyer in Illivere. The funding was arranged, after all. They were paid in advance, so they used their own [Guards] and wagons and horses to transport the goods because it was money they had already been paid. Same for the goods.
If, in the course of disaster, Pomle and foreign powers were to seize the goods, well, that was terrible and a loss—though Pomle had ransomed the [Guards] off—but the seller was out all those goods. But the [Yellat Magnate] had all that sweet gold that had been paid to the Merchant’s Guild.
…Right until the Merchant’s Guild realized that the gold they allegedly had in their coffers was an agreed-upon contract that drew from an existing, very rich account that had lots of gold in it.
Definitely. There was nigh on seven hundred thousand gold pieces in the account of one of Nerrhavia’s [Emirs]. They drew from the account to pay for a number of expensive purchases said [Emir] was making.
Food, water, even precious Healing Potions purchased at a dear price given the lack of Eir Gel. The [Emir] spent and spent—and that was fine because the gold was there. It was in the books.
But what it wasn’t was…in the vaults. As in, the tangible vaults where gold was actually, concretely piled up and guarded by Djinni. See, that was the problem with understandable idiocy.
The gold was all there, on paper, in neat notes that someone had written into their private books. You could follow a train of money going in, records—especially if the first entry had been written there by a certain Drake when she passed through Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Then all she had to do was, oh, [Remotely Write Ledger], [Copy Magical Seal], and so on. And then you had a definite trail of a very real [Emir] with tons of gold.
And that [Emir] would buy and buy until someone finally went to withdraw all that gold—and they would find no Vault #1157. They would realize there was no [Emir]. And all the happy [Merchants] and sellers who believed in the Merchant’s Guild would realize that their faith in the unshakable could be well and truly shook.
Salii would never have done this in Salazsar. It gave her a kind of guilty pleasure to do this here. She had been on the other side of erasing this kind of scam in the City of Gems, but she was in a war—and financial war was something she was good at.
Actually, it was sort of boringly easy. Nerrhavia’s Fallen was already a fairly corrupt nation with lots of embezzlement, so the Merchant’s Guild wasn’t nearly as stringent as it should have been. Dead gods, hadn’t they learned anything from the Golden Triangle scam?
Seven hundred thousand gold pieces vanishing wouldn’t kill a nation—only some business and people’s livelihoods, which she did feel bad about. But she did pick and choose targets. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had millions upon millions of gold pieces flowing through its veins daily. One fake [Emir] would do little.
A hundred would be a problem. Happily for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, it had at least a few sharp minds. A certain [Great Sage] had ordered all the Merchant’s Guilds to cease transactions not made in actual coin immediately.
And—at least one [Merchant] had avoided being completely divested of their assets. The thing about a good assistant was that the smart ones double checked the money was there.
 
To ‘Emir Defin Atlyreal’, on behalf of Merchant Boiregon.
I regret to inform you that your requested purchase will not be approved. I would appreciate it if you refrained from your fraudulent transactions and schemes regarding my master’s business.
—Cognita Truestone
 
Salii twirled a quill as she rolled her eyes. The crisp [Message] in the Golem’s own hand was disapproving, but a lot of people just assumed Emir Defin was a real name. House Atlyreal sounded close.
Locking horns with another expert in the field was more fun. Cognita had avoided and canceled the last eight attempts on her master’s property and apparently gotten so sick of Salii’s incursions that she’d found the [Secretary]’s direct [Message] scroll and sent her a warning.
Slowly, the Drake wrote on her scroll as she rode with Pomle’s warriors across the desert. The fighting was continuing under Vandum, and they were pushing Nerrhavia’s borders. No longer with a home—Pomle had gone to war, and Thelican had realized a roving force of [Martial Artists] was far worse than one committed to defending a stationary target.
Vandum’s [Martial Artists] destroyed Nerrhavia’s assets. They set fire to farmsteads, halted trade. The only question was how long they could poke Nerrhavia until the great kingdom decided to retaliate.
The first army was moving at them. Salii was counting how much actual gold she’d stolen that she could use to hire [Mercenaries]. A shame she couldn’t just buy out the Empire of Scaied’s armies, but she was working on multiple fronts.
It was engaging enough work, busy—if boring. The Drake yawned, then she wrote a slow response to Cognita on her [Message] scroll.
 
[Secretary] Salii in service of Pomle’s Strongest to Cognita Truestone:
I’m bored. What are you doing over there?
 
Cognita Truestone to Salii of Salazsar:
We each have our masters to serve. You find service in your work. Do not lecture me on how I choose to spend my time.
 
Salii to Cognita:
A correction to you. We don’t need to be defined by our ‘owners’. I never was. I just like to see my chosen gemstones shine. What’s your reason for polishing a rock?
 
She never got a reply. So Salii went back to consulting her notes on Orjin’s progress. She had convinced the town he’d fought not to go after him by suggesting—quite amicably—that they did not want to go to war with Pomle. She hadn’t said that he was the Strongest or that posting a bounty on Orjin would result in that. Because that wasn’t true. She’d just hinted.
However, sometimes you had to produce actual results with actual gold, and to get to Torreb, Salii had invoked her knowledge of how you met with powerful people. The secret was…
You never went to them directly. Unless you were, yourself, a Named-rank adventurer or a legend, it was a stupid idea. Especially if you were a [Secretary] trying to get Zel Shivertail’s attention on behalf of the Trisstral Alliance, for instance.
You never went to them. You went to their own [Assistants], their [Secretaries]. And if you thought Torreb didn’t have any—
You went through his daughters. It was not hard for Salii to find that one of his daughters, the one who managed his mansion and, thus, Torreb’s visitors, liked sweets. She especially liked Terandrian sweets like the cake, gelato, and so on that were coming out.
Now, finding a new product that hadn’t hit Chandrarian markets wasn’t hard. Tracking down a shipment of the stuff meant for, again, Nerrhavia’s rich nobles and courts wasn’t that bad.
Paying the [Merchant] to sell you the goods at a premium price, organizing a Courier to run it over to Torreb’s daughter—a mountain load of her sweets with a note about Orjin that was calculated to make Torreb interested in meeting Pomle’s Strongest—she neglected to mention that it was a previously-held title.
That was a job for a [Secretary]. The Drake calmly filed away Cognita’s [Message] scroll. The Truestone Golem might move, but Salii had a feeling she had sent that personal correspondence through a [Message] scroll Cognita owned.
It was always nice to build a contact list. She had the Blighted Kingdom, thirty-two Terandrian kingdoms, all four Great Companies, and in her spare time, she liked working up the chain of command to get more contacts. But what Salii was really doing was…waiting.
Waiting for Orjin to come back.
 
——
 
Visiting a great warrior was an honor. A privilege. The goal for any supplicant was to learn something they would never have the chance to gain otherwise.
That depended on whether said ‘great warrior’ was also a great teacher. Interning with Lehra Ruinstrider, for instance, might only give you a crash-course on how many engagements you could ruin in a city and how high you could run your food bill.
But sometimes you learned a valuable lesson. For instance—Yvlon Byres, a Level 40 [Silversteel Armsmistress], learned two things today.
The first was that [Aspect of Iron] made her skin change color. Or rather—it looked as if she had been dipped in a coating of iron. Her nose, her eyes, her flesh covered by a layer of armor perfectly molded to her features.
It was not just a cosmetic layer, either. For the duration of the ability, she was as tough to cut as iron. Not steel—but iron was damned tough. Any wound her metal body took would revert to a flesh-and-blood wound later, but it made the already tough woman into a force of war. For you’d have to wound iron to give Yvlon a cut that remained once the Skill ended. And that was one of the abilities she had gained from reaching one of the great capstones of a warrior in this era.
Level 40 was the true mark of accomplishment for many. Most would never rise higher. Level 50 put you on the level of a national asset—in that most nations had one. Level 60? You had reached the point of a continental legend.
Level 70 was unheard of save for world-renowned names from older times. They had said Az’kerash was one such—the Deaths of Rhir were rumored to be that level. Or…higher?
Yvlon Byres had already summited a point higher than her entire family had reached in the last hundred and sixty years. She deserved a party—a wild celebration if she chose to reveal her level. She was a candidate for Named-rank, in time.
And the other thing she learned this day was this: the Level 40 [Silversteel Armsmistress] could also fly.
She was soaring overhead, arms swinging wildly like the flapping of a great iron bird. If she looked down, she could see them below her. Gnolls with their mouths open, staring up at her.
Gireulashia’s own mouth was agape. Pisces’ head was slowly turning as Ksmvr ran after her, all four arms raised, as if the silly little Antinium were going to catch her. Ceria was laughing, as per usual. Yvlon wondered if this was another lucid dream. But the rushing air around her—the Gnolls gazing up at her—it was all so real.
Including the blurring ground beneath her. Growing larger, larger—then Yvlon hit the ground. In her iron form, she had probably doubled or even tripled her weight, and she’d been wearing armor.
The flying woman landed and left a crater in the earth. The snow cushioned her fall; it was a white veil over the land, feet deep in places. Yvlon went straight through the soft layer and embedded herself into the dirt.
The [Armsmistress] lay there, stunned. Then she sat up and heard the howling as the Gnolls ran towards her.
I think I broke every bone in my body. But she did sit up—which proved her [Aspect of Iron] worked. Yvlon Byres stared back—and she saw a figure four hundred feet away with dirty blonde fur, turning grey, throw back his head and laugh.
The Gnoll, who had thrown her farther than Gireulashia could dream, laughed as Yvlon stared at him. Merrily, as the other warriors around him flocked around that famous name.
Berr the Berserker. The woman of metal had reached the Great Plains of Izril at last, to learn from the warrior who knew how to control her temper. She got up, feeling fizzing in her veins. Adrenaline in her blood. She looked at Berr—and he stopped laughing. Yvlon saw him beckon her with a paw.
“What am I supposed to learn from this?”
Yvlon spat some blood from her mouth. Then she was running, heaving herself out of the wet snow and charging towards him. Her arms morphed into blades—and she saw him coming at her. A small Gnoll, shorter and reduced compared to the brawnier members of the Wild Wastes tribe.
Until he grew. Then—Yvlon felt the tingling on her metal skin. She felt her blood pumping through those metal arms. She shouted—heedless of the fact that she was a dangerous, living weapon.
