She teleported. As she stepped between spaces, she pulsed stamina into her eyes and stepped out into the path of the great scythe. She raised her arm in a block as her eyes burned with the power of Martial Disruption. Her energy shimmered in the air between her and the Devastation Knight, rippling outward as a palpable gaze and crossing the distance between them in an instant. It burst through the powerful undead, impacting the almost complete energy formation at the instant it would be unleashed, shredding it. The battle scythe swung, but the ominous black runes guttered, flickering out as her eye-magic ripped the guts out of the attack. The heavy weapon slammed into her block with barely enough force to draw blood.

“Run!” she urged, slapping Mato on the shoulder and draining a substantial amount of her stamina into Healing Mantra. In an instant, his wounds knit shut, and the spraying arterial blood subsided, and Mato began to withdraw. She shadowed him, ducking and dodging around as she batted a hail of ice bolts and death magic spells to the sides, allowing Mato enough room to conduct a running retreat even while the Death Knights pressed their advantage.

Thanks for your wisdom, Elder, she thought, ruefully recalling the bruises that had accompanied the dispensing of said wisdom. She did not know exactly how her Ancestral Memories worked, but she was determined to show her gratitude for whatever benefits they may provide. If it were not for Rezan’s discipline, she would likely not have kept reserving the mana required to maintain Infinite Perception, and she would not have been ready and able to read and disrupt that attack.

It was only when they crossed the line of Ali’s remaining minions that the pressure of the attacks abated, and she and Mato sprinted toward the exit.

Not the start we wanted, but we’ll be back, stronger and wiser.

She had, of course, seen the curse being cast, but, in the chaotic storm of ice and death magic being blasted about by the two Death Knights, Ali had missed its significance. She shouldn’t have – with her potent knowledge skills, understanding of magic, and the incredible mana perception she had via Arcane Insight – but she had. She had been too focused on trying to break Joraa out of the grips of the ice aura at the time. It didn’t help that the damage reflection curse’s range limited its targets to the melee, and hence she hadn’t seen the effects until it was too late.

The sight of her most powerful melee monsters turned into puree and strewn across the black stone pavement in pieces, shredded by the sudden power of the retaliatory backlash, had shocked her to the core. Tol’brekk was a juggernaut of power in her army, and yet even the giant Carnage Berserkers with their enormous health had been felled in less time than it took to blink. They had both been pouring health into fueling their Blood Vortex skill at the time, accelerating the power and speed of their giant, spinning greataxes, and dozens of simultaneous strikes had been reflected back to them, multiplied many times over. To add insult to injury, the death of her minions had somehow healed the Death Knight back to full health with a skill that seemed reminiscent of Nevyn Eld’s horrifying Sacrifice.

“Being forced to run from trash mobs is just embarrassing,” Mato said, kicking broodily at a frozen rock in the tunnel where they had finally shaken the pursuing Death Knights. To be fair, Ali agreed with him – they were all well beyond platinum-ranked, and yet they had been forced to run from non-empowered monsters – nothing more than a low-level patrol for the Crypt of Kings.

“You’re the one who walked into the trap,” Malika said, a little annoyance seeping into her voice. “You can see mana, right?”

“I didn’t realize it was a trap,” Mato said, morosely.

“And how did you get so hurt by the curse? Don’t you have Survival Instinct?” Malika said, frustration and annoyance finally bubbling over, no longer held back.

“It was confusing,” Mato said.

“Confusing?”

“My instincts told me I was going to hurt myself,” he said. “I didn’t understand what it was trying to tell me.”

That sort of makes sense, Ali thought. Given the nature of the curse, it even said it was reflecting damage, so the source might be perceived as self-inflicted to a skill like Mato’s Survival Instinct.

“You nearly died,” Malika said.

“Yes,” he said, pausing for a moment to meet her eyes. “Thank you for saving me.”

Malika sighed, the frustration visibly dissipating as her shoulders relaxed and she grimaced. “You’re welcome. Sorry.”

“Yeah. Me too.”

Ali’s attention was diverted from the two of them by the sight of a shimmer of mana down the tunnel, and Calen appeared as if from the shadows, running toward them in complete silence.

“They’re still there, guarding the street,” he said. “We can’t get past without fighting them.”

“We’re definitely going to go kill them, right?” Mato said.

“They’re very dangerous,” Malika answered. “I’m not sure we should.”

“I think we can do it,” Ali said, for once agreeing with Mato over Malika’s cautious advice. But, for her, the reasons were probably a little different – if they couldn’t defeat these Death Knights, they wouldn’t be able to push further into the Crypt of Kings, and she needed the Well of Eternity to save Lira. “I need to see it once or twice more, but I can learn to Disrupt that curse.”

“Are you sure, Ali?” Malika asked.

“Yes. It’s an advanced, high-level spell, but it doesn’t seem unreasonably complex. If you guys can hold your attacks, I can make some witch doctors to remove the curses until I learn to counter them.”

“Well, that should make it much safer,” Calen said. “Can you guys stop in time?”

“Yes,” Mato said. “Now that I know what it feels like.”

“Same,” Malika answered. “But we need a solution for Ali’s minions, too.”

“I’ll just keep the berserkers and rogues back until I can stop it,” Ali said, deciding that it was still worth resummoning them. She could send in the blood shamans because their skills were more focused on support than damage, and they wouldn’t risk killing themselves instantly. She could probably control her minions sufficiently to avoid them killing themselves, but she would rather keep all her focus to learn the counter to the curse. With that decided, she flipped open her Grimoire and began to resummon her minion army – this time focusing on having more witch doctors for decursing, and a little more holy damage by adding a kobold holy mage and a Sacred Ooze.

She grimaced. This is going to be a little tricky.

-------------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
