I already suspected they have her in custody, because nothing else would’ve kept her from riding to reinforce Dad, but ZhenWu confirms as much with a grunt before showing me her worried expression in the mirror. “We intercepted her forces seven days ago and sent them back to the Northern Citadel. Your mother holds no rank you see, and thus no right to command a force of soldiers so large. She was treated well,” he adds, no doubt sensing my growing anger and understandably worried I’ll do something rash, “Unharmed and in good health.” The implication being that this might not hold true should I refuse his offer, and I don’t have it in me to ask about Charok and the twins. Rather than outright threaten me however, ZhenWu shows me my mother’s surroundings, and I spot Shuai Jiao standing close by her. His rugged, weather-worn features are unreadably neutral, though somehow I can sense his inner turmoil just as clearly as mom’s fear and heartbreak. They’re both Scrying on Shi Bei, meaning they’re not far away at all, and I catch a glimpse of Royal Guardians and Death Corps Guards around them. No Imperial soldiers though, none save for Yong-Jin, who lacks his Mentor’s calm façade and wears his inner conflict openly on his sleeve, for he is a good man and cannot bear the thought of sacrificing so many lives, even if it is for the supposed greater good.

But the Emperor, Shen ZhenWu, and everyone else present wouldn’t blink twice about it, and have long since decided the fate of the heroes of Shi Bei.

“You have an army standing outside the city,” I begin, my knuckles turning white as I hold Unity tight and resist the urge to cut my smiling patron down, “And you intend to let the soldiers of Shi Bei all die?”

“It’s your army, in truth,” ZhenWu replies, and the pieces fall into place even as he explains it. “The Royal Guardians and Death Corps Guards you brought along with you on this ill-fated crusade. Even if I should lead them into battle, this paltry force is hardly enough to turn the tides of battle, especially with so many uncontrolled Demonic Divinities involved. You would have led them to their deaths, and I saved their lives, while those who die in Shi Bei will die because of your decisions.”

“I could have won with their help.”

“Perhaps, but unlikely, and even then only due to a series of unlikely events which not even you could have foreseen.” Shrugging as if none of this concerns him, he continues, “Their deaths, though unfortunate, is the price you pay for your hubris, a lesson you should learn from moving forward from here. His Imperial Sovereign decreed the Western Province lost and its borders closed, yet you took it upon yourself to ignore His Imperial Mandate and lead these soldiers to their deaths. You only have yourself to blame. His Imperial Sovereign has shown mercy enough in not having you killed for disobedience, will even overlook the ruinous outcome of your crusade and allow you to marry into the Imperial Clan, truly a fortune found in disaster. Accept, and you will soar high into the Heavens to become a dragon among men; refuse, and you will be prosecuted for your crimes, with your name cursed as the sinner of the outer provinces for centuries to come and your supporters executed as accessories after the fact.”

It's not much of a choice. I would be stupid to refuse. It’s not like he’s even asking that much of me. Marriage to an Imperial Princess and sharing my view on the Dao, though I suspect more demands will come in time. I might as well just bite the bullet and accept the offer, because it’s not like I have a viable alternative, but throughout ZhenWu’s entire sales pitch, there was one question just eating away at me from inside, something I cannot for the life of me figure out, and the words slip out in spite of all my efforts to keep quiet.

“But why?”

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
