No, I don’t envy the Emperor for his massive harem. Well, maybe a little, but it’s mostly wistful thinking, an unrealistic fantasy which falls apart the moment I consider the details. Hardly realistic to love and cherish over a thousand women, no matter how exciting it might seem, and I doubt the Emperor cares for his women the way I care for my wives, or vice versa.

Still flat on my back, I peer up at my former boss and remind myself that ZhenWu is not to be trusted. I’ve long since suspected he’s been backing Shuai Jiao in order to hedge his bets and come out a winner no matter which one of us succeeds, but his appearance here alongside the Emperor’s desire to save Zhen Shi leads me to believe that the Imperial Clan might well have been working with the Enemy as well. Sure, ZhenWu almost died to those Half-Step Wraiths, but the timing of his near death was awfully convenient and it all worked out for him in the end, to say nothing of his extended absence even though he should have long since recovered. What’s more, the Emperor doesn’t seem all too concerned about the citizens of the West, the fate of the soldiers of Shi Bei, or the horde of Demonic Divinities threatening to render the city uninhabitable for centuries to come, and I cannot for the life of me figure out why.

I mean, even if he doesn’t care too much about the lives of innocents, this is still his Empire, right? Who in their right mind would be happy to lose one-fifth of their property overnight, if not more?

“Xing Ao Tian,” ZhenWu begins, offering the hulking Xing Warrior a polite nod. “If you would be so kind as to step aside?” Though worded like a request, his tone sounds more like a demand, but Ao Tian doesn’t seem to mind as he removes his spear from my throat and boot from my chest. Not before adding one last mini-stomp to drive the air out of my lungs once more however, and I have to wonder what crawled up his ass and died. I’ve never seen him before in my life, and I don’t think I’ve ever insulted the Xing Clan, so what’s with all the hostility? Of course, all becomes clear as Ao Tian shoots ZhenWu a glare which speaks volumes to their relationship, one that is far from friendly and only a hair short of outright antagonistic.

Great. As if I wasn’t good enough at making enemies on my own, now I’m making enemies by proxy. Cool, cool, cool.

Ignoring the pained creaking of my rib-cage, I sit up and try not to think about how Pong Pong almost definitely left me in the lurch since he did nothing to block either one of the Xing Warrior’s attacks, and instead turn my mind to what comes next. “I’m guessing this is another job offer?” I ask, sighing as I push myself to my feet with dog and glaive in hand, while Mama Bun floats up alongside me with her chin resting on my shoulder. “What are the terms of the Oath?” It's not that I’m willing to swear an Oath, but I don’t see any way around it, and I could always break the Oath by shattering my Core again. “If it’s straight up slavery, then the Emperor is right. Might as well skip ahead to the messy part.”

“Hmph.” The foremost Yang representative, makes his displeasure known with a muted snort. An older fatherly figure with a long, majestic beard, his derision is lessened by the fact that he’s unwilling to lift his head or turn away from the Emperor, who is still holding my sword between two fingers and refuses to let go while staring off into the distance once more, but at least I still have my shield and glaive. “This is the savage you speak so highly of? He knows not his place, to dare refer to his Imperial Sovereign in so flippant a manner. He should be whipped and quartered for this affront, and his family should suffer the same.”

ZhenWu says nothing to defend me, but his dark and troubled expression speaks volumes to his mood. If I had to guess, the Yang representative is entirely correct and I should be whipped and torn apart for my breech of decorum, but in my defense, my lessons in etiquette with Luo-Luo never got as far as covering how to behave during an audience with the Emperor. This means that if ZhenWu defends me, then he’s tacitly defending my disrespect towards the Emperor, which he’s not willing to do, but the person in question has yet to make a peep and seems to be ignoring the exchange entirely.

So I figure I ought to speak up, since I could hardly make things worse. Covering my eyes to block the glare of the sun, I glance around in an exaggerated fashion as if looking for something in the surroundings. “Huh that’s weird,” I begin, still carrying out my search and even going so far as to check the soles of my boots. “I can’t seem to find who asked for your opinion.”

“You insolent whelp,” the Yang representative retorts, lifting his gaze in a moment of anger, but even then, his chin remains tucked to his chest. “You dare –”

“Yes, I dare.” Rolling my eyes with a sigh, my retort lacks any heat or passion whatsoever, because I’m all out of fucks to give. “His Imperial Sovereign already suggested this was a waste of time, so you’re just dragging it out with your petulant interruptions. Now shush.” I don’t understand why I’m not supposed to call the Emperor ‘the Emperor, and use ‘His Imperial Sovereign’ instead, but that doesn’t mean I shouldn’t just roll with it. Look at me, applying all my hard learned lessons regarding the Dao to other aspects of my life. Way to go.

Turning to ZhenWu, I catch the ghost of a boyish grin stretched across his face before he’s all charming and businesslike once again, but I’m not sure if he slipped up by accident or if he meant for me to see him slip up in order to win me over. Politics. Blergh. “Indeed, it is an offer to work together once more,” ZhenWu says, ignoring the fatherly Yang as if he never spoke, “But after much pleading on your behalf to his Imperial Sovereign, some allowances have been made to accommodate your Dao.” Seeing my surprise, ZhenWu turns the charm up to eleven and offers a slight nod in acceptance of thanks I have yet to give. “There was truth in your statement regarding your inability to trade freedom for strength, and wisdom beyond your years contained within your primer. While the freedom you seek does not exist, to fetter you with an Oath of Servitude would be the same as ruining your value, so his Imperial Sovereign has suggested a different approach. An Oath will still be required, but one of intellectual honesty and cooperation, as well as discretion in matters touching upon any Imperial secrets.”

Implying he will share said secrets to me, but I think this is more to cover up the secrets I’ve stumbled across. “You want to know more about my Path?”

“Indeed,” he answers, hopefully taking the bait and believing that I haven’t seen through him. “And you will discuss it with the greatest minds of the Royal College, where the finest military Officers of the Empire are trained to become Royal Guardians in service to the Emperor. Is that not what you desire? A forum for discourse and discussion of the Dao? There will be Divinities and Warriors aplenty to offer perspective and guidance, and I will personally spare no effort raising you to Divinity, though I suspect you do not need much help at all.” True, but I’d rather remain as I am than achieve False Divinity, though I know enough not to say as much just yet. I mean, if I know it’s the wrong step to take, why bother taking it? Just for the experience? I dunno, that’s like saying everyone should experience food poisoning at least once, so you know what it’s like, which is just silly.

“And this is merely the beginning of our long and fruitful cooperation,” ZhenWu continues, turning ever so slightly to wave someone over, “Xiao Rou?”

Coming to her feet without lifting her head, the sole female of the group scurries over to ZhenWu’s side, and only then does she straighten up to show her gorgeous face. Familiar too, but it takes me a moment to place her before realizing where we met before. “You’re Miss Rou,” I blurt out, and before thinking better of it, add, “You tried to kill me in that whorehouse.”

The silence is deafening as the blood drains from my face and I try to shrink my head down into my chest cavity, but try as I might, I am no turtle and unable to escape from Miss Rou’s heated glare. ZhenWu’s expression isn’t much better, and a quick glance is all it takes to see that everyone else is highly amused, save for the Emperor who is still lost in his own little world while staring at the separated head and body lying at his feet. Try as I might, I can’t read the Emperor, as he is neither distraught nor pleased by Zhen Shi’s death and seems focused on something I cannot see.

Gently patting Miss Rou’s shoulder to placate her rage, ZhenWu clears his throat and says, “A minor misunderstanding, your little clash in Sui Hua. Xiao Rou here was merely overly eager to meet the heroic young Legate of the Outer Provinces and experience your strength for herself.” More like drive a sword through my heart, and judging by the murderous hatred emanating from her otherwise lovely eyes, that has yet to change. “A quarrelling couple holds no grudges,” he continues, which is an idiom that hardly applies to our current situation, or at least that’s what I thought until he adds, “Xiao Rou, greet your future husband.”

“Noooo.” Stopping this shit before it gets out of hand, I shake my head and move aside before Miss Rou can greet me, though considering how she didn’t move a muscle except to ball her fists, it appears she had no such intentions. “Nuh-uh. I appreciate the gesture, but I have enough wives as is.” Four is three too many for most, and I need to leave the fifth spot open for Li-Li. “Not to say Miss Rou isn’t lovely and all, but uh… I uh… am a poor match for a woman so…” Deadly. Dangerous. Troublesome. “Lovely.” Fuck, I already said that. “Besides, like you said, a minor quarrel is hardly anything to be concerned about. No harm, no foul, so there’s no need to go to such extremes and ruin her life by marrying her off to a lecher like me.”

Though you wouldn’t know it by looking at them, the peanut gallery is overflowing with amusement as they watch this all unfold, but I can’t be bothered to care. It doesn’t matter how gorgeous or busty Miss Rou might be, I have no interest in marrying her. Not because of her fake job history, or the fact that Fung was smitten by her for a time, or because I keep mispronouncing her name as ‘Miss Meat’ instead of ‘Miss Jade’ every other time I say it. If I’m being honest, other than the fact that she tried to lure me into an ambush and kill me, I have no real strong feelings regarding Miss Rou either way, but much as I would love to have a harem of a thousand women, I wouldn’t be able to handle it on an emotional level. Hell, I’m fairly certain I can’t handle one wife without screwing up, much less five, so I’m afraid I already have my hands full, meaning the doors are closed to all new applicants, no matter how alluring they might be.

Besides, and I’ve said it before, but in terms of beauty, grace, temperament, and endowment, Miss Rou falls short of lovely Luo-Luo, so why order burgers for delivery when we have steak at home? Grossly sexist and chauvinistic, I know, but that do be how it be.

“Do not be so quick to refuse.” Though still all smiles and sunshine on the surface, there’s an edge to ZhenWu’s tone that warns me to stop playing the fool. Jokes on him, I’m not playing a role, this is who I really am, but that’s not something I should really be proud of. “This marriage will only serve to benefit us both, tying you even closer to the Imperial Clan. His Imperial Sovereign has already decreed that this Prince will succeed him once he has finished serving his term, at which point you will be consort to an Imperial Princess, above all but a handful of noble Imperial Scions.”

“Hold up. You’re her father?” Hardly the most important thing to focus on right now, but they look more like siblings than father and daughter.

“Yes.” No one is immune to flattery, not even the Crown Prince, and ZhenWu puffs with pride at the implication that I never would have guessed his true age, but honestly, that makes me want to marry Miss Rou even less. While I haven’t met many Imperial Scions, Shen ZhenWu embodies everything I loathe about the Imperial Clan, so stately, noble, and friendly on the surface, but a double-dealing snake underneath. “You may keep your other wives, but Xiao Rou must be your main wife, the head of your household above all others. As a wedding gift, I will bestow upon you a manor in the Imperial capital, where you and your parents, sibling, and in-laws may make your home, to come and go as you please, though you will have to forfeit your titles as Minister of Finance and Legate of the Outer Provinces.”

ZhenWu continues to regale me with the details of my lofty rise to power, but suffice it to say, none of it is tempting in the least. I would much rather live in my sister’s manor back at the village, or better yet, build my own manor for me and my wives, but that hardly seems polite to say. Unfortunately for me, I am terrible at hiding my emotions and ZhenWu quickly realizes he’s barking up the wrong tree, so he switches from the carrot to the stick. “Still not greeting me as Father-in-Law?” His features darken in spite of his ‘joking’ smile as he looms over me in unspoken threat. “Though this is not a decision to be made lightly, you said it yourself; there are still other matters to attend to.”

