Outnumbered and exhausted as I am, the smart move here would be to keep quiet and rest for as long as possible while formulating a plan of action.

Unfortunately for me, I am not a smart man.

“So,” I begin, if only to break the unnerving silence while studying the faces in the crowd, “Been here long? See any of the sights? I’ve been told a Western oasis is especially beautiful after a summer storm, but I’ve yet to see it for myself. Been kinda busy with the whole… re-taking the province thing.” Which I probably shouldn’t have mentioned, given how this whole offensive is technically illegal since the big kahuna declared the Western Province lost and the borders closed, but in my defense, I forgot that tiny but very significant detail until just now. “Lots of blooming flowers and greenery that doesn’t last long, but I suppose the transience is part of the beauty.”

The Emperor shows no sign of having heard the question as he continues to stare at me in his superior, holier-than-thou, and almost dismissive fashion, the same way I would stare at a weird, non-hostile animal I’ve never seen before. No one else says anything either, as even the Divinities are standing with hands clasped and heads bowed, like contrite students who are late for class and waiting to be punished. The Emperor runs a tight ship though, I’ll give him that, though he looks much younger than expected, a forty-something year old in prime middle-age rather than the lofty senior approaching retirement I envisioned. There’s an ineffable aspect about him that lends him an air of authority, something that has nothing to do with his fancy golden robes or silly hair ornament hat, which even I have to admit looks good on him. The way he holds himself lends weight to his domineering demeanour, one which doesn’t demand respect so much as expect it, and there is not a single Scion who dares to glance in my direction as they stand stock still in five distinct groups.

The tension is so thick you could cut it with a knife, though I suppose the longer this silence drags on, the better it is for me. Or it would’ve been if I didn’t open my stupid mouth, but I couldn’t help it. I hate being the centre of attention, whether it’s the Emperor studying me outright or everyone else studying me out the corner of their eyes.

Wrenching my attention away from the Emperor’s commanding presence, I take a moment to study his entourage instead. According to the family seals emblazoned on their respective outfits, the Five Supreme Families are all present and accounted for, but not in equal numbers. The Yang’s and Liang’s make up the bulk of the entourage, positioned closest to me on the Emperor’s right and left, with five and six people respectively. All men, except one overdressed woman hidden behind the armoured Shen ZhenWu, who is the only person kneeling instead of standing with head bowed. What’s more, she has her head pressed right against the sand, which seems kinda sexist, especially given how she’s fitted for a ball while everyone else is armed and armoured for bear. The Seneschal is nowhere to be seen, which is surprising to me, as I’ve come to associate him with ZhenWu seeing how the two were all but inseparable. I suppose a mere servant doesn’t ‘deserve’ the dubious honour of attending a face-to-face meeting with the Emperor, so lucky me, I guess. Whoo.

The Xing’s make up the next largest group, with three individuals present, soldiers and Warriors one and all who appear to be about the same age as ZhenWu. Each one is clad in golden armour, similar in style to my former boss’s but nowhere near as ostentatious, though still dazzling to behold in the hot desert sun. Armed with spear and shield in hand, they each also bear a sheathed sword upon their hip as they stand directly behind the Emperor, but one step closer than the other four groups and one step further than the Divinities. Makes sense, seeing how the Xing’s are supposedly his military family, but their posture is every bit as submissive as the rest. As for the Tian and Di families, they only have one representative each standing in between the Xing’s and the Yang’s and Liangs to form a big circle, though unlike the other three families who are all rife with tension, these two men in their thirties appear bored and unhappy to be here. The Tian representative is the least well dressed of the bunch, wearing a drab, form-fitting suit of light armour which favours mobility and flexibility over durability and thickness, though I’m guessing it’s probably Runic in nature. Difficult to say, as it’s all black and tailored to melt into his slim figure, with tight, black silk clothes underneath which lack any and all markings whatsoever. Altogether, it makes him look more professional and less ostentatious than anyone else in the crowd, he has haughtiness enough for any three Imperial Scions, which is really saying something given the present company. As for the man from the Di Family, he’s not even wearing armour, though he’s got enough layers of robes on to brave the frozen north. A hefty, heavy-set sort, his comparatively shorter height makes him look fatter than he actually is, though I suspect he can fight as well as any Martial Warrior, even if his poofy layered robes make him look like an eye sore.

Aside from that, all of the Imperial Scions are just too damned handsome, while none seem all too pleased to be here, which I totally understand. I don’t want to be here either. Scorching heat, low humidity, and coarse sand as far as the eye can see isn’t really my idea of paradise, but to each their own, right?

Seeing my attempt at small talk has failed to elicit any response, I wrack my brain for another topic. I would rather risk pissing the Emperor off than sit here in awkward silence another moment longer, as this is akin to my own personal hell. With the Emperor’s thousand-yard stare boring right into the depths of my very soul, I’m liable to start spiralling out of control due to sheer social anxiety. Like maybe the reason no one is engaging me in conversation is because I’m already dead, and I’m just the ghost of me going through the same motions as if I was still alive. At least I have Buddy and Mama Bun here to keep me sane, and my sweet rabbit is just full of affection as I slowly bob her about on the raft, if only to give my subconscious mind something to do besides fret. As for my dog, he’s much more social than I am and would’ve gone over to say hi if I wasn’t holding him in place, because in his eyes, a stranger is just a friend he hasn’t met.

Also, I’m pretty sure he wants to eat Zhen Shi’s corpse, a prospect which has his tail wagging, butt wiggling and mouth drooling as I weigh the pros and cons of feeding my doggo the flesh of my enemies. On the one hand, it’s just going to rot if I leave it there, and hey, free food. On the other hand, gross, and what if all the dead flesh gives him an upset tummy? Or worse, if he chokes on a bone or something? I’d have to prepare the corpse for him, chop and grind it up or something, because knowing Buddy, he’ll eat everything including the robes and give himself a bowel obstruction. Or worse, have it all go right through him until the home stretch, at which point it comes down to me having to pull a bunch of poopy rags out of his clogged-up ass.

That’s an experience which will haunt you for the rest of your life, and presumably the next life too, apparently. Dogs are man’s best friend, there’s no denying that, but it’s not all roses and rainbows, I’ll tell you what.

“Buddy, stay,” I mutter, trying to be as quiet as I can, but my doggo is having none of it as he tries to squirm out of my embrace. “C’mon man, don’t embarrass me in front of the Emperor, okay? I’ll feed you in a bit. Be patient.” Emanating a soothing Aura to keep him calm, I offer the Emperor an awkward smile and say, “Dogs, am I right? You’d think his mouth wasn’t connected with his stomach with how often he begs for food. Ha.”

No response, which I wasn’t expecting one either way, but there’s also no indication of the Emperor’s anger or amusement. He’s interested, but not overly so, as if he’s here to go through the motions and nothing else, a very dull and blasé attitude to take given all the turmoil his Empire has endured in the last two years. Then again, I doubt he even cares about the suffering of his people given how he tried to stop me from killing Zhen Shi, probably because he wanted to study all his secrets. I can’t see a world in which the Emperor wouldn’t be interested in Zhen Shi’s Half-Demon production capabilities, to say nothing of his mass-manufactured Runic Armour and Spiritual Weapons equivalents. In related news, that might well be why I still draw breath, because the Emperor is taking the time to determine if I can be of any use.

Which I suppose I can, given my ability to guide commoners to success in Core Creation and raise veteran Warriors into Demon Slayers at the very least, but I’m not entirely eager to work for the Imperial Clan given our history together. Then again, I doubt I have much of a choice in the matter, but a man can dream, right?

What unnerves me the most is not the silence, or even the Emperor’s piercing stare, but the fact that Pong Pong has gone radio silent and might well have legged it off without me noticing. The little guy stuck with me throughout the entire battle against Zhen Shi and would often reassure me with his Aura, but he hasn’t made a peep since the Emperor stopped my sword, which is something I only now just noticed. Unwilling to give away Pong Pong’s possible presence by physically checking my hair, I make no attempt to directly contact him with my Emotional Aura and radiate it around me instead, giving off a general vibe of calm and control which I most certainly do not feel, nor am I able to sense the little turtle’s presence. Doesn’t mean much when you take into account the fact that he is the sneakiest of ninja turtles, but it’s all I can do to not squirm with panic at the thought of standing here without backup.

Despite my efforts to keep the effect contained to maybe an inch in all directions however, the centremost Xing representative is offended by my actions and demonstrates his discontent by stomping me into the sands and plunging his spear through my neck.

Or at least he would’ve, if not for the Emperor’s command given just before impact. “Hold.”

Staring up at my looming assailant in bewildered shock while struggling to draw breath, I belatedly piece together the sequence of events. One moment he was behind the Emperor, and the next, this Xing Warrior had his boot on my chest and his spear in my face, with no visible transition between the two states. Even now, I’m unable to fathom how any man could move so quickly, especially one that is not yet a Divinity. At least, I don’t think he’s a Divinity, because he doesn’t have the distinctive, overbearing presence palpable to my Spiritual Senses the baldie Divinities share. That only makes his attainments all that more impressive, seeing how this golden armoured behemoth of a Warrior was able to move faster than Zhen Shi and shatter my Domain Plated armour with little more than a nudge. A staggering amount of power for a Peak Expert to exert, but even more remarkable is his control, able to withdraw his strength and control his movements well enough to hold back at a moment’s notice. He struck to kill, and only the Emperor’s command kept him from following through, meaning this isn’t even his top speed but it’s already too fast for me to keep up.

Scowling darkly through his golden, open-faced helmet, the ruggedly handsome Warrior offers me a silent warning while resting his spear against my neck, almost daring me to do something, anything to piss him off. Me being me, I accept the challenge and offer him a toothy smile while patting Buddy on the head to soothe his nerves. “Good dog,” I proclaim, without taking my eyes off the Warrior standing atop me and making it clear in no uncertain terms that I fully understand the duality of my statement.

In hindsight, probably not the smartest course of action, but again, I am not a smart man.

The Xing Warrior’s anger is evident to behold as his cheeks take on a reddish hue, one which I suspect has nothing to do with prolonged exposure to the sun, but just as I’m about to suggest he find some aloe cream for the burn, the Emperor pre-empts my quip with a sigh before turning aside to study Zhen Shi’s corpse lying at his feet. “You may proceed as discussed,” he declares, already giving the body his thousand-yard stare, “But this Sovereign suspects the time and effort will be wasted.”

“This Prince thanks Imperial Sovereign for the opportunity.” ZhenWu’s lofty pronoun is news to me, and he takes pride in its use, but I don’t care much for the implications. After a ninety degree bow at the waist, ZhenWu turns towards me without letting the Emperor out of his sight. A show of respect I suppose, but his wary actions bring to mind my own during those early weeks after welcoming Princess into our floof family. “But Imperial Sovereign was the one who taught this servant that there is no reward without sacrifice.” Moving closer to my side so we don’t have to shout while conversing, ZhenWu offers me a warm smile and an approving nod as I lay still in the sand, but that’s not enough to charm me anymore, even if he is a handsome and heroic Prince of the Empire. Big whoop. The Emperor doesn’t look old enough to be ZhenWu’s father, more like an older brother at best, but considering the guy has a whole forbidden city to house his harem, I doubt ZhenWu is the only Imperial Prince running around.

