Meaning the battle in Shi Bei which I am eager to get back to, though I’m not entirely sure how much of a difference I can make. Rather than say something and risk shoving my foot in my mouth, I glance around at the Emperor’s paltry retinue of less than twenty individuals, without a single Royal Guardian or Death Corps Guard in sight. Catching on all-too quickly, ZhenWu produces a mirror from his belt-pouch and gestures for me to come stand by his side, which I do while being careful not to turn away from the Emperor. As dumb as it feels to move sideways across the sand, I err on the side of caution because I don’t want to give Xing Ao Tian any more reason to hate me. Honestly though, much as I respect Xing Yong Wei for his advice, I can’t help but resent him for abandoning me so soon into my term as Legate, and the bald Liang Divinity is high on my shit list for trying to have Dad killed. The Yang Divinity might well have been the most respectable of the bunch, though it could just be because of our limited interaction. I didn’t know he was a Yang at the time, but the fact that he spoke in my favour and told ZhenWu that I was telling the truth regarding my Dao tells me he was a man of principle, because he could’ve kept silent and let ZhenWu resent me. That would’ve driven a wedge between me and the Legate, which would’ve suited ZhenWu’s Imperial Protector fine, seeing how the old baldy was a member of the Yang Family who is at odds with the Liangs.

And how did ZhenWu repay the man? By setting him up to be killed, no doubt, further strengthening my suspicions that my ‘benevolent’ patron has been working with Zhen Shi all this time, or at the minimum using a dire threat to the outer provinces as a tool in his games of politics.

Placing his arm around my shoulder in a much-too-friendly gesture, ZhenWu holds the mirror up to my face and shows me my reflection. Not sure what I was expecting, but at least Mama Bun and Buddy are cute as can be, though I see no sign of Pong Pong hidden within my hair. I still can’t confirm if he’s actually gone or just hiding from everything, but if he did leave, then I can hardly blame him for it. I never would’ve made it this far without him, and he stuck around much longer than he had to, so if he is gone, then I wish him well and pray he finds safety and happiness in spades. That being said, Pong Pong was outright dismissive of the Demonic Divinity and Zhen Shi both, as if he wasn’t afraid of either one in the slightest, so I feel like I should be more worried about the fact that he ran as soon as the Emperor made his presence known.

Not like it matters. Even if he doesn’t lift a finger, I doubt I could beat Ao Tian who stomped me flat, much less the other two beside him, or my prospective Father-in-Law, the Divine True Warrior, to say nothing of the two Divinities looming about. I am in way over my head, so I suppose selling my ass in marriage to Miss Rou isn’t the worst thing in the world. Not literally selling my ass, though it wouldn’t surprise me to learn she leans that way. Beautiful though she might be, I’ve seen nothing tender or gentle about the formidable woman, a temperamental firebrand if there ever were one. I’m not ashamed to admit she scares me, in a, “I’m going to cut your dick off and feed it to the fishes,” sort of way.

It's her eyes, beautiful yes, but burning with wilful threat and malevolent rage. She blames me for her circumstances, hates me for being used in so humiliating a manner, and promises no peace or comfort will be found within the walls of our home. In other words, even though she’s a perfect ten in beauty, she’s cranked crazy up to eleven and no longer falls within the safe zone of the crazy/hot scale, and you know what they say about crazy.

Before I can ask what all this is about, my image in the mirror begins to blur only to focus and reveal a different scene reflected within, one of death and chaos aplenty. Covered in blood and heaving with exertion, Akanai wields her Crescent Moon Halberd in a defensive pattern to fend off her formidable foes, three monstrous and unfamiliar Demonic Divinities assaulting her from all sides. Each and every one of their attacks threatens to bring the Wrath of Heaven down upon them, but they care not for the Treaty or the consequences of their actions, only for the blood and flesh of my Grand-Mentor they so desperately crave. Though this is merely a glimpse of her plight, I can already tell that Akanai is in dire straits and will not hold out for long without assistance, but I suspect there will be none forthcoming.

For there are even more Demonic Divinities besieging Grandpa Wolf, who is desperately fighting to keep everyone alive. The Demonic Divinities themselves are only a minor threat, one he could tear through with relative ease so long as he’s willing to suffer a few injuries for it, but keeping the Wrath of Heavens from destroying all of Shi Bei has stretched the poor old Divinity to the limits. The Demonic Divinities sense his weakness and converge around him like vultures awaiting the death of their prey, and the combined efforts of the remaining Imperial Divinities led by the newly ascended Nian Zu aren’t enough to keep them all at bay, for they are grossly outnumbered by these near mindless abominations unleashed by Zhen Shi in his rage.

The image in the mirror shifts, flickering faster than the human eye can follow, but my mind pieces it all together with help from the State of Enlightenment. Mila stands before Lin-Lin and defends her from the Half-Demon Defiled, but my fiery wife is almost an arrow spent, her body fatigued and her Spiritual System overworked after unleashing not one burst of dazzling radiance, but two with help from me and Lin-Lin both. Li-Li stands close by with sabre a whirling, but while she has touched upon the precipice of Peak Expert, she has yet to move over the threshold to become one in truth. Even if she had, she alone is not enough to turn the tides of battle, as evidenced by Husolt, Grandpa Du, Kyung, and so many others who are desperately fighting to make their way over to save them. Yan is still safe for now, but no longer able to sustain her massive wind wall of blades, and instead fights with fan, shield, and horns in bloody close combat with the odd Wind Blade to make up for the disparity in strength, speed, reaction, and so much more. All the while, Luo-Luo continues to play her heart out while Guard Leader’s veiled subordinates defend her and the floofs both, but it’s clear they’re all on their last legs as the Enemy closes in from all sides.

Dad, Naaran, and Gerel trade blows with Ankhbayar and Mao Jianghong within a rare pocket of calm, but my grandfather is wounded and unable to fight with his full strength. A wound taken to protect Gerel I would wager, considering how close my brother has come to losing it entirely. Even then, they still outnumber their foes, but the traitor Guard Captain’s Blessing of Ice does much to make up for the difference. A shield of ice moves in accordance with Jianghong’s left hand, affixed to him by bonds of invisible Domain, and he sweeps it before him to slam Dad and Gerel away before raising it high to stop the plummeting Bloody Fang from piercing through the crown of Ankhbayar’s head. As for my failure of a sire, he is a disappointment as a man, but a Warrior few can match, especially with Jianghong to make up for his shortcomings. Giving himself over to the attack, he wields his spear with speed and precision unlike anything I’ve ever seen, delivering pinpoint attacks at every opening presented by his foes and bleeding them more often than not. At this rate, it won’t be long before someone slips up and suffers what might well be a mortal wound, but there are no other available Warriors capable of interfering in an exchange of this calibre.

Down in the courtyard, Kharuul and Balor yearn to join their riders for this fight, but powerful as the two Spiritual Quins might be, they are vulnerable in a battle between Peak Experts, to say nothing of an exchange at this high a calibre, and the beasts know it. All they can do is gnash their teeth and stomp their feet, a frustration I share with them, as well as with sweet Mafu and furious Zabu who have been left out of the fight. Not all the quins sit idle however, as many Sentinels sallied out alongside the Imperial cavalry in pursuit of the fleeing Defiled army, except now they’re frantically fighting to make their way back to Shi Bei. Despite being given a clean opportunity to charge the Half-Demons in the back, it was far from enough to break the fearsome Enemy combatants. To make matters worse, the Imperial Cavalry have been unable to withdraw after the initial charge and are stuck fighting in close combat, a poor trade even if they were battling base Chosen instead of Half-Demon Peak Experts. The casualties are staggering to behold, largely due to the fact that the Enemy has a force of cavalry all their own, a small but elite force of mounted Half-Demons commanded by a hulking beast of a Chieftain running rampant through the Imperial forces. This does nothing to deter Huu however, who recognizes the Chieftain underneath his Demonic Armour as the Defiled who killed his uncle Kalil. Though sorely outmatched by his foe, my foolhardy friend brings his quin around on a collision course with the Half-Demon Chieftain in an effort to kill the man or die trying, but in his rage, Huu doesn’t notice his wives and mother following close behind. None of them are strong enough to defeat the Half-Demon Chieftain, and all three of the women know it, but they will not let Huushal die on his own and are ready to sell their lives dearly.

Back on the battlements, Mister Rustram fights with rapier in one hand and my banner in the other, having pried it from Yazhu’s lifeless hands. A cobbler’s son turned Stormguard Banner Bearer, Yazhu was the first man to sound the rallying cry in JiangHu, among the first to answer Akanai’s call to serve, and now he lies dead upon the walls of Shi Bei alongside so many others. Fung and Seoyoon fight shoulder to shoulder, while Da’in struggles to make her way over and link up, but there are too many Half-Demons to allow it. The Sword Princess gives it her all in a desperate bid to save her sister, for she has already seen her brother Geom-Chi fall to a Half-Demon, and refuses to lose Seoyoon too. Similarly, Exarch Gam has made his way over to Wu Gam’s side, bleeding profusely from more wounds than I can count but still a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield. The sands shift and collapse inwards, burying an entire group of armoured Half-Demons who have yet to make their way onto the wall, but there are still more to replace them as they charge headlong at the formidable, but exhausted Half-Fox Warrior. His mother stands guard over them, but she too is caught up in the siege of Demonic Divinities and unable to spare much attention for them. She’s making ready to cut and run, like so many other Imperial Divinities, and only the encirclement of Enemy Divinities is keeping her in place. Zhu Chanzui, Mataram YuKon, and seven other Human Divinities and Ancestral Beasts stand ready and waiting, the remnants of the non-Demon Divinities freed up once Zhen Shi unleashed his mindless miscreations. They’re just waiting for their foes to weaken, to break apart and present an opening, at which point they will strike to kill and possibly even bring Heaven’s Wrath down upon all of Shi Bei, because the Treaty isn’t worth shit any longer.

Tam Taewoon. Situ Jia Yang and Situ Jia Zian. Chen Hongji. Han BoHai and Han BoShui. Broken Blade Pichai. Marshal Quyen Huong and Dienne Huong. Situ Rang Min. These faces and more flash before my eyes, but it’s the faces I don’t see that pain me so, the ones not reflected within Shen ZhenWu’s mirror because they’re already dead. Somehow, I can just tell that this is no illusion, not something Zhen Shi would craft to trick me, but a true representation of reality, one which I suspect is happening in real time, and my ‘patron’ confirms it with his next words. “The situation in Shi Bei is dire indeed, and growing more desperate by the second, but agree to my terms, and I will save those you hold dear. Your family of course, and your wives, and even your pets, so you need not fear for their fate.”

But everyone else is shit out of luck. Though I suspected as much, the confirmation sends a pang through my chest which empties it of all sensation, leaving only pain and nothingness behind. Have to die. As in he could save them all, but he won’t, because then he can’t control the narrative of what happened here in the West. “What about my mother?”

