Caradogh died in a stone cell, wrapped in tattoos, under the Headmaster’s disappointed glare.

- - - -

The Headmaster frowned on the other side of Caradogh’s stone cell.

Caradogh, wrapped in tattoos, could do nothing to save himself.

The Headmaster said, “I am partially to blame, of course. I blank your memory each time.” He added, “But each time you go through all your contacts and you still manage to find someone new! Even though I kill or contain every single one you touch upon!” He calmed. He said, “As I have said, I am partially to blame for this, but not only for blanking your memory, but also for letting people think that it is possible to infiltrate my city without me knowing in the first place. I let your black markets flourish. I let you take advantage. I let you have your freedom, and I will always continue to do so. But each time it still makes me so! So!

“Embittered!

“Such is the price of remaining a part of the world, I suppose.” He added, “You kill and take the form of at least one new person each time you attempt to kill Jane. I should not give you this next chance to redeem yourself. I should rip apart your soul and save that unknown life, but I can’t. Soul sundering is a fate worse than death, and promises must be kept.”

Caradogh died.

The Headmaster’s voice echoed in the enveloping darkness, “Last life. Better make it count.”

- - - -

An unknown incani stepped into Jane’s room. He silently closed the door behind him as he flicked a blacknight dagger into his hand.

Jane slept in her bed. Unknowing. Uncaring. Undefended.

The incani flowed toward Jane, leading with the dagger, plunging it into—

Into shadow, and light. Jane vanished. Her illusion shattered.

Caradogh’s head tumbled to the ground. As he came to his final rest, his last sight was of a giant black spider lurking in shadows on the ceiling. Eight black eyes stared at Caradogh. He stared back, for as long as he could, but even his usual anger could not sustain him through death.

He died, for the last time.

- - - -

Jane twisted into a human as she fell from the ceiling to the floor. She stayed on the ground, holding herself together. She almost puked, but she managed to hold it in. Caradogh had taken so long to get to her she didn’t think she was going to last, but she had. She glanced over at the body, then the head. His blank incani eyes were still staring at her, even though he was very dead. Jane even had the notification to prove it. According to the Headmaster, that meant that this really was Caradogh’s last life.

She glanced over to the blacknight dagger. It looked almost like obsidian, but with a touch of dust to the surface. It was one of the deadliest substances known to humans, but to every other race it just made them sick. She touched her shadows to the dagger, pushing it to the side of the room, out of the way.

Alibeth slammed open the door and rushed into the room, carrying a hospital gown, saying, “That was completely unnecessary! As your doctor, I’m telling you again how reckless that was!”

“I know, doc.” Jane let Alibeth wrap her in the gown and lift her to her feet. “Thank you.”

“No physical therapy today!” Alibeth helped Jane back into bed, making sure she got all the way in. “You can lay there for a while if you don’t need to sleep, but that is all you are going to do, understood?”

Jane mocked a salute, “Understood.”

“Don’t get snappy at me.” Alibeth looked down to the body, the head, and the dagger at the edge of the room. “That guy was half delusional. If the Headmaster didn’t give him one last chance he would never have made it past the front door. This entire scenario was irresponsible—” She added, “And he killed yet another person for that form, too! Poor man. Probably in the wrong place at the wrong time. Awful. Simply awful.”

The Headmaster spoke from behind Alibeth, “I owed Caradogh’s mother much—”

Alibeth yelped loud as she turned to face the old man.

The Headmaster continued, “Now that both of them are dead, I can tell you that a bargain of trade was struck long ago, where she guaranteed my non-interference with her son’s affairs unless they directly impacted my interests.”

Jane, partially delirious and smiling at the ceiling, said, “That’s a dragon, for you.”

The Headmaster gently smiled. “It was a terrible bargain, but it was made, and thus it is upheld.”

Jane asked, “Any more news from Spur?”

“You’ve heard it all.” He said, “And you’re loopy. This might have been too much for you.”

“He came after me and mine!” Jane tried not to close her eyes as she said, “I needed to see that guy dead with my own hands.” She leaned forward a little. The body was still on the ground. This wasn’t a dream. She crashed back onto her bed.

The Headmaster said, “I know the feeling.” He nodded to Alibeth.

Alibeth moved to the headboard behind Jane, and suddenly Jane’s eyes were too heavy to hold open.

Soft voices carried Jane away.

Before her encounter with the final Caradogh, Jane had heard all about the Red Dot, and the end of the Farm, and the hundreds of assassinations, but she had also heard of her father saving the day, and then how he enabled swift vengeance against the surviving hunters and the Hand. She hadn’t actually spoken to him yet, but she would, soon. She would tell him he had done good, too. Every day, she was awake for longer than the day before. Soon, she would be back to her own quest. She’d get Polymage, and then she’d go back to Spur, and then she would help her father permanently end the Shades. It was a good thought.

That good thought lent itself to good dreams.

Jane dreamed of rolling dice, fluffy clouds and laughter, and threats brutally ended.
