In the course of defending himself and his city, Erick had killed hunters, overseen the elimination of the Hand, and directly guided soldiers to murder those who would, and had, murdered others. It was a simple decision of kill or let-your-world-be-killed, and Erick chose the former.

And yet, each time he thought he was comfortable with what he had done, his thoughts came back to those two kids who had stolen Jane’s horn. Morothy and Andar. Those two barely-Matriculated dragonkin chose to participate in the attack on Spur because of a chain of dominoes Erick set down months ago; his choice to keep raining on the Farms.

He wasn’t so narcissistic as to think that his decision alone precipitated everything that came later, where one out of every four farmers were dead, and the Farmer’s Council was two thirds murdered. Every single farmer of Spur chose to be here, to try for a new way of life that threatened the old one.

When it came down to it, the simple fact was, that neither he, nor Spur, would, or could, allow Portal to dictate what would and could not be sold between the other city states of the Crystal Forest. Portal had grown comfortable in their position of power in the local economy, and they thought this meant that they were the arbiter of said economy. They were wrong, and it was correct to go against their desires, when the alternative Erick offered was economic freedom and plentiful food. There was a cost to this freedom, as there always is; a necessity of leaving behind some luxuries in favor of others.

But Erick’s decision to invent this new scanning magic, and all that that entailed…

That was all on him.

[Cascade Imaging] had definitely prevented further reprisals and guerrilla warfare, but the end result was that Erick had killed people, and he would likely kill again.

The sun stretched through the sunroom, while Erick watched the map outside his window and in other, distant places across the desert. Small blue dots appeared here and there, but they were old dots, long since searched. His eyes might have been on the targets, but his mind wandered. His thoughts skipped through every single death he had seen since this all started…

Two days ago? Yes. He was pretty sure at least one day had fully passed. Maybe two. At the very most, it had been three days since the attack.

The search for perpetrators was long over. The search for the survivors was over, too. Now, he was just searching for Caradogh, the man that took the threat of Erick’s [Cascade Imaging] to galvanize the broken Hunters and Cinnabar Hand of the Crystal Forest into an organized threat.

Erick had begun his search yesterday. In one more hour, he would have searched the entirety of the Crystal Forest, all 35 million square kilometers of this crystal dotted land, for the fourth time.

35 million sounded like a lot, but each one of Erick’s [Cascade Imaging]s could search through almost 5 million square kilometers on their own, if he searched at max range. There were a few problems with that method, though. One, was that when Erick searched at [Cascade Imaging]s full 1200-ish radius range, the map produced took a while to fill, and even longer to detect trace DNA in that area. So Erick had relegated himself to smaller 500 kilometer radius ranges for the larger, empty parts of the Crystal Forest, and dozen-kilometer scans for more precise city mapping.

There had been a slight diplomatic concern to him searching the cities of the Crystal Forest, but the only complaint that got to him was an offhand comment from Poi that went ‘Maybe don’t set up the map in the center of Frontier, try somewhere off to the edge’. Erick was sure that he was making a huge diplomatic problem for Silverite, but he was also sure that Silverite was on his side. She said as much, a few different times. Erick would continue to image the land, without concern for people’s privacy. Later, when this was over, he would likely be reprimanded, but for now, he was cleared to step on as many toes as he needed, and Silverite would deal with the diplomatic fallout.

But there was an issue with searching for the former Lower Trademaster of Portal. Caradogh Pogi got around, a lot. He had dealings all throughout the desert, in every major city. So far, none of Erick’s searches had turned up more than hidden and not-so-hidden rooms in all the cities of the Crystal Forest. Every blue dot turned out to be nothing.

Increasingly, Erick felt like it was time to face one of two facts. Either Caradogh Pogi was not in the Crystal Forest, or he had taken on a new [Polymorph] form and [Cascade Imaging] was now useless. Or maybe someone had figured out how to create a maskward to block radio waves? It was possible, but highly unlikely. Aside from these conclusions based on the evidence before him, [Hunter’s Instincts] agreed with Erick’s assessment. Caradogh Pogi was in the wind.

Erick had been running the [Hunter's Instincts] all this time, too. It kept him sharp, but after hours and hours of nothing found and nothing gained, the skill felt like knives at the end of his fingertips, and a sharpness to his teeth. If he moved too much, he felt like he would snap and punch out a wall, or a window.

Erick stared down at the map outside his window. His thoughts wandered back to the problem of Caradogh. “If I were him, I wouldn’t take the chance.”

Kiri asked, “The chance?”

“The chance on me being able to see through [Polymorph] at 1500 kilometers.”

“Oh. Yeah. He’s gone. Probably down in Nergal, or wherever. Merit’s last search was yesterday… So… Is it time to stop?”

Erick breathed deep. “… Yes.”

“Good.” Kiri said, “Are you hungry yet? I made a casserole. It’s almost dinner time, anyway.”

Erick slowly tore his eyes away from the white map. He turned to Kiri. She was still wearing her green armor. Sunny wrapped loosely around her neck, but craned his head up to see Erick. The little [Familiar]s green body and wings glittered like emeralds in the light of the afternoon sun.

Erick said, “I could eat.” He added, “I need to see some people, too.”

“You’ve got some standing requests for talks and such.” Kiri turned and walked to the door to the room, saying, “Poi made up a list before he crashed earlier.” She avoided stepping on the unicorn horn as she turned down the hallway.

Erick followed Kiri into the hallway, scrunching to the right to avoid stepping on to the unicorn horn.

When Kiri stepped past the horn, into the foyer, she added, “And you should turn off that skill.”

“I will when I’m done.”

Kiri glanced backward, looking into Erick’s eyes. She turned and resumed leading the way to the kitchen. Erick smelled the air. Whatever she had made smelled good; meat and potatoes, for sure.

… But where had she gotten the potatoes? The Farmer’s Market was closed. The Farms were gone. The warehouses were ash. The Farmer’s Council was mostly gone, too.

Erick asked, “Have you heard from Apogough, yet?”

“He’s one of the people I have to talk to on the list Poi gave me.”

- - - -

Erick knocked on the door, and waited under a pool of light. He had abandoned his overt white [Conjure Armor] in favor of the browns and tans of his normal outfits, but he still wore his white armor as a thin layer of dense fibers under his clothes. Ophiel was tiny, and more of a decorative pad on his left shoulder, than a bouncing ball of energy and eyes. Night had already fallen, but lights were still on in the streets and in the stone houses, like always.

Apogough answered the door. He stood lined in light from the bright interior of the house, and wearing soft pajamas. His skin was light green, but his face was sunken, with purple bags under his eyes. He blinked as he saw Erick. He stood a bit straighter, trying to put on a stronger face.

“Hello, Erick,” Apogough said. “I’m glad you’re here. Come on in.”

Erick said, “I am sorry for your loss.”

Apogough stilled. He breathed. He nodded. Then he turned and walked inside. Erick followed. Poi whispered to Erick about staying outside. Erick nodded, and left his guard behind.

Apogough led Erick to a small side room, near the front door. He sat down on one side of a small table. Erick sat down on the other. Erick almost spoke first, but Apogough looked to be struggling with something, so he waited.

Eventually, Apogough said, “I don’t have it in me to try again on the Farm. Almost all of my people were… Whoever is not dead has been poached by offers of a better life in the Greensoil Republic. Odaali, specifically. When the first of them started accepting these offers the day after the attack, the rest followed.” He said, “I’m going back to the Republic, too, to try and make something with the people who came to Spur, looking for a better life. The bounty of Water Season was something that should not have been attempted beyond those three months. Spur is deadly, but gold and good growing seasons in the past blinded us to this stark reality.” He asked, “Do you want to come with us?”

Erick sat for a moment. An answer came out of his mouth, “No. I’m here to kill the Shades. I thought strengthening Spur was possible through sustained agriculture, but the Farm was a point of weakness.” As Erick listened to himself speak, he knew something was wrong with his emotions, but if he dropped [Hunter’s Instincts] now, he would be a crying mess. He added, “I am sorry.”

Apogough took a while to respond. Silence stretched, then broke, as he said, “Then this is goodbye.”

“Does it have to be?”

“It does. I see that, now. I had hoped...” Apogough said, “They tried to kill me because I was near you. You protected the city, but absolute protection is a fool’s ideal. With this new magic you’ve made yourself an even larger target. Please never seek me out, or any of those you’ve seen on the Farms ever again. I am not just saying that because I… I am hurting. They asked me to tell you this if you chose not to come with us.” He added, “We are not ones to hold a sword against the monsters, and Spur is surrounded by more monsters than I had ever considered possible.” He stared at Erick, and said, “Please leave.”

Erick stood up, and said, “I am sorry for your loss, Apogough. I am truly sorry that this happened. If there is anything you need from me going forward, please don’t hesitate to ask.”

Apogough remained sitting, and silent. He looked away.

Erick showed himself out.

- - - -

The Interfaith Church was a bright white cathedral, standing amid a green vineyard. Flying buttresses held up the roof from the outside, like carved stone arms. Towers, peaked and ridged and illuminated, reached up into the dark night sky, while rainbow light poured out from the many abstract, stained glass windows.

The front doors were open; white light kept the night away as people of all kinds walked in and out, their shadows stretching forward into the vineyard, where dim green lights hung under the tangled vines, and purple grapes.

Erick stood on the shadowy edge of the Church’s property, near a large tree. Except for Poi, he was alone. Poi had said little since they left Apogough’s house. Erick had said nothing.

He still ran Meditation, and [Hunter’s Instincts]. The Rest state of Meditation was more than enough to counter the Health drain on his body, and keep his everything sharp. Ophiel remained silent, keeping up his charade as Erick’s left shoulderpad. Erick wasn’t sure when Ophiel started doing that, but it seemed appropriate. He was in the Army, after all. Ophiel’s eyes were still there, and those slit-pupil white eyes spun around without worry for how strange he looked; he had to keep eyes on everything, after all.

And so, Erick silently watched the night, the people, and the glows from the Church.

He was not the only silent watcher in the night. Other people were scattered throughout the vineyard with their eyes closed in prayer, or their hard eyes fixed on single points in front of them. A laugh broke the silence of the night; two people finding something funny a hundred meters away, in the depths of the vineyard. Erick watched as several people turned in that direction. Laughter turned to sobbing soon enough. All eyes averted from the unknown source.

In the dark, a tall man came walking through the vineyard. The man had stopped here and there, talking to people briefly in hushed tones; Erick had noticed him well before now. He was a priest, of some sort, and also an orcol. He wore robes befitting his profession, and glinting steel armor. Maybe a priest of Sumtir?

He spoke briefly to a man and a woman who stood in the dark, holding each other but watching the Church. The woman shook her head, and the priest moved on.

He came toward Erick, and after quickly deciding that he didn’t seem like a threat, something about him seemed familiar. He was bald, with lower fangs big enough to be called tusks. He was tall, of course. Almost three meters tall, and huge, seeming like a wall of muscle in armor, but there were no lines on his face. He was quite young, and yet obviously still a priest.

The priest drew closer, saying, “Greetings, parishioners. Are you in need of communion?”

Erick said, “No thank you. Wait. You’re… You’re Savral’s friend? Sorry. I forgot your name, but not your face.”

Not a threat at all, then. Unless he was? Erick would hold off on that judgment until later, but he could still put on a pleasant face. No need to scare people into thinking there was some problem somewhere.

