Rats said nothing. He looked away.

Poi almost kicked himself. “Gods damn you. I should have seen this sooner.” He said, “You did talk to her, didn’t you?” He asked, “What did she say?” Another thought occurred. Poi instantly added, “Oh! The Headmaster didn’t poach you at all, did he? She did.”

“… She’s interested in the problem.”

Poi said, “If you explained the problem, Erick might even put in a good word with Messalina for you. You wouldn’t have to do this on your own.” Poi stressed, “You’re not on your own, Rats.”

“YES I AM.”

Poi sat back on his couch. He said, “Then go be on your own. I hope those rings on your fingers serve you well.”

“… Can you tell him I’m sorry?”

“Of course I will not.” Poi added, “The second you leave, I am stripping you of your rights as a member of the Army. I’ll turn the paperwork in tomorrow.”

Rats smirked, yet tears fell from his bloodshot eyes. “Too easy, Poi.” He taunted, “It’s like you’re pushing me away.”

A red shatter broke the air. When it cleared, Rats was gone.

Poi glanced to the door to the sunroom. He said “It’s impolite to listen in on conversations like that, Kiri.”

Kiri stepped around the corner. “Sorry.”

“Rats is no longer—” Poi amended, “Soldier Xendross Sands is no longer a member of this household or the Army. He is to be excluded from any and all sensitive discussions and concerns. We will find a replacement Healer soon enough.”

Kiri held herself very still. Slowly, she unfroze. She nodded. She turned and walked away.

When Poi was sure he was alone, he whispered, “Fuck you, Rats.”

- - - -

Erick woke to the sounds of birds, and the afternoon sun slanting across his body. He stretched, and stopped, as a shooting pain slipped up his back then into his eyes. He blinked, and the pain passed. Maybe he slept wrong, or something? Whatever that was, it had passed, and he was awake.

A tiny Ophiel bounced onto the pillow beside his head. Erick smiled.

Four more Ophiel joined the first, bouncing each other out of the way. Violin calls turned into flute caws, as Ophiel pushed away Ophiel with tiny wings and tiny tackles.

Erick smiled to see them play, but sudden tears rolled across his face, as he remembered the last few days. He breathed, he was alive, and everyone was safe, for now; someone would have woken him up if they needed him. Erick sat up. Ophiel scattered the air. With a casual thought, Erick dismissed all but one of them.

That singular Ophiel puffed up a little, happy to have won the battle with himself. He turned tiny and hopped up onto Erick’s shoulder. Erick left him there; he didn’t need to wear real clothes today. Today was a pajama kind of day, for now.

But then he smelled himself.

Rank.

[Cleanse].

Thick air spilled away from Erick only to catch on the bed and puff more thick air into the room. Erick walked through that thick air, into the hallway.

Ophiel was briefly relegated to outside of the bathroom, to sing his daily song of loneliness. He was such a mistreated [Familiar]. Why, oh why, would Erick not bring him into the bathroom! What was the big deal! Woe, woe, woe is Ophiel, the loneliest being in the world!

Eventually, Erick walked downstairs, with Ophiel trilling in violins on his shoulder.

Poi was in the kitchen, chopping potatoes. “Good morning, sir.”

Erick smiled. “Afternoon, isn’t it?”

“I guess.” Poi said, “Rats has decided to pursue personally important events, elsewhere. He has left the Army.”

Erick paused, halfway to the kitchen table. “Okay… Wait. What?” Blindsided, he asked, “When did this happen?”

“Just last night. He says he is sorry, but he could not tell you in person. He needed to go, and not look back. He retains your rings, so he should be safer than most people out in the world on their own.”

“… Where’d he go? Why?”

“Personal reasons. It is my understanding that he has gone with Messalina, to try and understand something from his past.” Poi said, “From my understanding, the choice to leave Spur behind had weighed on his mind for a long time, but it wasn’t until recently that events conspired to give him a path to pursue his own interests.”

Teressa walked in from the cold storage room, carrying a frozen beef leg as big as her own leg. Her blond hair was in a tight bun, and her eyes bloodshot.

Erick asked, “Did you know Rats was leaving, Teressa?”

Teressa slammed the cow leg onto the kitchen counter. The stone cracked, but did not break. “Shit.” She touched the table. Grey light flickered over the stone; [Mend]ing. She sighed. “Yeah. I knew. Fucking asshole Rats. And with that soulsnatcher Messalina, too!” She added, “I didn’t know that part until this morning.” She turned around and went back to the cold room, muttering about ‘gods damned idiots’.

It was all too much. Erick said, “I’m going back to bed.”

“Al invited you to his son’s get-well party tonight. I have accepted on your behalf; that’s what these potatoes are for. I am making mashed potatoes for my dish.” Poi said, “His party is in about five hours, and it has turned into something much larger than was initially planned.” He added, “There’s lots more to discuss besides that. Silverite has a large list, but mainly she wishes you to continue your rains, but not the growing rains. Just [Call Lightning] rains, to keep the water level high and non-rationed. I’m sure there is more to it than that, but this was as much as I was told.”

“… I should get dressed.”

Poi continued to cut potatoes, as he said, “Kiri is out—”

“Do NOT tell me that she is gone, too.”

Poi continued, “— at the Adventurer’s Guild.” He said, “She has expressed great desire to hunt down high ranked threats with Sunny, in a slightly more proactive way than you have done with Ophiel. But Mog requires tests, so Kiri must pass them.”

“Oh.” Erick felt his anger wash away. “Okay.” He smiled, and it almost felt genuine. “Good for Kiri.” He added, “Sorry for yelling.”

“No worries, sir.” Poi said, “We’re all a bit frayed. Rats’ departure certainly didn’t help.”

Erick’s brief happiness soured, shriveling up in his heart. “I didn’t even get to say goodbye.”

“That is why he left without telling you.”

“… Will he be okay? I never saw him hurt a single monster, or person.” Erick said, “It’s dangerous out there. What if he meets wyrms. Or heck! Even mimics?”

“He has [Greater Treat Wounds] and the rest of his Healer repertoire which includes a fair bit of harmful magic that I don’t think you ever saw. [Pain], [Infection], a few others. He’ll be fine.”

Erick stood there, watching Poi chop potatoes for a minute, absorbing that new information. Rats was capable of defending himself? Okay. Sure. Why not.

He turned and went back upstairs to change into nice clothes, and a happy face. Spur had survived the storm, and the enemy was almost completely gone, and Rats was apparently pursuing something he had wanted for a long time... He should be happy, right? He should be happy, shouldn’t he? Messalina was even chasing down the last of the Hand, and Rats was going to be by her side. Some part of Erick felt good to know that Rats would be there with the Life Binder, chasing down Spur’s enemies, wherever they might be.

With that thought nestled safely in his mind, Erick grabbed his box of backup seeds from his closet, and went out to the front lawn. The sun was shining, the sky was blue, and Erick was going to make this day into a good day!

“Oh. Right.” Erick looked down upon the disaster that had been his front garden. Where there had been nice brown dirt, full of life and promise, now there was only orange sand, flecked with glass. “This garden got burned up, too. A while ago.” He stared down at the sand for a moment. He opened his box of seeds and purposefully placed them into the sand with his Handy Aura, saying, “It’s fine. This is fine. They’ll still grow.”

Poi walked out of the front door to silently stand beside the house, behind Erick.

Erick went on with his planting.

Seeds went into damaged soil, but platinum rain brought new growth, despite the hardship.

An hour later, lemon trees grew in nice rows, while vines spilled potatoes, tomatoes, peppers, and more, and herbs of all kinds across the sands, some of them hanging on expertly made stone trellises, some of them growing against upright shoots, like the corn.

Green leaves rustled in the breeze. Erick stood back and simply listened for a little while. This was a much better sound than the whistling of wind on black glass.

He turned to Poi. “Have you heard any more about what they’re doing to restore the Farm, if anything?”

“Silverite wants to talk to you about all that.” Poi said, “She’s ready now, if you are.”

- - - -

“I’m going to have to make this brief: the Farm is not coming back. I’m going through the claims for tax refunds for those who paid for their space, but who are taking this opportunity to leave. Pretty much every farmer is leaving.”

Silverite sat behind her desk in her office. Papers piled the hard wood surface. The Mayor had briefly paused in her duties long enough to welcome Erick into the room, but the door remained open. Hera had already walked in and out while Erick was there; placing more paperwork in Silverite’s in-box, and taking away completed papers. Erick stood to the side, along with Poi, so that he wouldn’t block Hera the next time she came in.

Erick asked, “Is there anything I can do?”

“We are transitioning into a full time adventuring economy. This usually happens at the end of every Water Season, so this isn’t that unusual, but the degree to which we are doing this is a lot larger than usual. With our heightened population, Spur is officially back to adventuring, full time, as it should be.” Silverite said, “But everyone likes the fresh produce, and Spur is back in popularity because of it, therefore I will ask that you continue to rain near the Human District. I plan on setting out several community gardens in that space and in the nearby land. Unfortunately, this will end up absorbing about twenty percent of the Human District, but despite everyone’s best efforts humans have yet to return, so this is how it is going to be. If you wish to take control of this gardening community, then I will put you in charge. Otherwise, I’m sure I can scrounge up someone else to take over this effort.”

“That sounds wonderful.” Erick smiled. “I’ll head it up.”

Hera swept into the room. She deposited a stack of papers on Silverite’s desk, and grabbed the completed ones.

Silverite said, “Good. I’ll set the pricing for land. It’ll be similar to what came before, but as Spur is cutting back from being a breadbasket, production will be considerably less, and more personal-use oriented, therefore you will see a marked decrease in your monthly bank statement. Maybe as much as a drop of 75 percent from the usual.”

“That’s fine.”

“Then we are agreed.” She added, “There’s also the matter of water. Though the water table dropped like it always does, your rains made it so that I did not have to ration, and the bath houses did not have to close. A lot of adventurers like access to water, therefore, would you please supply the city with rains at least once a week? I might even construct a reservoir to the north of the city, but that is a theory at this moment. For this service, Spur will be paying you 200 gold per week. It is not what you are used to, for most of your payment came from taxes on the Farms, but it is twice as much as we were paying you for just the use of your rains.”

Erick said, “That’s fine, too.”

Silverite looked at him. “No bargaining for more?” She looked to Poi. “Is he okay?”

“He’s fine—”

“I’m perfectly fine.” Erick said, “I’m making a lot from the dungeon I made for the Headmaster, so your proposal is accepted. It’ll also be a lot less to defend, so that’s good, too. But…” He asked, “Did Portal ask you to ban farming?”

Silverite nodded. “Yes. They did. And I agreed. There will be no more farming on the scale of before, and even Water Season’s usual bustle might not happen, but I am going to fight for that when the time comes.” She declared, “With this deal, Portal’s trade embargo is over. We got much better rates on everything coming out of that maritime kingdom, too, since, thanks to you, we were in a position of power in all of those heated negotiations.”

“… I don’t know how I feel about that.”

“The Pearl King wasn’t happy either. He wanted Spur to pay for the ‘honor’ of ‘coming back into the fold’. That man is a pompous blowhard, but I have deep ties to their entire monarchy, and I trust the merchants of their city.” She said, “It’s a good deal, so I took it.” She added, “I also have every single city of the Crystal Forest asking if you could find some criminals for them. I told them I would pass along the message, but I gave no promises one way or the other. You are free to ignore these requests if you wish.”

“… Not right now. Maybe not ever.”

“And now we come to the matter of Rats, and your subsequent lack of a Healer.”

“I don’t want to talk about that right now.”

“Understood, but we must, and so I will simply say that I wish to place another Healer in your squad. So think on it.”

“… Fine.”

