“And I want to say, thank you.” Silverite put both her arms on her desk, saying, “You saved Spur a lot of damage and a lot of lives. I’ve looked over what that Red Dot did to the Farms and to everything not covered by Opal’s shield, and that spell would have been a disaster if it had hit. Opal’s shield could not have stopped that spell, but whatever specialized [Reflection] you have managed to work, at least partially. But whatever kind of spell the Red Dot was, there were lots of eyes on the sky that night, so we should be able to form a defense against that specific spell should it appear again.” She said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. Thank you, Erick. I couldn’t be prouder to have you as a citizen of Spur.”

Erick smiled softly. He said, “It’s a good city. I’m glad I landed here.”

Silverite went back to her papers, saying, “And now I have work. I will see you later.”

“See you later, Mayor. Silverite.”

Silverite smiled, as Erick left her office.

- - - -

The Sewerhouse stood tall and whole, with a golden exterior and wide golden stairs that twisted around the outside, reaching from the street to the roof. Stringed instruments echoed a lively tune out into the night, to mingle with similar sounds from all over the glowing city.

Tonight was a party, and not just at the Sewerhouse. The one here was actually quite small compared to the one going on at Market Street. That one was loud and audible from five streets over; people shouted and cheered and singers blasted songs into the crowd.

Only some of the revelries were true parties, as Erick would count them. Most of them were wakes, and they were happening everywhere, in every bar, and every business, and in many different houses. But telling the difference between the parties and the wakes was a wholly academical endeavor. Spur did not like to linger on tragedy, and nowhere was that more present than in the city’s collective response to an attack like the Red Dot, which everyone knew would have killed everyone here, if not for Spur’s Archmages.

Erick wasn’t really aware of what was going on tonight until he finished cooking his dish and he stepped out into the night and he saw, for the first time, multicolor lights flashing into the sky all across the stone city. When he then walked through the town with Poi and Teressa and Kiri, headed toward the Sewerhouse, he truly understood what was happening, because more than once some drunk guy called out thanks. Or some happy couple offered to buy him some drinks. Or a trio of guards formally thanked him.

And now, Erick was in front of the Sewerhouse, while Spur celebrated life with music and drink and dance. Ophiel hummed on Erick’s shoulder, mimicking the new sounds floating on the wind. Sunny wrapped loosely around Kiri’s shoulders, gently changing colors in time to the flashing lights in the sky.

He looked up for a moment at the golden building, wondering who might be up on that roof. He put on a happy face, and started walking. His team walked behind him, carrying their dishes.

Poi had made mashed potatoes with lots of butter and chives and rosemary, but Teressa carried that massive dish wrapped in cloth under her left arm. She carried the roasted beef she had made in a similar dish under her right arm. Kiri made cinnamon rolls, and they were pretty good. Erick had already had one. As for his own dish, Erick made cornbread. Lots, and lots of cornbread in the forms of muffins and loaves and cake, that floated in his Handy Aura behind him.

At the top of the stairs, Sunny leapt from Kiri’s shoulders into the air, for someone had strung glowing slime lightwards all around the roof, and Sunny absolutely had to investigate. Ophiel followed Sunny to play in the cool breeze and the light. Slimes were a theme when it came to sewers; they were creatures that took the bad and made it good, after all, and that idea felt nicely appropriate to Erick.

People were talking. Some were laughing. Some were dancing. On a corner of the Sewerhouse stood a trio of pale red dragonkin who each held an instrument, playing for the crowd. Ophiel seemed to be happy for the music. He had fluffed into a bundle of rambunctious feathers upon seeing the lead girl’s guitar-like instrument, and was now dancing in the air above the lead girl. There was a very slight hiccup in the music as the band took in the dancing featherball, but they continued to play, bright and happy.

Erick moved forward onto the roof and paused to listen by the thick railing. Teressa, Kiri, and Poi moved all the way in, toward a huge table set to the south side, laden with food and away from the band.

Al appeared out of nowhere, or maybe Erick had simply been entranced. Al said, “You made it! Good! Come, come! What did you bring?”

Erick smiled at Al, because Al was smiling at him. The huge orcol man seemed much happier today than before—

Blackscale Savral, white owl shifter Lanore, sand harpy Ikawa, and orcol Gorgush, stood on the other side of the roof, standing around a small table, each with their own plate of food. Savral laughed loud at something, while Gorgush and Ikawa chuckled. Lanore smiled wider, as purplescale Bacci stepped to the table, carrying a tray of drinks for the five of them. Savral smiled at her. The two of them kissed, briefly, and Savral’s hand slipped to Bacci’s side, to bring the two of them closer together.

“It is good, is it not?” Al leaned down, saying, “This is good.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Yeah. This is good.”

Al stood tall, his arms bulging the loose fabric of his impeccable black and gold pinstripe suit. He glanced behind Erick, asking, “What have you made?”

Erick brought one of the cornbreads forward, saying, “Cornbread! It’s simple, but you can use it with honey or meats or whatever. I like it for breakfast. Put it in a hot pan with butter and you’ve got a great treat.”

Al suggested, “Maybe this party can last that long, and you can show me how you would cook it, yourself.” He added, “Or I could find some other reason for you to stick around for breakfast.”

Erick laughed loud and happy, saying, “Maybe maybe!”

Al chuckled, then said, “Come! I have beer.”

Erick gladly went.

It was a good night.

- - - -

A ship captain from Nelboor limped off of his vessel, onto the solid stone quarantine docks of Oceanside. The doctors were waiting for him.

They did not listen to his sob story of parasite roach eggs hatching in his latest shipment from Nelboor. They took him, immediately. At first, the man went with the rough treatment, but when the manacles latched around his wrists, plunging into his flesh and draining his Health and Mana, he tried to get away.

It was too late. His sight went dim, and all thoughts fled.

He woke atop cream-colored stone in a windowless room with ambient lighting, where a few air vents were the room’s only defining features. He sat up. The first thing he noticed was his nudity. The second thing he noticed was that the sores all across his legs were gone; an anti-parasite doctor had been involved somewhere between his capture and now. And then he rubbed his wrists. The manacles were gone, but in their place were thick, black lines. He had seen more than his fair share of similar tattoos over the years. They were lines of power that carved into his soul, leaking out his Mana and Health. He checked his Status. Yup. Zeros all around. No Mana. No Health. No hope of escape.

He sighed out.

The air blipped gold.

The Headmaster stood over the man.

“How did you know it was me?” asked the man. A second thought instantly occurred. “Why didn’t I attempt to lie?” And then came another, “I’m talking too much.” Followed by another. “I’m not angry? That’s a change.” And then the arrival of the obvious truth. “You drugged me.”

“Yes. I did drug you.” The Headmaster added, “Caradogh Pogi.”

“By your own history and well known thoughts on the subject, you shouldn’t consider me Caradogh any longer. I did die a few times, after all.”

“You are Caradogh enough for the purposes of this discussion.” The Headmaster conjured a table and pair of chairs to the side of the room, and a small pile of neatly folded clothes. He sat down on one of the chairs. “Would you care to sit and talk for a minute?”

Caradogh got to his feet. He walked over to the pile of clothes and put them on. They fit, loosely. He sat down across from the Headmaster. He waited.

The Headmaster said, “You have been killed and remade at least seven times, according to my personal calculations. Possibly many more.”

“Something like that. The spell she cast on me should work two more times.” He asked, “How did you know it was me?”

“I know her magical signature very well, and it lingers on you, in this spell that grants you these unnatural lives. I can’t track it all the time, but when you get this close to my city, I can.”

“It’s not unnatural—”

The Headmaster spoke with calm finality, “I do not wish to debate with you about the nature of Messalina’s magic.”

“She still loves you, you know?”

The Headmaster sighed. “She does not. I don’t think she ever truly did.”

Caradogh smirked in mocking defeat. “It was worth a shot.”

“Quite.” The Headmaster said, “Did you know that you are actually the fifth Caradogh we’ve captured, aiming for Jane?”

“…”

“You did not know that, did you?”

“…”

“I’ll cut your building tirade short: You are thinking of the duplication of souls. But you are wrong. There is a much simpler answer. We have merely captured you before. You just don’t remember those events.”

“You’re lying.”

A thousand thoughts raced through Caradough’s mind, trying to understand—

Clarity came quickly.

He sighed. He said, “Safehouses that I’ve never touched, all ransacked. Connections I’ve made that should be there, gone. People I cared for not willing to talk to me... You’ve pumped me for information, each time, haven’t you? She did this for me, and then you catch me, and you find out where all my barely remembered contacts are, and she—”

“I’ll stop you there.” The Headmaster said, “You give me too much credit as an evil mastermind. Messalina took advantage of your usual method of going for resources to track down almost all of your warehouses, all across the Letri ocean. I have only had my turn for your last few resurrections.”

Caradogh felt blank. He had been played like a fool by immortals. He almost wanted to laugh. He smiled in pain, as he said, “My mother always said to leave the immortals alone.”

“Your mother was a wise woman. I remember her career as the Lower Trademaster was one of great wealth and prosperity. I appreciated working with her, and with you, too, before all of this nonsense with Spur.”

Caradogh could only lament, “Silverite… yet another immortal.”

The Headmaster continued, “You got what you wanted, in the end. I heard not long ago that Portal signed a new trade deal with Spur. The breadbasket in the middle of the Crystal Forest is gone, forever more. The normal Water Season might not even happen, but we’ll see. Portal has reopened trade, and gold flows in all directions once again. Your great homeland once again brings together everyone from Oceanside to the Crystal Forest, to Eidolon and Archipelago Nergal, to even the very edge of Quintlan’s tiny, coastal towns.”

Something cold and hateful uncoiled around Caradogh’s heart. He smiled. He asked, “Is that true?”

The Headmaster said, “You have won your little tiff with Spur, in a technical way. A very poor way that you cannot enjoy, but yes, you have won.”

“Ha!” Caradogh smiled wider. “I did it. I won.” He said, “I always win, you know. It’s just a matter of time.”

The Headmaster’s amber eyes reflected gold in the light of the room, as he asked, “Is that enough for you? If I let you go now, would you continue to make problems for Erick?”

Caradogh heard himself say, “I will find a way to kill Jane and Erick when you aren’t here to protect him.” He clutched his throat. “I mean it. I’ll never stop coming for him.” He shot out of his chair, crashing the conjured item into a wall, breaking the chair into gold light. “I’m going to murder that asshole and take everything from him!” He shouted, “Why won’t the words stop!”

“Because I am using awful drugs to force the truth from you while simultaneously using mental magic to make you forget everything. And now that I see that you haven’t changed during your slight reprieve from death, your honest confession here is more than enough reason to end this discussion.”

The world tumbled end over end. The stone floor caressed Caradogh’s skull as he rolled on the ground. He felt nothing. He couldn’t even breathe, but he could still see, and what he saw was his body slumped on the ground, a meter away. Darkness folded in on him.

The Headmaster’s words echoed, “See you again tomorrow.”

Caradogh died.

- - - -

Caradogh woke on the beach exactly where he should have, facing the sunrise. His head hurt something awful, and he was naked.

“Shit.” He checked one of his skills. He paled. “Two lives left? Two! TWO?! Only two!” He shouted at the ocean, “What the fuck happened? Why can’t I— That Mind Mage at Erick’s side.” Anger roused him to stand. He shouted, “Fucking Erick must have gotten me, and blanked everything, too! What the fuck did I do wrong?”

He yelled at the ocean again. He stomped the sand under his feet. He kicked the water. Eventually he calmed. He decided on his next course of action.

I’ll have to get at him through Jane. I don’t want to, but I’ve snuck into Oceanside before. It’s the easiest option.

- - - -

