Amusingly enough, destroying the rifts as they left helped the world recover from such mana depletion in a more natural manner. Their total loss would ensure rifts couldn’t convert the world's essence into mana as they tried to bring the system back into balance.

With their absence and lack of intelligent life, the world would naturally produce its own mana through its own cultivation core and the planet’s Tiered wildlife. That would ensure mana did return, but it would be a slower process, taking a century or two. The rifts would start reforming slowly as mana levels rose, instead of pausing the world’s essence accumulation.

Their actions would slow things down in the short term, but in the long term, it was believed to be the least disruptive way to do what they were going to do anyway.

Running through the reasons why those two in particular might want to both speed things up and make things harder, Emmanuel smiled as he agreed.

Tobias and Janet were undoubtedly sneaking other cultivators into their rifts and extracting correspondingly more resources than everyone else.

Allocating the remaining mana to higher-Tier rifts would punish them more than anyone else. The extracted materials weren’t being recycled into essence when the instance ended, which would empty the rift’s internal reserves faster than everyone else.

At least slightly. Each individual rift instance would only lose a little extra essence, but over hundreds of delves, that would add up. Once they started deliberately tracking the mana used, any such discrepancies would become obvious, allowing those remaining to band together against the two rule breakers.

After all, with proper strength, the crime wasn’t in doing something wrong, but in getting caught in the act.

If nothing else, it would force the two to limit the amount of resources they excavated from the rifts. Their materials would be higher-Tier, but everyone excavated some amount of resources. Forcing the two to lower the amount of additional resources they harvested closer to how much everyone else could was a win itself.

Additionally, the stronger monsters would necessitate more babysitting from their respective Tier 50s to ensure their safety, and that would slow them down further. The question was if it would do so more than the added time acceleration found in Tier 48 rifts.

Whether it did or not quickly became irrelevant.

Emmanuel couldn’t pass up the opportunity to delve full Tier 48 rifts.

He could, however, acknowledge doing so would further escalate the general situation from the stability they had found in having an abundance. Scanning everyone told him they all knew it too, but greed at their Tier 47 harvests made them eager for what their imaginations whispered to them.

Seeing no outward dissent to Winter Hornet’s final suggestion, Emmanuel agreed.

He almost instantly regretted it, as he had to wait around as everyone had to decide which rifts they wanted to Tier up. He wouldn’t have minded so much if they didn’t keep trying to get him to predict the outcome of Tiering up a rift.

As every Seeker knew, no one wanted to believe that such Talents couldn’t do everything. In his case, rifts were the worst subject to predict the future of during a Tier up, both due to their innate complicated nature and their Tier making their future hard to see. Together, they made any divination a fool’s errand, but after seeing what he could do with rift rewards, they badgered him all the same.

Seeing the inevitable, Emmanuel put his foot down on checking two rifts per delve cycle, not willing to let the idea twist back around on him.

In reality, he’d be happy to spend a few weeks setting things up properly, but he still saw several things he’d love to get his hands on in the possible rewards.

And frankly, Emmanuel didn’t mind returning to their Great Powers slightly earlier. Plans were undoubtedly twisting and contorting out of shape, but that was an opportunity as much as it was a problem.

A few hundred years of delving and he could return.

It was objectively the blink of an eye.

Nothing could possibly go horribly wrong in that short amount of time.

Checking a newly advanced Tier 48 rift for Aoife, Emmanuel nearly let his shock show upon connecting to it with his rift inspection Talent set. The rift had seemed ordinary until he looked at the rarest bracket of rewards.

He was skimming information he couldn’t easily parse when his attention halted on something he’d never seen before.

At Tier 48 and filled to bursting with mana, there was a small chance for the rewards to be as high as Tier 50. Not the chance at rolling an incredibly rare probability on a drop table, but the distinct chance for rift rewards to be of a higher Tier than normal.

The odds of the rift rewards increasing in Tier were exceptionally rare, but it was the first time he’d ever seen it as a discrete possibility applying to everything else. It almost reminded him of skills and how they could drop before their official Tier, but the rift was operating on entirely different logic to produce the effect he was seeing.

It was more like a mutation to the basic reward drops.

He wasn’t sure why this rift was special quite yet, but had his suspicions. It was a peak Tier 48 rift stuffed full of mana, something none of their planets could sustain without massive, continual, investments.

Spreading his perception, he checked a few other rifts to find his suspicion mildly confirmed. There was something deeper, as about one in four peak Tier 48 rifts had access to those coveted rewards, but it was still good enough.

Emmanuel wanted those rewards.

Even just the tiny glimpses of the Tier 49 and Tier 50 rewards he got to see via the Talent made him salivate.

The question was if he should inform the others.

His first reaction was to say no, but he checked that impulse.

Telling them might be the only smart play.

Any such items would be immediately obvious to the other Tier 50s, so there was no way they didn’t eventually find out now they all intended to delve peak Tier 48 rifts. If he didn’t tell them about the items, their first instinct would be to squirrel them away and try to hide.

They might even succeed, and that was unacceptable.

That was the worst case outcome. They had made an agreement and he was going to enforce it. They were allowed to reserve two items, no more. He was going to take his pound of flesh back for all his efforts.

From that angle, telling everyone about the possibility of such rare rewards would earn him both a modicum of goodwill, and make it harder for them to argue they received no Tier 48 rewards when it came time to pay for his services.

The more Emmanuel mulled things over, the more he liked the plan. Raising his voice slightly, he grabbed the others' attention.

“Everyone please gather. I have something interesting to share.”

Seeing nearly zero reaction from anyone except Aoife, who had been standing nearest to him he added, “What do you all think of Tier 49 or Tier 50 distortion rewards?”

Suddenly, seven people stood around him, not so patiently waiting for his next words.

***

A bleary eyed Tim laughed as he looked at the package which had finally arrived.

Tearing it open, he ignored the warnings the school tried to interrupt him with and looked at the neat rows of coins. Each one freshly minted specially for him via a ducal charter to ensure he could advance his Talent without issue.

It had been such a boon until he had tried to buy this skill, and suddenly all of his lines of credit dried up, but that had just been another roadblock in his way.

He’d overcome it.

He’d succeeded.

Thinking back what felt like decades to the moment he unlocked his fated entry, he almost giggled, still not quite believing it was real.

He had worked so hard for so long for this moment.

He was tired and after this he could finally rest.

It had taken nearly two decades of combining skill entries and pushing himself, but he had something he thought impossible.

Novice Biological Immortality: 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 9.7 sextillion credits.

That was roughly three Tier 13 mana stones of value, and it had taken him the last five years of saving to gather that many credits.

If anyone, anyone at all, had been willing to help, he could have done so much faster, but they hadn’t.

The school had outright stated they wouldn’t assist him in pursuing the entry, but neither would they hinder him. He was confident that was a lie, as no one else had been willing to give him anywhere near that amount of money without an interview, and they all inevitably declined after that, no matter how well he prepared himself.

Taking a deep breath, Tim took a moment to collect himself.

Once he had the entry, he could finally relax a little, instead of pushing himself to his limits day after day like a machine. He wasn’t built for that. He couldn’t do it any longer without going insane.

Now that he had succeeded, he could finally spend some time with his friends. He vaguely remembered they had been urging him to attend a… something a few… weeks? Months… years ago?

Tim wasn’t sure how long ago that event had been, but he pushed those thoughts off to the side. The object of his near obsession was finally before him.

He needed it.

He deserved it for having worked so hard for so damn long.

Tim felt it spiritually.

He had to buy the entry.

At this point it represented the obsession that had started him down this path in the first place.

No matter if it was right or wrong, he had to do it.

Clicking the entry and buying it, he felt… nothing.

Not emptiness as in a hollow feeling of dread, but a nothingness that seemed out of sync with what he expected after merging so many body-based entries together.

His previous combined entry, Journeyman Bodily Control, had caused an itching sensation to cross his body, and after years of scrimping and saving, he had expected something.

Checking his Talent once more, Tim was surprised by what he saw.

Novice Biological Immortality: 0.0/100 Proficiency — Age to gain proficiency.

Normally he got some level of understanding when he unlocked a new entry, but this time that hadn't happened.

“You have got to be fucking with me?!?” Tim read the readout, a feeling of helplessness over taking him.

Did he have a bugged entry?

What had he done wrong?

“No! No, no, no, no!!!!”

His initial worry combined with his years of hard work fraying his nerves nearly caused Tim to snap at the letdown.

Exactly five anxious minutes after he initially unlocked the entry, he felt himself grow a few seconds younger.

It was an entirely biological process, there was nothing technically magical about it, but it still shocked him.

His body didn’t revert back in time or anything so world shattering, but he had grown younger.

Novice Biological Immortality: 0.1/100 Proficiency — Age to gain proficiency.

Doing some quick math, Tim realized even if he stopped advancing his cultivation at this very moment, he’d still live forever.

Going through all of the math again with less generous estimates, the results were the same. According to the worst case scaling of his Talent, when combined with his Concept, there was no chance he would die of old age.

As a Tier 8.

He had done it.

He… had cheated.

This wasn’t the immortality he had envisioned. This was a cheap, sloppy, technically accurate answer. It was the type that he hated himself for choosing at what seemed like every turn.

No matter how many times he told himself he’d do better, he was inevitably only able to drive himself forward if he saw… something. He didn’t know what drove him anymore.

Tim didn’t know anything anymore.

Why did he bother with any of this?

What was the point of it all?

Why was he trying so hard if his goal was ashes in his mouth, instead of the sweet rewards he had built up in his mind?

Why?

Tim’s attention was drawn inward as he felt his world start to crumble around him at his realization.

His Concept, like his own self-worth, crumbled before him and there was nothing he could do. Trying to stop the process only accelerated it and as it crumbled, his very spirit tore itself to ribbons.

He begged anyone to kill him and end the suffering, but no one was listening and he slowly grew accustomed to the spirit tearing pain.

Looking in, he found only devastation.

His Domain was thoroughly shattered.

Ruined.

The tears came harder.

He felt himself speaking, but he wasn’t sure what he said as he vented his decades worth of emotions.

The achievement of reaching immortality had been tainted by his own hand, and he couldn’t hate anyone except himself.

Without his Concept forcefully driving him to accomplish his goals, he could see how everyone had warned him about buying that entry, but he had willfully ignored them.

He wanted to blame it entirely on his Concept, but the pain of its shattered fragments gave Tim unparalleled clarity.

It wasn’t anyone’s fault but his own.

He had done this to himself, one misstep at a time, in a desire to reach the goals no one except his own worst enemy demanded of him. When he was given an easy way out, he took it just like he always did.

Like his mother did.

His Concept, which already felt like it was dust, crumbled into even smaller pieces and his crying intensified until he felt completely drained.

Having taken something so precious from himself, he hated the only person he could.

Tim could see it now, but such clarity only worked when he looked backward. The future was a messy jumble of horror with him having to face a decade of delayed consequences.

He’d obsessed for so long, fixated on his unhealthy goal despite everyone trying to steer him elsewhere.

Hindsight made it clear how bad of a friend, a student, a researcher, a… everything. Tim had been a bad everything.

