He’d been so worried about everything, so worried about what he thought everyone wanted, he never listened to what they were actually saying.

Knowing his state, he couldn’t let anyone see himself. He needed…

Something.

Tim didn’t know what he needed but he knew he couldn’t be anywhere near the school.

Over the last decade, he had turned the place into a prison, and while he saw through his own misgivings, his reactions were still visceral and raw.

He needed space.

So, Tim let himself run.

He deserved everything that was happening to himself and he hated himself that he wasn’t strong enough to push through and be the person he wanted to be.

With each dark thought, his Concept broke further, and with each twinge of pain, he ran further, the cycle feeding itself until he had nothing left and collapsed.

***

Luna sat on a tree branch a wall away from Tim and winced as she felt the boy's Domain shatter into the finest of dust.

That felt far more violent than she’d expected, but then again, Tim promised to prove everyone wrong at every turn.

Seeing how thorough the destruction was, Luna sighed at the unimaginable pain she knew he would be going through. Larger shards cut the spirit more, but the Concept was more intact making restoration easier.

The dust was the worst of both worlds. Each grain a dagger dragging across the edges of his spirit and nearly impossible to fit back together.

They had tried to steer him off the entry, but it had come at the worst time. Right as the boy looked like he’d naturally relax into a reasonable schedule, the cursed entry had put enough pep in his step to send him off a cliff.

That was the problem with the determined ones. They surprised even her with how far an obsession could drive them beyond their normal healthy limits.

Having immortality as such a focal goal when the entry appeared, combined with the Concept she hadn’t agreed with him being told about, made some form of collapse inevitable. She only hoped they had mitigated the worst of the mental problems with their efforts over the last few years.

Oftentimes, such efforts felt futile, but were the difference between survival and death in such a world-shattering ordeal.

Ultimately, since they had gotten the boy into this predicament, it was on them to help him pull himself out of it, and she intended to deal with it herself. She wasn’t so naive to think she could have prevented this situation, but in hindsight, not intervening directly immediately after the entry’s appearance had been a mistake.

Inspecting the now vacant eyed boy, she prepared to move him into a hospital where they could try to pull him out of mental shock of his Domain shattering. A ward had been on call for the last two years once it was clear they weren't going to be able to fully prevent this. Sh—

Hearing him start laughing made Luna pause. She’d expected him to have passed out. Ensuring something else hadn’t also gone wrong, she scanned him at a much higher perception.

That thorough check revealed to her the smallest movements in the boy’s Domain. A feat which should have been nearly impossible given she had watched his Concept implode moments ago.

Stepping through the wall and into his room, she sat on his nightstand as she inspected him with every sense she had.

Feeling others, the admin in charge of this wing of the student dormitories and the deputy headmaster, both rushing over, she let her cultivation unfurl. Relying on her raw cultivation, she forced them to stop before they reached Tim’s room.

“Do not interrupt.”

Vincent Marcone was normally someone she treated like an equal, given his dedicated efforts to the school, but having seen what she had seen, she couldn’t let them stabilize Tim’s Domain like she knew they were rushing to do.

Feeling him trying to push through her power, she increased it until he was pushed entirely off planet.

Only once he was far enough away that she knew he couldn’t do anything more than observe did she speak. “Inspect his Domain and watch it. Carefully.”

Her warnings were taken with the seriousness she hoped they would be, and she felt a tiny tendril from the Tier 30 inspect Tim’s Domain.

When they retracted a moment later, she let her pressure fade, allowing the deputy headmaster to return to Palustris.

“You could have told me there was a hope for a revival there verbally instead of forcing me away.”

Luna blinked at him as he joined her in Tim’s room.

They both knew he wouldn’t have risked letting Tim’s Domain deteriorate further in those initial moments, but neither said anything else about the topic. That would have been the right call and she couldn’t fault him for it. She could fault him for not listening to her, but she didn’t take that personally, knowing she didn’t put in the effort to gain his trust before this.

That, and he was a good educator. When he left her tutelage, she had a few notebooks for him to work on, but he was good enough for this type of work.

“I wi—”

Just as her opinion of the man was rising, he opened his mouth and she let her gaze turn into a glare.

“You worry too much. Let the boy walk his path. He raced into this head first, despite all of our every attempt to stop him. Let him suffer the consequences and swim for a bit. If he comes through this himself he’ll be all the stronger for it. Some people need to suffer in the mire of their own making before they discover who they really are.”

“And other times they drown.”

Luna snorted, having returned her eyes to the boy's Domain as he babbled.

It churned in a way no Domain should, but that excited her because she had seen it a rare few times before.

Not in those like Aunt Helen. She had needed to manually rebuild her ‘shattered’ Concept because it had been fully disconnected from herself, fully dead, by the time she came out of her grief and moved to recover.

On the other side of the spectrum, Tim’s Concept hadn’t been destroyed, it wasn’t dead. It had shattered, but it was still entirely under his control.

It was still alive and connected to him despite its unfortunate state.

Something had shattered the very core of his being, but not so much that he truly lost control over himself.

That was interesting.

Luna pondered if that was a result of his Talent, but suspected it wasn’t. That power seemed irrelevant as the situation without it was nearly identical to the cases she had seen before.

That chance in no way guaranteed his success in rebuilding his Concept.

Two out of the three people she had seen in a similar condition had failed and been forced to start over. At this point, she could only hope he evened the odds instead of showing the first as an outlier.

She was hopeful though. His connection didn’t seem to be fading. If anything the destruction of his Concept had strengthened his connection with it.

That and there was nothing else anyone could reasonably do.

If they wanted to risk ruining everything, they could tell him about his chances of fixing things. Inform him that it was possible to give him hope. Let him know that so long as he overcame his emotional and mental hurdles, he could manually repair his Concept, but that added pressure nearly always backfired.

She wouldn’t let anyone risk that path quite yet. Even if the boys Talent was helping hold things together, telling him held more risks than simply letting Tim figure things out himself, as he seemed wont to do.

So long as the remnants of his Domain were still connected, she was willing to let things play out.

Ah well, with most everyone either off playing in the breach or busy with the increased workload because of their absence, she only had teasing Ciceron on her schedule, with the occasional nap in a nice warm spot penciled in the rest of her time.

Watching the boy walk out of his room still talking to himself, she jumped onto his shoulder without him knowing. “I’ll watch over the boy and make sure to stabilize the remnants should his journey of self-discovery fail. No need to concern yourself anymore.”

She’d take things from here.
