They are difficult, yes.

But the Laws are there to protect you.

Stillwater was gone.

And Harker was still falling.

He still had the vine. Harker held tight to it and his fall turned into a tight arc, just barely missing the brutal force of the waterfall before crashing back into the jagged edge with the sides of his legs.

“My, but you’re resourceful.” The stitched abomination stood almost ten feet above, blue dagger and vine clutched in his non-withered hand. “And this weapon…you have a habit of stealing treasures too good for you, boy.”

Harker tightened his grip on the vine. “You’re one to talk of theft—!”

“I claim what is mine by right of strength.” That wolf head peered over the edge, rictus grin sharp. “This dagger is mine now…as are you.”

“CRAG! JET!”

A boulder disguised as an axe slammed into the wolf’s side, propelled by a spray of liquid more furious than the waterfall. The puppet yelped in pain, dragged aside by the earth-encrusted axe even as its claws dug into the infusion…

The dagger dropped.

The vine went slack, and Harker had no time to shout or plan—he fell.

His back made sharp contact with jagged stone seconds later. Harker clenched everything he could, cramping across his middle as pain stitched hot fire across his ribs and spine. Breath wheezed from his tortured lungs, carried along with a flood of dizzying emotions—disbelief, elation, and a ragged edge of exhaustion.

I…landed? He turned his head and a tight pain flared in the small of his back, but it was enough to see. He’d landed on a narrow outcropping—little more than a foot of collapsed granite, its edges sheared away by the force of the waterfall. It was less than a yard away, distorting his view of everything except the cliff.

Behind him, the collapsed trail extended for at least another eighty feet. Exposed rock and hundreds of craggy ledges filled the distance, all of them slicked by spray. Above and ahead, separated by a ten foot horizontal gap and at least twenty vertical, the Stitcher puppet and Adhira battled in a cascade of sparks and whirling winds.

Stillwater… The image of the Gilken falling could not be banished. Harker saw it when he closed his eyes. His chest was tight with it. Difficulty…breathing. Minor lacerations…on forearms and…hands. Two broken ribs…and a bruised coccyx.

Harker curled carefully into a sitting position, free hand gripping fiercely at the wet rock. He cast away his pain as best he could. It clung to him like burning pitch, but so did something else.

The vine! His battered hand was clutched tight around the ripperweed remnant. With a hiss of bruised breath, he reeled its length in with slow, aching movements. Each flex of his arms loosened his muscles, until the last five feet felt almost normal. Metal clattered on stone. Harker closed his eyes, relief almost making him drop the blue dagger he’d recovered. Climbing the exposed stone was simple—treacherous certainly, but no worse than the Drop. With the vine and dagger, he had a tool to make it even easier.

He had a way out.

“Bulwark!”

The battle between the puppet and the girl raged on, and it sounded like Adhira was getting tired. Harker had no clue how long she could last against it, but the Stitcher was not a normal foe. His Talents were many and unknown. Given time, Harker was certain the butcher would win.

He doesn’t want her. He wants the Vestige. Harker stared upward, fingers tight around his dagger. The abomination had nearly killed him. Now was the time to run. He closed his eyes. Adhira…

She had a pair of powerful Talents, and the Stitcher wouldn’t be able to resist their allure. If Harker left, the monster would tear her apart.

He groaned, looping the vine onto his belt before carefully clutching at the wet rock to stand. The ledge was precarious, but it didn’t shift or crack. “Sovereign Sight.”

Untempered Water burned through him, almost boiling hot, but it expanded around his feet just the same. Four feet radius held, the details a flurry in his mind—but he held them, just the same. No blackout, no dizzy spell even. A benefit, perhaps, of establishing his meager Current?

Harker focused on his footing. He could feel the depth of the stone he clung to; the steadiness and the faultlines alike. His ledge was safe, and the way back seemed more or less—

“Why, hello there.” He grinned. A foot ahead, lodged precariously in the rock, was an eight inch void. He bent forward and snatched it up with his fingertips.

His saltsteel dart. The one that missed.

“—back! You cannot have him!”

Metal met stone, five times in rapid succession, as Adhira seemed to chase the Stitcher’s puppet about the cliff. From his low angle, Harker couldn’t make out much, only that the wolf-thing moved with a lanky grace that only seemed to grow stronger as the fight wore on.

“He is already dead! You should be more concerned with yourself!”

Claws raked the air, shrieking against metal armor, and Adhira shouted something Harker couldn’t make out.

“Your threats are useless, noble. Muir cares little for your titles or false crowns. Talents far stronger than you have promised worse, and their reservoirs all ended up in Muir’s hands.”

“Bulwark!” Adhira propelled herself forward, axe nothing more than a blur.

Law 3—Avoid Conflict. Harker braced his feet. It was beyond foolish to do anything but flee. Law 2—Trust Others To Act In Their Own Best Interest. Others would never do anything for him.

The abomination’s throat swelled, dark Water congealing in its mouth as it ducked beneath the girl’s swing.

Law 2A—Watch The Angles.

Trust was poison.

Law 1B—Want Nothing.

He could never have it.

She showed me her Current. The dark Water spiked, the tips of distorted air already emerging from the wolf-thing’s lips. She helped me.

Despite everything, Harker threw.

The saltsteel dart parted the air in almost slow motion. Adhira raced it, her body catapulting toward the air spears, vambrace lifted as her axe sliced up. The wind mantle darkened the saltsteel but didn’t stop it—nothing did.

It plunged into the abomination’s bulging throat. The air spears vanished with an aborted howl.

Adhira sliced through, crushing the creature back into the cliff with her knees. It bellowed, teeth opened wide and mandibles unfurled. Ichor sprayed upward, painting the rock.

“Second Depth,” it choked out. “Sanguine Frenzy!”

The ichor raced back, filling up the butchered meat of the puppet’s torso, and it swung. Adhira dodged out of the way of its vicious claws, moving beyond where Harker could see her. The puppet, however, clutched at its neck where the dart was embedded more than halfway into its stitched flesh.

“How’s that feel, ugly?” Harker shouted from below. Law 4A—Seize Their Minds.

The abomination whirled, and Harker smiled. Half of its throat and shoulder had withered around the dart, as if all the moisture had been sucked out. Its crimson eyes narrowed.

“You.”

“Me—alive and well.”

“Crag!”

A rumble of stone rattled off the cliff as Adhira came surging back into view, axe back as she wound up her strike. Somehow, the abomination was faster—it seized Adhira by the throat and yanked her close enough that her axe got trapped between their bodies. Long claws tightened around her neck and shoulders, its once-withered arm now swollen with new muscle and crimson veins visible even through its fur. Adhira fought against it, but she couldn’t so much as budge its newfound strength.

The Stitcher's puppet walked to the edge, its crimson eyes bearing down on Harker below. "Come back up here, boy.”

“You’ll kill me if I do that.”

“You die either way. At least this way your girl survives.”

The muscles of its arm thickened again—now it was more than twice its original size. The claws tighetened, digging into her unprotected neck.

Harker leaned against the cliff, fighting to keep concern off his face. “This doesn’t feel like a great deal for me, Muir.”

“Come now. It’s either this or Muir scrapes you from the wet rocks at the mountain’s root.” Its mandibles shuddered. “You will not deny me this.”

“Put her down,” Harker said. Adhira was starting to turn purple. “Then we can talk.”

“You don’t seem to understand how this works, boy. You clamber up here, or Muir strips her skin down to the quick. Your choice!”

“You’re forgetting one thing,” Harker said.

The puppet leered over the edge, eyes nothing more than smoldering embers. “What is that?”

“It’s not my choice at all.”

“JET!” Adhira screamed.

Elemental water sprayed and axe-heads flashed as the weapon spun into a dizzying circle—and sliced the abominations arm off at the elbow.

Adhira dropped, claws still attached to her throat, and slapped the earth with her palm. “Bulwark!”

The six foot wall shot up from beneath the puppet’s feet, heaving it backwards into the air. Over the edge.

Wind scoured across the rock, billowing wildly around the abomination, but all it did was shove it away from the cliff and toward the waterfall. Toward Harker.

“You’re coming with me, boy!” A gale whipped up across its mantle, and dark Water scoured outward like grasping fingers. Harker leaned back on his precarious ledge, but the air itself turned on him and threw him free of the cliff face.

They fell, the rushing wind choking the scream that tried to crawl out of Harker.

A half-weakened claw seized his frock coat, yanking him close. “You die with this puppet!”

“I’d rather not!” Harker jammed his fist into its neck—and the saltsteel dart still embedded there. The puppet howled. Harker dragged it downward as they tumbled through the mist, his own handle sizzling against the metal.

It snarled, grasping at his arm. "I'll strip the Vestige from your corpse!"

The wind surged, pushing the both of them forward—into the waterfall. Harker twisted, ribs burning and back clenched, following the information his Talent fed him. For a brief moment, his feet found nothing at all. He kicked wider than before…and his foot impacted the cliff.

Harker’s ankle shattered, and before he was thrown to the side by the sheer downward force, he shoved the wolf-thing hard.

The abomination chitter-howled as its body hit the waterfall at top speed. Its legs ripped downward, throwing its face forward and into the foamy wrath of the rainwater falls. Spun wildly, the creature crashed, neck-first, into the cliff.

It was the last thing Harker saw before the mists swallowed him up.