Shiv faintly heard something that reminded him of… The feeling was lost. He wasn’t sure about what that reminded him of. He couldn't hold on to it. It was like trying to cling to moisture in the air with bare hands.

"You asked for a source of vitality, did you not?" the Anointed One asked. There was a hint of something in his voice. If it was frustration at being outplayed or a hidden snarl, Shiv couldn't tell, but he was hesitant to accept anything the Knight of the Summer Court offered willingly.

Psycho-Cartography: Remember that the Anointed One despises you. You, and everyone like you. He wishes to inflict loss upon the people of this world for the other bread taken from him. The likelihood that he's offering you a free piece of equipment as a sign of good faith is about as likely as Helix suddenly being supremely humble the next time we see him. Perhaps even less so. You want that piece of equipment, but the atmosphere here is pulling at your greed. It is affecting your emotions, and you cannot trust whatever enchantments it possesses. Worse, if you touch it, you may very well find your vitality ripped away from you as well.

And that sharpened Shiv’s focus. His paranoia and his combat experience proved greater than any greed he possessed. He shuffled away from the beating heart and started cultivating Overflow Tides, just in case a magical attack would be unleashed from the organ. "Yeah, I don't think so," Shiv said. "I've no idea what that is, and I'm under no obligation to accept any gifts from you."

The Anointed One let out a rageful snarl as he chucked the heart across the ground. It bounced a few times before coming to a stop before him. “Then be without it. But if you continue breaching the veil, we will decide this through arms and destruction. And you will taste nothing but ash before the end.”

Shiv moved to avoid the heart, slithering to the other side of the room. He carried his body with him and made sure to snatch up his severed head as well. When he got to the other side, he resumed draining reality, making the rupture grow ever wider. The first spills of stormstuff crossed over. A gelatinous membrane of condensed electricity crashed and crumbled, lashing at the mold crusted over the walls.

All around the throneroom, the Gingerbread-Knights drew back their arrows. They calmed their baguettes and prepared to descend upon the Deathless. The breadcrumbs in the air shivered and collapsed around Shiv, forming so many small pieces that it was like he was a hive coated in insects. Everything was on the precipice of violence.

"I heard that you fairies can't lie," Shiv said, recalling Cullywier’s words from earlier.

The Anointed One hesitated. A tense beat followed as the only sound in the chamber was the crackle of looming thunder. "We are never untruthful."

"So you claim, but what my friend said earlier was that lying would hurt you in a way it can't hurt me. So I'm going to ask you, is that heart a trap? If I touch it, will it rip my vitality away, trap my mind, attack my soul, inject me with a dose of Necromancy?"

"No," the Anointed One declared with a growl of frustration. "If I wished to use schemes against an adversary, I would have woven a plot so immaculate—"

"I got it," Shiv cut the bread man off. “Not interested in trading barbs with a piece of bread. This isn’t going to negatively affect me in any other way, right? Because looking at it is messing with my emotions. It makes me feel like I haven't had a drink of water in days. You tell me that there are no enchantments messing with my mind, and if there are, you tell them to me—explain what they do. Otherwise, I'm not touching that stuff. And if you choose violence, I'll tear this rupture open wide. Everyone in this room be damned.”

The Anointed One snarled with anger, but Shiv wasn't done. “I know that you can't be destroyed through conventional means because of whatever story bullshit that's protecting you, but I can tell you this much: If the restaurant here gets exposed to the Ascendants, they'll come in, and they'll keep you in their own little prison for a good long while. Long enough that you're going to probably miss the next seasonal cycle too. So you think carefully and tell me all about that thing."

"There is no trap; it is simply a reservoir of vitality." The Anointed One fell quiet for a moment. "It also allows one to store vitality within it. Additionally, it protects you from being scryed by Diviners. Finally, it allows you to burn a specific thing, trading vitality for Loreflame. Should you feed it the heart of another, it will be able to trap them within."

That threw Shiv for a loop. "What do you mean by 'trap them within'? This thing isn't just a vitality cage; it's some kind of spirit mind cage too?"

"It is a cage of narratives and memories. An imprint of someone is retained, and an echo of their being is swallowed by the enchained heart. Their life story will be remembered by you, and you may converse with it, if you wish to find out about the pasts of your victims."

Shiv's paranoia climbed new heights. "And you were going to use that to trap me?"

"No," the Anointed One declared with clarity and without hesitation. "Again, I would not have formed such ridiculous schemes. I would have faced you directly, inflicted harm upon you by wielding my righteous blade. You are not a worthy threat, and I will not flatter you with deception. Besides, I have doubts that you can be contained. Undying thing, your soul is wrong. Your being is an alloy. I cannot tell your heart, your life force, and the narrative of your existence apart. Your skills and vitality are mingled. It is more likely you end up damaging the construct instead."

Shiv regarded the heart once more and flinched as all its eyes fell on him. "Where the hells did you get that thing?"

The Anointed One barked a vicious laugh. "Oh, it was a seed I took from a Fairwalker—one of your Patternists that dared to brave the cycle to steal some of our wonders. I hid it within myself when I went to sleep, and when I awoke for the start of this cycle, I realized I was not where I was supposed to be, and so the seed became my weapon against my captors. At first, it was such a small thing, barely larger than a speck hidden within my breadstuff. But then one of the chefs proved themselves a fool. One of the chefs was careless. They reached too deep, and in their moment of distraction, I thrust the seed into them, and it began to grow. You should have felt his insides boil and suppurate. The power that it filled me with was—”

"Wait, you've been using that to feed yourself power?"

The Anointed One didn't say anything, but the Deathless felt a sense of pride and loathing radiate out from the Faebread. Yet, with that came something else: A faint trail of unattuned mana connected Shiv to the Anointed Knight, and the first chains of fear bound them together. The Anointed One tried to mask himself, but the Deathless had unnerved him, and with each exchange, that terror between them only grew stronger.

And if I scare him, I can break him, Shiv said to himself.

Shape of Monstrosity 142 > 144

Shiv extended a Vitae tendril toward the heart. Slowly, he touched it. After brushing it once and realizing his life force hadn't been ripped away from him, Shiv wrapped his white and red strand of mana around it and drew it closer. It was like clutching a small star within the heart of his palm. With every second, it radiated warmth; an overwhelming life force that nourished him from the very roots of his skills to the flowing currents of Vitae that composed his shape.

Equipment Obtained: [Chained Heart of Lifegiving]Tier: HeroicCondition: PerfectComposition: Narrativium; Mithril; Focus Crystal; Faeblood; Fulcavium; Elderflesh; Human Flesh; Elf Flesh; Raptor FleshEnchantments > Nourish the Heartblood; The Story Thus Far; Enchain the Transgressors; Life for Loreflame; Binding; Fusing; Regenerating; Counter-Scrying
