“How can you keep eye contact, even when I was topless, and not look at the rest of me.” Grechen asked as her face flushed red.

“That's easy enough to answer.” Ren said. “I'm not talking to your body, I'm talking to you.”

Gretchen's face flushed to a darker red.

“Ta-da!” Dana stepped out of her change room and she wore the first suit she had picked up. The yellow skimpy two piece. It highlighted her dirty-blonde hair nicely, and she had her hair tied back into a ponytail as well.

“Very nice.” Ren said and clapped his hands a little to give her the applause he felt she wanted. “What did you do with the other suits?”

“They're right here.” Dana said and lifted out a tangled mess.

“Go ahead and store them.” Ren said. “Gretchen, you too.”

“What?” Both women said and held the bundles in their hands.

“Once you wear them, they form to you.” Ren said. “They won't fit anyone else now.”

“W-why didn't you say anything?” Dana said sadly. “I wouldn't have tried on so many if I knew I couldn't give them back.”

Ren felt the both of them start to get depressed, and he stood up and walked over to them. “Please store them and don't be sad that I enjoyed this.” He said, and they both looked at him with wide eyes. “I really liked feeling your feelings while you tried on the different suits.” He said. “I also like that you chose the best suits that fit you and thought I would like to see on you.”

Both women's faces were bright red by this point, and he took their hands.

“Thank you very much.” Ren said sincerely, and both of them nodded.

“Wh-what about you?” Dana asked.

“Me? I could never look good in a bikini.” Ren said, and she snorted a laugh.

“You know what I meant.”

Ren smiled. “Unlike you, I can get away with just wearing a pair of swimming trunks.”

“Oh, really?” Gretchen said and held up a pair of Speedos. “Then what are these for?”

“Sale.” Ren chuckled.

“If you get to see us in bathing suits, it's only fair that we get to see you in these.” Dana said and took the Speedo from Gretchen and slapped them against his chest. “Get changed.”

Ren opened his mouth to say that he already had swimming trunks, then felt how adamant they were. “Okay.” He said and let their hands go to grab the Speedo, stepped by them, then entered the change room.
