“Directly?” Ling Qi blurted out. She had not expected Her Grace to assign her a tutor, let alone a tutor that was one of her own apprentices. “I—That is—”

“As I said, the omission of your name from proceedings was not a punishment,” Shu Yue repeated. “I see in you that you understand omission. It is a dangerous path on the blade’s edge between truth and lie, so close to deception. Yet there is power in silence, the gap between words.”

Ling Qi nodded slowly, working out their words in her mind. If Her Grace had troubled herself to the extent of being late, there were more things than she could discern at work. Perhaps there was good reason not to place any spotlight on her. “If you are to tutor me, may I ask what it is you do?”

“I am a sculptor,” Shu Yue said, “who makes art of hollows and empty things, which wait to be filled. This is what I do.”

Ling Qi mulled over those words. “And what are you?”

Shu Yue leaned forward, their immense height seeming all the more looming as the twilight corner they stood in bent and warped, the light and laughter so awfully distant now. “I am a solver of problems.”

Ling Qi took a calming breath, but refused to let her gaze waver. “Funny. I aspire to the same.”

“Yes,” said Shu Yue, seeming to recede into themselves. “I look forward to our assignment, Baroness Ling.”

“Do you have any immediate advice?” Ling Qi asked.

They hummed to themselves as they turned away and began to walk back toward the more populated part of the pavilion, which seemed so much closer now. “You have plans. Stick to them. For tonight, I suggest you make use of presented opportunities.”

Ling Qi followed her gaze to where the shishigui stood with its guards. An older man in Luo colors was speaking to it, his nose wrinkled.

“Information is always valuable. Without it, one may only guess at shadows,” Shu Yue said. “Now, excuse me. We will speak again in the coming days, but I have to fulfill other duties this evening.”

“Thank you for your words. Do not let me keep you,” Ling Qi said.

The older cultivator nodded once, and then was gone. No beam of light or swirling shadow, just ceasing to exist. The air did not even move to fill the space their body had left. It felt as if it had never been disturbed in the first place.

She wondered what Sixiang made of them.

<They make me itch. That person might not be like that Kongyou, but I think they’re still a nightmare of a sort… Someone’s nightmare, anyway,> Sixiang responded.

They weren’t human? Ling Qi wondered. Knowing imperial law, she doubted even Shenhua could have a spirit treated like a human.

<You know that’s not really a line, Ling Qi,> Sixiang chided. <But let me put it this way. I don’t think that person has ever cultivated with a spirit stone.>
