Though drained, dishevelled, and disoriented, Luo-Luo couldn’t remember a time when she’d been more relaxed and carefree.

It wasn’t that she had nothing to concern herself with at the moment. Quite the contrary, in fact, as she’d never been busier, for not only was she upon the cusp of discovering something significant regarding her Martial Path, Lord Husband also stood at the crossroads of disaster and greatness and required her expertise to help him navigate through it. Together, they were headed to the Central Citadel, where this banquet might well be a chance to clear his name and show the Empire he was hale and healthy as any normal citizen, which meant there was hope aplenty for the future ahead. Conversely, it was also a chance for their enemies to brand him as a cripple and a failure, or worse, someone unworthy of his supposedly falsified reputation. Thus, it was imperative he make the right impression not only during the banquet, but in every public appearance from now until word of his good health spread across the provinces. According to MuYang’s encrypted notes, placed in her hands by Junior Yimu as she left the dining room to freshen up for the journey, Shen ZhenWu’s enemies and Lord Husband’s detractors had launched a campaign of slander and defamation against Falling Rain and the Bekhai, so Luo-Luo would have enough work to contend with without adding Lord Husband’s disreputable shenanigans to the mix.

It was a tall order, asking Lord Husband to behave, and Luo-Luo was all but expecting him to do something disastrous, because it would take a miracle to make Falling Rain understand the importance of face and reputation. So naive and idealistic, this straightforward young hero, believing that his actions and accomplishments would speak louder than a million tongues whispering about his gaffes and indiscretions. Perhaps they would, had he the right reputation, but heroes were meant to be admired, and Lord Husband’s actions made it difficult for even the lowliest peasant to look up to him.

A disadvantage which only had a little to do with his lacking physical height.

Giggling into her notes, she admonished herself for being ungenerous. Lord Husband was an exemplary man worthy of honour and adoration, except he valued neither, and therein lay the root to all his problems. In his eyes, face was stupid, honour meaningless, fame bothersome, and reputation irrelevant, so he disregarded the unwritten rules of society and did everything in a way which suited his tastes. Granted, his approach wasn’t entirely without merit, and considering his astonishing achievements in both battle and economics, it might even have worked if he’d been born to an Imperial Noble, or maybe the son of a popular Marshal or Colonel General. Unfortunately, his behaviour and appearance were both too foreign and unfamiliar for most citizens of the Empire to relate to, accept, or emulate, so it fell to Luo-Luo to change things for the better.

A monumental task to be sure, but the Mother always leaves a path to salvation.

Thus, when Luo-Luo stepped out of the manor and saw the beautifully crafted carriage she personally helped design hitched to a team of six cattle, she didn’t despair and renounce all hope. Instead, she sighed, smiled, and ordered Junior Yimu to switch the cattle out for the team of horses she had stabled nearby, purchased in preparation for this very day. Mother-in-Law Sarnai looked none too pleased by the delay, but she held her tongue since she too understood the need, and by Lord Husband’s own admission, the Marshal and Colonel General had already been waiting for over an hour, so they could stand to wait five minutes more.

A fearsome dragon, Mother-in-Law Sarnai, but so long as Luo-Luo had Lord Husband’s best interests in mind, then his formidable mother would support her.

At least Lord Husband had the grace to look ashamed. “Sorry. I didn’t know you’d already bought draft horses,” he explained, even though Luo-Luo had yet to offer even the barest hint of reproach. “I didn’t even think about it until last night, when Kuang Biao told me the warhorses wouldn’t take well to a wagon harness.”

Instead of lecturing him about how he should have reached out to Junior Yimu or reiterating the importance of image and perception, Luo-Luo merely offered an understanding smile and conciliatory nod, as if to say these minor details were beneath him and it was her fault for being absent. Granted, he should feel ashamed, because it wasn’t like he didn’t understand that cattle were viewed as peasant animals and he’d be laughed out of high society if he arrived in a cattle-drawn carriage. Mother knows the issue could have been easily solved, as he could have written a single letter and had a hundred draft horses delivered to his door as gifts, but he simply didn’t care about outsider opinions and saw this as an opportunity to show off his sweet, adorable pets.

The cattle were oh so darling and affectionate, but Lord Husband was already fighting an uphill battle and needed every advantage he could get. Besides, horses were beautiful creatures and could also be affectionate, but Lord Husband was a poor horseman and scorned their use. It seemed ungenerous of him to pick and choose which animals to love, but at least now they knew he had limits. Left to his own devices, he was his own worst enemy, but Luo-Luo was too tired to lecture or bandy words with him for now. Oddly enough, her gentle response actually made him apologize again and look away in embarrassment, while her recriminations would have made him dig in his heels and defend his decision. How strange. Knowing his penchant for strong warrior women, Luo-Luo had thought she would have to be strong and domineering to sway his opinions, but perhaps the soft approach would have more effect...

It wasn’t quite the same as making moon-eyes at dumplings like Lin-Lin suggested, but perhaps Lord Husband could be convinced to behave after all..

Putting aside these thoughts for another day, Luo-Luo took the time to admire the fruits of her labour. A stately vehicle sure to be the envy of all, Lord Husband’s new carriage was merely the first step in her comprehensive plan to improve Falling Rain’s public image. As a nod to his Bekhai roots and newfangled Imperial status, she commissioned the carriage to be made from thousand-year-old Shen Mu heartwood, though this batch had grown naturally in the Bekhai mountains, rather than in or around the unfortunate city itself. A dense, knotted hardwood famed for its ability to resist warping from changing temperature, young Shen Mu evergreens were widely used in all facets of Northern woodworking, from furniture and decorations to ships and architecture.

Shen Mu heartwood however, was a luxury good, so rare and expensive Luo-Luo had gone apoplectic with shock when she found it listed amongst incoming Bekhai military contributions. Compared to the hardy and reliable outer-wood, Shen Mu heartwood was an entirely different beast. Once treated and polished, its radiance was comparable to ZhenGui rosewood, a wood so rare and expensive it was forbidden to any except the highest echelons of Imperial Peerage. While Shen Mu heartwood lacked the dense, wavy grain lines of Zhen Gui rosewood and bore a smooth, and frankly plain surface, it had the same golden brown hue and even exhibited a pleasant fragrance without affecting the hardy features which made it so popular for construction.

All of this put together meant Lord Husband’s carriage was beautiful, functional, and most importantly of all, sturdy.

Since the lumber was in such high demand, Shen Mu trees were usually harvested after ten or twenty years of growth, when they were too young to have developed any proper heartwood, so a single hundred-year old Shen Mu heartwood could sell for at least a thousand gold. Luo-Luo couldn’t even begin to place a value on a thousand-year old tree, and the Bekhai had almost given several of them away as basic construction materials. The Saint’s Tribulation Mountains was a literal treasure trove of natural resources, and Luo-Luo looked forward to helping her people take advantage of what they had, but again, this was a matter for another day. Today, she could take pride in her efforts, for this carriage was a veritable work of art, thanks in no small part to Lord Husband’s brother Charok.

Though she’d seen his handiwork in the form of clever mechanical puppets and realistic carved sculptures, Luo-Luo had been leery about letting Brother-in-Law Charok work with such expensive materials, even though everyone else in the household assured her that there was no better man for the job. Thankfully, instead of taking offence at her doubts like Sister-in-Law Alsantset seemed to, Brother-in-Law Charok carved a proof-of-concept for her to evaluate and she was once again amazed by the hidden depths of Bekhai talent. His work spoke for itself in the bas-relief carvings on either side of the carriage, twin depictions of ferocious wildcats so realistic they had Aurie gently patting the unfamiliar animals in an effort to get them to come down and play. A third wildcat was displayed prominently at the front, sitting primly as the figurehead of the entire carriage with an uncanny resemblance to Sarankho’s poise and posture, the most proper of Lord Husband’s adorable wildcats. The bears were also portrayed in Brother-in-Law Charok’s work, standing on their hind legs on either side of the back of the carriage, so detailed one could run their hands over the carvings and feel each individual strand of fur. Roosequins, cattle, birds, rabbits, and all other manner of creatures were also depicted throughout the carriage, so natural and detailed it felt like they might come to life and run, jump, or soar away.

And literally and figuratively topping off the carriage was the stunning likeness of the Guardian Turtle, reminding the world of Lord Husband’s other lofty status, Attendant to the Divine Turtle.

All in all, it made for a noble and stately carriage which surpassed even the marshal’s elegant black and silver carriage, or the stately gold and black juggernaut belonging to Colonel General Nian Zu. Once her matching team of chestnut horses were hitched and ready to go, Luo-Luo believed this carriage could rival or surpass Shen Zhen Wu’s three Zhengui rosewood palanquins in beauty, if not opulence, though she would never voice such a thought out loud.

And Mother help the Empire if assassins should ruin this beautiful work of art before Lord Husband arrived safely in the Central Citadel, for Luo-Luo would raze cities and salt the earth in her quest for bloody vengeance.

Thankfully, the Bekhai had plenty of thousand year old trees, so Luo-Luo had commissioned three such carriages as backups. Brother-in-Law Charok had also worked his magic with the other two, covering them in depictions of heroic warriors and epic battles rather than the animals Lord Husband loved so much, and Luo-Luo hoped to convince him to use one of the other carriages for business and to keep the animal one for personal use. Unfortunately, seeing how delighted he was by Aurie’s antics and the Guardian Turtle’s curious expression, she realized it was probably a lost cause and decided to spend her efforts elsewhere.

In matters of diplomacy, there were times when it was necessary to take a step back in order to move forward...

Boarding the carriage with her head held high, she took her seat with Sorya and Anrhi on either side, while Mother-in-Law Sarnai and Lord Husband took the seat across from them. Brother-in-Law Charok boarded a second carriage with his wife and children, while Lin-Lin, Mila, and Song took the last carriage with Medical Saint Taduk. Most gratifying of all was Grandfather Du’s look of envy as he and Yan boarded his perfectly serviceable carriage, one which would be considered ornate in any other company, and Luo-Luo made a note to gift him with one of the newer vehicles still in construction, for there were still plenty of more to come.

Then Aurie, Jimjam, seven rabbits, and a giant bird followed her into her carriage, and Luo-Luo made another note to see what could be done about adding more room in future iterations. Perhaps some space on the outside for the animals to lay down and enjoy the breeze, seeing how Aurie and Jimjam were both unsuccessfully attempting to stick their head out the same window on the opposite side.

“Hello Roc,” Lord Husband cooed, shuffling Mama Bun around in his arms to make room on his crowded lap for the rotund bird. “Are you coming with us to the Central Citadel? My poor, sweet feathery floof, you must be bored up in your roost with no eggs to keep warm.”

Deciding it was best to let him indulge with his pets while he still could, Luo-Luo asked Junior Yimu to make certain Lord Husband’s animals were all present and accounted for before moving out. A minute later, he returned with a plump, white rabbit in hand, which he passed through the open window before she thought to close it. Accepting sweet George with a smile (it had to be George, because the other all-white bunnies were smart enough to follow their favoured people), she settled into her cushions as Lord Husband’s entourage finally set out for the southern gates, escorted by Death Corps Guards, Bekhai outriders, and a small contingent of light cavalry led by none other than Dastan Zhandos himself.

Exotic Bekhai Khishigs riding side by side with familiar Imperial soldiers and iconic Death Corps guards, a perfect blend of the familiar, the unfamiliar, and the extraordinary, which was exactly the image Lord Husband needed to project.

