Cursing her foolish pride and pampered lifestyle, Yan dreaded the aching thighs and bruised bottom she would soon experience. Had she known this would happen, she would never have snuck Shana and Zabu into Rain’s hut, a hasty decision made in a fit of pique and unreasonable jealousy. What did she expect to happen? For the quins to ruin Rain’s marriage night and send his new concubine screaming into the night? That he, so frustrated by the lack of sex, would ride through the city and storm into her room to demand an explanation for her actions? Then, in the heat of anger and throes of passion, they would fight with bare fists, pulling and tearing each others clothes off until...

Ridiculous. Now she paid the price for her actions, forced to endure inhumane abuse to her lower-half before a crowd of her peers and commoners.

There were few things worse than sitting upright on a hard, lumpy saddle and bouncing about on the back of a horse.

Losing her seat on Shana’s soft, stable hindquarters wasn’t even the worst of it, Yan also lost those adorable pups to play with and their ferocious papa-quin to protect her. She’d traded them away for a moody, skittish, gelding who seemed liable to run off at the first sign of danger. If only she’d put more effort into practising horsemanship, but after Grandpa took her in, she’d only ever ridden Shana or in a carriage. How anyone endured hours bouncing on these tall, steel-backed creatures and walked away whole was beyond her comprehension, her inner thighs already aching from strain after a few minutes of riding.

Why would anyone ride horses when quins were the objectively superior mount? A steadier gait and softer seat were the least of it, quins also required less maintenance and fewer supplies than these skittish, four-legged monstrosities. Being scatter-brained herbivores wasn’t enough, horses also had sensitive feet and selective diets. Too good to eat the plentiful grass all around them, her Acasian Trotter ate nothing but the best grain money could buy, and plenty to boot. The five kilogram bundle packed in her saddlebags would only last the horse a single day, and should this stupid contest run longer, she’d have to buy more grain instead of sending it out to forage for itself.

Considering how often they took an enormous, putrid shit mid-stride, they could stand to eat a little less.

Quashing her animosity, Yan awkwardly patted her mount’s neck in apology and prayed it wouldn’t rear up and throw her off if spooked. The placid creature didn’t notice her efforts to make nice, but it made Yan feel a little better about her rude inner-monologue. Since it did nothing for her pained muscles and poor temper, she focused on the task at hand instead, the contest from which she hoped to emerge victorious, though she hadn’t the slightest idea how she was supposed to accomplish such a monumental task.

Stupid Legate and his stupid contests. When the Eastern pretty-boy announced his ‘feats of strength, skill, speed, and spirit’, she imagined something more like a massed melee or a foot race of some sort, something combative and hot-blooded. Instead, she’d been assigned a meeting place where she was to meet her team and an Imperial Guardian masquerading as a civilian merchant. Then, they were to sortie off into the wilderness on some stupid task before moving on to the next part of the contest. It all seemed like a meaningless waste of time, but with Grandpa out of the city, she had nothing better to do, so she might as well play along and see what silly farce the Legate’s people had cooked up.

While riding towards her destination, Yan envisioned a harrowing escape through stony city streets and back alley paths, dragging the Guardian behind her in a desperate struggle against a second group of contestants assigned to stop them. In her imagined scenario, she’d step forward and take command of her fellow Captains and Warrant Officers, telling them to look after the Guardian while she single-handedly defeated her opponents in an overwhelming display of Martial skill, neatly proving her prowess and saving herself from the torture of riding a horse all afternoon.

The only way she could be more uncomfortable is if she were strapped face-up to her horse’s belly with her mouth positioned right below his asshole. Horses were the worst.

Arriving at the city outskirts, Yan found the stone marker where she was to meet her team. Despite her poor riding skills and slow pace, she was not the last to arrive and actually among the first. Standing with arms crossed and brow furrowed, an older, burly, dark-skinned southerner with an elaborately-styled moustache greeted her with a cold, silent stare. Unlike the other southerners she’d seen, this one was far less colourful, wearing standard-issue everything, right down to his standard-issue boots and standard-issue haircut. A career, common-born soldier then, one unaffiliated with clan, sect, or faction, yet still talented and fortunate enough to climb the ranks and even be issued a Spiritual Weapon, the wickedly curved one handed scimitar strapped to his waist. Though others might look down on his lack of backing, Yan immediately felt an unspoken kinship with the man. Were it not for a stroke of luck and meeting Grandpa, she undoubtedly would have followed in this humble soldier’s footsteps and become a career soldier herself, or at least a career Sentinel.

Beside him stood a tall, plain-faced man with a narrow physique and impassive expression, the Royal Guardian turned ward for the day, judging by his ill-fitting travel robes. Clumsily sliding off the saddle, she lifted the reins to greet the two men with a clasped-fist salute and a friendly smile. “This one is Du Min Yan. Pleased to make your acquaintance.”

“This one is Qiang,” the Guardian replied, so uninterested in her smile he seemed ready to fall asleep. “We will go over the parameters of your mission once the rest of your team arrives.”

Seeing he had nothing else to say, Yan turned to the dour Southerner and smiled. “It appears we’ll be working together for the interim, Captain...?”

The Southerner frowned in silence for what felt like an eternity before grudgingly opening his mouth to utter, “Sutah.” Not the friendliest man around, but then again, she wasn’t here to make friends. Still, there was nothing wrong with being civil, so she kept smiling and nodded politely before positioning herself on Qiang’s left, her shield at the ready should she require it. Doing a quick visual check of their surroundings, she found there wasn’t much to see aside from the busy Imperial Road, with the city to her south, the Azure Sea to the West and unending swathes of grass stretching out in all other directions before disappearing off into the horizon, where sky met earth in a most disorienting fashion.

Even after living in Central for more than a year, Yan still often found herself unnerved by how flat everything was. There were no mountains dotting the horizon or dense forests blotting out the sun, only small mounds of grass which passed for hills and the odd tree to break up the monotonous scenery. Not to say Central was boring and ugly, there was beauty here, but it was a cultivated beauty, one of neat little gardens or carefully designed manors, lacking compared to the wild, untamed beauty of the North.

As much as she loved Grandpa Du and Eun, she missed living in the village and being part of a close knit community where everyone looked out for their neighbours. Hopefully, when her time in Central came to an end, there’d still be a place for her among the People, though considering how Mila and Big Huu snubbed her earlier, Yan wasn’t entirely optimistic about her chances. Mila she understood, the temperamental red-panda was upset over Yan’s ‘rejection’, but in her defence, Rain never meant for Zabu to be a betrothal gift. Returning him along with his pups was only the right thing to do, and Yan could still say Shana was only there on loan until her pups were old enough to separate them.

As for Big Huu... Hopefully, the big lug had been too distracted to notice her greeting. Before Rain, Big Huu had been her closest friend, her sparring partner and confidant, always happy to help her train and willing to endure her verbal barbs. She’d even had a crush on him for all of a week until she realized how boring and naggy he could be.

Maybe he was still mad because she accidentally revealed his pre-marital tryst with the lovely twin sisters to his militant and strong-armed Mother Ghurda...

The rest of Yan’s party took their sweet time arriving, three rich fops in their early thirties laughing and fawning over their last companion, a lovely young warrior woman. None were dressed appropriately for a military mission, the men wearing colourfully embroidered tunic with wide sleeves, gaudy, flared leggings, and adorned in a wide assortment of dangling hair ornaments and feathered decorations. Not to be outdone, the woman had an actual tiara to complete her full set of jewellery, including seven rings and countless bangles on both forearms and ankles. Her low-cut tunic and short skirt left plenty of skin bare, though at least she had the sense to sit side-saddle instead of displaying her nether regions for the entire world to see. How she expected to fight from horseback like that was a different question, but from what Yan could see, none of the latecomers were all too concerned about winning the contest.

Just her luck, getting stuck with a team of fops and dandies out on a lark. They’d even stopped to buy gourds of wine, presumably why they were so late...

None of the latecomers moved to dismount or introduce themselves, instead chatting away and fawning over the young lady who feigned modesty but did everything she could to encourage their rivalry. None of them seemed to notice Yan and Sutah’s displeasure, but seeing how Qiang voiced no objection, she held her tongue and waited for them to quiet down. Seizing a lull in their conversation, Yan smiled and saluted them in the spirit of cooperation. “Well met, fellow officers. This one is -”

“Hmph.” The leading ponce interrupted her mid greeting with an audible sneer. “We know who you are, harlot.”

Looking down her nose as if presented with a pile of garbage, the woman drew back from Yan and said, “Taking advantage of an aged hero of the Empire, how disgusting.” Making of show of studying Yan’s horns and chest, she added, “Small wonder he never married. Who knew the celebrated Du Min Gyu would have such... unique tastes.”

Well, fuck cooperation. Before Yan could drag the bitch off her horse and slap her senseless, Qiang spoke up. “This one is Royal Guardian Qiang.” Finally taking notice of him, the latecomers remained mounted and nodded in reply, probably believing a mere soldier not worthy of their friendship or courtesy. None of them offered their names, so Yan labelled them Ponces One through Three, and the woman earned the lofty designation of Floozy Prime.

Undeterred by their cold reception, Qiang explained the parameters of their mission in greater detail. They were to escort him to a military outpost north of the city, where he would then pass on news of ‘vital military intelligence’. Why he couldn’t tell someone in Nan Ping was a mystery, but Yan figured it’d be better to play along with the narrative. Qiang warned them there ‘might’ be attempts on his life, to which Ponce One snorted and said, “If one assassin comes, I will kill one, if ten comes, kill ten. This will be easy as turning my hand.”

Unable to help herself, Yan smiled and asked, “Did someone push your hairpins in too deep? This is an exercise, remember? Killing is forbidden.”

Fixing Yan with another sneer, he retorted, “Insolent cur. Do not think yourself unmatched because you were awarded a rank for sparring with other children on stage. The younger generation get worse each year, allowing an actual child to seize the title of Number one Talent in the Empire, much less two half-beasts to stand in the top three. An utter disgrace.”

Ponces Two and Three uttered their agreements and offered to put Yan in her place should she get ‘uppity’, and she prayed they’d find the courage to make a move. Ignoring their threats and disrespect, Qiang asked if anyone had questions and Sutah spoke up. “Map?”

At least now Yan knew Sutah was consistent with his monosyllabic utterances.

“I do not have one,” Qiang replied, voice wooden and flat as if reading from a script, “but I have travelled there many a time. Go north along this Imperial Road until the twenty-seventh stone marker, and our destination will be two hours directly east from there.”

Yan almost walked away right then and there, her spirits crushed by the prospect of travelling more than four hours on horseback. Longer considering how packed the roads were, with a constant flow of wagons and workers going in and out of Nan Ping. If not for the possibility of promotion by one rank, Yan might very well have given up, but as Ponce One and Floozy Prime so helpfully demonstrated, her disastrous performance on stage and new promotion were hardly enough to silence the rumours stirred up by Grandpa’s horrible relatives. A few years ago, a twenty-year-old Warrant Officer Third Grade would have been the talk of the province, but Falling Rain recently set a new standard for outstanding and overshadowed all of Yan’s exploits.

Even after a year and half of separation, Rain could still frustrate Yan to no end.

