“If there are no more questions, then it’s best we leave now.” Playing his role with all the charisma of a rock, Qiang once again stressed, “The information I bear is of the utmost importance, and concerns the safety of Nan Ping itself. Many would seek to silence me and stop this information from reaching the right ears.”

“Very well.” Still putting on airs, Ponce One fancied himself in command and said, “Mount up. Let’s get this over with.”

Resisting the urge to challenge his authority, Yan pulled herself back onto the horse and reminded herself why she was here. She needed to prove herself and silence the wagging tongues of Central, show everyone she deserved to be Grandpa Du’s Terminal Disciple and shift public opinion to their side. As for being his Granddaughter, they could all eat shit. What business was it of theirs if Grandpa Du took her in as family? She loved the old man like a father and only his stubborn insistence regarding his old age kept her from calling him as such.

Then again, she didn’t have to prove anything, especially after Grandpa had just been tapped by the Legate to carry out some super secretive mission. He couldn’t say what he’d be doing, but he’d been so excited, he’d ignored all decorum and exited in style by leaping off the Ryo Family balcony.

Someday, she too would fly through the skies and never have to ride a horse ever again...

Taking his place as their glorious leader, Ponce One led his entourage away, leaving Yan, Sutah, and Qiang in their wake. Shaking her head with an amused grin, Yan awkwardly manoeuvred her horse to Qiang’s left while Sutah mirrored her actions on his right, the optimal setup for both to defend their ward. Sitting in place until Yan gestured for him to follow, Qiang behaved exactly as a merchant would, neither taking the lead nor eager to leave his escort’s side as they led him to the road.

Unfamiliar with travel protocol, Ponce One tried to bring them onto the side of the Imperial Road reserved for Military and noble use, but quickly discovered Qiang did not have the proper token of authority required to use them. After a brief argument with the guards, during which he invoked his father’s name no less than four times, a shame-faced Ponce One wandered over to the ‘peasant’ side of the road, much to Yan’s delight. She’d long since spotted another group of contestants with their ward on the slower moving side of the road, and was only too happy to let Ponce One humiliate himself to no end. Sutah and Qiang hardly seemed amused, but Yan’s smile couldn’t be any wider despite the less than ideal circumstances.

Minutes passed in arduous silence as their party proceeded at a slow and steady pace, bogged down by the heavy traffic and late start. Most travellers were on foot or riding in wagons, and while Yan kept an eye on the other riders, she noticed they were all fellow contestants stuck in similar straits. If an ‘assassin’ wanted to remain hidden, they’d have to proceed on foot, which meant any one of these travellers could be waiting to strike as they passed. Voicing her opinions, she asked Sutah to watch those travellers moving with them, while Yan accepted the more difficult task of watching those shambling towards them.

The other four were less than useless, driving forward with no regard for anyone’s safety, be it their own, their ward’s, or even their fellow travellers. Still, it wasn’t overly difficult keeping watch, and Yan fell back on an old hunter’s technique to remain focused for hours on end. The trick was to let your mind relax, but not wander, mentally listing anything and everything of interest without committing your mind to it. A moving branch, a rustling leaf, the howl of wind, or the call of a bird, it kept your mind active without overtaxing it, a tranquil focus in which one sought nothing, but found everything.

A gruff man reaching for a weapon hidden in his waistband, an elderly woman rummaging through a chest for a bow, a wandering apothecary in a little too much of a rush, Yan noted anyone and everyone who might be a threat and let her body respond without thinking. It was all meaningless of course, the gruff man was merely scratching his balls, the elderly woman looking for a parasol, and the apothecary likely rushing to save a life, but it never hurt to be cautious. Even then, after ninety minutes of butt-numbing travel, Yan was fast approaching the limits of her patience.

This was ridiculous. How was this supposed to prove her worth? A boring, event-less ride to the nearest military outpost and back, how taxing indeed. Then again, she should thank the Mother for small favours. Yan shuddered to think how her poor posterior would fare at any pace faster than a walk. Besides, the trip wasn’t entirely in vain; Yan’s grin widened as she watched Ponce One get his purse stolen and saddlebags rummaged through from right under his nose. When the daring, yet handsome thief noticed he’d been caught, Yan merely winked and waved him away, all too happy to let the idiot young noble suffer a loss.

Upon reaching the twenty-seventh marker, Qiang helpfully reminded Ponce One that the outpost was due east, even though Yan was prepared to quietly leave them behind. Her actions didn’t escape Ponce One’s notice, but she merely smiled and continued on her way, scanning the cobbled stone path and surrounding grasslands for signs of danger or ambush. A pointless endeavour, for any ambush could be spotted from a kilometre away, but still she kept her guard up.

Despite her protesting groin, Yan picked up the pace in hopes of reaching their destination or whatever surprise Qiang had planned for them a little sooner. Ultimately, her hopes were dashed along with what remained of her pelvis as they arrived at the outpost without incident or excitement. Dreading the ride back, she stayed at Qiang’s side as they joined the line of contestants waiting outside the gates, where the Royal Guardian who’d given a speech earlier today was evaluating each team’s progress.

Spotting a familiar head of curly red hair at the front of the line, Yan yearned to saunter over, say hello, and explain her actions to Mila. It’s not that she didn’t want to meet or speak to the People, but she couldn’t. Already, Grandpa’s family claimed Yan was a Northern puppet here to steal Du Family wealth and power, so it was best for everyone involved if they stayed apart. Central nobles were a proud and insular bunch, ready to unite at the first hint of ‘foreign’ invasion into their local markets. Unfortunately, for those same reasons, Yan couldn’t walk over and chat with Mila, or respond to their letters, or even be seen riding Shana or Zabu.

Mila would understand, right?

“What?” The incredulous utterance came from one of Mila’s companions, his face turning red with anger. “We all completed the same challenge on the same team, so why does she pass,” he asked, pointing at Mila, “while the three of us fail?

With a sigh, the lead Guardian rolled his eyes and answered, “Your goal was to escape pursuit and bring news of an imminent rebellion to this outpost, correct? So why, despite Captain Sumila’s protests, did you stop and challenge your pursuers to single combat?” Without waiting for an answer, the Guardian continued. “Not only did all three of you lose to your opponents, you also tried to escape during Captain Sumila’s bout despite being ‘incapacitated’. You only succeeded because she defeated all six pursuers in massed combat, led you away, and saw off two more attacks and an ambush using her bow.” Nodding at Mila in appreciation, he added, “This one commends you on your skill and restraint. Even blunted arrows can cause grave injury, but the worst your pursuers suffered was a blow to their pride. Captain Sumila, I invite you to enter the outpost.”

Beaming with joy, Mila held her head up in pride and led Atir into the outpost while her three teammates slinked away. Happy as Yan was for her friend, she couldn’t help but wonder why Mila’s test was so much more exciting than her own.

When it came time for Yan’s group to be judged, Qiang greeted the Guardian with a salute, while Yan and Sutah followed suit. Ponce One not only failed to salute, he even had the audacity to step forward and point at the Guardian. “What is the meaning of this,” he demanded, waving his finger at the Guardian. “Our contest was – ow, ow, owie, owwwww!”

The last was uttered as the Royal Guardian grabbed hold of Ponce One’s finger and wrenched it about, dropping the pampered dandy to his knees while his face contorted in pain. Ignoring his cries, the Royal Guardian calmly nodded at Qiang and said, “Report.”

“These four,” Qiang said, pointing out everyone aside from Yan and Sutah, “Fail. Throughout our journey, they drank five gourds of wine and died seventeen times.”

“What?”

“Your clothing,” Qiang replied, not bothering to even spare Floozy Prime a glance. “The assassins marked you with red chalk each time they approached.” While the others checked their clothes for the telltale markings, Qiang gestured at Ponce One and added, “This one was so inept, the assassins helped themselves to his food, wine, and coin without his notice.”

A sinking feeling settled into the pit of Yan’s stomach as the lead Guardian asked, “And these other two?”

“Both demonstrated sufficient awareness in identifying threats, but a complete lack of leadership qualities. She,” Qiang said, gesturing at Yan, “Caught one assassin rummaging through her comrade’s things and waved the culprit off, while he behaved like a subordinate the entire time. This one believes neither one suitable for promotion at this time, and thus recommend both be failed.”

Well... fuck.

“Disappointing,” the lead Guardian said, his eyes focused on Yan. “I had high hopes for this one. A rare talent, even if brought back to the homeland. Did she have reason to let the assassin off?”

“Children’s games,” Qiang replied. “Verbal barbs were traded, but an officer of a thousand must rise above such things, or settle them with an iron fist.”

“Would it be too late to smack him around now?” Yan asked, smiling wryly at the lost opportunity. “And if so, would you mind terribly if I still beat him regardless?”

With a bark of laughter, the lead Guardian shook his head. “No need. I deem Qiang’s judgment too harsh. Leadership is easier to teach than vigilance and caution. Both of you pass, but be warned, the next portion of the contest will not be as easy. Warrant Officer Du Min Yan, Captain Sutah, I invite you both to enter.” Glaring at Ponce One, whose finger was still caught in his grasp, the Royal Guardian said, “I invite the rest of you to scram.”

Sauntering into the outpost, Yan couldn’t resist smirking over her shoulder as her former teammates scrambled away from the irate Guardian, their horses throwing up a cloud of dust in the wake of their retreat. When she faced forward once again, she found Mila standing in front of her with arms crossed and smile cold. “I like your horse,” Mila said, her teeth clenched and eyes blazing. “So pretty and tall. I hope his speed will keep you safe in the days to come.” Shooting the creature a glare as if it had personally offended her, Mila stomp off without another word while sweet Atir followed behind. Her good cheer slipping away, Yan sighed and resigned herself to fate. Even if she corrected their misunderstanding, there was little chance for victory.

Not when competing against the true number one talent of the Empire, Sumila of the People, a woman so far above her, Yan didn’t even deserve to be called a rival.

Chapter Meme
