A shoutout to my two newest anonymous Patrons. Thank you for the support!   Humming along with Tali's off-key singing, Charok followed Tate on their way to visit Rain. His duties at the restaurant had increased of late, taking on the monumental task of feeding the newcomers. Rain and Gerel's arduous training regimen meant each trainee required hearty meals to keep them from withering away. Although his pay had increased, coin was of little value to him, having built up a substantial nest egg during his time in the Banner. Spending time with his children was more important to him, but lately he only had a few hours after lunch with them now that they were in lessons, work keeping him well past their bedtime.  Spotting the wildcats, Tate ran ahead to greet them with arms wide open. “Jimjam! Aurie!” Stopping short, little Tate waited patiently for the animals to come to him, per Rain's instructions. Well-trained as they were, they were still wild animals. Auric happily ran into Tate, butting his head against the child in a show of affection while Jimu reacted with typical feline indifference.  A deep, rumbling growl emanated from Auric's chest, raising the hairs on the back of Charok's neck. Although it was a sound of contentment, it was learned and not instinctual, the cat's response to Rain's delighted coo's whenever they growled at him, the foolish young man mistaking it for purring. Even after so many months, Charok was leery of leaving the children alone with the animals, but they loved them fiercely. Charok's heart still froze when his children turned their backs to the animals, but no harm had come to them yet and there was no indication of any hunting instincts in the lazy, well-fed animals.  Tali shrieked in delight as Pafu ran up to them, snuffling and squeaking for treats. Placing his daughter onto the inquisitive quin's back, Charok smiled as his daughter buried her face in Pafu's fur. Rain had mentioned having the children ride the wildcats, but Charok chided him for filling their heads with nonsense, citing the famous proverb, 'unable to dismount from the tiger's back'. The quins would make excellent mounts and companions for his children, growing along one another like Alsantset and Suret.  The thought of his wife brought both joy and sorrow, their current separation a trial of his sanity. Almost an entire year aside from a brief reunion in Shen Huo, their time apart weighed heavily upon him, wishing he could share the joys of raising their children or be at her side to protect her. A single year was almost a fifth of their time together with the twins, his wife missing so much of their growth.  Suppressing his melancholy, he followed his children as they herded the animals into the training camp to find Rain. Exhausted trainees lay strewn about the field in varying stages of distress, numbering almost 200, with more than a third under Rain's direct command. They were a pitiable bunch, and as much as he respected Akanai's wisdom, Charok could not help but feel that giving Rain so much authority was a grave mistake. Too willful and stubborn, almost fanatical in his pursuit of strength, those qualities showed in his methods of training. To have an entire cadre of new Sentinels following in his footsteps seemed ill-conceived, and Gerel did little to curb Rain's enthusiasm.  In fact, Gerel not only allowed Rain's militant exercises, the fool encouraged them, zealously working alongside him to push the trainees beyond human limits. Horrific stories made their way to his ears as the trainees ate their supper, tales of vicious beatings and pointless, exhausting activities. From crawling through jagged rocks on their elbows to self-inflicted puncture wounds, Rain and Gerel pushed the trainees to the brink of madness. Charok worried for Rain's safety until he realized that the trainees idolized their young hero in some sick twisted way, speaking in hushed whispers of his prowess, taking great pride in boasting of the immense suffering he put himself through. Watching Rain and Gerel endure more punishment than anyone else gave them hope and inspiration, the results of their torturous training right before their eyes.  The trainees politely guided him to Rain's location, and as always, watching him spar with Gerel brought a sense of pride and awe. His frail little brother come into his own, a powerful warrior who stood at the forefront of his peers, a hero of the People. Determined and strong-willed, Rain weathered Gerel's attacks, but the older warrior dominated their match up through superior skill. Sensing Gerel's Aura, an ice-cold killing intent crashing into Rain, Charok narrowed his eyes as he exuded his own, protecting his children from the powerful assault and resisting the urge to put an end to this torment.  It was too much. Just because a man could endure the heat did not mean you roasted him over a flame. As soon as Rain learned to condense his Aura, this 'training' would be made moot, there was no reason for Gerel to make him suffer so. Seeing Rain fight unhindered filled him with misery, wondering what his little brother had experienced to be able to move despite feeling what should be soul-crushing terror.  The spar came to an abrupt end as Gerel's sword smashed into the crown of Rain's head, dropping to the ground in a boneless heap. Concerned for his safety, Charok ran to his side, Rain blinking in confusion at the sudden change in perspective, eyes barely able to focus. “Hello brother, when did you get here?” Giggling like an idiot, he grimaced at the sudden pain, cradling his head. “Dammit, that's the second time today I fractured my skull.”  Glaring murderously at Gerel, Charok helped Rain up and into the shade, burning with anger at being ignored by that arrogant bastard. Wiping away the blood, he fumed quietly as Rain healed, Rain's daily injuries only surpassed by his growing appetite. Almost 175 centimeters tall, with broad shoulders and a thin frame, Rain was experiencing one last spurt of growth. Still short compared to the other Sentinels, there was sturdiness to him now, power and strength hidden beneath his sinewy form, a handsome young man by any measure.  After a few minutes, Rain opened his eyes and smiled as he stood. “Hey, sorry for keeping you waiting. Now where are those little terrors?”  “The children can wait, we must speak.” Considering his words carefully, he studied Rain, a young man standing before him in tattered clothes, with an easy smile and trusting gaze, it was difficult to match him to the stories of the 'barbaric savage' who brutally defeated four Society champions in single combat, a 'devil in human skin'. Alsantset had written of his feats and her worries, and although he did not agree with her about forcing him to stay in the village, something needed to be said.  Clearing his throat, he placed his hand on Rain's neck, forcing the young man to look him in the eye. The hesitation was gone now, no discomfort or unease, only confidence, love, and minor confusion. “No one can force you to fight, not Akanai, not Baatar, not even the Emperor. You made plenty of money and Taduk has said that if you applied yourself to your studies, you would be the youngest healer in history. Three years, he says, and you'll earn the title. Why not stay here and focus on becoming a healer?”  With a warm smile, Rain shook his head sadly as he glanced over at the twins. “You too, huh? Taduk asked me the same thing. I'd love to stay here and get fat, but I don't think I'd be able to enjoy myself. You didn't see the horde of Defiled waiting beyond the wall. I have to do something.”  “The wall has stood for millennia and is defended by the greatest heroes of the Empire. You need not worry.”  Smiling wryly, Rain sighed. “If the Defiled obediently lined up for me to kill, I could swing my sword day and night without rest for a year and still there would be more Defiled standing than I could count. An endless horde of bloodthirsty animals, ready to ravage and murder, gathered only a few dozen kilometers away from where we stand. I can't ignore that, not when I can help.”  Chuckling helplessly at his resolution, Charok hugged his brother, the little hero of the People. To watch a little mouse of a slave grow into a commendable warrior was a source of great pride. “Very well, I only mention it because I could use the help at home. Do what you must, but return whole and unchanged. Remember who you are above all else: Rain, uncle to Tate and Tali, Brother to Charok and Alsantset.”  “I wouldn't have it any other way.” Grinning cheerfully, Rain bounded over towards the twins, grabbing them in his arms and roaring playfully as they squealed in delight. Pausing briefly in his play to greet Mei Lin as she arrived, Rain kissed her on the cheek before returning to rolling about in the grass without a care, the very picture of joy and love. From here, the four of them would have dinner with Taduk before returning home, a family meal together that he wished to join every day.  Catching Mei Lin's eye, he gave her a small smile and a thumbs up, smirking at her shy blush. Rain had been far more affectionate of late and it seemed only a matter of time before the two were betrothed. Little Rain, soon to be married with two wives, three if Adujan returned unwed. All would be well so long as Rain survived the coming storm.  War was a harsh and unpredictable mistress, who knew what the future held in store?

