“I only know the name because my master has mentioned it a few times. It’s not really relevant until you become an Inner Disciple. Outer Disciples lack the knowledge and cultivation to study the cipher, whether it’s to draw inspiration for their cultivation or seize fate,” Idiche explained. “Inner Disciples are qualified to touch the corner of the mystery. True Disciples are strong enough to contribute to its completion.”

Idiche looked at the illusory mists swirling through the forest. “I’ve heard that expanding the cipher is extremely lucrative.”

“It’s incomplete?” Zac muttered, glancing at Esmeralda. “Like the Perennial Vastness?”

“The approach is similar,” Esmeralda agreed. “Though they’re not completing the Dao. They’re working together to fix that old man’s machine.”

Zac was of the same mind. He hadn’t heard anything about Omnipresence since stepping foot on the Mercurial Shores, but he would have been surprised if the concept wasn’t central to the court’s operations. Otherwise, Janos wouldn’t have activated two halos by saving Kadel, who later became Grand Dream.

A fate-defying scheme like the Omnipresence Chamber, based on the unique nature of the Stellar Wanderers, would naturally present multiple challenges. The court’s elite disciples had probably been chipping away at those bottlenecks for generations. Zac had a feeling they never reached their goal in the original timeline.

They probably ran out of time, forcing them to take shortcuts. Perhaps that was why timelines were bleeding into each other around the Peregrine Ocean, and why Ultom’s corruption had managed to seep into the Omnipresence Chamber. If the missions surrounding the Hollow Court were to stabilize the bridges to the lower planes, then the Mercurial Court’s tasks had trialtakers perfecting the technology that preserved and altered history.

“I don’t know what you two are whispering about, but I have an idea,” Idiche said. “I think there was a second reason I went and lured over that specific pack of beasts. I saw an underground tunnel and pools of lava in my dreams. I think they were blocking the path we needed to take, and fighting them in their home would have been dangerous.”

“Beats picking a route at random,” Zac said. “Where did you find them?”

“There, I think?” Idiche said, pointing at one of the closest mountain peaks.

“Alright. Let’s just follow their trail. Shouldn’t be too hard,” Zac said.

“I wish you’d stop saying things like that. Nothing good ever comes after,” Esmeralda sighed, shrinking deeper into Zac’s mane of silvery hair.

“I—” Zac raised his hands in defeat when Idiche glared at him like she’d bite him if he kept tempting fate.

The trio finally left the beach, with Zac taking the lead. He tensed up the moment he passed through the first line of trees. The ambient energy had skyrocketed. It was still mainly Dream Energy, with corruption trying to emerge from below, though Zac also noted a slight undertone of Temporal Dao. That little Time-based spirituality couldn’t harm Zac, especially after getting help from Grand Dream. The problem was the overbearing power of Fantasy.

If not careful, his mind would be set adrift. That wouldn’t be that big of a problem if he were at home. On an island covered in formations, it could lead one into a deathtrap. Just as dangerous, being distracted by the illusions could provide the whispers of the Lost Plane a point of entry into one’s mind.

This much wasn’t enough to make Zac lose his wits or his bearings, but they’d also just entered the forest. The ambient energy was not the only thing to worry about. The mists churned, and a toppled trunk suddenly exploded to give way to a herd of frenzied deer. Their horns were a beautiful green jade, but their eyes were pitch-black and marred by madness.

Frothing at the mouth and reeking of hostility, the beasts charged right at Zac. The Killing Intent that had just calmed down began accelerating, and Zac’s heart thumped with anticipation. Rather than rabid Beast Kings, the pack of eight looked like enlightenment on legs. They hadn’t even made it a hundred meters into the forest before a second pack delivered themselves. Their journey to the lodge would be a constant battle at this rate.

Zac couldn’t be happier.
