A powerful blow smashed into his head and he stumbled away with the weapon stuck to his flesh, falling into the fire. Shrieking madly, the heat burned away his clothes and skin, his body erupting in flames as he rolled about in futile effort to extinguish them. The world spun as he wailed to the heavens, tormented by agony and injustice.

A thousand voices whispered into his ear, unified in a single message.

'Foolish child, you are not the flame but the fuel. Surrender and the bandit will die.'

A strangled cry erupted into the heavens as he rejected them, his body wracked with spasms as the fire burned away at him. I am the Devouring Inferno. I am the Consuming Flame.

I will not accept defeat.

I will not surrender.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Bei sat frozen in fear as she watched the fight unfold, her heart hammering in her chest. Beautiful, heroic Gen, being beaten by that ruffian Baledagh, she had to help him.

No, Gen had done so many horrible things to her, how could she even think that?

But she'd wanted him for so long and this was who he was. A powerful man who loved her, cherished her, held her close in his embrace. The pain was her fault, her doing, she shouldn't have cried and screamed, shouldn't have said those horrible things.

Jerking from a gentle touch, Bei turned to see Qing-Qing staring at her, concern and pity clear in her eyes as Deng motioned for them to hurry. “Bei we need to leave now so we don't get in Baledagh's way.” Grabbing her hand, Qing-Qing tried to pull her away with bound hands. Snatching her arm back, Bei screamed wordlessly, unable to speak after her husband's first punishment. Gesturing for silence, Qing-Qing reached out again, holding Deng back as she waited for Bei to take her hand. “It's not your fault Bei, it's his. Gen did all this, come away with me for now. We'll be fine, Baledagh will win and Gen will pay for his crimes.”

The words rang through her head, a clarion call of awareness. It wasn't her fault. She loved the old Gen, the hunter she grew up with, brash and cocky, handsome and funny, the future village chief. She didn't ask for the pain or the humiliation, she didn't want it. Trembling, she reached out to take her best friend's hand, as Qing-Qing continued to reassure her. “You didn't have a choice, you had to kill Uncle Wei or Gen would have killed you.”

The scene changed before her eyes and she found herself staring into Papa's eyes once again, his hurt, loving glance from his knees, clutching at his belly. 'Why?' He asked, a single word without a hint of blame, his warm blood coating her hands. Why? Why did she kill Papa?

'Precious child, why indeed? There is no need to suffer so. Surrender, and your pain will disappear.'

Tears falling from her eyes, Bei nodded once as the world disappeared into oblivion.

I'm sorry Papa. Please forgive your little Bei.

Chapter Meme
