Why am I back here again? I thought I was over these goblin dreams. Stretching my arms out, I look around the familiar goblin infested clearing.

Maybe it’s because I just raised my stats, but the realization that this is all dream comes naturally. The nightmare that’s been plaguing me for over four years, loses all of its terror with the understanding that this is all in my head.

Meeting the eyes of the goblins, as they gaze back at me, I wonder how to proceed? Over the years this dream has reappeared less and less, with it only popping up once a month here and there. This usually goes one of two ways. I either go berserk and murder all the goblins or they swarm me till I die.

But this is a lucid dream, I don’t need to do the same things over and over again. Looking at the expressionless goblins, I smile. These are my younger self fears. Fathers taken me back into the woods, and I’ve had to kill more goblins from time to time. I’m no longer helpless or inexperienced. The blank faces actually look funny when I imagine their real-life counterparts.

This is a blessing; my mind is giving me a chance to overcome my fears once and for all. Taking a deep breath, I exhale my last remaining fears and insecurities. With every breath, my mind clears, and my breath pushes the goblins back into the surrounding woods.

As the last pair of eyes disappear into the distance, I take a seat on the forest floor, enjoying a new sense of peace. Without being attacked, I can look at all the small details around me. The woods surrounding me seem to release their constrictive hold on me. Where was once a wall of dark jungle, I can now see the woods I’m familiar with. I’m no longer sitting in a place of fear, the moons overhead drive away the darkness and light up the surroundings with a beautiful silver glow.

This is the best dream I’ve ever had. I wonder if I can manipulate reality here? Picking up a leaf, I try to imagine it made out of solid gold. When nothing happens, I can’t help but feel a little disappointed. People say, if you’re in a lucid dream, you can control anything around you. But no matter what I imagine, nothing changes. I can’t make myself ten feet tall, I can’t cast a world altering spell, and I can’t even increase my bust size. I was just curious what they would feel like if they were slightly larger.

With no reason to stay, I think it’s time I wake up.

…

Time to wake up!

…

“Exit!”“End simulation!”“Wake up!”

When the shouting fails, I turn to the oldest method in the book, pinching myself. It hurts for a second, and I’m still left standing in the clearing, and now I have an angry red mark on my arm.

This dream isn’t fun anymore. I still feel safe and secure, so nothings coming out of the woods again. If I can’t leave, maybe there’s something I need to find? Looking up at the moons, the biggest calls to me, I decide to use it as a guide and follow it through the woods.

With the forest mirroring the one around our village, I use the skills father taught me, to proceed in a straight line. Step after step, I follow my guide in the night sky. The farther I walk, the thinner the trees become and the scenery becomes something new. Instead of a forest of trees, I’m looking across a barren landscape of grey rocks and hills.

Looking up, the moon is no longer partially covered by the canopy, giving the appearance that’s grown in the sky. It still calls to me, so I continue my journey.

I know this is still a dream, but it feels like I’ve been walking for days. Without the need for food, water, or rest, I easily march into the distance.

Weaving in and out of boulders, hiking up hills, and even crawling through small caves, I’m led deeper into the dream. It feels like I’m getting closer to something important.

Walking around a large boulder, a wave of accomplishment washes over me. In front of me is the most beautiful scene I’ve come across in either life. At the foot of a cliff, I marvel at the black sea sprawling out into the distance. I marvel at the stillness of the water, not one ripple marks the surface. The light of the moon and stars reflects across the water, giving the impression of a second sky below me. Looking into the dark beyond, I watch as the two moons almost touch each other in the distance.

Wait!

Why is one moon hovering over the water, while its mirror image emerges from the sea, taking position next to it?

As one, the twin moons ascend back up the sky, only stopping when they're right above me.

Their combined light washes over me, turning my surroundings bright silver. Before the light becomes unbearable, they erupt in silver flames. No, the flames are translucent, they just look silver from the light.

I fall to my knees, when the feeling of being watched overpowers me. I can’t look away, and to my horror the twin moons blink at me. They’re no longer moons, it’s a pair of eyes!

Whose eyes are those!?

I try to take a breath, but my lungs refuse to work. The overpowering feeling from my Sense Soul skill burns throughout my chest.

I can’t tear my eyes away!

I need to move!

Move Damn It!

The pain of running into a stone wall rips my consciousness back to reality. Looking around, I’m tangled in my blanket, lying on my bedrooms stone floor.

Pulling my legs up to my chest, I try to stop shivering. I beat one nightmare, only to have a worst one come and take its place.

Why can’t I ever just wake up like a normal person?

The early rays of light through my window tell me I slept through yesterday afternoon till at least the next day.

“Can this get any worse?” No sooner than uttering those cursed words I’m proven right.

“Aaliyah? Are you awake sweety? Are you feeling better?” Still laying on the floor, I can only roll over and look at mother staring down at me. Mothers look of worry changes to one of confusion. “Aaliyah, why are you on the floor?”

I’m about to explain my tier 5 skill, when I’m reminded of my earlier conversation with my parents. They warned me I should never tell anyone about tier 5 skills even if its them. Without a decent explanation, the worst lie I can think of tumbles out of my mouth.

“I fell out of bed and decide to try laying here for a bit…” Mothers eyes narrow like she’s trying to solve a mystery inside her head. I can only maintain eye contact for a few measly seconds before I’m forced to turn away. After our staring contest abruptly finishes, mother has a look of realization.“Aaliyah stand up for me.” Her request confuses me. “Uh ok.” Why does she want me to stand up?

I try and force my body up, only to launch my whole body four feet into the air. I land on my knees and palms of my hands, as a look of horror crosses my face. “Did I just hop like a rabbit?”

“I knew it! Del told us you were trying to distribute your status points when you collapsed. You’re not used to your new body.” I’m happy she’s not suspecting another reason for me being on the floor but this is a whole other problem.

Before I can ask mother for help, she turns to leave my room. “I’ll be back to check on you in a hour, try not to break any of your furniture.”

“Mom!” I try to turn and address her before she leaves, only to tumble over my arms and roll across my floor. I can’t believe she left me here! I still have questions! What about Del? How long have I been out? What’s for dinner…?

“Mom! Can I come out of my room now!” I shout through my open door. I wait for the warden to finally come and release me from jail. Listening to the approaching footsteps, I watch as mother appears in my doorway for the eighth time today.

She analyzes my room before she bends down and picks up the cast iron pot that she served my dinner in. Picking out the metal spoon from within, she holds the metal utensil up to her eye and scrutinizes the utensil. It’s easy to see the wavy pattern in the handle that shouldn’t be there. I tried straightening it back out with my bare hands, but without my proper tools, the spoon will forever look like a bad piece of modern art.

“Aaliyah, if you can’t even eat without breaking a spoon, how can I let you out into the house?” I wonder if I will ever be able to pull off that perfect mom look, the one where you can’t even argue your side of the story.

“So, you’re keeping me trapped in here how long? I didn’t break the spoon, I only bent it.” I don’t know why, but my second status distributing is much harder to control. Even meditating all day and practicing some minor exercises, I still have flashes of uncontrollable strength. The worst part is my new Dexterity. My limbs move so much smoother, I often over shoot whatever I’m trying to do. Each step I took earlier this morning felt like I was constantly using my Double step skill, making me fall on my face multiple times.

“How about I let you out, when you can walk down the hallway without tripping.” Ugg that mom smile! I can only turn my head away and reluctantly agree with her. “Ok mom.”

“It’s almost bed time, sweety. You should crawl into bed and try again tomorrow.” Bending down she kisses my forehead. I make sure not to move, in case I accidentally hurt her.

Of course, she stays behind to make sure I get tucked in safely. Or maybe she just wanted to see my impression of a caterpillar. With her covering her mouth with her hands, trying to keep her laughter barely muffled, I’d bet on the second choice.

“Good night mom, love you.” I try to show my displeasure, but it only makes mother laugh harder. “See you tomorrow, Aaliyah.” As mother leaves to clean the kitchen, I’m left alone in my bed. Surprisingly I’m more tired than usual, despite all the extra sleep I got the night before.

My body wants me to try and sleep, but every time I close my eyes, the feeling from my dream reemerges. Every time I tried to meditate in my deeper state, I would be assaulted with the feeling of being watched, even if I wasn’t looking around my soul.

I didn’t know a tier 5 skill would be this much trouble. I wonder if all tier 5 skills affect people in negative ways?

What an annoying day.

Now I’m stuck watching the sun rise.

I woke up three times last night when I was forced to face those moon eyes again. Much like the goblin dream there are multiple things that can happen. First thing I noticed was no matter which direction I walk in; I always end up at the dark sea and experience the two eyes. The second thing that bothers me is the time compression. After I fell asleep the second time last night, I tried to just stay in the clearing till morning arrived.

It was hard to tell time when its perpetual night time in my dream, but it felt like I sat for months and nothing happened, time only seemed to flow as I walked towards the dark sea. It would be cool if I could train in a situation like that, like my own hyperbolic time chamber, but I couldn’t strain myself with any physical exercise, and though I could use my magic skills there seemed to be a barrier keeping me from gaining any insights.

After waking up the third time, I decided to just wait for morning to come.

Now that the sun is up, I can continue practicing with my new body with the added benefit of a horrible night’s rest. I try to start off slowly by inching my legs around so I’m sitting on the edge of my bed.

The only thing I’ve noticed about my dreams is that my new skill is leveling after I exit the dream world.

Status Page:LV: 58 Experience: 229,571/ 353,634Health: 2,000/2,000 Stamina: 1,248/1250 Mana: 782/1,000Vitality: 200Endurance: 75Strength: 100Dexterity: 100Senses: 60Mind: 60Magic: 100Clarity: 75Status Points: 21Skills: Sense Mana (LV76), Acting (LV30), Meditation (LV76), Expel mana (LV53), Charm (LV50), Running (LV66), Cleaning (LV50), Mathematics (LV30), Writing (LV32), Mana Manipulation (LV41), Wood Carving (LV19), Drawing (LV37), Axe Skills (LV50), Inject mana (LV40), Mining (LV37), Cooking (LV29), Sewing (LV24), Chanting (LV41), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Measurement (LV36), Intimidating Shout (LV26), Spear Skills (LV2), Dagger Skills (LV31), Trading (LV26), Hammer Arts (LV34), Axe Arts (LV29), Dagger Arts (LV12), Double Step (LV39), Increase price (LV7), Lower Price (LV4), Double Strike (LV21), Precise Strike (LV18), Mana Skin (LV29), Sense Soul (LV3)

The skill has jumped up two levels since the nightmares. I wish I could be happy about its quick growth but so far, I’ve only been harmed by the skill. I’ll have to take some time after I regain control over my body and analyze the skill in greater depth.

Moving slowly, like I’m practicing Tai Chi, I stand and walk to the center of my room. Focusing on my limbs, I slowly increase my speed. Maybe I only needed to rest.

“Hey Aaliyah! Want to go with your old man into the forest!?” As my door is flung open, I launch myself across my room, slamming my back against the far wall. “You’re supposed to knock dad!”

“Sorry!” Father raises his hands to cover his eyes. “I’m not naked, dad. You scared me; I think I almost broke my wall.”

Lowering one of his hands, he peeks to make sure everything is ok. Realizing I’m decent, he walks over to me and hoists me onto my feet just like when I was a baby. “Your mother told me you were having trouble with your new status but I didn’t know it was this bad.”

With his strong arms on my shoulders holding me straight, he looks around my room. “This isn’t a good place for you to practice. I know a good spot, hold on.”

“What?!!!” I have little time to question father as he scoops me up in a princess carry. I’m about to fight back when I remember about my Strength stat. My body tenses up and I try not to move a muscle fearing I might hurt dad.

