The Gnoll was silent as she stood behind her stall full of carefully arranged wares. Another Drake trotted up, happy to be served at last. Krshia turned to look at him and his scales turned grey and he stumbled away.
Slowly, Krshia turned and went back into her small stall. She pawed around near the back, until she came to a long, rolled up bundle placed carefully on top of a few crates. Krshia brought it back and laid it on her counter, brushing aside her display to make room.
She did not move any faster than usual. There would be time enough for that, later.
Krshia unwrapped the bow and stood it upright in her shop. She drew the string out of the bundle, checking to make sure it was still oiled and unfrayed. Then she began stringing the bow.
Across the street Lism, the waste of fur of a shopkeeper, was marching towards Krshia. Probably to complain about one of the two humans. Krshia took no notice of him. She reached into the bundle and pulled out a wrapped bundle.
Lism took one look at the huge broadhead arrows Krshia unwrapped from their wax paper covering and immediately turned around and walked away. The other pedestrians on the street took one look at the shopkeeper arming herself and made themselves scarce.
The bow was strung, and Krshia put the arrows in a quiver at her side. She was ready. She opened the side panel of her shop and stepped out.
Then she raised her head to the sky and began to howl.
 
—-
 
Selys had no better news for Erin. The Drake only shook her head and spread her hands helplessly.
“Sorry, Erin. I know this is serious but no one wants to go into the Ruins. Not after what came out.”
“But there are other adventurers trapped down there. Friends. Comrades in arms and that sort of thing. You’re saying no one will help?”
“All the best human adventurers went down with the Horns of Hammerad. The ones who are left are, well…”
“We’re just smarter than that lot, that’s all.”
Both Drake and human turned to look at who had spoken. A Drake with a sword sat with his feet up at a table, balancing on the chair with his tail. He laughed as his friends, all Drakes, started making jokes about the adventurers.
Erin stared around the room desperately. There weren’t all Drake and Gnolls in the room. Some humans were there too, but none of them would meet her eyes. Or the ones that did were laughing at the adventurers.
“Won’t any of you help? Please, they’re in trouble.”
“They should have gotten themselves out of trouble or not gone looking for it in the first place, Human.”
The Drake who had first spoken laughed again with his buddies.
“Or maybe they just ran the instant they saw undead and got themselves killed. Either way, we’re not risking our hides for a few idiots.”
“Cowards.”
Ryoka said it loudly, and it had the same effect as a knife. It cut through the sound and laughter and made the Drake who had spoken sit forwards with a thump.
The mood changed. The adventurers at the table glared at Ryoka. She glared back.
“I thought adventurers were supposed to be brave. You lot should get rid of your swords and become Runners. At least they get paid to run away.”
The Drakes at the table stood up, hissing angrily. Selys banged her hand on the counter.
“Stop that! No fighting! This city’s had enough of it!”
The Drakes hesitated. The mood in the room wasn’t on their side, and they weren’t itching for a fight in any case.
They sat back down. Perhaps it was the look in Ryoka’s eye and the rumors about a crazed Runner girl with bare feet. But it was probably because of the look Erin gave them. Everyone had heard about the human who slew the monster made of skin.
“I’m sorry.”
Selys apologized again, but Erin just shook her head. Ryoka was already leaving the Guild, and Erin ran after her with a hurried apology for Selys.
This time Ryoka set a course for the gates of the city without even talking. Erin had to walk quickly to catch up. The two girls walked through the crowds of people silently.
They heard the howling begin as they left the Adventurer’s Guild. It was immediately joined by more voices of other Gnolls around the city, so that the streets rang with the sound and Drakes and Humans froze and stared around wildly. But neither girl so much as looked up.
“Well. Ksmvr said he’d meet us at the Ruins. That’s something.”
“I suppose. Do you have anything you need at the inn?”
“Yeah. Give me a few minutes and I’ll be good to go.”
“Good. I’ll help you grab everything. We need food, water, healing potions—”
Erin lifted the bag she’d carried from Krshia’s store. She had healing potions, and the three frying pans she’d brought. Ryoka eyed them but made no comment. After a moment Erin asked the question on her mind.
“You met Gazi?”
“You know her?”
“Yeah. She was at my inn. She helped me out too, when I first met her. She was, um, nice. Do you think she really…?”
“I don’t know. But she was close to those Gnolls and she pretended not to know what I was talking about when I asked.”
Ryoka walked on and hesitated.
“She…bothered me.”
“Was it the eye? That creeped me out a bit.”
“No. It was her. I can’t explain it, but each of those Gnolls that died was beheaded. With a single cut.”
“Oh. She has…a really sharp sword.”
“Really?”
“Yes.”
They said nothing more until they got back to the inn. It took them only fifteen minutes, and Erin was gasping for breath when they got there. Ryoka looked at her in way that made Erin feel certain she was judging her. She wasn’t even sweating.
It was cold anyways, not the right temperature for sweating. It didn’t feel like winter, but then, maybe they were in the equivalent of Florida or something. Erin opened the door and jumped back.
Toren stood in the doorway, holding his sword. He stared curiously at Erin as Ryoka raised her fists and stepped back.
“Toren! Don’t stand with a sword in the doorway! Come on; help me!”
Erin pushed the skeleton aside and Toren sheathed his sword and began following her around as she yelled out instructions. Ryoka watched the skeleton warily, but Toren meekly ran about, gathering a few glowing green jars, supplies, and for some reason, several rocks from outside.
“Ready!”
Erin reappeared a few minutes later with a bulging rucksack, and all three frying pans strapped to it. Ryoka eyed the bag. Well, Erin could always stay in the back and carry the food. She had no idea how deep the Ruins were. She had no idea of anything, really.
It was the worst possible way to enter a dangerous area, but Ryoka had no choice. She had to go.
“Are you done? Let’s get moving.”
“Okay. Toren will carry everything until we get there.”
So saying, Erin handed the heavy pack to the skeleton. He accepted it without complaint and staggering a bit, followed Erin and Ryoka. Ryoka thrust open the door and paused.
Several Goblins jumped back, and one screamed in a high-pitched voice. Ryoka nearly threw herself back into Erin before she remembered these were nominally friendly Goblins.
“Rags!”
Erin pushed past Ryoka as the smallest Goblin stared up at Ryoka suspiciously. She smiled at the Goblin.
“I’m glad you’re here. We need your help!”
Ryoka did a double take as Rags blinked in surprise. Surely Erin wasn’t considering…?
She was.
In a few sentences Erin described the message Pisces had gotten, and their mission to enter the Ruins. Rags listened attentively while the rest of her group stared around idly or picked at their noses and ate what came out.
Erin finished with a short plea.
“You understand, don’t you? You’ll help, right?”
Rags thought for a second, pondering all she had heard. Then she looked up at Erin and shook her head.
“What?”
Erin stared down at the Goblin. Rags shrugged at her.
“But they’re in trouble. And you can help! You’ve got a sword and your tribe. We need you, Rags.”
Again, Rags shrugged. Erin didn’t speak Goblin and Rags wasn’t speaking, but she got a definite sense of indifference from the small Goblin. What had the Horns of Hammerad ever done for her? Why should she risk her neck?
“Rags, please. They’ll die if we can’t get to them. Remember Ceria? Remember Calruz?”
Rags scowled at Erin and turned away. Her attitude seemed to indicate that if there wasn’t any food or chess to be had, there was no point in being here.
That was the last straw. Erin had listened to grouchy Zevara, surprisingly unhelpful Klbkch, Krshia and the idea that Gazi was evil, and a room full of useless adventurers. Her patience finally ran out. She snapped.
“Hey!”
She grabbed Rags bodily and lifted her up. The Goblin shouted in outrage and tried to break free, but Erin just glared at her.
“I’m asking you for help. You owe me. I’ve fed you and given you help and even the sword and shield! I even made Pisces teach you magic! Now I need help saving my friends.”
Rags growled at Erin and kicked at her. Erin bit back a yelp as one bare foot kicked her in the chest. Hard.
“That’s it.”
The small Goblins grabbed at the sheathed short sword at her waist, but Erin just turned her upside down and began to shake. The Goblin’s head and body bounced around wildly as Erin shook the small Goblin, shouting loudly.
“Help—me! Help—us!”
She lifted Rags up and down by the ankles, so that the small Goblin bounced up and down like a bungee jumper. To Ryoka it looked like one of the rides at an amusement park that send hapless riders down a hundred feet per second out of the sky, except here no one was amused. Except for her and the other Goblins, of course.
“I’m not gonna stop until you say yes! Say yes! Say it!”
The Goblin screamed and tried to bite and punch at Erin, but to no avail. Erin whirled Rags around by the legs in a circle as the Goblin screamed. Ryoka had done that as a kid with her father, once or twice. But it had been her holding on as he whirled her around by the arms, not the legs. The way Erin was doing it to Rags was a lot faster, more dangerous, and a lot less fun.
At last, Rags screamed something loudly and Erin stopped. The girl glared at the Goblin as Rags hung upside-down in the air, even greener than normal.
“You’re going to help? Promise?”
Rags nodded weakly. Erin dropped her.
The Goblin landed with a thump in the grass. For a second Ryoka thought she was going to run, but when Rags pushed herself up the Goblin could only stagger around drunkenly.
“Run away and I’ll throw a rock at you. And you know I’ll hit you.”
Erin threatened Rags. Ryoka wondered how credible that was—Erin didn’t seem like she was the athletic type, and Ryoka seriously doubted she’d ever played baseball. Maybe softball, at best. She didn’t seem like the competitive type.
Rags glared at Erin, stumbled a few feet away, and threw up noisily in the grass. She paused after vomiting up a considerable amount of undigested food, thought for second, and then threw up again.
Erin stumbled as she turned, dizzy from the swinging herself. She nearly walked into another Goblin. Rag’s small posse was alternating between glaring at her and staring at the vomit in the grass with curiosity or hunger.
Maybe they were protective of their boss. She didn’t care. Erin glared at them.
“You wanna fight? Huh?”
The Goblins looked at their leader, still noisily being sick in the grass. They looked back at the Destroyer, Slayer of the Skin Monster, Provider of Pasta and Free Drinks. They backed up quickly.
Rags was nearly done puking. The Goblin wiped at her mouth and said something in her scratchy language. Erin pointed at her.
“You’re helping. No arguments. You and your tribe—”
Erin hesitated and turned around. The area was already emptying out of Goblins as they ran away.
“Damn it.”
Ryoka glanced at her. The girl’s earlier amusement at the spectacle had evaporated like the other Goblins.
“We’ve got to go. Why do you want the Goblin, anyways? Even her tribe wouldn’t be much help.”
Erin disagreed.
“She’s got a sword and a shield. Plus, she knows magic.”
Ryoka paused.
“…She does?”
“Yeah, maybe not as much as you, but some. And she was the one who killed the super-evil-skin-worm monster that was leading the undead.”
Ryoka stared at her. Erin threw up her hands.
“It’s true! Why does no one believe that?”
 
—-
 
They met Pisces waiting at the Ruins. The mage was antsy, and he hadn’t brought anything but his customarily dirty robes. He didn’t have his usual sneer though, and he was nervous. Possibly the only person more nervous than him was Ksmvr.
“I would deem it far more prudent for you to remain behind, Erin Solstice. You are no warrior, and the Ruins are dangerous.”
“They’re my friends. I’m going in there.”
Erin glared at Ksmvr. The Antinium wavered, and then sighed.
“Very well. But remain behind me at all times.”
Rags glared at the Antinium as he looked down at her, and then at Toren.
“You have chosen an unusual group.”
“No one else would come.”
“I see.”
Ryoka ignored the two and marched up to Pisces. He looked at her with the expression of someone trying to recall her name. She didn’t care.
“Did you get another message from them?”
He shook his head.
“Possibly something is blocking Ceria. Or her mana might still be low. It is possible if she is…wounded.”
“Right then, let’s find her.”
“I suppose so. But there’s a ah, problem.”
“What’s that?”
He nodded at the vast entrance to the ruins.
“The guardsmen won’t let us in.”
After the attack on Liscor, a palisade and deep ditch had been dug, and the guards at the entrance to the Ruins were now twenty strong, armed with arrows and torches and even a Drake mage in robes at the back. The guardsman in charge stared at Erin and the others as they marched up.
“We’re going in.”
The Drakes and Gnolls stared at Erin as she stood in front of them. One of them laughed, but stopped when no one joined them. Their leader, a Drake with maroon scales shook his head.
“No one goes in or out. Zevara’s orders.”
“She knows we’re going in.”
“She does?”
“She does.”
He shook his head.
“I can’t let you in without word from her.”
“That is regrettable.”
Ksmvr called from behind Erin. He shook his head.
“We should return to the city. It would not do to stand in defiance of the law.”
Ryoka opened her mouth—for what, she didn’t know. A threat? She wasn’t sure of anything that would work. But Erin just narrowed her eyes.
“You’ll let us in.”
“Or what?”
“Or I’ll hurt you.”
