Beneath the layer of charred skin was a Buddhist monk. It clearly wasn’t just an issue of having his hair singed off during the battle. The man was outfitted with six small scars on his forehead, and he emitted the unmistakable aura of Karma. Carl would never forget the feeling after being exposed to that crazy B-grade monk outside the Imperial Graveyard.

Thankfully, this monk didn’t appear any stronger than the Early C-grade captain that Iz had subdued. In fact, he was clearly on his last legs, and his pristine skin couldn’t hide the devastation within. Most likely, his whole Inner World had been incinerated, and he was only holding on through sheer will.

“Benefactor, must you leave us with no hope?” the monk sighed as he looked up at Iz. “I can sense that you already carry great sin. Your actions will only further stain your Karma. It’s still not too late to turn away from the sea of regret.”

Iz’s answer came in the form of a final wave that reduced the dying monk to ash.

“Damn, these baldies are simply everywhere. Was it a trialtaker?” Carl asked.

“No.” Iz shook her head. “This man should have been an infiltrator who implanted the rest of the base with seeds of Dharma. Over decades, this fort was turned into a stronghold of the Buddhist faith.”

“You could have told me and spared me the heart attack,” Carl muttered. “I thought you’d gone crazy there for a while.”

“They’d prepared for our arrival. Our Dao Hearts were targeted the moment we stepped out of the Earthgate. I had to unleash my flames to assert my path,” Iz said, giving him an odd look. “You didn’t notice anything?”

“Huh?” Carl said, thinking back. “For some reason, I missed home when we appeared. Not sure if it’s related?”

“Power of belief,” Iz said, slightly shaking her head.

“So the monks were meddlesome bastards even back in the day,” Carl said. “I didn’t expect them to deal in road sabotage, though.”

“They weren’t,” Iz said. “The Spiritual Spring wasn’t part of their plan. There are signs of them trying to contain it. When they failed, they knew the Farsee Court would send someone to investigate.”

“Then what were they here for?” Carl asked.

Iz took a moment to gather her thoughts before answering.

“The cosmos is limited—limited in resources, space, and even ideas. For one’s cultivation to advance, the fates of those standing in the way must be severed. Similarly, for one truth to exist, another reality must falter.”

“The truth is the truth, isn’t it?” Carl said with confusion, not sure what she was getting at.

“Truth is malleable, and control over the interpretation is at the heart of the great struggles raging across the Multiverse,” Iz said, looking down at the corpse. “The Buddhist Sangha has almost completed the Six Paths of Reincarnation. At that point, the Wheel of Samsara will become truth, and reincarnation will follow the rules of Buddhist doctrine.”

“What’s that got to do with the monks masquerading as border guards?”

“You should have understood the Limitless Empire’s ultimate goal by now,” Iz said.

“Sure, they want to resurrect.”

“In a manner of speaking,” Iz nodded. “Don’t you think it was suspicious how easily we caught onto the clues on our way here?”

Carl’s brows furrowed in thought. Now that she mentioned it, it did seem a bit convenient. He’d chalked it up to his travel partner piecing together the clues thanks to her exceedingly high vantage. But no matter how strong, they were still just juniors playing a game set up ages ago. If the empire wasn’t okay with the truth being exposed ahead of schedule, they should have been more than capable of hiding the traces.

Suddenly, Carl’s neck hair stood on end, and he realized the little tyrant by his side was staring at him with an inscrutable smile.

“Ideas and beliefs can hold great and unexpected power,” she said. “Us knowing should be part of the design. It plants the seed of possibility in our subconsciousness, and it influences our actions as we explore the courts. Even trying to stop their plot helps foster credibility. There would be no reason to resist their attempt if you sincerely believed it could not come true.”

Carl didn’t really understand what Iz was talking about, simply nodding along while memorizing her words. Someone else could unpack all this stuff after he went home. Iz seemed to realize his lack of comprehension and changed her approach.

“Even long after its fall, the Limitless Empire is the Sangha’s greatest adversary. While others fight over the interpretation of Dao, they’ve fought a silent war over the interpretation of Destiny. These Dharmic seeds were planted eons ago, knowing they would die and become part of the continent. They are just pawns in the struggle for the Era’s direction.”

“Wait, are you actually saying that the monks somehow knew this trial would take place and began plotting even before the Dark Ages?” Carl asked. “Are they really that powerful?”

“The Sangha has firmly grasped the Dao of Karma since time immemorial,” Iz shrugged. “Even if they didn’t know exactly what was going on, they’d sense that the Left Imperial Expanse would play a role in achieving their goals. If their attempt didn’t work out in the end, they would only lose a few Dharmic Guardians.”

“For one truth to exist, others have to suffer,” Carl said, finally catching what Iz was putting out. “Will the resurrection of the empire undo their work on their Six Paths of whatever?”

Iz nodded. “What the Limitless Empire is trying to accomplish goes far beyond reaching into the past and resurrecting someone. It goes against all reason, and it proves that the rules of Samsara aren’t absolute. The belief supporting the Six Paths of Reincarnation will be damaged, preventing it from reaching perfection.”

“Wait, if the monks knew this place was trouble, why didn’t they launch a proper strike back then? Why send weak monks to infiltrate remote locations?”

“Perhaps they did? Few know what truly happened during the empire’s final days. The attackers were erased by the Dark Ages along with the empire itself,” Iz shrugged. “I also suspect that thwarting the empire’s plot was never their goal. They’re more ambitious than that.”

“Then what?” Carl asked. “The pillar? Or Ultom?”

Iz looked at the sky where a light drizzle of memory lanterns was falling. “No. What they want is the empire itself. They want to send the last souls of the Limitless Empire into the Six Paths. The extraordinary levels of Destiny these souls carry will become the nourishment that renders the Six Paths Eternal.”
