Truth be told, she had not persisted with her objections for long. While she had never spoken of it aloud, Alsantset dreamed that when she returned to ride with Papa, Rain would be there as well, their happy little family protecting the Empire together, raising their names across the land, Papa to lead and Rain to heal. Then a few years after that, her two babies would join them along with her beloved, three generations of family riding together beneath the Banner. That dream seemed a little closer each day, Rain finally able to harvest the fruits of his labors.

While Rain had been impressive against the Society, once he joined in the war effort, his strength seemed to have dramatically increased, his attitude shifting as well. The common soldiers spoke of him in the same breath as the Magistrate's son, Rain considered a rising dragon to stand at the forefront of the next generation of heroes. They spoke of how he fought fearlessly, leading by example, killing without blinking as he strode about the battlefield, challenging Defiled champions to single combat and emerging battered and bloody, but victorious each time. Five Champions in three days, his exploits would reach the ears of the Marshal, perhaps even earning him a rank. Brigadier Man Giao had personally spoken to Akanai about his accomplishments, his endorsement of Rain booming and enthusiastic.

To think that it had all begun when Akanai brought him to Shen Huo, the news that Rain had finally shown interest in something besides training causing Alsantset to nearly swoon with joy. To be a Sentinel was an honorable calling, where he could make friends and companions of like mind, and if he wished to become a battle healer, combat experience would be required. The month-long separation had been agonizing for her, and when he had returned so badly injured, she had been so distressed that she had almost asked him to abandon his dreams of strength. She had even marched off to Akanai's office, scolding the old woman for not properly looking after her precious little Rain. That had been a terrible and terrifying mistake, one she hoped to never repeat. It was no wonder Papa was still so obedient when Akanai was around.

They rode through the morning until they reached the predetermined campground, a grassy hill with a stream to the east and south, and mountains to the north, it was unlikely that the Defiled would be able to take them by surprise here. The day passed quickly as the Sentinels under her command prepared the camp, putting up embankments to hide their fires, and palisades to impede any charges by Defiled beasts, as well as trip wires and hidden spiked barricades. The infantry joined them by nightfall, the soldiers looking weary and exhausted, unused to marching through the forests. They would likely be used to guard the campground, while Akanai led her Sentinels through the forest in the morning, hunting down the Enemy.

As soon as she found free time, Alsantset wandered towards Rain, watching him at practice. He was performing Oriole Form, Fluttering Raindrops, a series of rapid and abrupt sweeps and spins, as if flinging droplets of water about. He seemed on the verge of Enlightenment once more, his face frowning in concentration as he repeated the motion in different variations, trying to comprehend the movement. Insight through battle, something that occasionally occurred, but Rain seemed to have troubles grasping the lessons according to Sumila. Alsantset settled down, water skin in hand, a meal ready for Rain when he finished, glowing at the scene of her little brother growing stronger by the day.

“Senior Captain, may we speak?” Yan slipped in from the darkness, standing nearby, looking grim and determined.

Alsantset patted the ground next to her. “Little Yan, it is only the two of us. You may call me Alsantset. Sit, I would love to chat with you.” Putting her arm around the too-thin young woman, Alsantset grinned lecherously. “So, I've noticed that your quin is in courtship with Zabu. Am I to expect that you and Rain are in a similar situation? Should I be asking you to call me Sister instead?”

Little Yan blushed furiously at her direct questioning, vigorously denying the claim. “No, not at all Senior Cap...” She paused at Alsantset's look. “Err.. Alsantset.” Another blush. “Rain is unaware of the implications, only thinking it is sweet that Zabu is in courtship.” Yan looked displeased at the declaration, causing Alsantset's grin to grow wider.

“But you are agreeable to a possible courtship with Rain?” Alsantset could not resist pressing further. Yan was a good match for Rain, with their mutual love for the quins and similar temperaments, the foul-mouthed little Sentinel would keep Rain honest, her attitude reminding Alsantset of Mama. It did not hurt for Yan to admit interest, and then Alsantset could begin to gauge Rain's reaction to a match.

All she received in reply was a frown. “I don't know. Sometimes, I think about him in a romantic light, but I do so for many of the men I meet. How am I to know if my feelings are love or lust?”

Poor girl, with no one to give her advice. “You will know when you are ready to know. If you wish to speak of it, or anything at all, you can always come to me. We have spilled blood and shared hardships together, little Yan.”

Finally, a smile from the girl. “Thank you, Alsantset.” She scratched her blushing face before continuing. “I want to speak about Rain actually, but not about courtships. I'm worried about him. About his behavior lately.”

“Of course. I worry about him too, but this is war. He is well equipped to survive, but the reality is that there is little you can do, but pray. Help him if you can, mourn him if he falls. That is the truth of the world. His way of fighting is fearful to watch, but he is more careful with his life that it would appear.” Although she spoke the words, Alsantset knew that should Rain die in battle, she would be inconsolable.

Shaking her head once again, Yan pursed her lips. “No, that's not what I'm worried about. Well, I am worried about that, but that's not why I wanted to talk. It's about what happened at the hamlet.” The girl paused, chewing her lip. “When he was setting the fire, Rain was seething with hatred, I could see it in his eyes, he was unhinged and murderous in his rage. I thought he would be inconsolable afterwards, but when we came out of the forest, he was calm and collected.” She paused and looked around, before leaning in to whisper. “He was going to torture a Defiled, just to get it to scream, so it would bring more Defiled down on us. I stopped him before he could, but if I were not there, he would have. I didn't notice at the time, but his rage had already been swallowed, and he was just... cold. The change in him was unsettling, after I thought about it. I think that... something ... may have happened.”

The blood drained from her face as a heavy knot of worry began to grown in Alsantset's stomach, understanding what little Yan was implying. “You have not spoken your suspicions to Akanai, or anyone else?” Even to suggest that he could have been Defiled could be enough to have Rain ostracized from the People, as few would want to live so close to one that was possibly tainted.

“No, of course not! I mean... I wasn't sure, so I've kept an eye on him, except when he rides off to battle. He hasn't done anything troubling since then though and he even seems normal now, but I'm still worried. He's just... too calm now, too relaxed after every battle. Remember, with the Society? Once blood had been spilled he was as heroic as any, but skittish whenever we weren't fighting. His eyes were always darting about, looking for avenues of escape and attack, almost jumping at every noise and shadow, rings forming underneath his eyes. It's just too great of a change in personality in such a short time. The only thing that hasn't changed is how much he practices.”

“People adapt during war. Those that cannot adapt, die.” Even as she protested, Alsantset knew Yan's words had weight to them, but still she could not accept them. “He has shown no signs of instability, cruelty, or apathy, and while he seems withdrawn, that is simply who he is. Papa watched him for years, making sure that nothing was amiss. Rain is fine.”

“It could have just recently happened, in the early stages. The other signs are there, Alsantset. He is confused at times, I've seen it. He will sit there, brow furrowed, trying to piece something together in his mind. He is sensitive to the light, always covering his eyes from the glare of the Sun, and itching all the time, as if his blood were turning. He's not sleeping very much either, I've seen him hard at practice when I leave for my watch, still there when I return, and at it when I wake.”

There was more, Alsantset could see Yan holding it back. Gesturing for her to speak, Yan looked distraught as she asked, “Has he sought you for help with finding Balance, to use the ring? I've watched him, and he doesn't meditate anymore. It could be that he meditates in his tent, but Huu hasn't been sharing Rain's tent for the past few days. He ah, found other accommodations, so all could be well.” Yan sounded hopeful, and Alsantset wanted to believe as well, but if he were truly unbalanced, then even as much as she hated to think it, it was possible that something was amiss. “I was almost sure that he was fine, that I was only worrying for nothing, but the fact that no one has seen him even trying to find Balance is what brought me to you.”

Other warning signs were apparent to her now that she thought on it, the change in personality, the increased skill and strength, his lack of displayed emotions. “You were right to speak to me, Yan. Please, do not tell anyone else. We must be sure beyond all doubts. He could just be unbalanced, and unwilling to seek help.” Alsantset's eyes locked onto Rain, who continued to perform Fluttering Raindrops, unaware of her gaze. She sat there praying to the Mother that he was still the same person, her precious little brother, that he was only having some difficulties. Tears began to fall from her eyes, but hardening her heart, she focused on the task at hand, turning to discuss with Yan how to best approach Rain. It was possible that the two of them were only overreacting, but all the same, she prepared herself for the worst.

If her little brother were Defiled, then the Rain they all knew and loved was already dead, and she would kill the creature that wore his flesh before he could mar her memories of him, or worse, endanger all the People. The Emperor had exterminated villages for less.

If he were Defiled, then it would be a mercy killing.

Why did she ever let him become a Sentinel?
