wer."I think my sister died in the capital. She won't respond to my letters, so I have to presume so," she offered in return.A sort of peace came over them both. Sharing in their loss seemed to allow them to trust one another just a little.Yattina looked down at the Twin Dungeon's puzzle room on the first floor. It was a very simple design, but it set the tone for the rest of the journey down their floors.The door had six panels. On one side, you placed a tablet from a nearby table, and on the other side, you placed a concept that opposed it.A bird on one side, a fish on the other. Fire on one, ice on the other, and so forth.Still, puzzles were rare on first floors.---"Foodie, we don't have time for this!" Delta warned as Jeb sat against the door into the chamber, having no trouble keeping the Seahagan out by the sheer benefit of his girth."Solve!" Foodie insisted with a whine.The puzzle before them showed two coral 'buckets' of salt. The puzzle gimmick appeared on two floor panels around the room. Jack took one bucket and placed it on the very obvious rough stone square, and it sank down a foot or so. Wyin did the other, and the door began to grind open.It began to open… so slowly."You. Worth the weight in salt!" Foodie announced proudly. Delta had to admit, she liked that one."They stick me with sticks. Jeb will fire back," the troll announced, and the ground shook as he passed gas, causing the Seahagans to screech and retreat.Wyin and Jack pushed to the exit, trying to pull the doors open faster, gagging. Vadellen looked green, and Delta had gone fully immaterial. She was not dealing with that.The boss laid ahead of them… it just stood there like a lifeless doll. It didn't even have a cool entrance!---"Bosses tend to be lackluster on the early floors. Many Dungeons simply take a monster and scale it up with some Mana," she told Lim, who still looked a little stunned at his promotion."Are there any exceptions?" Lim asked curiously as he drew a little stick figure, then a massive one."Hm, a few. The Ruby Dungeon is notable. Its first floor boss is a mirror," she said, pointing to the red circle on the map in the middle of the Long Stretch Desert."Really, how did that happen?" Lim asked, eyes alight with wonderful delight. Yattina enjoyed this… this sharing of her passion."Oh, there's many stories, but the fan favorite is that an ancient Sultan's concubine was about to be replaced with a younger model. She took her most precious possession, a beautiful jeweled mirror, and hurled it out the window and across the desert, where it smashed into the very ground on which the Ruby Dungeon would form," she said, putting on a slight story-teller embellishment to the tale.The likely factual story involved the desert being super heated by an event and the area around the Ruby Dungeon actually being a valley of dangerous glass shards, but there was no need to ruin it for Lim."Mirrors represent self-love if you overuse it, right? So that would explain the Dungeon's obsession with 'pretty' things. It was born out of a tool used to check beauty because the concubine's life depended on it!" Lim said excitedly, looking on the edge of his seat."It's a possibility. The First Floor boss picks one person in the adventurer party and mimics their power, but stronger. The trick is to stand so close together that the mirror creates a horrible, inefficient mess rather than a faithful recreation," Yattina smiled.Lim looked impressed."Still, the average boss isn't as impressive. Just big bruisers tends to be the theme," Yattina admitted.---"Then you aim for the kidneys!" Wyin instructed with a vicious example, knocking the Seahgan down in a heap before she caught another by the throat. The nearby massive Salt Crab looked on at the scene with a flicker of… attention."If there's more than one, use them against each other! People are squishy, and they squish together!" Wyin howled in bliss."Wyin is so cool! I wanna be a warrior when I grow up! Can I visit your Dungeon when I do?" Vadellen asked Lord Mushy, who hummed."We'd be most happy to receive you," he promised the lad."Crab Suplex! More force!" Wyin yelled out as she kicked another Seahagan, the creatures looking more ravenous by the second and never ending. Thirty had come in initially, but by now, far more than fifty had been knocked around.Delta frowned as she felt the Seahagaagainstn slowly begin to retreat, but there was something at the entrance… a far more potent seed than before. It reminded Delta of Devina. A being in touch with nature, but this one was like a storm. Like innocent people being smashed the rocks. Like a violent wind…Destruction and not creation."Enough playing. Something is coming," Delta whispered, and Wyin stopped laughing and threw the two in her hands to the side. All Delta's monsters could sense her emotions."Lord Mushy, Vadellen's life is in your hands. Foodie can't open the door to let us through unless his boss is beaten," Delta cautioned. The being had reached the first room, and the water moved around it, salt pillars cracking as it walked past. The salt trap went off, and the cloud was parted as if a blade had been swung through it.The air itself was this creature's tool."As you command, mother. With me, lad," Lord Mushy directed the boy to an alcove off the side of the room, hidden from all who entered the boss room. Mushy was the best to hide. While not incapacitated by the salt water, he was weakened greatly by it.The creature drew closer.Delta clenched her hand.---"How can anyone take these Dungeons on?" Lim said, shaking his head at some of the creatures."We just used more effective killers," Yattina said bluntly as she sorted through her paperwork to sign off on the promotion."Those with cores have massive potential. The closer we advance to a goal or mission, the more we grow. The more important the mission is, the truer it is to who we are, the faster we develop. Not only that, there are those that engage in unspeakable acts," she said, her voice turning frosty."Breaking the core or draining it of its Mana through vile magic can take its potential, its power to make fantasy into reality… and make it your own. Lands wither, water runs dry, monsters rise in fury, and disaster comes when an established Dungeon is destroyed. One person can doom thousands for power," she explained, remembering the many cores she had studied in pieces."Such practise is banned, but it wasn't always. Many wars have been fought over the ripest of Dungeon Cores. Terrible wars in which a horrible silence always seems to follow in the pages of history," she sighed."Some cores deserve to be broken. Not for power, but for what they've done," Lim said, putting his pen down."The one that killed your brother?" she inquired gently. Yattina was surprised when he shook his head."Those are just… Dungeons. I don't mind them. It's the ones that took my home, turned the water, land, and sky black. I hate them," he whispered."You'll be happy then. Corrupt Dungeons are basically reverse Dungeons. They suck in all life and Mana, draining the land until it crumbles away into the void below. They are to be destroyed at all costs. The Diseased Hand is… tricky because of the three combined forces. We've hit one or two, but the last always brings them back," she explained, feeling oddly guilty that she hadn't done more to help… that Fairplay hadn't.But the Maidens began to vanish only months before the corrupt wars erupted."So, I just need to make my core strong, and I can beat them?" Lim asked, almost childishly at this point."Strong cores have risks, Lim. A desire for more power, the nightmares, the Edge sickness, and more. You have to temper both soul and Core," Yattina said, and Lim leaned in."Can you teach me?" he asked eagerly. The researcher closed her eyes and then smiled."Sorry, I don't have a core," she said, getting the awkward statement out before it could build. He stared at her in shock."How?" he asked. It seemed even Lim knew everyone had a core… should have a core.She pulled down the top of her sweater slightly to show a massive burn scar that started at the collar bone and spread across her shoulders.It covered most of the front of her body, focused around her chest."The last time I saw my sister was when she did this. I can't do magic, and I don't grow like others, but I've got my mind and my books," she said tightly, forcing a smile."…You're still worth more than the idiots flinging fireballs about or showing off some magic axe they'll never use," Lim insisted and looked down at his feet."My brother didn't have a strong core, and he was amazing," he said stubbornly."I appreciate the kind words, but I know my own worth quite well, even if others don't. Still, we can't deny that under the right conditions, someone's core can grow beyond their peers. A sort of refined seed that comes from long lines of warriors, talented magicians, or those that push themselves to the limit. A child of that line has such a Core that even if it was starved all their life…the husk alone could crush normal men," Yattina said firmly."What do we call them?" Lim asked, holding a book in his lap."Most Cores have the clinical term of 'Normalized Person Core.' I was one, you may be one, the baker in the city is one, a lot of guards and warriors could be one. For those with extreme growth? The correct term is 'Refined Core Users,' but a less flattering term is used by the public. Those with such power are said to be owners of 'Monster Cores.' Primal power that no normal man can possess," Yattina whispered, in case someone was listening."Do Dungeons have an official 'term'?" Lim asked, leaning in as if he was ready for a secret.Yattina thought about it.---Delta watched as the hulking ten-foot Seahagan moved into the room, bringing a torrential rain cloud with it. Its core was… scary big.Not as big as Mharia's, nowhere near as big, but noticeably."Turn back," she warned it, and it could hear her.It turned black eyes with endless depth to them at Delta.---"If strong people are Monster Cores, then Dungeons have equally worrying names in the public. Dungeon Cores, Dens of Evil, Murder Holes," Yattina listed.---"I will rend you aside… and take my prizes," the massive Seahagan rasped, holding a thick staff made of bone and black seaweed."The Jewel, and the human child for supper," it said, drool leaking down its chin between bloody red teeth.Delta narrowed her eyes, her aura flickering dangerously."Do not threaten them," she said in a simple tone with no emotion.---Yattina chewed her pen and looked out a nearby window."Dungeons have different names in different parts. None are flattering. Some are known as 'Bloody Butchers'; those who take fresh kills and reuse them for their gain. Some are 'People Killers,' and others are just called 'Demon Machines,'" she explained, and Lim eyed her for a moment."What would you call them?" he asked, and Yattina blinked.She had never thought about it before."I suppose…" she trailed off.---"I will not retreat," the Seahagan hissed.Delta raised a hand, eyes glowing orange and slightly blue."Then you will not proceed either," she promised. Her hand dropped, and her monsters moved like blurs.---"I suppose I'd call them 'World Builders.' They just help us and the world so much… they're not parasites, they hold the world together by building new Mana veins," Yattina said with a wistful look to her."Eh, it's a bit technical," Lim said, grinning to show he meant no offense."Oh, and what would you call them? Still-currently-a-cadet Blackfield," she said with a raised brow."Their names, if they have one," he said and stood up to start putting books away.Yattina watched him go. What a sassy child. Still, his logic was solid. A name told you everything when it came to Dungeons."What does yours mean, 'Delta'?" she whispered.---"This is not how Jewel Dens work," the creature snarled, as it had one long cut across its arm.Delta crossed her arms, blazing with Mana."I'm changing the rules. I've had enough of these rules where it's the bad ending or the worst ending. My name is Delta, and I won't back down," she announced as Jeb picked the Seahagan up and began to slam him across the walls, ignoring the balls of pressurized water cutting into his skin."You are chaos, damnation in the Mana!" the creature howled in pain.Delta looked over at the hiding Vadellen and shook her head."I'm just a failed Dungeon Core," she said, and Wyin began to bind him with roots, which he cracked trying to escape."A jewel… den? Then where is your treasure? Where is your gold?" the Seahagan hissed in mockery."Where is your legendary lut?" it gargled, the word sounding like a personal slang."Please, I'm far too so-fish-ticated to be needing gold," she scoffed, and the creature, Wyin, and Jack all cringed."Come down to my Dungeon soon, you monster. Heck, stay here once I teach Foodie the ways of the Delta. There's no epic loot here, only puns!" she grinned, and the storm above them broke."You do give out spider panties," Wyin commented.Delta pursed her lips."On'tday entionmay ethay iderspay antiespay," she said, making slicing motions across her neck.Some people simply didn't need to know about the Queen Victoria Secret's she was running in the Spider Room.
