"Excuse me, Miss Yattina?" came a voice, and Yattina hit her head off the bottom of her desk in surprise. She muffled a curse as she put her hidden supply of travel mints back in their hole. She always did her best thinking curled up under her desk while eating ill-begotten sweets.She looked over her desk, taking a moment to point her magic eye the right way, as it had fallen asleep when she didn't use it. It was the wonky-nose boy from the other day at the meeting."Gissipe!" she guessed with a confident smile."My name is Lim," he said awkwardly.Yattina confidently tried to shrink back under the desk."Wait! I'm wondering if you could teach me more about Dungeons!" Lim said quickly, and Yattina shot back up."Would. If I 'would' teach you more. It implies that you think I can't otherwise," she insisted, and Lim looked puzzled. Yattina frowned at him in return."Why do you wish to know? I understand tactics and useful information, but that's covered by the Scout's training, is it not?" she inquired. Lim shuffled for a moment on the spot as if he was torn between staying or running away.Yattina was intimately familiar with the urge."You made it sound good. I learned things. It was like a real school," Lim answered finally. Real school?He made it sound like he hadn't had a formal education at all!"Where did you learn? What school or area?" she asked kindly as she gestured for him to sit in the chair across from her. Her 'office' was nothing more than a prefabricated earth magic stone block, but she had decorated it with enough books to block out any hint of the gray color, which was a nice way of saying Yattina could barricade her door with paperbacks alone if she needed to.Lim looked angry at first, then saw her face."You don't know?" he asked, something clicking for him."Know?" she echoed, feeling like she was missing something."I'm from the Diseased Hand," he said, and there was a pause. Yattina stared, blinked, and then she made a sharp intake of breath."I… am so sorry. Forgive my lack of tact," she said quietly, and Lim shrugged it off."Schools weren't as important as saving farmlands and fighting off the sickness," he said, and Yattina couldn't imagine it. She had read about it, but there was a disconnect between symbols on a page and a real-life extinction event barely averted.The Diseased Hand was a tragic event, part of the 'Corrupt Wa r.' Three Dungeons had gone corrupt in the span of a week, each one expanded grotesquely underground until they merged into one. One Dungeon of air, a Dungeon of poison, and a Dungeon of adapting defenses.It spread across the Right Grip, turning the lands black, and life was all but destroyed. A Saint of a Water God and two others purged the land and caused a massive tidal wave to sink part of it, cutting the hand off from the mainland.Yattina had even heard that new Dungeons kept trying to form on that man-made island, but they didn't last long against the madness entrenched there for years. Not all of the inhabitants could escape immediately, and those left behind tried to make a life out of the broken land.People like Lim's family.That explained his questions… and why he was in Fairplay.Still, better than what happened to the Left Fist. People didn't even get a chance to escape from that catastrophe."Well, what would you like to know?" Yattina asked as she shifted books around until she found a basic map and the basic standard guide on Dungeons. A very solid book written by 'Terri Bilis Frater.' The first of its kind, the unknown hero described both basic traps and the 'methods' of Dungeons on the first few floors."This Dungeon in the area is weird, right? I've not been in another Dungeon yet, but I heard they're easier by a long shot?" Lim asked as he idly rubbed his wonky nose. Yattina watched the motion like a cat, fighting the urge to reach over and re-break the nose for the boy's sake."Yes… and no," Yattina began and tapped the book written by Frater."Difficulty is selective at early stages. It depends entirely on what the Dungeon first consumes to grow," she explained."For example, did you know this Dungeon near Durence didn't consume mushrooms, people, or earth as its first material?" Yattina said as she tapped a wonky compass near her desk."What did it eat? Rocks?" Lim asked curiously, and Yattina showed the boy her instrument."This is a very expensive tool that 'dissects' mana, for a lack of better terms, refining them to match Mana signatures of other things. One can even match two signatures to a near mirror, this tells us what the mana has in it; the deeper we dissect, the closer we find what it first consumed. Much like the rings of a tree stump," Yattina said proudly.She slowly turned a dial at the side, showing the orange Mana flashing through several things like suits of armor… bones… slimes… cauldrons, and what looked to be animal skeletons.She kept turning the dial until it shot past mushrooms, a man with a gun, three hunting types, what looked to be earth clumps and the image distorted badly on the last slide."What is that?" Lim asked, voice suddenly quiet as if he was witnessing something important. Yattina slowly adjusted three small dials, and the image slowly came into focus.A skull stared back at them, hauntingly judging them.---Wyin knew this salt was going to be terrible for her hair. Her swept-back branches blooming in flowers were now droopy with salt. Salt floors, salt water, salt animals, salt air, and now Wyin was salty.This Dungeon was making her mad, but not as mad as the guppies chasing them. Why wouldn't Delta just let her filet the damn things and be done with it?They splashed through the water, letting the Salt Bats slow the enemies down. The entire group of thirty Seahagans had entered the Dungeon, but their large number worked against them in the tight corridors and sharp turns.This was why groups stayed under six people, she presumed.Fewer fish in a barrel moments."Get the Sandwalkers! Find the Jewel for the Queen!" one of the large creatures snarled, the green scales around its face bright red as if it had taken a bite of its comrades in the struggle."If fishies not in water. They still fishies? They still not Sandwalkers?" Foodie mused, ignoring the drama and threats against his life to question life. Delta couldn't even be mad at his sudden progress. Foodie had made two floors since this chase began. Thirty Seahagans, Delta, her monsters, Vadellen, and who knows what else were pushing a ton of Mana into the usually solitary Dungeon.If it took 80 Mana to get to floor 8, then so far, Foodie must have gotten about 180 Mana since Delta arrived. Mana Bursting was horrible, and she didn't blame Foodie for dumping the excess Mana into things. It also annoyed her because she noticed something else.Foodie didn't have DP.He just had Mana.She asked the system as she followed her monsters into the first major room.A human soul generates a constant flow of sentient ideas and awareness. To prevent your mind from exploding, anytime you would 'think' to make a serious change permanent, you'd get locked down until you had enough DP to do it on your own time. Dungeons do not get Dungeon Poi-… Delta Points until floor 25 or 30. They simply don't design or desire complex things requiring self control. DP is possibility of the soul. You had a soul from the start -Sister.Wait… if Foodie was made up entirely of Mana with no sparks of DP, then those weapons… those tools of Fairplay formed from their souls and seeds, they wouldn't just 'damage' Foodie.They would utterly distort or scar him.---"Now, when a Dungeon's theme is known, it doesn't give people an automatic advantage," Yattina explained as she poured Lim and herself some brisk hot water with a dash of fruit. She hadn't a clue what fruit was in the fruit tea. She just drank it because her options were coffee, blood of some poor scribe, or protein shakes.Yattina had issues with all of those things. For one, no one used a disinfectant wipe on the scribe after they were done. It was so unhygienic."But if you know it uses fire, you can focus on water, right?" Lim suggested. Yattina eyed her Mana-Dissector with a frown, putting it away for now so she could ponder the results alone later.Some things were best done alone."Fire… what is fire?" she asked Lim, and the boy blinked once. She was curious about what he knew, and this was a good question to lead him off."Hot air but really hot," he said after a moment."Not quite, but the idea is this: Has the Dungeon figured out fireballs? Heatwaves? Molten stone? Elemental sprites? Sunlight? A theme is so much more than a single approach. The first ten floors, you can be excused for thinking a monofocus can be normal, but Dungeons are always learning. Knowing a Dungeon's theme is only step one of a long, long procedure," she said softly."Scouts say as much, but how do you figure out what it's done with its theme?" Lim said, and Yattina took a long sip of her fruit(?) tea."The hard way, sadly."---As the first Seahagan entered the room, Jeb hurled a Salt Crab at its face, letting the thing go to town with its claws. When the next one entered, Delta watched as Foodie's first new trap was set off. He had made it shortly before Vadellen arrived.A long salt stalactite cracked and fell down sharply."Salt. Spike." Foodie said smugly as the Seahagan toppled over.Delta winced and didn't stare at the result; she kept urging her team forward."Mad at me?" Foodie asked, sounding worried, and Delta shook her head."I just don't like violence or blood," she explained."Violence?""Hurting others," she whispered as they ran along a winding path of the room. It was a narrow road with deep sea pools on all sides filled with spiky stalagmites just below the surface. Most of them were blunt, but it was a good use of the environment."Tally, ho!" Lord Mushy turned and buried his fist into one of the Seahagans that had leapt at them over the gaps in the pool with a wicked red blade.The creature's yellow eyes bulged, and the ridges that made up its face paled before it exploded back and hit a wall, sliding down with a twitch.As the last of Delta's team made it through the next tunnel, Foodie stopped holding the traps back and let them fly. As the next group chased after them into the tunnel, a cloud of salt was lifted off the ground and into their eyes. Some of the salt on the ground had been extra large flakes to make it worse.One stumbled back enough that it tripped and fell into the pool, hitting the pillars underwater hard. Ten more of the Seahagans rushed in afterwards, ignoring their comrades."Show me the meaning of haste!" Delta yelled to her monsters, throwing her hands up in panic.Wyin raised one of her hands and showed Delta exactly what she thought of moving faster than an elegant gait.---"So, say you can get their themes down and general trap placement, what other issues can a first floor have?" Lim asked, taking notes with little pictures. It hurt Yattina to see him reduced to that, but she also felt impressed that he carried on anyway."Well, it is rare, but there can be a puzzle. It's not common, but I've read reports," Yattina said and found a book in a pile nearby on the particular topic and opened it."This is the Twin Dungeons of the Left Burden. An artistic rendition of the room just before their boss," she showed Lim, who looked enraptured by the knowledge she was just sharing with him. Yattina had a book or two that had maps and pictures like this with smaller word counts. Maybe the boy would like to borrow one?Lim opened his mouth."Scout Blackfield, you're supposed to be doing patrol duty!" snapped a voice, and Yattina looked up to see some Blade she didn't recall. Lim jumped to his feet, pale and shocked at the words."I'm… sorry, sir-" he began, and the Blade clucked his tongue."Just because your brother was worth his salt with a blade doesn't mean you get to act like you're special," the brute growled. Yattina twitched, something about his words-"Just because your sister is the Summer Maiden doesn't mean you're worth anything, stop trying to be like us.""Does your order supersede mine? Second Lieutenant?" Yattina asked slowly, her voice taking on a detached tone. The blade blanched as if he hadn't even noticed Yattina… in her own office."Captain Yattina. Ma'am. Cadet Blackfield is expected at-" he began to speak, and Yattina held up a hand."He is to remain here and continue working on classified work under my command," she said finally. She looked at him."His talent is promising enough that I hand-picked him myself. Tell his superiors that he will be transferred promptly to my personal squad," she said, and the Blade's jaw dropped. That promotion would instantly make Lim a first lieutenant."I would like to offer my services!" the man said, quickly, as if sensing an opportunity escaping him, and Yattina slowly looked at him from head to toe."I'm sorry, I just don't see anything special about you," she said and sipped her fruit(?) water. The man left a moment later, his voice refusing to work.Lim looked shell shocked."You're going to promote me?" he whispered in a strained voice. Yattina shrugged."I'm supposed to have a six-man squad under me. I have none, so welcome aboard," she said and poured the rest of her water into a nearby fake plant. The thing curled at the tips. Lim swallowed hard once."I can finally pay for my parents to get off the Diseased Hand," he said to himself with clenched hands.Yattina didn't know what to say to that. Maybe she should look into the charity that helps that part of the world? It could use more funding maybe?Love what you're reading? Discover and support the author on the platform they originally published on."What about your brother?" she asked very slowly."He died in a new Dungeon to the east. A Snake Dungeon that is off-limits due to its birth or something," Lim explained sadly.Yattina opened her mouth, then took a moment to ans