“I know dear; it’s not how the world really works. But it’s a nice way to remember to look for what you can learn from it, rather than dwelling on what may have been. If you could go back and do it differently, I’m sure you would.” Lira’s kind and calm voice began dissolving her anxiety and allowed her to look at the situation a little more objectively. Yes, they could have been more careful, but she had learned something important.

Stay away from the rift, she thought soberly. Whatever that dungeon beyond the rift was, she had no desire to mess with it, especially with something as ridiculously powerful as that Pit Lord. The ease with which it had thrown thousands of strong demons into the rift was terrifying. The realization that they had seen only a small fraction of the dungeon’s true power caused the pit of her stomach to writhe uncomfortably. Stay away from massively strong demons with mind powers!

On the other hand, Ali’s understanding of what her bosses were capable of had skyrocketed yesterday. If she thought creatively, she had many potent combinations, and studying the possibilities would be to her benefit. Yet another reason to experiment and familiarize herself with her abilities using simpler and easier versions for the bronze adventurer groups. If they were only higher level, she could pit them against some of her more dangerous abilities safely.

Grove Warden has reached level 66 (+2).+20 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 34.Arcane Recall has reached level 14.Martial Insight has reached level 39 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 31 (+2).You have earned the Title: Rift Warden.

Quelling the dungeon-break with her raid bosses had earned her two additional levels – mostly while she slept. It was clear that hiding behind her raid bosses earned her substantially lower experience than, say, putting herself personally at risk in that Demon Hunter fight, but still, two levels for keeping her magic empowering her bosses while they wiped out thousands of monsters was well worth it.

And a title? She studied the strange notification before she opened it to see what it was.

Rift WardenYou have saved more than 10000 people from an incursion from a different realm.+10% to damage against monsters from a different realm. Title

Just in case we need to do that again, she thought, grimacing. Although it looked like an amazing title, she pushed down the resurgence of guilt. The incursion had been the result of their own mistake, and the fact she had been awarded a title for it meant the town really had been at dire risk of being wiped out. She considered it for a while; although she wasn’t exactly a fan of displaying her Ancient title, she just couldn’t bring herself to swap them – after all, she had just personally created the disaster she was being rewarded for. But it did look very strong.

“Do I have to display a title for it to work?” she asked.

“No, dear, all titles are always in effect,” Lira answered, finishing her words with a curious expectation – a subtlety Ali had always admired in her.

“I got Rift Warden,” she answered the unspoken question.

“A worthy title,” Lira said, smiling at her.

Ali found Lira’s smile and approval took a bit of the edge off her guilt, and her mind turned to more practical matters. “I’m going to go open the barrier and see if I can learn any of those monsters,” she said, giving Lira the chance to retire to her tree rather than be subjected to the uncomfortably chaotic mana in the jungle.

Ali removed the top half of the barrier, opening the giant doorway, but preventing the deep layers of toxic slimes and pools of liquid poison from splashing into the library. As she flew out over the battlefield, she surveyed the wreckage from a safe vantage. Her three cloned Forest Guardians stood out among the trees, beyond the mountain of corpses, quietly minding their own business. The Toxic Spitter was somewhere off to the side in the pile of wobbly ooze – a fact she knew only because she was using it as a backup sense to make sure she was safe out here. Most of the remaining live toxic slimes and split toxic spitters had wandered off, presumably to become prey of the much more powerful elementals that lurked out in the depths of the jungle, and the remainder would likely be reabsorbed into the Toxic Spitter boss eventually or die when their summoning mana ran out. She made the Toxic Spitter move a little further away so that she wouldn’t be poisoned by its aura while she worked.

The pile of demon and slime corpses was so vast that it posed a problem of a rather tricky logistical nature – it would take days for her to put a meaningful dent in it with just deconstruction. She lowered herself to a grassy knoll that seemed free from poison and considered the mountain.

I guess I need to resummon my minions, too, she thought, pulling out her Grimoire and beginning with the Hobgoblins. As soon as she had several minions, she sent them off into the pile with instructions to clear a passage to the library, collecting any corpses that were either a higher level than she currently knew, or were a monster that wasn’t an ooze, Hellfire Imp, or warg.

By the time she had finished summoning the rest of her little army, she had a pile of demonic spiders, hornets, and a tidy selection of imps and wargs.

This is more manageable, she thought, deconstructing the higher-level monsters to update her current variants and imprints before she started on the pile of demonic insects.

Imprint: Hellfire Imp updated to Imprint: Demon.Variant: Vampire Hornet added to Imprint: Demon.

Hmm… a demon imprint? Recalling what she had done for the Flamecallers, she reached for the pages of her Grimoire with her will.

Variant: Hellfire Warg added to Imprint: Demon.

Perfect, she thought and turned her attention to her newest acquisition. The Vampire Hornets had been terrifying in the tunnels and against her Hobgoblin raid boss, and yet they seemed to come in levels ranging from only twenty-three to twenty-eight. Curious, she summoned one.

Vampire Hornet – Demonic Insect – level 28 (Blood) Swarm x7Your reserved mana has increased by +68.

The magic of her Grimoire completed, and instead of the one monster she had expected, seven mean-looking black hornets flew off into the air, buzzing around her head on blood-red wings, the jagged red bands on their abdomens flashing angrily as they swooped in and out.

Aah, that makes sense, she thought as she studied them. Cheap swarm monsters. If only I could have unleashed a hundred of these on Roderik Icecrown’s butt… she giggled, blushing at her own joke. And the less of that thought, the better!

She slipped her awareness into the senses of the Vampire Hornets and instantly recoiled from the overpowering stench of blood. She disconnected from their senses for a few moments to recover. Ugh. Bracing herself against the olfactory assault, she tried again, finding it was manageable now that she was prepared – barely.

Race: Demonic InsectActive Buffs: Swarm FormationClass: Vampire Hornet – level 28- Bite And Sting – level 19- Vampiric Drain – level 21- Scent of Blood – level 23- Swarm Formation – level 26Aptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Blood- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Holy- Swarm Spawn (Racial): Spawns in groups of 7- Swarm Tactics (Racial): +4% to Accuracy per Vampire Hornet attacking the same targetAttributes- Vitality: 66 (+4)- Strength: 25 (+1)- Endurance: 41 (+2)- Dexterity: 74 (+4)- Perception: 83 (+5)- Intelligence: 33 (+2)- Wisdom: 49 (+3)Armor: 196Physical Damage Reduction: 20%Evasion: 235Dodge: 23.06%Health: 660/660Stamina: 410/410Mana: 245/490 (245 Reserved)

It did not seem to be a particularly strong monster, but it was clearly a swarm, as shown by the aptitudes and the reduced skill list. Its attributes seemed low, and it didn’t even have any magic resistance, although there was the somewhat terrifying stacking accuracy per hornet, which was probably how the clouds of hundreds of hornets were even able to hit the much higher-level Hobgoblin raid boss reliably. It had a remarkably unusual blood magic affinity – something that she had only ever read about – but she was certainly missing something important, so she looked through the details of the four skills they had.

Bite And Sting – level 19Stamina: Bite and/or sting your target. Range: Touch.Physical, Melee, Dexterity

A basic attack skill, I guess? Ali thought, studying it closely. The first skill seemed rather mundane – it was a hornet, and it had a physical attack that could bite or sting. Even mundane hornets could bite or sting, but having a skill for it would add proficiency and power. She read on.

Vampiric Drain – level 21Requirements: Target must have blood.Mana: Enhance a Physical attack to do an additional +127% [40 + skill + vitality] Blood damage. A portion of this Blood damage is returned as health shared with nearby swarm members. Range: Touch.Blood, Melee, Swarm, Support, Vitality

Oh! Now, this is interesting, she thought, studying Vampiric Drain. A support skill that could make the bite or sting do additional blood damage – quite a lot in fact. It did have the interesting limitation that the target had to have blood – which excluded her slimes and most elementals – and likely her own Forest Guardians. But not the Hobgoblins. The skill had a built-in health leech effect much like Malika’s Soul Strike or Mato’s Brutal Restoration, but this one was shared among its friends. What else?

Scent of Blood – level 23You can smell the blood of creatures nearby.You can sense weakness and injuries by the scent of blood, increasing your chance of landing a critical strike.Mana: You can track your prey by the residual scent of their blood.Blood, Tracking, Perception

This must be why everything stinks! The hornets, it seemed, were a tracking-type monster – and their unique blood affinity allowed them to track by the scent of blood – which in the aftermath of a battle seemed quite overpowering. On a hunch, she double-checked its attributes, discovering that she had finally found a monster with its highest attribute in perception. Too bad it’s not a higher level. Still, a novel perception skill was very much a welcome addition to her repertoire – all the assassins sent to kill her so far had possessed blood.

Ok, what’s this last skill, she thought, pulling up the description in her mind.

Swarm Formation – level 26Fly in formation with other Vampire Hornets, executing coordinated attacks. Mana: Blood magic damage and all attributes are increased by +7% [1% per Vampire Hornet in the swarm formation]. Reserve: 50%Blood, Swarm, Perception

Wait, damage… and all attributes? She reread the ridiculous Swarm Formation skill, and the terrifying nature of these Vampire Hornets was finally laid bare. With her seven buzzing terrors, her tiny swarm received a paltry seven percent boost to their blood magic damage and all their attributes – for the enormous cost of reserving half their mana. But during their frantic flight through the mines, and the battle itself, there had been hundreds of these vicious insects flying in great droning swarms. If she imagined doubling or tripling all its attributes and increasing its damage output, with its group healing and enormous accuracy bonus, it suddenly became vastly scarier as a foe.

No wonder the Hobgoblins died so fast.

But now they were hers. Unfortunately, not much in the mines had blood – with the possible exception of the Flamecallers and their demonic minions. But she was already considering how useful they might be as mobile sentries in her dungeon or used as a target for a summoner boss.

“Ok, no more Vampire Hornets,” she said, directing her industrious minions. “Unless you find one higher than level twenty-eight.” Then Ali turned her attention to the second growing pile and got to work, trying to suppress an involuntary shiver.

Variant: Abyssal Stalker added to Imprint: Demon.

Ali continued deconstructing everything in the pile, filling out the range from level thirty to forty-five in the pages of her imprint. She had already witnessed their incredible stealth skill in action, but beyond that, and the assumption of an Ambush skill, she didn’t have the foggiest idea of what to expect. Other than the ability to give someone a heart attack.

Abyssal Stalker – Demonic Spider – level 45 (Blood).Your reserved mana has increased by +184.

She shivered at the sight of the sleek, demonic spider up close – every square centimeter of its body seemingly crafted for stealth or violence. Even just at rest, its dark body shimmered indistinctly, her eyes drifting off its form as if it were somehow slippery to look at.

Race: Demonic SpiderActive Buffs: Demonic Power, EvasionClass: Abyssal Stalker – level 45- Mutilate – level 37- Critical Bleed – level 33- Blood Shock – level 34- Stealth – level 31- Ambush – level 35- Scent of Blood – level 28- Demonic Power – level 31- Evasion – level 33- Web Spray – level 22- Onslaught – level 25Aptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Blood- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Holy- Quickness (Racial): +45 to Dexterity- Innate Stealth (Racial): All stealth skills are 20% more effectiveAttributes- Vitality: 106- Strength: 255 (+123)- Endurance: 89- Dexterity: 428 (+206)- Perception: 239 (+115)- Intelligence: 53- Wisdom: 89Armor: 315Physical Damage Reduction: 20%Evasion: 1465Dodge: 53.76%Resistance: 315Magical Damage Reduction: 20%Health: 1060/1060Stamina: 623/890 (267 Reserved)Mana: 890/890

As Ali studied the monster’s attributes, it became abundantly clear that she was looking at a pure melee assassin class, supported by a powerful blood affinity. It had high attributes, and with a quick calculation, she figured out that it was one of those monsters that gained fifteen attribute points per level. It had a respectable amount of natural armor and innate magic resistance, but its evasion was extraordinary at more than fifty percent dodge against monsters at level forty-five.

She tried not to get her hopes up, but it was hard to extinguish the feeling that maybe, just maybe, she might have gained something very useful from their accident in the abyssal plane. It did have a blood magic affinity, which likely would limit its usefulness in the mines, but she couldn’t shake the desire for it to be good.

Mutilate seemed to be a decent physical damage melee skill that allowed attacking with the sharpened forelegs and mandibles. It also had a Double Strike advancement with a recharge, which it undoubtedly used with its Ambush skill. Ambush was pretty standard, but it did add a respectable increase to critical strike damage. The spider’s stealth skill was extraordinary, cloaking vision, mana, and scent.

