Clarence was being surprisingly cooperative for a change. Normally the willful, obstinate book would make her chase him down if she wanted a chance to study from him – or he would have his own inscrutable ideas for which pages she needed to see. Today, however, he rested relatively docilely upon the table and allowed her to turn the pages without too much ‘helping’.

Ali still had several hours to go, waiting for the Emberforge Mines to interrupt the dungeon-break, but already the tsunami of demons crashing against the library had dwindled away to a trickle of its former immensity. It was fortunate the rift had not been big enough to admit the Pit Lord or any of the larger demons – from the immense power she had witnessed, she was certain it would have crushed her bosses in moments. It was hard to believe that the terrible devastation and enormous scope of the Lair of the Demon God’s dungeon-break must have been caused by what, for it, had to have been some of the lowest-level monsters it could summon. Expendable trash, as it were.

Not the least terrifying moment in our lives…

But even with the remnants of the ongoing dungeon-break still throwing themselves at her dual poison bosses just beyond the glittering impervious golden wall, she was still stuck down here, providing her Empowered Summoner bonuses to her bosses. Mato had cleaned up from dinner and was now experimenting with his new skill, Calen worked on his maps, and Malika was helping Sabri decipher the ancient martial arts texts, which involved grappling and bouts of intense shadow boxing. So, with Ryn’s help in ferrying books for her, Ali took the opportunity to study something she had remembered only when she had earned her metal imprint – a sliver of forgotten knowledge, perhaps dredged up from her subconscious mind by Sage of Learning.

She spent ages poring over the various magical crafting texts that Ryn had selected for their library, searching for clues, but it was within the pages of her mother’s unruly book that she found the most useful information:

“… so this, then, is the reason why materials like silver, gold, and mithril are so prized by artisans and crafters – the structure of the metal conducts most affinities of mana extremely efficiently. Similarly, the reason why steel is preferred over bronze for weapons – not only is it harder and stronger, but enchantments take to steel easier, resulting in a broader range of enchantments that may be imbued into it. Higher forms, such as mithril or enchanted orichalcum have even more capacity…”

She continued studying, learning more and more about the use of materials to enhance magic, and vice versa.

So that’s why Thuli wants to rediscover the lost technique of Eimuuran steel so desperately. It seemed there were an uncountable number of ways to produce metals, stone, or wood to enhance specific properties of magic, and as she had personally witnessed, the quality of the enchantments on the gear she wore made all the difference when facing threats and monsters.

Aah, here it is, she thought as she finally reached the section on runic magic. While all the theory around crafting would be useful for professional crafters like Lydia and Thuli, and Ali fully intended to discuss the subject with them at length, it was in runic magic where her passion and skills lay. She had known that binding runes to the material could enhance integrity, range, or power, or even enable otherwise impossible magic. She had even worked on the library’s runic circle which was imbued into the foundations of the building itself, but she had never fully understood quite what was possible. After her lesson with Donella, she had a little more of an intuition for how to flow her mana into a material. Well, magical ink, she clarified to herself. But it can’t be that different, can it?

“Did you find it?” Ryn asked, looking up from a different reference manual.

“I think so,” Ali said, considering the passages she had just read. “If I understand this passage correctly…”

“Maybe you should just try it out and see?” Ryn suggested.

Ali glanced at her notebook lying open beside her, and the sketch of a new trigger spell she had unearthed from one of the numerous magical tomes that now graced the newly restored shelves along the library wall of the uppermost level. Ryn had been hard at work, categorizing and organizing their growing collection – often, Ali had caught her humming as she worked, or even talking to the books.

“This might be the perfect test case,” she agreed, getting to her feet and moving to an open set of flagstones. Ryn joined her, with Clarence hovering beside them, fluttering curiously.

Ali manifested her Grimoire in a splash of green and gold light. Mustering her concentration, she twisted the stone beneath her feet, slowly etching out the shape of her runic spell. Wielding both Sculpting and Domain Mastery, she progressively etched out a circle of silvery yellow runes near the base of the Elder Tree, curving them around and slowly drawing them to a close as she formed the base runic structure out of electrum inlaid deep in the stone. She couldn’t help but notice the similarities between using a pen to lay down imbued ink on parchment and using Domain Mastery to create electrum and Sculpting to shape it into runes.

She frowned, inspecting her work. For this, it had to be perfect – and so, she fussed over it, tweaking the runic shapes and enhancing the purity of the metal until she was certain it was perfect. Then she inscribed her mana into the pure, gleaming metal. As soon as she began, she could immediately tell the difference – the metal seemed to consume her mana with visceral hunger, soaking it up like a sponge. When she finally completed her spell and tied it off with her domain mana, it pulsed once and thrummed with power, filling up with more mana than she had imagined it might hold, causing the electrum to shine with a steady, pure radiance.

“Did it work?” Ryn asked.

Clarence zipped several delighted circles in the air as if he were playing with the light.

“Clarence definitely thinks so,” Ali said. “According to this, it should have a substantially increased range and take far less mana to power it.” Neither of those two properties was actually useful for her test, but it was still a great way to practice a new technique. As her mana finished the circle, her success was greeted with the welcome sounds of several chimes.

Runic Script has reached level 30 (+2).Domain Mastery has reached level 28.Reading has reached level 14.Sculpting has reached level 6.Static Teleport – Linked Magic – level 35 (Arcane)Teleport to a preset teleportation locus.Locus: Novaspark Academy of Magic, Myrin’s Keep.Voluntary Trigger.Runic Circle

Satisfied, she stepped into the circle, seeing the glow from the runes pulsing once as she entered.

Accept teleportation to the Novaspark Academy of Magic?

“It worked!” Ali said. She declined the message from the Voluntary Trigger enchantment and the glow dimmed, nothing further happening. Now Ryn would not need to use her teleportation recharge to return the novices to town. Nor would any of them need to fly up through the sewers anymore. “Here, why don’t you try it?”

“Oh, that’s perfect,” Ryn said after stepping into the circle to see for herself.

Ali’s chimes picked that moment to interrupt her.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Clarence.Runic Script has reached at least level 30.Intelligence has surpassed 500.Received formal training in runic inscription.Imbued your magic into more than one compatible material.Repaired a grand runic circle.Runic Script gains Imbued Runes.(You can imbue your runic magic into compatible materials, adding permanence, durability, power, and other properties drawn from the chosen material, allowing limited crafting of magical items and constructs.)Accept this advancement?

“Oh, I can make items!” Ali said, immediately sharing her notifications.

“That’s nice!” Ryn said.

Feeling an upwelling of excitement, Ali accepted the advancement. Donella had recommended she learn Calligraphy to create scrolls, but she had just unlocked an alternative that worked with her Sculpting skill instead. She could inscribe runes using metals, and presumably some of the other material imprints she knew, creating substantially more powerful rune magic. And by the description, she should be able to make some permanent inscriptions that might even work outside of her domain magic. It was, of course, limited in scope – as expected – she didn’t have the benefits of ten synergistic skills that a proper crafter would get from their class, but still, it was a breakthrough for her, and she studied her new work with just a little pride at her achievement.

“Now we just need a private locus runic formation,” Ali mused.

“I’ll get right on it!” Ryn declared.

Somewhere buried in the recesses of her arcane magic texts Ali was sure they would find a teleportation locus spell that could not be freely used by anyone who had memorized it. Once she had that, she would inscribe it down here in the library and make a matching teleportation circle in the Adventurers Guild so that she could conveniently return home – and Ryn could save her teleport recharges for more research instead of library visits.

Your Timber Wolf has been defeated.

“Just a minute, Ryn,” Ali said, the unexpected notification catching her by surprise. Immediately she switched her awareness to her newest boss, but her skill failed to connect, not finding anything left alive. She widened her search, finding a bat roosting in a tree nearby, and sent it darting over to investigate. Far below her leathery wings, Ali scanned the aftermath of what must have been an epic battle with her bat eyes. Half of the adventurers were sprawled out on the ground among the corpses of Timber Wolves, and she experienced a spike of anxiety until she realized that all of them were still breathing – they just seemed exhausted.

Basil crouched in the back of the wolves’ den, harvesting some of the rugged Stonecap mushrooms she had planted there. Havok lay sprawled on the ground under an apple tree, his dented and battered shield laying on the ground on his left while he enjoyed the spoils of battle with relish – her acute hearing caught the distinctive juicy crunch as he bit into a shiny red apple with almost indecent relish. For a small creature, he could certainly pack away a meal and seemed to need a snack in between, too. He and Mato got on like frogs in a pond when it came to food.

“Teagan? Aiden? I think this is magicite!” Basil’s excitement echoed from within the den as he scrambled out, holding the small sliver of magicite overhead like the boy-hero from her story bearing the holy sword aloft. His exclamation had every single adventurer leaping to their feet as they excitedly rushed to examine the find. Ali smiled, leaving the tired and happy bronze raid group to their celebrations after doing a quick identify on them.

“The bronze group just defeated the Timber Wolves,” Ali told the others as she returned her awareness to her body. “They all just passed twenty.”

“Oh, nice!” Malika said from where she was sitting.

“Vivian will be happy to have a bunch of eights,” Calen said.

Eights? It sounded like adventurer jargon again, and one she had not heard before, but she immediately guessed what it was. At level twenty most classes unlocked their eighth class skill, and over the next few levels, it would represent significant increases in power for many of them. Hers had been Empowered Summoner, and the ability to enhance one of her attributes while imbuing all her nearby minions with nature damage on hit – it had been a substantial increase in her combat abilities, especially after it gained a few skill levels.

“I think the Novaspark Academy will be happy too,” Ali observed. “I put a sliver of magicite in the wolves’ den.”

“Oh, that’s a fantastic idea,” Malika said, opening her eyes and looking across at her. “How much did you leave?”

“About this size,” she indicated with her fingers. It was a rather small piece, but she didn’t want to break the economy.

“That seems appropriate,” Malika answered. “They should be able to buy two or three really good upgrades for the early twenties.”

“They’re going to be back every time that boss respawns,” Calen observed without looking up from his cartography.

“I think that’s what I wanted. If they level up enough, they can begin tackling the bigger undead in the forest by themselves.” It had been part of her reasoning when Calen had told him of their struggles. But it did mean she probably needed to start planning something of a higher level for when they surpassed the wolves. She couldn’t wait to tell Lira that they would soon be making progress on eradicating the undead in her former forest for good.

***

Ali woke to the quiet darkness of the lower library floor, and a blissful silence, devoid of her notification chimes. The only light down here came from the wisps circling the Elder Tree, her new teleportation circle, shining with golden silvery radiance, and the light from her barrier blocking the doorway to the jungle beyond.

She looked around, finding nothing stirring besides Lira who had offered to keep watch while they slept.

“They stopped coming a few hours ago,” Lira whispered softly, getting up to prepare her a cup of tea from the already steaming kettle.

“I still feel bad for putting everyone at risk,” Ali said, getting up and joining her aunt on the temporarily relocated couch, accepting the offered tea gratefully and inhaling the floral aroma.

“It worked out well, did it not?” Lira said. Ali had told her the whole story last night, grateful that Lira was willing to stand watch so close to the chaotic mana of the jungle so they could rest. At least with the tree and her own domain now, the worst of the jungle’s mana was encountered further out.

“It did, but it could so easily have gone wrong. We got lucky.” In fact, the two failed bosses she had made bore silent testament to just how difficult it had been to halt the demons. They had had some ridiculous abilities, and the power of the horde was something she did not wish to face a second time. Quietly and thoughtfully, she removed the mana reservation for the ooze and Hobgoblin bosses, preventing them from respawning, and returning her mana.

“I believe that good fortune comes along to allow us to learn,” Lira answered calmly.

“That sounds… nice,” she said, not really wanting to criticize Lira’s beliefs. We were stupid and gullible and can just be thankful the lesson wasn’t far costlier.

