She studied a few of its support skills. As she had learned from Calen, most Ambush classes specialized in a small number of big attacks, stacking support skills to enhance them, and relying on Ambush to push the total damage to the extremes.

Critical Bleed – level 33Requirements: Target must have blood.Mana: Enhanced Melee attack gains +33% additional critical damage as a Bleed.Blood, Melee, Support, DexterityBlood Shock – level 34Requirements: Target must have blood.Mana: Enhance a Physical attack to do an additional +502% [40 + skill + dexterity] Blood damage. Critical strikes with the supported attack have a chance to stun.Blood, Melee, Support, Dexterity

Both support skills unfortunately required their target to have blood, which made them worthless against fire elementals. But the skills seemed remarkably powerful – Blood Shock, in particular, enhanced damage by an amazing amount, and it even had a chance to stun the target. Being stunned by an Ambush was almost certainly a death sentence, and she was grateful she had not been subjected to that experience.

Onslaught – level 25Critical Strike chance increased by +25% [skill].Mana: Gain +25% [skill] melee haste for 5 seconds on kill. Trigger.Blood, Melee, Mastery, Haste, Dexterity

Calen is going to love this monster, she thought, reading through Onslaught a second time. The mastery skill substantially increased critical strike chance, which made Ambush, Blood Shock, Critical Bleed, and Mutilate all substantially stronger. The trigger on kill to grant haste seemed very unfair – especially combined with Blood Shock’s chance to stun.

It had the same Scent of Blood perception skill which again increased critical strike chance. Its demonic power enhanced strength, dexterity, and perception, and it had a defensive skill for evasion. All in all, a very well-rounded assassin class, provided she was fighting something with blood in its veins.

Its final skill was a rather interesting choice – Web Spray – a control skill.

“Shoot the Hobgoblin,” she instructed, and the Abyssal Stalker instantly reared up. A thick net of webbing flew from its abdomen striking the Hobgoblin with a heavy splat. To her surprise, the Hobgoblin struggled to shake off the sticky and dense net pinning it to the ground.

Well, that’s mildly terrifying, she thought, imagining all the nasty critical damage and ambush attacks that became available against an incapacitated foe. She had absolutely zero desire to find herself trapped and at the mercy of one of these, and walked over to examine her helpless Hobgoblin. Using teleport twice, she switched herself and then an ooze into the web, freeing it. Hmm, I wonder what the actual material is? Identify…

Demonic Silk Web

She would need to ask Malika for the detailed appraisal, but it wasn’t hard to guess who would be interested. Lydia’s going to flip when she sees this! Well, Hilda I guess, she corrected herself. She didn’t know the weaver well, but Lydia seemed to prefer the dwarven woman for making thread and cloth. Still, if it can hold down a level forty Hobgoblin… She just stored the web to show them later.

A thought suddenly occurred to her, and she quickly compared the Abyssal Stalker against one of her Kobold rogues. This spider is better, she concluded. Even without the two blood support skills. Mutilate did so much damage, that with just that one skill, the extremely high dexterity, and Onslaught, these stalkers would drastically outperform her rogues. And they had three times the health and way more defensive attributes, higher levels, and a control skill – Calen was going to have a field day studying these.

She reached out a hand and gingerly patted the hard spiny chitinous armor of her newest monster, suddenly much more receptive to using it despite its terrifying appearance.

Malika woke with a start at the sound of her notification chime. She blinked, and looked around, but nothing seemed like it was about to leap out of the dark corners to try and eat her. Lira sat off to the side, sipping on her typical steaming cup of tea. Movement off to the side caught her attention. Through the barrier between them and the jungle, she found Ali zipping around doing something with her minions… and the enormous mountain of demon and ooze corpses.

Reassured that nothing dangerous was going on, she turned her attention inward to find the source of the chime that had roused her. And there it was, letters of brilliant glowing blue-white energy hovering in her mind.

You have earned the Title: Rift Warden.

A title?

Wait… a Title!

Scarcely believing her eyes, she opened it to see what it might be.

Rift WardenYou have saved more than 10000 people from an incursion from a different realm.+10% to damage against monsters from a different realm. Title

Holy shit…

For a long time, she just sat there and stared at it.

Can I… but it was trivial to switch her displayed title, the change registering immediately on her status.

I… goodbye, Street Rat. I’m a Rift Warden now! Almost angrily, she knuckled the wetness in her eyes. Fuck yeah!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
