“Teepo said he was going to keep watch.” Ren said. “Since he can fly, he makes his own line of sight.”

“Ah guess tha's true.” Clint said.

“He's also the best sentry anyone could ever have.”

“Why's tha'?”

“He never needs to sleep.” Ren said, and Clint chuckled.

“Ahl righ', ah'll leave ya to it.” Clint said and went back to the guys.

“How are you going to distract them?” Elerlyth asked.

“Easily.” Ren said and took out a barrel of sunflower ale.

Elerlyth laughed. “Yes, that will distract them.”

“Watch the spectacle, my dear.” Ren said and stored the ale, and she felt a distinct feeling of naughtiness from him. It gave her a bit of a thrill, and she watched with interest as he walked over to the guys and stood there until they had their tents set up.

“Um, hey.” Ren said and the guys looked at him. “I... ah... I bought something to save for a special occasion, and I thought we could use it after this quest; but, I don't know how long it'll last.” He ducked his head a little. “So, I think you should use it now.”

“Wha' is it?” Clint asked. “Yer lookin' awful bashful.”

“Um... it's this.” Ren said and took out the keg of ale.

“REN!” Hank threw out his arms to the sides and took several steps towards him. “BUDDY!”

Ren knew what was coming, so he held the barrel up in front of him so Hank would hug it instead.

“I love you!” Hank said and kissed the barrel.

“Geez, man! Get a room!” Tommy said, and everyone laughed.

“All we need now is something to drink from.”

Ren took out the table and set 5 tankards on it. Hank put the keg on the table and grabbed a tankard, popped the cork and turned the spigot. Honey-colored ale came out and Hank took a gulp of it.

“Good lord, that's delicious!” Hank said and filled the tankard up.

“Don't hog it, man!” Tommy said, and elbowed the bigger man out of the way and filled a tankard. “Whoa.” He said when he tasted it. Billy, Dillon and Clint filled a tankard and tasted it as well, then they all drained their tankards.

“This ain' gonna las' long.” Clint said as they filled their tankards again.

“It's a good thing I didn't buy just one, then.” Ren said and put another keg on the table. Clint put a hand on Ren's arm, and led him about 10 feet away from the table and the guys.

“Yer no' doin' this on purpose, are ya?” Clint asked.

“Doing what?”

“Makin' me look bad.” Clint said.

Ren looked at Clint with wide eyes. “No, I'm not.”

“Ya command tha party like yer tha leader, givin' us all equipment we can nevah afford, an' now yer rewardin' us with ale.” Clint said. “Yer doin' a bettah job than me.”

“I'm not trying to do that.” Ren sighed. “Before you keep arguing that I am, I would be doing this for any party that I could have joined.”

“Ren...”

“I wasn't going let anyone go into a quest without prepping them as much as I could beforehand.” Ren said. “I'd still give armor to anyone that could wear it, and enchant anything that I could to help.” He explained. “So please, don't take my normal behavior as undermining your authority.”

“But...”

“I did command Elerlyth to stop, but that was so she wouldn't see what was in that room.” Ren said. “I didn't use my Command Aura when we left the crypt. All I said was what needed to be done to escape.”

Clint sighed. “Ahl right.” He said. “Ah won' hold it agains' ya.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and took out another keg.

“Wha' the... how many of these have ya got?” Clint asked and stored it.

“Only 9 more.” Ren said and grinned. “If you'll excuse me, I've got to go and take care of Elerlyth.”

Clint shook his head. “Yer distractin' us.”

Ren chuckled. “You figured me out.”

“Go on. Go git her.” Clint said and turned around. “Ah'll keep 'em busy.”

“As you command.” Ren said and walked over to Elerlyth.
