And Renxiang did. In great and precise detail, she described the events of the raid, including her own duel in the caldera, Ling Qi’s stand against the bulk of the barbarian forces, and the clash of elders. She described their escape and the coming of the thing in the south. She described the hatching of the starstone and the spirit within.

By the time she was done, the atmosphere of the court had darkened, and there was much grumbling and whispers among the courtiers. Cai Shenhua raised her hand, silencing them all at a gesture.

“It seems that you became involved in matters significantly above your head, my daughter,” the Duchess said. “It is good that you sustained only minor injuries.”

Ling Qi saw a tiny bit of tension bleed out of her liege.

“But your report is not done, is it?” the Duchess asked rhetorically, and Ling Qi had to work not to swallow nervously. “You have brought your retainer here today. I assume she has some important insight.”

“Baroness Ling was able to observe certain events with far more clarity due to her role and position,” Renxiang said. “I thought it prudent to allow her to describe them herself.”

“I see.” Cai Shenhua did not sound particularly approving or disapproving. Minister Linqin looked as if she was about to speak up, but she fell silent as a radiant hand clasped her own. It was a bizarrely intimate gesture given the setting. “You have not erred in your judgment thus far. Baroness Ling, you may raise your head and speak.”

Ling Qi could hardly breathe as she straightened up. She scanned the crowd. Most seemed indifferent to her. They didn’t really expect anything from her, thinking the Duchess was merely indulging her daughter. A few eyed her with something more like interest or disdain, but it was only a few.

Of the representatives, the Bao gave her an encouraging smile. The Wang representative seemed generally approving, though it was hard to read his face behind his beard and brows. The Luo and the Jia watched with disinterest. The Meng frowned at her but didn’t seem too hostile, actually.

The ambassador from the Peaks, a man who reminded her of an older Kang Zihao, simply continued to observe in silence, his arms crossed over his chest.

Ling Qi prepared herself and began to speak.
