A smirk appeared on the thief’s face. “You think you’ll hold me long enough to get me to trial?”

The inspector nodded. “That’s what I thought.”

Haley used the rope to climb back up. His hands were in agony by the time he reached the edge of the flat roof, but the four policemen were there to help pull him over the fence. He gave them a few seconds of instruction, then whistled down to Penn.

When the thief reached the flat roof, four men held him down while Haley secured him.

Penn was still surrounded by four policemen. He was sitting in a chair in the apartment lobby, waiting for the cars and carriages that Haley had called to arrive. The inspector was standing in the middle of the room talking to Mr. Altis.

“But it’s all there!” the man said.

Altis was trying to keep his voice subdued, but it carried all the way to the edges of the room.

Mr. Altis looked about the way Penn had expected him to. He was short, a little fat, and had immaculate evening clothes that were ruined by the unsuitable hat he’d picked up in Turkey.

“You’re certain?” Haley said. “He was carrying something, Mr. Altis. My men and I all saw it.”

“As I’ve been telling you, Inspector, I don’t know what he could have been after. I’m a man of simple tastes—”

“Ha!”

Haley and Altis both looked at Penn.

“You?” Penn said. “Simple tastes? That bed upstairs does not belong to a man of simple tastes, Mr. Altis.”

Altis smiled sheepishly, but then he paled. In a man with such a dark skin tone, it was very noticeable.

“Uh-uh…Inspector, sir…” Altis stammered under his breath.

Constable Braddock came through the front door.

“Our rides are here, Chief Inspector.” He held up a battered book. “And we found this outside.”

Penn leaned forward while Mr. Altis visibly sagged with relief. Altis reached for the book with begging hands, but the constable passed it to Haley.

Haley turned to the four men surrounding Penn. “Take him out to the carriage. He gets the floor. You four are in the seats. I want two men on the outside.”

“Understood, sir.”

“Is this yours, Mr. Altis?” Haley raised the book.

“You know, it does look familiar. I believe it’s mine.”

Penn’s mind whirred, creating a stasis of thought where he saw and felt everything, but nothing got through to him. He felt the policemen grab his arms and haul him to his feet. Haley and Altis grew larger as Penn was pulled toward the door. As he passed them, Penn craned his neck around to watch as the inspector held the book out. Mr. Altis lifted his hands to take it—

But stopped when he heard the thief laugh.

The loud, wild sound rang through the whole room. Everyone stared. Penn’s guards gripped him harder.

“What’s so funny, Mr. Penn?” Haley asked.

“You.” Penn struggled against the men holding him until he was almost facing the inspector. “You’re about to give him that book.”

“Is there a reason I shouldn’t?”

Penn grinned at the fat little dandy. “Because it’s not his.”

Behind the chief inspector, Altis’s face went red.

Penn looked at his rival. “Oh, some champion of justice you are, Inspector Haley.”

“This isn’t what you came for?”

“Not at all! That’s what I brought.”

Most of the policemen tried to catch each other’s eyes to see if anyone knew what was going on. Altis gaped at the thief in silent outrage. Haley kept his eyes locked on Penn.

“Are you saying that you brought this book to Mr. Altis?”

Penn scoffed. “Hardly. I already told you, I was merely visiting, but I thought that Mr. Altis might not be home when I arrived, so I brought along some light reading I had picked up somewhere else.”

Altis tugged on Haley’s sleeve. “Chief Inspector, that man is lying. I would never invite him into my home, and that book is most definitely mine.”

Haley turned his eyes to the unfortunate little man. “That’s funny, Mr. Altis. You didn’t sound so certain a minute ago.” Haley called to Penn, “And where do you claim you got this book from? The library? A bookstore?”

“I stole it from Eleanor Louise Serrs.”

For a split second, Penn saw Haley’s shock, but then the inspector’s face became a mask.

An arm shot out from behind Haley to advance an accusatory finger. “You climbed in through my window and stole my book!”

“Oh,” Haley said, “so it must be valuable. It’s a wonder you didn’t recognize it earlier.”

He went to open it, but Altis’s hand clamped down on the cover.

Without any sign of perturbation, Haley said, “This doesn’t appear to be traditionally published.”

“No. It’s a journal of mine. A very private journal.”

“Liar,” Penn said.

“You shut up!” Altis shouted.

Haley looked at Braddock. “If you could please take Mr. Penn away.”

Still grinning, Penn called out, “Good night, Mr. Altis! Good night, Chief Inspector!”

Once the lobby was cleared, Haley returned his attention to the fuming man beside him.

“Mr. Altis, we have a problem—”

“Chief Inspector, do I have to remind you that I welcomed you in without a warrant? You have no right to search through my things without my permission. I’ve assured you that book is mine—”

“And Penn claims it isn’t. I can’t return property to you without knowing that it’s yours. I understand this is upsetting, but if you let me look at the book—”

“No!”

Altis cowered when he saw Haley’s face harden.

“Mr. Altis, we’re running out of options. If you don’t want me to look at this book, then I will take it into custody until we can determine who owns it. We’ll need handwriting samples, a testimony from you, and a complete statement from Penn.”

The man raised his hands and tapped his fingertips together as he spoke in a simpering voice: “I’m sorry, Chief Inspector, that was rude of me. Isn’t there any other way? I can’t afford to be without it for so long.”

There was a short silence.

“There might be one.”

“Please.”

“Penn claims he stole it from Lady Serrs. We can take it to her right now and see if she recognizes it.”

It was obvious Altis was no more pleased with this idea than the others. He frowned and wagged his head from side to side. After a second of this, he opened his mouth, but Haley was already speaking.

“I take this book into custody, or we go see Lady Serrs—those are your choices. Whichever you prefer, Mr. Altis.”
