"This is the solution I found. [Second Singularity] is a Spatial Relic born when the Dao of Continuum split into Time and Space. It holds some of this Era’s primal dimensional power.”

"A spatial relic?" Zac said, confused. "Not a temporal relic to counter the time flow of the other one?"

"Don’t be silly. I'd get ripped apart by temporal winds if I messed with another one of those things. I wouldn't be surprised if the blast reached levels capable of damaging the River of Time. I guess it would be a decent way to go out," Esmeralda laughed.

"And [Second Singularity] will help you restore balance?"

"That’s the idea," Esmeralda said with intense longing. "I don't even care about the Peak of Continuum any longer. I just want to stop this endless cycle of regression. With every death, I lose a little of myself."

“Don’t worry, we’re almost at the finish line. We’ll get that thing even if we have to turn this place upside down,” Zac promised before a thought struck him. “Wait, do you know if the [Second Singularity] goes by another name? You should have heard my discussion with Vilari. The [Pasho’Har Bell] is a supreme spatial relic connected to the Mercurial Court, but there’s no mention of it in the booklet."

"They shouldn't be the same thing," Esmeralda said, shaking her head. "What I'm looking for is one of this Era's natal treasures. The [Pasho’Har Bell] she described is an Eternal Treasure from a previous Era. It might be even more powerful than the [Timescape Loop]."

"Wouldn't that thing be better?" Zac asked.

Jalach was an exceedingly dangerous character with deep schemes. They were outmatched, and there was no guarantee that the tome [Ancients] would hold a solution. Having Esmeralda take the [Pasho’Har Bell] was an effective way to ensure it would never come into Jalach’s possession. Alas, judging by Esmeralda’s frightened expression, it wasn’t meant to be.

Esmeralda shuddered. "I can’t get mixed up with another Eternal Treasure. Even after unsealing my bloodline, I’ll be much weaker than when I nabbed the [Timescape Loop]. Besides, I need a relic that matches my Dao. Treasures from previous Eras are made from the Dao of their generation. A Supremacy can slowly refine them to suit their needs, but I don’t have the strength or time for that."

"More than anything, I can’t get entangled with an undying evil when I’m this close to breaking free. Absorbing the treasure and fully recovering my strength will take a long time, during which I’ll be vulnerable," Esmeralda sighed. “I’m sorry, but I can’t help you beyond providing insights and support.”

“Don’t worry, it was just a random thought. You’ve already done more than enough,” Zac said with a smile. “Well, we’ve both read the introduction and seen the Mercurial Court for ourselves. It looks like we have a few options.”

“The most obvious method is to pay our way. I don’t think you trial takers are supposed to trade for the treasure outright. It’s enough to exchange for a chance to meditate before it.”

Zac nodded in agreement. “Become an Inner Disciple, then purchase access and head into the memory winds. When time runs out, we’ll appear right before it like with the Scripture Tower. The biggest variable is whether [Second Singularity] was moved between the past and the present.”

It wasn’t a baseless fear. There was a window of lost history between the System’s awakening and the Left Imperial Expanse being submerged to the depths of reality. The continent was attacked, and the Imperials were present to defend for at least a while. During the turbulence, the Beseechment Pavilion managed to bring the [Pasho’Har Bell] to the Anima Court, despite it being one of the Mercurial Court’s foundational treasures.

“If that happens, I’ll try to steal it from the memory,” Esmeralda said. “Not great, but better than searching for it in random nooks and crannies.”

Esmeralda didn’t look hopeful, and for good reason. Sneaking up to such a treasure without the proper credentials was essentially impossible, and it would undoubtedly be protected by supremely powerful arrays. It was a suicide mission, and they weren’t even sure if such powerful items could be brought out of the memories.

“Let’s hope it won’t come to that,” Zac said. “For now, let’s see about becoming Inner Court Disciples.”
