[That’s what I wanted to talk to you about,] Alden texted, swiping beads of rain off his messenger bag. It was waterproof. Good to know. [I didn’t want to surprise you guys first thing. I’m talking to my Artonan friend today. We’re on a video call right now, and he can see my surroundings. So maybe you don’t want to go so hard on the colorful language in class?]


Lute pointed at him. “You and Haoyu went to your fancy gym and absorbed potions together last night. I wondered when I smelled the watermelon. Lexi looked like he crawled from his own grave this morning, and you two are all springy.”


Alden blinked. “We did our homework in the recovery sauna.”


Lute didn’t even bat an eye at the news that Alden was mid-call with an alien? He must have been even more used to Artonans that Alden had realized.


“Ha! Next time Lexi makes fun of me for eating sandwiches in the tub, I’ll just remind him he’s the only one in the room practicing asceticism. By the way, your dish washing session last night was legendary. The forks!”


Lute dramatically stumbled and flung his hand out.


Stuart had a very interested expression on his face. He’d completely stopped playing around with his spellring metal.


Alden winced.


“What happened to the eating utensils?” Stuart asked.


“I dropped them.”


“You dropped them more than anyone has ever dropped them!” Lute said gleefully. He led the way toward the stairs. “Hey, do you think it would be a crime to put a mousetrap in my shoes?”


“A mousetrap?” Alden asked.


“I assume Shoe Pisser is using magic to target them because otherwise the hall cameras would record their nasty deed, right? But just in case they’re doing it old school, a mousetrap might work. A lot of stars would have to align, but if they did…”


Lute’s laugh was close to a nefarious cackle. It echoed off the walls in the stairwell.


Stuart’s head tilted so far sideways it looked like it was in danger of falling off his neck. “I do not think his words are being properly translated. What is shoe pisser?”


[Dude, I am impressed by your ability to be yourself in front of anyone. But do you really want me to have to define and try to explain Shoe Pisser to my friend? I don’t want him to think humans are gross.]


“How disturbing,” said Stuart. “I guess it was being translated correctly.”


Alden almost tripped up the stairs.


“Lute, have you been getting my texts?” he asked.


“Recently? No.”


“Stuart,” Alden hissed under his breath. “You—”


Stuart looked down at his metal cube and started wiggling his fingers over it like it was a fascinating business. “It was only two messages,” he said. “I wasn’t even sure it was an accident at fi—”


[Yes, you were! You’re still a terrible liar! Your face is turning purple!]


Alden focused more carefully. Apparently, he could make mental texting mistakes when he was trying to do it with multiple people in multiple languages, and he’d let himself get too relaxed.


[Lute, hi. I was trying to tell you earlier. I’m on a video call with my Artonan friend right now. We’re hanging out together today. He can hear what you’re saying.]


“My nosy friend,” he added aloud for both of their benefits.


Stuart made a sound of protest.


Lute had stopped under the sign for the sixth floor. The look that crossed his face was hard to read—somewhere between confused and amused, like Alden had told a joke he didn’t quite get.


“Are you serious?”


“Yes?” said Alden.


“…uh…I see. Let me…”


His fingers tapped through the air, and a second later, Alden received a message from him.


[Is this person actually your friend? Like a person you gossip about teachers and girls with because it’s more interesting than focusing on class? Or is he a friend in some more complicated ‘he’s nice but also he’s paying me to give him a tour’ way?]


“I meant it the first way,” said Alden.


The door beside Lute creaked open and a gaggle of science track students poured onto the stairs. Some of them went up, others down, their feet pounding and their shoes squeaking on the damp steps.


“Right,” said Lute. “Um…hello, Alden’s friend.”


Stuart looked up. “Tell him I greet him,” he said. “I would add him to our call, but I would have to have Evul change the settings and I can’t interrupt her practice right now.”


[He says hi,] Alden texted Lute. [He’s sorry he can’t add you into the call. His sister set it up for him. He can’t actually call Avowed on his own yet.]


Lute looked surprised. “He’s a kid?”


“Yes.”


“I am not!” Stuart protested. “I’m nearly an adult.”


“He’s around our age,” Alden clarified.


“I’m older than you!”


“I think he’s actually younger in terms of maturity level.”


Stuart stared at him in such perfect and profound shock that it more than made up for the text messaging mishap.


*******


Artonan Conversation class had never before involved such an impossible amount of mental juggling.


Stuart was busy being outraged by literally everything going on in the classroom, but that didn’t stop him from wanting Alden to convey messages to Lute. And Lute seemed to have developed a split personality of his own. He was a little nervous that an Artonan was watching him teach Alden a wordchain, but he was also enthusiastic about having someone answer the burning questions Alden and the System were unable to.


“How do I say ‘dickwad’?” Lute whispered, his eye fixed on Alden’s forehead. That seemed to be where he looked when he was actually talking to Stuart.


“Really?” Alden asked.


“Tell him I will attempt to come up with a translation in a moment…look. Just look! That learning cushion has a stain.”


“Really?” Alden asked again.


“Well I suppose it hardly matters,” said Stuart, his voice rising an octave. “They’ve put you in an instructional environment so far below your level, I’m surprised you do not rise from that <<ass-abused>> cushion and make <<a righteous scholarly exit>>!”


[You know,] Alden texted him, [I’m starting to think you want me to be expelled.]


“There has to be a better school!”


[This is literally one of the best schools on the island. It’s so much better than my old one. Human school is just more relaxed about a few things. People are allowed to eat in classes here, so sometimes stuff gets stained. It will probably be cleaned or replaced at the end of the term.]


It totally wouldn’t. The stain he was upset about was really small.


While Stuart freaked out over Instructor Rao’s bizarrely disinterested teaching style for the eleventh time, Alden let Lute correct one of his handsigns and informed him that there was an Artonan vulgarity for things that had been sat on with butt cheeks when they shouldn’t have been.


Stuart fretted and Lute practiced the word for “ass-abused,” and Alden decided he’d juggled the two them for long enough. It was time for him to get his own burning question answered.


[All right, this is more of a text message only conversation,] he sent to Lute while the Chainer nudged his left elbow inwards to correct his signing form. [My friend seemed concerned I might be someone who prostrated myself before you at a feast. Or a fancy dinner? Do you know what that’s about? I know it sounds cra—]


Lute made such a high pitched yelp of alarm it would have done an Artonan proud.


Several people turned to look at them.


Stuart paused his rant. “Oh dear. Is he very upset? Does he need comforting?”


“I’m fine!” Lute said to their classmates. “I…uh…pulled a muscle.”


“Sitting down?” a girl said.


“I’m fucking talented, okay?” said Lute.


“Artonan only in class, everyone!” called Instructor Rao.


Lute was looking at Alden in utter horror.


Alden smiled apologetically. [Sorry if it’s a weird or sensitive subject—]


“It’s both!” Lute fixed his eye on Alden’s forehead again, pointed, and said. “No.”


“Is he talking to me?” Stuart asked.


Lute started typing furiously. [I don’t want you to hear about my job from someone who’s going to make it sound like that!]


[So people don’t prostrate themselves before you?]


Lute’s expression was mortified.


[Relax,] said Alden. [I’m teasing. I know Artonans can get hyperpoetic about the simplest things.]


[I was planning to let my boss tell you stuff, since I can’t. But I wanted to hear what he said as he said it and tone it down! And I was sure he wouldn’t talk about that at all, since…for reasons.]


[It’s fine. I’ll tell my friend to leave it alone.]


He focused on Stuart. [Lute’s embarrassed about his job a little, and he wants to control the way it’s presented to me.]


Stuart looked surprised. He picked Evul’s tablet up from the stand where it had been propped and squinted at it as if trying to get a better look at Lute. “Is he not pleased with his work for the <<Palace of Unbreaking>>?” He sounded very concerned. “That’s…well, I suppose I should respect his wishes and allow him to tell you about it?”


[It’s fine, Lute,] Alden texted. [He says he respects your wishes.]


“Are you just saying that to make me feel better?” Lute asked suspiciously.


“I never imagined an Avowed assigned to that service would be embarrassed about it,” Stuart mused. “The work should be easy, but those people can be very odd.”


******


Alden spent lunchtime eating cafeteria food out of a to-go container in the dorm. All of his roommates were out, so there was no need for warnings or three-way conversational confusion.


“Hey, what should I wear when I come to your house?” Alden asked, propping his feet up on the ottoman.


Stuart was still enchanting his metal block. Either the task wasn’t going well with all the distractions, or it just took forever. “Something cleaner than last time.”


“Are you being funny?”


“Maybe.”


Alden smiled. “Well, I was being serious. If I’m showing up at your house as your guest, I don’t want to make you look bad or make your family uncomfortable. If there are rules or customs I should follow, you need to tell me so I can get it right.”


The more he thought about it, the more he hoped Stuart would send him a manual for how to get along with people in the Knights’ private forest. Maybe how to get along with the plant life, too, for that matter. A bunch of roots had responded to his request for freedom last time he was there, and his leaf bookmark still seemed to be alive, so yeah. He didn’t want to offend the trees.


“Alden, I’ve been wondering for a while, but we’ve never talked about it…what do you actually know about my family?”


Alden thought of bodies falling in the snow.


“The first time I ever heard of a Knight of the Mother Planet was when you were declaring your intention to become one by the pond,” he said. “The one with the mishnen in it.”


Stuart sighed. “I knew which pond you meant.”


“I had no idea what you were talking about. But Joe said you probably had enhanced bones and you’d been modified so that you couldn’t fall unconscious unless you wanted to, so I figured a Knight was someone who fought something. By the way, the word doesn’t translate all that well into my language. It seems to have a lot of subtle shades of meaning that aren’t captured, and Earth actually translates it differently than Artona I and III did.”


The list of alternate translations he’d requested after waking up in Knight Rapport 1 had given the impression that the word was more like Honored Oathbound Guardservant. So he guessed the word “knight” was just doing its best.


“Superior Professor Ro-den shouldn’t say things about me when he doesn’t know,” Stuart said.


He sounds peeved.


Alden was surprised. “Was he wrong?”


Stuart frowned. “Even though my body has been enhanced, it’s still rude of him to guess at it and tell people. And I don’t have any unnatural methods of preventing a loss of consciousness. I was bending nearly my whole mind toward not panicking or fainting. It was effort, not magical modification.”


“It was an impressive effort,” Alden said. “I was very confused by you. But undeniably impressed.”


“I bet Ro-den has tricks and toys to adjust his consciousness.”


And now Joe’s been downgraded all the way to Ro-den. “He probably does.”


The Primary’s son still looked miffed.


“Anyway…” said Alden. “I guessed then that Knights did some kind of battle. And then your aunt was there de-corrupting Moon Thegund by throwing around all the dirt—”


“It’s much more complicated than that.”


“So naturally I am aware that Knights are the wizards who are at the forefront of the fight against chaos. And I’ve caught on to the clothing difference—”


Stuart looked startled. “Isn’t that common knowledge?”


“Not common enough to filter down to a regular teenager on Earth. Some Avowed are obviously more up to date.”


Neha had called them “extra special warriors against chaos,” and she at least suspected they had talents like Avowed in addition to their wizardry. Which was actually a piece of knowledge Kibby didn’t possess even with Joe’s tendency to share important top secret Knight news with the assistants.


For some reason, the wizard class didn’t make a lot of noise about how knighthood worked for even the nonwizard Artonans to pick up on.


“I caught onto the shorter sleeves and the metal decorations, so I can find knights in a crowd. Because of that, I realize your family seems to have a mix of knights and wizards. Obviously I see Evul-art’h’s title when she calls, so I know she’s one.


