“I have basic knowledge. If she were lecturing you on how spells and elementally aligned ingredients can be used to transmogrify various materials, I would have much more to say.”


[You mean spells that turn one thing into another. Do you like that kind of magic?]


“I do,” said Stuart. “But I like most kinds of magic. The boy in front of you is trying to get your attention. I believe he wants his beverage now.”


Turning his thoughts away from the forest back toward the classroom was a jarring experience. The theater-style lecture hall full of creaking seats, clicking keyboards, and sighing students surrounded him. Finlay kept glancing hopefully over his shoulder.


“Sorry, man,” Alden whispered. “I zoned out. You could’ve texted.”


Finlay was an extreme fan of caffeination, and he’d brought two drinks to class again. So Alden had been holding onto a hot tea for him with one hand. He dropped his skill, and the smell of Earl Grey hit his nose. He passed it forward, and Finlay grinned at him.


It was so convenient not to have to move around to preserve things anymore.


“Do you…does your skill improve your life?” Stuart asked.


What a loaded question, thought Alden.


Doubly so, considering who was asking, and the future he had planned for himself.


[It’s an amazing skill,] Alden replied. [It helped me save someone I care about, and I enjoy it in a lot of ways. I was excited to be selected as an Avowed, but if I never had been, I would definitely have been safer. And possibly happier in the long run. Or maybe I’d just be different. It’s hard to know for sure.]


“You really answered,” said Stuart, an unreadable look on his face.


Alden leaned back until his seat creaked. [That’s a fraction of an answer for that question. I don’t think I even know the complete one yet. You should ask me again sometime when we’re face to face if you’re still curious.]


“You’ll still be my guest?”


[Sure. If you pick a good date for both—]


“December fifteenth,” Stuart said promptly. “It is your weekend. And I will not be in school either. I will persuade Evul to send you an invitation.”


Alden stared. So Stuart had totally already picked out the date and…yeah…that was soon. So soon.


Don’t get freaked out. He’s not summoning you to do anything dangerous. He wants to serve you beverages out of the pink quartz pitcher. And do…whatever it is Artonan knights-in-waiting do when they have friends over.


[The fifteenth is good for me. But if you wanted to wait another week, I’ll actually be out of school for eleven days starting on the twenty-third.]


“It needs to be sooner,” said Stuart quickly. “That is to say…I’ll be busy with something during that time. And I hope to see you before then. If you don’t mind. You don’t have to come if—”


[December 15th,] Alden texted. [Perfect date. I’m putting your name on my calendar.]


“Truly?” Stuart smiled.


Yes, truly. He couldn’t put things like “parkour club meet-up in Parc des Batteurs” on the calendar and leave off “go to another planet.”


******


Stuart usually got more relaxed the longer they talked, but even when he was relaxed there was a distance between them that no amount of forced casualness on Alden’s part would bridge. There were things the Artonan boy hinted at but never explained—the exact nature of his unhappiness with his schoolmates, why he was frustrated with his family, what was up with his many eccentricities…


He’d finally gotten the foot fully healed. He mentioned it to Alden in the middle of showing off his ryeh-b’t’s claws.


It was like, “You can stop worrying about me now. My contemplations on the nature of my ignorance and failures are complete, so I told a healer to fix the burning pains I’ve been enduring for more than eight months.”


No big revelations about what those contemplations were, and his tone didn’t invite questions.


Things like that made it so damn hard to get to know him.


If he were anyone else, if I were anyone else, I don’t think I’d be able to connect with him at all.


But what Alden did know about Stu-art’h was so significant that it largely made up for the gaps in his understanding. And it was obvious that the Primary’s son was trying hard all the time. Even when Alden couldn’t fathom what the other boy was thinking, he could see the vast amounts of effort he was putting in.


It was hard not to like someone when you could see them struggling to get it right.


But Stuart, dude, I wish you’d put just a little less effort into this, Alden thought as he sat in Engaging with the Unexpected and listened to the Artonan’s slightly too-shrill sounds of offense.


“Alden! Your classmates clearly need guidance. Look at them! Just look! They are biting at each other’s throats—and not in an enjoyable manner—and you are just sitting there quietly.”


[I’m not suggesting that Instructor Marion change the course format no matter how often you ask.]


“They are too young to engage in this type of debate. They are merely arguing with each other for fun at this point, not <<seeking accord!>>”


Too young? You fed yourself to an illegally summoned squid monster because you were trying so hard to make friends with the other baby wizards. Don’t think I’ll ever forget.


[You know, I’m pretty sure Artonans argue with each other like this, too,] Alden said.


Joe’s descriptions of the Grand Senate’s decision making processes were, unfortunately, unforgettable.


“Not in class,” Stuart said in an affronted tone. “Not unless we were nurtured by <<a species of loud, foul-smelling parrotlike creatures known for consuming their nestmates.>>”


Alden raised his hand.


Instructor Marion whistled to stop the verbal battle that had been going on for the past several minutes. It had started out as a relatively serious discussion about whether it was all right for a hero to disable a pursuing superchaser’s vehicle if they had reason to believe that the chaser was endangering themselves with reckless driving, but after that, it had somehow devolved into a fight about image rights and whether chasers who were known to deliberately cut and splice footage to make heroes look bad could be considered attackers when they showed up on the scene.


“I think we’ve gotten off topic again. We’re acting like a bunch of gokoratch,” said Alden.


Stuart’s eyes widened.


“Can’t we talk about the next case?” Alden continued. “It seems more serious to me anyway.”


The whole class and Instructor Marion were silent and staring, no doubt at the System’s translation for gokoratch. Finally, the boy who’d been the most pugnacious about the image rights fight said, “What, you just want to finish this case off really fast with your Rabbit powers?”


It was the guy who Alden had been privately thinking of as “three minute man,” from his first ever class—the one who’d assured everyone he could solve the domestic violence case in three minutes.


“I could finish this one in three minutes,” said Alden. “The first one is to ask myself why I’m loaded up with magic gear while I chase a soccer mom’s minivan down the freeway. Am I working for a city so desperate for dramatic battle footage that looking cool supersedes highway safety? The second minute is for me to think, ‘Oh, there are a bunch of superchasers following me. Now it’s even more of a disaster.’ And the third is for me to text the soccer mom and say, ‘Look, I like living on Anesidora just fine. The school system’s great for your kids. You don’t get to live a normal life ever again anyway, so maybe think about coming in on your own when you’re less panic-stricken.’


“Then I turn around and go about my day in the least sensational way possible.”


And…that was an unvarnished opinion. Now I sound judgmental and jaded.


“Your solution is to send the villain a text message then go home?”


“She’s a C-rank Brute who didn’t want to move to Point Nemo,” said Alden. “Not a terrorist. Why was a dramatic chase ever appropriate to start with? Instructor Klein—”


Wait, is it safe to invoke him of all people? It doesn’t feel safe. But I’ve started. I can’t just stop halfway.


Alden had been doing so well up until now carefully typing up his arguments for this class and editing them until they sounded better…and less annoyed.


Somehow, this is Stuart’s fault.


“Instructor Klein says we should be willing to finish the job ourselves,” he said. “But he also says it’s sometimes appropriate to let someone run if chasing them does more harm than good. So when an unexpected event occurs during the middle of what was already a questionable chase, I say quit.”


One of the third year girls turned around in her desk. “Who cares about that? Did you call us stinky cannibal parrots?”


“Technically he said ‘we,’ so he was calling himself a stinky cannibal parrot, too.”


“Gokatch,” said Andrzej under his breath. “Gokovatch?”


“Instructor, does gokoratch fall under the ‘no disrespectful language’ rule? Because I think we should add it to the class vocabulary.”


“Is gokoratch the plural or the singular?”


“Alden,” Instructor Marion said in a tired voice.


“Sorry about that.”


“No alien species names. I have a hard enough time deciding where to draw the line with human insults.”


“Understood.”


“What if we just said ‘stinky cannibal parrot’ in English, Instructor?” someone asked. “Is that too disrespectful?”


A very long way away from their classroom, there was an alien boy covering his face with a hand.
 


******
 


“My roommate will be in the next class,” Alden said, heading back toward the Forthright building behind a group of chattering students. A cold raindrop splashed against his forehead, and he looked up at the dark clouds. “I’m going to tell him you’re listening in.”


Stuart was back in his room, working on metal for another spell ring. It was a chore he’d assigned himself so that he wouldn’t “get too impassioned and prompt you to insult fellow students.”


“Lute’s a Chainer, so we’re practicing the hand signs for a wordchain together while I correct his Artonan language.”


As soon as he said it, he realized that Lute might not be supposed to teach him anything until that conversation with his boss happened. Alden didn’t know if there was some rule about what amount of instruction was allowed.


“He’s setting up a meeting with the wizard he works for to let him know,” he added quickly.


“Yes…” Stuart looked up from his metal block. His expression was carefully guarded. “I was trying to understand the nature of your relationship with him after I heard his class.”


“The nature of our relationship?” Alden asked. “We’re getting to know each other. We’re roommates. He was fun to spend time with the other day, and he’s a good tutor. I think we’ll be friends. Why would his class matter?”


Stuart still looked cautious. “You did say you were suffering from ‘the bad half’ of a wordchain last night. I assumed it was your own, but then…”


“Lute gave me the good half earlier in the day. I can’t cast it myself yet.”


“So he was doing you a favor!” Stuart said in a relieved tone. “You don’t <<prostrate yourself>> beneath his feet after the <<feast>>.”


Alden stopped walking. Another raindrop hit his nose.


“I don’t what now?” he said.


Completely in English. He’d been speaking Artonan with just a few words peppered in to cover vocab failings, but there were some levels of confusion so great that they could only be conveyed in your native tongue.


“I don’t what?” he said again.


“I’m so relieved,” said Stuart. “I didn’t think that particular subculture had made it to Earth yet. There’s very little <<overlap>> between them and the majority of wizards. But you spent a long time on Thegund, so you might have encountered their ideas and found them persuasive. It would have been fine if you had. They serve the Triplanets, too, in their own way. Many refuse to acknowledge their place in our society, but their cultural and practical value has been affirmed by the Grand Senate. Some of our most powerful wordchains wouldn’t even exist without their <<zealous perseverance.>> And considering my family’s relationship with them, it would be extremely improper for me to judge you for finding <<spiritual meaning>> where you wished.”


Rain had started to fall in earnest, and Alden sprinted for Forthright. Stuart’s wildly indecipherable rapid-fire reassurances that he would absolutely still respect Alden if Alden wanted to be someone who derived spiritual meaning from Lute Velra rang in his ears.


What the heckity heck? he thought as he hustled.


He’d heard that wordchains had religious significance to Artonans. The teacher with the lasered hairline had insisted on it, actually. But he’d yet to find evidence. Kibby had appreciated them more as aesthetic and ritualistic objects; she thought they sounded pretty and felt magicky. On the Artonan soaps and sitcoms he’d seen, nobody who did wordchains acted differently than Alden would have expected.


Now Stuart was throwing around all kinds of interesting words.


“I’m really glad you respect…my freedom of religion?” said Alden as he dashed into the building. “But I have no idea what you’re say—”


He suddenly spied a blond head beelining for the stairs. A very short blond head. “Lute!”


Lute spun around.


“Oh. Hey, Alden. You left in a hurry this morning.”


