103


Alden was constantly reminding himself to be careful of cultural differences and, more importantly, personality differences when he spoke to the son of the Primary. For example…if, when you were sleepy and focused on not biting your own tongue, you said, “We can talk all day tomorrow,” Stu of House Art’h did not hear, “We can talk lots.”


He heard, “Call me at the crack of dawn and stay on the line with me until one of us needs sleep.”


Alden was in his boxers, kneeling on his learning cushion and getting in some practice time with his auriad when the call came in. Startled, he threw the iridescent indigo loop over his head, leaped to his feet and ran to the closet.


Thirty seconds later, he was dressed in the first things he’d laid his hands on—jeans and one of the moisture-wicking black turtlenecks LeafSong had sent him in the replacement human necessities package.


I didn’t intend to wear one of these unless I got really lazy about the laundry, he thought as he accepted the call.


They were comfortable, but they were turtlenecks and the material was faintly shiny, like silk. He was on the fence about whether it was a tolerable amount of shiny or not.


“Good morning, Human Alden,” said Evul-art’h.


She was outside leaning against the mirrored wall of the house, waving at him with fingers covered in thick rings. It almost looked like she was wearing hand armor. “My brother wants to—”


“Thank you, Evul!” Stuart snatched the tablet.


“Hey, you actually managed to take it from her,” said Alden as the Artonan boy scurried down one of the outdoor paths.


“She let me. She’s busy right now. Good morning! I’m very happy you want to talk all day. I was afraid our opportunities for conversation would be limited by your schooling.”


That’s right. I did say…


Stuart would understand if Alden explained that he’d been exaggerating. But he looked excited. It was rare for him to show excitement, so he might actually have been very excited.


They’d spoken for hours at a time on most of their previous phone calls. There was a lot of ground to cover when you lived on different planets, didn’t know that much about each other, and only got one chance to talk every two-ish weeks.


It isn’t really that weird for him to think all day means all day.


“Yes. I can’t actually talk to you when I’m in class, but you can…um… observe and comment. I can text you, too, if that works? Your sister’s paying for it, so…”


“Technically she isn’t,” said Stu-art’h. “Evul may use common System resources like this as much as she pleases.”


It would be kind of hard to argue that she shouldn’t be able to.


“All right.”


“You have a learning cushion!”


Oh, we’re zoomed out so he can see stuff around me.


Thank goodness he’d been practicing from memory and not with his spell books this morning. It was only because yanking them from System storage was too expensive to bother with for just a few minutes. He usually waited until he was settling down for at least an hour or so at a time.


“I do.” Alden looked down at the faux-leather cushion. “There were some at the lab with Kibby. I liked them. You’ll get to see some of them in one of my classes today, too. But I can’t really find any as nice here on Earth. They all seem to be more cheaply made.”


“That’s <<appalling,>>” said Stuart with a frown. “Does your new school not have proper respect for the <<sanctity>> of your education?”


Wow…


Alden had temporarily forgotten his plan to send Kibby videos of his classes so that she could rant about late teachers and people who ate chips during the sacred hours of knowledge acquisition.


“It’s fine. Human school is less…it’s not always less serious. If you’d been watching my talent development class last night—the magic and physical education I wanted to attend this program for—you’d have seen it can be very serious. But my daily classes aren’t as formal as an Artonan school.”


“Worli Ro-den is unusually informal for an instructor,” Stuart said.


“Yeah, I can’t imagine most teachers threaten their students that much.”


“It is barely forgivable in his case because he manages to present it as a consequence of eccentrically high passion for his field and exacting standards.”


“You’re saying he gets away with being mean-mean because he’s so gifted everyone else really does come across as inferior when he’s around,” said Alden.


“That’s not perfectly accurate, but it’s close.”


“People are probably just afraid to complain after they’ve sat through a class.”


“He’s pushing the boundaries of student tolerance farther than he should lately,” said Stuart. “His assignments are becoming more <<punitive>> than educational. The dissections…”


Alden gasped. “Are you criticizing an instructor?”


Stuart turned his nose up. “I am merely saying that when a couple of my classmates lose their composure and seek vengeance, I may not be able to condemn them for it.”
 


******
 


Alden was sure roommate code dictated you not spring a sentence like, “I have this very important Artonan friend, and he’s watching us all through the System,” on innocent people before 6:15 AM.


The guys deserved to wake up without being observed by the curious wizard in Alden’s head. And Stuart was curious about everything.


“Who is that?” he asked, as Alden stepped out of his room with his messenger bag slung over his shoulder and encountered Lute coming from the opposite one.


“What is that animal on the wall? Oh, another boy! What’s his name? How many people do you live with now?”


Instead of responding to the question stream right away, he jogged through the kitchen and out into the corridor. When he was safely out of the room, he answered, “I’m living with three other boys. The one with the pale hair is Lute.”


He took the stairs down to the first floor. “The animal on the wall was a polar bear. Not a real one. The boy with the dark hair is Haoyu. Lute’s a Chainer, we’ll see him in a few hours. Haoyu is a Stamina Brute who’s planning to pick up some spell and skill overlaps with the Strength subclass.”


“Why?”


“I think it’s mostly because that’s what his mom and dad both do,” said Alden. “But I haven’t asked. We’re just getting to know each other. They call it a Dura Brute build. He wants to have some more offensive abilities without losing the advantages of his class.”


“I see. What are those plants?”


After a brief tour of the garden and a trip across campus, Alden ended up drinking coffee and eating vegan sausage rolls in the student area on the roof of the Forthright building. He was the only one up there. The early hour and the gloomy weather were probably keeping everyone else indoors.


“I just remembered something I wanted to ask you,” said Alden, when Stuart’s questions finally stopped for a moment. “There’s a food they served us when we were working on campus at LeafSong. I think they sell it at one of the restaurants nearby, too. It’s this short, thick tube. It’s crunchy. It’s cooked in hot oil maybe? And inside, it’s full of some kind of vegetable. And the vegetable tastes like meat. To me. Earth meat. I really want to know what it is, so I can try to import it.”


Stuart was in the woods right now, preparing a hunting game for his ryeh-b’t. He had a small basket full of creatures he was calling “bugs” for her to find. They did look like beetles, if beetles were rat-sized.


“Was it coated in a substance similar to <<coagulating>> blood?” Stuart asked.


“I was thinking of it as a delicious sauce, but now that you mention it…yes?”


“The tubes are k’rethkan. The majority of the <<first and second wave of settlers>> to Artona III were from a culture in which it is popular. The vegetable you like is native to III, and <<colloquially>> it’s called ‘meat petal.’ So I’m sure that’s what you mean.”


“Meat petal,” said Alden reverently.


Stuart gave him an odd look.


“Hey, you’ve got giant bugs crawling up your arm! I’m not the strange one. Meat petal is a great name for a plant.”


“They don’t bite,” said Stuart, knocking the two escapee beetles back into the basket. “Meat petal does, though. The jungles of three are known for their carnivorous plant life.”


“It bites?”


“The <<masticating petals>> snap shut when something touches them.”


Alien venus flytrap. Let’s eat it.


He was soon distracted from his plans to import alien plant life, though. Stuart had stopped walking. He set down his bugs, shook his arm slightly, and a soft loop of string slithered out from under the loose sleeve of the coat he was wearing and fell into his hand.


His auriad.


For a second, Alden wondered if it was a new one. Then he realized it wasn’t quite unbonded white. It was just a very pale shade of purple. Like his father’s hair was. Or like his sister Sina’s had been.


Alden felt an unexpected urge to compliment him on it. Then he realized he had no idea how to do that or if it was even appropriate, so he just watched in silence while Stuart cast a spell.


Something was different about the way he used it. Alden couldn’t quite put his finger on what it was, and the spell was over too quickly.


A scoop of soil was taken from the ground as if by an invisible trowel. Stuart dropped a beetle into the hole and kicked the dirt and leaves back over it with a booted toe.


“They’ll just sit there,” he explained. “Alden <<fixates>> on visually tracking her prey. She needs to practice using her sense of smell, too.”


Human Alden was too busy watching the young wizard’s hands as he cast again to answer.


Stuart was elegant and precise. Alden had seen him make wevvi before, so that wasn’t a surprise. And he wasn’t faster with his hands than Alden was, but the string was moving through the patterns…


It moves more for him than for me.


It was almost like Stuart had a couple of additional fingers to use.


Alden touched a hand to the base of his neck. His own auriad had been getting more and more helpful. He could make it tighten or cling just by wanting it to. So maybe one day, they’d be at that level, too.


“You’re quiet suddenly,” said Stuart. “Are you sad the bugs will be eaten? You don’t have to observe if you don’t want to.”


“It’s not that. I was just really enjoying watching you work. I hope Other Alden has fun with her hunt.”


Stuart paused with a beetle held in his hand over the fifth hole, then he dropped it in and covered it up. He looked away from his task to examine Alden. Then he held up his right hand. The loops of string draping his fingers shone.


“This is my auriad,” he said. “It’s a casting tool. A more personal type of one. I’ve had it since I was small. It aids me in shaping my authority for more complex spells. It gives me focal points. Let me think how to…”


He trailed off.


He’s trying to think of how to explain it to me, Alden thought as he took in the look of concentration on Stuart’s face.


“…it’s like a helpful hand that works alongside my intentions to perform magic,” Stuart said finally. There was a note of annoyance in his voice at the inadequate description. “It’s part of me. A piece of my power. I don’t know if that will sound reasonable to you. I can’t quite imagine how to say it otherwise.”


“Thank you, Stuart,” Alden said. “I understand what you mean.”


“Do you?”


Alden wanted to say yes, I really do. He tried to think of how to do it without revealing personal experience.


“You look…there’s an English saying, ‘comfortable in your own skin.’ You look like that when you use it.”


He waited.


Stuart blinked a few times, then he smiled. “That’s a pleasing thing to hear.”


“There’s a bug on your shoulder,” said Alden, brushing the last crumbs of his sausage roll off his hands. “Better start digging."
 


******
 


Stuart’s presence was a major distraction during the science lecture.


It wasn’t his fault. He was minding his own business out in his forest with his ryeh-b’t. But a video feed of a small red dinodragon hunting buried beetles was much more entertaining than organic chemistry.


Other Alden was a capable but lazy bug finder. She would dig one up with her large hind claws, eat some favored squishy part out of its interior, then flap back to Stuart to cling to his shoulders or his legs and make begging sounds.


“I am not going to dig up the next one for you,” he said every time. “Go hunt.”


“Go hunt” was obviously a phrase the ryeh-b’t knew, since she would always head off to hunt when he said it. But she had a habit of running right back to him and begging more whenever it took her longer than thirty seconds to sniff out her prey.


I don’t have a future as an animal trainer, thought Alden, watching Stuart shoo her again. If the ryeh-b’t had made that sad little gurgling noise at him, he would have delivered her beetles to her on a platter.


[Do you ever take her with you to school?] he asked.


He couldn’t text in logograms yet, so Stuart would just have to rely on System translation.


He looked up in surprise. “I will when she’s fully trained. The jungle campus will be good for her, but she needs to learn that not all creatures wish to play with her. Are you able to focus on your class and speak to me at the same time?”


[Not really. But you’re educational, too, right?]


Stuart lifted a brow. “Do you want me to talk to you about <<polymers>>? I’ve been listening to your instructor. I don’t think I can improve on her lecture.”


[Not a chemistry expert?]


