“And…” he hesitated. “I’m sure having a position like that involves a lot of difficulty and sacrifice.”


That was all he felt like saying over the phone.


“It does,” Stuart said softly. Then he cleared his throat. “All right. You understand well enough. Our household can be formal on certain dates and occasions, but I’m not inviting you to visit on one of those. The only custom you need to follow on a normal day is addressing all of the knights by their title when you first meet them. They’ll immediately give you permission to stop because my family doesn’t use titles at home except to acknowledge important life events.”


Straight to business then. “I can do that.”


“You can wear whatever human clothes you want, or if you want to be <<fashionable>> I can send you images of what is currently popular for nonprofessional clothing here on the Mother Planet.”


“I kind of want to see what that looks like regardless of whether I wear it or not.”


“If you do not mind…it’s my personal opinion that you should not wear clothing with writing on it unless the writing is meaningful to you.”


Alden sat up in surprise. “Writing?”


Stuart let his hands snap up briefly in the same gesture Kibby had usually used for a shrug. Artonans did shoulder shrugs, too. Alden was going to have to check and see which one was more shruggy.


“I do understand that dress customs are not the same on Earth. But we’re used to reading the markings on clothing to learn important information about the wearer. Humans in images are often wearing words that I think mean nothing to them. Or the names of other people? Or cultural references that are hard to grasp even if I research. And it’s difficult to determine whether a human wants me to care about the meaning of the words or if they’re just decorating themselves with the shapes…”


“Oh!” said Alden. “It reminds you of the symbols on knight and wizard outfits, so it feels like you have to pay attention to it. It’s usually just advertising…but it’s not always advertising. Sometimes it’s a saying the person likes or a uniform for their workplace. I see how that could be confusing.”


“Yes,” said Stuart. “It will be overlooked as a species preference if you like to adorn yourself in that way, but you asked about making people comfortable. Most would find it <<dissonant>> for you to wear your commendation alongside something meaningless.”


Alden tried to picture himself having the special symbol that went with Alis-art’h’s commendation embroidered on a t-shirt for a pizza joint.


“I wouldn’t do that anyway. Um…am I supposed to wear the commendation?”


“Do you not want to?”


Alden wished Stuart would be a little more expressive right now. He couldn’t tell from the Artonan boy’s face if he cared about the answer or not.


“I want to do whatever’s respectful and appropriate,” Alden said carefully. “I don’t understand the etiquette.”


“That’s not good. There’s a lot of etiquette.”


Alden grimaced. Coming from someone he’d once seen count out the individual grains of a particular spice before he dropped them in the wevvi kettle, that didn’t bode well.


“It’s really a lot,” said Stuart.


******


They spent the whole afternoon together, except for a few breaks when Stuart left the tablet behind for a couple of minutes.


During Intro to Other Worlds, Alden received a lesson on the etiquette of when and how he should wear the embroidery when he was on the Triplanets. He wished he could have remained blissfully ignorant. It was so complicated there was no way he was going to get through without embarrassing himself at some point. And that might be the same as embarrassing the Quaternary?


Actually Stuart kept using the English words “tarnish” and “honor” which he had learned especially for that long-ago apology he’d delivered in front of all the other teens at LeafSong.


Alden still wasn’t sure exactly how they’d both gotten tarnished back then.


He didn’t want to freak out his roommates…anymore than he already had. So he spent the late afternoon and early evening away from campus. Stuart wanted to see “things you find beautiful about your world.” It was a tall order. The temperature had dropped, and the rain had turned into a real storm.


It was forty degrees Fahrenheit and howling outside.


They rode a lot of public transportation and did some people watching. Alden had gotten a woman on the bus to entrust him with one of his own plastic ponchos, so when he did step out into the weather it was surprisingly tolerable.


After a couple of tries he’d mastered the poncho shield. The ideal thing was to ignore the sleeve holes and stick his arms inside. Then he could either jump to make the whole oversized covering balloon out prior to preserving it, or he could flap around inside it until he’d gotten a similar shape.


Roominess between his body and the shielded plastic made walking around possible, and bonus—he now looked even cooler than people normally did while wearing what was effectively a garbage bag with a hood.


“This is the traditional garb of my people,” he told Stuart as he walked through the open air market where he’d met Dave Banyu, the Longsight, for a chat about B-rank superheroing. “We all dress like this when Artonans aren’t looking.”


“Do you?” Stuart said in an amused voice.


He was sitting on the floor beside his bednook, and Other Alden was using him as a climbing frame.


“Yes. This is true human beauty.”


Most of the places in the market were still open. Anesidorans weren’t strangers to bad weather, and wind shielding and deeply recessed stalls made shopping manageable. But not far from the end of the market, down by the water, was an area without any roofing or shields. There, the waves were crashing into the seawall and sending up clouds of spray.


Alden went to watch it. His shoes were soaked and his feet were freezing, but he’d had the sense to roll up his pants at least. The shielded poncho was keeping the rest of him warm enough, and there were some other positives he hadn’t realized would be so nice. The wind that whipped his ankles and stung his face when he turned his head in the wrong direction wasn’t touching the rest of him except as an occasional swirl of air that found its way in from the bottom. And the raindrops that should have been loud against the plastic were soundless.


He could still hear sounds coming in from the open front of the hood, but the muffling was nice.


The constant pressure on his skill from the wind and rain was an interesting feeling, too. He couldn’t pick out the impact of individual raindrops…it was far too many little things hitting him all at once. But it occurred to him that if he wanted to refine his sensitivity in that area, standing out in the rain wasn’t a bad plan.


Or under a shower, but that didn’t have the same drama.


A large wave burst against magic and concrete, and Alden stood in the spray, licking salt off his lips.


“Do you like that spot?” Stuart asked.


“I think I really do.”


He was very nearly alone out here. Godspeed to any drone smaller than a helicopter trying to fly in this weather. And good luck to anyone not packing magic that would protect them from a gale. Probably there were other oddballs having fun somewhere else. He could definitely imagine Vandy trying to Sky Shape in this; he’s seen her outside the girl’s dorm this morning trying to trust fall into a cushion of her own breeze.


She’d hit the ground. Apparently she hadn’t gotten the hang of shaping while she was falling backwards.


But here, now, this little patch of Earth felt like Alden’s own.


“Thegund fucking sucked!” he told Stuart and the storm. “Even before the Contract failed, it sucked. It was still all the time. No wind. And there was almost no sound. That place felt like death even before it turned into death.”


“Would you like me to have Aunt Alis dig an ocean there?”


“YES!”


Stuart rubbed his ryeh-b’t’s scaled snout. “You do know that was a joke?”


“As far as I’m concerned, it was a promise.”


Another wave smashed itself against the island. Alden spun around and let the back of the poncho take it.


“Alden,” Stuart said hesitantly, “I have a question that I don’t mean in an offensive way, but I am curious…”


He turned back around. “Just ask.”


“You are attending your school because you wish to challenge yourself and busy yourself to overcome your fears.”


I did tell him about that weeks ago. And afterward, he told me he wished I could go to LeafSong with him.


This was the point where they connected, despite all the distance both of them created with their secrets, half-truths, and misunderstandings. On Alden’s part the link was made mostly of respect, for what Stuart had been through and what he planned to go through in the future. On Stuart’s…


Alden wasn’t sure, but he hoped it was a similar emotion.


Stuart took things so seriously. It was a quality that caused a lot of headaches, but it shone when it was actually time to discuss serious matters.


“The graduates of your school become superheroes.”


That word sounds weird coming out of his mouth.


“I’m still trying to fully understand the idea,” said Stuart.


“I’ve been told it’s a very human idea.”


“Yes. It must be. It is battle against those who would harm others and it is also battle for the sake of entertainment?”


Battle theater, Max called it. Alden wondered why he’d bothered arguing if even Stuart got that impression.


“It is. A lot of the time. There are superheroes who don’t entertain people at all, though. I have an instructor who only helps with disasters. And the Anesidora battlegroups have entertaining heroes on them, but they don’t do entertainment when they’re called in as a team to deal with real problems.”


“It’s also the job of superheroes to capture other Avowed and force them to live on Anesidora with you,” said Stuart. “Even ones who don’t do harm?”


Alden could tell from his tone that this was the thing he worried was potentially offensive.


“I understand it’s illegal on your world for Avowed to live among average humans.”


“It is,” said Alden. “And, yes, that’s part of the job for many superheroes. Most, I assume. Though I guess whether it’s something ugly and dramatic like that case we were talking about in class today or something more reasonable must depend on the people issuing orders to the Avowed.…what exactly did you want to know?”


“Will you do that one day?” Stuart asked.


“I won’t.”


He hadn’t thought about it when he was younger—superheroes picking up completely harmless unregistereds. Everyone knew they were criminals, too. And he’d taken it for granted that a criminal Avowed was dangerous and probably should be caught, before Gorgon and Boe both pointed out that not registering was just a lifestyle many people preferred and not necessarily step one on the path to supervillainy.


Thoughtless of me. Childish. At least there are some parts of the old Alden I’m glad to have left behind.


Icy water spattered around his feet again.


“I won’t do it,” he repeated. “Maybe I’m just as bad as those idiots in Engaging with the Unexpected who are always trying to make the law for Avowed be whatever they want it to be. But I’m not ever going to use my magic that way. The thought of overpowering a frightened person and dragging them away from their home because it would make the rest of humanity feel better completely disgusts me.”


“I see,” said Stuart.


Alden had no idea what he thought.


“What do you intend to use your magic for then?” Stuart asked. “What will you do with it?”


“Are you asking me what my purpose is?”


“Yes.”


As if that was just a thing people regularly asked each other.


“You know, the last person who asked me that was your father.”


The Artonan boy looked away from the tablet. “Was it?”


“We were holding hands.”


Stuart’s lips pursed and then, unexpectedly, he started to giggle. “He couldn’t do it without holding your hands? If anyone knew…”


“Your aunt was there. It was her idea.”


“She doesn’t count. They shared a womb.”


“They’re twins?”


“No. Two of a triplet set. Their third is no longer with them.” He regained his composure and looked back at Alden expectantly.


“Is asking people their purpose the family question or something?”


“I fear it might be,” said Stuart, giving a smile that didn’t quite reach his eyes. “I thought it was a universal quest, but I have been disappointed to find it otherwise over the past several months.”


Well, that explained at least some of his problem connecting to the other people his age at LeafSong. If he expected them to be questing after life purposes instead of getting wasted and shoving gum in human pockets to see what happened…


“Hey, I worry too much about this kind of thing as well,” said Alden. “My friend yelled at me for it recently.”


“I do not believe I worry about it too much at all. How could it be possible to do that?”


“You want to be perfectly noble and honorable and self-sacrificing all the time, right? And you torture yourself when you’re not living up to it. I’m pretty sure it’s a character flaw.”


“It’s not.”


“Don’t be embarrassed. It’s both of us. We need to work on that.”


“What in the name of the Mother are you talking about?”


Stuart looked delightfully flummoxed.


Alden smiled into the next wave. “I want to use my magic to protect myself and stay alive. And I want it to be a life that’s worth living. How does that sound?”


