You have made a mistake, one that will cost you. You've come to our world thinking that you are unknowable and that we are vulnerable. Pray, I give you this: there are many weak-minded among the people. There are many who will never be able to stride beyond the confines of victimhood—those that will always be cattle, the blood whetting your appetite, the flesh filling your ravenous guts. Yet there are those who stand as more. And so you fail to know your true enemy. You've assumed all of us victims, and now, in attempting to claim me as a slave, I will place you in that category myself.

What I have inflicted upon you, Stranger, is not a wound of the flesh, but of the soul. You will not be able to find me. I am within your dimension, I stand in your shadows, I nest in your flesh. I am here—beneath and beyond your notice. I am less than a flea. But that is just the thing: the most dangerous plagues are unseen; the worst foes unknown.

Let me tell you a truth. Let me give you portents of your future. I am going to cut pieces away from you, day after day, month after month. I will drive pain into your awareness until you learn what the word entails. Until you understand that you are never to come for me or anyone I am associated with. I will see you frayed at the edges. Until the other eldritch gods breach your barriers and consume you bit by bit. I will see you shrunken. I will see you reduced. I will see you suffer things you could not imagine for the simple insult of viewing me the same as all your Seekers and slaves.

I am Valor Thann. I have been here a thousand years before. I will be here for a thousand years to come. Eternity is not your gift to squander, but my mercy to give. You think you are unkillable? I have seen gods die. You think you are beyond consequence? Then why do you scream? Why do you suffer? Why are you unable to strike me down, for all your power, for all your immensity?

Struggle and wail; curse and rage; nothing you do will matter. I am Unseen, Unheard, Unknown, unless I will it to be otherwise. I will butcher and bleed you at my whim and will, and you will not even know how.

There is no stopping what is to come. This is fact in progress. This is history happening upon you. You think your triumph inevitable. I am here to show you that inevitability is me. Muster your power. Rage. Rage against what you cannot see, what you cannot sense, what you cannot find. Rage and know that for all your mana, for all your power, for all that you are—a monstrosity dwarfing entire worlds—you will never be able to find me; you will never be able to stop me from bleeding you at a whim.

You haven’t the Skill to match mine. What measure is a gnat to a giant? A valid question, perhaps. But what use is a giant before a cancer? You should never have come for my son, Stranger. You should never have offended me. You should have never touched my world.

Now, you learn at my hand. I name you disciple in this ritual of humility, and I will remind you that there are those whom even the gods should never trespass.

-Valor Thann

275 (I)

Liberation [V]

Adam surged forward with a desperate snarl. He pushed himself against the eldritch colors, even as they glanced across his mind like hooked blades catching on naked flesh. He couldn't even see the top of the Perch anymore, but he still remembered where it was. He could feel the very nexus of the unnatural mana spilling forth.

He wasn't too late. He wasn't. He refused to be too late. Too late for Uva, for his family, for everyone still left in Blackedge. He refused. The System had taken too much from him already.

And within that whirlwind of impossible gradients, a single color defied all others. A single dawn rose once more—before the eldritch, despite the eldritch. A dawn of azure bright, of the promise of another tomorrow, of the twilight at a hard day's end. And though the color moves of metamorphosis were blinding and bright, that didn't make Adam Arrow's Shattered Star any dimmer.

His wings flared bright as he slammed into walls, burst through parting glass, and knocked structural supports aside before he shifted into his hydrokinetic form. Splashing into the Perch's interior, he groped blindly, using sound more than sight, trying to find where Uva was.

"Uva!" Adam cried aloud. “Where are you? Uva?”

He couldn't hear her heartbeat, couldn't feel her blood circulating through her body. There was so much ambient noise, so much distant sound that blocked his clarity. And the color—the color made his mind whirl. It was hard to focus, hard to remain in the present. He was drowning psychologically, magically, even physically. There was a weight pressing against him, and his wings were straining before the oncoming tide. He wasn't sure where Gone was anymore. The rest of the evacuation party was missing.

He didn't have time to wait. He reached out blindly, expanding his form in lapping waves. Soon he felt himself bumping against downed bodies, washing over debris, dragging furniture away from the center of the room, and pulling it against the far walls. At the center of the tower was a single unmoving figure, a figure that was the source of all the eldritch mana. A figure that was staring out at him, that was striding toward him, each step purposeful, each step bringing them closer.

The horrifying resplendence of Uva's eldritch mana began to dim for the first time. It was Adam's Shattered Star that painted the ambient coloration of the room. Everything was a soft azure twilight, bathed in the soothing balm of a setting sun. And he saw her. Her form was in shadow at first, almost a mirage, but truer than illusion. She drew closer, and he recognized her sharp chin, the ever-shifting color within her eyes.

The raging waters that formed Adam's body stilled as he prepared to embrace her.

"Adam," she breathed. Her voice was weak and ragged, less than a whisper, but still loud enough for him to hear. And this close, he could feel her heartbeat thumping fast, so fast that he was afraid it might burst within her chest. "Adam, please…"

He wrapped his fluid limbs around her, taking her weight into his hands. "It's alright. I have you now. I have—"

And then he saw something else. Something far grander and larger looming behind Uva, attached to her, fused to her, sprouting out from her like a tumor that had become something so much more, something so much worse.

Adam's mind went blank. He struggled to process what he was seeing. He moved reflexively, doing all he could to create distance between him and the horrific abomination that was wearing his friend. He made it less than half a meter before something speared into his back. His armor’s Magical Resistance buckled and cracked as an injection of unnatural cold and temporally stilling mana washed over him, freezing him in place. The world around him was silenced. He felt himself isolated, sealed within a cage of unnatural ice. The world wasn't just cold; it was unmoving. Everything was frozen: space, time, everything.

But he could still see from within this prison. His Shattered Star dimmed, and before him came a thing that made the ape nested deep within Adam's ancestral biology scream and thrash.

Uva's head hung limply, little more than a skin tag pointing out from the right arm of the horror’s body. Everything beneath her neck had been assimilated. Her bones were practically poking out from her shallow skin, and her features were worn beyond measure. She was withered; she was still being drained. Soon, there would be no more of her. The rest of her body had transformed into something terrible. Into something beautiful.

It was painted with such mesmerizing colors that Adam couldn't help but be enchanted by—how they changed, how they flowed. Glowing like glossy peacock feathers, hues and gradients beyond his description mended his mind, yet they commanded him to love, and love deep. It was a beast of three parts, the bulk of it resembling Uva back when she was still an Umbral. The outline of her humanoid form revealed itself, but it was taller than she was—thinner, gaunter, grander. It was practically twice her size and moved with a grace that put hers to shame.

Its other characteristics, however, were not humanoid at all. Instead, it was something harvested from a Weaveress. A sprawl of spider-like limbs extended out from her back. There were twelve of them in total, each one a length of temporally altered frost and natural chitin. The spider-like appendages were all connected to one another, the space between them filled with glowing pools of mana.

Things swam within those pools: faces that resembled Uva. Faces screaming. Faces crying. Faces trapped. They were drowning beneath colored surfaces, colors that seemed to boil the Umbral's very consciousness. And they all writhed, clawing and pushing at the eldritch membrane, trying to get out. But they couldn't.

There were other things within the pools. Other eyes that gleamed bright. Feathered serpents that slithered and snaked underneath all of Uva's separated consciousnesses. And Adam realized with wordless horror that they weren't pools at all. Instead, they were finely woven strands of Psychomancy fused together to become wasp wings.

And that brought him to the monstrosity's lower body. The stinger was a thing made from fractured glass. Drifting fractals cleaved through the air, distorting space and parting the geometries of the world itself. It was like beholding a constellation drawn close, a constellation that shifted the space between where things were, that created a tip that hurt to look at, that cut your eyes when you beheld it.

And that was the Hatchling. That was the Eldest’s child, the parasite they'd embedded within Uva. That was what approached Adam with ravenous intent.

The worst thing about the Hatchling was that it still had Uva's face. It looked just like her when she was healthy, when she was hale, yet its eyes were brighter, and it had more than one. Eight blinking eyeballs dotted her skull, and each of them held promise—promise of malice and hunger. And finally, there were the fractal palps that jutted out from her mouth, and the rows of gleaming teeth made from ice laying within, perfect to swallow, perfect to cage, perfect to freeze the prey that went down her throat to savor it as long as she wanted in a frozen instance of time until she was sated, until she grew bored of these predatory pleasures.

"Finally, you're here. You've come to me, Adam." The creature spoke using Uva's voice, but there was a reverberation afterward, a slight hiss of something else, and a faint echo of screams.

Screams that carried Uva's actual thoughts. “Run, Adam! Run, please! I'm sorry—I'm not strong enough. I tried. I tried. I tried! Composer, help me, please. Please, Lady Arachnae, help me…”

But her desperation was worth nothing. She was an instrument, a plaything of the Hatchling's whims now. And so was Adam. Where he was frozen in a stasis of halted time, the Hatchling’s Psychomantic threads extended from the very fabric of its wings, and they wrapped around him. They drew him close. There was no more incandescence—and he suddenly noticed his mother and father were here too, just a few steps away. Both were still, Rose draped over Roland, as if she had flung herself upon his body in a futile attempt to protect him. Both of them were as if corpses on a battlefield, bodies blending with the debris.

Adam didn't know if it was because he was trapped in this cage of frozen Chronomancy or if they were truly dead. He prayed it was the former, but the coldness of despair overtook the chill of unmoving time.

He tried to look around, tried to find where Valor was, where everyone else was. But he was stuck. Unable to move. Unable to even blink. And in that moment, he was less a hawk preparing to sweep down on his enemy and more a flea trapped in the spider's web, unable to stop his death from approaching. Unable to do anything but face the monster that was certain to devour him.

"No, no, stop," Uva begged hoarsely. "Let him go, just let him go. You already have me. You're already going to get everything you want. Is that not enough? Is that not enough?"

The Hatchling stopped moving. It looked down. Adam remained suspended in midair, frozen but held firm by a dense weave of psychokinetic strands. For a moment, the faintest flickers of hope were kindled inside him. He thought that there was a chance, just the slightest chance, that the monster would let him go.

And to his surprise, the Hatchling reached out and brushed Uva's face as if a parent would for a newborn infant. "Don't worry. It's okay. It is. It is the way things are. Never enough, never enough. But we don't hate you. We love you. We'll always be you, part of you, you and me, one. Eventually from two, one, but no other, no other."

And its final words were a vicious, animalistic snarl that betrayed its hate, its distrust, its animosity toward the rest of existence. "No, we would breathe again," the Hatchling said, turning her face aside, giving her a small showing of decency. "Don't need to see this. We'll spare you the drama. This will be quick. We'll devour you. Need to devour you. Something Unique inside your soul, something special. Need to have it. Will have it. Will become. Will become. Will become!"

By this point, the Hatchling no longer sounded like Uva. Instead, it was a reverberating thing of elemental force, like if thunder could speak, like if hunger was given a voice.

It wove arms into being, forging them from the strands that made up its wings. Two hands took hold of Adam, pulling him closer, as if he were something precious. As if he were something divine. He wanted to scream. He wanted to rail against the System for how unfair everything was. Even after everything he'd been through, after all his sacrifice, after all everyone had sacrificed.

