It was too late for her and for Blackedge. What would happen if—

No, Adam snarled internally. His Shattered Star flickered, struggling against the cessation of time. His will buckled under the oppressive weight of the eldritch magic, straining harder than ever before. Something cracked.

A new Skill flickered before his eyes: Chronomancy. That would have been useful a long time ago. It was followed by a natural Magical Resistance Skill.

Skill Gained: Chronomancy (Adept) 1

Skill Gained: Magical Resistance (Initiate) 1

No, Adam repeated mentally. He would refuse even if he died. Even if the System killed him, he would refuse to cross over to the other side. He would stay a specter, a hateful ghost. He would show Shiv the meaning of deathlessness and not stay here until this existence repaid him for everything it had taken.

No, his mind snarled a third time, and with that, his Shattered Star flared bright. The frozen time that clutched him fractured down the middle, breaking like ice being heated by a ball of pure flame.

The Shattered Star Unites 178 > 184

The structure was destabilizing, and the Hatchling took a step back, surprised, awestruck, and slightly terrified, judging from its expression. "How? Impossible? No, not impossible. Unique Skill. Favorite son of the Hawk. Favorite son. Refused to die, soul burning. Burning before, because of the Undying One. Deathless abomination. We'll consume you, we'll take you. Your future will be mine, mine, all will be mine."

Its palps twitched. It hesitated a final time, as if part of it was struggling against itself, and then Adam realized that it was Uva who was trying to hold the Hatchling back. Spectral arms, each one pale as marble, kissed by moonlight, clutched and pulled at the Hatchling's unnatural body. But her will was spent. Her Skills were consumed. Her soul was colonized. There was little more that Uva could do against the Hatchling than an arm could overrule a mind. The fact that she managed to struggle at all was an impossibility in of itself.

The Hatchling sank and darted forward, preparing to bite down on Adam. Yet just as it trespassed between the space of reality that was frozen, that was encrusted in her stilling frost, it was greeted by Adam's Shattered Star for the first time. And its soul came alight as the full radiance and weight of his soul’s judgement befell it. The Hatchling screamed.

Adam realized that it had never known pain before, and now, in its haste to devour him, it had found itself judged at the deepest level. Its soul was regarded by his as a malicious evil—something that needed to burn and be scoured to ash beneath the righteous dawn.

Its focus scattered, and in that instant, a golden bolt of lightning slammed into the Hatchling from the side. Gone tore into it, lashing and slicing and ripping like a whirlwind of claws and fury, thousands of cuts raining down in less than a second. Sparks flew out into the air and scattered across the room. The Hatchling was driven back, though no wounds appeared upon its body, its form condensed in a layer of frost and time.

Adam crashed down on the ground, released from the eldritch being's unnatural hold.

"Get up," a loud and gruff voice rumbled from behind him. Adam felt a strong hand reach around his torso, dragging him back to his feet. "Got no time to be kissing the ground, Gate Lord. Got us a monster to flatten."

With that, the orc strode past Adam. He raised his massive club and prepared for a full swing.

Meanwhile, Gone was a blurring form beyond Adam's ability to perceive. She waged a guerilla war alone against the Hatchling, striking her from all angles, unable to pierce through the stilling frost but keeping the Hatchling on the defensive, forming a crackling sphere of lightning around her with her movement alone.

And then the rest of the evacuation team entered the fray. They crashed through the walls, widening the entry wound that Adam had made. The Culturist was the first among them. Beside him came the Educator and everyone else.

"Wait!" Adam cried. "She's still alive. Uva is still alive! She’s still connected to the Hatchling! Don't kill her!"

As Adam shouted his plea, a slicing strand of Psychomancy glided through the walls, carving towards his head like a scythe.

The Culturist accelerated so fast that he practically teleported, blinking from where he stood right next to Adam. He flashed gold as a temporal shell formed over him, and the orc parried the Psycho-Chronomantic strike with a raised arm—and then caught the strand between his massive hands. His muscles flexed, and he pulled on it as if a man playing tug of war. The Hatchling was wrenched off its feet. The stillness that it shrouded itself in—that unnatural Chronomancy—broke apart as it was yanked toward the orc's open-handed grasp. He seized it by the midsection, and it strained against him. The horrific creature lashed and struck, but the tendrils of mental mana, further infused by time-halting coldness, broke apart against the orc's Legendary Magical Resistance.

"You," a new voice rumbled from within the Hatchling's body. This one was older, primordial, an echo from before time, and was filled with outrage.

"Me," the Culturist replied with a vicious smirk. "Good to see you again, Eldest. I see that you found yourself a new vessel. I see that you haven't swallowed this one entirely either. She must have quite the soul."

The Hatchling didn't respond with words. Instead, its eight eyes grew bright, each one flaring with incandescent colors—colors that had a leftover hint of divinity within them. A portal to the Dreamtaker's realm opened behind those glowing pits, and a flood of power poured forth, preparing to rip the orc asunder. The Culturist responded by widening his eyes as well. He threw his hood back, and a beam of spiraling energy, dense and fetid with the Stranger's colors, responded in kind. A clash unfolded between them. The world quivered, and an inky blackness poured free from reality as if pus being squeezed out of a wound.

The Hatchling snarled in outrage. The Culturist simply enjoyed the struggle, reveling in this battle against the Eldest. There was history between them as well. History the orc was keen to revisit, for the sake of spite and dominance.

But before a victor could be decided in their stalemate, the Educator stepped in, her brush glowing the faintest blue of Animancy. With a sharp stroke, she severed three of the Hatchling's wings, painting them away in a spray of glossy colors. The Hatchling's focus broke. An overwhelming wave of eldritch mana slammed into it, launching it back across the room, ripping it out from the Culturist's grasp. It didn't manage to get far. The orc blinked through space again, seizing the Eldest's nightmare before it could fully escape. Once more, it was pinned, this time down against the ground. Temporally stilling frost crawled over the Culturist's arms, but he shattered it with a rolling of his shoulders.

It was a disgusting show of strength, of superiority. Bile licked at the back of Adam's throat as he realized how much stronger the orc was compared to him, how much more power the orc possessed. It was a vile realization, one that filled him with aggravation and frustration. But despite his personal animosity against the Culturist, he was glad to have him here now. He was glad because they needed someone to save Uva, and it couldn't be Adam alone.

And so the Gate Lord lent his strength to the orc. His Shattered Star plunged forth, spewing a beam of azure radiance, and the Culturist briefly looked over his shoulder, surprised as Adam lent what strength he could to the orc's being. Adam bestowed his Commander’s Foresight Skill upon the Culturist, but the main boon the Shattered Star provided was a general enhancement of all the orc's Skills. His levels were climbing; he was growing dramatically stronger. Where he'd already been dominant against the Hatchling before, now he proved overwhelming and inexorable.

Yet, the creature that was growing out of Uva's compromised soul wasn't out of options.

Its stinger lashed and cleaved, striking against the Culturist's body, but leaving only the thinnest scratches upon his bone-plated armor. Flashes sparked into the air, flashes of blades deflecting the fractals. Adam realized it was that ghost of Valor fighting now, protecting the orc from true harm. In his hands were twin blades, both of them thin like needles and bright like pieces pulled free from starlight.

Gone sped by, ripping a chunk of the Hatchling's face off. It let out a piercing shriek and then adapted its strategy. Instead of striking at the Culturist, pitting its strength directly against that of its adversary, its strands reached out, spilling wide until they came to a sudden jerking halt just as they slipped past the walls. It took less than a second for Adam to figure out what it was doing. It was reaching into the compromised Fingerlings that shrouded the town of Blackedge, the hive of eldritch biomass. The Fingerlings were still alive, albeit paralyzed mentally and temporally. Now, however, the puppeteering strings that Uva used to weave herself around someone's ego had been repurposed into an escape mechanism.

"Stop her!" Adam cried aloud.

He released a Veilpiercer, trying to distract the Hatchling. But it was fast, faster than he expected, and it moved as if fluid lightning. In a sudden instant, it burst apart in a mess of strands between the Culturist’s grasp, and only afterimages of Uva's trapped consciousnesses clawing at the air, reaching out for Adam, lingered—taunting him, fading thereafter. In an instant, the Hatchling was moving, and the town began to rumble and shake. A few of the Indexes she had compromised were beginning to rouse, were breaking free.

The Culturist huffed. "How unlike you to flee, Eldest. Do you still fear me? Do you still dream of what I did to you, how I broke free? Did you not promise me that my future was yours as well? That my fate belonged to you? Is that a lie? Are you but a coward, Eldest of all Primordials?"

There came a rumble outside, and the world shook as if swept by an uproar of turmoil. It was as if the earth itself was trying to rebel, trying to dash Blackedge free from existence. Adam found himself torn in two directions: to go after Uva, whatever form she took now, whatever she was trapped within—he guessed that it was one of the Indexes from how violently Blackedge was rattling—or stay. The Hatchling was doubtless trying to escape and blend in with the Fingerlings—and to finish consuming Uva.

Adam couldn't allow that. He couldn't allow his friend to find herself lost to this nightmarish creature.

But he also had a duty to his town, to his family. After so long, Blackedge's salvation was at hand. Even if it had come too late. So many had died. He should have been...

Adam made up his mind. He cursed himself, but he made his choice. No longer did he hesitate.
