Veronica smirked. "Let me be honest with you, boy. I've had many children. I kept none. I can't fully remember all of them. And you don't seem to know about this because, well, Roland's probably kept you insulated and severed from healthy development. Understandable, but pointlessly paranoid."

For a beat, Shiv had nothing to say. "So your excuse for not knowing is that you have too many bastards?”

Veronica shrugged. "I suppose so." And then her expression softened. "I wouldn’t call them bastards. Just… disowned. For what it's worth, though, I did wish for a better life for your father. He probably deserved it, but I couldn't give that to him."

"You're the Legend-Councilwoman of the Republic!" Shiv almost shouted. "What the hells do you mean you couldn't give that to him?"

"I mean exactly that," Veronica said. She stared at Shiv as if he were simple. "I can't give him a good life, a safe life, because of who I am. Legend-Councilwoman. That isn't a position of privilege. That's the position of the chief babysitter for all the Ascendants, for every citizen in this great nation, and the cleaner for all the problems tumbling our way. You want to know what else that makes me, boy?"

Shiv considered her question for a second, and the answer followed naturally. "A target."

She snapped her fingers, and the flames within the hearth flickered. This close, and with them just speaking, Shiv could focus on how powerful she was, how heavy and dense her Dimensionality felt. It was crushing. The pressure radiating out from her made it hard to breathe, and his Shapeless Tides were the only reason he wasn't flattened. Even so, his bones creaked, and his tendons were pulled tight.

“I cannot afford a proper family. I cannot afford to spend my time rearing young and playing house. These are things you give up once you have enough enemies, or you wish to create a worthy enterprise.”

Shiv inclined his head. “So, my father's not the only kid you handed away.”

"No," Veronica admitted. Her voice fell, and she grew quieter. "It always hurts. I am not heartless. I'm not invincible. I always regret it, but I always understand the price I paid to get to where I am. A price I hope the children don't pay."

"Well," Shiv said, "he's dead now, so..."

"He's dead because he was a fool," Veronica spat. "He was a fool, you were a mistake, and your mother was a greedy whore. Now. Would you like to hear about them? About their mistake? And about what Udraal probably intends to do with you?”

“I might know more than a little about the last part, but yeah,” Shiv said. “Let’s hear about how mom and dad got to the point of mass murder, grandmother.”
