In this land west of the borders of Songli territory, in the deepening night, stood thousands of men and women in white. Most of them did not stand together; their formations, of ten or twenty or five, were spread wide and far, covering a dozen kilometers. One group stood out from the rest.

In the center of the gathered forces of Songli, stood a regiment of a hundred men and women, lined up twenty long and five deep.

Opposed to them, on the other side of the field, stood the forces of Terror Peaks. They were a mirrored regiment to Songli’s 100 soldiers, dressed in reds. Others, also dressed in reds, were scattered around that main force; yet another mirror to Songli’s scattered forces, except much less in number. The sun set behind them, beyond the Tribulations.

This was artifice and ceremony.

This was obviously a dance that both sides understood well, but glancing toward the defenses of Eralis, and of all the [Ward]s that were constantly arising with each passing moment, and to hear the increasing volume of a siren warning people to get inside and prepare…

This would soon blossom into a true war, and the people of Eralis had a lot to lose.

In a flash of [Teleport] magics, the main 200 soldiers were joined by more. A few more soldiers, on both sides. A man in red armor on Terror Peaks’ side, along with his small entourage.

And Scion Hangzi Devouring Nightmare, on Songli’s side, along with a few of his people. They were all in white armor.

Ezekiel overheard the red man’s name from the other people on the ground, all around. He was Scion Raidu Terror Peaks. He was human. Slowly, both Scions and one of their attendants walked toward each other. Ezekiel strained Odin’s hearing, listening, as the two Scions met in the middle, between their small armies.

Raidu sneered, “Hangzi. Now first in line! Good for you. I’ll send your head back to your weeping mother, too, just as I sent her the head of your former sister. Is that brat Warzi next in line? He’s staying with you right now, isn’t he. I could end two children of Devouring Nightmare tonight! Maybe I will!”

Ezekiel found himself suddenly rooting for Hangzi.

“No attempt at peace?” Hangzi was calm under fire. “What would it take to get this to go away?”

Raidu’s eyes narrowed as he seemed to take in his opponent a second time. He had expected vitriol. He had expected a rebuttal. Not a side-step. Raidu pursued his obviously weak quarry, saying, “The knowledge of your chelation treatments. The dissolution of the Songli Highlands. The reparations of twenty million gold. Your family and you chained in my dungeons, so that we may cut off your limbs and feed them to you until you grow tired of living.”

He wasn’t being hyperbolic for effect.

He meant what he said.

“With all your tools of torture, you still couldn’t get that alchemist to talk, could you?” Hangzi said, “Or did you send an underling when you should have gone yourself? I heard that your forces were destroyed from the inside out, once some random Scion happened upon them.” Hangzi laughed, saying, “Some rube from the mountains! Doesn’t even fight people! Has a damned Silver Star! And your people went running, fractured and scared and killing each other instead of driving away a single random nobody from some barely-known Clan!”

Raidu glared. He softly said, “You’re going to die today, and I am going to shit upon your corpse.”

Hangzi said, “Your branch family should have been culled three hundred years ago before you betrayed the Highlands. Tonight, we rectify that problem.” In an offhand manner, he said, “Retaliations to civilian populations will be met with extreme force.”

Raidu spat, “The time for posturing is over, Hangzi. If you could have taken us, you would have done so, but in partaking of Particle Magic, you have forced our hands in ways you could never force us otherwise. We will not allow the Highlands leniency now that they have been corrupted by Melemizargo, and his pet Wizard. Tonight, everyone in Eralis dies, and we purge the world of your Dark Power.”

Hangzi’s face contorted in disbelief. He opened his mouth to reply.

But he didn’t get a chance.

Ezekiel saw what had happened, after the fact. Hangzi had thought this would be a normal war. A war fought outside of the cities. A war of boasting and constrained power. It was none of those things.

The sky opened up with lancing beams of exploding green power that scattered across the battlefield like dancing lasers, as fast as an eyeblink. The beams skipped across the hundred warriors of Songli. Some managed to deflect the power of the beams, but explosions followed in the trails of the beams, and there was no deflecting those.

Raidu slipped across Hangzi, like a phantom.

Hangzi deflected, but barely. An arm went flying. Half of Hangzi’s neck vanished, and all of his jaw. He turned to shadow and flowed away.

The Scion of Terror Peaks ended his attack amidst Hangzi’s group, already slashing at Hangzi’s people.

Songli’s retort was of song, bright and shining and devoid of everything. Power swept the field, bursting enemy soldiers into dust, then scattering them further on the Void.

Spells and swords came out, as the remains of the original 200 soldiers filled the battlefield with fire and death.

Hangzi reappeared, whole and bloody, a dozen meters to the left of where he had been. He sang a single note, and a concussive wave exploded from him, to sweep across the remaining enemy soldiers. Enemy soldiers died to their own swords.

It took a single minute of back and forth attacks and deflections, each swipe of spellwork or sword reaping lives, each explosion a brightness in the growing dark, but in the end, Hangzi and three random Songli Soldiers were alive.

Raidu was alone.

It was a victory for Songli.

The scattered clumps of clansmen had never taken the field. They had all watched the other side, to ensure that the other side never took the field, either.

With his spotless armor, and having never been struck, Raidu said, “This isn’t over.”

“Bring better tank-grown soldiers if you wish to battle again.” Blooded and dirty, with half of his armor gone, Hangzi said, “But step into Songli without breaking our defenses first, and you’ll be Elixir’d like you Elixir’d our alchemist.”

Raidu said, “You have bargained with Darkness. The result is your death.”

“You have seen our forces. We have beaten you. Further provocation will result in mutual annihilation.”

Raidu glared, and then blipped away in white light.

Terror Peaks vacated the field.
