Yorza ignored Ezekiel and Hangzi, as she looked to Warzi. Everyone looked to Warzi. Including those who were outside of the bubble. The bubble itself was invisible, but that which laid on both sides was not.

Warzi glanced around, as though coming out of the rain. He un-hunched his shoulders. He breathed deeper. He blinked, and took in the sight of his food, and then the sight of the rest of the room. He laughed once, then again, quickly giggling in joy.

Then he started crying.

Yorza [Blink]ed and was suddenly at Warzi’s side, holding the boy as the boy crawled at her, into her arms. She spoke calming words into Warzi’s ears as the boy cried on her shoulder. She smiled, and waved a hand down at the nearby table of soldiers.

The soldiers relaxed. Or at least they sat back down, properly.

The moment matured, and soon Warzi was laughing in Yorza’s arms. She set him back down and he went to the invisible wall. He touched the spell, his hand vanishing in the between-space, before his finger reached out—

He yanked his hand back like he had been burned; his smile briefly fading.

And then everything was great again. He laughed as he got back in his chair, where he instantly started eating again. This time, he didn’t drop a single bite.

Dinner resumed.

Yorza asked, “How much for this spell? How long does it last?”

“You don’t want this one.” Ezekiel said, “I’m working on something easier to enchant. I’ll see about getting you that one.”

With stronger steel in her voice than before, Yorza asked, “How much? We can offer you points—”

“No we cannot.” Hangzi’s light glare had returned in full force, as he said to Ezekiel, “Points are only awarded for meritorious service toward life and the pursuit of the betterment of us all. Though I love him dearly, Warzi’s condition does not count.”

Yorza hissed at Hangzi, “It does count! It would be in support of the realm!”

With measured calm, Hangzi said, “We’re gearing up for war, Yorza. We are not giving points to someone who could very well be an enemy. We will not make the same mistake Star Song has made.”

“This is not a convincing act.” Ezekiel almost wanted to bring up how Warzi was eyeing the two of them like they were aliens, or how both of them were perfectly in sync with each other, but he didn’t need to. He especially didn’t want to throw the kid under the bus. He asked, “Do people actually fall for this concerted speech, speaking openly in front of the— Ah. Of course they do. You wouldn’t act like this unless it worked. Which means I’m now on some other path of well-understood noble manipulation, aren’t I? I’m not sure I like that either. But at least it’s honest. At least Star Song started off on the honest path with me. You two have needed to be overly goaded before we got here.”

And they still weren’t at full, open honesty. That was fine with Ezekiel.

Before Hangzi or Yorza could speak, Ezekiel was surprised, but not by the older people in the room.

In a way that maybe only Ezekiel could see, Warzi subvocalized, with only his throat and tongue moving, “They’re always like this. Everyone is always plotting around me. It’s so easy to see through, too.”

Ezekiel did not betray that the kid ‘spoke to him’, nor did he react to the level of vitriol in the kid’s ‘voice’; he continued to watch Hangzi and Yorza.

Yorza said, “25 points; in defense of the realm. It is allowed, and this qualifies. It qualifies in exactly how Julia qualified. Warzi will someday become a fulcrum for the defense of Songli but he cannot get there as he is. Right now, he is a scared child. Right now, he needs help.”

Hangzi turned his glare toward Yorza, who purposefully did not look his way. He turned back to Ezekiel and said, “My aunt means well, but she has overstepped herself. Is there some monetary need that we can solve for you, Scion Phoenix? Perhaps your recent debt of 5000 gold to Clan Void Song?”

Ezekiel almost told the man that his debt was 50,000 gold, but that would reveal that he was an archmage in training, and not some random Scion from the mountains.

Hangzi continued, “Though I am sure with your talents you could easily acquire this yourself, so if you have some other desire, let it be known.”

Ezekiel understood something new about Hangzi, at that moment.

There was only one thing Ezekiel wanted. He wanted to know if Clan Devouring Nightmare was good people, or if they were tyrants. So far, Hangzi hadn’t done much of anything besides being an uppity twit, and that was forgivable. All people in power needed to control the powers under them, to mitigate the powers at their own level, and to fight against those above them, otherwise they would lose power themselves.

And there were multiple ways to fight against the powers above oneself.

One of those methods was to make friends out of those higher powers.

This was the preferred method of the Highlands, and of most of civilization on Veird. After all, there was one higher power that everyone fought against; the Darkness. Because of that, there was a good reason to make friends instead of enemies.

Ezekiel didn’t see one important fact about Hangzi in the beginning, but he saw it now.

Hangzi wanted to become friends with Clan Phoenix.

Not fake friends, either. Actual friends.

Whereas the people of Star Song had come to Ezekiel, knowing who he was and what they could get out of him, and Ezekiel responded in kind, here was Hangzi, not knowing any of that, and he was coming at Ezekiel looking to make actual friends.

But Hangzi didn’t know how to become friends without using the other person. He had never known anything other than transactional friendship; using others for what they can give you, and being used in return. For someone in Hangzi’s position life itself was surely a stressful situation, and to treat any friendship as ‘real’ would be setting himself up for a heavy emotional blow later on in life. Such an event had likely occurred at least once already; more, if Hangzi was unlucky.

Ezekiel did not frown, upon seeing how sad that all was.

He also wasn’t sure, now, how to proceed. He had had a plan, and now that plan was gone.

Ezekiel said, “I’m not sure what I would want in return for this magic, but once I do know, I will—”

The guards behind Hangzi flinched, hard. They all looked to the west. They had all started to receive telepathic messages. The room outside of the privacy bubble began to move.

Then Yorza noticed, and Hangzi a fraction of a second later.

In a smooth motion, Ezekiel canceled the [Sealed Privacy Ward] around them, and recast the same structure, but only two meters across, with the anchoring point being one of Warzi’s extra knives.

Sounds returned. Black armored guards stood up behind Hangzi. Warzi startled, but he quickly relaxed; his bubble was smaller, but it was still there.

Yorza wanted to say something to Ezekiel, but she did not; she recognized something was happening, and then she recognized that Warzi was fine, but behind a second bubble. She almost said something else about that, but she halted herself there, as well. Hangzi remained silent as telepathic lines of intent were suddenly able to reach him, like heat mirages on the desert.

The room was completely silent, as Hangzi’s attention went elsewhere.

And then, as suddenly as the telepathic messages started rolling in, Hangzi had heard enough.

In a smooth motion, Hangzi stood, speaking, “We have received an official declaration of war from Terror Peaks. Their armies march at our western front and assassins prowl our streets, hunting for weakness. If we do not respond to the challenge in one hour, they will rape and pillage our people and our land.” He declared. “Woe unto them, for not even death will save them from the nightmare they have unleashed!” He said to Ezekiel, “We shall continue this discussion later, for tonight, everyone shall witness the truth of Terror as it is unleashed upon pretenders to the throne. You may watch from afar, if you wish.”

Ezekiel tensed.

He had forgotten that—

Well. No. He hadn’t forgotten anything. He had certainly pushed out of his mind, though, that some actions which might seem like malice, actually were malice. War was one of these things. Somewhat. Malice was involved, but war was more than malice. War was about nations on trajectories, meeting each other like tectonic plates; inevitable and harsh.

Of course, Veird didn’t have tectonic plates, but still—

Individuals could be bargained with. Smaller groups could be cowed into quiet. Even large forces could be forced to submit, if the forces applying the submission were strong enough and the reason for fighting weak enough. Ezekiel had done this exact thing all on his own, back at the Commune of Treehome, when fighting erupted between the orcols and those who had become shadelings. That battle had started, and Ezekiel had ended it before too many had died.

But from everything he had seen, there would be no easy answer when it came to war in Nelboor.

Especially not with the tectonic shift of one side freeing itself from the Elixir, and the other still weighed down by anti-magic.

… He could try to stop a war, though!

He asked, “Is war the only possible outcome from this declaration?”

“I see that Silver Star upon your chest, Ezekiel.” Hangzi said, “The sentiment is appreciated. It is honored. It is people like you who allowed us to create the Highlands out of this war torn land. But to run from wars like this one is to run forever, and the Highlands will never abandon its people to the evil that lies outside our borders. Watch us fight this opening battle, Scion Phoenix. You, whose Clan does not fight people, and who speaks of peace, watch and see what kind of evil lives beyond the Highlands.” He turned to his men, who stood in rapt attention, listening, some praying. Hangzi rapidly gestured across his people, saying, “Remain and protect. Come with me. [Teleport] us. We leave now.”

Events proceeded rapidly.

While Hangzi spoke, lights began to brighten the sunset sky outside. Spotlights. Floodlights. Several clan mountains flickered with power as Domains spread across them like flickering fires, or whistling breezes, or bright lights. The light in the air around Ezekiel seemed to dim, without dimming, while lightwards gained glints on their edges, like far away stars trapped in ethereal nebulae. It was the Domain of Star Song, for sure.

Ezekiel’s own [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk] held at his back; pressured inward, but not broken; someone had tested him, and then backed off.

Hangzi and half of his entourage had already left; one of the mages among them casting a large enough [Teleport] to move everyone at once, to another location.

A warning siren roared outside, shaking the skies.

Across the bridge, beyond the white stone Void Wall, the very air turned dense, as power flooded out from the Void Temple in the center of the city, to strike the walls and then roll over them, expanding across the land, swallowing the delta and Redflood and Darzallia and all the other smaller cities around Eralis. The whole Choir must be singing.

Ezekiel gasped as the Void Song touched upon him like a far away band, playing a midnight tune.

Yorza gathered a crying Warzi into one arm, and slipped the knife he had [Ward]ed into the sash at her side. She tried to say something, but she couldn’t speak through the privacy. She was nervous and uncoordinated, but she was moving faster with each passing second. She handed the knife and the boy off to one of his servants, then stepped outside of the bubble.

Ezekiel spoke first, “I can cast another bubble that will make you invisible to all of those who look inside. These spells last 24 hours.”

Yorza did a double take, for Ezekiel had guessed her questions and answered her the way she wanted. She said, “Yes. Do it.”

An Odin had already invaded one of the rooms downstairs. Ezekiel cast a [Sealed Privacy Ward] through his [Familiar], and then said, “It is done. Your bedroom looked the most defensible; it is there.”

Yorza paused on her way down the stairs. She gazed at Ezekiel; it was a look of need, forlorn and desperate, but unwilling to voice her true concern. Instead, she said, “The rules of hospitality demand you contribute to the defense in the case of attack. This qualifies.”

Yorza, Warzi, and the rest of the black armored people of Devouring Nightmare rushed down the stairs. They found the invisible space, and hunkered down.

Ezekiel already knew his debt of hospitality. Yorza didn’t need to remind him, but if it made her feel more secure to do so, then more power to her. He might not attack, but he would certainly defend.

Soon enough, Ezekiel was in his room, surrounded by dense air and other protections, while Tiffany had grabbed up much of the food, and ate, watching the world around her. Paul sat to the side, watching him.

It wasn’t hard to find the location of the battlefield. Through Odin, Ezekiel overheard the staff and the people of Star Song speaking of what to expect, and of where the war would arrive.

- - - -

A trio of magenta glows watched from high in the sunset sky.

They were not the only ones up there. A butterfly made of wind, a cat made of fire, a long wolf made of lightning, and more. They all watched what was happening down below. None of them crowded each other, and even more [Familiar]s were completely invisible. But broadly, there were two sides, with a large gulf of empty space between them.

Just like it was on the empty plains below.

