Ren felt her anxiety, and looked at her. Since he was still holding the lead maid's hand, he knew which of them it was. He walked over to her and smiled.

“This ship is so big that even if we somehow encounter a storm, you aren't going to feel it.” Ren said. “In fact, why don't we head downstairs? I want to see where we're staying.”

Ren felt a thrill shoot through the personal maids, and he smiled. “Before you get your hopes up, I intend to sleep.”

“That's fine.” Frikara, the bold one, said. “Just getting to stay beside you tonight has been...”

“Scary.” The youngest one, Andrela said and reached out a hand to cup the side of his face. She was at the end of the hand-holding line and was the only one with a hand free to do it. “I don't know how you can hurt so much, and you're not rolling around on the ground screaming in pain.”

Ren smiled at her. “I've been hurt before.” He said, and recalled what had happened with Lucy. The personal maids sobbed at the same time, and Ren reined in his feelings. “I'm sorry.” He said. “I usually have a better hold on my feelings than this.”

“It's okay.” Lusinia said. “Let's go below before you can dredge up more things to batter us with.”

Ren felt her amusement, nodded slightly, then looked at the captain. “Take us out to the middle of the harbour, and keep us out of the shipping lanes.” He said. “I want to be seen, but I don't want to interfere.”

“I understand.” The short captain said. “You don't want to be banished from the waters, too.”

Ren tapped the tip of his nose. “I'll be in my cabin if you need me.”

“I won't, but it's good to know you'll be out of the way.” The short captain said and grinned. Ren chuckled, then led his personal maids into the ship through the main cabin doors.

“It's right this way.” Ren said, and took them down the long passage to the main cabin. “If I remember correctly, the cabins on each side should be suitable for-”

“No.” Frikara said. “We are not leaving you alone.”

Ren stopped walking and looked at them. The hallway was nearly 10 feet wide, so he had no problem seeing all of their faces clearly.

“I'm going to be okay.”

“Yes, you are.” Navruth said. “We'll make sure of it.”

“Now, wait just a minute.” Ren said. “You might be my personal maids, but-”

“No! You wait a minute!” Frikara said. “We all agreed that we would help you of our own free will.” She said. “Open that cabin door so we can see where we'll be sleeping tonight.”

“You aren't all sleeping-”

“Open. The. Door.” Frikara said in her Command voice.

Ren felt her commanding him, and he was so surprised by it that he opened the door without even thinking about it.

“Ooo, this is nice!” Lusinia said. “Go in, go in!” She urged Ren, and he stumbled into the room and took the personal maids with him. They all kept holding hands as they looked over the large stateroom.

“I think we can all fit.” Frikara said as she looked at the large bed. Despite the fact that she was the one that had no reservations about telling Ren she wanted to use him as a sexual object, he wasn't getting those kinds of feelings from her at the moment.

“It's getting late.” Navruth said. “If you want to get up in the morning, you're going to need to sleep.”

“I don't think that I-”

“Nonsense.” Frikara said. “Andrela? Be a doll and use your free hand to unhook me.”

Andrela undid the back of Frikara's dress, and it loosened dangerously. Ren turned away so that he wouldn't see her topless.

“You're embarrassed?” Frikara asked, when she felt what Ren felt. “You're so cute!”

“It...it's not like I haven't see women naked before.” Ren said, and tried to let go of Lusinia's hand. She wouldn't let go, though; because she wanted to maintain their skin contact. “Every woman is different, though.” He said. “It... it's because I... I barely know you.”

Frikara laughed, and Ren felt how she felt.

“We are going to spend a lot of time together.” Frikara said. “You'll get to know us eventually, but...” She smiled. “You are going to see one, some, or all of us naked long before then; and more than likely before you can get the ship fully loaded in order to leave.”

Ren sighed, because he could feel the truth in her words; and he knew they were going to be persistent in their pursuit of him. He could actually feel it in them.

“Leave your underwear on.” Ren said, and he felt the rush of joy from them. “Nothing's going to happen!” He reminded them. “We're just going to sleep!”

“Yes, we are.” Frikara said and let her dress drop to the floor. “All of us. Right here. In this bed.”

“You don't have to push so much.” Ren said and looked at her without staring at her chest. He felt her surprise and smiled. “I need to sleep, and I don't need to stare at you to do it.”

Frikara smiled, and stepped aside. Andrela had switched her holding hand to Navruth and Frikara had undone her dress. It slipped down to reveal a nice chest that was quite appealing. It wasn't too large or too small; and it complimented her body type nicely.

“That's not fair.” Ren said as his obvious arousal spread through his Aura, and the maids chuckled.

“It's because she's so cute.” Frikara said. “You'd never suspect she was hiding a body like this under her clothes!”

Andrela blushed a deep red, and Ren felt her approval flood into the Aura.

“Andrela.” Ren said. “Nothing can happen, okay?”

She nodded slightly, and he felt her disappointment and acceptance. She helped the other maids take off the dresses, and they all stood there topless as they stared at Ren.

“I guess it's my turn.” Ren said, and they all nodded slightly. He looked at Lusinia and then at their clasped hands. “I need both hands to take off my cloak.”

Lusinia moved her hand to his face and maintained skin contact, and Ren took off the cloak. He folded it up and placed it on the dresser by the bed. He made sure the spider was still tucked inside it, and looked at the women with him.

“You know, I could order you to sleep in the other rooms.” Ren said to them.

“Of course you could.” Frikara said, and glanced at Andrela. “Someone would be really hurt if you did that, though.”

Ren could feel that Andrela would be hurt a lot if he did; but, he also felt that they would all be hurt a little if he did that. Then he admitted to himself that it would hurt him to hurt them, and he let that feeling flow into the shared Aura. He felt their appreciation, and then stored his Travelling Clothes.

Ren was tempted to equip his armor bodysuit so that he would be completely covered; but, he knew it wouldn't be fair of him to be covered while they only had their underwear on.

“Um, how do we get in the bed without letting go?” Lusinia asked, and Ren smiled as he took her hand from his face.

“Follow me.” Ren said, walked to the bed, then walked up onto it. The maids chuckled as Ren picked where he wanted to lay down, then sat. The maids gathered around him, two on each side, and it left Andrela with nowhere to go.

“Now what?” Navruth asked.

Ren laid back and the two closest to him, Lusinia and Navruth, laid beside him with their heads at the same height as his, then snuggled in close by his shoulders. The next two had their heads by Ren's chest, and they snuggled in.

“There... there's only... one spot left.” Andrela said, and cautiously laid down between Ren's legs, and rested her head on his abdomen. Ren relaxed, because he thought she would try and put her head on his manhood. Despite what erotic books and videos tell you, it actually hurts to have someone use that spot as a pillow to sleep on.

The personal maids felt his relief, and Ren felt their relief that he wasn't fighting against it. Normally Ren would have, but right then, he needed someone to hold him. He lifted his arms, and the ones holding his shoulders had to move slightly. They lost contact for a moment, then Ren wrapped his arms around them and they sighed.

“Goodnight.” Ren said.

“Goodnight.” They said together.

“I rescind my order for you to stay in the temporary building.” Ren said, and felt them tense up. “I order you to stay in this state room, unless you are accompanying me somewhere.”

They all relaxed, and Ren felt how much they appreciated his diligence, and they liked how much he cared about their happiness.

Ren, Lusinia, Navruth, Frikara, Verwynn, and Andrela, drifted off to sleep on good feelings, while the ship they were on drifted off into the harbour.
