Eighteen [Knights]’ horses were pawing at the ground or snapping at the handlers trying to calm them. Eighteen [Knights] lay on the ground or were being tended to. Tyrion Veltras slowly handed the lance to Jericha, then dismounted. He rubbed at his arm.
“That’s all.”
His people and the army cheered him wildly, but Swey, Pellmia, all gave him strange looks.
“What’s all?”
Tyrion nodded to eighteen of Ailendamus’ finest, each one unhorsed, and the worst injury a pierced shoulder. None dead. Not a scratch on his armor, though he had bruises and he suspected his enchanted lance might be wearing thin. He’d have it replaced.
“You were right, Pellmia. That is all I have to offer. And that is not much. I will think of something else.”
He walked off. The [Lords] and [Ladies] of Izril watched him go, and after a moment, Lady Ricuv Terland burst out.
“I know it may be ironic—but that man is a Golem, and I mean that in the rare pejorative! I cannot understand what goes through his head!”
 
——
 
By the time Tyrion Veltras heard about Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory, entering the war, Ailendamus had sent him three peace offers, and the Dawn Concordat hailed him as a hero.
He watched Eldavin’s entry into the war with a frown. For once, he had to stop thinking about Ryoka Griffin to figure it out.
Flying armored [Mages]. It would require rethinking tactics entirely. He couldn’t use [Light Bridge]; any decent combatant would fly out of the way.
Did he have to learn how to ride a Pegasus? Tyrion wondered if that was how he could keep up with Ryoka Griffin. He’d flown two and never fallen off, but he was hardly confident with them.
Everyone else was thinking of the politics of it, or asking who Eldavin was. Tyrion…
…Was fairly sure Eldavin was Ryoka’s mysterious benefactor. Were they in a relationship?
He hoped not.
His thoughts of Ryoka had grown spiky where it concerned the idea of her having a lover. Despite that being a rational thought. No, Eldavin was far too old. And besides, he had asked Tyrion whether Ryoka was Ailendamus’ captive. Tyrion had told him yes.
They were in this war for similar reasons.
But Tyrion was more uncomfortable now than when he’d started this war, despite Eldavin’s entry meaning it would be easier. And that was important—Tyrion was growing a bit uneasy because Ailendamus was falling back.
He had secured the area around Calanfer’s borders through his attacks, but his army was barely eighteen thousand strong, even with the Dawn Concordat’s forces added to his own. He would have preferred Ailendamus to keep pushing because no nation was infinite.
He could bleed their morale and soldiers. However—they had withdrawn rather than waste troops.
Tyrion did not like the sensible decision, which was entirely devoid of emotion. It spoke to him of intelligence. Unlike elements of the Dawn Concordat. Each nation had intelligent moves, of course, but some decisions were simply…foolhardy.
Like the Thronebearers of Calanfer refusing to fight hard. In that, Tyrion would have sent their forces in and let them hold tough positions. He would have risked their deaths for levels. They had to level, but Calanfer refused to commit them.
Of course, Tyrion avoided that kind of grinding in his campaigns, but he did not control the entire Dawn Concordat’s army. They had to bleed; he was preserving his strength, but he was sure they would prefer him to fight as hard as possible and bleed while they fought like him.
Regardless, he had won many victories and felt close to levelling. What would it be now? 48? It had been a while.
Close to 50 as a pure [Lord], or his true class, [Lancelord of A Thousand Victories].
Too pithy for his taste, but a strong class. There were stronger. Level 50 might make him…
Well, truly worth any title. Tyrion knew that [Lords] leveled slower than [Warriors], and that levels were lower in this era, but he had always felt ashamed to be called a model of House Veltras below Level 50.
His father hadn’t reached Level 50.
It was an odd feeling. Tyrion had been feeling odd a lot, and it was because of all this introspection. Understanding he had surpassed his father, even in martial prowess, was something he had to think about. Push it away and it would just be there, waiting for you. Tyrion had pushed many feelings away, but he was realizing—
He had to face his foes.
Including his greatest foe yet in this war. Tyrion knew the Dawn Concordat was poising itself to break the siege on Kaliv’s highlands, and Calanfer was raising a large army to join the one that was meeting Ailendamus’ in the field. He wondered if now was the time to join them. But he felt…something was coming.
But that wasn’t Tyrion’s greatest foe. He couldn’t discuss this with Jericha or anyone else, including Buscrei or Pellmia. They had weathered many of his questions. Pellmia had leveled. But Tyrion refused to talk to them about…it. He struggled against his enemy, but he failed.
The lewd daydreams about Ryoka Griffin were inexcusable. The actual dreams somewhat. But Tyrion Veltras, who could project the enemy’s route through mountainous terrain, was not used to his imagination poking him and asking, ‘what happens when clothes come off’? Of course, he knew, but rather—what did it look like in this instance?
He wanted to know. But the [Lord] refused to speculate. He fought with himself. Discipline!
 
[Ascetic class obtai—
 
Nor did he want or need that class. Tyrion Veltras just knew that he needed to push towards Ailendamus’ border. To ensure Sammial and Ryoka were rescued.
Three peace treaties. Or rather, ‘non-aggression’ pacts, immediate cessation of hostilities, and guarantees of peace.
The tone changed the more Tyrion fought. At first, they were what Jericha described as ‘insulting’. The second offer was more tempered, with a non-specific agreement to possibly extradite both after certain agreements were met.
The third offered Tyrion coin to quit the war. And a substantial amount.
“What of Sammial and Ryoka Griffin?”
Jericha frowned.
“They were…oddly nonspecific, Lord Veltras.”
The [Lord] frowned as well, and deeper.
“Inform these negotiators that the Five Families and House Veltras will continue this war until both are released, unharmed, and on Izrilian soil, or at the very least, The Pride of the Wellfar. In addition to substantive reparations. Nothing less will serve.”
“How much, in coinage? For reference, Lord Veltras?”
Tyrion thought and very calmly replied.
“Two million gold coins.”
And he was serious. Or was he…angry?
He was angry. Tyrion realized that, and Jericha had faithfully carried his message away, but he had meant it. Two million gold coins for two [Princesses] would have been ridiculous. One million gold coins? If House Veltras got that, they’d never have to worry about their finances for…a decade! More, obviously, with how much they could invest. They were not a rich House, second only to the House of El since they poured so much into their [Soldiers] and they did not trade in rich goods. Yet Tyrion would accept no less.
His son? If Sammial were treated like royalty, unharmed, Tyrion would still demand no less than a million gold coins. He…was furious.
But also aware Sammial might be in danger. The Five Families were prepared to go to war if he were harmed; that was what kept him safe as his father attacked Ailendamus. Tyrion had been prepared to harry Ailendamus hard to secure his release.
Now that Eldavin was in the war, though, it might be that the fortunes were changing.
Wistram had taken a side. House Veltras was on the Dawn Concordat’s side, and Ailendamus did not lack for enemies. They were a powerful nation, but Tyrion wondered if the cracks would precipitate a flood.
However, he was prepared to stop fighting if he got both Ryoka and Sammial back. Both. Unharmed.
Ailendamus was hardly blind to how Tyrion had essentially stopped their push into the Dawn Concordat. He had, with his six thousand troops, turned a solid push into Calanfer into a pure deadlock on the main front. They wanted him gone, gone, gone.
What puzzled him and Jericha, then, was that the negotiators never promised either Ryoka or Sammial’s return. Which they should have, because to do otherwise was an asinine move that Tyrion wouldn’t even consider and said as much.
However, neither Tyrion nor Jericha knew the situation in the capital. Thus, they couldn’t be aware that because of a certain Duke, Ryoka and Sammial were off-the-table for a good portion of the war.
 
——
 
Dreams of Ryoka, worry about his son, negotiations and battle. Tyrion Veltras demonstrated to the Dawn Concordat how to defeat four hundred [Knights] of the Order of the Hydra with minimal losses.
As far as they were concerned, he was an amazing ally who had come out of nowhere to give them hope.
…But as far as the leaders of each nation were concerned, Tyrion was also getting dangerously helpful. As in—was one [Princess] enough? And if she was—did they have her?
The ulcers he caused to the [King] and [Queen] of Calanfer were unknown to Tyrion Veltras. He might well have said, ‘I entered this war for my son and Ryoka Griffin, who I have every intention of propositioning. I require no further debt to Calanfer’.
Which would have been…something…if broadcast. But Jericha was canny enough to stop Tyrion from saying that, as the invisible debt of Calanfer grew. Gaiil-Drome and Kaliv just thought Calanfer had pulled some diplomatic magic to get Tyrion involved, and it had risen Calanfer’s reputation after they had failed to pull their weight militarily.
Tyrion calling in that debt…
Well, that might have been why Tyrion Veltras woke up one day after a dream about Ryoka Griffin flying over a sea of Sammials riding Otterdogs to learn he had an esteemed guest. And for once—an interesting one.
The Lightherald of Calanfer was a famous name. The Lightherald had been there when Az’kerash had been sentenced to death. He had even been a friend of the Necromancer when he had been Perril Chandler. The Lightherald had battled one of the last known Dragons, fought on Rhir, and was the greatest warrior in the Eternal Kingdom of Calanfer.
And like the Hundred Families of Terandria, the ‘Lightherald’ was not one man or woman. It was a title. It was…a blessing.
A literal blessing. Tyrion Veltras saw the shine off the armor and realized the man was giving away his camp; he lit up the entire canyon like day.
“Lord Veltras. I am humbled to meet such a great warrior. I salute you by the Eternal Throne of Calanfer. Let all evil quake and all Terandria remember the name of Veltras. By the Hundred Families, the blood of ancient heroes still runs strong.”
The Lightherald’s voice was a booming one, and he himself had the manners of a Thronebearer—but the bearing of a warrior.
No less than a greatsword hung on his back, an enchanted blade, and his armor was the best in Calanfer’s armory, the Lightherald’s of old.
But what added to his abilities and levels was the blessing. The Lightherald was quite frank about it once formalities were done.
“No less than His Majesty, King Reclis du Marquin, has bestowed it upon me. It is a Royal Skill passed down from generation to generation. I am empowered, as you see Lord Tyrion, by the very nature of dawn and light. My sword blinds my opponents; my armor is enhanced. I am strongest as the dawn breaks and weakest by night, but even at night, the Dawn Concordat’s armies will not be blinded but see by the radiance bestowed and our enemies blinded.”
…So he was bright. Tyrion Veltras suspected the blessing also depended on the level of the [King] and the individual abilities of the Lightherald. The man did not have long to talk, but he did speak overlong about Calanfer’s debt to House Veltras.
“I understand no contract was secured. But His Majesty wishes me to personally assure you it is a debt he considers strong as any pact signed in blood. Calanfer will not forget this deed.”
“I see. I regret that my forces cannot join you on the front. You are bound…?”
The Lightherald’s helmet showed none of his face; not one bit of skin on his entire body. He might not have even been a man. Maybe the voice was faked too.
“For our forces. Ailendamus has sent a great army. Well, now is the hour for my Order, the Thronebearers, to stand as one. I confess, I am eager for the battle. His Majesty did not wish to risk my defeat or capture, so, as shameful as it is, I have waited overlong for battle.”
“I see. Then we will discuss any ties after this war. I would be wary of that army.”
The Lightherald nodded seriously.
“Yet we must go. With the Archmage of Memory, Order of Seasons and Pheislant on our flanks, we may finally concentrate our forces. Kaliv is in danger; I will not tarry. Lord Veltras, it was my honor to meet you.”
He bowed and walked away. It seemed like everyone who saw him, especially Calanfer’s own, were struck with awe and courage.
Tyrion was not. He recognized an aura when he saw it. The blessing also did that. He was pleased to see Jericha eyed the man as she hurried over.
“Lord Veltras. What would you say was the level of the Lightherald?”
Tyrion considered the question.
“…Level 37. Below Level 40, but not weak. With his blessing and armor, he may well be on par with a Named-rank adventurer. A fitting champion for Calanfer.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
Neither one of them said anything else. It would have been improper, because the Lightherald was valorous and seemed true in action or deed.
But Tyrion was glad that Ailendamus struck before the Lightherald got to the frontlines. Because if they had—well.
The Great General of Ailendamus, the General of Ages, entered the war, and Tyrion saw his foe at last. The Lightherald’s force didn’t go to reinforce the Dawn Concordat’s main army.
They became the Dawn Concordat’s main army, and hastened their steps towards Krawlnmak’s Pass, where three [Princesses] of Calanfer were under siege, and a vast army of Ailendamus waited for their foe. Tyrion Veltras closed his eyes when he heard it.
“Tyrion?”
Swey, Buscrei, Pellmia, the [Lords] and [Ladies], all waited on his word. Tyrion opened his eyes.
“It will be there. Strike our camps. Pull every [Soldier]—but do not have them rally. We will establish our modes of attack.”
“Is it wise to commit to the Lightherald’s counterattack, Tyrion? He has to rescue the [Princesses]; we do not.”
Pellmia was worried. Tyrion just shook his head.
“The bulk of the Dawn Concordat’s army is there. They have lost once, and every [Soldier] Calanfer and Gaiil-Drome can send will join them. If they are routed, there will be no army for us to fight with. Our goal is simple: slay the Great General of Ailendamus.”
