The Aegis of the Bow, one of Terland’s ancient war-Golems, could speak in poetry—albeit limitedly as it was not actually sentient—load any ammunition, including rocks, and propel it farther than a longbow via gravity magic.
Oh, it also had amazing aim.
The arrows exploded out of the Aegis’ chest with a surprisingly soft sound, but they divided upwards, spreading across the air and shooting towards their targets, each one different like a glorious lightshow. Ricuv clapped her hands in delight as they struck the ground.
It was part of the reason Lord Veltras had requested Etril Wellfar to take his ship and harry Ailendamus from other angles. There was no need for it here. The first of Terland’s Golems calmly reloaded one arrow as the helpers hurried to insert more arrows into the firing stomach.
“Regular arrows. Batch of eighty. Shorter-range. We will advance as Lord Tyrion bids. Not one scratch on the Aegis!”
Ricuv ordered, and a giant Golem, eighteen feet tall and armed with a mirror-shield to protect them from spells, lumbered forwards. The [Lady] fanned herself as she watched the Aegis prepare to fire again.
She wondered where the [Lords] and [Ladies] of the House of Veltras had got to. Ricuv didn’t actually care. The only other place she would rather be than this would be meeting Cognita Truestone up close. Of the many families and nations, Illivere and the Terlands were among the few who had truly respected Archmage Zelkyr.
 
——
 
Lady Buscrei didn’t like the Terlands. They were weird about Golems. You heard things.
Not about the sex-Golems. That was practically a given, and odd enough.
Some of them wanted to be more Golem than people. And they were willing to sacrifice limbs, not just wait for accidents.
They were odd. But then, so were Veltras to them. So were the Reinharts, El, Wellfar…it was family. But distant family.
This was for Sammial. And Ryoka, but Buscrei would happily admit, she wouldn’t have come herself for the Wind Runner.
They could well die. And that was fair; she did not like the Aegis of the Bow. She watched as arrows landed among Ailendamus’ forces and they died.
“Poor bastards.”
It was barely a whisper. Maybe that Golem could win the entire battle, but Buscrei didn’t like it. That wasn’t how you fought. She put an arrow to her bow and prepared to shoot someone through the head, and that was fairer. If they found her and her people, she might die. But she’d admit—it was still unfair.
“Loose. One volley.”
The bows of Oswen’s folk hissed rather than thwapped. The arrows were likewise silent. A group of [Sailors] collapsed as Veltras’ folk advanced. Buscrei lifted a hand, and her people followed her.
They were not in the vanguard. Neither was Tyrion; he was riding at speed through the forests on the right. The only group actually advancing directly was led by Pellmia, Swey, and a few of the others. Slowly.
They didn’t need to take casualties. Buscrei was one of those trusted to take charge herself and flank the enemy. So the question was…why were they here?
Not here, here, creeping up the river, moving through the mud and water unseen by Ailendamus. That was just strategic.
These [Sailors] thought they had a view of the river, but Oswen was all-swamp. One of the [Marsh Hunters] surfaced after nearly three minutes underwater, and their bows and arrows were waterproofed.
In Oswen, if you didn’t have stealth and keen eyes, you’d miss your prey or become prey yourself for whatever lurked in the water. Buscrei had grown up shooting arrows from her tree-home, and her group had her Skill on them.
[Aquatic Invisibility]. Any part of them submerged in water vanished. Camouflage Skills and their own gear made up the rest of the lack, and they left no trail as they headed up the river, pausing to hit their opponents. If they were spotted, Buscrei would simply have them dive to the riverbed and let the current sweep them to safety.
But why were they here? Buscrei had not been ordered to by Tyrion, and she could have refused even if he’d tried. Same with Swey. They both were important members of their households.
Was it just for Sammial or Ryoka? For Buscrei, it was about that boy. He didn’t deserve this, and if she had to shoot every [Soldier] between her and Ailendamus, she’d see him home. She had known loss, and Tyrion Veltras didn’t need to lose a child.
Swey…had different issues. That was the thing. House Veltras brought their losses and past regrets into war. She saw him fighting his way forwards with his people, who would never lose their grip on anything. They could climb those cliffs ahead if need be with their bare hands, with ease.
Buscrei suspected Swey had come, though, because of Ryoka as much as Sammial. Not just for the young woman herself, but what she represented. She had been kidnapped while they’d been at House Veltras, and if he turned away from her, even if he sent only his forces, he might have felt he had abandoned her.
Let go.
There was an old story about Swey as a young man, climbing with a friend. They had gone up a shelf in the spring, and it had begun to collapse. A younger man had held his friend’s hand in the rain and muck, clinging with the other to the rock face, trying to hold them both up. His grip had slipped.
That was the past of each [Lord] and [Lady]. It changed their classes and informed the present. They might not have had the levels of their heroic ancestors, but Veltras had never lost that wildness. Buscrei found her position at last and showered the enemy from the back, distracting them.
“They’re surrendering to Swey. Hold—redirect!”
She put up her hand, and her [Archers] halted. Buscrei put an arrow through another [Officer] and didn’t fire as [Sailors] surrendered. Some fought on, but she didn’t hate these [Soldiers]. Her war was for Sammial, and she’d reserve her arrows for the [Knights] who’d gone after Ryoka and him.
But one man burned hotter than she’d seen him since…well. Buscrei eyed the [Rear Admiral]’s vantage point. If she were in his shoes, she would have put up the white flag already.
 
——
 
Veltras’ advance was like lightning. It seemed like Madiur’s orderly defensive line just…folded up.
Arrows from above. Arrows from behind. Veltras didn’t even need strong [Mages], and they had a few. [Sailors], good fighters, met Veltras’ most experienced warriors and died.
But where was Tyrion Veltras? Madiur looked around. Surely he was somewhere.
“Brace yourselves. Rear Admiral, we are poised to sally forth. Do you have a target?”
“No. Hold. Hold—damn the tides, where is he?”
Among the people around him was the one hammer that Madiur had on land—the Order of the Thirsting Veil. The [Knights] were ready for the final clash, but Madiur wanted to know where…where was Tyrion?
“Two groups of riders are coming up the hill, Rear Admiral. Straight at our pike-line. We can stop them.”
The [Knight] offered. He pointed at two groups of riders charging up the hill with commendable speed. Madiur frowned. He had a bunch of pointy sticks in the way of the horses. He wasn’t at home with horses since they did poorly on ships, but it seemed like a stupid strategy.
So it means they’re coming.
Madiur spun around. Citz was directing the army. So the [Rear Admiral] stalked across the too-solid ground. Where? Not the river. Was that…?
“Archers in the river!”
They dove as soon as his forces on the plateau turned. Madiur cursed. The infantry had halted below. Madiur had a lot of bows in cover, ducking the Golem’s shower of arrows, and they could do some damage, so the footsoldiers just halted out of range. The riders—
He couldn’t come up the cliffs, could he? Madiur strode back to the vertical cliffs. He had people watching them for climbers, but if Veltras tried, they’d just shoot him through the head on the way up.
Madiur peered over the edge of the cliffs as he strode by a [Sentry].
“Did you see anything in the forest?”
The woman didn’t reply. Madiur turned, began to snap at her, and saw the wild, rolling eyes. The way the soldier had locked into place, unable to move.
[Stasis] spell. Madiur felt a chill. Then he looked down the sheer rock, moss, and dirt. Unassailable by…
The [Rear Admiral] had a sudden sense of confusion. The world…tilted. He felt unsteady on his feet and thought he was sick and this entire attack hadn’t happened. It was a dream. Or how else did he explain the man on horseback…galloping up at him?
Straight up, as if his horse were riding on flat ground and Madiur were the one perpendicular to the world. The [Rear Admiral] recoiled.
“Attack! Attack from the—”
Everyone whirled. The Thirsting Veil Knights broke off their interception of the other [Riders] and turned.
Then the first horse leapt over the cliff’s edge. Tyrion Veltras landed on the ground, and a hundred [Riders] followed him. They had galloped straight up the cliff.
“[Vertical Charge]. Split. Jericha, left.”
“Charge in the name of House Veltras!”
They swept forwards so fast Madiur was still stumbling back when Tyrion Veltras’ horse knocked him flat. He raised his head, dizzy, as hooves thundered around him and saw them descend on his command.
Horses versus archers. A terrible thing. Tyrion’s assistant, Jericha, stormed around the camp as he rode at the group of Thirsting Veil [Knights]. Both sides had lances; they fought in the most archaic, Human fashion: horseback, with giant pointy sticks and heavy armor.
The Thirsting Veil had poisoned weapons and excellent training. House Veltras did not field [Knights], but their scion had trained with the lance every day he could ride. The two charged across the short plateau at each other. Then Tyrion’s force curved.
They rode left. The Thirsting Veil turned to track them, lances poised. Tyrion Veltras’ shield was covering his chest and the lower half of his face, a near-perfect guard with his armor. His enchanted lance was aimed ahead as his warhorse thundered towards the edge of a cliff fearlessly. He spoke.
“[Lightning Hooves]. [Company: Zigzag Maneuvering].”
His riders changed direction like a perfect geometric angle. The bewildered Thirsting Veil [Knights] saw them speed up—angle, and changed direction. Then the [Riders] shifted again, and suddenly they were charging the [Knights] from the left!
And their foes’ lances were out of line. House Veltras hit them, and armored bodies were thrown from saddles, run through, or just knocked silly by the impact. Tyrion rode through them.
“Regroup—rear charge! [Thirty-Foot Thrust]!”
His group whirled and he ran someone through from afar. Then they ran over Madiur’s spear-line from behind. Tyrion ran through a third person with his lance, drew his sword, and cut as the [Soldiers] turned, breaking into chaos. He was counting. As [Rear Admiral] Madiur rose to his feet to do what had to be done, dizzy, sick, he saw Tyrion raise a hand.
“Breakaway.”
His riders retreated, and the shocked [Soldiers] began to chase after him. Just in time for the second group of [Riders] to hit them from one angle, and the third to hit them from the side.
The last of Madiur’s camp was in chaos. [Knights] were fighting alone or back-to-back, and his [Archers] and [Soldiers]…the [Rear Admiral] saw Tyrion turning, head surveying the battlefield.
The [Lord] saw his quarry at last and rode towards the [Rear Admiral]. Madiur raised the weapon he was carrying, a wicked hatchet, and tossed it down. The [Lord] slowed as the [Rear Admiral] bellowed.
“Surrender! We surrender!”
He looked up as the [Lord] slowed. Instantly, all but a few [Knights] put up their weapons and repeated the call. Even the [Knights] did, as they saw more [Soldiers] climbing up the plateau. Madiur looked up into two cold, dark blue eyes.
He was surprised. He knew Tyrion Veltras, of course, even if he was another continent’s name. He had heard of the stony-faced [Lord] who seemed to live only for the campaign or saddle. He had expected a rock of a man, but there was a bright core of anger in that gaze.
Nevertheless, Tyrion slowly lowered his lance.
“I am Tyrion Veltras. I accept your surrender. Jericha, report.”
He turned away, and the [Rear Admiral] looked around as his people surrendered. His part in this war—at least for the foreseeable future—was definitely over. He had a feeling, a bad one, that when it came to the history books, he wasn’t going to get more than a single entry.
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras’ entry into the Ailendamus war was like Sammial kicking open the door to a [Lady]’s private room and demanding why she was naked. Which yes, he had done more than once. Not just to Ryoka.
That kind of effect. Politically and militarily. That was because Sammial took after his father.
He took after his father. He was not an outlier. Tyrion just had decades of tempering.
It was something about how he conducted his battles. His war. The [Lord] knew the Dawn Concordat had fought Ailendamus bravely or, at least, fought for a number of months before this.
Now that he was here, he gave instructions to his allies like Etril Wellfar, surveyed the ongoing war front, and informed the Dawn Concordat he was entering the conflict.
As in, he informed them he was fighting on their side. He did not offer elaboration. He did not answer their requests for coordination with their [Generals], and he did not reply via communication spell with any of the three nations, including Calanfer’s crown, whose soil he was riding upon.
He did pass off the entire captured force of Ailendamus’ fleet to the nearest garrison commander. Or rather, Lord Pellmia did.
After making sure there were enough guards and they were secured enough not to riot, he returned to Tyrion with two hundred [Riders] from Calanfer added to his ranks.
“They were not happy about it, Lord Veltras. I had to ride off with their [Garrison Commander] trying to hold onto my saddle. His Majesty of Calanfer wishes to speak to you.”
“Hm. King Reclis du Marquin.”
Tyrion slowed a bit so a panting Pellmia could join him. The [Lord] had ridden hard, even rationing two doses of stamina potion to catch Tyrion’s main force. And they were the foot-soldiers!
Three days since their landing on the beach passed like a whirlwind. Tyrion Veltras sent the captured [Soldiers] of Ailendamus to the garrison and then marched his army through Calanfer. He was famous for being able to cross Izril as fast as Magnolia Reinhart’s coach; a smaller nation like Calanfer was not an issue.
In fact, it was Tyrion Veltras himself who’d ridden back to meet with Pellmia. The [Lord] nodded ahead.
“My [Riders] are seventy miles ahead of this position. Are you willing to continue leading our forces on their current heading? I’d like to take Lord Swey and a few of his people into my command.”
