One of the easiest ways to tell a casual poser, imposter, or fake out from genuine nobility was to bring up the Hundred Families of Terandria. The most basic test was to talk about them like a literal hundred.
Because they weren’t. The Hundred Families of Terandria, each one who could trace their bloodlines back to the days of myth and legend and the Hundred [Heroes] of Terandria, were not still extant.
Some had been wiped out. Some bloodlines, irrevocably lost. The Goblin King—the second-to-latest Goblin King had wiped out a number of families to the last.
But blood mixed over time, and most royal families, even ones newly made of commoner-stock like Calanfer, married into the ‘purest’ blue blood and thus gained their claim to fame.
The point was, the Hundred Families was a metaphor for the royal blood that ran through kingdoms and powerful families. If you didn’t get that, you were quickly slapped with a Skill and ejected from any gathering. Or just beheaded, but that was the good old days.
However, what was not an analogy was—the Five Families of Izril.
Veltras, El, Reinhart, Terland, Wellfar.
They were old. Older than Calanfer. They were ‘new’ to Izril in the way that you called Salazsar one of the ‘newest’ Walled Cities. Admittedly, there was a time you couldn’t find much Human presence on Izril and they had yet to fully occupy the north like Terandria.
But even so. The Five Families of Izril traced their lineage back to the Hundred Families of Terandria. Hence…the name. The nobility were unsubtle sometimes, but the point was they had conquered Izril acre by acre, foot by foot, pushing Gnolls, Drakes, and even Dragons off their territory.
Five families. They had help. They made alliances and manipulated their foes, but if any group embodied the strength of the Hundred Families—perhaps it was the five who had left their home.
But artifacts got lost or broken. Vast armies turned into heirlooms and stories. Land changed hands, and the greatest [Lady] of her day was succeeded by her daughter, who might never step into those shoes.
Were they as good as their inception?
 
——
 
Hardly.
If this were the old Veltras Family, they’d all be dead. That was the sole comfort in [Rear Admiral] Madiur’s mind as he led his force of [Sailors], [Soldiers], and the rest of Ailendamus’ navy up the cliffs.
Cliffs. Not the comforting sway of ship decks. Worse, it was Calanfer’s terrain, or close enough. Madiur had committed a capital sin among any [Captain], let alone an entire fleet.
He had run his entire navy into the beaches, ordered them scuttled, and taken every fighting hand into the elevation.
This was the second day after the Five Families entered the war, and he took some bitter pleasure in knowing that the history books would record his force was the first to step foot on Calanfer proper.
It was even a genius move in a sense; if this had been a regular landing, they would have threatened Calanfer.
But it wasn’t. They were here because they could not hold the sea. Even now, the [Rear Admiral] glanced over his shoulder and thought he saw one of those glorious sails, that beautiful vessel with construction and details no modern warship could dream of, gliding along the coast.
The Pride of the Wellfar. A Citadel-class ship which was, at this moment, blowing the coastline to bits.
Not all of it. But the spells were hitting anyone in the open, and it had sunk five ships yesterday in the brief retreat. Their hulls were tangled along the shore.
That was Wellfar’s might. A portion of it. A tenth? Madiur didn’t know exactly, but it was worth more than any living [Lord] or [Lady]. It had endured beyond thousands, into tens of thousands of years.
And he regretted he couldn’t even scratch it, let alone board it. He had briefly—briefly considered it.
But Madiur was not Admiral Idiot. His name was Admiral Dakelos, who had been fooled into attacking Nadel and the Lord of the Dance, but his reputation was dirt as far as Ailendamus was concerned. If he hadn’t been fooled, maybe they could have risked a battle with their warships, but the idiot had lost some of their best vessels and made an enemy of Nadel.
Ironically, he might survive this. He’s attached to some tug-boat with his command, and we’re…
Madiur was trying to decide whether they were going to live or not. The thing was, he wasn’t Dakelos.
Dakelos, for all his gullible faults, was a full [Admiral] of Terandria, highest-level, second only to a Great General or his equivalent at sea, and they were few. Madiur was a step below, but he had something Dakelos did not, and that was a [Historian] for a mother. He knew the Five Families, and so he’d taken his crew on land since it beat fighting a legend that had killed Dragonships.
The Pride of the Wellfar could generate a distortion in space that allowed it to sail upon seas few dreamed of. Also—it allowed it to take a thousand fireballs and change their position, so you’d burn your own fleet with your fire.
Better to take on mortals. As far as Madiur could tell, they were still disembarking.
“What’ve we got?”
“Duke Rhisveri and Royal Strategist Citz are waiting for you, Rear Admiral—”
“Not that. The enemy, the enemy! Tell Citz I’ll speak with him shortly. Set up those damned palisades! [Archers]! There, there, and there!”
He’d found his place to die, and it was a good one. Madiur had a steep cliff face, and below him, he saw his forces taking points on the incline up.
Simple, good old-fashioned choke-points, and Madiur had his [Archers] and [Mages] on a plateau with nigh-vertical cliffs. He glanced over the edge of one and was rewarded with no back-trails, no stupid weak points. Just a river entering the sea on his left flank; his right, a gentler forest crossing with the cliffs.
The open ground and beach were below, and his troops were hunkered down as artillery spells rained around them.
But Veltras would have to climb up, and Wellfar wouldn’t leave their ships.
So come on. Let’s see how good you are.
It was only House Veltras who was landing. They had assistance from the other Five Families, but Veltras alone was a famously martial house. Madiur updated Citz, glad the Royal Strategist didn’t hang on formalities.
He had no time for Duke Rhisveri. This was not politics, and Madiur would take whatever censure from the King’s touchy brother later.
“…we are not counting many [Lords] and [Ladies], Rear Admiral. Taking one prisoner would ensure some safety. Calanfer is mobilizing a force to assault you from the rear.”
“We won’t need to wait for them, Citz. Just be glad we didn’t land in Gaiil-Drome!”
The half-Elves would have torn them to pieces in the forest. The [Strategist] agreed, and Madiur lowered the stone.
“Hold on. I’m getting you your force estimate. It might heat up soon, Citz. I’ve ordered my men to surrender if need be. I will take responsibility for it.”
“You have permission to surrender your force, Rear Admiral. Try to take out one of their leaders.”
Madiur exhaled a breath he didn’t think he had been holding. He could? But that strengthened his resolve to kill one of their [Lords] or [Ladies]. Just one, and he could at least say he’d done his part in this disaster.
Now, he counted, and his voice was almost incredulous.
“The Pride of the Wellfar’s disembarking them fast. Citz—it’s a force of a few thousand. Four…six? Lots mounted. I’m counting heavy bows too.”
“Strike force. They’re all veterans.”
“Yes, sir, but we outnumber them by—”
Madiur realized how stupid a statement that was, and bit his tongue to avoid it going down in the books. He tried to spot their nobility who would be leading them, but the only one he spotted was…
A man riding ahead of a column of [Riders]. He had dark hair and a straight-backed posture, but that was all Madiur could see from here. His helmet shifted as he looked up the slope, and the Rear Admiral saw Tyrion Veltras.
The 2nd best [Lord] in the world—according to one biased [Writer]—had a presence that lit up the battlefield. His forces seemed to move a bit sharper, and even at a canter as they disembarked, they moved fast.
He was a famous lancer, renowned as a great war leader and strategist, and Madiur itched to see how good he’d have been on a boat’s slippery deck without that damned horse. Still…he’d have to ride through all of Ailendamus’ forces to get here.
“They’ll be circling our fighting once this battle concludes. The Pride of the Wellfar will be assailing every coastal area from afar if we cannot stop it.”
Citz’s voice was frustrated, and Madiur saw what that would look like. They had lost their forward fleet sent to encircle the Dawn Concordat. They could risk the rest of it, but Ailendamus was not a powerful naval presence. If Pheislant joined the war with the Order of Seasons, Ailendamus would have to prevail on the Taimaguros Dominion, their allies, for help.
Embarrassing, costly, and all the while, Tyrion Veltras’ army would be assailing weak spots using that powerful ship as a base.
Or would they? Madiur’s jaw worked as he saw something inconceivable.
“Hold on, Citz. You’re not going to believe this. The Pride of the Wellfar is…moving away!”
“What? Are they repositioning? [Sense Attack] is failing to pick up any flanking maneuver…”
“No! They’re heading full-sails away! They’ve left Veltras on the beach!”
Madness. The most powerful mobile artillery that could not be taken was abandoning House Veltras. True, he was fighting the fleet, but he was outnumbered, and they had entrenched themselves. Madiur’s blood boiled, but Citz was plainly worried.
“They must think they can take your force here. House Veltras may simply advance through Calanfer.”
“They’ll have to go through us, sir. And they just got rid of their long-range bombardments.”
Madiur growled. He saw his forces spreading out as House Veltras entered the forest and moved into position. There were multiple leaders, he saw now. Citz had listed some of them.
A Lord Swey, infantry specialist. Renowned for his family’s location—a giant plateau that required climbing.
Lady Buscrei of the Marshes of Oswen. Their bows made up some of Veltras’ best hunter-snipers.
Lord Pellmia Quellae, not Veltras but close. A formidable [Commander] who was best for long wars; his forces would never go hungry thanks to his class. Also—and this was a distracting detail—Citz had mentioned he had recently been appraised as a [Matchmaker]?
Ailendamus’ intelligence was varied, substantive, but sometimes weird. Madiur tried to keep his eye on all of them, find which target he’d focus on, but House Veltras was too competent.
A sandstorm kicked up along the beach, and he cursed as their entire force save for that closest to the water vanished. Madiur shouted at his officers.
“Hold ground! Hold! Call out any fighting with your horns!”
They just had to hold. He looked around for the flag of Ailendamus, Kingdom of Glass and Glory. The [Rear Admiral] was an odd man in that moment.
He was no fool, and he didn’t want to go down like Admiral Idiot as a disastrous leader in this war. But he also had dreams of a glorious stand, or even, in the back of his mind, a wild victory.
Vainglorious. A man was allowed to dream. It continued as the sandstorm cleared, and Madiur realized he’d completely lost sight of Tyrion, a number of Veltras’ forces, and the rest were coming up the beach hard. Arrows began landing as his forces opened up, and [Sailors] fought on the sand. They held the line for a few seconds, and that was as long as Madiur’s dream lasted.
Because then Citz snapped in his ear.
“Attack incoming on your position! Take cover!”
“Where?”
Madiur looked around. Even Tyrion Veltras couldn’t have ridden at him this fast! [Archers]?
“Barrier spells are up, [Rear Admiral].”
A [Mage] assured him, but Citz’s voice made the [Rear Admiral] shout.
“Brace! Brace for…”
For what? Magic or arrows or people? Each one necessitated a different response. Citz only knew it was coming, so in that brief window, Madiur spun and saw the danger. He stopped…and his dreams evaporated. He looked down at the small, tiny contingent of the non-Veltras forces.
The Five Families had sent only a little. Reinhart, nothing at all. The House of El, two of their own, who had their mercenary-irregulars armed to the teeth with Kaalblades and their artisan-quality equipment.
Wellfar had sent a ship. Which Madiur had focused on as the sole, largest contribution to their forces. What he had missed at first, so small compared to that old legend, was that House Terland of Golems had sent three of their [Lords] and [Ladies], simply to escort their contributions.
Golems.
Madiur saw a gigantic figure, an alien construction, slowly rotate towards him. It was tiny from his vantage point, but he could see it was about twice as tall as the men and women standing beside it, and many times longer.
It was no Golem he had ever seen. It reminded him of the Greatbows of Ailendamus; at least, the figure of a woman holding a bow did. But that was attached to a curious, boxy torso…like a Centaur?
But a Centaur did not float, and where her legs should have been was instead some kind of broad stomach that glinted at him. And the entire body hovered over a pedestal. Gravity magic—and huge legs carried it left and right up the beach, like some kind of turtle.
A weird amalgamation of magic and stone, albeit brightly painted. The Golem had a single bow. Oh—and as Madiur watched? He realized that the ‘stomach’ was, in fact, filled with arrows.
 
——
 
House Terland’s greatest Golem on the field had been based on siege weapons of old. But unlike Drakes or those who relied on other methods like alchemy, the designers had wanted to create a Golem that didn’t need to rely on anything but itself for propulsion.
The arrows floated in the air as Lady Ricuv Terland watched. Such artistry. Such design. It had been worth coming to Veltras’ war—for Sammial Veltras, of course—just to see it.
“Enchanted arrows loaded. Batch of sixty. Targets?”
“I see the enemy as they bravely stand/Human’s get, woman and man. Is it Terland’s wish to rain fire upon this land?”
Shivers. Just pure shivers from Ricuv. The Golem, the torso of the woman holding the giant bow loaded with an arrow of its own, spoke. One of Terland’s technicians gazed up in awe as the floating arrows and eyes of the Golem focused.
Not just the eyes on the carven head. Ricuv could appreciate the other magical sensors that were scrutinizing the battlefield. It was her peer, Lord Jopnel, who had the privilege of ordering the assault.
“Yes. Death to the enemies of the House of Terland, beauteous Aegis!”
