What had he given Salva? The question plagued Tyrion as they rode up some difficult terrain, even for him. He had to walk his own horse; the footing was dangerous, and while there were Skills, the danger of a rockslide across the highly-gravelly terrain meant that a falling stone could easily snap a horse’s leg.
And he refused to lose any of them. Tyrion had found Kaliv’s forces and admired their mounted unit: a goat. Not Eater Goats, but a Crenneth Goat, a huge, stout goat that grew so big you could ride it. Like a bull that could climb rocks. They were capable of heading up nigh-vertical slopes even without Skills.
But they hardly had the endurance or speed of regular horses. Camels? Tyrion had ridden camels, horses, mules, donkeys, magical beasts…maybe he should look into a magical horse. He had the highest-quality purebreds, but magical animals couldn’t be replaced. And while it was tragic, he had lost many a mount in battle.
That was the problem. Tyrion slapped the side of his helmet, and Jericha looked at him oddly as she created barriers to stop the rocks from falling. He could think about horses, supply lines, and so on all day.
People were harder. Sammial was harder. Hethon…
What had he given Salva? No, perhaps that was the problem. Tyrion had never considered it, because she had pursued him. Rather aggressively, Pellmia had once said. Tyrion had to confess—
He hadn’t noticed at first.
Was he oblivious? The [Lord] spotted a tamed hawk scouting their position and had Buscrei take it out from nearly three hundred feet away, hidden in the rockface. But he couldn’t see the invitation to dance unless someone handed him a card. Then, a terrible question came to him as he watched Jericha preparing spells to throw at an Ailendamus column.
Had Salva been happy? 
Tyrion just remembered…cessation. That irritable, prickly feeling as he adjusted his clothing before a banquet fading as someone took him by the arm. He looked up into sparkling, bright yellow eyes and someone pulled him. Tyrion followed that voice.
“Tyrion, don’t scowl. You will love it. Pellmia’s there. And if you don’t love it, we’ll leave.”
Then they left after fifteen minutes, and he looked at her and saw how she fumed and thought her tossing her drink on Magnolia Reinhart was the funniest moment he’d seen all year and–
Thought about Ryoka. Then thought about Salva again guiltily. And worried if she had been happy. He hoped so.
He thought she had been. But he wondered. What could he offer Ryoka Griffin? What did she want? Put on its head, the answer was obvious.
He…felt…strongly that Ryoka was good for Sammial and Hethon. They laughed. They pestered her. She had saved their lives and that alone would have been more than enough.
 
——
 
“But Tyrion, what about you?”
The question came after six officers, from a [Major] to what might have been a sub-[General], had fallen to Tyrion’s hand alone. Pellmia himself said it, having reached Tyrion’s front.
Now they’d had to take care with the slower infantry, but a few [Griffin Riders] had joined their ranks, and with Calanfer’s recruits and Kaliv’s rescued soldiers, Tyrion was beginning to have an army.
And reputation. The Ailendamus forces were slowing as they realized they could not spread out and be hit by him—and the Griffin Prince of Kaliv. Both their groups routed even strong enemy forces on their own. Tyrion by virtue of his maneuvering, his levels, even tasking Buscrei or Swey with targets while he hit other ones.
The Griffin Prince? People said he was immortal. He had been ‘killed’ many times, but he came back. Tyrion was interested in meeting him himself.
“Give me? I…believe I would greatly enjoy her company.”
He said it so honestly that Pellmia turned red. Tyrion meant it.
He had a duty to Salva to seek vengeance. He had his duties to his realm. But in the times when there were no monsters or war or…anything, Tyrion could admit, he grew weary.
He enjoyed jousting, riding, and training, but Salva had been that person who filled that last part of his life. And if he had his passions like jousting, his duty for a purpose, and…
“Do you think she’ll stay? She’s a Courier, Tyrion, and she has obligations.”
It was another of his extended family who brought that up. Tyrion considered the question all day and delivered a reply over dinner.
“I believe that wouldn’t matter.”
“Hm?”
The man, Lord Inyith, was completely nonplussed until Tyrion reminded him of what they’d been speaking of.
“I believe it wouldn’t matter. If she had to leave, her own obligations—I understand that. But if she returned, I think I could enjoy those times. I could wait for her the other times.”
Buscrei, Swey, the [Lords] and [Ladies] and Pellmia all looked at each other in silence. Buscrei covered her eyes.
“He’s serious. Someone slap soup in my eyes or hand me an Otterdog.”
She smiled, and some were patently uncomfortable, but Tyrion was realizing something. He gave voice to it quietly, and only to himself.
I am lonely.
And it felt like he had realized the obvious that had been staring him in the face for many years. But since he hadn’t known he was cut, it had only hurt a bit. Now?
Now he began to bleed.
 
——
 
Blood on his gauntlets, shaking arm—
Some of Ailendamus’ forces were high-level. But he had an enchanted shield, sword, armor…Tyrion Veltras didn’t count how many [Soldiers] he killed that battle. It was one thing to strike an unsurprised enemy.
But he had to win battles too. The first conflict where Ailendamus sent a force at him, he beat them.
They sent countless [Knights] of the Order of the Hydra. Greatbows—it was one of their huge arrows that numbed even his arm. An enchanted ‘arrow’ hitting him at near point-blank range. Troops with strong morale.
It wasn’t hard. Their leader was good, but Tyrion had fought men. Men, women of any species, were only as good as their people.
And this leader didn’t have enough eyes. Not enough—Tyrion had attacked from the front. And the sides. And their [Strategists] had covered that. And the rear attack.
But not the [Light Bridge] that went over their lines and let Tyrion ride into the center of their forces. Not Lord Swey’s carefully calculated avalanche, or Pellmia’s feint on the eastern flank. Kill their [Mages] and toss a screaming, blinding spell to stymie their archers.
Take out one pillar and the rest fell. If they were heavy on [Mages], engage them in melee. If they had too many archers, armor, maneuver…
War was simple. His son was not.
 
——
 
“His Majesty of Ailendamus has assured Lady Ulva Terland that Lord Sammial is well, Lord Veltras. They demand we withdraw from this war.”
“Have they threatened him?”
Tyrion stopped eating, and Jericha shook her head.
“No. They are warning us of the consequences; economically and otherwise. They suggest that any trade to House Veltras through their lands or Taimaguros might end, and they could stifle trade throughout a good deal of the continent.”
“Are they threatening war upon House Veltras?”
“…Not yet. The Five Families will all go to war.”
“Then we continue. What of Ryoka Griffin?”
Jericha hesitated.
“…I had not asked, Lord Veltras. Should I inquire? My sources say that she has been spotted in Ailendamus. Unchained; she apparently flew about.”
“No, then. She is alive. Seemingly unharmed?”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
Tyrion considered all of it.
“Then we continue.”
But what happens when I meet Ryoka Griffin? Buscrei kept telling him not to bring up marriage.
However—wasn’t it fair to think of the future? Wouldn’t it be honest? Tyrion felt like giving her some promises would be better than not, and everyone agreed with that.
But Pellmia claimed he was counter-levelling when Tyrion proposed some of his guarantees for the future.
“Tyrion. Tyrion! I know you’re—but are you serious?”
The [Lord of Orchards] had his head in his hands. He had a fresh cut from an enchanted blade on his arm, but that was nothing to the pain on his face.
“I’d merely bring it up so she wouldn’t be worried. As you said, Buscrei—”
“You cannot tell her you’ll guarantee she’ll only have one child, Tyrion!”
She slapped him on the back of the head. Tyrion allowed it to happen.
“None, then?”
Surely that was a concern. But he didn’t understand, he didn’t understand—the [Lord] was getting annoyed.
Surely there was something he did understand about Ryoka? Or was he wrong about that too?
He realized, after an ambush, wiping blood off his lance, that he did understand Ryoka. He thought he understood she was like him. This was all so complicated. Sometimes it seemed to him they were kindred spirits.
I rather like you. You do not have much in the way of sword fighting sense, you do not ride well, and you and I have our differences. But I like you because you run like I ride. You flew, and I thought it was the most beautiful thing I had seen in an age. You make my sons smile. And me.
I feel better around you.
Of course, he was sure that fell under things never to be said. Tyrion gave up. And then he began to wonder, seriously—
What did he have to offer Ryoka if he did not trade on the name of House Veltras? What did Tyrion, the man, have?
Surely not his personality. His…affection? Pellmia loved his wife, Keireen. Eiress, his previous wife, who had passed away—
Tyrion thought Pellmia knew love and expressed it well, not that he was a voyeur. But the [Lord] could hold Keireen’s hand, praise her, give her gifts…
Did Tyrion have any of the attributes his friends had assured a younger man he had? Good looks…skill at arms…wealth…
Vanity. He looked in a mirror of a bowl of water as he shaved after two weeks of combat and saw only a man. Older—so he didn’t even have youth to show her.
All he had was a lance.
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras slowed as a group of eighteen [Knights] of Ailendamus halted. They were…different.
“Drell Knights. Water experts. Huh.”
It was the first encounter Tyrion had with the third Order of Ailendamus. Unlike Thirsting Veil, who used poison, and the Order of Hydra, made of commoners, he didn’t see the strength of the Order of Drell. But then—they were out of their element.
And outnumbered. Buscrei had a bead on them with her [Archers], and her arrows could pierce their armor. However, they refused to surrender. One called out to Tyrion, fearless, exposing his head as he took off his helmet.
“Though we may fall, our souls belong to the Kingdom of Glass and Glory! Is there anyone of you in the famed Five Families who will answer a [Knight]’s challenge? I demand a single duel!”
“Dead gods, save me from idiots and duels. Let’s just take them captive and save their lives.”
Swey growled. Tyrion Veltras, though, saw their leader pointing at him.
“Are you the renowned Tyrion Veltras himself? Lord Veltras, we have heard of your courage on the battlefield! Will you not answer us or have the Five Families of Izril strayed from honor that far?”
Buscrei adjusted her aim.
“If I shoot him in the balls, do you think he’ll sing a different tune?”
“Buscrei. Enough. Jericha, pull your forces back.”
Tyrion was still thinking on what he had to offer. He noted Drell’s [Knights] truly embodied their nation’s nickname.
Glass. Their armor was like some kind of glass. He knew the Kingdom of Keys had a glass motif, but their armor was clearly meant to some purpose.
Water, maybe? He couldn’t fathom it but raised his lance as he let Jericha argue with him, and the [Knights] of Drell stirred.
There was pageantry in it. Bravado. Everyone, Buscrei to Swey, called him a fool. Except Pellmia, who knew better. But Tyrion just saw…
A [Knight] of the Drell, whirling a horse clearly used to water. Interesting, was it a Kelpie-breed? A horse that might have gills or stronger lungs?
It meant that it surged far slower; it was nigh on a plough horse as the [Knight] rode at Tyrion. But strong. Some horses would falter at an impact; this one could ride forever.
And the Drell Knight? He was low on his saddle, lance poised…but aimed up too high.
Ah, he might be used to fighting Hydras or Griffins. Perhaps the Order of Drell didn’t have a history of jousting.
That was their problem. He had accepted Tyrion’s offer. And he had to know—
The Lord of House Veltras was one of the most famed jousters in the world.
Riding was like breathing to Tyrion. So too was aiming at a target. It was different in battle and different in a tourney. Where you hit the opponent mattered.
Center of gravity, angle, the type of lance and armor—Tyrion cracked the breastplate on his first pass, deflecting the lance that tried to hit him.
Shieldwork, too. He circled and realized the glass armor was heavy. However, the Drell Knight still flew from the saddle the second time, and Tyrion pointed the lance at the stunned man’s face.
Then he turned.
She loves to run. Ryoka Griffin…what are her hobbies? I don’t know these things. Could I offer her something like riding? She doesn’t care for it.
Could I change?
A second [Knight] followed the first. Angrily. As if they thought Tyrion were insulting them. The second was better than the first, ironically. She was waiting for the hammer-blow which could knock even her shield into her body and send her flying.
Tyrion detected a Skill, so he performed a maneuver rarely seen even among [Lancers]. Flick the lance up, cushioned below his elbow, and strike her across the helmet.
Not a deadly blow, though it could have been. This one just dropped her in a dead faint, and the horse dragged her along the ground. Fortunately, in her armor.
Tyrion turned.
I would like to try. Try to do something. I would like to learn how to fly.
A third [Knight]. It took three passes as the figure swayed in the saddle, but Tyrion was learning from each one. He shook out his arm and turned. As he rode, he looked up at the sky for a moment, then focused on his opponent like a laser. A [Piercing Thrust]—Tyrion slid it to one side with his shield.
I would like to ask her these things. But then—I never asked if she had anyone she loved. This war is for Sammial, but I should ask.
A fifth time. He heard Buscrei swear.
“Shave me bald and toss me with naked otters. He’s tilting.”
Yes. Tyrion rode across the bare ground, changing his horse once, as if he were on the green outside his keep. He focused, with all the intensity in his being, then relaxed and thought. When he did, he thought of Ryoka and Sammial and Salva and the past and future.
Tyrion Veltras only slowed when he heard the cheering. He lifted his lance, arm aching, body burning, and saw no more [Knights]. No more opponents.
