“Eighty miles…? We barely slept! Dead gods, Tyrion! There’s such a thing as pacing yourself!”
Pellmia looked at the [Lord] with a mix of amazement and admiration. Tyrion just shrugged.
“I need your answer within half an hour; we need to catch up by nightfall. The only thing keeping Ailendamus from adjusting to us will be speed. We must enter Kaliv and begin harassing them at once. Lord Etril has already begun patrolling the southern coast, and he is heading up towards Pheislant to aid the Order of the Seasons.”
At this point in the war, neither man was aware of Eldavin’s plans, so Pellmia saw the sense in Tyrion’s objectives.
“What about Calanfer?”
“What about it?”
Tyrion glanced over his shoulder. Pellmia had spotted a rather radiant banner on his way here, and he pointed to the [Courtier] who was arguing with Jericha, clearly trying to get to Lord Tyrion.
“I see it’s taken them three days to even catch you in person. They cannot be at home with one of the Five Families marching through their lands!”
Tyrion nodded.
“I have given the Crown several reassurances under oath that we are on their side. Kaliv has accepted them without reservation, as has Gaiil-Drome. I understand that the [Courtier] wishes me to stop at The Eternal Throne to speak to Their Majesties.”
“Understandable. And you are going to…?”
Lord Pellmia had a sinking feeling he knew what Tyrion’s decision on that was. The [Lord] sighed.
“Are you willing to take command?”
“Naturally. Just tell me where to go. That encoding on your [Messages] is wonderful stuff; I don’t need to worry about code-phrases as much. Is there any word about Sammial or…?”
“None.”
Tyrion was curt and as taut as a nocked arrow. And that was the thing. Pellmia was used to his campaigning-style.
If anything, he had been charming, friendly, and even obsequious to everyone during the Goblin Lord campaign, mainly because he had to keep the various nobility together.
Tyrion had no such issue with his allies here. As the [Lord] conferred with Pellmia and broke away, the [Courtier] made a break for it.
“Lord Veltras! Honored Lord Veltras—The Eternal Throne greets Tyrion Veltras in the name of—”
Jericha and the bodyguards stopped him riding for Tyrion with bared blades, but the [Lord] held up a hand.
“I greet The Eternal Throne of Calanfer. I tender my warmest thanks to His and Her Majesties of Calanfer and bid them well. House Veltras stands with Calanfer, as I have communicated. Good day, sir.”
His face didn’t move one whit as he delivered his ‘warmest’ greetings. And compared to any kind of formal address…the [Courtier] shifted and gulped. He rode after Tyrion, conducting a conversation with Jericha in between them as Tyrion gave brisk orders.
“Two hundred of Calanfer’s [Riders]. Fold them into our lines, Jericha. We’ll reinforce our riding front.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
The [Courtier] hesitated. He had strict orders, but he was also a representative of Calanfer. One did not just interrupt a [Lord] of the Five Families, but Tyrion was not even paying attention to him.
“Beg pardon, Lord Veltras! His Radiant Majesty, Reclis du Marquin, is overjoyed at House Veltras’ overtures. He invites you to The Eternal Throne itself…”
Tyrion’s head turned left slightly.
“I must decline. The issues of war press me. I am sure His Eternal Majesty understands the need for haste.”
The [Courtier] gulped. He deployed [For Your Ears Only], and the Skill engulfed Jericha and Tyrion. He had been warned Tyrion Veltras and Magnolia Reinhart were two famously difficult nobles to deal with, but he’d always thought Magnolia Reinhart would be worse. As it turned out—at least she listened to you!
“Yes, Lord Veltras. But if I might say—House Veltras’ noble aid in this time of need—”
Tyrion was riding faster, and the [Courtier] realized that if he kept to formalities, he was going to lose the man.
“—have been rendered in great service to the Dawn Concordat! His Majesty is—slightly perturbed, however, and wishes to clarify an issue? Certain promises were made for the hand of one of our [Princesses], but there has been no binding contract…”
This was an aggressive move from House Veltras, and not one that Calanfer liked. Them entering into the war for a promise without clear contracts meant that they might ask for more when it was over.
That was, of course, how they saw the issue. Tyrion Veltras turned, and the [Courtier] was impressed. He actually looked like he was surprised.
“The contract? Ah…yes. The hand of Princess Lyonette du Marquin.”
The [Courtier] winced as Jericha looked up sharply. Tyrion Veltras just said it out loud.
“Yes, Lord Veltras. His Majesty is—uncertain as to your intentions.”
Tyrion thought about the question.
“We shall negotiate the matter once the war is done. House Veltras has entered into conflict with Ailendamus over the abduction of one of its own [Lords]. My son. As well as a Courier by Ailendamus’ forces. I believe that should satisfy His Majesty’s interest in the matter.”
The [Courtier] actually halted in place. He suspected Tyrion of some kind of massive bluff—until he saw the look of pure pain on the face of his assistant. Politically…Tyrion had been poised to twist a knife. He had promptly handed said knife to Calanfer and told them he was the one in need.
“Surely this matter is better discussed with Their Majesties, Lord Veltras? Our [Generals] and [Strategists] are poised to discuss your position—”
And again, Tyrion cut the [Courtier] off.
“I have no time. I will battle Ailendamus on my terms. Not the Dawn Concordat’s. Your strategy is…”
He hesitated.
“…best conducted on your own terms. Out of necessity, I will maneuver to keep Ailendamus off-guard.”
And that was him being tactful. Which said a lot about what he was going to say. Actually, the [Courtier] could almost agree with Lord Veltras on that. The Dawn Concordat was plagued by three nations trying to dictate the best course of action, but he had his orders.
His best [Winning Smile] on his face, the man followed as Tyrion sped up; he looked to be heading north, ahead of his footsoldiers.
“Lord Veltras. His Majesty politely insists upon a meeting. You must understand, the Crown should at least entertain House Veltras. It would not be a delay of more than one day, and in light of the situation, it may be Calanfer can ransom those two!”
Politics were Calanfer’s forte, which was why Ailendamus’ refusal to entertain their overtures at all was so effective. But House Veltras and certainly this man could be negotiated into staying in the war, even if Tyrion got what he wanted.
If he visited the throne. Tyrion glanced over his shoulder at the [Courtier].
“I regret to say that I have a pressing engagement on the front. Please inform His Majesty I was most heartbroken at my inability to comply. Only for the sheer necessity of war must I tender my regrets.”
The [Courtier] was braced.
“Sir, [By the Throne], I must insist that you rec—Lord Veltras? Wait! Lord V…”
His best Skill could, indeed, perhaps even cause a powerful individual to hesitate, as it conferred the power of Calanfer’s throne on the [Courtier] if he was so authorized.
But…that did sort of require him to catch and talk to the person. And the racing [Courtier] nearly severed his own tongue as he realized his horse was slowing. He tried to make the mare go faster, but she balked and nearly tossed him. He realized he’d been in full-gallop—and Tyrion Veltras had just rode away from him at a canter.
The messenger came to a stop as Tyrion Veltras accelerated into the distance with a trail of a few hundred [Riders]. The Eternal Throne’s clever machinations, the will of Their Majesties, and so on were hardly behind a man as blunt as Tyrion Veltras.
The only problem was, they were too slow. And arguably…they had little insight into Tyrion’s own mind. He was as straightforward as a lance, which quite perplexed Calanfer’s lot. They could understand it, but they expected at least one wobble or warp in his character.
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras was just straightforward. In his mind-of-minds, he thought of things like that. He liked knowing the quality of someone like Pellmia. He disliked people like Magnolia, who were inconsistent.
That was not to say he was a simple military leader. On the contrary, he sent the riders he led on a positively obfuscating route into Kaliv. They could ride up cliff faces, through terrain ordinary horses would never climb.
And with Jericha shielding them from scrying, they became phantoms who could strike Ailendamus from any angle while Pellmia moved his main force through Calanfer.
Tyrion did a lot of thinking in between the clash of battle. He had lots of time; even at the speed he rode, and with all the communication he did with his own allies if no one else, planning, surveying terrain…you still tended to sit in the saddle and think.
Sometimes he just loved watching the scenery. Other times he lost himself in the mindless concentration of exercise. But right now he thought.
Ryoka Griffin. Tyrion picked his way up a slope of gravel, checked the top of a cliff, decided it was impossible to take his force up there, and pointed.
“[Light Bridge]. There to there. We ride up to the plateau.”
“Yes, sir.”
A bridge of light appeared, and Tyrion rode over it without bothering to look left or right over the sheer drop. He was trying to think about how he felt about Ryoka Griffin, the far more serious and difficult topic.
He rather admired her. She could fly. She had…a wondrous ability there.
Few beings in this world were as fast as Tyrion. True, most of it came from his horsemanship; he was far slower on foot. But it did…hurt how he enjoyed some things.
Say, a hunt. Noble sport. He didn’t enjoy the talking and socialization as much. And when it came to the hunt itself…he could catch the boar, or deer, or any other animal and spear it within minutes of sighting it. He didn’t need hounds or hawks.
Naturally, that was poor etiquette, and he’d only done it twice when he truly wanted the hunt to end. But it was indicative; no one could ride with him. Truly ride with him, unless they were willing to ride behind him on the same saddle.
Or fly.
…The [Lord] felt awkward, thinking about it. Was it a betrayal, to…like another woman in this fashion? Salva was his wife.
Had been his wife. And he had thought of her so much since her passing and folded every painful feeling into a plan to destroy the Walled Cities. Manus especially.
Ryoka, though, made him realize that he had not thought about remarriage or anything else about Salva for a long time. Deliberately. He had…not thought about being lonely. But as the Wind Runner would put it, she could certainly depress people. That was a Grade-A Ryoka talent.
Tyrion Veltras had a thought as he sighted an Ailendamus force harrying Kaliv.
Ryoka Griffin was attractive.
His blank face turned even blanker as his mind wrestled with the ethics of that thought. It was too troublesome. Was he biased because of appearance? Was that appropriate for a [Lord]? It wasn’t about that, surely.
Was he interested in her because of the qualities of her character or her looks? He had proposed to her for more reasons than that. Sammial and Hethon needed someone who could help them, more than Ullim or Jericha.
Was he biased?
The shock of battle. Tyrion Veltras cut through Ailendamus’ flank, not swinging his sword once. Ailendamus was attacking Kaliv’s [Soldiers], but they had never seen his forces riding down on them. His bared blade only rose and fell once over the entire battle. 
It struck the enemy commander of Ailendamus, and he felt the slight shock as it cut through the back of the neck. Then he was away; Jericha tossed a [Siege Fireball], and his [Riders] were heading for their rally point. A single commander was worth a thousand men in the cost to Ailendamus to replace.
Tyrion Veltras ate, barely tasting the standard fare as Buscrei talked about having to shoot a Griffin harassing their forces as she and Swey climbed for a vantage point, and laid out a map. He felt he needed help at this stage, so after discussing their next attack location, he coughed.
“Buscrei. Do you feel as though the divide in our ages is too extreme for a relationship? I am referring to Ryoka Griffin and I.”
He watched Buscrei’s face go pale, then red, and Swey had to slap her on the back as she nearly choked on her food. Then she started laughing at him.
He was not good at people. Tyrion had always known that. He recalled, quite distinctly, rather disliking his wild cousins from Oswen.
As a young man, he had known them all. Buscrei had been annoying, then. Teasing him for his imperfections. Tyrion quite admired her now, but he didn’t know how to reconcile that.
When had it changed? He couldn’t remember, only a growing sense of understanding duty, of realizing, year by year, battle and experience teaching him to respect those under his command. To not pine for battle as harshly.
In some ways, though, Tyrion missed being young. He was arguably stronger, faster, and certainly higher-leveled, but youth…youth was youth.
He would never admit this, ever. But some of Tyrion missed the days that had seen him as a warier friend to Magnolia Reinhart. Of course, then he hadn’t understood much either, and she had annoyed him worse than Buscrei. And he recalled proposing to Ressa—which is what Buscrei was telling him now.
“Tact. Pellmia has spoken with me about it quite often, Buscrei. I wouldn’t have brought it up to Ryoka Griffin…”
He hesitated.
“…I will not. I am willing to listen. Do you think it’s an issue? If so, I will abandon the idea. And I would appreciate you informing me earlier to prevent any such mistakes if it is entirely untoward.”
There was that look again. Buscrei looked exasperated, and Swey’s amusement turned to…what? Pity? Sympathy?
“Tyrion, I have seen you enjoying a woman’s company twice in my life. And that was Salva and now Ryoka.”
“I enjoyed Ressa’s company.”
And she spat out her soup and nearly choked again. Tyrion decided he might need to be less than honest. Buscrei, though? A younger woman would have needled him. The older [Lady] just looked at Tyrion and sighed.
“I’d ask so many questions here—but let me put it like this, Tyrion. Before you ask about age—and she’s not exactly sixteen—what are you offering the girl?”
“My estates and the name of House Veltras? Even if we divorced—”
Buscrei put her head in her hands, and Swey took over.
“That’s a poor gift, Tyrion. Buscrei is asking what you can do for Ryoka.”
“Ah.”
 
——
 
