But even knowing a bit of what to expect, Erick still felt his heart lurch hard when he spied a woman trying to cut scales into the golden skin of her muscular forearm, while a second woman desperately tried to stop her from hurting herself. The second woman almost needn’t have bothered. The knife failed to cut more than a thin red line into the gold woman’s skin. There was no blood.

Erick turned his attention back to his surroundings.

Slip gave a nod to a pair of shadelings in guard uniforms, stationed outside of the minotaur compound. Those guards bowed toward Erick as Erick’s small group of people walked past them, toward the communal part of the central building. Slip slipped to Erick’s right side, while Mephistopheles and Ava held back a bit, and Poi stepped to Erick’s left side.

Most of the minotaurs had crashed out, sleeping, or trying to sleep, but as Erick approached, a few industrious and wide awake cow-people caught sight of him. Events proceeded fast. Someone yelled out about ‘company coming in’. This call repeated twice through the compound, rapidly becoming murmurs as everyone who wasn’t totally wiped out quickly hopped to attention, coming out of their homes to stand at the doorway to watch, or coming all the way forward into that communal space in the front.

As Erick stepped onto the dark stone under the central pavilion, others were already waiting for him to speak, or for someone else to come forward and demand Erick explain his sudden presence among them.

All before him, Erick saw strong people in a weird situation.

Except for a few particularly large guys and girls, every one of them was still shorter than an orcol, but they stood tall all the same, providing a more united front against Erick’s intrusion than he had expected to find.

“That’s him!” came the startled voice of a bronze-skinned man taller than Erick, with curling white horns on his head. “That’s Archmage Flatt!”

Murmurs erupted as recognition and shared words enlightened everyone to Erick’s identity. And then, like a switch flipping, the entire gathered group of twenty-odd people casually dropped to their knees. Tears fell. They prayed several different ways. Some with their hands clasped together, others with their heads bowed and arms to their sides, and still others who kowtowed, going as low as they could.

Shocked to silence, Erick said nothing. And then he got hold of himself. Words rushed out, “Please! Don’t do that. Stand, please.” When they didn’t immediately comply, he stepped forward, almost ready to lift them off of the ground himself, but the first people he approached shuffled backward, their eyes going wide. Erick stopped. He stepped back, and they seemed to relax. Still, he said, “Please don’t do this worship thing.”

“It’s not worship.” A strong-looking man got back on his cloven hooves, saying, “It’s honor. We honor you for what you have done for us.”

Another stepped up, a woman, saying, “We honor you.”

“Honor to the Archmage!” said another, and then another.

Soon, they were all standing again. Most of them took up the call, “Honor to the Archmage!” But a few remained quietly reverent, their amber eyes sparkling in the light.

Erick felt their emotions wash over him like a warm wave in the ocean. As it passed, he asked them, “Are you all physically okay? Is there anything I can get for you?”

The strong-looking man stepped forward. “Is there anything we can do for you, good sir?”

“Nothing I can think of, but—” Erick instantly asked, “How did you get here? Where is Hollowsaur?”

At the mention of their torturer’s name, the entire crowd turned ugly. Some spat on the ground. Others openly cursed the Shade’s name.

The strong man said, “That Shade is gone! And good riddance!”

A woman said, “We couldn’t kill him, but we tried. Sorry for failing, sir.”

Before the gathering turned more ugly, Erick said, “Don’t worry about it. You’re all okay, and that’s what matters.” As some people frowned at that, Erick added, “Or at least you will be okay, now that the danger of that man has passed.”

That seemed to restore some of the relief on the faces in front of him.

The strong man said, “That Shade tossed us through a [Shadow Gate], dropping us here, telling us all the while that he was sorry.” He glanced toward Slip, then back to Erick, saying, “Some of us already knew this place and its people, and so it was easy enough to get temporary housing. We are making the best of it, and hope to be out of here as soon as we can. But some of us won’t ever be welcomed home as we are. I know I will not be welcomed back home, and I know several of my fellow people won’t be welcomed to their homes, either.”

Ah. It was time for more politics.

Erick picked up what the guy was putting down, saying, “If it were up to me, I’d offer you permanent residences here in Candlepoint, but—” He gestured to Mephistopheles, silently asking the mayor of Candlepoint to come forward, as he said to the strong man, “Mephistopheles is the man in charge around here, along with his other contemporaries. They have final say on any immigration.”

Mephistopheles immediately accepted Erick’s approval of his position by cementing himself in that position, by saying, “Of course they can stay.” He turned to his new people, and said, “You will be bound with the same rules as any citizen of Candlepoint, and you are encouraged to find or make jobs. We’re a growing city, and could use all the help we can get.”

Relief passed through much of the minotaur crowd.

And then Erick had an idea. He sent to Poi, ‘What I’m about to offer does exist, right?’

‘Yes. A lot of us specialize in this for our own communities, though the help you’re thinking of is considered beyond extreme by almost every culture except the Mind Mages.’

Erick suddenly felt a lot better about the broken, yet strong people he saw before him. He spoke, “If anyone wishes for some Mind Mage emotional support or therapy, I will be looking into that sort of assistance not only for you—” He said to Mephistopheles, “But also for the shadelings of Candlepoint. I really should have done this sooner, and so I can only apologize for not acting in your interests faster.”

Even though Mephistopheles grinned at Erick’s side, and then wiped that expression away, the relief of the previous moments became something more spiky, and worrisome, as grumbles passed through the gathered minotaurs.

And then the strong man spoke again, playing a role that he saw needed to be played, “Thank you, Archmage. I will be the first in line for such a service, and I can only hope that some of my compatriots will follow my lead.”

With that simple statement, the strong man seemed to lose a lot of his support all around him. One suddenly-disgusted man stepped away, deeper into the crowd.

But Erick couldn’t help but smile. “I’m glad to hear that, and I can safely say that after all that has recently happened it would probably be good for me, too, to see a therapist.”

A few awkward chuckles passed through the group. And that was okay. Erick was fine with putting himself out there like that, exactly as the strong man had done.

Erick asked, “What’s your name? I’ve just been calling you ‘strong man’ in my head.”

The man smiled at his moniker, then said, “Danarin Longtusk. Former orcol, newly-created ‘minotaur’, and unexpectedly finding himself overjoyed at the true beauty of life ahead.”

Every single large person in the group smiled at that, and even a few of the smaller ones. Erick recognized the sentiment Danarin expressed; by saying ‘true beauty’ he was referring to a life lived outside of Aloethag’s divinely-imposed standards of beauty, and outside of the goddess’s control over any part of him, even if that part had been his empowering Rage. The man had even crouched his language in common idioms instead of directly calling out Aloethag, and that, more than anything, let Erick know that he actually had been an orcol, before all of this soul mutilation. With that revelation, Erick turned a slight attention to the smaller minotaurs, and wondered if the Angels or the Demons were still talking to the former humans or incani, telling them of wars to be fought against their eternal foes, or not. Erick guessed that those smaller minotaurs, too, had been severed from their usual divine overseers. Probably.

Maybe.

Erick considered how to bring a bit more joy to everyone here, and tried, “So as you all know, it’s the Triumph of Light.” A few of the orcol-sized minotaurs gave a quick ‘whoop whoop!’ leading Erick to smile again, as he continued, “Keep in mind that Candlepoint is a city of refugees, though, so our ability to party as we should is a lot lower than it usually is, but even so, I will be trying to supply some good cheer and beer and all of that before the end of the day. Has anyone spoken to all of you about the various people in power around here? And the various help that everyone is trying to give each other? I can’t direct you around much, since I am just an assistant here to help everyone else get back what was taken from them, and so in that way, people like Mephistopheles here should prove much more helpful to you and yours than I.” Erick ceded the floor to the mayor.

Mephistopheles spoke up, “We’ve not gone over much more than the preliminaries.” He turned to the crowd. “But if you’re all willing, then we can begin to integrate you into Candlepoint, as guests or residents, or whatever you want.”

Danarin, who was still a step more forward than anyone else, said, “We’re glad to receive assistance, and to help, and more than ready for the celebration of the Triumph of Light. We’re all well over level 50, too, with many of us having many different skills from classical Arcanaeum training, to warrior training, to self-sufficiency training.” He acknowledged Mephistopheles, then turned to Erick, saying, “We will not be a burden on Candlepoint or on your good graces, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick couldn’t help but continue to smile. “I look forward to it.” And then he conjured images of the various other people that were in charge of Candlepoint, and said, “So this person is Valok Greentalon. His home is over that way, and he was the head man of Spur’s Farmer’s Council before he was assassinated and then resurrected as a shadeling, here in Candlepoint. He is my friend. You can probably seek him out in order to get work at the Farm over there, or to find food.” Erick conjured another person, saying, “This person is Zaraanka Checharin, a competent woman who is currently in charge of the various rad gathering and other adventuring-ish forces of Candlepoint. If you’re into that, seek her out.” He gestured to the other people with him, except for Poi, and said, “And these people can introduce themselves.”

Ava went first.

Soon, small groups of minotaurs were talking in small groups with Ava, Slip, or Mephistopheles.

Erick hung back, and let others come to him, if they wished.

And they did.

He spent an hour talking to various minotaurs, while he had Kiri run around in Spur, searching out caterers and such, while Poi also, but remotely, helped organize a Triumph of Light feast that Erick would surely need to [Duplicate] to make work for an entire town.

Two more hours passed rather fast, with Erick talking more to shadelings now, than the minotaurs. A lot of people just wanted to talk to him, to either thank him, or submit a request for certain items that they thought everyone should have.

Somewhere in all that, Valok showed up.

Erick saw his friend, and smiled wide. “Hello, Valok!”

Valok smiled back, as he walked closer. “I heard you fucked up more shit.”

“I did indeed do that, and more.” Erick grabbed the man’s offered hand and pulled him into a one-armed hug. “Glad to see you in person. Sorry I didn’t show up sooner.”

“It’s okay. It’s okay.” Valok quietly asked, “My daughter isn’t with you, is she?”

“No.” Erick said, “I wouldn’t spring that on you. Not after what you said last time.”

Valok’s white-grey eyes turned slightly whiter, and brighter. “Good.”

Somewhere in all of that, Erick heard the grumbling stomachs of some of the people around him. He started asking what people wanted to eat, knowing full well that he had most of a feast on its way, eventually. He was just gauging the crowd. But Valok heard Erick and rushed in, saying that they had Triumph of Light supplies, but the cooking wouldn’t start for another few hours.

… Erick still had Poi and Kiri continue to find some bulk food sellers. It turned out that the people Erick used before, Palasio’s Caterers, were already booked for the entire week. Most caterers were booked, with those bookings mostly taking place in the dawn hours of that very same day; it was bad luck to make plans for the Triumph of Light before the Triumph of Light, after all.

And then Danarin threw a wrench into the whole thing by coming right up to Erick and saying, “I want beef.”

Erick’s face became a mask, as talk around him seemed to end. “Really?”

Danarin glanced around, then promptly declared, “Everyone is too freaked out by it, but—” He opened his mouth wide, and showed Erick some impressive pearly-white chompers, saying, “Oo hee hese?”

Erick’s mask broke, as he saw what he saw. He smirked, saying, “I see those; yes.”

Danarin spoke normally, “I may have molars, but I still got incisors and fangs. Grass ain’t gonna cut it with me; no sir, archmage sir.”

Erick couldn’t help but chuckle. “Okay— Then! A normal feast. I’m already working on it, but I can ask for some beef, too.”

Danarin cheered up, smiling wide, saying, “I can cook! Just need some supplies! A lot of us can cook.”

Valok interjected himself into the conversation, saying, “We got grills that need manning, if you’re up for it.”

“After the torture I’ve been through, I’m up for just about anything!”

A few happily shared Danarin’s sentiment, with cheers and joy. A few others just gave small, hard smiles, as they tried to keep from breaking all over again.

- - - -

The sun set as a party of unique proportions began, in a land claimed by shadow but liberated by light. There were more musical instruments now than there were hours ago. There was more food than there had ever been before. Songs from a hundred different homelands raised to the sky, as different people got up on impromptu stages that had been scattered all throughout the cosmopolitan city of shadelings.

Erick asked an innocent question, “What about music? How does that work on Veird? I never really investigated any of that.”

