Erick felt his eyes tear up, and he couldn’t stop the flow. Silverite pulled him into a hug, and Erick fell into her embrace. He cried. It wasn’t pretty. Silverite still held him, anyway.

Halfway through with the heavy emotions tumbling through his head and heart, Erick pulled away from Silverite, mumbling, “Thank you.”

Silverite still held Erick’s shoulders with her hands, squeezing gently as she said, “Take a vacation.”

“Yeah.”

“Considering what you just came through, I’m not too worried about you out there as long as you keep a low public profile. But Poi will stay with you, right?”

“Yeah.”

“Good.” She released his shoulders, and stepped back, saying, “I’ve got people to meet and work to finish. I’ll see you later, Erick.”

“… Yeah. I’ll see you later, too.”

- - - -

Erick gave a small nod toward Teressa as he headed off toward bed.

Teressa stood strong, saying “Boss,” with an almost reverent tone, as Erick passed.

- - - -

The afternoon sun shone down from Erick’s windows, waking him as its warmth touched his hand. He startled, fully awake. Worries shot through him like bullets. Where was he? What happened? Who died? Is Jane hurt? And then, he answered those questions himself, almost as fast as they came. He was at home. He slept a full night and all of the next morning. No one was dead; a quick activation of [Greater Lightwalk] confirmed Teressa, Poi, Kiri, Justine, and Jane, were all alive and in the house, doing various things from using the bathroom, to poking around at plants, to baking bread, to ensuring that the people outside…

Erick glanced out his window.

He shut the curtains. He would deal with that later. They were just people and… and a lot of stuff.

Erick would deal with that later. For right now...

Not even half a second had passed, before the thought of being unprepared caught Erick completely unprepared in its ferocity. It would take him a good three seconds to put together all of the magic necessary to ‘be prepared’.

That was too long.

But he could fix this problem!

Erick looked up [Healing Word].

Healing Word 1, instant, medium range, 10 MP

Speak, and heal a target for 25 + ½ WIL.

You may cast your next Healing Word as soon as you desire.

Purchase Healing Word 1? Yes/No

… That clause of ‘next [Healing Word]’ practically screamed that it would take an expert hand to extract it into usefulness. Erick spent the point and bought [Healing Word 1], giving up easy access to all other healing spells in the process. You could only buy your first healing spell for free, after all. All subsequent healing spells required a Registrar-assigned Quest.

A worry Erick had thought he had laid to rest, came clawing forward.

Erick’s own brief idea of an Immortality spell in the beginning of his time on Veird was just a passing fancy, but it was still a bright goal on the horizon. But mostly, it was a desperate clawing at the world by a man who thought he was going to die very soon. He had suspected, yet never confirmed, that buying a healing spell would have taken up his single attempt at [Immortality]…

There were more than a few ways to live forever, anyway. Erick need not invent an entirely new path. Besides: Fights in this world both started and ended within the span of a handful of Script Seconds. If he was able to extract [Healing Word]s ability to avoid the Script Second, then he would likely be able to string together a full activation of all of his necessary spells, like [Greater Lightwalk], [Lodestar], and [Hunter’s Instincts], all in the space of a single flashing Script Second. Living right now was more important than living forever.

But… Still.

No. Erick discarded those wasteful thoughts.

But as he considered future needs, Erick realized he had more points that needed allocating. He opened his Status, and considered the numbers.

Right away, he noticed his Regen was shit, but at least only his Mana Regen had been broken by [Death’s Approach]. His Health Regen worked fine, and because of Rozeta’s Boon of Recovery, practically doubled his resulting Mana Regen.

Therefore, his Mana Regen was acceptable… Somewhat.

… His Mana Regen was only acceptable when his Intelligence was considered. That Stat dropped almost all of his spell costs down to nearly nothing, and was even making him rethink some of his Class Abilities. Was 10% Spell Cost Reduction actually necessary, anymore?

Erick Flatt

Human?, age 48

Level 90, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 2.32 e20 /7.54 e20

Class: 10/10

Points: 25

HP

6,930/6930

13,878 per day

MP

17,460/17,460

13,878 per day

Strength

20

+211

[231]

Vitality

20

+211

[231]

Dexterity

7

+211

[218]

Constitution

20

+211

[231]

Perception

19

+211

[230]

Willpower

80

+211

[291]

Focus

80

+211

[291]

Intelligence

20

+211

[231]

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Right away, he noticed that did not like having uneven Stats, and that he was likely going to be putting his belt somewhere safe and out of the way. Perhaps. Or maybe not. He could work out something better than the clunky silver thing he had gone to bed wearing around his waist.

To a proper mana sense, his belt was practically a firework strapped around his waist. It screamed ‘steal me’. His rings were like minor lights compared to the belt, but he figured he could get away with the rings. If he were forced to abandon everything, though, it would be better if he weren’t the clumsy oaf he had been before Dexterity came along. Eh. He was likely still a clumsy fighter, even if he evened out his Dexterity, but… Whatever.

… He put 3 points in Dexterity and 1 in Perception.

Nothing really changed for Erick, lying in bed, and that was fine. Things would likely change a whole lot if he decided to abandon his rings and belt, and go incognito on his ‘forced’ vacation.

Five points went into each Willpower and Focus. That dropped him to 11 points left over, and that was as far as Erick was willing to go. He would probably find a much better use for those points outside of his inflated Stats. New health cost skills, perhaps? New ‘forbidden spells’ like [Duplicate] that stripped points from you if you managed to make them? New basic spells he had never heard of before? All of those were possibilities.

He briefly considered more Intelligence, but he rapidly decided against putting more points there.

Oh!

An idea!

As Erick looked over his Class Ability, Blood Mana, which allowed him to spend Health in addition to Mana to cast a spell, he thought to cast a Healing Spell on himself using Blood Mana. Using this methodology, he could theoretically cast massive heals on himself for a fraction of the mana cost.

Erick’s mana costs were already fractioned, but this was new magic! It had to be explored! So Erick did just that.

Erick triggered [Healing Word] for the cost of 1 Health and 1 Mana, and almost launched out of his bed at the surprising pain. A series of phantom bee-stings tap-tap-tap’ed across his chest and arms. The pain passed as fast as it had come. Okay. That was strange. That hadn’t happened when Erick had experimented with Blood Mana before. As another experiment, Erick cast a [Cleanse] with Blood Mana, again spending 1 Health and 1 Mana for the spell.

No bee stings that time.

Ah. Well.

Pain for Blood Healing, or whatever, was either sadism on the part of the Script, or some weird interaction between healing magic and Blood Mana. Maybe both. Erick filed away that question for another day, and cast [Healing Word] on himself, normally.

He flickered with white light, and then it was gone.

… He cast [Healing Word] again, instantly. And then five more times in super-fast rapid succession.

A wide grin plastered itself to Erick’s face. With all his bonuses, [Healing Word] only cost 1 mana. It had actually cost more to cast the spell with Blood Mana. Ha!

Erick rapidly transformed a thousand mana into a thousand casts of [Healing Word]. He watched as a white glow suffused his skin, like a life magnified. He continued to smile, as he fell back in bed, and relaxed, feeling a lot better. [Healing Word] was great. Was there some ‘feel good’ component to it? Or was this just the niceness of being hale and clean? Ah! A question for the healers. Not a question for the mages.

Oh! But this rapid-cast function! How amazing!

Oh. This rapid-cast function… How… Troubling.

Rozeta had been right; being allowed to ignore the Script Second was a slippery slope. Erick had tasted freedom, and he wanted more. But he also recognized that no one should have this much power.

Ah. Whatever. Erick ignored philosophy for the moment as he rapidly cast enough [Healing Word]s to level the spell to [Healing Word X]. When that single second passed, Erick discovered that the spell did not change from level 1 to level X. But that was fine. It was already powerful enough.

He held one hand out, and channeled mana through [Healing Word].

— And was suddenly entranced by the complexity and joy of ethereal words without meaning, and yet full of meaning. Like a sudden orchestra in his bedroom, [Healing Word] played in the white light of his hand; a voice echoing upon itself to reinforce the way, to enable more of the song to come again, faster and faster. A staccato song that only stopped beating when Erick desired it.

Erick cut the channel.

“Ah.” He said to himself, “Healing magics are complicated, and that one is much more than it appears to be.”

Knowing he would likely have to try multiple times, and thus take multiple days, to pull the magic he wanted out of [Healing Word], Erick threw away his first attempt with an offhanded, experimental cast.

[Healing Word]’s staccato beat came away from the orchestral music and a blue box appeared.

Quick Spell, instant, self, 10 mana

Cast Quick Spell as soon as you desire.

Erick balked.

Was that a success? Had he done it on his first try?!

Maybe… Maybe it was? Erick wasn’t quite sure what ‘success’ looked like, in this particular case. [Quick Spell] might have been the best possible outcome? He cast a few hundred [Quick Spells], just to see if it worked, and it did. A hundred no-effect spells splashed out of Erick like so many puffs of white light.

Ah. Well. Maybe this worked? Whatever the case, there was no time like the present to try for something else. What other spells did Erick have that he didn’t mind experimenting with? How about… [Force Wall]? Yes. That sounded decent. Suddenly erecting a dozen walls across a battlefield wouldn’t stop Spatial magics, or whatnot, but a dozen sudden walls would be great for controlling minor monsters.

And now that he thought about it for more than half a second, there were actually a lot of ways that instantly casting a dozen [Force Wall]s could be useful.

With a happy smile, and an almost childish joy, Erick channeled a song of delineation in one hand and a staccato of rapid beats in the other. Combined, they formed something new. Erick cast a different kind of [Force Wall] against the side of his room. As a mostly transparent wall of white force appeared, so did a blue box.

Quick Wall, instant, medium range, 65 mana

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 50 damage before breaking. Lasts 1 minute.

You may cast Quick Wall again as soon as you desire.

… Okay. That looked very wrong. [Force Wall X] was much, much better than… than whatever [Quick Wall] was supposed to be.

Force Wall X, instant, medium range, 50 MP

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 500 damage before breaking. Lasts 10 minutes per level.

Yeah. Erick had screwed up somewhere. Perhaps [Quick Spell] was the problem? He channeled mana through [Quick Spell], listening intently to the staccato beat. Hmm. There might have been a problem, there. He held out his hand toward the Ophiel currently roosting on his headboard.

“What do you make of this, Ophiel?”

Ophiel, who had been quietly watching, now took up the staccato song, amplifying everything about it, filling Erick’s bedroom with a beep-shh-beep-shh-beep-shh.

Oh. Drat.

“Ohhhh.” Erick said, “Now I hear it. That ‘shh’ shouldn’t be in there.” Then he looked at the belt around his waist, and wondered why 200+ Perception couldn’t help him out with the sound, here. He took off the belt.

… Nothing really changed.

He looked to the belt, asking himself, “So why couldn’t I hear the magic?” He thought for a moment. He looked to Ophiel on his headboard, and asked, “I know my soul is damaged… Could that be the problem?”

Ophiel shrugged his little eye-filled wings.

Erick certainly heard as someone stepped down the hallway, outside of his room, though.

Jane asked, “Dad? Are you awake?” as she fully opened his bedroom door. “Ah. You are awake. Are you feeling okay?”

Erick briefly considered putting the belt back on, but he decided against that. Instead, he held it out, considered his daughter, and decided now was as good a time as any. “I’m doing fine, but since you’re here, I want to talk to you about this.” He set the belt on the nearby dresser. Jane’s eyes turned toward the silver, cable-like construction. “This belt allows the user to unlock all of the New Stats. It also shifted my Status to ‘human’ with a question mark. Unlocking all of the New Stats also made me rather odd for a good while. Maybe five to ten hours; I was inside a liminal space at the time so I don’t quite know how long that lasted. And that’s another warning against the New Stats. There’s also a horrific reaction if someone has a New Stat outside of the other New Stats. Like if you already have Charisma and then you gain Perception; it rips your soul and body apart. But anyway: There don’t seem to be any downsides right now to my human-question-mark Status, or to the Stats themselves, but who knows what will happen later. Melemizargo is trying to get his Stats into the Script, but that might not happen. So here. Take this belt. Don’t wear it right now, and maybe not ever. And especially not if you already have one of the New Stats.” He said, “But the choice is yours. You’re already smart enough, and strong enough, but maybe you’ll need something more one day, and this could be it.”

Jane thoroughly ignored the belt and pulled over a short reading chair to Erick’s bedside. She sat down. She looked her father in the eyes, and said, “I’m worried about you.”

Erick sarcastically said, “Me too.”

