Erick stepped back from his summoned chalkboard and considered his new list.

Things To Do, in no particular order:

1) [Renew], non-lethal way to subdue someone, new magics to make me look like a different person

2) Make sure Yggdrasil is comfortable, invent some defensive spells for him

3) Make sure Candlepoint is comfortable, set up trade routes from them to the Wasteland? They’re only one blip away!

4) Find + kill Converter Angel

5) Check up on Shades? Maybe not.

6) Uncover other existent threats to the world, and then end them! (hopefully not)

7) Have some fun during vacation!

He smiled. This was a good list. Six items was a good number of necessities. They were, of course, six very large entries, but that was fine. He smiled wider. Then he banished the chalkboard and gave a final once-over to his tower…

… Okay!

Done! There was nothing else he needed here! Erick had packed his bags, but now it was time to break the real news to everyone else, except for Poi, of course; the resident Mind Mage already knew everything Erick was planning to do. And what a plan it was!

It was time for a Worldly Path! Or something to that effect. Erick still wasn’t sure, exactly, what all of the [Gate] Quest entailed, but he’d find out. If the last three days were any indication of what was going to happen to him if he stayed in Spur, well then… he just wasn’t going to stay here.

Oohh~

He’d be back. Spur was still home, of course. But he needed to be away for a while, or at least until events stopped coming at him like Script Second cooldowns. The problems hadn’t started with hero worship, or threats of murder for that matter. Far from it. But the current problems had headed in those directions rather fast.

- - - -

The first real action of the first day of the ten-day end-of-the-year Festival known as Triumph of Light, was a telepathic conversation with an antagonistic young woman.

‘Hello, Caizoa,’ Erick sent.

An immediate flare of ‘No’, something that was surely more instinctual than real, severed Erick’s attempted communication, slapping him with a good thousand points of False Damage. He weathered that minor storm without blinking an eye.

And then he went about his day, wondering if Caizoa would call him back, or if he’d be forced to go looking for her.

He started with breakfast. Potatoes went on the grill, eggs became omelettes and went out first, flour and various supplies became pancakes, while coffee dripped down into a glass pot. Erick made most of the food, alongside Kiri, while simultaneously fielding questions from his young apprentice. Justine was in a different room, telepathically talking to people, but Teressa was deep in thought, sitting at the kitchen table, staring off into space, her half-eaten omelette sitting before her like a forgotten foe.

Kiri’s enthusiasm for Erick’s trip through Ar’Kendrithyst had been tempered by Poi, but only after the sapphire-scaled man had given her a hard look, after she asked about the people in Brightwater. From there, her questions changed into the topic of high-level archmage battles, or more accurately, the act of fighting a Shade, and all of what that entailed.

Erick continued, “… I’m glad I never got to see ‘Dorofiend’s second form’, or whatever that was. [Domain of Light] shut that down rather fast, or, more realistically, it just gave me a moment to catch him off-guard with a [Fulmination Aura] from Ophiel. That moment of lightning, empowered by the [Domain of Light] for some interesting reason, was enough to zap him into death. And that was all it took.”

“Ah. Yes. [Fulmination Aura].” Kiri scrunched her face as she flipped sausages on the stove. “I’ve seen your [Fulmination Aura]. Isn’t it only 25 plus Willpower damage per target, per second? Used through Ophiel, that means only 25 damage per second.” She postulated, “Perhaps it is your specific definition of a ‘target’, that makes it so effective?”

“It’s 26 mana per second.” Erick said, “If it wasn’t able to target every individual cell of a person, then it would be a pretty useless magic.”

Kiri’s spatula stilled above the flattop grill, as her eyes went wide. “Every cell?”

Erick hummed, then said, “Maybe it’s not that precise. But there’s certainly more than one ‘target’ per person.” He added, “And I’m pretty sure Shades don’t have cells like you or I. Maybe they’re magic cells? They’re all vulnerable to [Luminous Trap]. I think they’re actually made of Elemental Shadow, which is partially Light-based, so this makes some sort of sense.” He spoke up for Teressa’s benefit, “That was how I killed the Witch.”

Teressa startled. She glanced to Erick, then down to her food. She stuck her fork back in the omelette, but her heart just wasn’t in the meal.

Erick saw the orcol woman’s reaction, and then continued, “She tried to pose as Fallopolis to do something and to catch me off guard with a curse, or something, but I wasn’t falling for that. Mana sense helped to show that she wasn’t who she pretended to be, which I was very happy to learn, but the most ‘off’ thing about that fake Fallopolis was that she didn’t smell right.”

Teressa glared down at her omelette.

Erick said, “So I sucked her up into a black void. But by this time, the Shades had seen this trick with the fight with Hollowsaur. To counter a trap, the Witch had prepared an automatic [Dispel] magic in the air some ways away. This triggered and released the Witch. When she came out of that black void, the torture of being in that super-lighted space had broken her illusions. She was no longer Fallopolis, but instead a grey-skinned orcol with grey eyes.”

Teressa’s eyes suddenly flicked toward Erick. She demanded, “How can you know that was her? No one has ever seen her.”

“I can’t, since the Kill Notification did not list ‘the Witch’. But there are a great many circumstantial evidences that lead me to believe that she was the Witch.” Erick said, “Primarily among them: she used illusions, and when she died, River Tower Gloom in the Swamp erupted in green and grey light, spreading mushrooms and Extreme Light in a heavy grey mist that rushed out into Ar’Kendrithyst. There was also the message that played in the air above River Tower Gloom congratulating those who finally managed to kill her. It went like this:” Erick thought for a moment, then recounted, “To those who finally managed to take my life: Congratulations. Have some poison, some mutative monsters, and my undying curse. Rot on this damned cursed world for the rest of your miserable, short life.” He continued, “I really do think she was the Witch, Teressa.”

Silently, Teressa returned to her omelette.

Kiri ensured the silence didn’t last long, asking, “What about her curse?”

“Ah.” Erick refilled his coffee, then said, “The second time I encountered the Witch, I trapped her in a much better [Luminous Trap]. That second time, I also threw a [Perfect Mirror] around that void, as well as a sunform Ophiel that was equipped with a [Pure Reflection Ward]. Several [Dispel] attempts struck that reflective orby Ophiel and bounced away. Before much else happened, though, I had an Ophiel turn real and then poke a feather into Perri’s prison. Ophiel filled that prison with a [Luminous Beam].” When Teressa just blinked at him, he added, “It’s that one that is all light and power. It bounced around in there and probably killed her ten times over, just by virtue of exposure to the beam.” Teressa slowly nodded. Erick continued, “I think I got really lucky, there. Any number of things could have gone wrong. Her [Dispel]s could have been larger. Her soul could have been split before she encountered me, and likely has been, but if that second version of herself still exists, she’s no longer a Shade.”

Teressa frowned.

Erick continued, “She tried to curse me before that second encounter, back when she pretended to be Fallopolis for the first time, but I stripped that off of myself, while she taunted, ‘This could have gone easier if you would have let that into you’, or something like that.” Erick recalled Perri’s exact words, but he saw that Teressa wasn’t taking this as well as she could have, so he went rather informal in his retelling, “And then, you know, the second time she came before me, she also pretended to be Fallopolis. But then I sucked both of them into their own black voids and then canceled them and Fallopolis came out of one and Perri came out of the other, and then I wrapped Perri in all those previous spells and then killed her with the [Luminous Beam].”

Teressa nodded.

Kiri asked, “But what about the undying curse?”

“Oh? Eh. I think the bouncing [Luminous Beam] killed it. That thing is partially Extreme Light.” Erick said, “I canceled Perri’s prison and nothing came out of it; no flex in the manasphere, no intent in the world, nothing. She’s dead, and all her plans are dead.” He added, “But some of those new monsters still live.” He waved a hand, saying, “And the Swamp is now the Mushroom Swamp, or whatever. Not sure what’s going on there.”

Teressa nodded, again. This time, she spoke, mumbling, “There’s plans to slash and burn the whole place.”

“Do you want to be a part of that?” And then Erick asked the better question, “Or would you rather take a trip to Treehome?”

Teressa looked up at Erick with hope in her sparkling emerald eyes.

Erick added, “I said I’d like to go there for the Triumph of Light, or for some sort of vacation, and last I recalled you wanted that. Plans have only slightly changed since the Shades have died.”

Teressa allowed herself a small smile. She said, “Making definite plans for the Triumph before the Triumph is bad luck.”

Kiri spoke up, “Which is why all the hotels are booking up right now.”

“Not all of them.” Teressa pulled a fake-scowl at Kiri, saying, “I can find some good places.” She looked to Erick with hope in her eyes. “If you want to go?”

“Yes, I want to go.” Erick said, “So best start making some plans. I’m counting on you for our itinerary.”

Teressa laughed, faint, and then it was gone. She nodded, then said, “Yes. Of course, boss—” She froze. Over a moment of thought, she thawed, asking, “I’m going to need some private time to see my… to see my old home, though. If that’s okay with you?”

Erick had hoped that she would want to see her old home. He easily said, “Whatever you need, Teressa.”

To the side, Kiri kept her smile to herself. Erick didn’t openly show his joy at Teressa’s words, either; he knew better than most how fragile someone in Teressa’s emotional state could be, and she wasn’t the only one recovering from a great tragedy in this household. Erick knew he would be ‘walking on dragon eggs’ for a while, but that was fine. As Erick set out the second serving of breakfast, and everyone came to the table, and he saw the burgeoning light in Teressa’s emerald eyes, and a similar, if more nuanced light glimmering in Justine’s red eyes.

After breakfast, Poi spoke privately to Erick, sending, ‘Caizoa is trying to contact you.’

Half a second later, before Erick had a chance to respond to that, came the voice of the woman in question.

‘Hello, Archmage Flatt.’ Caizoa asked, ‘Why did you call?’

‘To coordinate.’

‘I don’t have time to go on the offensive right now for the Angel has infected my homeland. We are clearing that up and then we will move on to the Angel itself. It will be several days.’

‘How long do you expect that to take? What are the problems? Can I help?’

‘These problems are our own. The Angel’s soul infection is nefarious but easy to spot now that I have the Black Star. The best thing you can do is stay home and out of danger.’

Erick smiled. ‘Can’t do that. You know more than most what has happened and I need to be a part of this, Caizoa.’

There was a deep, angry inhale on the other side of the line. Caizoa sent, ‘Fine. Let us coordinate. What is your itinerary? Where can I meet you without any guards nearby?’

Erick teased, ‘So that you can know where I am and kill me?’

‘I don’t feel like killing innocents, but I will make an exception for you.’

‘Ha! I didn’t expect such honesty from you.’ Erick said, ‘Anyway. If we can’t agree with me helping you, then Candlepoint needs trade routes, and the Wasteland is the closest to them. Can you secure some of those for me?’

‘… What is with this sudden change in topic— No. I will do no such thing.’ Caizoa’s voice raised, as she sent, ‘Of all the stupid things to ask for! I am not a merchant! Don’t talk to me about that! Why would you even ask me about that?’

‘The topics on my mind are many and few, in that there are many different ways to secure safety and prosperity for the people who need such assistance.’ Erick added, ‘And besides, I’m just giving you the opportunity to help me, here. There are many others that I can personally go to with this desire, and many who have been working on this for a while who I have yet to check in with. But you’re there and we’re going to work with each other for a while, so I figured ‘why not?’ and gave you a call to lay out some of my concerns and questions.’

Erick knew that asking Caizoa for trade routes would be useless. But with that Black Star affixed to her young self, she was now a power that would be written about in the history books. Who knew what kind of doors were opening up all around her?

But besides that, Erick wanted to curb the woman’s tendency toward violence with regard toward himself, at least. Asking for trade routes seemed like a good way to show that he was not just some human archmage, on the ‘other side’ of the Quiet War.

Caizoa went silent, but the connection remained open. Erick got the impression she was thinking.

Erick decided to get back to the main topic. He said, ‘I’d also like to know what a ‘converted’ looks like, so that I can identify them myself.’

‘That is easily done.’ Caizoa said, ‘Everyone is to know what the enemy looks like, and it is thus:’

An image came down the line of a normal-enough incani man, except for the binding chains that locked him down upon a heavy iron chair. He was bloody and unwell, as though he had been beaten and starved and made sick, somehow. But they couldn’t have had the man in custody for more than a few hours, could they?

