“If you guys want to do that?” Erick said, “Sure. I don’t care. Like I said when Bulgan went away: I’m just your support. Everything that this town is and could be is up to you.” He added, “But if all goes well, then in a hundred years when my World Tree has grown to be an actual World Tree, or maybe before, then Candlepoint could be a stepping stone to the stars, with [Gate] travel happening right here in this city.”

If he figured out [Gate]s before then, then maybe Candlepoint could become a hub-town; Erick did not voice this idea, though.

Mephistopheles’s eyes went wide as he stopped in his tracks.

Ava recovered faster than him. She laughed, loud and happy, then asked, “Truly?”

“It’s the truth. Yggdrasil is growing out in the lake right now, and I expect him to be the size of two stacked mountains in a hundred years.” Erick pointed to the air above, at a particular [Scry] orb. “That’s him. Hello, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] orb bounced in recognition.

Mephistopheles and Ava stared at the hovering ball of invisible intent.

Ava waved, and happily rolled with the situation, saying, “Hello, Yggdrasil. I’m the Sewermaster of Candlepoint, and I like pretty things. Can you use [Telepathy] yet?”

Erick was taken aback at Ava’s casual attitude. It was kinda nice. It would also be nice to see what Yggdrasil would do.

But… apparently what he would do was ‘nothing’.

Ava looked to the air, waiting. After a moment, she said, “Ah. Shy?”

“Maybe.” Erick said, “I know arbors advanced at a very fast rate, and Yggdrasil is more than that. Ah. He hasn’t talked to me yet, either.”

Mephistopheles asked, “Do you wish for us to protect your… He’s still a [Familiar], then? He hasn’t split from your soul yet?”

“No need for any of those concerns. Thank you, though.” Erick said, “It’s all very new to me, but I’m a hundred percent confident that Yggdrasil can protect himself, and he’ll eventually protect you all, too. All I can ask is that you be polite, but don’t coddle him. I heard that was really bad for arbors, and I bet that goes double for World Trees.”

“Usually…” Mephistopheles said, “Usually, they have to become real beings before people consider them arbors, and no one considers their still-[Familiar] tree [Familiar] as a World Tree… How sure are you of this fact?”

“Fully and completely sure.” Erick said, “It’s just a matter of 100 years.”

“And this time table? You seem sure of that, too?”

“Yes.”

Mephistopheles scrunched his face in thought, as he looked away.

They walked in silence, toward the north. They passed houses and apartment buildings, where large trees lined the roads providing shade to all, but very few people were out and about. It was a nice walk.

Ava changed topics. “Back to trade, then? I am interested in all the finer things in life, so I want theaters and music halls and the international connections to make those happen, but the basics come first. I’ll help with whatever is necessary, but where do we start? I was hoping for some sort of food trade, but if that is off the table, then I really do think that textiles would be a good primary market.”

Mephistopheles said, “Food is sorted, thanks to Valok, so we can accept Xelxex’s warning away from the food trade. But not everyone is happy with the options of this city, for we still have a ways to go with the normal necessities, like bakers, clothiers, cooks, cleaners, meat farmers— Now there’s an odd problem. We needed cattle and otherwise, and I understand that you promised Valok’s man, Mister Ooragh, to procure such goods. But now we have the minotaurs.” He looked to Erick, saying, “They just… showed up! I’ve spoken to them all, and they seem perfectly nice, but… People want beef and goat and some even want spider, but when the first minotaur overheard the farmers talking about some of our plans for the future and the inclusion of cows in those plans, there was an altercation.”

Erick frowned.

Mephistopheles said, “It’s sorted, for now, but the problem is here.”

Erick decided, “I’m not having a conversation with them about how they feel over nearby cattle farms. Let us avoid the issue for now and stick to chickens and fish.”

“My thoughts exactly,” Mephistopheles said.

Ava said, “Everyone is learning to live differently. The problem with the minotaurs is that they’re still in the middle of their war response, so we’re walking on dragon eggs. Some fool boy got up in their face when they first got here— the boy is fine, but these people are all high level adventurers.” She added, “Luckily, shadelings are high level, too.”

Mephistopheles pointed forward, saying, “We put the minotaurs in their own compound, across the street from the orchard. Most of them crashed out once they were out of danger, but we should be able to find a few still awake.”

- - - -

Erick glanced ahead, and all around, with the help of his Ophiel, his [Greater Lightwalk], and several senses beyond the norm. Mostly, he liked what he saw.

Dark-walled apartment buildings were scattered here and there, with some in clumps and others on their lonesome. Most were occupied by people who looked like they just moved in; Erick didn’t investigate those places more than a cursory glance through the windows. The empty houses, however, all had plumbing and kitchens and all of that, ready and waiting for someone to move in and turn the place into a home.

Glass in the windows, chimneys for fires at night if it got cold, thick doors for safety. Locks. Erick readily noticed crystal panes in some of the walls that seemed out of place, but upon putting a tendril of light down into those shadowed depths, he understood them as shadeling pathways; something for someone to [Shadowblend] through, similar to the crystals of Ar’Kendrithyst.

With a touch deeper underground, a smile crept upon Erick’s face. There was an entire second layer to the city of Candlepoint, just below the surface.

Erick turned to Mephistopheles and Ava, and said, “I like the underground crystal areas.”

Mephistopheles said, “They’re mostly bunkers in case of attack.”

Ava lightly complained, “Not everyone can get into those bunkers, or take part in the markets that are growing down there.”

“When did that start, anyway?” Erick asked.

Mephistopheles said, “The first crystal roads were laid a week ago.”

“They’ve been expanded, since,” Ava added.

Erick let that conversation drop as the four of them walked down the street, and a fifth separated from the shadows of a tree to join their party. Slip, the Guardmaster with bright white eyes who everyone thought was a Shade. He certainly looked the part, with black skin, horns, and bright white eyes. The man had never done anything to dissuade those rumors, either.

Erick greeted him, “Hello, Slip! How goes the fishing?”

“Sir.” Slip bowed his head a fraction, then righted himself. “It’s only been a day since last we spoke. Nothing much has happened, except for everything, apparently.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I suppose that is true.”

“The lake looks good, though.” Slip said, “It’ll take a while for the new plants to spread and restore a balance to the waters, but that’s just a matter of time. Just a matter of time for more fish to spawn, too.”

“Got any ideas for various markets for Candlepoint to take part in?” Erick asked.

The guardmaster surprised everyone, saying, “News and printing machines and various other propaganda to ensure that we aren’t attacked out of some misguided attempts to ‘cull the last Shadow holdouts in the world’.”

Erick froze. “Please tell me you are exaggerating for effect.”

“Only a little.” Slip said, “That Summoning Crystal will go a long way to ensuring safety, and I like that you rid it of all those shadows, but we will be attacked. With your help, I feel we can defend ourselves from all but an archmage attack. To that end, I am asking for permission to contact you in the case of such oversized threats.”

Erick was startled again. “Of course you can contact me for such a thing! Have I not explicitly said as much? I feel like I might have… Or maybe not?” Erick returned to what the man had originally said, “But propaganda machines? You all don’t want a society built on false ideas, do you?”

“We wouldn’t be dispersing lies.” Slip said, “But it would be good for Candlepoint to be seen as the world healing from the atrocities of the Shades, rather than as a holdout of shadows.”

Well. When he put it like that… Erick could agree… To a certain extent.

Mephistopheles said, “Being under the auspices of the man who ended the Shades should be good for that.”

Slip said, “Which is why his appearance here is good for us, but it is not enough.”

Erick suddenly saw what was going on between Mephistopheles and Slip, though it appeared Ava was slightly out of the loop. Perhaps the two men had had this conversation before, and were just now including Erick? Whatever the case, Erick smiled, and played along, “I will be telling people that Candlepoint is still under my protection. I only hope that when I send people here that you treat them well.” He added, “I’ll tell you before I send people here, of course.”

Slip allowed himself a smile, as he said, “Candlepoint is one of the safest places on Veird, and I aim to keep it that way. Invite whoever you wish, and the Guard will ensure their safety with our very lives.”

“I mean…” Erick was uncomfortable with Slip’s level of zeal, but he said, “Acceptable. Thank you, Slip.” Erick stopped walking forward, since they were close to their destination, and turned to the three members of Candlepoint, “And be sure to contact me if any large monsters come for Candlepoint, too.” He gestured to Poi, saying, “Or contact Poi. I don’t think you have met, but— Mephistopheles, Ava Jadescale, Slip, this is Poi Fulisade, my head guard, and one of my closest confidants. Please treat him as you would me. He already knows who you are. A lot of people do, actually, but it’s past time for certain bilateral information exchanges.”

Ava, Mephistopheles, and Slip, each bowed to Poi.

Poi took a half-step forward, coming to stand beside Erick. He barely bowed at all, before righting and saying, “Greetings. I am a Mind Mage, and if I may be so bold: I humbly suggest less talk of propaganda, and more consideration to honest trade.”

All eyes widened.

Erick barely held himself back from flinching. Poi just came out and said that he was a Mind Mage? And then he offered an opinion?!

New things happened all the time, apparently!

Erick recovered, and said, “I agree with Poi. So let’s come up with some ideas for industry that don’t involve food.” He added, “Or unique magics. Or propaganda. Something that isn’t a valuable resource of the area, either. Something that is only purchasable through the people who live here.”

A small silence descended.

Ava suggested, “Adventuring guides? Every shadeling is a Classed individual at level 55 or higher. That’s almost four times the worldwide average. Power leveling youngsters was good for goodwill in my previous life.”

“Yeah. But that’s the Underworld,” Slip said. “And even that has fallen out of favor in recent centuries.”

Erick frowned at Ava’s suggestion of violent work, but he said the word to see how it felt, anyway. “Mercenaries?”

“We wouldn’t be calling it ‘mercenary’ work, Erick! Guides. Not mercenaries.” Ava said, “It’s a rather unique service that brings a lot of prestige with it, as long as behavior is maintained, of course. High level insular communities do that all the time in order to showcase talent and honor and the like. Guides were particularly prevalent over in Nelboor.” She looked to Slip. “Is that still true?”

“Yes.” Slip said, “Somewhat.”

“But… Mercenaries?”

“Monster-only hunts, of course.” Ava said, “It’s something that Zaraanka and I have spoken about a few times.”

Mephistopheles said, “I’m not sure.”

Ava frowned at the man.

Erick did not like the idea of mercenaries— Or rather, ‘Guides’… And yet, there was something about it that sounded… Almost good? Shadelings as guides would allow the rest of the world to see them as agents against the darkness of this world… And yet, Erick’s frown only deepened, killing the conversation in the process. With a few deep thoughts rattling around in his head, Erick resumed his walk toward the minotaur encampment. The other four followed, in silence.

Erick reached the minotaur house not one block later.

It was a rather ordinary series of buildings, three total, shaped like a U with the northern winds flowing into the center of the three structures. It was only ten small houses, and with a quick glance inside, Erick recognized three bedrooms per house. There weren’t enough rooms. Some minotaurs were sleeping on the ground, or in the same beds as another. A quick count showed at least 45 people, all of which looked mostly the same, but with slight variations.

They all had bronzed skin, either almost shiny as gold, or as deeply brown as stained wood. Cloven hooves for feet. Reddish hair, but only on their heads… And none on their arms or legs? Erick wasn’t about to violate anyone’s privacy any more than he already had, but from what he saw, they did not have normal mammalian hair distribution. Most of them wore conjured armor, which was a bit of a shame. Maybe no real clothes fit them? At least not yet, anyway. All of them had horns similar to those of incani, but more to the sides, and with about as much variation as incani horns, too. Some had no horns at all, but Erick saw bald, hard spots on a few heads where their horns should have been. Some of them had already carved off their horns.

And now, as he looked, he saw some people crying into mirrors and touching their hair, or the rest of themselves.

Erick hoped the body dysmorphia wouldn’t be that bad, but it obviously was. These ‘minotaurs’ were a people created from all of the various races of Veird, save for the wrought, and each one of them had been soul and blood warped into mutant magical cows, then mutated back into mostly-bipedal bodies, and then changed again into what and who they were right now. Though the Shrouds of their souls seemed strong as steel, with all that body and soul modification, there was going to be mental trauma, too.

