“What secret?” Jane stepped out of the shadows under the staircase. “What’s going on?”

Kiri plopped her bags onto the ground next to Erick’s as she eyed him.

Justine stepped into view atop the staircase, then took several steps down. She did not join the group gathered around Erick, though; she held back.

With everyone more or less there, Erick announced, “I know how to get [Gate], and— Yes, yes, Kiri. I see you all excited. You know the Quest? Yes, you do. I already showed you.” Erick handed out the box to all of them, just so they could see again.

Special Quest!

The Worldly Path 0/1

OR

10 Points

Reward: The ability to cast Gate

He said, “It involves a trip around the world, done without Spatial Magics to make the trip shorter, for there is no actual destination, because the journey is the destination. Which means this small vacation to Treehome is just the start, for me. Everyone else can make their own decision about if they want to come all the way with me around the world, or not, but there will be no hard feelings if you just want to get on with your own life, or plans. I honestly have no idea how long this is going to take.”

Silence filled the room.

Erick added, “I’m keeping the house in Spur, and will be turning the weather nice around here whenever necessary. If you choose to only come part way, you’re still part of this household. This is just an extended vacation, for me. And maybe for you, too, if you want? Planned locations include the Songli Highlands, the Orrery of Rozeta, and the Core.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide again. “Holy— The Core?!”

Jane smiled wide.

Poi frowned.

Teressa looked pensive,

Justine looked… Hmm.

Erick said, “Nothing will change in the long run. I’ll be back to Spur eventually. But this is my plan going forward. I also picked up this Class Ability called the Quest Board, though I’m still debating how to use it. I’ll probably get some Quests from some Relevant Entities and knock those out as I’m traveling, but hopefully they’re not too arduous.” When no one spoke, and Jane just smiled wider, Erick added, “It’s just something for everyone here to think about.”

Justine said, “I won’t be going.”

Everyone turned toward her.

Justine added, “You said I could stay here as long as I wished, but, I think this is a good spot to break this temporary arrangement. I wasn’t even coming with you to Treehome.” She stood tall. She said, “I’m level 57 again. I snuck off into Ar’Kendrithyst to kill some known monsters. I’m ready to go back to Candlepoint, and I will be doing this, today. Now is a good time.”

Erick said, “I’m happy to have helped you when I could, Justine. You’re welcome to come back whenever you wish. Are you packed up, too?”

“It would take but a moment to do so.” Justine bowed at the foot of the grand staircase. She rose, saying, “Thank you for everything. Could you please remove my prismatic permissions in a few hours? I should be gone by then.”

“I’ll do you better than that. I’ll keep your permissions active for a day, okay? If you have to come back for the night, I’ll know with Ophiel, and I’ll keep your permissions active even longer.” Erick said, “You don’t have to run off because I’m running off for a while. I mean that.”

Justine smiled, faintly. She sniffled, held back her tears, and said, “I am eternally grateful for everything you have done for me, Archmage Flatt. If I can ever repay even a portion of your goodwill, please do not hesitate to ask.” She bowed again. She rose again, saying, “I’m… I’m going to hurry up with that packing. Goodbye, Archmage Flatt.”

His heart broke a little to hear her call him something besides Erick. He said, “Please. Call me Erick.”

“I cannot. That would be too informal.” She bowed again. “If you will excuse me, I must prepare. You have been extraordinarily kind in ways I did not deserve. Thank you, for everything.” She blipped away; just upstairs, not wanting to wait for Erick to say another word.

He could tell that leaving was hard on her, but also that it was something she had to do. Erick wished her the best. She wouldn’t be in the house when they got back from Treehome, and that was an emotional blow, but Erick could visit her in Candlepoint, anyway. She’d be fine.

This was okay.

Jane glanced at the spot where Justine had been, then looked to her dad. With a smirk, she said, “This ‘Worldly Path’ sounds pretty darn awesome to me.”

Erick felt a rush of warm joy flush through his body. He said, “I’m glad to hear you say that.”

“Well shit yeah, dad!” Jane said, “Let’s see the entire world! Fuck yea I want to see the Core!”

Kiri said, “You have no idea what that means, Jane.”

“It means I get to kill a level 90 monster, Kiri!” Jane playfully demanded, “Where’s your sense of adventure!”

“Dead and buried so that I can stay alive, thank you very much.”

Jane laughed.

Teressa brought them back down to the moment, saying, “Let’s see Treehome first, please.” She added, “And I need to get my bags.”

Jane rushed off, saying, “Me too!”

Poi silently went to his own room, to grab what he needed.

Five minutes later, they were all gathered back in the foyer.

“Okay!” Erick held out tendrils of light, touching Teressa, Kiri, Poi, and Jane, as he said, “Getting around Ar’Kendrithyst without blipping was kinda difficult, at first, but then it got really easy toward the end. Poi, Teressa: We should probably go by that Light Dungeon I made and get you [Greater Lightwalk]. It’s very, very useful.” He deployed his [Lodestar], turning the light around all of them all up to eleven, as he said, “This first step is gonna be big, but it won’t be bad—”

- - - -

Erick stepped once, and moved a hundred kilometers to the north of Spur, and a good twenty meters off of the ground. Light glowed like a platform underneath everyone, easily supporting their weight in the afternoon sky.

Teressa exclaimed, “That wasn’t a [Teleport]!”

Poi smiled.

Kiri said, “Holy crap you can do that? How much mana was that?”

“Negligible.” Erick said, “Maybe 3? Without the Intelligence cutting spell costs it would only be 10, anyway.”

Jane stared at her father. “How did you do that?”

He smiled. “Domains are important, Jane. You need one.”

She frowned at him.

Erick admitted, “It’s called [Lightwalk] for a reason. Just walk on the light! And then use the light to help you walk faster, and a Domain to walk even faster than that! Simple.” Before anyone could interrupt again, Erick said, “But we’re delaying the trip. Hold on! Here we go again. A lot of steps this time, each one faster than the Script Second!”

Erick stepped once, and moved his whole party another hundred kilometers. And then again, and again. Before long, Erick stepped the five of them to the edge of the Crystal Forest. A few more steps brought them over the Wyrmridge Mountains, into the airspace of the Forest, and within sight of Treehome.

Teressa looked down upon the vast green world ahead, and smiled.

Erick looked down upon the vast green world ahead, and wondered if he could talk to the particularly large trees that dotted the sprawling community of Treehome. They were Arbor trees, after all. Giant, massive, former [Familiar]s, each one reaching a thousand meters into the sky. Some, even higher than that.

And then another thought occurred: Maybe the whirlwind would calm down a little bit.

This was supposed to be a vacation, after all.
