Mephistopheles had one answer, “You hire people to sing or play for you.”

Ava had another, “There’s song crystals, but those are only for people with too much money and not enough sense. They burn out after a few dozen days, so they’re only really good for listening to new plays when you can’t see them in person.”

Zaraanka had another solution, “Hire a songstress. They telepathically play music for everyone in the area, and over long distances, too.”

“That fad didn’t die out?” Ava wiggled her fingers beside her head, glancing at Poi as she said, “There was a whole problem of Mind Magery back in my time.”

Poi silently sighed.

“It died out and came back several times,” Zaraanka said, sipping a beer. “Mind Mages probably culled them a bit, but the versatility keeps bringing them back.”

Poi chose to enter the conversation and give Erick the answer he was looking for, “Music does not exist on Veird how you know music.”

Ava’s eyes brightened. “Oh! A new way to listen to music? How?” She turned her attention fully away from the players in front of them, to Erick, saying, “Do tell?”

“Maybe. I’m thinking, now.” Erick smiled, as he sipped his own beer, and watched Danarin, shirtless and sweating on stage, belt out a deep song about returning home. “I think I’d have to invent plastics, too? Oh! No. I can make records out of glass, I think.” He added, “Or metal. Or anything. Need to invent the recorder first. Hmm. Now how would that work...”

With a smirk, Ava said, “Let us know if you have a breakthrough, okay?”

Erick nodded, as his mind went off in a direction he hadn’t considered. Soon enough, his head started bobbing up and down to the sounds and joy in front of him. Others danced. Erick almost wanted to get out there and do the same. But. No. Not right now. Not yet. No dancing in the crowd for him.

Maybe later.

- - - -

The party was good, and then it got great. As the sky turned from blue to red and gold, celebrations spread across the city. Erick duplicated many, many things out of sight of everyone else, ensuring that no one went hungry. A few guards, organized by Slip, began handing out raw goods and prepared food at various stations around Candlepoint, for those who did not wish to take part in the larger festivities.

Beer flowed like water.

Some people happily lost their shirts.

Some lost their pants.

Erick did none of that, but he did have a good time ensuring that everyone else had a good time. Mostly, he stayed on a short VIP stage area erected on the other side of the minotaur compound, a short distance toward one of the main song stages, while others came and left Erick as they wished. Erick felt kinda funny, as people came by his ‘station’ and bowed or kowtowed, but when they just honestly thanked him? He felt great about that.

He felt less great about no one else willing to come to Candlepoint, in person, besides Poi. Erick even offered! But no; Kiri, Jane, Teressa, and Justine were all busy.

As the three crescent moons took to the starlit sky above, each of them barely a sliver of light, and the bands played loud just a short distance away, Poi quietly broke the news, “Silverite wishes to honor you at Spur’s ongoing festivities.”

“It’s that time already?” Erick had been suspecting something like that would happen for a few hours, now. According to everyone back home, Spur was in the throes of a party in the Human District that was much, much wilder than the tame thing happening all around Erick, in Candlepoint.

Danarin, who had chosen to stick around near Erick for most of the evening, asked, “Are you going?” He didn’t wait for an answer. “We’ve got to honor you once more. Just give me ten minutes.” And then he was off, back into the crowd.

Erick had wanted to tell him that there had been way too much ‘honoring’ by then, but Danarin knew this, and thus didn’t wait for an answer. Erick was beginning to suspect the man had a few of the new Stats, or perhaps he was just that adroit. He was pretty sure that every Minotaur had Constitution, at least.

Poi continued, “While we are waiting, there are many others who also wish for your presence as soon as possible.”

“… Others?”

“Yes.” Poi said, “On the personal side, there’s Guildmaster Zago and Guildmaster Mog, who wish for a detailed account of what happened. There’s the populace of Spur, Kal’Duresh, and Frontier, who are clamoring for definitive answers. You might consider writing a book to field much of these sorts of queries.

“On the less personal, and halfway to the political side, there’s the Baroness, who has decided to openly support you to get into your good graces. Archmage Syllea Wyrmrest has expressed a deep interest in hosting you for a trip to Treehome; she has likely intercepted Teressa’s attempts and successes for booking rooms and such in that Forest city. The Headmaster has formally requested your presence for a full accounting of everything that happened. In return, he is willing to throw in a Favor, as well as a bargain of trade, as well as access to his vast resources.” Poi waited.

Erick did not speak his concern; the Headmaster’s offer seemed too good, didn’t it?

Poi continued, “But from the rest of the world, there are demands to know— and I’m paraphrasing here: ‘What the fuck did that fucker do now!’ ahem.”

Erick erupted with laughter.

Poi continued, “From most to least rude, those demands come from the Pearl King of Portal. The Viridian King of the Greensoil Republic. Many different kings and queens of the Wasteland Kingdoms. Various states, provinces, and democracies of Nelboor. Eidolon, of Nergal. And even two wrought geodes. Stratagold and Titanite.”

“Democracies? Those exist on Veird?” Erick shook his head, ridding himself of that concern, for another concern was much more interesting just for the novelty of it all. “Stratagold and Titanite? I’ve heard of the first, but not the second.” Excitement entered his voice. “Could I actually get to go into a wrought city? That’s an impossibility for most people, isn’t it?”

“No. That is not what is happening here.” Poi frowned a little, then said, “They’ve both formally invited you to their embassies. You would not be allowed inside the cities themselves.”

Erick waved that off, saying, “Then I won’t be doing—”

The stage ahead lit with lights, brighter than those that had come before. The current singer was a young and happy human woman shadeling, who cheered to her friends in the audience, then bowed to Danarin, who had taken the stage from behind. She hopped off the front, into the crowd, like so many revelers that had come before, as the shirtless, bronzed minotaur walked forward. From behind Danarin came several other minotaurs, along with Zaraanka, Ava, and Valok, and a few other shadelings.

A quiet filtered across the crowd.

For the first time tonight, in the brief silence that followed Danarin’s proclamation, came the sound of the wind. That wind flowed from north to south, and it was getting a bit chilly already. Winter was technically over as of this morning, but the Crystal Forest was always cold in the dark.

A few people in the crowd turned back, toward Erick, briefly, before turning back to the stage. This was obviously something special happening and they had no idea what it was. Erick had no real idea, either, but he smiled anyway.

On the stage, Danarin’s voice was already amplified by the [Ward]s cast in that space, but when he spoke, it was even louder than before, “On this Triumph of Light, we honor those who we lost along the way. We honor those who are here with us now. And we honor those who led the way through the Darkness, and brought us into the light. And in this last case, we honor one who has done more than most ever have. Thank you, Archmage Erick Flatt, for the rescue, the transformation, and the new home. We wish you well in the years to come.” With one hand holding a mug of beer and the other gestured forward, toward Erick, he declared, “To long life, and battles won!”

The crowd took up the cheer, “To long life, and battles won!”

As Danarin and the rest of the people on the stage took a drink, Erick did, too.

This was a good night.

It took half an hour to extricate himself from the party, but it happened soon enough.

- - - -

Erick stood at Silverite’s side on a much larger stage, overseeing a much larger crowd. This crowd was mostly contained to the Human District, but bright festival lights and animated images of cute slimes and cutesy dying monsters had been scattered all across Spur. The entire city was a land of lights, without a single visible shadow anywhere in sight.

In the south, in the distance, atop Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls, white wardlights each easily twenty meters tall flickered like massive bonfires, illuminating the walls and the night like a line of miniature suns. That was an impressive sight, too. Erick preferred the Dead City this way, compared to its normal darkness-on-the-horizon.

Silverite finished her speech with, “So thank you, Archmage Erick Flatt! Thank you for eradicating the Shades of the Dead City. Thank you for coming to Spur. Thank you for dropping onto our world.” As a bit of a joke, she added, “And thank you for leaving some of Ar’Kendrithyst for the rest of us.”

The crowd roared for Erick.

Erick tried to smile, as he responded more or less as Silverite had asked him to, saying, “I’m glad I could help. It’s still dangerous there, as proven by the fifty-nine confirmed dead from just today. Don’t think you can just walk in there now that the Shades are dead. Only one person out of every fifty used to die to the direct machinations of those particular monsters, while most died to the monsters, but now the monster-keepers are gone. We have no idea what will come out of there—”

Right as the audience was starting to lose its mirth, and right on cue, Silverite interrupted Erick, saying, “The dangers are still there! But we know how to deal with them, so please stick to the normal channels when attempting to enter the Dead City.” She raised her voice, and her own cheer, as she said, “But that’s all for later! Enjoy the night! Enjoy the day! Enjoy this new development of Ar’Kendrithyst, and what might very well be Veird’s most special Triumph of Light, ever!” She gestured behind her, adding, “And now, back to the band!”

As the crowd cheered and the music resumed behind Erick, Silverite exited stage left, and Erick followed.

She whispered to him, “Let’s meet in your house.” She extended him a hand, “Can I get a lift?”

Erick took her silver arm, and was both surprised and not. It had been a long time since he had physically touched a wrought, and though he knew her to be warm and firm as flesh and bone, he had expected her to be cold and hard. With a tug of his readily-kept sunform, Erick picked up Silverite and flew the both of them over the crowd, his orby form sparkling with rainbow hues more vibrant than the other prismatic light all around them. The crowd cheered at his passage.

Erick set down inside the foyer of his house; only a few kilometers from the music, and the crowd.

Silverite immediately turned to Erick saying, “I need you to take a vacation. A long one.”

Erick felt a tender sort of angry-joy in his chest.

“Understand me: This is NOT me kicking you out of Spur.” She practically glared right into Erick’s soul as she spoke, “I want you in Spur. I want you here. Never forget this.”

“I know.” Erick said, “I can tell. I want to stay here, too.” And because he knew he could get away with it, he said, “But I’d like Candlepoint to receive some help while I’m away, if you could.”

Silverite seemed to judge Erick for a long moment, then she said, “Good. As long as you understand I’m not doing this to you.” She added, “And of course I’ll help Candlepoint when I get half an hour without an emergency. Might take a month, though.”

“That’s fine. I understand this, too.”

Silverite slowly nodded, then said, “You say you understand, and I believe you, but you’re agreeing too fast. I expected a bit more anger. That would at least allow me to explain myself.”

Erick smirked. He faked an angry voice, “How could you?! After all I’ve done! How awful.”

“Thank you.” Silverite said, “This is not about you. This is me needing to restructure absolutely everything Spur does and is, without the archmage that caused it all attracting a thousand ‘messages of grave importance’ from the various leaders of the world, each of which I have to answer ‘right now or face political sanctions’, with every single one of them demanding I make you accountable to them. If you’re on vacation, I can tell them that you’re out of your office and I have no idea when you’ll be back. Watch out, though. Some of them will contact you directly. If someone tries to steal you from Spur, let me know and I can make you a better offer.”

Erick appreciated that, and he said so, “I appreciate that, Silverite.”

She nodded, then said, “I need you to know that the ‘59 number’ I told you to say was less than half true. It’s more like 200, and the numbers are still pouring in. Killzone is grinding his ass off trying to keep up with the shitstorm it seems practically every idiot youngster is committing in trying to enter that death trap of a Dead City.”

“… yeah. I know.” Erick said, “I suspected something was up when you gave me my script. Didn’t think it was that bad, though.”

Silverite softened a little. Mostly around the eyes. “How are you feeling, Erick?”

“Busy busy. Not as busy as you, but still. Busy busy.”

“That’s not what I meant, and I can tell you knew that already.”

“Ah. Yeah. I’m avoiding my feelings for now. It seems to be working.” He jokingly said, “I thought that I would come home and crash and cry for a week. That hasn’t happened.”

“I know the feeling.”

“… And I believe you.”

“I like this idea of you working with Candlepoint to open new markets.” She said, “This is a good thing to focus on. I’ll help you with this, too, as I have said. There’s no more need for you to focus on the monsters or—”

“Aside from the Converter Angels and the Ancients still out there and the random monsters that kill people every single—”

Silverite stepped forward and put a warm hand on Erick’s shoulder. “It’s not okay, but it will be.” She softly said, “There will always be monsters, and you have done your part, Erick. You’ve done more than most ever will. It’s okay to retire after only one year on the job.” She smiled, saying, “That’s what Champions usually do.”

