Erick fought down his urge to decry the inhumane conditions, and sent, ‘I could use a location so that I can view the man myself. What you’ve given me is nothing but sadness at the man’s treatment. No soul image. No blood image. No mana sense. And… Caizoa… Don’t you have better ways to fix him than whatever this is?’ He tried to be diplomatic with his words, at least.

After a moment, Caizoa sent a location, along with the words, ‘He’s just the latest in a line of people captured and contained, and the tenth to be cured today. He won’t look like this for long.’ She warned, ‘They’re going to try to fight you off when Ophiel shows.’

‘I would like your help to ensure that a fight does not occur. It will make working with you in the future easier for me.’

‘Look to others if you need more help than this, Erick. I’m already at the end of my patience with any of these fuckers, and would love it if you brushed past their meager defenses with overwhelming power. All too often these nobles around me forget that they are but mice in the face of the true dangers of this world.’ She repeated Erick’s own words back to him, ‘It would make working with you in the future much easier for me.’

She cut the connection.

Erick sighed.

And then he looked to Poi. “Can you contact the Baroness Xelxex for me, please?”

Poi nodded, and then did so.

Three minutes later, while Erick sat in his library reading a copy of a copy of a book that he probably shouldn’t own or display in the open at all, the voice of a certain magenta incani came to Erick.

The Baroness spoke, ‘Archmage Flatt. I have heard some interesting stories and seen some interesting reports come across my desk this Triumph of Light. If you could, tell me what happened?’

Erick considered not telling her for a brief moment, but he quickly discarded that idea. Having the Baroness know what happened, from him, was better than the alternative. He sent, ‘Melemizargo has withdrawn his legitimization of his Clergy, and because of that, all but seven Shades are dead and the rest have mostly been Blessed into submission by the divine force of Koyabez, with myself as a conduit for that force. But that is not why I called.’

‘And why have you called?’

‘Your people in the Wasteland have captured some victims of the Converter Angel. I need to see them so that I can identify the symptoms myself, for when I go hunting for the monster myself.’

‘I’m sure we have, but I cannot give you leave to do as you wish with those victims. You are not a member of my people, Erick. If you’d like to change that, we can certainly talk about that process, if you wish.’

‘Ah. Sorry. A misunderstanding.’ Erick said, ‘I am asking for forgiveness for I am going to check up on the man, myself. Right now.’

Keeping her tone even, but not able to keep her sudden anger completely hidden, Xelxex asked, ‘Is this truly how you wish to play this engagement?’

‘We have had a good working relationship so far, and I wish to continue this into the future, but I will not let anyone get in the way of my obligation to keep the Angels and the Demons out of Veird. Everything would be much nicer if both sides would lay down their arms, but until then, a bit of force is necessary.’ He added, ‘If it makes you feel better, I am going to approach Helix and demand he find a way to send the Angel back to Celes so we can avoid this—’

‘Ha!’ Xelxex laughed; a hurtful sound that became real as the laugh continued for ten seconds. She said, ‘Good luck, Archmage Flatt! I’ll smooth over some waves for you, but try not to make a tsunami.’

‘Thank you.’ Erick added, ‘And one more thing: I am looking to open trade routes for Candlepoint—’

She cut him off, saying, ‘What do those shadelings produce besides worry for the rest of us, Erick? This is my problem with that shadeling city. Nothing but a problem! Just look at them, so close to the Wall! Unless they can give us a reason to appreciate their proximity then there is no reason to have any ‘trade routes’, as you call them, with that city.’

Erick offered, ‘Food? I can make the farms there rather large.’

‘No one is going to eat anything that comes out of Candlepoint and the Wasteland is much more self sufficient than the nonsense farming that you tried with Spur. No. We’re not accepting any foodstuffs from Candlepoint, for a hundred different reasons. Try again.’ She cut off further communication, saying, ‘Understand, Erick: I am very busy. I only answered your call because I needed to, but if you want to talk trade, then come up with something better or— I’ll send an envoy to Candlepoint. That is the best I can do. They’ll arrive in a few days, or something. One of my people will contact one of your people. Farewell, Archmage Flatt. Thank you for killing the Shades.’

She cut the communication.

Erick turned his attention back to the Wasteland.

His Ophiels had already slipped through a dozen [Ward]s, circumvented a dozen more, and tripped the last several because people were already spotting them and time was more important than subterfuge. Deep below the surface of Veird, Ophiel reached the captured agents of the Angel. Erick took a good long look at the five men and four women locked up behind heavy doors and under heavy chains. He saw their weird souls, their shifted blood, and a strange, bright mana that they held in the center of their being.

If Erick had to guess, he would have called that bright spot ‘Holy Mana’, but he wasn’t quite sure.

With several concentrated thoughts, Erick extricated his Ophiel from that darkened hole in the ground while dozens of mages and warriors tried to blast or cleave those sunform blobs of Ophiel apart. Some people just stood to the side on the surface, watching the whole thing, making no effort to be involved.

Caizoa was one of those who stood to the side of the exit, hovering in the air, waiting for his Ophiel to emerge. She waved her giant blue sword; a greeting, perhaps. Ophiel waved back, mostly ignoring the spells flying at all of his [Pure Reflection Ward] protected selves; he did try to angle the reflections away from the casters, though. No need to accidentally hurt someone with a bounced [Fireball].

With several quick lightsteps, each Ophiel vacated the field of battle. They headed for Candlepoint, and took up their usual patrols across the skies of that darkened city.

Then the calls started coming in.

Erick answered most of them, since they were all from people who were able to demand his attention.

There was Silverite, who mostly just asked him if he had really done what people were saying he had done. Erick told her he hadn’t hurt anyone, but yes, he had invaded a secured compound inside the Wasteland. Silverite didn’t seem to really care past that.

Then there was Sirocco, then the Baroness, again, Caizoa, that magister Iordex with his purple and gold robes, and then Mephistopheles, actually. That last one was an odd one. Erick had never telepathically communicated with the man in charge of Candlepoint before, but it was nice to do so. Mephistopheles just wanted to know about this envoy from the Baroness who was supposed to show up in a few days.

Erick took some time to speak to the nominal ‘mayor’ of Candlepoint, since this was an important discussion. He said, ‘I am glad you asked. So. What kind of products can Candlepoint make? I’m trying to get some trade routes for you guys and the Baroness seems to think that you can’t offer anything.’

Mephistopheles sent, ‘We’re not very stable right now, Erick. Those minotaurs just showed up and everyone is on edge from the news we’ve received about Ar’Kendrithyst.’

‘… You know what? I think it’s time I came to Candlepoint in person. See you soon!’ Erick cut off that communication before the man started speaking too loudly and questioningly. He said to Poi, “Time to go to Candlepoint. Want to come?”

“I’m ready.” Poi asked, “But what about your mana?”

“Eh. I have a high enough base pool, and Intelligence drops almost everything to negligible costs.” Erick said, “But you’re just saying that to make me aware of my limits more than I already am. Don’t worry, Poi. I’m fine.”

“Very well, sir.”

- - - -

Candlepoint looked more or less the same through his own eyes as it did though Ophiel’s, but this was still Erick’s first time in the shadeling city, in person. It was Poi’s first time in Candlepoint, too. Erick looked to his right-hand man, and the scattered city around them, and wondered at how different things might be now that the Shades were gone.

Erick had landed the pair of them in a rather central location, where the landscape all around them was dotted with singular buildings surrounded by greenery, with nice roads connecting everything. There weren’t many people, though. It was near noon, and most shadelings were crepuscular. This was good; Erick decided he didn’t need to meet more locals right at that particular moment.

He did, however, need to get some of the city’s defenses up and running while he was here. In the interest of being proactive, he hopped on that task as soon as he saw that task looming above him.

The Black Crystal was fifty meters tall, and just as black as Erick remembered it being. However, being here in person conveyed something that Erick didn’t really recognize as a problem before now.

Waves of the lake lapped against the coastline not two hundred meters to the west. This proximity to the lake seemed to be asking for trouble, but that could be fixed with a bit of lakeside construction. But besides that, the Black Crystal was already fully exposed to the world. Unlike the few Crystals he had seen in the Brightwater during his short time there, this one was vulnerable. A concentrated blast of firepower could probably snipe the thing to shards from kilometers away.

That was probably by design.

Either to keep Candlepoint from looking like too much of a danger, or to leave its primary defenders vulnerable to whatever plots Melemizargo demanded, the Crystal was not very well defended at all.

Erick could change a little bit of that, but that base vulnerability would require…

A giant dome put over the thing? Some unknown defensive magic already inside the artifact? A self-repair function that Erick didn’t know about? Having some shadelings constantly monitoring the Crystal and protecting it from attackers?

Any of those solutions would likely keep the Crystal intact.

Erick turned away from the Crystal, to take in the rest of the Crystal Courtyard, and to watch as shadelings appeared. He and Poi were no longer alone. A pair of people had popped out of the shadows near a general store to the south. The store was closed, but it was not unoccupied. Erick briefly nodded at those new shadelings. One tentatively waved. The other bowed.

Ah. Good. They knew who he was.

To the north, other shadelings had appeared next to Melemizargo’s Church. Those people were now frantically either moving away, or cautiously coming closer. Those people knew who Erick was, too. Erick briefly wondered why some of them would run, before he put those worries out of his mind, and re-considered the Crystal.

The new arrivals in the Crystal Courtyard were in for a show, or a failing; Erick wasn’t sure which it would be. But first, he would have to switch this artifact from Darkness, to Light, if possible.

With a Shaped cast, Erick began to slowly conjure a [Domain of Light] down into the black Crystal. The spell did not take hold instantly, instead, Erick had a pillar of light gently fall through the center of the shadowed Crystal, from top to bottom, and then expand outward in all directions, pushing out all the shadows and darkness within. The slow start to his investigation of the Crystal turned out to be a smart move, for it had lost its [Prismatic Ward] protections while Erick had been inside Ar’Kendrithyst, and some people had decided to move into those deep shadows.

Or something.

Erick wasn’t quite sure what people were doing inside the Crystal, but whatever the case, they were kicked out, now.

Three shadelings fell out of the shadows in the Crystal into the waiting arms of a few Ophiel, who set them down outside of the Crystal’s space. Two of those shadelings looked rather pissed, but they quickly got over that emotion when they saw who had evicted them. The third just screamed a little while he fell from thirty meters up, screamed some more when Ophiel caught him, and then he ran, as soon as Ophiel set him down on the ground. Erick paid the runner no mind.

Soon enough, the [Domain of Light] brushed through the entire black Crystal. All the shadows inside became little more than Gloom that sprung from the solid surface of the artifact like steam from a kettle, to filter away on the morning wind. Soon, the shadows were gone. The Crystal was a bright white and yellow-gold structure of quartz or maybe some kendrithyst derivative. Maybe it had been mined from the Brightwater District? Whatever the case, the Crystal looked a lot better like this, Erick thought.

His next thought was that he would never openly call what he had done a ‘[Cleanse]’, for that would have implied that shadows were an evil that needed to be cleansed, and that would simply not be right; Candlepoint was full of shadows that deserved life and liberty and all that, after all. But Erick had certainly shifted the Element of the Crystal.

Back in that first day of the Shadow’s Feast, Fallopolis had said a curious thing to him, asking him why he hadn’t played around with this Crystal yet. As of right now, with the Crystal realigned to Light, Erick realized why Fallopolis had asked him that. He had seen the other Summoning Crystals in Brightwater, but this one was much different than those other, mass-produced artifacts. It was much larger, for one. For another, it had a much greater inner magical signature than the other Summoning Crystals he had seen.

Maybe it had more self-defense options than simple summoned guardians?

There was another option, though.

Since this whole ‘reintegration of Shadows into the Script’ plan of Melemizargo’s pivoted around Erick taking control of Candlepoint, that Dark Dragon had probably either made this thing able to explode, at the worst case, or to accept all sorts of variable inputs, at the best case. Since, according to what had happened since then, Melemizargo’s plot didn’t seem like an initially destructive one, Erick was betting that this thing couldn’t explode at all.

Or at least not without a great deal of overrides.

… Erick was rather confident that he could mitigate any explosions of the Summoning Crystal’s size.

