Jane continued, “And though you’ve always done what you could to support my choices, this belt and an offer of the New Stats is a bit much, even for you. I’m not going to wear that belt. I’m not going to risk myself like that, but I will take it, if it makes you feel better. I’m sorry you risked yourself like that, too.”

Emotions swelled behind Erick’s eyes, and came out as tiny tears rolling down his face.

Jane put a hand on her father’s hand, and said, “You want to talk about it?”

Erick sobbed, once. After a while, he said, “I want to talk about it.”

“I’m here. Let’s talk.”

And so they did.

“So many people died, Jane. So many… So many awful things happened...”

- - - -

Hours later, and over tea and chocolate chip cookies, Erick finally got through much of his story, told from a much less tactical perspective, and a much more emotional one. Somewhere along the way, Erick asked Jane of her night, and she shared her own experiences of the last few days.

The first day of the Triumph of Light had been more than hectic for Jane. It had been a killer. Monsters inhabited Forward Base. Adventurers flooded the Dead City. The people of the Brightwater showed themselves to the world. Adventurers flooded the Brightwater, and the Brightwater fought back, easily turning away every single person that tried to invade.

“They failed to stop the Headmaster, though,” Jane said, bringing the horrific recounting down to a personal level by naming a specific person.

Erick’s eyes went wide. “He went in there? Personally?”

“Oh yeah. Him and about five hundred of his Elites. They hit three places over the course of one hour early this morning. The Library is now gone, in its entirety. Where once were towers full of books, there’s now a scoop carved out of the horizon.” Jane said, “Then the same thing happened to the Palace District, and a part of that Truedark Arcanaeum. He entered the city as a dragon, dad. Nearly a kilometer long! Bright gold the whole way down from nose to tail, with a halo of light twice as large as that.”

Erick whispered, “Wow.”

“Oh yeah.”

Erick suddenly said, “You need to work on your magic, Jane. You need a Domain. You will die if you don’t have a Domain. The Headmaster’s halo was likely his Domain; I think I have close enough to the same one.” He rapidly said, “I’m going to teach you how— I need to teach Kiri, too. Holy shit. You don’t even know how bad it could be— If you don’t have a Domain then you’re less than a bug to—”

“Dad. Dad.” Jane set down her drink and stared into her father’s eyes. “Dad. Relax. Please.”

Erick breathed in, then out. “It’s not over yet, Jane. Shadow’s Feast was just the start. Something is going to sweep in to fill in the gap left by Melemizargo’s Clergy. And now that Converter Angel is here, too!”

“And that’s not okay, but we don’t have to worry about the power vacuum or the Angel right this second.” Jane said, “Right now, we’re just talking. There’s no need to worry about magic or the future right now.”

Erick tried to sum up his fears, trying to keep his words from turning into a rant, as he said, “Okay. Fine. But let me say this: You need a Domain. It’s the only thing that will stop someone from fucking you over at their whim.” He added, “And maybe you should put on that belt, but I’ll never forgive myself if it does something bad to you. But I think I’m fine, and I gained a mana sense due to those New Stats, as well as a lot of the Sight spells. They were the only things that allowed me to see through the various illusions inside Shadow’s Feast. Also, [Healing Word] is a spell that the user can cast as fast as they want, skipping over the Script Second, but I think I screwed up my first attempt at extracting that ability from that spell. I managed to make [Quick Spell]—” He pushed the box for that toward Jane, along with [Quick Wall], saying, “But [Quick Wall] is nowhere near as good as [Force Wall]. Just before we started talking, Ophiel showed me that I messed up extracting [Quick Spell] out of [Healing Word]. I think I failed on the first try because my soul has been damaged by what I had to do to win that final fight with the Shades and I can’t hear the magic so well...” Erick said, “And I’m worried about you. I know I try to let you do whatever you want. But I’m worried about what comes next… And I’m rambling.”

Moments passed in silence.

Jane said, “Hello Rambling, I’m Jane.”

Erick just blinked. And then he laughed. And then he cried. Jane got out of her chair and grabbed her father into a hug.

Erick mumbled against Jane’s shoulder, “I should be the one supporting you. I’m the parent here. I’m sorry I can’t be stronger for you.”

“I’m only strong because I have the best dad of two worlds.”

Erick laughed again, and this time Jane joined him. Time passed, as father and daughter embraced. After a short while, Erick pulled away from Jane. He sniffled. He threw a [Cleanse] into the room, ridding himself of the mess he had made of his face and of Jane’s shirt.

He breathed, and then he glanced to the side, to a window. “When did that start?”

Jane did not need to look out the window to answer. “Last night.”

On the street, and on the nearby empty lots, just past a short wall that was not there the last time Erick looked, there were guards. They wore the silver armor of Spur’s Guard, and stood outside of the new wall, to keep the people beyond from coming too close.

People of every race and sex and type of dress had been coming by all day long, and though only a few of them stayed longer than five minutes, all of them brought something with them. Something special to lay upon that wall, or upon the land just beyond. There were tiny painted portraits of those who had died because of Ar’Kendrithyst, and the Shades. Mementos of broken swords. Broken staves. Tiny rings. Flowers and candles. Some people came with small stacks of stone books and left those relics of Rozeta amongst the other mementos. Some came with tiny carved-stone slimes, or little Silver Stars, in honor of Phagar, or Koyabez.

Incense spilled into the air from dozens of small bowls of rice, scattered among the display.

Erick had avoided looking at most of the memorial, or thinking about it all too deeply, until now, until he had disgorged some of his worries. Until he was able to take on more. He sat down again, and gauged himself. He was ready to take on more.

Jane sat back down in her own chair, and continued, “It started about three hours after you departed the celebration. Good speech, by the way. Was that your idea?”

Erick shook his head, then sat back down in his own chair. “Silverite had that whole thing planned out. A lot of political talk is happening around me and I’m mostly just going with the flow. I met the minotaurs yesterday, you know? Ah. Wait. I already said that.”

“You did. But go ahead.”

“Danarin, their ‘spokesperson’, for lack of a better word, got that title because he spoke up when everyone else was silent. I think he’s a good guy, but he definitely saw an opportunity for power and took it.” Erick glanced at the air, briefly checking Candlepoint like he had since he woke up, and said, “I’ve been checking on Candlepoint since I woke, and that guy is already throwing people into groups and organizing with Mephistopheles— That’s another guy that stood up and took control when he could, and everyone else let him… I let him. But he seems to be alright, too.” Erick paused. He asked, “So where is everyone else? Except Poi.” Erick looked through the light, to see Poi sitting in the Library, reading to himself.

Poi looked up, and waved.

Erick smiled.

Jane said, “I asked them all to give me and you some space when you woke up. Kiri, Teressa, and Justine are all at Forward Base. Kiri’s helping with Sunny to clear up some of the larger problems while Teressa has already explored the Swamp twice now. Justine is just there to help Killzone find targets of opportunity. I was helping with that for a while, too. But then you woke up and Poi alerted me, so I came here.”

Erick sat back in his chair and looked to the chocolate chip cookies and the cooling coffee. He asked Jane, “What do you want for dinner?” He added, “And do you want to come on my vacation to Treehome? Has Teressa figured that out? I thought she would have been on that. She still wants to go, right?”

“I want burgers and fries for dinner, and I do believe that Teressa does still want to go to Treehome. She’s already organized all that, as far as I know. I heard you’ve got some very fancy reservations at a very fancy hotel, too. So I’m looking forward to the full spa treatment.”

Erick giggled.

Jane smiled, adding, “You know: If they do that sort of thing on Veird.”

“Ha! Oh. Wait! We could provide luxury spa treatments at Candlepoint!” Erick said, “That’s an idea.”

Jane continued to smile, as she said, “Yes. It’s an idea, for sure.”

Erick got up from his chair, saying, “So smash burgers and fries?”

“Good choice. I love it already, dad.” Jane got up from her chair, and hugged her father again, saying, “I love you.”

With a smile, Erick said, “I love you more.”

- - - -

The next day, Erick set an appointment with Spur’s Registrar, Irogh, and then attended that appointment, using Poi to dodge the very-full Courthouse hallways. Even still, some people in the hallways had recognized Poi, though they did not approach until Erick lightstepped into the room and slid past the woman coming out of Irogh’s office. He disappeared beyond Rozeta’s Script-blue doors and shut those doors, just as the people in the hallways had started to call out for ‘just a moment of his time!’ or some other desire.

As blessed silence filled the room, Erick felt a sudden tension drain from his shoulders. He said, “Hello, Irogh.”

Irogh was the same man he remembered; orcol, very handsome, with short salt-and-pepper hair. The man smiled, showing off his large lower fangs, as he said, “Welcome, Erick. How can I help you?”

“Hi! Yes. Sorry for trying to be quick and rude about this: How long till these New Stats are real? Did I fuck up [Quick Spell], or is that the good version? You probably won’t answer that, but I’m trying, anyway. And with my Intelligence dropping most spell costs down to nothing, which Class Ability would be better to replace for Quest Board: 10% Spell Cost Reduction, or Force Savant?”

Irogh let out a small laugh, then said, “I’m not sure about any of that.”

Erick paused. “Uh. What?” He narrowed his eyes, questioningly, saying, “I expected some denials of answers, but to not know any of them?”

“I know that my memory got blanked the last time you were here, and I’d prefer for that to not happen again. To that end:” Irogh announced, “You’ve been approved as a Minor Entity of the Script. Congratulations! That designation means this:”

As Erick was still trying to process the sudden event unfolding before him, a blue box appeared.

Welcome, Erick Flatt, to the roster for Minor Entities of the Script.

What this means, is that you now have the ability to act as a Registrar for yourself. Questions you would normally pose to a Registrar will now be directly answered by Rozeta, if such answers are possible. Please note that due to operational security, Rozeta WILL NEVER answer questions about how the Script works, but she will always explain your newfound magics or abilities to you.

You have NOT been granted power.

You have NOT been granted legitimacy.

You have NOT been granted a vote.

You will be denounced as a Minor Entity if you abuse the access you have been given.

Thank you for understanding.

Irogh said, “All you have to do is send a small prayer and Rozeta will answer you, directly, allowing you to work your Status however you wish. You still need to provide grand rads if you wish for large alterations, though. That part hasn’t changed.”

It seemed like a whirlwind of events was happening all around him, and all Erick could do was hold on and weather the storm. It had only been three days since the Shadow’s Feast, and now this was happening, too? Whatever ‘this’ was, anyway. Erick had heard of ‘Minor Entities of the Script’ before; one of the authors of one of the Headmaster’s large tomes had been a Minor Entity.

But what did that actually mean? Was it just a self-Registrar ability? Really?

And yet, Erick only had one problem with what was happening right now. He said, “I feel like I’m going to miss our interactions.”

Irogh smiled again, saying, “I will too, but I won’t miss the mind wipes. Don’t go abusing what you’ve been given. I suggest you only use this new ability when you’re in a secured and private location. Operational security is real, Erick.”

“… Okay.” Erick deflected that problem to another hour. He focused on Irogh, saying, “There’s going to be more parties, and I might have one in a few months. Silverite has asked me to leave Spur for a little while, so I’ll probably do that, but do you want to come to that eventual party?”

“Maybe I will.” Irogh smiled, and said, “Thank you for the invite.”

Erick nodded, then turned back toward the blue door to the room. “There’s people waiting out there for me, isn’t there?”

“I’m sure you’ll survive the attention.”

Steeling himself, Erick said, “I’ll see you when I see you, Irogh! Thanks for everything.”

Irogh said, “Thanks for coming to Spur almost a full year ago.”

“Thanks for the welcome reception almost a full year ago!” Erick braved the door, opening it wide. A dozen voices called out to him, but guards had pushed the crowd back while Erick was meeting Irogh, leaving him with a clear path to Poi. “See you!”

Irogh waved from his office as Erick touched Poi with a light tendril, and the two of them lightstepped away, back home.

The crowd voiced their disappointment with ‘Aww!’s and ‘Dammit, I wanted to talk to him!’s and various other annoyed words.

- - - -

It was time to get gone.

Erick set down his two packed bags onto the floor of the foyer, then called out, “Where is everyone! Aren’t we ready yet?”

Kiri shouted back, “Check in isn’t till noon!” She rambled into view atop the grand staircase, carrying two bags with her. “What’s the rush?”

Erick smiled. “I have an announcement!”

Teressa stepped out of the kitchen, saying, “Ah? Boss?”

“Nothing to do with you— Well. Maybe slightly to do with everyone. But this is personal.”

Poi walked out from behind Teressa, asking, “Do you really feel it necessary to spill this secret, too?”

