"Oh, no, dear," Professor Imrys said reassuringly, hopping up to give him a pat on the arm. "I just get a little overenthusiastic at times. I don't mind being reminded to be careful! We're exploring a new realm, after all. We might even be the first mages in centuries to do so! But this is still technically a class, so I should teach you more about the magic we used to get here, yes? There are some limitations to this magic, after all. Better you learn about them before we get to helping these poor dears."

Limitations. Cale grimaced. He hated limitations.

"The magic I'm using keeps us tethered to Utelia by creating a path through the Abyss that I'm calling a stream," Imrys explained. She conjured a diagram out of mana and gestured toward it with her cane. "One of the reasons Abyssal travel is so difficult is because the Abyss cannot be controlled, yes? Its currents are unpredictable."

On the diagram, two circles appeared, with a glowing arrow pointing from the one labeled "Utelia" to the one labeled "Tree." "What I have discovered is a magic allows us to use a labyrinth to create a stable current connecting one realm to the other," Imrys said. "But if I just used it to send us here, we wouldn't have any way back! So I built in a secondary spell that keeps me and all my little dears tethered to Utelia.

"Now, because we don't have any way to ensure there's a labyrinth here to repeat the spell or any way to choose what realm we end up in, that tether is always trying to pull us back," Imrys continued. On her diagram, a miniature set of mages appeared, each one tethered to what looked like a fishing line that was constantly trying to reel them back to Utelia. "While the Abyssal current remains stable, we stay here, in this other realm. But if any significant magic happens to disrupt the stream—"

The arrow vanished, and the force keeping the little figures in the tree dimension went with it; all six of them snapped immediately back to the Utelia circle. "We all get pulled back," she said. "So! Whatever problem we help them solve, make sure not to use magic that's too great, yes? We wouldn't want to end this trip early."

Cale was impressed by the spellwork, partly because what she hadn't mentioned was that any significant danger would also snap them back to Utelia; it was a rather elegant setup. Still, something about it felt vaguely like it was a test.

"You didn't throw that limitation in on purpose, did you?" Cale asked.

Professor Imrys shook her head. "Goodness, no. I would never test my students like that," she said, pressing a hand to her chest. "Also... Could we do something about Featherstrike? The poor dear has been upside-down in Leo's arms for ten minutes, now."

It took a solid five minutes to finally convince Featherstrike that he could, in fact, stand on the ground without falling into the tangle of roots that occupied the southern horizon. It made sense that it was harder for him than the others, though—Cale's remark about having to believe in gravity was a bit of an oversimplification.

The real problem was that you had to let go of the idea that "down" was in the direction of the roots. This was much harder for Featherstrike than for anyone else, who explained that he had lived most of his life before Brightscale in the branches of towering trees like these.

Still, he managed it eventually, and fortunately did so just before T'vela and her sisters returned. Excellent! No awkward flailing while she explained the atverians' plight. If she noticed the change, though, she didn't remark on it; perhaps she just chalked it up to the eccentricities of powerful mages, as she had mentioned.

"There is a plague that infests the Lower Bark," T'vela said without preamble. She said the words impassively, but Cale knew by the way she clenched her fists that it affected her more than she wanted to reveal. "We believe it is magical in nature, for it can only spread within a boundary, but that boundary is slowly growing. Already, it has stolen from us the land we need to grow our crops. If we cannot stall its spread, it will soon spread beyond the colony and up to the higher branches. Worse, its growth is accelerating, and no magic we have has been able to forestall its effects."

Cale frowned. A magical plague could be dealt with more directly than a mundane one, but they were still worryingly complex. Alas, it also suggested that their first trip had nothing to do with dark ones after all. Most didn't bother with plagues, and they were hardly subtle about it when they did. That was too bad, but there was always the next one, he supposed. "Can you describe the symptoms?"

"It would be best if you see them for yourselves," T'vela said. There was something heavy in her voice. "We will be there soon. The plague cannot spread outside its boundary. It is safe to interact with those we have... retrieved. But I must warn you that it may not be pleasant."

It didn't take long before they arrived at a small camp outside the colony proper—Cale could sense ahead of them some vast underground structure, a network of halls and passageways built into the bark beneath them that likely served as the main grounds of the atverian colony. The camp was nowhere near as large or extravagant; it was clearly established specifically for the sick, and it had clearly been deliberately built to be easy to tear down and move. Just in case the plague's active boundary changed, Cale assumed, so the caretakers weren't suddenly faced with a magically active and contagious plague.

T'vela nodded at the soldiers guarding it, barking something out in the atvarian language, and they stepped aside for Cale and the others to get through. Cale noticed a few sent them suspicious glares, though, and Thorn especially received a mix of those and some awed, hopeful looks.

Predictably, the vinewalker pointedly ignored both, and the group proceeded on into the nearest tent.

The moment they stepped through, a sickly-sweet scent became immediately apparent. The state of the atverians within was dire. No one quite managed to hide their reaction to it. Especially not Thorn, who stiffened immediately, a strange, creaking noise emerging from within his vines. Some of the nearby atverian caretakers shuffled nervously away from him at the sound, and the tension in the room seemed to ratchet up several times.

Cale's face was grim, though he said nothing at first. There were some magical plagues he had encountered time and time again across the Great Realms, each one reinvented every so often by some greed-driven tyrant or vengeance-obsessed overlord. Cale had almost hoped this would be one of those, because at least those plagues he knew off the top of his head how to cure, or at least the steps needed to disarm them.

Yet what they found instead...

Every sick atverian—and they were all men, Cale noticed, some of whom seemed barely of age—sported thorns that had ripped their way out through their carapaces while flowers blooming through their swollen joints. The thorns were identical to the ones that Thorn sported all over his form, which explained some of T'vela's anger toward the Holy Mother.

But the flowers were what really caught Cale's attention. Each bloom was identical, a brilliant crimson with sickly green veins spreading across their petals. It was those flowers that had provoked Thorn's reaction, too; his expression was stormy, and he stepped forward to brush his fingers against one of their petals, as if he needed to confirm what he was seeing.

"Vinewalker blooms," he muttered darkly.

"You use your flowers to communicate, don't you?" Cale asked.

Thorn gave him a jerky nod. "These are agaût-mortis," he said. "Flowers of warning and death. We bloom them on our bodies as a last resort when we die, to warn others of our kind not to approach."

"So what does it mean that they're growing on the atverians?" Cale asked, hoping for an easy answer.

He didn't get one, of course. Instead, Thorn scowled. "Do not know," he said. "Nothing good."
