As for the Demons, they are all too easily dealt with once they’ve been dragged into my Domain. Most fall with the ship, and those quick enough to escape to the air are bombarded with Water Chi launched from the surface of the sea itself, the jets and cannons within my aquatic park put to more militaristic use. More Insights I failed to make use of until now, the means to control Water Chi laying well within reach for months now, yet left wholly untouched due to my inability to recognize the secrets hidden within my Natal Palace. Once the Demons are brought low and submerged within the sea, my Water Chi scours away the unnatural forces holding their amalgamated bodies together and dissolves that which they require to manifest in reality, leaving them wholly vulnerable to Blobby’s Cleansing properties. These once formidable avatars of destruction are naught but stains to be sterilized and sanitized as their bodies crumble apart and the Ichor neutralized into usable Heavenly Energy, which is then drawn in through Devouring and put to much needed good use.

The Half-Demonic Warriors offer a unique challenge to face, neither wholly human nor Demon, but something in between. Since the moment I took action, Huanhuzi has been fighting tooth and nail to escape, his deployed Domain emerging to contest against mine, but restricted by the limits of his new form. These Half-Demonic Warriors are something of a failed experiment no doubt, one Zhen Shi has turned to his advantage, and I can sense in the bestial Huanhuzi a similarity to Wraiths which goes beyond the mere physical. It has to do with their presence here in reality, neither wholly within the waking world or Void at any given time, creatures that are neither here, nor there. This transient property is where they draw much of their strength from, their armour serving as a quasi-Manifested Domain that is always in effect, but one that falls woefully short of the real thing. Even then, this is enough to fend off my own Manifested Domain and keep it from affecting their Half-Demonic bodies, so after a few seconds of struggle, I deem the Bandit King and his Half-Demonic Warriors enough of a threat to resort to extreme measures. Despite my ability to Devour Chi at speeds never before seen, it is still unable to match up with my rate of expenditure, protecting a veritable army of Imperials while drowning a second army of Defiled, and I can tell I am fast approaching my limits. Thus, reluctant as I am to tap into my newly restored reserves, I’ve no choice but to use the Heavenly Energy obtained from so many Demons to secure a victory here today.

The Energy of the Heavens surges out into my Manifested Domain, empowering it to levels beyond my mortal comprehension, but I need not understand what it does in order to make use of it. Nineteen Half-Demonic Warriors came into existence here upon these seas, and I intend to kill each and every last one of them, the means through which is provided through Visualization as I Hone my Domain into nineteen blades that crash heavily against their defenses. The fear and panic which ensues is delicious to behold, a heady rush of power and superiority which is as sweet as it is addicting, and I watch as the Bandit King Huanhuzi is powerless to act as the waves drag him ever deeper as my Honed Domain makes its way slowly through his defences.

The Water presses in.

My Honed Domain cuts deep.

The Demonic armour cracks.

And the Bandit King is no more, leaving behind a malformed, mutated, bestial carcass leaking unholy Ichor I cannot Cleanse. To the human eye, Huanhuzi’s life’s blood is sickly green like Ichor from any regular Demon, but to my Divine Senses, it is blacker than the darkest of nights and the antithesis of creation. This is Anathema, albeit in an unrefined form, and I shudder to think what it might be like once Zhen Shi gets his hands on it. The corpses of the other eighteen Half-Demonic Warriors emit the same abominable gunk, which I gather up with a thought to contain within a water skin I picked up from the nearby debris. If not for my Water Chi, the unrefined Anathema would eat its way out of the leather container in a heartbeat, and it takes an effort of will to keep even this much in check, but leaving it to desecrate the Azure Sea is simply unacceptable.

The waterskin in hand, I gather up the Half-Demonic corpses and send them careening to shore for later study. Glancing down at the soldiers to reassure myself that they’re all still alive, my gaze locks on to Dad whose eyes are filled with pride and joy as he treads water next to his old friend Naaran. The amber-eyed Sentinel exhibits similar sentiments, though his emotions are laced with conflicting feelings of remorse and regret as well, and I am unable to perceive why. The important thing is that they’re still alive, along with most of the army I brought here with me, though we still suffered a number of casualties to bring the Bandit King low. Nor did I manage to kill every last Defiled, with the survivors already setting sail for the deep waters of the Azure Sea, though I did kill the majority of Demons and the entirety of the Half-Demonic forces that spawned here today.

Such is life, however, and though I mourn for the dead, I also make an effort to take pride in my accomplishment as a concerned Li-Li demanded, pride which pales in comparison to Pong Pong’s approval. Resting in my hair, his turtly eminence emanates an Aura of smug satisfaction as he pats me with his tiny claw, a reward for finally figuring out what he thought was obvious all along. ‘Just use the Heavenly Tear stupid, just like I do’, that’s what he seems to be saying, though I still have no real idea how this works. Intertwined within his praise is a none-too-subtle request to go play, and maybe even go exploring through our home and Domain, the Azure Sea, as it’s been far too long since he swam here.

Would love to, but can’t. Maybe later. Thoughts and emotions which are difficult to convey, but I think Pong Pong gets the gist as he sinks into my hair with a little huff, but I have more pressing matters to attend to than his nib’s poor mood. The pillar of water drops out from beneath my feet and I Lighten as I fall back to the water’s surface, all choppy and disturbed now that I’ve stopped supporting the entire army and left them to tread water by themselves. In retrospect, I probably shouldn’t have destroyed the freighter since not everyone can swim, but there’s plenty of floatsam bobbing about and the shore isn’t too too far away, though we really should get moving. “Can’t stay long,” I Send to Dad, as I plunk down in the water next to him. Tired and drained, I sink further than intended but my reliable father grabs hold of my arm and drags me back up to the water’s surface as I continue, “All the blood and corpses are gonna attract unwanted attention, so we probably want to get out of the water before they arrive.” Although I’ve long since released hold of my Divine Senses and Manifested Domain, I have a faint and fading recollection of unpleasantness on the horizon, so to speak, but hopefully Pong Pong can lend a hand if things take a turn for the worst. “I’m going to sleep now,” I add, my eyes already closed and my body weightless as I drift in the cold waters of the Azure Sea and dread the onset of the headache which I know will soon arrive. “Probably for a few days, so no need to worry.”

“Rest easy, my son,” Dad Sends, and my world fades to darkness as I settle into his warm embrace. “I will handle the rest.”

Not a bad fight, though I’m a little annoyed by the fact that I’ll probably need to carry around a giant gourd from here on out if I want to utilize my bound water. Inconvenient is what it is, but I suppose it’s better than nothing.

Ha. Look at that. Not even a full minute after an incredible victory and I’m already complaining. Some things I fear will never change.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arms wrapped around his precious and powerful son whilst adrift in the Azure Sea, Baatar readied for death and faced it head on.

There was no time for joy or regret, no moment of calm to process his thoughts and emotions or even take a breath before the coming calamity arrived, one he foresaw as soon as the boy rose up out of the Azure Sea, stood atop a pillar of water and wielding more Chi than Baatar previously thought was humanly possible. Before sallying forth to engage Huanhuzi’s pirate fleet, the greatest military minds of the Empire made plans for every possible contingency, with Mother, Nian Zu, Binesi, Han BoHai, and several other prominent Peak Experts stationed in the general vicinity with Peak Experts standing ready to intercept any fast-moving Enemy forces. Though they failed to account for the previously unheard of possibility of a veritable army of Demons and Half-Demons spawning in at the same time, the trial and tribulation before them at this very moment was something they’d anticipated well in advance, so Baatar stuck to the plan and prayed.

For there was little he could personally do when faced with a Divinity’s wrath.

The air grew heavy and the water cold as the Defiled Ancestral Beast made her presence known, emanating a domineering Aura that made it difficult to breathe, much less stay afloat in the Azure Sea. Emerging from Concealment without pomp or pageantry, the Ancestral Badger Shih Yang appeared before Baatar with an outstretched hand, a slim, willow woman whose fine, noble features were twisted in rage and fury. For this once respected Territory Lord to turn traitor and support the Uniter came as a surprise to all who knew her, or at least this was what Baatar had been told. Even Mother wasn’t privy to the comings and goings of most Divinities, but Shih Yang had been one of the more well-known upholders of the Treaty, having done more than her fair share to ensure it remained in place. This was before the West fell of course, during which her true allegiance was revealed when she led a group of her traitorous peers to ambush and assassinate no less than six Divinities in succession before word of her betrayal got out. All free-holding Territory Lords of course, ones who refused to stand idly by as the Defiled rampaged about the Western Province and thus supposedly broke the Treaty first, a flimsy justification which held up because neither Imperial nor neutral Divinities were willing to die to avenge their slain peers. Even those peak existences were unable to muster a defence against a surprise attack from Shih Yang and her ilk, and though Shen ZhenWu worked hard to quash this information and keep it from spreading, the Emperor’s Mandate proved little deterrence to the Ancestral Beasts of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, who by and large were a free-spirited and unrestrained bunch.

Which was why it’d been so difficult to convince them to come along on this pirate extermination, but the important thing was that they were here.

His bony hand clamped around Shih Yang’s wrist, Lao Lang bared his teeth and growled in open threat, a rumbling sound which stirred up a sense of primal terror within Baatar’s chest and demanded his complete and utter obedience. Despite his hunched back and wizened frame, Lao Lang was still a formidable sight to behold, his majestic, white-furred tail lashing about as his wolf ears turned this way and that in an alert fashion. “See this pup?” Lao Lang asked, gesturing at Baatar with a jerk of his chin. “See them cute furry ears on top of his head? Ain’t much to look at when they all soggy and wet, but those mark him as one of mine.” The rumbling growl grew in both volume and intensity as the Ancestral Wolf drew himself up to full height, which admittedly still fell short of Shih Yang’s willowy stature to say nothing of Baatar’s own. “So where in the fuck do you get off attacking one of my pack, you dirt-grubbing, worm-eating, fur-stinking badger bitch?”

Lao Lang’s declaration marking Baatar as one of his came with conflicting emotions, as the Ancestral Beast had never once behaved as a father should, but one could not deny that they were biologically related. That being said, any discussion regarding their estranged relationship would have to wait until this calamity was behind them, but Baatar felt safer once the other elders made their presence known as well, even if their suffocating Auras added to the strain of staying afloat. There was the Ancestral Tiger, Machali, a woman of few words and foul tempers, standing with her gentle, hulking husband Da Hui, united in purpose despite their tempestuous relationship due to the Ancestral Grizzly’s adulterous habits. Of course, it didn’t help that the hot-headed Machali had only recently decided to repay her husband in similar coin, striking up a relationship with a human that resulted in the birth of Baatar’s own beloved daughter, but grateful as he was for his little treasure, he knew better than to bring Alsantset up in front of these two married Ancestral Beasts. Then there was the Ancestral Gazelle Ling Lu, her curved horns glistening in the sunlight as she stood ready to pounce, the youngest of the bunch and visibly excited by the prospect of battle, which was hardly reassuring considering how Baatar and every other mortal in the vicinity would likely die in the first exchange should these Divinities come to blows. Also present was the golden furred WuKong, whirling his staff about in a dizzying display of acrobatics as he somersaulted about the Azure Sea, unable to remain still long enough for anyone to catch a glimpse of his face.

