Last, but far from least, was Sarnai’s fool of a Mentor herself, veiled as always as she stood protectively before Taduk, who was quietly fussing over little Rain. Seven Divinities in total, though the scatter-brained Ancestral Hare hardly counted considering his aversion to violence. Then again, while most treated the Ancestral Rabbit Hua Lie as the most powerful of the bunch, Mother claimed Taduk might well have her outclassed, should he ever find reason to fight. A Cloud-Blessed Cloud Chaser Hare who could call the winds and summon the rains, it was difficult to match this image with the eccentric and off-beat Healer Baatar knew and loved, but appearances didn’t count for much. Previously, Taduk’s ability to single-handedly drive an entire Defiled army to retreat was the most impressive display of an Elemental Blessing Baatar had the pleasure to witness firsthand, but what little Rain accomplished here today handily topped Taduk’s exploits, if only because the death and destruction appealed more to Baatar’s bloodthirsty nature.

This momentous gathering of Divinities was making him light in the head, so Baatar focused his thoughts on the matter at hand. Clearly unwilling to back down despite being handily outnumbered, Shih Yang pulled her hand free from the old wolf’s grasp before striking a calm and collected pose. “This hateful child slew one of mine, and I am entitled to my revenge.”

“Killed him in battle, fair as fair.” Turning his head to spit before thinking better of it, Lao Lang’s lip curled in a mocking sneer. “Or do you think that only yours can kill ours without any reprisal?”

“Fair?” Emanating icy threat as she curled her fists until they cracked, Shih Yang glared daggers at little Rain and Baatar shifted so as to block the boy from her murderous gaze. “That runt made use of powers far beyond what a mere mortal should wield, beyond what most of us here can match in skill and finesse, and you call this fair? He has broken the treaty, and I will have his life.”

“Treaty stands.” Unwilling to budge even a millimetre, Lao Lang’s tail took on a playful clip as it wagged this way and that, leading Baatar to wonder if he looked equally as ridiculous when unable to contain his glee, with hips swaying from side to side without even realizing it. “T’was written for Divinities, and any fool can tell the boy is still mortal yet.”

The stifling pressure increased and Baatar sank deeper into the water, struggling to keep little Rain’s head out of the water to say nothing of his own, until Taduk’s reassuring presence enveloped them both to ward off Shih Yang’s rage. “By definition perhaps,” she insisted, her bared teeth gnashing as if ready to taste the boy’s flesh, “But left unchecked, his strength could bring disaster down upon us all.”

“He’s impressive, sure enough, and can do some mighty complex workings, but he’s far from matching any one of us in pure destructive ability, which is why the Treaty was drawn up in the first place.” Still standing tall, Lao Lang huffed and said, “The boy is mortal. End of discussion. Touch him, and I will kill you before heading West to wreak havoc unlike anything anyone living has ever seen. The line has been drawn, so cross it or fuck off. I ain’t in the mood to stand around all day.”

Having heard the tales of what Lao Lang did in his youth, stories that made Smiling Slaughterer Guan Suo seem tame in comparison, there was no doubt in Baatar’s mind that the old wolf could make good on his promise.

“We should just kill her now,” Ling Lu whispered, though still loud enough for all to hear, and Baatar found it disturbing to see how unhinged Yaruq’s dam had become, her wild, bloodshot eyes making her appear a step short of Defiled herself. “Kill the traitor and take her strength, while she has no allies to save her.”

“Ye might want to check again on that account.” The thick, folksy accent was far too familiar for Baatar’s tastes as the Ancestral Bristleboar Zhu Chanzui made his presence known, flanked by four other Divinities to match the Imperials. An Ancestral Mammoth and the Mataram Ancestor, both of whom little Rain met at the Brotherhood’s monastery, as well as two others who Baatar only knew by reputation. The first was a noble stag who went by the name Ba Khe Zhu, stately and imposing with his massive antlered crown as he stared at Ling Lu with lust and avarice, his appetite for womanly flesh second only to Zhu Chanzui’s. The last Divinity’s presence was so faint Baatar almost overlooked him, a pale Defiled Human Divinity with grotesque, mottled features and so much loose skin that it seemed ready to fall off his frame. This creature was supposedly the progenitor of all Wraiths, and known only as the Phantom according to the Imperial reports. A deadly assassin who played a pivotal role in Shih Yang’s ability to assassinate so many neutral Divinities, the Phantom was a foe to be wary of no matter what level of strength one obtained, for the deadliest dagger was the one that went unseen.

With the numbers close to even on both sides, they fell into something of a stalemate as neither Shih Yang nor Lao Lang uttered another word, and Baatar’s son became the fixture of everyone’s focus. Ready to sell his life dearly, Baatar cradled his unconscious son and glared back at each and every Enemy Divinity for as long as he dared, trembling beneath the increased pressure of their Auras that even Taduk could not wholly mitigate, but it was a small price to pay to show the depths of his conviction. Then, without warning, the Enemy Divinities disappeared and the pressure abated, so sudden Baatar almost fell to pieces trying to withstand a burden that was no longer there, but it was still too early to relax. “This one thanks these Venerable ones for their assistance,” he said, unable to actually bow while swimming, “But little Rain warned us to move away from here before aquatic predators gather in numbers too great for us to fend off, so time is of the essence.”

“Don’t think you got anything to worry about on that account.” Gesturing west where Baatar presumed the Enemy Divinities retreated, Lao Lang chuckled and said, “With all the Aura them lot were throwing around, I doubt there’s a predator alive daring enough to make their way over any more.” Brow furrowing in thought as he glanced at the tiger Rakshasa, who even now was happily paddling towards shore with a Defiled corpse in his jaws, the old wolf added, “Then again, maybe the boy knows more than this old wolf. Times be changing, after all, new waves overcoming the old.”

“Then this one will excuse himself first.”

“Hang on a tick, pup.” Running his fingers through his long, voluminous beard, Lao Lang pursed his lips in thought while studying the sleeping boy. It grated Baatar to hear the old wolf call him by the same affectionate nickname Mother and Father used, especially when lacking any and all affection, but there was no sense getting angry at the Ancestral Wolf. In his eyes, baby Baatar had been nothing more than a worthless runt who would never survive to adulthood, so leaving him alive was already better than what most Ancestral Beasts would tolerate. Unlike the other demi-humans, Baatar never once cared about establishing a relationship with his sire, treating him as a stranger with shared blood, nothing more, nothing less. However, ever since Lao Lang took a personal interest in little Huushal, Baatar had been fighting feelings of jealousy and indignation, ones his mountain rose called him foolish to harbour, and she was right. It still hurt to see them together, but Baatar had his own parents and family to lean on, including the son fast asleep in his arms, who Lao Lang was uncomfortably fixated on.

“You think he did it on purpose?”

Utterly lost as to what the old wolf was talking about, Baatar simply raised an eyebrow in question, a trick little Rain was most fond of, and after a few seconds, Lao Lang explained, “I heard about what the Abbot told the boy, that he was ready to take the next step and ascend to Divinity. If that’s true, do you think he stayed mortal on purpose? So he could keep fighting without running afoul of the treaty?”

Ah. Without really needing to think on the matter, Baatar shrugged and said, “Perhaps he did, though I doubt his actions were so... well planned. The boy’s Path is convoluted, and even he is not clear about the steps he took, so if he meant to do this, then it was likely more by instinct than design, if not happenstance to begin with.”

“Damn.” Sputtering in overt frustration, Lao Lang sighed and turned to Taduk, who was still fussing with little Rain’s hair and clothes as if it mattered while he was soaked to the bone. “You should have a talk with him when he wakes then. Make sure he don’t overstep. Last thing we need is for him to accidentally Ascend to Divinity and break the Treaty in the same breath.” Still stroking his beard, Lao Lang took in Taduk’s dismissive attitude and muttered, “Or maybe I should have a talk with him instead.”

Truth be told, Baatar would feel much better if Lao Lang took matters into his own hands, but knowing how stubborn little Rain truly was, no amount of advice or warning would sway him from his Path.

At least the boy was safe, sound, and as an added bonus, returning to the Citadel with a resounding victory under his belt. Enough soldiers, sailors, and Peak Experts had survived to tell the tale of Falling Rain’s valour, and while the boy was still a ways away from being able to defeat Shuai Jiao or Bai Qi in single combat, even all the Colonel Generals combined could not match little Rain in talent or destructive potential. Twenty-two years young and wielding power beyond a Half-Step Divinity, Baatar could not be any prouder of his beloved son.

Chapter Meme
