Jane watched a giant black dragon claw encircle the sun, blocking the light, allowing night to return to the inside of Fenrir in the shadow of its loose grip. That dark allowed Jane to see across the full expanse of Fenrir for the first time.

It was fantastical.

Jane could see it now; how night and day worked in this land. The grip rotated, and the five fingers and palm of the encircling grip provided darkness… But the pure power needed to do such a thing was… it was crazy. That hand, ten times the size of the sun, felt like the Fenrir ritual itself. It made Jane feel something magnificent inside, like when she first saw the blue boxes for the Script, and the first time she conjured a sword out of Force, but writ large and oh so much better.

Because that was dad’s hand, for sure. She didn’t know what Nothanganathor’s hands looked like, and she was pretty sure Melemizargo’s hands were slightly different, so that was dad’s hand. It looked like Jane’s dragon hands, but black and thicker.

Candice whispered to herself, to the world, “Dad won.”

Jane smiled—

All around them, the corpses of the fallen undead army turned to motes of light that flew up into the sky, into the Dark, leaving behind lush grasses and wildflowers. Their departure was like fireflies, but better. Bigger and brighter.

Some of those lights got mere meters above the ground before they went right back down and popped, revealing people, healed and whole. Those people were still wearing the torn armor of the refugee cities, but they themselves were healed.

Oh, Jane thought. Dad is resurrecting everyone, too.

This is a lot.

This is more than a simple win.

Oh.

… Is the hand going to stay?

Candice asked, “Do you think the hand is permanent?”

- - - -

Yggdrasil watched Fenrir’s entire ecosystem be restructured into something more conducive to life and eternity. Checks and balances of ecosystems were instituted by way of creating continents and oceans and rivers, where once was simple chaos intended to cause conflict. The hand was also doing a lot more than just reshaping Fenrir. It was resurrecting everyone… too… Hmm.

“That hand is going to be so unwieldy, father,” Yggdrasil said, as he gazed through Benevolence Itself, to see it all. “The magical requirements alone to constantly compensate for gravity— It’s pissing off Cascadio now, too. You’re ripping at the functionality of the sun by just existing— Ah. You see it too, then… Er.”

Something changed in the sky.

“That’s not a fix, father. That’s the opposite of a fix.”

Yggdrasil watched as one dragon hand became two dragon hands that sort of reached for each other, as though to almost take each other’s wrists, with the sun between their fingers. It was less ‘gripping’, more ‘warming themselves’, or maybe ‘reaching out to each other’ and with the sun in the center as a point of brilliance between the Darkness. That seemed good, both in an artistic sense, and in an environmental control sense. The ripping sensations Cascadio was reporting on were gone, too, so they were probably hollow hands now, too. Or something. Yggdrasil would find out eventually, but right now they were too filled with Darkness to see clearly. But this was good!

It was too early for Fenrir to heat up to unimaginable degrees, but it would have happened in a few years, or maybe a few hundred, and whatever day/night thing father was trying to set up was very unbalanced with only two hands.

One was clearly Father’s hand, but the other one was Melemizargo’s, but only a very trained eye could tell the difference.

So two hands that acted like north/south pole blockers with their palms, and ten fingers that rotated fast enough to provide enough shadow to mimic a rather normal day/night cycle for maybe… Yggdrasil did some fast math… for maybe 65% of the interior surface. 12 hour days, 12 hour nights. 35% of the land would be in perpetual twilight, or have longer days and nights that might last half of a year, before those lengths of days and nights switched in the other way.

There was also something going on with the poles of Fenrir, but it was too filled with Darkness to see clearly yet.

Yggdrasil admitted, “Okay. I like that idea. One of them should be a human hand, though, even if you are a dragon, father.”

Yggdrasil felt the barest brush of ‘bah!’ And also, ‘Dragon hands are cool!’

Yggdrasil laughed at that.

And then Erick stepped down into Benevolence with Yggdrasil, onto one of his bigger roots, looking like a normal person, but he was a lot more than that.

Yggdrasil appeared as a person next to him, smiling, saying, “Congrats on winning in more ways than I thought possible. All your divinity should be flowing to you now that you’ve actively claimed it. You okay with that?”

Erick waved a hand. “It’s what I needed to do. I’m good with it. Thanks for taking care of it while I didn’t want it.” He asked, “And what’s wrong with dragon hands! They could both be mine, you know!”

“They could both be Melemizargo’s, too,” Yggdrasil said, grinning. “Except they’re not. The first one was yours. The second one you added to make him feel better.”

“He needed a big win and this sort of reviving everyone was always his plan anyway. It’s what he started with the shadelings and how he wanted to bring the Painted Cosmology back, using the souls of those he had saved in Darkness.” Erick said, “Cascadio didn’t like the harsh grip, either, but he loves the hands-reaching-out design.”

“I do, too,” Yggdrasil said, still grinning. And then he tentatively asked, “Are you still a hugger? Or has your time away—”

Erick rushed his son, and Yggdrasil was glad that he was allowed to have tears of joy, instead of the possible tears of sorrow of what could have been. Father was still father, no matter what new office he inhabited.

Erick said, “I’m still a hugger.”

“I’m glad.” Yggdrasil held Erick tighter, saying, “Very glad.”

“I have a gift for you—”

“I don’t want the Sign. It’s not my sign, and I don’t even think it’s Margleknot’s, either. Give it to Margleknot next time you’re back, or don’t. Use it until you don’t need it anymore.”

Erick simply said, “How about your memories, then?”

Yggdrasil laughed. “Oh yeah! I do want those. Gimme gimme!” He paused. “But not to me. Not directly. You should give those to Margleknot. I don’t want to touch them.”

Erick chuckled. “You’re giving me mixed messages here, Yggdrasil.”

“I’m sure it’ll be a quick trip to Margleknot, and then you can come back and be a good Tyrant Dragon God King to everyone,” Yggdrasil said, smirking.

Erick paused as he couldn’t believe that Yggdrasil would say that to him…

Oh.

AH.

Speaking softly to himself, Erick said, “… Oh my gods, have I lost my sense of sarcasm? I think I have.”

Yggdrasil nodded. “Time for a break, Father.”

“Okay. Vacation time this time, and for real.”

“Yes, for real vacation time,” Yggdrasil said. “If the Fae Council bullies you into doing stuff then tell them you’re on a doctor-prescribed vacation and you’re not allowed to do any heavy lifting for a while. You won your war, and now you get to be the Arbiter of Veird, first and foremost.”

Erick grinned.

- - - -

“Oh. Hello, I guess,” Erick said to the Fae Council. “I was coming your way soon enough.”

Erick stood underneath Margleknot in Margleknot, and though the big guy looked like Yggdrasil right now, he wasn’t Yggdrasil at all. Not really. Not anymore than Erick was Xoat, anyway. Yggdrasil was a glowing white tree, with flaming green leaves and a rainbow aurora crown. His roots were shaped like roots that twined up and down into the land below, while his branches kinda looked like Primal Lightning frozen in time. Margleknot had been gold, with roots that formed geometric shapes that spiraled, fractally, down into infinity, while his branches were looping, tendrils of gold, that also curled through impossible geometry.

Yggdrasil in Margleknot had roots that curled in geometric shapes and lightning-like branches that were way too fractal to be normal branches, like Yggdrasil’s branches back on Veird, and now Fenrir.

Also, this land’s surface was glass and see-through, so all of Margleknot was visible at the same time.

The Fae Council of Aelorika, Eldraki, Seraphaka, and Dakka, all stood upon that clear surface with Erick. Margleknot’s golden-eyed orcol-avatar stood closer to Erick, though.

Margleknot said, “I told them not to take too long.” He looked at Erick again, and with a faint sadness in his voice, he said, “Thanks for the Memories, Father. Yggdrasil is right, though, I don’t want the actual Sign of Power. I replaced it a long time ago, and that Sign of Power isn’t something I want to use.”

Erick was surprised at that. “Are you sure? I’m not sure what I’ll do with it, but… Yeah. I can use it.”

The Sign of Power sat inside Erick’s divine soul like a small universe waiting to be filled; completely empty, completely unutilized. He’d figure out something to do with it, he was sure.

“Good. You can use it well, I am sure. Nothanganathor...” With a far-off sense of loss, Margleknot said, “Nothanganathor… I still can’t believe the full extent of what he did. He was like a surrogate father to me. He didn’t make a World Tree that connected to me, but I enjoyed being a family with him. My memories confirmed what I already knew to be true; yes, he was evil, but… He was a good person… And yet…” Margleknot deflated. “He wasn’t a good person at all.”

Erick simply nodded. Even the worst people in existence were still just people, no matter how much power they acquired… But Erick supposed that thinking that way was a luxury for the strong. Nothanganathor was truly evil, and yet…

Nothanganathor was denied power for most of his life, which is what turned him evil enough to want to Sunder a universe. Thinking about it that way… No.

Nothanganathor still made bad decisions, and those decisions were reason enough to hate the man he had become, but before that fall, he had been different. The Curse of Obscurity had twisted him into something he didn’t want to be, for he wanted to be, and was, a strong emperor to billions. He knew how to create stability and prosperity. That much was never in doubt.

And then he was twisted into creating Malevolence in order to take back what was taken from him.

Erick said, “It’s unforgivable what happened, and yet the evil is gone, and so we must forgive if only for our own sanity. But at the same time, we must never allow evils like that to flourish ever again. It’s a paradox that we must navigate all the time, because the problem of evil is one of selfishness, and we’re all just people trying to make the best of our situations. Selfishness is inevitable, my son.”

Margleknot looked upon Erick with golden eyes, and he saw many other people at that same time, deep in memory. He smiled softly, “Nothanganathor said something like that a few different times.”

“Sounds like a smart man who ended up going down the wrong path.”

“Aye,” Margleknot said. “He did.”

The Fae Council watched as Erick and Margleknot had their moment, silence filling the air.

The moment passed.

Lady Aelorika stepped forward. “The Fae Council recognizes the sovereign nation of Fenrir, Dark Benevolence, Erick Flatt of Veird. We are interested in contracting services for Corruption cleanup, and also thank you for both destroying Malevolence, and also coming back and keeping Margleknot from falling apart in Malevolence’s absence.”

“Ah. Shit.” Erick said, “Yeah. That. I need to, uh, come back and do that, eh?”

Lady Aelorika grinned a little. “If you haven’t already. It took you a good 29 years of work, if we’re counting all your appearances and the time you spent in each location. It was quite a lot of work!”

Lady Seraphaka said, “Billions of lives saved.”

Lord Dakka said, “Started and ended a few wars, which is fun!”

Lord Eldraki grinned as he said, “We simply couldn’t get you to speak to us though, which was quite frustrating. It’s almost like you weren’t even there.”

Erick grumbled. “… Okay. Let’s get through the big points: The Dark wishes to be friendly, so I’ll be planting Yggdrasil there soon enough. I’m going to help with corruption here in this universe. And I’m not going to have your big tasks looming over my head. Let’s just [Onward] through all of these Margleknot-centric tasks right now, and deal with the rest later.”

And that is what he did.

He didn’t remember any of it, and that was by design.

He did not want to leave his family behind any longer than he already had.
