She nodded, enjoying her own coffee. “I do want to know what you mean by that, but first…” She gestured around herself. “First, I would like to know what you’ve done around us, here. You’ve somehow created a clean separation of reality-nodes?”

His eyebrows rose. “Ho, ho! You are as perceptive as your memories implied. Yes, of course.”

She waited for him to continue as they both took sips.

“Well, the easiest way I can convey it still requires some context. You see, I began my magehood as an Immaterial Guide. I focus on information.”

That made Tala’s eyes widen. “Isn’t that a concept?”

“Maybe? I suppose that you could see it that way, but I don’t. Everything is information.” He leaned in, grinning. “Master Xeel and I have a long-standing argument. He believes that light is the fastest thing in the universe, and the speed of light, therefore, is the capstone of all things. He even contends that matter and light are essentially the same thing, from a certain point of view. While I agree with that last point—if with some variation—I say that information is the limiting factor, and what we call the speed of light is actually just a limiter on the speed of information transmission.”

Tala grimaced, understanding what he was saying, but not really comprehending the nuance that was supposedly the source of the disagreement.

He shook his head. “Regardless, we were discussing what I did here. Here, I simply altered the ability for non-sapient information to cross the delineation around us. The result seems to manifest as a division of reality-nodes, at least as you perceive them.”

“So, you have no means to affect them directly, or at the very least you didn’t do so here?”

He scoffed, before chuckling. “Certainly not. I would say that doing that would be conceptual magic.”

Tala grinned at his rejoinder. “I see. Different ways of approaching similar things.”

He nodded. “Precisely. For me, information is a concrete—if immaterial—thing, and it has fascinated me for as long as I can remember.” He leaned back, clearly momentarily lost in his own thoughts. “We can write squiggles on a page and cause others to have the thoughts that we aim for. We can flex the material world around us—through light, sound waves, and so on—and that similarly manifests thoughts in those able to perceive and comprehend our alterations. It’s amazing.”

“I suppose… yeah.” She frowned as she considered what he had said.

He chuckled. “I know it’s not for everyone, but it’s something that I am passionate about.” He nodded once. “Hence, this meeting.”

Tala chuckled in turn. “Ahh, yes. As I said, I am curious what you meant.”

Master Saliocas clapped his hands together and rubbed his palms in anticipation. “Then, let’s get to it.”
