“Oh, the tall redhead with the carmine dress?” Her friend consulted the ceiling for a second to jog her memory. “That’s Senator Sanders’ daughter. She’s with Sir Woodhouse. Why? Did she catch your eye?”

“Does she know our Euphemia?” Juliana’s voice was cold.

Diane-Grace looked over to where she was looking, then made an “O” with her lips. “Oh yeah, I see it. Goodness, that girl has some feelings for your songbird.”

Indeed, the redhead was bunching her fists. Strangely, Euphemia barely acknowledged the girl’s existence, which, Juliana discerned, only added fuel to the fire.

“Justin!” she called out to the man enduring the insufferable boasting of a certain Creative Director of Sony. “Over here!”

Offering a prayer to the ceiling, Justin Woodhouse left his one-sided conversation partner to join their circle of two. “Thanks for getting me out of that.” The Brit took a deep breath. “That man could talk the hind legs off a donkey.”

“My pleasure,” Juliana pursed her lips.

Diane, matching her tempo, said nothing.

“Oh no.” Sir Woodhouse assumed a more stoic pose. “I know that look. What has made our Director displeased? How may I make it right?”

“I don’t want to be bothersome,” Juliana code-switched to English. Discreetly, she lowered her voice so as to appear that the two were sharing a naughty secret. “But your ward there appears to be a standard drink away from punching our songbird in the face.”

Woodhouse’s eyes filled with confusion until he glanced over yonder and muttered an “Oh dear. I think Valorie accidentally drank.” As a showbiz veteran, Curon’s rival recognised rivalry when he saw it, and saw a lot more than what Juliana could guess, considering the redhead’s offhand was choking an invisible neck.

“I am very, very sorry, Doctor Vaughan.” The man dumped his drinks with the waiter at once. “It looks like we’re not feeling the best tonight. Rickie is spiking my hypertension, I think we might call it an early one, if you don’t mind?”

“Aw.” Juliana tilted her head. “It’s a shame to see you go so soon.”

“Until next time.” The man gave her his most sincere smile, and she believed it. If Universal’s stars wanted to attend the next Gala, they had to be besties with Diane Mirabelle. And Diane’s partner and mentor was this mean old lady who ran the Met with an iron fist. “Again, my apologies.”

With panache, the CEO of Universal Music approached his ward, told her with a smiling face that he needed her for a moment, then gracefully waltzed the still-staring girl away without an additional word.

“How exciting,” Mirabelle raised a glass. “I look forward to their rivalry.” Juliana met her protégé halfway. “Come, let's hear what our songbird’s saying that has the Fundsters so stirred up.”

Euphemia Fontaine was enjoying herself immensely.

She was finally among peers. Politicians, Fund Managers, CEOs, and the social attachés who parasitically lived off those with power.

The night had gone swimmingly.She made only two minor mistakes while singing her song. And she had picked the right dress absolutely, once more proving that her [Intelligence] and [Wisdom] were in a class of their own, and she got to pay back Armand for his Air Jordans.

Presently, her Senior had circled around the gallery to the front of the exhibition to experience it for himself, as some of the guests had. The only condition of their re-entry and exploration was to enter with no phones and leave with no pictures. For the common folk, there were also NDA disclosures, lest they ruin the experience for the first-time public when the exhibition opens next week.

A more unique sensation, she felt, was being five foot six in heels, while still surrounded by men and women who towered over her. Her old body wasn’t excessively tall, but she was still above average, and with heels, she never felt overpowered.

Now, with her back exposed, she felt a little electrified by their wandering eyes. She was also shivering a little, because the temperature was kept low to protect the sacred oils on the originals. As a result, now that the adrenaline faded, she could feel goosebumps travelling up her legs and arms.

Nonetheless, it was easy for her to keep up with the droll Finance bros, Consuls and Commissioners. For the moment at least, they were thankful for the unexpected joy she had brought—which, to the rich and powerful, was a rare treat indeed.

But when she did speak, no one really listened. They humoured her, laughed at her jokes even, barely acknowledging that her wit was contextually salient and savvy.

Was it because of her dress? Or had the alcohol made them more digress?

Looking up at the men with her luminous eyes, she tried to skim their thoughts by reading the reflection of her face in their eyes.

She saw happiness and gratefulness.

She saw lust and guilt.

She saw possessiveness and protectiveness.

She saw curiosity. And she saw greed.

Curiously, she had not received much [Causality] from them. This meant, she supposed, that the folk here principally thought of her as an asset for their personal benefit.

Then, her eyes slipped past the V-line tuxedos, and saw for the first time a face she had not seen in nearly eight weeks.

It was a conventionally beautiful face, a starlet’s face.

Pale green eyes, red ringlets of piled hair in a messy bun, lips as glossy as ripe cherries, a thin white neck, and perky bosoms made more prominent by the magic of tailoring.

Valorie Sanders.

How very karmic. She mused to herself as their eyes met. In another lifetime, she would not have believed in such a coincidence, but in this life, she had literal evidence of a greater force at play.

Evidently, the girl had noticed her for some time.

Responding to the men around her, she told an ethically questionable joke about stockbrokers, sending the men into hyperbolic bursts of hilarity. In the midst of their self-aggrandisation, Eppie took the chance to deliver her dearest Miss Sanders the most desirous, flirtatious, and provocative smile she could muster.

Five seconds later, the young lady of House Sanders was on fire.

She was just about to goad the girl some more to see if her foe would drop clues like a slain video game monster when, out of nowhere, the CEO of Universal Music whisked Valorie away like a knight errant in charge of a wayward lady.

Ah well. She shrugged prettily, then returned to the conversation at hand.

“Eppie, do you know why your boss hates day trading, but likes you so much?” One of the Rockefeller fellows leaned in to hear her answer.

“Is it because…” Eppie smiled warily at her CEO, whose eyes begged her to play along. “Gentlemen prefer bonds?”

“Oh, my god.” The Rockefeller stumbled back, almost spilling his drink, laughing so hard he couldn’t breathe. “I… I can’t, she is the death of me, Humphrey. I have died and gone to pun-gatory.”

“Eppie, tell us another one!” Someone begged her. “You can’t just dote on Joshua. Tell us, how did Graham’s portfolio end up with ten million last quarter?”

Eppie’s [Intelligence] of 35 shuddered at the unmentionable acts it must perform to harness future investors for her philanthropic endeavours.

“Easy,” she smiled at the expectant face of her breathless audience. “He started with twenty million the quarter prior…”
