“...Yes.” Hanging her head in shame, she explained, “Luo-Luo has worked hard, but her skills are sorely lacking and she apologizes for the disgrace she displayed for all to see.” The first time she’d come to the training fields with Sister-in-Law Alsantset, it’d only been to Demonstrate the Forms, and since then, that was all she’d done, but during breakfast today, Sister-in-Law Alsantset announced Luo-Luo was ready for her first ever sparring match. Too afraid and ashamed to spar in public, she begged to have their match somewhere private, but the stubborn woman wouldn’t even consider it before dragging Luo-Luo away to the field, where she was forced to humiliate herself before all of Lord Husband’s subordinates. Why Sister-in-Law Alsantset felt it necessary to do this, Luo-Luo couldn’t say, but now she had to face the ire of a Colonel General unaided, as it was obvious he was displeased by the distraction she’d wrought.

“Disgrace?” Scoffing in obvious disdain, Colonel General Nian Zu said, “If you think your performance a disgrace, then you should visit an Imperial training facility and see what true disgrace looks like.” So deep in her despair, it took some effort to parse through his meaning, but the Colonel General hardly noticed. “You fought well, especially considering your lack of experience and superior opponent, though I do admit some of your choices were rather unorthodox. Advancing where others would retreat, only to give up the advantage you’ve seized, or the way you treat your mace like a baton, rather than the heavy weapon it truly is. In all my years of service, I don’t think I’ve ever seen a Martial Warrior with such a... unique take on the Forms.”

Cheeks heating with shame, Luo-Luo continued staring at her feet and wondered why a man in Nian Zu’s position would take the effort to mock a poor consort like herself. He’d made his stance clear back in the citadel, so perhaps he saw her as an unnecessary burden and blamed her for ‘forcing’ him here to the front lines. Luckily, Lord Husband chose to speak up in her defence, just as he’d refused to simply hand her over to Yang Jixing without her approval. “It’s an interesting perspective,” he said, still lounging in his cushioned chair with Lin-Lin, “Approaching the Forms as a dance isn’t unheard of, and as far as I can tell, it’s working out well for her.” Shrugging, he ruined the compliment by adding, “Then again, it could just be innate talent propping her up and her style will eventually come back to bite her in the ass later on down the Martial Path, so it’s hard to say how effective it really is.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” As if her shame were not great enough, even the Abbot saw fit to join the discussion instead of letting things lie. “Dancing and fighting share similar roots, requiring power, stamina, finesse, and flexibility to perform, but the ties go even deeper. Look to children for the answer, for when they are excited, they might punch the air or caper about, as both are forms of using motion to express emotion. What is dancing but fighting without bloodshed? What is fighting but a dance to the death?”

“A novel way to put it.” The Colonel General’s dismissive tone spoke volumes to his true meaning, for it seemed he found the Abbot’s explanation sorely lacking even though it filled Luo-Luo with hope for the future. “But one dances to entertain, and one fights to kill. Put her on the battlefield, and there’s a good chance she’ll get herself and the people around her killed.”

“True, but I’ve no intention of sending her out to fight in my stead.” Raising a hand to silence Colonel General and Abbot alike, Lord Husband gave an impish smile while behaving with such boorish discourtesy, but both men took it in stride. “Regardless, there’s no point standing around speculating when we can hear the truth straight from the horse’s mouth.”

While she couldn’t quite make sense of the idiom, nor could anyone else, Luo-Luo still bristled at being likened to a horse. Realizing silence wasn’t an option since it meant leaving a Colonel General and high holy monk of the Mother waiting on her answer, she scoured her mind for the best way to explain her thoughts, but alas, she hardly understood her choices herself. “This one apologizes wholeheartedly, but she was so flustered during the match, Luo-Luo cannot remember what was going through her mind.”

For once, Lord Husband devoted his attention to Luo-Luo, albeit at the most inopportune time. “Take a breath and relax,” he said, unable or unwilling to see her embarrassment. Who was she to speak of the Martial Path to anyone? “Close your eyes if it helps and picture the spar in you mind. Take us through it step by step, starting from the beginning. The first strike, picture it now, the spear racing towards you. What were you thinking?”

“...This one wasn’t thinking.” Reading the disappointment in Lord Husband’s eyes, which were as dreamy as Anrhi implied, Luo-Luo explained, “This one’s mind went blank and she... she heard the music of the battle, in a sense. There was a rhythm and cadence to Sister-in-Law’s movements, and at first, so long as this one followed the logical progression of the music, it was enough to read her movements in advance. In a sense, Luo-Luo played a harmony to Sister-in-Law’s melody, an accompaniment of sorts, but as the match wore on, this one realized that following Sister-in-Law’s cues would only lead to Luo-Luo’s defeat, so she endeavoured to... ruin the music, for lack of a better explanation. This one then tried to introduce a dissonant melody and seize control of the tempo, or failing that, disrupt the rhythm of Sister-in-Law’s movements and perhaps gain an advantage there, but she saw little success, as you all know.” Seeing the blank faces greeting her explanation, she gave a helpless little huff and clutched her hands before she threw them up into the air in frustration. “This one cannot explain it, not in its entirety, for this one does not understand it herself. It just... felt right.”

Everyone traded confused glances in silence, but it was Lin-Lin who came to her rescue. “So it’s like reading the flow of Set-sets movement’s yea? You know all the musical notes, which are the Movements in the Forms, so when you see a certain grouping of notes, you have a good idea of what should come next.”

Luo-Luo wasn’t entirely sure this was the case, but everyone present chimed out in agreement, having finally made sense of her thought process. “So smart.” After praising his beloved wifey, Lord Husband hugged her close before turning to Luo-Luo to say, “The music of battle, huh? What an interesting concept.”

“A deeply flawed one.” Clearly biased against Luo-Luo, the Colonel General huffed and said, “A song follows logical progression, but a battle less so. Your opponents will not do as you expect, and when you are caught off guard, complaining about ‘discordant harmonies’ won’t keep your head attached to your neck.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, the mysteries of Heaven lay bare before our eyes, but we only lack the wisdom to perceive them.” Shrugging, the Abbot continued, “Who are we to determine right and wrong when speaking of the Martial Path? What works for one creature might not work for another. Should we condemn the wolf because it walks on four legs instead of two, or the fish because it breathes water instead of air?”

“I get what you mean, but technically, fish don’t breathe water. They only breathe while submerged in water, but like us, they need air to survive. They just get theirs by extracting it from the water, and just as normal humans can’t breathe underwater, they can’t breathe out of it.”

“...Junior Brother, this monk cannot fathom how you might even begin to back such a claim.”

Puckering his lips like a fish, Lord Husband flexed them twice and asked, “How do they blow bubbles if they don’t breathe air?” Seeing the Abbot’s poleaxed expression, he laughed and said, “It’s easy enough to prove too. Take a live fish and feed it, then put it in a small, airtight tank of water. Unless your tank is too large, the fish will suffocate long before it starves.”

“...A cruel test, is this not?”

“...Yea I suppose. What if you...”

Luo-Luo’s explanation long forgotten, Lord Husband and the Abbot moved on to yet another pointless debate while Colonel General Nian Zu took a seat beside them, studying Luo-Luo not as a man studies a woman, but as a man studies livestock, wholly immune to her charms and only here to satisfy his Martial curiosity. Reminded of Lord Husband’s rude comparison, Luo-Luo gave a muted huff before turning away to ignore him, though he probably wouldn’t notice if she dropped dead of exhaustion right here and now.

Well, there was still ample opportunity to test her theory, as her fifteen minutes of rest ended far too soon. Grinning like Sarankho coming back with a catch, Khishig Tursinai sauntered up to Luo-Luo and said, “On your feet, little princess. It’s my turn to play.” Molesting Luo-Luo’s sceptre with her gaze, Li-Li’s protector came off as a touch unhinged as she said, “I admit, I’m jealous of your wonderful weapon, but you don’t even use everything it has to offer. Ah, if only I’d been born a half-decade later, then maybe I’d have that sceptre instead of you.”

Mother in Heaven... to think, there would come a time when Luo-Luo wished she could face Sister-in-Law Alsantset instead, but Khishig Tursinai was a far more fearsome foe, a sadistic woman who grinned maniacally every time Luo-Luo let out a piteous wail, and if past experience was anything to go by, there would be grins and wails aplenty.

Dragging her heels, Luo-Luo’s departure came to a halt as an armed escort marched right up to Lord Husband, but to her great relief they weren’t here for him. “Colonel General Nian Zu, Commander Watanabe requests your presence in the Command Tent.”

“I’m busy.” Gesturing for Luo-Luo to hurry along, the shameless old warrior said, “I’ll be by to see the Commander later.”

“Begging your pardon Colonel General.” Though the messenger leaned in close and lowered his voice, Luo-Luo read his lips and watched him say, “This concerns the safety of not only Sinuji, but perhaps the entire front line as a whole.”

As the irate Colonel General left with the escort, Luo-Luo’s heart hammered away as she imagined all the possibilities. Could it be? Were the Defiled finally done with these piecemeal attacks and ready to move on the Central Province itself? Would Lord Husband and his people be left in Sinuji as sacrificial pawns to slow the Defiled advance? Or perhaps they’d already struck, sending assassins after key figures inside the citadel. Lord Husband’s father might already be dead, or maybe even the Legate himself, poisoned by the dark blades of the Defiled Wraiths...

“Relax.” Punctuating her advice by slapping Luo-Luo’s bottom, Tursinai dragged her away with a smile. “Whatever it is, it isn’t for the likes of us to worry about. All we need to do is train and fight, and that’s what we’re here to do.” Stopping in an area which had already been cleared of people, Tursinai gestured for Luo-Luo to stay still before girlishly skipping away in glee. At ten meters distance, she turned around and said, “Okay then. Let that chain loose and show Big Sister Tursi what you can do.” Twirling her own deadly chain and sickle, she added, “And since this is a spar, you need to do it while trying not to get hit.”

...Perhaps Luo-Luo had erred in refusing to go with Jixing. No, she hadn’t, but it was a close thing. Incredibly close, and if Lord Husband didn’t get her with child soon, then she might run screaming into Jixing’s arms and beg him to bring her back east, where she would be safe from Tursinai for as long as the Empire should stand.

Which admittedly, might not be long if the Defiled were truly on the move...

Chapter Meme
