I closed my eyes and thought back to what I understood about dominion magic. To evoke it, I needed the desire to control those around me instead of myself. I channeled those thoughts. I should change the world instead of myself, like a scientist. I needed that kind of reasoning. That's when an idea popped into my head.

Instead of thinking about my body like it was mine, I tried disconnecting myself from it. If you think about it, we're all just flesh sacks holding souls. At least that's what I believed. Using that belief, I thought of my body like it was just a vessel. It was a car, and I was its driver. It was a golem, and I was the soul commanding it.

The augmentation runes charged, though they never sent sparks like before. It was a small amount of extra mana, not an enormous flow like usual. That mana poured down my arms and into my palms, reaching my previous inscriptions.

The orange mana bled into the black energy sealed in the red sphere. The energies rejected each other, like oil trying to mix with water. The dual energies vibrated with violence, but the red sphere kept the sound from leaking out. As they raged within their sphere, the follower reached down the stairs.

He was a Porytian, one of Yawm's species. It wasn't Yawm though. His legs were bent like a goats, even as he stood straight up. His arms were long and his hands massive, though they weren't hulking like the overseer's limbs. His eyes radiated a solid, emerald green, streaks of the glow crawling down his chest and arms.

The voice raged, "You've no time, Daniel. Relinquish yourself to me, and I will offer you salvation." The voice's words didn't convince me for one second. He sounded a little bit too much like Elijah for my taste.

The porytian stepped into the room. Wherever the shining streaks passed, something like muscle bulged from under the wooden skin. As it shifted its movements and steps, the creature moved with a pristine grace. It was nothing like either of the other followers. The way he looked and moved seemed like he chose to do it. The others were glorified puppets by comparison.

Two horns curved into the sides of his mouthless face, blending into the wooden skin and ending in spikes. The thin fingers looked sharpened and tense, like they were ready to tear out a throat at any second. The thing tapped its forehead before slapping through the glass of a wine bottle. Its fingers sheared through the glass with ease.

It grunted, inhuman and angry. After another pause, the thing leaned against a wall like it was frustrated. At this point, I prayed it wouldn't kill me.

Ajax Volan, the Void Eater(lvl 4289) - A follower of Yawm, he is Yawm's strongest and most loyal ally. During the war with the Bracken, Ajax acted a vanguard with Yawm. The both of them have torn apart entire armies on their own. Despite refusing Yawm's gift of flesh, they remain on excellent terms due to their history before Yawm's resurgence as a galactic threat.

Not much else is known about Ajax. With its enormous pool of experience, gigantic level, and untold power, Ajax Volan is devastating. Hide or run, but do not fight him. To fight him is to die.

The man and I shook with a quiet frenzy. The man twitched now, his face turning pale. He would reveal me in seconds, if Ajax hadn't sensed my mana already.

At the peak of my panic, Ajax spoke into the air.

"What are we even doing anymore?"
