Naturally, Evanera created a second stir of excitement when she finally removed the hood of her cloak and revealed the iridescent feathers amongst the sea of her aquamarine hair. After the presentation that he made, few in the audience would be foolish enough to mistake them for mere accessories. And, alas, personal vanity remained a prominent driver amongst the young.

“My apprentice here will be handing out copies of a book known as the Medical Manuscripts to every elf in the room. Well, this particular version has been broken down into three volumes for easier binding and storage. Even if you never return, the books are yours to keep or to give to a colleague that may appreciate them more. The Medical Manuscripts are not an exciting read to most, but the wisdom found within them is the foundation for Biomancy. Do not worry about fully understanding everything within them immediately—I shall aspire to teach what my students lack.” Lumornor spoke up before the murmurings from within the audience became too engrossed.

He still had more demonstrations and a brief lecture on the fundamentals to get through, but for a first attempt things seemed to have gone quite well. Of course, he had a list of things he hoped to improve or attempt alternatives for with the subsequent groups, but there were few things in life that could not be improved with iteration.

Once the allotted time came to an end, Lumornor (his arm and the toad both restored to their prior states) had the doors reopened while his first audience gathered their things. One elf was transparently planning to leave her copies of the Medical Manuscripts behind—a remarkable display of poor judgment—but the rest seemed to be securing the bundled books amongst their possessions.

Though his attention was pulled from his prospective students when a new woman intruded into the space with a frantic, breathless energy. There was no doubt that she was a part of whatever waste of elven potential that had the room after him, eager to chase him out early to claim as much…

There were no horns! The woman bore the grace of an elf in her movements, yet there was no trace of horns atop her head. In addition, her ears were pitiful, rounded things—likely nearing the point that they would become vestigial. The woman was rushing for the rabbit, which should have held his attention, but he found himself somewhat fixated on a different matter entirely.

A human! There was a human in Ar-Suelle and no one had told him?! Was she a peerless intellectual, like Elaine? Could her specialization be similar?! The potential for the collaborator of his dreams was intoxicating, eradicating mere concerns about her mortality and the thin odds of any given human being a thoroughly educated scholar of all things anatomical.

The odds thinned further with every moment she argued—in animated fury—with a rabbit. By the time she concluded her shouting match, even Lumornor was forced to concede that the woman was likely an idiot.

Which left him feeling more than a bit reluctant to engage by the time the woman approached, followed closely by the thing that had intruded upon his lesson. [Subject Assessment] returned that she was a [Warrior], level 766 by hue. He lacked a baseline for humans, but her fitness level was most likely uncommonly high. His Skill pegged her as a sexually mature, and thus adult, mortal. Her heart rate was (presumably) elevated, though her vitality was high enough to render most other biometrics useless.

“Um, hi. My name’s Ranthia and this is Clover, and I would like to ask if you’d be willing to allow Clover to keep listening to your lessons?” Her discomfort was obvious enough—he hardly needed a baseline to recognize that much.

“Lumornor.” He gave his own name (he had no way to know better) while he mulled over the question. He was somewhat surprised to find that he genuinely didn’t mind—the rabbit had been well-behaved, and he supposed it could be useful as a curiosity that might attract young minds. “I suppose that it is welcome to stay. It was better behaved than some of the elves. Besides, I am here to hone my abilities as a teacher, and what better test than to see if I can instruct a rabbit?”

He seldom made jokes, but he was quite pleased with that one. Unfortunately, the recipient just nodded to herself without so much as a smile.

“Alright, thank you. She’s my Companion Bond and she’s being really stubborn about this. Just let me know when to have her here. If you ever have any sort of emergency or have issues, the animal [Healer], Litil, can get her too if I’m not available. …Oh! And I should warn you, her Spatial element is real; she’s a caster monster. She can actually teleport—I think it’s a reserve Skill that maxes out at three charges, but it’s not like I can make her confirm. She mostly uses it to steal food.” The woman’s blatant discomfort was fading at an impressive clip, though her scattered explanations made him even less confident in her intelligence. There was no chance that a true scholar like Elaine could have been so bumbling and absentminded.

Still, the fact that the rabbit was a caster monster was genuinely interesting. Acting as an attractant for young elves was one thing, but the rabbit would make for a very interesting specimen once he was further along with his preparations. Perhaps he could even convince the human to aid in his endeavors in some capacity if he offered to undo the ravages of age in the twilight of the rabbit’s life—or as her own beauty faded beneath wrinkles.

“I will have lectures throughout the current festivities daily, though they will be substantively similar to the one she has already attended. But if she wishes to repeat the lesson, I see no reason to turn her away. Once the festivities come to a close, I will work out a consistent schedule and location for educating future [Biomancers]. At this moment, I aim to run three courses a week, and I shall post the schedule on this center’s noticeboard once it has been worked out.

“She is welcome to attend as she likes, though I will warn you: I plan to eventually narrow the number of students I teach as we move beyond the fundamentals. There will come a time that any idle student will become unwelcome.” By necessity, he began to walk the woman and her pet out while he explained. Others were intruding in the room as it ceased to be his, and he had no interest in dealing with passive aggressive territorial disputes.

Evanera and Relvarith followed, carrying the supplies that they had brought into the room.

“Ah, one more thing for you.” Lumornor paused to retrieve the bundle of books that the foolish girl had left behind. “These are the necessary reading for my course. The copies are yours to keep. If you lose or damage them, I intend to leave copies with the local libraries and [Scriveners] as well.”

He had no expectations for the rabbit to read, but that wasn’t the point. He watched the woman’s reaction as she took the books.

And there it was. Her eyes widened slightly as she scanned the title and she subvocalized an interesting set of words: “Huh, small world…”

She knew! As he had hoped, even a boorish [Warrior] was familiar with the masterpiece of her people. He would ‘teach’ her pet, certainly. And he would do what he could to engender favor with her. Then, in time, he would ask her to put him in contact with the other great scholars of humanity.

He was quite capable of blazing his own path to his goals, but he wasn’t so shortsighted as to abandon those that could expedite said path. Any potential peer or assistant that had cleverness, wisdom, and/or valuable experience was an asset worth pursuing, no matter where or what they hailed from. It was a lesson that more elves could bear to learn: even a mortal mind was a terrible thing to waste.
