The early morning sun felt warm on Rain’s armor as the reds and oranges of the sunrise gave way to the pale blue of the day to come. A handful of puffy clouds played on the horizon, the last reminders of the storm that had accompanied them here. The air itself was bitterly cold and heavy with the scent of salt, but the wind was low and the waves were gentle, lapping quietly against the iceberg beneath him.

Slowly, the haze faded from Rain’s eyes behind his visor, and he came back to himself with a start.

Where...?

Looking around, there was no sign of the Warden or Citizen Barstone. Even the Citizen’s ship was gone, though he spotted it as he turned, the frigate floating peacefully with the rest of the fleet, as if it had never left. Ameliah, Vanna, Samson, Tarny, and Sana were standing in a line beside him, dazed expressions on their faces as they stared out at the now completely blue horizon. According to his HUD, it was just after seventh bell. He’d lost over an hour.

“Hey...” Rain said, his voice coming out as a croak.

Ameliah stirred, then jerked. She gasped, raising her bow and dropping into a crouch as she swiveled her head from side to side.

“Where’d she go?”

“I don’t know,” Rain said, looking at her, then shifting his eyes to Vanna as she gasped and pressed a hand to her chest. “The Warden pulled something out of Velika, and then... Shit, Velika!”

Rain whirled, his boots crunching against the ice as he dashed toward the crumpled form lying at the center of the platform. Detection promptly informed him it was a person, not a body, and he relaxed slightly, crouching down and gently rolling her over. Behind him, he heard a startled shout as Tarny snapped out of the trance, followed by a high-pitched yelp from Sana.

“Captain?” Samson asked, speaking over their confused murmurs. “What’s happening? What happened to the Warden?”

“How much does everyone remember?” Rain asked, rising and looking at Ameliah, who had followed him. She knelt to check on Velika, but Rain had already put the ex-Citizen out of his mind. She was unconscious, but breathing, with snow and frozen drool crusting her face. Had she been just anyone, he’d have feared frostbite, but there was no way regular ice could hurt someone like her.

“I...don’t know,” Ameliah said. “After the Warden stopped Barstone, she put everyone in a trance or something, then she started talking to me...reading my mind.” She crossed her arms, rubbing her elbows. “She wanted to know about Ascension and why I joined. After that, she told me something...something I’m not sure I wanted to know.” There was a brief pause as she struggled, her emotional distress clear from the trembling intensity of her soul.

Rain took a step toward her. “Hey.”

“I’ll tell you later,” Ameliah said, her soul quieting as she pressed down whatever was bothering her. She shook her head, then looked back at Vanna. “We talked a bit more after that, but then she stumbled, and I had to catch her before she fell. She thanked me, then said Rain was three fries short of a Happy Meal, whatever that’s supposed to mean.” She shrugged at him. “She also said she was jealous and that I should never, ever, EVER let him go.”

Rain’s thoughts, already reeling from the Happy Meal comment, sputtered to a halt. As he worked to form a reply, he noticed that Sana was turning pink again, but fortunately, Vanna came to his rescue.

“This doesn’t make sense,” she said, hugging her arms close to her chest. “After Vatreece did...whatever she did...to Barstone, she was talking to me. It was everyone else who was in a daze, including you.” She uncrossed her arms to point at Ameliah, then spread them wide in a gesture of hopeless bewilderment. “She kept asking me about my past. Like, who I was, where I came from, and how I ended up second in command of Ascension before I was even awakened. Then, just like you said, she stumbled, except I was the one to catch her. And then, after she thanked me, I was just...here.”

“So, this is the power of a platinumplate,” Samson said, clearly disturbed from his tone and the way he was resting a hand on the pommel of his sword. “My experience was much the same as Vanna’s. I believe the Warden spun our minds into distinct, hallucinated realities. Terrifying. Terrifying to think that the world I saw was naught but fiction. Tarny? Officer Sana? Did the Warden speak to you as well?”

“I...yes,” Sana said, straightening herself up and tugging on her jacket. “Yes, she did.”

“And me,” Tarny said, nodding. “Now, thinking back, it seems ridiculous that she’d want to talk to a lowly Beacon, but it seemed so natural then. It felt perfectly reasonable for her to want to know what I thought about Ascension—about what we were doing and why we were doing it.” He looked at Rain. “It was like a dream.”

Rain shivered, but not from the cold.

Mental Ward was active in the rotation, but if she had a piercing skill...

...

I should have tried Aura Focus! Why didn’t I think to try Aura Focus?!

*pop*

“Ah!” several people screamed.

[Hello!]

“Where the hells were you?!” Rain demanded of the slime that had just splatted atop his head, losing what little composure he’d been managing to maintain.

[Dozer talk Grannybrain!] Dozer said, quivering with excitement and clinging to Rain’s helmet as he moved. [Ask many whats! Ask how Dozer am be Dozer! Confuse!!1!]

Rain reeled, echoing Dozer’s sentiment and ignoring the errant ‘1’ in the string of exclamation points. “Dozer says he was talking to the Warden...” he said, trailing off. Reaching up, he dislodged the slime with a loud sucking sound, depositing him instead on his shoulder as his thoughts continued to churn.

Dozer should have been in my soul when Vatreece popped in, but he wasn’t. I didn’t even NOTICE!

Someone began to talk, but Rain raised his hands, making a shushing sound as he closed his eyes. He began examining his thoughts, turning each one over and checking it for any lingering influence. There was nothing.

...

Filth, that doesn’t mean it’s not there...

[⟬filth⟭!]

“Um, Custodian Rain, sir,” Officer Sana said hesitantly.

Still in a daze, Rain tore his eyes open to look at her. “What?”

Sana came to a stop, hugging her woolly jacket tight about herself. “She, uh, Warden Vatreece said... She said I should go with you, that is, um, if you’ll have me. She wants me to join Ascension. She said you’d need my help and that you were a good person.”

“She told me there were no good people,” Rain said, starting to feel a bit numb.

“She also wanted me to—”Sana began, but Ameliah cut her off urgently.

“Sorry, Rain, Nails is Messaging me. He says he tried you first, but that he couldn’t make a connection. Everyone is waking up now, and he says...” Ameliah held up a finger, tilting her head. “He says the Warden came down the stairs and froze Velika before she could slit Mahria’s throat, then...” She paused again, her finger still raised. “He says Vatreece wanted to talk to him, to give him some tips, Mentalist to Mentalist, plus a warning not to—hold on. He says Halgrave just woke up, and he is not happy. Crap.”

[Crap!] Dozer agreed, busily climbing the side of Rain’s face to get back on top of his head.

“We need to get down there, Rain,” Ameliah said. “People are starting to panic.”

Rain clenched his jaw as he nodded.

If there’s a compulsion in there, worrying about it won’t help. Oh, gods.

He clapped his hands sharply to rip his thoughts away from that dark path, then began determinedly striding for the ramp. “All hands meeting! Ameliah, tell Nails we’re coming. Samson, drag Velika inside, will you? Vanna, please go get Jamus and Carten, then meet us in the command room. Sana, with me.” He plucked Dozer off his head with another sucking sound—the slime really didn’t want to go—then shoved him into the officer’s arms. “Here, keep him distracted, will you?”

Existential crisis later. Time to be the captain.

All told, it took the remainder of the morning for things to settle down, and finding a space big enough for Rain to speak with everyone at once had proven impossible. There were two hundred and forty-one people on Temerity at the moment, about half of them being part of Ascension proper, with most of the remainder being the new members’ families.

As Rain crossed the threshold to the council room, the distant rumble of hundreds of conversations dropped to nothing thanks to Subtlety’s old Muffler, sitting just inside the entrance. Closing the door for good measure, Rain fought back a tired sigh, reminding himself that he was still pretending to have his shit together. He didn’t stop himself from heading for the coffee carafe that had been set up on a side table, though.

“Captain,” Tarny said, the only other occupant of the room at the moment. He was busy going through a stack of papers at the conference table in preparation for the meeting scheduled to start in a few minutes.

“Tarny,” Rain replied.

Ignoring the jar of honey, he poured himself a mug of dark liquid, cracked his visor open just enough to down it, then poured himself another and downed that as well. After refilling the mug a third time, he made his way over to the chair beside Tarny, latching his visor back into place and collapsing into the unpadded seat with a grunt.

“You need to rest, Captain,” Tarny said without looking up.

“I am aware of that fact,” Rain said, setting the mug on the table.

“I’m cutting you off,” Tarny said, reaching over and sliding it away before Rain could stop him. “When was the last time you had a proper meal?”

Rain growled but didn’t move to reclaim his beverage. It wasn’t like the caffeine seemed to be doing anything. His exhaustion wasn’t physical. And as for food, he wasn’t even remotely hungry. His stomach was clenched tight with stress, leaving no room for anything solid.

“Hey,” Ameliah said, the Muffle rune having stopped him from hearing the door as she arrived.

“Hey,” Rain said back, weakly waving a hand.

Ameliah made for the coffee table, her helmet vanishing as Vanna and Samson trailed in after her. Samson started to close the door but stopped and pushed it back open to admit Tallheart, who had to duck to get his antlers through. The cervidian made his way around the table, stopping beside the chair to Rain’s right. He didn’t sit immediately, instead laying a heavy hand on Rain’s shoulder.

“How are you holding up, Tallheart?” Rain asked, placing his hand atop his friend’s. “You look as tired as I feel.”

Tallheart rumbled deeply. No further words were needed, apparently, and after a moment, he removed his hand to sit. Not long after, Ameliah sat beside him, placing a mug down in front of herself, then one in front of Tallheart before sliding a third to Rain.

“Thank you,” Rain said, cupping it between his hands as Tarny gave him a warning glance. He didn’t move to drink, though. Not because of his adjutant’s disapproval but because the door had opened again, admitting Atyl, Romer, and Smelt.

With that, they were all here, all the major council heads: Vanna for Administration, Samson for Defense, Atyl for Finance, Tallheart for Engineering, Romer for Education, Smelt for Logistics. Ameliah wasn’t a council head and didn’t want to be, but nobody was about to say she didn’t have a place here.

Tarny, meanwhile, was here to run the show. “Shall I start, Captain?” he asked, shuffling his papers and looking around as the last few people found their seats.

“Please,” Rain said, nodding to him.

“Very well,” Tarny replied, clearing his throat. “The High Council of Ascension is called to order to discuss the events of this morning and to chart our path forward.” Dispensing with any further formalities, he looked down at his stack of papers and began to summarize. “I will begin by ensuring we are all on the same page. All reports seem to agree that after the jolt of the DKE frigate docking with Temerity, a few minutes passed before the Warden’s arrival. As far as we know, she spoke with everyone on board simultaneously, either one-on-one or, in the case of a few families with young children, in small groups. In all instances, those she spoke to didn’t find her presence remarkable until afterward. Other than that, there were two, possibly three reports of actual compulsion, likely using the tier-three skill Command.”

Tarny gestured to Rain and Ameliah. “The Warden Commanded both Rain and Ameliah to open their visors, and in response, they immediately felt the desire to do so. She also Commanded Halgrave to ‘calm down,’ and despite being a Goldplate with maxed resistances, and despite the unresolved situation with Velika, he reports immediately feeling relaxed and at ease. From Halgrave’s perspective, the Warden also issued further Commands to Velika and Mahria to deescalate the situation, but Mahria’s perspective does not align with her father’s in this regard. She recalls Velika being torn off her with a wave of Mental energy. Thus, I cannot say for certain what really occurred. The last report of a Command comes from Argle Thrast, who says the Warden told him to, quote, ‘shut up.’ He says he was able to resist the compulsion, but that when she repeated her Command twice more, the third repetition left him entirely unable to make a sound. Given the Warden’s ability to subdue Halgrave, this last report is dubious to say the least.”

“That’s it?” Rain interjected in disbelief, having already heard Halgrave’s account in person. “There weren’t any more?”

“So it would seem,” Tarny said. “As you requested, I also asked people to compare their memories against each other, checking for discrepancies in their shared histories. Other than the diverging accounts during the Warden’s visit, everyone’s long-term memories appear fully intact.”

“I hate this!” Atyl said suddenly, clutching the arms of his chair as he violently kicked his feet in agitation, just slightly short of reaching the floor. “I hate thinking that everything I’m thinking might have been tainted! If I can’t trust my own mind, what can I trust?”

