“I hear you,” Romer said unhappily, scratching at the narrow bridge of his nose. “If it makes you feel any better, I combed through the skill codices Rain acquired yesterday, plus everything we acquired in Vestvall and Three Cliffs. There is nothing in any of it to suggest that such subtle compulsion is possible. Command and its limitations are well documented, considering the number of times it has been turned to abuse. Unfortunately, I cannot say whether there are other skills with similar effects. The books did not list any hidden skills within the Psionics tree, nor did they have information on the tier-four capstone, let alone anything beyond it, if such things even exist.”

“We’re getting off track,” Rain said, raising a hand to forestall Ameliah, who looked like she wanted to say something. “Can we let Tarny finish before we move on?”

Ameliah nodded, then settled back to take a sip of her coffee.

After a motion from Rain, Tarny continued. “The Warden seemed mostly interested in acquiring information, though Rain’s were the only memories she explicitly stole. To everyone else, she merely asked questions, particularly to those with knowledge of the ideas Rain has shared with us. In particular, Staavo seems to have had the longest interview of anyone, though the exact timing of his discussion with the Warden is uncertain. In addition to being able to split her mind to a ridiculous degree, Vatreece also appears able to think at a highly accelerated rate. The best example of this is her conversation with Rain, which he will now summarize.”

“Thank you, Tarny,” Rain said, standing. As planned, he launched into a largely unabridged account of what he’d experienced. He glossed over a few things, but for the most part, he told them everything, including what had happened in his soul. The Council of Souls wasn’t ‘official,’ as far as Ascension’s codes were concerned, but everyone in this room knew basically what it got up to. Rain filled in a few details concerning his inner world when Atyl asked for clarifications, but he kept his responses short and to the point.

When he was finished, he sat back down, raising a hand to stop anyone from speaking just yet. “One more thing.” Lowering his palm to hover above the table, he moved his arm slowly to the side, causing a clatter as metal plates fell. Looking up to see mild surprise from everyone but Ameliah and Tallheart, who he’d already told, he gestured to the accolades before him. “These are the same ones I returned to the Watch. Shortly after the Warden departed, I discovered them in my possession. I don’t recall her giving them to me.”

“That’s disturbing,” Romer said. “Nice of her to return them, but disturbing how she did it.”

“One more one more thing,” Rain said, raising a finger. “Neither Ameliah nor Nails can contact me with Message, even if I explicitly concentrate on wanting to talk to them. They can’t reach Dozer, either, and it’s not a matter of intent, or even of Mental resistance. It’s a full and highly specific block, exactly like Thought Shell, except you aren’t supposed to be able to cast that on other people. Whatever it is, clearly, the Warden doesn’t want anyone else getting in my head. She assured me that I didn’t know anything too dangerous, but coming from a platinum, ‘too dangerous’ is relative.”

Does she trust my judgment in what I choose to share, or will I find myself tongue-tied if I try to talk about, say, napalm?

“I really, really, really, REALLY hate this,” Atyl said, letting his head fall into his hands.

Rain was thankful his visor hid his grimace. How do you think I feel?

Wordlessly, he began poking the accolades one by one, sucking them back into his soul. Once he felt up to it, he continued in as calm a tone as he could manage. “There may be other gaps in our memories that we are unaware of. Until we have proof to the contrary, we have to assume that there are more surprises waiting for us—compulsions she buried deep in our minds. The only comfort is that the Warden seemed to be, for lack of a more precise way to say it, on our side. She may have refrained from such things out of principle, as her reputation would suggest.” He closed his mouth before he could mention that even that couldn’t be trusted if memory manipulation was on the table. He gestured, covering his momentary pause. “That brings us to Ameliah and the practical tests I asked her to run. How did things go in the city?”

Ameliah shrugged. “I had no problem finding Branch Leader Everiss and telling her everything. She didn’t believe me about the Warden, even when I mentioned I knew both you and Officer Sana, but nothing stopped me from saying the words. Also, I wanted to mention earlier that while I was at the Guild, I checked the archive for the Psionics tier-four. They didn’t have any info on it, at least not with my access level.”

“You checked the what now?” Rain asked.

“The archive,” Ameliah said apologetically. “Most big Guild branches have one. They keep track of skill info, builds, class details, team composition, lair locations...all kinds of stuff. You have to meet a point threshold, and you can’t take any of it out with you, but there’s a lot more knowledge in there than there is in those cheap books you bought.”

“How did I not know about this?!” Rain demanded.

Ameliah grimaced. “Sorry, I was going to tell you, but I didn’t want to distract you yesterday, and I can guarantee you don’t have the Guildscore to get in. I’m barely over the line for basic, supervised access, and I’ve been at this way longer than you have.”

Rain deflated. “Damn it.”

Vanna cleared her throat. “What about the Watch office? Did they know anything?”

“It was empty when I got there,” Ameliah said, signing ‘sorry’ to Rain in hand code. “The note on the door said ‘back at noon,’ so I just moved on. I talked to a few constables next, and they either said Barstone was in his palace or out inspecting the fleet. The city’s buzzing with the news from Three Cliffs, but nobody has seen or heard anything from the DKE in terms of a response.”

“The constables really didn’t give you any trouble?” Tarny asked.

Ameliah shook her head. “No.”

“Well, that’s good at least,” Rain said, pushing aside his irritation over the archive. “I guess I got all the grumpy ones yesterday.” He’d been worried about Ameliah going into the city alone, especially since she wasn’t able to Message him if she got into hot water, though rationally, there was nothing to fear. Setting aside Velika—who was still unconscious—and Halgrave—who was even more shaken than Atyl, and understandably so—Ascension was quite possibly the most powerful force left in the city.

Unless there’s a sapphireplate on that Goldship. One thing at a time.

Working his jaw, he returned his focus to the rest of the council, then cleared his throat. “As I mentioned, Vatreece said she was waiting for Barstone to close his connection to the Citizens’ network before she struck. From that, and knowing Velika was able to disconnect herself, there’s a chance the Warden isn’t in complete control yet. Any Citizens who weren’t actively linked when she implanted herself with the Mantle may still be free.”

“I believe that is too much to hope for,” Samson countered, tapping a finger on the table. “Since Warden Vatreece does not seem to be bothered by us speaking freely, that suggests nothing we do can alter the outcome. Any Citizens she did not immediately ensnare, she would have collected promptly with the aid of the others. Even if she could not get them all, she has likely already acted. For all we know, the Potentate is dead and we are just waiting to hear about it.”

“Or the Warden is dead and we are just waiting to hear about it,” Tallheart rumbled darkly, catching the room’s attention.

“Right,” Vanna said after a moment. “This is Fecht we are talking about. Even with all the Citizens under her control, and even if she’s confident, Vatreece said she was dying. She could still lose.”

Rain rubbed his eyes through his visor. “I never thought I’d miss the 24-hour news cycle. If there was a battle somewhere, in the DKE or the Empire, how long would it take the news to get here?”

“Twenty-four hours is as good a guess as any,” Ameliah said with a noncommittal gesture. “There’s a platform here, and a busy one, too, not a stub connection like Brightside. We’re on the main transit path to Bellost from the heart of the DKE.”

“Right,” Rain sighed. “I keep forgetting about that. I’m too used to being off the grid. We could even send someone through to Estervale if we wanted to. The Watch has a Mindcaster there, and unless the Warden issued a gag order, they’d know if anything had happened anywhere in the DKE.”

“I’d just as soon no longer be in the DKE,” Smelt said, entering the conversation at last. “Are you really suggesting we hang around here to sate our curiosity, given what just happened to us?”

Rain shook his head. “You’re right; even if Vatreece shuts down Fecht, she might not bother with the Adamants in Three Cliffs right away. They could still come here. No, we’re leaving Barstone, the only question being how soon. Do we need any more supplies, or could we leave this instant?”

Smelt grunted. “We have enough to reach Fioe or Eastspar, even with the ice slowing us. After that, fresh water is going to be an issue. Tallheart, have you made the purifier I asked you for yet?”

“I have not,” Tallheart replied. “The integrity of the ship takes priority.” He shifted his gaze to Rain. “To repair it properly, I will need titanium, hmm, and time to learn its secrets.”

“All the more reason to find a safe harbor,” Samson said. “If we need more supplies, we can acquire them in Eastspar.”

“Um,” Atyl said, followed by a polite cough. “Our financial situation isn’t the best, actually.”

“Before I went into Barstone yesterday, you said we were fine,” Rain challenged. “I didn’t spend that much, did I?”

“Fine if all we’re buying is food and water,” Atyl clarified. “Not fine for titanium. I’d never heard of it until a week ago, which means it’s expensive. Adventurer expensive.”

“Priceless, actually,” Rain said, recalling that Atyl hadn’t been at the meeting where he and Tallheart had first gone over the details. He raised a hand, as it looked like Atyl was about to respond. “It’s not something you buy. As far as we know, only the Empire knows how to refine it. We’ll need to learn to make it ourselves, but that’s a longer-term project.” He turned to Tallheart. “If we keep the iceberg, can we make it to Eastspar without something breaking?”

“The enchantments on the hull are failing,” Tallheart said with an unhappy rumble. “There are small fractures throughout. The mana network has been disrupted.”

“So that’s a maybe,” Rain said, shaking his head. “Tarny, please take a note to have Bakal and Mahria reinforce the ice and try to streamline it a bit. It needs to hold together even if the ship doesn’t. Have them start as soon as we’re done here.”

“Noted,” Tarny said.

Rain looked back at Vanna. “Do we need to let anyone off?”

Vanna shook her head. “Nobody has asked to leave.”

“Do we want to let anyone off?” Ameliah asked. “Bakal is useful, and I admit he’s the tamest, cuddliest pirate I’ve ever met, but the stray Guilders? Thrast and Cessa? Thrast is trouble, and I barely know anything about Cessa beyond that she’s a Fire Mage.”

“Exactly,” Rain said. “She’s higher-leveled than Kettel or Ava, so it would be great to have her to help heat the boiler. Tarny, another action, see if she wants to join, assuming she qualifies, and if not, see if you can come up with a contract or something so we can hire her on a temporary basis. As for Thrast, we could do without him, obviously, but I’m not in favor of kicking anyone off. We can boot him at Eastspar if he becomes a problem.”

“Or sooner,” Tallheart rumbled. “He has proven that he is able to swim.”

Ameliah snorted.

“Okay, it’s settled then,” Vanna said, standing up. “We’re leaving right the hells now. Unless there are any objections, we should probably call the meeting.”

“No objections, but wait just a moment,” Rain said, motioning her back down. “We need to finalize where we’re going.”

“North,” Smelt said, crossing his arms. “Duh.”

“Yes, obviously,” Rain said patiently, “but are we stopping at Fioe, or are we pressing for Eastspar?”

“Eastspar would be better if we can make it,” Samson said. “Fioe doesn’t have a teleporter, and it has a bad reputation—both the city and the Citizen, not that we’ll have to deal with the latter.”

“Eastspar, then,” Vanna said. “Good enough for me. We can always stop sooner if it looks like we’re not going to make it.”

“Where after that, though?” Romer asked.

Rain opened his mouth but found himself interrupted by a low rumble.

“Yelfenn.”

Rain raised an eyebrow, swiveling his head to peer at the antlered smith. “What’s in Yelfenn?”

Tallheart blinked slowly, meeting Rain’s gaze.

Oh. I’ll ask him later in private to make sure, but if it’s what I think it is...

“That is not much of an answer,” Vanna observed after the silence began to stretch.

Rain nodded to Tallheart. “Okay, Yelfenn.”

“Wait just a damn second,” Smelt said. “That’s still in the DKE.”

“I am aware,” Rain said. “Tallheart wants to go there, though, so that’s where we’re going.”

“But—”

“Smelt,” Ameliah said, interrupting him and raising her hand high above her head. “I vote for Yelfenn. It’s still in the DKE, yes, but it’s right in the middle of the northern coast. With the Citizens under the Warden’s control, it’s probably as safe as anywhere, on this continent or off. Safer than passing by Splendor and risking our luck with the Bank, certainly. It’s near the West Nov passage, too, so we don’t have far to go if we decide to try our luck in Rellagia. The port cities tolerate Guilders to one degree or another, provided they keep out of politics.”

Rain raised his hand, adding his vote for Yelfenn, though it was hardly unclear where he stood. He looked at Vanna. “What do you say, Commander?”

“Yelfenn,” Vanna said, raising her hand as well and looking at Smelt. “Sorry, brother. No time to argue.”

Samson looked at Tallheart speculatively. “There is something there you need?”

Tallheart, after a moment, nodded slowly.

Samson nodded back, then raised his hand as well. “Good enough for me. I vote for Yelfenn.”

