Hate is a beautiful thing. No emotion more reliable. It keeps on boiling away in the pit of your stomach even after all the other feelings go dull. And that's what you need when you're fighting a long war.

Or at least what feels like a long war. I don't know, 150 years ain't nothing, but compared to some of these greater skins we're fighting, just a blink of an eye, really. Through it all, hate’s been my friend, my shield, my fuel.

I hate the orcs. I hate 'em pure, and I hate 'em hot, like lit napalm. I've hated them since before I could walk, when they breached my farm-fort and skinned my folks like we did our cattle for a gag. I learned to hate them twice as much as I went through my Deputization—and found out I wasn't special. Practically every other little shit in the grades had lost something, and they all burned like me.

The hate stuck with me when I finally finished my initiation and earned my Star. That hate got me good and wed when I found someone who hated as much as I do. And that hate kept burning even when the spark of love went out and my love went dead. It burned hotter when one of them got their hand on my youngest and sent what was left of her back to me as a pair of shoes with a little note attached.

“Leather, because you should never forget about your parents, Hank.”

Them orc fucks know I hate. And they welcome it. They love me for it. But hate makes me good at math. Berserk makes me run the numbers faster. And when I’m there, the artillery never stops falling so long as there are shells to spend.

I’m fine with hate. I love hate. And I will keep hating until I am good and dead or there are no grayskins left to kill. And that’s what I need all you kids to do—hate. Because you ain’t gonna find nothing else more reliable in this life than hate.

Feed that fire.

Breathe in the ash.

And send that shit back.

Whatever it takes. Whatever it costs. Hate will make it possible.

—Master Hank Iddlestein, Scout-Shadow of the Hu-Stone 4th Artillery Regiment

369

A Coalition Against the End [I]

Morgan Munny was on his sixtieth cigarette, and it wasn’t even noon yet. He'd long since run dry of all the good stuff. He should have saved a bit more of the cigars for the end of the season. Now he was wasting time sucking the sparks out of the twerp sticks the soft fort-folk called smokes around Fortress-City Hidalgo. Not his fault it took Heroic-Tier lungs just a breath to gulp that stuff down; they needed more kick for this stuff anyhow—barely enough nicotine to give a buzz.

And he wanted the buzz. He really, really did, ‘cause for the first time in a long, long time, the orcs were doing something that left his skin prickling with tension.

Standing within the command core of the Terminal Opus—his Magnum-Class mobile Siege-Crawler—Morgan glared out at the crooked needle sticking out from the earth some half dozen kilometers in front of him.

For leading to the greatest Gate connected to Integrated Earth, the Tutorial Megagate archway really was an ugly piece of garbage. It was slanted like it'd been built on unpaid overtime, about eight times taller than it was wide, with its peak at slightly over two kilometers above ground, and made entirely from pieces of rebar and other rusted pieces of metal haphazardly melted together.

The gateway was dormant, a blank sheet of black static, as it had been almost permanently for the past few weeks.

But still, Morgan watched. And waited. And listened. He used every single one of the hundred and eight Awareness-boosting enchantments imbued into the crawler to spy on the orcs, and then he went a little further, taking a chance and casting out his personal Sensory-Anchors around the insides of the Gate. Well, the districts closest to the Lone Star gateway, anyway. The Breaker’s personal dimension had the volume of a medium-sized planet, and mapping out every nook and cranny of it would take centuries, even without the legions of orcs inside itching to rip you limb from limb.

But looking around was all he could do. He'd done it day in and day out for the last three months, and every day, that pit in his stomach got a little deeper, and his skin wanted to rip off his meat just a bit more.

The part of him that hurt the most was his scalp. Especially along the right, where the long scar took a trip all the way to the back. Morgan got close to finishing things with the Culturist that one time; the fucking orc got closer.

The other Rangers found him half-scalped and impaled on a ruined cannon-barrel at the end of that season. They thought he was dead until he started coughing up blood. That had been thirteen years ago. Thirteen years, like all the years before, like all the years after, and in each of those years, Morgan and the rest of Lone Star held and bombed, and the damned orcs kept on coming, always and forever.

Every summer, the Culturist sent his Orchestra out. Every summer, Morgan was there to punish any grayskin who had the gall to leave their warded trenches.

And every year, things got a little harder. More farm-forts, cities, and Gates were breached and butchered. More places were mined barren of metal for artillery. More kids and families broke their oaths and fled up north to leash themselves as bitch-dogs to the Yellowstone Yellowbellies, and yet more fine Rangers died.

Morgan remained, and with every year, it felt like the only things that stayed the same were him, his Crawler, and the fucking orcs that just never stopped coming.

But something had changed this season. Something was happening.

He glared out at the orcs, and saw their trenches quiet and empty. His Scouts and Diviners reported only the barest of skeleton crews manning their lines. The worst of the threats were mainly orc Shadows, Thieves, and Assassins getting into that annual groove of sabotage in the lead up to the big war to come.

But the Concerts never formed. The sieges never came. The orcs never began their push, never called upon that big-nasty storm to shroud their forces with lightning and thunder in prelude to the coming shock and awe. A few days ago, all the orcs had suddenly fallen over and started screaming, but nobody had approached. Wouldn't have been the first time they pulled a trick like that.

It felt wrong. It was wrong. Orcs didn’t get demoralized. They didn’t give up on anything. Not when death was just a chance for them to try again and do better. Not when there was so much easy misery to feed on during the war. And the orcs they captured refused to spill. All he knew was that there was a new Vaketh-Insul on Earth, some Yellowstone bastard, of all Pathbearers the Challenger could have picked from. But no matter how good that new Nemesis Commander was, his presence wouldn't translate into the orcs disappearing from their front entirely.

“So where the fuck are they?” Morgan asked, both to himself and his Ranger-Lance. “Where the fuck is he?”

Because if there was one Pathbearer Morgan could count on, it was the Culturist. But he wasn’t here this summer either. It was like the entire invasion had been called off as a joke. Or an attempt at psychological warfare.

Yet it didn’t feel like that either. Sure, the grays had delayed their sieges before, but they'd never cancelled them. Morgan knew how the orcs thought—had learned their ways from one of them. They might be smart and cruel shits, but that didn’t mean they were perfect. They still needed to feed their itch, and even during calmer invasions, there were plenty of orcs to make up a good few concerts.

Orcs were hyper-individualists, but even they fit clichés, so even if some of them decided they wanted to attack somewhere else, that didn’t mean the trenches would be entirely empty around their main gateway. No. For so many of them to go missing all at once meant the orcs were performing some kind of collective action—and it sent a rush of coldness through Morgan’s blood to consider just what kind of horrific nightmare-shit could capture the attention of so many grays that they abandoned an entire theater of war.

And so Morgan and his five most trusted Rangers found themselves ruminating on the same questions over and over. Where were the orcs? Where was the Culturist? Where was the war?

A metallic whir came from beside him. “Hey, top, you think this might have something to do with what's been happening recently up north?”

Morgan acknowledged his second with a slight tilt of his head. The chrome silhouette of John Gunhead’s namesake glinted in the near-dark ambience of the crawler’s central information center. The Divination mana leaking from the crystal lattice lining the room cast the humanoid bot in an eerie, ethereal glow that just made the atmosphere darker. “The thing with the Republic. The thing about the Deathless—the Tarrasque. We watched those Scarlander Scouts slip by the border some weeks back. They’re staging up along Diego. Probably preparing for a war of their own. You think the orcs decided to switch up places and join in on another war? Undying Tarrasque’s a hell of a scalp to take.”

“Some might've," Morgan grunted. “But all of ‘em? At once? No. There's many that are drunk on the trenches. They wouldn't leave us be for just that. Something bigger than that’s happening.”

“What’s bigger than a Tarrasque?” Hero-Shadow Mosquito asked. Morgan didn't even bother trying to make eye contact. He had a hard time telling where she was at all. Her voice came from everywhere, and her inhuman flesh and that Umbramancy she'd managed to get during a jaunt into the Fairwoods had her as one with the dark. “Those beasts end worlds.”

“Nothing new to orcs,” Morgan replied. “They’ve killed plenty of worlds themselves. The Tarrasque’s not enough to lure all of them. There's only one to fight, and it’s not something you dominate either way. It’s something you kill as fast as you godsdamn can with as many people as you can possibly round up—and then you keep hitting it even after so that the pieces don’t get a chance to come back to life.” But he couldn’t shake something Gunhead said earlier. “This Insul, though. I bought some information on him through the Neath. Apparently, the guy’s more than Vaketh-Insul; he's also the System's most wanted. Fucker has a Hidden World Quest on his ass, asking everyone that sees the guy to kill him.”

A series of tired scoffs and snorts followed. The massive six-shooter that was Gunhead’s face spun with displeasure. “Of fucking course. Never enough bullshit.”

Morgan drew in another breath but tasted no nicotine. Another cigarette smoked down to the butt. “But I'll tell you this: unless he actually beat the Challenger himself in an arm-wrestling match, I don’t see every orc on the Southern Front leaving. Certainly not the Culturist.”

And of that, he was sure. Because for every Summer up till this one, there had been a war, there had been the Culturist, and there had been a near-hopeless struggle to survive. That kind of thing didn’t just stop. Things didn’t just get better. Not for Lone Star. Not for the Rangers. That just wasn’t the way of things; it wasn’t something Morgan could imagine, anyway.

Warning: Unknown mana signature detected.

The words were cast straight into Morgan’s mind through the Terminal Opus. “Sooth!” he barked.

“Already gazing.” The dedicated mage of the Ranger-Lance lit up as her ritual scars flared with the red glow of vitality before turning a deep violet. Her hollow eye sockets lit up, and the Many-Eyed-Sun tattooed upon the back of her bald, deep-brown head began to glow. Everyone else took to their stations. Gunhead stomped toward the back of the information center and slotted himself into the primary firing emplacement—lending his power over projectiles to the ordnance to come.

Deep within the belly of the Opus, the bio-mechanical beast droned as logistical automata personnel shifted belts of mana-tipped shells into the fifty emplacements sticking out from the mobile fortress’s back.

“Opus. Contact incoming. Stations.” Morgan cast out three thoughts in a quick salvo and nothing more. The mana crystals entombed right above them would magnify his magic to the crew. They knew what to do, had known for over one hundred and fifty years. And by this point, the Terminal Opus had a memory of its own with all the Awakened items that made up its architecture. Entire sections of the Crawler practically ran themselves—needed only maintenance and support to function.

Strings of mind magic connected to Morgan. The Psychomancer cells aboard the Opus connected him to the Sector Chiefs, Rider-Leads, Marksmen-Elites, Artillery silos, and Magi corps.

“One target—southeast—135 by 188.”

“Analyze in progress—Target incoming fast!”

“Amplifying wards—full spectrum.”

A series of concussive impacts rattled Morgan. The dimensional wards were boosted first—because the orcs found it real funny when a Hero-Dimensionalist breached someone’s protections and directly teleported everyone out from inside a structure into a slaughter-pit. Then came the force, Biomancy, temperature, Awareness, and Chronomancy wards.

The Terminal Opus lived up to its name. All these magical protections had been gathered over the span of years, accumulated after each near-destruction to ensure the Opus wouldn’t be dragged toward the same end twice. And from death it rose each time, larger, thicker plating, better exhaust vents, bigger cannons, better crew. For the orcs were masters of destruction, and Morgan learned well—and applied that knowledge properly.

“Analysis complete,” Sooth announced from her seat to his right. “That's not an orc, Sir.”

