“Piety?” Morgan repeated. “Where the hell’s that?”

“Near Old Santabar and Lost Angeles. It used to be called Gate Theborn.”

Morgan recognized that name immediately. Compact of Babel and Ruin-Forged territory.

“Some of our Expeditionaries should be stationed there, no?” Gunhead asked.

“They are,” Roland answered for Morgan. “And they are still there. Some of them, anyway. They will be able to give you an accounting of things as well. We want you there because there is another Gate directly connected to the Tutorial present, and the orcs themselves will be there. As will the Deathless.”

“Deathless,” Morgan breathed. So, that fucker is behind this. “What’s his deal in all this?”

“He's the one who took the Challenger’s right arm,” Roland answered. “The Challenger has been mutilated, and now he nurses his wounds. If you would like to see the limb, you know where to find us.”

With the message delivered, Roland’s cape roared afire, and he rose into the air once more, preparing to take flight. Several guns were raised in response, but Morgan waved for them to lower their weapons—because even if there was a deception in all this, trying to fight Roland Arrow head-on promised only an ugly end. “You know we’re going to need reassurances. Hu-Stone is—”

“Welcome to attend,” Roland interrupted. “Morgan, I came specifically to inform you because you are owed a debt. But you are not the only ones we want in the Gate. There will be many others gathered from both the surface and the Abyss. Even from other dimensions. You asked me if there is a scheme against the Republic? I will not lie, but I will also say things are greater than that. It is a scheme against all potential enemies of Gate Piety, and Lone Star has been chosen to be a party in what is to come.”

“And what is coming?” Morgan asked.

“The Incursion,” Roland answered. “And countless other anticipated and unknown crises. I know your people have felt abandoned for all your time—used by the Auroral Council as a blockage against the orcs. But things can change. And if you want to see your proud star shine, and spare yourself of loneliness, then a new common front awaits you at Gate Piety: a coalition against the end. Against all ends.”

Morgan stared as he found himself grappling with all the information he'd been given, but while he struggled to balance himself, Roland shot high into the air, punching through the sky like a rising comet—moving at the speed of a High Hero.

“Wait, isn’t he supposed to be a Master?” Gunhead asked. “Does Master-Tier mean something different up north? And… what the fuck was all that, top? Challenger got his arm cut off? That’s… that’s just… He’s a god.”

“And that was the Culturist,” Morgan rasped. “And that was Roland Arrow. So…. Dammit. I need the good stuff. Sooth. Get the Scouts back aboard, and chart us a route back to Hu-Stone. I think Command’s about to stain some of their nice leathers.”
