Morgan suddenly went still. “Scarlander?” It could be—the fucking orcs weren’t above using mercenaries, and the blood-slaves down south weren’t much into existential solidarity since they were already owned. They fought alongside the grays plenty of times, and Morgan had killed plenty of them for that mistake. And worse, before he gave them that mercy.

Torture didn’t do shit to an orc. Starving them of violence worked to an extent. But people? Elves, humans, rodents, goblins, automata? Yeah, they didn’t much like pain. If this really was a mercenary, Morgan was gonna have some questions for them.

“Roland Arrow.” Sooth’s words caused Morgan’s thoughts to pop like a bubble. The blinded seer gazed right at Morgan, her sockets glowing ever-brighter with mana. “It’s Town Lord Roland Arrow.”

Of all the names Morgan expected to hear, this wasn’t one. What he expected even less than that was a shot to come from Roland Arrow.

It passed through the wards protecting the crawler, gliding past the Dimensionality, and ignoring the other shields arrayed against an attack. It was a needle-shaped arrow spinning an extended cord of violet mana behind it, connecting Roland to his own projectile. Morgan was the only one who reacted in time. His Reflexes fired. Time slowed. The Hero-Ranger drew his sidearm just as the Divination arrow broke itself apart against the final set of inner wards protecting the information center. But before Morgan could fire back or order a retaliation, a burst of telepathy slipped into the room.

“Hero-Ranger Munny, I beg your permission to let me land aboard your Crawler. I believe you might be wondering where your orc problem has gone. If so, I believe I have answers. And then some.”

Morgan’s orichalcum revolver was already drenched in trembling power and Dimensionality before he finally registered what had been said. He struggled not to shoot Roland regardless. The Starhawk’s favorite son was still an arrogant shit even now. Bastard hadn't changed at all. Still a godsdamn show-off, and still an absolute monster. That arrow didn't even trigger any alarms. Master-Tier, my ass.

“Huh. Well, I guess it is the Roland Arrow,” Gunhead grunted. “Say, top, we gonna let him on? Because… I don’t know.”

“I do,” Morgan growled. He spat his cig-butt on the floor and ground it to dust under his heel. “Really wished I didn’t use up all my good smokes. Roland fucking Arrow. This’ll be grand. Can’t wait to see what kind of bullshit he brought to my doorstep this time.”

***

“Roland Arrow.” Morgan laughed. “In the flesh and down south. What happened? Your little civil crusade went a little far? Your great noble Council is kicking you out of the party, and you're looking for asylum? Or maybe you’re finally here to take me up on that offer, eh? A proper war for a proper Pathbearer with proper bastards to kill?”

The sheer dryness of the summer heat was alleviated by the passing breeze atop the Opus. He'd gathered a sizable welcoming committee to greet Roland on the deployment deck. That long extendable ramp used to evacuate wounded or dispatch special Ranger-Lances was now used as an unofficial meet-and-greet spot between the crew of the Terminal Opus and the deadliest son of a bitch to ever pick up a bow.

The contrast between the two sides couldn't have been more severe. Roland was alone, and the Rangers were many, not to mention how he was one of the shortest people present. Roland was a walking anachronism, while the Rangers still held on to some level of pre-System industry thanks to the bulk of their citizens being automata. Roland stood in the light, unafraid, his cape akin to the burning wings of a hawk, and his armor glorious and grand with the aesthetic of his god decorating every bit of his mail and plate, and his golden locks flowing in the wind. Most of the Rangers remained a half-step in the dark. Even their vanguards held up deployable shields and hid behind them. Distance was their friend, obfuscation their defense against unseen orc snipers.

Everyone present was a child of war, but it was clear who was used to standing in the open, supported by a Divinity and an overwhelming force, and who spent their lives fighting an overwhelming force.

And where Morgan’s perpetual scowl was augmented by a squint, that shit Roland had the gall to smile at him. Fucking northerner doesn't even have his helmet on.

“Hero-Ranger Morgan. I trust that you're having a better season than usual right now.” Roland’s words were colloquial, but Morgan noted how the Starhawk's son ignored the questions and replied with one of his own. There was also the tiredness in his gaze.

“Let's cut the bullshit, Roland. You said you know why the orcs are missing. You tell me what's going on right now, and actually, before that, you tell me what you want. I know your type, and I know your kind; you northerners don't just show up offering to help for nothing. Start by naming your price so I can spit in your face, and then we can actually start talking.”

The false smile Roland wore faded somewhat, but his determination emerged, and his eyes gleamed in anticipation of words to come. “Then, if you were listening to what I said earlier, you would understand I am not here to beg for your aid. I am not here to fool or purchase anything from you. I am here to offer you something worth every Fortress-City you have making up the outer line.”

“This guy's spittin' wind,” Gunhead spat. His cylinders clicked with frustration as he revolved his skull. “I can smell a snake oil merchant from the way they sound.”

“You can smell sounds?” Sooth deadpanned.

“You can't? Damn, must be rough, being a fleshy.”

Sooth’s retort was cut off, and the banter was put down like a wounded horse as Morgan glared over his shoulder at his comrades. “I'm listening, Roland. But that's a mighty big boast you just made there, and Lone Star don't appreciate empty boasts.”

“Have you ever known my words to be hollow, Ranger?”

Morgan didn’t reply—which amounted to his equivalent of a yes. He'd never considered Roland a good friend, and they weren't exactly well-known to each other. But that one season Roland and his crew came down, a hell of a lot of orcs died, and he was barely more than an Adept then, just a Low Master. Of course, Morgan knew better: Low Masters didn’t take the fight to the orc trenches and kill twelve separate enemy Heroes at once while raiding an orc torture camp during a rescue run.

“Let me be direct then. I have the Culturist.” Roland's casual admission struck the gathered Rangers like an artillery shell. The effect was immediate. Gunhead took a step back, and his skull rattled violently as his cylinder spun. The others tensed, shared looks. But they were Lone Star, and Lone Star didn't betray themselves so easily. They kept their words to themselves, and they kept their guns and eyes locked on the northerner.

On his part, Morgan didn't know Roland's words to be hollow, but again, he didn't know Roland well in general, and people changed all the time. The man who stood before him could be running some kind of con. And Morgan knew enough about the Republic to anticipate a dust-up coming between their Ascendants. “That's a hell of a claim, Town Lord. You got any proof?”

“Yes.” With a casual gesture, he cast a spatial spell—and manifested the unmistakable form of the Culturist from a pocket of static mana.

A second prior, Morgan still had a handle on his stoicism. Now, even he folded. The Hero-Ranger squinted hard at his old enemy. He pushed his Awareness skill to the very limit, cast several anchors of perception over the Culturist's downed form. He examined every centimeter of the orc's body, every bit of mana spilling out from him. But Morgan already knew. That gray-white feather cowl itself was unmistakable, the emanations of magic familiar—an owl-like visage that was seared into the Ranger's nightmares.

“It's him,” Sooth confirmed unnecessarily. Her breath was coming fast, and her skin gleamed with the sudden rush of cold perspiration. The other Rangers broke around her as well. Finally, words slipped out, words of disbelief, utterances of faith given unto The Colt and The Will. “By the thunderin’ guns of heaven high, it’s him,” Sooth said again.

Morgan had no words at all. Before, his paranoia was high. Now his mind and heart were in disarray, and he stared at Roland. He stared at the man like he was a bomb about to go off in his living room, a monster that had emerged from beneath his bed while he was a brat, a creature riven in strips of human flesh whispering sweet nothings from the shadows to lure the Rangers down a dark and twisted path.

The Culturist couldn't have been beaten, not so easily. He couldn't have allowed himself to be incapacitated and captured by a northerner, of all things. Even if that northerner was death incarnate when given a bow, the Culturist was something else. He was a thing of horror and myth.

“How?” Morgan said. That was the only real thing he wanted to know.

“It's a long story, but he entered a Delve while protecting my son.”

Morgan did a double-take. Then a triple-take. “Everything you say is getting me more and more twisted, Roland. What do you mean he entered a Delve while protecting your son?”

“Exactly that. My son was burdened by a Skill Evolution that was beyond his capacity to endure, and the Culturist stepped in, took on that burden on my son's behalf, and found himself stressed enough to evolve a new Legendary skill of all things.”

Every subsequent revelation fanned a new whirlwind inside Morgan's chest. He'd dreamed of this, spent years whispering to the nothing, to The Colt and The Will.

While he was in the dark, while he was trapped in the camps, while he was fighting the orcs, while the screams of those he stood alongside echoed upon tides of midnight wind during days most bleak. The endless sieges had worn him down. He was a candle spent from both ends. If there was only one thing that still kept the spark inside of him lit, it was the urge to finally see the war through. Even if it killed him, even if it brought his life to an end. He wanted to see the conquests broken, and he wanted to see the Culturist put down, if even just once.

And here the Maestro of the Lone Star Orchestra was, in a trance, a blissful expression on his face, like he hadn't…

The Culturist was here. He was vulnerable, undefended, and he'd somehow been taken by the Starhawk's Avatar. Things were at once too good and too infuriating. Morgan found himself torn between two desires: to walk over and empty every orichalcum bullet he had into the orc's skull, and to ask Roland just how the hell he'd managed to pull this off, because it was Lone Star's duty. It was Lone Star's right. It was Lone Star's blood the orcs had taken.

Now, somehow, some northern spawn—some blissful, protected noble shit from the softlands—had the Slaughterer of Sattengada in his grasp.

“Do you doubt my words now?” Roland asked. When no one raised their voices in protest, he waved his hand again, and the Culturist disappeared, teleported, or moved into some kind of spatial pocket.

Morgan nearly drew on the Town Lord for that action. “Bring him back—hand him over.”

But though the Ranger’s voice held a dangerous edge, Roland just shook his head. “I have far more to offer than just the Culturist, and the situation with him is more complicated than you can imagine. The itch has been burned out of him.”

Morgan’s jaw was getting tired of falling open. The jaws of the others around him weren't. Well, those who had jaws, anyway.

Gunhead cocked himself in agitation. “Bullshit. He has to be bullshitting. He has to. Burned out the itch? An orc without the itch is like a human without a skeleton.”

“Yet it is true. Yet it has been done. Yet my son has enabled the impossible. There is a reason the Culturist helped save him, and that's because he severed the Culturist from the Challenger's control.” Roland let the implications of that sink in. “And after he did that, we managed to sever the Challenger's right arm.”

Morgan was just staring now.

And somehow, Roland still wasn't done. “The orcs have been devastating your home, attacking your cities, butchering your people for year after year, decade after decade. I'm going to ask you a simple question, Hero-Ranger, and I can already see the answer burning in each of your eyes: would you like to invade the Tutorial for once? Would you like to fight the enemy on their doorstep? Would you like to force them to come meet you on your terms instead of theirs?”

“What do you want?” Morgan asked, voice low. Try as he might, he couldn't accept this, couldn't believe a turn of fate so fine. The System was never gentle. The System was never kind. The System only took, and the only thing you could do was take back. “What do you want from us? Spit it out. Tell me straight. Because if you're not lying, and I pray for your sake that you ain't lying right now, I want you to tell me. Tell me if this has to do with you waging war on your Republic, with you needing someone to fight for you, to help you sack your own home. Tell me if this is a scheme on the part of you and the Starhawk. Tell me. Because I don't care. So long as you give me the Culturist, so long as your words are true and you can actually hurt the orc bastards long-term, I'll march the Opus up to the gates of your capital right now.”

Roland didn't smile, at least. “I want you to come to Gate Piety. I want you and the highest representatives of Lone Star as part of a new council. There is someone who wants to meet you, and I think we can all be of great service to each other—for the enemy of my enemy deserves a better turn.”

