Unfortunately, he really couldn’t afford to spare the manpower to put out a full search at the moment. For the past few days, he and the assassin human had been playing a dangerous game of cat and mouse where they kept taking turns being the cat. Skarn would try to lure her in, while she would try to lure him out. She seemed to want to kill him as soon as possible, but whenever he tried to retreat and ignore her, she would slaughter the subordinates of his that were staying on land. He couldn’t fall below a certain number aboveground, so he was forced to keep more than usual there, and sometimes even personally defend them.

Skarn considered himself to be a pretty good strategist. After all, that’s what he was born to do. Managing large numbers of monsters and thinking of the big picture was his specialty. It was because of this that he knew that he was losing. The human seemed to be inexhaustible. She would attack at the most inconvenient hour for him, preventing him from being able to properly rest. If only he wasn’t required to keep his subordinates on land to hold his territory. If he could bring them all underwater, it wouldn’t be a problem.

He hadn’t completely lost though. The cat had vanished. It hadn’t been seen in 6 days, at least. He assumed it had run away. While it seemed capable enough, it didn’t really have a good reason to stick around with Skarn taking over. That meant he was only fighting a war on one front.

When nightfall came, he was just waking up from a nap after the human’s latest attack. And of course, he woke up to a report from one of his subordinates that his subordinates in the village were being killed again. With a bubbly sigh, he got up from his waterbed and swam up to the surface. As he did, his subordinates continued to die en masse. Much faster than they usually did when the assassin human attacked.

He grimaced, wondering if reinforcements had finally arrived. If they had, he might have to abandon the shoreline. It wouldn’t be complete abandonment of his Territory, but he would still lose out on some of the benefits if that happened. Still, he needed to check it out for himself.

He got to dry land and swapped back to his human form, summoning his Soul Weapon at the same time as he ran to the village. What he found there was… not what he expected. His subordinates lay in pieces all over the place. Some were still fighting, but he could tell that they stood no chance. They were dying in droves as a single figure stood in the middle of them, swinging around a sword bigger than she was.

[ Princess Yona, the Chosen One ]

One glance at the sword drinking in the mana and blood of everyone it hit was enough for Skarn to know that sending in his subordinates to tire her out wouldn't work, so he gave a command for them all to retreat. With no more enemies in her range, the woman turned to face him, a smile on her blood-splattered face.

“Well, look who finally decided to show up!”

When their eyes met, Skarn’s eyes widened. This was not reinforcements from the humans. He knew those eyes. That was no human. That was the cat. And it had evolved into a Named monster. He had spoken to his System Assistant enough to know that evolving into a Named monster was not an easy feat. It needed a great deed to trigger such an evolution. A great deed such as killing another Named monster.

“Where is Flarn?” he growled.

The cat responded by opening her mouth and vomiting. From her mouth, Flarn’s head emerged, severed cleanly, where it was caught by a spectral hand and held up so Skarn could see it clearly.

“Right here!” she said, happily.

Skarn was immediately blinded by rage. For just a moment, he no longer cared about his Territory as much. The cat, which had been a thorn in his side for so long, had now gone and killed Flarn. That was unacceptable.

The cat had clearly gotten much stronger, but it was still only a Tier 2. Skarn was not only a full Tier higher, but had also managed to evolve his Class once more, and even unlocked a Profession. He would not go down easily. No, he would not go down at all. His Territory needed to be protected. Flarn needed to be avenged.

Wordlessly, he twirled his trident and approached, ready to fight.
