Nodding, the Sword Saint did as told, and as he took the last few steps, pillows also appeared on the chairs, making Aeon nod as he poured them both a mug of coffee before taking a seat.

Sitting opposite his Patron, the Sword Saint regarded the Primordial, waiting for the god to speak. He had to wait for Aeon to finish taking a good sip of his coffee and let out a satisfied sound before he regarded Miyamoto.

“You shouldn’t feel rushed by the accomplishments of others,” Aeon said in a calm voice. “That’s not your Path.”

The Sword Saint didn’t say anything but just silently nodded. He was already fully aware that he shouldn’t try to force his progress just because he felt external pressure. Even then, it was hard.

Sylphie had only grown more powerful after experiencing that offshoot of the Vortex Pinnacle. The Forest King was growing more powerful by the day, seemingly without end. From what he heard, even Carmen was making extreme progress and was closing in on B-grade. Finally, there was Jake, someone he didn’t even want to think about. All he knew for sure was that Jake had secrets of incredible power, which had truly been put on display when he saved them from the attack in the void. Everything combined made the Sword Saint feel… lacking. Unworthy of the title he’d chosen for himself.

Aeon seemed to see his blessed’s inner thoughts as he sighed. “Trying to force the change of seasons isn’t something you’re capable of yet. For now, merely experience them.”

The Sword Saint slowly nodded once more. “I shall take your teachings to heart.”

“You shall do more than that,” Aeon began before he decided to finish off the rest of his coffee mug, creating quite the dramatic pause before he spoke again. “Push yourself to truly be one with your Path. Remember what you are. You’re a Transcendent. Truly master what you already have… and even the Chosen of the Malefic Viper is within reach.”

Miyamoto’s eyes narrowed. “Without Springtime Advent…”

“Expand your view,” Aeon said, remaining calm. “The Chosen of the Malefic Viper is truly something, but do not underestimate yourself. Oh, and do remember: historically, the natural counters of those with truly extraordinary Bloodlines have always been Transcendent Skills. This is naturally dependent on the power and nature of the skill, and while I certainly recognize that the Viper’s Chosen’s Bloodline is amongst the best of its kind, the same is true for your Transcendent Skill. You just need to truly realize what you have.”

The Sword Saint was quiet once more, and before he could get any words in, Aeon waved his hand. “Now get out of here and keep working hard. Oh, and assuming you don’t disappoint me between now and then, reach out before you evolve to B-grade and I’ll make you my Chosen.”

Miyamoto’s eyes opened wide, and he opened his mouth to speak, but no words came out before he found himself back in his courtyard on Earth. He sat there for a while, contemplating the pep-talk he’d just gotten from his Patron before he smiled and shook his head.

Experience the seasons… expand my view, huh…
