There, Arnold finally got full visual confirmation of the Ghostvine’s true body. The majority of the entire core chamber was occupied by a massive clump of twisted vines that enveloped the moon’s core, the entire thing spanning several kilometers in diameter.

From it, an endless web of vines extended and merged into the body of the moon in all directions. These were the vines Arnold had been fighting with his drones all this time, and even now, they surrounded him on all sides.

“Time to start cutting and stuff!” Sandy yelled as the worm was already dealing with over a hundred vines attacking at once, flinging the Chosen of the Boundless Hydra all over the place while doing little to no damage.

A good distraction.

As one, all the golems moved. Ten of them were wielding large machetes designed to better cut through the vines, while four of the remaining ones had specialized flamethrowers using a concentrated compound of the napalm used earlier.

Meanwhile, the final golem, which Arnold used as his primary vessel, wielded two weapons, with one of them currently stored away. The first one was a machete like the first ten, while the second was a large spear with a pitch-black head at the end. That one would only be used once.

Under his direct control, all the golems attacked the Ghostvine at once. The B-grade was evidently distracted, having to also deal with the army of drones trying to invade the core chamber, making its response slow and allowing Arnold to land several blows before the Ghostvine mustered a proper response.

Parts of the massive B-grade’s body began to unwind as it attacked with vines far thicker and more powerful than those prior. However, before it could even fully swing down, six golems had appeared and cut it apart with void-infused weapons.

All the golems were burning with energy from the start, their cores overcharged to ensure they could keep up. Fire from the flamethrowers soon blanketed most of the massive B-grade’s body, forcing it to use magic to put it out as all the golems cut away.

One weapon Arnold had kept from the Census Golem design was the eye-laser, allowing all the golems to repeatedly shoot it out, the beams burning through and severing several of the vines extending into the moon.

All the golems attacked with clinical precision as Arnold played things safe, not rushing anything. The B-grade naturally tried what it could and unleashed massive amounts of miasma and death energy to fill up the entire chamber with the intent of killing everything that had dared to invade its domain.

“Nasty stuff! Blergh!” Sandy was the only one who complained as the worm wrapped themself in several barriers of space magic.

Meanwhile, the death affinity proved itself to have minimal effect on golems that didn’t contain any life whatsoever. With prolonged exposure, Arnold detected that a rust-like substance would begin to appear alongside other signs of erosion, but it was too slow to have an impact on the outcome of the operation.

Time dragged on as Arnold’s relentless attack continued, the Ghostvine slowly getting cut apart and burned inside out. Its vast energy had also suffered severely from the prior steps of the attack. When some of the bulkier drones even made it all the way to the core room, where they promptly self-destructed, causing further damage to the B-grade, it was clear the operation was rapidly moving toward success.

As expected, the Ghostvine did have some final trump cards up its sleeves as it began to fully untangle itself, blooming like a ghostly flower. More mana than ever flooded the entire chamber as the core of the moon was revealed, showing an actual flower glowing upon it. It gave off an eerie white glow that caused all nine of the surviving golems to rust in real time.

Arnold had been waiting for this as he supercharged the main golem he controlled. He funneled energy from all the other surviving golems into it as it shot toward the moon’s core, the hidden spear already in its hand.

The white light grew more powerful the closer the golem got, its body beginning to rust and fall apart in mid-air, but its momentum was too high. It reached the core as Arnold plunged the spear down the head of the flower; the spearhead sank into it just as the golem lost function.

Arnold blinked, switching point of view to one of the other surviving golems right in time to see the ghostly light fade away and the many vines still swinging about fall motionlessly to the ground, bereft of energy.

“Sandy, retrieve the surviving golems alongside your reward and return to Earth,” Arnold said emotionlessly to the worm that had hidden away right outside the core while covering themselves in even more defensive barriers.

“Did we win?” the worm asked, peeking into the core chamber.

“Operation: Moonfall was a success, yes,” he answered before disconnecting from the golems as he stood up and went over to one of the other stations in his lab to begin writing down the post-operation evaluation.
