Night travel was harder than Piety had thought it would be. She knew it was dark at night, but traveling through the dark on horseback proved to be slow and uncomfortable. She often found herself peering into the darkness, straining her eyes. Tobias had forbidden her to create light for them, reasoning that it would shine like a beacon to any looking their way, and that their mission was now clandestine.

Making matters even more difficult, the horses did not like Hirrom. The first night after leaving Sacred Heart, he had entered their camp, as they had planned, and the horses had raised an almighty fuss, pulling at their tethers, and whinnying shrilly. Piety had soothed them with mental caresses, but, even days later, the vhamp still made them nervous.

“I suspect I smell like a predator.” Hirrom shrugged sheepishly.

Finally, Piety found it difficult to sleep during the day. Three days into their journey, after they had secured Hirrom in a thick-curtained tent in the shade of a copse of trees, Piety lay on her back and stared at the canvas above her. She was tired, her body near trembled with exhaustion, but her mind was caught in a tumult of cyclical thought: what would happen as they approached the Intersect, was Hirrom, a vhamp, really safe to travel with, and why couldn’t she stop thinking about Tobias? In particular, she kept thinking about his hazel eyes with their dark brown ring around the outside.

The past two days, Temperance had shared her inability to sleep during the day, and they had passed the time whispering in quiet conversation. But today, Temperance slept quietly beside her, breathing evenly. Piety regarded her friend with envy, and Temperance snuggled a little closer.

With nothing else to do, Piety closed her eyes and slipped into her mindspace. She sat in the chair in the room in her mind and stared at the chessboard, set for a new game. She hadn’t moved a piece since her first victory, since the responding note, since Father Vytal’s death. The note still sat trapped under the white royal. She moved the game piece to pick up the note and read it again.

“What does it matter?”

“Of course it matters,” she whispered to the note.

She took the note to the desk, prepared to respond, but didn’t know what to say. Instead, she retrieved the pack of playing cards from a drawer in the desk and dealt out a hand of solitary.

For years Piety had suspected someone shared the room in her mind, someone who stocked the bookshelf, who knew the rules to cards, with whom she played chess. She had explained it to herself as a manifestation of her subconscious, she had hoped she’d been right, she had tried not to think about it too hard.

But it was obvious now, beyond obvious, that she shared her mindspace with another—she could ignore it no longer. So, looking at the cards on the table, Piety tried to figure out what to do about it.

Certainly no harm had ever come of it. The card games, the books, the games of chess, they had all been welcome, helpful even. The mindspace had been a refuge, the books had stretched her understanding of the world, the chess games had taught her a new way to think. So why did it bother her that she shared it with another? Why did it matter? Because she had thought of it as a refuge. She had wanted a safe place, something that couldn’t be taken from her.

But that desire had come from a frightened little girl who had nothing of her own but a friend’s affection. She was the Light Cleric now, and she was no longer afraid. This person with whom she shared her mindspace, she (or he) had never been malicious. In fact, Piety would go so far as to say she (or he) was a friend. And that did it; Piety decided it was time to introduce herself.

She stacked the cards without playing a hand and retrieved paper and ink.

Dear Black,

My name is Piety Churchstep, and I am an orphan.

She held nothing back. She wrote about her life at Sacred Heart, escape, and return; she wrote about Temperance, their friendship, and their disagreement about God. She wrote about Father Vytal, his lessons, and his death. She wrote about Father Jack Shane and Father Hirrom Berek and High Cleric Marcus Radden, about fire blossoms and fire-arms, about war and healing, about a woman with purple eyes and ravenous undead.

And then she paused.

Her narrative had been out of order, organized by subject as it came to mind, one flowing to the next with addendums and alterations thrown in whenever she recalled them. Her struggle with the vhamps would have easily led into a description of General Devorah Kempenny, and Piety was strongly reminded that Temperance and the Royal had both commented on how alike they looked. And she couldn’t help but wonder, again, if perhaps they were related.

And if they were related, would that allow them to share a mindspace?

Piety looked at the chessboard, then back at the paper to realize that she’d trailed a line of absent-minded ink down the page.

In a quick, scrawling hand heavily at odds with the neat script she’d used for the rest of the letter, she wrote,

Black, are you Devorah Kempenny?

• • •

She stood on the edge of a cliff looking over a storm-tossed ocean on the edge of evening, a time of inbetween. The Cliffs of Olytan, the place of the Twilight Realm Intersect. She turned to face the rolling hills of Olytan County dotted with scrub brush and olive trees, blanketed in short, yellow grass. The storm clouds overhead did not blanket the sky, and beams of sunlight shafted to the field in an alternating pattern so as to give the impression of a chessboard, alternating patches of light and shade.

And standing on either side of this rolling field, each poised to do great harm to the other, stood two armies. On her left, from the east, stood an army clad in white tabards over tunics from a number of counties from all over the nation. Piety had never made much study of heraldry and did not recognize the represented counties. Further, the white tabard was unusual, for Royal Isabel had continued the use of the purple tabard for the royal army. On her right, from the west, stood an army clad in the black tabards with blue trim of Kempenny Duchy. None wore under tunics representing counties within the province, but there was a greater variety of human variation among them; pale skin, blond hair, blue eyes, the people of the Mountain Kingdom from across the southern seas. Theirs was a more eclectic group in weaponry as well, sporting single and two-handed axes and great war hammers in addition to the more traditional swords and shields, pikes and bows.

• • •

Piety came awake with Temperance’s hand on her shoulder and a thin coat of sweat on her forehead. The light had dimmed significantly since she’d last had her eyes open. It was late evening.

“You were dreaming,” Temperance said.

Piety nodded.

“Was it…”

“Armies, a checkered field, stormy skies.”

“So the usual then.”

“But this time it felt more…” Piety hesitated. Temperance watched her with patient eyes. “It felt more immediate, less abstract.”

“There’s going to be a battle.” Temperance spoke with conviction, confident in Piety’s dream.

Piety shrugged. “Loreamer is at war with Kempenny. It’s not an impressive prediction.”

“Perhaps it’s a really important battle.”

“Perhaps so.”

Temperance prepared breakfast, though with the sun setting Piety couldn’t help but think of it as dinner. Tobias was already up, maintaining his sword. Their tack was laid out and smelled of leather and soap. He nodded at them but said nothing. He was clad in a thin, sleeveless undershirt that clung to his body, showing off smooth muscles glinting with sweat in the setting sunlight. With the light shining off him he looked like a Saint out of Scriptures, surrounded by a golden halo.

When he looked up at her and smiled, just a bit, Piety felt her cheeks catch fire and her whole body rush with a kind of tingle. Quickly, she looked away, closing her eyes. But when she closed her eyes, she could still see him, see his aura. She’d never seen his aura before, never thought to look at it. His aura was not the yellow-orange of most, but unique: bright, sky blue with red and gold tracing the edges.

“Piety?”

Piety jumped at Tobias’ voice. When she opened her eyes, he was looking at her with wary concern.

“Father Berek has asked to see you. Are… are you all right?”

Piety cleared her throat and tried to stifle the sudden pounding of her heart. “Um, what?”

Tobias put a hand on her shoulder and his concerned expression deepened. Piety swallowed hard.

“Perhaps you should sit, Mother.”

“No. I’m fine really just… uh, never mind. What was it you needed?”

“Father Berek wanted to see you, but—“

“Hirrom? He’s awake?”

“Yes, Mother. He can be awake during the day, remember?”

Piety had a hold of herself now; Tobias’ proximity was no longer distracting. “Yes. Of course.”

Hirrom’s tent was made of several layers thick fabric stitched together by Piety and Temperance. No stray sunlight penetrated the tent. But when Piety approached the south-facing tent, she noted the entrance flap was open, even though the sun had not finished setting, even though some stray sunlight filtered in. Piety knelt and peered into the shadows of the tent.

Hirrom sat cross-legged at the back of the tent, hidden by shadow.

“Tobias said you—“

“I used to love watching the rising and setting of the sun. It is the symbol of our Noble God, the tangible manifestation of an abstract idea; we wear it to symbolize our love for Him and all His people, and now I’ll never be able to look upon it again.”

Piety didn’t know how to respond but got the feeling she wasn’t being asked to, so she stayed quiet, kneeling in the dirt before the tent, waiting.

“My hypothesis, though I have only anecdotal evidence, is that the Dark General’s umbramancy instilled in her undead an aversion, a weakness even, to sunlight to such a degree that we must sleep while the sun shines. But for one such as me, who so loved the sun, and for those of my line, we can resist, just a little.”

Piety cleared her throat. “Your line?”

“Those I infected with the vhamp poison. Vahramp taunted me with them. He would starve me, then present me with blood, with people. But he would take them from me after only a taste then show me the creatures I had created. He took delight in the evil spread by a holy father.”

The sun barely peeked over the horizon now. Hirrom crawled to the tent opening, and Piety stood to get out of his way. He thrust his hand out of the tent, palm up to show the faint burn scar he’d acquired by swearing an oath with his hand on the gold inlaid sunburst of the Scriptures. The skin of his hand and forearm smoked gently; the stink of burning flesh perfumed the air. Hirrom sighed a groan of pleasure and pain. Moments later the sun was below the horizon and twilight reigned the sky, night eminent.

“Your aura is looking well today, Mother.”

Piety smiled and couldn’t help a small, delighted laugh. “Thank you, Hirrom.”

He stepped out of the tent and stood. “Now, what was it you wanted to see me about?”

“Tobias said you wanted to see me.”

Hirrom’s bloodless cheeks couldn’t pale, but he looked concerned and apologetic. “I forgot. I was entranced by the sun and your aura. Speaking of which, my aura reading has improved greatly, and I’d like to—“

“Hirrom.” Piety’s stern voice cut though his sudden, excited babble.

Hirrom started. “Oh. Quite right, another time. I asked Tobias to send you because there are vhamps out there.” He waved vaguely at the foothills of the Western Mountains that would parallel them all the way to the Cliffs of Olytan. “I felt their minds as I slept. They’re not powerful, but they’re hungry”

Tobias had come upon them quietly, and when he spoke, Piety jumped.

“We are well equipped to handle them, Father.”

Hirrom touched his chest absently where might once have rested a sunburst pendant. “No, Tobias, that’s not what I meant. I was hoping to bring them with us.”

Tobias interposed himself between Piety and Hirrom and put a hand on his sword hilt. “This mission is dangerous enough without trying to corral undead monsters.”

“Oh, I agree, Tobias. But, what if we could return to them their humanity?”

Piety stepped from behind Tobias, giving him a frown he ignored. “You want to feed them?”

He nodded.

From where she tended breakfast, Temperance said, “Who?”

They all looked at her, the cooking fire providing the greatest source of light in the deepening dark. She kept her gaze on her task. Hirrom cleared his throat lightly, apologetically, but Temperance didn’t give him a chance to respond.

“It’s Piety, isn’t it? You want to feed them Piety’s blood.”

“Absolutely not,” said Tobias at the same time Piety asked. “Why?”

Hirrom cleared his throat again. He turned his gaze to Piety. “As I was saying, I can see your aura much more clearly now. You are so powerful, and you don’t even know it. And that power can be tasted in your blood. One cup of your blood has sustained me these many days, and I can tell will do so for many more. One cup will restore a savage vhamp their humanity. Mother, we can save them. Please.”

Temperance sighed. “I know you didn’t mean it Father, but you just made it impossible for Piety to refuse.”

Piety turned to her. “Temperance…”

“It’s fine Piety. I don’t like that it’s dangerous, but it’s fine. If you can help them, you have to.”

Tobias was not so quick to acquiesce. “Mother, it’s too dangerous. The royal tasked me with your protection. How am I to protect you if you if you insist on exposing yourself to danger?”

“If I didn’t expose myself to danger there would be no reason to protect me, and if I didn’t try to help these people I wouldn’t be worth protecting.”

“They’re not people.”

“They were once, and they can be again.”

“They’re undead. They have no souls.”

“How do you know? How does one measure a soul? And even if they don’t, so what? Hirrom proves that they’re people, soulless or not.”

Tobias did not reply.

“’It is not our place to judge but to facilitate justice,’ said St. Lucius. ‘We can but be subject to one another, love and guide one another,’ said St. Mary. Tobias—”

“No need to quote Scripture, Mother. We’ll do it. But we maintain our travel schedule. And you,” he pointed at Hirrom, “Will be responsible for collecting the creatures. We cannot help you in that. They are too dangerous.”

“Agreed.” Hirrom nodded.

Tobias looked at Piety. “And you and I will make a report to the Royal.”

