After breakfast, after Hirrom had left to seek out the vhamps, after they had packed their gear and stowed it on the riding and pack beasts (who were much calmer now that Hirrom was gone), Tobias delayed their departure long enough to report to the Royal. He retrieved from his belongings a mirror the size of a dinner plate. It was smooth and without flaw. It was bordered in silver worked with intricate patterns. This he set upon his knees. Piety sat next to him and Temperance sat next to her.

“Is it a magical mirror?” asked Piety.

“No. The Royal’s power is of inbetween places, and the surface of a mirror is one of those places. This particular mirror has a twin and to signal that I wish to speak with her, I put my hand to the glass and say her name three times. Her mirror will glow lightly. She’s expecting my report, so she shouldn’t be long in answering.” He put his hand upon the glass and whispered her name three times, “Isabel, Isabel, Isabel.”

The way he said her name, with a wistful longing, caught Piety’s attention and she looked at him, but his gaze was focused on the mirror. And Piety felt an unpleasant itch along her shoulders and a tightening of her chest. She swallowed hard.

Moments later, the mirror shone with a pale light, and when it faded, the face of Royal Isabel Loreamer appeared. “Hello, Tobias. Anything interesting happen since last we spoke?” It sounded like a ritual, like a greeting the two shared all the time.

Tobias smiled softly. “Hello, my Liege. In fact, yes. Our newest mission has taken on a new wrinkle. But I’ve asked the Light Cleric to come explain it to you herself.”

“Piety’s with you? So much for clandestine communications.”

“I thought we trusted her, Isabel.”

The Royal smiled, and her smile held a hint of sadness and a hint of playfulness Piety could not decipher. “We do. Well then, let’s hear your new wrinkle, then I’ll tell you mine.”

Piety found that she was examining the details of their conversation: the smiles, the way they spoke to each other, the way they looked at each other, looking for clues as to whether the royal and the soldier were more than just allies, more than just friends. And she couldn’t explain why the thought might bother her.

Tobias handed the mirror to her and Piety settled it on her knees. Piety experienced a moment of disorientation when the face looking at her looked so much like her own, as though she was looking into a regular mirror, and in that moment she stood at the edge of the cosmos, teetering between here and… But then she gave herself a small shake and came back to herself. The Royal and she looked similar, that was all, a fact already established. But she couldn’t help thinking that only hours ago she had sat in the room in her mind and come to the chilling conclusion she might be sharing her mindspace with Devorah Kempenny, the Dark General.

“Hello, Piety.”

Piety took a breath and focused her mind. “Isabel.”

“Tobias tells me you have something to report.”

“You already know about Hirrom’s speculation on the Twilight Realm?” At Isabel’s nod, she continued. “Hirrom thinks we can save more vhamps.” Piety explained how Hirrom thought that her blood was particularly potent, how they could restore the vhamp’s humanity, and how Hirrom was in the foothills of the Western Mountains right now, searching for vhamps they could save.

Isabel raised an eyebrow in a manner that reminded Piety of Father Vytal. “And you don’t think this is needlessly dangerous?”

Piety shrugged. “It’s dangerous, certainly, but it’s not needless. Isabel, your war continues unabated and I can’t do anything to make that any better. I’ve tried already. But this is something I can do.”

“And what do you intend to do about Vharamp? Tobias tells me he too seeks the Twilight Realm.”

“I’ve grown in power since we last met. I can handle him.”

Isabel was quiet for several minutes, her calm expression revealing nothing. Eventually she said, “Speaking of the war, that’s my wrinkle. Though the main conflict remains on the front of Pinefort, there have been reports of Kempenny troops here in the north. I don’t know how she’s put troops north of the Grand, so if you find out, let me know. In the meantime, be careful.”

• • •

They rode through the night, guided for the first several hours by a pale half-moon. After the moon set, only starlight shone upon them and that wasn’t enough for Piety to make out anything but shuffling shadows, the clop of hooves, and the hoots, howls, and shouts of nightlife. Piety let loose the reins, trusting to her horse to follow the other horses and to be better able to see as it carefully picked each step, stumbling only occasionally.

Piety stared up at the night sky; pinpricks in black velvet, diamonds on a noble’s collar, brightly colored fish at the bottom of the darkest sea, and she felt its depth, as though whatever kept her here on this ground was so tenuous it might give way at any moment and she would dive into the velvet, dancing among the diamonds, spinning away forever.

“Piety?”

Piety looked at Temperance, though she could barely make out her friend’s features. She smiled.

“Did you know the people of the Mountain Kingdom believe in many gods?” asked Temperance. “Frij told me.”

Piety was mollified to hear Temperance stumble over the unfamiliar name as she had. “I know only what they told us at the High Temple. Both the Mountain Kingdom and the Taraknaki Empire are polytheists, but worship different deities.”

“There’s Woten, the king deity. In the Mountain Kingdom, they say ‘king’ for male royal. That’s why they call it a kingdom. There’s also a queen, a female royal, called Fregg, or maybe Fregga, and they have brothers and sisters who are giants and trees and mountains, all of whom are immortal, and they’ve got kids who are deities too.”

Piety nodded though Temperance couldn’t see it.

“I guess my point is, if our God is real, then why can’t theirs be? The clerics say God is the only deity, but why shouldn’t theirs be just as real? How can we know for sure?”

“I suppose we can’t.”

“That’s it? We’re Mothers of the Church, and that’s all you can say?”

“Well, what do you think about it?”

“You already know what I think.”

Piety shrugged again. “The existence of other religions doesn’t disprove ours.”

“What if those other deities really exist?”

“So what? It’s not about God or gods, it’s not about saints or demons, it’s not about our stories or theirs. It’s about us, Temperance, you and me and Tobias and Hirrom, Lillyfiled and Willow. Isabel and Devorah and Father Vytal. I don’t care if we’re in the High Temple or on the other side of the world, our religion is about what we can do to help other people, no matter what God or gods they pray to.”

Piety stopped, feeling a little flush in the cheeks and short in wind. It didn’t bother her that Temperance might not believe in God, though she had no doubts herself, but it did bother her that the lessons of the Saints as recorded in the Scriptures might be invalid just because other people prayed to other deities. Justice, charity, compassion, these were qualities Piety could not see being the purview only of the Church of Khulanty, but to all people everywhere.

“You’re saying religion isn’t about God.”

Piety hesitated before answering, because though she had never doubted His existence her immediate reaction was to agree. Finally, she said, “Yes.”

• • •

They were met by Hirrom and three naked, slavering vhamps just as they prepared to stop and make camp. The horses shied and stamped and wouldn’t go near.

The vhamps were several paces behind Hirrom, kneeling, with their foreheads on the ground, but they were not still. They writhed as though trapped within an oven and nothing they could do would free them. She could feel their hunger, and feel Hirrom muzzling it. Tobias stood at her side, sword drawn and at the ready. Temperance stood with the horses, trying to keep them calm.

Piety opened herself to her power. She felt the nervous minds of the horses and she calmed them. She touched Temperance’s mind gently, like a friendly hand on her shoulder. Temperance smiled and nodded encouragement. Then she turned her attention to the vhamps. They were desperately hungry, and they feared the rising of the sun, but Hirrom’s mental hold was strong. They wouldn’t move until he allowed them to.

“There were others, but these were the only ones I could capture, Mother.”

Piety nodded, but her attention had already moved past him to the kneeling wretches. She blocked out Hirrom’s apology and Tobias’ protective hovering, and she focused on the vhamps. She touched their minds each individually, she reached past the immediate hunger to the personality that once inhabited the body: the daughter of a dairy farmer, a weaver, and a smith’s apprentice. She found their minds remarkably open, which was how Hirrom kept hold of them.

In their equipment, Piety knew there were a few sets of travel dining implements: metal plates and bowls, sturdy spoons and forks, cups of wood. She reached to where Temperance made camp and found one of the wooden cups, she felt its grain smoothed by use, and she took hold of it with her power, wrapped it in telekinesis, and pulled it to her right hand. She held it steady while holding her left arm above the cup and slashing it with a sharp pull of power. Immediately blood welled from the wound and dripped into the cup. She felt Hirrom tighten his control over the vhamps as the scent of blood reached them. Gently, she insinuated herself into their minds alongside Hirrom. She projected comfort and protection.

She bade the farmer’s daughter come forward first. It was difficult to determine sex among the emaciated frames, even with them completely naked, but the one who rose from its prone position and crawled toward her on hands and knees was the smallest of the three. Piety held the cup out to it, holding the cup with telekinesis to avoid any potential accidents with claw-like fingernails.

The vhamp took the cup delicately from the air, its hands shaking slightly. Piety lowered her bleeding arm and took a step back, using her power to close the wound. The creature raised the cup to its lips and drank in great gulps, its elongated tongue protruding from between carnivorous teeth to lick the cup dry.

Piety took the cup back without touching it and sent the creature back several steps to sit upon the ground without abasing itself. Then she summoned the smith’s apprentice while she repeated the process of opening her arm, letting the blood flow, and presenting the full cup with telekinesis. This one was less careful in its movements, snatching the cup and spilling blood over its fingers, drinking greedily and making sure to lick its fingers dry.

For the third vhamp, she repeated the process and watched the weaver drink the blood carefully, and this time she saw notable change. As she drank, the vhamp lost her emaciated figure, filling out like a reverse of a wilting flower, her stomach first, then hips and breasts, thighs and shoulders, arms and calves. Her skin became smooth though not flawless, her hair thick though not without grey, her eyes lost their madness though not their fear. She took a breath, coughed, and shuddered, dropping the cup. Piety caught it with her telekinesis.

The woman looked at Piety and dropped to her knees, pink tinged tears tracking down her cheeks. Piety sensed no guile in her.

“Cleric! Please, I… I don’t…”

“I know.” Piety let the woman see her mind, speaking mentally as well as physically. She showed her that she knew the torture of the vhamps and that she would help them if she could. She showed her they were going to a place that might save them the torture they had known. And Piety showed the vhamp that she could and would kill her if she could not control herself.

“Ah, Mother?” Hirrom’s polite interruption reminded her of the rest of the world.

“Yes. Hirrom.” She took hold of his arm and propelled him into the view of the vhamps. “This is Father Hirrom Berek. He will teach you how to… how to be a vhamp.”

“Mother…”

“Hirrom, you should take them to your tent before the sun rises.”

Hirrom nodded and swallowed hard. With a mental tug, he had them on their feet and was hurrying to the south-facing tent of heavy cloth erected some distance from the other tents. But as Piety looked to the east, she saw why Hirrom had been so anxious. The bright halo of the sun already topped the horizon. She looked back at the vhamps quickly trailing Hirrom, and realized they wouldn’t make it in time. They had a moment when they needed several.

The barest hint of the sun came over the horizon, and Piety felt it like the opening of an oven, like a rushing tide of light. Before the light of the sun could even caress the flammable skin of the fleeing vhamps, Piety thrust her hand and bent it. It was like standing in the path of a flooding river and bending it to her will. In preternatural umbra, the vhamps used the few moments they needed to seek the shelter of the tent.

The exertion combined with the blood donation left her exhausted. She released her power, taking with it the rest of her energy. She’d have fallen to the ground had Tobias not caught her.

Temperance made her eat: thick stew with vegetables and a heavy flatbread. Piety forced it down without tasting it. Then she let Temperance help her to bed. As she lay her head upon the thin pillow and took comfort in Temperance pulling the blanket around her shoulders, she knew she would have no trouble sleeping today.
