72%.
Rags opened her eyes and knew.
[Risk Calculation: Attack on Goblinhome]. She always checked. Sometimes, it triggered for a monster attack, but today, she knew. She only checked for serious attacks.
[Risk Calculation] was an odd Skill. It returned percentages about everything if Rags asked it, but it could be vague; it could be in two seconds. It could be in months, maybe. In that sense, it was a balanced Skill. Rags was sure if she were Level 60, it would be infinitely more precise. But at her lower level, it told her what she needed to know.
It was well-crafted for a [Strategist] and [Great Chieftain] of her level by a…process that made no mistakes. It knew everything, and it understood all.
It never made mistakes.
Rags knew. She didn’t know what, but she had nightmares about the many, many groups it could be. She woke tired and stood in front of a mirror, seeing a short Hobgoblin staring with bleary, red eyes back at her, a toothbrush in her mouth.
Rags spat. Gargled some water. And wished she were the prodigy they had always thought she was. A real one, the kind who could win any battle and not count bodies by the thousand, win or lose.
Today, she leaned on the washbasin and spoke.
“So that’s what it feels like, Erin.”
She looked for that smiling figure over her shoulder, like she’d imagined had been there when Erin was in her frozen slumber. Now, of course, Rags knew that Erin had never been there. She missed the illusion.
Gently, absently, Rags began to comb her hair, brushing up from the half-shaved side of her head across her ear. A Goblin making sure she looked her best before the adventurers broke down the door to her tribe’s cave. A gesture that had no meaning—except for the other Goblins.
The Goblin in the mirror said:
“Smile.”
 
——
 
“Walter.”
“No.”
“Frostylord.”
“No.”
“Bigfoot?”
“No.”
“Bigclaw Icepooper?”
“We are not keeping him.”
“…Wyvlordie?”
Rags ignored the Goblins. She dragged one foot, then kicked a Goblin clinging to her leg off her.
“Poisonbite, get something loud. Chase the Wyvern Lord away.”
“Me? Why me?”
The other Hobgoblin complained loudly—and nervously—as Rags surveyed the unwelcome house guest on the roof of Goblinhome. It was the largest Frost Wyvern by far; the other tamed Frost Wyverns were eying him warily, and even the Goblins, despite their begging, treated the unconscious Wyvern Lord with caution.
If not respect; he was passed out on his back, pawing at the air occasionally. Drinking barrels of Firebreath Whiskey did that even to a Wyvern Lord
“We can’t feed him. And he’s not tamable.”
Every single [Wyvern Rider] and [Beast Master] in the tribe had taken a shot at the Wyvern Lord; their [Charm Beast] and [Tame Monster] Skills had a 0% chance of success in Rags’ opinion, but Goblins hated being told things were impossible.
“But the names so good. And if he fight for us—”
“No. Poisonbite, wake him and get him out of here. Then begin sweeping the High Passes. Where’s Prixall?”
“Here?”
“Tell Anazurhe I want to know if someone’s spying on me magically. I’ll pay her price. Taganchiel, double-check every store we have. Make sure ammunition is stored with every Thunderbow and that we have our fallback points supplied. I’ve called Fightipilota and Redscar back.”
Of all the times for her top fighters to be gone…Rags looked around. No attack yet.
She assumed there was time. She kept giving orders as Poisonbite reluctantly crept up to the Wyvern Lord and then smashed two metal cymbals together as loudly as she could by his head. They were instruments Kevin had donated to Goblinhome.
Kevin, again. Rags ignored the roar of fury and pain as the Wyvern Lord woke up, then the screaming and shouting. She only turned her head when a huge face interposed itself between her and the rest of the world.
A betrayed, bloodshot eye stared at Rags.
Didn’t we have something yesterday? Didn’t we bond over spaghetti and stuff?
Rags pushed the snout out of her face.
“Go away. We’re going to go to war soon.”
No kidding? The slitted eye opened wider, and the pupil dilated slightly. The Wyvern Lord made an inquisitive rumble. Rags pushed the head away again.
“Leave.”
In response, the Wyvern Lord shuffled over and lay along the roof on his side. He stuck his tongue out, clearly dehydrated, and gave Rags a challenging look.
What if I don’t want to?
Rags was guessing at what he was saying. She had considered the strategic value of a Wyvern Lord in battle, offset by his uncontrollability, of course. But she just peered up.
Frost Wyverns were flying overhead, well out of range of Goblinhome’s weapons. She focused on the small ones, screeching as the adults shrieked what were probably questions or insults at their leader.
“You have a people. Get out of here.”
She shoved the Wyvern Lord’s head. It watched her, and she met the huge gaze once—the Wyvern Lord hesitated, then sobered. Slowly, it began to beat its wings, nearly blowing the smaller Goblins away as it took off. Rags didn’t wave at it or acknowledge the shriek. She just spun on her heel.
“Keep the [Memo] Skill on reserve. The moment anyone sees anything, alert me.”
Her officers nodded; Goblinhome had been prepared for this day since it was founded. There was a look in some of their eyes of hope. Perhaps it was just monsters.
Rags knew better. Her instincts, not the faulty components like hope, had created a silence she was walking through and occupying. It could be a week later. It could be a month.
I have to know which group it is. Naumel? Can’t be. Too far. The denizens above? Humans? Xitegen? Drakes?
She kept walking, signaling one of the [Wyvern Riders] to get ready. Poisonbite called after her.
“What are you going to do, Chieftain?”
Visit an inn and pretend I’m small again? She shook her head.
“I’m going to get information.”
 
——
 
Sadness filled Goblinhome. The quiet determination of people who knew what was coming. Not bravado, the kind you found in young men dreaming of glory. Even the youngest Goblins knew what was coming.
So sadness, glory, determination, and grief. All the emotions you could expect; not that anyone could see the emotions themselves, except for Prixall, who raised her hat from her head with eyes that glistened wetly.
She was new to a tribe with actual danger. In her sheltered life, the [Witch] had seldom been in mortal danger like regular Goblins.
Not that the Flooded Waters tribe was normal. Rags, waiting for a Wyvern to be saddled, watched a group of Redfangs take over part of the banquet hall.
They stood on the tables and sang, some voices off-key, some with the skill of trained professionals. They were teaching the watching Goblins their song, swaying as they held mugs of water as if they were drunk.
They were off-duty. The hallways of Goblinhome were filled with teams lugging sheaves of arrows into place, going around with lists and boxes.
 
——
 
A Goblin placed down a crate with a sigh next to a Hobgoblin with a curious mask on her face; it looked like a flat piece of bark with a huge ‘bulb’ over the mouth and lower chin.
A Wailer Frog’s throat, which inflated and deflated until she yanked the mask up with a grunt; it was uncomfortable. Only one eye glinted, a faint yellow, as the mask went back on, and she nudged the crate with her foot. It held six bottles, each one marked in the Goblin tongue. Healing potion. Stamina potion. Two coating vials. Acid jar. Tripvine Bag pre-attached to a bolt.
The yellow lens of the mask was made of topaz; it came from the Molten Stone tribe. The Hobgoblin swung her Thunderbow up, checking the signs, and called out.
“Is test ready? One hundred meters.”
“Test ready.”
“Firing.”
She pulled the trigger, and Goblins outside poked their heads out as the Hob aimed at a target they’d set up. They called out adjustments, and she fiddled with a piece of metal with markings on it, calibrating her aim. She was at the outer layer of walls; when the enemy came, night or day, with poison cloud spells or invisible—she and her mask would be ready.
When the Hob looked up, she saw Goblins double-checking a comically-oversized hammer that was funny until you imagined it hitting you. It was being raised; when someone triggered the trap, the battering ram would swing down and hit anything coming down the corridor.
That might save her life when the walls came down. Or not; she nodded to a Goblin with a wrench, re-tightening a bolt, and the Goblin gave her a grin. He lifted something in his hands. A blue medallion; a piece of blue stone with a yellow stripe down the center.
She had the same one around her neck. She nodded to him; if the order was given, they’d run and follow the markers for that to their escape route.
“See you there, Trueshot?”
“Maybe. Good home. Best home. Last home.”
The Goblin [Mechanic] lost his grin. He looked around, thoughtful, and shrugged.
“Tremborag’s mountain was nice. Sometimes home goes away.”
“Little Goblins need a home.”
“Yah. So, see you in the next one.”
She didn’t reply. Trueshot checked her Thunderbow.
“Is test ready?”
“Test ready.”
“Firing…”
 
——
 
The thump of Thunderbows firing mixed with regular talk as Goblins hauled food and valuables—spare blankets, flints, and knives—down the tunnels. Goblin children sat as a Redfang with one arm showed them the basics. Again. How to skin a kill, make a basic hunting trap out of thread—how to make thread from grass—just in case.
Goblins were working in groups, chatting away as if they had just met after a long separation. Old rivals shook hands and settled scores or walked outside to punch each other until they had run out of grievances. Friends hugged, and more than one Goblin got onto their knees and offered another Goblin a ring. Of course, half the Goblins being proposed to thought that you should also get on your knees, so you ended up with two kneeling Goblins.
No one doubted Rags. No one judged her; they just looked at her and called out greetings or asked about this or that. The fallback spots. Whether Rags wanted another rockfall trap here or there—the Chieftain took longer to respond, giving fuller answers than her usual grunts.
The emotions here…if they were a flame, Rags was certain they could have scorched the Wyvern Lord with their emotions and intensity. But there was no Knight of Solstice among Goblins. At least—none on Izril.
It wasn’t something that upset Rags. She got why they hadn’t been included in the Order; Rabbiteater was technically one of the first. But she thought of now.
The Goblins deserved to see one of those stupid [Knights] walking past them all, a helmet under one arm, bearing a flame and promising them implicitly that all would be well. Nevermind if Redscar was better at fighting and they were a liar.
Goblins had no sweet lies to cling to; they were too hollow.
She couldn’t stay here. Rags turned away. Time to visit someone else. There were few avenues of aid for her tribe. The Kraken Eaters had been a disaster; the Molten Stone Goblins wouldn’t fight.
The Wandering Inn deserved peace.
So that left him.
 
——
 
The girl woke in a dingy cave filled with gold, like a fairy tale. She turned onto her side, and gold cascaded down in a river, flowing to a line of boots.
Just…boots. Leather of every kind, metal plating, Adamantium, so stiff and unyielding that it hurt her feet when she tried them on, even with padding, and boots made of magic; water boots and the boots of kings.
That was what you didn’t expect in the stories of the Dragon’s hoard. The gold was more like window dressing; it was just gold, he claimed, pure since he had standards, but mere gold. It eroded when he lay on it, and so the real valuable resources he kept in a separate storage spell.
Those were neat bars of Truegold and Adamantium blocks; marked with weights and purity, categorized so obsessively in rows that they would have been worrying; a mark of true obsession, save for the fact that the entire room had been covered in dust and filled with magical spiders.
He’d been embarrassed about that. And the boots. When the girl had asked, he had said that taking boots off the dead was a time-honored tradition that he didn’t partake in. When she asked how many of the boots had been acquired, he’d confessed to hiring other people to claim said boots.
Everyone needed boots except him. They could have the powers of flight, the ability to stomp and cause tidal waves—as someone who occasionally walked on two feet, the younger Dragon got it. But it was one thing to wake in this cavern of legends, a Dragon’s hoard, and another to realize he had an entire space dedicated to boots.
…They weren’t even organized. It was just a literal pile of boots with a spell to prevent all the overlapping magics from turning into a magical snarl or singularity. Some days, as she woke, she tried to see if she could find a pair in the pile. As for the shoelaces…he had a gigantic ball of magical shoelaces somewhere. It was just one part of his hoard, but as ever, her eyes strayed to the owner of this place himself.
He was much changed, even if his home wasn’t.
When she woke up, she saw he was doing push-ups. A Brass Dragon grunting as he lowered his entire body to the ground and then raised himself upwards. He was arching his back, rounding it and then reversing the motion.
Stretching. His breathing was controlled; he lowered himself again until his metallic mane was brushing the ground, then exhaled as he pushed himself up.
It was a bit silly, in truth. The sight of a Dragon doing push-ups was not something Rafaema had thought she’d ever see, except in a mirror. Cire was far too lazy for it.
A year ago, if you’d told her she’d meet another Dragon exercising, not Cirediel, she would have been over the moon. It would have been the happiest moment in her life, and it had been—after he’d come back to life.
Her most devastating moment, then the greatest joy to find another member of her species at long last.
Now? Today?
The second-most depressed being in the High Passes flexed her own back as she got up from the pile of gold she’d been sleeping on. Her back hurt, and she felt like the coins had gotten wedged between her scales.
She didn’t get it. The sleeping on gold. It had to be a Brass Dragon thing, no matter what he claimed. As ever, as Rafaema stretched, she flexed her wings, then turned her head.
She saw one faintly-purple membrane stretching from her azure wing, the scales glinting in the light. And on the other side…pale-red flesh and a stump where the wing should have been.
