The Lighting Dragon of Manus, Rafaema, always looked at that stump and flapped her wings slightly, as if hoping the real wing, the one she could still swear she felt, would appear. But then she padded forwards and silently began to copy Teriarch.
When he noticed, Teriarch stopped exercising and gently put a wing around her. She pulled back. In his mixed, multicolored gaze, she saw such profound regrets and timid kindness that she looked away.
 
——
 
When the two Dragons padded out of their cave, a Gnoll with unkempt fur almost fell out of his hammock. He’d been sleeping in the rain that had covered the High Passes; if Rafaema glanced up, she could still see it besieging the Floodplains of Liscor without mercy.
But she’d never be able to go up and feel the rain on her scales. If she wanted to go anywhere, she’d have to walk. She was crippled forever, no matter what Teriarch said.
Deserved, of course. She’d been a fool, and Wall Lord Aldonss was dead. Rafaema ignored Lulv, and Teriarch didn’t teleport him away for once. The Gnoll followed, and Rafaema wondered how long the other soldiers had been camping at the foot of the High Passes. She was grateful for the [Spearmaster]’s help.
She couldn’t go back to Luciva, not now. She didn’t know what came next, but she was tired.
Just tired. Rafaema looked at the Dragonlord of Flames, one of the most legendary Dragons to ever exist in the history of the world, and if he seemed uncertain and didn’t know what to do—
What hope was there for everyone else?
 
——
 
He did his best with Magnolia Reinhart every day, even if he didn’t remember her. He was guilty, because he knew the simulacrum spell that had separated ‘Teriarch’ and ‘Eldavin’ wasn’t perfect.
Sometimes he did recognize the way she quirked her eyebrows, or had a flash of recollection. But it was fragments; he’d stopped mentioning them because they only hurt her and him more. She was a stranger. But he believed he had liked her. Even loved her, in ways he knew only too well.
He wished he could be that Dragon she knew.
The [Lady] was entertaining a bunch of [Knights]. They stood up and tried not to stare too openly at the two visitors who joined the crowd.
Demsleth, wrinkly, old, but distinguished, and Wall Lady Rafaema, one-winged, sitting blankly just outside the magical mansion in the High Passes. Razorbeaks and other monsters flew high overhead as a [Butler] poured a cup of coffee for Rafaema—no sugar, no milk.
Both Teriarch and Magnolia eyed Rafaema as she drank; they were having tea, if you could call what was in Magnolia’s cup that. After a while, the Brass Dragon began to speak.
“—Excellent work on clearing this much of the High Passes, you know, Magnolia. I’ve seen armies fail to do so. Give it another few months and the monsters will begin shifting their habitats upwards. You can begin laying the foundations on those walls while they’re doing that. It’s safe enough for a bunch of [Knights] to go charging through the High Passes and not end up as canned lunch.”
His voice was a bit too loud; Ser Normen looked up, and the [Necromancer] began to choke on a breakfast crumpet. Magnolia Reinhart just kept reading a report at her table.
“Mm.”
“Splendid work, I’d go as far to say. Your servants? Likewise, very adept. Kept up with me against all three slimes, and I think they’d pass muster for any Silver—er, Gold-rank adventurers. Even back in the day, most warriors weren’t that elegant with their swordplay. And if I can add, the style of this entire mansion placed in the High Passes. Did you choose this particular cliff by chance, or was it deliberate to the entire feng shui of the terrain?”
He was being—chatty. Even if Rafaema hadn’t guessed something was off from how still Magnolia Reinhart’s face was, she would have known from Teriarch’s gregariousness. Magnolia Reinhart tossed her files down. Then she steepled her fingers and gave Teriarch a smile sharp as a broken glass bottle.
“I have lost Invrisil. Woe is me. You needn’t humor me, Teriarch. I shall cede the City of Adventurers to my cousins and drown my sorrows while resting on my mountains of gold. The placement of my mansion? Please; I would ask a Drowned Woman before you on the locations of my homes. Don’t you have a drunk Unicorn to pay the debts of? Or would you care to practice breathing—elsewhere?”
Her voice was sarcastically polite, and Teriarch swallowed a bite of sausage and coughed.
“I only meant—well, it’s good of you to take the long view of things. Cities come and go. What are they beyond feathers in the cap, really?”
“Indeed. You taught me how to take the longest of views. If you aren’t going to give me advice on running what holdings I have left, might I suggest you finish your breakfast? Or are the eggs not cooked to satisfaction?”
Teriarch stopped moving his eggs around his plate and gave Magnolia a weak smile.
“If you wanted to discuss the—”
“I quite remember your advice the last time you gave it. Before your death. Thank you.”
She was up and gone, walking towards the [Knights], who watched her warily, but Magnolia had a genuine smile for them and the Antinium she had invited to dine with her.
It was surreal to see a [Lady] holding court in the High Passes, but Rafaema had crossed the line of surreal long ago when she’d first run into The Wandering Inn. Besides, she had context for this.
Magnolia Reinhart was in exile. Pursuing the only ambitions she had left as her family seized her properties. Rather than contest them with her servants, she had abandoned the north and set up here.
It had to be a blow; Invrisil fully leaving her control was the final straw. But you had to add to that the fact that House Reinhart was ‘unbound’ to begin with. Throw in any other disasters you wanted and Teriarch…not being who she remembered, and the [Lady] was allowed to be tetchy.
The Brass Dragon certainly didn’t seem like he held a grudge. He sat there chewing on his eggs as Rafaema dumped too much salt on hers. She stared at them, then ate, crunching away.
“Those Reinharts are going crazy. How much of the north did she hold together by keeping them suppressed? With all her holdings? She was losing multiple properties every day for over a month.”
It seemed the Brass Dragon, polite as he was to Magnolia, had gotten his feelings hurt, because the Human body he wore glared at Rafaema. His tone was pettish.
“I have known her for less than half a year and I can see how deeply she was entrenched in Izril’s north, both as peacekeeper and adjudicator. Without her, rivalries are flaring up and the nobility are infighting. How is it that you were blind to her role for your entire life? You watched her rise to power!”
Rafaema was a hundred and twenty years old; she squirmed before his gaze and felt small again, like a hatchling. She mumbled as she played with her eggs.
“Politics always felt like it changed too fast. Humans, Drakes—I could barely keep track of who was ruling each Walled City sometimes. Whenever she was brought up in the Security Council meetings, she was a foe. Like all the Humans. Besides, she—she never showed what she was doing. She never even hinted how much it cost her to keep conflicts from sparking.”
Teriarch glanced at Magnolia, his gaze softening.
“That is not her personality. She has lost…so many assets. She is not defeated; far from it. Her allies and her accomplishments may be buried, but from that seed, opportunity can be regrown. But she needs to rebase her strength and recover and to find an opening to reclaim her family. She did it once, you know.”
“I know. I was there.”
“The Antinium Wars were her opening. Her parents were in control and hostile. That’s what I gather from the—the historical accounts I’ve read. Including by that objectionable writer, Krsysl Wordsmith.”
“He’s not great. I’ve met him. He’s really…impressed…by authority.”
Teriarch didn’t pay attention entirely. He was staring at Magnolia’s back with such a sense of loss and sadness that Rafaema wanted to shout at him to look at her like that.
But he and the Human had known each other for all Magnolia’s life, almost. A Human’s life, but apparently he had taught her, talked with her, and been her closest ally—before the accident.
Before Eldavin. Now, they were strangers again, and from Magnolia’s charming smile, her laughter, the way she spoke and never once looked at Teriarch—
Only after he had been scraping his plate a minute did Teriarch remember Rafaema. Then he gave her another version of that guilty smile. This one filled with…
If his smile for Magnolia was regret and pain and nostalgia and longing running over a cup like the most saccharine of teas, then the glance he gave Rafaema was plain and simple.
Sadness. A bit of happiness and some affection. But mostly—wariness.
A young Dragon had finally found one of her kin. But the old Dragon had a job to do, a great task. He treated her kindly.
She wanted a mentor, a friend, a guide, a teacher, or anything and everything closer—but he held her at wing’s length.
He didn’t even blame her for her wing.
But nor did he tell her how it could come back.
 
——
 
Teriarch trained when not helping clear the High Passes or interacting with the two beings he gave a toss about: Magnolia Reinhart and Taletevirion.
He trained his fake body with the [Boxer], Alber, while his real body practiced breathing, did stretches, flapped laps around a mountain, and even practiced incantations.
No actual fighting, like biting or snapping at targets or shooting Dragonbreath. That was what Rafaema had practiced in Manus. Given she could no longer practice flying, she swung her sword in her Drake form, leaping from rock to rock. Bitterly, she realized she was far more mobile now as a Drake since she could still leap long distances with her Dragon strength.
Eventually, she came over as the Brass Dragon stopped breathing on a distant tree, making the leaves vibrate or whatever he was doing. He glanced over and smiled, his surprisingly white teeth glinting in a Dragon’s grin.
She awkwardly copied the gesture, and the far smaller, blue Lightning Dragon sidled over to the resting Brass Dragon, like a sailboat coming to rest next to a galleon.
His wings were folded; after a second, she tried to scootch over and rest under one of them. In response, Teriarch edged away until there was a slight gap. She tried to move over again, and his wing folded down, blocking her.
Neither one acknowledged what was going on. After a moment, Teriarch coughed.
“Is that Wyvern fellow still hanging about? He’s gotten beyond obstreperous; there’s a clear breach of manners if he shows up after yesterday. I’ll have a word with him if he comes back.”
Last night, Rafaema had gotten tired of him and blasted him full in the face with lightning, which was as straightforward a rejection as you got. She’d gotten sick of him bringing dead Eater Goats and shiny trinkets and trying to hang out.
He wasn’t a Dragon. He couldn’t even speak. He seemed to think they had a connection. If fighting in the High Passes counted, sure, they did.
“I’ll sort him out if he comes back.”
Rafaema growled. Teriarch eyed her and hesitated.
“I think I’d best be the intermediary. Not that I’m sure you couldn’t make your point clear! But he’s rather…straightforwards. He thinks he can court you.”
“Great.”
“He is a Wyvern, Rafaema. A particularly stubborn one, too; he’d have gotten the hint by now if he were anyone else. But he’s also a rather stellar member of his species, if only in form. I wouldn’t want him to pursue you from the High Passes and the conflict get you or anyone hurt.”
Rafaema’s head drooped.
“…Because I can’t beat him now that I can’t fly?”
“I didn’t say that!”
“You implied it.”
“Implication is often in the eyes of the beholder.”
“Oh, so I can best him in a fight?”
“I never said that either. He is a Wyvern Lord. Dead gods, Rafaema. They were known to best cocky adult Dragons when I was a lad. I can’t count how many times I’ve seen some uppity Wind Dragon flexing his or her wings and a suit of armor only for a wild Wyvern Lord to drop them out of the skies.”
Teriarch grinned, and Rafaema felt her heart lurch as it always did when he brought up the past. A pure longing from her—then tempered by sour anger. She looked up; they were both resting on a plateau above his cave, enjoying the sun.
A raincloud was coming their way, courtesy of Liscor. A dull roar from ahead; Rafaema muttered darkly.
“Then why don’t you tell me how to get my wing back?”
The Brass Dragon turned; his eyes, purple heliotrope and blue cerulean, flashed at her as the rain poured down. Rafaema got wet, sparks flickering from her mouth.
To her annoyance, Teriarch’s brass scales shone even more vividly in the rain and then, as the brief shower passed over, began to steam. He was dry in seconds. Rafaema glared at him, mane sopping with water.
“I told you. Healing a wing is not as easy as popping a Potion of Regeneration. You aren’t a mortal. It won’t work. I could heal any of Magnolia’s servants or the [Lady] herself far more easily than you or Taletevirion. We are magical beings; you saw me pulling those damned bullets out of her, cursed or not!”
He had been so worried when Magnolia was wounded. More worried than for her? Rafaema vaguely remembered the long recovery after the Solstice. She lowered her voice.
“I don’t see that [Butler] of hers walking around with new legs.”
“I offered them to him last month! But his legs make him more capable—Rafaema, I don’t have a healing artifact that can just repair your wing.”
“But you know how to heal it.”
He avoided her gaze.
“It’s not easy. Some scars don’t heal. Believe me, all the other Dragons I knew bore many to their graves. And most methods, Rafaema, are not—clean.”
“Tell me, and I’ll judge whether or not I’m willing to do it.”
Her voice rose, and Teriarch narrowed his eyes.
“No. You want your wing back. I understand that. But I am not going to suggest a range of options that include…sacrifice…and see you, or those lunatics in Manus, choose the most expedient option!”
What kind of sacrifice? That drew Rafaema up; she could imagine what that meant. And she wondered what Luciva would do if Rafaema said it only took ten thousand souls to repair her wing.
She felt sick imagining what might be done. Then angry.
“It should be my choice! At least tell me a cleaner option! There has to be one!”
