Reluctantly, he bowed his head to her, resting his brow against the ground a second.
“You have some claim. Funny how I keep incurring debts into the future. But you are one Goblin. That object may pass hands—nay, it has passed hands countless times. I cannot give the same explanation to every single one who brandishes it at me.”
He tilted his body away, voice aloof once more, and she snapped at him. Her eyes blazed, and for a moment, Rafaema thought that the Goblin, Rags, was taller. Voice commanding. Rafaema blinked—rubbed her eyes.
Just a trick of the aura. Yet it had worked. Teriarch paused as Rags snapped.
“Tell only me. I am the Goblin who will find the answers.”
“I have heard that a thousand times.”
“How many Goblins do you remember who hold a key and stand in front of you? How many Goblins will you ever meet like this? Answer me. I am here. If you didn’t want to be involved, you never should have made it. You never should have talked to him, or me, the first time.”
She was trembling with emotion, and Teriarch was too ashamed to whisper a word and send her away. More than that—the Dragon looked at her. His eyes searched Rags, tried to extrapolate from her outfit, her scars, her face, something about her character and past. He didn’t even give Rafaema that appraisal all the time.
Teriarch paused in genuine surprise…and that worrying admiration he sometimes had for Magnolia and Erin and Ryoka—Rafaema bristled and snapped before he could reply. She glared at Rags, flaring her wing up and snarling.
“I am learning from the Dragonlord of Flames. Begone, mortal. Or he will smite you with the Dragonthrone, not let you gaze upon it!”
She made sparks appear as she bared her teeth and was dismayed by how not impressed Rags seemed. The Goblin frowned instead and scratched her head. Then Rafaema saw Teriarch glance down slowly. He had a dismayed expression on his face, and she realized she’d made a mistake.
“Rafaema. You have no idea what a Dragonthrone is, do you?”
Rags nodded as the Lightning Dragon hesitated. She glanced at the small orb.
“It’s…a symbol of great power, isn’t it? That Dragons carry around?”
Sort of like a crown or something. Or a personal scrying orb? The ‘throne’ part had confused her…Rags smirked as Rafaema’s heart sank. And Teriarch closed his eyes for one of those expressions that held a world of regret—for he was a damned galaxy of it—before brightening up.
Mostly because he got to show it off.
 
——
 
A floor so smooth it eclipsed any mirror, made out of something beyond glass.
An entire contained dimension, blazing pink-and-red skies streaked with a comet of fire that slowly passed across the horizon as Rafaema’s jaw opened wide enough to encompass the artificial sun.
Thrones of the Dragonlords, each one permanently embodying an element; an archway of fire rising high above the seat of the Dragonlord of Flames, heat so searing that a volcano was a frozen ice cube compared to it.
DRAGONTHRONE.
It was the second time Rags had seen it, and it still probably left her speechless, but Rafaema stood in the only place that had ever made her in her Dragon form feel tiny and searched around. She ran from spot to spot, almost flying until she forgot her wing, then saw a throne where lightning itself seemed to have been frozen in time. She ran towards it.
“It—but it’s so—how many of them are there?”
“Three or two. Definitely at least two fully in fact…four if you want to count Fissival. Calanfer’s Eternal Throne is, in fact, the Dragonthrone; the entire city is built upon it. Fittingly. You know, it was one of the largest made, but, if I dare say so, overdone. The central chamber is a bit fitting; it’s based after the Dragonking of Dawn, back in the day. Very spectacular, but as you can see, this was far more regal.”
Teriarch preened as Rafaema eyed the Dragonlord of Lightning’s throne that would have made her look like a child if she climbed on it, even had she dared ascend the crackling staircase. Rags kept well clear of the throne; only the magic in this place let them speak, so far removed were they.
“I came for answers, Dragonlord of Flame. Will you hear my request, as you did once, with Dragon, Wyvern, and Wyrm?”
His head snaked down, and Teriarch’s exhalation made his throne flare like a sunburst. A great sigh ran around the room, and flames rolled over the impossibly flat ground. They licked around Rafaema and Rags, multi-colored plumes of purple, green, and golden fire glittering with stars, and rose upwards.
Very impressive. Even Rags nodded, impressed, but all Teriarch said was—
“The old me, who you indeed seem to have met, was too talkative by far. Once, this was a place of supplication where we Dragonlords styled ourselves as great judges to mortals. Now it is I, the last of the last. I have no right to hear your request, Chieftain Rags. I have duties that I am preparing for, even now. What assails your tribe?”
“I don’t know. Only that it’s coming. It could be Humans. Or Drakes. Or other Goblins. Even monsters.”
Teriarch harrumphed again to less spectacular effect.
“Strategist Skills? Predictable. I have no desire to burn an army to ash, even if I were assured yours was the more moral of the grounds to stand upon. If it were an army…interceding in a guise might do. Yes. But you will have to be more specific.”
That was more than Rafaema had ever heard him agree to. She gave him an astonished look, then shouted.
“BUT TERIARCH—”
Her voice was so loud it made everyone wince. Rafaema modulated her tone, realizing she just had to speak normally.
“But she’s a Goblin! A monster! Despite what that inn said, and the fact that some Goblins are intelligent—you’d side with Goblins over a Drake army?”
Rags rolled her eyes and folded her arms. Teriarch just gave another long-suffering sigh.
“I can see there is much Manus didn’t teach you, if they even remember. Not just Dragonthrones. Chieftain Rags is a Goblin, Rafaema. Just as Magnolia is a Human, her species defines parts of her, informs her past and her upbringing, and yes, aspects of her nature. Not the whole. She is a Goblin. She may level; she is only a monster in the way she is declared such by other species. Yes, Goblins are peculiar in the one regard, their Goblin Kings. But the truth—the whole truth, Rafaema—is not one that should engender you to hostility. Pity and admiration, if anything.”
Rafaema was so astonished that she was breathless. Then she snapped.
“I don’t know what that means! It’s another one of your cryptic remarks! Like you make about Manus or Gnolls or everything! Explain it.”
“Yeah. I want to know too.”
Rags interjected. In reply, Teriarch fixed her with a sharp look and slapped his tail.
The Dragonthrone…zoomed in for a second, until it was right in front of Rafaema. She stumbled, and then she and Rags were standing before Teriarch’s throne, as if they’d run across the thousands of feet in a moment. He bared his teeth.
“A small trick of this place. Useful for audiences. Or fools lured into this place in a battle. Another handy trick for that fool if he had even let me read out the feature list. The truth of Goblins? I may tell you what I can, Rafaema, but I heard it repeated to me by my mother, who heard it from her father—and I am the closest being to a first-hand account there is living…or dead.”
His face twisted up with grief, another thing he refused to share. But Rafaema was breathless. Truth? There was a greater truth than the Goblin Kings? No, their origin and the lore around them would be unheard of! But Teriarch was shaking his mighty head.
“Not to mention…the truth is dangerous.”
“How? To me? How could it hurt to tell me the truth?”
Rags jabbed a thumb at her chest.
“Yeah. Or me?”
Teriarch frowned at the two of them and slapped his tail. More flames shot up from his throne, and he rose to glare down at them like an ancient king of flames and scale.
“How? Beyond the fact that someone could grab the information from your mind, Rafaema, do you think I like holding secrets?”
“Yes.”
Rafaema, Rags, and the spirits of Taletevirion, Magnolia, Ryoka, and every other person Teriarch had ever known chorused. Teriarch paused.
“…I do not enjoy this. The danger of this is not only that it might empower certain foes…though, I grant you, that is a lesser concern than it used to be. The concern is that the knowledge, the telling of itself—might create a new Goblin King before our eyes. And believe me, young as she is, lower level she might be—you and I would not enjoy encountering a Goblin King, even here.”
Rafaema’s eyes swung to Rags, and the Goblin Chieftain’s eyes widened in astonishment. The truth could create a Goblin King?
“That—couldn’t happen, could it? That’s an exaggeration.”
“It has happened twice. Once, I was in the same room.”
Teriarch shuddered and passed a claw over his eyes in a very Human-like expression.
“It is a curse. I know…part of why it exists. I will not risk it. I will tell you as much as I can, just as I told Magnolia, Rafaema. Privately. As for you, Chieftain Rags—you have my support if you know the foe that assails your tribe. If it is a foe from high above, I may face it. If it is an army, I may parlay. I am the Dragonlord of Flames, and I no longer slumber. That is my oath to you, here, upon the throne of my people.”
He bared his teeth, and Rafaema’s heart leapt in her chest as Rags stared up at him. Her eyes were wide, as if she were seeing a well and true stranger. This was no slumbering Dragon. This was…
Rafaema realized Rags was shaking her head and Teriarch was trying to suck in his lips like he had become a Void Eater Goat. There was a growling, thrumming sound in the air. It was like a cat’s purring, but a thousand times louder. She realized it was coming from her, stopped it, and saw Teriarch’s mortified expression.
Though she had no idea what that was and had never made that sound before in her life, Rafaema blushed deep red and instantly stopped. There was a long silence as Rags inspected Teriarch. She folded her arms and tapped one foot slowly. The Dragonlord raised a claw.
“She is a young Dragon who has just met me. I am an old, retired Dragon with no entanglements whatsoever in this time or in the future.”
Rags narrowed her eyes silently. Teriarch stood up.
“[Truth of the Heavens] works even on Dragons. I have a spell scroll in my cave. Let me get that.”
 
——
 
They were arguing as they left the Dragonthrone. Rags, Rafaema, and Teriarch.
“I want to know more about my people. Give me some help. You know we’re suffering and dying.”
“You owe me answers, Teriarch! Real answers! You’re the only teacher of my entire people left!”
He snapped at both of them.
“You are wounded and in shock, Rafaema, and, if I may be blunt, too interested in my personage, for reasons I find highly sympathetic, if not appropriate! And you are a Goblin Chieftain, Miss Rags, who may one day turn into a threat I would hesitate to strive against!”
Rags and Rafaema looked at him. Rafaema bit Teriarch’s tail as he tried to get into his cave, and Rags shot a fireball past his face.
“We deserve answers!”
They shouted, and the Dragon turned. He was angry, wary, embarrassed, and ashamed—and all these things Magnolia had known of him. Heck, Ryoka had known of him.
For a moment, he became that wall of brass, unwilling to speak, retired, isolated, content to sleep millenia until time ended. Then his eyes flickered. Teriarch turned to the cave where he had died, and stood there, like a sentinel at his own grave. His eyes flicked to Rags, and Teriarch closed them.
“…Yes. You do. But I cannot explain a lifetime so fast. I can only do as I have done with you for this last month, Rafaema: tell you stories.”
He turned his kindly eyes upon Rafaema, and she ducked her head. That is what he had been doing. She just wanted…more. She wanted to go back in time. She wanted to wake up in a world where she was not alone and for him to just hug her and tell her it was all alright.
More than anything. She looked up as a shadow passed overhead, a giant Wyvern screaming a lonely mating call. Both she and Rags ignored the Wyvern Lord, who might have had problems with distinguishing friendship from carnal affection.
It was a common failing among flying, winged quadrupeds, bipeds, and many other species. And genders. Teriarch exhaled. He took a deep breath as Rags and Rafaema realized they were, at least, on the same side. Rags held out a hand. Rafaema jerked her head back, snorted—then hesitated.
She closed her eyes, glanced up as another shriek filled the air and stared at the sky. Then she howled.
“Cirediel! No!”
Cirediel Anvi’dualln Olicuemerdn, the smaller Earth Dragon of Oteslia, hurtled out of the skies in a dive as a flock of Pegasus Riders led by Mivifa Selifscale dodged around several Wyverns. The younger Dragon was screaming.
“Get away from Rafaema, you old—whuh—”
He was on a collision course with Teriarch, who raised his head, inhaled—then choked as he beheld the young Dragon. Cire’s claws were out, and he was trying to breathe acid, but before he managed to strike Teriarch—a giant Dragon three times his size, made of metal—or breathe acid, he twisted and saw a Wyvern Lord screaming as he dove to defend his love(s).
Huh. So that’s what being drop kicked out of the air looks like. 
Rafaema and Rags watched with horror and awe, Teriarch with nostalgia. All three winced as a brown-scaled Dragon hit the ground with a whumph that made the ground shake.
“Haugh!”
Cire made the sound a moment before the Wyvern Lord dove at both him and Teriarch, screaming. The Brass Dragon watched the Wyvern Lord literally picking up and dropping Cire, like a [Wrestler] doing aerial body slams while shrieking bloody murder. The Earth Dragon was screaming as well, if less bravely.
“Mivifa! Help! Heeeeeelp!”
Teriarch’s head swung from Rafaema, to Rags, to the Frost Wyverns, the Pegasi Riders, and Lulv, who had finally gotten back and was howling insults up at them.
“You were supposed to keep in cover, you treehugging, stupid city of—”
Teriarch turned around and walked back into his cave. Then he put up a forcefield.
