“There are, and if I had a scroll of [Almighty Regeneration], I would use it on you in a second, Rafaema, but I used the last one I had during the Creler Wars! Regular [Regeneration] would barely cure bleeding gums on you! I am not going to direct you to one of the remaining places one might be and see you hunted down by a kingdom for trying to raid their treasury!”
“So it’s in a kingdom.”
“Aha! I didn’t specify which one, and kingdom is a catchall term for a nation, which is precisely how I meant it here!”
He lifted a claw like a pedant—which she had realized he was long ago—and the Lightning Dragon narrowed her eyes and surprised him.
“So it’s not in a kingdom, which implies one of the old empires or ruins. One that can kill me.”
Teriarch compressed his mouth silently, and Rafaema wished that actually gave her more to go on; the list of such nations was annoyingly long. Silently, he tapped one claw on the ground, and she felt something heat her scales; the water dried off her as she steamed as well.
This was the kind of circular conversation and argument they had. Her asking for things he would not give. She put her head down and closed her eyes.
“If you want me to learn my lesson, I’ll learn it. I got Aldonss killed. I know. I just—I want to fly again.”
Her voice broke, and she felt like a hatchling crying as the Security Council of Manus and the old Dragonspeakers would try to calm her, telling her to ‘be strong’ and how brave and powerful she’d be.
She felt tears come to her eyes, charged liquid—but for once, she didn’t tremble alone in her rooms or fly screaming at the skies and hoping someone would fly down and answer her.
Softly, Teriarch put one wing over her and squeezed, then, with a dexterity she hadn’t known Dragons possessed, rubbing the edge of his wing on her head, patting her on the head.
“I know, child. I know. I am sorry. I should have kept you far from her. It wasn’t your fault. They taught you every day to die for their city, those fools. Just…it will be alright. I’ve seen Dragons with far worse wounds than you. You need to process your wound. It’s the first you’ve ever taken.”
She leaned against him, and after a moment of hesitation, she felt the furnace of his inner core as he stopped moving away. She closed her eyes so she couldn’t see the pained regret and reserve in his face as he froze there.
Part of her wished he had been far younger, some wild Dragon, and they could have fallen in love and not known anything except they were here. She wished he had fallen in love with her, for all Lulv kept hinting he’d challenge Teriarch if he saw even a hint of impropriety.
Anything to get closer rather than the wall of his reserve that came up every second. Rafaema was trying to lean over when she heard said chaperone raise his voice.
“Rafaema.”
“Lulv, I will blast you.”
Her head snaked around, and he took cover behind a rock as a lightning bolt coalesced around Rafaema’s mouth. Teriarch moved away, and Lulv called out warily.
“Above. Wyvern—I swear I saw it drop something.”
“Hm?”
Both Teriarch and Rafaema looked up. They saw a Frost Wyvern winging away; neither Teriarch nor Rafaema was afraid of it or even the Frost Wyvern Weyr.
They were Dragons. There were foes in the High Passes that Rafaema had learned to respect. The Void Eater Goat, the Greater Mimic, the Elemental Lords of Ice and Rock…even lesser monsters in groups could be deadly to her.
But not with Teriarch. He could eye down any threat and have it leave, be it Passmaw packs or even the Elemental Lords. One peek to confirm it wasn’t the Wyvern Lord and Rafaema shook her head. Teriarch just frowned.
“There’s a Goblin on the back of that Wyvern. It must be them.”
“Damn Goblins.”
Lulv spat, which earned him a reproving glare from Teriarch.
“In my presence, Spearmaster of Manus, you will respect all denizens of the High Passes. Except Eater Goats and Crelers. Leave the Goblins be. And I warn you, if the City of War has plans on me or the Goblins—”
Lulv raised his paws, growling as he glared at Teriarch. He still had the replacement spear he’d received from Erin instead of his old one…but Rafaema thought he liked his new spear even better. He’d be caught dead before admitting that, though.
“No one’s moving on the High Passes, again, Dragonlord. Though I will say Rafaema needs to go back soon. Luciva is not happy. Rafaema, she’s worried sick about you. She thinks of you like her daughter.”
And she lost her daughter last year around this time too. At the hands of Tyrion Veltras’ forces, very close to Liscor. Rafaema closed her eyes.
“I don’t want her to worry, but I have to stay here. She knows why—”
She glanced at Teriarch. The Dragon stared up at something floating down, then peered at Rafaema as Lulv replied.
“Then if she could have an audience?”
“No. No Walled Cities.”
“She just wants to meet you, Lord Teriarch—”
The Brass Dragon harrumphed.
“That’s how it starts. First, you lot greet me. Then you say, ‘we’ll never bother you, Dragonlord, except for the ends of the world!’ Then you say, ‘well, there is this one minor matter. Can we have lunch’? The next thing I know, you’re demanding to know why I haven’t shown up for my 7-o’clock check in!”
His bellow of ire made Rafaema and Lulv look at each other. This was the kind of thing that Rafaema had to assume was true. It sounded trueish…and stupid.
“We promise, one meeting—”
“I’ve heard that over a thousand times.”
“Swear on a truth spell?”
“Please. You can’t even cast [Empowered Detect Truth].”
“We’re the City of War. We defend Izril! You can’t spare five minutes to meet with the Dragonspeaker, you overgrown brass fitting!?”
Rafaema gasped. Lulv had a hair-trigger sometimes, and a month of this kind of back-and-forth meant his respect was running dry for Teriarch, which, it had to be said, hadn’t been exactly a well to begin with.
Calmly and deliberately, Teriarch raised a claw, and Lulv went running, using the rocks as cover. The Dragon let him run, then spoke.
“[Labyrinthine Seeker]—[Ray of Teleportation].”
He combined the two spells into a bright viridian beam that went zipping after Lulv, so fast and able to track him that he couldn’t dodge. Lulv twisted, slashed—and vanished with a howl.
Rafaema turned her head and tried to sense the magic like Teriarch had taught her. It took too long, so he coughed and gestured; embarrassed, she looked up and saw the trace of magic over one of the mountains.
“I swear, he’s cutting the magic this time. I suppose he is worthy of his title of Spearmaster. The spear part of it, at any rate. The trick there is you provide a stream of mana while the spell’s active, not a one-off charge. Bets on how long it takes him to get back?”
Rafaema wasn’t a betting person like Teriarch. He was…well, he had different qualities from her. She just sighed.
“Will I ever learn magic like that?”
“Give it time. Centuries. You don’t have shortcuts in Skills. Do you think I learned magic like this when I was your age? When I was your age, hah, I could barely read!”
He seemed embarrassed and nostalgic about that. Then he flicked his gaze up and glowered.
“And it seems like we’re full of intruders and busybodies today. Shoo. Shoo!”
He waved a claw at what Rafaema had also missed; a little speck had floated down from the Wyvern overhead and landed on a rock a good two hundred paces above. A Goblin with a [Featherfall] spell.
Rafaema blinked at Rags. The Goblin stopped tugging her boot out of a nook she’d wedged it in and hopped off her perch. She floated down further and landed there. Then she searched around, found a rock, and pulled out a pillow. And a drink.
Both Dragons stared at Rags, who sucked on the milkshake and stared back at them. Teriarch muttered to Rafaema.
“You see? Give them an inch and they think you’re the entertainment. Okay…Goblin. I’m going to teleport you above your home, so don’t blame me if I get the coordinates off. You can [Featherfall].”
He began to speak, and Rags frowned.
“So you don’t remember me.”
Teriarch froze mid-incantation, and Rafaema sat upright. His memory, lost during his death…the Dragon coughed.
“Did we know each other? If so, I am sure it was a passing acquaintance. Rest assured, neither I, nor this Dragon here, will eat your tribe.”
“I am Rags, Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe.”
“Yes, yes. Charmed. We shan’t meet again…well, we might, but please, privacy? I know you Goblins know the word.”
Teriarch tried to shoo her off with a wing. Rags’ hair went flying, and she wiped at dirt that had blasted into her face. Doggedly, she replied.
“I’m a friend of Erin. I was at the inn, remember?”
“So, apparently, was everyone.”
Teriarch was getting tetchy in a defensive way that Rafaema recognized. He glowered at her.
“No favors! No solicitations! No advice! Go find a [Monk] sitting on a mountain somewhere! But be sure they’re not training in another realm or in their head when you poke them. Sometimes, they forget where their body is.”
That. That was the kind of thing Rafaema wanted to be able to do. She knew it was silly, but she wanted to be the Dragon who could throw that kind of informative non-sequitur into conversations just to remind people she was old. Rags just folded her arms though.
She had been at the Solstice; Rafaema vaguely recalled her from the beach and the inn. Goblins…she eyed Teriarch.
What was up with them? He gave her a patient ‘can you believe this?’ look, then a sharper glance.
“Do you know about Goblins?”
“That they become Goblin Kings? The island? The Goblin Lords still alive, like Greydath?”
He sucked on his teeth.
“Something else I should have…we’ll have a conversation later. You there, begone. I sincerely doubt we had a good relationship—”
“You invited me into your Dragonthrone.”
A stray bolt of lightning crackled out of Rafaema’s opened mouth; lesser jolts of electricity crawled out of her lips and played across her teeth like charged spiders. Teriarch’s eyes bulged, but he merely exhaled a huge plume of smoke from his nostrils as he barked at Rags.
“I did not. That is a gross lie! Why would I invite you into there?”
“Respect.”
The Brass Dragon half rose to his feet. He fiddled with something in the air, muttering a spell.
“Open the…I did not. This, Miss Goblin, is an actionable untruth. You could be prosecuted in other eras for that kind of statement. You’re lucky I don’t hit you with an old Contractum Judicacium spell. I swear I have a few of those around…aha! Here’s my Dragonthrone. Pristine. Unclaimed by certain individuals who would greatly benefit from one and whose personal pride is keeping them from claiming this treasure of treasures!”
Another peeve of his; he smacked the ground with a claw, and Rags gave Rafaema a puzzled look and mouthed ‘who’? Rafaema gave Rags a glower that said the Goblin was a mortal speck and she, Rafaema, was above her.
Rags sipped on her milkshake. Teriarch triumphantly pulled a scroll out of a glowing orb that caught Rafaema’s eye. She blinked at the bright, brilliant sky, pink and orange, otherworldly, and what seemed like some grand, circular platform in…
“Aha! Guest log. Taletevirion. Taletevirion. Magnolia, Ressa…Taletevirion. Talet—I need to filter by original entries…Khetieve, Mauri herself…Rags…hah?”
He blinked at something. Produced a pair of spectacles, which popped onto his snout. Read down his ledger. Frowned at Rags. She gave him a smug expression.
“We were best friends. And you owed me ten thousand gold. And a new set of armor.”
The Dragonlord of Flames blinked at Rags, and a gigantic ‘x’ appeared over Rags’ head. The Goblin Chieftain sighed, and Teriarch canceled the truth spell.
“Ha-ha. Very funny. Well…”
He sat there, flummoxed a moment, as a very angry Gnoll climbed over a ridge several thousand feet away and howled something down at them. Several Gargoyles began flying his way.
Rags folded her arms. She seemed tired, despondent, but slightly hopeful.
“I need help. My tribe is in danger.”
The Dragonlord of Flames lay there, suddenly outstripping both women for his personal weariness, which was etched in every line of his body and his retort, automatic, before he caught himself.
“…I cannot take a side in so many mortal affairs, Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe. No—perhaps I should. Perhaps this is the call, and perhaps I am ready. But once I fly…so many die.”
He paused, and his face contorted with that personal agony that Rafaema did not understand. If only he would do something, rule Manus, order the Walled Cities around—but he had refused her every suggestion.
Rags, though, seemed to have met Teriarch before, for she folded her arms.
“That’s what you said last time. No sides. You flew for Erin. You’re helping Lady Magnolia. And your stupid friend keeps rejecting that Wyvern Lord. So he flies to my fortress to poop in front of it and cause trouble.”
Rafaema and Teriarch listened to Rags in utter silence. They gazed at each other, and then, after a long moment, Teriarch got to his feet.
“Alright, that I can handle. Where is that brat? The old firebreath twister should send him packing, unless he calls in the Weyr. No, wait. Maybe a ray will be better…”
Rags lifted a hand as he began to stretch.
“He’s fine. Probably. I told him to get lost. I had questions for you. Will you answer them? You let me into the Dragonthrone.”
The Dragon exhaled a plume of smoke out of one nostril, and his voice rumbled with a chuckle.
“I have let rabbits into the Dragonthrone, girl. Mortal rabbits. I don’t doubt you and I shared words, but I am busy. And I do not know you. I have lost my memories. Forgive me if I remain aloof.”
He was doing his best, but the Goblin had come prepared. She frowned at Rafaema, then showed Teriarch something, angling her body. The Brass Dragon snapped open one eye.
“What is that?”
“Something you recognized. You don’t know it?”
Her voice was casual, and Rafaema walked sideways to see…whatever it was, Rags had tucked it back in her bag of holding. What could be that small? An amulet?
A key?
Teriarch narrowed his eyes.
“I made that. I wouldn’t have seen it was enchanted unless—”
The little Goblin’s attention, already focused, became electric, and Teriarch realized he’d said too much. He snapped his jaw closed, but then exhaled. He glanced up towards the mountains above. At Rags…and seemed to put two and two together.
“Damn that Eldavin. Does he…no, I see now. So I was involved in that?”
“More than you told me. You owe me.”
