Erick sat to the side of the temple, in the middle of Spur’s farms, flowing mana through his spells, listening to them, and feeling them, while platinum rain poured all around from silver clouds; a gentle, constant static, to the emotions and feelings and sounds emanating from his Script-magic.

The sounds he made were small sounds, echoing in the temple, not traveling very far. He wasn’t going to pump up the power and actually try to combine the spell like this, not yet, not while he was using [Exalted Storm Aura]; that spell seemed reluctant to play well with others.

When the scheduled rain was over, Erick [Teleport]ed home. He had things to do, and they needed to be done right now.

- - - -

Erick stood upon the roof of his mage tower, a dozen meters above the ground, surrounded by air and unencumbered by others; except for Poi, who stood at a respectable 5 to 7 feet away, prepared to assist, if necessary. Noon was seconds away; the sun was almost directly above. The winds of the Crystal Forest washed over the northern walls of Spur, flowing around Erick, hot, but cool as they flowed into his loose clothing, touched his hair, carrying upon the breeze the scent of dry sand. He started to sweat, but it was an easy, pleasant feeling. Now was the time to try for [Familiar].

He faced south, toward Ar’Kendrithyst; let them see his work if they were able.

He began to channel mana through the necessary skills, ramping up his mana into something that complemented his words. Or maybe his words only served to complement the vibrations in the manasphere? Either way, he began:

“An eddy turns Transcendental,  [Conjure Force Elemental]

“Caught on Force, ever Sightful,  [Scry]

“an air carves soft, Instrumental,  [Airshape]

“Fear may be, but never frightful,  [Telepathy]

“Appear! Be here, my [Elemental].”   [Conjure Force Elemental]

Erick’s mana drained out of him, funneling into the air. He faltered, but he did not fall; a lot of mana had just left his body, but no new paths had been carved by new particle magic. This was normal magic, and it was magnificent.

A space tore open in the sky in front of Erick, three feet wide but impossibly deep, full of light and booming with a full, coordinated orchestra of spells and sounds Erick had never heard. The space inverted, suddenly and without warning, a world of music turning into something much smaller, but still three meters tall; a creature made of too many wings and so many eyes, floating upon the air on a muted song. Every eye was pure white and took in the world from every direction. Every wing was too white, and flickered in every possible way, somehow keeping the creature made of air and sight in the sky, under its own, completely controlled power.

A huge blue box briefly filled Erick’s view.

Summon Ophiel, medium range, 1505 mana + Variable.

Summon an Ophiel to do your bidding. Maximum 10 Ophiel permitted.

Ophiel persist until killed or dismissed.

All Ophiel are the same creature; to know one is to know them all.

All Ophiel naturally have and regenerate mana based on your own mana and mana regeneration, which they may use to cast the spells that you imbue them with, at your own command or at their own discretion. Comes summoned and proficient with [Airshape], [Telepathy], and [Scry].

All Ophiel are able to change their airy shape, as they are wont.

Imbue your Ophiel with new spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Ophiel. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Ophiel. Variable

Ringed in light and made of wings and eyes, the ophiel hovered in the air, gently undulating in small, pleasant noises; sounding like a flock of birds on the wing.

Erick smiled. “Welcome to the world, Ophiel.”

The ophiel did nothing but continue to look in every direction and at Erick, hovering in the air, unmoving.

Erick hummed. “I guess you’re not sapient?” It did nothing, so Erick said, “Let’s see how you work, then?”

“Sir.” Poi gutted, behind Erick, “Please dismiss it.”

The ophiel gazed at Poi with its hundreds of eyes. Erick turned to his bodyguard. The sapphire dragonkin was a shade of sky-blue; considerably lighter than usual. That wasn’t good. Erick turned back to his ophiel.

Erick asked, “Uh. I guess I overdid it with the angelic imagery.” He asked, “Can you transform into something smaller, and quieter?”

The ophiel just kept staring, floating in the sky, 10 feet tall and gently making small noises.

Erick pressed a gentle command into the creature, like he would with [Conjure Force Elemental]. A dozen white wings collapsed into four, two large, two small, around a central body made of dozens of eyes, but much, much smaller than it was before; only two feet tall, now. With another gentle mental command, the creature further reduced in size. Now the size of a small parrot, the ophiel landed on the railing in front of Erick. It held on to the stone with its lower wings, and looked up at Erick; one larger eye surrounded by smaller eyes.

An ever-present song in the air, like a distant wind, vanished, as it touched down and went still.

Erick knelt down, getting eye level with the summon, saying, “You’re kinda cute.”

“When it’s not three meters tall and blaring out horrors!” Poi stammered, “Uh. Sir.”

“It wasn’t that loud, was it?” Erick turned to the tiny creature, saying, “You’re not a noisemaker; you’re just a baby.” Erick sent, ‘Can you understand me?’

The response that came was just, ‘?’ Not really a word; not really a coherent thought, but a blank question at the world, and right now ‘the world’ was Erick.

Erick explained to Poi, “Sizzi told me about this: it might take years for a rudimentary intelligence to form, but until then, I should treat the creature like a pet in training. Commands and rewards. Starting off small, but strict, and treating it how I want it to act in the future.” Erick thought for a moment, then flexed a command at the not-bird to get on his shoulder. The ophiel breezed into the air and alighted on Erick’s shoulder, securing itself with its lower wings; there were tiny claws in there, hidden under all the feathers. Erick turned to Poi. “Don’t scare the baby bird, Poi.”

Poi’s sapphire color returned to his face. He spoke seriously, “That is not a bird, sir. I have no idea what you have summoned, but I feel you must have your spell looked at, to make sure you haven’t created a life that will turn on you.”

“You’re absolutely right.”

Poi declared, "And that's no angel, sir!"

Erick asked, "What? It's not? What do angels look like on Veird?"

"Like humans!" Poi exclaimed.

"Okay. Well. I guess I should have seen that coming." Erick gently petted ophiel's wings, cooing, "You're not a veirdly angel at all, are you? Cute little thing, you are. Yes you are."

The ophiel didn't seem annoyed at the petting, nor did it seem happy. It just seemed... there.

Erick stopped petting it, saying, "We'll work on that."

- - - -

The mage guildhouse had two towers, five days ago. Now, it had three grey towers, and one of the nearby buildings must have been consumed by the guild, because the grey structure was twice as large as it had been the last time Erick had seen the place, and it sat in the middle of a rather open area. Traffic in the Mage District was similarly increased as it was in the Adventurer’s District, but walking through the grey streets here was considerably easier compared to the density of everyone wearing armors and carrying weapons in the Adventurer’s District. Here, people wore easy clothes like tunics and muffling robes. Even the noise was less, which seemed like a good thing when it came to introducing Ophiel to Spur.

Ophiel was simply entranced the whole stroll to the Mage’s Guildhouse. Erick spoke telepathically with it, explaining what it was seeing, and pointing out new things as they came into view. Ophiel occasionally made windy noises, but mostly, it —he? she? they?— stared at everyone, and everything, unblinking eyes opening and closing along its body to take in more sights as needed, but quickly dismissing many of the extra eyes when it had seen all there was to see. Guards got a heavy stare at first, but Ophiel ignored them past the second group. A man wearing bright pink suit got a response of several new eyes grown quickly, but those vanished just as fast as they appeared. Ophiel seemed to really like the trees, though; greenery, especially greenery moved by the wind, got and held the attention of at least two eyes at all times.

Erick entered the open double doors of the Guildhouse. Sizzi was seated behind the front counter, along with Anhelia, both of them discussing some quiet thing, until Erick walked up.

Anhelia looked to Erick, and smiled a bit, nodding in greeting.

But Sizzi’s reaction was priceless; she saw Ophiel and stood up, wide eyed and with a gasp. She lost all sense of decorum; several nearby people looked at her like she was a disruptive child in a toy store; that wouldn’t have been far from the truth.

“You made a [Familiar] you like!” Sizzi exclaimed, loud and happy, “It’s so cute!” She asked, “I need to see the spell.”

Erick smiled. “All that, and more. Let’s go to a private room, first.”

Anhelia said, “Go ahead,” but Sizzi had already grabbed Erick’s hand and was pulling him into a back room.

In a plain, heavy duty stone room, five meters by five meters and meant for spell experimentation, Sizzi quickly set out two chairs; one for her, and for Erick. She sat down. Erick sat down across from her as he pulled out Ophiel's spell description and handed the blue box to Sizzi. Her eyes went wide as she read. Then her eyes went wider. She pursed her lips, then recoiled just a tiny bit. She read intently, her eyes flickering back and forth between the winged creature on Erick’s shoulder, and the box in her hands.

Ophiel’s reaction was quieter, but he had grown several tiny eyes to watch Sizzi and her fun reactions.

When she kept silently reading, Erick interrupted, “It’s not a real creature, right?”

“No.” Sizzi instantly said, “No. This is just a very, very good [Familiar]. Shapechange is huge. Innate spells? That’s amazing, too. But the biggest, most incredible feat, is that it has its own mana and regeneration. Summoned creatures like this live off of their mana; their mana is their HP. If it has your MP, and your regeneration...” Sizzi stressed, looking at Ophiel on Erick’s shoulder, “Ophiel has… a lot of HP.”

Ophiel tittered, like a tiny bird; he seemed to like Sizzi's attention, but Erick realized now that he was just anthropomorphizing the little guy. And just like that, Erick decided that Ophiel was a ‘he’, and that a little bit of anthropomorphizing was okay.

Erick said, “He’s quite a good little guy, for sure. But there’s no danger of me accidentally having made a slave, right?”

“No. None.” Sizzi shook her head. “[Familiar] in the Script blocks out all tier 2 soul creation. Even if you used more spells than necessary, at tier 2, you couldn’t create a soul-filled being.” She asked, “You added [Airshape] to the recipe, yes?”

“Yes.”

“How!?” Half-incredulous, Sizzi asked, “How’d you— How did you do any of this!”

Erick smiled. “I sang it into existence with a short rhyme to harmonize the spells together, casting the necessary spells as needed as I went. I started with [Conjure Force Elemental], then—”

“Hold on—” Sizzi summoned a pad of paper and a pencil from the air. She started writing, saying, “I’ll have to write it down properly later, but go ahead.”

Erick nodded, smiling. Then he explained how enchanting was all about stringing mana through one’s magic, and how he used that harmony to create Ophiel. Nothing too groundbreaking; just a bit of lateral thinking to harmonize what was already there. [Airshape] was crucial to that harmony; [Scry] and [Telepathy] felt way too paranoid and scared of each other, or maybe even themselves, to combine without a great deal of luck. Erick cautioned against Sizzi using [Watershape]; even if she believed it was not possible to create life with a tier 2 spell, Erick still felt that [Watershape] was asking for trouble.

Sizzi was thrilled the whole time.

When the explanation was done, Erick showed off Ophiel’s true three meter size, complete with billowing wings and a thousand white eyes. Sizzi laughed with joy to see such a beautiful creation. Poi, though, calmly asked Erick to put away the summon after a minute of full exposure. With a small command, Ophiel quickly returned to blue-bird sized, then sat upon Erick’s shoulder.

Erick said, “I hope that you can use some of my success to create your own, because I couldn’t have done this without your help, Sizzi.”

Sizzi smiled softly, saying, “I only hope mine can be half as good as yours.” She added, “But. Yes. This is vastly different from how I was doing it. It might work, but even if it doesn’t work this well… adding an innate shapechange ability might be the perfect solution to all my problems, though that might make the combination all the more difficult. I’ll find out!” She sighed out. “If only that Xerzeril wasn’t three meters tall… But that’s the past.” She smiled, bowing a bit, saying, “Thank you, Archmage.”

- - - -

Erick stopped into the Sewerhouse and took Al out for drinks and an early dinner. Erick talked of wyrm hunting, and of his new familiar, who was still sitting on Erick’s shoulder this whole time, hopefully learning a bit about everything.

Al smiled over beer and fried foods, saying, “That is quite a set of accomplishments, Archmage.”

“Oh don’t you start with that, too.” Erick said, “I’m not nearly paranoid enough to be a real archmage.”

Al laughed loud.

- - - -

The air ripped open, a yellow scar glowing upon the flat lands of the Human District, as twilight began to fill the skies of Spur. Yetta stood on the other side of the [Gate], along with Jane, on a dark grassy field; a night sky stretching overhead, filled with stars. A cool wind blew out from the [Gate]. It was time to go.

With Ophiel on Erick's shoulder, Erick, Poi, Rats, and Teressa, each hefted their own packs, and stepped through onto the Greensoil Republic. A minor war would start tomorrow. Hopefully it would go better than Yetta's time in Ar'Kendrithyst.
