“So many questions.” Jane frowned at the spells. She asked, “How did you manage to get around the Infinitesimal Ban?”

“I didn’t. This is random chance breaking up atmospheric carbon; some of it adding into the diamonds, some of it probably transforming into something dangerous. Hence the necessity of [Cleanse Aura].” Erick looked at his wet hand. "I don't think I'm in danger of any exposure to anything deadly, though. [Cleanse] does a lot, apparently."

Jane kept frowning. She said, “I don’t know enough about nuclear power to know if this is a disastrous precedent with regard to uranium 238, or not.”

Erick shook his head. “I doubt it. Diamond is very stable, and a crystal. Is uranium a crystal? No.”

“Is it?” Jane asked.

“Uh.” Erick, suddenly unsure, said, “Probably not a stable one, at any rate.”

Jane hummed, then looked back to the spells, then dismissed them, saying, “You’re likely right.” She asked, “And this mana cost? So cheap!”

"No?" Erick said, “500 for Mana Shaping X plus 25 mana for the spell, lasts 10 minutes, so times 6, so 3150 mana per hour, or like… 50 per minute. 1 mana per second is actually higher than what it should be.”

Jane sighed out, “Sure.” She added, “Meanwhile, my ‘Handy Aura’ can’t get below 7 mana per second.”

Erick looked at Jane. “That’s weird. It shouldn’t cost that at all.”

Jane shook her head, saying, “Don’t worry about it. Let me see one of those gems.”

Erick smiled as he handed a silver gem to Jane. She inspected the silver ball as Erick used [Metalshape] to pick off a lump of iron from a waiting bar. With a bit of crude artistry, Erick stuffed a gem into a ring, and then put the ring on.

“Plus 31,” Erick said, feeling stronger than usual. He took the ring off before it made him feel too funny. “Since they were all enchanted at the same time, with the same frequency, they can all easily slot into the same item. Four gems at once for plus-110 of a Stat is the highest I can safely do; five explodes, without fail. But more than two gems makes the item decay much, much faster than normal.” Erick put the freshly enchanted gems aside as he picked up two spherical unenchanted gems, saying, “And now we try the actual experiment.”

Erick dismissed the red maskward and cast a four-part color mask over the second vat of platinum water, creating a spot of vibrant purple upon the world. He slipped two unenchanted gems into the platinum waters, saying, “This is a color mask denying everything but Crimson, Cinnabar, Ultramarine, and Cyan; the four Stat colors. Now, we will see if this does anything at all; I’m expecting an explosion.”

Jane flashed out a midnight blue [Absorption Ward], fully filling the room.

Erick looked around at the darkness, and said, “My [Personal Ward] is for 4600, Jane. Yours should be much higher.”

Jane shrugged, saying, “I worry. So what,” as she looked at him, then looked back to the purple maskward.

Erick channeled mana through all of his Stats at once, producing a flickering, ugly mess of purple light. He stuck his hand into the purple mask. All the radiance of his messy soul turned clean, leaving a perfectly purple glow. He pushed his hand into the water, touching the gems under the platinum exactly how he would for any other enchantment.

[Cleanse Aura].

[Diamond Aura].

Erick flared purple, as the diamonds under the water soaked up the platinum. He cut the [Diamond Aura], letting the [Cleanse Aura] clean and clear the water. The gems looked okay, at the bottom of the vat. Erick picked them up. With [Metalshape], he stuffed one into a ring. He put the ring on.

“Hmm.” Erick said, “Plus 7 to all Stats.” Erick felt… Nothing? He said, “I don’t feel any different at all, either.”

“That’s supposed to be impossible.” Jane smiled at him, saying, “Maybe don’t make any more of those, for a while.” She added, “I’m glad you could do it, though.”

Erick made the other gem into a ring, and put them both on at the same time. He paused. He said, “This one is plus 8 to all Stats.” Erick looked at the two rings on his hands, and felt weird, but not because the rings made him feel weird. He still didn’t feel a Stat Swing at all, and that was exactly the opposite of what should be happening. He frowned, saying “This feels completely natural.” He took the rings off and held them out to Jane. “You try them on. Tell me if they make you feel different.”

Jane looked at the crude rings, then put them both on. She paused. She said, “I got nothing. Stat Swings usually feel like… something.” She looked to the remaining vat of platinum water. “Make more.”

“But you just said—”

“I know what I said—” Jane cut herself off, taking both rings off and giving them back to Erick, saying, “No. I was right the first time. Don’t make any more.” She frowned. She added, “They’re probably going to break as soon as you stress them, anyway.”

Erick put one of the rings back on. “Ah.” He looked at it. “Already lost a point. Down to plus-six.”

Jane sighed, smiling softly. She said, “Probably for the best.” Jane said, “And now I’m changing my mind back again. Go ahead and make more; if they’re this weak, then you should find out why.”

Erick looked at Jane and laughed.

“What?”

“I’ve never seen you this indecisive.”

“Dad. You are making impossible things.” Jane said, "And it makes me nervous.”

Erick said, “They need to be tested, for sure. I think you might be right about them being novelties... The rate of decay over four different Stats being used all the time... It's gonna kill these rings super fast.”

“They're pretty, but functionally useless.”

“Maybe!”

Erick put both rings back on. They would need extensive testing to see if the rate of decay leveled off, or not; his 22 Strength ring hadn’t lost another point past that first loss, even though he had spent a few dozen HP pools leveling his HP skills while he was out hunting wyrms.

Jane asked, “Want to try creating a [Familiar], now?”

“I’m going to finish up here.” Erick looked outside, at the brightening morning, saying, “I’m going to try for the [Familiar] at noon, after the rain, at a thematically appropriate time.”

“I can’t fault the mysticism not working, just… Don’t get too flightful, Dad. It could go really bad.”

“I won’t. What are you going to do?”

“I’m leaving with Yetta and Cyril.” Jane had a thread of intent coming off of her head. “They’re already on their way.”

Erick smiled softly, whispering, “Of course.”

“You’re going to be over there this evening, anyway.” Jane joked, saying, “I think we’re going to be lucky to get a tent.”

Erick waved his hand, saying, “I can just make us something out of [Stoneshape].”

Jane pulled him into a quick hug. Erick held her, as he held in his emotions.

Back to war, back to the fight. Killing monsters was necessary; Erick had learned that lesson. Thankfully, he did not learn that lesson the hard way. But with a lifetime of solving his problems with words, Erick didn’t think that he could ever be as correctly violent as his daughter. Erick could fake the necessity of the violence; he could do what needed to be done. But that just wasn’t him.

“I love you, Jane.”

“I love you, Dad.” Jane pulled away, saying, “Talk to you when I get there.” She looked to the archway to Erick’s mage tower; at the swirling, dampening pair of [Distortion Ward]s covering the space between. “They’re here now.”

Erick followed Jane to Yetta and Cyril. He greeted them with a heartfelt ‘Good morning!’ but there was a sadness in his soul. He managed to make the three of them stay for a little while, while he hurriedly created the rest of Yetta and Cyril’s gem order. He set the gems in a small stone box, each perfect silver sphere in a dimple of its own, and handed the box over to Cyril. Cyril thanked him in some perfunctory way.

And then Yetta created a yellow tear in reality in the living room, a rent torn wide connecting two different parts of the world, very similar to the one Erick had seen through Jane’s memories of when Melemizargo was Summoned to the Garden. Yetta said it was a [Gate]; a very advanced form of group teleportation gifted to her by Atunir for the duration of her Championship, that it was nothing at all like [Teleport].

Then Jane, Cyril, and Yetta, were gone, stepping from orange stone onto green grass, from a city waking up, into the early morning sunshine shining down onto green hills, traveling thousands of miles in a single moment.

The [Gate] vanished with a yellow blip, the warm bright sun of another part of the world closing off, bringing back the dark. As the sun rose outside upon the desert city of Spur, Erick felt colder than before.

- - - -

All throughout the rain at the farms, Erick experimented with [Telepathy], [Conjure Force Elemental], and [Scry], casting constantly to understand how mana changed as it ran through his magic. And then he moved onto the next part of his experiment: he ran mana directly through the spells inside of him, like he was enchanting through a Stat.

Each spell produced a white flare of magic that was not white at all. [Perfect Hearing] and [Ultrasight] helped Erick hear and see what he was actually seeing and hearing, and while white was the color of Erick’s generalized magic, up close, it was filled with hues and shades of white; sometimes brighter, sometimes dimmer, for each spell was a specific uniqueness all its own.

[Telepathy] produced tendril glows of white around Erick’s hand, and a harsh, discordant song, like countless people speaking in a crowded room. Most importantly, this spell, used in this way, was full of sounds of people working on a farm; Erick would never have heard or seen or sensed this foible of magic had he not been in the middle of the farm, where many people were looking over at him when they thought he wasn’t looking, thinking to themselves ‘what is that fool archmage doing?’.

A quick [Teleport] to Handy Aura into the air above some random part of the Crystal Forest showed that, yes, [Telepathy] used in this way was picking up on the thoughts of the people around him.

A quick [Teleport] back to the farms also showed that Poi was very easy to make understandably concerned, if Erick just up and [Teleport]ed away from him without saying something beforehand.

The mana glow produced by [Scry] was a sphere of white around Erick’s hand. But [Scry] itself was a deep, terrible silence, and not actually silent at all. [Perfect Hearing] helped Erick understand that the silence of [Scry] was actually an ultra low frequency hum. It was an unearthly sound, one of giant monsters watching you while you slept, or an enemy figuring out your secrets, or a storm rumbling far away. Poi even commented, to ‘please stop that, sir, it’s making me very nervous.’, which was about the same as Erick’s feelings on the sound of [Scry]. Spooky stuff!

[Conjure Force Elemental] was the sound of being underwater, of a whirlpool concentrated into a dot; of a mind emergent, one step removed from being a soul. It was the sound of an amoeba, or a flatworm. The white glow that came out of [Conjure Force Elemental] flowed around Erick’s hand like water around a globe, to catch here and there in streams and eddies.

Erick thought how to combine all of that, as platinum rain fell across farmland.

Erick imagined: [Familiar] seemed to call up a mind out of the ocean of a collective unconscious, put it in a body, and give control of most of that body to the caster, while the parts that were not under direct control were emotionally under control because of… some deep seated horror imprinted upon the [Familiar]?

No… That can’t be right. That seemed… Wrong.

Erick set that problem aside and went through the rest of his spells, looking for a possible harmonizing magic to go with [Familiar] recipe of [Scry], [Telepathy], and [Conjure Force Elemental].

Highlights of those experiments included:

[Call Lightning] was a primordial force given life; a song unto itself, about oceans crashing and mountains crumbling as the sky ripped everything apart. The white glow of [Call Lightning] even shocked Erick a little, leaving tingling lights on his palm that cracked and sparked as they dissipated.

[Pure Force Beam Bolt] was a pure, high ring, a nail upon a bright chalkboard; a perfect spike of white light, flowing out of Erick’s pointed finger.

[Domain of the Withering Slime] was an undulating mass of underwater sounds and a similar undulating mass of white and grey light. That was an odd one. Grey light? Weird.

[Exalted Storm Aura] was a primordial force that had seen some shit, and had chosen to lay down and start a nice life for itself in a place where it wouldn’t be disturbed. The white flare from [Exalted Storm Aura] was similarly sedentary, but not; the light built upon itself, like a cloud slowly growing larger. Erick smiled at that one. He had no idea where these feelings were coming from, when he channeled mana through his spells, but the emotions coming off of [Exalted Storm Aura] were very relatable.

[Airshape] was a wind; flowing high and free across the land, whistling as it danced through grasses, tumbling as it crested dunes, playful, and an extremely airy white light.

[Stoneshape] was a dense, solid sound, producing a solid, unwavering white light.

[Watershape] was, surprisingly, or perhaps unsurprisingly, a swirl of primordial soup, charged and ready to facilitate life, if only it were given a chance. The white glow from [Watershape] was clearly too strong and soul-producing to put into a potential [Familiar]; Erick was not ready to give ‘birth’ to a being made of magic.

[Airshape] though… [Airshape] had possibilities.

Erick channeled mana through the elements of [Familiar], listening to them, feeling them out, understanding where the harmony lay between the three.

And there was none.

Oh, sure, maybe if he listened in a different mood, or if he had a different state of mind, or if he plugged his ears and decided that discordant and disturbing was actually delightful and desired, he could hear a harmony emerge from the ether. But there was no real harmony; not to Erick’s ears. Not, however, until he added a fourth, stabilizing sound: [Airshape].

The horror of all-sight touched upon the sky, and was given wings to see the world. The disaster of looming in the minds of others was given space to be itself. And the swirls of concentrating mana, now concentrated in a rhythm.

