He’d been given a list of skills and passives, survivors from the composites that he’d broken down in order to make this combination.

[Wind Blast I: Using 200 F Grade Wind Mana, create a beat of wind around you that carries alongside natural air currents, allowing you to jump further or higher, as well as to cushion your landings or remain in the air longer. One hour cooldown, effective range is local to within five feet of your body.]

Wow, he’d combined that core and still retained that ability, fucking neat. He only had enough Wind Mana for one cast, but with the cooldown, one cast was all he was gonna manage regardless.

[Viscous form: Once per day, using 150 D Grade Life Mana, you may make your skin rubbery and soft for a period of five seconds, assuming the texture of slime and greatly reducing the impact of physical weapons, but greatly increasing the effectiveness of fire against you within that allotted timeframe.]

Okay… that was kinda crazy. He could become human slime for a few seconds? That was fucking insane. Did it affect his bones, too? Would it make him fall over, or would he be able to balance? All well and good using it to mitigate being stabbed, not so grand when he fell over and smashed his face in the second his body reverted.

He’d have to test that one. It sucked against fire, anyways, so that was probably a skill he wouldn’t be busting out unless he was super fucking desperate.

Guess not everything could be perfectly suited to whatever his upcoming fight was. That would be ridiculous.

[Forager I: Your Identify skill has been augmented with the ability to better see food sources, with potential sources of nutrition highlighted in blue while using Identify.]

Had he gotten that from the bear creature cores? Hmm… Combined with Robust, that shit could be pretty solid, but it was hardly what he needed right now either.

Finally, there was the giant passive.

[Guardian: Those who plant their feet and protect their people from whatever perils might assail them are gifted great strength. Effective Constitution is temporarily increased by 10% while standing within a five foot space for more than ten seconds in combat, and doubled to 20% when standing within five feet of an ally. Bonuses expire when knocked prone or leaving an active space.]

That was… possibly really useful. He wasn’t sure how much standing still he could afford to do versus his next opponent, but if he could find a way to take advantage of it…

Markus was already running through the possibilities in his mind. Formulating ideas. Imagining different ways the battle could go, moving him and his nebulous vision of an opponent around the arena within his mind like chess pieces.

When Rika returned to him, three new books in tow, Markus had already come up with about three different plans of how he might take this creature down, dependent on how things played out, and he was almost sure every single one of them would need to be adapted on the fly if he knew even the first thing about plans.

That being said, his entire thought train concerning planning went right out the fucking window when he started tearing into the first book a panting, breathless Rika handed to him, immediately wiping his eyes to ensure that he wasn’t misreading the title, staring at the book and then Rika in turn, who stood with a bemused smile on her face, still catching her breath after rushing back from the library.

“Wh-what? I did good, right?”

Markus immediately nodded, placing the book down on the bed and pulling her into a swift hug.

“Yeah. You did good.”

Rika, for all of her fiery aplomb, squeaked.

Markus felt a hand ruffle the back of his head.

He sighed through sweat and mottled fur. Maybe life was looking up for once.

On the bed, the book’s title read:

The Terms of Holding, Using, Renewing, or Breaking a Soul Contract.

This could be his out.

Markus had two hours to read it.
