"If I met her..." Cale thought about it for a moment. "I dunno. I'd probably give her a stern talking-to."

That made Thorn smirk, amused and—was there a hint of fondness in his expression? It was the first time Cale had seen him display that feeling so openly. "Is that so?"

"Well, I can't exactly slay her," he said. "I could slay a version of her, but not all versions of her at the same time. Not without a very specific spell, anyway. I'm pretty sure the best I can do is monologue at her until she's permanently traumatized across all the realms, which, to be clear, I am very good at."

Thorn snorted. "I am inclined to believe you," he said. "Seems no deity would survive contact with Cale Cadwell Cobbs, no matter the intent."

"You don't have to put it like that," Cale said. "I don't need you putting me up on a pedestal, too."

"It is not a pedestal I would put you on," Thorn said.

Cale blinked. "What's that supposed to mean?" he asked suspiciously. Thorn sped up instead of responding, putting on some sort of—was that a cowboy hat? Where had he acquired a cowboy hat?! Cale chased after him. "Hey! What's that supposed to mean?"

It was probably a little bit ill-timed for their first real bonding moment to come in the wake of a tragic story and a potential magical plague, though Cale was of the opinion that some levity could improve almost any situation. It just had to fit the moment, and he'd learned a thing or two about how to make it fit the moment. Apparently, so had Thorn; Cale still had no idea where and when he had acquired that hat.

All that levity fled, however, as they finally approached the boundary of the vinewalker colony.

The place was essentially a forest, though the trees were towering fungal growths rather than actual trees; they were growing on a tree, after all. There was something eerie about the unnatural coloration of it all. Bright purples and oranges filled the canopy above them, and glowing fungal blooms lit the tangle of growth below. filled with a thick tangle of all sorts of vines and flowers.

In spite of that, there were also actual plants abound. That was no real surprise, though, and it wasn't what made the group go suddenly quiet. If this had once been a vinewalker colony, then it was only natural that they had begun to make it their own.

The problem was the corpses.

"I—" Leo started, pale, stopping mid-sentence once before he forced himself to continue. "I thought A'ruk said they thought the vinewalkers caused this. They wouldn't have infected themselves, would they?"

"Plague magic is dangerous work," Cale said quietly. "Sometimes you unleash it and end up a victim of your own power. But no, I don't think that's what happened here. Most of these bodies are fresh."

Littered within and among the fungal undergrowth were dozens of vinewalker corpses. It was hard to tell how many there truly were, considering how thick the growths around them were, but each one bloomed with the same crimson flowers—the ones Thorn had called the agaût-mortis. In this concentration, it felt very much like a warning blaring out at them. Even Cale felt an urge to step back.

But there was a problem even bigger than the presence of those corpses. It wasn't unusual that there might be corpses in the wake of a magical plague.

"Um," Damien said. "Is it just me, or..."

"Not just you," Thorn said shortly. All trace of humor had vanished from him, and he stepped into the boundary with a grim look on his face.

Cale saw it too. There were dozens of vinewalker corpses, yes, many of them freshly made, but that was not the part that worried him and told him that this was more than some simple magical plague.

Every agaût-mortis bloom appeared in the same place on each corpse. They emerged from the same vines, held the same pattern of sickly green; even the positions of the thorns on each corpse was the same.

Now that he thought back on it, the sick atverians in that tent had been in a similar state. It had only been disguised by the fact that each atverian was at a different stage of the illness, masking the similarities. Here, however, they could see plainly the final stage of this plague.

"They're all the same corpse," Cale said. "These aren't from the vinewalker colony. They probably weren't even vinewalkers before the plague infected them. They're just... People that fell to the plague."
