“That is a delivery for miss Aaliyah, who placed the order in advance,” Kervin calmly explains.

"But we need you to deliver us meat," A woman pleads. Kervin's business smile cracks a bit, and you can see that he's not fond of what's happening either.

“Now, now,” Camden’s strong voice silences everyone. Nicolas moves next to his father as he walks over. “Do you expect him to sneak past Scholl just to deliver us some biscuits and jerky? We can’t blame him or Silver Herd for stopping their deliveries. We should be happy he took the time to make one last run to our village despite the circumstances. Give the man some room, so he can finish his business and get back to Drey before Scholl arrives.”

Camden's argument was well thought out and certainly planed. I wondered why he didn't bring this issue up when we had the village meeting, but I can see how spreading out the bad news and having time to prepare an argument paid off in the end.

“Thank you, Headman Downs,” Kervin offers a polite bow. “But let me assure everyone that we are not terminating this route. As soon as the roads are safe again, I’ll return.”

The people reluctantly agree and start heading back into the village.

When everyone except Camden, Nicolas, and myself are gone, Kervin lets out an enormous sigh of relief. "Thanks again; I was worried about how I was going to convince them to leave."

"It's hard times, lately." Camden also visibly relaxes now that the merchant problem is solved. "I'm very grateful that you brought some more dried meats with you. Aaliyah told me this would be your last delivery for a while, but she never said you'd be bringing more food with you."

"That's because I didn't know," I admit to Camden. "I only negotiated for my materials, not more food; it never crossed my mind."

"That was my idea. I figured your village might have a hard time without regular supplies, so I brought some extra crates I could cram on top of everything."

Kervin isn't joking about cramming everything. The cart he brought this time is larger than his usual one, and it's driven by four silver bivols, all bigger than the pair he usually uses. And this larger cart is piled high with kaglese ore, with crates strapped to the side, which I believe are holding my mithril.

“I’ll go get what I owe you,” Camden leaves to get the money from his house.

“Meet us at Master’s place when you get back,” I tell him as he’s walking away.

“Sure,” Camden shouts back.

"We're going to your master's house!?" Kervin asks, surprised; he knows that my master doesn't like dealing with people.

“That’s right, unless you want to move all this ore back and forth for me?” I give Kervin a sly grin.

“I’m good; lead the way.” Kervin hops back on his cart and has his bivol follow me.

Lurte and Ryiba flank each side of the cart while Reel comes up next to me. “How are you doing? I heard you ran to Drey all by yourself.”

“Someone has a big mouth; was it that receptionist lady?”

Reel chuckles, “maybe?”

“Well, after hearing about Scholl, I needed to place a large order before they take over the area.”

“You know about that, huh?”

“Not hard to see the obvious,” I dryly respond.

“You’d be surprised how few have noticed what’s happening. Well, not everyone can be a genius monster like you, I guess,” Reel laughs at his own joke.

“Or a spy-assassin, like you,” I counter, causing Reel to laugh harder.

"I am quite good at my job. Speaking of which, how did you get Mr. Grey to front you all this?" The mirth in Reel's voice disappears, and he gives me a serious look.

"I'll tell you and Kervin about it after we unload everything," I brush him off for now. I still need to confirm with Kervin whose side he's on.

“Alright,” Reel agrees to wait.

A silence falls between Reel and me until Kervin calls out from his seat up on the wagon. “This trail looks freshly made.”

I talk over my shoulder. "We just finished it a few days ago. We widened it and filled in all the divots so your cart can get through."

“Not that I’m not happy to finally see where you work, but what changed? I thought you said your master doesn’t want to deal with me,” Kervin asks me, probably wanting to make sure nothing is wrong.

"Who said my master would be dealing with anyone? Even if he decides to sit nearby and watch us, I'm the one you have to worry about." I make sure to stress the fact that they’re not to bother Master.

“I understand,” Kervin bows his head.

“And you,” I turn to Reel.

“What?” Reel responds in a sassy tone like he doesn’t care about anything I say.

“If you bug Master in any way, whatsoever, I’ll hold you down while he uses your face for an anvil,” I threaten the annoying rogue.

Reel chuckles, thinking I'm joking, but he stops when he sees how serious I am. I see Kervin as a friend and business partner, while Reel is an ok guy that's saved me in the past, but neither of them is as important to me as Master Del. If they screw this up, I'll find someone else to work with, even if I have to turn to Scholl.

“Ok, be on your best behavior," I remind everyone as we enter Master's clearing.

Master's clearing is quiet. I wasn't expected to show up today, so the forge is cold, and Master is resting on his bench. Kervin looks around the clearing before noticing Master while Reel zeros in on the sleeping stone kin immediately.

Of course, I act like Master resting out in the open is no big deal, guiding the cart over to the spot Master and I agreed we should put the ore. "Right here is good."

Kervin pulls back on the bivols reigns, and the expertly trained animals stop without moving forward an inch.

Kervin hops off his cart. “How do you want to do this?”

"I'll take the crates of mithril and put them in the shed. You guys can start offloading the ore; just put it in a pile next to the cart," I direct Kervin.

"Sounds good, let's get going," Kervin proceeds to pull up his sleeves.

“You’re helping us, boss?” Ryiba asks, surprised.

"Don't get used to it; we need to offload everything as quick as possible and get back to Drey, preferably before the siege spells start flying." Kervin picks up one of the shovels they brought with them and starts shoveling ore over the side of the cart.

I untie the six crates strapped to the cart and check to make sure everything's here. Each crate I open makes my heart beat faster when I see every box is packed with mithril ingots; enough I need to take a second to catch my breath before I have a heart attack. 150 gold coins worth of mithril, that's enough money for a family to live off of for the rest of their lives.

Gingerly, I move each crate into our materials shed and move to help the boys shovel the kaglese. It’s nice to see even Reel is helping, but Kervin…

…Kervin is struggling to keep up with everyone else. He must not have invested that much in his Strength stat. He isn't slow, per-say. It's more that everyone is moving around him, slowing things down.

“Switch with me, Kervin.” I motion for the merchant to hop out of the cart.

"I can help," Kervin whines like a boy being told to stand off to the side while his dad works on the car.

“I’m sure they appreciate your help, but you’re slowing everyone down,” I tell him how it is.

Kervin turns to look at his bodyguards for help, but they refuse to meet his gaze. With a look of embarrassment, Kervin gets down from the cart and hands me his shovel.

I take Kervin's place. "Alright, ladies, let's speed it up." The roles are soon reversed; instead of moving around Kervin, the three bodyguards are forced to match my pace.

Thanks to my pushing, it only takes us an hour to unload the contents of the cart. I hop down with only a little sweat to show for my work while Reel, Lurte, and Ryiba hang onto the side of the cart, wheezing harder than a chain-smoker.

Lurte and Ryiba seemed to have decent Strength stats, but neither had much Dexterity, making the shoveling harder than it needed to be. Reel was the most helpful, but even he got tired after moving that much ore.

I’m probably just used to mining with Master.

Now that the easy part is done, I need to talk to Kervin.

As I walk over to him, Kervin calls out to me. "You were right to kick me out; if I tried to help any longer, the sun would have gone down before we finished."

I smile at his self-deprecating joke, but I need to move before Reel recovers enough to join us. I walk us farther away from the cart and lean in close to Kervin, whispering in his ear. “Who does Reel work for, Mr. Grey or your boss Giovanni?”

Kervin looks at me, confused for a second, but answers my question all the same. "He definitely works for Giovanni; why?"

“Are you sure? It’s really important.”

“I’m sure,” Kervin replies with certainty. “You’re starting to worry me.”

I take a step back from Kervin now that I know Reel isn't spying for Mr. Grey; you can never be too sure.

"Why is my allegiance being questioned?" Reel walks over to us, eyes narrowed. So, he could hear us even at this distance.

“Just confirming who you’re spying for,” I honestly tell him.

“Why?”

"I needed to make sure you weren't on Mr. Grey's payroll." Kervin and Reel are surprised by my answer.

“Why would that matter?” Kervin asks me.

I rub the back of my neck. It always sucks telling people how you screwed up.

“Does it have anything to do with how you got all these materials?” Reel is quick to guess the reason for my problem. He frowns when he sees my reaction. “Did he do something?”

"I signed a shitty contract with him for the materials, and I got screwed over because I didn't know what to look for."

"You what!?" Reel reacts just like Mom did. Kervin is surprised for a moment, but he has a look of realization before relaxing again.

“No need to yell,” I complain.

“There is a reason to yell! Tell me exactly what you signed, word for word!” Reel pressures me.

“Fine,” I agree before he disturbs Master.

I tell Reel and Kervin the details of the contract I signed. I've read my copy enough I can recall it word for word like Reel wanted me to. By the time I finish telling them the details Reel looks like he's ready to explode with anger.

"That slimy bastard! Has he forgotten how much he owes to the Turrini family? And those terms, he expected he would be found out eventually!" Reel starts pacing back and forth. "How am I going to tell Giovanni he outmaneuvered us?!"

Kervin and I are surprised to see this new side to Reel. Reel has always seemed calm and composed no matter the situation; to see him freak out like this is reassuring in its own way, even he can’t hide his emotions all the time.

“Why are the two of you so calm?! Do you not realize the severity of what you did!?” Reel advances on me with the rage of a thousand suns.

I know it's horrible of me, but I can't help but mess with him. Ignoring the steaming assassin, I turn to Kervin. "You didn't tell your boss about my skill?"

Kervin realizes what I'm going for and plays along, happy to get back at the man who always gives him trouble. "Of course not; it isn't my job to give away all your secrets; it's his." Kervin points a finger at Reel. "You should know I always have your best interests at heart."

"I wouldn't go that far," I roll my eyes at Kervin's over-exaggeration.

Reel finally catches on that there’s a reason we’re both so calm. “What are you two talking about?”

Now Kervin ignores Reel and keeps talking to me. “Are you going to tell him?”

“I don’t have much of a choice, plus I don’t want to deal with Mr. Grey all by myself.” I glance to see if Reel is still worked up, only to see he’s taken a step back and collected himself. Damn, there went my fun.

“Are the two of you finished now?” Reel folds his arms like a disapproving parent.

“You’re the one who freaked out without asking for my opinion,” I point out.

"Fine, that was unprofessional of me," Reel admits without looking like he cares about the apology. "Now, would you please tell me what skill you're referring to?"

"Nothing much," I hold out my hand and look at my fingertips as if I just got a manicure. "I just have a skill that lets me destroy contracts I've made with people," I casually tell Reel.

Reels expression slackens into one of shock. “You can do that, even though it was magically signed and everything?”

“Yep,” I grin.

Reel straightens himself out and starts walking towards the forest. “I’m going to take a leak.”

“Tell Giovanni I said hi,” I call out before he enters the trees.

Reel stops and looks back at me, “I will.”

Kervin and I are grinning ear to ear.

"I don't know what you're smiling about," Reel says to Kervin with a straight face. "According to the contract she signed, you're no longer needed after this delivery. It will be a miracle if we aren't ambushed before we reach Drey."

Kervin’s smile quickly fades away and is replaced with a look of horror. That was a good comeback.

I turn and ask Kervin, “what were your plans after this?”

“We were supposed to head straight back to Drey and report to Mr. Grey about the delivery. I was one of the people chosen to stay behind and work under Grey when Drey falls to Scholl.”

That's not good. Not wanting to rub salt in Kervin's wounds and say the wrong thing, I turn away, only to see Lurte and Ryiba standing nearby. They've gone pale, meaning they've caught enough of the conversation to know what's going on.

I should do something to break the tension. “You have any tea?” I ask Kervin.

“What?” Kervin is surprised by my question.

“Tea, you have any?”

“Yeah.”

