The door slammed shut. The Wandering Inn fell silent, and every eye turned towards the five Hobgoblins sitting in a corner. They sat still, glancing around, aware that every eye was on them. The room was tense.
It wasn’t as though Embria Grasstongue had been the one anti-Goblin person in the room. Ilvriss hadn’t so much as glanced at the Hobs once, and the rest of his escort kept staring at them. Tekshia Shivertail, the old Drake sitting next to Selys, had been giving the Goblins the evil eye all throughout the party. Then there was Relc, the other Drakes, the Silver Swords…
And of those who were on the Hob’s side, well, it might have been only Erin. She stared at the door to her inn, lips pressed tightly together. Then she sensed the mood and looked at the Redfang Warriors.
“Hey, you guys…okay?”
The Hobs looked at her, surprised. They nodded as one. Erin frowned.
“Embria didn’t bother you? I’m sorry about that. She’s kind of a jerk—”
“Hey!”
Relc protested mildly. Erin turned, and he paused.
“She’s my kid, you know? Don’t say it, even if it is true!”
“Right, but how about them?”
Erin gestured. The Hobs looked around and then seemed to realize she meant them. Erin looked anxiously at Headscratcher.
“You think Rags is okay? You, uh—you’re sure you’re not mad?”
Headscratcher gave the young woman a long, blank look. Then he shrugged. Erin frowned.
“Really?”
The Hobs exchanged glances and poked each other. Eventually Numbtongue, the subject of the most nudges, grudgingly opened his mouth.
“Everyone in the world is hunting. So what? Nothing new.”
He looked around, sour-faced. Erin let out a slow breath.
“Huh. I guess I didn’t think…okay, then.”
She stepped back and clapped her hands together. Everyone looked at her. Erin gave the crowd a smile.
“Sorry about that, everyone! That was Relc’s not-jerk daughter—”
“Hey!”
“—who’s not mean and doesn’t totally miss her dad. I don’t think she’s coming back. Anyone want more cake? Don’t leave just yet, and maybe save room for some popcorn—we’ve got a play coming on in half an hour!”
The room filled with murmurs as the Drakes—and some of the adventurers present—looked up. Most of the people in the inn tonight hadn’t ever heard of a play—they’d just come here for the food.
Other adventuring teams had drifted in, ostensibly to eat food, but also to socialize with the Gold-rank teams. Among them was the team of Vuliel Drae, sitting and talking quietly amongst themselves. They looked far more dispirited than the other teams, and Erin wasn’t sure why. She swept into the kitchen as she heard the murmuring.
“A what?”
“What’s a ‘play’?”
“Don’t tell me she’s going to have us play a children’s game.”
“Popcorn? Selys, why didn’t you bring me some of that either?”
“Ow! Stop pinching my cheek, grandma! You’re going to have some tonight!”
“I would have had some weeks ago if I had a granddaughter who cared about me.”
Erin grinned and winced as she heard Selys yelp. She ducked into the kitchen where Drassi was handing Ishkr another tray of dishes to wash.
“Selys’ grandmother is tough! Hey Drassi, go serve more cake and see if the Goblins want some first. And then get Selys’ grandma a bowl of fresh popcorn, please? I’ll pop it now.”
“Sure.”
Drassi looked resigned as she grabbed some slices of cake on plates and headed out. She could now serve the Redfang Goblins without freaking out, but she still didn’t like it. Erin busied herself with a kettle and the dried popcorn kernels. She tossed oil in the pot, tossed the kernels in, and held the pot over the fire with mittens, waiting for the first satisfying pop.
“Hey Ishkr, how’re you feeling? Good?”
“Hrr. I could use more sleep. Busy day. Yesterday was busy, too.”
Erin felt the first pop in the pot and shook it, keeping the lid pressed down tight. The key was to shake the pot so the kernels wouldn’t burn before the rest popped.
“I know. But hey, we’re making money, right?”
“Lots, yes. And a few of my kindred are here. They wanted to see your play.”
“Oh really? Great! Thanks for spreading the word! Actually, the Players should be here any minute, and they’re doing a special play for tonight—”
The popcorn was really exploding now. Ishkr paused in wiping a dish clean, and eyed Erin’s pot as she energetically shook it over the fire. She was sweating from the heat, but it was fun making popcorn.
“New play?”
“Yeah it’s—whoops, it’s stopped popping. Hurry!”
Erin dumped the kettle back on the counter and hurriedly poured the fresh popcorn out of the lid and into another bowl. She drizzled melted butter over it, added salt, and scooped out a hand-sized portion with a third bowl. Popcorn required lots of bowls.
“Too bad there’s no yeast. Oh well. Popcorn’s ready!”
“And the [Actors] are here.”
Drassi came back in to take the popcorn and divide it into smaller hand-sized bowls. Erin smiled and hurried out of her kitchen.
“Jasi! Wesle!”
The Players of Celum were already getting ready by the stage. Jasi was dressed up in leather armor, and she looked nervous—although it was hard to tell these days. Like Wesle, she had acquired an actor’s mask and had a refined quality to her movements. But her smile was completely genuine as she gently hugged Erin.
“Hello Erin. Good to see you. We’re ready for the play.”
“Great! Oh, did I smudge your makeup?”
“I don’t need any right now. Some blood and soot later on, but it’s refreshing not to be wearing anything. The other [Actors], on the other hand…”
Jasi nodded at Wesle, who was grimacing as one of the stagehands applied paint to his face. Erin whistled.
“They’re going all in, huh?”
“We have been working on it. I’m not sure how the Drakes are going to take the play. Especially with the face paint. But…”
The Drake shrugged. She hadn’t grown up in Liscor, so she often had Human reactions to things, having not experienced her people’s culture. Erin nodded.
“If they complain, we’ll see. But I think it’ll be good! Oh! Shorthilt, Badarrow! Done with your meal?”
Two Hobs had appeared behind Erin. Jasi glanced at them a bit nervously, but the Hobs just stood with their arms folded. They were both wearing their ‘Security’ armbands. Shorthilt nodded at Erin. He was the friendlier of the two Goblins, which didn’t mean much. Badarrow just grunted as he eyed the stage.
“Cool. I don’t think there’ll be trouble—just stand there and look good. Or sit! The only thing you’ll have to do is tell me if Relc starts shouting at the stage like last night. Wait—I’ll hear that. You want popcorn?”
They shook their heads. Erin nodded.
“Okay, I’ll let you get ready! Tell me when you’re ready to begin, okay Jasi?”
“Got it.”
The Drake watched Erin stride away and then checked her belt. She was wearing a sword. She nodded to the other [Actors] around the stage and at Pisces, who’d drifted over. The Drakes, Gnolls, and adventurers in the room eyed the Players of Celum with great interest, and they waited to see what would happen next. In fact, more people started coming into Erin’s inn from Liscor as a few people slipped out to spread the word that something weird was happening at the inn again.
Within twenty minutes, the [Actors] had disappeared behind the curtain. With Pisces. Those that weren’t acting, like their playwright, a former [Scribe] who’d been bitten by the stage, were sitting at a table close to the front. Erin clapped her hands together as someone cast a [Light] spell, and the front of the stage glowed brightly.
“Thank you everyone for your patience! You are about to watch a play, a story being told on this stage! None of it is real, and it is meant for your entertainment! Please don’t shout, make noise, or approach the [Actors]! If you want something, raise your hand, and the staff will come over! Now, without further ado, I’m proud to present to you an original play for the night: The Battle of Liscor!”
There was a surprised susurration throughout the room. Erin heard several people questioning what she’d said as she hurried to one side. Then the curtains opened. The audience saw a tall, grey wall covering half the stage. It was clearly a wall—the stagehands had worked hard on it all week with [Carpenters] to erect and paint the thing. And a Drake stood on the wall.
“Watch Captain Zevara! What brings you up here this early?”
Jasi turned, her head raised high, her posture alert. Another ‘Drake’ took the stage. This one had painted scales over his face. He was, in fact, a Human, wearing a fake tail and armor, just like Jasi. Erin heard murmurs and checked the audience’s reaction anxiously as Jasi replied.
“I have a bad feeling, Olesm. My [Dangersense] went off not five minutes ago.”
“Mine as well, Watch Captain! I was hurrying here to check on the dungeon.”
Zevara scowled.
“That damn dungeon has given us nothing but trouble of late. I hope this is just a lesser alarm—wait, what’s that?”
She turned and pointed dramatically. Erin eyed Ilvriss and Olesm as she edged around the room. Both Drakes were staring. Olesm pointed at the stage as his friends stared alternatively at him and the actors.
“Hey, that’s me! What’s going on?”
“Is this a reenactment? Some kind of travelling troupe, like those [Bards] and [Tumblers]?”
“Must be. But when will they start hitting each other and dancing about?”
Ilvriss’ table was less complimentary. The Wall Lord stared hard at the Human playing Olesm.
“Disgraceful! Is that supposed to be a Drake? The nerve! And this is supposed to be a retelling of the battle? What will they have our citizens fight, crude sticks with wings stitched on? I don’t need to see this! I—”
He half-rose and then jumped as a shriek echoed from the stage. Half the room leapt to their feet as a Face-Eater Moth crawled onto the stage. It wasn’t a prop, nor was it an illusion. It was real.
“Monsters!”
Erin saw a Drake leap to his feet, grabbing at his sword. He was Insill, part of Vuliel Drae. The black-scaled Drake was panicked. He began to shout.
“They’re back! They followed us out! Oh, Ancestors, we have to—”
“Silence!”
A bellow from the stage shocked everyone into freezing. Zevara, as played by Jasi, ripped her sword from its sheath and skewered the moth with a single thrust. It fell back, keening, and the Watch Captain turned to Olesm as every eye fell on her.
“Olesm, raise the alarm! We’re under attack! There are thousands of them below! Get the command spells! Call every [Guardsman] in the city to the wall now! Summon the Antinium!”
‘Olesm’ dashed off stage, shouting wildly. Zevara turned as more moths crawled up the side of the wall. She slew one and battled another, cursing, as the audience slowly realized what was going on.
“They’re undead.”
Ceria smacked her head lightly as she lowered her wand. Yvlon and Ksmvr glanced at her and then at the backstage curtain. Yvlon groaned.
“So that’s what Pisces was doing!”
“Dead gods!”
Olesm sat back down, slowly, as the rest of the room quieted. Erin grinned mischievously. Her idea had worked! Just as Ilvriss had said, fake monsters or illusory ones weren’t much fun to fight. But Pisces could animate Shield Spider bodies, and he’d concluded that moths weren’t too hard either. More moths approached the stage as [Guardsmen] rushed forwards. Then, suddenly, both [Actors] and moths paused.
The audience watched, confused. The other half of the stage lit up as the [Light] spells changed position. Erin saw…an Erin on stage.
“What a wonderful day. Hey, Ceria, anyone want waffles for breakfast?”
In the audience, Ceria choked on a piece of popcorn as a half-Elf walked forwards. Erin and Ceria traded a few jokes and then turned as the moths shrieking filled the stage again. The audience shuddered, and Erin did too. Pisces had managed to recreate the sound the moths made with his spells, and it was really horrifying to hear. But then Jelaqua, Ylawes, and Dawil took the stage. The adventurers leapt to defend the inn and then the play cut back to the walls.
“Watch Captain! The Antinium are battling the moths below! We’re cut off!”
Zevara, eyes blazing, turned as the [Guardsmen] bravely fought the moths.
“In that case, we’ll hold the walls until they can send aid. [Guardsmen]! On me! Hold them back! For Liscor!”
She dramatically led a charge across the stage as the ‘Drakes’ and ‘Gnolls’ pushed the moths back. It was a good fight too—the undead moths acted realistically, and the painted Drake and Gnoll [Actors] wearing fur over their faces all had [Warrior] classes of some kind. The audience began to get swept up into the battle as Zevara shouted defiance from the walls—pausing for a monologue.
Erin watched, feeling embarrassed and pleased in equal measures. It was so bad! It was so cheesy! And yet, she saw Olesm grinning with delight as a spell blasted apart some of the moths. She turned and saw a sour face in the crowd. Predictably, it was Ilvriss. The Wall Lord glared at her.
“Ridiculous! This isn’t what happened! What of the deaths? What of the sacrifices of my people? I—”
He was halfway to standing up, probably to leave in a huff when another Drake strode onto the stage as the ‘dying’ [Guardsmen] fell backwards, screaming and groaning.
“Stand! I said stand! Liscor’s wall shall not fall while I am here! A Wall Lord of Salazsar does not retreat! Rally to me, brave Drakes of Izril!”
He unsheathed his sword and there was a crackle of magic that lit up the stage behind him. The audience cheered, and Ilvriss paused.
“Is that…me?”
He slowly sat back down as ‘Ilvriss’ charged the Drakes, uttering oaths and demanding to know where Pallass was. On the other side of the inn, ‘Erin’ was arguing with a Drake through a magic doorway, pleading for the Walled City’s help.
“Well, it’s not that inaccurate…ridiculous having a Human play me…hah, but Pallass’ ineptitude is well conveyed. Can we record this? Where’s my scrying orb?”
Ilvriss leaned back in his chair, and within minutes, he was munching on popcorn. The play went on. ‘Jelaqua’ gave a monologue about the duties of Gold-rank adventurers. ‘Ylawes’ drew his sword to heroically dash to Liscor’s defense while ‘Dawil’ made snarky jokes. Erin saw the real Ylawes turn beet-red, much to her delight as the audience cheered and groaned through the retelling of the battle they had all lived through.
