How many weapons did they have? Shorthilt sighed. He silently held up two fingers, nodding at the sword on his waist and Badarrow’s bow. Rabbiteater muttered—Headscratcher made a fist and clenched it grimly. Well, that was weapons sorted out. Shorthilt’s sword was still usable, and Badarrow had his bow and some arrows. The other three Goblins had fists.
Hundreds of miles, no weapons, and no idea where to go. That was their mission this time. But none of the Goblins mentioned giving up. They didn’t consider it. They looked around, not at each other, but at the missing spots where they sat, the missing faces. Their names rose unbidden into the air.
Bugear.
Justrust.
Orangepoo.
Bitefly.
Leftstep.
Patchhelm.
Rocksoup.
Grunter.
They’d all died on this mission. A pointless mission. But one that mattered. They’d died fighting the undead, fighting the Goblin Lord’s army. Fighting because it was right. To be people. For a young woman’s last words.
For each other. Now the last of their number stood together. Five warriors out of thirteen. Five Hobs. They stood up and faced each other in a circle. They looked at each other. Brothers in battle. Friends. Comrades. The last few. Some of them might die. All of them might die. But they were committed. The five put their hands together.
Headscratcher, hand bloodied, eyes full of tears.
Shorthilt, hand on his sword, eyes sharp.
Rabbiteater, his fist clenched, his teeth gritted.
Numbtongue, murmuring a word, remembering a Human’s song.
Badarrow, scowling, bitterly determined to see it to the end.
They gripped each other tightly, hands clustered in the center of the circle. For a moment. And then it was done. The Redfang Warriors stepped back.
They were resolved. They would find a way back to their tribe. They would become stronger, strong enough to save the others, to oppose the Goblin Lord, to return to their chieftain, Rags. They would do it.
Or they would die. The Redfang Goblins nodded to each other, and they lay down to sleep, relieved, at peace at last. There was nothing else to it. That was what it meant to be a warrior of the Redfang Tribe. That was what it meant to be them.
That was what it meant to be a Goblin.
 
—-
 
The next day, the Redfang Warriors got up at the break of dawn and began putting together a plan. They grunted at each other as they went through their morning spar, conserving energy, trying to think.
The problem was that none of them were real thinkers. Oh, Badarrow was cunning, and Numbtongue could talk, which was impressive, but in their old group it had been Grunter who’d directed them. True, that was pretty much just the other Hob belching and pointing occasionally, but Grunter had been an older Hob. Hobs were leaders in Goblin tribes, and the older they got, the smarter. You had to be smart to live a while.
They wished Grunter were here. Or Redscar, Garen Redfang’s second-in-command. He was no Hob, but he was smart. Or Rags. She was a genius. Bereft of their leadership, the five Redfang Warriors defaulted to what they knew. The first step was to arm themselves. Only two weapons among five was no good. They needed quality weapons. And that meant steal or kill for it.
Only, as Headscratcher pointed out by smacking Badarrow across the back of his head, stealing wasn’t right. Not from Erin. Not from one of two Humans who had ever shown them kindness. The [Archer] Hobgoblin muttered insults as he rubbed the back of his head, but agreed, grudgingly, that it would be wrong. They couldn’t steal from Erin. Besides, she didn’t have enough swords. Lyonette had a sword in her room that she occasionally practiced with, but that was it.
So where could they get weapons? The answer was simple. The magic door.
The Redfang Warriors strode into the inn, trying to look casual. They’d donned their ‘Security’ armbands, just in case, and they sat at a table as Erin served them breakfast and gushed about last night.
“Wasn’t it great? I’m sorry you guys couldn’t be in the play, but you didn’t say anything, and the Players said it would be easy to leave you out. Are you mad? I hope you aren’t—Typhenous and Revi and Falene really wanted to be in the play! I think the writers are going to amend it. Anyone want more bacon? Toast?”
Every hand went up. Erin hurried into the kitchen, and the Goblins immediately looked at the magic door. That was the ticket. They were realistic about their chances of sneaking into Liscor day or night—Drake cities were well-guarded, and the Goblins would have to swim through the water to get there, already risky since they didn’t know what lived in the waters. But Celum and Pallass? They had a doorway into both cities!
However, getting weapons would still be a trick and a half. It wasn’t as if [Blacksmiths] and [Merchants] left out good swords for anyone to take! It was a hazy plan, but the first step was seeing if they could actually get away with it.
Rabbiteater slid over to the magic doorway while Erin was busy in the kitchen. This early in the morning, only Lyonette and Mrsha were up, and she was feeding the Gnoll breakfast and trying to get Mrsha to eat with her utensils. The Redfang Warriors casually looked away as Rabbiteater picked up the yellow stone in the bowl by the door.
He’d watched Erin use it enough times to know exactly how it was done. He placed the stone on the door and cracked it open a hair. Pallass’ bright sunlight illuminated his face just for an instant. Rabbiteater paused. If they went through they’d go at night, when—
Death.
It was an immediate reaction, a sense in Rabbiteater’s head that made him freeze instantly. The Hob leaned back from the doorway and shook his head at the others. They froze, and Numbtongue got up. He hurried into the kitchen to stall Erin.
“Oh, Numbtongue, you want something?”
“Beets.”
“Beets? Well, I’ve got some—wait, what do you mean, ‘beets’? Beets as in breakfast food? Is there a breakfast that has beets in it?”
The other Hobs listened as Numbtongue desperately distracted Erin. Lyonette looked over, but Rabbiteater had sunk down, and she missed him. He listened, his ear to the door. His [Dangersense] had warned him—now he used his senses to confirm what he knew to be true.
The door was open just a crack, but that was enough to let the sounds of Pallass filter into the inn. Headscratcher could hear people walking about, talking, and more distant noises. He filtered that out and listened, his ears twitching. And then he heard it.
Breathing. Perhaps only Rabbiteater would have heard it. The Hob had learned to hunt rabbits in the grass, became the stealthiest of the group by honing his skills, in order to feed himself. He raised a hand, pointed a finger left. There was someone watching the door in Pallass to the left.
Badarrow got up slowly and came over to listen. Erin was clanging around in the kitchen.
“What goes well with beets? Potatoes? Eggs? I never knew Goblins liked beets!”
Her voice surprised the listener on the other side. Badarrow and Headscratcher listened to the breathing pause for a second and then go on normally. Perhaps the guard thought the door had opened by accident? Rabbiteater raised two fingers. There was more than one watcher. The two Hobs listened. Breathing. Breathing and then a cough. Sloppy. Badarrow rolled his eyes and mimed putting an arrow through the doorway. Rabbiteater held up a hand. He waited. Then he peeked the door open a tiny bit more.
The Goblin had only a sliver of light to look through, but he pressed his eye to the door for five minutes, until Erin came out of the kitchen with a pan full of fried beets, potatoes, and eggs, all made into a hash. By that time, the Goblins were sitting down, and they happily ate the food while Rabbiteater held up four fingers when no one was watching. Shorthilt shook his head.
Four watchers, then. Probably with a vantage point on the door, ready to summon others. The Redfang Goblins could rush the door, but they’d never get anywhere in the Walled City. They’d be dead within minutes. No good to steal things there. And they didn’t want to cause trouble for the Human.
If that was no good, they had to try the other city. This time, they waited until Lyonette was in the kitchen with their dishes, and Erin was complimenting Mrsha on the Gnoll’s dutiful watering of the flowers. The Goblins changed tables, and Headscratcher opened the door to Celum. They listened and heard someone muttering.
“—hah, show those bastards what’s what! They want to play rough? I’ll buy up all their supply and sell my potions through Liscor! I’ve got two markets to work through—they’ll burn through their coin, while I turn a profit! Just gotta get Erin to give me another idea. How in the name of good stitching did she and Ryoka know about matches, anyways?”
Octavia’s voice was tiny through the crack in the door. The Goblins listened, nodded, and Headscratcher closed the door right as Erin turned around. They conferred as she blinked at them.
“Did you switch tables?”
Badarrow nodded. Erin stared at him.
“Okay then.”
She turned away. The Hobgoblins conferred. Octavia’s shop was definitely less guarded than Pallass. They could definitely steal some potions from the [Alchemist]. The question was—could they get away with anything else? They’d have to do some nighttime reconnaissance. Assuming the Human [Guardsmen] weren’t too alert, the Redfang Warriors could locate a blacksmith, scope it out, and break into it.
Then there was securing an escape route. Maybe they could leap over the walls and try not to break anything? Or they could try the gates. They’d have to move fast. None of the Goblins were confident they could break into a shop and get away without being spotted, and they couldn’t bring trouble back to the inn.
They’d have to steal food before they went. And build some rucksacks. But it was a plan. A bad one, granted. Badarrow kept wrinkling his nose in distaste. They’d have decent weapons if all went well, food, and potions. That would help, but so what? They’d still be woefully outmatched by any Gold-rank team and maybe some Silver-rank ones.
The Redfang Warriors had had a lot of time to observe all the teams that had gone into the inn, and they’d concluded that while they could take some of the adventurers if they got the jump on them, they might not win, even if they took the others by surprise. Moore and Jelaqua, for instance. No matter how many times Shorthilt, their fighting expert, went through scenarios, they always ended up dead before they could take out the Halfseekers. No wonder they were Garen Redfang’s old team.
And there would be many groups equivalent to a Gold-rank team between them and their tribe. Still, that was their only plan. The Goblins sighed, and then jumped as one when Erin addressed them.
“Hey. Do you have a moment?”
She stared at the Redfang Warriors’ startled faces.
“It’s cool if you don’t have time. If you, uh, want to sit around that’s fine. But I thought you might be bored. So…wanna see what’s outside?”
They stared at each other. Erin had never asked them to do more than lift heavy things or help defend the inn. They’d agonized over whether eating her food and guarding her from non-existent threats was really repaying her kindness. Without a word, all five Goblins stood up. Erin smiled.
“Cool.”
 
—-
 
It was still raining outside but mildly compared to before. Erin stared around at the water. It was twenty feet down from the top of her hill, where her inn stood. According to Selys, the water would drain rather than rise farther—there was apparently a finite amount of height the waters would rise. But it had well and truly engulfed the Floodplains now. And part of Liscor.
“Oh my gosh, look at that. Liscor’s half underwater!”
Erin pointed at Liscor in the distance, and the Hobs muttered. Liscor didn’t sit on a hill as high as her inn, and so the waters had risen around the city, reaching halfway up the walls! Only the faultless stone kept the waters from rushing into the city, as well as the sealed doors. Erin finally understood why Liscor had solid slabs of stone rather than an easier-to-use portcullis—it was to keep the water out during the rainy season!
“But how do they get out of the city, do you think? They can’t stay inside forever. Right? I mean, they’d want to leave. So how…?”
Headscratcher grunted and pointed. Erin looked in the direction of his finger and blinked.
“Oh. That makes sense.”
Drakes and Gnolls were descending Liscor via rope ladders and a wooden ramp! They’d made a floating dock, and were literally walking off the battlements down into the water, where a small fleet of boats had already been built. Erin saw several Drakes pushing the boats through the water with spears and nets in hand.
“Are they fishing? Gotta be. There must be monsters in the water. Relc said they were coming.”
“You hear that Mrsha? That means no playing by the water, understand?”
Lyonette had joined the group outside. She raised Mrsha to peer out into the water. The Gnoll wriggled and tried to get free, but Lyonette held her, despite the rain soaking both of them. Erin frowned at the skies.
“Yuck! Does it ever stop raining during the spring? Hey Lyonette, at least we don’t have to get water from the stream, huh?”
“That’s one good thing. But I’d be careful about getting near to the water’s edge, Erin. Remember those flat fish? If they’re in the waters…”
“Ooh. Yeah. Not good.”
Erin shuddered, and then saw something move in the water in front of her. She frowned.
“What the heck?”
Something tiny poked its head out of the water. Erin stared. The Goblins stared. Numbtongue pointed.
“Fish.”
It was indeed a small fish! It looked like, well, it looked like a porcupine had merged with a mackerel. The little fish had spines sticking out of its body as it looked up at Erin and the other land dwellers.
“Careful. Don’t get too close! It could be poisonous!”
Erin cautioned the others as she slowly reached for her frying pan. All five Goblins stared at the tiny fish. The spiky little thing gave them all the fish-eye, which looked remarkably like a stink eye. It did not look happy.
“I’m gonna see if I can catch it. I bought this net from Krshia. Why don’t I go inside—Lyonette, take Mrsha inside. I’ll sneak up on it and—”
Erin turned her back. The fish stared at her and then two of the quills on its back rose threateningly. The Redfang Goblins reacted instantly. They dove out of the way and immediately took cover. Too late, they realized they weren’t the target. The tiny fish shot two of the spines on its body. Straight at Erin.
“Ow!”
