The young woman shouted in pain as two spines stuck out of her back through her clothes. Lyonette shouted, and Mrsha barked in alarm. The Redfang Goblins cursed, and before Erin could move, Headscratcher and Rabbiteater grabbed her and charged back into the inn with her carried between them. She heard Lyonette and Mrsha yelp and then all of them were back in doors. Badarrow slammed the door shut as two more quills bounced off the side of the inn.
“What was that?”
Erin twisted, feeling a stinging pain in her back. She grabbed for the quills, but Numbtongue caught her hand.
“No. Dangerous.”
“Dangerous?”
Erin stared at him until she realized what he meant. Her eyes widened.
“Oh my god! Is it poison? Acid?”
Mrsha began to howl. The Goblins put Erin belly-first on the table as Lyonette ran to Celum’s door.
“Octavia, get in here quick! Erin’s hurt!”
“What?”
They heard a crash and swearing as Octavia rushed through the door. She halted when she saw Erin’s back.
“What’s that?”
“I don’t know! This little fish shot me! I didn’t know that fish could shoot things? Do I need a healing potion or an antidote?”
Erin waved at Octavia. The [Alchemist], who’d been pale-faced with worry, paused.
“A fish.”
“Yeah! A small one, the size of my hand!”
The Stitch-Girl passed a hand across her face.
“Stitches, don’t do that to me, Erin! You mean you got hit by a small fish outdoors, right? In Liscor? Those are Quillfish. They shoot little needles at you if you get near them. They can kill other fish underwater. They’re not poisonous. They’re barely a danger to other fish their size!”
Erin paused. Lyonette stopped wringing her hands. Mrsha stopped howling. The Redfang Goblins stared at the [Alchemist].
“Oh. So they’re not dangerous?”
“Only if you get a quill in your eye. Can I go?”
“Yeah. Thanks.”
The [Alchemist] sighed and walked back into her shop, grumbling about idiots who didn’t know a Quillfish from a poisonous Roxian Bloater. Erin sheepishly looked around.
“Well…now we know. Be careful going out, guys! There’s more than Quillfish in the water, and if there’s a lesson to be learned, it’s that nowhere is safe! Even on land! I—ow!”
She broke off as Mrsha pulled both quills out of her back. The Redfang Goblins exchanged a look.
Okay, so maybe leaving Erin alone was dangerous after all. She’d been smart enough to avoid the water, but she didn’t have the instincts of a Goblin, or the reflexes. The Redfang Warriors peered into the waters, wondering what other creatures had swum into the lake basin. They could see other fish darting around, probably feasting on the Face-Eater Moths’ corpses, but nothing bigger.
Yet. Didn’t the giant Rock Crabs live in this area? The Redfang Warriors had seen them scuttling about. Were they underwater, waiting to attack anything that swam past them? Now that would be dangerous. The Redfang Warriors engaged in a healthy debate, trying to cover up their embarrassment about running scared from a harmless fish with spikes.
It was Rabbiteater who saw the tiny blip of movement that indicated the Quillfish’s return. The Hob peered into the water and saw the spiked head staring at him. It seemed the tiny fish objected to any presence on the hilltop. He stared at it. The fish stared back. It raised its spines, and Rabbiteater charged.
He dove into the water. The Quillfish was lining up a shot, and realized the Hob was going after it too late—it tried to dive just as Rabbiteater’s hand closed over it. The Hob cursed, and Erin threw open her doors to see what was happening. She saw Rabbiteater struggle out of the water and then come up the hill towards her. He was holding the Quillfish, which flopped and gasped as it shot its quills into his palm.
The Hob shyly offered Erin the dead fish. She stared in horror at the spines sticking out of his palm.
“Lyonette, get me a healing potion!”
 
—-
 
Twenty minutes later, Erin had discovered that Quillfish were, in fact, edible, and made for a nice snack, once you removed the spines. She still scolded Rabbiteater for getting hurt—he’d actually tried to refuse the healing potion! He was definitely playing up the tough guy act, just like the other Redfang Warriors.
But they were helpful in discovering what else lay in the waters around her inn. They peered into the waters, pointing and keeping a respectful distance with Erin. Mrsha was allowed to watch, but from further back.
It turned out that Goblins had a practical approach to wildlife. They asked a few simple questions about everything they met. Can it kill me? Can I kill it? Is it edible? And sometimes, how much effort is it worth dealing with this thing? And they refused to take risks. Which was good, because it turned out that Liscor’s waters had more than just a few Quillfish in its stock of predators.
Erin stared as a large, black shape circled the water beneath a school of tiny silvery fish. Its shape twisted, and she jumped as she saw a tentacle shoot out of the water and nab a fleeing morsel.
“That’s an octopus fish. Literally an octopus’ tentacles on a fish. It’s huge!”
The fish was probably fourteen feet long, and it gave Erin a very, very dangerous vibe. She kept her distance as Badarrow trained an arrow on it, and Shorthilt muttered and held his sword. The fish circled the hill and then tried to climb it.
“Holy crap, it has legs! Run!”
Erin screamed as the fish propelled itself onto the grass with eleven black tendrils, each as thick as her leg. She rushed Mrsha inside, and the Redfang Goblins howled and charged the fish. To Erin’s horror, only Shorthilt had a sword. She waved at them as the fish began grappling with the cursing Goblins.
“What are you doing? Get your swords! Where are your swords?”
Badarrow cursed as he shot the fish in the side. It didn’t make a sound, but from the way it jerked, it didn’t like his arrows or when Shorthilt stabbed deep into its side. The tentacles grabbed Headscratcher as he kicked the fish in its face, and lifted him up. The Hob got a good look at a mouth full of teeth as the other Hobs tried to pull him back. Shorthilt cursed and kept cutting, and Badarrow reached for another arrow. Erin was rushing outside with a frying pan and knives when she heard a voice from overhead.
“[Piercing Shot].”
An arrow shot down from the rooftop. It went straight through the black fish’s head and lodged somewhere in the middle of its body. The fish jerked and then died as Shorthilt followed the arrow up with a stab right through its brain. Its tentacles drooped, and Headscratcher fought his way clear of them, cursing, his skin torn by the suckers on the tentacle. Erin looked up.
“Bird?”
The Antinium was sitting on the second floor of her inn. He waved at her cheerfully.
“I got a new Skill. Hello, Miss Erin. Hello, Security Hobs.”
Everyone looked up. Bird had somehow managed to clamber up through the destroyed third floor and find his way onto the roof. There he sat, as the rain fell around him, humming and watching the skies, oblivious to the waters surrounding him. It took Erin a few minutes to find her voice.
“Good shot, Bird!”
“Thank you. I just got up here and saw the fish. It is a strange fish. It has long grabby things.”
“Those are tentacles, Bird.”
“They are not as good as wings. Will more fish attack the inn? I will shoot them with my new Skill. It takes a while before I can use it again, but it is a good one.”
“Yeah?”
“Yes! It even works with my old bow.”
Bird waved his bow, and Erin saw he was indeed using his old bow, the crude handmade one.
“What happened to your new bow, Bird? Oh—”
Her eyes widened as she recalled. Bird hunched his shoulders and rocked back and forth on the roof.
“It was broken. The moths broke my bow. I am sorry, Miss Erin. I broke the lovely bow you gave me. It was such a nice bow.”
“Oh, Bird—it wasn’t your fault.”
“Really?”
He perked up. Erin nodded. The Redfang Goblins were busy kicking the dead blackfish and sniffing it, probably for edibility. Erin debated climbing up to hug Bird, but decided she’d just slip off the roof and break her neck. She called up to the Worker.
“You need a new bow, Bird! And a new tower! The Antinium should be sending a group to repair the inn today!”
“That is good! Will I get a new bow, too?”
Bird looked hopeful. Erin hesitated and kicked at a tuft of grass.
“Um…maybe. I’m so sorry your old one got broken. I’d like to buy you a new one, but they’re expensive, and I don’t think Krshia will give me another discount.”
“Oh. That is okay. One bow was enough for a lifetime.”
Bird’s casual words made Erin’s heart hurt. She peered up at him, and raised her voice.
“Tell you what, if the Players of Celum pull in enough coin, I’ll buy you a new one as soon as I can, and take the rest out of your paycheck, okay?”
The Antinium paused.
“I get paid?”
Erin gaped at him.
“Bird! What did you do with all the coins I gave you last week?”
“I…used them as bird bait.”
“What?”
Bird nodded enthusiastically, his mandibles opening and closing in a smile.
“They are shiny. If I put them out, birds fly down to grab them.”
He paused as Erin covered her face.
“That isn’t what they’re for? Oh. Buying things. I got in trouble for losing coins when I was a Worker in the Hive, too. I was punished. Will you punish me?”
“No, Bird. Just don’t let birds swallow—you know what? I’ll just save up money for your bow, okay?”
“That is good.”
Erin nodded. Then she turned and shouted at the Redfang Goblins, who jumped.
“And you! I forgot to give you your pay!”
They stared at her. Headscratcher raised a finger and pointed at his chest. Erin grinned.
“Come on inside!”
 
—-
 
The Redfang Goblins had never had any coin to their name. Oh, they’d taken coin off of dead adventurers and so on, but only to give to Garen Redfang. Goblins had no real use for coins, but Garen would sometimes sneak into rural Human towns and trade for things. It was a risk, even for their Chieftain, and so the Goblins had treated coins as toys, good for nothing but ammunition in a sling or distracting adventurers.
But there was something about the silver and one gold coin that Erin pressed into their hands that was special. The coins felt warm, unlike the bloody metal they’d fished out of dead corpses’ pockets. The Goblins stared at the coins, and Erin smiled at them.
“I wanted to give it to you a few days ago, but then the moths tried to kill us. Sorry it isn’t much, but you get this much plus the same amount tomorrow! I pay everyone on the weekend, see.”
Erin paused. The Redfang Warriors stared at her and then at the coins in their palms. She smiled sadly.
“I had another employee once. I never paid him. I’m not making the same mistake this time.”
The Goblins stared at her. Headscratcher brushed at his eyes. The others just looked…Numbtongue hesitated, and opened his mouth. The taciturn Goblin hesitated and then spoke.
“We have never—”
The door slammed open. All five Goblins dove beneath a table, coins scattering. They had weapons in hand—chairs and Shorthilt’s sword—as they rose. Erin whirled. It wasn’t the door to her inn. It was the door to Liscor. The Silver Swords stood in the doorway, faces grim. Griffon Hunt was behind them, and sandwiched between the two Gold-rank teams was Vuliel Drae. Erin stared as Falene stepped into the inn. She eyed the Goblins and the coins scattered across the floor, and then looked around.
“Apologies, Miss Erin. Are the Halfseekers present?”
“Them? Oh—they’re still asleep, I think. So are the Horns of Hammerad. They had a late night and—what’s wrong?”
Falene’s lips tightened.
“We have a situation. Rouse the Halfseekers, please. We need them present to hear this. The Horns of Hammerad too, I suppose.”
She gestured, and the other teams walked through from Liscor. The Silver Swords took a position near the doors, and Griffon Hunt a table. The five members of Vuliel Drae sat at a table across from them. Their faces were pale. Erin saw Insill, the Drake, shaking. None of the adventurers talked.
She hesitated and then ran up the stairs.
 
—-
 
The Redfang Warriors had no idea what was happening. Neither did Erin, but she knew a bit more and explained it to them as the Halfseekers came down the stairs with the Horns of Hammerad, looking confused and sleepy.
“Okay, you see that team there? The five of them? They’re a Silver-rank team. Vuliel…Drae. Or something. They’re sort of big shots in Liscor. They’re not as good as a Gold-rank team, or the Horns of Hammerad, but they’re famous, you know?”
She looked at the Hobs. Rabbiteater gave her a bewildered shake of the head for the others.
“You don’t know. Right. Well, Vuliel Drae, they went into the dungeon and, uh, got this fancy mace thing. They’re the only team who’s come out with treasure, and it was a powerful magical artifact.”
The Redfang Goblins stirred. Jelaqua was talking quietly with Ylawes and Halrac and glancing at Vuliel Drae as Ceria hovered next to her. Numbtongue exchanged a sharp glance with the others, and spoke carefully to Erin.
“Magic artifact? They found?”
“What? Yeah, in the dungeon. I heard it was Gold-rank gear. But why are they here? Could it be because of last night? No—that look. Could it be…?”
The silence in the inn was clearly getting to Vuliel Drae. Each one of the group was looking around nervously, even Anith, their leader. The other adventurers watched them silently, except for the Horns of Hammerad. Pisces was staring at Ylawes’ lips moving while Yvlon and Ksmvr just waited for Ceria to tell them what was happening. As it happened, Insill’s nerve broke first.
“It’s all my fault! I shouldn’t have suggested we go down that corridor!”
“Insill—”
The other members of his team groaned as everyone looked at the Drake [Rogue]. Anith shook his head.
“Wait until we have a chance to speak—”
“Screw that!”
Dasha slammed her fist on the table angrily.
“We didn’t know what would happen, alright? If we had known—”
“But we should have said something earlier.”
That came from Pekona. Her head was bowed. The other adventurers just watched her. Dawil had his arms folded and a look of anger on his face that Erin had never seen before. Halrac’s gaze was flat and emotionless, but Erin could sense anger coming off him. Jelaqua cursed and stomped over to Seborn and Moore, who bent their heads to whisper to her.
“Look, would someone just say what’s happening? The Silver Swords seem to know, but none of us do!”
Revi burst out angrily as she glared around the room. Ylawes and Halrac looked up from their discussion. It was the [Knight] who nodded and stepped forwards.
