“Apologies, Miss Revi. We were discussing it, but we think it’s better that everyone knows. Briefly, let me explain. I was approached last night by Insill after the play…he came to me secretly about a crime his team had committed.”
Dasha growled, and Larr sat up. The Gnoll glared at the Drake, who shrunk in his seat.
“You spineless worm. We said we’d agree to talk about it!”
“I thought he—I couldn’t keep it to myself—”
Insill fell silent as Ylawes held up a hand. The [Knight] took a deep breath and went on.
“He didn’t want to give me details, but this morning he returned. With his party leader, Anith.”
Every eye turned to the Jackal, who nodded quietly. Ylawes sighed.
“They told me of a—a misdeed, a mistake their team had committed. I immediately shared what I had learned with my team, and we decided this had to be addressed. At once. I called the other teams here to listen to this—”
He broke off, shaking his head. Falene’s eyes were fixed on Vuliel Drae. Dawil growled. Halrac, Ceria, and Jelaqua all stood silently, their eyes shadowed. The other adventurers looked confused and worried. Pisces just closed his eyes.
“Well, out with it then. What did they do?”
Revi looked suspiciously around at the silent adventurers. No one wanted to say it. At last, Insill spoke.
“It was—you know the Face-Eater Moths? How they attacked Liscor? Well, we didn’t know.”
He shut up, as if too afraid to go on. Yvlon raised one eyebrow.
“You didn’t know? You mean, you weren’t here for the battle? But you claimed you were.”
“No, it’s not that.”
Anith’s voice was shaky. The others looked at him, and he fell silent, afraid to go on. Erin felt her pulse racing, although she wasn’t on trial.
“What then?”
Typhenous frowned over his staff. Moore and Seborn joined the circle standing around the team of Vuliel Drae. Behind them, the Goblins were whispering, pointing out one of the windows towards a spot covered by water. The dungeon.
“It was—look, we had no idea—we were just in the dungeon, and we found a—a corridor, okay? It was filled with eggs, and we thought they were d-dangerous, so we—”
Insill gulped, his voice wobbling too hard to go on. The other adventurers stared at him blankly. Erin gasped. All eyes turned towards her.
“Oh no. I get it.”
“What?”
Revi was uncomprehending, whether because she didn’t want to understand or because the fractured sentences didn’t make sense. Erin stared at Vuliel Drae, but none of them could raise their heads. She spoke slowly.
“They were in the dungeon the day the Face-Eater Moths attacked. They were exploring and they found a bunch of eggs. And they—smashed them. Right?”
All eyes turned back towards the group. Dasha’s voice was quiet.
“How were we supposed to know it’d piss all of them off? It was that masked woman who did it first. And we thought—”
Yvlon raised her head and uttered the longest, foulest expletive Erin had ever heard from the woman. The other adventurers just stared. Seborn leaned forwards.
“You mean to tell us that you set off the attack on Liscor? By destroying the Face-Eater Moths’ eggs?”
It was Pekona who replied. She tried to keep her voice level as she met Seborn’s eyes.
“We hid in a tunnel with the masked adventurer. They kept coming, but we had this stone wall we could slide under. We were there for a day and a half, just killing the small ones that came through. We had no idea they came out of the dungeon. We didn’t know—”
Her voice broke.
“We had no idea.”
Dead silence filled the inn. The adventurers stared. Erin’s heart thumped loudly in her chest, the only noise in the world. They’d done it. They’d caused the attack.
Revi looked around. Her face was calm. It was probably the only one that was. Dawil was glowering, Falene’s eyes were flashing. Ceria, Typhenous, Yvlon, Moore—all looked furious. Halrac’s glare spoke volumes. Jelaqua couldn’t look in the direction of Vuliel Drae. Ksmvr was just waiting. Ylawes’ head was bowed, Seborn and Pisces silent. Revi nodded.
“Okay. Thanks for telling us.”
Everyone looked at her. The Stitch-Woman gave Vuliel Drae a smile. Her hand strayed towards her belt. Halrac’s head shot up, and Typhenous started. They moved as Revi leapt.
“I’ll kill you, you fucking—”
The Stitch-Woman’s wand sizzled with magic. She would have leapt on Insill, but her team caught her before she could complete her attack. Typhenous dragged her backwards with Halrac, as Revi’s wand shot a missile past Insill’s ear. The Drake shouted in terror and knocked back his seat. The other members of Vuliel Drae shot up.
“Let go of me!”
Revi was screaming. Vuliel Drae clustered together. Dasha stared towards the door to Liscor, and Falene raised her staff.
“No one else move.”
“I should kick your heads in myself!”
Dawil shouted. Ylawes blocked him.
“Calm yourself, Dawil.”
“Bugger calm! You heard them—”
Across the inn, Ceria was breathing hard. She looked at her team.
“Pisces, Ksmvr, hold me back. Yvlon—”
“Don’t ask me to do anything.”
The woman’s voice was strangled with emotion. Ksmvr obediently grabbed Ceria’s arms. Pisces shook his head.
“No thanks. Put an [Ice Spike] spell through their heads if you’re going to do it, Springwalker.”
“I’m about to. Hold me back.”
Ceria’s eyes flashed as her hand frosted over with magic. Pekona gave her an alarmed look. Erin wondered if she should block Ceria—she was more concerned about the Halfseekers, who hadn’t so much as twitched. The way they were staring—
Pisces just walked forwards and faced Ceria. The [Necromancer] was calm as ice.
“They made a terrible mistake. If you can’t forgive it, kill them now. But I would tell you not to.”
“They got hundreds of people killed!”
Ceria’s voice was murderous. Pisces nodded.
“Yes. And as I recall, you eventually forgave one fool who unleashed wrath upon the innocent.”
She hesitated. The fury went out in her eyes.
“That’s not—”
“Silence!”
Typhenous had had enough of Revi’s curses. He let go and pointed his staff at her. Webbing shot from the tip and engulfed Revi. She struggled and cursed, and then went still as the thick spider webs bound her tightly. Typhenous looked around, angry, his face red.
“We aren’t savages. If anyone else wants to take a swing at this group, do it now while I still feel like casting webs and not something stronger.”
He glared around. To Erin’s surprise, it was Pisces who raised his voice in dissent.
“I beg to differ, Typhenous. If this will end in bloodshed, it would be preferable to end it now, rather than later. Is anyone for that motion?”
He looked at Revi, Ceria, and Halrac in turn. Dawil stared uneasily at the [Necromancer].
“Are you serious?”
Pisces nodded, but Jelaqua shook her head. The Selphid’s voice was cold as she looked at Pisces.
“If we were going to do it, it’d be before you asked, Pisces. If Revi had gotten them, it would be trouble. If we do it now, it’s murder. Which is a pity, but the Halfseekers don’t kill idiots. We’re unpopular enough as it is. Shame Griffon Hunt doesn’t either.”
The Selphid folded her arms. The implication of what she’d said took Erin’s breath away. But Moore and Seborn didn’t say a word against her. Ylawes stepped forwards.
“No one is killing anyone. This is a meeting to discuss what should be done in light of the truth. Nothing more.”
He looked at both Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers as he said it. Both teams nodded. Reluctantly. Ylawes looked around the rest of the room and sighed. His gaze passed over the Redfang Goblins, who were quietly listening from a corner of the room, past Lyonette who was trying to get Mrsha to come upstairs, past Erin, observing it all quietly. He looked from face to face of each adventurer. This was their scene. Ylawes nodded.
“Let’s sort this out.”
 
—-
 
Vuliel Drae’s account of the dungeon took over an hour to run through. It covered everything from their decision to leave the ropes at the dungeon’s entrance, to their encounters with the mysterious masked swordswoman, to their run through the dungeon before everything went south. They told the story in parts, voices faltering, while the adventurers listened.
Mainly in silence. Sometimes questions were asked. Those who couldn’t keep their emotions in check left the room or were thrown out. That number included Revi, Dawil, Yvlon, Ceria, Jelaqua, Typhenous, and, to everyone’s surprise, Seborn. The adventurers went outside to cool off—or shoot spells into the water and shout, while the trial went on.
Because that was what this was. A trial. Erin listened with her hands shaking, trying not to let her emotions get control of her. She couldn’t believe it. It was so wrong. Not only had Vuliel Drae done what the other older adventurers described as incredibly stupid, but they hadn’t told anyone! They hadn’t told anyone after Liscor had—
She understood. She did. Every child knew the feeling of getting in trouble and not wanting to be found out, and this was that feeling, times ten thousand. But still. It was wrong.
There were more than just accounts of the mistake in the dungeon, too. Vuliel Drae had been successful in their own way. They’d been led by the mysterious masked woman—someone the Silver Swords, Griffon Hunt, and the Halfseekers all wanted to meet—through a good section of the dungeon, avoiding traps and monsters. Halrac was working on a map of the dungeon, based on their account. Erin thought he was doing that so he didn’t punch the Silver-rank adventurers. But the gem of their discussion came when they recounted a corridor they’d passed.
“It had a treasure room at the end. A real one. I’d only heard of them before, but we saw a pedestal and artifacts lying on it!”
Dasha’s eyes were wide as she gestured. The other adventurers leaned forwards. Falene looked down her nose at the team as if she were staring at something small and disgusting.
“Why didn’t you attempt to take it?”
Vuliel Drae looked at each other. Insill spoke nervously.
“The masked woman. She stopped us. We wanted to try—Larr was halfway into the room, but she kept pulling us back and shaking her head. It was real, I think. But trapped. We were going to go back to it, or see if we could ask for help when…”
“Treasure. Dead gods, and the rift entrance is a hundred feet underwater.”
Jelaqua closed her eyes tightly. Anith cleared his throat.
“And there’s more.”
“What, besides enough moths to take out a city’s worth of people?”
Revi’s sarcastic tone earned her a look from Halrac. She stomped outside. Anith nodded.
“There’s something down there. Those Gnoll-things—”
“Raskghar. What about them?”
The other adventurers leaned in. Vuliel Drae gulped as one. Pekona spoke up.
“They’re organized. There are other monsters down there, but those things—they knew we were down there the instant we arrived, and we fought them twice! The masked woman helped us evade them, but there are far, far too many.”
Insill nodded rapidly.
“After the moths left, they were hunting us! Our friend lured a group away, and we barely got out, but—there are kill teams patrolling the dungeon. They fight any monsters they come across—the ones they can see, anyways. Sometimes they pass by a group of monsters and don’t see them. And they hunt adventurers. That’s how all the other teams went missing, I think. Most of them.”
“Huge monsters nests, intelligent dungeon dwellers…this just gets better and better. Sure you don’t want to mention a Dragon or two?”
Dawil growled and spat. Erin glared at him, and the Dwarf flushed. Halrac leaned forwards, and Vuliel Drae leaned back. He’d spoken three times so far, and each time he’d nearly made the adventurers wet themselves.
“This treasure room. Where is it?”
“We can’t tell you that!”
Dasha looked horrified. The part-Dwarf woman looked around.
“It’s our secret! I mean, we made a mistake, but fair’s fair—”
She shut up as Jelaqua leaned over the table. The Selphid was glaring, and her being angry was as scary as Halrac.
“I think you’ve forfeited the right to whatever secrets you’ve found. We’ll cut you a deal—you tell us everything, and we’ll try to stop Liscor’s citizens from lynching you.”
“Wait, you’re planning on telling them? You can’t! We live here! They’ll tear us apart!”
Larr and Insill paled dead white. Jelaqua grimly shook her head.
“Oh, they have to know. You think we’re keeping this secret? The first time I get questioned under truth spell, I’ll have to talk about this. And the Adventurer’s Guild tests Gold-rank adventurers regularly for corruption.”
“But they’ll kill us!”
Ylawes raised his head. It had been bowed for the last twenty minutes. Now the [Knight] looked grim as he stepped next to Jelaqua.
“If we talk to the Guildmistress of Liscor—and Watch Captain Zevara—we might be able to keep it secret. Make no mistake, you will pay for your mistakes. But it won’t be public knowledge. That’s what we can offer you. If you tell us what you know.”
Faced with that, there was really no choice. Vuliel Drae hesitated, but then Anith spoke.
“It’s off the corridor with the blade trap. Secret door. It’s an illusion you can walk right through.”
The other adventurers paused and looked at Halrac. He made a note.
“Got it.”
There was a sigh. The adventurers exchanged glances. Who would claim that treasure? Would it be a race? Troubled, Ylawes shook his head.
“Let’s settle this later. Now, I think it’s time to discuss what will happen next.”
Erin leaned back in her chair, exhausted. Vuliel Drae had to be just as tired, but they tensed as the team leaders conferred. Erin looked towards her kitchen and realized it was already past lunchtime. She should make people food! Not that anyone looked hungry. She looked around to do a headcount and frowned. Erin’s head swiveled the room. Once. Twice. Then she stood up. She went upstairs. Then she opened the trapdoor to her basement. Then she looked outside.
“Miss something?”
Ceria looked up exhaustedly, staring blankly in the rain. She’d shot two Quillfish with her [Ice Spike] spell, and they were floating belly-up in the water. Erin nodded.
“Have you seen the Redfang Goblins?”
“Them? I saw them take off around the inn a second ago. They were…”
Ceria frowned as she got up to point. She stared at the empty Floodplains behind the inn. Erin stared around. She got a bad feeling in her stomach.
“Where’d they go?”
 
—-
 
