Ren led the 5 female dwarves down to the road and to the waiting carriage.

“It's beautiful.” One of them said.

“Tee-one and I can do great things when we work together.” Ren said, then the gate to House Neram Keep opened and Nathalia and Ereka came out.

“Hi, Re-WHAT ARE YOU DOING?” Nathalia yelled when she saw his personal maids standing around him.

“They're my dates.” Ren said. “Surprise.”

“You... YOU...” Nathalia looked like she was going to start ranting and raving at him, and Ren could feel how she felt. He walked over to her and took her hand.

“Before you say something you can't take back, they are already under personal maid contracts that can't be altered.” Ren said. “Even bringing them in front of the kingdom's ruler cannot initiate a marriage contract, not without removing the old contract first.”

Nathalia opened her mouth to say that it was a bad idea to bring them; but, then she thought about what Ren said.

“You can't have a marriage contract with them.” Nathalia said. “And they're okay with you parading them around like this?” She waved at the fancy dresses and jewelry.

“More than okay.” One of them said. “He didn't order us. We're doing this of our own free will.”

Nathalia sighed. “Warning you...”

“It won't make any difference.” Ren said. “They are the only ones I can take that won't automatically get me married.”

“But... couldn't you have...”

“...just picked one?” Ren asked, and Nathalia nodded slightly. He stepped to the side and motioned to the personal maids. “With almost no information about them, their personalities, or their feelings, which one should I treat as a favorite and take on a date, and who should I let stay here?”

Nathalia looked at them, and then at Ren. “You didn't want to choose at random.”

“I couldn't just choose one; that would insult the one I chose and the rest at the same time.” Ren said. “I'm not going to argue about fairness or anything like that.” He smiled. “When I decided they were going, either they were all going or no one was.”

“You didn't tell us that!” One of them said, and he felt their surprise.

“It would have influenced your decision if you knew.” Ren chuckled.

“You're sharing your Aura with them!” Nathalia said, surprised. “Why can't I feel their emotions? Are you blocking it?”

Ren shook his head. “The Aura can only be shared with someone that had a similar experience, but I'm a little surprised you can't feel them through me.”

“Me, too.” Nathalia said. “Ereka? Can you feel them?”

“No, but I think that's because Ren's not concentrating on his House Neram pendant.”

“Oops, I forgot.” Ren said, then added in the House Neram Aura. The 5 personal maids and Ereka gasped as their Aura's merged with each other and then the artificial one around the carriage, which in turn merged with the one around the Keep. Since Ren was the central focus, he eased the amount of feelings flowing out through the shared Aura, and they all breathed easier.

“No wonder he doesn't do that all the time.” One of the maids said. “I think we'd all be drunk on his emotions, otherwise.”

“That sounds kinda nice, actually.” The bold one said. “I don't mind basking in his glow.”

“That was my thought when I first felt it, too.” Ereka said. “It's so...”

“...overwhelming!” The youngest one said and looked at Ren. “It's... it's not scary, though.”

Ren felt what she felt, and smiled. She enjoyed it a lot, and that was a little scary for her because of the way she had been treated. He reached a hand out to her, and she took it with wide eyes. Ren brought up how he felt while relaxing in the Jacuzzi in real life, and let that calmness fill the Aura.

“Wow.” She said. “It's so great that you can do that.”

“This night is going to be fun, and probably a little scary.” Ren said and smiled as he led her over to the carriage. “Let's get to it.” He opened the door of the carriage, and helped each of the women climb up and get inside. When they were all inside, he closed the door. “I'll be right back.” He said and ran inside the Keep and into the house.

*

“I can still feel him!” One of the maids said.

“The size of his Aura changes depending on what he's thinking about at the time.” Nathalia said. “His personal Aura is 50 feet, and that doubles when he wears the cloak.”

“He mentioned picking up a cloak.” Another one said. “Is that it's ability?”

Nathalia shook her head. “No, all it does is grant access to Auras.” She smiled. “Ren filled them, though.”

“Them?”

“The cloak gives off an Aura by itself of 50 feet now, and it also gives Ren access to Fear which is also 50 feet.”

“That's what he used against the giants.” One of the maids said. “Combined with a Screaming Terror enchantment, whatever that is.”

“It's a glyph of his own design.” Nathalia said. “He's used it quite a few times.”

“He can do so much.” Another of the maids said. “He's a great Adventurer.”

The personal maids all froze still as they felt the Aura change from awe to a slight menacing feeling with a tinge of Fear.

“By the gods.” One of them said, and tried to catch her breath.

*

Ren had checked to see if the tarantula was still tucked into the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, then put it on and sighed as his Aura expanded out. With his personal Aura at 50 feet, the cloak added 50 feet, and he has split his concentration between his new Contact Aura of 15 feet and the House Neram Aura of 40 feet. All in all, it came to a whopping 155 feet when he was alone.

“Ah, you don't realize what you miss until you go without it for a while.” Ren said, then thought about the other Auras the women shared with him. It was 75 feet for the 5 personal maids, and 30 feet from Ereka. If he added them in, his Aura was out to 260 feet.

That's not counting my Fear, Command, or Camaraderie Auras. Ren thought. I'd be over 300 if I added one of them. He walked towards the door. I wonder why Nathalia is only using the 'collective' thing her mother unlocked? She's not getting all of this.

*

“He's coming!” The youngest maid said. “How is he doing that?”

“It's one of the benefits of sharing with him.” Nathalia said. “You can pinpoint others inside the shared Aura.”

The maids all looked at her with questions on their faces.

“No, I'm not sharing Auras.” Nathalia said. “I get a headache after a while.”

“Will we get one, too?” She asked.

“It depends.” Ereka said. “Unlike Nathalia, it never bothers me.”

“So, you're saying you don't know.” The bold maid said. “We'll find out soon, I guess.”

*

Ren came out of the house, walked over to the carriage, and climbed inside to sit by the door. He had felt the swirling emotions that had been moving around the shared Aura, but he ignored them for now.

“To the castle, please.” Ren said to the driver, and Teepo flew out to scout ahead when Deliliah flicked the reins and started the ponies off with a good trot.

********

Officer Holly Stonewall had no idea what had happened, but when she'd seen her partner's tear streaked face and he'd asked her to leave, she gathered their things up immediately and left with him. Once out of the house, she had convinced him that staying for the night was the best idea, rather than packing up and taking the two hour drive in his current emotional state. John had only nodded and drove back to the inn without saying a word.

When they were alone in the room, John finally broke down and sobbed. Holly had never seen him react like that to anything, and they had seen some awful things on the job. It had taken her over an hour to calm him down enough for him to relay the story of what had happened between him and his niece, Nancy.

“Oh, John.” Holly had said as tears came to her own eyes. Her heart had broken just as much as his did, because she knew how much he loved his family. Nancy had wounded him deeply by telling him she never wanted to see him again. Holly didn't even try to convince him that Nancy was only saying it to convince him to return her feelings, because it didn't matter why she said it. All that mattered was that she did, and he had to deal with the implications.

John had clung to Holly in the bed after he had frantically made love to her. He was full of desperation and hurt, and Holly had held him closely as he vented his frustration out in the only way that he could. He looked like he was asleep now, and Holly stopped stroking his hair.

“Thank you, Holly.” John said, much to her surprise.

“Are you going to be okay?” Holly asked.

“No.” John said. “But, I can't let that stop me.”

“I'll help you out when I can.” Holly said and smiled. “When you need a shoulder to cry on...”

“You don't have to do that.” John said, then looked at her. “You've helped me so much already.”

Holly took his hand and held it. “I won't throw you away so callously.”

John lifted their clasped hands and kissed hers, then let it go and cupped the side of her face and kissed her deeply on the lips. Holly responded to his need again, and hugged him as he proceeded to pleasure her. He was gentle and forceful at the same time, and it drove Holly a little crazy. She let John do things to her that she'd never let anyone else do to her. Ever.

********

“You aren't going to believe this, Ren.” Teepo said.

“Whoa.” Ren said as the carriage came to a stop in front of the Main Keep. They had dropped the illusion and the castle could be clearly seen as it towered over the Main Keep. Dwarves covered all of the available space, and Ren noticed that there weren't any guards on the main gate.

“They're not checking people.” Ren said. “Anyone could come in with anything.”

“Everyone is here.” Nathalia said. “I don't think it matters much at this point.”

“This is when it would matter most, though.” Ren said and reached for the door of the carriage. “It looks like we're walking from here.”

“Hold on, Ren!” Teepo said. “Something's coming.”

What is it? Ren thought to his friend.

“It's a platoon of heavily-armored dwarves.” Teepo said. “They're splitting off and opening a way for us to go through.”

How do you know it's for us?

“The Commander is leading them.” Teepo said.

“Wait here.” Ren said and got out of the carriage. The dwarves close by had never seen a carriage like it before, and a few of them had felt a strong Aura; but they hadn't known it was Ren until he stepped out into view. A hush fell over the crowd, and they parted for the oncoming troops.

“Good evening.” The Commander said, and reached out a hand. Ren grasped his forearm in a formal greeting.

“Good evening, Commander.” Ren said and leaned in close. “There's no guards on the gates.”

“We have spell casters dispersed throughout the crowd to keep everything civil.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “Thanks for the escort.”

“You wouldn't get that carriage anywhere near the Keep or the castle if I didn't.” The Commander said and smiled. “How many can sit in it?”

“Eight comfortably.” Ren said, then grinned. “Twelve if you're really good friends.”

The Commander chuckled, and the dwarves nearby stared at him. They'd never heard the Commander of the Garrison laugh before. Ren turned to look at the soldiers that had formed the path, and it caught their attention. It was the dwarves that had fought the giants with him, so he nodded to them to give them Honor, and they saluted him in return.

“If you want a ride back to the castle, it'll be a little tight.” Ren said when he turned back to face the Commander.

“I'll just stand on the runner.” The Commander said, and Ren nodded slightly and climbed back inside. The Commander stood on the step under the door and held onto the handles that were used to climb in, and Ren told the driver to go to the castle. The carriage moved out, and the crowd watched it travel down the cleared path. The soldiers folded back into formation to follow the carriage as it passed their positions.

They arrived at the castle proper, and the Commander stepped off the runner to clear the doorway, then opened the door. Ren stepped out first, and held a hand back for the closest maid. They had discussed it quickly, and decided that even though they were his dates, Nathalia was the Head of the House and the most senior; so she would be the last to get out and be presented to the waiting delegation.

The entire courtyard was lit up so that everyone could see who was arriving, and with who; so when the first maid stepped out of the carriage, everyone wondered who she was. Her outfit matched Ren's, and her accessories showed off her face to full effect. When she stepped aside and another woman stepped out and wore the same thing, they didn't know what to think. When the third one stepped out, a ripple of murmurs ran through the crowd. When the fourth one stepped out, the women in the crowd gasped. When the fifth one stepped out, several fainted from the shock.

Ren chuckled as he could clearly hear what they were saying. Wait until they find out they're personal maids. He grinned and held a hand out for Ereka to use as she climbed down from the carriage. Ren heard a collective sigh that there wasn't any more women dressed like him, and he reached in for Nathalia. She took his hand and gasped herself. All of the feelings everyone was feeling flooded into her and she let his hand go.

“By the gods!” Nathalia said.

“Sorry.” Ren said, and eased the flow. “It's a lot to handle, even for me.”

Nathalia nodded slightly and took his hand again. She didn't get the same sudden burst, and smiled as she stepped out of the carriage and saw the reception waiting for Ren.

“So, she did go overboard.” Nathalia said and looked at Ren. “I'm sorry you have to do this.”

“Don't be.” Ren said. “I figured she'd hear about some of the things I've done.” He grinned. “I was pretty sure that at least one of the ten thousand books I gave away was going to reach her at some point.”

Nathalia snorted a laugh, then motioned to the formed line of greeting waiting for them. “This is for you, so you have to go first.”

Ren turned to his personal maids. “Showtime.”

The maids held hands and formed a line behind Ren, and he took the first maid's hand. They walked over to the first person in line, and it was Lady Longore. Because she was single, her place was at the start of the line despite her Major House status. Some saw it as a place of shame, but Ren saw it as a place of opportunity. She would be the first to meet his dates.

