“Lady Longore.” Ren said and took her hand. Instead of bending over it like he was supposed to, he leaned in to give her a kiss on the cheek. Several members of the surrounding crowd gasped, but Lady Longore herself only smiled warmly at him.

“I, Ren the First, would like to introduce my dates for the evening.” He said, and stepped back. “These are my personal maids; Navruth, Lusinia, Verwynn, Andrela, and Frikara.”

The entire crowd fell silent because Ren had spoken the given name of a woman in public, and he could feel the thrill and shock go through his maids as well.

They didn't know I knew their names. Ren thought, and Teepo chittered in delight as he flew down to land on Ren's shoulder.

“What is that?!?” Lady Longore asked, and pointed at Teepo.

“This is my good friend, Teepo.” Ren said.

“It's a pleasure to meet you in person.” Teepo said, and waved one of his front legs at her.

“Um...” Lady Longore looked like she didn't know what to do, and Ren chuckled.

“Next in line is the stunning blonde Lady Ereka. She runs House Neram pretty much by herself.”

The crowd gasped again as Ren spoke another woman's given name publicly. They couldn't say anything about it, because she was of his House and they can't sign a marriage contract.

“She'll deny that she works too hard, but we both know how difficult it is to do.”

Lady Longore nodded slightly, and several other heads in the line nodded.

“Lastly, and most importantly; is the beautiful Lady Nathalia. She's the current Head of House Neram.” Ren said. “I love her dearly; but because our marriage contract was nullified, I couldn't bring her as my date.”

Complete silence filled the area they stood in, because Ren had told them the absolute truth.

“It was very nice meeting you again, Lady Longore.” Ren said, gave her a slight bow, and took two steps to the right. He introduced himself to the next person in line, and then repeated what he had said to Lady Longore. He changed the descriptions slightly each time, just so people weren't hearing the exact same thing each time. No one else spoke as Ren introduced his maids to all of the members of the Minor and Major Houses.

Ren went up the line, and made sure to use his cheek kiss ritual for all of the women. It embarrassed some of them, and others received it gladly. It gave them Honor, and a public thrill that they hadn't felt before. Some of them acknowledged Teepo, and others ignored him completely. When Ren reached the very end of the line, he saw Barnar.

“It's good to see you, old friend.” Ren said and reached out a hand.

“I'm not that old.” Barnar said, then smiled as he briefly clasped forearms with Ren.

“I know I don't have to introduce myself; but, may I introduce my dates for the evening?” Ren asked him.

“I think everyone in Dornrach knows their names by now.” Barnar said and chuckled. “I'll hand you over to the Queen instead.”

Ren nodded slightly and took the two steps to the side to stand in front of Narhilda, and brought his dates with him. “Good evening, Your Highness.” He said, but he didn't use the cheek kiss ritual. He had noticed her face and saw that she looked happy, sad, and angry at the same time; so, he bowed to her instead.

“You're making quite the spectacle.” Narhilda got out through gritted teeth. “Wearing royal purple and royal style clothes. The jewelry is a nice touch. Why didn't you give it to Nathalia and Ereka, too?”

“I'm not allowed.” Ren said. “I can't give expensive gifts to members of my own House.”

“But you can give them to your personal maids?” Narhilda said the last two words as if they were dirty.

“They aren't members of any House, Your Highness.” Ren said, and leaned in close to whisper. “I haven't slept with them, if that's why you're so angry.”

“It's not.” Narhilda said, and Barnar winced slightly. She glanced at him and sighed. “You're flaunting something that should only be kept within the walls of a House.”

“There's no law against telling everyone that I have personal maids.” Ren said. “Lots of people have them. I'm just making sure everyone knows that my personal maids don't have to be kept hidden.”

“They should be...” Narhilda said as she glanced at them. “...but, it's too late to change things now.”

“Only for some things, Your Highness.” Ren smiled. “Thank you for inviting me, and requiring that I bring a date.”

“I didn't know your marriage contract with Nathalia had ended.” Narhilda said. “I thought this would have been a good time for the two of you to enjoy yourselves.”

“We can't do anything publicly, Your Highness.” Ren reminded her. “If there's dancing, I'll still dance with her; but, other than that...”

Narhilda sighed. “Let's just go inside.” She said. “We'll make the announcement in an hour.”

Ren nodded slightly, and stepped back. Now that the main guest had arrived, they could all go inside and start to enjoy themselves. The line started moving, and rather than try to interrupt the flow to go inside, he stood by the door and greeted everyone that walked by.

Several of them greeted him back, and some even talked to the personal maids as they passed by. When all of the Major and Minor House members had entered the area where the celebration was to be held, Ren led his personal maids, Ereka, and Nathalia into the room.

For the first 30 minutes, Ren and his personal maids mingled. They talked about anything that people asked them about. It had all been polite small-talk until someone had asked Ren how he had gotten so many of them. When Ren told the story of how he had found them, they stared open-mouthed at him and at the personal maids. People started to drift away from them, and after another 15 minutes, a large area had been cleared around them. Ren let his amusement fill the shared Aura more and more as time went on.

Now that there was kind of a gulf between them and everyone else, he took out the bag with the shadow markers he had received after the giant battle. Even though it had his name on it, he had wanted it for the Garrison's budget to make sure that no one would interfere with it for the next 5 years.

Ren opened it and dumped it into his inventory, then smiled. That Special Bonus doubled this, too.

There was 200 shadow markers in it, instead of 100. Because it took 100 platinum coins to make a shadow marker, Ren converted the 200 shadow markers into 20,000 platinum coins.

If my calculations are right, that should run the Garrison for 10 years. Ren thought. I already paid 5 years of taxes, so there should be enough left over to pay for the other 5 years.

“You're thinking about something really hard.” Ereka said to Ren.

“I'm doing math in my head.” Ren smiled. “It's not pretty.”

Ereka chuckled, and then the background music became louder. “I think the dance is starting.”

Ren frowned. Narhilda said the announcement was going to happen in an hour; and that was 50 minutes ago.

“Maybe she changed her mind.” Teepo whispered in Ren's ear.

No, she wouldn't do that, unless something else has come up. Ren thought. Teepo, can you go and check it out?

“Not like this.” Teepo said. “Everyone can see me.”

Ren slipped the Ring of Recall off of the Beetle Crown ring, and summoned Teepo. Teepo flew off towards where Narhilda and Barnar stood, and took up a position close enough to hear. Ren stored Teepo's metal body and hoped that Teepo wouldn't be detected.

While he waited to hear if Teepo could find anything out, Ren went to do what he said he was going to do. He walked over to Nathalia and held a hand out.

“My Lady, may I have this dance?”

“Wh-what?” Nathalia had a surprised look on her face.

“Dance with me.” Ren said, and waggled his fingers.

“We... we can't do anything... in public.” Nathalia said.

“I already told Narhilda that if there was dancing, I would dance with you.”

“I... well...” Nathalia took his hand. “...if the Queen is okay with it.” She smiled. “You may have the first dance.”

They walked only a little ways away from the group they had arrived with, and Ren activated Sneak. It let him step lightly and quickly, and he used the dance moves Rosie had taught him so long ago in Aurora. Nathalia had danced with Ren and these moves before, so she matched him stride for stride as they moved around. They were almost lost in their own little world as the music played, and all they could see was each other. When the music stopped several minutes later, Ren let her out of the embrace he had her in, and stepped back slightly.

“Thank you very much, Lady Nathalia.” Ren said, then bowed to her deeply. When he stood up, he was met with applause. He looked around, and everyone else had stopped dancing to watch him and Nathalia. Ren smiled and gave several regal bows, and Nathalia chuckled as he hammed it up for the audience.

“They're doing it now.” Teepo said. Ren took out the Sending Square connected to the Commander and called him. The crowd turned as Dural, Advisor to the Throne, took to the stage.

“If I may have your attention please.” Dural said in a booming voice. “There are several announcements to be made before the main event.”

The Commander made his way through the crowd and came over to Ren.

“They're shunning you for having personal maids?” The Commander asked.

“No, because I got them from the head of the Thieves Guild.”

The Commander shook his head. “How fleeting fame.”

Ren laughed and put a hand on his shoulder. “That's the truth.”

They didn't really pay attention to what the Advisor to the Throne was saying, until he said Ren's name.

“Yes, Lord Neram. Please come up here and join the others on the stage.”

Ren looked at the others on the stage, shrugged, and went to join them on the stage. The Commander followed closely behind, then stood behind him when Ren stood in the spot the Advisor pointed to.

“As I was saying, these people have made contributions to the Kingdom that deserve to be recognized.” Dural said, and described that the first individual had introduced a streamlined way to file documents.

You have got to be kidding me. Ren said, and looked into the crowd. I thought this was supposed to be a celebration for me. He could see the spot where his personal maids were, and Nathalia and Ereka looked just as confused as he was. Ren stood there as each person on the stage received an award from the Queen on behalf of the Kingdom, after a completely mundane reason was given.

When Dural got to Ren, a hush fell over the crowd. Rumors had spread like wildfire about why he was on there with the other House and government officials, and with a military escort.

“For defending the realm against a threat that could have caused untold damage, we present the Dwarven Kingdom's Medal Of Valor to Lord Ren Neram.”

“That's it?” A male's voice yelled from the distance. “Aren't you going to describe how he led 24 dwarves against 30 elite giant soldiers, then killed them?”

Ren looked for who had spoken, and he saw his friend Dorcot, who was the Official Gemcutter for House Neram and had his own area in Ren's workshop. He was near the back of the room where the commoners were relegated.

“The government cannot divulge the details of what had happened.” Dural said.

“Don't be a pompous ass, son!” Dorcot said. “These people deserve to know how close we all came to dying!”

“The government can't divulge...”

“Bah!” Dorcot said. “Get on with it, then!”

“Ah... yes. Please step forward, Lord Neram.”

Ren stepped forward and Narhilda held out the award for him.

“We can't tell them, Ren.” Narhilda whispered. “If they knew the actual danger they were in...”

“They aren't in danger from giants anymore, because of me.” He said in a normal voice instead of whispering, accepted the award, then went back to stand where he was.

“And now... the main event.” Dural said, and Narhilda and Barnar stepped forward. “There's an announcement that the Royal Family would like to make.”

“After a long time in searching, we have been unable to find a suitable heir for the throne.” Narhilda said, and everyone in the crowd started talking at once, and wondered what was going to happen with the Kingdom if it didn't have a ruler. She let the talk go on for a minute, then spoke.

“While we searched, though; a miracle happened.” Narhilda said. “Instead of finding an heir...” She put a hand on her stomach. “...we made one.”
