The Battle Hamster and beetle had gone still, and Ulvama was striding at Mera and Erin fast. Mera gave Erin a grin full of confidence—and a missing tooth. Erin was feeling that nettled, spiky feeling in her chest. Worry. How would she survive Baleros? Mera was only Level 40. Could she…?
Erin’s hand tightened into a fist as Mera replied.
“Because your aura says you want to hit me. It’s growling worse’n Eurise when he’s drunk and pissed. Come on. I’ll take it easy on y—”
[Minotaur Punch].
Mera’s eyes widened a moment before Erin hit her in the face. She had the sensation of Mera’s jaw moving backwards, and for a second, the Fraerling’s face stayed where it was. Then Erin’s punch sent her flying.
“Whoa! Mera!”
Zemmy whirled as the [Brawler] went skidding backwards. She actually caught herself on the ground, leaving a trail of dust in the earth.
“Erin! No!”
Ulvama shouted, but it was too late. Mera shook her head like a dog and grinned. Erin’s skin prickled.
[Dangersense].
“My turn.”
The young Fraerling woman launched off the ground, and Erin swore as Mera’s kick split the air. It was some kind of Skill; Erin saw an arc leave afterimages in the air and felt the wind’s passage kick up.
Mera wasn’t expecting the dodge. She saw Erin throwing a punch as Ulvama shouted—and parried the punch. Her arm swept it away, and her eyes were bright blue and filled with dazzling, sparking shards of red which intensified.
Erin threw her other fist, and an elbow hit her in the throat. She coughed, recoiling, and Mera’s next punch hit her in the face. Stomach—she was raining down punches so fast Erin’s next breath was after six blows.
 
——
 
“[Palm Deflection]. [Elbow Counter]—[Flurry of Blows]! Nice combo, Mera!”
Zemmy was running commentary. Erin went stumbling back as Ulvama raced forwards, but the Battle Hamster blocked her. Its fur was raised, and Zemmy held out an arm.
“Don’t interrupt, Miss—”
“Out of my way! She’s not ready to fight!”
Ulvama snapped at him and saw the [Brawler] recoil in surprise, then his face set stubbornly. She was about to hex him, and he was watching her and the hamster steadily when Erin’s head came up.
Ulvama whirled, worried. Erin had just eaten several low-level Skills thrown by a Level 40 [Warrior]! She was—
Unharmed? She felt at her throat and coughed again, but there wasn’t even a bruise on it. She did look mad, though.
[Aspect of the Inn: Reinforced Structure]. Mera whistled.
“See? She’s like old Zinni, Zemmy. Even if they don’t have combat classes—ulp!”
She dodged a punch and threw a counter that hit Erin in the face again, but the [Innkeeper] just began swinging, and Mera dodged back, no longer talking. Zemmy was rooting for her.
“Block, block, now punch! Use your—aw, come on!”
“You have to stop her.”
Ulvama tried to reason with Zemmy, but he just gave her a blank expression.
“Why? She won’t hurt Miss Erin. Level 50s are tough. My village has my great grandma, Zinni, and she’s just as tough in her way. Though I’ve never seen her take a punch from Mera.”
“Your friend’s the one who’ll get hurt if Erin gets mad, idiot! She’s holding back!”
His eyes lit up. Zemmy watched Mera dodging and parrying punches from the angry [Innkeeper].
“Cool. Hey, Mera, make her madder! She’s holding back!”
Ulvama gave up on this idiot. He was a fighting fool, like Garen Redfang. She ran after Erin, intent on separating her by force, but the hamster was in the way, and moreover—Ulvama was a Level 38 [Shaman].
She realized that Mera and Erin were moving way too fast for her. The [Brawler] hopped back from another punch from Erin.
“She punches hard, Zemmy. Not many Skills, though.”
“Yeah, well, you can’t dodge! She can’t dodge. She’s all punch and get punched, you know.”
Zemmy spoke in an aside to Mera as she spun on one foot. Then her next kick launched Erin overhead. Zemmy cheered.
“[Impact Kick]. Get her!”
If they were Human-sized, Ulvama guessed Erin would have gone flying fifty feet up. Even if they were Fraerlings and stronger than they should be—she saw Mera go running and heard the Skill.
“[Earthquake Fist].”
The [Innkeeper] saw it coming and tried to twist. Ulvama’s cry of horror was lost in a rumble in midair.
Erin didn’t go flying as the fist hit her, but her entire body warped, like someone shaken a hundred times in midair. She crashed down and lay there as Mera raised her fists like a prize-fighter.
“How’s that? Give up? Whoa!”
She had a second to gloat before Erin tried to headbutt her. She pushed herself into a jump so fast it caught the [Innkeeper] by surprise as much as the [Brawler]. Mera leaned away and punched twice. Erin ignored both blows and stared at her legs. Then she kicked.
It was so fast Ulvama thought it was a Skill until she remembered—Erin barely had any combat Skills.
Galas muscle. Zemmy recognized it too.
“Ooh. She’s got a special body. [Innkeepers] must be stronger than I thought.”
Or she got it from surviving all that magic, General Sserys possessing her body, and her levels. Ulvama was about to cup her hands to her mouth when Zemmy leaned over.
“Hey, if she’s gonna get hurt, I can pull Mera off. She gets excited, but I don’t want to risk her hurting your friend.”
The [Shaman] stopped. She turned her head and gave Zemmy a crimson glare.
“Erin? Get hurt?”
He gave her a startled look, then grinned instead as Ulvama shouted.
“Erin! Finish her fast.”
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] couldn’t hit Mera. The [Brawler] would stop and block or parry punches, but she was too fast, too adept to hit.
Every time Erin thought she would connect, Mera would side-step; she was keeping her distance until she went for a punch, and even when Erin tried to trade punches, Mera would be a hair faster.
A [Warrior] versus a high-level noncombatant. Even with [Bar Fighting] and [Flowing Footwork], Erin could barely keep up with Mera as the [Brawler] circled like a wolf, darting in, backing out of punches. Worse, Mera was having fun.
“She’s really tough. I don’t think I’m even hurting her without a Skill. Hey, Zemmy, this is a ton of fun! [Axe Kick]!”
She baited Erin forwards, flipped, and brought both legs down on Erin’s crossed arms. That hurt. Erin lowered her arms and saw red. There was a cut on her arm from the sharp blow.
“Don’t hit her harder than that, Mera!”
Zemmy was warning his friend. They were treating Erin like a fun punching bag. She knew Ulvama was watching her, face anxious—and so Erin lost her temper.
Mera was waiting for Erin to come at her, hopping from foot-to-foot—she lost patience after five seconds and came in with an overhand punch to Erin’s face. It was purely bait. When she saw Erin move, she swept to one side. But Erin just opened her mouth and said:
“Wah!”
The [Loud Voice] made Mera flinch—and Erin punched twice, hard. She missed. Mera palm-deflected the first punch and sidestepped the second.
“Whoa! Nice tr—”
Erin’s knee came up and hit Mera in the groin in a blow that made Zemmy wince. The female [Brawler] made a sound and tried to recoil—Erin grabbed one arm.
[Memorize Routine]. Mera grimaced rather than scream in pain because it wasn’t Zemmy that Erin had hit in the unmentionables—she tried to pivot and throw Erin, but she couldn’t. Erin’s [Improved Balance] made her slide—the [Brawler] tore at one arm.
Erin kneed her in the crotch as hard as she could again.
“Ow. That doesn’t work on me! Stop it!”
Mera dodged a punch, trying to release Erin’s arm from her, and Erin slammed their foreheads together. Mera’s head recoiled, and she seemed outraged—the Fraerling brought her head back, and the two headbutted each other at the same time.
[Thunderclap Headbutt].
Erin’s grip loosened as she staggered, and her ears exploded for a second. Mera set her stance and curled a fist.
“Now that’s more like it. [Fist of the Broken Land: Earthtwister].”
She wound up and punched. Erin tried to dodge left—a shockwave spiraled through the air, picked her up, and tore up the ground and street until she slammed so hard into Vrilla’s pumpkin that she pulped the walls, enchantments or not. The entire house rolled as the [Druid] shouted from within.
 
——
 
“Oh shit. Sorry, Vrilla!”
Zemmy shouted when he saw the destruction to the house. He flinched; Vrilla was going to kill them. He turned to Mera to suggest they run until the [Angry Druid] calmed down, then he saw bright light and heard Mera scream.
“Aaaah! Get it off! Get it off—”
She was covered in bright pink flames. When the furious [Druid] emerged from her pumpkin, covered in vines, even she stopped. The [Innkeeper] was picking herself up, holding her side, hurt, and Mera was on fire.
Erin had breathed fire the moment Mera used her Skill. The [Brawler] rolled, trying to put the fire out, then physically tore the flames off her. When she rose, Mera was burned, panting—and she glanced up.
“What the heck was—”
“Watch out!”
Zemmy shouted, and Mera jumped right as a second plume of fire hit the ground. The [Innkeeper] was on fire. Mera’s smile grew, but she put up her fists in her first real guard.
“—Heck. Now that’s more like it.”
Vrilla shouted from above as twisting walls of vines and earth rose.
“You brats are in trouble after this! You know better than to fight in the village!”
She walled off the area to avoid more damage to houses, and Mera charged. She avoided another glob of pink fire, coming at Erin from the side in a tackle. Zemmy knew Mera’s line of thought. If the [Innkeeper] was throwing fire, better to get her off her feet. But neither one expected the [Innkeeper] to switch tactics.
Mera hit Erin in a [Long-Distance Tackle], too fast to stop. She accelerated and hit Erin like a Battle Hammie—and Erin slid backwards. She didn’t go over. Mera’s eyes went round as she strained to push Erin over.
“What the—?”
Her head came up, and Erin’s body was no longer covered in pink flames. They were—blue? Blue, like the depths of the ocean that Zemmy had seen only a few times. Like what grief looked like. Like a friend’s burial. And heavy as sorrow.
Erin punched Mera down and buried her head in the ground. Mera’s legs snapped up with the force of the blow, and Zemmy winced.
“Mera!”
The [Innkeeper] stomped where Mera’s head had been, but the [Brawler] was gone. She’d pushed herself out of the ground and vaulted high into the air. She was rattled; when she landed, she threw a punch.
“[Airburst Fist]!”
Wind blasted the [Innkeeper] as she walked forwards, but didn’t blow Erin over—or her flames out. But she was slow—Mera crouched and zig-zagged, leaping from side to side. Zemmy recognized that.
[Wild Approach]. [Catclaw Slash]!
They were Mera’s agile moves when she felt like she was in danger. She came at Erin from the side—and bounded out of the way of a wall of grey flames with a yowl. The [Innkeeper] was breathing fire again. She swept a circle around her of oddly static grey flames.
They seemed like—Zemmy tore his eyes away from the flames of mercy, and Mera snarled.
“Eat this!”
She tried to barrel through the flames and slammed into them. When the [Brawler] recoiled, dazed, a hand reached through the flames and grabbed her.
“Oh heck—”
Erin leapt out of the flames and knocked Mera down. She began punching the [Brawler] on the ground.
 
——
 
Hit her. Hit her! 
The [Innkeeper]’s flames were burning in her chest. The black flames—no. She hadn’t lost control. But she was hurt. That last punch had hurt a lot. And she wanted to end this.
Erin was punching the ground hard enough to feel it shake. She rained punches down furiously, capitalizing on her moment—
A kick tossed her back. She stumbled—saw Mera rise and wipe at a bloody nose. She had a few faint bruises. Burn marks. Part of her hair was still alight with pink fire. But she was beckoning.
“You’re the best. I thought Tallfolk couldn’t fight like us. Come on. Come on! [Moment of Might: Monkey’s Strength].”
Another big Skill. Erin saw Mera leap at her with a punch. It didn’t sound—
Monkey’s strength? In a Fraerling’s b—
Erin hit the rock walls that Vrilla had conjured and didn’t bounce off. She was embedded halfway through them.
It hurt. But she could still—she lowered her arms just in time to see Mera hurtling at her, eyes wide, grinning.
She punched Erin through the earth walls, pivoted as the [Innkeeper] turned, and hit her back through the walls again before her Skill ran out. Panting, Mera stood in the rubble of the walls as Ulvama shouted.
“Erin? Erin!”
The [Innkeeper]’s arms were raised. Her body was trembling. She felt like she was going to pass out. She lowered her arms again, and Mera exhaled.
“Cats. That didn’t work?”
She dodged as Erin spat orange flames at her, and the [Innkeeper] pivoted. She saw Mera stumble, and the [Innkeeper] felt that raging fury in her chest. The panic.
I can’t beat her. She’s Level 40, and I—
I can’t beat her down.
I’m fighting her. And she’s a Level 40 [Brawler].
She’s not killing me. 
The haze in her mind died down. It might have been Mera that was winning; Erin was willing to bet she was. But the [Brawler] looked disconcerted too; she was eying Erin up and down and still—smiling.
“This is so much fun. I’m going to level from fighting you. You’re the greatest!”
She ran at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] clipped her cheek with a punch. Erin jumped—Mera spun, aiming a kick up, and missed as she saw Erin running past her on the air. She dodged Erin’s kick coming down and tackled Erin. The moment she saw Erin open her mouth to spit more flames, she rolled away.
Laughing. It was so annoying. Mera’s teeth were bared as she swayed from foot to foot, trying to bait Erin. Her mouth wasn’t open. The [Innkeeper] realized…
She was laughing? Erin stared at Mera and threw her next punch as hard as she could. With all her strength. Mera caught it, and her arms snapped back. The second [Minotaur Punch] missed, and Mera countered Erin and hit her in the stomach.
It burned and hurt, and Erin nearly puked. But—she met the [Brawler]’s eyes and saw that dancing, competitive gaze.
“Hit me with everything you’ve got. Stop holding back.”
Erin growled. She saw Mera’s eyes widen in dismay. Erin was laughing as she kneed Mera in the groin a third time. This time, the swearing [Brawler] did hold her groin as she hopped back.
“Come on, Mera! Don’t stop! You don’t even have anything to hit!”
“Shut the hell up, Zemmy, or I’ll do that to you! It still hurts!”
Mera turned and barely dodged another hook from Erin. She threw another counter, but Erin was getting used to it, and it barely grazed her cheek. And she couldn’t stop…
 
——
