 
They were talking and eating with Erin until she was called away for the inn—whereupon she found Zinni first in line and realized the obstreperous [Rancher] was as bad a drunk as the others.
That was how Erin spent most of her festival. Not on heavy matters, but working a bit, playing games, like a version of cornhole—only where you hit targets hung up rather than lying on the ground—and just taking in the festivities with Ulvama.
The final act for the night was, of course, the lanterns. Ulvama dragged Erin over to their lantern, and they lit it with hundreds of Fraerlings across the village. Thousands of lanterns drifted up into the sky, glowing every color of light, decorated, rising upwards, and Erin stood there.
“This is a nice place.”
That’s all she said to Ulvama. The [Shaman] smiled as she glanced at Erin and saw the [Innkeeper]’s hair was still discolored, that she still had her scars and that age in her voice and bearing—
But she looked less like a walking corpse. Less like a dead woman and more like someone healing. Slowly. Bit by bit.
As the lanterns rose, Erin sighed…and then saw the first shape buzz up through the air. She blinked, and a firefly rose, co-mingling with the lights, attracted by the glow.
“Uh oh. Does anyone need to watch out for them?”
She turned as a bat flew overhead, also attracted by the glow in the treetops, and then heard the first pop. Erin glanced up and saw the firefly had tried to grapple onto her and Ulvama’s lantern, thinking it was a mate or at least another similar light source.
The little lantern bobbed in the sky—and then the talisman the two had been given activated. The resulting green [Fireball] burst into light…and a flaming firefly crashed down out of the sky.
“Got one!”
A cheer went up from below. Erin and Ulvama’s mouths stayed open as the remnants of their lantern fell down. The bat went after another lantern—which promptly zapped it so hard its entire body lit up. More bugs and critters were flying now, and the lanterns were unleashing the spells inside.
The Festival of Spring Safety. That’s why they called it that. The Fraerlings cheered and whooped and called up curses at the predators being thinned by the lanterns, and Erin only realized her mouth was still open when a bit of ash from above landed on her tongue.
“Peh! Argh! What the heck—”
She started giggling. Then laughing at the ridiculousness of the festival. Not that it was wrong—only unexpected and silly, and then she was laughing so hard she couldn’t stand upright. Erin heard a strange sound, looked up, and saw Ulvama was chuckling too. The two regarded each other, then laughed and laughed.
They had to hold onto each other to stand upright, and when Bowom found them, they were laughing and sinking onto the ground. Erin lay there, staring up at the sky exploding with lights. She breathed in and out and sensed Ulvama lying just to her side.
She felt like she had forgotten who Erin Solstice was for a long while. She still didn’t know who [The Wandering Innkeeper] had become. But if this was what the weary woman, the burning [Witch], the travelling woman far from home was now…
It wasn’t all bad.
