Erin felt like she’d bothered Jossec all yesterday, but he was nice. She thought he was actually just a nice [Cook]. And Roja was okay, tough and friendly like an adventurer. Bowom was crazy—Erin liked him. She wished he’d meet Saliss. She still didn’t know Eurise that well; he had been gone yesterday and apparently patrolled the other villages a lot.
An answer came to mind as Erin noticed something interesting today. Today, like the previous few days, there were Fraerlings moving about the village. Adults on their tasks, chatting, bickering amiably, all the small-village stuff you’d assume.
And children, of course. They never roamed past the wooden walls, and indeed, wore camouflaged clothing and roamed in large groups if not helping adults, as children did.
Isten was one of them, and like yesterday and the day before, they had come to peek at the outsiders.
For such a closed-off village, Erin and Ulvama had to be fascinating for children, and the adults only told them not to be a nuisance. Most of the time, Erin and Ulvama were happy to answer questions like ‘have you seen any Dragons’ or ‘how tall are the Walled Cities’ and such.
Kid questions. But Erin had noticed that Ulvama got more attention than she did.
Ulvama was green. A Goblin. Erin could have passed for another Fraerling. There wasn’t anything hostile or dangerous in their attention, just childlike fascination. But the Goblin pretended not to notice.
She engrossed herself in her work as the children crept closer. They were being bold today, possibly because they were bored or Bowom or anyone else weren’t around. Ulvama peeked at them out of the corner of her eye as one of them drew closer, a child of maybe five or six?
She was reaching for Ulvama’s pointed ears, clearly dared to by the other kids. Ulvama kept kneeling and combing at the hamster’s fur as she tapped two fingers on her cheek. Erin saw a bit of magic glimmer as Ulvama traced something one-handed.
At the last moment, before the kid could touch her ears, Ulvama spun around.
“Raaaaaaaaagh!”
Erin jumped out of her seat and nearly fell onto the street. A gigantic, fanged mouth full of teeth and bulging eyes popped out of Ulvama’s head. Like a cartoon effect where the character’s head grew.
Only, this was real, horrific, and sent the children running, screaming for their lives. Ulvama turned back to her brushing.
—After Erin’s heart had stopped hammering, she tried to read her book again. Only to see the children creeping up once more. Ulvama waited until they were inches away, then spun.
“Goblin attack! Aaaaiiieeee!”
This time, her face was a white-and-black banshee’s face, like a painting of a spirit or a halloween mask. The children ran—and now, Ulvama chased them.
She was good with kids. Go figure for a [Shaman] who had dealt with an entire tribe’s worth. Ulvama raced after the kids, growling, as her face morphed between illusions. The Fraerling kids were naturally delighted and screamed and fled.
Erin watched for a minute, grinning, until one Fraerling, Isten, whirled. He raised a fist.
“I’m not afraid of no monster! Bring it!”
He had a staff he’d been carrying on his back, and he twirled it around clumsily—only for Ulvama to seize him up.
“I’m a big monster. Now I’m eating you. Garrrgh!”
She gnawed on his head as he shouted and wiggled, and the Hobgoblin laughed, an expression of actual amusement on her normally-stoic face. Right up until she saw two Fraerling parents watching her eat their son.
Ulvama stopped playacting instantly and put the boy down. He wiggled free and ran with a shout, and the children scattered, but the Hobgoblin’s investment in her role was gone. She turned and hurried over to the hamster and began combing.
Erin—peered at all of that, perplexed. Isten’s parents had been chuckling, amused, pointing at Ulvama. They blinked at her now, as surprised as Erin. They waved Isten away from bothering the [Shaman] as she put her head down, combing the hamster who rolled over, exposing his belly. They didn’t quite get it.
The [Innkeeper] knew Goblins. She knew Ulvama. And a piece clicked in her head.
“Hey, Ulvama…what book did you want to get from the library?”
“Eh—I didn’t want any. But maybe that book on the Walled Cities?”
“Oh, the one about the seventeen Walled Cities? Maybe I’ll run over there and check it out. I could read it.”
The [Shaman]’s head rose, and she smiled.
“They let you check out more than one book?”
“What? Psht. Sure.”
Erin got up from her table, put her book aside, and jogged over to the library. She was faster than she thought on her feet, and she didn’t even have a problem; there was no librarian to ask, and a Fraerling just nodded.
“Sure, write it down in that book there so we know who’s got it. That Goblin want a book? What’s her name?”
“Ulvama. She can read this one.”
That pretty much confirmed what Erin thought. She came back and found the kids had dispersed to play tag elsewhere. Ulvama grasped the book gingerly as Erin handed it over.
“You can check out books too, if you want.”
“I know. I’m just being…polite.”
Ulvama avoided Erin’s eyes. And she didn’t notice how the [Innkeeper] sat back at the breakfast table and returned to watching her. For such a perspicacious Goblin, she could be shortsighted at times. What she failed to realize was how she looked to Erin.
 
——
 
“Alright, I am now a coffee person. I didn’t know I was, but I’m already synthesizing a new compound with it. Inject it straight into my veins, thank you. Now, what were you two interested in doing today?”
Bowom returned and asked the question he asked every day. Only, this time, Erin was more analytical.
“Oh, I dunno. You were making lanterns for the festival in a few days, right? Need any hands?”
He waved this off, as he’d done yesterday.
“Bah, that’s fine. Between coffee and all the food, you’ve earned a break. How about magic? You’re a [Witch], and you’re a [Shaman]—are those paints enough?”
He was the one who’d gotten Ulvama the paints, and she instantly smiled.
“They’re very good, thank you.”
“Maybe…we could read some spellbooks? Do they do spellbooks for [Witches] and [Shamans]?”
Erin suggested with a sidelong look at Bowom. He frowned.
“Not in the same way. Though Ulvama would know better than I. Mostly it’s in what you’ve got. I could ask all the spellcasters I know if they have anecdotes or manuscripts. Rituals. It’d be a bunch of cross-discipline stuff. We don’t have many [Witches]…I don’t think I’ve seen more than two in the Traveller’s Log. But we’ve had our share of spellcasters with shamanic focuses. How about it?”
He looked at them, and Erin turned to Ulvama.
“Ulvama? Whaddya think?”
The [Shaman] thought about it for about eight seconds, then shook her head, glancing down at her brushing.
“I don’t want to bother anyone. It’s a very generous offer, Bowom.”
“What? No, I would just be snooping through their workshops to see what they’re doing. Okay, what else then?”
The [Mad Doctor] was breezy and perhaps on a caffeine-rush, but Erin gave Ulvama a second glance. Based on what she knew of Ulvama, Erin doubted the [Shaman] wasn’t interested in that kind of text.
Ulvama’s eyes had lit up at the idea, then her face had clouded over. It was very subtle, but she was brushing the Battle Hamster less smoothly, now. If Erin recalled right…had Ulvama ever volunteered she wanted to do something, or had she just gone along with what Erin and Bowom had decided?
And why? She was all bossy and lazy in the inn.
…The inn…where she was safe. Where she was a Goblin with a sign that said ‘No Killing Goblins’. Here she was abroad, and even if the Fraerlings didn’t know her—
Bowom was cheerfully looking between Erin and Ulvama, and he seemed to pick up on something from Erin’s expression. The [Doctor] looked between the two, rubbing his three hands together.
“You sure there’s nothing you want to do?”
“It’s a nice day. I could help make lanterns. Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] had the blandest expression in the world when Ulvama glanced at her. She gave Bowom a serious stare and steepled her fingers.
“You know what I think I need, Bowom? I just realized it—we haven’t been doing our daily tradition.”
“Tradition?”
Bowom’s eyes sparkled with interest, and Ulvama’s head came up. Erin nodded, serious.
“We dance each morning. For exercise and stuff. Does your village have any cool dances we can learn? And we could use more paint. For my color practice, actually. I can drain colors, and if I had more pigments…”
“You can manipulate colors. Fascinating. Why didn’t you say so? Let’s go raid for dyes and dancers. Rojalin might be a good candidate for the latter…I’d like to see any dances native to Izril or Goblins. Though I’ve got three left feet.”
When they looked down, he laughed.
“Hah! Made you look. They’re both right. Okay, let’s find those dancers.”
Erin saw Ulvama’s face light up as the Goblin got to her feet. Then the [Innkeeper] suddenly had a mission.
 
——
 
The goal was to make Ulvama smile.
Because she could smile. She just didn’t do it often. And hadn’t she done so much, far too much, from the moment she’d run after Erin in Liscor?
Erin could still see the silently-crying Goblin in the middle of her camp in the wilds. Or the Goblin’s face when she pulled Erin aside after the latest time the [Innkeeper] had nearly died.
Now that it was clear that Ulvama wasn’t prevailing on their hosts, Erin was all over it. She was Erining harder than she’d ever Erined before.
And it was Erin pushing. She was not that gregarious of a person. Her parents, Gregori and Shauna Solstice, had always pushed their daughter to be more outgoing.
Look at me now, Mom and Dad. The funny part was that Ulvama didn’t get what Erin was doing at first.
“Hey! I’m an [Innkeeper] and a [Dancer]. Ulvama’s really good at dancing too. Do you have cool dances here?”
It was, in fact, Vrilla who they first came to for dancing instruction, on the basis that she was a [Druid]. The [Angry Druid] seemed peeved today; or maybe it was the dancing. She glowered at Bowom.
“Bowom told you I dance? Interesting. He never seemed that interested in it up till now. I suppose I know a few dances. Nothing magical, and only one Skill-based and two rituals. But I’m not going to teach those to just anyone.”
Or maybe it was Bowom. He shuffled his two right feet.
“Why don’t I just step outside while you three talk?”
Erin pointed silently at Bowom. Were he and Vrilla…?
Her glower intensified, and Erin brightly gestured to Ulvama.
“I think Ulvama’s better than me. How do we prove we’re good at dancing?”
It was such a stupid question that Vrilla eyed Ulvama, and the [Shaman] groaned. Erin gave them a genuine smile as the [Druid] snorted and let them into her house—the giant pumpkin.
It was indeed bigger on the inside, and she had an open living room that looked exactly like a good dance studio with a wide open glass window to the outside. Erin kicked her shoes off as Vrilla gave the two a once-over. She grudgingly nodded as they stretched.
“I didn’t even think to ask about dances. History, food, magic—”
Erin grinned.
“I bet most [Castaways] don’t dance.”
“Well, do you usually have music of some kind? I have some song crystals, though they decay after a year if I’ve forgotten to copy them over; that’s the one thing we get from the big cities. Also, what theme?”
Erin was realizing her leggings were maybe not the best for this, but she kicked out her legs gamely.
“Uh—I’ve been learning from Ulvama. So it’s a mix. Energetic music, and slower is good. You should see me do my ‘safety dance’.”
She began to wave her fists on either side of her body in a variant of the cha cha as Ulvama rolled her eyes. She hated the silly one-move dances that Erin kept coming up with.
—But it got Vrilla smiling. And she hadn’t seen any of the dances that Erin was doing. She fished out a song crystal and walked over to a device that would magnify the sound. It reminded Erin a lot of a gramophone or something of that era.
“So more fun, festive? Are you two a pair? I have romance too.”
“What? No!”
Erin protested instantly, and Ulvama pointed at Erin, grinning.
“I keep trying to teach her seductive dances and she doesn’t want to learn.”
“Okay—how’s this sound?”
Erin heard the first song begin to play, and it wasn’t really pop or anything close to modern music; it had that slower quality, but then someone started to play a smattering of drums as a Fraerling sang in a weirdly fast-beat croon.
Vrilla checked Erin and Ulvama’s expressions to see if they didn’t like it, but Erin was tapping her foot to the beat.
“I can get behind this. Okay—give me a sec—”
She was actually highly embarrassed, and that was without Bowom staring through one window and pointing a few interested dance-knowledgeable Fraerlings towards them.
Aside from that one time, Erin was shy about dancing in public. But Ulvama was even shyer in this moment, so Erin did her best. She began to boogie on the spot, then bump from side to side, and Vrilla, sensing the tempo that Erin was going for, upped the tempo on the crystal somehow.
Since she had long-legged pants and felt a bit less like the free-flowing dancer who could hop and skip about, Erin kicked out one leg to get a wrinkle out of the fabric, then just kept doing it, hopping on one foot. She did a twirl and twisted around, holding her waist as if she were doing a country-dance in the musical scene of a bar.
“Erin…”
Ulvama was fully embarrassed. She was glancing at the watchers through the window, but when she saw Vrilla grinning, she relaxed. And Erin turned to face her, still kicking her legs out. She swung one leg up.
“Well, if you’ve got anything better, you’d better show it, Ulvama! It’s not my fault if I’m dancing better than you!”
The [Shaman]’s eyes narrowed. Without a word, she stepped into the center of the floor and began copying Erin mid-dance. It wasn’t a hard dance, to be fair, but the two performing the exact same heel-kick and shimmies convinced Vrilla.
“You don’t have the music that dance goes with, do you? Are you meant to do it in a group? One second—like this?”
She was very nimble on her feet, and before Erin knew it, Vrilla, two kids, and Rojalin had appeared. That was how she found herself line-dancing with a bunch of Fraerlings as music blared out the open pumpkin door.
