Bowom was far more complimentary of the cheese. Roja just scratched at her neck, then stared at a rash breaking out above her collarbone. Erin regarded it and realized Fraerlings, who hadn’t had access to milk for generations, might be a bit…lactose intolerant.
It didn’t stop the [Bushwacker] from sampling a bit more, and Jossec was very complimentary, as were other Fraerlings who came by to try the new foods and agree they had merit.
However—Erin rounded on Bowom.
“Okay, how is cheese disgusting? Are you trying to insult cheese? Apologize on behalf of cheeses everywhere!”
He cracked one eye open and studied her. Bowom answered slowly, cupping his hands beneath his chest for emphasis.
“Well, you have a bunch of liquid meant for rearing young mammals exuded from weird, bloated glands on people’s chests. We produce milk—I’m using ‘we’ here in a royal sense because I haven’t felt the urge to give myself that upgrade—and we decided that was such sound nutrition we were going to raid other animals for the same. Then someone decided the best way to eat it was letting it harden up by curdling and growing little microscopic organisms all over it. It’s like drinking exotic stomach juice—that’s what gives it the taste, you know.”
The [Innkeeper]’s mouth was open in silent horror as she tried to mentally erase everything Bowom had described about what milk and cheese was. She turned to Roja, who had decided against having another bite of the mild cheddar.
“Does he always do this?”
Multiple Fraerlings chorused the answer.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
It was a good night. Not just because Erin had levelled and seemed—relaxed and actually smiling as she showed off foods.
Ulvama saw that the [Innkeeper] was at the center of attention, showing Fraerlings cake, which they did like, and with her slight, mischievous grin. The attention rippled around her like water, and the [Shaman], trained to recognize such things, saw how Erin was impressing the village.
Just like always, the crazy [Innkeeper] struck again. Bringing foods from another part of the world into this village for the first time in possibly thousands of years. Wondrous [Witch], chaotic [Innkeeper]…
That wasn’t the good part. The good part was when a sighing Fraerling with a leaf for a hat looked down at the apple pie.
“Honestly, it’s delicious. This wheat stuff, not the apples. And you say you can grow fields of it? This isn’t Skill-food either, is it?”
She turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] shook her head regretfully.
“Nope. Sorry, I could make more, but it’s like a three-to-one trade on flour. I’m happy to make treats, but I bet you’d run out of food, and I can’t give you any seeds or stuff. Skill doesn’t like that. What’s your name, by the way? Erin Solstice. [Innkeeper].”
“Vrilla. [Angry Druid].”
She was in her forties and had on clothing that Ulvama realized was literally all-natural. It looked like someone had grown grass into her clothes, which were long shorts and a poncho-type shirt with tiny flowers blooming over the shoulders.
“Are you…always angry?”
Vrilla laughed with that embarrassment of someone who’d made interesting life choices when she was younger as Erin gave her a dubious look up and down.
“Not always. But—sometimes you’ve just gotta tell nature what it is, you know? I’ll put on tender gloves when I run into a silly squirrel, and kick a tick into the sunset. Little bastards. Sometimes, it rains on you, and you have to tell a cloud where to shove it, you know?”
“You’re so cool.”
The [Innkeeper] was being genuinely awestruck, but she did play it up a bit, Ulvama thought. Flattered, Vrilla laughed, then broke off a piece of the pie crust on her plate. She studied it, thoughtful.
“Well, if it’s real, er, wheat stuff, why not? [Natural Reversion]!”
Before Erin and Ulvama’s eyes, she tossed the crust up in the air, and it shimmered, turning back to a spray of white powder, and then—
A seed bonked Erin on the head. Her mouth opened as a wheat seed, fat, oblong, and golden-brown, landed in her palms. Erin gaped at it, and the [Druid] lifted it up.
“Ooh. Hey, Jossec! Got something new for our [Gardeners]!”
“B—wh—how’d you do that?”
Erin waved her arms around excitedly, and Vrilla tossed the seed through the air towards the delighted [Chef]. There it was. Ulvama’s eyes lit up as she saw Erin wearing the expression so many people wore around her.
Delight. Awe. Happiness at having the world she assumed to be one way open up in a glorious surprise.
Then outrage as the Battle Hamster launched itself into the air, grabbed the wheat seed, and tore it up in its jaws. Erin inhaled to tell the hamster off with Ulvama, and Vrilla exploded.
“You little shit! Try that again and I’ll stuff the next seed up under your tail!”
The [Druid] shot out of her seat, and the Battle Hamster raised its fists. Then it took one look at the figure whose leaf-hat snapped down to cover her face and whose clothing grew to cover her entire body like a battle suit made of nature. Vrilla was a foot tall and stomping at the hamster as it decided to run.
[Angry Druid] indeed. She had to be Level 30 and probably above Level 40 just based on that. Vrilla stomped past laughing Fraerlings as Erin wordlessly exchanged a glance with the [Shaman]. They were wearing the same expression, and Erin seemed younger for a moment. Then she slapped one thigh.
“Well—I guess we’re giving all the seeds to the villagers! No one can grow cows, though, right?”
She was only half-joking—until Bowom wandered by.
“Give me a cut of whatever cow’s made of and I can try reverse-growing it. But if they’re big as you say, I think it won’t be practical to raise them. Maybe if I shrink them…”
She had no idea if he was joking with her. The [Innkeeper]’s face went slack, then she raised her hands. She turned to Ulvama, eyes sparkling.
“I’ve got to up my game. Um…well, unless I level again tonight, maybe some [Wondrous Fare]? No, no, wait! I could make magic food or…you know what? You know what? It’s time to bring out the big guns, Ulvama.”
“What’s that?”
Ulvama at least had watched enough movies to get the expression. Erin leaned over, conspiratorially searching around.
“I’ve never really had to use it—but I don’t see a lotta drinking right now. I think…it’s time to use [Alcohol Brewing].”
She waggled her eyebrows at Ulvama. The [Shaman] raised her own eyebrows—and Roja stumped by for another slice of cake.
“We’ve got drinks. We just aren’t allowed to have too much at public gatherings.”
Erin turned, crestfallen.
“Oh, nevermind then.”
But she seemed more relaxed after that night. And the next day…
 
——
 
On the…you know, she’d lost count—the fifth? The fifth day at the village, Erin felt even better.
“Hey, I feel like I could actually run, now. Or that I want to run. My legs are all frisky!”
She was bouncing around a bit, feeling at her legs, which did indeed feel like there were electrified springs in them. Ulvama was sipping from a cup of tea blearily in the early morning.
“I don’t think you know what that word means.”
“What? Come on, I’m not pulling a Pisces. Frisky is upbeat, energetic! Playful?”
“Yeah. I use that word differently.”
Ulvama slurped down the tea, and Erin waved a hand at her. She’d been up all last night producing different foods that Vrilla could deconstruct.
The irony was that the village had no [Farmers]. Not a one. A few [Gardeners], and Vrilla herself was a [Druid], but the Fraerlings didn’t really farm that much. Farming created food sources that predators or dangerous herbivores wanted.
However, to get a free supply of bread, grapes for wine, or Yellats, all of which interested the Fraerlings, they would certainly make the attempt. Corn, potatoes—even rice, which they knew of but didn’t cultivate.
Erin had also given them poison. The devil’s drink. The bean of bounty. The…she’d given them coffee beans. Bowom had ground it up and created coffee in his laboratory, and Erin had heard hysterical cackling coming from the center of the village.
She had not as of yet gone to see what was going on, but she was mightily tempted. However, it was Ulvama that Erin was studying today as she stretched one leg, then the other out.
The Fraerlings had given them both a bunch of clothing, which beat their battered, much-repaired stuff. In Erin’s case, she was wearing some long, sky-blue explorer’s trousers—which Roja and her people used—and a long-sleeved, also blue shirt made of what was apparently aphid-wool.
Erin had yet to see the oversized aphids that produced all this, but she had felt pretty snazzy—until Ulvama had walked out demonstrating that if Erin could wear clothing in a new culture, Ulvama could acclimatize overnight.
The [Shaman] had asked for one of Vrilla’s leaf-clothing pieces, and she wore an open jacket and a crop top made of leaf, which would have been way too much skin in the jungle and left Ulvama at the mercy of mosquitos.
Since Fraerlings were too small, it wasn’t a concern, but it was something. She had her stomach bare to the rising sun and weird spider silk shorts with threads of silk that wrapped around her thighs.
Erin had tried to wear the clothing like Ulvama, but the feeling of the silk strands had distracted the heck out of her, even though they didn’t chafe or feel sticky. It looked pretty…interesting, and she kept staring at Ulvama’s legs and wondering if there was some added benefit, like making the shorts stick on, or if they just were supposed to look cool.
Ulvama was working despite her sleepiness; with one hand, she was nursing the tea. With the other, she was drawing a symbol onto her stomach with a brush and some paint.
She had begun reassembling her own magical craft, and she frowned as she drew upside-down and backwards.
“What’s that symbol do?”
“Protection.”
“So it’s like armor?”
“Yeah. One big hit and it comes off.”
“Cool, cool…how many can you put on one person at a time?”
A grunt.
“Depends on how much magic each one has. I once did forty. Real pain in butt. You want one?”
“Uh…eh…maybe if we go out adventuring. I’m not a tattoo person, y’know?”
“Neither am I.”
Erin stared pointedly at Ulvama as the Hobgoblin switched to one of her bare arms, and the Hobgoblin’s return glare made it clear that magical paint and tattoos were not the same, and if Erin tried to argue this, she would get a kick.
However, Erin noticed that Ulvama was glancing at something she was holding. Erin was having a delightful breakfast of roasted banana waffles. Which were banana-and-nut batter waffles glazed in yogurt. Jossec had made it specially for Erin as thanks for last night; it was a treat to get a special-made dish given how busy he was. He’d thrown in something—meat or something close to it—to give the waffles even more of a savory taste.
Even green onions on top! Erin was still not on sugar, so the waffles made her happy, and the bit of sweet from the banana was all she wanted. But she still wanted waffles because that was a comfort food.
As for the waffle iron to make the waffles…Erin didn’t even know how that had appeared. She’d described it to Jossec, he’d dashed off to find Macnest, the village’s armorer, and literally thirty minutes later he’d been back with a waffle iron. Fraerlings were incredible.
She was sipping from some lemon water in a huge dewdrop on a leaf; you could actually reach into it and pull out a smaller orb of liquid and sip it off your palm because of the surface tension given the relative size of it.
It was such a contrast to how they’d landed on Baleros, Erin was willing to take another hour over breakfast. But she also had the ultimate weapon to prolong this experience:
A book.
Tales of Adventure and Woe, Edition #8887. Erin had never actually read one of the books, and she had to admit, it was pretty engaging! It read like a smooth action story about a pair of Dwarves who were trying to enter the ‘Heartwood of Estiphole’, a glade in this gigantic Great Forest where they’d heard healing fruits could be found.
One of their Grandfathers was sick, and they’d tried diplomacy and begging other nations for help, but the small Human settlements and the Giants didn’t want to mess with the Dryads and other forest-spirits who’d warned the Dwarves they’d be killed if they entered.
So the Dwarves left…and came back with a hundred more Dwarves and a Dragon. They’d tried air-dropping into the forest.
A tree had slapped the Dwarves and Dragon out of the sky. Now, there were about sixty who weren’t wounded going into a bunch of tree-root caverns to avoid pursuers as the Dragon ran for it, and Erin did not think they were gonna have a good time.
Ulvama was watching Erin read out of the corner of her eye as she worked. After a moment, she coughed.
“What’s happening to the Dwarves now?”
“Forest vengeance dungeon.”
“That’s a thing?”
“Oh yeah. Roots coming out of the walls and trying to strangle you. And they regrow. This poor Dwarf in Adamantium plate armor who was talking about how tough he was just got pulled into the soil. Heeeee’s a goner. No, wait! One of the Dwarves just caused an earthquake with his hammer! They have to be above Level 50.”
Erin was getting into it. Ulvama was sitting across from her and craned her head as if to stare over the book’s edge. Erin glanced up and wondered…after a moment, Ulvama coughed.
“Maybe I can read it after you’re done?”
 
—the Treant’s face was morphing down its body as it sunk through the floor, ancient ironwood bark stained by the blood of other trespassers. Colakgizak the Bloody spoke as Marged raised his axe.
“I have planted seeds in the bones of Giants, mortal. Adamantium breaks on my bark.”
Marged’s smile was weary as he motioned the other Dwarves back.
“My Grandfather made this axe, spirit. Don’t.”
 
Ulvama nudged Erin to stop the [Innkeeper]’s leg from jiggling the table and get her attention.
“Erin. Can I read when you’re done?”
“What? Sure, sure. Why didn’t you get a book?”
“You know…they’re rare. I didn’t want to take one and get waffle on it.”
“I’m not getting waffle on anything. Plus, it’s enchanted. I think.”
The [Shaman] made a discontented noise. After a moment, she got up and began to fuss over the Battle Hamster. Ulvama still had an idea she could tame him, so as he curled up in the sun, she tried to comb out his hair. He let it happen, and Erin glanced at Ulvama out of the corner of her eye.
Why hadn’t Ulvama asked for a book? Erin had been—a bit under the weather for the last few days, so the [Shaman] had stuck by her. Maybe she didn’t want to be a bother, which checked out.
