It was that or have the [Shaman] pull her onto her lap or lean them into the Battle Hamster with a blanket. In time, Erin began to feel more active, and she realized how tired she’d been that she thought that was ‘normal’.
It wasn’t like she wanted to keep lying around, though, despite being in recovery. So the Fraerlings put her to work, but not in the Ovenhouse as Erin had suggested. Instead, she sat, answering questions for interested Fraerlings, describing recipes and recent events at a kind of impromptu booth at one of the tables. When Erin’s voice got hoarse or no Fraerlings came over to ask questions, they had her and Ulvama braid that sticky spiderweb rope or help prepare dinner.
Not every Fraerling meal was just a massive carrot or egg. But given how much they ate, Erin found herself cutting huge cubes of meat out to marinate, rather than smaller sections. And cutting wild radishes into pieces was just funny; you were handed a big sword and had to chop the radishes up like they were firewood.
The hamster loved their cooking prep because he got to eat all the scraps like the carrot peels and extra chunks.
Was she better, by then? No, of course not.
Ulvama was watching her, day by day, and sometimes waking up in the night to make sure Erin didn’t have nightmares. Those had ceased, but sometimes, she swore the [Innkeeper] was awake as well. Listening to an odd sound in the night. Someone passing by the crystal hut.
She was suspicious of the Fraerlings, but they had asked nothing of her and Ulvama, to the point where Erin seemed to feel like she had to justify their hospitality. The [Innkeeper] wanted to do something for the Fraerlings, so she asked if she could cook something.
The [Cook] who had [Expert Cooking] was an interesting man. His name was Jossec, and he was a [Self-Sufficiency Cook], though he claimed his class was longer than that and he didn’t think of himself as a [Chef]. He was only too keen to let Erin use the village’s ingredients and an entire room in the Ovenhouse, but he warned her it would be hard.
“Let me know if we can improvise anything, but I reckon making anything halfway edible will be a challenge. I’d be delighted if I could get any Tallfolk recipes off you, miss.”
“Aw, how hard could it be?”
Erin joked as Ulvama sat at a table with the Battle Hamster. It wasn’t how she used to speak. The cadence was there, the smile, but she didn’t sound relaxed. However, Jossec just gave her an encouraging thumbs up, and the [Innkeeper] hesitated, then gave him a weak smile.
“Okay, are my assistants ready? Assistants? Hello?”
When Erin turned to eye them, both stared expectantly. Neither one had the vibe that they were interested in preparing food, only eating it. After a bit of staring, Erin turned to Jossec.
“Let’s do something simple. D’you know how to make…? Um—let’s do a cake.”
Erin elected not to do a hamburger on the principle that Fraerlings actually ate a lot of meat. But while they had breads, she hadn’t seen anything amazingly fluffy or patisserie-like.
“Eggs?”
“Partridge work?”
“S-sure. Sugar?”
“Hmm. Sugarcane? It’s a bit of a delicacy given how hard it is to find, but we dig up lots whenever someone finds it.”
Erin nodded. She didn’t want to waste ingredients; the village was replete with food, but it was all obtained with hard work from the explorers and foragers, if that made sense. Given her experiences in the wilds, Erin eyed the raw, green, bamboo-like bars of sugarcane…and wondered how the heck you were supposed to turn them into sugar.
Drying and processing, she suspected. She could use honey or syrup instead. She cracked her knuckles.
“Ow. Flour?”
“Almond, walnut, or rye? We’ve got a decent amount from the winter stores.”
“Uh—almond? Yeah, let’s do that.”
Jossec hurried out a huge jar of almond, carrying it over his head and putting it down with a grunt. Erin gave him a thumbs up as she stood around a massive mixing bowl that was actually set into the floor. She leaned on a wooden paddle.
“Milk!”
The components of a cake! Jossec emerged from the pantry with preservation spells.
“No problem! Do you want roach or aphid?”
“R—what.”
Erin turned, and Ulvama stopped smacking her lips. Jossec brought out two rather small canisters.
“How much do you need? Milking aphids is hard as hell, even the big ones. There’s a domesticated group of them in one of the other villages, though we have a bunch of raiders who keep stealing them.”
“…You don’t have milk milk? From cows?”
Jossec stared at Erin.
“What the heck’s a cow?”
She began to explain.
“Well, it’s this five-foot-tall creature that produces milk out of its udders. It weighs several thousand pounds, it’s black and white—and I get why you don’t have milk. Do you have…um…non-insect milk?”
He scratched at his head, and his worry about replicating recipes began to make sense.
“Well…I’ve heard of people milking rabbits or squirrels, but that’s a pretty odd thing to do. You’d have to, what, go up to them while they’re nursing their young and steal it? Or kill them and cut it up—not exactly easy…we could put a bounty on them for the [Hunters]? How much do you need?”
Like a cup? A cup of milk. A…Erin tried to imagine how many rabbits you’d have to kill or milk to get a cup. She hesitated.
“…I’m sure you can make a good cake without milk. How about cookies? They don’t have milk! And we can skip chocolate. We just need sugar, salt, baking soda—we can, um, improvise that? Vanilla or something for taste, egg, flour, and butt—oooooh.”
Butter. The fatty, delicious substance in so many pastries. A byproduct of churning buttermilk. It came from mammals. You know, those big creatures that Fraerlings definitely loved having around and had domesticated.
Jossec was nodding to himself, not embarrassed, but just as if he’d foreseen this.
“There’s a few books of Tallfolk recipes. Most have that issue.”
“But—how do you make food? The bread you had was good. Where’s all your fat come from? Cheese? Do you have cheese?”
“Cheese…”
The [Cook] said the word like it was something exotic and rare. He shook his head. For a long moment, the [Innkeeper] gazed at Jossec with mild horror and a kind of…sympathy and wonder. She inhaled, hesitated, and then it was gone.
The crack in the [Innkeeper]’s façade wasn’t missed by even the hamster, but the [Baker] ignored it, gesturing at a rack of rising loaves of bread behind him.
“Bread’s not bad. We can make it out of flour, and there’s rye we’ve grown, but we don’t have ‘wheat’. We had some seeds a while back, but one of the Orangebugs got into our fields one season. Sometimes, we lose non-native plants like that. Bread’s not hard. We have some yeasts that work.”
“Oh! Great! But it was, like, tasty. It had some kind of fat.”
“Probably the roachmilk. You’ve gotta work it in just right.”
Jossec patted one of the canisters of milk. Erin went pale.
“…Hamburgers!”
 
——
 
They weren’t bad. But they just didn’t hit the same. It was probably the bread; the nutty and flatter walnut bread that Erin placed a burger onto wasn’t bad, just slightly off from the product she knew.
Or maybe it was the vegetables. The Fraerlings didn’t have tomatoes. They did have leafy vegetables and could pickle them, but pickled radishes and green onions didn’t equate to the same experience.
Mostly, Erin suspected, a ground beef patty wasn’t that original. Jossec was complimentary, though, as he, Ulvama, and the Battle Hamster all munched on a burger.
The hamster spat out his meat the moment he realized what was in it. Ulvama picked up his burger and added it to hers.
“Told you not to eat it.”
Jossec smacked his lips.
“I can work with this. I think we’ll make a patty, oh…two-thirds as tall as we are? Put that on a big bun with a few variants in toppings and some mustard and it’ll be a hit tonight!”
He was happy. Erin was not.
“If only we had some ketchup. We can make mayonnaise, but—why do you guys have mustard but not the other two?”
“No tomatoes. How’s this mayonnaise made?”
Fortunately, Erin’s Skills had advanced enough to the point where she could name anything in a recipe, and Jossec was an amazing [Cook].
His Skill let him move around the kitchen like it was built just for him, which he needed given the vast amounts of ingredients he worked with and the size of them. A bit of mustard, an egg, salt, oil from the dead pack rat, and a bit of lemon juice, and he was nodding.
“Not bad at all!”
The Battle Hamster was licking it suspiciously, clearly worried this was another meat-based dish. Ulvama slathered more onto her second burger. Erin was still upset.
“Ulvama, what can I make without milk? No pizzas…is pasta going to work with non-wheat flour? It won’t taste the same. What’s my speciality?”
“Anything Imani and Calescent won’t make.”
Ulvama dodged the bit of mayonnaise Erin flicked at her. Erin pounded a fist into her hand.
“Calescent…curry! I’m a genius! How many spices do you have, Jossec?”
She turned to him with a big smile, and he frowned.
“…Six?”
Erin wavered. The [Cook] began counting on his fingers.
“Five.”
 
——
 
The problem with a Fraerling village with little trade with the outside world was that they had no global markets to draw from. So when they searched for spices, it meant they literally chopped up spicy bugs or salamanders.
They had two vegetable-based spices. One was a weak pepper. The other was a rare fish that Jossec claimed sometimes appeared in the swamps. Erin asked how likely it was they’d get more. She was told they’d been trying to dig a small pond to house breeds of desirable fish in between the villages for about six years now.
Without sugar, actual sugar, Erin was also unable to make many dishes. Jossec knew how to process the sugarcane into sugar; he just didn’t always bother because Fraerlings were happy to eat it raw. He promised he’d have it processed later, but Erin slunk out of the Ovenhouse, embarrassed.
Mostly because she’d promised several people, including Bowom and Isten, who often hung out around her and Ulvama, that she’d come out with something cool to eat.
“They don’t even have potatoes, Ulvama. They don’t even have Yellats.”
“It’s okay, Erin. You’re doing the best you can.”
“Don’t be nice to me.”
Ulvama kept patting Erin’s head as the [Innkeeper] leaned against the Corumdon Beetle. He was happily noshing on a bunch of rotting heartwood. For such a fearsome beetle, he was very relaxed and seemed to have won over the Fraerlings even faster than Erin and Ulvama.
“Hey, Miss Erin. Can we get at the beetle? We’re going on a raid for food or pets, and we could use him. Nothing dangerous to his lot.”
Roja and her trainee, Midias, strolled over with a gaggle of Fraerlings as Erin leaned on the beetle. She glanced up guiltily, and Roja waved at her.
“Cooking not going well?”
“We’ll have hamburgers for dinner…but I guess I wanted to do more. Sorry.”
The [Innkeeper] forced a smile. She eyed Roja’s weapons, and Ulvama stirred as the [Innkeeper]’s eyes sharpened.
“What raid?”
Roja jerked her thumb in the vague direction of a small hill that Ulvama remembered passing on her way to the village.
“Giant Dragonflies. They’ve got a nest too close to the village, and the suckers can kill small birds. They’ll go after us if we don’t smash the nest. Wanna see? I reckon it’s not dangerous for you two. Bring the hammie too; they can take one out.”
Erin glanced at Ulvama, and the [Shaman] instantly objected.
“We don’t need to do that, Erin.”
“Why not? If they’re threats, I can at least help out.”
Ulvama had a thousand and ten reasons why this was a terrible idea. She cast around for someone to help her out, and who should be there but Bowom.
The [Mad Doctor] always seemed to be about, albeit mixing something green in a bunch of flasks. He glanced over as Ulvama waved to him frantically.
“Hey, Roja, are you killing those dragonflies? Want an experimental drug to—”
“No.”
“Just checking.”
“Erin should rest more rather than go fighting monsters, right?”
Ulvama’s glower made Roja raise her hands, and Bowom handed the vial to Midias, who held it as far away as possible as Bowom scratched his head, chin, and back with all three hands.
“No, I think it’s a good idea.”
Are you stupid? Erin was asking Midias what he was carrying to fight the dragonflies, and Ulvama punched her fist into her palm as she glared at the [Mad Doctor]. Bowom, on the other hand, just beamed.
“Exactly! Hit a few bugs, watch Roja and the Fraerlings at work—it’s not dangerous. Right, Roja?”
“Giant Dragonflies? Let me get you two some armor. I reckon they won’t do more than scratch, and they’re both over Level 30, right?”
Roja gave Ulvama a once-over, but despite her confidence, Ulvama hissed at Bowom.
“She needs rest and mind healing, not killing more things! Don’t you have a—a [Thought Healer] here?”
None had been tending to Erin, but surely there was one between the three Fraerling villages! Bowom brightened up and, to Ulvama’s horror, pointed at himself with his third arm.
“You’re looking at him. Bowom Womob. [Mad Doctor], practicing limb replacement, mind replacement, mind healing, general healing, and weird medicine.”
He held out his other hand to shake, and Ulvama looked at Roja. The [Bushwacker] shrugged.
“We don’t have a [Thought Healer], so I guess he is your best [Healer].”
It explained so much about the village, so Ulvama folded her arms with the dignity of a [Shaman].
“I don’t think she should do it.”
Bowom had blue-black hair instead of the white-and-black Erin claimed he should have, and it didn’t stick on end with hair gel, but was buzz-cut short. He tilted his head as he peered at Erin and shook his head.
“Go ahead and stop her. My medical prognosis is that it’ll be good for her. Go on. Roja will keep you safe, and it’ll be good to see.”
Good to see? Ulvama tilted her head at Bowom and raised her fist suspiciously.
“If it doesn’t help, I’m coming back and hitting you.”
He exhaled sadly.
“Hazards of the class. If other [Healers] let someone die on the slab, everyone just wails at them. When my patients wake up with a new limb, they hit me with it. You’ll see.”
Ulvama threw her hands up and stalked over to the [Innkeeper]. When she asked if Erin really wanted to go and kill a bunch of bugs, Erin did hesitate.
“If I can’t cook, I might as well help out somehow, right, Ulvama?”
She gave Ulvama that too-bright smile, and the [Shaman] glanced at Bowom. He gave her three thumbs up.
 
——
 
