“I was right. Looks like it’s Level 30 if you want t’get to the beach. A few Level 20s…even a Level 27 [Ranger] named Neerie never made it back. Damn. I knew one of ‘em.”
He was running his finger down the vast book, paging through it, and Ulvama saw him pull at a tab sticking out, and the book’s pages flurried and changed. She approached, and the boy piped up.
“Even if I just want to get to the sea? Level 30?”
“Yep.”
“How about…a city? One’ve the big ones.”
“Nowhere further? You just want to get to one?”
“Yeah.”
Revoid pulled at a tab, and the pages changed. He was running his finger down a list of names, Ulvama realized, which listed levels and—her skin prickled.
Deaths.
 
Gaite Leftvalker, Level 18 [Aspiring Chef]. Flight robin attacked by Giant Dragonflies on the way to Lemoste-Under-Cliffs
Umme Leftvalker, Level 26 [Mourner]. Exact class unknown. Reached Lemoste-Under-Cliffs with severe injuries. Vanished after leaving the city, destination unknown.
Gotell Dret, Level 20 [Natural Herbalist]. Perished with an antidote bound for Sutic, the Sunrock City, during war. Suspected Fraerling [Assassins].
Pladiune…
 
The older Fraerling spoke as the boy read, face not exactly grave, but not careless, either. Serious, Ulvama thought. Like little Goblins watching warriors. There was less bravado there than children who thought they were invincible. Isten understood something of death. And yet, what Revoid said was—
“Looks like anything under Level 30 in a non-combat class is risky. Fantim nor anyone else’s likely to let you go off without that. For combat? Level 20, let’s say Level 25. Only for Lemoste, though.”
He caught Ulvama’s eye and elaborated.
“Lemoste’s nearest to us. Not sure how many other cities even exist. Sutic’s long gone. You aspiring to any of it, Isten? I can look up who else made it to the waves.”
“I reckon if I get to Level 40, I can do both. Right? That’s what Zemmy ‘n Mera are doing.”
“Fair enough.”
A crooked grin. Revoid closed the book, and Ulvama finally got a glimpse of the cover. It was embroidered in gold and said:
The Log of Travellers.
She was fascinated and ran her fingers down the ancient book. When she turned to the Fraerling, Ulvama took a guess.
“You write down who left the village. And what levels they were. So…you know if it’s safe?”
He nodded.
“Nothing’s safe. But it’s good t’know. To aspire to so the little ones know what level they should try to get at. Unless they’re there, we discourage them going off. For instance, there’s only a few that ever made it beyond a few cities on foot. Even the high-level ones.”
He re-opened the book, showing Isten and Ulvama several names. One caught her eye.
 
Pladiune, Level 38 [Masterful Staff Fighter]. Made it to Lemoste with grave injuries. Set out past the city despite warnings. Fate unknown.
Zobvreca Tortuge, Level 56 [Forestwalker of Unity. First-Swordbearer of the Lemostian Tallguard]. Reached Lemoste, Yorighe, Coulvece, Oierdressql. Vanished on her way home.
 
“See that? Level 56 and she vanished in the forests. It can get ya anywhere, but even Level 30’s no safe bet on foot. You wanna go on foot?”
“I’m not stupid like Zemmy and Mera.”
The two Fraerlings discussed the matter as the Hobgoblin observed. She glanced at Isten out of the corner of her eyes and saw the boy staring at the book. Thoughtfully. With that reverence for the dead, the caution, but that strange tone of…
Possibility. He didn’t speak like Goblin children spoke or thought of the future with that grim certainty of what would come for them. He spoke as if visiting a Fraerling city were a great challenge, one he wasn’t sure he wanted to take on—but could.
As if hitting Level 40, an achievement for any Tallfolk that they might not ever reach, were something he could do. If he worked hard enough. Ulvama whispered.
“Pladiune. I know that name.”
Revoid and Isten turned suddenly, and a Fraerling who’d been sitting in the library, reading a book, stuck her head out from between the stacks.
“What, Pladiune as in a Fraerling or some other name?”
Ulvama put her fingers to her temples. She concentrated. Time rolled back for her, and she spoke, half from knowledge, half from certainty, the memories of Goblins long dead.
“Pladiune. The Fraerling who bore a needle made by the Witch of Dread Pacts and threw it into the eye of Nolom the Conqueror. A Titan warlord.”
Images flashed up from her memory, so old that they were more like fragments, the most important moments a Goblin had remembered.
 
—A kneeling figure, tall beyond belief, blood running from a closed eye in its forehead. 
—A tiny Fraerling holding a black needle, twisted with red, overhead, arguing with an incredulous array of species, [Generals] and heroes, gathered around a meeting table.
—Armies of shouting smaller folk and the Fraerling unseen, cheering in a roar of sound as a vast city burned and giant figures fled into the distance.
 
She blinked—and it was gone, only carried by the certainty. Ulvama looked up, and Revoid held a quill in his hands. The Fraerling’s eyes were gleaming.
“So he made it?”
“She. She made it and didn’t die. She killed a Titan and burned a city they had made war from. With an army of legends.”
Revoid began to scribble as Isten took excited notes on a piece of parchment. He glanced at her.
“Normally, we don’t add corrections unless it’s set in writing, but [Shamans] count. Any word on her levels? Must’ve been something if she killed a Titan.”
Ulvama closed her eyes, trying to concentrate.
“Over…Level 70? She—yes, I’m certain she was over Level 70.”
Revoid made a few notes, blew on the parchment, and added Ulvama’s name to the correction. He slapped the edge of the book and, for a second, stood there smiling as Isten danced from foot to foot.
“Level 70. Out of our village. Wait till the others hear about that. How damn big is a Titan? Bigger’n a Giant? Isten, get one of the encyclopedias out. And you, Miss Ulvama. Got any more details?”
“I…let me think.”
Another Fraerling appeared.
“Get her a seat, why dontcha, Revoid? Isten, go run and tell someone we’ve got another legend for the books! Don’t Goblins remember tons? I was just reading up on your species. Reckon she might remember someone else?”
“Someone from other villages’ Traveller’s Logs, maybe? We should get her over to them. Let’s see if ours has more, though. You got an hour?”
Ulvama hesitated, and Revoid wheedled.
“We’ve got nali-sticks Eurise dug up a month back. Goes down like a treat with some dried walnut bread and lots of tea.”
She licked her lips, and the Battle Hamster sat up.
“I think I can spare some time…”
 
——
 
Erin didn’t stay in the wheelchair long. Not even all day. Bowom appeared after they finished pushing the crystal into place and grunted when he saw it was almost completely restored to normality.
“That’s handy. We don’t have many building—”
“—Classes. I heard. I’m sorry about the mess.”
He slapped her on the back.
“Don’t worry about it! It’s not the first time the village has gotten destroyed. Won’t be the last. Just a shame no one lost a limb. I got some excellent ant cadavers I’ve been dying to slap on someone. Now, how hungry are you? Let’s get you up and eating breakfast. Doctor’s orders.”
She blinked at him. Erin gingerly put her feet on the ground and didn’t feel that woozy. Weak, yes, and her arms were still distressingly—damaged—the skin revealing inner muscles and flesh covered by the gel, but it was regrowing.
“I’m allowed to stand? Veerni said I might turn to jello if I did.”
She cast a faintly accusatory glance at the [Healer], and Bowom laughed as he slapped her on the back again.
“Oh, we always say that to patients until we’re sure. I didn’t hear a ‘splat’ when I hit you on the back, so you’re fine. Just come screaming back if your bones start bending the wrong way. Beyond that, you’re mostly okay.”
“I have a hole in this arm.”
“Yeah, don’t poke at it and try to keep the jelly on. I felt like that was obvious. Veerni, who’s got food this morning? I didn’t eat, either.”
“Uh…I think you two can get a packrat roast at the Ovenhouse? Or there’s always leftover jam’n eggs.”
Bowom made a face and turned to Erin.
“How do you feel about jam? Mango? And I think it was parakeet eggs. Or there’s hot r—”
“Eggs, please. No rat.”
He strolled towards the door, and after a moment, Erin pushed herself up. She felt lightheaded and gritted her teeth as she stood—and almost activated [Reinforced Structure], but remembered she was healing. She stumbled after Bowom, and he eyed her critically.
“Maybe get her a cane, Veerni.”
A cane helped, and Erin leaned on it as she left the cottage, legs stiff at first, feeling worrying lightheadedness, but Veerni and Bowom kept an eye on her, and she was walking after that, to her great relief. No wheelchair for her…
The dirt road of the village was still riddled with debris, and Erin wanted to stop and repair buildings, but it did actually seem like a number of Fraerlings were taking the time to redecorate—and then argue about what they were rebuilding with.
“Not another face.”
The [Wizard] and his neighbor were pointing at his home as a gaggle of Fraerlings stood around. The one with the hammers, Macnest, was protesting.
“Didn’t someone have that big skull of a python? If it’s still around, I reckon—”
“No more snakes!”
The entire group chorused, and Macnest threw up his hands.
“Mine would have been tasteful! Hey! Hey, you!”
He shouted at Erin, and she halted, trying not to look instantly guilty despite feeling it. She turned, ready to talk her way out of the problem.
“Yes? I’m sorry about—”
“What’s the latest fashion in the Tallfolk world? Architecturally?”
Erin stared at him.
“…Latest fashion? I don’t know—”
“Come on, something! Fashion in other senses! Trends?”
“Um. L-lace?”
The Fraerlings stopped, and everyone regarded each other. The [Wizard] pulled a face. Erin tried again.
“How about…scrying orbs? Um, tracksuits?”
“I don’t know what a tracksuit is, but I’m not living in apparel.”
“You lived in a helmet—”
“I can do scrying orbs. Something glass. Something…what if we got a bunch of that good sand and tried blowing it out?”
Another Fraerling with a staff drawled as she leaned on it.
“Fine by me. I’ve got enough wind spells if Ovten does the heat and holds it in place. But I’m not doing more than two tries.”
Bowom tugged Erin along as the Fraerlings all trooped off to find some sand to blow into a glass structure. They were so—capable. The same thing Ulvama had noticed became rapidly apparent to Erin.
Fraerlings could just do things. Whether it was lifting a giant beam all by themself, jumping over a house’s roof, or magically sweeping rocks and debris into a vortex and hurling it away, they all seemed way higher-level than ordinary people of Erin’s height. She knew part of that was down to the relative strength of Fraerlings, but even so.
“Have you seen Ulvama?”
“I think I saw her walking around the village. We’ll find her after breakfast. Or maybe she’s having it. Good place to start, either way. You can’t think without breakfast. It’s how you start your day. I can’t think without breakfast. Did I mention I’m hungry?”
They were headed towards two buildings in the heart of the village, one a literal brick oven belching smoke out the top where Fraerlings clearly got food from, and the other a frozen icecube that Bowom ducked into, walls emitting vapor.
It wasn’t as cold inside as Erin expected; wood floors led to a kind of waiting room where an empty counter revealed a real freezer beyond, coated with frost. There was a shimmery…barrier in the air, and Bowom vaulted the counter, dashed into the freezer area, and came out swearing and juggling a big, head-sized vat of orange jelly.
“This will do for the two of us. Where’s that bread? Veerni?”
The [Healer] appeared with a big loaf of it and a knife. It was also ridiculously big, at least if it were scaled up to Human-sized, but her stomach growled at the sight of it.
“Sorry, someone grabbed the other loaf while I was there. Something’s going on at the library.”
“We can check that out. But my patient needs eggs. Also, I need to warm up this damn jelly.”
To the Ovenhouse they went. It had an open window, and the smells of roasting meat emanated from within, good enough to make Erin almost reconsider her stance on rat. There were Fraerlings on the inside, what looked like some helpers, overseen by a [Chef], the only person with actual cooking Skills.
“Hey, can you get us two—Veerni, you want any?—three eggs. Make mine flatways with the yolk up. What do you want, Miss Erin?”
A Fraerling girl of maybe thirteen had a massive egg suspended on a platter. When she cracked it with a hammer, the contents ran out and down a metal ramp and onto a giant iron hotplate where it began to bubble and spit on the greasy surface. She threw a bunch of salt on it, and Bowom shouted.
“No pepper! Sorry.”
The young girl hollered at Erin, cheerfully adjusting a hairnet.
“What kinda egg you want?”
“Um. Scrambled?”
Veerni waved a hand as she jumped up and down.
“Scrambled for me too! And put extra pepper on mine!”
Erin watched in fascinated awe as the workers operated. There was a contraption of pulleys and levers that meant that any ingredient could be lowered down from a trap door in the ceiling. When the order was shouted out, two fat, green eggs came down, each on their own platter, and the empty eggshells went back up the pulley-system.
A young Fraerling boy of perhaps fourteen took a sledgehammer and smashed in the first egg as the Fraerling girl lifted Bowom’s fried egg with a grunt. It was ridonculously big, and she shoved it onto a big, white porcelain plate.
“Let’s carry it over there.”
There were some tables that looked oversized until you realized how big some of the dishes were. Erin helped Veerni and Bowom carry the first plate over, then the other two. She sat with a mass of scrambled eggs in front of her as Bowom sliced the bread up and cracked open the now-warm jelly jar he’d had sitting by the fire. He slathered the bread, a massive slice, took a huge bite, and screamed.
“Too hot!”
