Eight Fraerlings plus Ulvama, Erin, and the hamster piled onto the beetle’s back. The tent-hut that they’d made was gone, and everyone rode on the beetle’s bumpy back instead. It wasn’t that bad; you didn’t feel the jostling nearly as bad as you would at Human size. That weight differential again. Like falling, gravity just mattered less at Fraerling height.
Erin knew Roja, Midias, and Veerni; no one else. They were a mix of three younger trainee-warrior types and two more veteran Fraerlings. It was clear who was allowed to go out on their own and who wasn’t.
Roja’s machete and crossbow were what Erin might call ‘Niers-grade’, a Gold-ranker’s gear like he described most Fraerlings having. One of the Fraerling adults had a greatsword larger than he was carved out of a fish’s teeth and jawbone. The younger ones had spears or swords and instructions to stay behind the higher-level adults.
“If one of the dragonflies grabs you, don’t let it bite. Use your feet to keep it off ya. We’ll shoot them if we see any of them on you. If you’re carried off, get your back to a corner and wait for us to come after.”
They were…disarmingly casual about the raid on the dragonfly nest. From context, it sounded like they were going to fight a bunch of big dragonflies that Erin vaguely pictured as the size of the Fraerlings minus the wingspan. So bigger than average, capable of nasty bites, but like fighting three dozen Face-Eater Moths, maybe.
She was ready to fight. She and Ulvama wore some armor, ironically made of layered moth-hide, and they’d given her a shortsword and Ulvama a spear. Erin was ready to breathe fire or, if it came to it, use the deadly fire that had killed the ants.
Ulvama was watching her, but Erin just sat there, waiting, eyes focused on the hill they were moving towards. The hamster watched her as well; Erin was distracted, checking the edge of the shortsword, glancing at Roja as the [Bushwacker] shoved at one of her companions telling stories of how she’d run afoul of local wildlife as a rookie.
Erin didn’t understand what was bothering her—until she realized Midias was telling jokes to the other younger Fraerlings, and they were pestering Ulvama and her for stories. She glanced at them. They were so—casual. She clutched the shortsword harder as Ulvama watched her, then pretended to relax as the [Shaman] watched her.
Keep her safe. She was regretting Ulvama coming along. Erin had to keep her—
 
——
 
A two-foot-long dragonfly tore past Ulvama as she crouched under the roaring Corumdon Beetle, who snapped at it as nearly eighty more buzzed out of a cave on the cliffside. Dead bat bones and other smaller mammals and insects littered the floor along with twenty of the Giant Dragonflies.
“Erin. Don’t be reckless!”
She grabbed the [Innkeeper], who had a ball of pink fire in one hand. Ulvama was raising a spear one of the Fraerlings had given her, but the Dragonflies mostly ignored the duo; they flew wide around the Corumdon Beetle, and Ulvama had drawn a circle of protection that mitigated their presence.
Across from them, the Battle Hamster was stomping one of the Giant Dragonflies to death. Erin was wavering. She was breathing hard. Fire was in her veins, in her lungs, and she was ready to breathe.
The air around her was tense, her aura made manifest. She was as Ulvama had feared: a precursor to how she’d killed the ants. Yet—Erin wavered. She raised her sword as a dragonfly buzzed overhead, then stared onward.
But she didn’t charge out of the shelter of the circle. Her voice was uncertain as she pulled at Ulvama’s arm and pointed with her free hand.
“I have to help them—”
“They’re doing fine!”
Erin raised her sword, gazed ahead, and stood there. She didn’t ignite black or invisible flames. She didn’t rush into the fighting. She stood, a bemused look on her face, because the Hobgoblin was entirely correct. And in a sense—Bowom was correct.
Eight Fraerlings were fighting back-to-back in the cave, and half of them were laughing like loons. Veerni jumped, swinging a pair of swords as she landed on a dragonfly’s back, severing all four of its wings and then leaping down. A dragonfly tried to scoop her up with its long legs and jerked; Roja fired a second crossbow bolt as hers reloaded in a snap and she slapped a bolt into place.
“Stop showing off for our guests, Veerni!”
“Sorry!”
She raced back as the [Bushwacker] kept firing. She just aimed and fired and kept hitting the dragonflies, usually in the head.
Some kind of [Unerring Shot] Skill. When one dragonfly got close, Roja jumped up and shouted.
“[Coconut Splitstrike]!”
It was the stupidest sounding Skill Erin had ever—Ulvama covered her eyes.
“Ooh. Gross!”
The dragonfly split in half in a shower of blue blood, and Midias wiped his face as he loosed more arrows from his bow. The warrior with the greatsword was baiting Dragonflies towards him; he stood stock still, sword raised, and every time one approached, he brought it down and smashed their heads in.
It was a bloody raid, but not on the Fraerlings’ side. They were kicking aside Giant Dragonfly corpses by the end of it, swearing and covered in insect ichor. The closest any of them had gotten to danger was when one had seized up one of the younger Fraerlings and bit and clawed at him. He had a cut on one arm; his armor had taken almost everything else.
When it was done, Erin Solstice stood there, sword barely bloodied, head scanning the ground. She looked lost as the joking Fraerlings cleaned their weapons off. Only when Roja whistled did Erin’s lost look focus on her.
“Right. We’ve got a request for as many good wings as we can carry. I say let’s grab fifty pairs and be happy with that. Midias? Find those eggs.”
Calmly, Roja wiped goop from her machete, sheathed it, and nodded to Erin and Ulvama, who were staring at the insect-carnage. Ulvama was relieved to see the baffled look on the [Innkeeper]’s face. Now she thought she understood why Bowom had vouched for them. The [Innkeeper] walked over to Roja, kicking aside an insect head like a soccer ball.
“Do you do this often?”
The other woman was taking a sip of water out of a canteen, and her voice was casual; she sounded like she’d just gone for a jog, not killed hundreds of dragonflies.
“What, this? Sure. Normally, it’s not so many; this lot flew in on migration or something. They’re not really a threat. They’re big, and if they got a kid, that’d be terrible, but if we’re wearing armor, they’ll mostly just carry you high and drop you. If it was bad, you’d get Eurise and Zemmy and Mera. This I just rounded up anyone free to deal with.”
Like Veerni. Erin pointed at the [Healer], who was de-winging dragonflies.
“Isn’t she a [Healer]?”
“Sure is. She often flies on our birds; always nice to have a [Healer] who can tend to someone in a pinch.”
But what about the killing insects? Erin closed her mouth. Then she heard Midias shouting.
“Roja! I’ve got a lot of eggs!”
 
——-
 
They were big, light-green with a semi-translucent, rind-like exterior like ugly grapes and had tiny insects germinating within. Erin was more grossed out by them than the big bugs, and Ulvama gagged a bit at the piles of them. They were piled up like a treasure trove of insectdom near a shallow pool of water formed by a drip in the cave’s walls, and there had to be thousands.
“Well, that’s too many to eat.”
Ulvama and Erin gave Roja more looks of horror as the [Bushwacker] eyed the eggs. She sighed.
“Okay, let’s take…what are we thinking? Three hundred for food? And maybe fifty. Only one in ten might make it, so we freeze the rest and raise as many as we can for mounts.”
Flying Fraerlings on dragonflies? Erin was reminded of Apista and wondered what the Fraerlings would do with Ashfire Bees. However, one of the older Fraerlings who’d been shooting down the dragonflies with [Lightning Bolts] from a staff complained.
“Roja, that’s insane. Freezing the eggs and eating the gelatin is foul.”
“It’s food. We can’t just waste them all.”
“It’s going to sit in the Frosthouse for two years, and then we’ll just chuck it out…”
“Maybe we can feed the Dragonflies on the other eggs. Come on, you know the creed. Don’t waste anything. Besides, maybe Jossec has space in the fresh warehouse for them so they’re nice and new.”
Groaning and muttering about ‘insect egg omelets not being as good as bird’, the Fraerlings trooped over and began to harvest the eggs before they eradicated the rest. Or rather…tried to.
Veerni picked up one egg gingerly, trying to transfer it to a bag of holding, and it squished. Green goo spurted from it and sprayed Midias in the face. He lowered the bag of holding he was holding with an accusatory glare at Veerni.
“I didn’t do it! It just popped! It must be a bad egg. Sorry.”
She protested. There was an oath to the side, and Roja stumbled back, covered in green goop and a dying Dragonfly nymph, as yet unformed.
“These damn things are as fragile as—argh! I thought they were supposed to be tough! You can bounce roach eggs off a wall!”
The other Fraerlings tried to lift the eggs up, and most were so fragile, they ruptured even when being picked up. Midias shook his head.
“Must be the water or they’re nearer to hatching than we thought. Can we leave ‘em, Roja?”
“We might have to. But then someone’s got to troop out here and check on them to raise the buggers…and I was told they live in water. So an [Insect Tamer] has to camp out here while they grow up—argh. Anyone got a levitation spell? Kamka. Does that staff have…?”
Unfortunately, this Fraerling group wasn’t magically gifted. Roja groaned.
“Okay. We have to call in for someone from the village to levitate this lot into our bags of holding…stop groaning. It’ll only take forty-five more minutes. I want a volunteer to run back.”
“Can I ride the beetle?”
Veerni held up a hand. But at this point, Erin interjected. Ulvama was queasily poking at a dead nymph and looked sick, but Erin held her hands out.
“What if we had a magical expert right…here!”
Everyone turned to Ulvama, and Roja’s face brightened up. Ulvama coughed.
“Erin. I can’t do levitation.”
“What…no levitation? But all [Mages] can do that.”
The [Shaman] looked defensive and embarrassed and folded her arms.
“That’s [Mage] magic. [Shaman] magic is different. I could paint on the eggs to make them tougher, maybe, if I had enough colors. Or make them hatch early…or cast [Barkskin] on them, but only one by one.”
“Not good to mess with magic like that anyways. Messes up unborn creatures or makes weird variants. And I don’t fancy having extra-tough Giant Dragonflies flying about if we make a mistake. It’s okay.”
Roja turned away, and Erin whispered to Ulvama, cheeks pink.
“Sorry. I thought—”
Ulvama didn’t seem that embarrassed and waved it off. Then she gave Erin another look.
“Well, we have one more spellcaster who might be able to do something, actually. Who’s closer to a [Mage] than me.”
Erin gave her a wide-eyed look.
“Who?”
The [Shaman] waited. After a moment, she moved her finger in a circle around Erin’s face. The [Innkeeper], who also happened to be a [Witch], opened her mouth.
“Wait. Me? But I don’t…I mean, I haven’t been casting…”
The Fraerlings turned from playing a variant of rock-paper-scissors to see who had to run back. In the background, the Corumdon Beetle was chewing on dead dragonflies. Roja raised her eyebrows, and Erin got flustered.
“I mean…but I—”
Ulvama gently poked Erin.
“Are you a [Witch] or not?”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated, mouth open, and for a second, her eyes lit up. Then they filled with doubt. She stared at the eggs, then rolled up her sleeves. She strode over to the eggs—then hurried back.
“Just so you know, that was a really cool Harry Potter quote that I wish you’d said in an awesome moment.”
Ulvama opened her mouth, pondered what in the world Erin had said, then just shooed her away.
 
——
 
After a few minutes of chanting spells from other movies to get the eggs to lift up, Erin had to beckon Ulvama over and shyly confess she didn’t know how to do it.
“Didn’t you learn from the greatest [Witches] ever to die?”
Ulvama gave Erin a frown, and the [Innkeeper] scuffed on the floor.
“Well, yeah, but it was all theory. They couldn’t cast magic until the end, so they only told me how it works.”
“Ah. Didn’t you say you can levitate things, though?”
“Oh, sure. But, um…watch.”
Erin pointed at the eggs, and Ulvama saw her hat of fire appear. It appeared like the last time Ulvama had seen it, a rain of fire dripping downwards.
“That’s cool.”
One of the Fraerlings commented; they were sitting on the dead dragonflies, watching, Roja had sent Midias down to the village, so it was more a way to kill time; if Erin failed, no hard feelings.
The [Innkeeper] concentrated and described what she was doing to Ulvama.
“So the way it works is I can sort of project the magic outwards. Via my fingertips.”
“Where’s the magic coming from? Your heart? You don’t have tattoos or paint. That’s where I store it. Otherwise, it’s in my blood or heart and I pull it out my hands. Or out of the tribe.”
Erin gave Ulvama a weird look.
“Mine’s under my hat. You have it in your body? Isn’t that gross?”
The [Shaman] debated shoving Erin into an egg. But as it so happened, there was no point because the egg rose in a sudden lurch—then compressed on both sides as if invisible hands had gripped it too hard.
The egg ruptured and sprayed Erin with green guck as Ulvama leapt aside. Erin slowly wiped insect juice from her face.
“…There. See the problem?”
Ulvama saw the problem. Telekinesis was different from wholesale gravity reversal, and Erin’s version was more like invisible hands reaching out to grab the eggs. In short…no better than the Fraerlings’ hands and arguably a lot worse since Erin’s control was weaker.
“I reckon we can put a bit of leaf under the eggs and carry them out that way. Or a shovel.”
The Fraerlings were debating behind Erin, and Roja’s drawl overruled Veerni’s comment.
“Sure can. Or we can make a [Mage] do all of it. I said we need three hundred. Who wants to delicately lift a bunch of eggs into our bags?”
“Damn, a shovel would never work, Roja.”
“That’s right, Veerni.”
Erin was trying to get the goop out of her hair and groaning.
“Hey, Roja? Does the village have a bathhouse? Because I’m gonna need it!”
“No, we all bathe in a puddle!”
Erin turned back to Ulvama, a bit shamefaced, and the [Shaman] put her hands on her hips.
“Okay, that didn’t work. Can you do anything else?”
“What? Me? No…if you can’t, I can’t.”
