Erin took a giant bite of scrambled eggs instead. She chewed, and it was good, if a bit more gamey than a chicken egg. She chewed, swallowed, and then took another enormous bite of egg. And then another. At some point, the jelly cooled enough so that it was merely hot rather than ‘my mouth is burned’, and she found the bread crunched satisfyingly. The jam was also very pleasant—she used a tiny amount per bread while the other two Fraerlings loaded up.
How long Erin ate, she couldn’t remember, but after she was done, she realized that the entire scrambled egg, her portion of the bread, and all the mango jam was gone when Bowom scraped the bottom of the head-sized jar with some of his leftover crust and sat back.
His stomach was bloated, and so was hers…it began to shrink in real-time, and Erin didn’t feel stuffed, just temporarily full. Rather like eating Chinese food, she decided.
Bowom leapt to his feet.
“Now that was a decent breakfast! Or was it?”
He turned to Erin with the first glint of interest in his eyes, as opposed to his version of medical responsibility.
“Do Tallfolk eat better? Or are you lot back to picking berries off bushes and slurping down worms? How is the world out there?”
“It’s…not worms. But that was a pretty—it’s not that I don’t have eggs. I have tons of eggs. But I never ate them from, like, a super-cool factory place like this!”
Erin waved her hands, feeling like she’d just had a meal right out of a movie. Bowom tilted his head, and Veerni glanced at the Ovenhouse, bemused.
“What, that? It’s just a pulley-system and a fire under the plate. It’s not even that enchanted. Everyone has to take a turn making food. Except Bowom. Because he’s crazy.”
“I don’t accept pepper. And people should expect some variation in their orders! It’s healthy! How do you mean ‘super-cool factory’?”
It took Erin a bit to explain what she meant, and Bowom looked faintly disappointed at the answer.
“Oh, I see. It’s just a matter of scale. Eggs that you don’t have to lift over your head…quail eggs? No, even smaller. There are tons of books about Tallfolk, so that’s not interesting. Damn. I was sort of hoping you were all stuck in another dark era. No…horrific, eternal midnights? Undead hordes? An age of magic’s end?”
He seemed hopeful. Erin shook her head.
“No, it’s not that bad. I mean…the last big event was the Creler Wars. You, uh, know about them?”
Bowom’s eyes lit up.
“Crelers? No. Lay it on me! Veerni, get a writing utensil for the library. Someone’s going to ask you all about modern history anyways. I might as well start with the horrific stuff.”
He sat on the table as Erin spoke, and she noticed a few more late-morning breakfasters come over to listen. They were unapologetically interested, if not as bloodthirsty as Bowom, and the [Mad Doctor] was soon disappointed.
“Oh. Orangebugs. So they were a massive threat? Damn. I knew I’d heard the name.”
“…You call them orangebugs?”
“Well, yeah, they’re orange and glow. I think we had a debate on what to call them when we found the first nests. The records say there was a tiebreaker vote to call them Squishlerazors. I say we were robbed. They’re pretty nasty. Eurise let me tag along when he had to bust a nest up. But if they were just babies, I see what the problem was. How about—let’s see—Izril, Izril…Walled Cities?”
“They’re okay? There’s the Antinium on Izril.”
More excitement from Bowom.
“Okay, let’s go there. But how many Walled Cities left?”
“Six?”
A chorus of exclamations, none really upset, and one Fraerling sighed.
“Damn. I thought they’d keep it to a tight eight! Aren’t they building more?”
Erin didn’t even know what to say to that.
 
——
 
It was not that Fraerlings were ignorant of the outside world. When pressed, Bowom would happily admit that he’d probably heard of Crelers from the ‘cities’, who traded information with their village as frequently as once a year.
It was just that…the rest of the world was so removed from this place that Fraerlings had the cheerful lack of knowledge that Erin might have had about Balerosian politics.
It mattered and didn’t matter at all to them. Most of the kids wandered off, including Veerni, while a certain type of adult relished all the news Erin could furnish them with.
“Scrying orbs. I doubt that Fantim will allow them, but it’s fascinating. Too much potential for someone to track us, even if we work hard on it with relays and such.”
Bowom was sighing as he led Erin in search of Ulvama. The [Innkeeper] wasn’t even hobbling by this point; she felt better. Bowom’s approach to her recovery was getting her walking despite her life-and-death situation yesterday. And to feed her up.
“I think we should get you two on something fun. Eurise wants to talk, and there’s some interesting stuff here, but…what’s actually fun? Oh, the Festival of Spring Safety is in a few days. That’ll be good for you. If old Fantim doesn’t throw a fit, we can show you around the other villages. There are two more—oops, shouldn’t have said that—and each one’s got something nice. Or you could help with the village’s tasks if you’re feeling up to it. Gathering food is easiest. I doubt an [Innkeeper]’s good at prospecting.”
Erin’s head was spinning a bit. The Fraerling village was such a big community relative to its size; it seemed like the houses all had some kind of dimensional magic applied, because based on their proportions, none of them should have fit Fraerlings. But a helmet-sized home both looked too big for any regular-sized head and was even more spacious on the inside.
“Who’s Fantim? The [Mayor] guy? Should I know him or anyone else?”
Bowom frowned at the question.
“Fantim? He’s the village’s rulemaster. His word goes unless we have a really good reason. Eurise is our village’s guardian. That’s sort of like the Tallguard. He has his group that take on threats. Rojalin—she was looking for you—Zemmy, Mera, those are our two young [Brawlers], both over Level 40—they’re good to remember. I’m the highest-level [Healer] in the village, and eh, everyone else is just them.”
Erin nearly spat out some water she was sipping.
“Over Level 40? But they’re kids!”
“Eighteen.”
“Eighteen? No way!”
Bowom gave Erin a slightly amused look, as if not sure why she was so astounded.
“Well, how old are you?”
“Twenty…one? Maybe twenty-two, technically…”
“Well, there you go.”
Erin hobbled along, mouth open, until she saw the Corumdon Beetle. A spellcaster of some kind was floating as the grudging beetle heaved a rock behind it. She’d conjured magical reins, and the beetle pulled the baseline of a new home into the village. Erin stared at the flying Fraerling woman, and Bowom noticed.
“Ah. Magic’s decreased, then. Flight is always said to be one of those good benchmarks. Let’s play a game. I’m Level 46. What’s your level?”
“…55.”
He nodded happily.
“Not many Level 50s, even in our villages, but the average level of an adult is thirty-something. No, wait, I told a lie…most adults are over Level 30 is what I meant. Eurise is our Level 50+ guardian. Every Fraerling village we know has one, or tries to find one if they’ve lost theirs.”
“Wh—every one?”
Erin was used to the idea that people past Level 40 were, if not common, then you’d get a few in every major city, and nations might have dozens. But Level 50…Eurise?
That at least made sense. No wonder the Pavilion had found him of all the people it could have reached. Bowom winked at Erin.
“If I hit Level 50, and it’s well possible before I turn fifty, it’s because I’ve lived through a lot. It’s not really a goal. It changes you.”
“I know.”
Her face had closed off, and the [Innkeeper], who should have been dead, walked through the village, barely taking notice of the other sights for a moment. If Bowom had been as badly irradiated as she had been—he would have been a pile of ooze days before he’d reached this place. The [Mad Doctor] was then understanding, professional in his way, but he regarded her with a kind of authority.
More than even Erin herself, he understood a bit of what she was. So did the other Fraerlings. Erin brushed at her discolored hair. She peered at the ground, at her distorted hands, the scars from the manacles—then she heard a voice.
“Erin! What are you doing on your feet?”
Ulvama appeared at the entrance to the library. She’d actually seen Erin walking over her head via the see-through ceiling and come running out. Erin blinked. Her eyes lit up in relief, and she held up her hands.
“I have doctor’s orders! I didn’t do anything crazy in the last hour, I swear!”
She pointed at Bowom, and he beamed.
“Exactly! ‘Let patients get hurt’ is my motto. As long as I can put them back together again, we all win.”
Ulvama seized Erin gently and checked her all over. Then she picked Erin up and put her on the Battle Hamster’s back as it padded after Ulvama. Both gave Ulvama an accusatory look, and she snapped.
“No complaining!”
Erin and the hamster exchanged glances, and then it padded back into the library with Ulvama. Erin gasped as she saw the inside, and Bowom dashed over to the Traveller’s Log as he heard what had gone on.
“Level 70? We are on the map! That’s the highest-level Fraerling to leave any village around here! Wait till those bastards and their ‘Level 65 [Rogue]’ hear about this!”
He turned to Erin as he high-fived several Fraerlings.
“That’s our sister-village. They’ve held it over us for centuries. Now they’re going to eat it for generations.”
They were so insular. So…silly. And serious. Erin saw Ulvama point out Isten to her, and the boy stood in front of the logbook and peered at the name written in ancient ink, recopied over countless generations.
“I reckon I want to try and get to Level 50 if I can, Revoid. Do you think I could be a great warrior?”
Everyone turned. Erin gazed at the boy, who sounded a bit like Mrsha in that moment, proclaiming she might be a [Wizard], a [Hero], an [Alchemist]…
Revoid tousled the kid’s hair, much like Relc would do. But unlike Relc, who’d laugh and say something encouragingly bland, the older Fraerling knelt.
“It could be. We’ll get you staff lessons tomorrow, then. You know y’gotta stick with it for at least a year? You’ll break some fingers with staff lessons.”
The boy grimaced, but nodded, eyes flicking to Ulvama.
“I want to try.”
And so, in this village of Dretonamis, he would have his chance. No one said it was impossible, only difficult. No one doubted it could be done, only what the cost was.
That was what Fraerlings were like, Erin realized. A bit scary, a bit silly.
A bit familiar.
 
——
 
Talking happened after that. Proper talking, not the lighter, conversational stuff, like how many Walled Cities were left. It began when Eurise returned.
Erin hadn’t gotten a good look at him in person. She realized her image of him was purely from the [Pavilion of Secrets], so it was accurate, but it was just odd to see him in the world as opposed to that void of space.
He was wearing that same vest with spiderweb sleeves that exposed scarred arms, greying hair that had once been black, and a familiar adventurer-style belt pouch and long green leggings. When she met him, she knew he was strong.
But he didn’t seem…dangerous. He came strolling into the village while Erin and Ulvama were reading books outside the library. He was followed by Rojalin and the two young [Brawlers], Mera and Zemmy.
“Hey there. Looks like the village’s decided it’s time to rebuild. You alright? No one gave you trouble, did they? This is Rojalin—Roja—Zemmy, and Mera. There’s a few others who explore and defend our spot, but this is the lot you’ll see in our village most of the time. Except for Zemmy; he’s from another village.”
“Ellecmia.”
Zemmy explained and instantly got an elbow and a punch from the two Fraerlings beside him. Roja seized his ear.
“We just told you not to tell outsiders everything, and the first thing you say is dumb as a rock. You’re no longer allowed to speak.”
“Aw.”
He visibly wilted as Eurise rolled his eyes. He jerked a thumb at Roja.
“Don’t mind her, Miss Erin. Not everyone’s worried about you, per the se and such. It’s just being responsible.”
“And it’s on Eurise’s head if you’re the wrong sort, so I hope you’re honestly just two lost, shrunk people in need of help.”
Roja had the same vibes as Eurise; she also looked like some rugged bushwacker and even had a machete stuck in a holster at her hip. Erin nodded as she got to her feet, closing the book on older Walled Cities.
“Thank you for rescuing Ulvama. And me. I’m sorry I was…gone.”
“Eh, I reckon it’s fine so long as you’re alive. Just don’t make your Goblin friend cry any more or I’ll have to hit you when you heal up.”
Eurise grasped her arm quickly with an easy smile, and Erin glanced guiltily at Ulvama, who held her book up to hide her face. Eurise eyed the Battle Hamster, who had raised his paws and was staring hard at Eurise—and Zemmy, Roja, and Mera.
It seemed the hamster thought they were threats. It pivoted and threw a spiral hook as Eurise tried to pet him on the head. Erin saw Eurise grunt as it landed.
“That’s a battle hammie alright. Poor fella’s lost an eye. And he didn’t have a pack?”
“No, just him.”
“Maybe he lost the rest or he’s just mean. Normally, it’s a gang of the buggers. They beat down anything they can steal from. Other rodents, snakes, birds—they keep the peace pretty well.”
“So they’re literally a gang charging protection money?”
Mera and Zemmy tilted their heads, confused, but Eurise just took a moment before laughing.
“Yeah, that’s right! Money. Food, for them. This a good time to talk about what happens next?”
Erin warily nodded.
“Sure.”
She expected them to go for a walk, maybe along the wooden walls, which were three-foot-tall stakes driven into the ground well outside the village, a defense, but not much of one given how big monsters could be.
But Eurise just tilted his head and nodded.
“I think we can give you a week, maybe two without fuss. Past that, Fantim is the fellow in charge of our village. If he says you need to go, I’ll have to argue with him, and it might become a vote. After that, regardless, we can give you a pack of food, supplies, and gear and point you at a Tallfolk settlement, but they’re far. However, we can’t just send you to another Fraerling settlement, let alone a city. There are rules.”
Erin blinked. This was a lot more reasonable, nay, charitable than she expected. She chanced a glance at Ulvama and got two big thumbs up.
