She dreamed she was still steering that ship on its final voyage. The broken wood of the ship’s wheel grating against her bruised hands, the scent of burning waves in the air. Smoke, blood, magic, and death in her lungs.
When she looked up, the [Innkeeper] could see spells coming down. Arrows like deadly rain, golden pillars of light—vast presences around her.
Ships getting in her way as she searched for the only person that mattered.
The Goblin. So, she bared her teeth as she whirled the steering wheel, pursuing that single presence in a mad ocean.
The other ships she ran against. Vast presences filled with royal dignity or the march of armored boots and the banners of armies—she rammed into them, forcing them aside. The lights flashed and came down in her dream, and she turned the dying ship through some spells that she couldn’t avoid. Nothing mattered but reaching the Goblin.
An impact came as her ship hit another one. It felt like how she’d killed the Bloodtear Captain; her entire soul crashing against someone else’s. Will against will, splintering conviction and emotions like shards of glass snapping against the other vessels she shoved away. Her eyes were burning. Her body was dissolving into a haze of prickly fire, burning away.
She didn’t care. She didn’t care—
“Your arms.”
The whisper ran past her, a memory, no, a plea, and Erin looked down at her arms. At the skin sloughing onto the ground. She thought she saw her reflection on a fragment of blade lying on the bloody deck and stopped. Her distorted face gazed back up at her.
Only then did Erin Solstice hear the voices pleading at her to stop. She glanced over her shoulders and saw dying Lucifen vanishing in black trails of hellfire. A woman and man she didn’t know, lovers dying next to a burning Antinium covered in pink flame.
“Stop? What’s left to stop for?”
Her head rose to search the sky hailing destruction, and she saw something shooting into the air. A green comet, illuminated by green magic. Written with a single word in Goblin. The [Innkeeper] shaded her eyes as it burned through the air, erasing the spells coming her way. Brighter, brighter, until a hand larger than the sky reached down and gently took hers. Pulling her up—up—
Then she woke up.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice woke in the late morning. The birds were screaming. The sun was shining through the holes in the roof. She jerked upright as Ulvama clutched her hand, and someone lowered the pot he’d been about to hit Erin with.
“She’s up! Okay, she’s up! Everyone, stand down!”
Bowom the [Mad Doctor], Ulvama, Fraerling-sized, and a young [Healer] wearing a pot on her head and hiding behind what remained of an overturned table were the only people in the healing cottage. Or rather, what remained of it.
Erin sat up or maybe made a half-hearted flop up before laying down in the crystal bed covered in goopy healing gel they’d put her in. She didn’t know what was going on. But one look at Ulvama’s relieved face and the…holes in the ceiling…
“What’s going on? Are we under attack?”
Erin began to activate Skills, and Ulvama almost screamed with the other two Fraerlings.
“No! No fighting! Stop hitting things with your aura!”
Hitting things with…? Erin gave them a blank look. Then she gazed around and saw an odd…sight. Aside from the ruined walls, she had spotted the healing crystal cottage, a massive, hollowed-out geode, last night.
She was pretty sure it had been on the outskirts of the modest Fraerling village, not in the middle of it with houses surrounding it. Nor had those houses had…cracks…in them last night.
Sound. The air was filled with other sounds. Erin was aware of distant shouting and Bowom speaking into his stone.
“Roja, Eurise, our guest’s up. You can come back with the high-levels now.”
“What’s going on?”
The [Innkeeper] searched around for the source of all the damage. It took her a few minutes of gazing at Ulvama’s pained face, at the broken buildings around her, and the state of the cottage to put it together.
Ships. Dreaming she was still on the ship, ramming other vessels. Literally slamming into them with her own aura and ship to get them out of the way…
Broken houses. A crumpled up boot with its toe smashed in, a pumpkin caved and pulped inwards, revealing someone’s home, a miniature castle with its gates covered in cracks—
Erin looked at Ulvama. The Goblin’s face was frightened. Worried and helpless—she was breathing hard, eyes wide. Afraid. Of Erin? For Erin?
The [Shaman] wordlessly met Erin’s eyes as her patting hand slowed.
“I…didn’t do that. I can’t have. I was dreaming I was at sea—”
Guilt began to twist in Erin’s stomach, and Ulvama bent over.
“You were looking for me. I think. Thought everyone else was a—bad person. Hard to wake you up. Is okay. No one got hurt.”
She was trying very hard to shield Erin’s view of the chaos outside. The soothing tone was not helped by Bowom. The [Mad Doctor] grinned as he tossed the pot aside with a crash of broken pottery. He winced.
“Eh, uh, let’s pretend you did that too. I was quite impressed, miss. The one time I don’t suggest tying my patients down—just goes to show that best practices are there for a reason. Also, I had no idea buildings could move like that. Like a giant, angry crab scooting itself around and headbutting everything in its way. How many buildings did she take out? Veerni?”
He turned to the younger [Healer] poking her head out from behind the table, looking at Erin as if she were a Creler newly-hatched. Bowom was injured, Erin realized. The three-armed [Mad Doctor]—with a roach’s leg—had a bleeding forehead and several bruises already growing large on his body.
Did I do that? He caught sight of her and waved one of his arms. The one sutured to his back.
“Don’t worry! You stopped trying to beat me down with your aura when Eurise came nearby. Amazingly good prioritization, even when unconscious. Okay, healer roll call! Anyone dying, scream loudest!”
He strode out of the cottage, and Erin closed her eyes and put her head back. Instantly, Ulvama began patting her cheek to keep her from falling asleep. Erin was trying not to look at the Hobgoblin or the [Healer] or anyone.
“I thought—”
“Yah. Maybe you need to relax?”
Ulvama poked Erin in the cheek, and the [Innkeeper] nodded weakly.
That was her first real day in the Fraerling village of Dretonamis.
 
——
 
You would think that smashing six Fraerling houses and injuring several Fraerlings with aura-attacks in your sleep would be a bad way to introduce yourself to the village.
And you’d be right. Erin was still exhausted and kept dozing off as people milled about, shouting, arguing with a very upset Fraerling who Ulvama said was ‘the mayor’. Or close enough to a leader. Every time Erin nodded off, she felt someone poking her and would wake to see everyone peering at her, clearly nervous.
However, either the damage was not catastrophic or Fraerlings were good at rebuilding from this level of disaster, because after what felt like bare minutes of nodding off, Erin woke up on a slant and felt the building moving.
Someone was pushing her uphill. She sat up and couldn’t see, but rather sensed a dozen Fraerlings pushing the broken geode-home up the road where it had come from. This time, Erin tried to get out of bed.
“Aaah! No, no! No getting out of bed! No standing—Bowom! B—wait!”
A young woman rushed forwards, and Erin watched as Veerni, a Fraerling woman a year or two younger than Erin, ran to grab something familiar.
A wheelchair.
“Aw. I don’t need that…”
Erin began, but one look at the young woman’s stricken face and she desisted.
“Please don’t get up, miss. Not until we can tell if your bones are going to jellify from the stress.”
“I—uh—how likely is that?”
“Um…here, sit right here if you want to get out of bed.”
As [Doctor] threats went, that had Erin in the wheelchair rather than moaning, and with a great deal of familiarity, she wheeled towards one open wall, ignoring the crystal bits crunching under her wheels, and peered outside.
The village was in shambles. Dozens of houses were broken, in pieces, splintered bits of wood, even flaming rubble. Erin’s eyes widened in horror as they passed one of the buildings from last night—the helmet-house—completely dented in, rusted metal hanging in pieces as the owner, a Fraerling man, knelt there, staring at his beloved domicile.
Erin slowly wheeled back behind a wall as he turned his head.
“Why? My home! My beautiful home! You did this! You monster!”
“I—I can use [Partial Reconstruction]. I am so sorry about—”
Erin was calling back weakly, coughing, when the man’s neighbor solemnly walked out of his untouched tree-stump house. A Fraerling in a [Wizard]’s hat, whom Erin strongly suspected was a [Wizard], hid a wand behind his back as he patted the other Fraerling on the shoulder.
“I’m sorry, Macnest. It was the [Innkeeper]. In her sleep. There was nothing anyone could do to stop it.”
He shook his head slowly and gave her a beaming thumbs-up. Macnest rose to his feet, and his face turned red as he pointed at his home. He glanced at Erin, then at his neighbor.
“The [Innkeeper]? She’s not the reason my house was hit with a Tier 5 rust spell!”
“Let’s not look at how it happened, but how we can move on and rebuild, Macnest…we can make it better. More beautiful. Less like a glowing nostril in the night.”
“My home! You cat-kissing bastard! Let’s see how you like it!”
He ran into his home and came out with a pair of hammers. The [Wizard] panicked.
“Wait, wait—let’s not get hasty here. It was the [Innkeeper]! She did it! Macnest, don’t—don’t—”
The smash was of Macnest going through the front doors of the stump house as Erin watched. The [Wizard] shouted and ran, but it was too late; a wall cracked outwards from the inside, and the furious Macnest emerged, swinging his hammers as he smashed through the wall.
“My home!”
“You like that? I’m not sleeping next to an overgrown wooden bucket either! Hey. If the [Innkeeper] broke all those houses…do you think she got Optol’s eyesore?”
The [Wizard] had his wand raised, about to cast magic. He lowered the glowing wand and hesitated.
“You know what? I think she burned the entire snakeskin. And I think he’s hunting. Let’s go.”
They ran off, Macnest only coming back for a larger hammer as Erin watched. At some point, she closed her mouth and realized a lot of the destruction ‘she’ had caused might be Fraerlings taking a hammer to the objectionable architecture of their neighbors…or even their own homes.
“This is crazy.”
Veerni swept a bunch of crystal shards out the opening in the wall and nodded.
“I know. That helmet was stylish. Gollesume—that’s the [Wizard]—he just hates that it glows at night. Everyone’s changing their homes or breaking the bad parts. I wish you’d gotten Optol’s home. It’s a giant snake he hollowed out. Gross.”
“But—they’re breaking their homes.”
“Only the homes.”
“Yeah?”
Erin weakly held out her hand to indicate the helmet-home, exposed to the outer world. Veerni peered at Erin and clarified.
“Oh! They’re doing it now because everyone has to pitch in to fix it. It’s no fun building a home if you wrecked it. Every time we get hit by a storm or a monster, it always looks like this. Shame about this hut, though.”
She heaved a huge sigh.
“This one’s actually just a crystal because it’s good for healing magic. But no one’s dead or crippled! Just, um, don’t do it again because Bowom didn’t tell me how to stop you. Only to hit you with whatever I could find, and I’m pretty sure there’s a 1% chance your insides explode out your mouth and ears if I do.”
Erin Solstice, the crazy Human of Liscor, [The Wandering Innkeeper], the embodiment of chaos, and so on and so forth…kept opening and closing her mouth as she beheld her first Fraerling village. She was lost for words until she glanced around the cottage.
Then—the crystal shards that Veerni was sweeping up and a solid chunk of it floated upwards and stuck itself back together. The cracks faded, and the [Healer] leapt backwards in surprise.
“Whoa! Hey, you can fix it! Nice! No one’s a building-owner class in the villages. That’d help a lot more than some [Wizards].”
She put her broom down and, with a sigh, put her feet up on a stool as she sat on one of the unbroken beds.
“Can you serve better drinks?”
“…Not many. Not really.”
“Damn. How about food?”
“I can cook. [Advanced Cooking?]”
“Eh, we’ve got someone with [Expert Cooking]. D’you have any familiars? Any [Innkeeper]-magic or something?”
“I’ve got [Witch] magic.”
“Sweet! What tier?”
“Three?”
“Oh…well, maybe you can learn some. Do you—do you do entertainment?”
“I have a cool garden.”
Veerni hesitated. She sat up and gave Erin one of those fake smiles that Erin gave to other people.
“Nice.”
Erin rolled back over to her bed and lay back down. She felt like she was dreaming. Only this was—just strange.
 
——
 
Fraerlings. Were. Weird.
Ulvama had known it, but not known it, despite her [Shaman] class, if that made sense. Of course she had delved into Goblin memories to understand the people she and Erin had been rescued by, but here was the thing—Fraerlings were so rare that even her access to ancient Goblin memory was limited in dealings with them.
And a Fraerling village was no glorious city, nor intrepid Fraerlings leaving their homes to see the world, both of which were most common for Goblins to have met. This was the wilds; the village of Dretonamis was exceptionally exposed to nature. True, it had cleared the nearby trees in a small area, but you’d miss this spot entirely from above. A good amount of living space for Fraerlings, complete with three-foot high walls would be utterly missed in this jungle which spanned so many countless miles. There was no magical forcefield or cloaking spells that Ulvama could see.
Dead gods, the houses were a bit enchanted, but they could be smashed up, as Erin’s sleepwalking rampage had proven. The village was…crazy.
For one thing, most Fraerlings didn’t even comment on her walking around. If anything, Ulvama was the one with the Battle Hamster bodyguard for her protection, as he hopped around behind her, using her as a shield to stare suspiciously at passing Fraerlings or things he didn’t recognize.
They had been wary at first. The…[Mayor]? The Fraerling leader hadn’t liked her at all.
