“Get lost. Or I’ll kill you.”
A shimmering hat of flames burned downwards. The [Innkeeper] halted and wished she had her knife. Her aura exploded around her, like Maviola had taught her, and she projected it upwards, making it bigger, as if she were a dozen times her size.
The snuffle-creature didn’t like that. It reared back, and Erin saw spikes, like claws, shoot out the length of its trunk. It swung the trunk like a whip, cutting the air and raising a cloud of dust. It honked at her, a surprisingly dangerous sound for how silly it could have been. The [Innkeeper] stood there, breathing in and out.
“Leave.”
She projected her aura at it and got a nasty shock. The creature regarded her—then stood up, transitioning from its four legs to two. It lowered two clawed arms and opened a second mouth in its body.
Everything in Baleros sucked. The [Innkeeper] tensed to move; the beast was swaying now, left and right, and she had no doubt it could whip at her with its claws or trunk. But it was nervous; Erin’s aura was filling the ground.
“I said leave.”
It wasn’t going to. It was going to attack; the honking had grown deeper, like hooting, now, and Erin was sweating. She was afraid—was Ulvama too close to it? If they fought, Erin had to force it back. Kill it. Don’t let it touch them. Don’t let anyone take her again.
 
——
 
The teeth were peeling back in the monster’s second mouth. It was focusing on what should have been food. A tiny morsel filled with lovely meat.
But the morsel looked big. It wanted to kill. It was radiating danger. Still, it was small, and the intelligent part of the monster’s brain said this was a fight it would win.
It hesitated because of the flame. The bright hat of green, pink, white, and so many other colors roaring over the [Witch]’s head. The trunk’s mouth snapped, pursing to spit some of the sticky bile it used to immobilize its prey.
—But the long-nosed Duffshambler hesitated when the second flame appeared.
 
——
 
Erin jerked when she saw the harsh glow of orange light. She turned and almost hit Gollesume. The [Wizard] was standing next to her, still drunk, but rapidly sobering. He had a wand in one hand. He was pointing it up at the air, and above the tip was a glowing orb of yellow and orange fire, roiling bright and casting a nimbus that illuminated the ground around him for hundreds of feet.
[Siege Fireball]? The [Wizard] finished his drink and tossed the cup over his shoulder. He spoke.
“[Second Burning Sun].”
The orb grew larger as Erin watched, until it was the size of a Human’s head. The snuffling beast really didn’t like that. It hissed, and then a figure stomped out of the inn towards them.
Vrilla was wearing armor of vines and leaves; she was only three feet tall, but she seemed like a massive Golem of nature. Thorns erupted down her arms as Fraerlings raced past Erin into the village.
They were sounding the alarm; someone—Fantim—was blowing a horn as Fraerlings stomped into line next to Erin.
Zemmy and Mera were edging forwards as Macnest ran up with his two hammers. Another Fraerling had a longbow, and Roja appeared with the other hunters that Erin had seen during the Dragonfly raid. The hunter spoke in succinct words, eyes on the monster.
“It’s one of those damn Duffshamblers. Careful—it’ll suck you up. Anyone unarmored is going to get chewed to pieces. It’s got multiple sets of teeth in that trunk.”
Roja raised her voice.
“It’s fast. Even if you take out a leg, it’ll go down on all fours. Slice the trunk first. It’s got two more eyes hidden on its sides. Its entire thing is being tough enough to raid for anything—eggs, insects—then getting out of there. Keep it off the village.”
Erin’s head turned right and left, then focused on the Duffshambler. She wondered what she could do.
Burn it. That was her best bet. If she could get on its head, she’d burn a hole straight through it. Erin glanced over her shoulder.
“Ulvama, get back.”
The [Shaman] shook her head as the Duffshambler swayed right and left, trying to shuffle to get away from the more dangerous-looking foods and access the unguarded village. The Fraerlings were moving forwards, cutting it off. Erin was tensing for an attack when she heard a whistle.
It was loud, and it came from the side. A figure bounded over the walls; Erin didn’t see him at first, but she sensed Eurise before he leapt over the three-foot tall walls. Her head turned; she heard a sound of relief from the Fraerlings next to her and a cheer from Zemmy and Mera.
“Eurise! Let us help!”
The female [Brawler] ran forwards a bit, but the guardian of the village didn’t answer. He came to a halt, panting.
“There you are.”
It seemed like he’d been running hard; sweat covered his arms and body. His eyes focused on the Duffshambler, and it warily rotated towards him. It felt it too.
The same menace Erin Solstice had been projecting rolled off the highest-level Fraerling in the village. He walked forwards, unarmed, bare-fisted, and the Duffshambler hooted at him.
“Should we help—?”
The other Fraerlings were falling back. Not lowering their guards, but with a sense of relief. Macnest shook his head.
“Let him handle it. He’s killed bigger monsters before. Wall spells up! Barriers up!”
Spellcasters were raising walls around the houses, and a glowing bubble-dome expanded as the two beasts stared each other down. Eurise was still walking at the towering monster, a dozen times his height and thousands of times his mass. The Duffshambler was the thing that was retreating, though.
It hooted again, and Erin sensed the danger in the air spiking. She watched, not moving backwards with the others as Eurise tensed. A Level 50+ [Warrior].
“What’s his class? He doesn’t even have a weapon?”
Zemmy turned to Erin as Eurise crouched slightly. The [Brawler]’s eyes flashed in the night.
“His class? It’s—”
He leaned over and whispered into Erin’s ear for a second. She blinked. Turned to Zemmy. And felt that familiar chill on her skin.
Once upon a time…
“That’s a lot of periods.”
Zemmy gave Erin an odd look.
“What, you tall people don’t use periods in your classes anymore?”
Eurise jumped. He hit the Duffshambler like a blur, and the huge beast recoiled, staggering back. Erin saw it swat at the air; Eurise was already leaping away, and he jumped again and kicked it in one leg so hard the shambler stumbled.
She thought he did, at least. He was fast. He fought like the Battle Hamster, she realized; a bounding blur darting around. But the Duffshambler was quick.
It swung at him with a whip-like arm, and Erin saw Eurise go flying. He hit the ground in a puff of dirt and rose as the shambler recoiled and honked in pain. They’d hit each other. And Eurise had drawn red blood that dripped down wetly under the moon.
The Duffshambler recoiled as Eurise rose to his feet. He didn’t look cut or visibly bruised. His teeth were all bared like a Drake, and he strode forwards. This time, he jumped like a superhero.
He could jump a building in a single bound…Erin’s head rose, and she saw the Duffshambler swipe. Eurise caught the paw and raced up the arm. He activated his Skill as the Fraerling leapt for the Duffshambler’s face.
Eurise. Guardian of Dretonamis. Their Level 50 protector. His class? The same as older days in this village that had endured ages in isolation.
[Retired Explorer. Scarred Wyldbeast. Guardian of This Place and No Other.]
He said—
“[Scarstrike].”
It looked like a serpent, a ringed cobra with that iconic wide head, huge and writhing, biting as its fangs dug into the Duffshambler’s eye. The honking of alarm became a single long blurt of pain, and it tried to tear at the snake it thought was biting it, injecting it with venom.
But there was no snake. Only a Fraerling, who fell and said the word again.
“[Scarstrike].”
Claws, this time from a creature Erin recognized. A snarling jaguar, slashing left-right and tearing at the Duffshambler’s fur. It backed away, not understanding what was going on, swinging wildly at what it must have assumed were invisible animals phasing in and out of sight.
But it was just him. Eurise swung himself back up, towards its back, where its inner organs or head must have been. He raised his hands and hammered down, and Erin saw the beast fall onto all fours. It groaned, tried to twist, to fall, and for a third time, the Fraerling activated his Skill.
A Creler tore down, razor-legs ripping up flesh and blood as the Duffshambler screamed. It jerked and fell to one side as Eurise vanished into the hole carved into its back. The jungle predator writhed on the ground, both mouth and trunk-mouth opening and closing, eyes wide in agony.
Erin watched as it tried to rise, twisted around frantically—then stiffened. It collapsed in a moment, strings cut, though it kept jerking and flailing sporadically as its nerves continued to fire.
“He got the brain. All clear unless there’s another!”
Macnest called out, and Fraerlings answered in the affirmative. They didn’t cheer as the monster lay dead, but Erin thought they released a breath of tension they’d been holding. She just watched until a figure emerged from the wound in the creature’s back.
Eurise was covered in blood and moved slowly after killing his opponent. Steam was rising from the wound, and he walked back towards the village.
“Eurise! Got water for you!”
Zemmy and Mera ran forwards, and the Fraerling man let his apprentices pour water over him. He stopped as Erin walked forwards with Ulvama.
“I reckon there was just one. I knew it was poking around, but the damn thing moved fast. Almost got around me. I felt your aura goin’ off, so I came running. Thank you.”
“I didn’t do much. I couldn’t have stopped it like that.”
The creature was dead so fast Erin could barely credit it. Eurise gave her a ghost of a smile; Mera and Zemmy were crowding around, adulation in their eyes and voices—but the two of them, Eurise and Erin, stood as if they were in the [Pavilion of Secrets].
He seemed tired. Erin knew how it felt. She stood there as Eurise held out a hand, still bloody, flecks of brain under his fingernails.
“Even so. I thought you were the right sort, and I’m glad I wasn’t wrong.”
On his head be it. Erin took the hand and shook it. She smiled briefly and spoke to the lonely, scarred guardian-beast of the Fraerlings.
“I’m glad I’m not alone.”
He blinked—and then he did offer her a real, rueful smile at that, and a chuckle. Erin knew just what to do. She swept her arm out and pointed to the ramshackle inn.
“I think we’d better all buy you a drink. But maybe wash your hands first. You’ve got brain on your fingers. It’s kinda gross.”
 
——
 
On the whole, it was a quiet first week in the village. The Fraerlings said as much as well.
“Getting a big monster like that Duffthing was nasty, but there’s always something. Battle Hammies get too near, those dragonflies crop up; it’s not serious until they’re in the village. But it happens. That’s why we tolerate Bowom.”
“That’s right.”
They were having breakfast on the day of the festival, and Erin was oddly relaxed still, despite having run into a titanic monster the night before.
There was danger here. But the village could handle it. If the danger got too nasty, the villagers would suffer. But they rose in levels, and each one of them was a kind of extraordinary, or could be.
In a sense…this was the place that embodied the dream that Zineryr had spoken of, the reason for the system of levels that Sprigaena had fought for. Erin wished the Gnomes could have seen their crazy, silly cousins all these years later.
Roja and Bowom were having breakfast as the village decorated. Not much; they had strung up ropes and put light spells in place, and the houses were newly-painted and hung with flowers and ornamentation.
It wasn’t overblown like a parade in Invrisil. But everyone was out and about, not working, and there was even drinking—in moderation—allowed by [Mayor] Fantim.
And other Fraerlings. They kept coming over to introduce themselves; they were from two other villages nearby enough for travel, but not so near that anyone could make the journey regularly and safely, except for Zemmy and Eurise.
“Seems like the other villages’ve decided you’re alright. I reckon that was old Fantim and Eurise putting in a word for you after you stood off against that Duffshambler. Or they really want someone to run an inn for them.”
Rojalin commented as the other villagers streamed in for the festival. Erin waved that off, embarrassed.
“I keep saying I only stood there.”
“Not everyone’s brave enough to stand in front of trouble. Besides—we spread word that you were both enchanted to be small and looking to get to a city. One of the Tallguard outposts finally picked it up, so they’ll get back to us about you getting there.”
“Oh, when?”
Erin saw Ulvama glance up, but Rojalin shrugged.
“Can’t say. But hey, so long as we have you—is the inn opening tonight?”
She licked her lips, and Erin laughed. Then she felt a tug at her arm.
“Erin, I want to see the festival.”
“Okay, Ulvama, let’s go.”
The [Shaman] could have gone on her own or with the Corumdon Beetle, but Erin was game. They got up and began to tour the festival.
There were things to do in the Fraerling village. People were still making lanterns, fixing the candles in place with bits of sticks and twine so they’d fly upwards when lit, and inserting little talismans into the center.
“Want to decorate one?”
Vrilla was overseeing the making of the lanterns, and Erin looked at Ulvama.
“Why not?”
Normally, she wasn’t much of a crafter, despite her Skills, but Erin and Ulvama schemed to make a Goblin-lantern, complete with pointy ears and red eyes. Vrilla laughed when they showed it to her; it was pretty good. Between Ulvama’s artistic ability and Erin’s [Advanced Crafting], they’d come up with one of the better-looking lanterns.
“That’s excellent! It’ll be a sight to see when it’s flying up there! I’ll keep them; come back and light them this evening, alright? And Ulvama, I’ll see you at my house in an hour!”
The two walked on. Erin turned to Ulvama.
“What’re you doing at the pumpkin?”
“Just something for the festival. Like you’re doing the inn.”
Erin groaned and rolled one shoulder.
“Yeah, that’s going to be work. I said only four hours—and Zemmy and Mera are helping bounce people. Fraerlings are rowdy! Say…where are those two?”
The question turned out to be only a few minutes early, because a big ring had been set up to the side of the main thoroughfare. And there was Zemmy, Mera, and the Battle Hamster.
