Which reminded her she should do a surprise patrol of the new recruits to keep them sharp. Watch Commander Venim kept telling her to take it easier, but she had to pull her weight, even more now that he was in charge. She’d have fun tomorrow.
The Drake put her head back down and got back to work.
 
——
 
Erin running the inn that night was actually a more stressful and precarious event than she’d thought.
Ulvama was no help, aside from painting a few runes of protection on the ramshackle building that several excited Fraerlings had put up. One wall was wood; another was grown grass courtesy of Vrilla, and the other two were wall spells. There were donated chairs and tables, all poor-quality, and a mushroom table and earth stools…
The lighting came from hovering [Light] spells, and the building was near one of the walls. Erin had alcohol—three vats of Centiwine, a bunch of mango beer, some genuinely strong whiskey made of wild rye, Vrilla had some ultra-strong stuff that she claimed was made from berries—it smelled and tasted vaguely like antiseptic, or what Erin imagined that tasted like—
Fraerlings made drinks because they liked it, but due to the strict prohibition rules, they never got to have any. Big festivals or after extraordinary events were the only time they got to drink. Erin wasn’t worried about a crowd or income; it’d all be free.
No…she was actually sort of worried about her clientele, because it had occurred to her that this building would not have the benefit of being her inn. She’d wondered if it might, but it had no [Reinforced Structure] or any other features.
“I wonder if I could change this into my inn?”
She commented to Ulvama, and the [Shaman] looked up from sampling the Centiwine with a small ladle.
“I think that’s a bad idea.”
“Yeah, me too. But wouldn’t it be funny if Ishkr popped out behind the bar and wondered what the heck was going on?”
The two smiled at the idea, and Erin’s heart hurt a second. Then she pushed the idea out of her head and determinedly tied an apron to her front.
“Alright, you maggots! Come and get it!”
She shouted to the crowd of Fraerlings lined up outside. Ulvama rolled her eyes, but indulgently, as she sat back with a kernel of popcorn and a light mango beer, and the first Fraerling walked in.
“Is this a real [Innkeeper] experience? Insulted as I come in? I sort of like it.”
Gollesume headed up to the bar and made a show of checking out the menu. Fraerlings poured in after him and began rushing him to order. The [Wizard] irritably pointed his fingers around and zapped people with jolts of lightning.
“No rushing me! I helped come up with this event!”
“And you’re the worst person to order first! If it takes five minutes, I’ll hit you, Gollesume!”
“Oh really? I have a [Meteor] spell with your name on it, whomever that was!”
The [Wizard] bristled, lifting a glowing wand, and the Fraerlings tensed, reached for their own weapons, or cheered the fight on. Erin took a breath and shouted.
“Halt!”
The force of the order and volume blew Gollesume’s hat off his head. He turned to her, slightly windblown, and Erin shouted.
“Form a line here and here! If you don’t have an order, you’re going to the back of it! No fighting! Anyone who fights gets tossed out on their head!”
[Crowd Control]. [Loud Voice]. [Inn’s Aura]. Erin didn’t even think; the Skills activated naturally, and the Fraerlings lined up suddenly and respectfully. Gollesume panicked.
“Wait, I have an order! I—uh—uh—uh—one of Vrilla’s berry things and some of that cheddar, please?”
Erin had a block of cheddar that she sliced some generous flakes off of, and she put them on a flat serving platter with a big cup.
Like a ridiculously tall cup, half again as tall as Gollesume’s head. No wonder Fantim had an issue with drinks; Fraerlings could already eat a lot, and they drank like sponges. But Erin’s eyes were glittering, and she adopted a bit of Rufelt.
“I’m gonna call that an antifreeze berry. Want a splash of something on it? Ice?”
“Ice? Yes! And something sweet?”
“How about an antifreeze on the rocks with lime? And some crackers to go with that cheese? Hey, Ulvama, where are the fries?”
“I like that. That sounds good. On the rocks? Is that a Tallfolk term?”
Ulvama got up reluctantly and fished out some french fries as Erin poured some lime and ice cubes into the drink. It wasn’t that she was good at making drinks or serving them—it was that the standards were so low.
Naming drinks cool things made people like them more. Vrilla puffed up a bit, despite not knowing what ‘antifreeze’ was or the connotations around what Erin was calling her drink. The [Innkeeper] called out.
“Next! Hey, wait. Aren’t you underage?”
Zemmy gave her a worried look as he hurried forwards.
“What? Nah. I hope not. Can I get a big beer with…fruit?”
“Mango beer with a cherry do it for you? And to eat?”
“Uh…what’s that thing Ulvama’s eating?”
“Popcorn with yeast and butter!”
Fraerlings actually had a nutritional yeast they grew on bark, and Erin had instantly found a way to replicate her beloved popcorn dish in its entirety, whether Ulvama liked it or not. Zemmy brightened up.
“Oh, I’ll have that. But no yeast, please.”
“You gotta have it with yeast, buddy. Let me get you a bowl. Next!”
 
——
 
It was just a fun night. After a while, the joy of serving people wore off and it became just work, but Fraerlings didn’t drink so fast that Erin couldn’t relax. She was having a coconut water with rum as Ulvama and Vrilla loudly discussed natural clothing—leaf-clothing and grasscloth and the like—and a bunch of laughing Fraerlings argued over some issue at another table.
Mera and Zemmy were having armwrestling competitions, and Fraerlings were betting small trinkets on them. Everyone looked happy.
—Right up until the first Fraerling got mad that someone was quaffing so much liquid it was spilling onto her back. She turned and, rather than politely raising the issue or moving away, decided a kick was an appropriate solution.
And Fraerlings went flying given their relative weight. The first fight broke out as a drunk [Enchanter] hit a table of [Archers] and vomited as he landed. Erin leapt over the counter.
“Gross! Stop fighting! Stop—”
Ulvama spun around as there was a flare of light. Erin went crashing and rolling backwards, slammed into the counter, and Ulvama leaned over.
“Erin? Are you okay!?”
Her panic was answered by Erin sitting up, grabbing a stool, and charging forwards again. There was a scream—then Ulvama saw a Fraerling go out one open window and the Fraerling who’d started the fight running from an [Innkeeper] with a chair.
Ulvama relaxed. Erin went trooping over to the table, calling for a cleaning spell—and the next fight broke out within eight minutes.
The Fraerlings were excited, probably over-drinking since it was their first time to let loose in ages, and crammed together. They were all a bit like Zemmy and Mera; since most were so high-level, a kick was a lot less aggressive, and most had some kind of combat class.
However—they had no idea what an [Innkeeper] could do. Nor did even Erin, to be fair. After the third Fraerling had been ejected from a window to cool off, the [Witch] began casting spells.
A crowd of angry, glowing piranha fish chased one Fraerling off. Another trying to tap-dance on a table and kicking dishes everywhere just skipped away from Erin when she tried to order them down. The laughing [Rogue] pirouetted, leapt onto another table, and did a backflip as she swiped for her—
And slammed into the ground as the table she’d been going to land on shifted out of the way.
Ulvama saw the table jerk aside with the occupants and chairs. She blinked. Later, when a Fraerling tried to climb through a window, Ulvama saw the shutters literally move and slap the Fraerling in the face.
The building was moving by itself! She wasn’t sure if Erin even noticed some of the incidents, but it cut down on the fights even more.
Again, the Fraerlings weren’t pure brawling drunkards. After the first wave of arguments and over-excitedness had worn off, the room was just rowdy and chaotic. Erin stood at the bar, slinging drinks and laughing as she argued with drunks.
Even Mayor Fantim appeared, ordering a triple-shot of drinks mixed in a cup with fruit on the rocks—Fraerlings used cups rather than shot glasses for spirits—and strode off to a table where he was soon engrossed in a political discussion about the villages and those ‘cattle thieves’ that Ulvama had heard about.
Erin stood there, smiling, not drunk at all, as Vrilla ran off to harass Bowom about something. Ulvama leaned over.
“You’re not drinking?”
“I had two already!”
“I meant your immunity to alcohol!”
Erin gave Ulvama an innocent look as she shrugged.
“Someone’s got to stay sober or Fantim won’t let me do this again. Plus, these guys are crazy. Hey! Hey, if there’s not enough room, go outside! Don’t break that wall down! Don’t do it, pal!”
She ran off for a second, and Ulvama blinked.
“Do it again?”
She watched as Erin returned, panting, and the [Innkeeper] studied Ulvama.
“You’re not drunk either.”
Ulvama was, in fact, mildly buzzed at best. She judiciously sipped some Centiwine, which she did enjoy; it had a nice bitterness she couldn’t describe.
“Eh. I don’t like getting drunk. I make bad decisions. Not good to be excessive.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Ulvama an unconvinced look. She had once seen Ulvama take two bowls of popcorn and pour butter on one…syrup on the other. The [Shaman] flushed. She fiddled with her tankard, and maybe she was more drunk than she thought she was. Or it was because it was here and it was Erin and they had been there, in the ship. Because Ulvama said the truthful part out loud.
“I don’t like getting drunk…publically. Sometimes it makes you a target. Or harder to fight back or get away.”
Erin’s face went blank for a second as she processed what Ulvama meant. Then she glanced around at the noisy inn.
“Oh. I didn’t know—has that happened—?”
Ulvama met her eyes. Erin peeked at the doors, then lowered her voice.
“You can leave. I wouldn’t have made you stay if I’d known that—”
“It’s fine. This is a good village. And I’m not that drunk.”
Plus, you’re here. The [Innkeeper] smiled and patted Ulvama’s hand. Then she searched around.
“Hey, where’s Eurise? I thought he’d be here; I specifically invited him. Zemmy, where’s Eurise?”
“He’s not allowed to drink at any gathering!”
Fantim roared from his table, red-faced, and Zemmy shouted back.
“He wants to come! Maybe in a bit?”
The [Innkeeper] nodded. She gazed back at Ulvama, who was looking around for Vrilla. Erin had to get back to serving, so they couldn’t talk. But she wanted to tell Ulvama that if the [Shaman] didn’t feel like drinking in public, they could have a drink in private at some point…
The [Innkeeper] was mixing up a bunch of fruit for a super alcoholic drink and finding a spoon big enough for Bowom when she felt something—off—
It was a stirring on the back of her neck. A crawling sensation. Then a ringing that she first put down to the loud voices. But it intensified, and after a moment, Erin saw a few Fraerlings cease laughing and become alert. Her head turned, and Erin spoke.
“[Dangersense].”
Ulvama sat up at the bar. Erin vaulted it in one move and sweeped around. Was someone fighting? No…she didn’t hear any raised voices, and the Fraerlings weren’t drunk enough to be truly violent. She raised her voice.
“Everyone—quiet a second! Quiet!”
A hush fell so fast it was like magic. Heads turned to her, grinning faces shifting to uncertainty as Erin reached for something. A chair was the first weapon to hand. She walked forwards, gazing right and left.
“Does anyone else have [Dangersense]? Something’s coming.”
Fantim sat up in his chair. Vrilla spun as drunk Fraerlings got up suddenly, laughter gone.
“I’ve got one.”
“Me too. It was going off—”
“Outside. Now!”
They followed Erin in a rush as she strode outside, head swiveling. It was dark in the village; Fraerling homes were illuminated, but she realized it had gone still in the forest. Something was coming. Erin sensed it first—her head spun, trying to see through the dark trees, but her darkvision was shot.
It was Gollesume who whispered a spell.
“[Field of Detect Heat]. [Spell: Massive Expansion]. Where…there. Aw, cats.”
Something shone red and bright in the forest. It parted the trees delicately, stepping forward and sniffing at the short wooden wall. Then stepped over it in one move and swayed, shuffling on its four legs as Erin gaped up in horror.
It…reminded her of an elephant at first, so big it blotted out the sky. Until she realized it was probably not nearly as threatening if she’d been normal height; it might have been barely six feet tall. Still a big creature and a threat…but to Fraerlings, it was a giant.
It had four legs and fur, rather than an elephant’s hide, but it had a long trunk; that was what had made her see the similarity.
However, instead of the familiar long head and floppy ears, this thing had a squatter face, no visible ears, but two bright green eyes on each side of its face. They were staring straight ahead—until it flipped one side of its face so the eyes were facing outwards, like a horse. It had—eyeflaps?
And the ‘trunk’ was not a nose like an elephant, but rather a mouth. A grinding sound emanated from the nose as it tore up some ground, and Erin heard a snorting sound; there were two holes on each side of the trunk-mouth.
It was huge, hairy, and menacing. If it had been smaller, Erin wouldn’t have instantly thought of it as a threat. As it was, the mouth was perfectly adapted to eat small creatures. Like—Fraerlings.
Whatever this thing was, it had found the village, and it was shuffling forwards, trunk-mouth snaking towards the homes. Erin saw one stumpy foot had claws on it, digging into the soil. It was going towards the village where the young Fraerlings were probably asleep. And alone—
Erin didn’t realize she was running until she shouted.
“Stop!”
The loud sound made the giant snuffle-monster turn. It focused on Erin and opened its trunk-mouth, revealing sharp incisors. Erin saw it sway around, alarmingly fast—she slowed, and she only had a chair.
“Erin!”
Behind her, Ulvama was shouting her name. The [Innkeeper] halted. This thing was way too big to fight. It dwarfed the Wailer Frogs, the giant Aurmak birds, and everything else.
But she was between it and the village center now, and Erin did the only thing she could do. She raised her hand and pulled her flaming hat out of the sky.
