Ulvama rolled her eyes and bent over to whisper to Erin.
“Erin. My magic is totally different from yours. [Witches] can use [Mage]-type spells. You never use your other class. Try? For me?”
Erin hesitated. She felt a surge of guilt because she really hadn’t leaned into her new class as much when she’d come back from the dead. She’d been so busy re-being an [Innkeeper]…she paced around the eggs, thinking. It wasn’t like there was a big time limit, and that helped.
Witch magic. The thing was that witch magic was very freeform in how you cast it according to her lessons. Erin also had a Skill that, in theory, doubled the potential diversity in magic.
[From Witchcraft, Sorcery Ariseth]. Sorcery was the version of [Mage]-magic that ran on willpower and focus more than memorizing spells. The synergy seemed obvious. If Erin could picture the magic and she had the juice in her hat, she should be able to cast a spell.
It was just that unlike [Mage] magic, you couldn’t conjure anything, if that made sense. No creating a tidal wave of water; you had to have some water, even a drop, to bring the rest to life.
Sympathetic magic it was called. The old [Witches] had said it was no limitation at all; have a decent number of objects on you at all times and a blade of grass could be a sword. A pair of butterfly wings real ones.
But how do I lift a bunch of fragile eggs? Erin was trying not to smell the gross goo on her and really wishing she could take a bath. She hoped Fraerlings had soap. Or shampoo? She missed Liscor’s baths most of all.
A nice, hot bath in the bathhouse would be great. Even if Erin didn’t like the open-bathing thing, let alone mixed bathing. She could never get in a tub with Ulvama; even Ryoka had been sort of weird with towels!
“…Bathtubs. Bubbles. Angry attack fishies.”
Erin recalled two things. One—the pipe that Palt had gifted her, which she’d blown bubbles out of and actually really liked. And two, her spell that was based on Goblin magic wherein she conjured a bunch of angry, glowing fishes to attack people.
She had a bunch of stagnant water. She had light…Erin’s eyes narrowed. She closed her eyes, and Ulvama looked over from where she was smearing some of the insect goo on her arms to see if it might make a good pigment.
“Hey presto!”
Erin drew from her hat, flicked her fingers, and instantly regretted her magical incantation because it sounded lame. But the pop and sudden glow in the darkness made all the Fraerlings glance up.
A glowing, prismatic bubble rose from the water, and in the center of it, there was a floating dragonfly egg. Erin’s eyes went round.
“Wh—it worked! Look! Look at that, Ulvama!”
She pointed, dancing in excitement as the egg floated away from the pool. Veerni raced over with her bag of holding.
“Great! Now just—”
Pop. The Battle Hamster poked the bubble, the spell vanished, and the egg hit the ground and splattered everyone. Erin glared at the hamster, who didn’t look as satisfied as he seemed to think he’d be, mostly because he was covered in goo.
Ulvama laughed. She cackled in delight, and Erin turned as the Goblin clapped her hands.
“Do it again! You are a [Witch]!”
Erin blinked at her, then she asked for the staff. She whirled it around in the air, and like a marching band, a dozen bubbled eggs began to float upwards and formed a line in the air.
“No popping these, hammie, or I’ll throw one at you. Hey, everyone, on your feet! Let’s get them in the bags of holding!”
Roja slapped her knee, leapt up, and the Fraerlings were holding out their bags of holding, letting the eggs drop in, where they were no longer in danger of breaking until someone tried to take them out. Erin had to concentrate; it took a lot more magic than she was used to putting out, but not nearly as much as one of her big acts of wonder.
“Ulvama! I’m doing it! I’m doing magic! See? I’m useful!”
A beaming [Shaman] walked over with four eggs tucked under each arm and slung them one by one into Roja’s bag of holding.
“Yah! You’re doing great!”
Erin’s face went slack as Ulvama went back for more eggs. The floating bubbles wobbled in the air, and several popped before she regained control of her limited magic. She watched Ulvama pick up several eggs and toss them at another Fraerling, who juggled them without them showing any signs of breaking, and then inserted them into their bag of holding.
“Wh—b—”
“[Silken Touch]. Is good spell. I have to keep casting on each egg, though.”
The [Shaman] innocently began hucking some more at Roja, and Erin opened and closed her mouth.
“You were making me use my head?”
Ulvama’s grin was purely Goblin. She ducked as an insect egg in a bubble whizzed past her head and threw one at Erin. The two only stopped an insect-egg war when Erin pulled a writhing dragonfly nymph out of her hair. But she was smiling.
 
——
 
Erin didn’t know what to make of Fraerlings in this village. They were sort of…crazy.
The entire group returned past noon, trooping into the village shouting for baths and a spellcaster to levitate the eggs out of the bags of holding. No one was hurt; the villagers weren’t even worried beyond holding their noses.
Erin felt tired from the spellcasting and oddly…relieved. She hadn’t killed anything. She’d just stood there and watched, yet she felt fine. They hadn’t needed her, but she and Ulvama had been useful. Roja rubbed at her chin with a sudden thought.
“Can you make a lotta bubbles for the baths? I reckon that’d be fun.”
Erin hesitated.
“What, are they group baths?”
Roja noticed Erin’s hesitation and nodded.
“Sure, big tub, everyone hops in—tell you what. Midias! Run and get a smaller bathtub. You two can wash off private. Thanks for the help; don’t worry about getting the eggs out of the bag of holding.”
“Are you sure? Don’t you need some of them alive?”
Erin had seen them float all the eggs in the bag of holding, and it occurred to her that it would kill them—right? But Bowom had reappeared and happily accepted a floating egg.
“Perfect! I’ll take twenty for my experiments. As to your question, no, Miss Solstice. Regular chicken eggs can fit in a bag of holding. Why, we ask? Possibly because despite being ‘alive’, the pre-birth stage of creatures does not count for the dangerous effects of bags of holding that compress and alter our bodies. Insufficient development of mana? Life energy? Who can say? Now, if I could get a budget, I’d happily put embryonic unborn children or other mammals in jars and see whether or not they survive entry into bags of holding—but people tell me that’s ‘horrific’. And a waste of time, which I will grant them.”
His monologue earned dead silence from the group, and Bowom looked around.
“No observations? No one here is fun. Enjoy your bath.”
He walked off, and Erin realized she still had insect gunk in her hair when she went to scratch it. Roja slapped her on the back and gave her a friendly smile.
“Sorry about the mess. Hope you were entertained. It was more fun for the kids to have someone to show off to. See you at dinner, eh?”
Erin nodded and kept standing there. It was odd, she realized.
She didn’t feel that useful. Which wasn’t great. But she didn’t feel—needed.
Just helpful.
She liked being helpful, didn’t she? It reminded her of Liscor. Until the first Antinium had played chess with her and she’d had adventurers in her inn and…then she’d been needed. There was an odd difference between the two.
 
——
 
Bathing was a bit awkward because the tub turned out to be just big enough to hold three people. It was still going to be cramped, especially because the first thing the Battle Hamster did was roll into the soapy, hot water and begin washing itself.
“Erin? You coming in?”
“I’ll let you go first.”
Erin sat with her back to the tub, poking at the heating runes written into the floor. After a moment, Ulvama got in and began splashing herself and arguing with the Battle Hamster.
“It’d be nice to have a tub like this, huh? Think Palt can make it? Or Pelt with Palt?”
“Yah. Is very nice. Good water, too. You sure you—stop poking me! I’ll bite you!”
She splashed the hamster and got a squeak of outrage. Erin glanced to the side and saw Ulvama covering her chest as the hamster peered at her, clearly wondering why she looked different.
Erin swiveled back the other way instantly. But she did raise a fist.
“Hey, hamster! Knock it off!”
A splash of water and soap was her reply. Erin almost got up to jump in the tub—but decided not to. She sat there until Ulvama declared she was done, then Erin hopped in after changing behind a towel. She sank low in the water until the bubbles covered her up to her chin. Ulvama dried herself off as Erin gazed at the hamster, who had now begun splashing water on the Corumdon Beetle’s sides. It didn’t seem bothered by the mess, but put up with the cleaning attempts as the hamster used a towel like a rag.
Rather like someone cleaning a giant red bus. After a while, Ulvama went over to help.
“They’re good at fighting monsters. I guess that’s how they survive.”
“Yeah. Very good. And nice.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded. Her eyes flickered, and she remembered something as she lay back in the steaming tub.
“I wish I could give them something. But they eat a lotta bugs. Bugs. Hm…why do I feel like I know recipes with bugs in them?”
“Eh, you served Ashfire Bees until it got weird because of Apista. Acid Flies? Not the right bugs…”
Erin closed her eyes and tilted her head back, loosening up the insect slime hardening her hair. She had a vision of an outraged face, pale lands…
The lands of the dead. An [Insect Chef]? Erin opened her eyes slowly.
“Oh.”
She did know some recipes. But she felt so tired at that memory. At the vision of solemn [Witches]. An army of Seamwalkers and conversations with Gnomes and Dragons…
She wished she could just go back and play another game of chess behind Khelt’s walls of sand, in safety. Or just…
The [Innkeeper] drifted off in her bath as the [Shaman] got a long-handled broom and began to scrub the beetle’s sides. She only woke up when her head dipped under the water.
 
[Witch of Remorse Level 24!]
[Spell – Magic Bubble learned!]
[Synergy Skill: Innkeeper – Convert Object: Food (Inefficient) obtained!]
 
“Whuh? Whbgh! Ghkh!”
Erin opened her eyes, inhaled a bunch of soapy water, and Ulvama ran over to fish Erin out of the bathtub. She dumped Erin onto the ground as the [Innkeeper] spat out a lungful of water, then eyed Erin critically.
“You’ve got goo all over your stomach. And behind ears. Do you even scrub? You want help?”
Erin realized she was naked and practically swan dived back into the tub. The Battle Hamster tried drinking some of the tub water and immediately spat it out.
 
——
 
That night, Erin Solstice was smiling. Fraerlings were crowding around a pair of dishes coming out of the Ovenhouse: a hamburger and a green custard.
Made of dragonfly eggs.
It was gross. Ulvama had taken one bite and then decided to eat the cup. Then asked for seconds. Erin refused to eat it, despite Jossec’s compliments. In fact, she and the Battle Hamster were the only holdouts; the entire village thought it was great.
“I can’t believe you made this and you won’t eat. Say aaaah. Aaaah. Aaaaah—”
Ulvama poked Erin’s cheek with a spoon repeatedly until the hamster slapped it onto the ground. It stomped on the food, which was the only thing it and Erin agreed on. The [Innkeeper] just shuddered. She was mixing something in a bowl with a big spoon and smiling as she talked to Roja, Jossec, and Bowom, who were hanging out at the table.
“Listen, Ulvama, I just made it like that annoying dead chef guy said. It’s good, right?”
“Very savory. Not that buggy at all except in a good way.”
Jossec was overjoyed and waving his hands around with delight, like someone witnessing a miracle in food innovation. Which to be fair—it was.
“I can’t believe you can neutralize the natural taste of insect eggs like that. All you have to do is extract part of a salivary gland in the right species, in this case one of the tree-geckos, and mix it in with a natural enzyme from a worm and it’s so edible. You should have gotten the rest from the cave, Roja.”
“I would have if I knew it’d make custard! Who’s this [Chef]? He or she was a genius.”
The Fraerlings were honestly more enthused about that than the burgers! Which Erin felt was a travesty, honestly. But then, she supposed they regarded this as opening up a world of new treats from insect eggs whereas hamburgers were just another form of meat.
She was going to prove there was more to life than buggos for supper. Erin was still gingerly churning the aphid milk in the bucket, but she was sensing it was different. There was a rind appearing on the surface, and it was thickening.
Aphid milk and roach milk didn’t do that, so Jossec’s eyes sharpened, and Erin lifted a spoon out of the bowl and eyed it critically.
“Darn, it’s like a two- or even three-to-one ratio. Can I get a bit more aphid milk, please?”
“Sure. Though if you want, we have a bunch of roach—”
“Nope!”
It wasn’t that her new [Witch] synergy Skill wouldn’t work with roach milk…it was just that Erin objected on principle. She poured in more milk and kept churning. For a bit, she thought the two milks were mixing…until at some point it all turned into a whiter, creamier liquid.
Literal cream.
Cow’s milk.
[Convert Object: Food] wasn’t an instantaneous process. Rather, you had to do something to the substance—churn it, mix it, bake it—and it would transmute in the process. It was also inefficient, as the Skill claimed; three buckets of aphid milk were going into this one batch of buttermilk.
However, Roja’s reaction as she took a bit of the butter and licked it was everything Erin wanted. She licked her lips, frowned as she tasted the sweet milk and butter—and shrugged.
“Tastes like animal fat but nicer. Is this cheese?”
“…No.”
“‘Sokay. Drink’s too fatty for me.”
“That’s because there’s butter in it. Hold on, hold on! This is for Jossec! Let me get the cheese!”
Not everything converted the same. You could turn walnut flour into wheat flour, for instance, but not flour into meat. In the same vein, Erin had tried to turn a few seeds into other plant seeds, but it hadn’t worked.
She had an apple pie, a cake, a slice of cheese—converted from a ton of edible mold, much to her dismay—and even an authentic burger she cut into tiny pieces for her audience to sample.
“So this is cheese. Mm. Oh, that is nice. I can taste the lactic acid. This is filthy, disgusting stuff.”
