 
Ulvama couldn’t believe Erin was laughing. She was charging Mera, no longer spitting fire, and Mera had stopped using her high-level Skills. They were fistfighting, throwing punches that Ulvama was pretty sure would floor her or most people.
—But the [Innkeeper] was laughing. Not hysterically, but as if she couldn’t stop. For some reason, despite Mera putting her in a headlock and then flipping to slam her on the ground, when Erin got up, she was still smiling.
She looked relieved. It flowed off her aura until she compressed it into one fist and hit Mera with it.
“No fair! No aura or I’m doing it too!”
“She doesn’t have any good aura.”
Zemmy commented to Ulvama. But he was grinning, and when Ulvama glanced at him and Mera, she saw the other [Brawler] was grinning too. Then Erin reminded Ulvama of silly Redfangs, brawling in the dirt. No—that wasn’t right.
She just looked so relaxed. Relieved, like someone who realized that she wouldn’t—couldn’t—break her opponent if she hit her as hard as she could. Like…an [Innkeeper] who didn’t have a [Garden of Sanctuary] filled with trees of magic lightning or rooms created by Archmages that could conjure fire.
No Adamantium halberds in her back pocket. No secret weapon against dead goddesses. Not the highest-level person in the room hiding her fangs behind her apron.
Just a dusty, panting [Innkeeper] in a dustup with a [Brawler]. Ulvama watched for a while as Fraerlings wandered past, complaining about the mess or commenting that, to their surprise, Erin could fight Mera equally. Eventually, Ulvama wandered away to get a drink.
“She’s going to need another bath. Silly warriors.”
She shook her head. Bowom found her and handed her a bit of mango juice in a cup. They sipped as they watched Erin fight until she and Mera were lying on the ground.
“See—I could claim this was all therapeutic and good for her and it was my idea. But I’m a [Doctor]. I didn’t authorize this. This is how Fraerling villages handle a lot of things, only it’s either fists, swords, or lightning bolts. Do Goblins have better conflict resolution?”
He glanced at Ulvama. She sighed as she watched Erin lying there, still giggling.
“Sometimes. But sometimes it’s better just to let silly people do silly things. And she’s very silly.”
“I thought you said she’s the sky falling and burning ships. And from what you’ve hinted at, she’s made the enemy of nations.”
Bowom glanced curiously at Ulvama, and her smile was fond and despairing and…she sipped on her drink and murmured.
“She is. And sometimes she’s spaghetti in front of a fireplace. A sign on a hill. Pink flames at night. A smile, even when it’s a lie. Tears for a Goblin.”
The [Mad Doctor] gazed at Ulvama, then at Erin. He nodded to himself.
“I see.”
Then he grinned along with Ulvama; Vrilla had let the fight end. Now…Mera, Zemmy, and Erin got to fix up her house.
 
——
 
Against her best wishes, Erin sort of liked Mera and Zemmy, despite how they’d met. Mostly because Mera was the first person Erin could punch without feeling guilty.
“Is this how guys do things? It’s sorta cool.”
She commented that to Ulvama, who had just watched Erin uppercut Mera hard enough to break all the teeth in someone else’s jaw. Ulvama sighed.
“No. It’s how high-level people do things.”
She watched a bit wistfully as Erin trooped back over to Zemmy and Mera to try a punch they wanted to teach her. The two Fraerlings had appeared every morning after Erin’s brawl, and they had quickly become some of the friends that Erin and Ulvama knew best in the village.
Vrilla, Bowom, Isten, Rojalin, Zemmy, Mera, and Jossec. Oh, there were others, like the [Armorer], Macnest, and his [Wizard] neighbor, Gollesume the Great. But if the two had any friends after a week…
Erin and Ulvama had moved out of the healing crystal cottage that very day and were being put up in a spare house as the rebuilding from Erin’s rampage finally completed. In fact, Ulvama went back to her job; painting a new clay hut. It was shaped like a Human head, but Ulvama was working on a mask like a scary, multi-colored butterfly that they were going to put on the face.
Macnest loved it. He was waiting with Gollesume to levitate it up and then anchor it.
“Look at the colors. I keep saying we need someone with good painting Skills in the village, but no one wants to pursue it as a class. Don’t you think it looks great? Gollesume?”
The [Wizard] was put out.
“It’s another face. I thought we agreed, no faces. Oh well, I guess I know which house is going to mysteriously get smashed the next time an animal attacks.”
Ulvama glanced up, and her face fell as she worked on the mask, tracing hypnotic, indigo lines in swirls down the moth-mask’s wings. Macnest glanced at her expression, then stomped on Gollesume’s toe.
“You touch this house and I’ll break your wand.”
The [Wizard] almost cast a spell, then noticed Ulvama’s crestfallen look and sighed loudly.
“Ow! What—oh, fine. It’s safe, it’s safe. It’s good art. I just hate how it stares at me at night, okay? Tell you what, let’s get everyone a drink. I have some Centiwine in the cellar. I’ll treat the four of you after we get this house up.”
Macnest’s eyes lit up, and Ulvama’s head came up with great interest.
“…Is that centipede wine?”
“Sure is. Mangoes and a big centipede’s head for flavor. It’s very good. Do you Tallfolk like drinks?”
Both he and Macnest were glancing around conspiratorially, and Ulvama nodded rapidly. She had enjoyed the Fraerlings’ food by and large, but no one had offered her anything to drink—and she did like her alcohol.
“Let’s have one in my house tonight.”
Macnest rubbed his hands together. Ulvama didn’t get why he was acting so clandestine about it until she made the mistake of repeating the invitation to Erin a bit too loudly.
“Wait, Gollesume’s got his Centiwine? Can we have some?”
Mera and Zemmy raced over instantly, and Gollesume groaned.
“Argh, not you two! Keep your voices down! And no, you can’t have any! I only have three vats!”
“Three vats? That’s enough for the six of us—”
“You brats aren’t having any! Shoo! Shoo before—”
The argument ceased as a figure appeared, striding through the village. Mayor Fantim.
Ulvama had seen the big, bossy Fraerling around quite a lot, but he had mostly ignored her and Erin, except to glower and pointedly ask when they were going. But he had appeared out of nowhere so fast it had to be a Skill.
“I knew it. Gollesume! I’ve warned you three times this year alone! Stop inviting your neighbors to drink at your house or I’ll confiscate all your wine myself!”
Gollesume and Macnest groaned, and Zemmy and Mera visibly sagged. Erin and Ulvama glanced at each other as the two older Fraerlings stomped over and began having a shouting match with the [Mayor]. Macnest glowered.
“It’s just a drink! With the outsiders!”
“No gatherings over three people over Level 40 with intoxicants! Especially not those two idiots!”
“Hey. He’s pointing at you, Mera.”
Fantim shook a finger in Gollesume’s face.
“Last warning before I haul all the wine off. No. Drinking. With. Others!”
Given the nature of the Fraerlings, and Gollesume’s own temperament, Ulvama expected the [Wizard] to get stroppy or even cast a spell. But the [Wizard] just yanked down his hat.
“Hmph! If I can’t have a fun drink with my neighbors, what can I do? You’re just lucky I don’t leave and go hermit!”
“You’re too lazy to go hermit. And you’d build your house a foot outside the village and cause trouble. Be told, both of you! As for you, Zemmy, Mera, if you break another house in a brawl, I’ll ban Zemmy from the village for a month!”
The scolding from the angry [Mayor] was oddly effective. Even Zemmy and Mera shuffled their feet, trying to stand behind the other. Erin just blinked at Fantim as he rounded on them.
“As for you two—”
He stared at them, clearly thinking of things they in particular had done wrong.
“—Fighting with Zemmy and Mera is banned inside the village! As is drinking! Behave yourselves or I’ll have you out of the village, Eurise’s opinion or not!”
He pointed at them, and Ulvama felt a pushing on her, a familiar one.
Some kind of authority Skill. It clearly worked on the other Fraerlings, but neither Erin nor Ulvama were part of this village. Also…they were [Shaman], [Witch], and [Innkeeper]. Authority Skills were quite weak on them to begin with.
“Listen, buddy. We’re not causing trouble.”
Erin folded her arms defiantly. Fantim gave them a dark look.
“Your presence is trouble for Fraerlings. You’ll have half the young ones dead or running off to become another entry in the Traveller’s Log within the month. I hope you do the right thing and leave.”
He spun on his heel to march off, but Erin intercepted him.
“Why can’t anyone drink with other people in this village? That’s a crazy law.”
Everyone peered at her, and Ulvama saw Fantim take a breath to shout. It was the [Shaman] who thought out loud.
“It’s probably because he’s the [Shaman] of this village, Erin. Someone has to keep laws when everyone’s high-level. Remember what happens when Relc gets drunk? Imagine Valeterisa getting drunk. Or fifty Valeterisas.”
Fantim’s eyes flickered, and his walrus mustache bristled…but he gave her a curt nod. Erin glanced at Ulvama, then eyed Gollesume.
“I’m a great drunk.”
The [Wizard] protested, not quite meeting Erin’s eyes. Zemmy whispered loudly from behind Mera.
“He tried to make his house fly one time and crashed it into the Ovenhouse. Everyone was eating cold for a week after that.”
Gollesume fired a miniature lightning bolt that zig-zagged after Zemmy as he took off running. Fantim growled.
“It’s bad enough when one person has a drink. But three ends in a brawl more often than not.”
And a bunch of drunk Fraerlings over Level 40 duking it out could probably cause as much damage as Erin. No wonder the village didn’t allow it.
Even so, Erin wore a dismayed expression as she regarded Macnest and Gollesume, who clearly wanted to have a cordial drink together.
“So you’re like the Watch Captain of your village? The Zevara of this place? And you’re always the Zevara? Wow.”
“I get the feeling I’m being insulted. Someone has to keep children from running off on an adventure and getting killed. I’m the authority who approves who can go on journeys and who can enter—unless, apparently, Eurise has a soft spot for some random Tallfolk he meets.”
No wonder Fantim didn’t like them. He faced Erin down, all button-popping outrage in a dark red overcoat, adjusting his belt as Erin wiped at a bloody nose. But the [Innkeeper]’s eyes were narrowed, and she smiled suddenly.
“I get that we’re a nuisance. But while we’re here, you might as well use us, Mayor Fantim.”
“Oh? And how? Aside from making cheese half the village is allergic to, I don’t think we need your help. We’re fine for hunters, magicians, and idiots who only know how to punch things.”
Mera and Zemmy waved, and Erin gave Fantim a grudging nod. She really wasn’t as exceptional here, for her levels or abilities. However—her eyes glinted.
“Yeah. But you all keep saying you don’t have many business owners here, don’t you?”
“Hard to run a business when no one has any money. We’re not city-Fraerlings, and there’s no one to trade with.”
Macnest nodded. He was an [Armorer], but he made his armor for whomever needed it; the entire village of Dretonamis was communal and bartered for most things. But that just made Erin’s smile wider. She jabbed a thumb at her chest.
“Well then, Mayor Fantim. You’re looking at the only Level 55 [Innkeeper] you’re ever going to see. My entire job is running an inn. Why don’t you let me serve people the alcohol and stuff?”
The other four Fraerlings’ heads snapped up. The [Mayor] blinked; his face went slack, and he stared at Erin as if he’d forgotten what [Innkeepers] did. And frankly…Fraerlings might not even know the word that well. Gollesume was actually hurrying out of his house with a dictionary and pointing at the word to his neighbor.
“Well?”
Erin’s smile widened as the [Mayor] folded his arms. He didn’t like it.
“There’ll be a fight within the hour.”
“I can handle it.”
“Yeah! She can even wrestle Mera! No one’s going to be higher-level than she is, except Eurise, Fantim!”
Zemmy and Mera egged the [Mayor] on. He glowered.
“There’s no building I’d trust to you. It’ll be full of holes in the morning—”
Gollesume and Macnest hurried over.
“We can put one up at the outskirts of the village!”
“In a heartbeat! Vrilla will help! We’ll have a team in minutes!”
They were all pleading, cajoling, and trying to pressure Fantim into it now. His glower intensified, and Erin gave him an innocent look.
“I don’t think you’ve got a good reason to refuse. Trust me. I’m an alcohol expert. I know how to serve it, when to cut people off, brew it, all that kind of stuff.”
He gave her an extremely cynical stare.
“Really. Alcohol. Name me seven kinds of drinks.”
Ulvama grinned, despite herself, as Erin floundered at the unexpected test of her abilities.
“What? Alcohol? Psh…there’s beer. Wine. Gin. Tonic…no, wait, that’s not…whiskey? Rum? Gin? How many am I up to? Vodka? A Chaldion’s Eye?”
The stare from the [Mayor] made Erin try counting on her fingers, but he spun on his heel abruptly.
“Anything you idiots break is on all of you to fix it up. If there’s as much chaos and damage as I think, no one’s having a drop in a group for the year!”
He stalked away, and a cheer went up from Zemmy and Mera. Gollesume and Macnest high-fived, and Erin puffed up.
“Hey! I’ve got a job! Oh snap. I’ve got a job, and I don’t have Drassi and Ishkr. How does he serve drinks? Uh…you pour…and you want some foam, but not a lot—Ulvama?”
Ulvama smiled and nudged Erin.
“I think he’s nicer than he looks, you know.”
The Goblin regarded Fantim’s back as he ran off to deal with another misbehaving Fraerling. Erin grimaced.
“Maybe. But he’s still the Zevara.”
“Yeah, but someone has to be.”
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara finally stopped sneezing at her desk and rubbed a claw across her nose holes.
“Is it spring allergies?”
She didn’t know why she kept sneezing. But she had a distinct impression someone was talking behind her tail about her. She glowered around suspiciously on basic principle.
“I have tons of fun. I’m having fun today. After work.”
