Fantim, his name was. A balding Fraerling with a stout chest and a big walrus mustache who had strode up to Eurise and had a shouting match about ‘Eurise’s dangers’ the old Fraerling had allowed into the village. Fantim had not been alone, either. A number of Fraerlings, including worried parents, had approached Eurise to ask if this was going to happen again. Most of the village didn’t have a problem with Ulvama. Most.
“We cannot have Tallfolk, let alone a Goblin, in this place! You are risking all our lives—we are already entangled, Eurise! At least find a Tallguard outpost to shunt them off to!”
“The nearest one’s too many miles away to count. If it happens again, I’ll whistle for a bird, but neither one’s been outright harmful. If they are, I’ll settle it.”
Eurise had shot back, and then someone had asked about whether the ‘Tallfolk’ should be allowed to wander the village, especially Ulvama, the Goblin. Eurise had turned, pointed Ulvama out…
And a worried woman standing on her tip-toes had taken one look at the six-inch-tall Goblin, sized her up, and exhaled.
“Oh. Well, that’s not as much of a threat.”
They’d all wandered off in a huge crowd, audibly speculating whose houses they should break and pin on the [Innkeeper]. It seemed as though the Fraerlings knew Goblins by reputation, were wary of them—but eminently thought they could take Ulvama in a fight.
Indeed, Ulvama had heard a few muttering how disappointed they were that Erin and Ulvama weren’t actually ten times their size. Because that, apparently, would be a ‘fun’ fight.
Fraerlings.
Now, it wasn’t that Ulvama was ignoring Erin…it was just that she had to step away from the cottage for a second. Bowom was getting it pushed back where it had been, and Erin had drifted off again.
Ulvama had to walk away from the cottage, lean against a house, and have a panic attack. Only a mild one.
She’s still not well. Of course, the [Shaman] knew it. But to turn in the middle of getting breakfast to see the crystal cottage moving through the village, ramming into other buildings as it came after her—
Fire and death. Death and battle. Erin had felt like a whirling storm, like she had been when she’d been covered in black flames, before Ulvama woke her up. She wasn’t better. She might have been healing at last, but she was like Tremborag had been. She was…she was going to kill herself. Unless Ulvama did something. And she didn’t know what to do.
The [Shaman] felt like puking. She covered her mouth with her clawed hand as she leaned over, clutching her stomach with the other. She was trying not to retch, to breathe, when a furry head interposed itself under her face.
The Battle Hamster stared at the Hobgoblin quizzically, wondering why she’d stopped. He pushed into her stomach, and she stumbled. When she didn’t move, he crouched, pushed, and she rolled onto his back, and he began to pad forwards. Because he was going to explore, and he needed his shield.
 
——
 
An anxious Goblin and a dangerous, recovering [Innkeeper]. They were quite the duo. Of course the Fraerlings stared. They especially stared at a swaying Hobgoblin lying on the back of a hamster, known as ‘fighting hammies’, padding through the middle of their village.
But you know what snapped Ulvama out of it?
Children. She always paid attention to children. It was an instinct; Ulvama raised her head as she passed by a sitting Fraerling weaving together strands of fiber, making rope for what she assumed at first were grappling hooks.
Ulvama had read books of famous [Rogues] as a child, and even as a Goblin, she had the same image of the nighttime infiltrator using a hook and rope to scale a wall. Real life was a bit more…boring.
Instead of a grappling hook, which was a specialized bit of metal that required quite a bit of luck to snag on a target, Fraerlings used what was essentially a bola attached to the rope that they could toss and wrap around an object. Or, if they were descending, they just tied the rope off.
Or used a piton and hammered it into whatever they were scaling. A Fraerling man and a young boy were making rope. Nothing fancy; it was much like the leaf rope that Ulvama and Erin had made, only they had a nicer-looking fiber. Spiderweb? It seemed slightly sticky, and after weaving them together into a strand, the two would toss a bit of grit over it to prevent it from continuing to stick.
The boy was what Ulvama was interested in. He had bright blonde hair, good, hand-sewn clothing made out of natural greens and browns. It wasn’t bad, but the adult next to him had a bright-red layer of cloth over purple, then a brown tunic, yellow-beige leggings; a kind of colorful poncho that was simple, but attractive.
The boy’s clothing was drab, but well-made; no crude stitching. So why was it so plain…?
So a bird doesn’t swoop down and grab him, Ulvama realized. He probably blended into the background of the forest with his clothing. The adult wore flashy colors because he might be able to defend himself.
It was that kind of thing that told Ulvama this village wasn’t safe. There was danger. Another sign of children, as far as she was concerned, was how obnoxious they were.
Ulvama didn’t like children. She took care of them. Liking children was a luxury for people who didn’t take care of them. Being a [Shaman] meant you worried every second there was a bare blade around little Goblins who might stab each other, eat it, or sit on it. In her experience, non-Goblin children were more bratty. Because they were allowed to be young. Mrsha was a good example of this: she could be annoying as a wasp, but if you asked her to do a chore, she generally did it without whining too much or needing excessive rewards or punishment.
In this case, the boy kept glancing up at Ulvama as the Battle Hamster sniffed at someone’s garden and began trying to uproot a growing carrot…which was larger than it was.
“Wait, stop. Stop—”
Ulvama tried to put it in a headlock and use her Skills, but the hamster had decided her ability to boss around wildlife only worked when it wanted her to. The sight of a miniature Hobgoblin trying to suplex a hamster distracted the boy, who began to stare at her rather than his task.
That was when the adult patiently reached over and nudged the boy’s shoulder.
“Isten. Focus. Watch the visitors later or leave off work. D’you want Rojalin or Midias to get hurt or die if the rope snaps?”
The boy started, glanced down at his rope, which he had braided wrong, and guiltily redid it. Ulvama pulled on the hamster’s head as it tried to bite the carrot, seeing the boy bend to his work with a will.
Oh, that was interesting. There was no blow or snap in the adult’s voice. But the boy, Isten, took it very seriously. He didn’t seem old beyond his years; he peeked at her again, but he stopped weaving each time to look. And even the adult [Weaver], or whatever his class was, watched Ulvama with one eye, but he could probably weave rope in his sleep.
“If ya want, let the hammie take the carrot. It’s not like we’re hungry for food.”
He called out after a moment, and Ulvama was grateful because the hamster already had half the carrot out of the ground. She panted.
“You sure? Whose garden is it?”
They were next to the smashed-in boot, which had been mostly repaired, and the [Weaver] raised a hand.
“Mine. I don’t mind. But cut us a chunk, would ya?”
Ulvama let go, and the hamster triumphantly ripped the carrot out of the ground. Ulvama chased the hamster off before it could begin eating and looked around for a knife.
“Here.”
The [Weaver] tossed a knife into the carrot from where he sat, and Ulvama eyed the sharp blade. It was bright and cut the carrot so fast that the hamster stopped gnawing on it and accepted the top. It sat, munching, as Ulvama cut a generous section out for the two Fraerlings and brought it over.
“Thank ye. What’s your name, stranger?”
“Ulvama.”
“This is Isten, I’m Revoid. Are you a Goblin Chieftain or just a Hob? That’s what your lot are, right? Or is that like asking Dullahans what’s under their armor?”
“I’m a [Shaman]. And a Hobgoblin. It’s fine to ask.”
Ulvama was so startled by the matter-of-fact conversation that she forgot to play stupid. Isten peeked up at her, then focused on his braiding as he got a nudge from Revoid again; another bad braid. The Fraerling spoke.
“Take a break, Isten. You can ask her a question.”
“I dunno what to ask.”
The boy’s voice was young, and Ulvama guessed he was seven? Shy instead of bold. He stared up at her without the fear she was used to seeing from a Human child, which was what he seemed to be to her, at least given her current height. Revoid scratched his chin.
“Might be the only Goblin of a Fraerling’s size you’ll ever see in your life. Better ask a good question. You could ask if she knows why the Goblin Kings go mad. Though I reckon if Goblins knew, someone’d say. Or where she’s from. Maybe ask what a [Shaman]’s like or something known only to Goblins?”
The boy’s face screwed up, and Ulvama was fascinated by how Revoid said it. This may be the only chance in your life…and Isten took it seriously.
“H-how—is being a Hobgoblin better’n being small? Or is it more work?”
The question startled Ulvama so much that she didn’t know what to say. The three of them sat, munching on pieces of carrot; despite its toughness, it went down fast, in massive bites. Being so small meant you ate giant mouthfuls. Being a Fraerling meant you could eat as much as you wanted without feeling full thanks to their amazing metabolisms. The Battle Hamster, meanwhile, had a puffed out cheeks with most of the rest of the carrot inside.
“Being a Hobgoblin…isn’t always better. You get taller and maybe smarter. Maybe smarter—mostly, you’re stronger and bigger, which is nice. But every little Goblin looks up to you, and you’re the one everyone tries to kill first. It’s more work. It’s…responsibility.”
“Oh. Like being adult?”
The boy glanced at Revoid, and the [Weaver] laughed and stretched his legs out. Ulvama laughed too, then saw he had a scaly gecko’s foot and part of his leg. It melded into a hairy leg, and she stared for a second as Revoid wiggled the round, three-toed foot.
“I…little Goblins can be adult. Hobs are just…the difference is…we have something important to do. That means we need to be Hobs.”
The answer seemed to satisfy both Fraerlings. So much so that Revoid nodded at Isten.
“I reckon that was a good question. Y’might want to write it down in the library.”
The Battle Hamster gnawed on the food in its cheek pouch as it stared at Ulvama. She felt rather gratified, and the boy seemed pleased.
“You can ask me another question if you want.”
He shook his head warily.
“I reckon that’s a good one. I dun wanna mess it up with two.”
That made both adults chuckle. Revoid indicated his foot, and Ulvama glanced down at it.
“Tallfolk don’t go around replacing limbs? Or maybe just Goblins don’t?”
“…I’ve never seen anyone with another—limb like that. Magical body parts. But not that.”
“Oh, fake arms, fake legs. We used to do that before Bowom became a [Mad Doctor]. These days, whenever someone loses a limb, he slaps one on. It’s usually better. I heard the big cities do replacement limbs or even regrow anything. Not enough magic here for it.”
So their solution was to literally graft body parts onto any Fraerling that lost a limb? Ulvama didn’t say this was still wildly beyond any technological or magical achievement she was used to.
“Think that [Innkeeper]’ll smash more places up? I don’t feel like redecorating my boot again.”
“No—I hope not. I’m sorry. She’s hurt.”
“Over Level 50?”
“Um…yes?”
Revoid nodded reasonably as Isten listened, head swinging between the two.
“Felt like it. They’re always smashing stuff up or messing about when they hit it. Not sure how many houses until we get tetchy, but Level 50 makes sense. Fought a war, did she?”
“Yes. Almost all by herself.”
Ulvama turned guiltily to where the crystal healing house had reappeared on the hill. Isten’s mouth opened.
“A war? With how many soldiers?”
“It was at sea. Thousands of [Pirates] and—Dullahans. Humans. I don’t know how many.”
The boy’s eyes lit up.
“I want to see the sea someday. I want to swim on a wave and surf down the beach. Not just in Drowned Elf Marsh! A proper wave.”
Perhaps that would have been strange to hear for Erin, who lived in her world of mass transit, but Ulvama took the statement as she might from a child from Liscor or her tribe. Visiting the sea was hard—and as a Fraerling? It had been over a week and a half of journeying through dangerous terrain, and that was with the Corumdon Beetle’s help.
Yet again, Revoid took the statement at face value. He finished his rope, tying off the end, and stood.
“Put that rope aside for a moment, Isten. Not like we’ll get it done today. I reckon you’d have to be at least Level 30, but we might as well write down the question you asked Miss Ulvama here while we’re checking. Y’wanna come, Ulvama? Just to the library there.”
He nodded to a building in the middle of the village. Just a boulder that had been driven into the earth; a round, wooden door painted red was the entrance. Ulvama hesitated, then beckoned to the hamster and followed.
 
——
 
The library of the village was more secure than most buildings. It was sunken into the ground to avoid destruction, and Ulvama could tell it was well-enchanted, if not with what spells. The light came from natural light; when Ulvama entered what she assumed would be a tomb-like room, it was bright and open with maybe as many as two hundred books in varying conditions on the first floor.
The ceiling was see-through! At least from the inside. Ulvama craned her head up, mouth open, and Revoid wore a pleased look on his face. He headed straight for a big tome, twice as wide as Ulvama’s chest, sitting on a big lectern at the back of the room.
Ulvama was more concerned with the books on shelves. She read the spines as she passed.
 
Tales of Adventure and Woe, Issue #8887. 
The Seventeen Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar, a [Traveller]’s Guide. 
102 Ways to Flirt.
Dragonlords of Valor and Woe; a Chronology of the Age of Settlers to the Age of Magic’s End.
Aunt Nettle’s Insect Baking Guide.
 
The books all fascinated her. Clearly, some were historical, and some were perhaps written by local Fraerlings. However, all were rebound, Ulvama suspected, given their age. Indeed, she felt like every single damn book in the library was enchanted.
The Battle Hamster sniffed at a book and got a warning glare from her in case it thought anything was food. Revoid called to Isten.
