“Knock down a hammie or feed it lunch! Come on, who’s gonna take him on? If you’re over Level 40, you have to use one hand!”
“What if you’re over Level 40 and a fragile old man like me?”
A querulous voice from a Fraerling from out of town. He was white-haired and stoop-backed, one of those classic-looking old [Wizards], though his hat was a funny cap rather than a pointed one. Zemmy frowned at him and was about to answer when Gollesume hollered.
“No one’s buying it, Pozint. One hand! And only one enchantment, you cheater!”
The old man sighed. Then he straightened and tapped his chest with a wand.
“Oh, fine. [Body of the Minotaur].”
He doubled in size and grew muscles as Erin’s jaw dropped, and he raised one hand as he strode into the ring. The Battle Hamster put up his paws, good eye narrowing as the crowd cheered.
“Grimalkin would love him.”
Ulvama snorted with laughter, and they watched the Battle Hamster and old man go at it; the hamster won, if barely, and the old man groaned as he exited the ring.
“One hand! It’s too much for an old fellow. Pitting a fighting hammie against me at my age without even letting me double-buff?”
Onwards they went as the hamster took a water break and Mera jumped in the ring, proclaiming she’d beat anyone one-handed. Erin wasn’t as interested in the brawling as the other stuff.
Fraerlings were bringing things they’d made from other villages. Enchanted items, food and monster parts they’d looted, and Erin’s chest inflated as she saw some of her food proudly on display along with hamburgers. She approached and shook hands and waved at people and explained a bit about where she was from.
 
——
 
Ulvama only dragged Erin away to go sample foods after fifteen minutes, and then they saw the Corumdon Beetle giving Fraerling children rides around the village.
It looked happy. Almost like that weird feeling in Erin’s chest. She realized she wasn’t stressed or afraid or angry or…
If she didn’t remember home or her friends, she felt relaxed. Erin had to struggle to keep those feelings in her until she wondered why she was working so hard. When she glanced at Ulvama—she saw the [Shaman] watching her.
“What? I’m relaxing! Look how relaxed I am.”
“I know.”
The Goblin’s gaze was actually going past Erin’s head. She was peering at something behind Erin, the [Innkeeper] realized. When the young woman frowned, she heard Ulvama make a faint sound in her throat.
“Erin. Those are…Fraerling plushies?”
They had come to the games-section of any festival, the mandatory booths of enterprising Fraerlings. In this case, it was Gollesume the Great and a booth where Fraerlings hurled brightly colored pebbles at moving and stationary targets.
They had little red balls that burst into mini fireballs, purple balls that wobbled and curved when you threw them—and Ulvama was already striding past Erin to stare at the prizes.
“Come one, come all! Knock down all the targets and win a prize! Hey, Ulvama, Erin! Want to try winning one of these stuffed creatures? They’re not real creatures. I thought about actually stuffing one and miniaturizing it, but…”
They were Fraerling stuffed animals, so not teddy bears or dogs or cats—which Fraerlings regarded as monstrous. Rather, Erin saw a cute green stuffed aphid with big button eyes, a long lizard that a Fraerling girl was wearing on her head, a butterfly, and—the object that Ulvama’s eyes were focused on—
The Battle Hamster in miniature. He had a small inverted ‘v’ for a mouth and big frowny brows over the eye—only one eye. Gollesume proudly tapped it as Ulvama looked at him wordlessly.
“Like him? I stitched up the hammie just last night. He looks good, doesn’t he?”
The Battle Hamster had wandered by the booth more than once and given his replica an outraged look. Ulvama’s eyes were locked on the plushie. There was only one of each; Fraerlings didn’t have the inclination or time to mass-produce things. No one had won the hamster plushie; he was the hardest to win.
Erin heard cursing and saw Zemmy and Mera trying to nail rapidly-moving targets that were jerking up and down. The painted red and white targets paused, then came together to form a big, mocking smile as Zemmy reached for another ball.
“Damn. It’s too hard, Gollesume! Give us another try!”
“Sorry. One try per person!”
The [Wizard] smugly folded his arms, and Mera and Zemmy slunk away. Ulvama turned to Gollesume.
“Can I try? Can I use Skills? Magic?”
“Nothing beyond personal enchantments. Skills are fine. But try hard—I made the hardest level hard, just so meatheads like those can’t steal all my prizes.”
Gollesume ducked as a pair of dirtballs rattled off his stall. As he chased after Zemmy and Mera, Erin watched Ulvama muttering spells.
“[Lion’s Strength]. [Steadying Hands]. [Viper’s Dexterity]…”
“Ulvama, how badly do you want the hamster? I mean, he’s pretty cute, but the real guy is with us.”
The Hobgoblin gave Erin an incredulous stare and pointed at the plushie.
“It’s adorable.”
She wound up for her first shot with a yellow ball and tossed it. The ball missed one target, ricocheted around the booth, and blasted past Erin’s head as she ducked. There was a cry in the distance as it hit someone. Ulvama just gritted her teeth as she picked up the red ball.
 
——
 
Five sweaty minutes later, Ulvama was lying face-first on the booth as Gollesume tried to get her to leave.
“I can’t give you another chance. Tell you what—if everyone tries and fails to get the plushie, you can have another shot. Ulvama? Ulvama, it’s not the end of the world…”
Erin was fascinated. She had never seen Ulvama sulk, but the longing way the [Shaman] stared at the toy hamster made Erin realize—she really wanted it. There was a lot of stuff Ulvama had wanted in the inn. Mostly food. But she’d never actually asked for any possession that Erin recalled. Just paints for her work.
Gollesume was glancing at Erin, clearly hoping she’d drag the Goblin off. Ulvama’s head rose as she sniffed and peered at the hamster. She turned to Erin and saw the [Innkeeper] rolling up one sleeve, then the other.
“You said any Skill’s good, right, Gollesume?”
Erin asked innocently. The [Wizard] shrugged, smiling broadly.
“Sure. Sometimes I ban people with good Skills, but you’re free to try. [Lion’s Strength] doesn’t matter much if you can’t hit a moving target.”
He winked, and the targets began to move up and down, even flipping around. Erin had watched Ulvama cycle through the balls. She picked up the yellow one casually and tossed it up and down. Then she glanced at Ulvama’s hopeful face.
The [Innkeeper]’s lips twitched as she took aim…then she eyed Gollesume’s confident smirk. Erin checked the ball, then exclaimed.
“Hey, is the enchantment wearing off on this one, Gollesume? Do you have backups? Look, it’s out of color.”
The [Wizard] frowned at the yellow ball, which had indeed faded slightly in luster.
“What the heck? Sure, take this one.”
He tossed her a spare yellow ball, and Erin rubbed her hands over it. The watching Hobgoblin saw the ball brighten faintly as the [Innkeeper] smiled. Gollesume’s eyes narrowed.
“Hey, wait a second—what Skills are you planning on using?”
Erin gave him an outright grin.
“[Unerring Throw]?”
“Oh come on—”
Erin threw the first ball, and it didn’t stop bouncing for a full minute.
 
——
 
Six minutes later, Ulvama reached out as a scowling little hamster plushie floated down and into her arms. She hugged it to her chest instantly, and a slightly defeated-looking, but grinning Gollesume shook Erin’s hands.
“That was wretchedly underhanded. I’m keeping the super-bouncy ball, and you’re on my blacklist. Just you wait till next festival. If you’re around, I’m using invisible targets on you. Ones that phase out of existence!”
Erin laughed and glanced at Ulvama. She was holding the plushie up, and she wasn’t smiling as wide as Erin had hoped. Her red eyes were locked on the hamster with such a soft, joyful expression that the [Innkeeper] felt embarrassed.
“Thank you, Erin.”
Ulvama turned to her and carried the hamster in her arms.
“Eh, it was nothing. I was having fun—you really like plushies?”
“I like this one. Because he’s soft and cute and…this.”
Ulvama put the hamster on her head, rearranging his little paws so he clung to her hair. Erin had to admit—it was a very cute look. Ulvama actually spun around as a few Fraerlings turned and pointed, laughing good-naturedly.
“I’m glad I won it, then.”
The [Shaman] was nodding. She hugged Erin once, hard. The [Innkeeper] blushed; Ulvama wiped at her eyes.
“Is my first gift from a non-Goblin. I’m keeping it and bringing it with me.”
“It’s…”
Erin didn’t manage to say ‘nothing’. After a moment, the Goblin glanced away from Erin’s face. She cradled the little, angry hamster in her arms and stood there, mouth slightly open. As if she were about to say something, but wasn’t quite sure what it was. Then her eyes flickered. She glanced towards the sun, checking the time, and her features grew excited.
“Oh! It’s almost time! Come, this way!”
“Time for what?”
Ulvama winked and then pulled Erin on. Then Erin did get to see Ulvama smile.
 
——
 
The smile came as a bunch of Fraerlings stood outside Vrilla’s pumpkin house, which she’d converted into an open stage. Erin stood in the crowd as Zemmy and the hamster appeared.
“Hey, you seen Mera? She said she’d meet us here. This is the best hammie I’ve ever met, Erin. He fights really good, and he has a bat!”
The hamster looked smug despite his bruises as he patted his stomach and full cheeks. Erin gave him a resigned look and then saw two green curtains part. Vrilla appeared in a performer’s outfit; leaves patterned upwards across her chest and legs, leaving her shoulders bare, with a bright yellow flower blooming over her heart.
“Hello, everyone! Today, for the Festival of Spring’s Safety, we’re putting on a simple routine! We have an outsider who’s taught us some dances—please applaud, or I’ll hex you, for Ulvama!”
She waved a Goblin onto the stage, and Erin’s mouth opened as Ulvama appeared in a similar costume. Zemmy clapped and cheered—right until he saw someone else appear on stage.
“Wh—Mera?”
Even the [Brawler] had dressed up, and a group of six Fraerlings, four female, two male, posed on stage. They had on pretty revealing, even risque outfits! This was the least amount of clothing Ulvama had worn yet, and she had a crown of flowers!
The flowers weren’t explicitly risque. It just wasn’t something Erin had ever seen Ulvama wear.
“What’s Mera doing? She’s almost naked.”
“Yeah! And Ulvama’s doing it too!”
Zemmy and Erin scowled in the crowd as the crowd cheered, very happy with the outfits. The Battle Hamster stared at them, then began washing its fur as the music began. Then the Fraerlings and Ulvama began performing the dance that she’d shown them the first time.
The Dance of the Passing Moons. Erin stood there, watching as they danced to that odd, lonely, spiritual sound and saw Ulvama smiling, both part of the small team and aware of the crowd, but also just dancing for herself on stage. The [Innkeeper] was smiling too, she found, and when the dance ended and the applause began, she waited for Ulvama to come out.
The Hobgoblin gave Erin an innocent look as Zemmy punched Mera on the shoulder the moment she exited. She was grinning.
“What? You mad because I didn’t invite you? I told Vrilla you wouldn’t wear that.”
“I don’t know why you wanted to wear that! Isn’t it too revealing?”
“Sometimes it’s nice to be stared at.”
Erin crossed her arms and shook her head. Ulvama just rolled her eyes at the [Innkeeper] as the two [Brawlers] got into a fight. They went to find Eurise, who introduced them to the guardian of another village.
“This is Zinni, Zemmy’s grandmother and her village’s protector.”
“Howdy. I’m a [Rancher]. I keep all those aphids you’ve been hearing about. Biggest aphids you’ve ever seen. Some of them are near four inches tall.”
Erin gave Zinni a blank smile.
“Those are big…aphids?”
The white-haired lady looked frailer with age, but her grip wasn’t. She had on one of those crowns of flowers and gave Ulvama an appraising look.
“Well now, that’s the third Goblin I’ve ever seen in my life, and this one’s neither dark-skinned nor dead like the other two. And she’s cute as can be. I saw you chasing the kids around. You’re telling me this turns into a Goblin King?”
She pinched Ulvama’s cheek, and the [Shaman] blushed, much to Erin’s amusement. Zinni was like the eternal grandmother, and she was quizzing Erin and Ulvama about the outside world with much more knowledge than most Fraerlings.
“Bah, I told you all our [Druids] were onto something. New Lands in Izril? If I was younger, I’d be leading the charge to have a bunch of us go out and settle it. Give another continent a shot.”
Eurise was nodding, face regretful as well.
“It sounds like fun. But explain to me again what you were saying about ghosts? Zinni doesn’t believe you.”
“Neither d’you. But I like stories.”
Erin’s tales of her world, of Tallfolk struggles, were distant to the Fraerlings. She had readily talked about Goblins and her inn and tried to allude to the dead gods, but it was hard.
The hardest part was—Eurise and Zinni exchanged glances when Erin mentioned the deadlands and Gnomes.
“Gnomes. Right. I heard we were related or cousins to that lot. The big cities all make a fuss over their you-know-whats.”
Zinni gave Erin a careful glance, and she blurted it out.
“The boxes? I know about them. I told you, I met Gnomes.”
That seemed to convince Eurise and Zinni she wasn’t completely lying; Eurise exhaled and raised his brows.
“If that’s so, that’s something. I reckon a bunch of the other villagers who like talking about that kind of thing—Gollesume, Bowom, and so on—might want to have a big meeting about it. And the cities’ll be all over you if you convince them that you met Gnomes.”
Erin looked from face to face. Both Level 50+ Fraerlings nodded.
“Wh—don’t you have questions? I met Gnomes.”
“I reckon that’s important. But it’s also a festival. Let’s go back to them cows. I can’t keep one of those safe, but how about those, uh, Sariant Lambs? I reckon you can milk one of them.”
Zinni tapped the table, and Erin’s mouth stayed open before she vouchsafed that Sariant Lambs would probably not be chill with being milked. And she realized the Gnomes, while important, didn’t draw every mind and thought to them here.
—And again, she thought Zineryr would have loved that.
 
——
