“That’s…fine by us. You saved my life. Honestly, anything on top of that is—if we can repay you, let us know.”
The Fraerling waved this off with a hand that also had scars on it. Bite marks? Big bite marks…but he hadn’t lost any limbs, or at least, Bowom hadn’t been doing the replacing.
“Don’t go thanking us for anything yet. Like I said, it’s against the rules to just send you to other Fraerlings, and cities all scream about protocols. Even the Tallguard. But we’ll put some feelers out, ask them if they’re willing to let you enter, or even just pass by them. Maybe they’ll say we need mindwiping potions or something silly, but best case, we’ll be allowed to ferry you via bird to them, then, from there, actually close to Tallfolk civilization.”
That was…ideal! Erin exhaled.
“Thank you. If we could do that, it’d be great.”
“I reckon it would be. Especially because there’s no chance anyone here will be able to dispel that height enchantment you’re under. All the local spellcasters took one look at it and said it was above their grade. We’ve only got a few Level 40s; nothing better.”
Her height thing. This time, Ulvama’s head came up, and Erin blinked.
“Wh—you think Fraerlings in a city could fix that? Silvenia was the one who enchanted us!”
Eurise’s eyes crinkled up at the edges as he grinned.
“I almost wish we were back in that pavilion-place, because it’s still strange thinking that the same half-Elf who drowned in the swamp’s still kicking about. So she’s high-level?”
“Yeah…”
He nodded agreeably, then jabbed his chest with a thumb.
“We’re Fraerlings. Anything she can do, a Fraerling city’s got the best chance of undoing short of Wistram itself. And I heard they weren’t doing so well of late. So…count on that. I’ll let you know what the bigshots in the cities say. Might take a bit since they love talking and we’re far-out. Can’t just send a spell, we’ve gotta find the closest Tallguard and get them to whistle it in. Anything you two need?”
Erin just gaped at Eurise. She peered at him, then Roja, then Zemmy and Mera. She couldn’t read Roja well, but the two [Brawlers] were an open book to her. They’d been whispering and shoving each other like immature children until Roja glared at them. Either they didn’t know anything or they were genuinely…
Eurise raised his brows until Erin straightened. The [Innkeeper] looked him dead in the eyes, and this time, her hazel gaze was sharp. And while her aura was suppressed, all the Fraerlings and Ulvama got the impression she was sizing Eurise up, analyzing him.
“What’s the catch?”
He blinked. Glanced at Roja. Shrugged at Erin.
“I got nothing to catch. If you mean what we want—don’t tell anyone where we are. Doubt you’ll be able to find us even if you come back searching, but if we see Tallfolk around, it’ll get nasty.”
It was a calm warning without much threat to it. Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“I mean, what do you want? I can tell you about Gnomes. I’ve met them. If you want to know about the outside world like Bowom was asking, or Ulvama’s knowledge of Goblins, we’ll tell you.”
Eurise scratched at his head. His eyes flickered, and he smiled slightly. Then, oddly, sadly.
“If you want to tell us anything, go on. It’s good to hear of the outside world now and then. Sets a fire under the young ‘uns. But no one’s going to hold you upside down and shake it out of you.”
“You don’t want anything? Even though we’re endangering your village? I know N—I know a Fraerling. You have to be worried. What about your [Mayor]? Are we going to get a potion before we go?”
Erin pressed, stepping forwards, voice heated. Eurise caught her finger as it poked at his chest. Gently, he stepped back and lifted his hands.
“We don’t want anything, Miss Erin. You came asking for help. Well, you got it. I’d have been put out if you melted in the jungle without us getting there. Never you mind if you heard Roja or someone mouthing off about ranging afield or a few houses getting damaged. Worse has happened. We don’t want anything.”
“But the danger—”
It was Roja who interjected suddenly. She tossed her head and spat to the side.
“We’re not afraid of Tallfolk. If we were, maybe it’d change our opinions, miss. We’re wary as we should be, but afraid enough to stop from doing the right thing? We’re neither that nor desperate enough to demand something of you two. What kind of cowards have you been associating with?”
She fixed Erin with a narked stare, and Eurise hid a grin with one weathered hand. Zemmy and Mera nodded.
“I’ve always wanted to fistfight a Tallfolk. Even if the big cities don’t help, Mera ‘n I will escort you and your friend anywhere you want, miss! Sounds like a better adventure than us two heading to a city on foot.”
Eurise gave them an indulgent roll of the eyes and leaned forwards towards Erin.
“You don’t have to take them. They’re our young prodigies. Likely to get themselves eaten if someone doesn’t watch them. Again.”
“I punched my way out of that snake, and I can do it again!”
Mera shouted indignantly, and Zemmy added in a sotto voce voice.
“The wrong way.”
They started shoving at each other, and Erin stood there, seeming so vaguely lost that Eurise traded a glance with Roja. It was Bowom who wandered out of the library, where he’d been definitely-not-eavesdropping, with a book and spoke.
“I think she just expects us to demand something from her. Tallfolk times are still hard, or she’s lived too much with Drakes.”
Erin said nothing as Eurise’s curious glare eyed her up and down. She was still tense, still suspicious, and didn’t know what to say. Sorry for misjudging you? She didn’t believe it. Not yet. She stood there as the silence grew longer and awkward, until someone grabbed her cheeks.
Ulvama pulled the corners of Erin’s mouth up in a smile and gave the Fraerlings a real one.
“Thank you. You’re kind. We…haven’t met many kind people for a while. The last people we met at sea were very, very bad. It was hard until we met you.”
That was all she said. Erin tried to pull away from Ulvama’s fingers, but gave them a grudging nod. Roja gazed at Erin and Ulvama and then sighed suddenly. Some of the reserve drained from her, and she gave Erin a sympathetic expression.
“So says the Goblin.”
Eurise simply nodded. He held out a hand, and after a moment, Erin shook it.
 
——
 
The Fraerlings left after that. Then it was just Erin and Ulvama.
And the Battle Hamster, but he was mostly busy stuffing crumbs of the crackers that Ulvama had been served into his mouth. Erin waited until everyone was out of sight and turned to Ulvama.
“So. Do you think they were telling the truth? I can’t read Eurise. He’s over Level 50.”
“I know.”
The [Shaman] was watching Erin. The [Innkeeper] was on her feet with a wooden cane, but she didn’t even seem to need it to stand. Already?
“Eurise promised to help me in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. I think he’s telling the truth, or he was at the time. I’m not sure about the others, but we have to believe them, I guess. I saw the beetle helping pull houses.”
“He’s being a good boy.”
“Where does he sleep?”
Ulvama pointed aimlessly at one of the houses with a huge basin that was probably for collecting water.
“I think I saw them piling leaves on top of him over there. Erin, they’re nice. And the village is very old. There was a book of Tales of Adventure and Woe. The edition was under ten thousand.”
Erin searched around for Zemmy and Mera, who were racing through the village, calling out to some Fraerlings their age.
“That’s great. I’m not feeling horrible. They kept joking that I might turn to jelly, but I haven’t asked how well I am. Can you tell how much they fixed me up? Ulvama? Ulv—”
She turned, and Ulvama’s hands were on the sides of Erin’s face. The [Shaman] put her forehead to Erin’s, and Erin jerked away.
“What? What’s going on?”
She whispered, eyes darting around, then lowering her voice, but Ulvama just leaned on Erin, hugging her.
“Erin. I don’t think they’re going to kill us in our sleep.”
“What? I don’t think so either. But if we have to—”
“They’re not going to kick us out, Erin. You heard what he said.”
“They might do something. We don’t know.”
“They would have done it last night. Or when they saw me. Erin…maybe they’re good people.”
The [Innkeeper] reached up, and the hamster gave her a warning glower, as if suspecting she was why Ulvama was falling over. She awkwardly patted Ulvama on the back.
“They—might be, but we don’t know. You don’t know, Ulvama. I’m just being cautious.”
The [Shaman] regarded Erin with her crimson gaze, her pupils, a slightly darker red, moving in her eyes.
“And I’m not? I’m the Goblin, Erin.”
“Yeah, that was what Roja said. They don’t know you. We don’t know them. They saved my life. So…”
“So maybe they’re like you. I didn’t trust your inn when I got there, Erin. Or you. But maybe they’re like that. Please, calm down.”
She grasped Erin’s arms and shook her lightly. The [Innkeeper] grew defensive.
“Calm? I am calm.”
“You smashed the village when you were dreaming. You seemed like you were ready to fight Eurise. Stop. Please? You promised me you’d stop hurting yourself and get help.”
Last night. Erin flinched a bit when she remembered that and Ulvama’s expression and words. She glanced away.
“I’m just—”
Ulvama collapsed, pulling Erin down onto the table where they sat. The Battle Hamster sniffed its way up to the table as Erin fell over, and Erin lay awkwardly against the bench.
“Ulvama. What’s going on?”
“Erin, you’re almost dead. You nearly died yesterday.”
“I can walk. Bowom said so. You saw me—”
“He’s a [Mad Doctor]. He puts lizard feet onto people, Erin. You’re not well. You admitted it. Rest.”
Erin began to object, but her head was resting on Ulvama’s lap, and her energy to get up was lower than she thought. She still protested.
“I’m fine. Really.”
The Battle Hamster hopped onto the table as Ulvama scratched behind its ears. It sighed, spat up some of the carrot it had been eating, and began to nibble at the gross, saliva-covered food. Ulvama patted the bench, and because she was all twisted up, Erin grudgingly wiggled her lower torso onto it.
“I’m fine, Ulvama. Don’t cast a [Sleep] spell on me.”
“I’m not.”
Erin stared suspiciously up at Ulvama’s face, eyes narrowed. She didn’t yawn. Her eyes just began fluttering. Ulvama patted her forehead gently and studied the village as the sun shone down and the steam puffing out of the Ovenhouse turned briefly green. Fraerlings walked on past with building tools and materials. A few wandered up, saw Erin and Ulvama, and wandered away.
“I have [Twofold Rest], you know.”
“Mm.”
That was the last thing Erin said for a while. Her breathing slowed, and she kept meaning to raise her head because she was sleeping on Ulvama’s lap and that was weird and Ulvama would probably get a dead leg. But she couldn’t open her eyes, and she kept…
Drifting…
Ulvama sat there for a while as a breeze ran past her, setting the hamster’s fur rippling and her dreadlocks moving. She sat like that until she felt the first ripple coming from beneath her. A heaviness in the air.
The scent of burning. A feeling like a blade held close to your skin…magnifying. And a presence, like a ship—no, a building. An inn coming at you with all its crushing weight. Immovable. Filled with neither burning fury nor cold ice.
Just determination unto death.
Like last night. The Battle Hamster’s fur stood on end, and it hopped away from the bench. It began to sway menacingly until Ulvama reached down and took one of Erin’s hands.
“It’s okay. It’s okay. I’m safe. We’re all safe.”
She spoke to Erin. The frowning, unconscious [Innkeeper] and her growing aura wavered. The feeling of menace in the air faded slightly, and the library next to them stopped shaking.
Bowom and another Fraerling popped their heads out of the library, and the [Mad Doctor] lowered the book he’d been holding. He tip-toed over as Erin’s breathing grew calmer.
“I can get a Draught of Slumbers whipped up if this is a problem.”
“Maybe later. I think this is okay.”
Ulvama spoke to him, and he gazed down. Knowingly, at the scars around Erin’s neck and wrists and at Ulvama.
“Freed [Slaves]? You don’t have to say, you know.”
“No. Almost. But they never managed it.”
The [Doctor] nodded, eyes on the slumbering [Innkeeper]’s face. What she dreamed of now, neither one could say, but she no longer exuded her aura. Bowom turned to Ulvama after a few minutes.
“Being mad is fun, you know. I truly am, I suppose. It takes a bit of insanity to laugh at gushing blood from the stump of an arm and replace it with a frog’s limb. Level 50 scares me a bit. Because I wonder if I’d fall into my class or abandon it. But I’ve always thought there’s madness and then there’s evil. A person can be one, without the other. Some nights, you need to laugh as the water’s rising and unlock the basement door. But what you keep in the basement matters. If that makes sense.”
He bent over the [Innkeeper], then looked at Ulvama. The Hobgoblin was gently brushing at Erin’s hair, trying not to break the fragile follicles.
“She’s a bit familiar to my class. I can feel it. What’s her madness look like?”
The Hobgoblin stared at something she could still see.
“Burning ships. Falling skies. Impossible things. Statues and immortal moments. All to save one person.”
Bowom straightened. He nodded and smiled.
“Best let her rest, then. Sounds like she’s earned it.”
He tip-toed off, and after a while, the Battle Hamster returned to the bench. It sat down, then spat another chunk of carrot out. It held it out to Ulvama, and she shook her head. It kept nibbling, and the [Shaman] just sat there. Head tilted back to let the sun play off her skin.
After a while—
The [Innkeeper] woke up again. But she pretended, for a while, that she was still asleep. She just listened to Ulvama’s breathing, the sounds of the village, and for a thing to threaten her or Ulvama.
It never appeared. So the [Innkeeper] dozed off again.
That was how her healing began.
 
——
 
After a few days, Erin stopped falling asleep at random. She still slept the night through, as many as twelve hours, though she could get up earlier.
This was with [Twofold Rest]. But the naps stopped. Even so, Erin began to take Ulvama’s suggestions to take breaks seriously.
