Her legs handled the exertion without a problem; if anything, Erin felt like she was faster and more coordinated at dancing than she had been before her adventures at sea! Even Ulvama seemed vaguely impressed as Erin insisted on showing the Fraerlings her [Flutter Step]. She was dancing for the children, who were delighted and begged to practice the move—but Erin’s attention was on Ulvama.
Because if Erin was a practicing student with Skills, interest, and some natural talent, Ulvama was the master. At first, she just copied Erin and dutifully kept up with the Fraerlings, who had a very wide coverage of distance in their dances. They loved crossing the ground and would even do side-shimmies across the entire dance-floor in a rapid ankle-killing shuffle that reminded Erin of a roach running.
Which was where they’d gotten a lot of their dance moves from. However…Ulvama couldn’t hide her ability forever. When she perfectly-copied Vrilla’s third trick, the [Angry Druid] turned to her.
“Alright, your turn.”
“Me? I’m just a [Shaman]…Erin, you show everyone something. Do your stupid disco.”
Ulvama put up some resistance, glancing at Erin, but the first sheen of perspiration was on the Goblin’s skin, and she was looking—happy. There wasn’t a smile yet, but her lips were twitching. Erin shook her head.
“Nope. You’re the expert. Come on, Ulvama. Everyone will love it!”
The music crystal had stopped, and Vrilla swapped it out with a new one as Ulvama thought. She had seldom looked shy, but when she stepped into the center of the floor, she gave Erin a sudden, suspicious glance as if she had realized she’d been maneuvered into this.
Checkmate. Erin gave her a thumbs up; Bowom gave her three from the window.
The next song that played had high, shrill voices in a choir, singing without words, or if they were words—nonsense, fake words. Unless Fraerlings were speaking Gnomish or something.
Vrilla fussed with the song crystal.
“It’s fast-ish. But I’m not sure if it’s good for you. Ulvama?”
The Goblin was tilting her head, and Bowom cupped his hands to the glass.
“You’re listening to experimental music still, Vrilla? This is why no one dances with you!”
She pointed, and he ran as a blade of grass uprooted itself and began to chase him. Erin exhaled. So it was sort of weird music. Even the other Fraerlings were amused. But Ulvama closed her eyes for a second—then moved.
Erin’s dances, the stuff she was most comfortable showing other people, were the dance moves you’d see in music videos—the choreographed kind of dance for an audience. Nothing personal; performative.
But she knew Ulvama had other kinds of dances up her sleeves. When the [Shaman] extended one leg and swept it around her in a wide circle, then balanced on the ball of her other foot and swung herself out, arms spread, holding the pose perfectly, the other Fraerlings stopped mocking Vrilla’s taste in music and watched.
The first dance that Ulvama performed by herself wasn’t slow. The pace of the song Vrilla had put on was fast, arguably as fast as the last one. But she held each move, swapping between them after that sense of a pause—like a statue moving through different poses.
And they did look like a ballerina’s poses, or a figure skater’s, only on the polished floor instead of a skating rink. Ulvama threw back her head, the magical paint on her arms flashing, arms extended, one arm behind her, the other held out like an invitation—but she was alone.
Eyes closed, in a world of her own. It was a dance Erin had seen her do just once before in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was personal, evocative to watch, but Ulvama moved through the changes of posture as if there was only one person in the world.
Like a lonely priestess or someone that should have been wearing long, flowing clothing, standing in an important site, some courtyard before a shrine, or maybe on a cliff over the sea, heralding the rising sun. The ritualistic dance continued until the song crystal ran out—and then Ulvama opened her eyes. She saw the Fraerlings watching her and was flustered.
“Is not very good. And I—”
“No, that was great!”
Erin called out and hoped the Fraerlings thought so too—a cheer from the two children and applause from the adults instantly vindicated her. Ulvama blushed.
She blushed! And Vrilla demanded to know what that was called.
“Eh, it—it called Tish Rehuvale-fesuln. It—I don’t know what the words are. Dance of Passing-Moons?”
“Can you show me again? You’re extending your limbs, and your balance—do you not have a [Dancer] class?”
“Eh, eh, [Shaman] has a bit of that in it…”
Ulvama tried to back away, but it was too late. Before she knew it, she was holding her arm out, showing Vrilla, and because she was a good teacher, she had to maneuver Vrilla’s leg into the right position. Her hands leapt away instantly, but Vrilla didn’t notice, and now Erin was trying to copy her.
“Ulvama, help! Am I doing it right?”
“No. How are you so wrong? Like this, like this!”
Ulvama had no problem correcting Erin’s deliberately-bad posture. Then it was too late. She caught herself adjusting a Fraerling boy’s posture, hesitated, and looked around as if expecting censure for a Goblin manhandling Fraerlings. But everyone was focused on the dancing, not her.
When she saw Erin wink at her, the Goblin’s eyes narrowed—but then Vrilla distracted her with a new Fraerling technique the [Shaman] had never seen before; what Erin had been waiting for slipped out.
A smile between brushing her dreadlocks out of her face. While wiping sweat off her forehead and being offered a drink. Then when she sniffed at her armpit and turned.
“Anyone got something nice smelling?”
“Here. Dead gods, Bowom didn’t get you anything? That’s just like him. He smells like alchemy all day, so I doubt he even notices.”
Vrilla handed Ulvama a ball of scented resin, and the Hobgoblin burst into a relieved smile.
“Thank you! I didn’t want to ask—and she doesn’t use any scents.”
She pointed an accusatory thumb at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] protested.
“I use shampoo on my hair! Actually, do you guys have shampoo?”
Everyone gave Ulvama and Erin such a mildly offended and horrified look that the [Witch] and [Shaman] turned to stare accusingly at someone else. Bowom beamed at them until he realized he was in trouble for something. He took off running instantly this time.
 
——
 
After two days of Erin wandering over to people and asking for things Ulvama wanted in her stead, the Goblin seemed to realize that no one was going to treat her like, well, a Goblin.
It didn’t mean she went back to grabbing anything she wanted and doing as she pleased. But she seemed to relax.
Erin had this odd feeling of being in a place where—she was the outsider. She was the guest. But there was no expectation on her aside from dancing with Ulvama or agreeing to make some paper lanterns of every color that would float into the skies with candles. That festival was coming up, and Erin wasn’t sure if they should be preparing for it—or preparing to go.
She was growing restless again, just as Ulvama seemed to lose some of her reserve. Erin was feeling at her arms and debating opening the [Pavilion of Secrets].
She hadn’t since her near-death experience. But she felt it was time to…get back to work. For lack of a better word. She didn’t know what Pavilion-Erin would say or if she owed her for Nerry or…
Erin was sitting at her and Ulvama’s usual hangout. The Goblin wasn’t with her. Or rather, Ulvama was within eyeshot; she was just painting.
The Corumdon Beetle was flaring its wings every now and then, and Ulvama had a giant brush as she drew a magical symbol on its back, scolding it every time it moved.
Below her, the Battle Hamster was staring at a series of markings, sniffing at them, which were the designs Ulvama had offered to put onto its fur.
The Corumdon Beetle instantly was a willing participant in this magical upgrade. But it was so excited it kept messing up Ulvama’s work. She was painting bright yellow and black onto its shell, as well as a white outline, giving it a vaguely skull-like design, like a poisonous bug, and it really seemed to like the upgrade to its intimidation factor.
Erin wasn’t invited because apparently ‘she couldn’t draw’ or something rude like that. She was wondering how mad Ulvama would be if she slipped away for an hour or two.
Not that Erin wanted to go behind the [Shaman]’s back, but she felt like if she told Ulvama where she was going, she’d get pushback. So she was wrestling with that as she heard a now-familiar exchange just off to her right.
“Hey, Mera, how’s it going?”
“Oh shit, Zemmy—”
A young woman was chewing on a breakfast ice cream cone, courtesy of Erin’s transmutation Skill, when she bumped into a young man. He had reddish-brown hair; she was a darker blonde. Both wore that open clothing in imitation of Eurise: bare to the shoulders and beaten up.
The moment Mera turned, Zemmy kicked her. Erin winced; Fraerlings or not, getting kicked so hard you tumbled head over heels nine times and slammed into the Ovenhouse hard enough to shake the entire building looked like it hurt.
Mera picked herself up and charged Zemmy as he spread his arms in greeting—her return punch flipped him so fast the back of his head struck the ground, and he pulled his head out of the divot, swearing.
Neither one had attempted to dodge—and neither had pulled their punches. Both seemed to be in pain, and Mera grabbed Zemmy.
“I was eating an ice cream! Did you have to hit me right then? I nearly puked!”
“You’re the one eating sweets while I have to follow Eurise around all day! We’re tracking this giant creature with bigass claws—don’t blame me!”
“You piece of Heygele!”
Mera lifted him up and turned to throw him bodily, and someone shouted from the Ovenhouse.
“I warned you two, no brawling near my kitchen or you’re getting nothing for a week!”
Zemmy stopped trying to kick Mera in the back of the head, and she paused. She put him down, patted him on the shoulder, and they backed away from the wrath of the [Cook].
It was at this point Erin, who had seen this exact event play out at least eight times already, sometimes more than once per day, interrupted.
“Hey, excuse me. Mera and Zemmy, right?”
They brightened up as they turned to her, and Mera grinned.
“Hello! Erin?”
“That’s me. What are you two doing? I mean, why do you punch each other all the time? Every time you two meet, you deck each other. Are you from rival villages or something?”
Zemmy and Mera exchanged glances. Then they grinned. They answered over one another, like siblings.
“I dunno.”
“It’s sort of a tradition.”
When the [Innkeeper] gave them a blank look, Zemmy clarified.
“I grew up in another village. Mera grew up here, but we met often. You’ll see lots of us come for the festival, but Eurise trains anyone who wants it. She ‘n me met up, and we were the same age, so we said we’d train. And I think I—”
“No, it was me—”
“One of us decided whenever we met, we should give each other our best punch! And we kept doing it.”
The [Innkeeper] looked between the two as Mera nodded. She felt at her stomach.
“Hurts like heck, though. One time, Zemmy broke three of my ribs.”
“Yeah, but you’ve knocked out…um…sixteen teeth? We lost all our baby ones real fast.”
“Baby teeth? How old were you when you started this?”
“Five?”
“Five sounds right.”
Erin’s mouth dropped open. She pointed at them.
“So every day, sometimes, or more than once per day, every time you two see each other, you punch each other as hard as you can?”
“Yup. Eurise says it’s stupid and why we level so much. We’re [Brawlers], by the way. I’m Level 40. Zemmy’s 41.”
Mera scowled at Zemmy as he kissed a bicep..
“Should have tagged along to fight the Orangebugs, Mera.”
“I had a fever so high Bowom said he could boil water on my forehead!”
“Yeah, so did I. Didn’t stop me.”
She was poking at a scar on his bicep he’d earned from that fight as Erin held up a hand.
“Uh…is that normal?”
Zemmy and Mera hesitated, and a passing Fraerling, Isten’s mother, called out.
“No, they’re just weird.”
The two Fraerlings scratched at the back of their heads, laughed, and blushed, like this was some great compliment. But Erin was well and truly astounded.
“Level 40? Really? I thought someone was pulling my leg.”
“Nah, it’s true. I reckon it’s because we’re so evenly matched. Plus, we have a vow. One day, it just popped into our heads. [Vow of Rivals: First Blow]!”
A vow? Erin’s eyebrows would have popped off her head if they could have. So their vow to always meet and hit the other…the two were nudging each other now, and they were like brother and sister.
“You ask her, Zemmy.”
“No, you. She’s from your village…”
—And they were like kids, for all their levels. Erin cleared her throat.
“Ask me what?”
“Uh—wanna fight? Eurise says you’re over Level 50, so you’re one’ve three in all the villages. The others get tired of us begging them for a match.”
“Plus, Eurise knows all our moves. We heard your friend, Ulvama, say you were tough as nails and punched out that Corumdon Beetle and an entire colony of soldier ants. And you’ve got a pet Fighting Hammy. They’re tough! Please?”
They wanted to spar with her? It was ridiculous—and the first time anyone had ever asked Erin for a sparring match since…Calruz. She lifted her hands, laughing.
“I’m not that tough. You’re [Warriors]. It wouldn’t be fun.”
Mera shoved Zemmy before he could step forwards. She slung an arm around Erin and squeezed, and Erin was reminded of Relc doing that to Klbkch. No wonder the Revalantor always looked annoyed.
“Just a bit, Miss Erin! Come on, Bowom can stitch us back up. We’re not allowed to fight the beetle, and he’s tough enough to be fun. Unless you’re scared.”
“Ha-ha. I’m not a kid, and I’m not scared. Please let go.”
Erin was getting a bit annoyed by Mera’s too-wide grin. She knew she was being annoying to provoke Erin. She didn’t shove or punch Erin, but she did circle around her.
“C’mon. I reckon I can take you.”
“I bet you can, too. I don’t want to hurt you. Or get hurt.”
Zemmy cupped his hands from the side.
“Ooh. You hear that? She thinks she can take you, Mera!”
“I reckon those are fighting words!”
Mera punched her hands together, and Erin realized she had on fingerless gloves to match her vaguely martial artist-style outfit. Erin bared her teeth as Ulvama looked up.
“I don’t want to fight you, Mera.”
“If you don’t wanna, you don’t wanna. But I reckon yer lying.”
“Oh, and why’s that?”
