The bubbling orb said, “You did not! That thing you made barely counts as the Red Dot.”

Silverite said, “Obsidian. Take this to heart: We will not be destroying Candlepoint until they reveal their true motive. By then, the rest of the world will want to move against them, too, if history has taught me anything.”

“I told you, Obsidian!” said the bubbling orb. “I told you exactly what she would say.”

The spiky black orb, Obsidian, grumbled.

Opal spoke up, “Destroying Candlepoint is the final option, because if it fails, there will be no second chance. When the Wall tried to tear down Candlepoint, Bulgan poked ten kilometer holes in the Wall, then set about a hundred mimics loose beyond the border. In three days, those hundred mimics have become ten thousand. The horde is out of control. The Kingdoms are calling for help with that problem, too.” She said, “And that was Bulgan being nice about his retaliation.”

Erick said, “I’ll send Ophiel to help clear mimics. It won’t be a full extermination, but it will get all the adults.”

Silverite said, “Thank you, Erick. Zago? Set it up.”

“Of course,” Zago said.

Opal continued, “I haven’t been able to spot where they’re making these items in Candlepoint, so either they are hiding their stashes very well, or they’re making them in Ar’Kendrithyst and sending specific items to Candlepoint when someone turns in darkchips.” She said, “This means that most, if not all, of the Dead City is in accordance with Candlepoint. This means, that unless we have a coalition of nations backing us, attacking Candlepoint is a fool’s idea, as the Wall has already illustrated.”

Killzone said, “I agree with most of Opal’s assessment, but it is entirely possible that Candlepoint could fall apart from the inside in a month. If it does not… then we will have to consider drastic measures.”

Silverite said, “Here’s what I want to happen: The Guilds will tell people not to go, and warn them of the Shadeling Curse. The Guard will keep an eye out for strange magics around town, and give every single person that they haul in a full body scan for any strange magics. Use your Sin Seekers to find those with extra Stats and have them tell you what they do. The Army will conduct business as normal, but you will see about finding a way into Umber Avenue, and reporting on what, exactly, is happening there. Archmages: Do not directly engage Candlepoint. Aside from that— Opal. I want to know everything about Candlepoint you can possibly discover. Obsidian; you’re on discovering what new magics are coming out of Candlepoint. Link up with Merit and do what you have to do to understand the threat and what these new Stats and other magical items are doing to people. Wave; Find out where Melemizargo is right now, and his recent locations over the past week. Erick? I don’t know what you want to do, but figure out some way to contribute. And where is Melemizargo right now? Has anyone had any sightings?”

Zago said, “Not for years.”

Killzone said, “Not since Planter and Yetta.”

Obsidian said, “Five days ago, around Wyrmrest Mountains. He harried me while I was working on the Red Dot. For your information, the mountains have a new caldera.”

“Just can’t shut up about your magic, can you?” Wave said, but the floating blob of water seemed to be looking toward Erick.

Silverite’s face seemed to relax.

As others mentioned recent encounters, Erick felt his own encounter was less important, less unique, in the grand scheme. Erick spoke up, “I went to the Hole yesterday with Ophiel to test out [Lightwalk] and practice evading attackers. I’m pretty sure Melemizargo was down there, watching the whole time.”

Silverite went from whatever small joy she had, to staring off into nothing, looking like a person fending off a headache.

Okay. So. Maybe his most recent encounter with Melemizargo was not a normal occurrence.

Wave said, “I’m glad you said it! I was gonna say—” She spoke to the group, “But yeah! The big DeeDee is in the neighborhood, near the surface. Recent activity put him near the Hole, just like Erick says. People are talking about it, too. They were saying how there was this pair of ethereal winged creatures, one made of light, the other made of white, and how Melemizargo bounced around the Hole, following them around. A few adventurers witnessed the whole thing. Thankfully, DeeDee was busy with Erick!”

Killzone went stony silent, along with Zago and Silverite. Merit grinned at Erick, while Mog looked down at him with pain in her eyes. Obsidian seemed to bounce in the air, while Wave just blorped, and Opal remained steadfast and still.

Erick added, “He never said anything or made an overt appearance, though.”

Killzone spoke over Erick, “The Shades talk like he’s regained some of his hold on sanity, but…” He added, “I haven’t heard anything from the Geodes. Have you, Silverite?”

“I’m as unwelcome as you are; no, I haven’t.” Silverite turned to Erick saying, “Just ignore him; that’s the only thing you can do with Melemizargo. Hopefully he never wants to speak with you, but if he does, then you must thread a thin road between becoming too interesting for him to ever let go, and him killing you out of disappointment.” She stood up and turned toward the whole room, including the guys in the back, by the viewing screens. She said, “That goes for everyone here! If you ever happen to meet him: If he’s not actively harming you, then you probably don’t have anything to worry about from him. But if a Shade is there, too, then you are likely dead as soon as Melemizargo leaves. Jane got very, very lucky when they let her go. Don’t expect the same treatment at all.

She turned to Zago and Fillarina, saying, “I want to know every single thing you can discover about that town, using whatever normal means necessary. The rooms beyond this one are to be turned into information hubs open to us all here and in the Army or Guard, or any other trusted sources, but not for the public.” She said, “This scenario is unique, but we have dealt with weird Shade shit before. Maybe not some of you, personally, but I have. Killzone has. We’ll get through this, together.”

Most people in the room, not at the longtable, were looking better than they had before. Less antsy. Less worried.

Silverite continued, “Is there anything else anyone needs to say to me? To ask?”

Erick had long ago decided to ignore Melemizargo until he became a direct threat, but it was nice to hear Silverite directly address that concern. It was nice to hear her have a plan, too. When she finished speaking, he waited for someone else to say something, but when no one else spoke up, he did, “I want to make rings for the Army and Guard. I already dropped off a shipment of 600 to Liquid’s office, but I can do a lot more than that. They’re plus-10 All Stat rings, too—”

Zago smiled, as she sighed. The pointed black [Familiar] seemed to turn all of its attention on Erick. Even Opal seemed to look his way.

“—But. Maybe not All Stat, if there are new Stats?” Erick added, “Anyway. Rings. Yes? Maybe? No?”

“Yes.” Silverite said, “As many as you are willing to produce, the Guard and Army will absorb.”

“Okay.” Erick said, “I also have something a bit nicer that I wanted to give to someone, but it’s kinda unique and would only work with either you or Killzone. Or rather: any wrought. Someone without a solid body. If you want to come to the house, it’s there.”

Silverite asked, “Something defensive, or offensive?”

“Uh. A bonus?” Erick added, “I don’t know; you’d have to tell me. I haven’t actually been able to wear it, myself. It might not be useful, at all.”

Silverite said, “Killzone. You take that.” She stood. When no one else spoke up, she said, “And we’re done here. Everyone has their assignments or duty. Dismissed.” She blipped away in a flicker of silver light.

In moments, voices raised around the room as people spoke around viewing screens and to each other. Merit vanished in a blip of orange light. Killzone and the various [Familiar]s blipped away, one right after the other. Fillarina blipped blue, vanishing to wherever she usually was.

Erick said to Mog, “Mog? I also want to offer my rings to any adventurers you think might be useful against the Shades. Also! I have another question that would best be handled outside of this mess.”

Mog smiled down at him, and said, “Sure. But if you’re talking of Delia, then I can already guess that the Mother over at the Church denied your gift?”

Erick flinched. “Oh. I guess information travels fast.”

“That girl was talking about your sponsorship to everyone this morning. But then half an hour ago she wasn’t talking to anyone. Come by my office later, we can talk about this more.”

“Thank you, Mog.” Erick said, “I still want to support the orphans of the attack, but you might know of a better way than just giving them power.”

“I’ll think on it. See you later.” Mog nodded, then blipped away in a flash of grey.

Erick turned to Zago, to say—

Zago immediately said, “Would you like to take care of the adult mimics, first?”

Erick said, “I did not mean to turn to you like that when Bulgan appeared. It was an unkind reaction. I apologize.”

Zago stared at Erick, her face held tightly in place. She calmly said, “I want Bulgan dead just as much as any of you. He betrayed this city. He betrayed—” She went silent. “He hurt a lot of people.”

Erick understood some of why she didn’t speak more, of why she didn’t try to distance herself further from Bulgan. There were just so many unknowns regarding just how much the incani of Spur had conspired to try and oust him and his daughter from Spur, that if Zago said any more, she would be digging herself deeper into the mistakes of the past.

He didn’t want to confront that past, either, especially now, after so much had changed. The two of them being declared ‘Planar’ was only the first step. Since then, he had come to enjoy the people of Spur, no matter what sort of people they were, and Sirocco Zago was no exception. She helped him whenever he had questions about magic. Sizzi helped him to create Ophiel.

And besides; he didn’t want a Converter Angel loose in the world, just how he didn’t want a Breach Demon loose in the world. He lived here, after all! So repairing and keeping intact his relationships with the incani of Spur was an important need.

“I know, Sirocco.” Erick said, “My apologies. That was unkind of me to suggest such a thing. I just reacted.”

“… Apology accepted.”

“And yes. To answer your question, I would like to go kill the adult mimics, as soon as possible.”

She put on a smile, as she said. “Let’s go to my office. I can show you the maps for the Kingdoms and give you a primer on the Magisterium and then we can either go together, or I can go there with Ophiel and introduce you through your [Familiar]. The second option is likely the better one.”

Erick stood from his chair, saying, “Sounds good to me.”

- - - -

Sirocco Zago’s office was at the top of the Mage Guild’s main tower. Her waiting room held a window that overlooked the south of the city, with a clear view of the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst in the distance.

She led the way into her rooms, where fluffy yellow and teal carpets and drapes and cushioned chairs gave a soft overlay to the hard grey stone beneath. The spiny metal things to the sides of the room were still spinning; whatever experiment was going on there had yet to fall. The various bubbling or crystalline or bookish accoutrements of magedom rested in their proper places on shelves all around, while Zago’s two cats, one black, one white, lounged next to each other in the afternoon sun by a window.

Poi waited outside of the room. Kiri and Sizzi had already volunteered to remotely scout Candlepoint; Zago had sent them off with some of the people in the war room, minutes ago.

Right now, the only people in Zago’s office were her, and Erick. She went to a cabinet beside her desk and opened it, revealing an assortment of both glowing and mundane crystal bottles on glass shelves. She grabbed a bottle of flickering red liquid and two crystal cups.

She turned to Erick saying, “I need a drink before we begin. Would you like one, as well?”

“Yes. I would.” Erick said, “Thank you.” He added, “And I’d like to make you and Sizzi some rings as well. And whoever else you might consider, of course. I want to be prepared for the coming fight, this time.”

Zago smiled as she poured two short drinks, and handed one to Erick, saying, “I did not expect this sort of Dead City business to happen in my lifetime.”

Erick took his drink, and sipped. It was strong, but Erick could hold his drink. A warmth spread through his body. “This is good stuff. Thank you.”

Zago downed her drink, then grimaced, as she said, “Whew!” She poured herself another.

Erick smiled.

Zago sipped her second drink slower, and said, “It has a minor mana regenerative effect, too, but without the use of crushed rads. You probably wouldn’t notice the effect, but I suffered through arcanaeum practically living on this stuff.” She held up her flickering red cup, saying, “I had to get in the proper headspace to talk of the Magisterium, you see.”

Erick downed his drink, then said, “I can imagine. I haven’t heard much about how the Wasteland Kingdom treats magic except that they don’t like it.”

Zago filled his drink again, then set the bottle on her desk. “Broadly true, but not at all true, like so many things in life.” She took one of the chairs on the visitor’s side of the desk. “I won’t go over much of it, but as a visiting mage there are certain things you shouldn’t do, and especially not do, considering you’re human.”

Erick took the other seat, beside Zago. At the mention of his humanity, he was glad she had offered him a drink. The alcohol was already making this messy business of Quiet War and the Dead City and new magic, seem easier to handle.

Zago said, “As an archmage, and recognized as such by the Headmaster, you are not subject to the limiting tattoos that they would require you accept on your body before you stepped foot on Kingdom soil. But it’s important to keep this in mind, as if you threaten ruin, then they will take you down and put them on you. They might look for some stupid reason to tattoo you, anyway.

“This is why I suggest you go with Ophiel. Most archmages do that sort of visitation. But there is a catch.

