With housing settled, Viv handled the basic requirements to attend. A seamstress took her measurements for her uniform, which would be deep blue like that of an older student on account of her teacher assistant’s position and also, she suspected, her age. There was enough reading material to devastate a small forest for only the first two months. Many were second-hand and annotated in various languages. Ereska gave her a basic tour of the campus, except for the main building which deserved its own visit. Most of the buildings were spread over large distances and separated by lawns, forests, and gazebos.

“Does the Academy promote physical activity and nature? A lot of effort was spent on those gardens,” Viv remarked, surprised the Academy would be that progressive.

“No, the Academy is designed so that in case of major conflicts, students may only see citizens of enemy nations in class where most murders can be averted. Our dormitory hosts mostly Helockians of the more neutral factions as well as a few free candidates such as yourself.”

“Hmmm.”

“There are basic training sessions for arcane swordsmen that mages can attend as a hobby. You would merely have to join the club. They meet every three days, I believe.”

“We’ll see how things go. It might be interesting.”

Viv met with Sidjin for dinner at a nearby eatery to share her first impressions. He had found an isolated manor by the city’s edge, which he rented at a discount after ridding the landlord of a swarm of carnivorous lizards. The man had tried to renege after seeing how easily Sidjin had dispatched them, but the fallen prince had managed to convince him to reconsider.

“You see a man turn monsters that mercenaries would not face to mince meat, and your first reaction is to break your word with him?” Sidjin reenacted with a husky voice which, coupled with his scars, made him kind of sexy to be honest.

“Were they so dangerous? I could have watched your back,” Viv said.

“They were not dangerous for a fourth step war mage who took his precautions. The landlord could have gotten a proper team to kill them off and kept the pelts intact if he were not so stingy. In any case, the manor is mine for a year. You can visit when it no longer looks nor smells like an old barn.”

“I’ll be sure to. I bet you don’t even know what you’ve got to buy.”

“Of course I do. I am a researcher and a warrior Viviane, not some pampered prince.”

The witch listened to him make a list of everything he needed and completely forget bed linens, pillows and so on. She just smiled.

Viv had a little trouble sleeping that night. The dormitory creaked like old houses were wont to do. It smelled of wax and soap.

She hoped things would be okay for a while.

The black mana teacher received Viv in her office, a small room organized with military rigor. The woman introduced herself as Ashra, just Ashra, and Viv realized when she sat down that the woman was Hallurian. Her traits were easily recognizable despite her pixie cut and paler skin. Most of her compatriots kept their hair long and carefully braided while their skin was mostly tanned. Some surprise must have shown on her face, because the teacher opened frankly after the usual greetings.

“You are an outlander, and relatively tactful and humble so I will not take offense if you have questions.”

“Hmm. Thank you.”

“So ask them,” the woman insisted.

“Oh, I could not help but notice that you were from the east. I think?”

“Hallurian born and raised, yes. Do you know what happens to women when they are found to have caster potential, back home?”

“I imagine it is not pleasant?”

“Oh, but it is. We are pampered and fucked by the important warlords, trained to give Halluria many valuable and strong offspring. We don’t even have to raise them. I can tell from the way you reacted to my colleague that you are not wary of men. I cannot tell if you have been spared unfair treatment, or faced it and prevailed.”

“The latter. I can make some compelling arguments.”

“And we will need it. Stop me if you already know this. Only one war mage in seven is a woman.”

“I… didn’t know that.”

“Enoria, Halluria, many of the northern cities promote gender-specific paths. Baran can be more lax sometimes. The truth remains that in order to teach black spells and their destructive potential, we will have to fight an uphill battle. Be ready for it. Be ready to be doubted, interrupted, called out, belittled, and dismissed, but don’t get discouraged, because what we cannot afford is to give up.”

“Understood.”

“Excellent. I will be relying on you to help those who have not yet worked on all their affinity to call on black mana, since you have a deep understanding of the dye and how to wield it. Drawing mana might be the most instinctive thing a mage will do, so your experience will help everyone. We will also work on concepts with our students. I will help you grasp the concept of shadows, which is extremely helpful for survival and repositioning. If our collaboration is fruitful, we can seek another arrangement next semester.”

“That works for me.”

“One last thing. How is your old imperial?”

“Fluent.”

“Oh. Wonderful. My class will be conducted in old imperial just like most classes here.”

“Wait. No one told me that!” Viv protested.

“It is considered common knowledge since old imperial remains the favored academic language. I notice that you haven’t read many thesis or essays then, or you would have noticed.”

“I’ve read plenty of books.”

“And you’ll read plenty more, starting with this.”

Ashra gave Viv a teacher handbook with not just rules and instructions, but also tips and tools as well as a summary of the Academy’s standing policies on everything. She was supposed to read it before their next meeting which would help prepare the class. Ashra seemed particularly eager to practice. Viv got the impression she liked to control her environment, which was just fine.

Next came her meeting with Tod Seranileso.

Contrary to her expectation, the medical faculty was mostly out of the secure wall that surrounded the Academy, though it was no less protected. Instead, it faced the outer ring of the city on the other side of the hill, where dry grass covered the craggy land and most of it was occupied by farms, the sheep-like creatures eating said herb and their oval dejections. It didn’t smell very good. The medical faculty jealously occupied an isolated elevation fifteen minutes away from one of the academy gates. The sick and the wounded queued outside its vertiginous white walls, attended by a mix of mundane, religious, and magical staff.

Viv was not let in. She was dragged in through a secondary entrance to the office of the tall northerner. Tod Seranileso looked ancient, a rarity in Nyil and even more so among casters. A wispy white beard reached his navel over an unadorned crimson robe that showed off his lean build. He grabbed Viv’s wrist with a thin hand wrinkled by age. Viv noticed the short and very clean nails.

“Hmmm, yes, yes,” the old man said in lieu of greetings.

His voice was low and strained, as if he was a smoker, though he lacked the yellow teeth and the scent. Maybe he was just very, very old.

“Yes. Hmm. Indeed. You are dying.”

Viv raised a brow. She had shit bedside manners sometimes, but this was a little bit too much.

“Not anytime soon, fortunately. Not soon, but within a year, two at the most. Yes. We can alleviate the symptoms. You could last longer by not casting and carrying a mana-absorbing headband. An expensive option.”

“I do not think I can afford to do that.”

“Indeed not, hmm, indeed not. There is but one solution, though it might require some effort.”

“Becoming part elemental?”

“I see you are not quite as ignorant as I feared. Yes. Although, it presents some risks, yes indeed. Hmmm. And I can only think of Elunath to help you. He is the only… available elemental archmage around. The others do not want to be found and, sorry to say, they will not care. I can get you an interview with him at the very least.”

“When?” Viv asked.

“Soon. A message will expose your situation, and I believe he will try to help a talented young woman rather than let her perish. Indeed. Hmmm. I will do that for you, yes. Now, there is something you can do for me.”

“The regrowth spell?”

“Is this what you called it? Yes. To use black mana for its changing nature, now that is innovative. If slightly heretical. Except Neriad approved it, for some reason. Who can understand the gods?”

Tod spoke those last words as if they were an expression of sorts. Viv was starting to think any psychiatrist with a specialization in megalomania — and possibly mommy issues — would do just fine, but wisely decided to keep those remarks to herself.

“Sure. I already said I’d share with whoever is interested.”

“Excellent!” Tod said, clapping his boney hands together, “I have prepared a room just for that.”

Viv realized her ‘visit’ would probably turn into a full work day and sighed.

Tod walked her down past patient rooms and testing areas. Viv was surprised to see the staff wore white robes complete with gloves and masks. Many of their tools were enchanted but the similarities with a modern hospital were quite striking. She considered asking if an outlander had brought some knowledge of microorganisms before realizing it would sound condescending. Also, for all she knew, some diseases here could actually be caused by bad spirits.

Tod seemed well-respected, with several people asking him quick questions without ceremony. Some of them were obviously low on the totem pole from the lack of decoration on their clothes, yet Tod gave them his attention nonetheless. It took them quite some time to find a dedicated room on the first floor, which had been cleared for the occasion. Viv was asked to draw the construct with a piece of chalk on the smooth floor.

She was an old hand at that by now and it only took her half an hour of patient efforts, just to make sure it was as perfect. Tod went out for a while but seemed to sense when she was done. He immediately asked a series of questions.

“Have you considered using Makar’s convergence to accelerate the sludge sublimation process?”

“I have no idea what this is.”

“What about a Baranese knot on the analysis part to prevent environmental influence?”

“Still no idea.”

“Hmmm. You are an instinctive caster. Indeed. Do you mind if I try a few changes?”

“Be my guest.”

Tod brought some changes, but when Viv tried to channel her mana into the construct, it would not react the way she was used to and the spell would fizzle. It was like trying to dance a familiar routine with manacles. All was well until she tried to spread her metaphorical hands.

“A little disappointing, but expected. Do you mind proceeding with some tests?”

“Not at all, but while we are discussing theory, I wanted to share one of the issues we were having.”

Viv explained Sidjin’s plan to use a memorial spell to force the soul to ‘remember’ its lost corporeal shell. Tod nodded, a hand twisting his beard while he pondered on their difficulties.

“If we leave the basic structure intact and plug the memorial spell to your diagnostics circle with a minimum of interaction, I believe you may cast it as is, provided you understand how the memorial itself works. I also note that the memorial uses black and colorless mana. An elegant solution. Who came up with the idea?”

“His name is Sidjin, and I would like to heal him quickly,” Viv asked.

She gave Tod a pointed look that signified it was not a request. The old man easily accepted.

“Of course. Would you be willing to operate on patients between classes? You would be well-compensated.”

“What sort of compensation are we talking about?”

“Two gold talents per rich client. Less for charitable cases, more for royalty if we can find them. The Academy will take half but we will cover all expenses and organize everything.”

Tod waited.

His offer was more than generous. The creation and sale of magical items or the performance of services through the Academy was heavily taxed, close to two thirds. In return, the students were insured in case something happened. It was in the agreements she had signed. On the other hand, Viv knew she could get much better terms by working through a temple, and even more through a private, ad hoc organization she would create herself. With that said, the medical faculty would organize everything for her which would save a lot of time, one of her most precious resources. It was the appeal of good will with a man she was beginning to respect that decided her in the end. Tod would be an invaluable ally in negotiating with the elemental archmage for her salvation. Money was a lesser concern, and so was building influence with Nyil at large.

“Fine, but I get to pick cases we handle in priority if there is someone I want to heal.”

“Agreed on two conditions. No more than one per day, and you do not undercut us.”

“That’s fine.”

“Shall we get started?”

Tod scored another point in Viv’s mind by selecting a grizzled nurse with a missing arm as her first patient. The woman had probably survived a disaster of some sort if the burn scar on her neck was any indication. She cried and hugged Tod after the procedure was done with the help of a cleric of Sardanal, god of prosperity. It felt pretty good. The memorial spell was also easier to use than expected since soul perception helped with it.

Arcane construct: Beginner 9

Soul Mastery: Beginner 2

