Walking was effortless to begin with, yet at some point, Jake began to find himself struggling. It was slow at first, but it quickly got worse as every footfall sent waves of pain through his odd soul-body.

He felt heavy, his body sluggish, and every step was harder than the next. It was tempting to stop and give himself a moment to recover, but something told him that wasn’t an option. He had to keep going or not go at all.

One step after another, Jake experienced a kind of pain that went far beyond the physical. He knew it was his soul struggling, and as it got worse, he felt a particular part of him hurt more than anywhere else. He quickly realized what it was.

Palate of the Malefic Viper.

Like an injury that had been stitched closed and bandaged, Jake’s current struggle was slowly reopening the wound. His soul was under immense stress, enough for even his danger sense to rear its head. It warned him that what he was doing was dangerous… yet he didn’t feel the need to stop.

He felt the desire to stop, and his soul was screaming at him to halt, but he kept moving forward. His soul was unmistakably taking damage, and it was only getting worse. However, if Jake dedicated any mental energy to even consider the potential harm, he would lose the focus required to just keep his metaphysical legs going.

Jake’s entire world was a road of golden pages that seemed like nothing more than an endless march towards his own doom.

What kept Jake going were three things. The first one was the fact that his instincts weren’t screaming at him to stop yet. They were warning him, but not demanding that he halt.

Secondly was the fact that the golden pages were clearly related to the First Sage and his guidance. Of course, if it were just these two alone, Jake would have at least hesitated, which would have ended his trek, but there was one last thing that kept him doing more than any other:

Knowledge that something actually lay at the end of the road. A certainty that there was a destination he could reach as long as he kept struggling. This realization was born of what Jake had learned in the tome of the First Sage and what he was certain the road of pages was now leading him toward.

The core of meditation was something far deeper than merely increasing regeneration of resources. This skill’s entire purpose was instead to deepen one’s connection with the system itself. The Truesoul within every being was directly linked and a part of the system itself, and all Meditate usually did was deepen this connection a little further to increase the system’s natural recovery speed.

It was to tap into something further beneath. To use the Truesoul as a portal or catalyst to seek deeper truths of the system and, through that, gain power. Knowledge. Records.

While all this was just Jake’s interpretation, he had forced himself to believe it was the absolute truth, for if he didn’t, he wouldn’t have the required strength to keep going. Even when the pain began to feel distant and numb as Jake began losing the thoughts he had gathered and the focus he’d regained, his absolute faith forced him to take one step after another.

Jake was no longer able to see the golden road of pages, no longer able to even feel he was taking steps. Everything was fading rapidly, his own instincts letting him know that his existence was slowly being erased as his soul lost its cohesiveness. He himself, and he already knew that whatever fix the Viper had applied to Palate had been completely broken by now.

Just as there was barely anything left… Jake felt something new. His foot had hit something, and as it did, clarity returned. In an instant, Jake became fully aware of himself again. The golden road reappeared, the pain subsided significantly, and while the damage was certainly still there, Jake knew he’d stabilized.

With this newfound clarity and sight of the world, he also saw what he’d walked into. The golden road had expanded, and right in front of him was a bench made of the same glowing pages. Jake had hit its side with his foot, and as he looked to the side, he saw that the bench was facing a massive gate that seemed to block off the entire side of his vision.

The gate was simultaneously small enough to look normal, yet also large enough to encompass all of existence. Unlike everything else, this gate was not made out of golden pages, but of something Jake couldn’t even fully comprehend. All Jake knew was that whatever he saw represented a gate. He stared at the gate for several moments before instinctively turning back to the bench, only to see that it was now no longer empty.

The familiar old man, who Jake had only seen in visions born of Path of the Heretic-Chosen, sat there and looked up at Jake with his usual calm smile.

“Take a seat,” the First Sage said, motioning for Jake to sit beside him. “You look positively exhausted.”
