Minutes passed by and arrows continued to fly through the opening, without a single sign the enemy was preparing to advance. Was the commander a coward as well as a fool? Snorting, he coughed, his throat irritated and dry. The slaves were also coughing in increasing frequency, the acrid smell growing stronger by the minute. A slave doubled over, unable to breathe for coughing, blood flying out with each heave of his lungs. Eyes widening in horror, Ming turned to look at the stream only to see nothing strange, no bubbling or smoke, but a quick inner inspection showed the damage to his body, some invisible agent destroying the soft tissues of his eyes, throat and lungs, faster than he could heal.

Insidious poison, he needed to act before too much damage was done. Already the slaves at the back were collapsing and others vomiting, many too weak to stand. Working to heal his injuries, he bellowed his orders. “Rear echelon, lead the charge! Continue forward at all costs! All hands, slaughter the enemy, fight unto death!” Standing aside, he poured the water from his gourd, months spent purifying and attuning the liquid to his chi. Surrounding him in a clear barrier, it would protect him from the heat and most arrows. He only needed to reach their lines for retribution to begin.

The dying slaves ran out in front, too weak to fight, only useful as fodder for the fire. After enough trickled out, he followed them, staying to the middle of the pack. Sunlight seared his eyes as he shouldered past screaming slaves, their shrieks mercifully short-lived. Gathering his strength, he leaped past the barricade of immolated slaves, the flames unable to touch him as he batted aside arrows, his water blade extending to shield the slaves, if only to use them as a distraction. A few arrows slipped past his guard to strike his barrier, only to fall uselessly at his feet, their power spent.

Within seconds, despair threatened to consume him as he stood alone, blood dribbling down his chin, his slaves falling before the hail of fire and the enemy lines still more than 50 meters away. Why were they so far back? Did they not think to secure the entrance? A curse upon all fools. Gathering five drops of water, he flung them towards the enemy, but the distance was still too great, his projectiles only injuring without killing. Another volley of arrows whistled through the air towards him. Redirecting his water barrier to guard only his front, he felt the heat of the inferno behind him as he slashed away at arrows. His chi was finite, draining with every second as his barrier stopped arrow after arrow and he healed his injuries

Moving forward a single step, his body jolted back as a bolt struck his shield with tremendous force. A second bolt hammered into him, breaking his balance and staggering him back a step. His mind screamed to dodge as a third bolt pierced through his chest and exited cleanly out his spine, all three projectiles striking him within the space of a heartbeat. Weightless, his body soared through the air, carried backwards by momentum before crashing to the ground in a boneless heap. Dazed and disoriented, he lay there, listening to the screams and staring at the slaves who died in handfuls as they trickled out of the cave, slaughtered effortlessly.

His eyes grew heavy and the darkness enshrouded him as he lamented his failures, his inability to avenge his nephew, his slaughter at the hands of ignorant savages, his inability to kill even a single enemy. A single sigh escaped his lips, infused with a single thought.

Far from a perfect end.

Chapter Meme
