Outside the Ellipsia Citadel, a very similar powered clash takes place.

Maria and Sisco collide—axe against sword.

The small figure of a woman, holding a glistening rainbow sword, exuding the powerful aura of soul energy tightly infused with an ice element, is a profound sight.

The full 4% of stats runs through her body, creating enough force to hold back the massive demon's purple weapon.

Sisco Vermillion towers over her, tens of times larger, not using an energy form of any kind either.

This shockwave is what shatters the remaining defenses of the ether dome around the Citadel and lets the two 1st Class Demons and army of servants all fly below them toward the approaching army of freed slaves with the two Warlords at their front.

"A human? Ha! This is what was messing around in Ellipsia? No wonder we couldn't find you—we were overestimating the threat at hand." A loud laugh follows, as the demon holding its soul weapon against Maria's examines what's in front of him.

"And would you look at that—a Destroyer Class Soul Weapon. I thought they were just a myth..." it comments in a more controlled tone, showing off its wide smile and letting the ripples of purple light in its horns grow more intense.

This builds up enough energy for the two of them to be blown backward from the clashing auras, and the Demon closes his eyes during the shockwave, unsealing his Noble Bloodline Transformation without hesitating any further.

"No matter your race or artifacts you bring to a fight, a Lower Race could never touch the likes of me... a High Noble Demon. I'll kill you here, finally get rid of those pesky Warlords we've been saving in order to lure that dragon out, and bring this Citadel to the bottom of the Realm!"

More laughs erupt outward as the monster's flesh grows in size, and a bright purple aura blasts outward from the monster's figure as well.

Maria instantly feels a wave of suppression ripple off that beast, with a very similar feeling to the wave of blue light that came off from the Sea of Corruption hours ago.

She's had a borrowed Inspect and Appraisal skill activated this whole time.

Upon contact, the ice mage fully realizes the extent of the power she's facing.

Down in the Lower Realm, it was rare to see anyone above level 1000. Even on her short stay on the Great Belt of Brymia, rarely did any Lords even from 2nd and 3rd Class Worlds ever surpass level 5000.

In artificially boosted labyrinths, a few monsters could reach over level 10000, and some close to 20000.

However, those mana manifestations are nowhere near as powerful as real demons.

The difference between 3rd, 2nd, and 1st Class Demons on the battlefield around the throne back on the human world was very clear as well.

She fought a 2nd Class Demon alongside Abby, and it was a lower level than her.

Now, as numbers and stats pop up in her mind's eye, and she faces this Demon alone, the weight of this battle truly sinks in.

This demon is not one step above, merely a 1st Class Demon, and not only two steps higher, a Noble Demon. It is something stronger, far greater than any existence she's ever bared witness to with her own eyes.

[Lv. 102,930] burns into her consciousness, along with two divine-grade skills: [Body Double] and [Shadow Step].

The [Demon Lord's Core][+10,293% All Stats] and [Executioner's Soul Axe][Soul Bonded][Demonic Energy Affinity] glow brightly in his item slots, and three buffs appear below it all.

[Noble Bloodline Transformation][Transfusion][????????? ?????]

The top two both glow with bright purple aura, mimicking the massive greater form that explodes out from its body; however, the final buff stays bright white—almost grey—and gives off a sharp pressure when looked at.

The readings only show question marks and blurred characters in Maria's mental image.

She quickly disables these perception skills and activates her two ranked-up energy forms as well.

First, exploding outward in a royal blue aura to expand into her dark blue Ice Goddess form, then stacking on top of it, sprouting lighter-colored blue wings to activate her angelic form, and match the absurd rapid growth of the demon before her.

Two enormous auras of blue and purple light clash in the sky, as the two forces slam into each other again—purple demonic axe against enormous Source Resin-imbued Soul Sword glowing with a light blue outer layer of ice magic.

Both the Demon and the Angel are over 40 kilometers tall in the sky when they collide, and the shockwave makes the Ellipsia Citadel shake even hundreds of thousands of kilometers away.

Many of the soldiers and demonic servants in the armies below pass out and fall from the sky from the immense aura, suppressing their grips on the system.

Though, the freedom avatars the Warlords created planned for an incident like this, blocking all mental attacks that aren't targeted to be reflected away using the Full Guard Technique.

Many of the falling Lords glow with bright white lights and regain consciousness before it is too late.

This augmentation cost millions of low-quality ether, but was necessary. It won't last for long, as each avatar has limited stores, but it should be enough to last the battle.

Following this mighty clash in the sky, two 1st Class Demons unseal their Bloodlines as well, and the Orc and Ogre waiting for this activate their greater energy forms while flying forward at them.

Bright bursts of maroon-colored earth magic, blue-colored lightning, and demonic soul energy erupt into the skies as the Warlords land their first hits against their enemies, and the army of Demonic Servants and freed slaves from Ellipsia clash by the thousands even further beneath them.

The War for Ellipsia has begun.

–

Down at the shore of the Sea of Corruption, over thirty massive Wyverns all fly in circular patterns, following their massive blue-glowing past leader upward as he fully unseals his Celestial body.

Many of the beams of concentrated demonic energy-imbued fire, water, earth, and wind attacks streaming out from the Wyverns' mouths all hit Seraphel's Energy Form and merely bounce off.

They may be Noble Wyverns, and even enhanced by the blood of a demon, but they are still no match for a High Noble—especially in his Celestial body.

A trail of blue sparkling water-infused soul energy trails behind him, and the massive Wyvern's deep blue eyes turn downward to face its one and only threat.

A dark black Wyvern, that lets out a pain-filled roar and crackles with dark black and purple electricity.

The static charge vibrates off its body, and High Noble Vibrations buzz off of it too.

Mid-roar, half a dozen thick black lightning bolts surge out from the monster's wings, feet, and mouth.

Seraphel finally stops his graceful, slow flap of the wings upward to cover his face and chest with a single wing while twisting downward.

The heavy blasts of lightning shake the atmosphere and even make the Sea of Corruption quiver...

It roars again through the blast while all of the black and blue auras of debris fill the air.

This prompts every member of the Demonic Army on the ground to turn their attention away from the battle in the sky and toward the generals all watching from a distance.

When the first blast of auras clears, six deep black holes become visible on Seraphel's wing, like burn marks from the blast. Each of them is enormous—multiple kilometers wide, in fact.

Waves of water magic start to heal them, and Seraphel lets out an ear-destroying roar back, releasing a jet of sparkling blue Celestial water from his open mouth, straight down at the black Wyvern.

It blocks with one wing as well, but instead of backing down, it releases waves of black electricity straight into the beam, allowing it to travel upward and flow straight back into Seraphel's body.

Two more roars erupt from the skies, and the army full of black and purple Berserkers, Cyclopes, Orcs, and Ogres all fly up in the air, simultaneously unsealing their artificial Noble Bloodline Transformations.

Abby's staff glows with a dense green light, and more memories of the past flash through her mind from battles through the very eyes of some of the Wyverns here in the sky—when they lost their lives in a massive war trying to protect the Citadel that has sunk below the sea they're fighting over.

In response, she kicks off the air, upward without hesitating, heading straight toward the center of the chaos.

She yells out, down to Raven and Arie, "Hold them off. Destroy them all. Do not hold back. Like the Kings of Kelfar. They are already dead!"

The dual-bladed sword wielder and the archer both nod and turn their backs to the clash in the sky as the green-haired healer floats up toward it.

They both activate all of their ranked-up buffs.

Massive spirit arms form behind Arie's back, made of thousands of smaller ones, and he holds the Dark Elf Lord's bow in his grasp, ready to use it in combat for the first time and make it his own.

Raven grows into her battle greater form, holding two humming white blades with the scent of the Scarlet Clan still rippling through them.

However, with her own spin on the aura, as after the first step she takes, she disappears into a pocket dimension, and the red-colored vibrations mutate into a translucent grey aura that only appears once she steps out of it again on the other side many kilometers away.

She slices through the nearest Cyclops Lord—one with a similar Noble Blood strength transfusion of the Guardian below Ellipsia.

It's cut into four clean pieces before it even knows what has happened.

All that's left as a reminder is the invisible vibrations of a silent assassin, in an X formation with its divine core at the center. An attack that can only be done by two blades.

She was only visible for milliseconds at most, phasing in and out of reality only to land the strike then fade away.

Less than a kilometer to its right side, a High Orc has just finished its transformation as well and looks for the enemy, but it too crumbles to pieces, sliced with an invisible X through its body, falling down to the shoreline of the Sea of Corruption.

On the other side of the battlefield, a dense white arrow, with dark black vibrations echoing around it, is released from Arie and heads straight toward three Blue Ogres, all releasing their Noble Transformations in a line.

The arrow he releases pierces the first's chest, then the second, and all the way through to the third before it unravels and explodes.

All three had Green True Cores, with the dense Noble Blood equivalent of the Guardian below the Citadel too.

He pulls back his bow again and aims for the next closest beast, while out of the corner of his eye, Raven slices through another.

However, at the back of this army that begins to float up at them, there are hundreds of Berserker Giants that are taking extra long to unseal their bloodlines.

It is strange.

Some of them glow with a very hot red scarlet light, while others give off darkness like obsidian. Their transformations are different, and from the strength of the aura they're exploding with—and continuously getting stronger as the seconds pass—it's clear they are going to be the toughest fighters here...
