A sign hung frozen from a steel bar. It displayed a golden scale but there was something sinuous and slightly disturbing about the design. The words were written in golden paint without the usual fluff and curlicues favored by the affluent.

“Golden Scale Bank and Exchange? I recognize that name. You… you sold all the food to the Harrakan Empire?”

The merchant opened and closed his mouth. Crest punched him before he could even think about it.

“What is happening?” the Hopecrusher asked as he exited the town hall.

“Those fools sold all their food reserves to the Harrakans for iron bits! With a promise it would be returned in spring. Those idiots! You lot. Search the place!”

A quick ram spell made short work of the fortified entrance. Inside, the bank had the quiet of the tomb. As Crest followed his men inside, he noticed signs that he was far too late: burnt documents, empty safes, gutted drawers. A layer of dust covered everything. They had even taken the damn pens.

He left the place filled with impotent rage.

“The army needs more food,” Crest told the Hoperusher.

For some reason, Celerin’s own fury had made the tall man calmer. When he spoke next, he was almost respectful,

“Not to worry. As you said, they only sold the non-essential reserves.”

The Hopeccrusher turned to the mayor tailing him.

“It looks like your people are going hungry this winter.”

Yes, the brute was right. The army would get their food. No matter what. Rage deflated, replaced by a strange, cold pit in his stomach.

Why did he feel like he had fallen into a trap?

***

Between the winter, the persistent food supply problems that forced collecting parties being sent, and the sabotage of the portal network, Oleander’s travel south progressed at a snail’s pace. It didn’t help that the connecting roads had fallen into disrepair after ten years of minimal use. Northern Baran had to learn how to survive without teleportation again. Crest and his vanguard also discovered that it wasn’t just food that had been denied to them: many smiths had traveled to fulfil exotic orders while essential nail and iron reserves had been shuffled around and then mostly lost. The amount of money invested in frustrating Oleander’s advance was colossal, and that wasn’t all: the targeting of important supplies was so thorough and systematic, it must have been planned long in advance. Supplies were quickly dwindling. A month after landing, Oleander’s army had barely made it into the second duchy without a single battle. His army covered a large area, but it lacked direction.

Three days later, the entire warehouse district in Helock went up in flames in a single night, destroying tens of thousands of gold talents in supplies. This, in turn, led to more foraging parties sent to search for grain before starvation could set in.

The Kingdom of Maranor’s advance had crawled to a halt.

***

Nero watched the two prisoners with vague interest. It was pleasant to have something go his way, finally. Param had been very much a slog so far and he was eager to get things going. He noticed that they were not wearing collars. It was an oversight. Turning to an officer whose name he couldn’t remember, he pointed towards the pair.

“Why are they not being restrained? The woman, especially.”

The guard withered under his stare. The prison was a gilded cage sparsely decorated but comfortable enough by prisoners’ standards. Perhaps they believed the captives would receive preferential treatment. If so, they were wrong.

“My apologies, my king. It will be done immediately.”

The Enorian man standing next to the bed was clearly a warrior. His face was bruised and there was a scabbing wound on his sword hand, which didn’t prevent him from giving off an air of sullen defiance as he guarded the woman. She was older though high stats had kept her appearance youthful, with curly brown hair kept short. An open shirt showed bandages covering much of her chest. Droplets of fresh blood stained the base of her ribs. She was currently unconscious, skin pale and clammy. Jar’ko had stabbed her first.

“Gil of Enoria,” Nero flatly greeted. “And this is… your mother?”

“Stepmother and current paramour of my father, the king. Your attack without a declaration of war will not go unpunished.”

There was little fear in Gil’s voice, only anger and a little bit of shame. Perhaps he believed he could have protected the woman if he had been a better warrior.

Nero shook his head.

“Oh that is where you are wrong. You see, I know your father obeyed the true Queen of the Gods as long as the temple had you in their custody.”

“That was more than ten years ago. My father has other heirs now,” Gil replied.

Courage. If only those who opposed him had less of that, less pride, and more understanding of what would make the world better. It was so tiring.

“Commendable, but you see, your father could have made more heirs to begin with. Instead, he bowed to the temple, not out of faith but out of fear. This tells me he’s weak.”

Gil took a step forward before quickly regaining his composure.

“Many people have underestimated my father.”

“I base my opinion on evidence. A true ruler must not balk at individual tragedies if they are to protect the nation. One who sacrifices the herd to save the kit has lost the right to lead. Your father’s love for you is a well known and easily exploited weakness. Now I have you and the woman he loves, and so he will fall in rank just like the others.”

“We will see.”

“There is nothing to see. Enoria already agreed to join us on our march.”

Nero allowed himself a rare half-smile, though it turned bitter immediately after. Humans were so fundamentally flawed. Even the most talented ones never grew past their nature.

“You are alive and will stay alive. That is all I need. Farewell.”

As he left, he reiterated the need to have them contained by spells or collars. The woman was a witch of considerable power. She was too hurt to act now, but that would eventually change. Jar’ko’s knife wounds would help by keeping them in pain for weeks. Hopefully, the war would be over by then but he wasn’t taking any chances. As he left the jail in Helock’s castle, he spread his red wings.

It felt amazing, freeing, to fly above the city. Griffin riders escorted him at a distance before returning to their duty, but no one approached him here. The peace was a welcome respite from leading vaguely loyal people through a war without battles, for the enemy had denied any engagement so far. After a while, he landed in the main camp near Siden. Crest was off to set up his own portals. The Hopecrusher was present, drilling new recruits into proper soldiers. The massive man approached him with reverence.

“My lord?”

“It occurs to me that I have an opportunity to solve the Baranese problem ahead of schedule— or at least simplify it. I will be gone for two to three days. Keep an eye out for trouble and our elites next to the food warehouses.”

“My lord, some of them have been displeased with their posting…”

Nero’s glare silenced him on the spot.

“If they are tired of serving, do send them my way and I shall accept their…resignation in person.”

He was going to kill them. No one left during a war.

“Yes, my lord. I shall remind them.”

“Good.”

***

Nero made full use of Crest’s basic portal network to travel south, then he flew. The truth, as he traveled, was that he didn’t need an army to win. He was The Immortal. He needed the army to control and mop up the opposition. Nothing prevented him from doing exactly what he intended to do: cut off the snake’s head.

Queen Rosea of Baran was going to die.

He flew for hours in a state of constant frustration, losing his way twice and having to fly down to villages just to demand direction. Orienting himself from the air was still an unfamiliar experience and the snow didn’t help. He eventually found the main Baranese army camp where he expected, slightly west of their capital. By then, the sun was setting over the winter landscape.

The camp was so pathetically puny by comparison with his own. If only those fools could see the world like he could, they would join his cause; would cease their pointless struggle. He was doing this for them, after all.

Nero frowned.

The camp was also empty. He descended at a good speed, finding the tents and mana-built bunkers empty. It looked like everyone had left in a rush. Smithing equipment was still there.

What was going on? Fortunately, there were tracks going in every direction. He followed a large group, flying at good speed. It took only around ten minutes of pursuit before a disorganized mass of footmen came into view, their breaths puffing in the pre-night air. They wore gambeson, kettle hats, and pole weapons. Backpacks hung from their tired shoulders. As he landed among them, their steps faltered. It was easy to blanket the area with his aura.

“Told ya we shoulda split,” one of them bemoaned.

“I’m sorry, brother,” another replied before the two fell silent.

It was a pathetic sight. He grabbed one of the cowering wretches by the throat. His skin was red and damaged from the frozen temperatures. He smelled strongly of old sweat too, not an uncommon happenstance in winter.

“Where is the queen?” he demanded in rusty Baranese.

“I… I… I…”

“Speak!”

“I don’t know! I don’t even know if she was in the camp! We were told to split whenever you approached!”

It took some effort for Nero not to blink.

“You knew I was coming?”

“Yes! The sergeant told us! I don’t know anymore, I swear!”

Curses. Of course.

“Tell me where the queen is.”

“I don’t know,” the man sobbed.

“Then you are of no use to me.”

He snapped his neck, then grabbed another one.

“Where is the queen?”

“For… For Bara —aaah!”

Someone drew a sword. Some of the footmen charged him. Others fled. It didn’t matter in the end. They were nothing to him. Nothing. He left their cooling corpses behind as a warning to the others, a poor use of his time but he would still make the best of it.

“I need a knight,” he realized.

The snow really saved him by showing fresh tracks. He found the imprint of horse hooves not far away and followed them. They soon merged with a small road. A brief look showed him that the freshest tracks — those at the top — led north, so he followed them. It took another five minutes to find a trotting knight leading a page on a gray palfrey.

The knight was an old man, his beard more gray than black, and the inspection showed him to be on the fourth step. The page was unimportant. The old man must have felt something, because he turned to stare straight at Nero.

There was nothing there except brief acceptance. The knight didn’t even try to run. He dismounted, then signaled for his page to make way. Nero landed at some distance. He noted in passing that the page was a young woman with muscular arms. That was different from his own experience of Baran decades before. Some things had changed.

The knight took a swig of something, a very disrespectful gesture to Nero.

“So, talk or fight right away?” he dared ask.

“There isn’t going to be a fight,” Nero growled back.

The knight tossed the flask away.

“Figured.”

“Where is the queen?”

“Ah,” the knight replied with a bitter smile, “that’s the thing. None of us can betray our sovereign if none of us know anything to begin with. A brilliant idea, I must admit. Just like scattering was. The black witch’s idea. I can see its worth now.”

“Are you telling me none of you know where Queen Rosea is?”

“I myself cannot say. What I can tell you is that she’s not here. There are portals, hiding places, and the scouts knew you were coming.”

Oleander grit his teeth. He had already failed, and he only had himself to blame as he knew damn well not everything could be solved solely with violence.

“And before you ask, no I don't know how the scouts figured it out.”

Clever.

“I suppose I will find one and ask them.”

“Whatever you say. I still have to wonder what is happening to your men since you’re away. Nobody to protect them now,” the knight said nonchalantly.

“They do not need protection.”

“Ay, I thought I didn’t need protection either.”

Nero breathed deep, forcing his anger back. This was just a step, another task in a tedious yet necessary process to save mankind from its own flaws. Nothing more. He had to grow more detached.

“Baran is always more resilient than people believe. We survived Harrak at its peak, lad, and we will survive you too.”

“I assume from the banter that you have nothing of interest left to say,” Oleander concluded.

The old knight had cleared his blade by the time Nero struck him, but there were two steps between them and that was a gap no one could fill. He fell with Nero’s hand in his chest. There was no need to draw Leveler from its sheath for the likes of him.

“Spare… the guh,” the knight hiccuped.

Nero considered his request, realized he had no messages to convey and so he killed her as well. A brief flash of mana melted enough snow to wash the gore off his gauntlet, then he was up and flying into the night. Something the old knight had said about protecting his army bothered him.

***

Erezak couldn’t sleep. His back hurt. His knees hurt. Every time he lied down, a hissing sound from his lungs forced wet coughs, keeping him awake through sheer discomfort. Not even wine could force him to close his eyes since it has been banned by his physician. The repeated flares of gout had finally forced him to relent, as he couldn’t spend an hour per day being attended by disapproving priests.

