Crest watched the column advance with a sense of purpose. In the cold Paramese winter, the soldiers of the Kingdom of Maranor moved forth: Baranese, Shadowlanders, Helockians, men and women, veterans and green horns, all of them braving the cold with determination. Pristine snow covered the sleepy trees and the field beyond. It was also very quiet, the silence only broken by the crunch of boots and the breaths of hundreds of throats. That contrasting view was almost enough to forget all the horseshit.

The army was moving south. Per Oleander’s orders, the kingdom was to secure Baran first by felling its king’s enemies, thus reuniting the nation in peaceful order. Crest was fully aware that such an approach followed the creed behind Oleander’s path, and that meant they would receive the blessing of the goddess every step of the way. It was a righteous decision. The old man’s wife had decided she knew better than him who should be heir, thus she had overstepped her role and forgotten her position. It was not a matter of gender or age here, but of seniority. Erezak was king of Baran, and Rosea was his queen, but he was the monarch. Order and the chain of command had been broken. They would be restored.

People sometimes forgot that a good enough leader was much better than a perfect leader plus a civil war.

Crest’s thoughts were disturbed when a Helockian scout returned on horseback, quickly climbing the hill he was waiting on alongside the Hopecrusher and a few dozen officers. They were the vanguard of an army almost a hundred thousand strong spilling over the literal horizon. That army needed eyes.

“Report,” the Hopecrusher calmly demanded.

His aura calmed the man, who had been fearful of the imposing elite. The Hopecrusher’s nickname wasn’t aimed at his own people. To them, he was a champion. The scout would understand that in time. They all would.

“Sir, I return from Siden. The enemy has deserted the place.”

The city could barely be seen in the distance. The lack of enemy patrols and encampments had already told Crest the Baranese rebels hadn’t waited to be wiped out, which wasn’t surprising.

“There is more. I talked to the mayor who is willing to give us the key to the city. She mentioned that, as of yesterday, the portal network ceased to function.”

Crest tilted his head at that.

“Can you do whatever mages do to make it open again?” The Hopecrusher asked him in a way that was just short of rude.

“I need to see it first,” Crest replied.

“Then we ride.”

The Hopecrusher left a junior officer in charge of the vanguard, only taking a small cavalry detachment with him, not that it would matter. The ride down the slope towards Siden was as uneventful as could be, the only signs of life puffy smoke rising from cottages buried under their icy blankets.The gates were open. A group of nervous notables waited beyond, standing on the icy pavement alongside a handful of city guards equipped with halberds and truncheons. They posed no threat.

The Hopecrusher stopped in front of the mayor but he didn’t dismount from the massive black charger under him. It amused Crest that the man couldn’t fight on horseback so it was all just a show. From the terrified faces of the notables, it was working.

“Welcome to Siden, my lords and ladies,” the mayor greeted.

She was an old, dignified, dark-skinned woman wearing a warm green dress and a sash of office. The people with her appeared to be administrative paths. There were no warriors and no mages.

“You welcome us, yet, a few weeks ago, you were welcoming the traitor Rosea and her cohorts with the same open arms,” The Hopecrusher said in a deceptively soft voice.

To the mayor’s credit, she didn’t flinch. Crest could see sweat pearl on her skin but her eyes remained on the massive warlord.

“We are a peaceful city, milord. War is not something we can pursue.”

Translation: My citizens would all be burning corpses in a pile, you stupid cunt.

“Yet war has come to you all the same,” the Hopecrusher replied in what simple-minded people would believe to be a good comeback.

Gods but was this man full of himself.

“I am sure my companions have many questions for you,” Crest interrupted. “But it is imperative I see the teleportation circle right now.”

The mayor turned her attention to him. Her smile was a practiced one, fed by the hope this would stir the conversation towards a non-lethal ending.

“Of course milord. My son, Tal, will guide you. Tal?”

“Mother?” the younger man bleated.

He could probably feel the tension. If Crest had ever raised a child, he, too, would have preferred to get him as far away from the Hopecrusher as possible.

“This is acceptable,” the Hopecrusher said. “You and I will continue this conversation in the town hall, Captain Lis’sho will talk to your quartermaster, or whatever it is you call the one who knows what’s in your warehouses. Crest, a moment?”

Crest set a privacy spell because he knew what was going to happen. The Hopecrusher’s expression didn’t change since people were watching, but his words were no less harsh for it.

“Do not dare defy me in public again.”

“Do not waste my time with grandstanding and I won’t have to do it.”

“You are playing a dangerous game, Crest. Some have questioned your loyalty to the cause…”

The threat was left hanging. Crest couldn’t have that. He almost wanted the Hopecrsuher to try his aura on him just so he could set things straight.

“Just so we’re clear; first my contribution to the war effort is irreplaceable. Yours is not. Second, you are not my commander. My priority is transport and you’re getting in the way of it. You need to understand this well because I am only saying this once: only Nero can order me. Not you, not Jar’ko, not Erezak, not anyone. If you keep wasting my time I might just send you to cool off in Helock’s bay, and I can do it right now. We have a task to complete. You can crush hope on your own private time.”

The Hopecrusher didn’t speak.

“Just give me an excuse,” Crest said. “Do it.”

He spread his arms. Crest’s confidence that he could send the Hopecrusher fifty leagues away before the man could even draw was rooted in confidence.

“We will speak of this again.”

“We will not,” Crest replied, and he unmade the enchantment.

The short ride to the teleportation circle was awkward. Tal kept casting glances at Crest. They were filled with worry. The vulnerability in those annoyed Crest because Tal was very cute and a little submissive and that ignited all sorts of glyphs in the mage’s mind.

It had been a long week.

“Over there, milord.”

“You may call me Crest, young Tal.”

“Young? You don’t look much older than me!”

“Oh but I am old, and I have traveled much. Ah, here we are. Oh.”

The circle looked inert. It did so because there was a hidden, semi-active spell hidden under the complex layers of silverite-infused steel making the main teleport array. His eyes traveled over the workings with increasing fascination. It was witch magic. It was so much a witch approach to it that amusement and anger warred within his heart. There were no strict distance measurements, no energy fluctuation array to activate the spell at just the right amount of mana regardless of what people were pushing in. Instead, this portal linked to the previous one via a sort of identification tag that was so descriptive it had to work off visualization. And that visualization had been set at cast. And it didn’t even account for seasonal changes. And it still worked. It felt like the witch had kindly explained what to do to the planet, the planet had dutifully listened, understood and consented. It was insane. The fact she didn’t have a space-related path to back her up spoke of her skill and insight. He almost wanted to praise her, but this wouldn’t go over well with the other idiots.

Wait, what was that?

Crest observed an addition to the directional array even he didn’t use. It was curved? Why would it curve? And then it hit him. The arrow was following the curvature of the land so the spell wouldn’t have to go through the planet itself.

“Oh, that is… brilliant!”

The energy saved wouldn’t be that significant per cast, but for a static ritual spot used all year long, it would still make a nice difference in the end. Even he hadn’t thought of that. It was a pleasant bit of optimization.

Crest felt extremely aggravated that he hadn’t thought of that first. Perhaps his path and being the only one who understood space among his peers had made him too complacent. Improvement didn’t stop at mastery.

“Milord?”

“One moment.”

His attention turned to the second, hidden array deep within the earth. It must have been buried there during construction, invisible until it was activated. Crest’s mana perception allowed him to pick up two main components. The first was a kill switch. The second…

“Ah, I see. This portal was remotely sabotaged.”

“What, but… the empress…”

Tal’s mouth closed with a snap.

“I mean, your enemy. The enemy, yeah…”

“Save the theatrics for the guys in armor. Yes, she told you she wouldn’t interfere with your portal?”

“We were assured it couldn’t be tampered with easily, and that it was completely under our control!”

“Not easily doesn’t mean it can’t be done, first, and second, the array is under your control. The contingency circle underneath it, however…”

Crest shook his head.

“Dammit.”

So young…

“So you can’t repair it?”

“The intent is gone. That array is just a piece of metal now, and forcing a reactivation will trigger the second part of the contingency array.”

“Would that be bad?”

“Does the term ‘catastrophic cascading failure’ translate to non mages?”

“Yes, very vividly,” Tal replied.

He blushed a bit when he realized he’d gone into banter territory. Despite this being a shitty day, Crest was happy to see he still had it. Unfortunately, the shitty day returned knocking with a commotion several streets away. In summer, Crest would never have heard it but with everyone indoors and the snow swallowing most sounds, yells carried.

“That’s towards the warehouse district,” Tal said. “Siden stores many goods for Helockian and Baranese merchants. Ahem. Sir.”

“We’re done here. Let’s see what this is about before it makes us skip lunch.”

“This way!”

Crest took off at a dead run. He was reminded he should run more after two minutes of sprinting behind the sprite Tal. Damn teleportation was making him soft. As they arrived, all thoughts of exercise vacated his mind. A shadowland officer was currently screaming the ear off a frightened sashed merchant while the translator merely stood there not sure what to do. Indeed, how did one translate “your mother shoved a death eel up her nethers” to one who had never heard of a death eel before?

“What is going on over here?” Crest asked in the ash tongue.

The officer calmed down. His glare landed on Crest. The mage wasn’t moved by the hostility as he’d faced worse just a few minutes before, and he wasn’t surprised either. Shadowlanders were loyal to the Hopecrusher as a rule, and he currently wasn’t the man’s favorite person right now.

“He said they sold their entire food surplus two weeks ago. Their granaries are mostly empty. There is just enough to feed the city until spring!”

That made Crest frown. Memories of months of hunger in the Shadowlands returned. He forced his fists to relax.

“You sold all your food? Do you intend to eat the gold?” he spat at the merchant.

“We didn’t ‘sell all our food’. We entered a commodity repurchase agreement for excess goods: a banal transaction, I’ll have you know. Such agreements, options, futures and the likes have become commonplace over the past few years,” the merchant said with barely hidden disdain.

Crest was forced to blink. He didn’t care about his image at this stage.

“A repurchase fucking what?”

“It’s a financial product that states that the seller, here us, is contractually obligated to buy back the goods at a fixed date, so in three months. We will buy it back at a lower price and the transportation risks are carried by the buyer. It’s a fairly good offer. We sometimes use it to move grain around to places that urgently need it”

Crest refused to believe his ears. It couldn’t be possible. He had to be hallucinating.

“You gave away most of your extra food at a fraction of the price to someone who said they’d bring everything back in three months? And you believed them?”

“We have been working with that bank for over ten years and they’ve never led us astray,” the merchant replied, defensively. “While I appreciate your advice, I have been a merchant for my whole life. I am very sure this was a safe investment.”

“Who made the offer? Who took the food away? Lead me to them. NOW!” Celerin Crest screamed.

No food for the army? Unthinkable.

The merchant was only too happy to redirect their anger and he was a fool to believe Crest would forget. Squads of Kingdom soldiers joined him on the way, attracted by the loud display. The path led to Siden’s central square, all of its prestigious businesses locked. Most of them, Crest realized, were banks. Not surprising for a merchant hub.

“There, milord!”

The edifice was recent and different from the rest of them. Stones and columns gave it an archaic and slightly sinister air. They didn’t need to make the stones so massive. The brutal style reminded him of —

“Motherfucker.”

“Milord?”

