Old age was a shipwreck. It was… inevitable. He just needed to hold on for another ten years. Ten years and his second oldest would be ready. His tutors all approved of his progress in a great many disciplines. Erezak could tell the 40 years old man was chafing at the bit from all the training, but Erezak was an old snakehound and he knew his successor needed to be truly ready to face the hard times ahead.

He considered asking for something hot. Maybe klod. With an effort, he sat himself up in the bed, cursing as his spine cracked like an old house. The room was too cold. It was only a duke’s guest quarters. Oleander had claimed the duke’s own rooms for himself and there was no helping it, even if he was away.

Erezak reached for the bell and found it missing.

He was absolutely sure it had been there. Annoyance gave way to surprise. Surprise gave way to concern.

The shadows stirred.

Concern gave way to terror. The dark unfolded until a smiling mask shone under the pale rays of the moons peeking through a skylight. A locked, heavily enchanted skylight.

“Hellow.”

That voice had haunted his dreams.

“You…”

“Yes,” Irao said. “Me.”

Erezak refused to believe he was already dead. He had lasted three hundred years. Three. Hundred. Years. He wouldn’t die to some cursed experiment.

“You are a fool to show yourself,” Erezak spat. “I can’t wait to watch Oleander pull you apart, freak. You will regret it.”

“He is not here,” Irao said. “Only we are here. Together. After so long.”

The mask was suddenly much closer. Erezak licked his lips. That anger was unseemly. He was a king, for Maranor’s sake.

“Yes, well. You have done a great job in the past. Your help proved instrumental in my success, I must admit. It was unfortunate that you decided to leave. Listen, I know skill when I see it. I will intercede in your favor so Oleander looks upon you favorably. He might be zealous but he is, above all, a realist. All lords need assassins when a single blade can accomplish what armies cannot.”

A knife appeared in the figure’s hand. Erezak forced himself to swallow.

“On that last point, I agree.”

The figure lifted the blade, catching silver light.

“We did make a good alliance. You did give me money. I couldn’t spend that money because I couldn’t show my face. I didn’t want a throne in the gutters. I wanted a home. You promised me that you would give me one. You promised for a long time. There were always reasons why it couldn’t be done.”

He sighed.

“So many reasons.”

Somehow, the mask was now serious. Erezak looked into cat-like eyes. There was an intensity there he had never seen before. He didn’t even believe hadals could feel anything.

“It was a mistake to let me have a dream when you couldn’t deliver. After I left, I looked for that dream for a long time. We did make homes, but… we need humans. We need to be anchored. Otherwise, some of us become despondent.”

Erezak’s mind searched the room for salvation. Anything to save him. He knew screaming wouldn’t help.

“I met her. She gave me that home. She gave it to me as soon as she had a town under her control. After centuries of waiting, I realized.”

The mask was very close now.

“It really was that simple.”

“You’re making a mistake.”

“I am very confident that I am not. I just wanted you to know. It feels important for me to let you know. I also wanted to savor the moment.”

Erezak reached for the table and found only air. He had no options. Suddenly, the mask pulled back.

“It is not every day that I get to kill a king.”

***

Sidjin felt guilty. He was still going to do it, but he knew his actions would lead to the death of people he held dear. The world didn’t care about his qualms. It would keep on turning. People were always going to die for important things. The only thing he could do was to be there with them, bleed alongside them, and hopefully, win. He adjusted his elaborate black and silver robe one last time, checked his staff, and walked through the portal.

The exit location was at the edge of the large pit in which Sikoua, Peace at Last, had expanded: a vertical city of bridges and hanging vegetation inside the Deadshield Woods. During the day, polished stones directed the sunlight deep into its bowels while at night, logs from the ever-replenishing forest warmed its walls. It was a beautiful sight at any time. Even now the ice couldn’t defeat the merl’s powerful drive to stay warm. It was a monument to endurance and the impact a single, difficult decision could have.

“It was worth it, after all,” he whispered to himself.

Then he returned his attention to Sikoua’s entrance, marked by a stone arch decorated with the names of the elders who’d died since the city’s founding. There was an elevator to the side but it was barred and inactive. Lines of torches led inward. Warriors stared at him from behind bone masks, their bodies warmed by beast skins. Spears and Harrakan-made throwing axes hung from their belts. They were eerily quiet.

A long walk down, then.

Sidjin didn’t speak on his way. Merls of all ages but mostly the young ones touched his heavy cloak as he passed them by: warriors, hunters, merchants, orchard keepers, crafters. He wanted to stop and greet them. He recognized some of the older ones by name. He didn’t. The moment was as important to them as it was to him. He could also tell they knew why he had called for an official meeting.

It had been a good decision to come alone. It felt like old times, back on the wall, when there had been only merls by his side. It made him miss his old friend Siul.

About halfway down, one of the warriors started to hum. He was joined quickly by most of the others. The song wasn’t exactly a happy one but the way it resonated spoke to him of unity. The merl punctuated the end of each choir by slamming their weapons on something solid. The loud thud came as a shock. It was a beating heart that couldn’t be extinguished. The first spiders appeared as well. Many of those were old and scarred, warriors, not the silk weavers he had grown used to seeing. It was at the bottom of the pit that he found those his inspection called ‘siege tarantulas’: enormous beasts carrying two dozen archers on their armored backs. The matriarch was here as well though only her head poked through a cavernous entrance.

Sidjin was moved to see that the path ended at the foot of his statue. At his instance, they’d left it basic just the way it had been carved when they first arrived. The merl’s ruling council waited for him in solemn silence.

He stopped before them, allowing the current leader, the ancient shaman Tweek, to address him as tradition dictated. Well, ancient for a merl. He was almost fifty.

“Friend Sidjin, our savior. You who suffered in our name. You who brought us, and held the gates until we were all away. You asked for us. You have a request. Let us hear it.”

He was talking to him in Harrakan as a gesture of respect. Sidjin’s own merl was heavily accented, so he used a sound enchantment to help him. He had practiced for this.

It felt important to give them the respect he didn’t owe them, but he felt they deserved anyway.

“My friends. A great war is upon Harrak. The enemies are numberless. They will come to our home to destroy us. We cannot win alone. I come to you in my hour of need with a request.”

He took a deep breath.

“We have shared food, and water, and iron. Now I ask that you share your blood as well, and for that, I am sorry, but we need your valor. Please help us.”

The leader of the council didn’t reply immediately. It took him some time to force the words out.

“I was there on the wall when you fought with us. I watched your back disappear through the closing portal when you guarded our escape. I remember the great war. When you call for the merls, you will never receive silence.”

He slowly lifted his office staff above his head. When it reached all the way up, he screamed. The rest of the merl screamed with him.

The sound hit Sidjin like a wall. He remembered hearing it in Glastia. Back then, it had been defiant, sometimes even desperate. Now it spoke of a reborn people. The spiders joined the chorus by drumming on the ground with their front legs, but it was only when the barn-sized matriarch emerged from her cavern covered in enchanted harness and armored plates that Sidjin knew the merl hadn’t just been waiting for him, they’d been ready. And he was going to need a bigger portal.
