Sable shouted and bows froze as the Cat Beastkin pointed at a shape overhead. Merindius picked out a…broom? His lips twisted instantly as he realized it was a woman on a broom.
A [Witch]! Several members of his Order spat as they saw the ancient class of troublemakers flying overhead.
“Is that chance?”
Some of them were suspicious, but one of the other Hunters raised a hand.
“I recognize her, Knight-Captain. ‘Tis the Witch Runner. Of Riverfarm.”
Merindius felt his skin prickle at the connection. Riverfarm…where so many of the spawn had fled and the Order of Clairei Fields had met the Order of Solstice. Traitors to honor all, despite their reputations. He glowered upwards, but turned away.
“Ignore her. Ensure none of them get past the cordon. We’ll wait for the rain to stop. [Detect Life] spells on…”
He paused. Then swiveled back to stare at the [Witch]. It was very hard to see her in the rain, and she was moving as fast as any [Knight] of Clairei Fields. But she looked muddy, rain soaked; anyone would be in this weather.
She rode a black broom, hunched low over it, not even glancing down at the burning village. Which was odd. Anyone would have been drawn to the light and sound. Perhaps she’d already seen what was going on, but…
The [Knight-Captain] focused on something behind the [Witch]. At first, it seemed like part of her robes. It was a large object bundled onto her broom.
Probably just her delivery. But it would be just the size of…and City Runners surely had bags of holding.
For a moment, his intuition warred with his doubts. But what sealed the deal to Merindius was the adventurers. Two of them glanced at each other and murmured. Then they looked at him and turned away. His eyes narrowed. He cast a glance skywards, then whirled, heart suddenly pounding in fury.
“With me! After that [Witch]!”
 
——
 
“Halt! You, Witch! Halt or we open fire!”
Alevica ignored the shouting as long as she could, trying to fly over the roughest terrain possible. The world was a streaked mess of brown and green, lit by the orange pyre behind her. She skimmed over treetops, muddy ground beneath her.
Green-and-blue [Knights] riding behind her. They should have been beautiful in their costly armor. But they emanated bloodlust and joy and satisfaction. Putrid emotions cracking their lovely armor like roaches with pretty painted shells. The air stank of death behind her. The horror on the adventurers was disconcerting because it only came from them and the figures hiding in the swamps.
No mercy from the others. Just a hatred that made Alevica shudder. The [Witch] flew, her blue robes soaked, muddy from the shoulders down, exhaustion painting her face—a shivering figure wrapping his tiny arms around her belly.
“Halt!”
Alevica patted the tiny hands digging into her stomach. She cast a glance back and saw more [Knights] bursting out of the trees. Dozens of them.
They’ve noticed me. Hat lice, hat lice, hatlicehatlicehatlice—
She would have gone back over the swamp if she could, but the swamps chose this moment to stop being water. Worse—she glanced over her shoulder—
The Order of Clairei Fields were gaining. They were too fast on horseback, and she was running low on magic, despite all she’d taken. Plus—Alevica glanced at the shivering lump of cloth.
She was weighed down. Alevica just had to make the best of it and called over her shoulder.
“Hold on tight. Don’t let go no matter what happens, understand?”
She heard nothing from behind her, but the hands clenched tighter with impossible strength for a child that age. But the terror, the shaking—
Alevica should have left the boy behind. But he had held the same look in his eyes as her mentor. That desperate clinging to hope. A yearning for—salvation. Alevica had failed Oliyaya.
Not this time. Master, give me strength.
Alevica bought as much time as she could, descending as one of the [Knights] drew level with her. They had bows, and they were turning, tracking her.
“I am a Runner on a delivery! Piss off!”
She flipped them off, trying to sound as genuinely annoyed as possible. The [Knights] wavered—then one called up.
“Show us your delivery, Witch! What’s that behind you?”
“Confidential from Lady Bethal Walchaís!”
“Just show us what lies under your cloak. Descend—now.”
Alevica wondered if feigning ignorance would work. If she cast an illusion…no, they were hunting Vampires. She cursed them, pretended to descend—then drew her wand and crossbow and fired.
A horse screamed and reared; a bolt of lightning made the others duck. Alevica rocketed upwards, hearing a gasp from below her. She made it fifty feet before something hit the back of her broom and exploded.
“Damn! Damndamndamn—”
Down they went. Alevica brought the broom up from a nosedive and glanced behind her. The brush was a splintered mess of burning cinders.
“You okay?”
She heard a faint sound and tried to make them rise. But her broom was damaged; it was all Alevica could do to keep them flying. She skimmed five feet off the ground, and they were right behind her.
[Knights]. It had to be a dozen.
Alevica’s wand flashed; six bolts of electricity made horses shriek and [Knights] spasm. The rest peeled away, blocking the electricity or dodging as she unloaded all the magic in her wand. That gave her a hundred paces’ lead; then she saw more streaming after her.
Was the entire Order here? Alevica kept firing wildly, forcing even the ones with bows to bring up shields. Then she felt her wand go dead.
“This is it.”
Her crossbow was failing; the mechanism must be clogged with mud. Alevica had no more weapons aside from a knife at her belt. Maybe the family would escape with her buying them time.
But she and the little boy—the [Witch] stared at her dead wand and felt her craft burning.
Salvation. It was coming off the boy as if he believed she could save him. The Witch Runner looked back as the riders began to grow larger.
“What’s your name, boy?”
“Arcanis.”
Arcanis? It sounded like a magical name. Alevica smiled as she saw a pale face and red eyes—pronounced canines staring up at her. Gently, she lifted her hat. She drew all of that desperate longing in his eyes into her hat and cast the only spell she had left.
“Well then, Arcanis. On my hat, I’ll see you to safety. A [Witch]’s oath on it.”
Two red eyes, faintly glowing in the moonlit night, looked up at her. A tiny nod. Alevica smiled at the boy.
How she lied.
Alevica grabbed all of his earnest hope and trust and all the magic she could afford. No time for rhymes or fancy magic. She lifted her trustworthy weapon and spoke to it.
“Find Witch Eloise. Tell her a [Witch] is dying. Now—fly.”
Alevica hurled the wand into the air, and it left a trail amidst the storm, shooting higher and arcing across the sky. Alevica wondered how long it would take to reach Riverfarm.
Too long. She had minutes—if she could just slow the [Knights] down, she might buy time! Alevica tossed everything from her bag of holding behind her. Waterlogged blankets, food, soggy reagents—the figures just galloped around or over her possessions.
No magic. No wand. Only a broom and…
A word flickered into the Witch Runner’s mind. She rolled the broom to dodge an arrow where her head would have been, reoriented herself, and spoke.
“Scaeptis. Scaep—”
How did she say it? Alevica changed intonations, tried to make the word come out right as a [Knight] drew level with her, sword drawn. She looked into a green metal visor as the sword rose, and she lifted a hand, trying to swerve away.
“Scæptiŝ?”
Almost. Too bad. 
The rains were lessening. Alevica was trapped in that kind of moment where time slowed and rushed all at once. The moon was illuminating her, the soggy ground—the descending sword.
The shadow of death passed over the Witch Runner, and she tried to block the boy behind her with her body. She saw the [Knight]’s arm lower—and then his body twisted, and his shield came up.
Huh?
Then a pair of gigantic claws seized him, and Alevica heard a scream. The Griffin hit the horse and flew up in two wingbeats before dropping the green, armored figure.
Time resumed; Alevica grabbed the handle of her broom and peered back as the [Griffin Rider] shouted. The Griffin shrieked, and another [Knight] closing on Alevica shouted as a bola hit them and took them off their saddle.
The [Knight-Captain] cut the second bola, which clanged off his armor and drew up his horse. The Order of Clairei Fields scattered as the Griffin turned and banked, going for another attack run.
“Griffin attack!”
“Now? There’s a rider! Watch out for—”
Alevica saw the same woman who’d dragged her into this mess lifting a spear overhead and whooping as she swooped past the Witch Runner, blocking the [Knights]. For a second, they locked eyes, and Alevica felt a wave of righteous fury and indignation coming off the rider.
Black hair. Wide eyes, face set into the grin of a woman who had decided she had nothing left to lose or fear. A once-broken nose, which she still turned up at the [Knights]. A spear in hand, which she had brought from Terandria to kill a [Witch].
A murderer of Kaliv’s Wing of Shame. A killer, as savagely dangerous as the Griffin she rode, but not honorless.
What did the [Griffin Rider] see? Knights chasing a [Witch]. A burning village. And…that gaze locked on Alevica’s passenger before shifting. She gave Alevica a rueful grin as she raised her spear higher.
The [Knight-Captain] roared as he backed up from the gigantic Griffin, who snapped at his horse.
“Halt, Griffin Knight! In the name of the Clairei Fields, we are pursuing a Vampire!”
The [Griffin Rider] shouted back.
“I don’t care if you’re after the devil himself! What kind of child-killing bastards dare call themselves [Knights]? I am Griffin Rider Lillian Woods! Kaliv’s Wing of Shame would rather die than let this kind of injustice go unpunished! I challenge you! Honor or death!”
“Are you mad?”
One of the [Knights] tried to shoot after the Witch Runner, who was still flying away. In response, the Griffin took wing and swept after the [Knight]. It plucked the struggling figure off the horse and then flew up a dozen feet and dropped them.
The Order of Clairei Fields scattered in the face of this unexpected threat. Alevica was still staring backwards as the [Witch] gained precious minutes.
She’s helping me? But she tried to kill me! The woman must have seen what was going on and—
“I am going to curse her and her Griffin into next year.”
Alevica swore to herself. But she’d upgraded that from ‘murder’. Alevica just focused on keeping her broom flying. Now it was a real race. If she could keep ahead of the Order of Clairei Fields…
She just had to hope help arrived in time. 
 
——
 
It was a late night in Riverfarm, and Witch Eloise was sitting on a bench-swing outside her comfortable house on the outskirts of Riverfarm. Not so far she was remote, but isolated from the hustle and bustle of a city.
Just as she liked it. She had a pot of tea by her side; she really did like the stuff, more than it just being her craft. And she had a guest.
He’d been here the last month. His hair was white, and he didn’t look like a grand [Mage] out of stories. More like an old traveller with patched robes and a face that was less ‘old and wise’, and more like a young man, a scamp who had one day realized he had white hair and wrinkles.
Typhenous the Plague Mage was no wandering wizard. He sometimes played into the image, but if you saw him barechested, he was wiry with countless knife wounds he hid with his robes. If he acted like the befuddled old [Mage], it was because it was a role he loved to play.
—He had never seemed as old as he did now. He lay staring up at the night sky, and Eloise thought a storm was far to the north. But Typhenous didn’t seem as happy as a man might after having achieved the enviable lap pillow.
He had tried for months to talk, charm, and otherwise ingratiate himself into her good books. Not just hers; Eloise had been well aware that Typhenous had been flirting with Mavika. More successfully than most people.
He had finally done it. But not in the way he had expected. Rather, the old man looked lost and sleepy, despite the early hour. Eloise was gently combing his hair.
“My. It was one of those interesting days, wasn’t it? A todo about something or other?”
His voice was lost. It seemed as though he didn’t have the energy to stand; she’d found him sitting there with no appetite for lunch.
All the sharpness of a man who had once been a Face of Invrisil, a Gold-rank adventurer that had lived on the edge, had left him. He had lost weight. Briganda had been after him to eat more, but he had no appetite. He sat around and watched Cade or chatted about memories with people keen to pass the time.
To Witch Eloise, he was like a cloud of dandelion seeds. The wind had begun to blow, and the cloud was shifting, piece by piece, vanishing into that great beyond.
The Plague Mage looked at peace with himself as Eloise spoke, staring down at his face.
“Interesting? You could say that. The Unseen Empire might come under trouble soon. But you don’t care about that, do you?”
His eyes met hers, then unfocused. Typhenous stared at the stars.
“That young man, Laken, is a bright fellow. He’ll manage. People do. This is a peaceful village.”
“Mhm. For now.”
Eloise said nothing; she just kept stroking his face. Typhenous closed his eyes. After a while, he spoke.
“…No news of Revi?”
“Are you expecting any?”
For a moment, his head tried to rise, then it fell back.
“She’ll be fine. She’s also very clever, you know. Talks tougher than she is…but she’ll be fine. I’m sure.”
“Of course you are.”
His eyes fluttered. Typhenous was drifting off into slumber. Or trying to. He spoke up to Eloise.
“You’ve been very kind, Witch Eloise. I hate to trouble you. I feel rather foolish after all this. I’m…”
His voice trailed off, and the Great Witch of Tea, who had herself been a [Lady] and so many other things until she had ‘settled down’ to merely try and keep an empire in Izril running—she smiled down at him.
Kindly. That was Eloise’s nature. She didn’t kick the door down in the night like Hedag. She talked to people. Her magic was small things. A cup of tea, because that could sort out so much.
Was she kind to Typhenous? Her hands were. But her words…
“And Halrac is dead. So is Ulrien.”
He flinched. Those lost eyes focused a bit more, opening slightly. She had learned Ulrien’s name from Typhenous.
“Brave men. Good fellows. Straightforward, like an arrow and a sword. Griffon Hunt is over. Revi’s gone elsewhere, and Briganda’s got Cade.”
“Yes. And there’s no need for you. Is that what you want to say?”
