“Don’t think of what was, you lot. Focus on getting out of here. The High Passes’re as bad as a Walled City. If it comes to it, hop out of the wagon and run like you’ve got silver up your ass. If you can mistwalk or transform, hide. These [Knights]’ll do the best they can, but there’s things here that could eat the lot of us. It says how desperate we are that we’re even attempting this crossing. Let alone afterwards.”
That comment came from an old woman, Xeni, a grandmother with two peg-legs instead of feet. She had some kind of disease from the Curse; she was nimble for all her missing feet, and she’d been the one who had jumped through Lapsey’s window to ‘rescue’ her.
Of course, Vaulont had stopped them—but she’d tossed Vess a good thirty feet out the window before Colfa caught him.
Xeni was properly powerful, then, but she had a no-nonsense tone to her voice for all she spoke of their powers. Not the grandeur…Lapsey shifted as the other Vampires nodded.
“Monsters. Is this safe? What if we hid—”
The farmer’s wife, Pedne, buried her head in her hands, but another Vampire shook his head.
“Not with the Hunters. They’re hunting us across the continent. We have to go. Then we hope someone finds us. I think we’re rallying near the New Lands.”
“That is quite a lot of space for that kind of vagary. But then…all the old hideouts are suspect. The entire north is poisoned—what if we made for Emergency Point Sanctis?”
Atrenve was displeased by the inaccuracies. He unfolded a cheap map he had, and the others crowded around as Lapsey’s ears perked up. Atrenve stabbed a finger at a spot in the foothills, away from any Drake cities in the southern part of Izril. The Vampires conferred, but it was clear they were all from different places; six different groups, not counting Lapsey, each one with their own sources of information.
“Emergency Point Sanctis? We have one of those?”
“From records. You don’t know about it? It should be a keep…”
“Pretentious name. I—we—never had any fallback points. People, yes. But when the Lischelle-Drakles pulled out…”
“Shush. No names.”
“She vouched for them, surely—”
“This keep wasn’t maintained, right? I’d rather meet up with someone along the New Lands. I did hear that as the idea. Dead gods, if only we’d coordinated.”
“Too late. Not everyone’s even willing to leave. We left near forty folk behind in our village. I hope they’re at least packed and ready to go. The Hunters are everywhere…”
They were frightened, unclear on what to do…and wary of each other. Lapsey cleared her throat and raised her voice. They had to know what was important.
“Excuse me. I don’t know if you could tell, but I’m…new to the blood. I was turned by the val Vonderacks. I am the last; the others were slain by the hateful mortals. I’m…I’m also pure of blood. Untainted.”
A true Vampire, not poisoned by the silver in the wells. Lapsey looked around expectantly, and a few Vampires blinked at her, then frowned. It was old Xeni who bared her teeth in a grimace.
“Poor girl. You choose a poor time to…inducted into the blood, you say? val Vonderack…I think I recall them. What were those idiots thinking giving you Vampirism? Ach, I shouldn’t speak ill of the dead. You stick with us, Lapsey. But tone down the talk, would you? All this ‘new to the blood’ and ‘mortals’ will get us caught right off, even by Drakes.”
Lapsey hesitated as the others gave her sympathetic nods.
“I…yes. But we’re private enough here. And I’m pureblooded. I have powers. Shapeshifting. I don’t have sickness. I can rebuild our people.”
Some of the Vampires did catch on to this, and Atrenve sat up.
“No illness? No coughing? Can you drain…”
They all cast a glance at Chaoisa, who wasn’t turning to look at them, but their voices lowered. Lapsey nodded hurriedly.
“I didn’t test it—we had to move the moment I was turned, you know. But Sevil, my husband, thought so. And I have fully-fledged powers from the moment I was sired.”
“Dead gods. How did you escape the Curse—I mean, the damn silver?”
“My village was on the coast. So far away that House Byres never visited it.”
Pedne and her husband clasped Lapsey’s hand. The female Vampire had a less-visible illness than the others, but she sometimes sounded short of breath.
“That’s wonderful, dear. It gives me hope that maybe we’ll recover. Or at least the younger ones will…”
She glanced at her daughter, who stared at Lapsey, and the Vampiress nodded with all the dignity she could muster.
“I’ll do my part rebuilding our generations.”
Pedne’s husband, Tulec, frowned at her.
“…How?”
Lapsey’s face turned red, and the copper coin dropped after a second. Half the Vampires raised their brows. One of them laughed incredulously, and Lapsey flushed more. But Xeni just frowned.
“Is that what the val Vonderacks had planned? They grabbed a girl like you and…now I remember. They’re the sort who kept to the old ways. Like a bad val Drakle. All vees and zehs and notions about their station. Put ‘rebuilding the old blood’ out of your mind, girl. That’s not who we are. And even if you were an old Noble of the Blood—this is the High Passes. Beasts from here used to eat us even when we were ruling Izril.”
She slapped one leg briskly, and Lapsey stared, open-mouthed, at Xeni. Offended on behalf of Sevil, but—she couldn’t rage at the woman because she was a fellow Vampire, and an old one.
Lapsey was so dumbfounded as the other Vampires murmured that she didn’t know what to say. A few of them eyed her sympathetically, or even with pained amusement, muttering to themselves.
“Vonderacks? An entire clan? We never had any bloodlines that old—”
“Giving Vampirism to a girl just for…do you think anyone else has a harebrained idea like that?”
“If she can drink levels like the old days, that’s as bad as good. The last thing we need is to give the Hunters something to be afraid of.”
“I’d rather give them some fear. Not that I’m mad enough to fight. If we get out of the High Passes, we should form some kind of militia. Buy armor…but the cost!”
Atrenve was the only one who spoke to Lapsey as she sat there, feeling—wronged by the lack of the society, the culture she had been led to expect. Durene’s comment about Sevil made her flush darken, and uncertainty squirmed through her stomach. He hadn’t been—he’d loved her!
It was the scribe who leaned over as they rumbled into the High Passes and the Order of Solstice began to warn the Vampires to keep their voices down. He smiled at Lapsey and whispered.
“We don’t mean to be harsh, Miss Lapsey. For what it’s worth, I’m glad someone’s spared the sickness and has hope for the future. But I was born and raised as…an ordinary sort of man. I wished I had levels, but being a Vampire certainly helped against the odd mugger. I suppose we all have to shed our notions of what’s normal. Who knows? We might all need to return to our roots, if we can once we’re clear of House Byres’ treachery.”
He patted her hand, and she smiled in relief at him. He wasn’t as handsome as Sevil, but—she could do at least three children. Or she could be a [Knight] of Solstice and just…turn some people into Vampires. She eyed Durene and licked her lips.
Lapsey was…thirsty.
 
——
 
Six blazing [Knights], an angry [Driver], two bulls, and thirteen Vampires challenged the High Passes. They did not gallop, but they passed under natural stone bridges, the cliffs where monsters stirred, threading the treacherous pass and daring anything to come down and test them.
The lesser monsters of the High Passes around the actual canyon were Eater Goats, Gargoyles, Carn Wolves, and Razorbeaks. Several Eater Goat flocks stared down at the Order of Solstice hungrily, but they were at least sentient enough to know that flames were indigestible. A few hopped closer, but the flames made them uneasy.
Carn Wolves. Eater Goats. The birds with razors for beaks—they did not understand honor. Or mercy. Certainly not glory; perhaps some animals might understand that bright rose of kindness, but not Eater Goats. They opened their mouths—then saw the Antinium blazing with determination.
Determination—different from the pure honor that Normen carried. Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus, the [Indomitable Knight-Warden], burned like a certain [Innkeeper]’s eyes. His fire was the color of will, the will to swim at the bottom of an ocean. To scale a mountain or fight when there was no salvation or hope ahead for him. The flame was the desire to carve that better day out of the future piece by piece.
Determination…the goats understood determination. Their crazed eyes focused on Antherr, and they accorded him the rare designation of ‘difficult food’. Then they hopped away to eat something easier, like each other.
Fire. The Folk of Deep and Song watched as well, in envy of the Blessed Peoples. But most of all, they focused on their kindred.
She had the blessings. She had blood of the Folk of Deep and Song written on her face and skin, but the power of the Peoples in her. She was shorter, smaller, but she blazed with such a painful flame that the Folk looked away.
Kindness. A thing so many longed for and that they did not expect. It was not a pure flame; sorrow burned through it and painful kindness that had not always been true. Yet it was hers. She claimed it even after all the lack of it she had felt. Even now…it made stones weep.
But why were they passing through the mountains? This was a bad way; even the Blessed Peoples knew that. The First Doors were closed; the ways were covered in monsters and great foes.
It was far, far safer to pass through Death’s Lands. Not that the name was that comforting, but the People of Their Ancestors had kept that land for ages. Perhaps something had happened? The Folk of Deep and Song had not ventured that far in generations.
It explained why so many had come…the Folk of Deep and Song peered at their kindred as long as they dared, from their hiding places. They were secure, confident; no one had seen them, even the cleverest and most dangerous. Even the Tyrant of Flames saw them not or cared not.
—But they forgot she was of them. Her eyes roamed the grey stone. Then flicked up. The Folk of Deep and Song realized the burning [Paladin] saw them. Her fire was the fire they longed for.
Then they realized some of the other [Knights] had seen them too.
The Folk of Deep and Song fled.
 
——
 
Durene saw what had looked, even to her, like plain-grey rock shifting. She called out, standing up in her stirrups as a giant figure vanished into a cleft in the rock.
“Wait!”
The rest of the [Knights] of Solstice had been glancing up at a stone bridge overhead. A piece of huge stone wedged high overhead to form a natural bridge…or so they’d assumed.
Now, it was more probable that someone had moved that bridge of stone there to form a walkway. Durene saw more figures moving, incredibly fast, running into the darkness.
“Was that—?”
Jewel craned her neck, trying to see, but Normen spoke calmly, shading his eyes.
“Trolls, I think.”
He glanced at Durene, and she nodded, breathless. Her…they were tall! Bigger than her, and they’d been so well-hidden that, but for her fire, she wouldn’t have seen them. It was like Normen had once described to her: the flames embodied themselves in those who possessed kindness. Or…longed for it?
She had felt like they were staring at her hungrily before they realized she’d seen them. Jewel was frowning; she must not have seen anything.
But Normen, Antherr, and Ama had all picked out the Trolls. The [Necromancer] scratched Sillias under the chin.
“Flame-vision is sort of nice, isn’t it, Normen? Not that those damn Eater Goats get sad.”
“Don’t call it flame-vision, please, Ama.”
“How about fire eyes?”
No one dignified that with a response. Durene kept eying the openings in the High Passes. There must be deep cave networks in there. I wonder what it’s like.
She had the urge to explore, but she knew she had to focus, so she kept scanning the pass. Strangely…they had gone an hour in already and not seen so much as a single monster.
Eater Goats and Carn Wolves, yes, even what might have been Rock Elementals—little ones that were more like floating boulders—but no Gargoyles. They were passing by a yellow handkerchief tied to a stick in front of an impassable cliff face of rock, and Normen paused to point it out.
“Gold-rankers, perhaps? I know they were hunting the Frost Wyverns. Could they have cleared the monsters out of the area?”
“Maybe the High Passes haven’t recovered from the Eater Goats and Gargoyles attacking Orefell?”
Jewel didn’t sound quite convinced about that. Neither did Durene.
“The High Passes are supposed to have too many monsters to count, and they only get worse the higher you go. Hm. It feels like there’s been fighting here. Look at the ground.”
For an uninhabited area, there were a lot of tracks messing up the dirt. Vess squinted down at them.
“Gargoyles? Animal herd? Anyone a [Tracker]?”
“Nope.”
“I am not.”
“Halrac was…”
The Order of Solstice fell silent. The Vampires were watching the [Knights] with a mix of hope and uncertainty; the Order’s lack of insight about some aspects was probably not comforting.
However, they were good at fighting. They had just passed the handkerchief when Chaoisa snapped.
“[Dangersense]!”
“Where—giant centipedes! Ew, ew, ew—”
Vess turned, spotted huge, ropey insects the color of light dirt covering something buzzing with carrion, and began firing as they scuttled towards the band. Normen rode forwards, coating his mace with acid as Durene shouted.
“[Oath of Flames: We Will Not Fall Back!]”
The flames doubled on all the [Knights]. The centipedes, huge, capable of taking a foot off with a single bite, looked up and saw six angry [Knights] coated in fire charging at them. Then the first one hit a centipede in the face with a mace covered in acid.
“Dead gods.”
The Vampires watched the Order of Solstice take the giant centipedes apart in seconds. Durene herself cut one in half, kicked another in the face, turned, and realized they were all dead.
“Wait, that’s it? Is there another nest?”
“Nope. Ugh. They were eating this dead…what is it?”
A huge lump of something had died in the High Passes, and the centipedes had come out for food. Vess pointed at it, and Durene recoiled as Acid Flies buzzed around something hacked to bits. Normen was the only person who could get close; the Acid Flies were a bigger threat than the centipedes.
