They might turn up. The Order of Clairei Fields had gone tearing after Alevica and Arcanis; the Vampires might have hidden in the swamp and then gotten away.
Or they might not have. Alevica had told Arcanis this. Not unkindly, but as a [Witch] did with painful honesty.
He sat there, glancing at the door as it opened, but it was just Laken. The boy stared at the blind man, but Laken just sat down with a groan.
“Everything hurts, Alevica.”
“Oh, really? Riding back from the border must be terribly painful, Your Majesty. Being shot with arrows and run over isn’t nearly as bad.”
“…Okay, I’m better. Good morning, Cirsa, Malluni, Arcanis. There’s still no sign of the [Griffin Rider] that attacked you, Alevica. Wiskeria says it’s ‘her business’, but I will keep my eye on the matter. As for Arcanis’ family—”
The boy looked up, but Laken just smiled sadly at him. He patted the head of his newest member of court; a Sariant Lamb of all things. The little bugger was still untrustworthy, but they’d provided him with the intelligence about House d’Artien. If a Vampire deserved a chance…well, so did a Sariant Lamb. Laken turned to the nervous Arcanis.
“If I notice anyone crossing the border, I will let you know. I rather suspect that’s what they’ll try. You are welcome to stay here as long as you wish, Arcanis. But remember. You do not exist. And if your family should come…”
They will have to leave. Alevica nodded. Laken had said he couldn’t risk a war, and he meant it. Besides…he’d already thrown out nearly sixteen ‘travellers’ who he had said were spies.
More trouble for Riverfarm. Laken certainly seemed tired. And for all Alevica ragged on him, she sensed a true despondency coming off him. He sat there heavily.
“Yitton and I are quits. He’s made his choice, and I’ve made mine. There was never any real chance of anything else happening. But again—”
Another friend lost as the Unseen Empire did what Laken thought was best. The [Emperor] might not have known Yitton as well as some, but it seemed like an open wound. Silently, the [Witch] debated on patting Laken on the shoulder, but she decided that was stupid. Instead, Alevica turned to Arcanis, directing Laken’s attention back to the boy.
“If you want to stay, you’ll stay with me. Cirsa and Malluni are almost as bad as [Knights], though.”
The two apprentices glared indignantly at Alevica, but the Vampire boy just poked at a bloody steak.
“What can I do?”
Laken opened his mouth, but Alevica kicked him until he shut up.
“Rest. Learn. I have two little brats to look after. A third won’t hurt.”
Pale-red eyes stared at Alevica, then darted away. She hadn’t asked him how he felt; she didn’t need to. Alevica pretended all was well, at least, right now. So Arcanis said…
“I can’t level up.”
“Well, a Witch is a Witch regardless of whether she has a class.”
Alevica recited her old mentor’s words with a twist on them. She thought of the new spell she’d learned. Then smiled at the boy.
“Besides. I know a bit of magic that requires no classes. If you want to, I’ll teach you. Though you’d technically be a [Warlock].”
He blinked at her, and Malluni’s and Cirsa’s mouths fell open. Even Laken sat up, and Arcanis’ head rose. He began asking questions, forgetting a moment that he was bleeding and wounded. He’d cry when he had to. Rage and ask questions, and if they were lucky—his family would show up. But if not…he’d be one of Oliyaya’s apprentices. No…wait.
One of Alevica’s apprentices?
The [Witch] adjusted her mended hat, bemused at the thought. What was she, the Witch of Salvation now? The Witch of Good Deeds? The Witch of Hugs and Kisses?
—No. But she was the Witch Runner. Busy, annoyed by the well-meaning [Emperor], worried about the future. Alevica sighed. But at least her hat was full.
 
——
 
The end. For Riverfarm, at least. Some of the news of the showdown on the border had that weight of history to it. When Durene got the [Message] from Lady Rie, it had an edited feel that said she’d missed a lot of confusion and swearing.
She had no doubt the end results were mostly the same, but the upshot was that Laken had done A Good Thing. As he always did. But he couldn’t solve Izril’s woes. She couldn’t. The Order of Solstice couldn’t.
Two hundred [Knights] of Clairei Fields. Durene bet that the Order of Solstice could take on two [Knights] apiece in a scrap. So…twelve. They were not ready for the magnitude of the task.
Yet they were called. So she closed the scroll as they broke camp in the morning and had her own sense of déjà vu.
“Hey, guys? How much sex is normal per day? Per week?”
Vess stopped chewing his breakfast and looked up at Durene. Normen paused as he exited his tent. He eyed Durene. Slowly, the [Grandmaster] stepped back into the tent and closed the flap.
After a second, Durene heard him laughing. The entire Order of the Solstice started chuckling, and it was joined by a booming laugh from Chaoisa. Then a strange, fluttering sound, as if a hundred butterflies had been given voices.
That made the Order of Solstice and Chaoisa stop laughing for a moment and look over in astonishment. The hundred Antinium in armor sat up in their bedrolls, staring at the [Knights].
The [Gloryseeking Squires], [Antinium-at-Arms], [Pages of Glory’s Flame]—the aspiring heirs to Embraim—did not know why they laughed, clearly. But they copied the Order of Solstice, like giant insectoid puppies. Afraid. Uncertain.
Not quite Individual. Not even Autonomous; most are liars. That was Antherr’s frank appraisal of them, which had worried Durene quite a lot when he’d reported to Normen with everyone else present.
Did that mean they were untrustworthy? No…not to Antinium. What Antherr meant was that none of them had Embraim’s lantern. They had lied they had it and been granted armor and freedom from their roles as Workers and Soldiers. Instead of living and dying for the Hives, they had been sent to Liscor where they could be…free. They had followed the flame of glory here out of sheer desperation.
Durene got that. So, when the Order of Solstice had voted on whether to let the Antinium stay or turn them away, for fear of taking in too many Antinium or being unprepared for them—it had been a unanimous vote. 6-0 in favor of accepting them as the first full trainees of the Order of Solstice.
They were not the only ones. The rocky campground was not comfortable, but Drakes, Humans, and Gnolls had all pitched camp with their own sleeping bags and gear.
Lots of it was personal or donated by their own friends or family, and Durene had gone into Liscor and bought food and whatever else was needed. She was worried about finances, but they had a donor with literally unlimited purse strings, so this part of the Order of Solstice’s campaign had gone well.
—Which was mostly just riding for the last four days. However, given their destination, intent, and company, surviving the trip without conflict or strife was impressive.
“I don’t know much about love, Durene. I don’t know enough about fighting or strategy in warfare. I’ll study the latter.”
Normen replied as he exited his tent, already wearing his armor. Ama shook her head as she spooned baked beans onto some fresh bread.
“Poor Jewel.”
The [Swashbuckler] threw a heel of toast at the [Necromancer]. Normen raised a hand before the watching Antinium started a food fight with their rations. Then again, based on how they savored every bite, Durene doubted they’d waste a crumb.
“We should be setting a good example for the [Squires] and [Knight]-candidates.”
“Why? We’re not that cool. They’d better find out now.”
Ama shot back, and Normen hesitated as Antherr, Vess, and Durene nodded sagely. When the [Grandmaster] turned his head, he seemed bemused and surprised that so many people wanted to be Knights of Solstice.
As he sat there, smiling awkwardly, eating beans on toast, Normen Callsten might not have looked like much. But so what? Everyone had seen him burning with honor’s fire. They had witnessed Embraim and the Order of Solstice at their finest.
If you caught one of them picking their nose or tripping on a rock and thought that took away from who they were, well, you just had a bad memory. Durene chewed on a potato she had tossed on the fire for breakfast. Vess passed her some salt. She passed it right back.
“Aw, c’mon, Durene. You don’t even want salt?”
“It’s probably a Troll thing, Vess. Plain potato tastes really good.”
Vess shook his head as he salted his beans and muttered under his breath.
“I bet it’s not a Troll thing. I bet it’s a Durene thing, and you just don’t want to admit you’re weird.”
She shoved him, and he tried to shove her back, but given the disparity between their weights, Vess just shoved himself again. Their bickering made Chaoisa smile, though she appeared half-dead. She’d been sleeping in her wagon, and was unhappy to be alive in general at this moment.
Chaoisa, Antinium, prospective [Knights], and the Order of the Solstice. As armies went, it was pitiful. As groups to feed and organize? They would have overloaded The Wandering Inn in a week’s time. Which was why they were not at The Wandering Inn.
“It’s good that we agreed with your plan, Durene. The Armored Antinium recruits forced our hand, as it were. Do you think we’ll be able to set up a base here?”
Durene frowned worriedly as Normen stood, walking around the camp. She got up with him, smiling and waving at nervous Antinium, who leapt to their feet then sat down awkwardly as they passed.
“I think so, Normen. Antinium are fantastic builders, right? And there’s some trees…we’ll have to drag them over here, but I bought a lot of that quick concrete mix that Octavia had. Water, rocks, a lot of pounding and mixing, and we can build almost anything out of stone.”
There were a lot of stones about; Durene imagined they’d be able to make cobblestone walls. If they wanted to get fancy, they could cut stone…but she’d take any kind of wall.
“The second question is: where?”
“Somewhere decently high up? Not too high…see those cliffs up there?”
Normen frowned as Durene pointed up the steep walls of a natural ravine they were staring at. There were lots of ledges that Durene imagined they could excavate. Either that or she pointed over her shoulder.
“Otherwise, we move the keep back a bit. Put it on the ground at the mouth of the pass. Closer to the river?”
“Water matters. And we’ll probably live longer if we give the local wildlife some room. For now, we have to establish whether we’ll even survive long enough to do what we need to.”
Both Normen and Durene glanced sideways as he said that at the last members of the expedition.
Lapsey sat under a raised tarp, avoiding the sunlight like, well, a Vampire avoiding sunlight. She poked enthusiastically at some beans on toast that Ama offered her. When one of her comrades sitting in the shade offered her something similar, she brightened up and awkwardly took the ‘beans’ and spread it over the bread.
Durene’s eager chewing on her potato slowed. Even Normen blanched. Durene swallowed hard as a pale-skinned man checked the pot.
“Are those beans in…blood?”
“So it seems.”
A group of about thirteen Vampires were making their own breakfast, but Durene had no desire to share the pot.
Yes, Vampires. They didn’t look quite as hostile as when they’d tried to hold Durene and Normen hostage and rescue Lapsey. To be fair—they hadn’t seemed quite dangerous at the time either.
Normen had seen them coming, and while they’d held Durene up with a blade at her throat, it had lasted about as long as it took them to try and sneak into The Wandering Inn. They’d run into Ishkr with a jar of garlic and Vaulont. However, their rescue attempt for Lapsey had been the catalyst for the Order of Solstice departing Liscor for their current destination along with the entire Order of Solstice.
Right now, the Vampires were having their odd breakfast; they all wore dark clothing and hats and had a certain umbral style to them, but they seemed more like weary travellers than anything sinister. True, they had fanged teeth; yes, they were fast and strong and had red eyes.
But Durene didn’t really see a dangerous monster in the working scribe surreptitiously tossing salt in the pot and getting his hand smacked by the old grandmother who was arguing sugar was better for…blood beans. Lapsey was peering in the pot with a disconsolate look, eyeing the Order of Solstice’s armor with far more interest. She was still badgering Durene to be accepted as a Knight of Solstice.
At any rate, the thirteen Vampires were the reason the Order of Solstice had come all this way.
No one said the V-word out loud, but surely some of the prospective recruits had worked out the group being escorted by the Order of Solstice had a few quirks. Such as staying out of the sunlight, eating bloody meals, and a few had thrown up when crossing a bridge over running water.
Durene was just grateful the Vampires trusted them enough to come here. After their abduction attempt had failed and they’d been de-garliced and de-headlocked, Colfa and Vaulont had introduced them and clarified the situation.
The Vampires had sought passage to Pallass, not having heard about Lapsey’s situation. When they learned, they’d been prepared to turn around and find another way south, but they’d tried to ‘save’ Lapsey first, having made the fair assumption that the Order of Solstice was hostile to Vampires.
Regardless, as Durene had noted, that left them with scant options. Either they scaled the mountains around Liscor or ran down the Bloodfields or booked passage on a ship. All of those methods were easy to track; doubtless, many Vampires were trying those routes and perishing. Durene hoped more were sensible and keeping their heads down, but the hunting was flushing them out…
No good solutions.
Now think what the Order of Solstice would do in a situation like this. They had a group they wanted to help. They very clearly had a cause, but they lacked the strength to contest the Order of Clairei Fields, let alone Pallass.
They wanted to help. They had to. Durene had said it to the others, and she hadn’t gotten a voice of disagreement. Just a question: how?
In a situation like this, someone like Laken would use the power of his class and his intellect to devise some crazy idea, like…walking Vampires under Pallass’ nose or launching them from a trebuchet to safety. Durene didn’t know. If it was Erin, she might have arranged for Vampires to use her door and get past Pallass, and hang the consequences.
