When the Emperor of Riverfarm did appear, both forces had stood down and sent forth representatives to neutral ground. Lord Yitton Byres, Lord Malst, and Grandmaster Noveghin stood together with a small escort of their bodyguards facing General Wiskeria, Lord Gralton, Brigadier Forount, and Lord Pattin, who were shaking hands and introducing each other.
The huge [Dog Lord] paced back and forth; the [Witch] was uncannily poised, and Brigadier Forount kept smoothing her mustache. They put off the three representatives of the Vampire Hunters. Lord Pattin stuck out like a sore thumb, but he managed to raise his chin and glower across the divide with the rest of them.
We are the old houses of Izril. House Byres predates the Five Families—at least, their entrance onto Izril. We have the backing of many noble families who understand the threat and the righteousness of history on our side. Laken and I know each other.
Yitton reminded himself of the facts while he waited; he saw reinforcements to Riverfarm’s army milling about, and he had seen Laken’s figure as he rode up. A blue bird screeching amidst the bodies made Yitton sure the [Emperor] was coming. But how he arrived at the delegation…
When the [Emperor] began to make his way across the ground, it was not on foot. Yitton heard horns blaring and, for a panicked moment, thought a call to arms had begun.
But no—he heard shouting, and then the [Emperor] was riding towards him past a line of [Soldiers] raising their arms into the sky.
“The Unseen Emperor of Riverfarm, Protector of Durene’s cottage! His Majesty, Laken Godart—”
Someone was heralding Laken. Yitton’s mouth opened in dismay. This was not the informal meeting he’d hoped for. Instead, he saw Laken Godart riding towards him.
On a green Mossbear.
Bismarck. He passed the lines of [Soldiers] as the Vampire Hunters watched, incredulous, murmuring; Laken’s eyes were closed, and they surely knew the rumors.
A blind [Emperor]. But it was one thing to hear of one—another to see him riding the massive, snuffling bear. And then a second line of figures spread out, distinct from the [Soldiers].
“[Witches].”
A growl from Lord Malst. Two dozen women with pointed hats, each one different, spread out, and the [Emperor] rode past them. These women raised no weapons and did not bow, but as he passed, they touched their hats. Then, Laken dismounted, and the brilliant, blue bird screamed overhead, and his personal court of [Witches], men and women that Yitton vaguely recalled, Lady Rie, all swept forwards.
They seemed taller than normal. Prouder. Farmers like Mister Ram seemed to step with a [Butler]’s finesse, and the farming women like Miss Yesel had glowers to match those of the [Knights] behind Yitton.
To the Lord of House Byres, it was amusing and dismaying both. He knew Laken—but as the [Emperor] strode forwards, he heard a whisper.
“Dead gods. I thought I would never see the like of his ilk walk on Izril’s shores. You say this is a reasonable, humble man, Lord Yitton?”
Grandmaster Noveghin had removed his helmet for the meeting. When Yitton turned, the [Knight] had an unsettled expression on his face. Nervous, Yitton realized. And then he felt the butterflies in his stomach and looked again.
—Then he saw an [Emperor].
Laken Godart’s final walk to the assembled nobles was preceded by a scuttling pair of lanterns, their ‘eyes’ aglow with magic. A wicker scarecrow stumped into place, and a frozen, miniature Snow Golem rolled forwards and halted.
The mortals backed up a step, despite themselves, and the last of the [Emperor]’s escorts ran forwards in a mob. Of all his servants—perhaps the least intimidating and yet the most impactful were the Sariant Lambs.
The cute little creatures dashed forwards, all fluff and cuteness. But they lined up in amazing precision, and—Yitton’s jaw dropped—they fell to one knee. The [Emperor] walked past them, chuckling, his face merry and relaxed. As if all this fit him and were normal. But when his head rose and he seemed to ‘look’ at the three intruders onto his land, Yitton felt a weight in the air.
Laken’s face clouded over, and he leaned on his simple, white cane. His expression became one of displeasure, and Yitton Byres wished he could have locked eyes with the man. Searched or hinted for their bonds forged on their long ride north.
Instead—he just felt his heart rate spike. Thus came the Emperor of the Unseen Empire. He waited as his personal [Knight], Gamel, introduced him, and the three representatives of the Vampire Hunters were announced.
They were outnumbered in this diplomatic setting three-to-one, not even counting the Elementals or Sariant Lambs. This was not appropriate; this was a display of might.
And they were on the [Emperor]’s lands. When Laken did speak, any illusions of friendship left Yitton.
“I have entertained this meeting out of my past friendship for House Byres and Lord Yitton. I shall not speak of what has transpired. Offense has been given tenfold already. The intruders to my lands have been easily dealt with; this army I address now. My warning is simple. Cross the borders of the Unseen Empire as foe and die.”
His voice was flat and imperiously cold. Yitton almost gasped. This was no negotiation! Yet Grandmaster Noveghin just held his ground as Laken’s head swivelled towards him.
“Your quarry is gone, [Knights]. I shall not shelter Vampires nor allow their hunters on my lands. Your people attacked my subject, Witch Alevica. Rest assured, I will have that debt settled. You may, incidentally, ransom your [Knights] from me. But I am willing to let the matter go without more strife. Harm her or any of her people and I will hunt the Order of Clairei Fields across all of Izril. Be told: your actions today have made you potential enemies of the Unseen Empire.”
“Ransom?”
That came from one of the [Knights]; the Grandmaster of the Order of Clairei Fields had a resigned look on his face. Laken did not deign to turn his head, but he did clarify after a moment.
“For an extortionate price. They invaded my lands. Two are dead; I will return the remains to you.”
“Dead? For this insult—”
“They entered my lands and attacked my subjects. It should be war. It will be if you do not shut up, [Knight].”
The [Emperor]’s voice was cold. The [Knight] hesitated, and Laken Godart turned his head.
“Margravine Mavika. You have my authority to make war without surrender or mercy upon Knight B over there and slaughter them if they utter one more word. The Order of Clairei Fields I am undecided about at this time.”
“As you will it, Emperor Godart.”
The thin woman with her bird-like figure perched on a branch overhead the peace meeting, staring at the unlucky [Knight] who fell, wisely, silent. Laken Godart went on over Yitton’s attempts to interject.
“They destroyed several guardians of my land and thirty crows. I consider the deaths equal.”
“Thirty crows is n—”
Everyone fell silent as the Margravine made a croaking sound. Laken Godart turned smoothly, a smile on his lips as he addressed the [Lord] of House d’Artien.
“Thirty crows is not worth the life of two [Knights], I agree. Crows have honor, integrity, and charisma. The men and women who rode into my lands to kill a child have none. You will withdraw your forces—now.”
“You are harboring a Vampire in your midst! A foe of ages! You—”
The red-faced [Lord] of House d’Artien began to bellow at Laken—then saw a dozen bows rise. Yitton called out, aghast.
“Your Majesty! This is a meeting under the truce flag!”
The [Emperor] waved a hand over his eyes theatrically. His voice was crisp with a veneer of politeness, but he seemed to be giving off rage like heat lines. He raised one hand, and a grand cloak of expensive-looking cloth swept around him as Laken paused a second, as if listening to his inner thoughts. When he spoke, he shook his head ponderously.
“I can’t see it. Nor do I trust the honor of the Knights of the Clairei Fields after they attacked a City Runner and a child. I say again: the Vampire is gone. I will neither harbor nor attack their kind. This entire affair does not have any honor in it to me.”
The [Emperor] sounded bitter as he sat there, surrounded by his vassals. [Witches]! And—one of the [Knights] spat at another figure in the [Emperor]’s escort.
“You harbor Goblins! This Empire truly is contaminated!”
Weapons rose, and warriors had to be shouted down again. The Goblin in question, who had mail armor and a surcoat decorated with pears, just grinned as he fingered an axe.
Laken Godart’s voice was frosty.
“That is my vassal, and the next person to insult me or my people will be hexed until their genitals rot off. Margravine, see it done.”
The [Witch] nodded, and Laken turned.
“This is my Goblin Lord—”
Every heart skipped a beat in terror, and Laken chuckled darkly.
“Excuse me. My Goblin, who is a [Lord] by right of his barony. Baron Raidpear.”
“Hi.”
The Goblin seemed quite pleased by all the reactions. Lord Yitton was aghast, but as he finally found his tongue, he tried to appeal to reason.
“Your Majesty, in light of our friendship, will you not reconsider? I confess, I had hoped to speak with you more privately. Believe me, Vampires are a scourge upon Izril. Strife within the north can only end badly. I will own the clashes between the Clairei Fields and Unseen Empire were ill-done. On all sides. This one event can be overlooked—”
Laken cut him off, voice filled with puzzlement and disappointment.
“Yitton. We rode together. Ate together. You were there when I decided to try and save Goblins. Now you’re prepared to murder Vampires by the village? I offer you the chance to reconsider.”
He stood up, turning his head as if trying to read Yitton’s face, but his eyes were closed. Yitton replied stiffly. He had not wanted to do this, but if he had to—
“You have slain two members of the Order of Clairei Fields, Your Majesty. The worth of such brave warriors aside, two [Knights] of indisputable valor and honor lie dead. Your [Witch] was not harmed; the fault must lie with the Unseen Empire. I point this out as a representative of the gentility of the north.”
He expected a furious response, or an imperial one. However, once more, Laken half-tilted his head. As if…listening?
This time, Yitton noticed the faint gesture. And he swore he heard something like mewling, but it was just one of the Sariant Lambs uttering nonsense sounds. He put it from his mind. They were very well behaved; Wiskeria was holding one next to the [Emperor].
The [Emperor]’s lips quirked sardonically. Then he spoke with dismaying accuracy.
“You wish to speak of custom and tradition, Lord Yitton? Very well. I have already refuted the honor of their actions, which knightly orders are founded upon. Grandmaster Noveghin was wise enough not to argue his Order’s integrity before me or I would have called for a deliberation upon that subject.”
A faint grunt from Noveghin. Yitton blinked in dismay; that had been a trap. Laken went on, voice smooth.
“To your second claim, I refute that as well. The Order of Clairei Fields is sworn by their charter to ‘protect and defend the passageways of Izril, from each Crossroad to every City of the North.’ Their mandate never extended to hunting; each noble that ratified their order explicitly maintained the sanctity of their lands in the matters of justice and defense. The Order of the Clairei Fields had no right to stop a City Runner about her business, nor to attack any of my people. I am likewise dismayed to find House Byres and House d’Artien backing such aggression with the barest veneer of cause.”
“Barest veneer? Vampires are a threat across Izril. Your Majesty!”
Lord Malst barked, unable to hold his tongue. He remembered Laken’s title belatedly and would have gone on, but Laken’s head swung towards the younger man, and a weight pressed Malst’s jaw closed.
“Thusly, House d’Artien is allowed to send its Vampire Hunters into each noble holding as they please? I think not. You have trespassed in over forty nobles’ lands already and slain their subjects. Your strident claims of the ‘Vampire Threat’ are only backed up by charred corpses and ash. You conveniently ignore the private complaints launched by said noble families. That will not work with me. Cross into Riverfarm under any claim without my express authorization and your Vampire Hunters will not come back, Lord Malst. If you would like, I will list each noble family you have offended in alphabetical order. It might be illuminating to Lord Byres.”
Yitton froze. He had known some nobles had raised objections about the Vampire Hunters, but forty holdings? How did Laken know that? Malst seemed just as stunned. He paled; Yitton saw him press his lips together, and Noveghin’s head swung sideways.
The [Emperor] knew too much. And however he had the information—spies, his [Witches]—no one had a cogent argument to muster. Indeed, Yitton swore the Sariant Lambs were sniggering at him.
The [Emperor] whirled his cloak behind him, clearly tiring of the debate. His voice was frosty.
“Leave, and do not come back. You have been warned. The next time, I will not be half as merciful.”
The three men looked at each other. The arrogance of that man! Yet…what were they to do? Force the issue? Argue on principles already refuted?
They did not have to confer long.
The Order of Clairei Fields fell back, some with oaths of retribution on their lips. Others, like the Grandmaster, rode silently, deepening the rift between the [Knights].
House Byres departed with House d’Artien, locked in furious discussions, and the Vampire Hunters milled about—but the cost of one Vampire was judged far, far too high compared to the task at hand.
Riverfarm’s army was not tested that day. Nor did any observers forget the [Emperor]’s show of strength. They read a lot into it.
The forces at Laken Godart’s disposal.
The negotiating power of Lady Rie. The relative cost and wealth of the Unseen Empire to field that many [Soldiers]. The political implications for the region. The decision the Unseen Empire had taken, even if it was not fully on the Vampires’ side.
—And as always. They forgot the child.
 
——
 
Witch Alevica was tired. Healing did that to you, and she’d needed a lot of healing. But she got up, started her day by making sure breakfast was edible for everyone and not because she wanted the first bite from the [Chef]’s meal—
Then she washed Arcanis’ face as he sat between Malluni and Cirsa. The two [Witches] kept poking him as they ate until Alevica slapped their hands.
“Stop that. He’s staying with us. Until his family turns up.”
