He sounded like a ghost, so precise and clipped were his remarks. Precise…yet she could feel him shivering against her back. Whenever she glanced back, she saw a kid covered in muck, staring up at her, her spare robes whipping around him.
No monster. She kept seeing that desperate family in the swamp.
Had any of them made it?
These were questions that ran around in Alevica’s head. Moments of frozen time. Guilt. As if she could have carried a second passenger.
As if I’m going to get out of this alive. 
Then, Alevica would sense her broom dipping and desperately push more energy into it and feel that ragged waning energy from lack of sleep decreasing. Wonder when her magic would run out or when she’d hit a tree.
That was how her night had gone, thank you very much.
It was dawn when Alevica next spotted anything other than the marsh. She had been flying all night, fueling her flying with her new craft.
Was it her new craft? She didn’t know. She had been heading what was ‘south’ in her mind, though it had been hard to tell. The Order of Clairei Fields had yet to appear when she burst out of a treeline and saw the road at last.
That [Griffin Rider] must have slowed them considerably. If she was alive or dead or a captive, Alevica didn’t know. Then again, the moment they caught up, the chase would end—fast.
If she had been within sight of the [Knights] this entire time, she and her Vampire passenger would be dead. Too many Skills could let them shoot her dead or close the gap; when they saw her, she would have minutes left.
“Scæptiŝ. Scæptiŝ.”
She was muttering to herself with a hoarse voice. It was the only thing she had left. She was close, she felt it—but her sleep-deprived mind and exhaustion weren’t doing her any favors.
Alevica was so tired, in fact, a little hand had to prod her.
“Runner.”
“It’s Witch Runner. Or Alevica. What?”
Alevica snapped back, and Arcanis flinched. She caught herself—then reached back and patted him on the head.
“I’m tired. What is it?”
“I need to…go.”
“What? You’re fine. They’re after both of us.”
For a second, Alevica didn’t get what the boy meant. She thought he wanted to hide in the forest. That was suicide. Then she turned her head and saw Arcanis squirming.
“No. I hafta pee.”
“Oh. Join the club.”
They were skimming across the road now, a curving passage along the swamplands that Alevica knew. In moments, they hit the actual highway; still dirt and miserably muddy, but crossing into the open.
Just south of Reizmelt. Alevica saw a rider on horseback swerve and, for a second, saw a startled face of a City Runner, badge and all.
“Hey! Call in a [Message] spell! I’m being attacked by [Knights]! The Order of Clairei—”
Alevica shouted as she blasted past the City Runner. She glanced over her shoulder and hoped the fool would catch up or had a [Message] scroll. No luck; they were controlling their rearing horse. She heard a questioning shout and cursed.
“Idiot. There goes any help. Not that we’ll be lucky enough to have a Courier in the area.”
Even if that idiot called in the alarm with a [Message] scroll, she doubted the Runner’s Guild would get the issue unless they explicitly made the Vampire Hunter connection. After all—it was the Order of Clairei Fields.
“We’re getting chased by jumped-up escorts. All those idiots are good for are escorting nobles around.”
The Order of the Clairei Fields had a reputation as a fast-response group that rode the highways and kept transports safe. They sometimes killed monsters or bandits, but they weren’t like the Knights of the Petal. The ones who’d torched that Vampire village had looked…dangerous.
The road was brightening as Alevica dodged around a second wagon and decided to skim alongside the road. She passed by a [Merchant], who cursed as his [Guards] reached for their weapons.
“Watch it, Runner! Wait. What th—”
He caught sight of her appearance, burnt broom, and her passenger, and Alevica shouted.
“Evil [Knights] trying to kill me! Call for help!”
Maybe it’d work, maybe not. It was hard to even speak long; she’d frozen into a single lump overnight from the cold. Arcanis seemed to be in better shape. At least, the boy felt like a block of ice, but he seemed to be more preoccupied by his bladder.
“Miss Witch, I have to pee.”
“Well…turn around and piss on the next person we pass by. I can’t stop or else we’re dead!”
She heard a startled giggle at this. Then what sounded like a sob.
Alevica’s hand came back, and she brushed at the boy’s head, though it made the broom wobble so much she had to take her hand back to hold onto the broom.
“If we get to town, we’ll be safe. Or at least—”
Alevica turned and saw Arcanis flinching. She didn’t get why until she saw his face was tanned brown; he tugged the cloak over his face, and she stared in astonishment.
That fast? The sun had shone on him for bare moments. Then Alevica realized hiding him away, or her own identity, would be impossible.
Maybe if we got a gang to put us up in a safe room? Alevica was tempted to keep flying southwards and get to Invrisil. But something else made the call for her.
Her broom had done its best after taking a fire arrow to the back, but Alevica had barely been able to keep it a dozen feet off the ground. Now, it drifted another foot down, and Alevica cursed.
“You stupid broom! Come on! You haven’t let me down so far. Not now! Not—hey, what are you doing back there?”
She felt the boy fidgeting as she shot past an intersection with a signpost, did a quick turn, realized she was going the wrong way, and sped down the other road. At first, Alevica thought he was peeing, but then she realized the liquid dripping down his arm was…
Blood?
It was red, and Alevica twisted and saw him tossing a spray of droplets to the side of the road. He’d bitten his arm and—
“Stop that!”
She grabbed for his arm, but to her astonishment, the wound was already healing. Arcanis flinched and looked up at her.
“Sorry.”
“What are you doing?”
“Leaving a message. So…so they know where I went.”
A message? Alevica glanced back, and the signpost was already far behind her, but she thought she remembered him hitting the road with his blood.
“Can your people track you from that?”
“Yes. An’ this.”
She blinked—then realized he was leaving a second kind of liquid trail behind them. Despite herself, Alevica began laughing. She swerved around a carriage rolling sedately down the road, leaving a trail of urine on the wheels as the [Driver] began swearing a storm at the two of them.
Despite his fear, the boy giggled too. Then it sounded like a sob again. Wordlessly, Alevica reached back and put an arm around him as he buttoned up his trousers.
“Those idiots are all after me and you, kid. Your family will be fine.”
She glanced down and saw his red eyes staring solemnly up at her.
“They won’t ever be fine again. They’ll hunt us until we’re all ash. But thank you, Miss Witch.”
Alevica met those eyes as long as she could. Then she tugged the hood down over his face.
“Shut up. You’re just a brat. You don’t know anything. Now, hold on. This broom is losing power, and I have to focus.”
 
——
 
Over the next hour, her broom began to descend closer to the ground at a rate of a foot every ten minutes. Then faster and faster. By the end of the third hour, Alevica had to stay on the road; if she flew through the fields, tall grass would snag her boots.
She had no desire to stop and let her pursuers catch up; once they had the road, they might be as fast as her or even faster. But Alevica had no choice. The next settlement they came to would necessitate a stop.
By now, the Witch Runner had probably alarmed over two hundred people on the road; every time she’d passed by anyone, she’d screamed bloody murder and told them she was being pursued and to call Riverfarm, the Watch, the Runner’s Guild, or just for help.
She wondered if anyone had paid attention; if the news had spread or her cry for help had gotten to Riverfarm, well, Alevica didn’t have a [Message] scroll, and she hadn’t had time to stop.
Still, she had a hunch her warnings had attracted some kind of attention. There was a crawling sensation down her back she associated with a [Scrying] spell.
By the pricking of my nose…I think someone knows. Hurry up and help, though, because I don’t know if I can keep going!
At around 8:47 AM, the Witch Runner found a town, though she didn’t know the name of it. It was vaguely familiar; an arch gate stood open, and the walls were made of very tidy brickwork.
The Watch had the amazing image of a [Witch] lying flat on her broom as it skimmed bare inches over the ground, a hooded figure on her back. She screamed into the main street, and her broom shredded itself on the cobblestones as it finally lost altitude completely.
Alevica came to a halt in a shower of splinters, catching the boy in her arms and depositing him on the ground as people whirled. A woman holding the largest wheel of cheese Alevica had ever seen in her life stood there with a dozen splinters of wood embedded in her impromptu shield.
Alevica, panting, swayed as a [Guardsman] lowered the cheese sandwich and tea he’d been having for breakfast. He looked around to confirm this wasn’t a dream, then cleared his throat.
“What’s going on, Miss Runner—”
“I need a Mage’s Guild and a carriage! Now! A horse!”
Alevica took two steps and stumbled. The [Guardsman] eyed her mud-spattered and desperate appearance. He glanced at the gates, swallowing as he fumbled for his sword and spilled his tea all over his legs.
“Is it monsters? Bandits? We can lock the gates—”
“Carriage and send a [Message] to Riverfarm that I’m here and need help!”
The [Guard] hesitated. Then he pointed.
“The Mage’s Guild is that way, miss. But there’s no carriage service in Kevaunt. We might have a magical carriage from Wistram any day now. What’s—”
Alevica was already eight steps that way, yanking Arcanis with her, when she heard the name of the town and froze.
Oh dead gods. She was back in this hellish town! Kevaunt was hours upon hours away from Invrisil, let alone Riverfarm.
“Get me a horse then!”
Alevica ran with Arcanis on her back. He was shaking with fear, and she realized he was afraid of the Watch.
The Watch. How likely were they to take the Order of Clairei Fields’ side? Even if they didn’t, the [Knights] could just barge in here and…
“Horse or broom and we’re out of here.”
Actually, dead gods, was she stupid? Alevica slowed and glanced around the street full of people staring stupidly at her. Most of them were carrying cheese or had it on their clothing…she saw a grilled cheese sandwich in someone’s hands and was tempted to grab it. But there was no time.
All she needed was a broom. Most wouldn’t fly as well as hers, but…
Was there a [Cleaner] around? Alevica wobbled as she turned around in place. Everyone was staring at her save for a red carriage rolling her way. No chance of commandeering it; it looked like a noble’s carriage.
The itching on Alevica’s shoulder blades intensified. But she cast her eyes left, right, searching for any brooms. None. But a Mage’s Guild had to have one. No, wait, they used magic. Then the Runner’s Guild? Then someone shrieked in her ear.
“Miss Alevica! Watch out!”
Arcanis? Alevica spun, heard a gasp, and threw the boy off her b—
The people of Kevaunt, starting their morning, heard a scream, saw the Witch Runner hurl a boy across the street—and then the crimson carriage hit her. It swerved, actually; the horses in front galloped right so the back of the carriage swung out and hit the Witch Runner. But even a glancing blow from a vehicle—
The [Witch] lay flat on her back as the boy ran over and shook her urgently. People pointed, and someone called for a [Healer] as the carriage slowed. Then a door opened, and a voice called out loudly.
“Oh dead gods! Morry, you foolish oaf! You’ve hit the poor girl!”
A noblewoman spoke, fanning herself idly, and every eye focused on the familiar crest of a rose with twined, thorny vines on the side of the carriage. Was it—?
Lady Cecille Reinhart stepped out of the carriage as the [Driver] bowed in his seat, looking not-at-all sorry. She peered down at Alevica, who was laying flat on the ground, mouth open like a dead fish.
“How tragic. Accept my deepest apologies, Miss Runner. Here. For your pain and the [Healer].”
She reached for her side—then tossed gold coins onto Alevica. The Witch Runner twitched as several pinged off her face. Cecille tsked, putting one hand on her cheek.
“Tragic, tragic. Someone call for a [Healer]. What’s this? A poor child?”
Arcanis froze as Cecille Reinhart’s eyes found him. He tried to get up and run, but froze as the [Driver] swung down and picked him up.
It was so smooth that Alevica, mind clouded from pain, had no idea what was going on. The driver had the boy in his arms in a trice, grunting as he kept the boy in a bear hug grip. The—the [Lady] was…
Staring at a compact mirror in her hand. She clicked it closed now, and the itching on Alevica’s shoulder blades stopped. The crippling agony in her ribs and back and everywhere else—did not.
“I have the little lad. Lost, Your Ladyship? Or perhaps this Runner was delivering him somewhere?”
“How dreadful! And this poor Runner is in no fit shape to deliver him anywhere. A boy in such danger of pursuit by all these hotheads…I know! I’ll take him to his destination. You shall ride with me, young man.”
It was like a bad play. Cecille Reinhart clapped her hands together with an artificial look of charity on her face. Then she turned on her heel and strode back into her carriage as the boy began to struggle, but he went still as she stared at him. Alevica tried to get up, but she could barely move.
“S-stop—”
Cecille Reinhart accidentally kicked Alevica in the head as she passed by. She was smiling, and her eyes were on the Vampire boy. She only lost the smile when someone protested from inside the carriage.
“Eugh. Mother! It’s covered in filth! Can’t we wash it first?”
Lady Cecille stopped, pinched the bridge of her nose, then hissed at someone else in the carriage.
“Damia, do shut up. This darling boy needs our help, and if you don’t like it, you may walk. And if you don’t understand why this is significant, I will throw you out of the carriage myself. Now—move—”
She glanced towards the northern gates as Alevica, gasping, sat up, felt a flash in her ribs, and fell over. She pointed a finger as the carriage closed.
“Stop! I’m warning you!”
Cecille Reinhart turned innocently.
