He avoided her eyes as she bent over him.
“It’s a fitting end to it. There won’t be another Halrac Everam. Briganda’s retired, and Revi’s young. And I’m…”
The breeze blew, and Eloise calmly raised a hand and silenced it.
“You’re giving up.”
“No. No? Me? Perish the thought. I just wonder…”
He tried to sit up, but he was as weak as a kitten. Eloise heard Typhenous whisper.
“I just wonder. A man does wonder. Not just Griffon Hunt. I wonder if I’ve made their lives better. I was the reason they split up. Perhaps I helped bring Halrac to Liscor. The world needs bright, young, earnest people like that [Innkeeper]. Not old fools.”
It was a debate they were having, like the verbal sparring matches made of wit as much as academic insight. Trading a lifetime of observations and opinions in a genteel manner; someone too young to appreciate it would think it merely flirting.
Today, it was an argument with all the stakes, as it ever was. Eloise digested Typhenous’ statement and replied softly, with all the artistry of a [Lady] wielding a truncheon.
“Perhaps young people matter more than the old fool. But the role of age is to ensure those young, earnest, naïve fools stay alive, isn’t it? To stand between them and everything else.”
A masterful retort. Typhenous’ eyes focused on the night sky above, and his murmur sounded like the dying breeze, a sigh he had let out so many times his lungs had permanently emptied of air.
“Very true. Very true. And yet, the young folk never listen. They never let age go before them. They’re there to the very end. If the world worked as well as you and I know it should, why are we here? I tried to run faster, believe me. But he…they’re always a step before me. Until I wonder if I was holding them back or the reason they were a moment too slow. Then what should be done, Witch Eloise?”
He looked up expectantly, but the [Witch] just went back to combing his hair.
“If you’re asking me for permission or agreement, I don’t have any. I rather like being the meddling old woman.”
“I don’t need permission.”
For a second, Typhenous’ voice sounded peeved, then his body relaxed. His voice drifted away as Eloise frowned at the sky. Was…something…? But she focused on her task.
“Then why does it sound like you’re asking it? And making every attempt to do what you think is best?”
He lay there, silently, breathing shallowly. She bent down and wondered if she’d fail again. Eloise gently kissed his forehead.
“You won your way here, Typhenous. But only because you gave up. Mavika let you go.”
“A darn shame. Such a charming [Witch]. And a lady these days. I did my best.”
“You did. But she has no use for carrion. If you want to close your eyes, I won’t stop you. But I think you’re lying to yourself. You will always be needed. If you wish to be.”
For a moment, she thought she had him. But like a cunning old fish on a hook, he slipped away. He didn’t want to be caught and dragged back into the unkind waters.
Guilt and exhaustion were gentle clouds to carry him beyond the lands that Eloise knew. But she fought for him gently. Insistently. For she knew, she believed—
The man known as Typhenous believed his lies not at all. He did not believe in that peaceful world where things got better.
The Tea Witch was about to say something else when her hat, patterned with flowers and even dried leaves, tilted up. Something was coming. Eloise rose, and Typhenous’ head thunked down.
“Ow. What—”
The wand shot down like an arrow and cracked into the front door of Eloise’s house like a bolt of thunder. Eloise spun; she recognized the magic and sender at once.
“Alevica?”
Something terrible has happened. Alevica’s wand—she wouldn’t have sent that unless—Eloise traced the trajectory through the air.
She was not the only person to have noticed it; someone came striding her way.
“Witch Eloise. Did I just see Alevica’s wand…?”
Witch Thallisa halted as she saw the evidence sticking out of Eloise’s door. The [Tea Witch] whirled.
“Thallisa, inform Laken Godart at once! Have The Wandering Inn find her; she is in mortal danger.”
Who? And what? Typhenous lay there, blinking stupidly, as Eloise grabbed her tea pot and hurled the contents out. She stared at the tea leaves at the bottom of it.
Tea leaf reading had roots in the [Oracle] class and fortune telling. Eloise needed only one look before she cursed.
“Chilblains of Cenidau. It’s Vampires and force of arms. Someone’s hunting her.”
“I will tell the [Emperor]. And Mavika?”
“There is no time!”
Alevica’s wand reeked of death and calm determination, just like her mentor. Eloise thrust open the door to her house. She strode in as Thallisa began to run.
Typhenous still lay there. The Plague Mage. Or just an old man. He had a choice.
There was always a choice. That was what [Witches] knew. He looked up, slowly, the clouds of oblivion calling to him. The Gold-rank adventurer, the man who had been Typhenous the Plague Knife, barely reacted as Eloise strode out of her house.
“A [Witch] is in mortal peril. I have never been a warrior. Do I have one here? Or will you drift away and leave the rest for someone else?”
She reached down desperately, fingers searching for his hand, as she had done so many times to so many people she had tried to help. But as ever—her fingers strained at the air as her broom rose—
They always had to reach up.
An old man lay, staring up at a flying woman with a pointed hat, reaching down out of the sky for his hand. He was old when he felt like it.
He was a boy when he closed his eyes. Death—the death that he had beheld in so many friends and enemies—death aged him.
He was so tired. If he closed his eyes, he was sure that people would work things out. He was not needed…unless he was. But he wondered if he had even the strength to raise his arm.
A flying woman reaching for him as he slipped away, asking him to rise. It was funny. Not her face. Just that this moment had happened twice in his life. His lips curved upwards, and then…was he flying or falling? And what was the difference?
Everything, he decided. Even if they felt the same.
 
——
 
Emperor Laken Godart was doing his best to be convivial as he smiled into what he was assured was a scrying mirror. He hated phone calls and variants thereof; back on Earth, it had been easy since the visual component didn’t matter.
Now, he felt like he was talking to himself because his senses told him there was only a round orb in front of him. Still, he did his best to smile.
“—delighted, absolutely, [Mayor]. I am quite happy Charlay has made such a stunning impression on your city. Please, send over a delegation at once. Would you care for anything from us?”
The voice on the other end was slightly nervous, and a babble in the background broke off to let the woman speak. Laken wasn’t mad. Not really. But of all the places Charlay had decided to go…well, he didn’t blame her since Rie had apparently given the Centaur orders, but he disliked being blindsided.
Even if this was fairly genius. Still, Charlay trotting down the main street of a city shouting that she came from the Unseen Empire and that they wanted an alliance was not the diplomacy he’d hoped for.
Then again, it seemed to be working, which annoyed him even more. The voice on the other end was certainly gratified, if palpably uneasy at their disparity in classes. Or maybe it was Laken’s closed eyes.
“What an honor, Your Majesty! I will, of course, send over our representatives posthaste. If—if it wouldn’t trouble you, would more of that fine bread go amiss? The—the wheat fields that the vandals burned were a sore loss, and you see—”
Laken smiled genuinely. At least the Unseen Empire had something they could give that was sorely needed. He nodded judiciously.
“Not at all. Let’s have Charlay return, and I’ll send as many City Runners equipped with Bags of Holding as I can, and organize some drivers as well. If you can provide the escort for the drivers?”
“Very reasonable, Your Majesty! Of course, the exact terms will, ah, be negotiated. But your gift is very gracious. Very, very…needed. Thank you again.”
The edge in that tone was all too telling. Laken exhaled.
“I’ll have Runners outbound tonight, then. They’ll use the door from Celum as it seems that will be much faster; I don’t believe your delegation can use the door if they arrive in any numbers.”
“Not to worry, Your Majesty! Our general—that is, brigadier—is known for her arrival at the umpteenth hour. I think she has a Skill that allows her to arrive only at the last minute…”
Laken smiled, half-distracted by a few thoughts. Not organizing the food; Yesel was already doing that in the background. She had actually started before the call had even begun.
No, Laken was wondering if a certain Order would like to do the delivery. Purely for humanitarian reasons. He was about to inquire about the deal further, despite the late hour, when his head rose.
“Er. Pardon me just one moment, [Mayor]. Gamel.”
Laken turned, and the [Knight] stepped forwards and took the orb. Laken spoke to himself, incredulous.
“Witch Eloise? Is she flying?”
Before Gamel could go to the window, Laken heard a voice ringing through Riverfarm. It seemed like the floor came alive and spoke; he leapt out of his seat as, in his mind’s eye, a mouth appeared out of the floorboards.
Thallisa’s voice spoke, eliciting a shriek from Yesel.
“A [Witch] is in danger! Witch Alevica flies or she dies! Beware, Emperor!”
“What? Alevica?”
Laken heard a muted exclamation from the scrying orb as his throne room descended into chaos. Laken rushed outside, then heard Gamel, Yesel, and the others exclaim.
“Look! Up there!”
Laken couldn’t tell what they were seeing, and Gamel hadn’t activated his Skill. He wished he could see what they did, but he sensed it.
For, as there had been in the days of old, and as they still did, a [Witch] flew high overhead like a rising comet passing over the town, her white hair blowing behind her hat. Before Laken could focus on the brief image of her, he heard another voice.
Then Witch Thallisa was striding down the street, voice still raised, and Laken heard her shout. He listened—then a moment later, his voice was echoing, waking Riverfarm just like the [Witch]’s magic.
“Send for Wiskeria! Raise the entire army and get me Lord Yitton—now! I want every [Soldier] Riverfarm has heading north to help her now!”
Gamel backed up a step as Laken spun. The speaking stone was still in his hands, and a babble of confused voices came from it. Laken cursed as he realized Wales was far, far south of Riverfarm. And Alevica was to the north? Gamel looked around desperately, protesting out of sheer common sense.
“But, Your Majesty—there’s no one who can reach her!”
Laken bellowed into his [Knight]’s face.
“Send for the Order of Solstice!”
 
——
 
Durene Faerise was counting Antinium outside of The Wandering Inn by nightfall as she showed Normen a budget that made him blanch.
“That much gold?”
“It’s for food. You need food to march people anywhere. And tents. And carpentry supplies. Hammers, nails. Stuff to make mortar.”
He gave her a respectful look.
“Are you sure that’s everything that’s needed to build a keep?”
Durene gave him a nervous smile.
“I think so. I snuck into Riverfarm and got Beycalt to run the list over for me. And I remember Laken groaning about the costs of building anything with stone, so it lines up. I can get it all bought and packed up by tomorrow.”
Another respectful look.
“How?”
“Antherr knows a lot of Antinium, and they can provide almost everything cheap.”
The two Knights of Solstice were watching the Antinium set up camp; they were getting practice with the tents, and they’d need it if they wanted to get moving tomorrow. Durene kept glancing at the window where Lapsey was supposed to be resting.
Normen was glancing around the dark Floodplains, even darker given their distance from Liscor. Durene just eyed the skeletons, still at work building the tower. She shuddered, but Normen nodded and folded the budget up.
“I’ll get the gold from the Merchant’s Guild, then. Your plan’s a good one, Durene. I feel like we need to find more…people first. Then again, as it were, that might not be a problem.”
She frowned at him. When she’d proposed her ‘crazy idea’, which he’d loved on the spot, she’d thought finding ‘more people’ would be the hard and dangerous part. But Normen just glanced over his shoulder.
“How do you figure that, Normen?”
“Hm. I wonder.”
Then Durene felt a prickle on her back and froze as someone placed a blade against her skin. She hadn’t kept her armor on, and even if she had—someone else landed on her back and pressed a blade against her neck.
“Don’t move.”
Durene almost threw the figure off her until the blade dug into her skin. She froze, hands half-raised, and saw Normen with his hand on a blade that had tried to go for his back. Durene saw two other figures on the roof near Lapsey’s window. So fast!
“Normen—”
The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice had one hand on his mace. He glanced at Durene as the figures wearing all black, fast as thought and strong—one was wrenching Durene’s arm up—tensed.
Five minutes later, Mister Ram ran into The Wandering Inn, shouting for the Order of Solstice. But by that time—
They were already gone.
 
——
 
Terror made you pee. And if you weren’t peeing, you weren’t hydrated, so you’d better gulp water.
This was common sense [Witch] advice. Alevica wished she could have taken it on that long night, but the truth was that she didn’t have time to slow down, much less the chance to drink from a water canteen or use the restroom. If she even released the death grip on her broom, she might crash, and she’d held it—and her bladder—for seven hours.
Seven hours of darkness. Seven hours since the moment that the Griffin Rider, Lillian, had saved her and Arcanis and Alevica had lost the Order of the Clairei Fields.
It felt like an eternity of flying since then, based on the position of the stars and Arcanis’ understanding of where they were, skimming low over the ground, weaving past trees, feeling her heartbeat accelerate every time she heard anything but the rushing of wind.
She was exhausted, strung out, alert, and wanted nothing else but to sleep—but she wouldn’t have been able to rest even if she lay down now.
She was being pursued. The fact that Alevica could not see her pursuers mattered not. She flew, the shivering boy behind her. Whispering in her ear now and then.
“Not that way. That’s the marsh.”
“A bit right. That’s the big rock.”
“Almost at the road.”
“Just a snake.”
