“I have heard it said you helped escort hundreds to Riverfarm out of mercy.”
Yitton nodded judiciously.
“I did. And I don’t regret that choice. It was Emperor Laken’s decision; his reasoning was that not all Goblins were as evil as the Goblin Lord. When a Goblin King rises, they are a world-ending threat. But I did see…what I will call humanity in many of them. It was a worthwhile experiment, to see if they would break from the nature of Goblin Kings.
“Not so for Vampires?”
The Grandmaster was patently confused, and Yitton Byres shook his head. He had to be clear; he lifted a hand.
“It sits ill with me, Grandmaster Noveghin. But here is the difference: few records speak of Goblins as people outside of the Goblin Kings. There are, in fact, stories of Goblins who acted honorably. At the very least, I am no expert, and so I approved the attempt, even if I would not countenance them in House Byres. His Majesty of Riverfarm may err, but I did not gainsay him in any but words. Yet Vampires?”
He pulled something from his bag of holding and gently showed it to Noveghin. It was an old copy of his family history, hand-scribed; the sixth copy made to keep the ink and pages fresh. Well-thumbed.
“This is the diary of Lord Ylawe of House Byres, who led House Byres over 5,700 years ago.”
“Dead gods.”
Noveghin took it gingerly, and Yitton could have told him most of the lines in the book by heart. He didn’t mention that some of his knowledge of Vampires came from the diary of Lord Ylawe as recounting of previous wars; they had preserved his diary, but lost older texts of even greater conflicts. Yet the bitter writings of Lord Ylawe were enough.
Yitton kept speaking, thinking of the family library—now ash—and a bitter cloud of anger took hold of his heart. They’d salvaged as much as they could, and other members of the family had copies, but so much had been lost…yet the proof was in this book alone.
“It is written, Grandmaster Noveghin, of how the blood corrupts Vampires. There are statements, evidentiary tales, even the words of the Silver Dragon of House Byres, Yderigrisel himself. Why are Vampires different? Because it is written by House Byres. The warnings were made for a reason. I trust my family, my forebears, beyond any other knowledge, even my own wavering heart. House Byres has always been silver and steel, and the purity of that shines through the ages.”
The [Knights], his men, all looked at Yitton’s face, which was proud. The [Lord] kept speaking, embarrassed, but the words trickled out of him, the rare words he never said aloud but kept in his breast at all times, even when others belittled him, that had guided his life.
“We may be a shadow of our glory, the Silver Dragon passed, but our legacy is untarnished. I am part of that legacy, Noveghin. My daughter, Ysara… has never understood that. I regret to say that Yvlon never did either. She has pride, but she thought it was something to earn, to best her brother at. Ylawes…Ylawes understands what it is to be a Byres. He never sought glory or acclaim; his is in the deeds he renders for his legacy.”
Yitton was embarrassed about saying that about Yvlon and Ysara. He wished he’d kept his mouth shut, but it had slipped out. Ysara was obvious; he had wished Yvlon would understand, especially when she’d been blessed with her metal arms.
At least the Grandmaster seemed to understand what Yitton was saying. He closed the book and handed it back to Yitton.
“Ylawes Byres is well known to me as a [Knight] and adventurer beyond reproach. I understand; this guides you in the matters of the child.”
Yitton shrugged uncomfortably.
“I…would be open to imprisonment or some other means, Grandmaster Noveghin. But my stance on Vampires is informed and mirrors that of Delanay. Our warnings are not in place for no reason. The Dragon-Knight himself warred with Vampires. We face a foe from the age of legends. Are the Vampire Hunters being overzealous? Or is this response too mild? My fear is that we may all come to regret inaction. But I will not have us divided. Hence my appeal to His Majesty.”
The Grandmaster of the Order of the Clairei Fields drank this in. When he nodded, it was reluctantly. He flipped his visor open to show Yitton a conflicted face.
“—I will not abandon my Order, Lord Byres. When we face the Unseen Empire, it will be united. But if my blade should draw a boy’s blood, I will tremble before my class and my own forebears. I will send warning to Knight-Captain Merindius and likewise to all the Hunters. He shall stay his blade before me, both for relations with the Unseen Empire and honor itself. As for the rest, I make no promises.”
Yitton Byres inclined his head, relieved at the compromise they had reached. The two men continued to ride hard as the [Message] went forwards. Yitton was just relaxing, counting a large army between the Order of Clairei Fields, the Vampire Hunters converging on Riverfarm, and House d’Artien. Laken would see sense; his forces were not so great that he would force a conflict.
Then he and Grandmaster Noveghin received word that the [Knights] of the Clairei Fields had acknowledged the words of their Grandmaster.
They had, accordingly, sped up.
 
——
 
Nearly sixty [Knights] of the Clairei Fields broke from the chase between them and the Cheesemongers of Vaunt, who had been riding under Lord Pattin to keep them in check. The Vampire Hunters on foot halted at the border.
The [Knights] did not. They crossed past the first totems and straight into the Unseen Empire, moving so fast that Riverfarm’s army, led by General Wiskeria, was unable to catch them.
The action was disavowed by the Grandmaster of the Order of Clairei Fields at once; House Byres, his [Knights], and House d’Artien halted along the border, requesting a parlay.
Nearly sixty rogue [Knights] continued onwards. Within the first hour of crossing the Unseen Empire, heading towards Riverfarm, they came under attack.
 
——
 
Knight-Captain Merindius twisted in his saddle to stare at the snow. At first, he’d thought it was stone or something else. But it was snow.
“How much snow fell to still be on the ground?”
Despite the speed of their ride, the [Knight] wondered aloud. It was a winter wonderland; an entire village and the fields covered in snow. It was even on the roofs of the houses. He’d sworn he’d seen some falling down as his company of [Knights] rode through the Unseen Empire at dawn.
But that had to be just the wind causing the illusion. The [Knight-Captain] shook his head and urged his mount forwards.
They had a Vampire to slay. They had been halted from catching the [Witch] by the [Soldiers] of Vaunt and the other [Witch]—but they had it on good authority the child was in Riverfarm, the capital of this Empire.
Speed would allow the [Knights] to catch the spawn and settle the matter; nevermind what the Grandmaster said. A message had to be made. The Order of Clairei Fields had been denied at this very spot once before. Not again. The [Knights] did not intend to draw innocent blood…but they wouldn’t halt after coming under attack and seeing their own wounded.
No one could catch up with them; they had lost the Cheesemongers of Vaunt and what had seemed like a decent army led by a [Witch] miles past. Merindius had wondered what the [Emperor] of Riverfarm would do in response to the intrusion, but if he had any forces, they had yet to even catch up.
—The attack was sudden and came out of nowhere. One of the [Knights] skirting the snow shouted in alarm and went tumbling out of her saddle. The others whirled; an enchanted arrow blew apart the attacker before Merindius could even identify who it was.
“Avoid unnecessary casualties! Is our Sister Knight alright?”
“Alive, Knight-Captain!”
The [Knights] slowed a pace, looking around for attackers, as the female [Knight] got into her saddle, breathless.
“It was something heavy that unhorsed me, Knight-Captain. Fear not; my [Damage Shield] absorbed it.”
[Damage Shield]. Merindius felt a tinge of envy himself as he spurred his horse to pick up the pace.
“A Skill fit for your level, Knight. Switch from enchanted munitions. Aim to wound, not t—”
“Attack!”
Another cry; the [Knights] broke out of formation as something landed around them. Merindius leveled his lance, accelerating into a blinding charge as another attacker emerged from the ground! They were in the snow! He rode down on the foe, then blinked at a—
“—Snow Golem?”
Merindius’ lance pierced the Snow Golem’s head, and it collapsed. He twisted in his saddle as another went down, launching huge snowballs at the [Knights]. They were under attack fr—
“Knight-Captain! The hill! The hiiiiill!”
The [Knight-Captain] didn’t understand what was going on. They were riding past a hill next to the village. He stared at the top of it, looking for the foe…until he realized the top of the hill was rising.
“Name of winter.”
He breathed as the largest Snow Golem…no, a hill of snow slowly pivoted, and the Order of Clairei Fields split around it. A Snow Golem? One under the control of someone? Or just a rogue one so powerful it had defied the spring?
Then Merindius saw a flicker of something bright and pale dancing around the Snow Golem’s head. He narrowed his eyes, and a wispy thing seemed to fly around the Snow Golem’s head—then into the mass of snow. He swore he saw the giant Snow Golem jerk…then it opened its ‘mouth’ and vomited an avalanche of snow at the riders.
“Evade! Don’t fight it!”
The Order of the Clairei Fields dodged the avalanche—most of them. Several [Knights] went down, their horses screaming, and Merindius saw explosions of fire breaking pieces off the Snow Golem’s body. It roared silently and pursued them several thousand feet, but the [Knights] were quickly past it.
“What was that? A trick of the Unseen Emperor? He’s supposed to control beasts, not Snow Golems! Do we go back for our comrades?”
Shaken, the [Knights] tried to regroup. Merindius eyed the Snow Golem; it didn’t seem to be savaging the downed riders. It had actually collapsed back into a hill. A defensive Skill that animates the snow? He pointed.
“Two of you, go back and—”
They were passing across several fields of crops being grown in this area of Riverfarm. Huge beet fields, many nearing harvest Merindius saw a [Knight] pass by a scarecrow, all straw and silly clothing hung up on a cross. Then he saw the scarecrow’s painted head rise, and a foot made out of straw kicked the [Knight] in the face.
That was all the warning the [Knights] had before they were jumped by four scarecrows, two of which had hoes.
 
——
 
The scarecrows went down in seconds. They were hardly a match for steel and Skills, but the attack rattled the Order of Clairei Fields. They abandoned the fields and hit the roads.
“Stay away from snow. And the fields.”
“And the trees! A tree just took out Knight Meredith! It hit her in the face with a branch.”
A group of [Knights] galloped out of the forest, and Merindius stared at them.
“What? Treants? Those don’t exist!”
“It was some kind of little wood-thing. Like a carved piece of—”
They were under attack! It was like the earth itself had taken up a grudge with them! The Order of Clairei Fields soon realized that entering any natural area of land, be it snow, marsh, forest, or field, would attract some kind of threat.
Little…sprites? Things like Winter Faeries, but more defined, would bring things to life, conjuring roots to trip the horses or even animating things like scarecrows.
The solution was then to stick to the roads, which there were plenty of. But that led to other problems.
“Attack! Arrows! Shields up!”
The first actual arrows hit one of the [Knights] from afar, and they kept their shields raised as they sighted the archer. A lone figure in a tower; Merindius stared.
“That’s a village.”
It was indeed. A single village—and a lot of angry villagers shooting bows and hurling rocks from slings behind a half-finished wall. The one in the tower launched another arrow over the distance, and a [Knight]’s shield caught the arrow.
“Do we respond, Knight-Captain?”
They had bows and armor; it wouldn’t be hard to take the village. It was like any Merindius could have named across Izril. Only, the wall in progress seemed new and expensive given the size of the village.
A lot of houses…and the streets looked paved? Merindius was debating loosing some arrows in retaliation when he heard a thump. Then he looked up and saw a rock coming their way.
“[Serpentine Maneuver]! Evade!”
The…catapult was a reconfigured trebuchet altered for direct fire that threw a giant rock at them, then a shower of stones. The Order of Clairei Fields beat a retreat as several [Knights] took a battering, despite their shields.
“Avoid the villages! Get us to Riverfarm—now!”
The [Knight-Captain] bellowed at his subordinates. He was realizing, belatedly, that this was a trap. It closed as he saw a familiar figure breach a forest nearby.
Knight-Captain Merindius locked eyes with the Witch Runner, and he swore she waved at him. Then she opened fire.
 
——
 
[Witch of Malice Level 34!]
[Skill – Doublechant Incantation Obtained!]
[Skill – Homing Spell obtained!]
 
Of course, that had been when she’d woken up three days ago after getting Arcanis to safety. Today was payback.
 
“Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ.”
“Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ, fuck you, Sçæptiŝ—”
 
[Doublechant Incantation] meant you could do two incantations at once. It was actually really hard to do, but if you had a single word you were repeating…the result was that she got to fire a hail of pallid green bolts down on the stupid [Knights], and they couldn’t do shit about it.
They had bows, but Alevica just flew several thousand feet out of range and lobbed the energy bolts down. It didn’t matter if they dodged the slower-moving projectiles. They curved after the [Knights], and if she missed the first hundred shots, so what?
She had unlimited more of them. Eat shit.
Alevica still didn’t even get the magic. As far as she could tell, it had no costs. None to her mental state, craft, or mana pool. She’d suspected there would be some kind of hidden cost like waking up to realize she’d sacrificed her health or something like that.
But nothing. Three days later and she only had a sore throat from so much chanting. Well, this time, she had honey tea and five minutes of warm up tongue twisters.
