Eloise was struggling to keep her broom straight with three passengers. Alevica saw the [Knights] coming after Typhenous hell-for-leather, and the old man…he was laughing.
“You’d better have some more tricks, Eloise, or he’s dead and all of us soon after.”
Alevica begged Eloise, and the [Tea Witch] glanced ahead.
“I believe I’ve had enough of last-minute rescues for several lifetimes, Alevica. As for help—”
She flew down, slowing her broom slightly, and Alevica nearly screamed at her. Then she heard wild shouting—and men and women in cheap leather and less-expensive steel armor were racing forwards, surrounding the confused Order of Clairei.
“Drop your weapons! Drop ‘em!”
“Those [Witches] are under our protection! In the name of the Unseen Empire!”
Alevica saw hundreds of [Soldiers] charging below her. Her mouth dropped. Typhenous was almost lost in the crush, but Eloise singled him out and slowed. The Tea Witch leapt off her broom, then felt at her back.
“It makes me feel like a fool rushing all the way here overnight. Typhenous, she’s bleeding.”
“Let’s get that arrow out. Where’s the lad?”
Arcanis clung to Alevica as the [Soldiers] and the Order of the Clairei Fields began shouting at each other. The [Knights] backed up in confusion and fury, suddenly outnumbered.
The Unseen Empire? Had Laken sent Wiskeria north? But it had been less than a day from when she’d sent the call for help to Eloise! Did Laken have more [Soldiers]? Alevica didn’t recognize any of them. 
An army that could march all the way from Riverfarm to Kevaunt in less than a day? There were even more coming this way. There was no such army! Then Alevica heard the shouts.
“In the name of His Majesty of Riverfarm! Surrender now or you’ll face the [Soldiers] of Vaunt!”
“The Cheesemongers! Raise the flag! Gershal’s Cheesemongers!”
Then Alevica understood.
 
——
 
“Vaunt.”
Laken Godart turned to Rie with a huge smile on his face as the pieces clicked together. He had asked for the impossible. And she had delivered.
“Vaunt, Your Majesty. Namely, Lord Pattin, who convinced his father to lend you a bunch of rowdy and, to him, expensive and useless [Soldiers]. He gets paid…”
“We get an army. And they’ve stopped the Order of Clairei Fields cold?”
“So Magus Typhenous reports. But the Order is following them south. They’re bound for Riverfarm at all due speed.”
“I thought it was faster to send Alevica by Invrisil?”
Laken frowned, trying to map out what was going on in his head. He had been on tenterhooks, demanding to know if Alevica was alright. There were all kinds of conflicting reports; a Griffin attack, one of the Reinharts showing up, bees—but Eloise had made it just in time.
Rie clarified for Laken.
“I mean Vaunt’s forces, Your Majesty. And the Order of Clairei Fields. They didn’t dare challenge that many [Soldiers], but they are making for Riverfarm. With reinforcements. House Byres among them. Alevica will be here tonight. The Order of Clairei Fields—two days, perhaps.”
“I see. Then I want someone to check on her the moment she gets here. Have the boy she rescued given a personal guard and watch out for [Assassins]. No—get me an escort in Invrisil too. No one is going to harm them. Now, get me Yitton Byres.”
Laken Godart was calm now. He waited until Nesor was able to set up a [Communication] spell.
“Lord Yitton?”
“Your Majesty, I have just received a disturbing communication. The Order of Clairei Fields pursued one of your subjects? It appears one of your [Witches] acted with honorable intentions, but the incident is escalating. I am relieved to get in touch with you.”
Yitton sounded worried. Laken analyzed his words.
“Honorable intentions? Yes, quite, Lord Yitton. The Order of the Clairei Fields attacked Alevica while she was rescuing a child; I gather they torched an entire village. Then they attacked more of my people. Thankfully, they’re all unharmed, but I understand the [Knights] are heading south. With some of your people.”
There was a pause on the other end of the speaking stone.
“That is…not my understanding of the events, Your Majesty. I am riding south myself to head off any tragedies. May we speak frankly to avoid an incident?”
Laken stretched out in his chair, voice mellow. Relaxed. He knew Rie was listening in along with some of his court. He even chuckled.
“Of course, Lord Yitton! But please, don’t trouble yourself with the ride. I have things well in hand.”
“I’m relieved you understand, Your Majesty. The Grandmaster of the Order of Clairei Fields is quite worked up, but if we discuss the matter—House d’Artien is also passionate, as are several of the other groups. I will speak to them as soon as the issue of Witch Alevica is cleared up. But I rather feel I should be there in person. Just in case.”
“You do that, Lord Yitton. But I do insist that you not ride south. Indeed, please tell your own people to not head to Riverfarm. Anyone who does cross the borders with malice, forethought, or in the company of the Order of the Clairei Fields will not be coming back. I should hate for you to lose any vassals.”
There was an intake of breath and then silence on the other end of the speaking stone.
“Is that…a threat, Your Majesty? Your [Witch] has in her company a Vampire. A danger to all Izril.”
“Witch Alevica has what I understand to be a nine-year-old boy in her company, Lord Yitton. If he’s an Adult Creler in disguise, I rather think I’ll find out after I talk to him. Call your people off. If they cross my borders, I won’t differentiate between them.”
“Emperor Godart. You cannot be serious—”
Laken’s voice rose, and he shouted into the speaking stone.
“Bring an army, Yitton. Or bring your best explanations and your honor! Because I don’t see any! Attack any members of Riverfarm again and you will see how serious I am.”
He threw the speaking stone, and Nesor ran after it. Only after Laken had stopped shaking with fury did Lady Rie cough.
“Your Majesty, it might be a poor choice of words given that you cannot see at all.”
The [Emperor]’s head turned with such wrath that she coughed.
“—Lord Yitton is likely to take your warning seriously. But this might come to actual strife. The Cheesemongers of Vaunt are as yet untrained.”
“How much of an army can the Order of Clairei Fields and all these vampire-hunting wannabees muster? Have Wiskeria move the army to the border. I will be there myself. More miracles, Lady Rie?”
The [Lady] paused. Then, to his gratification, she laughed softly.
“I think I can manage one more, Your Majesty.”
 
——
 
Lord Yitton Byres did indeed try to convince the Grandmaster of the Order of Clairei Fields to call his people back. And the Grandmaster was actually less apocalyptically furious than Yitton had hinted.
Grandmaster Noveghin Teler was a good, honorable man, the likes of which belonged at the head of a [Knight] order. He wasn’t as stout as some figures of note that could lead by sheer weight of arms. He was wiry and shorter than average. A perfect [Rider], if not a leader of men.
It was silly that height often correlated to respect, in Yitton’s view of things. The same with levels; they were a good bar to measure by, but Yitton Byres tended to judge a man by his deeds and conduct, not by his mere appearance.
It was one reason he and Emperor Godart had become friends. A friendship…now in question.
“I cannot stop Knight-Captain Merindius, Lord Byres. He and his [Knights] are nearly upon Riverfarm. I fear they will cross the border and attempt to slay the…Vampire regardless of any force mustered. I also note to you that House d’Artien has sent two thousand armsmen. An incredible number that I hope you can keep from escalating this situation.”
Noveghin was as happy about all this as Yitton as the two rode fast for Riverfarm’s borders. The problem was simple: there was a schism in the Order of Clairei Fields between the Vampire Hunters and those [Knights] who did not subscribe to the conflict. That opposition ranged from outright denial of the issue to hesitation towards the extremes of the hunters.
Noveghin had remained firmly in the middle of the camps, but he was under pressure—not least because [Vampire Hunters] levelled up proportionally to the foes they slew. The breakaway faction was rapidly overtaking other elements of his order.
Lord Yitton Byres was, as a supporter of Delanay d’Artien and the [Vampire Hunters], nominally opposed to Noveghin, but the mutual respect both men held didn’t prohibit this conversation.
Indeed, Yitton Byres nodded instantly to Noveghin’s statement.
“Conflict with the Unseen Empire is the last thing I desire, Grandmaster Noveghin. His Majesty, Emperor Godart, is a friend of mine. I regret it has come to this. I hope all sides can see reason here. If you can stop your Knight-Captain, I advise you in strongest terms to do so. His Majesty…has warned me that anyone who crosses his borders will be treated as an enemy.”
Noveghin’s face grew even more pinched with worry as his horse, a long-legged Jecrassian Strider, picked up even more speed. Their ride was so swift that both men had to speak through visors; a fly hitting them at speed hurt, and Noveghin had warned Yitton he’d seen men lose eyes from that sort of thing.
…Yitton had assumed it was a joke, but he kept his helmet on. Three days had passed since the inciting chase with the [Witch]; by now, he was closing on the Unseen Empire’s borders. That Grandmaster Noveghin had reached the same position as the neighboring House Byres was a testament to his Order’s speed.
That House d’Artien had managed it spoke to their backing and funding.
“Two thousand armsmen is a fantastic number of men, Lord Byres. How can House d’Artien raise that many? I would have thought that was the limit of their muster a year ago.”
“Their fortunes have risen with the issue of Vampires, Grandmaster.”
“The same for House Byres then.”
The comment was sharp, and Yitton coughed into a fist. He’d brought merely three hundred men with him—though he had to admit, that was more than he would have been comfortable with at any other time.
“I won’t deny that House Byres’ fortunes are swinging back from the disaster of the sabotage of our mines and mansion, Grandmaster.”
“Convince me of this Vampire issue, then, Lord Byres. I’ve talked with Lord Delanay. He’s as fired as a Rhirian about them. But you’re a man known for his probity. They tell me the Vampire is…a child. Half the [Knights] with me would sooner remove their class than take on Knight-Captain Merindius’ position. Yet none can deny how dangerous they are.”
“Have you seen one of them fighting, Grandmaster?”
A slight shudder from Noveghin was Yitton’s answer. Yitton himself felt a chill, remembering the inhumanly fast battle when Delanay had uncovered one of the Vampires before his eyes.
He tried to answer Noveghin fairly. The comment about Yitton’s integrity was what Yitton himself was most proud about. A man could lose it in a moment after building it up for years.
He was only disheartened Laken Godart thought so little of him as to not heed his words now. Yitton spoke as he glanced back at the forces riding behind them. Armed with silver and steel; there were thousands of orders for his arms coming from the north, and the specialty Byres metal; even from Drakes and overseas.
“I cannot deny the Vampire issue is…helpful to House Byres, Grandmaster. Do I prefer this to our fading away? Yes. Does House d’Artien embrace it for the same reasons? In all honesty, Delanay’s family may be more attracted to their rising fortunes. Delanay always believed the old stories, however. As a boy, he’d sit with me and talk stories of Vampires, even hunt for them…”
He’d always seemed a bit of a dreamer to Yitton. But he’d been right. Dead gods. Yitton cleared his throat.
“Let me be frank. The…age of the Vampire is disturbing. I shan’t deny that the reports of my own people clearing villages seems extreme, and I have cautioned temperance.”
“Clearing villages. You mean eradicating them down to the last dog and chicken? They torch the remains, Lord Byres. Some of my [Knights] have gone to see the aftermath, and they couldn’t even find the remains; it was just scorched earth. Explain the necessity of that. Children!”
“There are monsters by the same name—”
“Spare me the arguments of the ‘Vampire Hunters’, please. I know Children as monsters. They wear all the faces of real children, but they don’t speak. Vampires do.”
Yitton fell silent. Noveghin’s voice was agitated; his horse was baring its teeth, reflecting the attitude of his master. The [Lord] of House Byres knew that the other [Knights] riding around him were doubtless listening in. He had one chance: so the [Lord] did what he always did. He answered honestly.
Closing his eyes, Lord Yitton Byres sat straight on his saddle, a man whose own blonde hair had gone to silver, like his family fortunes, a waning star against his legacy. His armor, his sword, his family had all been more glorious in yesteryears. What kept Yitton proud was that; if he was neither the warrior nor the merchant of Byres’ past, he had not disgraced that legacy.
So he spoke to that as well as Noveghin’s morality on Vampires. Why did it matter? It went to the heart of what Lord Yitton believed.
“The Nights of Blood. It is written in the annals of House Byres, Grandmaster Noveghin, these dark days. A time so long past they have been forgotten in most annals of history; a time when Vampires ruled Izril. When they treated mortals like livestock and murdered and slaughtered until they were brought down. A threat said to be as horrific as the Selphid Empires, the Domination of Form.”
A faint shudder ran through a few [Knights] and some of his armsmen, but Noveghin replied softly.
“…That could be said of any species.”
“True. But the histories of House Byres paint an unequivocal threat, Grandmaster. I shall not list the debaucheries, but suffice it to say they were like a plague, ruling from the shadows. The Walled Cities and Gnollish tribes were infiltrated; when the Vampires were brought down, it was because all the continents brought wrath against them. Even the Continent of Glass; the scouring took decades, and the war was dreadful. They should have been wiped out. The fact so many exist suggest a return in secret, a long-plotted revenge. Small wonder Delanay is so alarmed; the Five Families and Walled Cities understand the threat.”
“I know. I understand there is…considerable support for my people and your Vampire Hunters. But children, Lord Byres.”
“Goblins have children.”
Noveghin twisted in his saddle and replied sharply.
