“What was that? I think she’s delirious. Have no fear, Miss Runner. I won’t harm the boy. I just have some questions…”
Her eyes flickered as she put a hand to her ear, pretending she couldn’t hear Alevica. The Witch Runner gasped as she coughed out what felt like a lung. The carriage began rolling, and Alevica croaked.
“Sçæptiŝ.”
Her pointing finger flashed. The people approaching her leapt back as something green appeared; an oily flame, smelling like marshwater and something even more uncanny still burst into life.
No, not flame. It didn’t burn right. It was liquid? Liquid light? What was—Alevica stared at her finger—
Then the projectile fired from her fingertip and hit the carriage as it began to roll away.
The entire vehicle rocked. The projectile was barely as big as the palm of Alevica’s hand, but she heard a scream from within. The projectile had gouged a neat, round hole out of the back of the carriage. Not deep, but it had definitely ruined the paintwork and vaporized a fist-sized chunk of material.
The impact made the horses stop and panic, despite the [Driver] cracking a whip. Alevica stared at her fingers.
“Wh—what was—”
The carriage backed up a pace, and the door opened. The [Driver] swung down as Lady Cecille Reinhart glanced out at Alevica. Her dispassionate, cold gaze suddenly had an interested light.
“Her, too, Morry. Charity is coursing through my body today.”
He came off of the front fast, striding towards her, and Alevica groaned. She aimed a finger at the [Driver], but he side-stepped warily. He looked tough, and he had a horsewhip in his hands that he raised.
He’ll kick the hell out of me. If I give up, maybe we’ll get away…and be in the custody of a Reinhart.
Snakes or murderous [Knights]. Which was worse?
Never trust a Reinhart. Alevica felt the word on her lips again. Hag Magic. But something was wrong. The mana…
The whip drew back as the [Driver] strode at her. Alevica gritted her teeth—then heard a buzzing. A great thrumming of sound—and then there were bees.
“Huh?”
Alevica had never seen a thousand angry bees swarm down the street. They came like a hail of death, darting everywhere, and the [Driver] whirled—stared at the bees—and screamed.
So did Lady Cecille Reinhart and the other passengers of the coach. They tried to slam the doors shut, but they were no match for the power of the moving bee. Screams from within the carriage sounded; then the doors opened, and Arcanis burst out as people swatted at the insects attacking them from within.
Bees. What was going on? Alevica lay there as the boy ran over and tried to drag her up. He was strong enough, but he didn’t have the leverage, and she had definitely broken a rib. However, someone else was striding over, and Alevica stared up as a young woman and a man bent over her.
“Here, drink this, Miss Runner. Quickly now, into the The Bee’s Knees.”
A familiar man with a bee-themed apron offered her a potion. A healing potion. Alevica stared at it, then the [Buzzkeeper], then the receptionist of the Runner’s Guild.
“Huh?”
She didn’t waste time. A chug of the potion and she was on her feet. Meanwhile, the Reinhart carriage was still under attack. The bees only stopped attacking the driver trying to get the screaming horses going when the air cracked around them.
Abruptly, every bee in a dozen feet around the carriage dropped flat, bodies mangled, as if a hand had swatted them out of the air. In the silence, the sounds of someone weeping and shrieking by turns could be heard from within the carriage.
The window slowly rolled down, and Lady Cecille Reinhart, sporting a bee sting on her cheek, glanced at Alevica being dragged into the inn by the [Innkeeper]. She eyed the bees, which had buzzed up in a huge cloud towards the inn.
“I see. The inn. Make a note of whatever this town is, Damia. Now, drive, Morry.”
Her eyes flashed as the carriage began moving without the Witch Runner or the Vampire. The Reinhart carriage sped off without a word, leaving the people of Kevaunt to wonder what the hell was going on.
And that was before the [Knights] thundered through the town.
 
——
 
The [Buzzkeeper] was someone Alevica only remembered because he had annoyed the hat off her when she’d been here last. She most certainly didn’t remember his name, or the [Receptionist]’s, but he had remembered hers.
“Innkeeper Honei, Miss Witch Runner. I saw that carriage hit you. Is the lad alright?”
Arcanis was sitting there, burned from his contact with the sunlight, as the [Innkeeper] offered a healing potion to him. Alevica was shaking her head.
The [Receptionist] was glancing at Alevica’s battered condition, too alarmed to seemingly hold a grudge.
“She hit you! Just like that! I’ve already sent another [Message] to Riverfarm; they actually contacted us, Witch Runner! They said to keep heading south.”
Alevica just stared at the [Buzzkeeper].
“That’s not your name.”
“It is indeed, Miss Alevica. I chose it myself. Can I offer you another sip of the healing potion? Honey? You need a bed. I’ll have a [Healer] in moments.”
Alevica shook her head.
“I’m…sorry.”
She flushed for reasons the [Buzzkeeper] didn’t get. Then she pushed herself up.
“Where’s your bathroom? I need a broom. We have to go. We’re being pursued.”
Despite their protests, Alevica was on her feet with Arcanis clinging to her. She accepted another swig of the healing potion, and Innkeeper Honei handed her a broom himself after a quick stop at the restroom.
“Are you sure? The bees keep away all kinds of trouble, Miss—”
“They can’t keep away what’s following us! Thank you! I’ll tell Laken what you’ve done!”
Alevica ran out of the inn, leapt on her broom, and heard the clatter of a lot of hooves the moment before she and several [Knights] of the Clairei Fields locked eyes.
Well, there went her lead. Alevica shot upwards as they drew their swords. She burst over the rooftops of the town and shot down the road. And now…they were after her.
Arrows tore through the air as the [Witch] kept her broom zigzagging, trying to gain enough height to lose her pursuers completely. But again—she dove as an arrow pierced the air she was trying to ascend, and her ability to rise was hampered by the extra weight of the boy on her back.
No, that wasn’t it. She was almost out of craft. Alevica was running low on magic, and only the boy’s faith that she’d save him was keeping them airborne. She saw the [Knights] galloping below, keeping pace with her, and cursed.
“Those bastards! If I had my wands—Arcanis, do you have any weapons?”
A sword! Heck, she’d take a bow! But the boy just managed a shaky response.
“No!”
Stupid to expect him to have anything, let alone a wand. But it made the [Knights] streaming across the ground below her doubly ironic; there had to be at least three dozen for a little boy who couldn’t stand in the sunlight without burning.
She had no magic to use. Except…Alevica bit her tongue.
If we run out of magic, we fall and die. If I don’t keep them from drawing a bead on me, I’ll be a pincushion.
As if to emphasize the point, the blurring ground beneath her was getting closer again, and Alevica saw herds of cows staring up at her. A [Knight] of Clairei Fields leapt a fence, dodged an angry bull charging her way, and loosed an arrow at Alevica. Her passenger screamed.
“Watch out!”
Alevica tried to dodge, but this one was too fast. She twisted—and Arcanis shouted. Alevica braced, and felt something kiss her ribs with a sharp point of agony—but nothing more.
“Huh?”
She glanced down as the [Knight] leapt a second fence and the bull smashed through it after her—and saw Arcanis holding an arrow. He dropped it with a cry.
“Silver!”
Had he just caught it mid-flight? They wouldn’t be so lucky next time. Alevica swung her broom around, rotating beneath another arrow, and spoke.
“Sçæptiŝ!”
Her finger produced another green orb of light and sent it shooting downwards. It wasn’t as fast as a [Light Arrow] spell, and it didn’t home—but it did blow a small chunk of dirt out of the ground and made one of the [Knights] juke left.
One spell—and about thirty arrows as a counterattack. Alevica avoided them by cutting the magic supply to her broom, so it dropped out of the air, and then breaking out of the dive and using a barn as cover. She thought she saw the city of Vaunt in the distance, but if they even got there, it’d be a miracle.
They were ahead of her now. The Order of Clairei Fields were trying to cut her off. Alevica pointed ahead and felt the wrongness of the spell. When she spoke, it felt like the air twisted, obeying the power of the word itself.
“Sçæptiŝ!”
A word of magic—the orb gathered and fired. A [Knight] raised a shield, saw the orb coming at him, and decided to dodge instead. Alevica shot through the gap he’d made. She spoke again as a [Knight] charged at her.
“Sçæptiŝ!”
This time, it hit the shield. The [Knight]’s lance dipped, proving the orb had weight to it. It was the Hag’s spell. A Tier 1 spell, or at least, Alevica assumed. So low-level they’d written it at the start of the book.
But why—why—she shot forwards and checked herself. But she wasn’t wrong.
“It’s not taking any mana?”
Her hat had the same miniscule amount as before. As for her mana pool…it was unchanged. Alevica didn’t feel tired. Was it draining some other quality in her? She stared at her finger, then saw the [Knights] behind her. The Witch Runner threw caution to the wind.
“Sçæptiŝ! Sçæptiŝ! Sçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝsçæptiŝ—”
Orbs of green light flashed behind her as fast as she could chant, blowing holes in the barn, hitting the ground, the horses, the [Knights]—they veered away in alarm, unprepared for the hail of magic coming their way.
“‘Ware spells! ”
“She can’t cast forever! Strike her from afar!”
They drew back, waiting for a clear shot as Alevica shot magic at anything she could see. The [Knights] dodged behind cover for a minute, two minutes…
Then they realized Alevica was not stopping. She had hurled a hundred spells already, and the only thing Alevica sensed was going was her voice.
If there is a cost, let it be one I pay later! Alevica grimly passed the field of cows. She thought she saw Vaunt now, and more of those stupid [Soldiers] practicing in the fields. Thousands of them. She just needed to get over the walls and then maybe she could fly somewhere the [Knights] couldn’t ride. Over a r—
She heard a gasp, felt the arrow land home, and felt a naked sensation on her head. Alevica reached up for her hat and saw it falling, pierced by the arrow one of the [Knights] had landed.
“Oh.”
They hit the ground hard.
 
——
 
The Order of Clairei Fields took their time approaching the downed [Witch]; she was still firing spells with that uncanny enchantment. One called for a bow and put an arrow in her good arm.
“We should kill her for collusion, [Knight-Captain]!”
“Stay your hand. She is affiliated with the Unseen Empire. It is not politic to do so—rest assured, we will investigate. Aim for the small one.”
“Arcanis. Get behind me.”
Alevica was sitting, one arm broken, the other with an arrow in it. The boy hesitated, then hid behind her back.
With a sound like a sigh, one of the [Knights] rode left; another went right. Both had bows drawn. Alevica shouted at them.
“You’re killing a child! Your class on it! I swear I’ll kill you! A [Witch]’s oath on it!”
The [Knights] paused. The [Knight-Captain] sighed and called out.
“Shoot her first, then.”
Alevica saw the bow aim towards her and gritted her teeth. There. Perfect.
“A life for a life. Honor amidst strife. Fly quick and true, little broom—bring him to safer lands, ere I meet my—”
“Alevica!”
The Witch Runner’s eyes snapped open. Her head jerked upwards. It was impossible. A brave, stupid [Innkeeper] was one thing. The honor of a [Griffin Rider] another. But she hadn’t looked for a miracle at the last moment. She wasn’t Ryoka Griffin. She was no Califor, no hero—
But Eloise might have once been.
The [Knight]’s bowstring snapped. A dozen bows exploded around Alevica, and a shadow passed overhead. Witch Eloise…on a broom?
Now I know I’m actually dead or dreaming. The little [Tea Witch] was standing on her broom and kicked it up, slowing, and then reached down.
“With me! Now!”
“Huh?”
Alevica couldn’t move if she wanted to, but Arcanis reached up, and, somehow, Eloise dragged him and Alevica onto her broom.
“Another [Witch]? Kill them b—”
Knight-Captain Merindius was having a bad day. He whirled, drawing a sword, just in time for the glowing [Force Orb] to hit him in the chest. Unlike Alevica’s spells, when this one detonated, it kicked the [Knight] clean off his horse.
He landed on his front, and the other [Knights] charging at Eloise’s overburdened broom pivoted as someone rode at them. It looked like an old man with a long knife in each hand.
It was an old man with a knife in each hand. One of the [Knights] was so perplexed she didn’t keep her shield up. She had full plate armor on. And a helmet.
Typhenous jabbed the long blade of the knife straight through the grille of the visor with a sound Alevica wouldn’t forget. He passed by the second [Knight] and didn’t stab until he could lean under the [Knight]’s startled swing.
His second blade went up under the weaker armpit, and the [Knight] screamed. Both of the injured [Knights] did. The one stabbed in the face wasn’t dead—but as she wrenched her visor down, she shrieked—then vomited—then fell off her horse.
That was the poison. The Plague Mage raced through the [Knights], blades slashing. He aimed at the weak points of their armor, but mostly—he struck the horses where their barding didn’t protect them.
The slight scratches drove the poor animals crazy; they threw their riders or went off galloping, screaming at the top of their lungs. Typhenous whirled his horse as Eloise turned.
“Typhenous! Follow me!”
Alevica couldn’t track what was going on.
“Wha—wha—?”
The old man raced after Eloise as the rest of the [Knights] roared in outrage and pursued them. But now, he was casting magic; a second [Force Orb] exploded, and the old man raised a hand to his lips like someone blowing them a kiss.
“[Poison Cloud].”
The [Knights] swerved out of the green cloud in a moment, shouting in real panic.
“Avoid! Avoid!”
Alevica whispered to Eloise as the [Witch] kept them flying over Typhenous.
“…Isn’t that a war crime?”
“Apparently not in the Unseen Empire. Are you alright, Alevica?”
