Vess mouthed as the rest of the Gargoyles fell back. Normen raised his shield as the Gargoyle hunched, holding its double-edged staff high. It hesitated—and Normen glanced at Durene. Then he lowered his mace.
He raised one hand, and the Gargoyle stared at him, curved beak unreadable. Its glowing, orange eyes swiveled to the wounded Gargoyles flying or climbing back upwards, and Normen stood there.
“Everyone—follow the wagon. Don’t attack unless you have to.”
He glanced at Durene, and she remembered the Rock Elementals. Maybe…?
The Gargoyle Bossel stood like a sentinel until the last of the Gargoyles were well up the cliff. Then it leapt into the air without a word. Normen exhaled, and when he turned, he had a bemused look on his face.
“For a [Knight] Order, we seem to not fight as much as we do get into scraps.”
Durene scratched the back of her head as she stared upwards at the stone shape flapping upwards. Then she saw another flash of pink and waved at it.
“Maybe…that’s the job of [Knights]. We don’t kill everything that moves. That’s what adventurers do.”
Jewel raised her head as she gulped water down and wiped sweat from her face. She pointed a finger at Durene.
“Hey…fair.”
 
——
 
It was near nightfall by the time that they ran into a mansion sitting on the side of a cliff. Everyone blinked at it; Antherr walked into the wagon.
“What the f—”
Lady Magnolia Reinhart was walking towards them, smiling ruefully, arms outspread in welcome.
“Ser Normen, the Order of Solstice! What a surprise! May I offer you refreshments? Do relax; if you’ve made it this far, you’ve reached the ‘safe zone’ of the High Passes. Thirty more minutes will see you clear the pass, but it is quite late, so I offer you rooms for the night. Dear me, I should have expected you to be so bold.”
Her eyes flicked to the wagon as Durene saw a bunch of [Maids] and [Butlers] hanging around as if it were normal and a cordon of Drakes, who stared at her as if they’d walked out of Rhir’s hells.
Which was what it felt like. Normen glanced at the wagon, and Magnolia added in a carrying voice.
“Of course, if you’d like to complete your mission, I quite understand. Later tonight then? I assure you, my business is purely with making the High Passes crossable. If the Order of Solstice shares that goal…it may be quite beneficial.”
“Uh oh. Here come the politics.”
Ama whispered loudly, but Durene just sagged in relief. Right now, she’d take a cup of tea, even if it was all sugar.
 
——
 
They’d made it. Somehow. When Chaoisa finally rolled out of the High Passes and Durene saw some green hills covered in grass, she just flopped over onto her face.
“Are we alive, Vess?”
He flopped on top of her.
“I dunno.”
“We made it. Should we…escort you further? Or are there people who could link up with you from here?”
Normen was swaying as well, but he spoke to the Vampires, and Xeni looked around.
“There might be watchers on this side. If there are, they won’t get near that Drake army or you…in the future, I think you could count on anyone left here being safe.”
Normen nodded, straightening, and Durene’s head rose from the grass.
“In the future?”
She looked at Vess and then realized what she’d committed them to. Jewel nudged Normen a few times.
“We…we’re glad we could help. But I mean, the next time…maybe in, like, a month? Another few months? That was crazy.”
Normen nodded slowly, glancing back the way he’d come.
“We would want to move faster next time. And any group over twenty is probably bound to attract attention. Forty is likely the limit; we can’t run the High Passes regularly.”
Jewel relaxed, and Ama sighed in relief. Normen went on.
“Four or six times a month would be the most we could do.”
“What?”
The others shouted, but Xeni just nodded.
“If you do…we’ll be in your debt. We won’t forget this. I swear; the others will hear of it, wherever they are. Thank you.”
She turned, then paused as Lapsey slid out of the wagon. She approached Durene, who tried to get up to look somewhat decent for a farewell. But Durene was so tired…
Lapsey shyly offered a hand and pulled Durene up with a grunt. She ducked her head.
“You actually brought us here. Through the High Passes. I…I’m sorry for hitting you.”
“It’s okay. I know what it’s like. I just—be careful who you like, okay? Some people are genuinely nice and caring, and that’s great. But it’s a big world out there, and we can keep doing better.”
Durene smiled awkwardly, and Lapsey flushed. She glanced at the dozen Vampires waiting for her and then at Durene. Then she hesitated.
“I…I know. And you’re all the bravest, most splendid [Knights]…real knights I’ve ever seen. I don’t want to ask, but—since you’re here, you have to go back, right? Would you have room for me? I’m serious, you know. I won’t be a bother! I’ll do anything you want and train and—”
She caught herself. Then she gestured at her body.
“I want to protect my people. I can do it! Give me a sword and training and I won’t care if I get hurt! I’m strong! I’ll protect them all, and I’ll kill the Hunters. Even if it takes my life.”
The other Vampires, Pedne, Xeni, Atrenve, turned back to look at Lapsey. It was hard to tell from some of their expressions what they thought, but there was a warning in Xeni’s glance. Normen frowned at Durene, but he nodded hesitantly. He saw honor. Jewel clearly saw glory; Ama sighed as she glanced over her shoulder.
“There goes the budget on armor.”
—But Vess nudged Durene. His eyes were narrowed as he stared at Lapsey, and if he saw something…it was not for her enemies. And Durene?
Durene looked at Lapsey, young, earnest, like a younger Durene. Just as dangerous in her way, and she had loved someone truly for coming into her life and giving her a chance to be someone else.
Yet—the half-Troll girl placed a hand on Lapsey’s shoulder. She smiled as the Vampiress gave her an uncertain look.
“No.”
“Huh?”
The Order of Solstice turned to Durene, and the half-Troll girl shook her head.
“Go with your people, Lapsey. Learn what being a Vampire is before…committing to something else. We don’t need vengeance or a [Knight] trying to kill the Hunters.”
Lapsey’s eyes widened in shock, then outrage. Her voice rose, dangerous, Durene thought, and her hands opened, resembling claws.
“But they’re killing us!”
“I know. But what happens if we train you to use a sword and wear armor, Lapsey? How many of them do you plan on killing?”
Normen’s eyes flickered. He glanced at Durene, and Lapsey wore a blank expression on her face, suddenly mirrored by several Vampires behind her.
“It’s a war. Why are you asking?”
“Because we’re not [Soldiers]. We’re [Knights].”
Vess spoke up calmly, and then he was holding up his lantern. The flame of mercy was bright, painful, and made several Vampires look away. The Order of Solstice stood there, and Durene spoke.
“We’ll do what we can. Laken will. We are not Vampires’ enemies. We’re not friends of the Vampire Hunters. We don’t want anyone else to die.”
“Easy for someone who’s not being hunted to say—”
Pedne began, but Xeni stomped on her foot. The oldest of Vampires bowed her head to the [Knights] and spoke calmly.
“Said hard for a group who dared the High Passes to help us. No one will forget what you do, [Knights], nor anyone else who gave us succor when we needed it. You draw your line, we will draw ours. Come on, Lapsey, girl. You’ll be needed where we travel next just as much as here.”
Lapsey stared at Durene with a betrayed look. Yet then she seemed relieved, as if she hadn’t thought her decision through or had seen in Durene’s reply the catch. She nodded and stepped back…but then spoke, eyes on the sky beyond the mountains past Durene. Her voice was faraway and suddenly very calm and serious.
“Someday, we’ll come home. Don’t worry. I’ll remember everything you did for us.”
With that, she turned and began to walk away into the night, as if her words hadn’t just cast all of the Order of Solstice’s decisions into doubt.
“Great. That wasn’t ominous at all. Anyone want me to shoot her? I’ve got a clean shot. Don’t look at me like that, Normen. I’m the Knight of Depression, not the Knight of Clean Fighting.”
Ama whispered to the others. Normen just pushed her wand down.
“They’re a people. Good, ill…we’re doing what we can. If they return, we will judge them just as we did now.”
Antherr nodded, and Jewel sighed. The Order of Solstice looked at each other, relieved, worried for the future, or simply tired and hungry. It was done. It wasn’t perfect, but it was them. And Durene?
She just let out a huge, long breath of relief. Then she put an arm around her comrades and hugged them tight.
She wondered if Magnolia Reinhart had any raw potatoes.
 
[Paladin of Fire’s Oath Level 27!]
[Skill – Gratitude of the Championed obtained!]
[Boon – Sanguinum Gratitude (Minor) — Silent Footfalls obtained!]
[Boon – Commonfolk’s Blessing (Minor) — A Finger’s Discount obtained!]
[Boon – Commonfolk’s Blessing (Lesser) — Folk’s Vitales Gift obtained!]
