Magnolia glanced down at the report, intrigued, but she was focused on the fighting below. Drakes were running, trying to regroup as the three slimes advanced. This was a rare sight; the sight she had longed for.
Not Drakes in trouble. That was everyday. Magnolia stared down as a figure strode forwards. At last, she saw a Dragon dancing.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flame wore the guise of Demsleth. An old man in travel-worn clothes, but today, he also carried a sword.
“Stay with me, people. Remember—keep moving! It’s all about rhythm, rhythm…”
He was sweating. The Dragon was afraid. He always was.
If he had been in his real body, the slimes would have rolled off as fast as they could. They could sense relative threats; most monsters in the High Passes didn’t challenge him purely on the basis of his size and presence.
But the old Human man could get hurt. And his pain settings were set to normal, so he was sweating. Yes. Were his legs shaking? Not much.
Demsleth turned as the Drakes spotted him. The relief force was him, two Antinium in maid outfits, and a dozen Humans, including Reynold. The [Butler] had a sword in his hand, and they spread out as the slimes pivoted to this new threat.
Taletevirion had better not be watching. Teriarch saw the Magma Slime bulge—and then spit a globule of lava at him. The molten stone was so hot that even proximity would be dangerous.
The heat burned through the air as the Crystal Slime shot a trio of crystal bullets at Demsleth. They were fast, apex slimes. So—the Dragon did the only thing he could do.
He threw his head back and slid under the first crystal shard, pirouetted out of the way of the glob of magma, and kept moving. He swayed out of the range of the second shard of crystal, slashed his sword down to block a glob of magma, and back-stepped out of the way of the third crystal.
The two slimes paused, mystified, as the Dragon shimmied to the side, left and right. His feet were interweaving, his hands were loose, and he was swaying his body. He jiggled his arms—leaned and dodged another projectile.
Dancing. What made a Dragon a Dragon? Magical superiority? Crushing fangs? Size? Any species could do that.
“One, two, and—”
A mote of dust landed and exploded. But Teriarch wasn’t there. He’d leapt on a rock, swarmed up some stones, and kicked off—all in an instant. He landed on his hands, flipped himself onto his feet, and kept gyrating.
It felt like the slimes were staring at him. He definitely felt other eyes on him. Possibly that girl, Magnolia, was laughing her backside off. But so what?
The Dragonlord of Flames had forgotten how to dance. Now—he was relearning the steps that had doomed Wyrm Kings and foes of old.
—It was hard. Teriarch’s skin baked under the heat of a rain of lava, and he cut the air, incorporating his sword into the desperate defense. As he did a safety hop, Teriarch turned and saw Reynold spinning out of the way of a shard of crystal.
The servants were dancing too. They had picked up the style, and even Chesacre and Thaina were dodging the slimes. They were both Soldiers, so their footwork needed work, but their colorful carapaces lit up, and one left an afterimage as she ducked out of the way of an exploding mote of dust.
“—and three and four and—”
An aggressively salsaing Dragon advanced on the Magma Slime, and it began to roll back into the cave it had emerged from. The other two slimes began to retreat as well.
The Dragon kept moving until the monsters were in full retreat. Then he struck a pose and began to pull off some of the old Zeresian underwater dances for the Drakes and that [Lady].
The [Soldiers] stared at him. After a while, Demsleth turned and saw a one-winged Drake gazing at him with a haunted look on her face. Rafaema, wounded, guilty, and ego shattered, watching a silly Dragon dancing.
He kept going. She had to learn how to dance too. No matter how damn embarrassing it was. He just wished the Goblin would stop applauding.
 
——
 
The Order of Solstice had no idea what was going on. They had been prepared to take on the High Passes solo—suicidal, perhaps, but doable.
Right now, there were armies in it, and they were attracting the kind of attention that made the journey even worse.
Durene had to drag Vess away from Crusader 53 on the promise that they’d visit the base camp the 7th Hive had set up. But they had to keep moving to get the Vampires through the High Passes.
The problem was—the real rulers had come out to play. And they didn’t respect anything. Even the Small Queen.
“Dead gods!”
Lightning was raining down as Normen’s flames flared brightly. Honor. Honor against his foes was a heavy weight. To his allies?
The bright flare of green made some of the Antinium leap out of the way of a falling rock just in time. They moved faster, turning, catching themselves in relief—Normen raised a hand.
If you had it—it mattered. Then he directed his attention above.
Durene stared upwards and saw the older, bigger brother of the Rock Elementals.
An Elemental Lord of Stone. It was a glowing gemstone as big as she was, surrounded by rock. A colossus floating through the air. Right now, it was hurling a hill’s worth of stones at a floating blue Antinium.
The Small Queen was locked in a firefight with the Elemental, dodging boulders and replying with bolts of lightning and meteors of light. But it was the size of a hill and could hurl boulders into the air. Even as the Order of Solstice stared at the fight in the middle of the pass they were trying to go down, they saw a group of Antinium lower their bows and flee; a boulder slammed into the ground, and the world rocked. Ama pointed up.
“Okay. How the hell are we getting past that?”
The Small Queen had been fighting for the last ten minutes, and neither side was backing down. Durene frowned upwards.
“Why is she even fighting it? Did it attack first?”
“It’s a giant rock monster. She saw it, she blasted it, dumbass.”
Crusader 57 had apparently decided a good way to get out of work was to act as a guide for them. Durene stared at the Antinium.
“Yeah, but if it’s like the Rock Elementals we met, it’s probably not hostile.”
The ones guarding their cave had only pursued the Order of Solstice to the long hallway. They had, in fact, been the most non-aggressive monsters that Durene had ever met.
Crusader 57’s antennae waved, and his mandibles opened.
“…Huh. You should’ve been here before Xrn hit it with all those [Shatterbolts], then. Mind you, it was coming at us already. It crawled down from the mountain.”
“Why?”
The Worker shrugged.
“Dunno. But we were kicking the Creler crap out of its buddies, so maybe it got pissy. All the mini Rock Elementals. See?”
He pulled something out of his belt pouch and showed Durene an angrily vibrating stone encased in metal wire.
“See, this is worth—hey! My bonus pay!”
Durene snatched the Rock Elemental, then slapped Crusader 57 across the back of the head.
“You morons! Who else has them? Normen! Look!”
The Order of Solstice turned. Normen didn’t get what Durene was holding right away, but Jewel figured it out. She began swearing—then she and Durene were racing to interrogate the [Soldiers] present. They had nearly fifty such stones that they carefully prised free from the wires they were contained in. Some were cracked, and Durene had heard the Antinium had broken several Rock Elementals. But it was worth a shot—
“Hey, you!”
Vess got the Elemental Lord’s attention by firing a spell at it. When the living mountain turned, he hid behind Normen. But the [Knight] just held up the sack of stones that was trying to float. He hurled it straight up, and both ran.
Xrn paused as the Elemental Lord floated closer to the stones. It cast a shadow over the pass, and Durene, close to the gigantic monster, gulped as she saw the crystal face turn to her. A glowing intelligence—it seemed to count the crystals that floated out of the bag.
Was it happy? Outraged? Did it have emotions? Durene didn’t know. Ama gasped.
“I see sadness—”
Jewel swallowed.
“I think it’s pissed.”
But the Stone Elemental just let the smaller gemstones fly upwards and begin claiming parts of its ‘body’. Then it swiveled to face the Small Queen. Then, for some reason, to Durene.
“Please don’t attack—”
Durene nearly fell flat on her face as, to her great relief, the Elemental Lord began to float upwards. It headed back up the mountainside, and the Small Queen let it go. She floated down, visibly panting, but straightened.
“Who are you?”
Whoa. For a second, Durene had thought it was the old Xrn, the elegant Centenium of legends. But she had forgotten; Xrn had died. Her body was…
Well, it looked sort of like her old one. Someone had made great effort to capture the feminine form and elegance and even gotten the color mostly right. But form did not fit function.
The light shining out of Xrn’s eyes before her death had been colorful, and she had been filled with power. Now, though, the [Thaumaturge] seemed to be barely able to contain her magic with her body.
Her eyes were like lighthouses, and the magic even came out of her mouth. She did not look…well. She had to sit down as Antinium flocked around her. It seemed like she had to forcefully reduce the power and intensity of her eyes.
“Get me…magicore. I have overloaded my body again. You. [Knights]. Why are you…here?”
Durene let Normen answer. She was glancing up at the High Passes. Avalanches had sent boulders skidding down, but she swore that she saw the faintest glimmer of red up there.
Were they watching? Approvingly? Durene lifted a hand, and a single boulder fell from above.
Then the Order of Solstice continued on their way.
 
——
 
Monsters assailed them two-thirds of the way towards the other end of the High Passes. Eater Goats…with collars?
The Order of Solstice hacked through them, then saw and heard shrieks from above. Finally, one of the common enemies of the High Passes showed themselves. But oddly.
Gargoyles. Durene’s best guess was that the Gargoyle population of the High Passes had been decimated by their attack with the Void Goat. However, the 7th Hive and Drake armies were upsetting the delicate ecosystem of the High Passes.
And it still was a system; driving the monsters away from the ground would put pressures on every monster higher up.
Accordingly, it seemed like an entire tribe of Gargoyles had been fleeing the Antinium advance. But it seemed like they thought the [Knights] were either encroaching on their territory or easy prey.
“Sillias! [Arch Leap]! [Weight of My Sorrows]!”
The bone cat leapt up, and then Durene saw the bones coat with blue flames. Blue fire. Cold…heavy…
The cat slammed into one of the Gargoyles, a small one with a club, and broke a wing. The writhing Gargoyle screamed as the others attacked, using long clubs to batter Normen. One stared with dismay at the acid eating away at its club after striking the [Knight].
Normen was a brilliant glare of honor, making the Gargoyles shield their eyes as he lashed out with his acid-covered mace. Antherr’s flames had enough force that when he locked blades with a Gargoyle holding a crude axe, the impact shattered his enemy’s weapon. Jewel’s sword ignited everything it struck, and Durene?
“Durene! Watch out! [Wall of Flames]!”
Vess ignited a wall of mercy’s fire, and a Gargoyle punched it, then stared at its lacerated fist as the flames became solid. Durene broke through the fire, red flames coating her shield.
A blow from a hammer wielded by a monster bigger and stronger than she was; she reeled. Her head rang, but she pivoted, swinging her sword.
“Right back at you.”
Her sword hit the Gargoyle with all the force it had just unloaded on her, and it stared at the huge wound cleaving through its ribs. It dropped its hammer, backing away.
The Gargoyle tribe was trying to flee as Vess hammered them with spells. Jewel was shouting.
“Take them out at the wings, Vess! Or they’ll be back!”
There were more Gargoyles high above; the Knights of Solstice were fighting a running defense of the wagon where Chaoisa rolled. The Vampires were cowering, but the Contempt of Man just kept going.
She had her reins in her fists as her bulls roared, swinging their horns at any Gargoyle that got close. With her other hand, Chaoisa had a long cudgel.
“[These Wheels Don’t Stop]! [Wagon: Damage Shield]—eat shit, you bastards!”
She kicked in the face a Gargoyle that was trying to grab her. One spitting stone shards at the wagon stopped, not understanding why the wood wouldn’t shatter in the face of its assault.
The [Unstoppable Roller] accelerated. Not fast, but with the momentum of a moving boulder. She rolled over a Gargoyle’s foot as it tried to batter down Normen’s guard, and Chaoisa snapped as another tried to grab one of her bulls.
“[Stored Retribution]!”
The Gargoyle went reeling backwards as a glowing fist gave it the uppercut of its life. Stone pieces of its jaw landed with orange blood, and Chaoisa began to burn.
She was hunched in her seat, unafraid. Her eyes were on her ‘cargo’, on the Gargoyles, on the Order of Solstice, wary, alert. But mostly?
She was just pissed. She was chewing on a mouthful of tobacco, and she didn’t realize at first that she was smoking. Orange flames burst across her spiked wheels and illuminated the eyes of the Gargoyles backing away from her.
“Is that…?”
Jewel spun. Normen raised his brows.
“The fire of…frustration?”
The orange flames made Durene angry when she looked at them. They were the flames of someone who had had it up to here with things…an hour ago. It was the look in someone’s eye before they turned the table over and hit you with a chair.
It was the least honorable flame the [Knights] had. It fit Chaoisa to a tee. She realized she was burning and cursed in surprise as the final threat arrived.
The biggest Gargoyle that Durene had ever seen landed with a crash, blocking the road. It had a two-bladed staff made of stone and even, Durene realized with a gulp, crude hide armor. It faced the Contempt of Man as she rolled towards it.
She spat over the side of her wagon, and the phlegm and tobacco juice caught fire. The Contempt of Man locked eyes with the Gargoyle, refusing to break away or slow.
“I’ll take it on. Keep the others off me—”
Durene called out, but someone seized her arm before she could challenge the Gargoyle.
Normen.
“No. I see a light. This one is mine.”
The [Paladin] twisted, and the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice stared at the Gargoyle. It recognized him and hesitated as Normen shook the acid off his mace and strode forwards.
Honor? From a Gargoyle?
