They seemed to think he was a super Acid Fly, so they buzzed away in alarm as Normen inspected the lump of flesh with a frown. Durene glanced at Normen.
“Gargoyle, you think?”
It was hacked to pieces. So badly mutilated that Durene didn’t see any stone flesh, but Normen shook his head anyways.
“Too big; I see a bit of hair too. Strange. If something killed it, I would have expected it to be eaten. It seems like the centipedes were after it; and these aren’t claw marks, I think. It looks like…hm?”
He reached over and pulled something out with a sucking sound. Vess was staring at a giant fang—when Normen showed them a broken crossbow bolt, Durene stared.
“What? Someone’s here? Adventurers?”
“Explains why the monsters are quiet. I hate to think what this thing was…hold on, I’ve got a monster manual of the High Passes. Let me try to identify it.”
Jewel fished in her packs as the Order of Solstice went back to the Vampires. She opened the book as Normen turned to the Vampires.
“Holding up so far, Miss Pedne?”
“Er…yes, Ser Normen. Is that how the Order of Solstice fights? Dead gods, I’m glad we went with you. We could handle some monsters, but no wonder you took Elia Arcsinger to pieces.”
The former farmer peeked at the centipedes, looking queasy. She sounded so…normal. That’s what made the Vampires’ situation extra-horrifying to Durene. They were just people. Not killers or monsters.
“I’m sure you could defend yourselves. I’ve seen how fast you can move. If anything, I was surprised there weren’t more tales of the Vampire Hunters getting ambushed.”
Normen frowned at the Vampires; they didn’t seem to have weapons or armor that Durene expected. But one of them just gave Normen a supercilious look. Atrenve, Durene recalled. A scribe, of all things.
“If anyone could learn how to kill, we wouldn’t be hiding, Ser Knight. Nor does strength or speed do much good against a man in armor with thirty levels.”
“True.”
The Vampires looked at each other, and one of them coughed, the grandmother with peg-legs. Two; from some health condition or injuries? Nevertheless, Xeni sat up nimbly enough and flicked her knife out of her sheath. It rotated in the air, and she caught it, demonstrating she at least looked dangerous.
“There are some who prefer to fight back. But to what end? Those fools drove us into this mess by attacking House Byres. If they had just held their peace…”
“No sense casting blame. Though if I meet those hotheads—”
They began muttering amongst themselves, and Durene was grateful Rivel was not here after all. Lapsey leaned over to Durene, licking her lips.
“I could fight if you gave me training and armor. Is…is anyone going to have a drink from the monster? I’m a bit hungry.”
All the Vampires eyed the carrion with disgust and stared at Lapsey, appalled, but Xeni narrowed her eyes and leaned over to one of the others. Durene filtered her whisper out of the voices as one of the Vampires opined Lapsey would catch something by drinking from the rotting corpse.
“…girl’s got all the instincts. If she is pure, she could get stronger. Shame she’s looney as the lot who sired her. Got any royal blood around?”
Now what did that mean? Then again…Durene thought the Vampire that Xeni was talking to looked confused as well. There were clearly things that they were keeping from the Order of Solstice. But as far as Lapsey was concerned…
Jewel saved Durene from having to reply to Lapsey by closing her book with a snap.
“Bad news, everyone. That’s a Passmaw. A dead one, but that’s my guess. One of the iconic predators of the High Passes.”
Everyone turned to her, and Vess swallowed.
“I thought that was Eater Goats.”
Jewel gave him a bright smile.
“Oh, Vess. They’re the prey. A Passmaw’s twice as big as a bull and fast. It bounds around, bites to death anything it fancies; it goes on all fours and has a weird call. Something killed that one, though; good thing too. They’re supposed to occupy a higher level of the High Passes. They only come down to hunt.”
“I’ve never heard of them! And I lived near the High Passes! How many iconic monsters does this place have?”
Vess complained loudly as the group kept moving, suddenly alert again. Jewel thumped the book she carried, a monster manual complete with illustrations she’d bought from the Adventurer’s Guild.
“See this book, Vess?”
“Yeah?”
“All High Passes monsters. Wanna know how many are Gold-rank or worse?”
“Stopitstopitstopit—”
Vess was covering his ears, and Ama was trying to shush Jewel, who was reading from the book, when they heard a gaogaogao sound from up ahead. Deep, bass—Jewel blanched.
“That’s a Passmaw.”
“You bastard! You cursed us!”
Vess drew his wands as the Order of Solstice halted and the horses shied away. Normen glanced ahead.
“If they’re as fast as you said, we need to engage them. Let’s find it before it finds u—”
Gaogaogao! Durene heard another wail. Then another. This time, Durene paled, and one of the Vampires moaned.
“Three of them? Oh fuck, we’re dead.”
Ama squeaked. Normen glanced back the way they’d come.
“If we need to, we deploy wall spells and hold them off. Chaoisa, get your wagon to the side of the road. Let’s—”
Thwoom. Then they felt an explosion from ahead. Durene held out a hand as her ears twitched. She heard…shouting? Faint, but it was definitely voices—Durene looked at Normen.
“There’s someone out there. Let’s go!”
He blinked, then nodded at once. Ama shout-whispered.
“Go? Are you crazy? Wait a second, get back here! Are you cr—”
 
——
 
Three Passmaws were leaping from the cliffs of the High Passes. They were like manticores or lions in a way; they had huge manes of hair and powerful hindlegs, but they were unnaturally compact. They were big enough to take bites out of a bull, but they preferred to leap from spot to spot, attacking in huge lunges, mouths open.
—And they were fighting. One of the Passmaws flinched as crossbow bolts rained off its pelt, which only allowed a few of the steel-tipped bolts to penetrate. Another dove down, snapping, but a flurry of blades made it back away, mouth bleeding.
Even so, it was dire fighting. Three had come down to avenge their packmate, and they were bounding, trying to kill the company of [Soldiers] fighting while trying to pull back down the pass.
“Reinforcements? Where are our damn reinforcements?”
They were cut off from the main group. A swearing Antinium with a greatsword took another slash at the Passmaw leaping back from him. Crusader 57 looked around as he fired a crossbow with his other hands.
“They’re up ahead! If we pull back, we are dead. Forwards!”
That came from their [Company Commander]. Crusader 57 swore a blue streak as the Passmaw jumped forwards again, ignoring the blades striking it. It only feared the Antinium with a glowing mace: Crusader 53.
“Join the 7th Hive, they said. It’s better pay than Liscor’s army, they said. Then Xrn says ‘let’s go fight in the High Passes’—”
The rest of his squad screamed at him to shut up. The Passmaw tensed to leap. It was aiming straight for Squad 5! Crusader 57 tensed for the deadly charge, and he saw a bright bolt of light hit the Passmaw in one of its eyes.
The monster reeled with its signature cry, and Crusader 57 looked around.
“Took you long enough, you stupid Centenium bitc—what the—?”
A [Knight] on horseback galloped past Squad 5, and a mace coated in acid hit the Passmaw in the face. It was so huge the blow only made it flinch, then snap back; Normen went skidding backwards. He checked his horse, but the animals just snorted in fury.
The Passmaw turned, ready to spring, and someone shouted.
“Normen! Back!”
Jewel threw an acid jar into the Passmaw’s mouth, and then it leapt. It rolled around, screaming, as she slashed at it on one side, Normen battering it on the other with his mace.
Sensing the danger, another Passmaw leapt down, and Squad 5 pivoted to face it—only to see a single Antinium striding towards it with a greatsword raised.
“You idiot! Get back in formation! Get back in—”
Too late. The giant Antinium-eater leapt, and Antherr pivoted. His greatsword came up, and the Passmaw went skidding sideways.
“[Parry the Foe]. [Mighty Swing].”
Antherr’s greatsword left a huge gash down the Passmaw’s side across one leg, but it didn’t slice as deeply as he had hoped. He grunted as the Passmaw rose, roaring.
“Requesting backup.”
“Go, Sillias! Claw attack!”
A far smaller bone cat leapt on the Passmaw’s face, tearing with its claws. As the Passmaw shook it off, a huge woman that looked like she was half made of stone ran up. Durene shouted.
“Antherr, go for the side! [Shockwave Slam]!”
She rammed her shield into Passmaw’s face so hard that the dust in the air rippled. As Crusader 57 watched, mandibles open, Antherr pivoted.
“[Giant’s Stab].”
This time, his greatsword pierced deep, and the Passmaw howled. It began to tear at Durene, and she punched it in the face with her greatsword’s hilt, cursing as she gave ground. Antherr spoke calmly.
“Now burn.”
Hazel flames raced up the hilt of his greatsword, and the blade turned orange with heat. The Passmaw jerked, trying to turn and rip the searing blade out of its side; Durene slashed it across one eye. The screaming monster kept thrashing, but Sillias was tearing its hide from on top of it, and Vess rode past the fighting group.
“[Bolt of Radiance: Explosive Charge]!”
He fired a single bright light into the scorched hole the greatsword left as Antherr tore it free. Even Crusader 57 winced as innards blew out the hole.
“Yuck.”
The Passmaw still kept moving, though it was clearly hurt. The [Knights] kept fighting as Squad 5 charged into the fray as well. Faced with ten more blades and the Dragonbone Mace that Crusader 53 hammered through its skull, the monster finally went down. Then both sides could appraise each other and begin shouting.
“Who are you?”
“Who are you? Wait—this is Liscor’s—Crusader 53?”
One of the Workers in Squad 5 opened his mandibles in shock.
“Vess?”
The [Soldier] stared up at the Drake in armor, and Vess nearly fell off his horse. He reached down—but Crusader 57 shouted.
“Kiss later, you stupid idiots! Get the damn monsters!”
Everyone whirled—but the other two Passmaws were down. One was melting, faced with an overload of acid from Jewel and Normen, and the rest of Battalion 1 had taken down the other. A [Templar] was standing over its corpse, wrenching a glowing sword out of its skull. Vess shouted in disbelief.
“Crusader 53! I thought you were in Hectval!”
“I joined the 7th Hive. We have been engaged in the High Passes this entire month. What are you doing here? I am very surprised.”
Crusader 53 didn’t have a voice, so one of the Workers translated for him. But the Soldier was waving excitedly with all four hands. Crusader 57 was more concerned with the presence of the Order of Solstice.
“What are you idiots doing here? And who are they?”
He pointed at the wagon of nervous people that had rolled around the bend in the road. For answer, Ser Normen strode over and touched his helmet as he met the [Company Commander].
“We are escorting some people through the High Passes. We thought we were alone; did you say the 7th Hive is here? Fighting?”
He looked as startled as everyone else. Before the commander could speak, Crusader 57 laughed incredulously.
“Taking passengers through here? Are you stupid? Wait, you’re Erin’s [Knights]. Of course you’re stupid. We’ve been fighting here all damn month, and the monsters keep coming! They’re chewing up those idiot Drakes on the other side too, or so I hear. All for Lady Reinhart. Fuck. At least the pay’s good.”
Someone slapped the back of his head as Normen blinked at Crusader 57. Then he twisted.
“Wait. Lady Reinhart?”
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart, head of House Reinhart, did not like roughing it. Nor camping, so it was amazing she had been out here as long as she had. Then again, having a magical, portable mansion helped.
She was even having tea, with all the sugar, as she watched a battle in the middle distance. Ressga poured sugar into a cup—then tea—and got a nod of approval from Magnolia.
“Thank you, my dear.”
The [Lady] got a happy nod from the Goblin, who stood back and gave Ressa an expectant look. The [Head Maid] gave the Goblin an uneasy glance; she wasn’t used to having a fan.
Then they all turned their attention back to the fighting. Magnolia lifted a pair of glasses to her eyes.
The High Passes were being cleared. It was the first step to her plan; if you couldn’t keep the lower regions safe, how would you ever build a tunnel through them? So much had happened; she had laid dreams for the future. Now, everything was in jeopardy, so she had begun.
A Drake army was engaged on the southern end of the High Passes. Mostly Oteslian [Soldiers], but levies had come from Salazsar and other sympathetic cities. They had not been having a good time.
“Fall back! Fall back!”
The famous Drake formations were breaking as Drakes fled another monster unique to the High Passes. No…a common monster, but one the Drakes had never seen as deadly. Until now.
Slimes.
There were three of them. They had an entire battalion on the run. Understandable. After all—one of them was a Dust Slime. The other was a Crystal Slime. And the third…Magma.
The last one made the most sense, but Magnolia just assumed they were higher grades of slimes. They had to be to survive here. And they looked nasty.
The Dust Slime wasn’t a cute, rolling orb. The moment the Drakes had engaged it, its body had burst into floating motes of dust. The dust drifted down—then exploded whenever it got near anything the slime wanted to kill.
The ground was poc-marked from the explosions, and the slime was working with its friends. The Crystal Slime kept shooting shards of crystal like arrows. Whenever a Drake tried to attack it, it would extend a lance of crystal. It could even make jaws, which snapped down, nearly taking out a [Healer] dragging a wounded Drake back.
The Magma Slime was just twenty feet across. And it was mad about the water spells that the Drakes had hurled on it.
Fight. Level. Try not to die. The slimes weren’t the worst thing the Drakes or the 7th Hive had engaged so far. Ressa spoke.
“The Small Queen has personally engaged a Stone Elemental Lord, Lady Magnolia.”
“That one again? The old man told her to avoid it.”
“I believe she was overconfident. There is also a report from 1st Battalion. Intruders.”
Magnolia raised her brows.
“The Vampires finally figured out the only route they could take?”
“Not quite. Your guess was off.”
