Durene wasn’t that smart. Or maybe she was smart enough and she didn’t have much confidence in herself. She was working on it. Perhaps she was smart…at least if you compared her to her Order. Because her idea was the only one anyone had had—well, Antherr had suggested using the route to the Hivelands to take the Vampires, but that was bad in and of itself.
Durene’s idea was arguably even more dangerous. She folded her arms, and her heartbeat picked up as she stared at the high cliffs of stone. They led up to an even higher ridgeline and, above that, sheer rock. Reddish at the base; as the mountains rose, the stone turned blacker, weathering, and then white with snow that never melted.
Even when Durene craned her head all the way back, the High Passes kept going. The greatest mountain range in the world…impassable, forming a dividing line across Izril except in two places.
The first at Liscor, where the mountains allowed that basin to exist. The second…slightly north and west. Past Orefell, leading through a canyon where only fools and adventurers went.
The High Passes.
“So. Is anyone else terrified? I feel like the Order of Clairei Fields isn’t that tough. Come on. What’s a few thousand [Knights]? Remember how many Eater Goats and Gargoyles came out of here?”
Ama was petting Sillias, staring at the foreboding entrance to the High Passes. She’d been the loudest voice of dissent at Durene’s plan, but it had still passed 4-2.
Ama and Antherr had been dissenting votes, going for his plan to use the Hivelands as a better route. But given how he said he was ‘uncertain if the Queens would allow anyone to leave alive’, the Order of Solstice had taken the best option.
“We are not aiming to rouse the entire mountain range, Ama. Speed is key. We move in a small band; the recruits will secure a base. The six of us and Chaoisa will escort the Vampires through the pass. It has been done before.”
“Should we not scout ahead and let the wagon follow after we deem the route safe?”
Antherr wanted to know, but Durene shook her head.
“The route isn’t going to be safe, Antherr. Even if we fight our way through the pass, a second trip will carry the exact same risks. Arguably more if we attract scavengers to the corpses we leave behind. One trip. I know it’s risky.”
“Suicidal.”
“Shush, Ama. It’s risky, but if our wards had a better idea, I think they’d take it. Lapsey, any objections?”
The Vampire looked up; she’d been staring at the High Passes with as much nerves as the others.
“Sevil was a good man!”
“Besides that.”
The Vampire gave Durene a slight shake of the head. She didn’t look entirely convinced, but one of the other Vampires poked his head out of the wagon and drawled.
“If you’re willing to give it a shot, we are. We thought about trying the pass, but we thought it was a death wish. You’re the [Knights]; just don’t be upset if we run screaming at the first sight of a bad monster.”
“That’s exactly what we want you to do.”
Durene gave him a thumbs up, and the Vampires looked at each other, less-than-happy about the fact that their cowardly flight might be needed. However, Normen just nodded.
“This is a crazy, dangerous plan.”
“Sorry, Normen.”
He smiled at Durene.
“It’s fitting for us. Alright, there’s no time to waste. You can be through the High Passes in a day if you move fast, according to Chaoisa’s records.”
“That record’s centuries old. No [Driver]’s done this route in living memory; I don’t even think [Smugglers] use it anymore. We’re all going to die.”
Chaoisa spat as she took some chewing tobacco out. But she winked at Durene as the [Paladin] glanced at her anxiously.
“Don’t worry, Durene. Us big girls have to stick together. ‘Sides, I’ve always wanted to roll the High Passes. I hear pissants brag about rolling by the Bloodfields in the winter. This is a route to show every [Driver] north and south who the real rollers are.”
The Order of Solstice nodded at each other. Ama sat on her giant bone cat’s back as Durene mounted a nervous mare and Normen mounted a war stallion.
They’d be riding fast; if it came to fighting, Durene would hop off her horse’s back. Only Normen had any training with fighting on horseback. Chaoisa woke up her bulls, and Normen called out.
“Embershard, Dekava Silverfang. To me, please. We are about to try the High Passes.”
Two people came forwards; one of the Antinium with the highest level—he was a Level 7 [Gloryseeker Squire]—and a Gnoll with silver markings and stripes on her fur. She carried a bow and axe, and she was one of the most competent outdoor survivalists.
“Do you want us to secure the pass, Grandmaster?”
Dekava licked her lips nervously. She had a set of chainmail over some hide armor, and she was a [Hunter-Warrior], but she eyed the opening to the High Passes nervously. Normen shook his head.
“I want you two to begin setting up a keep near the river we passed. Find a defensible spot and set up a camp; put up walls as soon as you can.”
“Yes, Grandmaster. I have left my Hive to seek glory and death. Now, I am back to building. It is very reassuring.”
Embershard clasped a fist to his armor. Dekava protested.
“Me? But I’m not a [Knight] of the Order of Solstice! I want to be, but—I have no training! Are all the [Knights] going with you, Grandmaster?”
She swung her gaze to the other potential [Knights]. Normen nodded. He put on his helmet.
“You’re a Plains Gnoll from the Silverfang Tribe, aren’t you? You’d know the best spot to camp.”
“For Gnolls, but I’m no [Chieftain] or [Shaman]. I—w-what happens if you don’t come back?”
The question made the other prospective squires stir uneasily. Dekava licked her lips again, but Normen just gave her a big smile.
“Why did you ask to join our Order, Dekava?”
She hesitated, then scratched behind one ear, flushing under her fur, or at least, Durene assumed.
“I…I heard about Brunkr, yes? He was always weird. I laughed at him, but then I heard he passed away in Liscor. But he did it. I thought someone in the Silverfang tribe should continue his legacy. But I’m not…”
She stared at Normen, and the [Knight of Honor’s Flame] was burning faintly. Green flames; he seemed to forget that’s why people remembered him. Normen’s armor was engulfed by flames, but the Vampires were, for once, not in fear of the fire. The Antinium were lifting their empty lanterns at Jewel as she lit her rapier with pink flames, as if begging for a single spark. Normen smiled, then put his helmet on.
“Not worthy? Not ready? I was not. I still am unprepared. You are never ready to take your hat off and fight. If we do not come back, take over the Order of Solstice. Go to The Wandering Inn; a little Gnoll will give you an ember. The flames will find you. Until then, set up the base as best you can. That is what we do.”
Dekava’s mouth opened. She looked from Normen to Durene, as if expecting the [Paladin] to say anything else. But Durene just hefted her shield and smiled at the Gnoll.
“We’re that kind of Knight Order. If we survive, we’re doing things right. If not…don’t do what we did. Everyone ready?”
“Ready to die!”
Ama shouted. Antherr drew his greatsword, and the flame of determination burned across it, hazel. Vess held up the grey lantern as he looked at the Vampires.
“We really need a catchphrase.”
“Death before dishonor? That is a very good one.”
Antherr suggested, and Vess shook his head.
“That’s the Horns of Hammerad.”
“No, it is the Beriad’s.”
“Well, we can’t have three groups all saying it, Antherr.”
“Why not? It is a very good slogan.”
The two argued as they rode. Normen turned; Jewel was riding next to him, Antherr and Vess were mounted, and the rest of the aspiring [Knights] looked at them. Everyone fell silent, waiting for Normen to say or do something.
The [Grandmaster] closed his eye, and he might not have had the right words or known what to say—but he did his best. He opened his good eye and drew his mace.
“Knights of Solstice. Light the way through the High Passes.”
He turned, and Durene’s heart rose in her chest as he lifted a lantern high. Green fire roared upwards, and Normen’s horse turned its head. It realized it had a bonfire on its back and began galloping forwards in alarm.
“Wait! Normen!”
Jewel followed after him, laughing, pink flames on her sword. Ama followed, dour and grim. But she had her own blue flames, like teardrops of sadness; they blazed in Sillias’ eye sockets.
Antherr and Vess rode after her, twin fires of determination and mercy burning in the lanterns at their sides. Hazel and grey.
As for Durene? Every eye turned to her, and the [Paladin] flexed one hand. She frowned at the empty lantern at her side, but she didn’t feel left out of the group.
I feel like I’m burning too. But with what? 
The [Paladin] rode forwards, staring at her friends. At the Vampires. What defined Durene Faerise? What quality did she long for or embody? Why had she even had the will to become a [Paladin]?
Because an [Emperor] had told her to? Perhaps. But she hadn’t levelled or stayed with the class just for that. She had not fought undead in the dead of winter or carried supplies to villages just because people expected it of her. Nor had she left the Unseen Empire and Laken for no reason.
“Durene?”
Jewel glanced backwards at the [Paladin] as Chaoisa’s wagon rolled into the center of the formation of [Knights]. Chaoisa was hunched over, grim, but she was one of them too, Durene realized. Just like Zanze.
Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man, met Durene’s eyes, and it felt like both women were coated in oil. Doused in fuel, waiting to ignite. And for Durene…she looked at her arms, then at Lapsey.
The Vampire stared at Durene as the half-Troll girl clenched a hand. Then flames coated Durene’s armor. They burst to life as she thought of Laken.
“Huh?”
Fire raced up Durene’s arm, and the watching [Squires], the [Knights] of Solstice, the Vampires, and the hidden Trolls all recoiled. Red fire raced up Durene’s arm, and she flailed one hand before she realized it didn’t hurt. It was…it felt familiar. It was warm, then hot. Like a fire you could hold in your hands when you were cold, then an inferno that could keep away any chill.
It felt strong. Lapsey recoiled away from the most traditional-looking flame.
“It’s…wait. It feels…”
The flames had no orange or yellow component to them; they were rose-red, and Durene saw the other [Knights] turning.
“Durene! You did it! What flame is that?”
Vess shouted in delight, and Normen grinned. He didn’t even have to ask; nor did anyone else, in truth. They saw it.
The flame of kindness was red and bright. Antherr tilted his head as Durene drew her greatsword.
“Strange. I thought she was aflame these last few days, but I only see it now.”
Jewel scratched at her chin, smiling.
“Sometimes, it’s invisible. Or small. That’s my guess, Antherr.”
The flames were growing taller, almost matching Normen’s flames. Durene rode, her horse snorting excitedly, happy with being afire. The Antinium [Knight] shook his head slowly.
“Kindness to me has always seemed like a great thing, for I had so little of it.”
Normen cantered past them, nodding at Durene as she took her position at the front.
“It can be small. Or made of great deeds. It is not an easy flame. Now, set the High Passes aflame, Durene!”
 
——
 
Durene glowed with a red flame as she rode past the wagon and took her position with her comrades. Each one afire rode forwards, like something out of a story book. The prospective [Knights] were not the only ones who watched the procession of the Order of Solstice with awe.
Thirteen Vampires, sitting in the back of the wagon, felt the vehicle moving as their fearsome [Driver] got them rolling. Even her scowl was ameliorated by the moment, though Chaoisa was doing her best to act impassive.
As the small group began to enter the High Passes, someone spoke in a low voice.
“Surreal. Never in my life did I think I’d have an escort of [Knights].”
One of the passengers was a man with ink-stained fingers. Atrenve, at least, that was the name he’d given. One of thirteen fleeing people; the one who’d put a knife to Durene’s back, actually.
He was clean-shaven and wore a working suit with two shoulder suspenders—covered by a grey travelling cloak. His white shirt was stained and unwashed from days of travel. Apparently, he’d been in his office, working, when he’d heard Vampire Hunters were in his town. He’d gone running without grabbing more than his bag of gold.
He was one of the thirteen minus Lapsey. The others nodded somberly, and Lapsey, vibrating with longing, excitement, and still—pain from Sevil’s death and hope for the future—nodded.
“I know. I thought, once I took the blood, that the only time I’d be around so many [Knights] would be if my end had come. Yet here we are, brothers and sisters. The mortal folk have good sorts among them.”
She tried to keep her voice elevated and speak like Sevil and his family had taught her during her admittedly brief sojourn as one of them. She must have done something wrong, because every one of the other Vampires turned and stared at Lapsey for a while. Atrenve coughed into a fist after a moment.
“Erm. What I meant was that I never thought I’d need an escort of [Knights]. Let alone famous ones such as these. I did have a [Knight] ride me to First Landing, once, to take some documents to House Terland. A member of the Order of the Clairei Fields no less. Now they’re all hunting…us. I keep thinking I’ll wake up in my bed and this will all have been a bad dream.”
“From your wishes to a Djinni’s ears.”
A murmur from a man in worn farmer’s clothes. Lapsey stared, her mouth slightly open as he hugged a woman clinging to him; they were a pair. Husband, wife, farmers both—and their eldest daughter was fiddling with a knife she had. Not expertly, but nervously sheathing and unsheathing it.
These…weren’t the Vampires that Lapsey had known. The val Vonderacks had been grand, wearing old clothing patched in places, yes, but ancient silks and satins, who spoke with great, portentous words that made Lapsey feel both small and honored to be part of them. Sevil had always been reminding Lapsey to act like what she was: a predator of the night, a noble of blood.
The farmers had rough accents, and their clothing was humble. Lapsey had thought it was a disguise until they’d said these were their working clothes.
