And the world’s first free, unlimited spell? Alevica was testing out the limits right now, and it was as insane as she’d hoped it would be.
Laken had called it a ‘cantrip’. A free spell from a game he claimed to have played a few times.
Alevica had no idea what he was talking about. But she watched the first [Knight] go flying off his horse with great satisfaction.
About forty-seven left. Way too many. But Riverfarm’s counterattack had just begun. A few arrows sailed well clear of her, but she pulled up another hundred feet just in case. She was just the opening. Alevica glanced down and heard a scream from a bird, a screech to raise the hairs on the back of your neck.
It was echoed…about a thousandfold as a murder of crows took to the skies. Despite herself, Alevica’s chanting slowed.
“Sçæptiŝ, Sçæptiŝ—dead gods, Mavika.”
The Margravine of Riverfarm dove with the ravens of hell at her back, each one twice as large as regular. There went twelve [Knights]; the rest hacked and cut at the birds. Then they realized something else:
Alevica was not the only [Witch] who could fly. The Witch Runner herself looked down as the third flight-capable [Witch] demonstrated that she only kept from flying because she viewed it as a waste of magic, like Eloise.
But you had to admit—Witch Thallisa had style.
 
——
 
He swore he heard music a moment before he saw the [Witch] flying at them. It sounded like the first time Knight-Captain Merindius had heard a [Bard] play—then he saw her.
A [Witch], robes whirling behind her, an overly tall patchwork hat made of fallen [Witches]’ hats and a cape blowing in the wind.
Standing on her ‘broom’, whose branches blew in the wind as the [Knights] fleeing the crows tried to swerve out of the way. But the tree slammed into the middle of them as Witch Thallisa banked it around, sending figures flying.
“Get to the town now!”
There was no chance of fighting the [Witches]; even if Merindius had wanted to—and he did—the thousands of crows would tear the horses to pieces. As for the one flying above…they couldn’t contest her. He wasn’t even sure what to do about the flying tree.
However, Riverfarm was in view. The Order of Clairei Fields tried to make for it, twenty-some strong. Then their view of the town vanished. The world went dark—and Merindius heard a whoop before the Darksky Riders were on them.
Blind, galloping into the fray with a group of [Riders] led by Beniar, the [Knights] fought blindly, accelerating as some of them got past the final barricade between them and the village.
They stormed into the heart of Riverfarm, shedding the blindness Skill, dodging pots and rocks thrown at them by villagers literally walling off the street. When they spotted their quarry, they found the boy hiding behind a line of [Witches] and a blind man.
A line of armed warriors blocked the [Knights] as they tried to charge the boy. They could have dismounted or surrendered, but they were filled with rage.
Blind with it.
The [Emperor] of Riverfarm waited until they were within earshot. Then he swirled the cape that Thallisa had given him and called out.
“Horses, I will feed you to the Goblins if you come this way.”
The Cape of Voices worked. The horses skidded to a stop, ignoring all the attempts of their riders to keep them moving. They reared; a dozen bedraggled [Knights] leapt from their saddles and charged.
Half of them went down before they got to Laken. An angry [Fisher] netted one; Nesor took another down with a spell, and Laken swore he saw Rie and Eloise trip one with a Skill. Spells from the [Witches] battered the rest, shields or not—and the last reached melee range.
Gamel blinded his foe before charging in; Hedag, hat full of craft, took two off their feet with a single swing; Geram, the [Fistfighter] and Rie’s bodyguard, got a fourth. Typhenous strode forwards with his knife, and Laken saw the last one, the [Knight-Captain], stumbling forward, sword raised.
There was a triple line between him and Arcanis—and Cirsa and Malluni were shielding the Vampire with their bodies. Even so, Laken raised his own cane, and Bismarck roared a challenge as the [Knight] roared back, his blade glowing.
“Spawn of blood—”
Laken regretted even letting Arcanis see the [Knights]. The boy didn’t deserve what Gamel’s Skill showed Laken; a face contorted with rage, lost to sense or anything resembling common humanity.
Kill him. Laken almost gave the order, but he’d told the others to avoid killing the [Knights] if possible. He wanted to—and he was grateful that the choice was taken out of his hands.
The [Knight-Captain] was still a dangerous man, unhorsed and alone or not. His blade glowed with menacing light, but before he got in range of Mister Ram hefting a shovel, or the other militia, someone intercepted him.
The [Knight] turned and slashed, cutting across a woman’s chest. He faltered for a moment; he’d attacked an unarmored woman with nothing in her hands but a bedsheet.
However, Briganda’s maid uniform caught the blow and produced a sound like metal meeting steel. She winked a huge eye at her son, watching from the crowd.
“[Uniform of Steel]. [Wardrobe Change]!”
She swept the cloth over Knight-Captain Merindius and then…well, Laken had always been curious about sight. He’d lived his life without needing it, but the ability to see with Gamel’s Skill was a welcome, fascinating ability.
He had never wanted to know what a naked man looked like. The Knight-Captain staggered; stared down at his nude form as his armor fell to the ground in a pile.
“Oh. Er.”
Briganda realized she had a lot of younger people in the audience. Arcanis respectfully held his hands up in front of Cirsa’s and Malluni’s eyes. The [Knight] pivoted, eyes bulging. He raised his sword, and Briganda kicked him in the groin so hard that Laken swore he felt it.
The [Emperor] was still wincing when Briganda followed it up with a Captain Todi special—which was kicking the same spot as the [Knight] went over. Then…
Well, Laken had to have someone stop Hedag from executing the ones she’d taken down. And he told Frostwing to stop pecking at the [Knight-Captain] and for Cirsa and Malluni to stop kicking him.
Eventually.
 
——
 
“Looks like the [Knights] were stopped cold. Beniar’s on his way. So’s His Majesty, General.”
Wiskeria turned from the standoff with House Byres. She had been counting and monitoring the situation in Riverfarm with her own magic.
She let out a huge sigh as Tessia informed her of the good news. The [Engineer] and a small team of her people were attached to Riverfarm’s army. They’d broken from setting up their siege weapons to inform Wiskeria of the latest from Riverfarm. Not that Wiskeria had been in too much doubt; that just left the army led by Lord Yitton.
She had about three thousand [Soldiers] with her. House Byres had three hundred [Soldiers] plus two hundred [Knights] of the Clairei Fields. If that wasn’t bad enough, there were two thousand more armsmen from House d’Artien and a lot of Vampire Hunters.
Not that she expected to go to war this instant, but Wiskeria recognized a pissing match when she saw one; her mother had lots of stories about them. The [Witch]-[General] adjusted her hat.
“Alright. Wait for His Majesty’s arrival. Keep digging those trenches. Tessia, set up those cata-trebs over there.”
They were a mix of trebuchet and catapult; Tessia licked her lips nervously as she eyed the very unhappy soldiers at the border to the Unseen Empire.
“Are you sure, Wiskeria? If we make the Order of Clairei Fields angry—there’s hundreds of [Knights].”
Wiskeria glanced at the [Knights], who were making a ‘show of force’. She rolled her eyes.
“Emperor Laken’s orders. They stop here. They cross the border? It’s going to be a battle, Tessia, and good luck to Lord Yitton. You just set up as if they’re coming at us. They won’t—but if they do, I want you ready. Besides…two hundred [Knights]?”
Wiskeria laughed to herself.
“The Order of Hydra could wipe out the Clairei Fields with a single legion.”
Tessia was hardly as sanguine as Wiskeria. Riverfarm’s [Soldiers] had seen combat, but they weren’t that well-armed compared to the army across from them. They did have irregulars; several angry Law Elementals were flashing the other side with bright lights, and Beniar’s group and any [Witches] who wanted to show up would be a threat. But the battle wasn’t one Tessia liked considering as it stood.
“Yes, well—got any legions of [Knights] under your hat, Wiskeria?”
Wiskeria just glanced up at the sky, where she suspected at least some people were watching the showdown take place. Riverfarm had a lot to lose reputationally either way. But the [General] just smiled. She tipped her hat at a faint, winged shape that vanished behind a patch of clouds. Then she turned to Tessia with a smile.
“Something almost as good.”
 
——
 
News of Knight-Captain Merindius’ capture and attack in the Unseen Empire forced Grandmaster Noveghin to make a decision: press forwards and risk a battle or wait. Despite advocacy from within his ranks, he held his ground, signaling for a parlay with the [Emperor].
House d’Artien was far less sanguine about the catapult-hybrids aiming at their ranks; The Order of Clairei Fields could dodge or survive a volley, but the armsmen wouldn’t be so lucky. They were advancing, demanding the [Engineers] cease setting up the siege weapons, when the scouts at their rear signaled movement.
A tremendous chorus of howls broke the forest behind the Vampire Hunters’ forces. When Lord Yitton turned, he saw the standard of Lord Gralton Radivaek break the trees and hundreds of baying hounds and even more [Soldiers] taking up a flanking position.
House Lycit. The [Dog Lord] stared across the field at Lord Yitton Byres before issuing an order for the Vampire Hunters to withdraw.
Well, order to withdraw was the gist of it.
“—your flea ridden hides off the border before I neuter the damn lot of you!”
“Gralton? What is he doing here?”
“Taking your [Emperor]’s side. We’ve been flanked.”
Grandmaster Noveghin’s voice was remarkably calm for a man now faced with a force to his rear and outnumbered. But again, the Order of Clairei Fields was probably confident it could disengage and reposition no matter what happened.
No—he was calm because he didn’t intend to go into battle. If anything, he seemed relaxed as he sat on his saddle. Yitton was all tension.
Laken had to see sense! He was a reasonable man, Yitton knew from their discussions, but an arrogant one. If he took the side of Vampires…
“Lord Byres! Should we withdraw? Lord Delanay claims he can be here with as many as six hundred more Vampire Hunters within two days.”
“In two days’ time, the Cheesemongers of Vaunt get here and double Riverfarm’s numbers again. Not that this is a battle.”
Yitton snapped at House d’Artien’s [Messenger]. He saw one of the noble family members peering at the forces behind his. Wardogs were howling behind Yitton, and the [Lord] knew it wouldn’t come to battle…but he didn’t relish the idea of a pack of armored dogs charging, even in his head.
“Lord Byres. If we fall back to regroup, we can prevail on aid. Double our numbers?”
A [Lord] with the bright red clothing of House d’Artien called out as he rode over. Yitton stared at him.
“From where? House d’Artien and House Byres don’t have that many armsmen, Lord Malst.”
Malst gave Yitton a bright grin; he was Delanay’s cousin, and he raised his voice as Grandmaster Noveghin turned.
“I’ll wager you could muster a thousand men, Lord Byres. We could do more ourselves, but if we prevailed upon our allies…a number of local cities might turn out their garrisons.”
Turn out their garrisons? What city would do that for two minor noble houses? Yitton was about to politely call the statement ludicrous…until he had a thought.
A member of the Five Families or a powerful noble house could probably do that. He hesitated.
“This is not a battle.”
“No, Lord Byres. But if this [Emperor] thinks to strongarm us, he’ll have another thing coming. Let’s pretend to withdraw and come back with the Dog Lord out of position.”
“Lord Gralton is a trusted friend of mine. We are not—”
The two men were arguing fiercely when another horn-call split the distance. Yitton turned, and his heart sank in his chest out of sheer incredulity.
“What? More reinforcements? Impossible.”
The [Knights] of Clairei Fields, House d’Artien, and House Byres fell back instantly when nearly four hundred more [Soldiers], all of them mounted, formed a battle line on the eastern flank. They were fully equipped, and unlike the Unseen Empire’s forces, their standards…Yitton’s jaw worked as they took up a flank position.
“Where did those [Soldiers] come from?”
No one expected the Unseen Empire to have that many troops, let alone ones who deployed in very good order. The answer presented itself almost as fast as the army appeared as a figure rode forwards. It was…
A [Brigadier] who led her troops forwards with a saber pointed. She had an amazing mustache; she aimed the sword at Grandmaster Noveghin, who stared as Brigadier Forount of Wales bellowed at him.
“In the name of Wales and the Unified Cities of the Hemlock Alliance—and His Majesty of Riverfarm—cease your advance at once! Or we will reluctantly be forced to give battle this day!”
Then Yitton Byres began to realize there would be no forcing Laken Godart by force of arms. And that was before the Goblins showed up.
 
——
 
By the time Laken Godart arrived, a small army of Goblins had taken position next to the Unseen Empire’s forces, and Brigadier Forount had put her people forwards, virtually encircling the now well-outnumbered Vampire Hunters. She was so surprising even the Goblins stared at her, and her mustache, vaguely recognizing her.
But from where?
Brigadier Forount. Namely, the same woman who had fought against the Eater Goats and Gargoyles attacking Orefell. She had led her troops north to reinforce Riverfarm against this act of aggression.
After all—the Unseen Empire was a proud new member of the Hemlock Alliance, the northernmost member that had offered quite hefty proceeds, including a lot of food, to the member cities as part of the signing agreement.
All thanks to Lady Rie. Now Riverfarm had an army, and the whooping Cheesemongers of Vaunt arriving proved that Laken had not only a number of cities on his side, but the backing of several noble houses, not just House Valerund.
