Gold-rank Adventurer Yrimen Sandworth spat, but the taste of foul death clung to his tongue. He rubbed a glove covered with mud in his ear. Trying to replace the sound of a voice pleading for mercy with mere filth.
The crackling light filled the village with shadows as another house went up. A voice buzzed in the speaking stone in his ear, too calm, too precise. It cut through the sounds of one of his teammates puking again.
“Golemhand. They’re fleeing into the water. Beachcat is flanking from the ridge. I advised Knight-Captain Merindius pursuit was unwise, but he’s sending his forces in. Can you support his advance?”
Yrimen. Golemhand. He stared down at his right hand, oversized, augmented by a vast limb that could knock a Troll flat in a single punch. He swallowed, and the tang in the air and ground seemed to cling to his soul. Then he replied.
“Advance? Are you mad, Sable? We’re pulling out. This isn’t an adventure. It’s slaughter.”
A pause, and her voice was confused. Calm as ice.
“Yrimen…are you serious? We’re under contract with the Clairei Fields. We’ve come this far; you’ll ruin your rep.”
Sable sounded too composed, as if this were any other job. But it wasn’t. This wasn’t wiping out a Goblin tribe or Ogres. Even then, you might watch one of the small ones run off and miss them. Or…or you had a night where sleep eluded you as you tried to drink down any thoughts bubbling up.
But this wasn’t even that. These were people. Faster than they had any right to be, true, fanged, true. Terrifying? True, true, true.
A long-haired figure leaping at him and the [Knights], so fast that she tore off a [Knight]’s arms before Goler’s Limbs could attack. Yrimen punching at her as she slashed and clawed, screaming—putting the silver blade he’d been given in her throat. Catching himself, looking down and seeing no Bagrhaven or monster but a dead woman. 
[Knights] trotting past a kid with her face run through into the ground. Barely seventeen—
“We’re done. Beachcat, what in Rhir are you seeing? I feel like I’m walking into the Bloodfields. I feel like I am the Bloodfields.”
Beachcat made a confused sound, and he heard Sable, who he knew well, who shouldn’t, couldn’t, be this blasé, speaking in a muffled tone to her teammates.
However, Yrimen’s team of four looked up purely in relief. They weren’t the only ones; another voice crackled through the stone.
“Golemhand, we’re already gone. Damn the contract; they can run Ravensgift down if they want. I left three of my teammates behind in this slaughterhouse. As far as I’m concerned, the Clairei Fields, House Byres, House d’Artien, and everyone else is dead to me and any adventurer.”
“That you, Merith? Hold and we’ll join you. Rally at…just throw up a [Light] spell.”
“Done, Yrimen.”
A ball of yellow light rose in the distance, and Yrimen grabbed a big man’s arm. Lancet. Yrimen’s tone was rough as he saw more [Knights] dismounting, heading for the edge of the village. Their faces—they wore grass-green and sapphire-blue armor, and they joined figures wearing all-black, carrying torches and bright, silver weapons. Or wooden stakes. They smelled like garlic, and they fought with a fervor Golemhand couldn’t match. They seemed happy.
“Get it together, Lancet. We’re getting out of here. Watch your backs until we’re well clear.”
The rest of his team, Lancet, Minni, Weneira, didn’t hesitate. Weneira was staring at her shaking hands.
“What’s wrong with Sable? They’re burning the ones they catch—”
“Shut up. Let’s go before they notice.”
Bright eyes. Sweat pouring down their faces; despite the spring night, the air was hot. The village was taking time to burn, wet as it was. But Yrimen was soaked in sweat, mosquitos biting him—those were a bloodsucker he could hate. He whispered as his head turned, seeing a group of [Hunters] driving silver blades into every body they could, stabbing again and again.
They had the look of regular [Guards] or [Warriors]; they were apparently [Mercenaries] and [Men-At-Arms], even untrained volunteers. Far below the level of a Gold-rank team. But they had outstripped the adventurers both in their ferocious attack and morale. It had to be their class and prodigious rate of levelling.
[Vampire Hunters]. One had been celebrating hitting Level 25; he’d levelled fifteen times in a month.
Insanity. Yrimen glanced around, then pointed.
“Let’s go. Look like you’re on a mission.”
 
——
 
Knight-Captain Merindius was waiting for the village to burn as he wondered what his new levels would bring.
Level 35. He had no doubt of it. He longed for it; the man impatiently pressed a wand into the side of a wet house, doused by the rain.
Orange flames licked at the wood and began to climb, as if it were dry regardless.
[Flammable Target]. Anything he touched with fire would burn. A small gift along with so many others.
[Expert Dueling]. [Greater Endurance: Mount]. [Bound Spell: Enchantment of Lightblade]. [Arrow Ward (3)]…
Clairei Fields [Knights] were heading into the swamp with the [Vampire Hunters], chasing the spawn as they fled. Not fast; they had raced to set up a physical cordon first. This was Merindius’ 11th hunt; after several failures, the Vampire Hunters had learned that enacting a net to catch fleeing stragglers was vital.
They could take all night to comb the damn swamp, and perhaps a few of the spawn would escape, but several Vampire Hunters were slowly advancing through the waters, eyes aglow and fixed on a trail.
[Pursue the Quarry: Vampires]. A fine Skill. Despite the dangers of the water and the enemy, the [Vampire Hunters] and [Knights] had little fear.
Levels would be a fine reward as well as the bounties on each of the bloodsuckers’ heads. Merindius had been Level 24 and a regular [Knight] of the Order of Clairei Fields two months ago.
Now he was a [Knight-Captain] and about to advance even higher. The average level of Clairei Fields’ knights had been Level 22; they had a number of higher-level [Knights], but theirs was a small order compared to Terandrian ones, and it was hard to level as a [Knight].
Every single one who had begun to hunt Vampires and gained their alternate classes had reaped a clear reward. It was proof of their virtuous deeds and was convincing the holdouts in their Order. The same with the [Vampire Hunters]. Each one had levelled at unheard-of rates outside of war. Of course, the hunts were deadly as could be.
Six dead [Knights]. Thirty dead [Hunters]. Four dead adventurers, and they were Gold-rankers, even if they hadn’t been the best.
A hefty cost. Merindius stepped back from the burning house. He watched the flames begin to lick up the dark sides and turned, vindictive pleasure kindling at the small act.
A voice called out, and he saw a fellow [Knight] ride forwards.
“[Knight-Captain]! Permission to enter the water to catch the bloodsuckers? The adventurers are balking, save for Beachcat.”
“Granted, Knight. I’ll see to the adventurers. Watch yourself in the water.”
Merindius cursed the rain that had made this night attack harder as well as the location of this village. He was tempted to join the hunters in the water and briefly considered ordering them to fall back.
Fighting in the water in heavy armor was no way to engage the enemy. The Order of Clairei Fields specialized in speed. The [Knight-Captain] had already lost six to the mud; two of them [Knights].
However, if they let the spawn escape…the [Knight-Captain] saw a group of figures walking against the current of hunters setting fire to buildings, recovering clues or valuables, or heading into the water.
“Goler’s Limbs. Where are you going?”
Merindius halted the adventurers, and three of his men followed him. They surrounded the Gold-rankers. Merindius had been disappointed by their performance; they had paid good coin, and the renowned Golemhand, Adventurer Yrimen, had seemed more cowardly than his reputation indicated.
In this rain, he was hardly that dashing; mud and grime made his tanned face and brown hair resemble a Mud Golem, but he did have the impressive Golem-fist on his arm and embossed leather armor glowing with faint, blue markings.
One of his teammates was a Drowned Woman, half-Shark, and holding a staff. The other was a half-Elf, swaying and using a staff for support. So, for that matter, was the big man with ten rings on his fingers. Ringhand Lancet; each ring cast a spell.
“We’re leaving, Knight-Captain. This isn’t a battle against monsters. It’s a slaughter, and my team is done.”
Merindius saw the Gold-ranker look up and felt a surge of outrage in his chest. One of his [Knights] lowered a lance.
“You are under contract! Your team—”
“We’re done. Cite us to the Adventurer’s Guild if you want, but unless you want to add us to the charnel pit, we are done.”
There was a raw edge to the man’s tone that Merindius recognized. The [Knight-Captain] sighed. This was not the first time he’d had both aspiring [Hunters] and adventurers balk.
“Send for Beachcat. Captain Yrimen, reconsider. We are nearly done with the hunt…I promised you levels and treasure.”
“I don’t want the belongings of murdered people.”
“Not people, Captain. Bloodspawn. Monsters with convincing faces. You’ve seen Children; they wear the faces of the innocent. These are no less convincing, and they trick many well. But I tell you—they have no levels. They hide their debaucheries and infest the lands and spread like poison. Didn’t you see them attacking us?”
The Gold-rank adventurer hesitated. Merindius saw the half-Elf shaking her head. She was a…[Battle Healer], wasn’t she? They could use her expertise, and the Drowned Woman was a [Mage] specializing in water spells.
“I should not wish to ruin your reputation, Captain. Join the teams combing the water.”
“I don’t fear my reputation, Knight-Captain. I fear what I’ll hear when I sleep. I—”
The man smeared more mud across his face. Merindius was about to activate his Skill when the other team, Beachcat, appeared.
Five of them, three women, two men, their leader a Cat Beastkin. She held an enchanted bow, and the moment she stepped forwards, crisp, precise, Yrimen turned to her.
“Sable. What the hell is wrong with you?”
“Yrimen, we’re just doing our jobs. You sound shellshocked. Did you take a hit? I can get Merith breaking up; he’s lost three teammates to the damn things. Come on, take a break. Knight-Captain, can we give Goler’s Limbs half an hour?”
“That may be suitable.”
Merindius murmured, watching Captain Yrimen’s face. But Golemhand just strode over and grabbed Sable with his non-augmented fist. He stared into the Cat Woman’s eyes as her slitted gaze flicked to him.
Fangs…fur…but no taint. Several of the [Knights] with Merindius eyed the Cat Beastkin with suspicion, but it was just a superficial resemblance. Even so, Merindius kept his hand on his sword hilt as he watched the water. He heard a cry in the distance; sounds of fighting.
They were wasting time here. The two adventurers were arguing, and Yrimen was pointing at the burning houses.
“—families. You’re the one who panicked when we were Silver-rankers on our first Goblin hunt. Don’t tell me you don’t see it.”
“I don’t. Yrimen, you sound like you’re having an episode. Minni, have you checked him?”
The [Battle Healer] stared at Sable as the two teams gave each other uncomprehending looks. They were sensing…Merindius murmured.
“[Hunter’s Resolve: No Hesitation, Nor Remorse].”
The Skill washed over Goler’s Limbs like a wave. They relaxed instantly, losing the tense, appalled rigidity holding them back. It was a fine Skill; it kept the doubters’ minds in check. Merindius expected that to be the end of the issue, but he had forgotten his targets were adventurers.
Yrimen’s face relaxed—then contorted into one of sheer alarm as his head swung around.
“I feel—I don’t feel bad anymore. What the hell was that?”
“Skill. We’re under a Skill!”
The Drowned Woman instantly confirmed. She turned to Merindius, despite not having heard him, and Sable hesitated. The Cat Woman flicked her eyes to Yrimen.
“Wait, you’re not feeling—”
“I don’t feel like puking. I did a second ago. Dead gods. Sable. You’re under a Skill. Knight-Captain!”
Merindius kept his face straight as he cursed internally. Yrimen pivoted, hand now clenched.
“Are we under a Skill?”
“Purely to keep you motivated on the hunt, adventurers.”
Sable and Yrimen looked at each other, then, to Merindius’ chagrin, the team of Beachcat slowly turned.
“No one puts a Skill on us without our consent. Pull it.”
“I can’t do that, Captain. Rest assured—”
“Yrimen, if we’re under a Skill, I’ll trust your judgment.”
Sable didn’t sound convinced, but Yrimen put a hand to his head.
“I was ready to go even if it meant a fight. Beachcat, fall in with my team. We’re getting out of here. Knight-Captain, use another Skill on us and it won’t be a warning. We are leaving.”
Damn. Merindius hadn’t ever seen his Skill backfire. He replied, cold as he could.
“Do so and you will be held in pure violation of—”
“What violation is there for putting a Skill on us? We’ll settle this later. We’re out. Move!”
The [Knights] around Merindius lifted their lances as the Gold-rankers began to move. They turned to the Knight-Captain, but after only a second, Merindius lifted a hand.
It wasn’t worth the strife. He’d have to explain himself to Lord Delanay; the man would understand the error. Annoyed, the [Knight-Captain] watched the Gold-rankers back away, then make tracks out of the village.
“…Inform the rest of the Order to let the adventurers pass.”
He grated to his subordinates, then wheeled his horse around. A privilege of his rank was avoiding having to wade into the swamp. The [Knight-Captain] rode through the street, about to confer with one of the experts in investigating the foe.
There were even [Scribes] who’d been motivated to join the hunt; one of them was poring over a bunch of letters to find clues about where the spawn had bases. Though they were very cautious. Still, the Skills would help. A voice stopped Merindius before he could dismount; one of the [Knights] taking over for the Gold-rank teams pointed up, a flaming arrow drawn.
“In the air!”
Instantly, every Hunter on the ground and even the retreating adventurers whirled and looked up. Merindius’ heart leapt.
A true foe? He had been promised titles and levels for bringing down a Vampire Lord. He shouted.
“Flying ones? Draw back if it’s one of their greater…”
The [Knights] were prepared for one of the true foes of blood, but then one of the adventurers shouted.
“Hold! Hold, you idiots! That’s no Vampire!”
