He had been told to stay away. That his job was done. That he’d done his best.
Like 5th Wall. He’d done his best, and his best was just that he ended up surviving.
Nothing made sense after 5th Wall. How could a monster like that half-Elf exist? Merish felt like his reality was coming apart at the seams, sometimes. Like everything after that night was a bad dream.
This felt like it most of all. Not just the Doombringer suddenly appearing or the Raskghar…this.
What was going on? Merish strode into the Gaarh Marsh camp as one of the [Guards] waved the Plain’s Eye warrior in.
“We’re gathering herbs today, Chief Warrior. You’re welcome to pick whatever you want. The children are mixing up poultices for the warriors, yes?”
That was the activity that had carried the little girl called ‘Mrsha’, the Doombringer, here. She was running around with the other children, picking healing herbs so Gire could have medicine if she was hurt.
That was her name, according to the Raskghar. Ulcre had identified her as ‘Mri’. Merish didn’t care. She’d be dead soon.
Doom didn’t have names. Doombringers had to die. It had been instilled in him and all of Plain’s Eye from the time they were cubs.
So why…
Why did that Gnoll with blonde fur and two obnoxious sunglasses stand there, posing like some kind of Drathian [Ninja] or whatever [Soldiers] from Baleros had gossiped about? One foot held against the other leg, arms outstretched in a ‘Y’ symbol as children laughed at him?
He was even smiling. Merish’s friend, Yelroan, stood there, next to the Doombringer as she tugged on a stubborn root with Shaman Theikha watching indulgently.
All were gathered in the shadow of the Earth Elemental. One of the guardians of wisdom and the oldest ways of all. Merish wondered why it didn’t sense the Doombringer, why it didn’t kill her.
Perhaps it left that to the Plain’s Eye tribe. And they were ready. But for Yelroan. Merish was terrified Ulcre would order them to fire.
He strode across the peaty ground towards Yelroan. The [Mathematician] could have been there by chance; everyone assumed he did almost everything because of his weird class. But Merish knew Yelroan was deliberate. Why was he here?
He had surely heard about the Doom Slayers; he was Yelroan. Did he want to watch?
Why was he so close? Merish’s brain offered the most logical conclusion, but the rest of him ignored it.
He was following the Doombringer around. When she scampered off, Yelroan followed her and did another pose.
“Are you going to help or pose there all day, [Mathematician] Yelroan?”
One of the Gaarh Marsh Gnolls teased him. The Gnoll replied with a quick smile.
“I like posing. I’m advertising how cool my class is. Anyone want to hear a math joke?”
Yelroan adjusted his sunglasses and blinded everyone for a second.
“My eyes! Get that idiot out of there! He’s fouling our sight lines, Merish!”
Ulcre shouted in Merish’s earpiece. The warrior quickened his stride. He slowed, hair raising as he saw the Doombringer helping mash the roots she’d pulled up. She barely took notice of him as he came to a stop.
“Yelroan. There you are. Come with me.”
That was all Merish blurted out. He didn’t have a cover story or an excuse. He reached out for Yelroan, and the [Mathematician] turned. He blinked at Merish.
“Merish?”
The two locked eyes, and Merish felt a slight shock run through his body. He saw Yelroan’s brown eyes lock on his behind his stupid sunglasses.
Yelroan was surprised to see him here, but those eyes were so calm and focused. He glanced at Mrsha and then Merish.
“I’m a bit busy spreading the joys of math to the world, Merish.”
“What? No. Come with me. What are you doing?”
Merish saw Yelroan sidle over to Mrsha, and his stomach lurched. He saw Yelroan looking at Merish and then around the bustling Gaarh Marsh tribe. He turned back to Merish, and his eyes blinked once.
“Is something wrong, Merish? It’s my day off. Have we won the battles in the north? I hope Chieftain Xherw is well. If I’m needed, I’ll go, of course. But otherwise…I like counting how many healing plants Gaarh Marsh harvests in an hour. It’s soothing.”
A [Mathematician]’s prattle. To most, Yelroan probably sounded relaxed and energetic. Merish looked at his friend, and the truth couldn’t be pushed away any longer.
Yelroan stood right there, in front of the Doombringer. Watching Merish. He didn’t say…anything. But he knew.
He was waiting. Merish’s eyes widened. He choked down a snarl. Then stood there, as if he’d been poleaxed.
It wasn’t just mad talk. He meant it. He—he knew. Had he known before Ulcre? He knew, and he stood there.
The two friends looked at each other. Merish took a step forwards, ignoring the chatter in his earpiece. Ulcre was cursing Yelroan, getting the Doom Slayers to check in, advising them to wait until—
“What is wrong with you? Yelroan. Have you gone mad?”
The children and the Doombringer looked up as the two adults faced each other. Yelroan’s fingers trembled as he adjusted his sunglasses.
“Have you, Merish? Honestly. If you have to ask…it’s not a hard equation. Put two and two together.”
He gave Merish a defiant look, balling his other paw up into a fist. Yelroan kept adjusting his stance, shifting. Looking past Merish, but clearly—not seeing what he knew was there.
His knees were shaking. So was his voice, ever-so-slightly.
“Come with me. You don’t know what you’re doing. I don’t know what’s come over you.”
Merish reached for Yelroan, and the [Mathematician] slapped his paw down. His voice was still light, but there was an edge to it, an undercurrent of that terrible tension.
“Merish, I know exactly what I’m doing. I’d prefer not to be here, believe me. But if it were a choice between not being here and…I have to be. Does that make sense?”
No.
A little Gnoll handed him a notecard, and both Gnolls stared down at it. Merish’s fur rose as Yelroan accepted the card, read it, and laughed. He laughed at…Doom. Then he looked up to Merish.
“You see?”
Merish couldn’t.
“How? You know exactly what we have to do.”
His voice choked back a shout, the urge to shake Yelroan. He couldn’t cause a scene. Yelroan tilted his head slightly.
“Do we? Look, Merish. What do you see? I see a bunch of kids helping make healing poultices. What do you…see?”
Their light conversation was being ignored by everyone, children, the [Shamans], and the Weatherfur guards who were loitering, spread out, on watch for other threats. Some eyed Merish, but he was unarmed.
Yelroan had a bright smile playing on his lips, like he’d solved some grand equation. Merish shook his head, uncomprehendingly. Like he was speaking to…
A Drake. It reminded him of 5th Wall. Meeting people and not getting them. But this…they were from the same tribe. Yelroan knew what was right.
“You know—everything we’ve been taught, Yelroan. All of it? Are you just going to ignore everything? You didn’t explain it to me. You must be sick. How can you turn your back on it all? Just like that? So quickly?”
Yelroan looked at Merish, brows raised high with disbelief. He looked down at a little head bent over her work, slamming a pestle into the wooden bowl as hard as she could.
“So quickly, Merish? It should just take a second. One second. It took me a few hours because I’m a fool. But all I had to do was look and open my eyes. What do you see?”
He nodded downwards, and Merish felt his fur crawl.
Doom. I see…he gritted his teeth, forcing the words out as calmly as he could.
“What do you see, then, Yelroan?”
The Gnoll fiddled with his sunglasses and replied quietly.
“I see the most precociously intelligent child I’ve ever met. Mrsha.”
The little girl glanced up in alarm and kicked Yelroan. Swearing, he grabbed at his shin.
“Mri, sorry. I see…you see that? Is that what you expected, Merish?”
The [Warrior] looked down at an alarmed brown face, who quickly went back to mashing roots. Innocently, like Ikl or Sveha, his sister’s children, when they were keeping a secret.
He felt sick. It was Doom wearing a mask. A child possessed. Yelroan smiled. He bent down and went to ruffle the little girl’s gold-painted ears. She reached up and swatted at his paw with a look of annoyance.
Stop touching me!
Children were scampering around, getting bored with mashing roots and giving them to [Shamans] to finish, but she bent her little head over her bowl with unusual dedication, though her paw clearly hurt. She kept shaking it out.
Merish could smell Gaarh Marsh’s natural scents, hear laughter from all around him. The sun shone down on the Doombringer, and she had a little shadow. There were even damned butterflies flying past her.
This was all a dream. He was back on 5th Wall, lying in the mud as his blood pooled around him. Half-buried by the corpses of Lizardfolk, Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, and every other species.
The dawn would break soon. Yet the skies that lit up would not turn bright but orange. The skies would become an inferno as magic crashed down. A thin line in the air. A pillar of fire.
A laughing woman in a sky filled with dark wings. 
If that thing died, maybe it would end. Merish heard a murmur in his ears, the faint voice of a Gnoll.
“Shaman Ulcreziek to Chief Warrior Merish. We are ready. We are waiting for you. Team 3. I am waiting on your status. Team 8? Any moment, Merish.”
The Gnoll put a finger on the speaking stone clipped to his ear. He saw some of the Gnoll cubs running around stop playing and look around uncertainly. The little…Doombringer. The girl looked up, sighing through her nose.
So much work. She stretched her arms and looked at the two adults. She edged out of their shadow, and both stepped over. The girl waved a paw at them.
“Sorry, Mri. We’ll just be another moment. I told Rose I’d watch you, remember?”
Two expressive brown eyes rolled upwards in annoyance, and she turned her back to Yelroan as he bent over. Merish was breathing hard.
“Yelroan. Do you know what you’re doing?”
The [Mathematician] looked around, and his sunglasses shone, obscuring his eyes for a moment. But then they gave Merish that look. A piercing glance that rocked Merish to his core.
Yelroan had never looked like that, in his most serious, upset moments. He looked like Commander Cirille or a soldier from 5th Wall. Merish could grab him and just—yank him away. The [Chief Warrior] almost did just that. But what stopped him, what made him so angry, was that look.
More than the calm stare of someone looking death in the eye, it was that other thing. Was that pride Merish saw? Terrified, fluttering, like a shaking butterfly, like the Gnoll’s very knees. Yes. Pride.
A growl emerged from Merish’s throat, scaring the little children, who’d gathered in a huddle. They almost fled, and, abashed, the warrior stopped at once. A [Shaman] eyed him, and Merish felt a little pebble bounce off his arm.
He recoiled, reaching for an axe he didn’t have, and saw the little girl glare at him.
“Stop that.”
The words came from her mouth, and he stared at her. He’d been told she was mute. Was that some trick? The girl looked him up and down haughtily, like she was some kind of [Princess]. Then she waved the other children over.
“Mrsh—Mri. Mri, something’s bad. I think the Drakes are here.”
One of the children whispered to her. The D—Mrsha put down her pestle, ears flicking up. A scared little boy looked around. The Gnoll boy spoke into her ear, and Yelroan and Merish heard the quiet voice.
“My [Dangersense] is going off.”
The little Gnoll girl sat bolt upright. She looked around and then waved at Yelroan. She glanced at Merish and then, to his astonishment, yanked a little wand from her fur. She casually put it next to the mortar and pestle and wrote on a notecard. Merish saw the words as she scribbled with a quill.
Stay behind me, everyone. I’ll protect you this time.
This time. Merish felt an unexpected taste of bile in his mouth. How dare she say that? Like—like she was a warrior. She looked around, and he saw her protectively motioning the others around her.
Doom.
“What do you see, Merish? Have you gone blind? I’m wearing sunglasses, but I know what I see.”
Yelroan quietly prompted his friend. Merish looked at him and took a step back.
“Stop it. Stop it—do you think everything we’ve done is wrong?”
His voice was shaking, but his friend didn’t let him go for once. Yelroan’s own voice was harsh. Trembling with stress, yet contained in a whisper for only the two of them.
“Maybe. Or maybe we’ve been only partly right. Look at me, Merish. Do you think this is right? Stop blindly following orders and look at me.”
The children stared up at Merish. One recognized his markings and ran over. She tugged at his leg, and he nearly kicked her.
“Chief Warrior? I think something bad is going to happen. Do you have a weapon? We should tell the [Shamans], Mri.”
The little girl was nodding importantly. Merish saw a little face looking up at him and hesitated.
“I—I don’t have a weapon. I’m sure you’ll be safe.”
She shook her head. The little Gnoll from the Stone Spears tribe gazed up at Merish and clearly spoke.
“No, we’re not. You don’t believe me, but I know we’re not safe. We were attacked by the Goblin Lord. Something bad is going to happen. Please, get a weapon. Please.”
There was a look of mortal terror in her eyes. Merish gazed down at her dumbly. The Goblin Lord? She’d survived…?
There was a kindred spirit in the little [Survivor]’s eyes. She gestured at the others.
“Please? No one’s listening. Mister Yelroan, can you get a Chieftain?”
Yelroan knelt down, blocking Mrsha from one side. He smiled at the Stone Spears child.
“I’ll let the [Guards] know in a moment. Or Merish can. I need to stand here, though.”
Mrsha frowned at him. She wrote on a card and then looked up at Chief Warrior Merish. Slowly, her eyes focused on something Merish was wearing.
His armor had the insignia of his tribe. Along with other decorations—there was a white eye, stylized and drawn onto his shoulder-guard. The warrior saw her gaze lock onto it, and then her head swiveled to Yelroan.
She recognized him instantly, somehow. Merish saw her eyes go wide, and Yelroan’s own gaze flickered to her. She looked at him—at Merish—
Then the most terrible calm passed over her face. Her tense body went limp. She crossed out what she’d been writing and handed a card to the other children. They read it, sounding out the words.
“Go…tell Shaman Theikha? Go to her and be safe. Are you sure, Mri?”
