When he grew up, they told him he’d been in the tribe. Grown up on the Great Plains. But he was too young to remember.
This vast wilderness, free of cities and roads, was alien to him. Terrifying, even. He liked his warm bed and a roof over his head.
Yurts were drafty. The walls, however thick the cloth was, even if they could survive storms, felt flimsy compared to enchanted stone.
This was not his home.
And yet it was.
Tkrn knew Gnolls had always been here. This was their land, and it said something that after so many ages, what his people had done was…keep it the same.
Not turn it into a world of stone and glass, but live here. He began to understand when he ran around like a child and everywhere he turned his head he saw green. As if the world were infinite, and he could shout and scream and run and never reach the end of it.
Adventure. Freedom.
He still liked Liscor more. But this wasn’t so bad. Tkrn’s friends were Drakes. He lived in a Drake city.
So it was so terribly strange to see them here, like scaled invaders, dragging their tails across burnt grass, holding shields in their famous Drake formations, neatly arranged like pieces on a chessboard, across from the Gnolls howling and blowing horns.
War. Tkrn had known battles. This was different. This reminded him of Liscor’s short siege, but unlike then—it did not smell of mud and rot as the spring rains receded.
This smelled like autumn. The first tang of it hung in the air, drowned out by the smell of smoke. The Drakes had been setting fires, baiting the Gnoll tribes into attacking them.
So smoke, ash, and rain from the shower pattering down onto the Demas Metal armor he wore. It coated the armor like a liquid, but didn’t make it feel heavier. Gnolls like Dekava, from the Silverfang tribe, were envious.
Chieftain Mrell had given Tkrn a full suit of the armor, and he carried an Eyeshield of the Plain’s Eye tribe and a shortsword of Demas Metal. The drizzling rain had extended the blade, and the watery edge looked like it was constantly flowing, rippling with the rain.
I look like a Gold-rank adventurer, Tkrn realized. He raised his head and saw a ripple in the rain, coming down from sparse clouds. Overhead, something shifted, and he heard a snarl.
“Shields up! Head down, you idiot!”
A Silverfang [Warrior] snarled at Tkrn. The helmeted head of the [Guardsman] looked blankly at the Gnoll; an arrow snapped off the top of the enchanted shield Tkrn was holding as the other Gnolls ducked their heads, growling.
I know my job. Tkrn wanted to say that, but he heard a howl and a voice.
“Silverfangs, to me!”
Shaman Cetrule was pointing, and the Silverfang warriors advanced, falling in to march towards the enemy alongside Ekhtouch and Longstalker’s Fang. Each tribe moved under command of their leaders, splitting up, loosing arrows, or retreating after fighting, but Feshi Weatherfur and Yerranola were among the [Strategists] and [Chieftains] coordinating them.
Chaos. Now Tkrn saw the front, where Drakes stood in line, fighting Gnolls who surged forwards and back. The Drakes listened to the bellowed commands of their officers; the Gnoll warriors howled, communicating with each other, cursing their enemies.
A contrast. Tkrn smelled blood, and that was the same, heavy iron. But both species fought so differently.
Drakes fought like Liscor; each Drake held the line. Where that line was changed, but they moved together, in unity.
The Gnoll tribes were scattered, free-form. The Drakes hated losing ground. They took strategic positions, tried to hammer their opponents with archers from elevation, and unleashed magic as they advanced step-by-step.
By contrast, the tribes treated the battle like Gnolls saw it. They would abandon a position if they thought they could save lives or attack elsewhere and didn’t stick long in the fighting. They preferred to harry their opponents, loosing arrows, even switching from bow to blade.
Organization versus versatility or something. Tkrn was no strategist.
He saw another ripple in the sky and angled his shield. The trick was knowing where your helmet was. Despite the Silverfang warrior’s snarling, Tkrn’s helmet would save him from all but an arrow through the front. So if he held his shield like this—slightly in front of him, angled upwards—he could peek out with minimal risk.
He felt like he was dreaming. Cetrule was shouting orders, and Tkrn looked around for the person he’d been asked to protect. Who Xherw had suggested he accompany. His friends.
Ekhtouch had sent fifty warriors total into this battle, where tens of thousands of warriors were taking part on one side alone. Was it eighty thousand Drakes?
Tkrn didn’t know. It was so spread out he couldn’t see all of them, but he thought he did see Gire.
Only one Gnoll was so tall. She wore armor from head-to-toe, treated magical leather rather than metal. She carried a number of javelins under one arm, and the Ekhtouch Gnolls each had a weapon they were most suited for. Many carried spare throwing weapons, and they set up a position here.
On the edges of the fighting. In the center, Steelfur and other great tribes led the offensive. Adetr Steelfur himself was in the front, swinging a pair of enchanted axes and howling as arrows and spears tried to pierce his fur.
In truth, Silverfang was not considered a mighty tribe, and Ekhtouch was so small that, despite their fame, this was a small area of the fighting. That might soon change. Tkrn edged out of line.
In a Drake army, they’d probably stab him for that. Here?
“Tkrn, where are you going?”
Dekava turned, eyes wide, and Tkrn waved at her.
“I’m going to join Ekhtouch. Cetrule knows!”
He jogged across the battlefield, a short eighty paces as Silverfangs looked incredulously at each other.
What was that idiot doing?
Some Drakes on one of the hills might have thought the same thing, because Tkrn felt an unpleasant sensation on his arm. He looked at his right shoulder and swore.
“Aaah!”
He was marked! A glowing rune was shining off his armor! Tkrn went running as a volley of arrows began to target him. He threw up his shield and ducked his head behind it. He prayed Demas Metal was as good as he hoped.
Ping! Ping! Ping!
The sound of arrows rattling off his armor had a far higher-pitched sound than he expected. Tkrn barely felt it, but Dekava gasped.
“Tkrn!”
The Gnoll [Guardsman] checked himself. An entire volley of arrows was embedded in the grass around him; the ones that had struck him had glanced off.
“Wow. That’s am—”
He lifted his shield and ran as a second volley of arrows began to land around him. But it stopped almost immediately; whoever had ordered the rain of arrows had probably seen it was as good as spit.
Tkrn was very surprised. But what he didn’t realize as he ran, swearing and trying not to pee, was how even the other Gnolls were looking at him.
Even for Gnolls, who let warriors fight individually, it was a kind of crazy to run away from your group and make yourself a target like that. Even Dekava, who was a seasoned warrior and hunter, was shaking and tense in this battle.
But Tkrn?
He looked at the enemy. Drakes. Poor [Soldiers] following stupid orders. He didn’t see Drakes as the enemy because many were his friends. But they’d kill him, and he’d kill them.
He’d be scared stupid if he had to charge at them. A wall of gleaming spears? Drakes armed with swords in the second rank, teeth shining as they bared them, armored tails lashing? Even with the armor, Tkrn would be so afraid.
At the same time…that was all they had. There were their commanding officers, high-level, a [General] whirling a massive halberd around his head and roaring orders like he was right out of Satar’s storybooks. Zeresian forces, with their light armor they could swim in, ranks of [Javelineers] hurling enchanted weapons, and their swashbuckling infantry. Dangerous, and Tkrn knew that.
But that was all they had. Tkrn didn’t freeze or panic. He could move, even run to Ekhtouch as his boots tromped through soggy grass and splintered arrow shafts, because he’d looked [Terror] in the eyes.
He’d seen two red gemstone eyes in a mask of dead flesh. Smelled rotten flesh so old it had turned into something else, stretched and patched into armor over a beast that commanded undead.
He’d torn through a giant moth with a razor mouth trying to eat his face off as they landed around him. He’d seen the Raskghar devouring his people and led by a fallen Silver-rank adventurer.
He hadn’t done much in those battles, but he’d seen tens of thousands of Goblins break the Goblin Lord’s army, following a white flag and a Human girl. Tkrn was not that brave.
But he could do this.
“Tkrn?”
Gireulashia was surveying the battlefield, a javelin in one paw. She turned to him, and her eyes were wide. She was younger than he was, and she looked like it as Tkrn slowed.
“I’m, uh, here to help. I promised Mrsha I’d be with you.”
Tkrn felt stupid, but Gire looked relieved. The Ekhtouch warriors snorted at his armor, but made room for Tkrn.
“Honored Gireulashia, they haven’t noticed us. What are your orders?”
Tkrn blinked. They were making Gire, a fifteen year-old girl, their leader? It seemed like Ekhtouch truly did obey their hierarchy at all times.
“So many Drakes. I see Adetr there. Feshi and Yerra there. Lehra…there she is.”
Gire looked around, almost as wonderingly as Tkrn. Yet she saw spots in that chaos, pointing a huge paw. Tkrn squinted. He had seen Adetr fighting amongst Steelfur Gnolls. The Drakes were engulfing their push on all sides, but Steelfur refused to fall.
It looked like a thin protrusion in a line at the heart of the battle. Solid Drake lines slightly pushed by Steelfur. On the edges, lines of Drakes held firm, rotating out, falling back only grudgingly as Gnolls charged and retreated.
Where was Feshi? Ah, there. A safe position on one of the hills. Not natural ground; Tkrn eyed the raised mound of dirt. A [Shaman] must have done that. Archers surrounded it, loosing long-ranged shots.
Longstalker’s Fang and Hawkarrow, probably. Gire pointed next at a flash of light. A rapidly-changing area of the battlefield where an entire battalion of Drakes was running back.
Because of the Stargnoll and her team. Stargazer’s Promise fought like adventurers, the four of them driving back ordinary [Soldiers].
Lehra, brandishing a glowing sword, armored in a metal beyond even Tkrn’s gear. Suxhel, hanging back, throwing spells and glaring at her enemies with her eyes, the Gazer protected from enemies by Elgrinna, the Dwarf, and Emper. The Stitch-man and Dwarf lashed out, Elgrinna holding a shield and axe, Emper spinning his staff, deflecting even arrows as Lehra fought ahead of the other three.
Adventurers in a battle. Those were the Gnolls that Tkrn knew. There were other famous heroes, of course.
Gnolls wearing Krakenhide armor, barely two dozen of them, crashed into Drake lines, as fearless as any [Knights], lashing out with weapons carved of Kraken ivory. Tkrn thought he saw extra appendages mixed with the flailing limbs; a tentacle or slashing arm that struck a Drake down.
Armor fashioned by one of the Gnoll’s greatest [Tailors] living. And [Shamans] from Weatherfur, one of the famous Great Tribes, were battling the Drakes, calling down shamanic magic.
Unlike [Mage] spells, theirs were closer to a [Druid]’s magic, a gathering of power. One was conjuring walls of thorns underneath Drake feet, ensnaring them and leaving them easy prey. Another was simply raising a staff and open paw to the sky.
Glowing orbs of light were gathering overhead, floating out of Weatherfur Gnolls, even those engulfed in the fighting. They gathered into a larger sphere of glowing light, bright green. Almost friendly.
Aside from the fact that when the Gnoll threw it, it struck a barrier of magic, expanded, and left a hole thirty feet wide in the ground as it exploded.
Faced with so many famous tribes, high-level individuals, it would have been amazing for any ordinary army to hold against them.
However, Zeres itself had backed the disparate groups that combined into this main army. A non-Zeresian [General] cut a [Fireball] in two with his halberd, holding the center against Steelfur Gnolls.
Those [Javelineers] were hurling enchanted weapons that exploded, bringing Gnolls down, and as Tkrn watched, a cabal of Drake [Mages] exchanged fire with the [Shamans], hurtling [Lightning Bolts] and [Fireballs] across the battlefield.
“Zeresian [Lineholders] and [Marines]. They’re keeping our warriors from the [Archers]. Those [Javelineers] are striking down anything trying to flank them. Heavy cavalry…I don’t know the city. Weatherfur’s Gnolls are losing to them.”
Gire pointed out fighting on both wings as Gnolls and Drakes—the Drakes wearing heavy armor, and with plated mounts—dueled in fast flurries of fighting. Gire looked around and nodded, coming to a conclusion in a matter of seconds. Tkrn was still stuck on ‘that’s a lot of fighting’.
“Feshi has to break through or we’ll lose. That [General] is a target. So are the [Mages] and [Javelineers]. We target the throwers.”
Ekhtouch’s Gnolls nodded and rotated their position. Tkrn saw thirty-one of the fifty Gnolls plus Gire plant arrows in the ground or ready spears, handing some to other Gnolls to serve as ammunition-holders. The rest simply stood, shields up, searching for enemies coming their way.
“Er…Gire? Do you want to coordinate with Silverfang or something?”
Tkrn hated to burst Gire’s bubble, but Ekhtouch did not look that impressive. There were eight hundred, nearly a thousand Drakes armed with javelins.
Plus, Gire was out of range. Tkrn wasn’t an expert on javelin-throwing, but he assumed you could toss a pilum or javelin about a hundred feet and hit someone. Ekhtouch and the advancing Silverfang line were both several hundred feet from the enemy. From the encamped javelineers?
Six hundred feet. A longbow could hit them…maybe, if you were a good shot. Throwing weapons? No chance.
Four of Ekhtouch’s Gnolls had longbows. Tkrn watched as the Gnolls gauged the distance, checked the wind, squinted down the shafts of their arrows, and then Gire hefted her javelin. She barely looked at the enemy.
“Ready? Loose or whatever.”
A military leader she was not. Nor was Ekhtouch. Some had already shot their first arrow, and they didn’t volley, but shot like each one was hunting.
Individualistic perfectionists. Tkrn lost track of the arrows, even Gire’s javelin, the lone throwing weapon among the arrows in the sky. He watched the distant Drakes throwing spears of their own. There was no way—
