He blinked as a tiny figure in the distance suddenly clawed at their shoulder and dropped. Suddenly…twenty Drakes fell down, and confusion erupted around them. One of them had a distinctly long-looking shaft of wood stuck in their belly.
Tkrn’s mouth fell open. He turned and saw a tall Gnoll—not Gire’s nine feet, ‘only’ seven and a half—aiming a recurve bow high up.
“Wind…now. [Tracer Shot].”
A glowing arrow sped upwards, creating a glowing arc, what Yelroan would call a parabola, through the sky, and Tkrn saw it fly. Practically floating as the wind blew it straight towards the Gnoll [Archer]’s mark.
The [Markswoman] grunted as it hit a Drake in the helmet. She growled at the others.
“Adjust your aim on that. A third of you missed. Shameful!”
The Ekhtouch Gnolls began adjusting their aim. Tkrn knew the Watch of Liscor didn’t hit targets nearly as far. Two thirds had hit a mark? At that range?
Gire picked up another javelin, calmly peering around.
“Oh, officer.”
Her arm blurred, and her entire body seemed to rotate. She drew back, arching over incredibly far, then seemed to throw her entire form forwards and shift it into a throw, putting all the momentum into one arm.
The javelin vanished. Gire shaded her eyes as a Gnoll handed her another spear instantly. She smiled after fifteen seconds.
“Got him.”
Tkrn’s jaw was so far open he was in danger of swallowing an arrow. And, oh—they were coming. The first Ekhtouch Gnolls snarled as the Drakes realized some highly-skilled enemies were onto them.
“Javelins and arrows! Dodge!”
She flipped out of the way, and the other Ekhtouch Gnolls performed similar displays. One howled in pain, and another grabbed a potion as arrows pattered around them.
“Enchanted arrows! [Interception Fire]!”
A Gnoll swept a bow up. He shot a regular arrow into the sky, and a bloom of fire proved he’d hit a target. Tkrn kept his shield raised, trying to shield Gire’s…lower ribcage and left side. He realized he couldn’t really protect her; she was far too tall!
“Gire! If you need to take cover, get behind me!”
“Thank you, Tkrn. I’m f—”
Gire smiled sidelong at him, then caught something. She inspected an enchanted arrow, the tip frozen solid, and handed it to a Gnoll next to her.
“Javelin.”
She reached out, accepted one, and threw it. She hit her target, Tkrn had no doubt.
What an incredible, ridiculous girl. A [Paragon]. All of them. Ekhtouch kept shooting and hitting their targets. Tkrn watched Gire as the Drakes began to take more notice of her. She was surveying the battlefield, throwing javelins, looking for an opening. Doing all of that at once at her age.
But…he heard her murmuring.
“Three.”
She picked up a javelin, threw it, and was throwing another one when she spoke again.
“Four. I don’t know who they are.”
Tkrn looked up at her. One of the Ekhtouch Gnolls handing her javelins was watching her. Gire’s eyes were bright.
“I killed four people. Five, now. I never have before.”
Her paw trembled so slightly as she lifted the javelin that only Tkrn saw it. Gire looked up. She never stopped moving. She was entirely rational; she didn’t hesitate or miss. She knew the stakes. But she just looked at Tkrn, in that brief rotation of her body as she went to throw the javelin.
“It’s too easy.”
He watched her aging, that girl, with each javelin. Each rotation of her arm. Tkrn lifted his shield higher. He couldn’t shoot a bow or throw anything. But he’d keep her safe.
Or die trying.
 
——
 
On the Drake side of the battle, Zeres’ commanders noticed Ekhtouch’s arrival like they had marked Lehra, Steelfur, and the other significant Gnolls.
They had a different approach to the battle, however.
“Ekhtouch is on the field. They’re assaulting our javelin-lines. There is a tall Gnoll among them. Their [Paragon].”
“Good. Kill her.”
One of their leaders was an officer of their throwing-divisions. A [Thousand-Foot Javelineer Major]. He was accompanied by several Drake [Mages] from various cities and a few [Strategists] in his position.
He had specific orders from Zeres’ own Admiralty. Win the battle if possible, but more importantly—kill any Gnolls belonging to a tribe with unique war-capabilities, or famous heroes.
Like Lehra Ruinstrider. Reclaiming the Blade of Mershi was a war asset, and Wall Lord Dragial had posted a bounty in addition to the one already on her head. Of course, if the [Javelineer Major] got it, he’d turn it over to Zeres.
“Javelin.”
He put out a claw, and his [Munitions Expert] placed one in his claw. Of course, an entire class just for someone who held and handed out resupplies of equipment wasn’t impressive if that was all they could do.
That was why, as three dozen Drakes around the [Major] put their hands out, the same Drake handed them each a javelin, according to their needs. The [Major]’s was a [Seeking]-[Piercer] javelin.
Officer-killer. If they could, Zeres would recover each one thrown, because they were expensive. No non-Walled City could field so many. He took aim at the tall Gnoll.
[Doubled Velocity]. [Invisible Cast]. [Enhanced Strength: Throwing]—
The invisible, seeking spear shot through the air like a bolt of lightning. It curved, and the [Major] put out a claw.
“Javelin. Missed.”
She’d dodged. Somehow, the [Paragon] saw it coming. She threw herself out of the way, and he had another javelin in the air. He saw the distant shape whirl—and spot him.
“Incoming!”
Drakes cried out as Ekhtouch showered them with deadly arrows. The [Major] frowned. He looked up—and threw his javelin. Then he cursed.
“Incoming—”
He threw himself sideways as a javelin thunked into the ground so hard it split, leaving half of it cratered deep in the earth. Right where his head would have been. The Drake looked at the javelin.
“That’s unenchanted.”
The [Munitions Expert] blinked. The [Major] snapped.
“Javelin! Explosive tip!”
He raised the javelin and threw it. This time, he watched where it landed; the [Paragon] sprinted to cover, carrying a Gnoll in full-body armor to safety. He snarled—
“Sir!”
The [Major] ducked a second javelin. He stared. Had she just put that into the air before him? Ridiculous!
“Javelin!”
He put a claw out, and one slapped itself into his grip. He raised his javelin—and saw a third flicker going for his groin—
“Gyaah!”
The [Major] twisted, dropping the javelin as he did. He put out a claw, shaken.
“Jav—”
The javelin of the [Paragon] flashed past the left side of his head as one of the rings he wore overloaded, keeping it from his scales. The [Major] looked down at the ring that had saved his life. He backed up.
“Mark that Gnoll! Pull three companies and take her down! Now!”
He wasn’t above bringing his entire company to the duel. The Ekhtouch Gnolls fell back as hundreds of arrows and javelins began to rain down around them. Then a few began to die. But not the [Paragon].
 
——
 
It frustrated Feshi as much as it did Gire. The Gnoll [Paragon] panted into the speaking stone.
“I can’t get him. He’s too far. I thought I could, but his ring saved him. Ekhtouch is falling back.”
“Understood. Shaman Cetrule—move Silverfang forwards. Attack the Drakes there. [Mark Position].”
Feshi pointed, and a spot that only she and the [Shaman] could see lit up. She heard Cetrule’s growled reply a second before she switched targets of her speaking stone, cutting him off.
“I see it, Strategist Feshi. Silverfangs—”
From her ground, she and Yerranola were watching the battle. Gire had announced she was going after the Drake commander of the javelin-group, and Feshi had let her try. She was amazed Ekhtouch could hit them.
“If only we had a thousand, we’d have won already. Gire, get to cover.”
The Selphid turned from barking orders into her speaking stone.
“If wishes were artifacts, we’d be rich, Feshi.”
True enough. Feshi clamped her lips shut; the normally-chipper Yerranola looked serious and intense. She waited for Gire’s reply.
“I’m using Tkrn as a shield. We’re safe. Come on, Tkrn—”
Feshi was watching the battlefield with a Skill as well as her eyes. She had an aerial view of the battle—even the Professor had one. She was smart enough not to focus too long on one spot, even though Yerranola was there. She was not in command over everything, but she was close.
Even so, it was hard not to focus on what she thought was Gire sprinting away from the danger zone, holding Tkrn over her head like some kind of floppy umbrella.
Ridiculous. But that was adventurers and unique individuals like Gire for you. Nasty variables, the Professor called them. Even the most unpredictable enemy officer wouldn’t be as weird as civilians.
“Undead—advance!”
Feshi directed her attention back to her specific command. She saw a group of six undead champions of Khelt, the max the dagger could summon, charging a flank of scared Drakes. Their enchanted weapons and armor did a lot of damage—but they were outnumbered. Two went down fast, vanishing, returning to wherever they had been summoned from.
The Diamond Dagger of Serept was an asset. Free, summoned warriors. The sacrificial charge wasted all six, and it would take time for the dagger to allow her to summon more, but it slowed down an entire regiment of Drakes, allowing the tribes to complete a flanking maneuver.
“Nice undead charge, Feshi! Grandma’s tits, but this is ugly! Adetr Steelfur, you’re in too deep! I don’t care if you’re winning, you’ll be cut off! You want a charge? Charge left! There we go…”
Yerranola cursed. Feshi had to agree.
Were they winning or losing? And more importantly, if they were doing either, how badly were they taking casualties? Each Gnoll that died was a loss forever. Feshi would rather ‘lose’ with everyone wounded and able to fight later than win with ten thousand deaths.
So would the Drakes. She broke away from watching the Silverfangs charge under Cetrule’s [Wards of Defense]. They were doing well. Were those magic blades? She wished someone would have told her they were armed with magic!
“Yerra—how are we doing? Break and huddle.”
Yerra looked up. Then the Selphid put down her stone and looked at Feshi. The Weatherfur Gnoll was sweating. The battle had barely begun, but she was shaking, sick—
And leading. She hadn’t graduated, but she had already been a [Tactician] when she came to the Professor’s academy. She could do this. But she had to—
Win. And because he had taught her well, Feshi stepped back from commanding to realize something.
“What’s up, Feshi? How do you think we’re doing? The enemy leadership isn’t that good. They’re solid, but not original. I’m not as scared as I would be if Venaz were doing this. Mind you—we’re not winning any awards either. Is that it?”
Feshi growled. Then Yerranola had sensed it too.
“Yes. We’re facing the Selphid’s Dilemma.”
The what? A few other Gnolls coordinating the battle looked up. They were good leaders, who had more practical experience. Feshi and Yerranola, though, had studied terminology and gone academic.
Selphid’s Dilemma was a way of explaining what the two were facing. Which was—a [Strategist] or a [General] or whatever who knew what they wanted and what to do, and who couldn’t make it happen.
Like a Selphid’s own problems with a rotting body. Muscles would degrade, rendering limbs less mobile or useless over time. Hence the nickname.
The Gnoll tribes were not…moving like Feshi wanted them to. They listened, but sometimes they argued or took their time reacting. Had she been leading the Drake army, she’d have done better, but her people were less coordinated. Tactically, they were perfect, but these were disparate tribes!
“We can’t perform sharp maneuvering unless it’s Skill-based, Yerra. And we need something sharp. The Drakes have their back lines well-guarded. We need to break them open, or they’ll win the ranged battle.”
“Agreed. Who are we going to get?”
Feshi snatched up the speaking stone.
“Lehra? I have a mission for you.”
She heard confused shouting and then a calm voice, despite the battle.
“[Spears of Light]. Lehra, you are too far forwards. This is Suxhel. Feshi, what do you need?”
Feshi could see the Named-rank adventurer and her team in her Skill-view, pushing hard towards the center of the fighting. Lehra was scaring the Drakes; she was fighting impressively, but she and Steelfur were useless in the vanguard. Oh, they did damage, but that wasn’t how you won a battle! The Drakes were concentrating their strength there, checking the Gnolls’ best hammers. They had to hit them where they were weak and fold up their army.
“Tell Lehra to fall back! I need you to all regroup. Stargazer’s Promise will fall back, cast [Invisibility], and circle the battlefield. If you have to, go through the [Riders], or you can break through spear lines—get those archers! Throw them into chaos. Do you need more direction?”
Suxhel hesitated.
“I do not. [Barrier of Light]. But Lehra—Lehra! Fall back! Feshi needs you!”
Dimly, Feshi heard a voice roaring back, excited, over the shouting.
“I see the [General], Suxhel! Cover me! I’m going to take him out!”
“No!”
Feshi and Suxhel shouted it at the same time, but it was too late. The Stargnoll went charging towards the Drake with the halberd, who whirled and pointed at her.
“The Stargnoll herself! Thief! Fight me like a Drake!”
“Fight you? I’ll fight you like a Gnoll—ulp!”
The ulp was the halberd hitting Lehra so hard she went crashing back into Emper. Feshi swore as the [General] and his bodyguard engulfed Stargazer’s Promise. Suxhel stopped replying; her team was fighting for their lives.
“Damn! Adventurers!”
This was why the Professor told her never to rely on them! Worse, she knew Lehra had been sucked up into her mindset. If she could take out the enemy [General]…
But that was a gamble. It appealed to Lehra’s pride as a warrior, but Feshi didn’t like gambling. She knew that Lehra was a certified Named Adventurer. But she’d been Bronze-rank or barely Silver when she found the Blade of Mershi.
If she were the Drake commander, she’d bet on that [General], a seasoned warrior, killing her. Now she had to bail Lehra out of the fighting. Feshi looked around. She checked her dagger and spoke.
“I summon a warrior of Khelt! By my blade—protect the Stargnoll! Arise and fight!”
Outside of the tent, twenty feet away, a portal opened, and an undead Drake arose, holding twin daggers. It raced down the hill to throw itself into the fighting.
Am I wasting the undead? I’m not being optimal, but they’re not listening! Feshi’s mind raced as she heard shouting from Yerranola.
“Fall back, Hawkarrow! Fall—I think Chieftain Eitha’s down.”
