“[Slam Kick]—”
The Gnoll took a kick, which did nothing to her armor but rattled the Gnoll inside of it. They even knew how to fight enemies with superior armor. She shifted her blade back.
“I can do this—just like the Minotaur—”
She learned, but too slowly. And this was a battlefield, not an adventurer’s story. The only thing that saved her team from being overrun was the undead Kheltian warrior and the Ruinstrider tribe, who were helping defend Stargazer’s Promise.
“Lehra! Back up!”
“I’m trying! I can’t—”
Elgrinna was swearing at Lehra.
“What do you mean, you tall-headed, ceiling-scraping pile of iron scrap? Move back, you idiot, or we’ll all die!”
“I can’t!”
Then her team realized that Lehra was really trying—but the [General] wasn’t letting her. Her back was pressed against something flat.
“[No Retreat, No Quarter]. Face me, Stargnoll.”
The [General] beheaded the Kheltian warrior as it died alone, facing high-level warriors. Feshi felt the loss, guiltily.
What a waste. She knew they were undead and didn’t ‘die’ forever, as they were phantoms. Even so…if they weren’t undead, she would have never used them like this. Not in worthless battles.
It was as if the dagger were…speaking to her. Her paws whitened on the table as she saw Gire charging the enemy.
“All wrong. All wrong!”
“It’s not insane, Venaz does it. They’re all Venazes, though—and the Professor says—”
Yerra was gripping at her hair, tearing the dead follicles out of her Human body for today. Feshi half-listened.
The Professor always reprimanded Venaz. Not because he put himself in danger or thought he could change a battlefield with his own two fists. Niers always reprimanded Venaz because he was predictable. He liked to make it a battle where his best met the enemy’s best—and his best won, of course.
But that wasn’t how you took an enemy down. Her dagger was being misused. There was no coordination. Lehra and her tribe fought. Silverfangs fought—but they didn’t coordinate. They didn’t know the other tribes, even Silverfang and Ekhtouch who’d been together for months!
They needed—
A crazy idea came to Feshi as she looked up. She started away from the war table.
“Yerra—I need you to take over command of the entire battle for the two of us. Can you do it?”
The Selphid spun. She hesitated—then saw Feshi’s face.
“You have a plan?”
“Just like the Games at Daquin. Except this time—I’ll win.”
Feshi looked around. Yerranola chewed at her lip.
“Is this Umina stupid or Venaz stupid, Feshi?”
“Both.”
The two friends looked at each other, and Yerranola nodded after one eternal moment. If only it could have been immortal.
“Then go!”
Feshi ran. She shouted at the young woman.
“Inkar! I need your help!”
The young woman turned, and Feshi leapt into the saddle. She spoke into the speaking stone as Lehra was tossed around like a ragdoll by the enemy commander. The only thing saving her was her armor. Feshi needed someone to respond now. So she named the only person she could, who could move like she wanted.
“Adetr Steelfur. Fall back!”
“I’m busy!”
The Gnoll snarled at her. Feshi shouted over him.
“Lehra is about to die! Get to her!”
“Lehra—?”
 
——
 
Across the battlefield, a [Battle Seeker] and [Vanguard of Metal] broke out of his battle haze. He looked around and saw the struggling Named Adventurer.
But he had to hold here! Steelfur’s Gnolls were fighting and dying and…Adetr looked at Lehra. The same Gnoll who ate too much crab, was fairly thoughtless, rude at times, and—
“Aargh! Fur lice! Steelfur! With me!”
Gnolls turned as their battle-hungry leader broke away from the fighting and retreated. Adetr ran, building up speed and ignoring the spears and arrows bouncing off his fur. Steelfur Gnolls followed as he saw multiple Drake formations encircling the cut-off team of adventurers and Ruinstrider Gnolls.
The Drakes didn’t want anyone saving Lehra. So Adetr ran. He charged across the muddy ground straight at a line of Drakes.
“Gnoll incoming! Brace! Brace.”
An officer saw Adetr coming and waited for him to be cut down. An [Archer] placed with her command raised their bow.
“[Piercing Arrow]—got him! Huh?”
An arrow struck Adetr in the shoulder and lodged—about an inch deep. He snarled. That hurt! And he kept charging.
“Hold them back! [Spearwall Formation]!”
“[Reckless Advance]! [Ram’s Spearhead Formation]!”
“Huh?”
Two Skills met one. And it was rather like rock-paper-knife-spell. You could have an advantageous formation beat one not designed to stop it. Or just be higher-level.
Adetr was both. He broke through the first line of spears as they failed to stop him. Steelfur Gnolls followed him into a wedge that pierced the Drake formation. He saw the officer draw her sword with a ringing flash of steel.
“Drakes do not run! Hold your ground!”
She swung at him as he charged at her and—missed. Adetr ran past her, shoulder-checking two Drakes to the ground. The officer blinked.
“Huh?”
Adetr just ran through the Drakes, knocking anyone in his way flat. They were so surprised that they failed to slow him down. He scattered the last guards with one shoulder-charge and found himself face-to-face with a bodyguard.
“Rear attack!”
The Drake slashed across Adetr’s face. The blade was enchanted, so it cut Adetr, drawing blood. The Gnoll howled. He buried an axe in a chest as another blade cut him again, and the Drake died. But he was wounded badly.
So Adetr slapped a spot on his shoulder and heard the crunch as a healing potion—or rather, the pocket of healing potions sewn into the lining of his clothing there—broke and splashed against his fur. Far faster than drinking it. Now, what had Feshi said? He didn’t like anyone but Iraz giving him orders, but…
The Drake [General] had Lehra captured—ironically by stepping on the tail-part of her armor. She was on the verge of being run through when he saw Adetr coming for him.
“Hm.”
He whirled his halberd, slashed at Adetr, and the Gnoll half-parried the blow. He took the cut to his chest and snarled. The howl of pain wasn’t mortal, though.
“Steelfur.”
The [General] went for another cut—blocked a slash from Adetr across his halberd—and saw the Gnoll leap into a tackle. The [General] pivoted, halberd raised—and missed.
Mainly because Adetr was out of range. He tackled Lehra, taking her in the stomach.
“Oof—what are you—”
All the air rushed out of Lehra’s lungs. She felt Adetr charging with her on one shoulder.
“Wait! There’s a Skill!”
“Yep.”
Then Adetr slammed Lehra into the [General]’s Skill. Adetr didn’t have a scale, and he’d broken the ones on Earth, but Rose had guessed he might weigh over four hundred pounds. He could still run as fast as any ordinary [Soldier], and he was carrying Lehra on his shoulder. And they both had armor.
Yelroan could calculate how hard Lehra hit the barrier. Adetr could tell Yelroan how many of her ribs he broke. Five.
Maybe they were just cracks. But they went through the Skill as Lehra gagged in pain. And she lived.
“Go! Steelfur, fall back with Ruinstrider!”
The Gnolls broke away as the [General]’s Skill faded. He tried to pursue, but Adetr kept running.
“Let go—I’ve got to—”
“Shut up. Feshi sent me. She needs us. Gire’s in trouble.”
“I—Gire?”
Lehra gulped down a potion. Suxhel, Emper, and Elgrinna looked at Adetr, transitioning from disaster to emergency. Adetr amended his statement.
“And Tkrn. But he might already be dead. Come on!”
It wasn’t a perfect strategy. But it was Feshi’s answer to the Selphid’s Dilemma. If she couldn’t move tribes—she’d move friends.
 
——
 
Tkrn blew his whistle. The [Guardsman]’s shrill whistle pierced the air and poked a red-hot needle into your brain, especially up close.
“Someone shut that Gnoll up!”
A weapon bounced off his armor. But Tkrn kept blowing—and guarding Gire’s back.
She was taking on six soldiers at the same time, her paws a blur as they moved left, right—she tossed up a hatchet, caught a blade with her fingers, yanked it out of a hand, tossed it, caught the hatchet, threw it—and maneuvered left. Her long arms meant that she could reach out and tickle someone with a blade in their eyes.
But she was alive because Tkrn was there. His shield was raised, covering the broad side of her back.
And he was still a [Guardsman]. He used [Fast Leg Sweep] and tripped a [Soldier] up. He wasn’t a good killer—but he was used to bar brawls and tripping up people, holding a point. And blowing the whistle.
“It’s not all-clear! Ignore the damn whistle!”
Funny thing—Watch patrols used the same whistle-signals since Drake cities standardized for efficiency, and [Soldiers] could hear whistle-commands.
But the main thing was the Demas Metal. Like a lesser version of the Cloak of Plenty, the rainwater—and blood—coated both armor and sword. In the armor’s case, it made it thicker. In the sword’s case, it gave Tkrn a longer range and wider blade. And it was still light, balanced and—
Argh! Tkrn’s legs buckled as someone stabbed through his armor into a shin. He slashed the spear aside, his mind blanking from pain. He couldn’t lower the shield, though, or drop his sword. Keep fighting.
Gire had to run. She was trying to back them up, but they were surrounded. He’d promised Mrsha and Xherw…
Why was he alive? Tkrn had the armor and shield but—it was the [Javelineers] at first, not being expert fighters in close-quarters, even if they could hold their own. Gire—who could move as fast as a striking serpent.
But then came the regular [Soldiers]. Tkrn turned aside a sword thrust, and a shield rammed into his face. He stumbled back, bounced into Gire’s back, and saw the Drake aiming a sword at him in another thrust, going for Tkrn’s face-guard.
If he dodged, Gire got stabbed. Tkrn lowered the shield, and the blade glanced away. Someone grabbed it, tore it back.
“Now!”
The sword rose for a third stab, and Tkrn looked a Drake in the eyes. Just some guy, snarling, raising the sword. Tkrn might have arrested him at any bar in Izril. The Gnoll strained to parry the blow, but he was no [Duelist]. The sword flashed forwards and—
The [Swordsman] collapsed, an arrow in the back of his head. Tkrn blinked, turned, stabbed the person holding his shield, and swung around, clearing Gire’s back.
An Ekhtouch bow? No—it didn’t have their beautiful fletching. Just some arrow. A lucky shot.
Lucky. Tkrn turned as the [Mage] snarled.
“More units incoming! We have disruption in our back lines! [Major], fall back!”
“Kill that [Paragon]!”
Something was happening elsewhere, but Tkrn just kept fighting. Guard Gire’s back. So lucky. Amazingly so, but Tkrn was a bit…perplexed.
…That was the third time that kind of thing had happened in the last ten minutes.
 
——
 
Feshi rode, clinging to Inkar’s back as the [Worldly Traveler] carried her into battle. She had to; Feshi needed to concentrate.
The Diamond Dagger of Serept was held over Feshi’s head. Inkar raced towards a line of Drake pikes—and blinked through their lines. The Drakes turned, but it was one rider.
Even if they were charging the back of the enemy—they’d be killed. Indeed, the nearest group of [Archers] spotted them, and a dozen Drakes pivoted.
Feshi didn’t see any Gnolls in the Drake attacking armies. They must have taken them out of the armies if there were any.
Good. That makes me feel a bit better. Feshi locked eyes with the archers. Lightly-armored, wielding short weapons for last-minute self-defense. She raised her voice as she strained.
She didn’t like necromancy. Gnolls didn’t like necromancy…but after meeting Fetohep of Khelt, Feshi had wondered why. The Necromancer was evil.
Not all undead were. And this—she embraced the magic of the Diamond Dagger of Serept. Fetohep had told her it had more powers. And the name it was given, from Serept’s Diamond Blades, was the Sarcophagus Dagger of Thiiem.
Pactbinder.
“Arise, great warrior of Khelt! Come and see your enemy. Bring them to ruin.”
Feshi pointed at the [Archers] as Inkar thundered past them. She didn’t have enough magic saved in her clothing to perform another jump.
She didn’t need to. The [Archers] loosed—but not at Feshi or Inkar. They had another target.
Like the huge, undead Minotaur with the halberd who hit their lines and scattered them like Adetr hitting a group of Drake children.
“Undead! Undead in the lines—call for—”
Feshi looked behind her at the carnage. Then pointed Inkar onwards.
“Those [Archers]! There!”
Another Kheltian warrior rose. This time—they didn’t assail the enemy from the front. They appeared among Drakes in the back lines and began to dice them apart. Even if they didn’t kill them all—the ranged formations turned into chaos, and Drakes had to fall back and save their comrades.
Chaos in the army. Feshi’s teeth were bared, and Inkar’s hair was blowing into her eyes, but she didn’t care. This was how you did it, Venaz. She was the first of the three students to use her blade properly. Then Feshi saw her plans come to fruition and pointed.
“They’re onto us! We have to run!”
“Where?”
They were behind Drake lines. Feshi just pointed. 
“There!”
 
——
 
Adetr Steelfur crashed into the [Javelineers] surrounding Gire with a roar. Steelfur, Ruinstrider, and Ekhtouch warriors followed him into the breach, and someone shouted.
“In the name of the City of Stars!”
“Ah, wonderful.”
The Drake [Mage], Belini, turned as Stargazer’s Promise came to Gire’s rescue along with the others. The [Paragon] stumbled back, fur scorched, reaching for a potion to finally heal as Tkrn looked around. Elgrinna charged past him.
“Don’t stop fighting, you idiot! [Impact Headbutt]!”
She smashed her helmet with one of those spikes on top into a Drake’s groin. A male Drake; you had to know the weak spots. Tkrn followed her, shield still raised, and Belini took aim at Adetr.
“[Shatterbolt].”
He had to kill one of them. The magic flew towards Adetr—then splintered as it met a wooden staff.
“…That’s not how the spell works.”
The [Battlemage] looked at his opponent. Emper bowed his head slightly as he advanced.
“[Spellbreaker Staff].”
“Huh.”
Anti-mage classes and Skills. The magus stepped backwards and looked for the [Major]. He was down. Lehra had just run him through. Belini cursed.
“Command—fall back! Fighting retreat! [Haste].”
He turned and ran. Emper didn’t try to strike him from behind, not that it would have worked. Magus Grimalkin had taught his students well. Shield-spells were meant to be cast forwards and backwards.
