She raised her head, and Gnolls cursed and turned. Feshi switched over to that side of the battle and saw a Gnoll with a giant crossbow clawing at an arrow in her leg as Drakes raced towards her. Hawkarrow’s Gnolls were trying to get her up, but they were running from the cavalry charge.
“Someone get Chieftain Eitha!”
Feshi shouted. She saw a desperate stand as the Gnoll Chieftain’s tribe tried to put themselves in the way of the charging Drakes.
Even another Silver-rank team. But would they make it? The Drakes were aiming at Eitha, no one else.
 
——
 
“Chieftain Eitha! Get up!”
Nailren was loosing arrows as The Pride of Kelia and Hawkarrow’s archers tried to shoot the armored Drakes off their horses. His arrows glanced off the armored horses. He didn’t want to kill them, but he was trying to hit them in the eyes—but they had blinker hoods on.
The Pride of Kelia, a Silver-rank team that had been around Liscor, had joined the fighting for their homeland. More Gnolls were bracing with Nailren’s team, but they were too slow. Gnolls carrying her on foot couldn’t stop that charge.
The Silver-rank team had come back for the famous Meeting of Tribes after struggling against Liscor’s dungeon and then the disastrous raid on the Village of the Dead with another team. They had arrived just in time for the war.
A sound like thunder. One of the horses and riders went down as a crossbow bolt pierced through both. Eitha lowered the crossbow, panting.
“Leave me! That is an order! Run!”
Hawkarrow’s warriors looked at the [Riders] and ran. Nailren wanted to stay, but he knew his team couldn’t hold the gap. If only Gold-rank teams were here—
“Chieftain! Chieftain!”
Gnolls were howling as Eitha tossed aside her crossbow, unable to reload it with her Skill so soon. She drew a pair of pocket-crossbows and waited for point-blank range, teeth bared. The enchanted arrow in her leg refused to be healed or come out. An Anchoring Arrow, courtesy of Zeres. It wasn’t poisoned or as deadly…but it left her weakened.
Gnolls on horseback were pursuing the charging Drakes, but the Drakes had lowered lances, aiming for Eitha. Nailren turned back as a terrible howl arose. He looked up as something huge thundered by him. A foot nearly booted him in the face. Nailren blinked as someone rode past him, bursting through Hawkarrow’s lines. But…
Was that a Human?
He saw a young woman with colorful, beautifully-woven clothing, wet from the drizzle, standing up in the stirrups, hand extending as she bent down, brown skin glistening with sweat. Eyes wide with desperation.
“Inkarr!”
A voice shouted from one of the speaking stones that Eitha carried. Nailren just shook his head.
Who?
She was riding towards the Drakes. And unarmored, she was faster. Eitha looked up as she fired her crossbows.
“Get back! Not you! Not—”
Inkar swung herself down across her beloved mare’s saddle and grabbed Eitha under her shoulders in an incredible display of coordination and trust. If her mount had bucked or even twisted—
The Gnoll came up, and Inkar almost screamed with the effort of lifting her—but Eitha grabbed onto the saddle and clung, hauling herself onto the back of the horse.
That only left the Drake [Lancers] now aiming at both Inkar and Eitha. The Gnoll scrambled for a weapon, anything! But Inkar was weaponless, and her horse, Flura, was too slow, even if the [Worldly Traveller] had Skills!
The tips of the lances aimed at horse and rider and Eitha. Inkar closed her eyes—and Nailren, waiting for the impact, heard a pop.
She vanished and appeared half a dozen paces left of the [Lancers], who thundered past her in confusion, looked around, tried to turn—and Inkar was racing away.
“Cover that Human!”
Hawkarrow’s tribe cheered and pelted the Drakes with arrows. Nailren shot a Drake through the helmet as Inkar galloped away, covered by Weatherfur [Riders], who swept the Drakes off their saddles with billhooks and other weapons designed for the task. How had she done that? A scroll? Magic? She had to have the timing of a genius or—
Or was it her? The Human so beloved by Longstalker Fang’s [Magical Weaver], Honored Deskie, that she had made the Human a garment herself.
Waisrabbit fur. Inkar rode away from the fighting, white-knuckled, as Gnolls cheered her name.
 
——
 
“Inkar?”
Tkrn nearly screamed into Gire’s speaking stone. What was she doing here? She wasn’t allowed to fight! She’d been arguing with him! But he was a [Guard], and she—
“Quiet. I need to listen.”
Gire covered his mouth with her paw. Ekhtouch had fallen back and were crouching in the grass. One of their [Shamans] had actually cast a spell to make it grow high enough to hide them from the rain of death that had tried to take them out.
It had killed two of Ekhtouch, despite their reflexes. A terrible loss for their tiny tribe. Even now, some were loosing arrows in secret.
Such simple spells. [Grow Grass] was useful. Or rather, [Grassy Meadow]. But still, it was the same basic spell. Who knew?
The same way [Detect Life] could find them here—if you put it on a long-range Skill or enhancement. Tkrn watched the battle with Gire. And he began to see why she was frustrated.
She had tried to take out an officer. She thought logically. The greatest impact Ekhtouch could make was not in decimating the enemy with their paltry numbers, but with taking out dangerous foes.
However, they had failed. And this battle wasn’t going well, for all some people like Inkar were saving valuable lives.
Drakes had [Mages]. They loosed spells with abandon. That was not to say the Gnolls were helpless, but they had only one kind of magic. Collective; there was a limit to how many [Shamans] a tribe could support, and their power was derived from numbers.
The Drakes truly had handicapped their old foes. If Gnolls had an equal number of [Mages] along with their [Shamans]…
But Gnolls had learned long ago to make up for that lack in battle.
“Fireballs! Stay behind me!”
Cetrule’s voice echoed over the speaking stone as Feshi gave him orders, and Gire listened. Tkrn could actually see the [Shaman]. Cetrule was fighting—not directly, but the only way he could.
A Drake [Mage] group was tossing deadly [Fireballs], which could wipe out all of the Silverfangs very quickly. The explosive orbs of fire were precisely scattered to just barely overlap their radiuses.
Hundreds could die within a few volleys. Yet Cetrule galloped, if not as adeptly as Inkar, certainly as bravely. He whirled on horseback and slammed something into the ground as he rode away from the Silverfangs. Not to run; to save them all.
A huge stave of wood, lengthened so it was as long as a spear, one end pointed so it could ram into the ground and stick as Cetrule struck it down in a moment. The top was a far more complex, carved beast of a snarling animal. Inlaid with runes and wards that Cetrule himself had carved.
“[Spellfocus Ward]!”
Cetrule howled, and the [Mages] throwing [Fireballs] cursed as their spells curved. The [Shaman] of the Silverfangs galloped away just in time as six [Fireballs] landed around his magical totem and exploded.
However, the reinforced marker was still standing, and the [Mages]’ next volley of spells all curved around it, missing the Silverfang lines. Instantly, they began screaming at the [Soldiers] to do something about it.
Anti-magic combat. Tkrn saw Gire smile briefly, then look up.
“I have to do something. Or else…I have to. I am a [Paragon]. No one else can.”
“Maybe someone else can?”
Gire gave Tkrn a blank stare. She shook her head with a smile.
“You don’t have to come. Ekhtouch. Eight warriors. Stealth specialists. We’re attacking the enemy. There.”
She pointed, and even Ekhtouch’s warriors looked apprehensive. Tkrn turned pale. Gire eyed him, expecting him to turn away. But he didn’t.
“Are you sure?”
She nodded once.
“I can do it. Let’s go. [Basic Perfect Action: Stealth Run]. [Keep Up With Me].”
She dragged Tkrn to his feet, and then they were running. Eight warriors followed Gire as they passed across the battlefield. Heading straight for the middle of the Drake lines and the javelin-throwing Drakes.
 
——
 
“We have a squad coming your way, [Major]. Our anti-stealth specialists mark it as Ekhtouch. [Paragon] again.”
“Damn. Kill that Gnoll!”
She was back for more? The [Major] spun and spotted them as someone broke their stealth Skill. That just made the ten Gnolls, one in armor and far shorter than the others, run faster.
“Command—I see a high-level Gnoll with the [Paragon]. Some kind of warrior with an enchanted shield and their Demas Metal. Mark as high-value. Get me any intelligence you can on it.”
“Marking. No immediate matches. Maybe Demas Metal’s Chieftain or one of their champions? We’ll keep you updated.”
“Command group—target those Ekh—whatevers. [No Overlaps]. Aim! Loose!”
Enchanted javelins and arrows split the air like trails of beautiful comets. They struck the Gnolls and ground, and it was less beautiful.
Four Gnolls went down. The rest broke off, retreating in dismay.
The [Paragon] and that armored warrior kept coming. She looked back, shouted at them, and then ran faster.
“Dead gods. That’s Courier-speed!”
A nine-foot tall sprinter blasted across the battlefield, so quick that Drake units barely caught sight of her before she was gone. Somehow—it had to be a Skill—the armored Gnoll kept up on her heels.
“Javelin! Take aim! Scatter your shots around her!”
The [Paragon] was looking at him. The command group took aim, and she—vanished. The [Major] blinked.
“How…?”
One second she was there, the next? She seemed to disappear so completely he whirled.
“[Battlemage]! Dispel that!”
A surly-looking Drake crossed his arms. He was apparently the highest-levelled [Mage] on their field and had been throwing spells with incredible accuracy; even casting [Boosted Velocity] on some of their volleys.
“I would have if she used a spell. No magical detection.”
“What?”
The [Major] turned back. For a few dozen heartstopping seconds he didn’t see the [Paragon]—but he did see that running Gnoll in armor. If he was there, then…
He caught sight of the [Paragon] and recoiled. She was out of sight because she’d ducked down, begun running on all fours! She skirted past Gnolls and Drakes, galloping like a Gnoll child. But so coordinated!
On the ground, up close, it had to look like the world’s largest dog or wolf coming at you, golden fur ablaze, eyes focused on you. From his point? She was impossible to hit!
“We can’t get a target, [Major]. She’s too close to the ground!”
“Then—get me Oldblood [Snipers] and hit her from above!”
Drakes flew into the air, sighting on the [Paragon], but they had to be wary of snipers from all sides. The [Major] slowly put his javelin aside and drew his sword.
“Command unit—prepare for an officer charge. Pull up two companies. Now.”
They looked at him, then switched to their sidearms uneasily. That Gnoll was going to come all the way here? She’d have to cross their defensive lines!
The Gnoll in that blue armor jogged past two groups of Drakes, who whirled and tried to stab him. Spears glanced off his armor as he ran past them. One of the interception squads came at him, and he raised his shield—
 
——
 
Gireulashia leapt. She had not a weapon in her hands, but she punched a helmet so hard it crumpled. Then she grabbed another Drake and swung the screaming woman around, knocking all the other Drakes down. She ran with the Drake as a shield towards the enemy command.
Tkrn followed her, shield in hand.
“Gire! Stop! Stop!”
She wasn’t listening. A little Gnoll had told her she could make a difference, and that was what the girl was doing. But…
Heroes died. General Shivertail had died. This was madness.
Even so, Gire reached the enemy command. She tossed the Drake into the others, fouling them up. Drew a throwing axe and threw it at the [Mage]. A barrier screamed, and the weapon exploded as the Drake recoiled. So Gire threw the second one with her other arm.
She was, of course, ambidextrous. A calculated attack. Someone had dropped their sword when she threw her living shield; Gire kicked it up and straight through the chest of the Drake standing next to the enemy commander.
Two axes thrown, a sword kicked, and Tkrn was just raising his sword and shield. The [Paragon] moved like clockwork from another world. A perfect assassination. She drew her sword and slashed it across the [Major]’s neck. A long-range specialist who—
—parried—
—the blow. The Drake was thrown back a step with the impact, but he spat.
“Zeres’ finest. To me!”
Zeres, City of Waves, who fought on ship decks, were known for their hybrid specialists. Even so, Gire’s other paw wrenched the sword from the dead officer next to the commander, and she swung it at the [Major] to kill him—
And screamed.
“Gyaaaaah!”
She bent back, dodging a bolt of lightning that flashed overhead, so close it scorched her fur. The [Mage] had survived the second axe?
Tkrn skidded to a stop and raised the Eyeshield just in time for it to catch a second bolt of lightning. He felt the current run through him, and every hair stood up under his armor—but that was all.
“Hm. Command, we need backup now.”
The Drake [Mage] winced as he rubbed at a chunk taken out of his shoulder. It was already healing; he’d dodged the axe. A [Mage] dodging an axe?
Tkrn had a bad feeling. Then the [Mage] confirmed it.
“Magus Grimalkin training graduate. Mage Belini. Entering combat.”
He raised his hand, and a sword and shield made out of magic appeared. Gireulashia whirled, and the [Major], his bodyguards, and the [Mage] all attacked. Oh, and Tkrn was there too.
 
——
 
“Gireulashia is in danger.”
Ekhtouch’s frantic report came to Feshi at the same time as she was making sure Chieftain Eitha would live. Inkar was panting and feeding her mare some food as Yerranola scolded and praised her and asked if she would try it again.
She wasn’t the only one in danger. Feshi looked towards the heart of the battlefield and cursed bravado, Lehra’s stupid desire to be a hero, and Named Adventurers in general for not living up to the hype.
She was losing.
The Blade of Mershi shone like a star. The Stargnoll herself was wearing the incredibly powerful armor that resisted even enchanted blades. Her weapon could adapt—but what it couldn’t do was win the fight for Lehra.
The Gnoll had changed it to a halberd to match the Drake [General]. She made the mistake of trying to overpower him. He was taller than her, and her arms shook as she tried to hold him back. Then he headbutted her.
Decades of battle experience! The Drake stepped back to tend to a wound caused to him. His bodyguard rushed into the gap, hammering Lehra.
