The battlefield was changing. The Drakes were in disorder, their tidy formations disrupted. And as Gire caught her breath, Adetr turned—took a blade to the chest—and went down howling.
“You will not get away, Stargnoll!”
The [General] charged straight at Lehra. His halberd rose—and Gire grabbed it with her two paws.
The two giant warriors wrestled for it. The Drake’s eyes bulged as Lehra whirled, but Gire already had her opponent’s weapon, and the [General]…couldn’t…
Snarling, he let go of the halberd and drew a sword.
[Flash Unsheathe]! It sprang into his claw, and he aimed at the Gnoll in his way.
“[Tempest Impaler]!”
He launched towards her, all the fury of a storm behind the single stab to her heart.
The Skill went through armor and flesh and bone. The Drake [General] came to a standstill and looked at the halberd which had gone through his chest. It was his Skill.
She’d just been faster.
[Superiority Made Manifest]. Gire lowered the halberd with a shaking paw as the [General] tried to cut her. He slashed, walking onto the blade and his halberd. She’d gone through his heart—but he was alive. He reached for her, and she drew a fist—
“Back. He won’t die for a bit.”
Adetr yanked Gire away. He looked around as a horn blew.
The [General]’s death was like a physical ripple; his Skills vanished, and the lines began to waver. The Drake kept moving, spitting blood out of his filled lungs, but the Gnolls heard a voice shouting and turned. They saw Feshi and Inkar joining them and fell backwards.
The battle was done. The Drake [General] stood there a while before he fell, exhausted. Tkrn watched the Drake and Gnoll armies fall back.
He found…he had somehow survived.
 
——
 
[Conditions Met: Guardsman → Shield Companion Class!]
[Shield Companion Level 21!]
 
[Skill – Shield: Great Barrier (Steel) obtained!]
[Skill – Defensive Fighting obtained!]
[Skill – Earpiercing Whistle (Hostiles) obtained!]
[Skill – One Lucky Save obtained!]
 
As Skills went, for a lower-level class consolidation, they ranged from somewhat ordinary, if nice—like [Earpiercing Whistle], a disappointment for a Level 20 consolidation—to very nice, like [Defensive Fighting]. A Senior Guardsman would be expected to have at least one constant edge like that, although Tkrn would need at least a few more levels and more experience to qualify.
However, the higher-end of the Skills were [One Lucky Save] and the [Great Barrier]. Tkrn didn’t even know how good [Lucky Save] was. But a translucent field that appeared around any shield he picked up, thin, weightless, and which could extend his shield’s size, upgrading a buckler to a huge aspis-shield?
That was useful, even if the barrier would slowly break down the more you hit it. Tkrn suspected an artifact like the Forceshield he’d seen the Horns of Hammerad using was still better by itself, but what if you gave him the Forceshield?
He was over the moon about the consolidation. It was a great battle won. Tkrn had been napping while riding behind Inkar. They hadn’t even argued much over her involvement in the battle or risking her life.
They’d won. The Drake army fell back, leaving prisoners and equipment behind, and the only regret of the [Chieftains], Feshi, and Yerra was that they couldn’t harry the Drakes back to their camp and erase their threat as a whole.
However, it was done. As they headed back to the Meeting of Tribes, Gire still looking down at her paws, washed of blood, Adetr stomping across the ground, looking tired but satisfied, Feshi and Yerra breaking down the battle and new tactics around the dagger—someone began bringing news from the other fronts. A Gnoll raced towards the tribes on horseback, shouting excitedly.
“A great battle won!”
“Yes, it was. In no small way thanks to Honored Lehra and the others.”
Chieftain Eitha nodded at the somewhat subdued Lehra. The [Messenger] looked around.
“Here, too? I meant—Plain’s Eye has won a great battle to the west!”
The Gnolls stirred. Their victory had not come easily, and as Crusaders of the Liscorian army could have told Tkrn and the Gnolls—if they were there—that stung the pride to hear their victory was already overshadowed.
However, it was almost inevitable. The [Messenger] rode to Eitha, and Tkrn caught wind of the babble as the [Chieftain] and the other war leaders listened with disbelief.
“It was Chieftain Xherw and his bodyguard. I’ve never seen such fighting! Even Garsine Wallbreaker herself said he looked like Chieftain Kerash reborn! I don’t think a single Drake officer of the commander-rank survived to leave the field! They went from command point to command point, killing the Drakes!”
“Chieftain Xherw? How? What class does he have, exactly?”
Feshi was astonished. Lehra herself hadn’t been able to best a [General]. But the Chieftain of the largest Gnoll tribe had apparently taken the battlefield by storm. The [Messenger] shook his head in wonder.
“I saw it myself, Honored Feshi. I wouldn’t believe the rumors, but it was like he and his bodyguard couldn’t be stopped. Every blow was perfect; the paw of fate itself was hanging over Plain’s Eye!”
Something stirred in the back of Tkrn’s mind. An almost…suspicion born of one of his new Skills. But he didn’t have the context to fully understand it.
Regardless, the news of the second northern victory cheered up the tribes, and Plain’s Eye’s victory and their own lifted every head—
Until they heard that Steelfur’s main force, Az’muzarre, and the Woven Bladegrass tribe had fallen back from their southern battle in retreat.
“Chieftain Iraz lost? How?”
Adetr stormed over to grab the second [Messenger], but Cetrule blocked him.
“Why did they lose? Speak freely. Warrior Adetr, back.”
Adetr listened, quivering, as Tkrn’s jubilation faded. The Gnoll was winded from her ride. She shook her head.
“It was…Fissival.”
Fissival. That name alone made the hackles on every Gnoll rise. The [Messenger] explained that Woven Bladegrass, Steelfur, and Az’muzarre had been practically pressing the enemy into the dirt. All three famous tribes were peerless in hand-to-hand combat.
However, Fissival’s army had launched their own attack.
“They aren’t even near that battlefield, but they cast artillery spells and sent Wyverns with [Mages]. Death from the skies. Our [Shamans] did their best, but Chieftain Iraz ordered the retreat rather than risk a hollow victory. We would have been fighting with spells raining down around us.”
So not a rout. Adetr instantly began protesting, of course.
“I’ve fought Fissival. So has Chieftain Iraz. If they placed spell attractors and—”
Feshi broke in, forestalling his loud—too loud—criticism of the fighting.
“Adetr. I’m sure the southern tribes fought their best. We can only ask the specifics when we hear more, no? Let us hurry back to the Meeting of Tribes.”
Adetr hesitated, then nodded. Tkrn looked around, and Chieftain Eitha raised her paw.
“A victory twice over! If we ceded part of the south, it was only because a Walled City was too cowardly to take the field! Repeat Chieftain Xherw’s victory! No doubt the other tribes have heard of our own!”
A cheer went up as she reminded everyone listening they had won. That was a [Chieftain]’s power.
Even so. The Drakes took a bloodying, but they had more armies to come. And the Walled Cities, save for Pallass and Oteslia, were marching towards the Meeting of Tribes. Armies from Manus, Zeres, and Salazsar were all approaching from different angles. Tkrn’s blood chilled at the thought of more fighting as intense as this.
And yet—when he looked at Gire, whom Adetr paused to talk to, Feshi and Yerranola speaking to Lehra, who listened for once, Inkar, and even himself—
When the tribes stood together like this, he didn’t think they’d lose to even three Walled Cities combined. The triumphant warriors returned to the Meeting of Tribes just in time to see their unity…
Fall apart.
 
——
 
Shaman Ulcreziek knew there was so much left to do for the tribes. Investigate another world. Conduct great plans for the future of the Gnolls. Win this war; punish and find those who had betrayed their people. Individuals, each with their own dreams, flaws, and goals.
It might continue after this. And he personally would make sure the investigation found the right people—if any. The tribes would survive the war. If decisions had to be made—they would make them, before the Meeting of Tribes ended. But first…
Doom died. Waste no time, brook no arguments. There were none from his tribe, of course. He told Chief Warrior Merish to take the day off.
“This is not something that requires your aid, Warrior Merish. Rest. Visit your friend, Yelroan. He has been helpful. Xherw will speak to you. Rest easy; Doom dies.”
And they had found a way to identify Doombringers as well. Doom slain and a Raskghar captured. Two presents for the Chieftains along with Xherw’s great victory.
How much had he spent? Ulcre didn’t know, but he could admit it was worth the cost. It was on everyone’s lips, his fantastic deeds in battle.
So the [Shaman] did his part. He rented a tent, and Gnolls filed in. They set up with bows. A few even had crossbows. One of the Gnolls peeked out of the hole they cut in the tent and nodded.
“We have a sightline on our entrance, Shaman. Do we have permission to kill Doom the moment we see it?”
“No. Wait for my signal. The other groups are getting into position. The target is in Gaarh Marsh’s camp at the moment; it is imperative Shaman Theikha or other important Gnolls not be harmed.”
“Hrr. Understood.”
Ulcre stepped out of the tent and looked around. He looked up and saw a figure sitting on one of the aerial platforms the [Tumblers] used for their tricks casually adjusting a bow. Another Gnoll in the watchtowers reported in.
“I see the target, [Shaman]. Honored Theikha is very close. I can take the shot.”
Ulcre snapped back.
“You will not. Wait for my signal.”
They wanted this to be done with. The warriors were nervous, afraid of a curse, itching for it, but they knew they had to be perfect.
So they waited as a few more teams got into position. They would not wait for Xherw; he would give the same order in their place. Besides, better to do it now, before more warriors returned.
Weatherfur was guarding the Doombringer. There was no other explanation for it. Four [Guards] were looking around, and the Plain’s Eye warriors had to stay at extreme range to avoid detection.
Were they all compromised? Had Chieftain Torishi lost her sanity, or did she not know? Perhaps she was tricked. The [Shaman] didn’t know, but Ulcreziek would let Xherw make a final decision. This implicated Silverfang, Ekhtouch perhaps…Longstalker’s Fang and Greenpaw too?
Ulcre frowned as he heard someone else report in.
“Shaman Ulcreziek, please wait. There is a complication.”
That voice was familiar. Ulcre frowned.
“I told you to take a rest, Warrior Merish.”
He heard a swallowing sound, then a hushed growl.
“I was. But I had to see—hold, please. Someone is too near the Doombringer. It’s…Yelroan.”
Ulcre looked up sharply. He whirled and saw more Plain’s Eye Gnolls moving into sniping spots. He growled into the speaking stone.
“That fool. He must not have heard. Why is he there? Counting plants or blades of grass? Get him out of there.”
“Yes, Shaman.”
Ulcre tapped his foot, trying not to show any Gnolls walking around that he was waiting. He turned his head, counting how many Gnolls were in their positions. Almost…
It was almost done. Why was everything getting in the way? Perhaps Doom’s own power. Well.
Soon it would be put to better use.
 
——
 
Ferris of Manus felt like his heart was exploding. He had known stress before, like when Rafaema had nearly revealed herself. He had known terror in battle—but never like this.
A Dragon was going to die. If that child died—Cire of Oteslia died.
That was the bargain. It was not Rafaema—but it was one half of their future.
He saw Plain’s Eye moving into position. The [Infiltrator] was a single weapon sent by Rafaema in a game of spy-versus-spy. Killer versus killer. They didn’t know he was here, but he was outnumbered. Outmatched.
He had a number of tools he had never needed to use in Liscor on surveillance. The [Infiltrator] used them now. If they found a spy from Manus—he might die. But if Cirediel of Oteslia died…
He loaded the blowpipe, a short tube that looked more like a straw. Enchanted to make the projectiles fire with perfect range and accuracy. He took aim, lifted the straw out of his cup as if he’d found something nasty like a bug, and puffed.
His aim was true. Across the distance, in a camp with colorfully-painted Gnolls, someone swore.
“Gah! What was—”
A Gnoll woman clapped her paw to her neck with a roar of pain as people looked up briefly. That had definitely hurt. Ferris lowered the straw and strode off as the Weatherfur Gnoll grabbed at whatever had just stung her.
Weatherfur? Oh, yes. She yanked out the tiny, unpoisoned dart and whirled. She was about to howl an alarm when she realized she wasn’t dying. And that the dart had something attached to it.
They are going after the Doombringer. Plain’s Eye. She’s in the Gaarh Marsh tribe. Move.
Her head snapped up. The Weatherfur Gnoll put two fingers in her mouth and whistled, suddenly alert.
Caution to the wind. He had to move as fast as he could. Plain’s Eye were not slouches. Ferris was sweating as he walked towards the first tent with a view on Gaarh Marsh. Buy them time. Buy them time.
He tossed the cup and drink aside, and someone snorted at him.
“Littering. Pick that up.”
“Sorry.”
Ferris turned to the affronted Gnoll and smiled. He walked away, and the Gnoll bent down to recover the cup, cursing him. Ferris sidled around the tent, listening hard.
[Shadow Presence]. He could tell they were inside. They were good; quiet as mice. But Ferris had a pair of [Detect Life] spectacles.
And they were locked onto their target. They didn’t sense him as he calmly and carefully produced a wrapped bottle from his bag of holding. Hurry. Ferris pulled out a shortsword in his other paw and took a breath.
He might already be too late. What were they angry about? Someone in the way? Good.
He tossed the jar into the tent, and the whumph of oxygen and sound vanishing into a void was muffled. Ferris deployed the [Silence] spell and counted, waiting for the void spell to end.
“…four…five…[Shadowstep]!”
The Gnoll leapt into the tent, blade swinging. He was thinking one thing and one thing only.
My life for Manus. 
My life for Dragons.
 
——
 
Chief Warrior Merish was only half-listening to the Doom Slayers that Ulcre had organized, getting into position and reporting in.
