His spirit seemed to be already on the final stages of expansion, and the potion was beyond his control. Luna seemed to notice the same thing, and her skin turned translucent as her presence redoubled.

His inspiration seemed to halt for a moment, but that was when he saw Carol, Susanne’s manager, appear next to Luna before she almost instantly collapsed. Whatever she had done had earned Luna a moment of reprieve, and together, they resisted his spirit’s expansion for the few seconds needed for the mana potion to take effect and to attain his Tier 12 maximum mana again.

At first, he almost didn’t believe it when Luna’s power vanished, and his expanded spirit seemed to find harmony with the realm around him. It was like he was a part of the realm itself for a moment, like he was connected to everything.

That was when he understood.

White holes were real, and he was one of them.

During that moment of understanding, he felt everything snap into place. It was the heart of Minkalla. A place of impossible gifts, something which the Realm shaped itself around, the sort of thing which wars were fought over, a form of matter that could do the impossible and shaped the unthinkable.

And it was him.

He was it.

Words didn’t do it justice, it was just himself and the Realm… and everything was at peace. He couldn’t even properly process what he was experiencing, what he was thinking… nothing mattered, only the feeling that everything was profoundly right.

Then, the moment passed, and darkness claimed him once again.

***

Liz was dead on her feet, a very chaotic scene unfolding before her. Luna had vanished to places unknown along with Carol and Matt, leaving her, Susanne, and Aster unsteadily standing under the attention of countless high-Tier individuals, with only the resolute Tier 45 man standing next to them providing any form of solidarity.

She started opening her mouth to ask what was going on, then, their surroundings were different.

They were in the entryway to a hospital. A flicker of movement later, Matt was lying next to them on the floor.

Luna was floating next to him, and she looked almost worse off than them, with blood pouring from her eyes, ears, nose, and mouth, and with semi-translucent skin dripping off her face. Liz couldn’t even properly process what she was seeing before they were elsewhere once again.

They were in a private room with four beds. Aster was comically small for her bed, Susanne was just bewildered, and Matt was firmly unconscious in the bed next to hers. A healer in white robes was hooking him up to a series of tubes and wires connected to his bed and a rack of monitoring projections next to him, and Carol appeared in the middle of the four of them with drying streaks of blood running from her nose.

“Luna is fine. Recover first, we’ll talk in a day or two. You can trust the healers.”

With that, she vanished once more.

The healer finished connecting Matt to his bed and moved over to Liz. “I’m going to be casting some spells on you. Would you mind removing your mask? This room is well-warded and I need accurate readings.”

Liz hesitated for a moment, but with Carol already vouching for him, she reached up and started removing the amulet that shielded her spirit from inspection. It got caught in her hair and on her ears, and with only a single arm, she was struggling just to get it that far. Fortunately, the healer caught on and assisted her with gently pulling the chain over her.

A couple of spells later, he nodded and scratched down some observations on his notepad.

“You need rest. I’m going to cast a sleep spell on you, if you’re alright with that.”

She gave a jerky nod, the healer waved his wand, and she knew no more.

***

Matt groaned as he woke up, a paradoxical combination of intense pain, clouded thoughts, and incredible clarity and strength. He struggled to sit up, prompting a healer to appear in their room and consult a bank of machines next to his bed. The rest of his team was in the room with him, but only Aster and Liz were awake. Susanne was sleeping peacefully, for all that her face looked quite ghoulish. Most of the dried blood was gone from her face and his, giving Matt a clear but very unpleasant view of just how much of her skull was visible.

The last few seconds of consciousness he’d experienced came back to him, and a grin spread across his face.

Liz spoke up, mirroring his thoughts. “So, you think it’s fair you just get to skip Tier 12?”

Aster inspected his spirit through their bond and whined at him slightly in question, so Matt answered through shattered teeth, “You chnow ith. Bu’ I'm more confushed about what happened to Luna. She tyied to delay the inshpirathion, why is she in shuch bad shape?”

The healer next to his bed provided an answer, tapping through a screen displaying Matt’s vitals.“Inspirations are a merging between someone and the realm itself. The person undergoing the inspiration can slow it down or delay it on their side, but outsiders need to fight against the realm in order to interfere, which can lead to straining or even broken Domains in extreme cases.”

Matt was feeling guilty at hearing that and asked, “Is she all’right?”

The healer shook his head. “I’m not allowed to speak about patients, but if you have any further questions about general medical knowledge, I will be happy to provide what I can.”

Matt tried to compare the nosebleed he got when he pushed his Concept too far to the dismal state Luna pushed herself to before he lost consciousness, and shuddered as he realized how far his manager had pushed herself to ensure he didn’t ruin his future because of the inspiration. If she had simply stopped helping him when he had doubled his mana, that would have been more than anyone could have asked, but instead, she pushed herself beyond reason to give him time to take the mana concentration potion.

He had never considered Luna a friend or even a particularly good person, but he had respected her ability to train them. Now he had to face the fact she put her money where her mouth was in her pursuit of ensuring he had the best foundation possible.

All he could do was hope she’d be alright.

Matt was too far over his healing cooldown for any proper healing spells to be applied to him, but his wounds had been cleaned while he was unconscious and bandaged with semi-mundane techniques. They couldn’t even give him proper prosthetics, thanks to just how fragile his condition was, and it would be a couple weeks before he was ready for them.

The machines he was connected to were also acting as life support in addition to monitors, compensating for his half-functional heart. That was the one surgery he did have, as everything else needed to wait until magic would work on him again.

His arm was placed in a basic sling, and he had been told in a rather serious tone that he would have problems if he tried to use his arm for anything at all. By the healer’s accounting, moving his fingers did count, and they would be able to tell.

His leg and hip were measured for a prosthetic leg for once it could be installed, as his condition was too fragile for even the basic connection enchantments to actually work on him. In the meantime, Matt would be in an AI-controlled wheelchair, and even that hurt when he shifted his weight.

Teeth weren’t exactly crucial to his physical health, but it was a relatively simple procedure to have his mouth scanned, and ceramic replacements flash-printed and glued into place. It would allow him to talk normally, though he wouldn’t be using the teeth for anything else for at least a month. He and the rest of his team were on an all-soup diet for the time being.

Matt had been in and out of consciousness the entire time, and trying to catch up on reading his mail while bed bound and waiting for treatment. He happened to catch a few snippets of conversation from the nurses and occasional healers while being wheeled between hospital rooms. “Medically inadvisable” was perhaps the most polite description they had for what he had been doing in Minkalla, but it sounded like an old complaint rather than anything unique to him.

In the end, the only thing that didn’t hurt anymore was his spirit. Apparently, it had been healed as a part of his Inspiration. All of the spiritual strain he accrued during the final battle and the subsequent spiritual expansion from the new innate slot was gone, though there were still occasional aches when he tried to use skills. The healers diagnosed it as phantom pain, and assured him that it would pass in time, but to limit skill usage as much as possible, and to utilize only his [AI]. Even that was to be sparingly for the next week, and only then could he slowly work back up to full magic use.

After the installation of his false teeth, Matt wheeled into the group convalescence room, just as Aster whined at her dessert. Jello, it seemed, wasn’t an acceptable replacement for food, let alone a good snack.

“Hey guys. I can speak now!”

He grinned to show his new teeth and snorted at Liz’s snort of, “Finally.”

“How’s everyone doing?” None of them looked very good. They were all in their own wheelchairs, just as covered in bandages and [Bandage]s as he was, but this was the first time in the past few days that they’d all been properly awake and in the same room.

Liz smiled as Aster flicked her ears to express her happiness, still missing her tail.

“We’re good.” Liz’s first words were sweet, and matched her honest and relieved smile at seeing him, but the smile quickly turned teasing as she continued. “Just, you know, complaining about how you skipped all of Tier 12.”

Matt gave a one shoulder shrug as he gestured towards his missing leg and sling. “It cost me an arm and a leg, so I feel like I paid my dues for it.”

Aster snorted. “If it worked that way, my missing tail would get me all the way to Tier 50. It's clearly more important than the limbs you lose twice a year.”

Susanne snorted. “It's good to see you up and about. You seemed out of it there, after the end.”

Being cagey about the hidden exit reward wasn’t quite necessary at this point, as Carol or Watcher Eru were protecting them, but after months in Minkalla it was a hard habit to unlearn. Neither of them alone had the power to fully stop prying eyes from outside their moon, but it was far easier to detect such an intrusion and stop anyone from speaking further, along with wiping the sound from the air in the room. It was probably just Carol though, as Watcher Eru had likely moved on to other, more important assignments. Matt had to think that Carol was wondering what Susanne was talking about, as they had yet to talk about what had happened in their Minkalla run.

Aster yipped her agreement. “Yeah, tell us about it. What is an inspiration like?”

It wasn’t exactly a secret that he’d undergone an inspiration, it had happened when literally every eye in the system had been on him, after all. “It was weird. At first, I didn’t even realize what was going on. It just felt comfortable. Like I was floating in a warm bath before my spirit started to leave my body. It—” Matt paused as he considered how to explain it. “Saying I became one with the realm is accurate, but it doesn't explain it. It was a really nice feeling without it being addicting or anything. The best way I can explain it is that for a moment there, the edges of where I ended and the realm began seemed to blur, which is when the Tier up happened. My spirit seemed to reach Tier 13 without the essence it would normally take to advance. After that happened, all the essence rushed in and started to make my essence core match by Tier.”

Liz tisked. “I wish it could always be that easy. Sounds really nice.”

Matt thought about Luna’s sunken visage and shook his head. “Without Luna’s help there, I would have, you know.”

He wasn’t about to say anything about doubling his mana with each Tier here, but the others understood his point without him needing to say it directly.

They all stayed silent for a long moment before Matt asked, “Any news?”

Susanne nodded. “Word from Carol, which boiled down to sit tight and wait for another few days as we- and Luna- heal.”

Their Manager hadn’t had her Domain break, but it had been seriously strained. “I still can’t believe she was actually hurt, let alone so badly,” Matt mused, to general agreement from the others.

The woman had always seemed like an implacable mountain. Untouchable and unbreakable.

With orders to stay inside the hospital, the four of them relaxed.

Even as Tier 12 to 13s, they were still exhausted after nearly a full year of constant fighting, in addition to the insane pace they’d set beforehand to prepare for it, and the rest was absolute bliss.

Matt wasn’t sure about the others, but he spent at least fourteen hours a day asleep for the first week, waking up only long enough to wheel to the bathroom and then back to his bed. Fortunately, his Concept was in good enough shape, thanks to the Inspiration, that he could handle moving between his bed, wheelchair, and bed without assistance.

The only notable news they got was that Bradley and Jill, the lava mage and his archer wife they met inside, made it out of Minkalla with both the floor and exit reward at Tier 12. The now Tier 13s were more than happy with their progress inside the Forge, and invited the four of them to a dinner once everyone was out of the hospital, though their conflicting schedules threatened to force the date back some. All four of them easily agreed, but did let the pair know that they were so badly injured, they probably wouldn't be released for a while. At worse they would see them in the Empire proper at some point.

