Slowly, methodically, Elunath cut off the sanctum’s defenses from their core. Alarms blared in his mind, warning him of an attack just as he’d designed them to do which compounded his annoyance. Things would have been much easier if he still had the hands to work with. Once that was done, it was only a matter of forcing the mana to disperse. He activated all the defenses at maximum and made it all inefficient. Mana soon flooded the sanctum until his perception of the world around him grew haze. It took a good five minutes to finish but by then, there would only be a few steps to coming in safely. Some of the measures could not be deactivated. One of them would send shrapnel at the first person diving down with enough speed to send their spines through the manor’s roof.

“Renea, I will now tell you how to deactivate the last layer of traps.”

Silence.

“Renea? Renea, answer me.”

More silence. Elunath calculated the next preferable course of action and realized he didn’t have one. He needed help. Just a flood of life mana to purge the wound should work but he didn’t have the means to do so and rebuild his complex body at the same time. Just one of his girls would be enough. What was happening? Why were they failing him?

“Renea.”

Still no answer. Elunath made to check the manor but with the defenses disconnected, it was difficult to gauge how things were going. The girls seemed to be moving around normally. Renea was still at the entrance, though she did not reply. There was perhaps another he could trust with this delicate task.

Just then, something pinged from the tiny air vent. A sliver of darkness resolved itself into a fully grown person. It was, he realized, a Hadal strain human. The knife in the creature’s hand was uncomfortably familiar.

A realization wormed its way into his consciousness though he denied it. He still had some defenses. Like the last barrier around his core.

The Hadal didn’t do anything too strange at first. He dodged a few spells Elunath triggered more because he could than because he expected results. The accursed creature pulled out an amulet and dropped it on the ground where it resolved itself into a pool of darkness. A moment later, the witch appeared.

Elunath still refused to accept that he had lost. The witch punctured the last active defenses with ease. None of his redundant systems were left standing. She was very, very patient and very, very thorough. He did not try to cast spells at her. It would be too humiliating to be swatted aside like a fly.

What surprised him was how calm and detached she was.

“You must feel very proud of yourself,” he finally snarled.

“Believe it or not, this time, it’s not about me,” she replied.

His following barbs were ignored. She made one last sweep then opened a witch portal from where the lich soon stepped out.

A gaze made of dark blue flame fell upon him.

“Hello Lunie. I never thought this day would come but here we are, despite the odds. How curious.”

“Who are you?”

“I am your first sin, so to speak. You killed Jesar. You killed me. We were the stepping stone of your power.”

The core remained silent for a while.

“Abe,” he finally said.

“Abe is for friends. You should call me Abenezigel. And yes.”

“After all this time, you are still after me for this, you cockroach?”

Power flooded the room, the soul kind. The archlich was furious and now that Elunath had lost his body, the balance of power was reversed.

“I did not have the luxury of letting go. You lived with the benefits of your sin and I survived with the scars. And now, after three hundred years, the game is finally finished.”

“You will not get away with this.”

“Oh I believe we will. Who can stop us, at this point? No one is willing to pay the price for you.”

The lich walked forward and Elunath seethed to be interrupted, to be lectured.

“Longevity is such a double-edged sword, do you not think so, Lunie? On the one hand, the best of us stay here for a very long time to guide and protect the next generations. We have the time to achieve greatness. On the other hand, it makes it hard to leave the world undefeated.”

The lich glared at the core with such malice that the accumulated hatred almost bore a physical weight.

“I want that ultimate defeat to sting so I will tell you what you know yet refuse to accept. This is your fault. I hate you and this is your fault. All of this, leading to this moment, is your fault. Your failure to properly assess us was born from your arrogance. You could not rely on a loyal force of mages because you are a mistrustful, abusive, paranoid rapist. You have accumulated so much enmity that now, at the end, no one is coming for you. This position of power you thought you had crumbled like a sand castle because it was built on cruelty and coercion. Even now, you are blaming the world and the gods and fate and your victims because you still deny reality and the reality is that this is all. Your. Fault. Look at me, Elunath. You killed Jesar. You killed me. You betrayed us all. For a long time, you got away with it but in the end the punishment comes from your sin, your fault. And now you’re going to die because you had slaves, not partners, and none of them could go through the wards to save you. And that’s your fault.”

“You arrogant upstart!”

“Upstart? I am older than you.”

“Upstart still. All of you… mongrels banding together because you cannot tolerate the idea of greatness!”

“Well that leads to an acceptable last taunt as well. If you were so great, Elunath, you would not be dead.”

“THE DARK GODS TAKE YOU!”

“You first, Lunie. Goodbye.”

The last of the barrier faded with a sound of broken glass. The Hadal extended his knife and the lich took it before ramming it in. His blade pierced the core as if it were clay. The core shattered to pieces.

For a brief moment, power escaped the tattered shards and then, there was nothing left of the archmage but half a bust and a trail of misery.

“I…” Abenezigel began.

Irao and Viv turned to him. The lick brought a skeletal fist to their empty chest, perhaps waiting for relief but it never came. His breast was hollow and the threads of emotions were but ghostly remains that kept his mind going. There would be no succor.

“I feel so… very… empty.”

“Ah yes, regarding that,” Viv said. “Since we’re done, there is someone I would like you to meet.”

***

The old Academy doctor sat gloomily in his study, arms crossed, brows furrowed, steely glare fixed on Viv with unerring intensity.

“Haha. So, Tod, meet my friend Abenezigel. Your new patient!”

“Hello,” Abenezigel whispered from behind a thick mask.

“Viviane the Outlander, your friend has no pulse. He’s dead.”

“Well, technically yeah.”

“He has no flesh ! He does not have a blood flow. I can see his eye sockets from here!”

“Very astute sir but if you could only hear me out…”

“Viviane the Outlander, are you trying to get me to use necromancy?”

“Of course not! I’d call this more, errr, post-mortem body reconstruction.”

“Get out.”

“Wait wait wait! What if the gods agree?”

“What the hell are you talking about? Why would the light god agree to what is clearly the manipulation of life after death, which is, by definition, gods-accursed necromancy?”

“Neriad please tell me if I’m fucking up!” Viv said, clapping her hands together and flooding the righteous god with mana.

A divine light descended in the room. Viv gasped. Soon, a powerful voice filled the air with its divine presence.

WHY DO YOU NEVER PRAY FOR A STRONG SWORD ARM? YOU ALWAYS COME UP WITH THE WEIRDEST SHIT. ENTTIKU IS THE RULER OF DEATH. TAKE IT UP WITH THEM.

“Sorry. Wrong number.”

***

In the end, Viv did not attend the conversation between Abenezigel and the goddess of death. She was here when they rebuilt a body, albeit one of gray skin and eyes the color of deep wine. A large mark of Enttiku was placed on Abenezigel’s face never to be removed. After the procedure was completed, Tod left to write it down in his notes, leaving Viv and a stunned Abe behind.

“I… can feel. I can feel relief. The relief I was denied. I am myself again, and free, though the goddess may ask my service.”

He leaned forward, touching his knees with newly regrown fingertips.

“Now what?”

“Now we wrap up and we get the hell out of this town.”
