There wasn’t even anything within Jake’s Pulse of Perception range, yet a mere moment later, Jake saw a green blip approaching, and within moments, it arrived. Before even feeling the aura of his second visitor, Jake knew this wasn’t speed any C-grade he’d ever seen could accomplish, telling him that Sandy wasn’t the only one who’d evolved.

The familiar green figure stopped in the sky, floating there while giving off a powerful aura that seemed to warp the wind itself in all directions. Innately, Jake knew that the bird he was looking at was in control of all the wind mana around them, having put the very concept under her dominion.

“Ree!” Sylphie screeched loudly, as if to announce her own brilliance as she flapped her wings quickly.

Visually, she looked the same as before, if maybe a bit leaner in some places. Sandy hadn’t changed much either, but with Sylphie, it was barely discernible that she was now a fully grown Sylphian Hawk, as confirmed by Identify.

[Sylphian Hawk – lvl ???]

“I really am falling behind you two,” Jake said with a smile as he looked up at Sylphie. She also looked down at him before disappearing, only to reappear instantly sitting atop his head as wind mana gathered.

Reaching up, Jake scratched the little hawk, making her flap her wings in joy, forcing Jake to push down a chuckle as he also felt a bit of relief. A part of him had feared that Sylphie would change a lot after reaching full maturity, but it seemed like he didn’t have to worry about that.

A lot like Stormild, her elemental nature shone through, making her innately more childish and flighty than a normal beast. This isn’t to say she wasn’t as smart as other monsters; it just meant that becoming more “mature” wasn’t a prioritized development goal.

“Ree!” Sylphie declared, in complete agreement that Jake was indeed falling behind.

“Yeah, you’re real weak, kind of embarrassed to even say I know you,” Sandy also chimed in kindly.

“Oh? Want me to test your defenses after I evolve?” Jake asked with a smile.

“Ah, sorry, my schedule is all filled up; we’ll have to do it either today or not at all,” Sandy quickly clarified.

“Ree?” Sylphie asked, tilting her head.

“No, no, I’m good, thank you,” Sandy quickly clarified that they didn’t need Sylphie to test their relatively newfound B-grade defenses either.

Jake just smiled, though he had to admit... this felt weird. He had known Sylphie throughout her life and had always been stronger than her, even though she sometimes overtook him in levels. However, now, with the sensation the Sylphian Hawk gave off, Jake had no confidence he would win if they got in a fight. In fact, he didn’t believe it would even be a question of whether he could win, but more about whether he would be able to escape whole.

Compared to the True Dragon Jake had killed, the current Sylphie was on a whole other level.

Closing his eyes, Jake sighed before speaking. “Seeing you two... yeah, it’s about high time I also evolved.”

All he needed was one final level to trigger the actual evolution.

And he was sure Minaga would happily allow Jake to do a quick in-and-out of his little Labyrinth to get that done sooner rather than later.
