“I warned you, Belavierr.”
The Stitch Witch didn’t even remember her name. Witch Califor sensed her attention elsewhere, on some other scheme. So Califor straightened her back, rolling her shoulders down, keeping her neck aligned with her spine.
Good posture. Enunciate your words, Nanette. Now—look up.
Califor’s faded cloak swirled around her as she lifted it. The wind was blowing across Riverfarm, and it carried her voice as she raised it.
 
“I have worn you a thousand days.
Each time you were my relief
From rain, from fog
From prying eyes and wretched blade
Oh, friend. One last favor I crave.
One last time—remind them of your name.”
 
The battered cloak around her shoulders caught the wind, and Califor caught it and drew it across the air like one would close a curtain.
It was…heavy. The fabric was worn; even magic could wear until the stitches were so faded that they were soft and fragile. The patterns had long since been lost, but sometimes, it still looked like a shadow slithering softly through the world.
Nanette loved to brag about it, but it was a riding cloak, a comfortable one, ninety-nine days out a hundred. And sometimes?
The Cloak of Balshadow strained in the night air. It warped, and Califor whispered to it as a little girl poked her head out of the windows. As the Wind Runner looked up, Hedag lifted her hat, and the villagers cried out in fear.
“I’m sorry. And thank you.”
Then—the force pulling at the cloak was too much. It tore away in the air, leaving Califor with only a fragment. She reeled backwards, caught herself—and looked down.
—The undead streaming towards the village of Riverfarm halted. The onslaught of bolts from above, as the eyes of the Order of Seasons and Hunter’s Guild watched, slowed a second, and alarm shot through those distant watchers.
Even the [Knights] and [Hunters] halted a moment. Their foes, puppets and undead alike, milled around, suddenly aimless, easy prey. The ones headed to Riverfarm stopped, looked around, and saw…
Nothing. To the folk of Riverfarm, gazing around, and even all but the best [Hunters], it was as if a…shadow had fallen across the landscape. A veil that swallowed the houses, people, and held them in a soft cloak of night.
Califor let the last scrap of the cloak fall from her hands and stumbled, weary. She almost fell—but an anxious Nanette tried to climb out to catch her.
Witches Alevica and Mavika had to rescue both, and Califor slid down the roof and climbed back through the window. Outside—the armies of the dead were flailing, trying to get at the Hunter’s Haven, and Belavierr’s gaze swung back towards Riverfarm in sudden wrath.
I warned you. Califor closed her eyes, exhausted.
“Nanette. Stop fussing. It was a beautiful cloak. I told you not to brag about it.”
“But—how did you—the entire village?”
Alevica spluttered. Califor opened one eye, then winked it at Alevica.
“It’s just sympathy. Let it be worth something.”
Perhaps it only meant one or two silly [Knights] would live. Perhaps it had changed everything. Califor closed her eyes. She wondered what outcome Wiskeria was hoping for.
Thus, Ser Raim slept, and though more minions appeared, the [Knights] regained their ground until the [Hunters] themselves elected to rest, guarded by both shadow and their Hunter’s Haven.
Still, the fae watched. They were not watching Ser Raim that night, nor the Order of Seasons who did battle. They waited elsewhere. Watching something else.
One of the oldest stories. And they wept, then.
 
——
 
Night had fallen. Ser Raim slept, guarded. Outside, the onslaught against Riverfarm had slowed. But the Order of Seasons remained vigilant, patrolling in every direction, cutting down Belavierr’s minions. And the Hunters rested in their house.
There were five left. Sylind, the [Archer] who had marked Belavierr. Coroise, with her crossbows. Tagil and his scissor-swords. Faigen, with hammer and shield. And Erashelle, their magic user. As night passed deeper and deeper, they grew more watchful.
They might have slept. But they were alert. Each time the ward-charms flickered, they looked up. But they were guarded well. Even so, all knew that if Belavierr struck, it would be now. Now, or the next day, as they drove their quarry into a corner. So they stayed alert. Vigilant as they partly rested. Each had been on longer hunts, so they guarded their strength. Tended to their arms.
They did not speak of Gaile. Or of Ser Raim’s fate. They were resolved. After a while, Sylind went upstairs to the second floor of the slanted house. There were few rooms, but she sat upstairs to meditate and check her arrows. After a while, one of their number, Tagil, joined her.
Sylind glanced up as he stepped into the room and sat across from her. She said nothing for a while. Neither did he. At last, Sylind spoke.
“You don’t have to watch over me. I’ll shout if I see anything. Her magic won’t work here.”
“Perhaps. But I have seen our havens broken. She could penetrate the wards.”
The female [Archer] raised her brows.
“If she does? I have all my gear on. What magic could bypass our wards and have the strength to kill me?”
“A powerful blood spell. I’ve seen it done before.”
Tagil crouched. His gear was simple, but Sylind saw the dozens of concealed, magical pockets in his armor. Her eyes even saw his equipment, a fortune’s worth. It made him one of the best [Hunters] in the Hunter’s Guild. And he was specialized for his task. As was she, but he was her senior. She shifted uncomfortably.
“Don’t get sentimental near the end of the hunt, Tagil. You’re twice the veteran I am. We won the greater battle on Terandria. If we fail now…there’s no excuse.”
It was unlike Tagil. But the [Hunter] had to be feeling the same nerves she did. Belavierr had fled. They had hoped to take her. Sylind felt like the Stitch Witch was watching her. But she would not fall. So long as Ser Raim stood against Belavierr, they could bring her down. Tagil shook his head absently.
“Those [Witches] were monsters. But Belavierr is older than all of them. Age is strength for [Witches]. And her web is widest of all. She puts her hooks into everyone. Everyone from the Griffin Prince of Kaliv to the Knight-Commander of the Order of Seasons.”
“You heard what the Knight-Commander said? Are they really going to assail the Order of Seasons? Can Belavierr really threaten them? The Knight-Commander himself and the Grandmasters? How can she do that?”
Tagil shrugged.
“She has the hair of one of their loved ones, perhaps. If they came against her, she would kill them. Perhaps she is trying, but failing. The Griffin Prince is different. He made a pact with her.”
“Really?”
She had heard the rumors. But Belavierr was made of rumors. Tagil nodded. He was watching as Sylind unstrung her bow. They were different, he and she. She used a longbow, and she had trained for over two decades to obtain her ability and Skills.
Tagil had practiced as well, but most [Hunters] used a crossbow; Veteran Hunters had ones enchanted to reload automatically. Sylind was placing her arrows on the table to organize them for tomorrow’s battle.
Different skill sets, both geared towards the same job. But she was a [Deepforest Huntress], adapted to hunting all kinds. He had one quarry. And his unrest bothered Sylind. What did Tagil sense? The [Hunter] shifted. After another break, he spoke again.
“The share of the bounty. Do you know what I’ll do with it?”
Sylind looked up from inspecting her magical arrows with a frown.
“It goes to your daughter, won’t it? If you’re worried, Tagil, we swore an oath. Gaile’s money will go to her relatives. If she has any. Regardless. Even if we fail—your share goes to your daughter. The Order of Seasons will make sure of that.”
Tagil didn’t say anything. Sylind paused.
“She’s sick, right? Not even the best [Healers] could cure her.”
“Yes. They can delay the sickness. But not cure it. She’s…tomorrow, if we bring Belavierr, that could change things.”
Sylind nodded. She wondered if Tagil had tried the Healer of Tenbault, a local celebrity. Yet if they defeated the Witch of Webs, even more doors might open. Belavierr was worth more than gold. Wistram had promised treasures to the one who slew her. So had Roshal. The Order of Seasons, the Hunter’s Guild…she could respect Tagil’s motivations.
Then Sylind had a thought. She checked a stone set in her bracer and spoke casually.
“I know the Hunter’s Guild investigated this. But…was your daughter’s sickness magical? Did Belavierr curse her somehow? You’d never have been allowed on this team if so, obviously—”
Her hand lingered near her bow. Tagil didn’t seem to notice. But of course, he did. He paused.
“No. Her sickness isn’t magical. Or if it is, Belavierr had no hand in it. That I’m sure of.”
The stone flickered. Sylind sighed and relaxed. Abashed, she attached the bow to her back and spread her collection of magical arrows on the floor, inspecting them.
“Sorry. Just jumpy.”
Tagil’s eyes flickered. He was silent for a long moment, and Sylind thought he had taken offense. But then he sighed. He looked up at her.
“You’re right, Sylind. Belavierr never touched my family. But I met her once during the attack on her village. Remember when I cornered her? I didn’t escape; she captured me. And she made me an offer then.”
Sylind froze. The bow dug against her holster. But now it was behind her. Tagil sat still. And his eyes locked on hers. The [Huntress] hesitated.
“You turned her down, of course.”
Tagil didn’t reply. His sword hung at his side. Sylind’s heartbeat quickened. Her hand slowly crept forwards towards her arrows. Tagil watched her. He spoke. Haltingly.
“I thought she was going to threaten…she saw right through me in a second, Sylind. She could have threatened me. Maybe it would have worked, but she didn’t have to. My daughter is very sick, Sylind. Even if she’s cured, the sickness has worn her away. Even the Healer of Tenbault couldn’t cure that. I actually got her a meeting and—the spell failed. I’d given up hope, and I was ready to die. Then Belavierr looked me in the eyes and made me an offer.”
“Tagil.”
“I wish I could believe she was lying. But she’s the Witch of Webs. She can do almost anything. If the deal is fair. Believe me, I hesitated. Believe me.”
“Tagil. Don’t do this. You turned the offer down, didn’t you?”
Sylind’s hand paused. Tagil watched her. And his eyes were full of grief. He shook his head slightly. Neither Hunter moved. But now her eyes were on Tagil’s side, where his iconic scissor-swords hung. He’d commissioned them to fight Belavierr.
“The offer was never for then, Sylind. It was for now.”
“You don’t have to do this.”
“I know.”
Sylind paused, her body untensed, deliberately relaxed, sitting across from Tagil, but her eyes were on his face. Just searching him. Lost, suddenly.
“Did it even matter? Going home? Searching for years and years? Teaching those rookies like Haeight and the others? Actually—this is the only chance anyone might get in thousands of years. I get it, I do. I’ll help with your daughter. We do this, and [Kings] and [Queens] will be in our debt. Is it worth it? Tagi—”
He moved, and she twisted, reaching for her bow, lashing out with a foot to stop him drawing his sword—
The crossbow bolt struck her in the chest. Her protective charms exploded. Even so, the half-Elf’s arm rose, and she fired a single arrow past him—he fired the crossbow again at her face.
Slowly, her body slumped to the floor. Tagil lowered the crossbow and stared blankly at Sylind. He was a sword-expert; she’d expected the blade. He’d kept this crossbow hidden for this moment.
“I’m sorry.”
Coroise was in another room upstairs, woken from sleep. She’d heard the sound but looked to him for confirmation.
“Tagil. Did something get—”
His sword went through her chest, and she began to move with the strength of the damned—he flicked the blade straight up. Then Tagil headed downstairs. Fast. The last two would be…
Erashelle and Faigen peered up from where they sat. Faigen raised his hammer. He was treating it with a compound of silver dust. He frowned.
“Tagil, what was that s—”
The [Hunter] raised his crossbow and one he’d taken from Coroise’s body. The two [Hunters] dove. Tagil fired twice. Faigen howled as the bolt caught him in the throat. Erashelle screamed. Tagil dodged as she pointed her wand. Faigen was charging, breathless, blood running down his chest.
“[Hail of Bolts].”
The crossbow fired again and again. Faigen jerked as the bolts hit him. Again and again. But he kept coming. Even after they found his heart. Tagil backed up. Faigen collapsed, falling onto him. Tagil stepped to one side. Then rolled. He aimed his crossbows. Fired once. Twice.
Erashelle was still alive. The first bolt had gone through her ribs, but it had missed her heart. Both of her hands were nailed to the wall. She kept trying to cast a spell as Tagil walked towards her. He aimed the crossbows. But she was already dying. She spat blood, the bolts blocking her magic.
“You—traitor. Damn you.”
“I’m sorry.”
Tagil’s eyes burned. He looked at her. She spat. Her lung was filling. She coughed, choking the last words out.
“I hope you suffer forever. If there’s anything—hope you—”
Then she died. Tagil stared at her corpse. Then at Faigen. His hands shook. He dropped the crossbows. The [Hunter] fell to his knees as bile filled his throat. His tears lasted as long as Erashelle’s blood kept dripping to the floor. And he screamed his damnation.
Then the man stood, and his eyes were empty. But one last purpose moved him onwards. He left the house, left his crossbows. Walked through silent Riverfarm. Past the [Knights] whom he placated with lies. He walked onwards. Out of Riverfarm, slowly following a thread that called him.
She was waiting for him there. At a tree far enough from the village it hadn’t been cut, on a small hill.
Belavierr. The man gazed up at her.
“It’s done.”
She nodded. And her eyes shone with orange light. He stared at her with hatred. Regret.
“Raim lives. I’ve done my part. Now. Will she…?”
“Yes. Do you want me to repeat our pact? I have sworn it.”
Belavierr’s voice was cold. Tagil shuddered. He walked up the hill.
“No. Keep your oath, [Witch].”
She had left something for him there. And she helped him stand on the stool. Tagil stared at her. He spat into her face. She never blinked.
“I will keep my promise. It will be fulfilled in the hour after your death. Regardless of my fate.”
“I hope Raim burns you away.”
“He may.”
But that was not his business. Tagil closed his eyes. The hemp rope hung around his neck.
