Ryoka tensed, looking from face to face, but now she whispered.
“Prost, they’re not the same…”
“Miss Ryoka was attacked by a trio of your lot not a few days back. You don't know about that?”
Tagil half-tuned, and one of the [Hunters] with a hammer actually put up his weapon, swearing.
“Amateurs? Do you think one of the guilds outside of Menorome put Dedicated Hunters on the Stitch Witch?”
“If they did, there will be hell from us to pay. They attacked you?”
Their leader looked at Ryoka, and when she confirmed it, he stood there, then shook his head.
“That wasn’t us. It sounds like another group—we will have our guild look into this. Or it could be independent [Witch Hunters]. It’s not like we’re the only ones with the class. Maybe…”
Maybe someone else had hired them? Ryoka saw Tagil’s look of uncertainty, but before they could dive into the subject, Tagil’s head turned; his eyes flicked to the horizon. Ryoka felt it too. Then she saw movement. The half-Elf murmured.
“Tagil—”
“I see it. Whoever you are, all of you, get your people into that village. We’ll cover you. The Stitch Witch is hurt. But she’s desperate. And she knows we can find her.”
“Raim! I see movement! She’s sending more puppet-things! Lots of them.”
Sylind called out nervously. The [Knight] was moving towards them, supported by the man with the hammer. The [Summer Knight]’s voice was beyond weary.
“The Order. We have her. I can finish her. I cut away her immortality. But—”
“We see it.”
The scrying orb was speaking. Ryoka saw a huge conference table, staring faces. [Knights] gathered in the circular reflection. Ser Raim nodded. Then he pointed. Prost, Rie, Ryoka, all looked up.
“She can die. But she has sent her minions against us. We must track her down.”
Coroise called out.
“Protect Sylind. If she dies, Belavierr escapes.”
The half-Elf glanced sideways.
“Forget me. Watch the daughter. Both of us are keeping her here.”
Hunter Coroise glanced at Wiskeria, and Ryoka felt a shiver run down her spine. But the woman just lifted her crossbows and fired straight ahead at the distant forest. At first, Ryoka didn’t see what the woman aimed at. Then, as both crossbows reloaded and Coroise shot again, Ryoka saw them.
A legion of warriors made of cloth. Not one or a thousand, but tens of thousands. Taxidermy monsters, indistinguishable from their real counterparts. A patchwork giant, as misshapen as a Snow Golem, lurching forwards. And then—Ryoka’s heart stopped.
A Dragon, crawling towards them. But the scales were purple cloth. The creature was fake. But the threat was real. In the sky came howling faces. Half-real things that flickered and made Ryoka want to tear at her ears. The others paled, but the [Hunters] set themselves.
“Looks like bound wraiths. An entire army of cloth monsters. Brace.”
The crossbows shot. Ser Raim gasped for air. He turned, and Ryoka saw that he had burnt himself away. But the ember flickered.
Belavierr’s death coughed. Then he straightened.
“Knight-Commander. A word.”
 
—–
 
At the same time as Ser Raim spoke, a woman sat on a throne. Hers was made of wood, but hardly as humble as that of the [Emperor] of Riverfarm. Hers was enchanted wood, yet the paint still chipped in places, because centuries meant even magic began to fail, let alone millennia. But that was not the point.
The throne marked her. And she belonged to it. Her people, who stood in the throne room that was open to the elements on one side of the room leading to a huge balcony, respected the symbol of the throne more than the appearance.
They did not dress like courtiers of a typical kingdom, for their garb was thick, appropriate for the winter, even. But fitting because the open-air throne room was chilly, cold, even in the last days of spring. The altitude was freezing, and snow was not unknown even in the hottest days of summer. This was the court of Kaliv’s kingdom, and it was the nation of Kaliv whose people lived among the highest altitudes. And they were Humans, predominantly.
To the south lay the Eternal Land of Calanfer and Gaiil-Drome, one of the forest-kingdoms who lived in uneasy peace with half-Elf populations, and the north was occupied by the powerful nation of Ailendamus, whose breadth and span was thrice that of all three other nations.
But though all three had been tested, the alliance between Calanfer, Gaiil-Drome, and Kaliv had held back even Ailendamus and six other nations in the last war, Petril’s Folly, which had been twenty-eight years hence. Because Kaliv had settled the high plateaus and a mountain itself. Poor in arable land it might be, but like the Dwarves of Terandria, they had endured any foe who might assail them.
Because of the beasts that were Kaliv’s treasure, export, strength, and weakness. That demanded food, yet they made the nation famous. Griffins. And their counterparts on the ground, giant goats that could be ridden to battle, far unlike their insane cousins, the Eater Goats of the High Passes. Such was their history that their ruler was always known as the Griffin King of Kaliv. Or in this case, the Griffin Queen.
It was not to the Griffins she looked today, but to the latest arrival, who had been borne by Griffins, yes, but unusually, had been carried into the throne room. She stood, ignoring the protests, her protectors and her daughter who had barred the sudden arrivals with blades. The Griffin Queen, Novakya, shouted so her voice might be heard in the cavernous room.
“Let him through.”
He did not approach. But the four men and women bearing him did. The Griffin Queen saw with a start that it was him. She looked down upon her son as they bore him across the throne room. The man was young—in his late twenties.
He was, in his way, the most famous of the royal line of Kaliv. Firstborn of her line, yes, but also for another reason. He was Kaliv’s famous disgrace. An exile in all but name.
The Griffin Prince, Ostevien.
He had not returned to this throne room for years. Not since he had been banished. Now, they bore him in on a sheet of cloth, straight from Griffin-back. Novakya recognized it, the crimson cloth akin to the plainer stretchers that the [Griffin Riders] used to transport the wounded or supplies. But why had they used…? Then she realized the cloth was plain, but the blood had dyed it red.
“What has happened?”
She spoke to the man who accompanied the [Prince]. He stuttered, his eyes wide with panic.
“Queen, he collapsed not ten minutes ago. On patrol. He’s bleeding. We can’t stop it, even with potions. The—we’ve seen this once before. It’s—”
“Move aside! Lay him down—gently!”
The words were shouted by the [Royal Healer], who ran across the throne room. The men and women did, and the Griffin Prince was lowered to the floor. The blood began spreading. His mother looked down.
He was supposed to be banished, never to set foot in here again. But no one would challenge the Griffin Queen’s will. Even so, murmurs rose, and people backed away from the sight of the prince. They all knew why he was banished even if the tale was forbidden to be told to anyone, especially outsiders. But the sight of that blood…
What had gone wrong?
Ostevien was choking, bleeding from his clothing and onto the stone floor. The Griffin Prince could barely move, but he still looked up. And his face was deathly pale as he reached up. The Griffin Queen, Novakya, looked down and reached for her boy, a man grown. But the [Healer] stopped her.
“Potions don’t work?”
“They heal him, but the wounds—”
The [Griffin Rider] pointed, his face pale. Then Novakya saw it. All present drew back save her. The Griffin Queen saw her son bleeding from his limbs. From the stitches that held his arms to his shoulders, his torso, even his neck.
Yet he was Human, not Stitch-person. And Novakya knew. She looked up. The [Healer] had frozen. Then she grasped for her potions.
“The same as eight years ago.”
The Griffin Queen nodded silently as the [Healer] knelt. She said nothing. Her daughter spat as the open throne room echoed with the Griffins’ shrieks as they scented the blood.
“The Stitch Witch. She’s finally decided she has no use for him.”
“Why now? She has never broken an oath.”
Novakya’s daughter opened her mouth, and her mother snapped at her.
“Not once! For all the ill she wreaks, she does not forswear herself. She twists and manipulates, but she keeps her word. Why now?”
The Griffin Prince was choking, coughing on his blood. Spitting it up. Novakya could not look away. No one had an answer. But one revealed itself as the [Healer] desperately brought out her own needle and thread, trying to stem the bleeding from the separating limbs.
She cried out as the thread twisted as she tried to thread it through the needle. It fell to the floor, black, curling. The [Royal Guard] tried to stop their [Queen], but she pushed them aside. And she saw the thread writhing in the blood.
The thread moved, forming into a pattern on the floor. A crest of four parts, so distinctive that Novakya recognized them at once.
“The Order of Seasons.”
“They must have her. They’ve cornered the Spider at last, and she’s desperate. Mother—”
The Griffin Princess looked both triumphant and disgusted. She spared no emotion for her brother lying on the ground. But his mother—the Griffin Prince’s eyes opened. And he spoke in a pained voice as the [Healer] shakily tried to sew his limbs back in place.
“My Queen.”
She jerked. The [Prince] tried to raise his head. The [Healer] snapped at him.
“Don’t! Move and you could lose your head.”
He stopped. But his eyes rolled. The Griffin Queen stepped closer. And his eyes focused on her. He spoke hoarsely.
“My—mother. This is my punishment. For ever trusting her. Don’t give in to Belavierr. If she is using my life, she’s truly backed into a corner. She wants you to assail the Order to save me.”
Novakya’s daughter made a disgusted sound. She drew her sword, stepping into the blood.
“Of course she does. Brother. Say the word and I will end it now. Just as I promised you then! Let her not leave her claws in our kingdom.”
And there was silence. The Griffin Prince breathed laboriously. The [Healer] paused, and the court waited. And the Griffin Queen waited. Her hands were clenched as he inhaled and looked up, his grey-blue eyes wild. He closed his eyes after a second.
“I—can’t. I may yet live. And I wish to live. If Belavierr dies, I will be free. But, Mother. Leave me. Tell Wiskeria I am free at—”
His sister made a sound of disgust and turned. She hurled her sword across the throne room as she stalked away. Her mother just stood there. Thinking. But not thinking. Just watching his blood run across the throne room’s floor. And he looked at her pleadingly. They had not spoken in six years. And then, only for a moment. Not like this.
“My Queen. Mother. Let me die, if it is my time. I have brought you only grief. Do not let her ensnare you too.”
Her disgrace. The fool of a [Prince]. Her son. Novakya knew this was Belavierr’s game. She knew. And still, she reached for him, and again, the [Healer] stopped her.
“Your Majesty, he is falling apart. We are holding him together with potion and thread.”
The Griffin Queen stepped back. The [Healer] was calling for more potions, her assistants. And her son lay there, pleading silently. Not a man or woman in this room didn’t know his story. But none dared say a word, not even the Griffin Princess. They all waited. And Novakya closed her eyes.
How long and how wide was her web? The Stitch Witch, Belavierr. The Spider of Lives. Novakya raised her head. And, oh, how bitterly she admired the way the threads had ensnared her. But she would never choose otherwise. That was what Belavierr had known. Damn her.
Then the Griffin Queen turned. Her cloak swirled, and her breath appeared in the cold air. A storm was coming. She snapped at the nearest [Royal Guard].
“Send a [Message] to the Order of Seasons. By order of the Griffin Queen, I demand them cease their quest for Belavierr’s head.”
The man paused only a moment. The Griffin Queen walked past him. She shouted for her [General]. He was already ready, mounted on the Imperial Griffin. She pointed at him.
“Summon eight hundred Griffin Riders. We fly upon the Order of Seasons’ stronghold. Arm them for battle. Now.”
“Mother.”
The Griffin Prince called her back. His voice was desperate. Novakya stopped and peered at him. Her shoes were standing in his blood. She looked down at him, and her face was distant. Harsh.
“You are a disgrace to Kaliv. But you are also the Griffin Prince. You may not die yet.”
That was what she said. But that was not what he heard. The Griffin Prince sighed. His mother turned, and she called as the storm swept down across the mountains. She swung herself up into her personal Griffin’s saddle. She had known this day would come. And she had known the choice she would make. She looked ahead and swore that would not be the last sight she saw of him.
The Griffin Queen pointed.
“Fly.”
 
—–
 
He had seen great battles won. Fought against armies; even dueled Knights of the Thousand Lances and won. Yet, Knight-Commander Calirn had never seen a battle rage so hot so fast.
It had been a true ambush, and against this foe, he didn’t care if they’d caught her sleeping. The Stitch Witch had not been ready for Raim or to face foes who had prepared for her.
That was her arrogance; they’d beaten her once, and Calirn had used a grand ritual to give them the edge this time. So many things could have gone wrong, but still—!
“He wounded her. He actually wounded her.”
The Spring’s Warden sounded disbelieving, for all she had been told it had been done once before. Nothing had harmed Belavierr, none of the other [Hunters]’ artifacts or Skills. And each one was over Level 40.
But Raim? Raim had done it. The cost to his own body worried Calirn, though.
Knight-Commander Calirn stared into the orb. Ser Raim stood there. And he had already changed. He had given himself to the flame as the champions of his class had time and time again. Already—Calirn closed his eyes.
He was dying. Closer to death. But Calirn had also seen Belavierr flee. He had heard her scream. And now—
“She can die. Knight-Commander, she has fled. But we have marked her.”
“How certain are you that you can locate her again, Ser Raim?”
The [Summer Knight]’s voice rasped. Behind him, the five remaining [Witch Hunters] were setting up. Two were already loosing arrows and crossbow bolts. Knight-Commander Calirn knew time was of the essence. Ser Raim’s eyes flickered past him, staring at something Calirn couldn’t see.
