“With respect, Tagil, I don’t think I can sleep with all the sounds of fighting here. And even if you all need to distract her, if some [Knights] could act in your stead?”
Calirn spoke quickly from the scrying orb, having listened to the entire argument.
“Indeed. Two [Summer Knights] will guard your rest. Dame Talia—”
“—has gone to join the battle. I will leave her to it.”
Calirn’s voice snapped.
“Absolutely not. Fall’s Sentinel, contact Talia. Have her return at once! She is to stand guard and—”
Ser Raim got up slowly, ignoring the rest of the discussion. Tagil was still trying to talk him out of it urgently, but the [Knight] was grey-faced with exhaustion. He walked towards the door, hesitating, and Ryoka opened it. She held out an arm.
“Here. I’ve got you. I can take you to Durene’s house.”
Raim frowned at Ryoka as Tagil reached out to stop them—then gave up with a huge sigh. The [Knight] murmured.
“I thank you, Miss. Who—who are you?”
Rie murmured Ryoka’s name for Raim’s benefit. Ser Raim paused. He stared at Ryoka. Then he nodded.
“Directions would be welcome, Miss Runner.”
He tried not to lean on her, but Ryoka ended up supporting a lot of his weight until they got to a horse. In the distance, more fire bloomed, and [Knights] rode to battle. But Ser Raim rode away from it, towards Durene’s cottage. Ryoka was braced. She didn’t know if Belavierr would assail them. If she did—Ryoka was ready. But nothing attacked them.
It seemed the [Witch Hunters]’ charms—well, high-grade artifacts, really—did work. Raim smiled weakly at Ryoka.
“You needn’t worry. If I needed to, I could burn away any weak spells. I’m tired. But my aura is strong as ever. And we have the resources and preparations from hunting her in Terandria. Noelictus. Great allies have given much for this day.”
Ser Raim reassured Ryoka as they rode—well, he rode and she jogged—towards the cottage. He frowned vaguely at her.
“Tagil mentioned you’d been attacked.”
“Not by your comrades. Someone else. Maybe the Circle of…they weren’t nearly as dangerous as your friends.”
Ryoka didn’t suspect Raim or the Hunters here were part of the group who’d nearly killed her. Their vibe was entirely different: focused, like an arrow. Raim simply bowed his head.
“I am sorry to hear it, either way. My friends will do whatever it takes to complete the hunt, as you saw…but you are not the Stitch Witch’s daughter. That some would attack you—I can swear by my Order these are unknown [Hunters] to me. The ones with me are the finest Hunters one could find in this entire world. Even among the Veteran Hunters of Menorome, they stand out. If there are…miscreants claiming their authority or misbehaving, they will track them down. After this is done.”
That might be something. Ryoka didn’t envy the kidnapping Hunter running into this group, if he was even alive. She felt like pointing out taking Wiskeria hostage was very close to trying to off her, but she decided against it. The facts seemed to be that there were at least two [Hunter] groups wandering about—and this one was the most dangerous by far.
Conversation lapsed until they got to Durene’s place.
Someone had let Durene know Raim needed to sleep there. The half-Troll girl hurried out with Bismark and Frostwing; Raim barely blinked at the bear and blue bird.
Ryoka couldn’t take her eyes away from his grey hair and lined features. He was so old now. He glanced at her as she led him towards Durene’s house. Entered it as two [Summer Knights] rode towards them. Ser Raim waved them away. He sat down inside.
“I have a few artifacts they told me to set up. My bag of holding. Would you help me with…?”
He handed Ryoka a stack of talismans. Like Japanese ofuda talismans. Then what looked like bright orbs of glass. They hung around the room, swaying. Flickering.
“Bad magic?”
“Her spells. Those charms are Drathian. You don’t need to worry about my safety. A [Witch] like Belavierr is powerful. But she must have my hair or some possession of mine to curse me. And even then, these wards work. Her magic is not all-powerful. It is ancient. But not—”
Ser Raim coughed. Ryoka found herself making tea. He sat, sipping it. He sighed. Then he gazed at her again.
“You know the Stitch Witch. And you’re here to argue for her life.”
Ryoka froze. But the [Summer Knight] didn’t reach for his blade. She hesitated.
“I—want to. I’m not here to attack you. Just—I’ve met Belavierr. Talked to her. She didn’t offer me any deals, but I’ve…seen her.”
“Strange. She rarely talks to anyone that she does not want something from. I’ve searched for her for years, and she rarely talks to anyone. Save for her victims. Then again, she was different when we cornered her last. Weakened before we even attacked. A heartening sign; it means she’s vulnerable.”
Ser Raim coughed. Ryoka nodded once.
“I’m—different. Wiskeria’s also here.”
“Her daughter?”
“Yes. Your friend took her hostage.”
“Gaile. But for that, Belavierr might have fled.”
“Yeah.”
The two sat in silence. Ser Raim waited. Ryoka burst out at last.
“I haven’t seen her commit any terrible crimes while she’s here. I’m sure she has. But Belavierr doesn’t seem evil to me. Just amoral.”
She paused, flushing.
“I’m sorry. I know this is stupid to argue with you—”
What was she doing? But Ser Raim didn’t bristle. He just sat back and sighed. When he spoke, it was quiet.
“Do you know what she did in Noelictus?”
He set the tea cup down quietly on the table and watched Ryoka. The Wind Runner swallowed.
“No. There are rumors flying everywhere in Izril, apparently. Witches have been attacked, but no one knows what happened. Not even her daughter or Califor.”
Raim’s brows rose.
“Really? It should have been covered up. Someone has been talking for news like that to reach…I was there. I did not see all of it, but enough. Do you…this is far from Terandria. Izril. I can scarce believe it. Do you know what ‘Helpful Servants’ are?”
“No.”
“Ah. Then I must explain. In Noelictus…in the nations thereabout, there was a growing trend of these—‘Helpful Servants’. Men, women, who would sign up for this unique class and job. For a day, a week, you could rent one. They would cook, clean—servants for rental, you see? Always pleasant, always hard working. Always. Extraordinarily cheap. Ever smiling.”
Ryoka felt a chill. Wait, that sounded so incredibly suspicious and—and—
“Belavierr did that? Wait, how did no one sense anything was off?”
Ser Raim coughed again and sipped more tea. Color returned to his cheeks, and Ryoka realized Eloise had given her the tea. Was Eloise against Belavierr? Ryoka remembered the conversation about Rehanna and grew more conflicted.
“Oh, some did. But Belavierr had allies and ways to protect herself. Most never noticed the incongruities. Magic of her level does that. I will not sully your ears with the whole tale; I am tired, and it is not mine to tell. There was a [Princess], a very strange [Singer], ghosts…”
His eyes closed wearily, and he almost smiled.
“I was a rather broken man until one gave me a spark. But I did witness what she did. Those Helpful Servants were prisoners in their own minds. Helpless, bound by a contract they signed.”
“But—but they agreed to it willingly. It was a deal.”
Raim’s eyes opened bitterly.
“Oh, they agreed to it. I doubt any knew what they would be subjected to. I have seen the likes of that bad contract by unscrupulous [Merchants] or in black market deals. A contract can be fair under the law and cause maximal suffering, Miss Griffin. Believe me—they suffered. We liberated many, but the harm she caused was the work of centuries. She killed scores, scores before we drove her from there. That is the woman you would like to defend.”
He looked at Ryoka, and she wanted to disbelieve him. Yet Raim’s tone was entirely knowing, and he continued.
“I am sure you have seen some…good she does. Especially if she cares for her daughter. However. She does evil as well. Half of our number have lost someone to her. I lost my heart, my fiancée. Gaile her daughter. Coroise has lost three fellow [Hunters] to Belavierr. The rest bear her no love. Some are in the hunt for the glory of it, like Faigen, who wields the hammer. Or because they see Belavierr’s crimes as unforgivable, like Sylind, the [Archer]. The [Mage Hunter], Erashelle, is of that mind, although she may also desire Belavierr’s artifacts. Tagil does. But he would use them for the good of his family, and in truth, the reason matters not. We have hunted her for decades, and those six were all who remained. Now? I will finish it.”
He paused. And the lights flickered from the ward-spells. Raim looked at Ryoka and shook his head.
“—So please, save your breath. I am committed to her death, and I have paid almost all the price. I hope you will watch her die, and you may think me a fool or a monster of my own for killing her. I shall be entirely grateful if you never have cause to understand why I came here.”
Ryoka had no answer to that. She could only hang her head.
“I’m sorry. I didn’t know she did—all that. I wish I had seen. Not that I want to have been there, but so I could judge. I just feel like she’s something old and ancient and, yes, terrible. But seeing that die…she’s Wiskeria’s mother.”
Ryoka thought of Teriarch, closer to Belavierr in his way than Ryoka was to the Witch of Webs. She tried to get this all to the [Knight] without going into details, and Ser Raim did look at her kindly, but that deep flame in his eyes never wavered. His voice grew stronger as he put down the empty cup, beginning to stretch; it seemed he intended to sleep in his armor.
“I understand your reverence for history, Ryoka Griffin. I mourned the loss of immortals of another kind in Noelictus. I shall also readily admit: in the past, my Order slew Dragons. They followed their natures, like Belavierr. But some burned and killed, and we deemed them a threat. It matters not. Tomorrow, I will burn, Ryoka Griffin. Burn with all the enmity I bear Belavierr. My grief, my love for my lost heart—all of it, I will deliver her. Nothing can stop me.”
And that was true. Ryoka had nothing else to say. Exhausted as he was, tired, she saw Raim’s eyes flash. He burned still. And the last ember was waiting. Waiting to flare and die.
To slay Belavierr. Ryoka could not tell him it was wrong. She could not argue for Belavierr. So she stood. She bowed to Ser Raim.
“I’m sorry. I wish I could wish you luck. I only—”
She couldn’t finish her sentence. Ser Raim smiled.
“Thank you.”
She left the house. Quietly. And Ryoka gazed up as the night grew quieter. Even the undead attacks on Riverfarm were slowing. She searched for the fae. But they had vanished. Powerless, Ryoka left the two [Summer Knights] standing guard. She walked through the streets, lost.
“Ivolethe.”
She looked for them. But the fae did not reply. Nor could Ryoka find them. Because they did not hang about Ser Raim as he wearily rested. They were too busy watching the battle.
 
—–
 
The pitch-black night and the war between Spring, Summer, and the Stitch Witch’s minions left sleep for no one but Ser Raim.
The lone Hunter’s Haven was a besieged castle, and the puppets and undead pressed forward in waves, despite the support from the Hunter’s Guild and Order of Seasons.
Step by step, the [Knights] gave ground. Fighting. Dying.
One of the [Spring Knights] fell, fighting a giant made of cloth who crushed their armor. Another created a vast bonfire that only went out when a comet as black as night’s sand struck it.
Was Belavierr winning? The Hunter’s Haven let the [Hunters] fearlessly fight from its sanctuary, but the shrinking circle of [Knights] forced them to dismount, fight amidst the walls of magic.
Did the Witch of Webs deserve this?
Yes. If any story of her was true, she had earned this death. If anything, should the other [Witches] have joined hands to kill her?
Mavika had offered to help Belavierr escape. In the end…
“A [Witch] is selfish. You are the greatest of the living [Witches]. The one who lived where legends fell, Belavierr. Not the most deserving or the best. But the one who would not die.”
Witch Califor wished she could have had a proper conversation with the Witch of Webs. But she supposed all ants looked the same to the woman.
You lost perspective the more powerful you got. Califor knew that. She looked down and saw a cluster of the rookie [Knights], led by Dame Talia, trying to fight a single Draugr on foot. The massive hulking undead was sending them flying, battering forward to slam against the Hunter’s Haven.
And more undead were spilling forwards. Not just the controlled puppets, who fought with asymmetrical grace, but undead. Mindless. Unled. Belavierr was a fine [Necromancer], but the undead were trying to kill everything living.
Talia Kallinad fell on her back as the Draugr stomped on her, trying to cave in her armor. Califor watched.
Young men and women, who fought like they were invincible until the day they learned they were not. Easy foes for one like Belavierr, who had broken youth and will against her true power.
—But Califor liked to think she had never forgotten how much that mattered. She had warned the [Hunters] and [Knights] not to put her against them.
Now, she wished they had asked her to join them. She had her apprentice. But she also had her principles.
The undead. Califor watched from above as the Draugr was knocked back a step from a bolt. The [Knight] scrambled to put her back to the door to the Hunter’s Haven as her comrades fought around her. And the Draugr?
The Draugr stared blankly at the Hunter’s Haven, crossbow bolts sticking out of its face, huge gashes in its side. Then the undead turned and regarded the village behind it.
A village of countless souls. Far more valuable to an undead, which lived only to kill, than a handful of [Hunters].
The undead began to lumber towards Riverfarm proper. Califor, watching from the top of one of the houses, saw an arrow strike it in the head. Then she heard screams of alarm, and Beniar and his [Riders] set themselves behind impromptu barricades in the village.
There was the brave girl, Durene. And Hedag. They saw more undead shifting their way.
Beniar, a brave man, was no [Knight]. He was not near the levels of the Order of Seasons, and the undead were shifting towards the village. Hundreds. Too many for a single Hedag to best. Califor shook her head.
Below her, she knew, Nanette was probably peeking out the windows, terrified—but brave enough to have her wand ready. The Wind Runner, Durene—would Wiskeria fight her mother’s puppets to defend this place?
