Ser Raim went to block, but the blow caught him off-guard. His feet left the ground, and his armor and flames caught the blow—it nevertheless tossed him like a fly. Fifty feet.
“Raim!”
The [Hunters] shouted as his aura left them beset on all sides. Belavierr aimed the gigantic needle like a lance to throw as the man tumbled, but the half-Elf snapped.
“I’ve got him—[Recalling Shot]!”
She fired an arrow a second before Belavierr threw. Her arrow struck Ser Raim in the breastplate—and she yanked him back towards them. He came to his feet with a shout of gratitude as the needle buried itself in the ground.
At this, Belavierr’s eyes flicked to the half-Elf, but her swipe through the air missed her target as Ser Raim brought his sword down on her arm.
Rather than cutting it off, he merely knocked it down, and Belavierr grimaced—before stepping back out of the way of another slash.
She was faster than she looked, and Ser Raim’s sword, which should have already mortally wounded her half a dozen times over, only seemed to hurt. But by the same token—Belavierr’s dodge merely carried her into the second slash. The [Knight] smoothly pivoted and cut her across one leg, before slashing her arm.
Swordmaster she was not. Belavierr staggered, then tried to step past Raim. Towards her daughter.
“Keep her back.”
Gaile’s voice was steady as she yanked Wiskeria backwards. Now, the [Witch Hunters] redeployed, screening Gaile and Wiskeria. Belavierr’s daughter was stock-still, staring at Gaile.
She wasn’t breathing hard; she certainly felt the blade at her throat, but she was calm. Possessed when it came to her own life. But when Wiskeria looked at her mother, it was with—disbelief.
As if she didn’t believe Ser Raim’s sword was actually hurting her.
One of the [Hunters] with crossbows shot again and again, downing the stitch-creations that came charging out of the shadows. The sky had turned black. Some of his bolts hit Belavierr, but she ignored them. They cut, but not deeply at her thread. The flame was what burned her.
Another had a hammer and shield. He turned as Belavierr pointed, this time at Gaile.
“She’s summoning bigger ones! What’s—”
This time, a giant puppet came hurtling out of nowhere, and the [Hunter] shouted as an eighteen-foot-tall monstrosity of wood, half-grown branches with dead leaves and glowing amber eyes, hurtled at him.
“[Shield of Defiance]! [Sin of Wrath]. Give—me—strength!”
His feet skidded backwards, but he heaved—and the deadwood giant went stumbling back instead.
Another [Hunter] was firing a hand-crossbow at the giant, blowing chunks out of its face with explosive bolts, when she looked up.
“Tombs of Menorome—spirits! Ghosts! She’s got her own ghosts!”
All the [Hunters] looked up. Now, there were spectral figures, screaming faces and disturbed air, reaching hands—and even a skeletal, corporeal figure holding a scythe.
“We can’t hold back this many! The entire damn Guild couldn’t—”
“Shut up. Truegold!”
The [Witch Hunter] with the scissor-blades stowed his sword, and the one who’d spoken drew a rapier made of bright gold—and stabbed through the first spirit. The thing shrieked, and the gold flashed brilliant ocre where it met the spirit’s ‘body’—and the thing vanished.
“A gift from Ailendamus!”
For all their bravado, the six [Hunters] fell back again. They would have been dead in heartbeats if they were the target of this army. Yet like the puppets—
The spirits feared the blazing [Knight]. Each creation that Belavierr summoned burnt or perished, most before even reaching the man.
Belavierr’s face was a grimace now, one masked by her own blood. She threw another storm of needles at Raim; saw them melt. Next came loping beasts made of stuffed hide, mimicking what they had once been.
A Wyvern with red scales bit at Ser Raim, ignoring his flames for a time, but even the Fire Wyvern began to smolder—one of the [Hunters] shot gaps in its hide, and the stuffing within ignited it like a [Fireball].
That sword kept cutting into her. Belavierr staggered—then her eyes locked on Wiskeria’s face. She ceased summoning puppets. And she began to stride.
“Keep her from Gaile! Keep her back!”
Tagil, the leader of the [Witch Hunters], roared. But his sword failed to deflect one of the puppets, and when the [Hunter] with the hammer tackled Belavierr, trying to slow her, she tossed him aside. Raim drove his sword into her back, deep, and Belavierr threw her head back and howled—
And she stared at her daughter. Then at the [Hunter] holding Wiskeria’s life.
Gaile tightened her grip on Wiskeria. She tried to drag Wiskeria back, then cursed and looked down. Black threads had wound themselves around her boots. Gaile stared at Wiskeria, and her grip tightened.
“Hunter Gaile!”
Raim had seen, and Gaile stared him in the eyes, teeth bared, as Belavierr stalked towards her.
“Wound her, Raim!”
He drove his sword deeper, trying to literally saw Belavierr in half, and the [Witch] kept advancing. She reached out—and Gaile glanced at Wiskeria’s face.
Then the [Hunter] shoved Wiskeria aside and raised her axe.
“This is your end, Witch!”
The [Huntress] struck as Belavierr swung an arm down. On Gaile’s lips was a Skill. She drove the axe lightly into Belavierr’s chest, barely parting the cloth of her robes—
Belavierr’s hand crushed through the woman’s neck, her ribs, and drove Gaile’s body down until it was a crumpled thing of blood and flesh. She reached for her daughter—and Ser Raim’s sword carved a second time through her chest.
Then, Belavierr did shriek once more and whirl away from her daughter. She was wounded. With each second—it seemed as if the shadows around her were parting. As if she were more real, and each blow hurt a bit more. She was…dying.
So was Ser Raim. He was dying too as her immortality burnt away with him. For a mortal could best even that which was immortal, if he had the strength, the will, and the chance. He could slay forever.
 
—–
 
They watched. The Order of Seasons in distant Terandria, from the Knight-Commander to the Grandmasters to Dame Talia, her fingers white on her sword. In Riverfarm, the people of the Unseen Empire watched, witnessing the battle of giants. From their isle, the [Mages] of Wistram covertly observed.
The coven of [Witches] watched. So did the fae. From their perches, they watched an old story unfold. All eyes were on Belavierr as she tried to flee, and her daughter watched her mother. Smelled smoke and burning. Heard her mother scream.
One person turned away. She ran as the shadows caught fire. Searching the ranks of the otherworldly host. Ryoka shouted, but her voice was lost by the roar of battle. And no matter how far she ran, she couldn’t approach the watchers. They were here, but not here.
And they looked down, eyes staring past her. On Belavierr, alight with flame, Ser Raim, the [Witch Hunters]. The fae watched with curiously grave expressions, without the glee or amusement Ryoka would have expected. They were bearing witness. Their chatter was audible to only one person desperate enough to hear it.
 
“Twill she die, I wonder? Look, he cuts her protections deeper with every blow.”
“Aye, but she has more lives to burn. He’s but a man.”
“He’ll take her life because he’s but one man.”
“Aye, aye.”
 
The maddening talk above her was all focused on Ser Raim. But Ryoka had to know—she shouted.
“Ivolethe!”
The young woman cried out, but her voice was too quiet. This was not her moment. And the watching fae paid her no notice. She ran towards one, begging. Pleading.
“Ivolethe! Is she here? Is she alive?”
Ryoka Griffin called out for her friend. At last, one of the fae looked down at her. A strange person with sharp teeth grinned. And her?—his?—eyes were suddenly gleeful.
 
“You again. You want to know?”
 
“Yes! Please!”
Every fiber in Ryoka wanted to turn. It was screaming at her that she had to see. For better or worse, see what became of Belavierr. But what kept her begging, searching for a hint of blue and ice, was friendship. Her lost friend. She pleaded with the fae, and it laughed.
 
“Tell me. Why should I tell you? Now, begone. We are trying to see.”
 
He flicked a finger. Ryoka could only stumble away. She kept pleading. But they didn’t listen. When Ryoka heard the last shriek, she had to turn.
Gaile was dead. The [Hunter] lay on the ground, crumpled and broken. The other [Hunters] cried out in fury, continuing to fight. But Belavierr’s voice rose above them, a sound no Human could have made.
She was on fire. They all were. The [Hunters] burned from their proximity to Ser Raim. And they screamed with it too. But they fought. Ryoka saw one drinking a potion as he reloaded. He shot both crossbows, and the silver bolts struck a cloth-Wyvern dropping out of the skies. The bolts blew holes in the Wyvern, exploding with fire. He whirled.
“She’s running! Sylind! Mark her!”
The [Hunter] with the bow and arrow turned. She aimed at Belavierr. The [Witch] was fleeing, striding away as Ser Raim pursued her. Again, each of Belavierr’s steps seemed to take her dozens of feet away. But the fire was still burning her. She looked—Ryoka’s breath caught.
Mortal. As if some of the unearthly nature had burnt away. Even her steps were unsteady as she fled. She turned, her hand flickering, and she raised a cloth shield.
“[Chain Lightning].”
The [Witch Hunter] with the wand aimed it. Ryoka saw a flash—the bolt was caught on the cloth shield—Ser Raim’s blade stopped as it struck the shield. Then it began to burn as his blade drew back. Belavierr struggled, stepping backwards. And the [Huntress] spoke.
“[The Eternal Hunt].”
The arrow flew. Belavierr dropped the burning shield, and dozens of threads as thick as cables tried to ensnare Ser Raim and the [Witch Hunter] with the hammer. The man with the hammer cursed as the threads tried to snare him, and he clutched an amulet, and for a second, he was intangible, walking through the thread. Ser Raim swung, cutting through. Belavierr whirled, and the black horse rode towards her, faster than any horse should move.
The arrow struck Belavierr in the shoulder as she pulled herself up onto the bare horse’s back. She turned, staring back at the [Hunter] with the bow. But the one with the crossbows loosed again, and Belavierr’s fingers twisted. The crossbow bolts snapped on her clothes, which were suddenly harder than stone. She rode, outdistancing her pursuers in a moment, with each second passing hundreds of feet. But the [Hunter] kept firing, aiming at her back even when she was a distant speck.
And then? Ryoka, her eyes wide, saw Belavierr’s head turn. Though the [Witch] was a speck, Ryoka felt the single emotion from her. Fear. Pure, mortal, fear.
She fled, and the others abandoned their pursuit. Ser Raim slowed, and the brilliant, white flames around him vanished. The other two [Hunters] slowed as well. The man with the hammer gasped, his face cut, his armor torn twice.
“Did it take? Did it take, Sylind?”
The half-Elf was checking her bow.
“It—did! The Skill worked! Raim must have burnt her bad enough—I know where she is! We have her!”
She whirled, and the others looked astonished—then the [Witch Hunter] with the wand snapped.
“It’s not a trick?”
“I swear it’s not. We can bring her down. Gaile—”
They turned and fell silent a moment. One of them, the one called Tagil, touched the brim of his hat.
“She bought Raim the time to hurt her. Truly hurt her. A Hunter to her last. Do we pursue now?”
The woman with the rapier stared at the place where Belavierr had disappeared in the distance. She cursed.
“We’re wounded, and Gaile’s fallen. If we lose her now—”
Sylind shook her head.
“I will never lose her again. I told you, she’s marked. We could call for reinforcements. Bring an army or continue pursuit—”
The one with the crossbows tapped Sylind in the chest.
“So long as you live. Right, your life is as precious as Raim’s, Sylind. If we need to, we’ll send you to—where can’t she find you? Samal?”
Sylind pushed the hand away.
“Forget about me, Coroise. Raim. How much of his life did he burn away?”
The others turned and saw the [Knight] kneeling now, flames extinguished, smoke rising from his armor, visibly exhausted after the battle.
The [Summer Knight] was bent as Ryoka approached with Prost, Rie, and the others. Prost called out, and the group turned. Ryoka saw the [Knight] turn to face them and froze.
His armor blazed with the colors of his season. Gold and red and orange. His sword still burned. But the man was different. He had been changed.
“Who are you people?”
Prost demanded. The [Witch Hunters] looked at him. The one with the scissor-blades bowed.
“I apologize, sir, for the danger we have placed you in. I am Foreign Hunter Tagil, leading the other Hunters of Noelictus. We are on a mission of utmost importance on the business of the Crown of Noelictus itself.”
Prost stared at the unfamiliar titles and address.
“The what? Noelictus?”
“Terandria. They’re very well respected. This is an international affair, Prost.”
Lady Rie murmured the words. Her eyes were wide. The [Hunters] besides Tagil barely paid attention to the onlookers. One went to Raim’s side. The [Knight] was bent over. Another ran for the orb on the ground. Ran, not walked. The half-Elf with the bow, Sylind, turned, scanning the distance. The one with the crossbows spoke tersely.
“We are hunting the Stitch Witch, Belavierr. A monster among monsters. If I were you, I’d either get to your homes or just run for the hills. We can’t promise you’ll be safe if she returns.”
“We know. That is—her coven—”
At this, the [Hunter] instantly raised her crossbows and stared at the other [Witches].
“Coven? She has a coven now?”
Tagil snapped.
“Bows down, Coroise. They must be new. Peace, [Witches]! We have no quarrel with you!”
Despite that, he put his hand on the scissor-blades at his side. The [Witches] halted; Mavika’s shoulders were tensed, and she looked exceptionally wary. Her face was filled with wrath, but Tagil glanced at Prost.
“Are you the [Headman] here?”
“No. [Steward] to Emperor Godart.”
Hunter Tagil blinked with genuine astonishment.
“Well, I’d ask you and that [Emperor] to clear the area, sir. We mean you no harm, and this woman might well destroy your homes if she’s left to ruin another place.”
Prost crossed his arms, less impressed with Hunter Tagil’s reputation than Rie.
“We may do that, sir, and I see a noble [Knight] with you. But if you go after Miss Ryoka or any folk here, we’ll be forced to fight, and we have an army.”
Hunter Tagil paused as the other Hunters of Noelictus glanced over at the threat.
“Who?”
