Day 65
 
A woman sat in a web made by a spider. She was sewing, stitching together a soul out of pieces. The fabric was worn and old, tattered and stained by sins. It was made of flesh and sacrifice. Stolen years and desperate deeds.
Blood? A single skein of thread could contain oceans. The needle that pieced each part of this soul together was black, like the empty eyes of the dead.
The woman had heard the silent scream of a soul leaving the body a million million times. She had stolen the souls and the lives of so many she could no longer remember. Whispering to them for secrets and offering them halflife for prices only she could name. Leaving behind pain and regret and anguish and death upon death upon death.
The spider’s web was vast—or had been. Now, it floated, free-form, strands of identity, memory, and power hanging around her. A tapestry of eons of making to rival Dragons or the greatest [Archmages] and legends—destroyed.
Mice. Naughty, wretched mice had eaten it away. Exposed holes. Weaknesses. For however filthy any part was—a ransomed life, an eye plucked from a socket in trade, a sacrifice in scarlet—what she had made of it had been beautiful.
Her web. The woman could well be called the Spider, then. The Last Weaver. Witch of Webs. Temptress. So many names.
How had it been ruined so? The pieces had been nibbled at without her knowledge, power stolen away until entire fragments of her being were disconnected. Into that gap came weakness.
Even now, the woman looked around and saw the damage to her web. Not just to her village; her eyes roamed and saw shattered threads. Ruined. So much work ruined by song and flame.
Unacceptable. Her lips would have curled if she was capable of that much emotion. Instead, the woman just bent back to work, and her furious work to mend and salvage what could be salvaged consumed her.
The tapestry of her soul was only about her. Her…and a single child holding her hand. Her deaths circled the weaving, unable to pierce the manifold layers to the heart of her. Rings of immortality bargained for, stolen, obtained in profane ways.
 
Bind your soul by magic against spell and blade and Skill.
Murder the last of the ancient Phoenixes and eat its heart raw.
Strike a deal with a [Necromancer] of old for the secret to his eternal body and life.
Write a pact to send your death to another woman before it came to you. A hundred women. A thousand.
 
She had not striven for one method, but rather, all. It was her life’s work, and it had all been undone because she had grown careless. She had fallen asleep, lonely from her daughter’s absence, sated on her latest project—and they had wormed their way in.
This new tapestry would be foolproof, even against the dead. Then she would find the mice and hang them from their naughty tails and find out how to exact vengeance for each and every thing they had taken from her with interest.
This was right. This was proper and in the old way of things. The woman sat there, fingers constantly moving.
She was not old. Or rather, not as old as the tapestry around her. She had made the first layer to hide herself from time long, long ago. Then other layers to seal away things like her heart that it might never bleed, hide her soul that no one could judge it.
Too much, perhaps. In time, it had become a cocoon, suffocating her from the outside world. Now that the layers thinned, the woman was more herself.
Belavierr, they called her.
Belavierr.
She had a daughter.
She had a nemesis who sang.
She had a death who blazed. Two deaths, it seemed.
These things were true and mattered; all else would change. The woman kept sewing, watching the world twist around her, a haze through her veil of being. The tapestry of her soul reflected a battle.
Needles made of every material in creation, from wood to silver to bone to stone, lancing through the air. A cartwheeling figure firing two bolts at her chest.
She twisted a finger, and the fletching should have snapped—but it did not. Each fiber was charmed against her, and the figure had found a way to pierce magic.
Bolts struck home; the woman watched, idly, as blood pooled. Not on her chest, but at the very edges of the tapestry. A body woven out of cunning cloth stumbled and bled.
That it even touched the tapestry was annoying. A sign of weakness. The woman corrected the stitching, removing the bolts with a flick of her hand. Sewed the gaps closed; reinforced the weave.
Vengeance, then. Old as she was, she did it well. Spilling blood into one hand, the Witch of Webs flung the droplets wide, and they bloomed like strange flowers she had seen once. Each edge as sharp as could be.
Shadows dodged around her, shouting. But the woman, the [Witch], simply kept sewing. She was being hunted.
Why?
I remember them. She studied the shattered tapestry of her memories. Oh. Yes.
They were there. She barely recalled faces, but she recalled it now. [Hunters] meddling in her task. The Kingdom of Shades. Ghosts…
An axe struck her tapestry hard enough to make the outer edges shake; it could not pierce the outermost layer. Once more, the woman simply removed the axe, dealt the [Hunter] a blow to shake his bones, and went back to sewing.
They were less than mice. Not a single one had reached the first step of power. They had no age; their weapons were well made, though. Yet the woman paid them no heed. She sat, sewed, and knew not how long she worked, for her task was all-consuming.
Then?
Suddenly, there was flame. A burning man approached her, and the woman threw up a hand, and her eyes dilated in the sudden brightness that pierced the layers of her manifold soul.
What was this? Someone else? A [Knight]?
Yes. She knew him. A burning man, eyes open wide, blazing with a fire carried from thousands of years ago. She saw its very source: the wrath of a long-dead [Paladin]. Flames of faith. Flames of hatred.
Flames born of sacrifice. Such a conflagration that it was burning him alive each second he existed. The man was strong. Insignificant compared to those she had clashed against, but he had reached the first step of greatness.
—And he had turned his achievement into a single vow, a single purpose: her death. The burning man walked towards her, and a sword dug into her tapestry and lit it ablaze.
It pierced the first layer and the second, and the woman reached to pluck the sword out—and the flames burnt her. The fires ate away at her work, and alarmed, she tried to quench the fire with threads made of blood. With wards made of ancient Dragonscale for this very purpose.
He was only a flame. Yet—and yet—
Ser Raim burned. His flames should not have reached her, but they did, racing through holes in the safeguards around her being. Like a torch set to worm-riddled wood, he ignited layer after layer of her web.
Then—the woman felt alarm change to fear. For the first time in an age, she gazed at the man and saw her death coming for her. A true death that refused to catch on her nets or turn away.
“Stop. It will be your end. Have I quarreled with you?”
She whispered, and the man’s eyes only raged hotter. She…did not remember him, but he had the look and likeness of so many. An old bargain or deed, perhaps. It mattered not. Thus, he came.
And the woman called Belavierr began to struggle, now, fighting the flames. For the closer he got—
The more she remembered pain. Now, quick, the Spider scurried. To do battle. A little ember was burning her web. It should not have even been able to catch a spark, but she scrabbled for the scraps of her power. Threw them at her foes, for she did know how to escape and live.
But for her daughter and it would have been easy to flee.
‘But fear not’, whispered the Spider, ‘I know well this killing game.’
 
——
 
The air was dark and heavy, but the light that raged in the center of it all was all the brighter, like a bonfire in perfect midnight. Tangled voices, shouting, screams, and the snap of strings faded unnaturally fast, as if all were muffled by a sea of cotton. It smelled like a dry summer’s day, hot, and like charcoal and smoke.
The air even tasted wrong. Old and dusty, like a cough never released for a thousand years. Or longer? A shuffling filled the air as the crackling roar intensified.
“—support Raim! My arrows aren’t even hurting—”
“She’s burning! Back, back! ‘Ware the shadows! I see—”
A woman reached out, and figures shambled out of the darkness. Not from real reality, but from somewhere else. The shadows of her cloak? Another dimension? Their aimless walking slowly became purposeful, as if they had been wandering so long and finally—saw light and purpose.
Who were they? Hundreds, now, marching, now running, metal clattering, trailing broken cloth and thread, mouths agape as the [Hunters] whirled, calling out alarms. One fired a silver arrow straight into the head of one of the shadows, but it kept running forwards until all could see who they were:
Puppets.
Thousands of years ago, they had been given form. Their forms cut from silk, carefully stitched into shapes and connected. And something else had been added. Magic. A half-life that could animate their bodies of cloth and give them purpose.
They looked like soldiers, these puppets. Not like people. They were no Stitch-people with proper anatomy and faces—and souls. These puppets had dead eyes, stern, warlike features, or sometimes even blank faces and crude sockets carved out of wood or painted onto canvas.
Huge arms, long legs—and very real weapons. A [Hunter] with a scissor-sword snipped the arm off one running at him with a spear, and the thing only bled stuffing; he whirled his sword, took its head off, and it kept stabbing until the [Witch Hunter] bisected it again at the waist. Then the legs just fell, kicking.
More puppets rushed after the first, attacking wildly, a perfect little army for some war or other purpose. What purpose that had been perhaps even their creator had forgotten. So the puppets eventually lost their purpose, were stored away. But they remained. Because the one who had stitched them together always had need of things.
She stood as the [Hunters] formed a ring around a blazing man trying to drive his sword deeper into her chest.
The witch’s hands were locked around the burning sword, ignoring it charring her flesh, trying to pull it out of her. Now there was a grimace of pain on her face, but only slightly, as if she had felt a pinprick for the first time in eons.
Yet that was enough to make her eyes open wide, wide. If you looked into those eyes through the interconnecting rings bathed in orange, you might fall into that infinite gaze.
Deeper. Deeper. Into the very depths of her soul. There, you would see her.
She had been a mortal woman once. But such was her skill at thread and needle that she had grasped a truth of her art. All things were connected. And the art of sewing life and fate and magic was only a different technique than physical materials.
Over centuries, she had added to those layers, creating something beyond any spider’s ability. Some of those old wards had failed. Many had stood strong in the face of harm. But for all she had touched immortality, Belavierr had always known of her death. For it was the one thread she could never cut. It was woven into her being.
And now she knew one other truth: nothing was permanent. Dragons fell. Gods died. And now her death had come for her.
Belavierr burned. And as she screamed, her creations charged the [Knight]. They tried to stab him, shoot him with arrows—but the [Witch Hunters], six of them, forced a circle of steel and flesh.
“[We Make a Stand: Fight or Fall]! [Blademaster’s Slash]! Sylind—Phoenixfire arrow! Now!”
The leader of the [Witch Hunters] carved down two dozen puppets with a cut that tore through wood and armor alike, and the half-Elf with a bow plucked a burning arrow from her quiver. She loosed it with a shout.
“[Triple Shot]! Take c—”
The detonations of the three copied arrows erased hundreds of the puppets. The explosions sent mounds of earth and stone fountaining up into the air, and the shockwave itself tossed the puppets around like leaves. Only the [Hunters] held their ground.
“[Dwarven Defence: Granite Formation]. They’re coming.”
The largest one gritted out, holding his battleaxe at the ready. The puppets had no brains to concuss or bones to break. Even if their legs were shattered, they dragged themselves forwards onto the [Hunters]’ blades. But they were so many—one slashed at a [Hunter]’s armor, slowly marking the enchanted leather. Another stumbled past the [Hunters] towards the [Knight]. A crude hatchet made of blood-red crystal raised…
Before any [Hunter] could bring it down, the wooden puppet’s body burst into flame. It tried to swing the crystal hatchet, but it stumbled, turning to ash so quickly that the hand holding the axe fell—and then even the crystal was melting around the man’s feet.
Ser Raim never noticed. He had yanked his sword back and cut at Belavierr’s arm as she deflected the sword with a staff of her own. His sword met the dark ash of her staff and ignited it; two more swift blows and he cleaved through an artifact, unleashing a screaming howl of magic—and then stabbed once more into Belavierr’s chest. With a faint grimace, she yanked the greatsword out and tossed him back a step. Her puppets ran at Ser Raim, and he whirled his sword, cleaving through a puppet made of pale, yellow cloth that refused to burn.
“Keep them off him! Target the dangerous ones!”
A [Witch Hunter] tackled the golem as it staggered, barely cut, and began to knife it repeatedly, and Ser Raim checked himself before facing the [Witch] again. The [Hunters] used his aura as a shield; they drew in closer, letting him burn the weaker puppets by his very presence.
His aura. Ser Raim’s fire was like a beacon in the darkness. The flames that consumed the puppets were burning at the shadows themselves. It seemed anything he deemed a foe was caught in an inferno beyond any ordinary temperature. Steel melted. Magic burned. And when he drove his sword a third time into her stomach—
The [Witch] screamed.
There he was. Standing in the web of her soul, cutting at her protections. The thread burned. He was cutting it all away. The [Knight] burned, his very life the fuel of the flames. He could hurt her. She was dying.
But she didn’t flee. Because the [Witch] was looking ahead. At a single [Hunter] who hadn’t joined the fighting.
Her axe cut a red line into Wiskeria’s throat as the [Hunter] stood there, watching her, eyes blazing with hatred and victory. But she did not pay attention to the [Hunter].
Belavierr did not even remember why she hated her.
Wiskeria was all Belavierr cared for. Belavierr took another step, then turned. She raised a hand and produced a needle of her own, long, like a rapier—and swung it fast.
