“Completely. Sylind has [The Eternal Hunt]. She will never lose her quarry once marked. The Skill didn’t touch her last time; the fact that it worked means I have weakened her protections. Greatly! With each blow, I felt her mortality surfacing. I cannot explain how we strove; I saw a woman within a great web of horrors, but I was slowly cutting towards her. Burning her out of her cage.”
He coughed, and Calirn saw Raim’s eyes flicker. He wasn’t hurt badly; Belavierr had only hit him once, truly, but he looked—well, he had aged years. Maybe even decades.
“Knight-Commander, we can hold against the waves Belavierr has summoned. But we must pursue Belavierr. This village will be destroyed if we do not protect it. I request reinforcements to hold the ground while we advance.”
“There is a legion of cloth golems bearing down on them.”
The Spring’s Warden spoke quietly, her eyes staring past Ser Raim’s head. Calirn nodded. He saw one of the [Hunters] turn and snap.
“Raim. More are coming.”
The [Summer Knight] nodded. He looked back at the orb.
“Knight-Commander.”
“I will consider your request, Ser Raim. A moment.”
The Knight-Commander was a [Winter Knight]. He spoke the harsh words impartially. Emotion could not affect his judgment. He could see the Summer’s Champion, the opposite of his Season, look up, eyes flashing. But Ser Raim only nodded. He drew his sword and advanced past the orb, taking up a position with the [Hunters]. Calirn saw a huge shadow and one of the [Hunters], the one with the bow, Sylind, aiming up—
“Fall’s Sentinel. Do you believe that Skill will locate the Stitch Witch, despite her abilities?”
Calirn looked over at the Grandmaster of the Season of Fall. The Fall’s Sentinel glanced up. The war room held three of the Grandmasters and Calirn as well as two servants. By protocol, the Winter’s Watcher was elsewhere, should they all fall. The Fall’s Sentinel paused and nodded.
“[The Eternal Hunt]. With that Skill, [Hunters] of old could track even Dragons. Getting to them was more difficult, but no magic could protect them.”
“And she is wounded.”
The Fall’s Sentinel nodded, but the Summer’s Champion smashed a fist down on the table they were watching from. The image shook.
“Calirn! Would you leave Raim alone? He has the Witch of Webs wounded! Now is the time to call armies! Signal House Veltras! Send us all—”
Calirn stared at the Summer’s Champion until the furious man broke off. He was raging with fire, echoing Ser Raim’s amazing display. Calirn, though, refused to get riled up.
“Calm yourself, Ser Greysten. Until I saw and heard a lesser Skill working on her, it was my belief Ser Raim might well fail to do enough damage to the Witch of Webs. Now I see he has wounded her? Of course we shall send reinforcements.”
Ser Greysten looked relieved. Calirn rubbed at his beard.
“The only issue is who could reinforce them. We sacrificed any aid we might have from Noelictus or Ailendamus, or her many foes. If we had time—”
“Could we prevail on Ailendamus? They are not friendly towards us.”
The Spring’s Warden muttered. The Fall’s Sentinel raised his brows.
“For the Stitch Witch? Call for one of Ailendamus’ Great Generals! And every Veteran Hunter of Menorome!”
“We have no time. If she escapes—perhaps. But we are to work with what we have.”
Calirn regretted not giving Raim more credit. They should have had more than a brief overview of the terrain. The man should have a legion at his back! However…the longer they gave the Stitch Witch, the more the odds turned against them.
The recent [Messages] addressed to him—and Pheislant’s [King] were proof of that!
Calirn turned. The wide-eyed [Servants] were still panting, holding up scrolls blazing with urgency. Knight-Commander Calirn looked at them. Then at the Spring’s Warden. Her gaze met his. Calirn clenched his fist.
“Kaliv. And the shining kingdom of Taimaguros. I knew of the Griffin Prince. But what hold does the Stitch Witch have on Taimaguros’ [King]? Both have ordered us in no uncertain terms to release or halt our pursuit of the Stitch Witch.”
The Fall’s Sentinel shook his head.
“Anything. Perhaps she gave him life. Or maybe some charm? We should be lucky the Blighted King himself isn’t threatening war.”
Calirn nodded. He looked at the [Servants].
“Any updates?”
One had a scroll. She checked it, and the servant shook her head rapidly. She gulped, looking afraid.
“No, Knight-Commander. Both nations continue to demand the Order abandon its pursuit of Belavierr at once, Knight-Commander. And both…both have roused a large force.”
“How many?”
“Eight hundred Griffins from Kaliv, sir. Thirteen thousand by horse from Taimaguros. Both have set out at once. Towards the Order.”
The Summer’s Champion uttered an oath.
“Eight hundred [Griffin Riders]? Does Kaliv mean war?”
Calirn shook his head. He calmly assessed the numbers. But even his heart was beating faster.
“They would have sent three times that number and a ground force if they intended war. Even so, the Griffin Queen means to assail our order directly. If we do battle, it will be war.”
“For her son.”
“Yes.”
The Grandmasters paused. Calirn studied a map.
“Fall’s Sentinel. Your appraisal? How fast will Kaliv reach us?”
“Three day’s flight from Kaliv’s borders. Or—if the Griffin Queen herself leads, a day’s flight. But she will not reach the order until tomorrow at dawn at the earliest, even if she uses speed-boosting Skills and calls wind-magic to her aid. Taimaguros will be six days even with the best Skills.”
Calirn nodded absently.
“Then we have no time to raise an army, even if one could be sent. Not from Terandria, nor Izril. It truly was the best measure to send so few. Yet Raim is in need.”
Then he glanced over. The Summer’s Champion’s aura was driving the temperature of the room up. The man met Calirn’s gaze.
“It just proves Ser Raim is right. She is desperate, Knight-Commander. Belavierr throws everything she can against the hunters. Ser Raim has cut the thread of her immortality. Give me leave to assemble five lances. I will lead them myself. We can end this.”
The Knight-Commander shook his head.
“You are compromised, Summer’s Champion. As am I. She would turn you against your own comrades.”
The Summer’s Champion looked bitter.
“Not I, then. But the Spring’s Warden or the Winter’s Watcher, then. And every [Knight] over Level 30 we can spare—!”
The Spring’s Warden raised her hand.
“Greysten, Calirn. You have met the woman. Speak to me honestly: can Ser Raim and his party even survive her onslaught? Within moments of being attacked, she summoned enough puppets to overwhelm a hundred [Knights]. I know the Stitch Witch’s legends. What might she bear against Raim before he can reach her?”
That was Calirn’s fear as well. Even if she had been bested once and Raim had weakened her…he stared at the orb. The Griffin Queen promised war. As did Taimaguros’ [King]. But Belavierr—he weighed the costs, the odds of her death. Then, Calirn nodded.
“Prepare the grand ritual a second time! Summon the Order of Spring and Order of Summer! Move!”
The Grandmasters raced from the room. The Fall’s Sentinel was protesting, but he sprinted with Calirn to one of the oldest parts of the Order of Seasons’ stronghold. So old, in fact, it predated the Order of Seasons.
It was a relic of the half-Elven empire that had once called this area home. The room was a giant spell circle, designed for several ritual spells that even Wistram would have trouble emulating. And perhaps more that were yet unknown. One—the ability to walk across a world in moments—was one of the Order of Seasons’ trump cards. And yet—
“Knight-Commander! The cost is too high! We have exhausted over half of my Season performing the ritual once! We cannot do it again so easily!”
The Fall’s Sentinel snapped as Calirn burst into the grand ritual chamber. Calirn saw he was right. The last ritual’s components were still assembled on the floor.
Raw magicore, mana potions—even artifacts and enchanted weapons, scrolls, wands—all lay on the design on the floor. And the magicore was already turning to simple stone. The scrolls were just parchment.
All were spent. The [Autumn Knights] who had fueled the magic were drained, unsteady. Many were drinking mana potions, but they rose as Calirn strode into the room. Racing [Knights] poured into the room, but the Fall’s Sentinel’s voice snapped above them all.
“Gather all the magical items below relic status! Prioritize components and replaceable items first! Knight-Commander—”
“I hear you, Fall’s Sentinel. But the cost I am willing to pay. Even if we must sacrifice a lesser relic.”
The Fall’s Sentinel inhaled sharply, but then he shook his head.
“The cost would be too high. Our order is exhausted, and it is from them that much of the mana is produced. Moreover, you know we cannot move an army, Knight-Commander! The [Witch Hunters] and their gear were bad enough, as was Ser Raim!”
He gestured to the spell circle.
“Moving that much magic across the world took every bit of magic the Season of Autumn could muster, Knight-Commander! It is not a matter of weight—in the confines of this ritual, magic is the true weight! If we had another type of spell—no army. No magical armor! And the Stitch Witch will rip apart any [Knight] not bearing enchanted gear!”
Calirn paused.
“How many with simple steel armor and unenchanted weapons?”
“Calirn—”
The Knight-Commander glared at his old comrade.
“How many, Grandmaster?”
The Fall’s Sentinel hesitated.
“…Thirty-two, Knight-Commander. No one with a powerful aura or whose body is affected by their Skills. No Autumn Knights. That is the only margin we can account for. Any more or anyone with more magic and we will run out of mana. They will fall short of Riverfarm.”
“What of a few individuals who…?”
“No. I could calculate it out, but not on the fly.”
The Fall’s Sentinel folded his arms. Calirn looked back. A [Servant] had the scrying orb. Battle was already being joined. He made another decision and turned. The Seasons of Spring and Summer had flooded the room. They stood to attention, young and old, eyes locked on the combat across the world reflected in the scrying orb. Calirn called out.
“Summer’s Champion. Choose sixteen of your best who fit those parameters! Spring’s Warden—I seek sixteen of your most talented. Let only those who are ready for death volunteer.”
He paused and made a further calculation.
“…Half. Half of each, so eight of Summer and eight of Spring. Each one over Level 30. They will reinforce Ser Raim and hold the ground before bringing the fight to Belavierr. They are to take steel and silver only.”
The Fall’s Sentinel closed his eyes. Sixteen veterans and sixteen young? That many [Knights] would be overkill against a nest of Hydras. For the Stitch Witch—armed with steel alone?
Was this glorious or damned? Only the Knight-Commander could decide, and decide he had.
The Summer’s Champion and the Spring’s Warden only hesitated a moment. Then they began calling names. Calirn turned. Cold decisions. He looked at one of his brethren, a [Winter Knight].
“Send word to the Winter’s Watcher. Lock down the Order. Prepare for combat against aerial foes. Make ready to seal all the entrances for a siege.”
“You mean to defy Kaliv, Knight-Commander?”
“Until war is inevitable, yes. The scrying orb.”
Calirn beckoned. The Fall’s Sentinel turned, and artifacts and magical items flooded the room as thirty-two of the Order of Seasons lined up. Dame Talia stood proudly among her sisters and brothers, tossing her magical gear aside and being armed with plain steel and silver.
Calirn paused. But she was a [Summer Knight], noble blood or not. He spoke into the scrying orb. The [Hunters] were already battling. One had deployed an artifact that was throwing up walls of stone; another was throwing chained lightning from her wand.
“Ser Raim!”
The man turned. Calirn shouted towards him.
“Ser Raim. Reinforcements are on the way! You must claim the Stitch Witch’s head as quickly as you can. You have three days! The Order is about to be assailed by Kaliv. The Stitch Witch has forced their hand!”
The [Knight] stumbled towards Calirn. He was burning, but not from his life-consuming Skills. Calirn repeated the order. Ser Raim’s face was pale. He paused, panting.
“Reinforcements? We accept. We will pursue—the Stitch Witch—I am pledged to—”
He wavered. His face was deathly pale. Calirn’s eyes widened as he saw a huge clothed foot smash one of the stone walls.
“Ser Raim! Behind you! Ser Raim!”
The [Summer Knight] whirled. He saw the cloth giant and raised his greatsword. Then—suddenly—he paused. Calirn bellowed his name, but it was no use. Ser Raim fell without a sound, the greatsword slipping from his hands. The cloth giant turned as a thrown hammer struck it, and the impact sent it reeling back. But it advanced. Ser Raim had fallen. Calirn whirled.
“Fall’s Sentinel! Send them now!”
But the ritual needed time. Calirn turned back. Ser Raim was lying on the ground. Spent. He had used his Skill—he needed rest! He had to finish it! But the cloth giant was bending down, ignoring the spells and arrows blasting holes in its face. It bent—as Calirn watched helplessly, freezing the ground around him—
And a grey hand grabbed Ser Raim. At first, Calirn thought it was a monster. But the giant of a girl was holding a shield and crude leather armor. No—her shield was just a converted wooden door. But she pulled the [Knight] back behind her. She grabbed the greatsword in one hand and lifted her shield—a door of wood—in the other. The cloth giant brought its hand down like a hammer.
The half-Troll girl blocked it. The impact drove her down, with a cry, but her knees held. She forced the arm up and swung. The enchanted greatsword cleaved into the cloth golem, set it alight. The [Hunters] finally severed its head at range, and the girl held her ground. She roared and swung her greatsword, catching a bounding Ghoul and bisecting it. Calirn stared.
“Who is that?”
 
—–
 
Durene stood over Ser Raim. The line of [Hunters] had broken with the cloth giant. They reformed it, shouting, as she swung the greatsword one-handed. She blocked a pair of cloth-warriors circling her right with her shield. The sword was light. It sheared through everything with a single cut.
She swung. The flaming greatsword burned in her hands, but the fire did not hurt her. Nor had Ser Raim’s flames. And her eyes held a trace of that same fire. The [Paladin] bellowed, holding the line, while the [Hunters] raced past her.
