He looked up, and Sylind spun and began shooting arrows.
“Belavierr’s shooting comets at us! Black comets!”
The fighting resumed as the [Knights] dragged Ser Raim away. Durene was trying to cover their retreat. And throughout all of this—
Ryoka Griffin ran after the fae.
 
——
 
She couldn’t catch them. Not the fae. No matter how hard she ran. They didn’t even seem to move. But they were distant. With each step, she was further from them. The wind wouldn’t carry her. She couldn’t run like the wind. So she called out to them.
“Wait. Please?”
They laughed at her. But their eyes didn’t linger on the mortal girl. They turned. Following another gathering.
The coven, minus Nanette, found Belavierr sitting under a lonely tree. Wiskeria picked up her hat and stared at Ryoka. Somehow, the City Runner was there first. Despite the cloth warriors that marched on Riverfarm, attacking everything they saw. The [Witches] had been forced to fight past them, all but Wiskeria.
When they saw Ryoka, even Califor looked taken aback that the Wind Runner was here. But Wiskeria had only a glance for her. All of her attention was fixed on the huddled shape at the base of the tree.
Belavierr. Smoke still rose from the [Witch]’s clothes. And her dress was still ragged, torn from battle. She was sitting. And she breathed. The air rasped through her lungs. Wiskeria uttered a word.
“Mother—”
Califor stopped her. The senior [Witch] stared at what Belavierr held, and she shook her head.
“No closer. She has a jar of spirits. She’s unleashing them. Witch Belavierr, a word? Now.”
Now, Wiskeria saw the flickering around Belavierr. Faces. Shadows despite the day. She heard faint voices. Some called her name.
“A what? Spirits? That’s old magic. They don’t exist anymore.”
Alevica shivered and tried to grin. But the flickering, half-real shapes flew towards her, and she raised her wand. The things avoided her spell. No—the ray of burning fire passed through them. And they flew at the coven.
Dragging. Calling Wiskeria’s name. They pulled at her, freezing her body, trying to force the dagger out of its sheath. They circled Alevica as she swung at them, taunting, laughing at her magic. Mavika they avoided. Hedag they swarmed around, screaming her sins. Califor raised her wand, and the light blossomed—
Light. It was the first of spells. But the [Witch] shaped it. She conjured a sword out of it and swung. And the ghosts fled, screaming. Califor raised her wand. And the light shone bright.
Belavierr looked up. The ghosts abandoned her, Ryoka, and the coven. The Stitch Witch pointed, and they fled past them. Towards Riverfarm. Gasping, her insides cold, Wiskeria took her hand off her belt. She saw Alevica jerk. The [Witch] had been aiming her shortsword at her own neck. Hedag breathed slowly, loosening her grip on her axe.
Even Mavika seemed disturbed. Califor put one hand out. She spoke as if Nanette were here, but seemed to be confirming something herself. Shaken, but her voice was still steady.
“In ages past, [Witches] consorted with such things. Now, they are far fewer. So few that even bound ghosts are rare. The afterlife is empty. Thus [Witches], [Shamans], [Summoners], and all of our kind suffer for it. I should have known you of all women could summon some, Witch Belavierr.”
For the first time, Belavierr seemed to remember Califor. Her voice was a rasped wheeze.
“They…are old. Not true ghosts. The deadlands empty. You. Have you come to aid me? Fellow [Witch]. Daughter?”
Her eyes lingered on Wiskeria’s throat. The [Witch] still felt the cold axe digging into her flesh. She raised her hand to the healed wound. But it had been magical. So a scar remained. The potion hadn’t healed it.
“Mother. Who are those [Hunters]? Who is that [Knight]? Why are they hunting you?”
She knew. She didn’t know the exact details, but she knew. And she waited for her mother to give her a non-answer. For that vacant expression. That timeless expression that Wiskeria loved and hated. But Belavierr’s eyes were steady. Present.
“Enemies, Daughter. I had many when my plans fell to ash. These are more, seeking to finish their task. You must flee. I do battle here.”
She raised her hand, and Wiskeria felt her calling more magic. It ran through the ground, pulled at the shadows. Magic far beyond her, so much of it that Wiskeria felt sick. She had never seen Belavierr using this many spells.
The ground near Belavierr’s feet began to move. Alevica eyed it and stepped back. Califor did not. She ignored the hand that rose as it unearthed itself, clawing its way out of the soil. She stomped on the rising Draugr’s hand. Her voice was sharp and direct.
“To my knowledge, the [Hunters] and [Knights] pursue you for the crimes you have committed, Witch Belavierr. Do you deny why they seek vengeance?”
“I am hunted. It happens time and again. I do not remember why. The burning man I recognize. He was at…at…the village. Where is the [Singer]? I will kill her and rip her throat out too.”
Belavierr hissed. Califor ground her foot down as the earth tried to rise up.
“Witch Belavierr, you are endangering Riverfarm. Take your battle elsewhere.”
Belavierr ignored her. Wiskeria was just staring at the huddled [Witch]. She reached out, hesitantly, and there was a hiss. Eloise grabbed Wiskeria’s fingers.
“Burnt. Almost down to the bone. She’s still burning like an ember.”
Wiskeria grabbed her hand, face pale, as Alevica fumbled for a potion. Califor kept speaking.
“Witch Belavierr, do you hear me?”
Belavierr had gone back to summoning. More gigantic figures broke the earth. Ryoka stared at vast undead, super-zombies, but Wiskeria had no attention for the undead, spells, or anything else. Just her mother.
“She’s—she’s actually hurt. They can’t kill her, can they? Nothing can kill her.”
It was the most ludicrous thing to say. And yet—Wiskeria didn’t seem to believe Belavierr was hurt. Mavika’s eyes swung to her.
“Any witch can bleed or die.”
“Not her. Not—Mother? It’s just a death, isn’t it?”
The Stitch Witch blinked. More corpses dug themselves out of the earth. Belavierr had a needle in hand, and she was stitching them together. Now she paused and looked back at Wiskeria.
“Daughter. This death burns through my tapestry of self. The mice nibbled too greatly…it will be death or I, as ever. As always. I am not without…means.”
She tried to rise, fell backwards, and then seemed to remember Califor again.
“You, Witch. You are of passing skill. And you…”
She looked at Mavika.
“Aid me and I will grant a great boon. Witch to witch.”
Mavika hesitated, but Califor leaned forwards.
“You did not hear me, Witch Belavierr. I said: this is not our quarrel. I will not judge your deeds in Noelictus since I was not there. Tell me honestly and swear it on your hat: do these men and women have no cause to hunt you?”
“All have a cause that is just to them. Always. Even the lowliest rat.”
Belavierr sneered, sounding annoyed for all her voice rasped in pain. Califor shook her head.
“Then I will not aid you. I warn you a third time: endanger Riverfarm and we will be at odds.”
Belavierr stared blankly at her daughter until the words seemed to permeate through to her. Then she looked up with an expression of actual anger and incredulity on her face.
“You? You are threatening me?”
Hedag leaned on her axe.
“Not just her. Keep your creations away from the villagers, Belavierr. Or I will be forced to fight against you. I am Hedag, and they are under my protection.”
The Witch of Webs didn’t even look at Hedag as she locked eyes with Califor.
“Begone, witch of one name. I have met a thousand Hedags. I have butchered Hedag for getting in my way.”
“Then you know I mean it.”
Hedag’s voice was soft. Califor inclined her head.
“Do not endanger them, Belavierr. I say this for your daughter’s safety as well as your designs.”
The two [Witches] stared at each other. Hedag raised her axe slowly, resting it on her shoulder. In the end, Belavierr’s roaming gaze jerked away from Califor.
“Daughter. Daughter…I remember pain. I am closer now. With each layer unraveled, I miss you more. Strange.”
Belavierr turned back to Wiskeria, and the younger [Witch] looked at her, lost for words. Then stammered.
“You—you came back for me.”
“Yes. Your life was in danger.”
It was a simple equation to her. But it filled Wiskeria’s eyes with tears. And Belavierr saw. She reached out and paused. Staring. Then a finger reached out and did not touch Wiskeria’s cheek for fear of burning it, but captured one of the tears. Belavierr inspected the puff of steam and Wiskeria’s face. And then she glanced around.
Mavika. Ryoka. Wiskeria. The fae and the rising dead. Belavierr lingered on Ryoka for a moment, and then turned back to Wiskeria. She hesitated for a second. And she seemed so tired.
“My daughter. There is little time. I must do battle. I am hunted. But I ask one question of you. Would you see me dead? Do you wish it?”
The question hurt Wiskeria. She clutched her hat, her tears running down her face.
“No, Mother. I don’t. I don’t—!”
Despite it all, not like this. Let it not happen this way. Wiskeria shook. And then she saw Belavierr straighten. She smiled, and the great hat rose. The Stitch Witch looked past her daughter, towards her death. And she relaxed.
“That is well. Then go, my daughter. I will escape this death as I have others. Go.”
“I can’t leave you—”
But the black horse was already riding towards Wiskeria. She felt her clothes tugging her towards it. Belavierr gestured, and Wiskeria flew. As gently as if she were a child, settling onto the horse’s back. She clutched at her hat, shouting.
“Mother! Let me stay!”
Yet she was already being carried away. Wiskeria wept as the tall figure disappeared. And then she rode past giants. Creations of old cloth. And she realized she hadn’t known her mother well. If Wiskeria had her craft—she wept.
And then Belavierr turned. To the young woman who had seen it all.
“Ryoka Griffin. Tell me of my daughter’s heart. Does she…know of my love for her now?”
“I think so.”
Ryoka peered into those ringed eyes. And she saw a mortal woman there. Just a flicker. Belavierr nodded. And Mavika stepped forwards. Her flock of crows and the single raven flew high overhead. The [Witch] regarded Belavierr. And the Stitch Witch looked at Mavika, questioning. The Crow Witch spoke.
“You are being burnt away. That [Knight] has the means to burn your magic itself. All your protections and wards are useless before his fire. He will turn himself and you to ash. And they have marked you.”
“Yes.”
Belavierr sighed. Mavika paused.
“If you ask it, my flock and I will give you half a day to flee.”
All eyes swung towards Mavika, and Califor opened her mouth as if to object, but then closed it. The coven waited as the Stitch Witch wavered. She was tempted. But her eyes swung back to Ryoka. And they flickered.
“ If I do flee, they will come after my daughter. Mavika, is that so?”
The Crow Witch paused.
“She is of our coven. She was of my coven. We would protect her. But she may be a hostage or be forced to flee herself. This [Emperor] is not here, and this order of [Knights] is powerful.”
“I see.”
“Your answer, then?”
Belavierr’s head turned. She stared across the moving land. Past the undead that walked, the spirits screaming through the dark skies. Towards a young woman riding back towards her village. Still gazing back at her. Belavierr sighed.
“For her, I would give it up. My magic. What I possess. Even life. Not my craft, but I would gladly face my death.”
Mavika looked up. And she nodded once.
“I see your true nature, Belavierr the Witch. May you meet fire with craft and stitch.”
She turned and disappeared, flying past the dark shapes. Hedag, Califor, and Alevica retreated as well.
That left only Ryoka. She watched Belavierr. And then fled. The Stitch Witch stood alone. And she kept watching her daughter until Wiskeria was out of sight.
Then Belavierr turned. She felt pain. She knew her death waited. But not yet. She called on her magic, summoning them to her aid. But it would not be enough. So she cast one last spell, whispering into the night.
And that night deepened into a war at Riverfarm’s boundaries.
 
—–
 
Ryoka Griffin was the observer. She had a thought, briefly, to help someone. Whom? Belavierr?
She didn’t know the crime for which the Witch of Webs was hunted. Nor did she know whether the [Knights] or [Hunters] were the good guys.
If anyone was. All Ryoka knew was that she wished it were not—this.
Blood and fire. [Knights] riding around a strange, slanted house a thousand paces out from Riverfarm.
“They set it up too close.”
Califor snapped when she returned. Nanette was with Durene, and the half-Troll girl had been fighting. Durene panted.
“They said they couldn’t get too close to the forest. Miss Califor—it’s like the end of the world!”
Her eyes were round, and Califor paused.
“This is what happens when a Great Witch dies. For better or worse, she’s the last one of old. What has she sent?”
Nanette replied as Durene just opened and closed her mouth.
“Curses—until they put up that house. It must be a relic, Miss Califor! And—and undead by the thousands! And puppets! And spells! There were comets raining down, and a giant snake made of magic—”
“There are barely thirty [Knights] out there. Spells picked a few off, and the Hunters. I’ll grant you, the [Hunters] are all strong. Each one might be Named-rank level. But how are they surviving that? Califor, I’ve never seen fighting so fierce, and I’ve seen great [Mages].”
Even Eloise seemed uncertain. Califor just strode to the drapes.
“[Witch Hunters] are specialists. They’re armed with top-grade artifacts, and some of it looked closer to Relic-class. Where did they get Truegold?”
Eloise’s hand moved, as if snatching at the air.
“[Tea Gossip]. They said they worked with Ailendamus. A great spellcaster…”
“Hrm. As for the onslaught, the Order of Seasons is supporting their [Knights]. Belavierr’s magic is a mess; the flames might have destroyed many of her better weapons. Despite that—look.”
Califor pointed, and Ryoka saw an advancing line of puppets approaching ten [Knights]. Even if two were tossing fireballs, they were outnumbered hundreds to one. However—as they watched, red lights flickered over the row of puppets.
“What’s that—”
“[Mark Target]. The Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus. Their Guildmaster must be sending support.”
