Crossbow bolts began raining down, many of them exploding and sending the puppets flying. Same for the larger monsters; a cloth-Wyvern went down as more crossbow bolts struck it, launched from distant Noelictus. Alevica whistled.
“They truly want her dead. What did she do?”
Califor had no answer, and Wiskeria just sat there.
“But she’s not going to die.”
The coven looked at her. Wiskeria gazed around and, for the first time, seemed uncertain, lost.
“She truly won’t. She’s my mother. She…I’ve never even seen her hurt. I wanted her to die when she—I’ve thought of it and even dreamed of how to do it. It’s impossible.”
“And now the hour comes, do you wish it?”
Witch Hedag knelt, and Wiskeria’s mouth opened and closed. Nanette hugged her fiercely.
“No one should want their mother to die! Miss Califor, is Witch Belavierr that awful? Can’t we talk to the [Hunters]? Does she really deserve…”
She looked up at her mentor, and Califor’s voice was calm.
“Yes.”
Nanette looked up at her, eyes big and staring. Wiskeria’s head rose, and Ryoka saw Califor wearily adjust her cloak and staff.
“Yes, Nanette, she is. No, I doubt words could work. Each man and woman who came here lost something to her. Does she deserve it? Does anyone deserve anything? I will tell you this, Nanette: if I were not raising you, if I had known she yet lived and if her crimes in Noelictus were as heinous as I suspect, I would have gone there myself to put an end to it. If I even had a chance of besting her.”
Califor looked around the room and at Wiskeria.
“It would be folly for you to interfere, Witch Wiskeria. If you do, I cannot protect you.”
Ryoka waited, but Califor gave no further instructions. If—Wiskeria sat there. Paralyzed, Ryoka thought, with fear. Uncertainty.
And outside—her mother sent worse still.
 
——
 
Ser Raim was awake when Ryoka returned. The undead didn’t touch her. Nor did the warriors made out of cloth, armed with ancient weapons. They fought and broke on the [Knights] who held the field outside of Riverfarm.
The Order of Seasons charged and held, some of the unhorsed [Knights] fighting on foot. They wouldn’t have held alone. But the [Hunters] fought too. Ryoka saw magical explosions tearing up ranks of advancing cloth warriors, the [Archer] loosing and bringing down the spirits in the sky.
It felt like a dream. Neither side bothered with Ryoka as she approached the strange house, a slanted, almost deliberately lopsided structure, like a tall hunting lodge, standing in the middle of the grass. Apparently, the Hunters of Noelictus had summoned it.
Slowly, the Order of Seasons drove back the cloth creations. Until their ranks dwindled. Then came zombies. Undead. But fewer. The [Knights] drank potions, and the [Witch Hunters] fortified their position.
With magic and Skill. And the house was the most impervious thing of all; Ryoka saw a bolt of crimson lightning zap down from the heavens, hit the house, and fizzle out of existence.
Riverfarm was a lot less confident about their walls. The entire village was boarded up behind Ryoka. Shutters closed. Riverfarm was silent, afraid. But the house the [Hunters] had created was safe. Needles lay around it, so many that Ryoka had to cover her feet to even approach the door. As she did, more needles, some as large as javelins, flew out of the dark evening. They struck the house, bouncing off the sides. Cloth ropes like snakes twined closer—lost their magic. Failed.
The young woman entered the house through the front door. It was unlocked. She heard a voice, saw a gathering. The [Witch Hunters] were there. They had taken their fallen comrade. Ser Raim was on his feet, and so were Prost and Rie. Ryoka heard a low voice.
“This is a Hunter’s Haven. A portable place to fight from. Warded against any foe. Even Belavierr’s magic would fail here. She is trying, hunting Sylind. Keep all of your people indoors. If you have any needles, any sewing equipment—throw it outside! Those needle storms are aimed at us.”
One of the [Hunters] was addressing Prost and Rie. His crossbows hung at his sides. He looked up as Ryoka entered—the crossbow was in his hands in a flash. He paused as he saw her.
“Who are you?”
“Ryoka!”
Lady Rie exclaimed. The [Hunter] lowered his crossbow a bit. Ryoka glanced around. She tried to answer the [Hunter]’s suspicious questions. Rie and Prost’s urgent queries. But her eyes were on him.
A female [Knight] had joined Ser Raim and the [Hunters]. Her armor was scratched, the colored steel deformed. But she was alight with passion.
Ser Raim was not. He stood over Gaile. The female [Huntress] who had wielded the axe and threatened Wiskeria’s life lay on a long table. Her arms had been folded. Her eyes were closed. Belavierr had crushed her, but her friends had done as much possible to make her presentable.
Ser Raim looked upon her and bowed his head.
“She threw away her honor to strike a blow against Belavierr. And I believe she would have forsworn herself had the Stitch Witch fled. For one of the Foreign Hunters of the Hunter’s Guild of Terandria, she disgraced her status and legacy.”
He stared down at the woman’s face. Gaile’s expression was still set in death. Ser Raim bent, exhausted. Someone offered him a chair, but he stood.
“And yet, I knew Gaile. Gaile the [Beastslayer]. Gaile, who became [Witch Hunter] for vengeance. For six years, we have sought Belavierr. And were it not for her actions, we might have lost her again.”
“Was it justice, then, Ser Raim?”
The female [Knight] was confused. Ser Raim glanced up at her and shook his head.
“Neither, Dame Talia. She did wrong. She threw away her honor, and I would have cut her down if I had to. But. She was my friend. And she had every right to her fury.”
He bowed his head. And he spoke to Gaile.
“Your death will not be in vain, Gaile. I swear, I will bring her down.”
Then he straightened and staggered. Hands reached for him. Durene’s. Talia’s. Raim caught himself and shook his head.
“I’m fine. Just exhausted.”
“You’ve burnt your life away. The backlash will continue. The Summer’s Champion and your Season agrees—you must rest before doing battle again.”
A voice spoke from a glowing orb to the side. Ser Raim turned, and Ryoka saw a man dressed like winter in the glass. Ser Raim nodded once.
“I understand, Knight-Commander. But Belavierr is assailing our position.”
“Let your brethren handle it, Ser Raim. Rest. You must end Belavierr. And soon. If you lack the strength—”
“No. I have at least twenty more years to burn. So long as we can find her, she will not escape the second time.”
Ser Raim sat. And Ryoka, drawing forwards, saw how he had changed. He was aged. He might have been in his thirties before the battle. But now—his hair was grey. His body was still hale, but now it was lined, as was his face. Ryoka saw him sitting up, brushing off one of the other [Knights] trying to treat him.
Thirty years. It seemed like he had burned thirty years away in less than thirty minutes. The man in the orb, the Knight-Commander, spoke directly.
“If you should fall—”
“I will not. I will cut away the last of Belavierr’s protections. I saw them, Knight-Commander. A dark web. I will lead the other [Hunters] against her. They have the means to end her. Together, we can defeat her.”
“Bring the reinforcements we have sent you. They will hold tonight, but at least the [Summer Knights] will be able to give battle on the morrow. They stand ready to aid you, Ser Raim. With their aid, you may still keep a decade or two—”
“No.”
Ser Raim’s voice was flat. He looked up, and his gaze still burned.
“If I sought to live, Knight-Commander, I would not have volunteered to hunt Belavierr. I will end her tomorrow, even if I must burn away. All the [Hunters] and I are resolute. My brethren may battle the Stitch Witch’s minions, but we must end her. They are not specialized for combat against her, and none bear magical weapons.”
“Ser Raim! I am a [Summer Knight] like you. I may not be able to conjure your fire, but I can enchant my weapon to flame, plain steel or not!”
Talia protested. The other [Witch Hunters] snorted as they glanced up from their quiet preparations. Ser Raim shook his head.
“Dame Talia, you misunderstand. It is not about fire. It is about piercing Belavierr’s defenses. I have cut half away. But she is still half-immortal. While she is such, every blow we deal her is useless. The [Witch Hunters] with me can cut her threads, and I will burn the rest. But if you stand against her without the right precautions, she would turn you into a puppet and use you against us.”
“I—”
Calirn spoke coldly.
“Dame Talia, enough.”
Talia bit her lip. Knight-Commander Calirn studied Ser Raim. His eyes flickered past Raim.
“The Stitch Witch continues her attempts to stop us in Terandria. You are certain this…haven will stand?”
“Certain, Knight-Commander. The [Witch Hunters] employ it against enemies capable of magic. So long as the Order continues repelling the undead Belavierr is conjuring, we will be safe from her magic within these walls.”
“Can you bring the battle to her now? After a few hour’s rest?”
Ser Raim hesitated. It was one of the Hunters, the one with the wands, who shook her head. The woman was checking her arsenal of wands and snapped a reply.
“Night is the worst time to hunt a [Witch]. She can use illusions or summon spirits if there are any about. Raim is also exhausted. We wait for dawn. Is that a problem?”
“…No. Act as you deem most fit, Huntress Erashelle. But are you certain you can both locate and trap Belavierr tomorrow?”
The [Witch Hunters] paused. The man with the hammer nodded.
“She’s wounded. She can attempt to flee, but we have her location. While we are on the hunt, even her speed will fail her. She cannot escape Sylind’s Skill.”
Sylind nodded. She was checking her bow.
“I can feel her. Not six miles distant.”
“Six miles? We could ride against her now—!”
Talia shut up as Ser Raim glanced at her.
“Unless a [Hunter] leads, she could outrun you, Dame Talia. Again, it will not be easy. I must gather my strength. So long as I burn, her magic fails around me. Paladin Arteis gave me this chance; I will wound her mortally this time. It was like piercing an armor of sludge. Now that I have removed most of it, I can see her naked heart. The [Hunters] will end it if I cannot and support me. We will work alone. As a team. You must guard our rest.”
“I understand. Forgive me, Ser Raim. Leave the field to us. We are armed, and Riverfarm supports us.”
Dame Talia’s cheeks were red. She looked questioningly at Durene. The half-Troll girl nodded.
“I’ll help. Beniar and his [Riders] are taking out anything that gets past you. Except for those giant things, we can beat all those undead.”
“She’s weakening already. Those first legions were ancient. Now she’s summoning undead. Still, if we hadn’t had Raim burning half of them away, she might have overwhelmed us just with those.”
One of the [Hunters] murmured. The others nodded. Everyone stopped and glanced up. Ryoka felt a thump. Talia strode towards the window. She swore and charged out the door. Ryoka saw a huge shape in the darkness. Then a bloom of fire. Durene barreled out the door as well. Rie paled.
“What is that?”
The [Hunter] with the crossbows glanced up. She took a step towards the door, and Sylind stopped her.
“Coroise. Save your bolts. The Order of Seasons has it.”
Hunter Coroise nodded and sat back down. She began disassembling and cleaning her weapons, placing one crossbow on the table and checking the enchanted parts piece by piece.
“Undead. She’s sewn together Flesh Abominations and raised Ghouls. I saw a Rotfield Giant, but our Guildmaster is raining down bolts from home.”
Sylind grunted.
“The first good use of all that money wasted on indulgences and…”
She broke off, bowed her head.
“This one is for all the [Hunters] who died for her. Each damn one, Tagil. We’re actually here. I only wish the [Singer] was with us.”
Tagil clasped her arm, wordlessly, and bowed his head too. He hesitated as he turned back to the others, and his eyes were remorseful. Ryoka saw him flick back to focus after a second—but she wondered what they had done to get here.
“—Even so, be prepared. Belavierr has more creations still.”
Rie paled. But Prost just nodded. He gazed warily towards the windows.
“The magic she’s throwing against you all. Will it truly not get in?”
Tagil’s smile was bleak, but his tone was reassuring.
“Hostile magic fails in this place. Even Ser Raim’s fire is hard to use here. This is a place for [Hunters]. We know our craft, Steward. Raim, you should get some rest upstairs.”
He gestured, and Raim nodded. However, at this, Sylind, the lone half-Elf [Hunter], protested.
“We’re a doubly large target with me and Raim here, Tagil. Can we move him to a warded room in Riverfarm?”
“What?”
Prost and Rie were horrified, and Tagil hesitated before shaking his head.
“The Hunter’s Haven is the most secure building we have, Sylind. Better to stick together and have Raim under one roof.”
“Or—we can ward a house. Let’s grab Raim’s hair and a bit of blood and fake his presence. The Stitch Witch can attack this place all night. If it falls—Raim will still be able to fight. If he’s here and she takes it—”
Tagil was shaking his head, adamant.
“The moment Raim sets foot outside that door—what if she sets her minions on him and we can’t reach him?”
Sylind snorted.
“If she’s weak enough for my Skills to work on her, I don’t think she’s perfect, Tagil. She didn’t kill Raim; she’s sent a few killer curses, but she can’t pierce the Hunter’s Haven. We can ward him just as well.”
Erashelle sat upright as the other [Witch Hunters] gathered. They knew their trade well.
“She’s right. If we set up all our charms—hey, who’s got one of those artifacts we got from Ailendamus? Let’s arm Raim to the teeth. He might burn up his life tomorrow, but all we need is to get to tomorrow.”
The rest of the [Hunters] thought it was a good idea to split Raim off—if they could find a home.
“I cannot endanger Riverfarm, [Hunters]—”
Prost began to object, but Rie cut in.
“What about Durene’s cottage? She wanted to help, and even if she can’t fight—it’s not the best made.”
Sylind shook her head.
“If it’s got a roof, we’ll turn it into a castle with magic. Tagil, this is perfect.”
“No. Raim, I think it’s best we stick together. I can’t force you, but—”
Tagil addressed Raim. The [Knight] looked up wearily.
