“Will you tell him I’m sorry? Will you tell her what I did?”
“I did not promise that.”
“Then I curse you, Belavierr the Witch. I curse you. But save my daughter. I did it for her.”
Tagil took a deep breath. And he stepped off the stool. The noose tugged. His throat constricted, but his neck would not snap from such a short height. It took a long time to die like this, he knew.
 
——
 
At first, it had been a glorious morning. Trumpeting horns from the [Knights], who had fought and fallen to give the [Hunters] and Ser Raim their moment. A weary [Knight] beginning to blaze like a sun.
Then—someone had gone to the Hunter’s Haven, which had been blocked from the inside and never entered, found the door locked, and the [Knights] had knocked again and again, then called out and demanded entry.
Like a bad dream. The [Witches], Ryoka, the people of Riverfarm had seen Ser Raim’s head turn, and the confidence and wrath blazing in him had faltered. Like a shard of ice entering into unshakeable will.
When the door opened—they had found the dead [Hunters]. And the cries of shock and horror and failure—
Even then, the [Knight] had not wavered. Only stood there, his flame of resolve becoming deeper. Death could not break Raim of the Summer.
—But when they had laid the bodies out and they had found one was missing—then Raim knew. And his fire flickered, and he had demanded they find Belavierr.
Her daughter was still here. Surely…
It was easy to follow Tagil’s trail. A single [Spring Knight] with tracking skills led them to that tree. To the long branch where he hung. And to the one thing that could break a burning resolve.
That was how they found him. As dawn broke, as the four bodies were found inside the warded house by Ryoka Griffin, and the [Knights] found they had battled only puppets that collapsed as the sun rose.
He hung there. On the hilltop. From the longest limb of the tree.
Ser Raim’s scream still echoed. His despair. Betrayal. The [Hunter] stared sightlessly at the [Summer Knight].
And there she stood. As tall as the hanging body. Her eyes glowing in the light of the rising sun, and her smile curved to the very edges of her face. Raim stared up at Belavierr.
“What did you offer him? What did you give him? His daughter? Was it you?”
His hands shook. His face was ashen. Belavierr gazed down at him.
“No. But I offered him her life. A charm to protect her. It is already sent.”
“A charm? He betrayed all for a charm?”
Raim choked. Belavierr nodded. Her eyes were distant. She smelled of smoke and fire.
“The charm was woven from heartstring and bowstring and the string of the noose. His daughter will receive it, and it will protect her from sickness and harm. It will be cursed with a traitor’s sins. But blessed by a father’s love. She will live a hundred years longer, and her gifts will overflow until the day of her death.”
She paused.
“And now, my death, you will no longer find me.”
She turned. Raim uttered a wordless cry. Behind him, Talia raised her sword.
“The Order of Seasons will hunt you down! We know your weakness, Belavierr! We know your daughter—”
She wavered as Belavierr turned back. The Stitch Witch stared down at Talia. At the orb from which Knight-Commander Calirn and the Grandmasters of the Order of Seasons watched. And her eyes widened.
“My daughter. You would use her against me? Very well. Try. For if I am chased, I will flee. If my daughter is held, I will find who takes her and kill them. If she is slain, I will find who slew her. And they will never die.”
She pointed down at Talia. At the Order, as the body swung behind her. Belavierr’s words echoed and shook the air.
“If the Order of Seasons kills my daughter, I will break their stronghold and slay their families one by one. I will kill their sons and daughters generation upon generation and bring ruin to their lands. I will disappear and bring ruin to Terandria if it takes me all of eternity. I vow the same to anyone who would harm her.”
No one present could meet her eyes but Ser Raim. Knight-Commander Calirn spoke hoarsely.
“This will not go unpunished, Belavierr.”
“Unpunished. Then tell me, little [Knight].”
Belavierr stepped down the hill. Her eyes fixed on Calirn’s as she bent over the scrying orb. She spread her arms.
“Are we enemies? I have never considered the Order of Seasons my foes. If we are, let there be war and ruin. Until my final hour, I will hound your Order from the shadows and by my craft. Do you wish it, [Knight]? If you wish it, I will show you how I treat my enemies.”
Calirn gazed at her. Ser Raim was gathering himself.
“Ser Raim. Can you end it?”
“I cannot follow her if she flees.”
“Her daughter.”
Belavierr waited. Calirn hesitated. He looked at the young [Witch] and felt his oaths holding his tongue from what he might suggest. And then a piercing shriek sounded, and he turned. On his side of the scrying orb—suddenly, the Order of Seasons was under attack. Raim closed his eyes bitterly.
 
——
 
He had been so focused on the Witch of Webs, Calirn had missed the forces of Kaliv arriving—a day early.
From the skies, he heard a ringing voice. And he saw them flying down upon his order. The Griffin Queen screamed.
“Stay your [Knights], Knight-Commander! Or I will bring war to the Order of Seasons!”
They would have landed amidst the startled [Knights], who hesitated, bowstrings nocked, unwilling to shed blood—but for a wave of ice that appeared.
The Winter’s Watcher. The last Grandmaster of the Order of Seasons drew a sword, and the Griffins banked, flying around the figure, who seemed prepared to take them all on alone.
The rest of the order stood within the keep, encased by stone and magic. Novakya landed her Griffin. Her eyes blazed as she lowered the lance.
“If she dies, my son, the Griffin Prince, dies.”
The Spring’s Warden called out from her position.
“Griffin Queen, he is one life. The Spider can be ended once and for all! She can be killed. Your son might survive her death! Is one life not worth risking?”
“He is my son. That is your answer.”
The Spring’s Warden bowed her head.
“So be it.”
The Winter’s Watcher’s sword met the first Griffin’s talons, and the forces of Kaliv dove. Griffins fell, striking at the Order’s stronghold.
Calirn felt cold. It was all coming together. He spoke a hoarse word.
“Ser Raim. The Order does not call Belavierr our enemy this day. We will not risk it. Nor can we hold the Stitch Witch’s daughter responsible for her crimes.”
“Knight-Commander. I understand.”
Calirn saw Ser Raim slowly draw his sword and walk forwards. So, despite the chill in his bones—despite the death of kindred Terandrians in his very keep, despite treachery and the Witch’s smile—
The sun still shone.
 
——
 
There was a rhythm to the end. It was in his voice as he looked to Wiskeria, who stared at him as he lifted his blade. At Califor, who raised her staff—but even she hesitated when she saw his burning gaze. Ser Raim turned to Belavierr and forswore his honor.
His friends lay dead. He had reached the end of his time. And her smile—said she knew all that he had lost.
Still, he burned. And Ser Raim’s voice was steady as he spoke.
“Belavierr. I am a [Summer Knight] of my Order no longer. But for what you have wrought. Then and now—! You will not flee. Stand. Or I will slay your daughter.”
Belavierr’s tone was mocking, even gleeful, as she loomed over him.
“You swore an oath. You are [Knight] no longer.”
Raim nodded.
“I did. You have taken everything from me. Even my honor. Stand, Belavierr. And let us end this.”
The Stitch Witch paused. She looked at her daughter. And she nodded, once. She walked past Raim and turned to face him.
“Come, my death.”
The [Summer Knight] followed her. He paused just once. Talia’s eyes burned and ran with tears. He put a hand out, touching her shoulder gently.
“If I should fall, none of you are to pursue her. Return to the Order. That is an order, Dame Talia.”
“Ser Raim—”
He peered into her eyes and walked on. The [Knight] paused and turned his head.
“Knight-Commander. Grandmasters. It has been my honor.”
“Raim! Don’t do this!”
A voice came from the orb. But the [Summer Knight] walked on. He passed by Ryoka, and she studied him. His face was set. And his footsteps became fire. He walked towards Belavierr as those gathered watched him go. They shouted. Called his name.
A monster waited for the knight. He stepped towards her. And behind him, the Order of Seasons stood and unsheathed their blades. They raised their swords and saluted him, shouting, weeping.
In Terandria and Riverfarm, the Order of Seasons watched him pass. They were not the only ones. The people of Riverfarm screamed. All those who claimed mortality cheered on the [Knight] as he moved forwards. They had seen her evil, so they called to him. End her. End the nightmare. A roar that shook the skies, from a thousand throats. The man raised his sword high, his armor shining, his back straight.
Glory.
There the immortal stood, her back to the dawn. She nodded once, and he advanced, lifting his greatsword as it burned. As he burned. And Ryoka thought she saw Raim smile for just a moment. Then the fire was all-consuming.
She was crying as she watched him go. And the fair folk bowed their heads as he charged. The [Knight] met the [Witch].
This time, he screamed first. A wordless cry with all the rage and fire in his soul. And he struck her. Cutting away the threads that bound. Cutting into her very soul. And she screamed and struck him. He was alone. But he burned. Bright. Brighter, with a fire that struck the shadows. That burned the Stitch Witch away.
They fought. One tore at the other. They staggered. She struck Raim, bending his armor with her bare hands, boiling his flesh behind metal.
Yet Raim was flame incarnate. He drove his sword into her, then gave up and simply seized her and began to blaze through Belavierr’s being. Her scream was high and unending, and they could almost see her now.
A woman being revealed from eons of protections. Burning as the flame came for her. Her death.
Yet—
The flame burned with hatred, vengeance, and rage. It burned on a man’s life with the will to kill a monster far greater than he. It was a conflagration that could have killed any mortal man—and even her.
A day ago, it could have. Today? The flame consumed Belavierr. Ate her web. Left her shrieking in agony—and yet it was lacking.
For the [Knight] had lost his honor. He had lost his comrades and seen faith shattered. The kindling of his soul that provided the flame had no more hope.
Perhaps it was the smallest of differences, for he had his will and vengeance. Or perhaps it was all the difference. For the [Witch] began to laugh as the two were linked, a burning man and a dying woman.
She laughed and laughed and laughed and stopped striking him and stood there. Just stood as he drove towards her end and tried to deliver her promised death.
Belavierr fell, a smoking, charred woman without feature—then a [Witch] again—then a cinder of ash—choking. Vulnerable.
He tried to finish it—but there was nothing left.
A [Knight] stopped where he stood. He sank down, trying to stand. But a mortal man had burnt away.
Ser Raim took a step, then another, trying to lift a greatsword that had all but melted. He struggled to fix on her as her blackened teeth gaped up at him. Still laughing.
Raim whispered a name. His love. He tried to lift his sword, tried to conjure a single spark—and the last light left his eyes. He fell, silently, as smoke rose around him.
Gone.
Then there was only the woman, who lay there, flesh re-knitting, in an agony beyond anything she remembered—still laughing. Mocking her death despite all it had cost her.
She was alive. However, her eyes no longer glowed. The shadows had left her. The [Witch] rose, gasping, her lungs burning.
Mortal. But alive. Belavierr stood and turned. The Order of Seasons watched her. And Knight-Commander Calirn lowered his head. He turned away.
Triumphant, Belavierr smiled. She gazed across the faces of Riverfarm’s folk. The [Knights]. She ignored their horror and wrath. She looked past them at her coven.
They regarded her steadily, with awe, envy, terror, abhorrence, and even pity. She scorned their glances. She only cared for one opinion.
Her daughter stood there. Wiskeria?
Relief flickered across the younger [Witch]’s face, and Belavierr drank that in. Relief—but when Belavierr reached for her hand, Wiskeria recoiled. The [Witch]’s fingers stopped, as if feeling the edges of another tapestry, one unknown to her.
Relief—and regret. And sadness. Wiskeria’s eyes lingered on Ser Raim’s corpse as long as her mother’s face. When she looked up, she saw Belavierr truly.
The Spider’s smile vanished. She reached for her daughter again as Wiskeria backed away, and Belavierr’s gaze was confused. Her triumph faded, and she stood there, as if she had suddenly forgotten why it even mattered. When she looked down:
She did not remember her death’s name.
Slowly, the woman began to knit once more. Remake even more of herself, for she had lost almost everything. Everything except her life. Thus, she was triumphant.
Then Belavierr paused. Her death lay before her, spent. Belavierr frowned at him, then turned away. Her head rose upwards. Towards the clear sky. She shaded her eyes.
“It’s bright. My second death awaits.”
Somewhere, somewhere, the man with the wide, uncanny smile was laughing.
