True to its theme of memory, dreams and first love, the cameras never held for more than a few seconds. Eppie's eyes, enormous and pale blue, tracked something just past the lens. A close-up of Zara's lips, curling at one corner, chin tilted, left the audience panting.

Stars fading but I linger on dearStill craving your kiss

Then the basement scene came on, and Eppie screamed internally.

A shot—the longest thus far, and thus indicative of a core memory—lingered across the projection. In it, her head hung off the end of the bed, hair pooling upside-down toward the floor. Zara lay below her, looking into the strange inverted geography of Eppie’s face.

For three full seconds, the frame was just hair—blonde, backlit, filling the space between their faces, obscuring whatever was happening underneath.

Then came the final thirty seconds, the outro,

But in your dreams, whatever may beYou've gotta make me a promise, promise to meYou'll dream, dream a little dream of me

Zara on the swing; Eppie cross-legged on the porch.At the final couplet, the two of them together, Eppie's head dropping against Zara’s shoulder, both lit gold from behind—

—the footage grew slack, its elasticity lost to time, a metaphor for memory.

The song ended, clean, and yet sudden—leaving the audience yearning for more.

And yet, the story had been told. Eppie discerned through her [Script Analysis]. The cuts were a little chaotic, but the sentiment it evoked washed over the viewers like a tide.

In the Playhouse, nobody said anything for about ten whole seconds.

“Okay…” Chelsea broke the spell from the floor, phone still recording, eyebrows somewhere near her hairline. “You two want to tell us something, or—”

“That was Director Webber’s idea,” Zara said, far too fast to sound natural, both ears gone to the same scarlet grading at the film’s close.

“We’re just… acting,” Eppie assured them, cutting Zara’s excuse in half while hanging from her neck.

Their audience erupted. The room dissolved into chaos. In an act of callous revenge, Madison rewound the basement scene twice. Min-jun, the most evil boy Eppie knew, began narrating the shot’s cinematography via critical commentary; Chelsea turned her camera on the crowd instead, catching Zara burying her face in Eppie's shoulder. Someone threw popcorn out of nowhere, miming rice confetti. Cranshaw did a slow-motion swoon into Joshua's lap, perfectly miming Eppie’s acting, and said: “I do.” Valorie laughed so hard she almost threw up her lunch, which set off everyone else into hysterics. Eppie saw Cooper and Tyker trade a look from the back and decide to quietly leave via the side exit.

The video started again. Caught in the moment, Eppie felt as though transported back to Lana’s private preparatory, to the guileless days of laughing until her belly burned among friends whose faces were long forgotten.

Such a flood of [Causality] poured into her [Persona] that she could barely see Zara’s tear-stained, embarrassed half-to-death face. Her whole body tingled. She felt unspeakable gratitude to her friends, to Mueller, to Webber, to the film crew and to the post-processing artists for this gift—for now, brimming with joy, Euphemia Fontaine would woo the world with her LAPAGANZA.
