William retrieved his own incense from the pile, lit it with the supplied lighter, and held it in both hands the way he'd been taught before he could properly walk.

“Guang zong yao zu,” his father read the plaque, “bringing glory to the house,” without looking at William. It was less a blessing and more so an instruction. William bowed three times and set the sticks in the urn beside his father's.

“Come to the study. We speak there.”

William’s gaze followed his father's ascent past the portrait of Lee-Ming Chen, the fabled Saviour of Chinatown, the man who had brought prosperity to a community of desperate migrants escaping the shadow of communism. All of them lived in Lee-Ming Chen’s shadow. His father was no exception, and neither was the grandson—Wai-Lim Chen.

Jiang briefly reappeared, motioning to William that he was making the good tea. Usually, this meant the discussion was serious.

In the study, William found his father seated at a mahogany desk far too large for a man of his reduced stature. Lee-Ming Chen had been enormously tall for a Cantonese man, and William had inherited the same height. Infamously, Lee-Kwon did not.

His father’s office itself was, in William's cinematographic eye, a hostile space where the high ceiling swallowed sound, and the dark teak panelling absorbed the warmth. No family photographs adorned the place. “No clutter”, his father once said. There was only functionality and Feng Shui, meaning the desk, two guest chairs in redwood, a scroll of calligraphy by a nationally accredited artist, and jade ornaments like the buk-choi, the ruyi, and the peach tree. The scroll read jia he wan shi xing—through filial harmoniousness, all things flourish. On the far wall, an enormous portrait of Lee-Ming Chen sat above the drinks cabinet, following the viewer with its eyes. As a kid, it had scared the shit out of him.

Lee-Kwon was studying rental documents collated by Jiang for his review. Who paid, who didn't, who owed what, who needed a visit. These days the "visit" was left to debt-collection agencies. It was safer that way, and less stressful on the Five Root Association.

"Sit," his father said, without looking up.

William sat. He loathed how unyielding the chairs were, how they perpetually drained a sitter’s stamina.

Jiang brought the tea—Da Hong Pao, imperial tea—and filled the zisha pot to the brim. His father thanked the man as one might thank an old uncle.

"Drink," Lee-Kwon said.

William hated scalding tea. Lee-Kwon only drank scalding tea.

"How's school?" The question came like a thunderbolt.

“Good,” William answered, fighting down the boiling liquid in his throat. "My film's on schedule. The Chair's happy. I'm on track for the Awards season."

“And your crew?”

William felt his legs turn to jelly. To keep himself from slumping, he let his shoulders loosen, so that he could speak with an implied swagger, the kind he used for the girls at the Lantern Club. “It's fine. Just a staff turnover. Nothing unusual for a graduation term.”

Lee-Kwon looked up, his kind face possessing no hint of kindness. He sipped his tea for a dozen breaths, then set the cup beside the mini electric stove.

"I had a strange thing happen this month," Lee-Kwon said, conversationally, almost idly. "I received no complaints about you."

William's stomach flopped.

“How strange, I thought,” Lee-Kwon said. “You know how much they love to complain about you. Remember that time when you were six? You broke Edson’s fingers over a Batman toy.” His father smirked. “Before, they complained because you cost the business money, or you brought another girl home, or you made someone break a rule. I didn't mind, because through you, they came to me for favours, and I gave those favours, so that I was owed. Your Jia chou, your shame, was of value.” His father turned the phrase over like a coin. “It was good that your uncles cared. Now—nothing. Not a word, good or bad. Can you tell me why?”

“To be honest,” William was fighting more than the tea now. “I hadn't even noticed.”

The lie slid out a little too smoothly. His father turned his head just so, like a gambler inspecting a fighting cock for weakness.

“You didn't notice? I see.” Lee-Kwon folded his short fingers together. He gestured at the spacious room, the desk, the priceless jade, the peach tree in the corner, then made an expression of such disappointment that regret filled William like a noontide swallowing a shallow beach. “But you do notice these things. This place. This opulence you enjoy. Do you not? Wai-lim?"

"I do... sir."

Lee-Kwon's eyes studied him, his nose like a hawk's beak.

“The old country taught us that Zi bu jiao, fu zhi guo.” The fault of the son lies with the father. “So I won't only blame you tonight. I know I am often neglectful. But tonight, I will teach you something.” Lee-Kwon's voice made William shudder. Just how much of the last nine months did his father actually know? How much, if anything, had Jiang told him?

“When I was ten, Wai-lim, your grandfather asked me to accompany him to collect a debt. This was an important debt. He and the Five Families had pooled their savings to create their first business—seafood delivery. It was dirty, smelly, back-breaking work, but it was good money. Demand was high, and they worked without rest. However, the man who managed our commissions did not feel that fish-eyed gooks from Guangzhou deserved to be paid the same rate as the Irish, or the Italians, or even the Polish.”

“One night, while I was doing homework, your Yeye dragged me into an old refrigeration van and drove out of Chinatown for about thirty minutes. He made me ride in the front seat, which was perfectly legal back then, because why the hell not? We drove across LA until we reached the home of his business partner, a British expat who'd called us slurs and told us we were lucky to be paid at all.”

“After we parked, your grandfather opened the glove box. He took out a gun. A Colt 1911, the symbol of the American GI. He had told me a lot of war stories, but this was still the first time I had ever seen him hold a gun. He looked very cool holding it, and he looked cooler while loading it. Your Yeye did not look like an amateur at all. His war stories weren’t embellishments.”

William swallowed hard. He already knew how this story ended. He had just… never heard it told in such detail, and to his face. Usually, the story came out during drunken banter among the older generation after too much baiju.

“We sat there, ten, twenty minutes. Maybe an hour, maybe two. Him holding the gun, and me, ten years old, breathing the recycled air.”

Just like we’re doing now. William’s eyes wandered to the drawer his father always kept locked. Here they are, in 2008, sitting together, side by side, father and son, breathing the recycled air.

“Finally, after an eternity, your Yeye spoke,” Lee-Kwon said. “He said that he has decided that he will not end the life of Mr Lee Edwards, Mrs Edwards, and their two daughters. Your Yeye said this while looking at me. He told me that he saw in his son a better life than whatever… he was seeing.”

“I was ten years old, so I asked Yeye what he meant by this. Your grandfather smiled at me even though I could see he was in pain. He said he wanted to know for certain if the future of the Chen family was worthy. If I were not, then he’d rather the satisfaction of teaching Mr Edwards why a man should always honour his debts.”

Lee-Kwon sipped his tea. “When he told me this, I thought he was going to shoot me after the fact. So I made a decision. I told your grandfather that I would speak to Mr Edwards. He looked at me, amused, and said, ‘Dak’. Okay. I got out of our van, walked into that house—it wasn’t even a nice house. Just a meagre two-bedder with a beat-up BMW in front. Fucking pathetic. And I knocked on his door. One of Mr Edwards’ daughters answered. She was very pretty. I recalled she had red hair, kind of like your girlfriend.”

William’s insides knotted.

“I asked to speak to Mr Edwards. The girl brought me inside. Her family were having dinner. Without stuttering, in front of his whole family, I told Edwards that he needed to pay my father and his workers. I told him how his petty greed had nearly gotten his whole family murdered. His wife was very reasonable. She told him, very quietly, to get me the money he owed your Yeye, Uncle Bu, Uncle Wang, Uncle Bian, Uncle Li and Uncle Meng. She apologised in her husband’s stead and told me that I was very brave. I walked out of that house with a thick envelope of cash—I didn’t count it, so maybe it was short—but I did it. I walked out of that house and back into your Yeye’s van, and watched him cry for the next five minutes. Mrs Edwards was an honourable woman. She did not call the police. We drove home that night, and everyone got paid. Your elders pooled their wages to rent another delivery truck. We continued to work with Mr Edwards until he died… of a heart attack, about a decade later.”

The room was already quiet when his father began to speak. Now the silence turned silken.

“I was ten years old,” his father repeated. “That’s when I became Lee-Ming's heir.”

“I… understand,” William murmured. He didn't know what else to say. His father's patience was a rare treat. This, whatever this was, was beyond that.

His father studied him a moment longer than was comfortable, then Lee-Kwon crossed the small distance between their chairs and put one soft, unworked hand on William's shoulder—a gesture so rare that William flinched, mistaking it for a blow.

“Hu fu wu quan zi”, his father said. A tiger father does not beget a canine son. He said it so aphoristically that it almost sounded like he was channelling their grandfather. Hope and warmth moved behind the kind, cruel face, slipping past the hawk-like nose like a refracted mirage. “I still believe you are a good son. So solve your own problems, Wai-lim. I have great expectations for my heir.”

If William had ever wanted to say, Father, I need your help—if such a want had ever truly existed in him—it lived now only in the fingerless dark of his subconscious.

LAPA. Euphemia Fontaine watched the week eat itself without nary a burp, swallowing time in such voracious gulps that she barely remembered Monday Algebra, Tuesday World History, or the Wednesday drama with the Sophomores when one of the lighting staff dropped a gel sheet from the ceiling, nearly giving Cameron Atkinson a haircut. She vaguely recalled Cooper telling everyone that they had two weeks of school remaining, or Tyker assigning final costumes with personalised tailoring.

What she did remember was being embarrassed to death on Thursday. As announced on her MySpace by Maddie, her new video for Dream a Little dropped at 2 PM sharp.

The news had spread like wildfire, and before Eppie knew it, Sophomore Theatre Arts Block had been converted into a viewing party. Everyone came: her roommates, her Sophomore friends, her compatriots from Senior Theatre: Valorie, Elizabeth, Charles, Joshua and Nathan, the stars of LAPAGANZA, and of course, Zara.

Madison Evans was apparently the organiser, with Min-jun acting as her helpful little assistant. They rigged up a projection system that one of the sophomore film students had borrowed, then placed their captive audience on the horrible, back-breaking seats.

Eppie was placed in Zara’s lap, sheltered against spinal torsion by the softness of her pliant-bodied friend. Their compromised positions were arranged by popular demand; the result of far too many teasing jeers, whistles, and clamour too riotous for Eppie to ignore.

“Alright, alright! It’s starting!” Valorie clapped the crew into silence. Somewhere near the back corner, Cooper and Tyker presided over the gathering like a pair of benevolent gargoyles.

Someone clicked play on the laptop-to-projector display, transforming Internet Explorer into a full-screen video.

Her music video opened grainy and warm, Super 8 static crackling over dawn light. A porch swing creaked into frame, followed by a pair of dainty bare feet floating through dew-heavy grass. Sunrise bled gold through a window, catching dust like confetti. The girl on the swing laughed at something off-camera, magnifying the blissful 90s.

As Webber promised, he had gotten younger actresses to play their past selves.

Like a feverish midsummer night’s dream, the opening cords cut in, the snare drum hissing like cicadas. They watched two little girls tumble through summer grass—one golden-haired and squinting into the sun, the other sun-kissed, cartwheeled past a sprinkler's silver arc. Laughter bled through the tape crank. A mother's hand came into and out of the frame adoringly, but unsteadily. The vibe was unreal. The young actresses, sans makeup, in their 90’s suburban fashion, exuded an unrehearsed innocence that made the Gen Y teenagers self-conscious.

Stars shining bright above youNight breezes seem to whisper, I love youBirds singin' in the sycamore treesDream a little dream of me

Cutaways bled in with the lulling lyrics: a scuffed guitar case, coffee rings on a windowsill, a cassette half-unspooled on a nightstand, each a cinematic shorthand for the quiet evidence of life beyond childhood.

While I'm alone and blue as can beDream a little dream of me

At the word “dream,” the tape seemed to age around the edges, the grains thickening, the colour bleaching toward sepia. Dust hung gold in a single shaft of light. A woman knelt among dusty boxes, blonde hair gone silver at the parting line, pearls and a cashmere cardigan speaking for a reserved life, digging through the archaeology of yesteryears.

As the next verse sang of “linger on,” her hand rested on a small yellow box. She lifted the reel to the light and held it there a beat too long, paralysed by the decision to remember. A brief transition at the bridge showed a battered projector, a pair of wrinkled lips, followed by the sound of a tape being played.

Stars fading but I linger on dearStill craving your kissNow I'm longin' to linger till dawn dearJust saying this

The tempo seemed to slow—then Eppie saw it. The evidence of their labour, the result of what her [All the World’s a Stage] had paid for under the direction of Merric Webber.

Eppie, now an adolescent, was on the swing again, chains creaking in time with the chorus, sandals grazing dust with each pass. Zara sat on the porch step below, guitar propped against one knee, carelessly matching the video’s beat.

