Kevin and Erin stopped. They looked at Palt. Centaur hooves, his entire body…Palt’s face fell. Erin solemnly put a hand on his shoulder. She had to stand on her tip-toes to do so.
“I’m sorry, pal.”
The Centaur sighed and put a cigar in his mouth. Erin didn’t have the heart to stop him. Hedault did.
Erin smiled hugely as she walked around the edge of the huddle.
“So—do you think we can get a bike tonight? I’d love to ride one!”
The others looked at her strangely. Pelt grunted.
“Tonight? Are you mad? I can’t make one tonight! You’re lucky if we can get a prototype with all those fiddly gears by the end of the week, and that’s if I can trust my apprentices with the work!”
“The end of the week?”
Erin was appalled. Hedault cleared his throat.
“Enchanting each piece and ascertaining how to streamline the process will also take time, Miss Solstice. I will move your work up in the queue since it isn’t as arduous as some of my tasks, but it will take time.”
That was disappointing. Erin had made the Toren-sled in an hour, after all! And she was used to setting up and implementing her big plans over a day. Even the Players of Celum hadn’t been, like, well, making something.
“I can totally work with them, Erin. Leave it to me.”
Kevin didn’t seem to mind the time it would take. Erin looked at Selys, but she was asking Pelt and Hedault for quotes on their prices and wincing. Palt trotted over to her.
“I think it will be quick, Erin. But you do have to wait for innovation.”
“That’s probably why I don’t innovate. Food is fast. Actually—magic food is hard. Maybe I’ll go make some.”
Erin realized she should probably do more cook-experimentation or Numbtongue would yell at her. She saw Selys digging in her bag of holding for gold which she thrust at Pelt.
“Are you still experimenting?”
“…Yes?”
The Centaur gave Erin a look. She held up her hands.
“Numbtongue makes me! I made an acid-fly jelly the other day.”
“What does that…do?”
“Um. It kills you if you eat it? But you can serve it on a plate and not damage the plate!”
Everyone in the conference room turned to look at Erin. They resolved never to eat anything remotely resembling jello in the inn. Erin threw up her hands.
“It was an experiment! I had to get rid of it just in case Mrsha ever got snacky. I’m not insane!”
The conference was winding down. Pelt and Hedault had agreed and Selys was arranging down payments on their services. Kevin was grinning at the prospect of working on his dream-bike. That was when he remembered the other idea he’d floated at the start and turned to Pelt.
“Hey. Do you think you could make me a skateboard sometime? I mean, when you have the chance. I just need a few parts. A skateboard is really easy to make compared to a bicycle.”
The Dwarf scratched at his beard.
“What’s that?”
“It’s a piece of wood with four wheels.”
Kevin pulled up a picture on his laptop and Palt copied it. The Dwarf eyed the object.
“…I can make that. Why can’t you?”
The young man from California hesitated and looked at Hedault.
“Well. I wanted a helmet. In case I fell on my head.”
The [Enchanter] raised his eyebrows.
“That can certainly be done. But what about a ring?”
The young man thought about that. And he grinned. Erin peered sideways at the group.
“How hard is it to make a skateboard, Kevin?”
When you really got down to it, it seemed simple. The expert in the room grimaced.
“There are a few parts, Erin. Stuff like ball bearings to make the wheels run smooth. Some parts are easy, like the board itself. If I had plywood and glue, I could make the base really fast. And a vacuum-sealable bag. And…a vacuum. Or a pump…and a place to actually skateboard.”
The little problems. Skateboards were even less useful than bikes because, well, they had been designed with urban roadways in mind. Kevin was describing them to Pelt and Hedault.
“See, the wheels only work on smooth roads. But even Invrisil has, like, cobblestones in too many places.”
The two nodded. Pelt was eying the image of Kevin doing a trick.
“Not sure what those tiny metal balls are for.”
“Ball bearings. You put them in to create a smooth spin to the wheels…”
“Huh. Why would that help? The rest looks easy. Just two support struts.”
“Well, yeah. It’s not rocket sc—er, really hard. It’s just—smooth, remember? It’s gotta be smooth. And if thing don’t work right, it’s just not fun.”
Kevin pretended not to notice Erin and Palt’s covert glares. What a problem. How did you make something as light and sturdy as plywood without…plywood? You had to experiment. And without ball bearings, how did you make the wheels? You had to invent the very simple stuff that went into a modern skateboard.
Or, alternatively—Hedault looked at Kevin. The [Enchanter]’s curiosity was piqued.
“If it’s just something that simple—I could enchant that in less than an hour. Wheels, board. And perhaps the…what is the term for that part?”
“The truck?”
“Yes. That.”
Erin’s eyes lit up. The [Innkeeper] slid forwards.
“Maybe, guys…we should do a proof of concept.”
She threw her arms around Hedault and Kevin’s shoulders since Pelt was too short. The [Enchanter] blinked. Kevin grinned wider. Hedault brushed Erin’s arm off.
“Perhaps. But we must first speak about boundaries, Miss Solstice. Stop. Touching. Me.”
Erin’s smile faltered.
 
—-
 
It was so easy for her to do, and he hated her for it. He only saw the finished product, hours later. But then—so did she. She didn’t respect the craft; in many ways, Erin Solstice was callous.
This was how it had taken shape.
The metal moved under the [Blacksmith]’s hammer. It flowed and reshaped itself, touched by a master. It had been rendered pure by Skill and knowledge and talent and care. From the moment Pelt had selected the iron ore, chosen his crucible and ensured neither air nor foreign contaminant could disrupt the purity of his product.
It mattered. In a way, the Dwarf had finished forging before he’d even put hammer to metal. With the purity of his metal, what was shape to the substance he had wrought? But he was a master of both.
“It won’t flex just right.”
“Bah. It’s thin enough. It’s a test-run. And you can’t enchant wood the same way, right, Hedault?”
“Not at all. Give me twenty minutes.”
The [Enchanter] took the semblance of the board, curved upwards on both sides, made of steel rather than wood. The Dwarf was busy with the truck. He copied the form based on the one look he’d gotten from Kevin’s skateboard, fashioning a template out of clay.
“This good?”
“Yes. Holy…how did you know?”
“Eh. So long as I know the measurements of the board part, I can keep it the same ratio. Now stand back. I’ll need to fuller these wheels too.”
Erin had remarked that it was a stupid, stupid idea to make a bicycle out of steel. And perhaps this idea was just as cracked. But there was magic involved too. Hedault weighed the board on a little scale.
“Hm. Nearly a third of the weight, as I said. Here.”
He handed it to Kevin. The young man whistled as he lifted the board and offered it to Erin. She lifted the metal incredulously. Yes, steel was suddenly lighter than titanium. Maybe not as light as wood or aluminum could be—but close.
The thing was that they were taking shortcuts to the real thing. Hedault did the truck of the skateboard next, reinforcing it so the steel wouldn’t deform under the impacts the board needed to take, and making it lighter. It wasn’t something, say, Ceria, or even Palt or Montressa could have done. But that’s why Hedault was there. Erin had, in her way, found the best experts in the region. Arguably, a large part of the world around her to do what she wanted.
But it was easy because of how she did it. She wasn’t experimenting. She wasn’t…innovating. She was searching for a way to create what she knew would work.
And that made things easy. So much easier than finding it out after trial, failure, improvements on the design. In the same way a…an iPhone was indecipherable and beyond even the most advanced early super-computers of their eras, it was all about time.
Time, which equated to knowledge in this case, expertise, money, and talent. And the finished product was easy.
Easier than a bicycle. Kevin gingerly stared at the all-metal contraption. It was shiny.
“You could paint this in a wicked scheme. But the wheels—”
“I roughed them up a bit. Should grip. And the top’s got sandpaper on it.”
Literally. Pelt had just glued it to the metal. Kevin stood on the board. He experimentally pushed himself forwards and nearly fell—
“Whoa! It’s fast!”
“Lightweight enchantments, and [Grease] enchantments where it spins.”
Even Hedault had been caught up in the excitement of creation, once Erin had apologized properly and amended her behavior. And why not? For him, this was new.
Look at it. Of course, only the patrons of The Wandering Inn saw Kevin first enter through the door to Esthelm and shoot down the floor. Mrsha went insane, chasing after the coolest thing ever as Kevin shot around tables and chairs and wiped out because he was going way faster than he imagined. But Hedault’s ring cushioned the impact.
“Dude.”
“Kevin, are you insane? Is that a metal skateboard?”
Joseph, wide-eyed, stared at the board. He immediately wanted a try. So did Rose. Galina just stared at the death of ankles everywhere and climbed onto her chair before Kevin could run into her.
“It’s just a trial for something else. Look at this! Whoops—it’s dangerous!”
Kevin tried to do a ‘walk the dog’ simple trick and hit Joseph in the leg. The [Kicker] howled in pain. A steel skateboard was still made of steel, even if it was lighter.
“Palt. What is that?”
Montressa looked at the Centaur. She knew.
“Something that might be completely useless. But it’s a prototype. I’ll share the details with you later.”
The Centaur was grinning like a madman. So was Kevin. Mrsha was begging for a turn along with half the young males in the room and some of the females.
So incautious. Erin hadn’t thought about what bringing this into existence meant. Which was why Ryoka often got peeved at her. She didn’t understand the levels of what it changed.
The skateboard? Perhaps on its own it wasn’t that revealing. It wouldn’t change the way wars were fought.
Ball bearings, though? Pelt had remained in his forge to puzzle that one out. He’d just given the skateboard a normal axis to spin on, but he was experimenting with the idea of using the tiny metal orbs like Kevin had described.
That was the unintentional little jump forwards hundreds of years. And that was just in the inception of the skateboard.
There was a logic to it. Selys saw Kevin shooting down the inn as guests cleared the way. The young man was over the moon.
“I wish I had a bigger place! And a ramp! Hey, can we get one built? If only Liscor didn’t have paving stones.”
He groused even as he gave Joseph a turn. Leon and Troy weren’t there, or they would have demanded the same. But then Selys observed something.
“You know, Pallass has really smooth walkways. No paving stones, just smooth. And there’s those giant ramps…”
Kevin looked up. He hadn’t been to Pallass. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Whoa. But Selys—I don’t think you quite know how skateboards work. Um—Kevin, they’re massive ramps.”
“Like, how big?”
He looked eagerly at Erin. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. And she was a bit too slow to stop it.
That was how he saw her. The muscular Drake turned his head as he stood on the 3rd Floor. He looked up and saw something else from her time. A crystallization of technology, brought with absurd ease to life. Because Erin Solstice had known it existed.
“Ooh.”
The young woman stared down one of the four great staircases of Pallass. As she had observed the very first time she’d come to Pallass, the staircases went up the entire Walled City on both sides. Thus, the ramps stretched down nearly three hundred feet. They separated both sides, flattening out on each floor for a bit before curving down.
“Kevin, don’t be stupid. You’ll die.”
Joseph cautioned his friend. Kevin was holding the skateboard on the 9th Floor, looking down. He was already getting looks. Not many people used the center ramps. Well—some of Pallass’ Street Runners did, especially the fearless Garuda who literally jumped off each floor to make deliveries.
“I’ve got a magical ring, guys. Right, Hedault?”
“He should survive a fall even if he jumped from the 9th Floor. I will need it back.”
The [Enchanter] couldn’t have said why he’d followed Kevin. Perhaps to see his invention used and analyze the efficacy. Or perhaps—the fluid motion of the wheels and the way Kevin had used it had called to him. He…would have liked a turn.
“Guys. This is the most incredible ramp I’ve ever seen. And I have a magical ring. I have to try it.”
If Kevin was worried about anyone, it was accidentally losing control of the skateboard and hitting someone with the flying metal object. So he began shouting.
“Hey! I’m going down! Get out of the way!”
That, of course, attracted attention. People looked up at the obnoxious shouting Human. Erin shouted too—that was when Grimalkin heard him.
“Hey. Is that Kevin? No way. Is that a skateboard? No way.”
Someone muttered. Leon and Troy looked up from where they’d been surreptitiously investigating Pallass with a big bag of coins.
More heads were turning. It wasn’t just Hedault. Or Grimalkin, or the Earthers. Kevin’s steel skateboard shone in the light as he slowly rolled to the edge of the ramp on the 9th floor. People were mostly just curious; some recognized Erin, or just wanted to know what the shouting was about. After all, they’d seen bad wipeouts that carried people down the staircase. One time a Dullahan had dropped his head and it had bounced down six floors.
He’d died.
People had demanded the guardrails that were on the staircases now. But this—this was different.
What was this Human doing? Across Pallass, people were staring. But more than people.
Young Drakes, Gnolls, Garuda, and Dullahans stared up at the Human around their age. It didn’t matter if they were rich, like Lady Salkis, who had demurely paused with her bodyguards, hiding the strange artifact she couldn’t puzzle out.
“What is that Human doing? I’d like to see.”
“Lady Salkis—”
One of her bodyguards wanted to stop the young Drake lady, but she was insistent. And she was just in time to see Kevin take a deep breath.
“Okay. Here I go!”
He pushed forwards, balancing on the skateboard and crouching. The watchers had just a second to realize.
The board was on wheels. And the wheels cleared the edge of the ramp—
