In the way of things, Selys Shivertail found she was bored.
Not just ‘bored’, like she got during a slow period working at the Adventurer’s Guild, back in the ‘good old days’ when Liscor didn’t have a single Gold-rank team, much less five. Or the bored you got from being stuck in bed with a fever.
Or even the bored that came from doing something monotonous, like helping your grandmother, Tekshia Shivertail, sort beans by color. All those boredoms were, well, temporary. Not philosophical. But Selys’ new boredom was the worst of all.
It came from having lots of money. And it was a slow, insidious thing.
At first, Selys bought whatever she wanted. Clothing. A new apartment. Little artifacts. Then she realized that the amount of pleasure she derived from buying things was proportional to how much of her money she’d spent.
A handbag or vial of perfume from Baleros she’d saved for had been infinitely more valuable than the same bag she could buy twenty of. Money devalued objects. On the other hand—it was still money. Selys could go to Pallass’ spa, rent a horse, eat well—those were fun things to do.
The problem was that it didn’t feel meaningful. Selys, as a [Heiress], had money. She wanted to do something with said money. She confessed her problems to her friends and found…little sympathy.
“It’s just that I don’t know what to do with all the gold, Erin. I could keep it with the Merchant’s Guild or—invest it. I mean, I’m building an apartment area.”
“Uh huh. So…make two of them?”
Erin gave Selys a blank look as she poked a pot of boiling clams. The shells were mostly clean, but some scum was being boiled off. Erin poked at one, looking as disgusted as the clam was to be in each other’s presence.
“I don’t want to just be a landowner, Erin.”
“Okay. So do something else. I wish I had lots of gold. Can I get a loan?”
“No. Be serious, Erin.”
The Drake watched a clam pop open. Erin was making clams; she’d gotten them imported from the markets. Pallass imported all sorts of things, even seafood. As did Invrisil. But even so…
“Why are you making clams, Erin? They have to be extremely expensive.”
“Nah. They were a gift. Okay, so you have money and you need to spend it. What about…about…investing in a business?”
“You mean, like the Golden Triangle?”
“No…hey, can you pass me that plate?”
Selys did. Erin took the clams out and put them on a plate. She eyed them and then reached for the knife at her waist.
“Okay, the trick is to not cut off the fingers. I thought you went to that bigwig shindig with all the movers and shakers a bit ago?”
Her Drake friend rubbed at one earhole.
“…I have no idea what you just said. If you mean, Sir Relz’ invitation—I didn’t enjoy it. There was an auction, and they all wanted me to, well, back their projects. You know, give money to their projects?”
“Invest. Why didn’t you?”
“Well—it was just I was watching the auction. And there was this potion on sale. And um…I’m not that rich, Erin. That was a lot of money being thrown around.”
The [Heiress] felt awkward admitting that. She had more money than she could have ever dreamed of saving and it was change compared to that auction. Hence her state of having too much and too little.
Erin was—unsympathetic. The [Innkeeper] glanced up.
“Okay, but if you want to make more money, you invest in stuff. Or buy stocks, but we don’t have them. So…ew.”
She stared at the halved clams and the insides. Selys looked dubiously at the clams.
“Liscor doesn’t eat clams, Erin. We do get water, but clams don’t survive the spring and they can’t migrate. You sure these are good to eat?”
“People eat clams. And oysters. I’ve had them. Okay…I think you just get some hot butter, which I have here, with garlic. Let’s lever one out and—ew.”
Both young women recoiled from the clam Erin pried out of the shell. Clams, to the uninitiated, had an uncanny resemblance to slugs, snails, and other members of the mollusk family.
“Erin. That’s disgusting.”
“No it’s not. I think. This—this is a delicacy. Yum. Hold on.”
Erin gingerly dipped the clam in a bit of the hot butter and nibbled at it. She brightened up.
“Hm. The butter really helps, you know. I can work with this. I’ll ask Lasica for a fancier clam-recipe. But this works. Hey Selys, want—”
The Drake had backed out of the kitchen by the time Erin turned around with the tray in hand. Erin sighed.
“I’d still take an investment in the inn!”
She shouted after Selys. The Drake saw Erin leave the kitchen.
“Hey! Anyone wanna try a clam with butter?”
She waved one hand. People looked around. Mrsha came racing out of the garden’s door, took one look at the clams, and raced back the way she’d come.
That was conversation one. But as Selys saw Menolit, Bezale—who liked seafood, since it reminded her of home—Montressa, and a few others gather around to share thoughts, she did have a thought.
All of Erin’s ‘bigwigs’ had indeed been into investing. They had cornered everything from Pallass’ spas to local agriculture, trade—Selys had been dismayed to see how fast they’d jumped on the opportunities in Liscor. They hadn’t come to visit, but a number had bought space in Liscor for construction projects.
Even a certain Wall Lord in Salazsar had purchased land, which had led to a number of representatives flooding into Liscor from Salazsar, Manus, one from Fissival and Zeres…
Liscor would have its elite class, even if a good number wouldn’t ever visit the city. But that meant Selys wasn’t on the ground floor by herself. Actually, her apartment already had six floors thanks to Antinium labor and a lot of Human tenants. But while it was steady—buying a second area of land wasn’t very tenable. It was long-term income and Selys wanted something exciting.
She looked around The Wandering Inn, and then at Erin. The Drake’s eyes narrowed. Well—some things were obvious. And if Erin had been serious…
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was hopping. And not just with the clientele. Lyonette had taken credit for, well, developing the inn’s actual income source in clientele, both guests and regular diners. She had made great strides, even if there were complications.
“Belgrade…Pawn…I don’t know how to say this. But no. Please undo that.”
The [Princess] rubbed at her forehead. Belgrade and Pawn looked crestfallen.
“But Lyonette, the stables are done!”
Belgrade pointed at the stables. Lyonette stared at it.
“Yes. And it’s…good. But—and I don’t know how to say this—you can’t have a stables with two floors.”
The two Antinium looked at her. Pawn raised one hand.
“Why not?”
“Horses don’t like heights. I realize you two wouldn’t know this. Uh…it’s not something I usually have to explain.”
“But there is even a ramp. See? Thus, twice as many horses can be stored due to vertical design. I came up with it myself.”
“Yes, but—no. Belgrade, please make it one floor only. We can store fodder on the second floor or use it for something else. But no second-floor stables.”
It was amazing how the Antinium were both more efficient than any other species and simultaneously, more inept. They’d somehow put up the framework for the entire stables in a morning, before Lyonette had been able to see it. Belgrade’s antennae drooped.
“Very well. But perhaps if we lifted the horses with—”
“That’s not the problem, Belgrade. Excuse me—”
Lyonette had just seen her second headache of the day. She waved at a group of [Porters] walking with a wagon up the hill. It was filled with sealed barrels, but the smell was still fishy.
“Hello! Excuse me—this is bound for House Sanito, isn’t it? Preserved fish? Not the front, please! We have an unloading area. Around back.”
A Gnoll leading the group gave Lyonette a blank look.
“House who? We were only told by the warehouse owner, Reira, to deliver this to the inn. And to collect our pay.”
Lyonette groaned. She waved at the Gnoll, pointing.
“Go around back! Some of our workers will unload the wagons. And you’re not being paid by us. Look, I’ll give you a receipt! Reira will get her pay.”
“A receipt? She won’t like that…”
The [Cargomaster] was dubious, but Lyonette convinced him to take his things around back. There, the Gnolls and Drakes met a new addition to the inn’s staff.
“Put everything there. Yes, just in there. The Workers will take it from there.”
The [Porters] eyed the Antinium Workers who were waiting for the barrels. Lyonette had, with permission and some help from Pawn, ‘hired’ eighteen Workers. They weren’t Painted Antinium.
They were Bird’s crew, who had worked on the inn. Now, they were both construction and general labor. They rolled the barrels into the basement, through the loading ramp. Meanwhile, Lyonette took one of the receipts, noted down the details of the cargo—tonnes of fish for House Sanito, dated it, signed it, and gave one copy for the [Cargomaster].
Loading ramps. Receipts. This was the changing inn. And—ironically, it wasn’t all Erin’s fault.
The trade between Liscor and the other nobles houses was. Lyonette gestured at the Workers.
“Move the door over to the basement and we’ll roll a few barrels through and give it time to recharge.”
“Yes, Miss Lyonette.”
The Workers obediently walked into the inn and came out carrying the magic door, much to the annoyance of people wanting to visit Esthelm, or Celum, or…Lyonette went over to reassure them, then communicate with House Sanito.
“Excuse me. We have about two thousand and two hundred pounds of preserved fish. We have your delivery—do you have payment for the food?”
The [Princess] opened the door to House Sanito. The woman standing on the other side gave her an open-mouthed response.
“A-already? But we ordered that just an hour ago!”
Lyonette gave the woman a strange look.
“Yes. It just needed to come up from the warehouses. We can probably give you four hundred pounds’ worth at a time. But I’d like to collect the payment as well, if that’s alright.”
“Um, excuse me, Miss. Dear—”
Belatedly, Lyonette realized she’d been speaking to Lady Edere Sanito. The woman hurried off, very flustered, and Lyonette reflected that they had better move the door; she doubted Lady Sanito wanted barrels of smelly fish rolled through her carpeted hallways.
Oh, so busy. Lyonette got a few barrels through as Lord Sanito hurried out to see the cheap food he’d bought with his own eyes. The rest stayed in the basement until they could be shipped out via door—the inn was part warehouse now, given Erin’s new Skills and the Antinium expanding the already-large area.
It was all money to Lyonette. Money she would reinvest and use in the name of The Wandering Inn. She’d nearly paid off her fine from Zevara with her own income; she could have done it easily with the money from the inn, but that wasn’t hers. This money would make more projects possible. It had already opened doors and curried favor—literally.
“Hey Lyonette, wanna clam?”
Erin offered Lyonette the clams she’d received from another of the noble houses. Lord Toldos of House Everight had some coastal holdings. He’d sent the clams to Erin as thanks for her getting him some much-needed tools, cheap from Esthelm.
House Everight did border the sea, but since his lands were on the eastern side of Izril, it wasn’t part of the Baleros-Chandrar-Terandria circuit that [Merchants] liked to get to. Hither to this point, Lord Toldos had relied on Invrisil for trade.
All this to say that when Selys found Lyonette, chewing on a clam and remarking that it was lacking…everything…in terms of actual seasoning or preparation to Erin, the [Princess] should have jumped at the suggestion that Selys invest in the inn.
“Ooh. You mean it, Selys? I told you I was serious. Lyonette—we could build a park. Or the water slide! Huh? Huh?”
The [Princess] blinked at the Drake [Heiress].
“You want to give money to the inn for a share of the profits?”
“Yeah. Or something. Erin says you could use the gold.”
The Terandrian [Princess] thought about this. She looked at Selys—then she laughed.
“Hah. No. Never.”
Erin and Selys were both surprised. They shouldn’t have been. The Wandering Inn was like a castle to Lyonette; it was certainly built of stone as well as wood and modeled after Terandrian designs. And no self-respecting [Princess] went in for [Merchants] buying shares of their kingdom.
“We can fund everything within reason on the inn’s income alone, Erin. If Selys had ten times as much gold as she does…or a hundred times…we’d talk. Now, if you’ll excuse me—I have to get someone to deliver this gold. Ishkr!”
The [Princess] shouted for Ishkr by reflex. The Gnoll, who was masterminding the kitchen and common room of the inn, looked up.
“I’m busy. Send Welle.”
Lyonette stopped as he gestured to a Drake [Server]. She hesitated, and then nodded.
Everything changed. Ishkr was a [Head Waiter] and Lyonette’s second-in-command since Drassi was now moonlighting as the announcer for Wistram TV. Drassi still did the night-shift as [Bartender], but Ishkr had won the coveted position in the bloodless, not-very-contentious ‘war’ behind the scenes.
Welle went for delivery instead of Ishkr. And Selys realized she was no better than when she’d started. She went looking for more advice in regards to spending her money.
 
—-
 
She’d just reached Liscor to talk with her grandmother, when an unwelcome perspective strode over to her.
“Hey Selys! How’s my favorite girl with scales?”
Hawk appeared next to Selys so fast she didn’t see him. As always, the Courier moved like lightning. The [Heiress] turned her head—and scowled.
“Hawk. I thought you were working!”
“I was. But I had to find you. Someone just got attacked! In the streets! And I knew you were around the inn, so I had to check on the love of my life.”
Hawk gave Selys a deep look of caring. Selys propped her claws on her hips.
“Attacked? By what? A monster?”
“Nope. Some thug. Looked low-level. Just grabbed the poor kid’s moneybag and ran. Gave him a blow; he’s alright. The Watch is already on it.”
Selys peered at the crowd clustered around the Watch officer taking a description from the dazed…
“Oh no. Welle?”
The Drake had gotten to Liscor just before Selys. And the unlucky young man had been got. Hawk blinked.
“You know him?”
“Yes! Erin is going to throw a fit. I’d better let her know. Wait…if you saw what happened, why didn’t you do anything?”
The Drake rounded on Hawk as she reached for the door. The Courier raised his hands.
