Onieva knew this. And she had a cup in her claws. And in her claws—it was a deadly weapon. Grimalkin was watching, half-risen, unsure. The inn’s staff was pushing forwards. But Onieva would have protected Rose and damn the consequences. She was poised to take out the entire crowd.
Then—Erin stomped her foot.
“Hey!”
The shout knocked the crowd flat. Literally. Onieva almost saw the aura flash across the inn. Maviola’s training hadn’t been for nothing. Erin Solstice strode forwards.
“Who’s attacking Rose? I’ll attack you! I’m in the mood to punch someone and it’s not me!”
She was angry. The [Innkeeper] was furious. She also had two tissues stuffed up her nose from where she’d gotten a nosebleed when Zevara had used her Skill on her. The bleeding had stopped with a healing potion, but Erin was still peeved.
“Erin! Oh my god—”
Rose fled behind her, face white. The crowd began babbling, pointing at the stage, furious—Erin shouted.
“Shut uuuuuuuuuuuuuup!”
And there was silence. Well, a few kept talking.
“—most disgusting display I’ve ever seen. I was defending—”
Erin strode over to the Drake woman. This time she took a page out of Bird’s book. She opened her mouth, inhaled, and screamed.
“Aaaaaaaah! Aaaaaaaaaaah! Shut up! Shut up!”
The Drake woman—shut up. Erin looked around, ready to scream everyone else’s ears off. She looked at Rose.
“Okay. What is this about? It’s just a play! What made you all so mad?”
“She was making the [Actors] act like Turnscales!”
A voice bellowed, despite Erin’s aura weighing everyone down. Erin’s brow furrowed.
“Like what?”
“Like…it was two men, playing Romeo and Juliet, Erin. They’re mad because—oh god.”
Rose stared around the room, afraid. Erin gave her a puzzled look.
“So what? Oh. Oh.”
Her eyes widened and she lowered her voice.
“You mean they were gay?”
The young woman nodded slowly. And now she was watching Erin’s face. Onieva was listening, invisible in the crowd.
“Erin, these people don’t know about homosexuality at all. I mean—they do, but they don’t. They’re intolerant!”
A rumble ran through the room. Erin lifted a hand. She tugged Rose out of the crowd, and the two’s voices continued, as Lyonette began to disperse the crowd with help. But a few people were listening, including an [Alchemist] who had potions to enhance hearing.
“Oh. I get it. They don’t like…well, that’s wrong. Everyone deserves equal rights, right?”
“Yes!”
Rose almost fainted with relief. She clutched at Erin’s arm.
“No one knows about LGBTQ rights. That’s why I haven’t met anyone! This entire world is—is in the dark ages!”
Erin was nodding, but her brow furrowed.
“Wait, what’s that last bit? LGBTQ…? What’s the Q?”
“Queer? Like…GSM? DSG?”
Rose gave Erin a look. She was naming acronyms. Erin gave her a very blank stare.
“What’s that?”
“Gender Sexual Minorities?”
“Um…is that a movement? I mean, I’m all for gay marriage. I think I met someone who was gay once. They said so, which was my big clue. But I don’t keep up on or know about, about…”
The [Innkeeper] waved her hands to indicate everything and anything. Rose hesitated.
“Oh. Well…”
Rose was looking at Erin. Looking around the room, at Galina, who was glancing at her, a few others. And realizing…everything.
She was not the only one. Selys was standing uncomfortably, not exactly nodding to the mutters, but definitely not painting herself as a target. She saw Onieva walk over.
The Drake was wide-eyed. Even quivering a bit. And Selys interpreted it the wrong way. Or the right way? Not as Onieva was actually feeling, anyways.
“Oh. Onieva, are you going?”
Onieva jumped.
“Yes. Yes, I—who’s that Human, Selys? The one with Erin?”
“Rose. Look, Onieva—”
Selys trailed off. What did she say? And before she could come up with something, Onieva was gone. To Pallass. Onieva’s mind was racing.
If you were smart, you picked up on more than just what Rose’s beliefs were.
Back home. And—she spoke so knowledgably. Onieva had to know more.
It could be a trap. It could be dangerous. She’d approach this with all the caution in mind. There had been traps before and she could not get caught. But…
Mirn had to know. They had to know.
Onieva looked back at Rose, just once. The way Rose looked around with horror, as if seeing something clinging to this entire world that terrified her. With fear, too. For herself. And at Erin’s confused face.
It told her a lot.
 
—-
 
Grimalkin of Pallass had notes. He had lots of notes. He also, incidentally, was the [Sinew Magus] of Pallass. He had fought in wars. He had travelled the world.
He took lots of notes because he was a [Magus] and a scholar and he believed in gathering evidence, proving theories. He did not act incautiously.
But he was also a warrior. So he acted.
“Hey Grimalkin. That was something, huh?”
It had taken an hour for Erin to restore order, and she’d kicked out half a dozen people. More had left of their own volition, swearing to boycott the inn. Most didn’t want to talk about it.
Grimalkin did too, but it was a…lesser consideration. He needed to know more.
“It has been an eventful year so far, hasn’t it, Miss Solstice? Will you sit for a moment?”
The Drake pulled out a seat. Erin hesitated. She suspected a trap and she was right. But Grimalkin was an ally, and a friend of sorts.
She sat. And the showdown commenced.
A note-taking Grimalkin appeared in front of Erin. He had a hypothesis. And he used it in one move. The Drake leaned back in his chair, looking pensive.
“You know, as I’ve made so many breakthroughs in my studies, I can’t help but think of the future.”
“The…future?”
Erin blinked. The Drake nodded as he gestured around.
“What might the world look like in a thousand years’ time? Ten thousand? Will there be a world? How might weight training have evolved? Perhaps…agriculture, architecture, magic…one does wonder. But there’s no way to know, after all, is there?”
“Y-yeah.”
Erin tried to dodge the question…and failed. True, it was for reasons perpendicular to the ones Grimalkin suspected. But he saw it.
The Drake’s face was smooth.
“You know, Miss Solstice, that unpleasantness with Miss Rose—”
“She’s from elsewhere. Er—far away. I can’t say where.”
Erin was sweating. She’d walked into a trap! Her eyes darted around, looking for an escape rope. But Grimalkin didn’t press her on the weak point. But that was only to keep her off-guard.
“Oh, naturally. But there are, after all, different nations with different sensibilities. Selphids don’t care. And of course—you two do have your different perspectives.”
“Yeah…?”
Grimalkin had cast [Silence], so he said this next part smoothly.
“I couldn’t help but overhear a bit. Perhaps the issue of—Turnscales in society is not so contentious. Merely Drake culture. We must seem so…backwards to other people. Even, perhaps, left behind in time?”
Another wince. The Magus sighed. Erin was close to fainting. Or running away. Or hyperventilating. She looked around. She had to—
“Aha! Kevin! My guy! Switch with me, would you? Sorry, Grimalkin! I’ve gotta get back to work!”
Erin used Kevin, shoving him into the seat. It was super-effective! At least, in slowing Grimalkin down. But she’d just exposed her weak points.
The [Sinew Magus] looked at Kevin and he tried the same trick.
“Don’t you feel as though you’re…lost in time sometimes?”
Erin froze mid-step. Kevin blinked at Grimalkin. He was unguarded. Erin had to warn them all! She spun—and Kevin nodded.
“All the time, man. I mean…what is time? Time. Is it a river or a whirlpool or is it…”
He trailed off. Grimalkin stared at him. Kevin’s unfocused gaze came back to reality.
“Time? You know, if it goes backwards, does it go up or down? Those are the real questions.”
“Er. Yes. [Chronomancers] do exist and they’ve postulated—I mean, what?”
“Sometimes I wonder—you know, the word? Some times. That’s an interesting word when you think about it. Some of the times. Which is what it means. But what about…alltimes? But that’s not one word, right? But it should be.”
The [Sinew Magus]’ mouth opened and closed as he ran straight into the most logical wall of illogic he’d ever heard. He peered at Kevin, and then he and Erin both smelled the distinct scent in the air.
“Dreamleaf.”
The Drake sighed, disgusted. Erin fled, resolving to thank Palt rather than scold him. His quarry escaped. Grimalkin folded his arms.
“Even so. That was no anomaly. I’m sure of it. But what do I do with the knowledge?”
“That’s the question, dude. What do you do with knowledge?”
“Oh, shut up.”
 
—-
 
In the end, it had all been a failure. A big waste of time. But why—why did it matter? Money could just sit around, right? Did it lose value if you didn’t touch it? Surely not.
It was all about Selys, after all. And she told Erin what the real problem was.
“I’m just worried about the future, you know?”
Erin gave her friend a suspicious look, then glanced towards Grimalkin’s table, but he’d already left.
“Yeah. I mean, no. What are you worried about?”
“Um. Whether I’ll die in the future, whether I can defend myself or Mrsha—what I want to do with my life, how to invest my money in case it runs out, safeguarding my stuff…”
Selys ticked off the points on her claws. Erin clutched at her stomach.
“Ooh. Now I get it. That makes me feel bad just thinking about the future. Or maybe it was the clams. Did I boil them long enough?”
The [Heiress] laughed.
“Erin, you’re the worst at committing to things. At least I try. But that’s why you have Lyonette. I just wish…”
“Hey! I plan for things! I had all kinds of stuff I…introduced.”
Erin looked around for Grimalkin again and leaned over sneakily to Selys.
“Remember the hamburgers? Or pizza? Or stuff?”
“You just copied that, Erin. That’s short-term stuff. It matters, I’m talking about the future.”
“Hey!”
Erin raised a finger and had to concede—Selys was right. The [Innkeeper] leaned on the table with a sigh.
“Maybe you’re right, Selys. I’m bad about that. I just don’t like…that kind of big stuff. I did have things I wanted to do.”
“Really? You?”
“Mhm. I was going to buy a Golem. You know, so Toren could get a friend?”
The Drake paused with a forkful of spaghetti-and-clams that Lasica had helped Erin make before taking half the clams as payment to her mouth. She gave Erin a look.
“Really? You were going to buy a Golem?”
“Mhm. Before I got kidnapped to Celum, and even after that, I was looking into prices. But Stone Golems are expensive. Like, even the cheapest ones that needed repair were over a thousand gold pieces.”
“Um. Yeah. Golems aren’t cheap.”
“I know! But I wanted one! Just imagine how useful it would have been! I had other plans too. Like…getting the inn enchanted. But look where we are. Lyonette is the one who really got Hedault to do that.”
Erin waved a hand towards the kitchen. She peered at the doorway to the garden, where Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma were playing ‘Gnollball’ with Numbtongue, which was really him just throwing them as hard as he could from the hill into the pond.
“Some things I didn’t even imagine. Like Numbtongue. Or…I wish I had done some of the things before.”
Her eyes glimmered. Selys remembered five Hobgoblins sitting around a table as if it were yesterday and forever ago. So did Erin.
“What else?”
She was genuinely curious, but not if it hurt Erin. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. Then she smiled, ruefully.
“You know, I barely remember. Hold on, I can check! I think…”
The young woman charged into the garden, and the door vanished. Selys heard a loud thump, and cursing from upstairs. Then Erin hopped through the doorway, barely seconds later.
“Ouch. I ran into my dresser! But—data! Here it is!”
She showed Selys a little journal she took notes in. It wasn’t really a diary so much as interesting chess notations, thoughts, grocery lists, and…a page of little items, with annotations.
“What’s this?”
“My list of future-stuff. Big ideas I had. See?”
There was ‘Golems’ written on one line. With little annotations.
 
Golems—stone? Metal? Super expensive! Build yourself? Get Pisces to make?
 
It was also crossed out and ‘bad idea’ had been written there. Probably after Toren. That was one entry. Selys grinned.
“Maybe he can do that. Not all of these ideas are bad, Erin.”
“Yeah. I know, right? Let’s see what else I wrote.”
The two bent over the notes for the future as Kevin tried one of Palt’s cleansing cigars and rapidly sobered.
“Whoa. Dude. But why wouldn’t you want to be high?”
“Time and a place, Kevin. Don’t you have to practice football?”
The Centaur plucked the cigar out of Kevin’s hands. The young man groaned.
“Oh, thanks! You saved me! You know, Dreamleaf isn’t quite like weed…”
The two heard laughter. Selys and Erin were exclaiming over the paper.
“Erin! A ballista? What are you, Bird?”
“What? I wanted to put one on top of the inn! He has some good ideas! And look at this one—put the inn on wheels!”
“Do you even know how heavy an inn is?”
“Duh. That’s why it’s off the list. Ooh! Look at this one! Ping pong tables! Well, not all of these are huge. But this one is.”
Erin tapped one of her notes proudly. Selys read, frowning.
“Boom bark walls? You don’t mean…”
“I had the idea from the second inn. I was going to ask Moore if he could regrow the wall’s bark. You know, since he’s a nature mage? So if there was a siege—”
Erin made her arms go ‘boom’. Selys, Palt, and Kevin all stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked around.
“But I didn’t bother. Didn’t seem too practical. What if the bark appeared on the inside? Well, I was also thinking about making an acid-fly squirt bottle. For…self-defense. But I don’t need to. Not all of this is useful after all. Or if I could do it—why bother?”
She sighed. Selys was nodding as Erin reached for the list. It was like her daydreams. Spa, funding adventurers—what was the point? It wasn’t what she really wanted to do, even if it was possible. Erin was closing the journal when a last entry caught Selys’ eye.
“Wait, what’s that word there? Bicycle? What’s that?”
Kevin blinked. Erin looked at the entry and sighed.
“Oh. Bikes. You know—it’s this vehicle. You can go around fast with it, and I wanted to make it, but—look.”
She showed Selys a much-worn page with a sketch. It was…it looked like some odd, odd wagon to Selys. She understood the concept. Two wheels, a seat—but Erin had erased and drawn around something connecting the wheels.
