“Kevin!”
The young man shot down the ramp. It wasn’t a slow pickup of speed. He went over the side and blazed down the steep incline.
“—ly shiiiiiiiii—”
Erin’s jaw dropped. She turned to Hedault as everyone surged to the edge. The [Enchanter] tapped his wrist twice.
“…Maybe I made the [Grease] enchantment too strong.”
By the time he said that, though, Kevin was three floors down. The only thing stopping him from wiping out was the fact that he was going in a perfect straight line. And wind resistance. But on the 6th floor—as he cleared the flat straightaway, his skateboard’s acceleration carried him over the edge.
“—aaaaaaaaa—”
He touched the ground at the edge of the ramp going down to the 5th Floor and braced just in time. Erin saw him lose speed, but the force of landing made Kevin wobble. He went over the 5th Floor’s ramp and hit the stairs.
“Oh my god!”
The skateboard flipped. Kevin flipped. Erin saw, in slow-motion, the skateboard twirling past Kevin as he tried to grab it in midair. He had time! He could grab it, put it under his legs—
Maybe if he’d had Skills. Kevin missed. He rotated in the air and went head-first towards the ground.
“Kevin!”
“—iiiit—ugph!”
The young man halted a foot from the ground. His flailing arms, and scream—all stopped as Hedault’s ring flashed. For a second Kevin hovered—and then the enchantment let him drop. He hit the ground.
His skateboard had slammed into the railing just past him, narrowly missing a watching group of Dullahans. Kevin heard exclamations, shouts from above. He tried to stand up—but his arms and legs were jelly.
“He nearly killed someone!”
“That ring saved him!”
“What in the name of the Ancestors was that thing? Some kind of artifact?”
People were shouting. Erin looked at Hedault. The [Enchanter] stared down at Kevin, surrounded by a crowd.
“That was quite dangerous.”
“No kidding?”
The man waved at the skateboard.
“Not the ring. It could have saved him from a much faster drop. Although…it’s only safe up to a certain amount of weight. I might have to adjust for that kind of acceleration. I meant the skateboard. It’s quite a projectile.”
Indeed, before Erin even got to Kevin, the nearest [Guard] had arrested him. They might not have known what law he’d broken, but he’d broken something. However, the [Guard] proved unable to escort Kevin to the Watch House or jail.
A mob of Pallass’ youth practically carried Kevin off. They demanded to know what he’d just been riding.
Lady Salkis herself would have been part of that mob, but for her damned [Bodyguards]. She couldn’t stop her tail from wagging.
“Find out what that is.”
“But Lady Salkis—”
“That’s an order.”
Look at it. No, look at it. In a moment, Kevin’s face became burned into a thousand eyes. A vision of speed. And the skateboard? Kevin was trying to explain as people fought to prevent it being stolen and begged for a chance. In his mind whirled visions of ramps, places where he could do that trick more safely—and lots of Hedault’s rings.
Grimalkin of Pallass saw it all. The Watch tried to stop the inevitable. But the mob of people proved too much for them. And they ended up just clearing a death-zone around the southern staircase as the first Garuda tried to ride down all nine floors. She ended up wiping out after just two floors and flying off as the skateboard blasted further down like some missile of death.
Look what you’ve done. He saw Erin Solstice amid it all. She wasn’t the focus of attention; Kevin was. But he knew who had caused this.
Look. Pallass wouldn’t ever be the same. A Drake went down one floor before he hopped off, screaming. His tail had nearly torn off every scale as it dragged behind the skateboard. Of course, each rider had to borrow Hedault’s ring. And the others wanted one of those boards yesterday.
“Even the damn [Enchanter].”
Hedault went down all nine floors like an arrow thanks to a [Sticky Web] spell on his feet. And Grimalkin, Erin—no one could have predicted that. Or how Hedault laughed.
She changed everything. Grimalkin watched Erin. Had she planned this? Or was it just chance? Thoughtlessness. Soon, Drassi or Wistram’s broadcast would pick it up. And then—well, he had seen what happened with football. Imagine this? What would it change? Nobody could know, not even Erin Solstice. What had she done?
“It’s not her fault.”
He told himself that. He had wondered if she was just a child. Or if some things—taking in Antinium, introducing the things she did—was because she knew something.
Either way. Grimalkin didn’t keep watching. He could have marched up there and he wondered what Erin Solstice would have said to him. But he wouldn’t do that.
Erin Solstice was a woman of virtues and her own kind of integrity. She could be forced into many situations. But—making someone of her level and talent an enemy was a foolish idea in the extreme. Despite, or rather, because of her background—Pallass, Izril, needed people like her on their side.
No. But Grimalkin wasn’t about to let this drop. He’d had more than enough time to collect all the evidence in the world. Even if nothing was definitive—there was a glut of tertiary information he’d have to be blind to ignore.
The [Sinew Magus] could not, would not just sit on it. He was a [Mage], yes. But also a [Soldier]. He had fought in the Antinium Wars and other conflicts. He had already acted on the information he’d gotten a bare two hours ago.
He wished he’d stayed at The Wandering Inn in hindsight. But then again…Grimalkin turned his head.
“Excuse me. But I believe our tour of Pallass isn’t completed. By all means, let us investigate your friend’s device later. Perhaps tell me about it as we walk. However—we were speaking.”
He addressed a pair of Humans. They looked up at him. Leon and Troy hesitated. Then they recalled that Grimalkin had personally offered them a tour, and the coins they were so eager to spend.
“Whatever you say, Magus Grimalkin.”
They looked giddy. Grimalkin smiled politely. And he glanced back at Erin. Attack her from the front? Ridiculous.
When you fought the enemy, you always went for the weak points. Grimalkin watched Troy and Leon marvel at his city, exclaiming. There were traitors in every war. And this wasn’t even war. You could buy what you wanted. Depending on the person.
“Where were we? Well, your friend is an example of what I’d like to know, gentlemen.”
The [Sinew Magus] strode with Leon and Troy. He watched them, noting how they glanced at each other.
“That’s…tricky.”
“I’m sure it is. However, I do know that you and your…group have come from Magnolia Reinhart’s estates. Which indicates you have told her something.”
The [Sinew Magus] saw Troy gulp. Grimalkin did not need to loom. He just needed to exist. He looked at Leon.
“The Reinharts, as members of the Five Families of Izril, are not always the allies of the Walled Cities of Izril. Quite the opposite.”
Leon wavered as Grimalkin looked at him. The bag of coins was very heavy; Grimalkin had given it to him instead of a bag of holding on purpose. Leon tried to remember if Magnolia had ever given him that much money aside from when he’d first met her.
“Look…we’re just travellers. We’re not taking sides.”
“Of course I understand that. Which is why I’d like to incentivize you. That bag of coins? Consider that a free gift. And of course, Pallass is open to you. Grand Strategist Chaldion can arrange…anything you’d like. Rooms. Company. Artifacts.”
The two looked up at him. Leon looked around surreptitiously.
“What…do you want? There’s some stuff we sh—can’t talk to you about.”
Troy nodded emphatically. The Drake was prepared for that. Grimalkin checked his notes.
“Aside from anything of pertinence? Let us call it a free exchange. Obviously, secret. Especially from Miss Solstice. Nor is this an exclusive arrangement.”
“Really?”
“Of course not. I’m paying you for information. That’s all. I’m particularly interested in your reaction to Master Felkhr. You called him a ‘pioneer’. Let’s begin with that. And of course—you can decline to answer me at any time.”
Leon looked at Troy. He’d never really had a chance. Grimalkin had gone with the straight offer. He would have changed tactics as needed. But he didn’t need to. Slowly, the young man nodded.
“Okay. We could…talk.”
“Excellent. Then, of course, we’ll continue our tour. After that? Drinks. I know an excellent restaurant.”
Not Tails and Scales, obviously. Erin frequented that establishment. Grimalkin had a magical book with one thousand pages, enchanted to look like the slimmest of journals. Standard for Fissival [Mages].
Of course, he’d filled up two with observations on Erin. Notes. Theories. Now, the [Sinew Magus] had a fresh one and a magical quill from Wistram that auto-copied dictation. He did so love proper documentation. And this would not be theories.
He prepared his first manual for submission to Chaldion and made a mental note to ask for one of Pallass’ high-ranking officers. Female, with charm Skills unless they were like Rose. Another question to ask. But first things first. He underlined the first heading.
Flight.
“Now. Tell me…everything.”
