“Whoa! Selys! You know I’m a Courier. I can’t get involved in beating up criminals. There’s professionalism of my class to consider. I know you’re used to…Ryoka and other Runners, but I don’t make enemies. If I’d known Welle was Erin’s friend, I’d have stopped the mugger, but—”
“Ugh. That is just so like you, Hawk! You could have saved Welle, but you stand back because you won’t do anything. Erin would, and she’s not even a fighter! Or P—”
Selys stopped. But Hawk’s ears had already twitched. He folded his muscular arms.
“Go on, say it.”
“I wasn’t going to say anything.”
“Yes you were. You said ‘P’. You mean, Pisces.”
“—Or Ceria, or Yvlon or—”
“It’s always Pisces this, Pisces can do that. I’m sorry I don’t animate the dead, Selys.”
“It’s not just that! You didn’t even do Erin’s delivery!”
“Yeah? Well, you seem to take every opportunity to complain about being with me. Is it just me or do I think that’s unfaithful?”
The Drake gasped in outrage. The moment of reflection that Hawk might be correct turned into fury.
“Unfaithful? We’ve been seeing each other for less than a month! I thought it was casual, but you’re always like this! You know what? If that’s how you feel—we’re done.”
“What? Selys—wait—”
Hawk’s angry face turned into one of shock, then astonished hurt. He tried to pursue Selys. Meanwhile, Welle, forgotten, groaned as he tried to give a description of the attacker—some Human—to the [Guardswoman].
Which, to be fair, was a bit more important at that moment in time. He had been mugged. The [Guardswoman] was taking it seriously too. Mainly because she had a good idea of what was about to happen next.
 
—-
 
“Someone mugged Welle? Numbtongue! Bird! Palt! Let’s go!”
Erin grabbed a frying pan. Lyonette grabbed her and dragged her back.
“Oh no you don’t, Erin. I told you—you can’t overturn the city every time!”
“But Welle!”
“He’s got a bump on his head. If you explode a building or cause another fight, Zevara will eat you. Not to mention, it’s dangerous. It just takes one idiot with a knife.”
Erin hesitated. She lowered the frying pan and the [Guardswoman] relaxed.
“This is just a standard mugging, Miss Solstice. Looked like it was unplanned too, so the criminal’s probably not got a hiding place planned. Rest assured, we’ll get him. With Mr. Soot gone, the underworld is in chaos. Our Gnolls are on his scent already.”
“But—okay. As long as Relc and Klbkch—oh. I mean, Relc gets on it! Tell him I’ll give him free dinner if he gets the money back tonight!”
The [Innkeeper] saw the [Guardswoman]’s face change at Relc’s name. Erin stopped.
“What?”
“Guardsman Relc—was reassigned to another city, Miss Solstice. A week ago.”
“…Huh?”
The young woman and Lyonette both turned to look at each other. The Drake [Guardswoman] hesitated. She sensed—too late—the equivalent of a [Dangersense] going off in her head.
“I thought you knew. Er—he was reassigned after the Golden Triangle incident. I heard his apartment was burned down.”
“He never told me that. Where’s he been living? I’d have let him stay at the inn for free! For a while, at least.”
Erin looked around, shocked. She saw the [Guardswoman] slowly step back. Erin’s head snapped around.
“Where is Relc?”
“Er…I have to get back to duty, Miss—”
“Where. Is. Relc?”
There was no helping it. The [Guardswoman] stepped backwards, towards the magic door. She opened it, blurted the answer, and slammed the door.
“He already left, Miss Solstice.”
For a minute, Erin just looked at the wood door.
“But he didn’t tell me. He should have…”
Her emotions flickered between shock, hurt, sadness—and then Erin looked at the door. This time Lyonette didn’t try and stop her.
 
—-
 
“You know I’m always happy to take…donations to the Watch, Selys. But frankly, it’s not something you can invest in.”
Zevara played awkwardly with a quill as Selys sat in her office a little bit later. The [Heiress] sniffed. After a second, Zevara offered her handkerchief.
“…Here. Er, Selys, if you need time—”
“I’b fine.”
The Drake was crying. She and Hawk were officially quits. But it had not been an amicable breakup. She’d thought it wouldn’t affect her, but Hawk had said some pointedly—accurate—things. And she’d done likewise and the end result was that the Courier had gone to Pallass to drown his sorrows at Tails and Scales.
And Selys was here. The Drake wiped at her eyes as Zevara coughed and shuffled her papers.
“It’s just so hard. What am I supposed to do, Zevara?”
“…Enjoy your life?”
“Oh, as if I could just do that! I want to have a purpose! I can’t just—just—”
Selys blew her nose, which was really her nostrils. With Zevara’s handkerchief. The Watch Captain opened her mouth and closed it slowly. She decided not to press Selys for an upgrade to the jail, which the Watch needed. Oh, and they wanted to build some actual watch towers outside of Liscor. And there was the enchanted arms budget—Zevara was calling in and buying favors, but…
“Maybe it’s not Liscor, Selys. Pallass has more to…invest in than we do, frankly.”
“But everything in Pallass is taken!”
The younger Drake’s tears were slowing, proof that her breakup hadn’t been the most shattering thing ever. Zevara shrugged.
“Pallass, Esthelm, Celum—Selys, think outside Liscor. I know I’m a traitor to my city for saying that, but frankly—Liscor’s economy was never huge. It was based on our army. Still is. We’re transitioning out of it, but until then—”
She coughed.
“Sorry. Listening to Olesm’s lectures to the Council. They’re working on it.”
Selys was nodding. She stood up.
“Thanks, Zevara. I’ll wash this—”
“Don’t worry. It’s fine. Just—”
The two Drakes were arranging for an after-work dinner together somewhere, maybe with Krshia or Drassi. Zevara had been talked into it and she had to admit it was nicer than her work-eat-sleep schedule that had been her life before this. That was when—it happened.
“Watch Captain! It’s the Solstice-alarm!”
Zevara heard a shout from below. She looked up. So did Selys.
“The Solstice alarm?”
“Where? And how bad?”
Zevara bellowed as she reached for her sword. The voice came, urgently.
“Look out the window.”
Selys and Zevara turned.
In the street outside the Watch House, a young woman stood in the street. A Hobgoblin stood behind her. Already cause for alarm. There was Bird, Palt, looking exasperated—and a crowd. Of course.
Erin had a frying pan. With her other hand she made a fist. She shouted at the barracks.
“Give us back our Relc! Give us back our Relc!”
The crowd murmured. Rumors spread like wildfire. The Watch had kidnapped Relc? No—they’d exiled Relc? Or was he in prison…?
Selys slowly put her face in her claws. Zevara stared out the window at Erin.
“Even when he’s gone, he—Ancestors damn it.”
She strode from her office before Erin could set fire to half the city. Some idiots had actually picked up her chant. Then—the Watch Captain hurried back into her office for a moment. Selys saw her go to a little ringed calendar. The hand-written note on top said—
‘Days Since Crazy Human Incident: 8.’
Zevara gloomily reset it to zero. Then she stalked out of the office again. But the funny thing was that things changed even here. Selys watched as Erin Solstice waved her fist and shouted. Zevara appeared in the street, flanked by a few [Guards]—but far too few for the crowd. She pointed as Erin ran towards her.
“[Freeze, Criminal].”
Erin fell flat on her face as her body locked up. Zevara looked happier than Selys had seen her all week. The former [Receptionist] decided to take her advice and visit another city.
 
—-
 
Well, where to? Really, there was only one option. Celum was a wreck. Esthelm was still a tiny mining town. And Invrisil had Magnolia Reinhart, who was not inclined to like Erin Solstice or her friends at the moment. Selys didn’t know these other noble’s lands and she didn’t really want to deal with them.
“So, your logic is that because you don’t want to invest in a city literally rebuilding itself, or one of the most populated Human cities in all of Izril, or explore new areas, you came to Pallass.”
“Don’t say it like that. I’m not good at business! I was a [Receptionist]!”
“Ineptitude must be contagious. You know, Erin asked me how to make clam-based dishes via [Message] spell?”
Lasica shook her head.
“Just ask someone or buy a cookbook. What am I, her personal teacher?”
Even so, she’d come to The Wandering Inn, or rather, Selys had met her in the street. Now the [Chef] gave Selys a long look, not missing the telltale signs of crying.
“And I suppose you’re the reason there’s now a drunk Rabbit Beastman in our bar at midday?”
“Um…”
Selys flushed. Lasica shook her head.
“Just don’t go to the bar, alright? By all means, ask if anyone wants you to invest. Hah, good luck though. You do realize that if you’ve heard of a good idea, someone’s already invested in it? That’s why you find new things.”
“But this is the City of Invention. New things…”
“Our [Engineers], [Alchemists], and [Blacksmiths] are loyal to Pallass and their investors, Selys. I have to go. I want some of those fresh clams.”
Lasica left and Selys sighed. It was true. New things could be like…Octavia’s shop. But guess who had Octavia acting as her [Alchemist]? Erin. In a way, Erin had already invested in the good things.
She had a Hobgoblin who mined precious stones for fun, a Stitch-girl [Alchemist] who made medicine and matches…Antinium builders and Wistram [Mages]! Erin had a lot of talent at her disposal.
Selys just had money.
“Maybe I’ll just buy slaves or something.”
The Drake muttered. That was a joke Erin would not have appreciated. Selys had never actually seen slaves. They were obviously banned in Liscor…Selys assumed. She wasn’t sure about other cities.
She walked along, wondering if that [Sharpener] that Erin had mentioned—Lorent?—wanted to upgrade his business. How did you do anything? Give them money and get like, ten percent of their earnings? That was all long-term stuff. No, you wanted someone to have something you could sell now.
If she had lots of money, she’d literally hire an adventuring team to hunt down the other parts of the Heartflame set. Which she was sort of doing. Or maybe finance a [Merchant] to buy and sell goods?
None of that really appealed to her. Who would you trust, anyways? Trust was what mattered.
“Maybe Numbtongue wants to be financed to mine for treasure?”
Selys made a fist and smacked it into her palm. That was an idea! The Hobgoblin might actually go for that. Not that gemstones were as valuable as Selys would want given Salazsar…
She sighed. Selys was about to go for a dip into the spa—Pallass’ spas, now, those were amazing. They had magically infused waters, personal masseuses, experts at scale, fur, or feather or armor care who could tend to you.
“Maybe I’ll make a spa on my land. Beat out the public bathhouses…”
Dreamily, the Drake imagined that. But only in that way you had of daydreaming, not connecting it with the actual money she had that could make the project happen. She wasn’t super passionate about that anyways…
It was as Selys was walking through Pallass when she heard a familiar voice. Not Magus Grimalkin, as it turned out, who was heading towards the inn but casually ignored Selys since she wasn’t germane to his plans. Or Jelaqua or Maughin, who were on a date, but also avoided Selys on the basis that she was connected to Erin and they just wanted a quiet time to themselves.
No—this voice was female, brisk, familiar. Selys’ head turned.
“They are cracking down, Mirn. I don’t know who put an ember under Chaldion’s tail—I don’t think it’s him. It’s just after the riots…”
A Drake was stalking through the crowd with her friend. She stood out with rose and cobalt scales—bright, vibrant. Her companion looked much rougher. He had a scar across his mouth, and he looked like, well, a criminal.
But Onieva seemed exactly as Selys remembered her, out of place among the rich elites of Pallass. Now—the Drake was clearly in a bad mood. Onieva’s tail was clearing a path as she walked through the crowd with how much it was lashing. Drakes were like that. Selys hesitated—and then raised her claw and called out.
“Onieva! Hey, Onieva!”
The two Drakes started. The effect on Mirn was immediate. He whirled around and confronted Selys as she strode over.
“Hey. I don’t know what you want with Onieva, but get lost, Miss. She’s busy.”
“I just—”
“Selys?”
Onieva blinked as she recognized the [Heiress]. She pulled back Mirn, who was poised to chase Selys off.
“Hold on, Mirn. Selys is…an acquaintance.”
“Oh. You sure, Onieva?”
Mirn looked Selys up and down. His eyes, far from friendly, focused on Selys and then something else. Not past her, precisely. He gave Onieva a look.
“Well, she’s all yours. Nothing to do with me either way. Take her or leave her, Onieva. But don’t bring her with you when you find me. I have to…find somewhere.”
With that he stalked off. Selys stared at Onieva’s rude friend, wondering what that was all about. Onieva shouted after Mirn.
“Stay classy, Mirn!”
“Shove it up your tailhole, Onieva!”
The Drake shouted back. A number of people glared after Mirn. Onieva, used to the phenomenon, beckoned Selys over.
“Off to another fancy party?”
She gave Selys a smile that instantly managed to be needling. The [Heiress] glowered.
“Hardly. You were right. I don’t care for parties. Or…that kind of society. I don’t fit in.”
“You looked like you were doing okay. But fine.”
Onieva raised her claws as Selys glared. The Drake woman grinned.
“—What’s up? It’s rare you caught me; I’m usually inside.”
“You don’t go out much?”
“Eh, I’m not a society person. I’m just the black sheep of the family. The [Layabout]. That’s even my class. But as long as Saliss and Chaldion pay for me…”
She winked. Selys grinned.
“I wish I had that problem. Actually…”
It didn’t take her long to explain her woes to Onieva, who promptly laughed at her.
“You have too much money and that’s your problem? Give it to me and I’ll make that go away. It’s great that’s your one problem in the entire world.”
“I didn’t mean it like that. I know other people have bigger problems. But this one is mine. If you’re going to be a Lizard, leave me alone.”
Selys swatted at Onieva, but the Drake leaned out of the way nimbly. She was quick on her feet!
“Poor you. But fine. I guess it beats my problem.”
