Selys shook the laptop at Kevin. He took it hurriedly.
He had pictures. On his computer. Palt spoke as he copied laptop screen—something else Erin had yet to explain to Selys’ satisfaction. Palt and Hedault frowned as Palt blocked the screen and showed them the illusion…of the screen…which was the same thing.
“This is a bicycle, gentlemen.”
“Hey.”
The Dwarf smith grunted. The Centaur bowed.
“Excuse me. Dwarf and gentleman. It’s a personal vehicle designed to replace…horses. And running, to a large extent. With it, the average person can move about faster than even your average Runner with Skills. And aside from the cost of construction and occasional maintenance—it runs on no magic.”
The [Enchanter] and [Blacksmith] sat up. Pelt eyed the illusion, then adjusted it based on the laptop Erin and Kevin covertly showed him. Erin pointed before Palt or Hedault could see the electronic.
“See this? It can be done!”
Palt had replicated what he saw on screen exactly. There  was Kevin, posing for a picture with a mountain bike on some rock and a scenic view. Pelt and Hedault glanced at Kevin. He gave them two thumbs-up.
“Looks like you already have one of these things.”
“Nope. Um. It’s from home, and Kevin was trying them out. Palt is copying an image we have…uh…of the bike.”
Erin lied quickly. Pelt frowned at her, and then at the image. Hedault peered at the bicycle.
“Interesting structure. But I understand the basic idea. How does one…balance with two wheels?”
“Yeah. You’re going to just fall over.”
Selys and Pelt both looked to Kevin; they agreed. He grinned.
“Not at all. It’s actually easy. See, you don’t just stand there. You’re always moving, and so long as you are, there’s no need to worry. See how the front section there—has a hinge?”
“Ah. A turning mechanism. Why not three wheels, though? Or four?”
More like a coach, then. Kevin shook his head.
“The point of a bicycle is to be efficient as possible. More wheels means more resistance and a larger…structure.”
“I believe we’re talking about a lightweight vehicle, Master Hedault, Master Pelt. Something designed for speed.”
Palt pulled the presentation back on track. Selys nodded. They had to understand what a bike was first.
“Kevin, let’s put aside how the bicycle functions first. Tell us two things: firstly, how light did you say your ‘bike’ was? And how fast could it go?”
Kevin had to think for a second.
“Well…some can get lighter, but my mountain bike was about thirty pounds.”
“Huh.”
Pelt’s brows rose. He glanced at the bike.
“That’s not steel, then. Hollowed metal?”
“Yep. And if I’m going uphill, it’s obviously slower. Downhill, faster. But I’d say the average speed of a bike is…”
Kevin looked at Erin. She just shrugged; she wasn’t a cyclist. Kevin hedged.
“…Thirty miles per hour.”
“Thirty? That’s about the top speed of a horse. Is that a precise measurement?”
Hedault was incredulous. Kevin grinned.
“Bicycles can go fast. On wheels, you could reach top speeds even higher than that. Especially downhill.”
“Like a wagon. Only, the rider’s the horse? Why would anyone want to do that?”
Pelt wasn’t quite sold. But the Dwarf got the picture when Selys laid it out for him with Palt’s illusions as illustration.
“Master Pelt, you might not want to use one because you can afford to hire a carriage. But imagine a Runner using one of these. Or the average pedestrian. It’s a new, casual mode of transport. It won’t replace the magical carriage. But it’s the ideal thing for shorter travel. Especially down roads.”
“And imagine what you could do with Skills. Kevin’s speeds are based on—prototypes. Without magic.”
Kevin blinked, caught himself, and nodded. Hedault frowned.
“Interesting.”
And it was. Somewhat to Erin’s surprise as she saw the others taking over, she realized that the two craftsmen weren’t impressed by bicycles as a game-changing thing. Because it wasn’t. The reason Erin hadn’t pushed for a bicycle before now was because…it wasn’t necessary.
There were faster vehicles in the world. Magnolia’s carriage, [Riders] with Skills. Flying carpets, teleportation spells. Heck, her door was proof enough there were more efficient ways to do things. Now, a plane might change this world. But a bicycle?
In smaller ways. It was a symbol of industrialization. It was easier to care for than a horse, better in some areas. However, you did need to be sold on it.
And what sold Pelt and Hedault wasn’t the economic viability of the bicycles. It was two things.
“I’m willing to finance this project, Master Hedault, Master Pelt. I’ll pay you for your services, your best rates.”
Selys really hoped it wasn’t going to be that much. But the promise of lucre for their hard work definitely drew Pelt and Hedault’s attention. Even so—what really got them was Kevin’s comment in response to Pelt’s question.
“Why us? You could have hired…Raekea? Yeah, that Gnoll [Smith]. Get her to make you some prototypes. I make works of art.”
“But she can’t do it. She can’t work the right metal. The bicycle has to be a work of art. Each little improvement makes it that much better. We need the best; it’s all about efficiency. The weight of the metal, and enchanting it…”
Hedault and Pelt sat up. Efficiency? They looked at the bicycle. And unintentionally or perhaps intentionally, Kevin had spoken to their skillsets.
It wasn’t about making one. It was about making one go as fast as possible. They were drawn to the challenge of the concept. Kevin nodded.
“Do you know what aluminum is? It’s this lightweight metal used in alloys—I don’t know if you’d know about it. It was…”
He looked at Erin. Aluminum as an industrial metal had been invented in the last two hundred years of Human civilization owing to the difficulty of properly smelting it. It was plentiful, but not something Erin had ever seen in circulation in Liscor, or even Pallass’ forges.
Pelt snorted. But his eyes had lit up.
“You think there’s a metal in this world that Dwarves haven’t learned of before Humans? Tell me more. What does it look like?”
“Um…silvery. If it’s raw. Really lightweight compared to steel, but a lot more ductile. Weaker.”
The Dwarf tapped his fingers impatiently on the table.
“Be more specific. Tell me something unique about this metal.”
Kevin was sweating as he tried to recall useful little bits of information. He snapped his fingers.
“Oh! I’ve got one. It’s not magnetic! You know, if you have—”
The Dwarf’s eyes sharpened.
“Ah. Keep going. What’s the melting heat?”
“Er…I know it’s actually sort of common, just hard to process…”
The [Blacksmith] grilled Kevin for a few minutes, but in the end he had his answer.
“It can’t be Dwarfsteel. Not if it’s that malleable and needs alloying like that. And Humans have discovered tin long ago. I think you must be talking about Serraleun.”
“You know about it?”
Erin blinked at Pelt. He took a deeper gulp of wine as he snorted.
“Of course. Different names, same metal. And you’re wrong. Humans ‘discovered’ that ages ago. Can’t just slap your own stupid names on the metal. ‘Aluminum’. Hah. Serraleun’s a tricky bastard of a metal, but Chandrarian [Smiths] have worked with it before. It’s one of the many metals that goes into Naq-Alrama steel.”
“Ooh. Is that a secret?”
The Dwarf glowered.
“Not one I’m going to get in trouble with since they put so many damn metals in there. Everything from Adamantium to—”
He glanced at Palt and Hedault’s avaricious expressions and Pelt’s tone became circumspect.
“So, could you actually make a bicycle out of this metal, Pelt?”
Selys was excited. The Dwarf [Blacksmith] eyed the sample gear and flicked his fingers at it.
“Gah. I hate—what did you call it? Gears? So many little teeth and they have to be perfectly aligned. Of course, I can do it, but I have to make them myself. My apprentices aren’t that good yet.”
“They do have to be perfect. And the chain—”
Kevin could actually describe a bike’s chain well, having worked with them so long. Pelt nodded impatiently.
“It’s damn chain. I make chainmail. It’s even made of parts, so I could do that. Just a pain to make all the little bits. Still—there are ways to speed up the process if I knew I was making thousands of parts. However. I’m not working with Serraleun.”
“Why not?”
The Dwarf looked around and counted on his fingers.
“Firstly, the process is a pain in my ass. Even building the contraption you need to smelt the stuff takes an [Enchanter] and time. Second, I hate the stuff. It’s poison if you get it in your lungs. Third, I don’t want to.”
“But Pelt…”
Erin sidled around with the bottle of mostly-empty wine. She waved it at the Dwarf and he smacked it away.
“I’m not done. If you wanted me to make it out of your ‘aluminum’, I’d say no. But why bother? You. Boy. Did your smiths not think of using mithril? Or a lighter metal?”
He pointed at Kevin. The young man jumped.
“Me? I mean—no. Aluminum was cheap because they made a lot of it. Isn’t mithril expensive?”
“Yup. But I’d be able to get more of it than Serraleun. And even a weak alloy of mithril is strong.”
“You wouldn’t even need mithril, per se. Pure steel might actually work, if Master Pelt can make everything out of that.”
Hedault broke into the talk about metals for the first time. The [Enchanter] had been doing calculations. Now, the others looked at him.
“But steel’s too expensive. And heavy.”
“Especially heavy.”
Kevin put in. Hedault nodded, but absently.
“What I meant was steel of the purity Master Pelt can produce. You see—pure metals can hold enchantments very well. And if you give me a block of pure steel weighing thirty pounds, I can halve the weight with a basic enchantment. With Master Pelt’s quality of steel and more effort? I could reduce it to almost a third of its weight.”
The conference table fell silent. Erin silently ‘oohed’ in the background.
“Master Hedault, maybe we’ve been looking at this the wrong way. If the problem is just making this device light and strong enough, Kevin—what about wood?”
“Wood? I’ve…heard of people making bikes like that. Bamboo. But I don’t know if it’d be strong enough—still, with magic that changes everything.”
The young man ran a hand through his hair. He looked questioningly at Hedault. The [Enchanter] sighed.
“Not all woods work well. Wood is tricky because the grain structure forces the enchantment to be customized.”
“So not practical for making lots of them?”
“Not at all. However, there are a few magical woods…”
Selys was thinking.
“Master Pelt can make all the gears and little things that Kevin needs. Master Hedault, you can make the bicycle strong enough with the right materials. A really, really efficient bicycle might be expensive. But what about…just pure iron made as light as you can and tough as you can?”
“I can do that. Certainly, enchant iron to be as strong as steel.”
Hedault flicked his fingers. Pelt yawned.
“Iron? I’ll bend it into shape if you want.”
“Oh wow. So we could actually do this?”
Erin looked about. The [Innkeeper] saw Kevin scratching at his head. The young man and expert in this room on bicycles raised one hand.
“…Maybe. There’s just one problem. And that’s the wheel.”
Everyone turned back to the image Palt was maintaining. Pelt frowned.
“Looks easy. Metal rim, good, solid metal structure…ah. What’s that stuff on the edge?”
He pointed and Erin’s heart sank. Rubber. Hedault peered at it too.
“I assume that is to grip the ground?”
“Yup. There’s no…”
Kevin looked at Erin. There wasn’t rubber or plastics that either knew about. He hesitated.
“Road bikes could be just metal, or leather or something so long as it grips the ground. But it’s just less efficient.”
“Hm. Spikes? I can do spikes.”
The group began to brainstorm. There were plenty of leathers Selys knew about.
“Why not ask for Wyvern leather or something? Pallass is still selling it cheap and that’s tough stuff. Any other problems, Kevin? What did you say the issue with the um, gears was?”
“It’s got to be smooth. You see, the problem is that you lose energy. Really efficient bicycles don’t weigh much, the gears are smooth—oh, and we need brakes and shock absorbers, although that can come later.”
“Ah. Then I could apply a force multiplier on the…pedals? What is being absorbed?”
Hedault was quite impressed by Kevin’s description of shock absorbers. However, he also considered it an overly-difficult solution to an easy fix with magic. He pointed at the saddle.
“I’ll enchant that with a [Cushion] spell. It will be magically-intensive to create, but that solves your need for these ‘springs’. And if you are worried about falling—a Ring of Feather Impact solves that.”
“Ooh.”
“Would you stop that?”
Selys whispered at Erin. Even Palt was in on this.
“If you want a light on this, there are spells. Master Hedault, all you’d need is a good crystal, even quartz and a directed [Light Beam] spell.”
“That’s a combat spell. [Light] will do, with a few enhancement spells.”
“What about spikes? I could put some chariot war scythes on the sides if you really wanted this thing to fight for you.”
The Dwarf was imagining where to mount them. Yup, some nice, spinning blades and you’d just ride past the enemy…Kevin hesitated.
“Maybe let’s not do that, dude. But hey—how light could we make this bicycle? I mean, obviously the iron ones can be lightweight. But if we really went at it?”
Pelt looked at Hedault. The [Enchanter] smiled.
“Mister Kevin. One of the final tests of a true [Enchanter] in most Terandrian academies is to enchant a small block of mithril. The metal is already feather-light. So the [Enchanter] must, with [Featherweight] and other buoyancy spells, enchant the block until he is able to keep it aloft by his breath alone.”
“Whoa. Dude. Hear me out, then. What if you had a bike that light, and then the person on it was so lightweight with like, an amulet or something they went off a jump…”
Kevin was imagining the greatest stunts either world had ever seen. Erin was rubbing her hands together. Selys was worried they were taking this too far.
“Remember, everyone. We’re trying to mass-produce these bicycles. Not make one really expensive one.”
Palt, Pelt, Hedault, and Kevin all gave her a betrayed look. Palt cleared his throat.
“We can always make a prototype that showcases all the abilities of a bicycle. No doubt there will be higher-end models. Er—Kevin. How would you make one for me?”
