“Oh? What was that? Something about places?”
Onieva hesitated and waved it off.
“That—that was for Mirn. You know how it is.”
“He didn’t seem to like me.”
Selys glared in the way Mirn had gone. Rude Drake. No wonder Onieva liked him. The [Layabout] looked amused.
“Mirn just didn’t think he had anything in common with you. And he’s almost always right. Mirn gravitates towards people he needs to protect.”
“And I’m not one of them? Well, thanks for that.”
Selys felt at her high-power wand. Onieva laughed, but nodded along.
“If he’s rude to you, that’s Mirn.”
“Don’t you mean, ‘sorry, that’s just Mirn’?”
“Nope. That’s Mirn. It’s not my problem. Anyways—he actually runs a bar.”
“Really? Him?”
Then again, Selys had met some rude bartenders and she could just imagine Mirn operating one with [Toughs] and so on in the crowd. She scowled and kicked along the ground. And Onieva…
 
—-
 
Looked at Selys. Unlike Mirn, Onieva wasn’t only interested in people she needed to protect. And unlike Mirn, she did feel for Selys. The Drake was clearly unused to the things that Saliss had lived through. Sudden fame, wealth, power…
But more than that, Onieva was curious about Selys. For two reasons. The first was that she and Mirn had been looking for a safe place to establish his bar.
A literal safe place where some [Guard] wouldn’t kick down the door, arrest anyone they caught, and have everyone inside exiled or put to death. That was hard.
The riots had put the Watch on full-alert and they tended to go after the criminals and deviants when they were mad. One got lumped with the other, to mutual disgust, generally. Which made finding a good spot harder and harder.
They couldn’t use Saliss’ laboratory. Safety and all that. And neither could they go outside the city. It had to be convenient, easy…
Strange. Onieva tilted her head left and right, chasing a thought. It had always been too bad that Rufelt and Lasica weren’t at home with their people, or so Onieva had believed. She hadn’t decided to risk it. But it occurred to her there was another fortress of a building she had never considered.
“…But that damned checkpoint. Still—safety in numbers.”
“What was that?”
Selys looked up. Onieva grinned at her. And she decided Selys was a good test. She’d have to—well, Erin was another and more important. But Selys interested her for another reason.
A personal one. So Onieva glanced at Selys and coughed.
“Nothing. Say, you are Selys Shivertail, right? How well did you know your…I want to say, uncle? Zel Shivertail? I actually met him a few times.”
Onieva saw Selys freeze. The Drake looked up, and Onieva felt guilty because Selys’ expression had gone bleak for a moment.
“You did? I mean, I know Uncle—General Shivertail—visited Pallass a lot. He used to tell me stories of all the Walled Cities.”
The female Drake laughed at Selys.
“Yes, he visited. And of course I met him. I’m Saliss of Light—”
She froze. What a slip!
“—’s cousin! I badgered him all the time to introduce me. I talked with Zel. He was a good person. Actually—Mirn met him too.”
“No.”
“Yup. They got along.”
“No.”
Selys frowned, disbelieving. And it was true, Mirn hadn’t met Zel Shivertail, but the Drake who had taken over the underground meeting place before him had. She was fairly certain Selys wasn’t using lie-detection Skills or magic. The story was true enough anyways.
If only you knew. 
Onieva wanted to reintroduce Mirn and remind him this was Shivertail’s niece. Well, that might be a disaster of another kind. But yes—Zel Shivertail had known more of the Walled Cities than most Drakes. Including their community. It was one of the reasons why they shunned him.
But now, here was the question. How much had he told his niece? Zel had even mentioned to Onieva that his only good relatives lived in Liscor. So…Onieva pressed Selys.
“He was a good Drake. I was devastated to hear his passing.”
“Yes. I mean, thank you. I—the Heartflame Breastplate came from him. I didn’t expect that. But I always liked it when he was able to visit.”
Selys was far away. Onieva hated to do it. But—Ancestors take it.
“Still. He wasn’t perfect. He had his flaws.”
She saw Selys’ shoulders hunch. Onieva’s eyes locked on Selys, her tail, her face, the way she stood…
Oh yes. You knew.
Zel Shivertail’s secret had been the most open secret of any Drake in Izril. In high society, they’d known. Only the Tidebreaker could be tolerated. How could his family have not known?
What mattered was how Selys reacted. The Drake inhaled and kept her face calm.
 
—-
 
What did Onieva mean? No—she had to mean something else. Selys chose her words carefully. She remembered digging up Sserys’ grave in the darkness, the urn…
No, that was something she would never talk about. Never think about, really. She had fulfilled her beloved Uncle’s wishes. Selys nodded, but stiffly. She looked at Onieva, and felt a flash of irritation enter her voice.
“He wasn’t perfect. But he was still General Shivertail. The Tidebreaker.”
“Of course. I didn’t mean to say—”
“That’s all there was to it, right? No need to talk about his flaws.”
“But he was more than a [General].”
Selys felt her insides twist. She glared.
“Maybe he was. But I knew him. How well did you know him?”
Onieva hesitated, and then lifted her claw.
“Never mind.”
What did that mean? Selys calmed down. Onieva frowned. The word hung between them, unspoken, though neither knew the other was thinking it.
Turnscale.
If only you could be sure. But Onieva had not lived this long by taking risks. The two walked on, and conversation resumed stiffly, and then with natural grace.
Onieva followed Selys to The Wandering Inn.
 
—-
 
Erin was still being lectured by the time the two Drakes walked in. Onieva sized up the inn and looked around.
“Oh, but it would be perfect.”
“Erin’s not looking for a [Bartender]. Well, she might be with Drassi gone, but I doubt your friend Mirn could take Drassi’s place.”
“I’ll let him apply. He’s a one-Drake show, anyways. Hm.”
Private rooms. Basement…Onieva frowned as she heard scraping sounds. She left Selys to remember, belatedly, that she’d been going looking for investments, not walking about with Onieva! As the Drake groaned and headed over to Numbtongue—who wasn’t interested in her offer, and Mrsha the Adventurous, who was—Onieva peeked downstairs.
“Ancestors damn it!”
The Workers looked up at the barrels of fish that were being rolled through the door. Onieva snapped her claws and closed the door.
“Well, I can always get a deeper basement. Or—”
It wasn’t about space. They could settle in a place twice as large as a bedroom. They had before. It was safety.
And The Wandering Inn…could be quite safe. Not, perhaps, from monsters, but those weren’t the kind of enemies Onieva worried about. But how did she test Erin?
As Onieva walked back to the common room, she saw the usual bustle around the room. She tried to remember that she didn’t know anyone here; dead gods, but she’d have to reintroduce herself to Erin as Saliss’ cousin. She hated that. It was always the same introduction and dance…
How to do it? As Onieva pondered, trying to figure out how to test Erin without alerting anyone else—and that was a tall order because Erin could be very oblivious, on purpose or accidentally—she heard a voice from the stage.
“Rose! Help me brainstorm plays, will you?”
Galina was there, with the Players of Celum whom she had been drawn to like iron to a magnet. The theatre-girl from Earth was happy as could be.
By contrast, Rose was a bit of a Kevin in that she was aimless, but satisfied being aimless. Joseph was ‘soccer-guy’ much to his displeasure, and Leon and Troy were a team who did their own thing. Imani practically ruled the kitchen when Erin wasn’t doing something in it; she’d even learned to deal with Mrsha, mainly by offering the Gnoll treats to leave her alone.
But Kevin and Rose were amiable helpers. Kevin was especially amiable at the moment, thanks to Palt.
In one corner of the inn, Grimalkin was waiting for Erin too. Waiting to confirm his theories of time travel. But all that was beside the point. Galina had a problem.
“There are a few plays we’re adapting to the stage, Rose. But a lot of them don’t work. You know more than the others. Brainstorm with me?”
“Sure. What plays are you guys making?”
Galina had a list. All of Erin’s, plus the new ones she’d suggested. Some, like Chicago, needed adaptation, but they’d been hits among the Players and both Liscor and Invrisil’s groups were trying them out and adapting them.
The problem was that Galina had yet to get Erin’s recall ability. Mainly because Galina wanted to act, not just produce.
“If only I could remember everything like Erin. Okay. There are some like Angels in America that just don’t work. You know? Way too much of…everything from home.”
Rose was nodding. It was true; a lot became too topical. Stuff like Long Day’s Journey into Night worked—that was about the Human condition, more than the era, which was really the condition of people everywhere—although there were interesting differences.
“Well, there are a lot of movies that do work. Titanic…uh, Hunchback of Notre Dame…”
“Not just Disney, Rose, or blockbusters. I want to bring something new! Fresh!”
“Okay. Here’s a play. Have you seen Rent, the musical?”
Galina had. Her eyes flickered, but she frowned.
“Rose. That’s Broadway, though. Not exactly the Bard of Avon. Also—not my favorite play.”
“Hey, I liked it. You wanted help…”
The young woman rose to go, huffily, and Galina dragged her back.
“No, I’m sorry! It’s just that we’ve used our rotation of plays and the Players want to do something fast.”
Rose glanced at the [Actors] on stage. They were set to do Juliet and Romeo tonight, or so it said on the placard next to the stage. And the audience, while it was there, wasn’t as large because a lot of people had seen the play already. Or five times.
Rose smiled at the Juliet and Romeo title, though. She had laughed every time she’d seen it for the first week at how Erin had flipped just the name. And that gave her an idea.
“Well…I do have one idea, Galina. Remember how Jasi pushed for Lady Macbeth and how you rewrote some of the plays for a female lead?”
“Yes, but before you start, they’re doing that with a lot of plays already.”
Galina held up a hand. It wasn’t like the Players of Celum weren’t also willing to innovate. Rose grinned.
“But what if we put on a play that catered to a wider base? Listen—”
She walked over to Temile, who turned to her, always willing to listen to Erin or her ‘group’. The [Actor] didn’t know what they shared aside from a place of origin, but he knew that he knew and was fine with that.
Background. Onieva was looking about, waiting for Erin when she saw two [Actors] upon the stage. They were performing the famous and most oft-quoted scene of Shakespeare to the plebeians.
 
“O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?
Deny thy father and refuse thy name.
Or if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love
And I’ll no longer be a Capulet.”
 
It was the same lines. The same play. For a moment, you couldn’t even tell what Rose had changed about it. There were two Drakes, not, scandalously, a Drake and a Gnoll, or a Drake and a Human. Especially a male, Human Romeo and a female Drake Juliet, as Erin had learned once.
But then Onieva’s head turned. And something ran through the inn. A few casual watchers looked up. Frowned. Blinked a few times.
It was a mark of how Rose and Galina had entered this world and been sheltered that they thought it was a good idea. And, perhaps, how plays were seen by the [Actors]. It was, in the end, a small change.
However, the Drake Juliet speaking to the Drake Romeo—both of them, in fact, were male.
“What is this, Rose? Galina?”
Temile was staring nervously at the two leads of the play. So were the other [Actors]. Rose was smiling, oblivious to the attention drawing to the stage.
“I told you, Temile, just roll with it!”
“But—”
“We’ll have two male actors. It’ll be a hit, trust me! I haven’t found the GSM crowd yet in Liscor, but I haven’t had the chance yet. We can change the script, like Lady Macbeth. How’s this? We’ll call it: Romeo and Romeo. Or Juliet and Juliet!”
Rose spread out her hands, smiling hugely. Temile looked at her. He stared at the two leads. The pieces fell together.
“You mean…two male leads. Falling in love with each other.”
His voice was a bit too loud. Or perhaps he hadn’t realized that the inn had gone silent. Rose didn’t see the two [Actors] had frozen on stage, in the spotlight of every eye.
“Why not? It’s a true story! It’s—”
“Disgusting!”
Someone shouted the word and Onieva started breathing again. She stared at the stage.
What followed was just ringing in her ears. The Drake [Alchemist] sat there, staring at the two [Actors] who’d hurried off-stage. Rose must have been convincing or they didn’t understand what she was suggesting. And she of course didn’t know.
She was arguing with the Drakes and City Gnolls and Humans who’d stormed to the front of the stage to protest this…this disgusting, deviant display. Onieva didn’t need to hear that. She had heard it a thousand times.
What she saw, in her mind, were the two actors, one professing his love for the other. It was just a play. But Rose had come up with it. And Onieva—
Looked at her.
“It’s fine. You’re being disgusting. Has no one heard of—has no one heard of LGBT+ rights? Gay rights? This is insane. This is—”
Rose looked around. And her outrage faded when she realized rather than a minority confronting a majority, she stood alone. Galina was looking around, wide-eyed.
“We have a word for that. Turnscales. Also—illegal. Miss Solstice will hear of this! Apologize to those [Actors]!”
The Drake who was so offended was actually offended on behalf of Temile’s Drake [Actors]. She was pointing as Rose confronted her.
“Apologize for what? I didn’t assume anything! That was four lines! It’s a play. You know—what’s Turnscale? Does it mean gay? You know, it’s okay for a man to love a man. Or a woman to love a woman! Or both! Back home—”
That was as far as Rose got. The Drake woman listening recoiled. Then her eyes narrowed. She raised a fist and struck Rose. The young woman hadn’t been expecting that and stumbled backwards with a shriek. She would have been struck again, by the Drake woman or someone else.
