“I tried talking with [Blacksmiths] and [Carpenters]. I saw this movie where some guy made one out of steel, but that was like, a movie because it would cost way too much.”
“And it’d be way too heavy.”
Kevin chimed in. Erin nodded distractedly.
“Yeah! And I can’t figure out how the gears work. See, bicycles use gears, like Pallass’ elevators.”
“Well then, could someone from Pallass make one?”
Palt looked at Erin, with a keen interest. The same as Selys. But Erin was shrugging.
“Nah, I tried guys. But I never knew how bikes worked. My dad always made them. Listen—it’s no good. You know, because I’m from Earth? I can’t make gears or remember how the chain worked!”
She leaned forwards, whispering. Selys…hesitated.
“What’s Earth?”
Erin froze. She gave Selys a slow, panicked look.
“I’ve told you both, right? Wait—oh no. Have I not told you, Selys? I was sure I did!”
She began to panic, Selys’ eyes narrowed.
“What’s ‘Earth’? Erin…”
“Mind wipe her, Palt!”
Erin shouted. Selys just stared at her. Palt covered his face with his hands. Selys looked at him—but before she could press Erin on what that meant—Kevin spoke up.
“You know, gears are really tough. I don’t blame you, Erin.”
“Yes! Thank you, Kevin!”
“What’s—oh, never mind.”
Selys would look it up later. She was sure it was important, but like Grimalkin, she had no frame of reference to really understand what Erin had just said. Earth? Had Erin come from underground?
Oh, Ancestors. The Drake glanced at Erin and then coughed.
“Erin, how can you not know how these bikes worked if you rode them? I ride wagons and I could probably build one if I had to!”
Underground? Erin spluttered, but Kevin smiled.
“Gears are harder than they look, Selys. Actually—Erin, you don’t need shifting gears for a bike. Just a chain and pedal system. The gear system makes it really complex, but the first bicycles weren’t fancy at all.”
Erin, Palt, and Selys blinked at Kevin. Kevin, who had been stoned out of his mind a few seconds ago. And Erin…had a thought.
“Do you know bicycles, Kevin?”
“Know them? I used to work at a bicycle repair shop. Lot of people loved them. Wanted to be eco-friendly. You know, in California? San F—”
Kevin broke off, eying Selys. He coughed.
“—I thought about making one too. But Magnolia never went for it. And I didn’t need to until now…I actually had some sketches too.”
“Wait. Wait. You know how they work?”
Erin was blinking, caught off-guard by this sudden revelation. Kevin gave her a thumbs-up with both hands.
“I’d love to make one, actually. That, and a skateboard. Too bad there’s no waves or we could surf too. The trouble is getting the steel right. And parts. And money, obviously. And no rubber.”
There was…a certain logic to things. It wasn’t all coincidence, or Erin. She had just observed that sometimes the world fit together just right.
“Yeah. Chains are tough. You don’t want them breaking. And a bike has to be light. Really good steel.”
“Or enchanted.”
Palt observed, slowly lighting up a joint. Erin blinked.
“Well, obviously. But you’d need a master [Blacksmith], which I obviously didn’t know last year. And a good [Mage]. Or even [Enchanter].”
“And you’d have to pay them.”
The Centaur and [Innkeeper] looked at Selys. The Drake felt her heart fluttering, but she scratched at her chin calmly.
“Lots of money. Especially if you wanted to make more. I assume bicycles are popular?”
“Well, of course. You’d need to know how they were made to make them good and stuff.”
All three turned to Kevin. He looked around, raising his brows. The young man ran a hand through his hair and grinned.
“…And where would we get all of that in one place?”
Three smiles answered him. And the world, always changing…changed further.
 
—-
 
Much had been said of Hedault, the [Enchanter] of Invrisil. The best the City of Adventurers had to offer, and that was saying a lot.
Other [Enchanters] had tried to establish themselves as the best of Invrisil. Most had moved away, or been…eliminated from the competition.
Not that Hedault himself had anything to do with that. Not at all. The truth was that if you weren’t exceedingly careful, you ended up touching the Sword of Cursed Locations and ended up buried two thousand feet down and uncovered ten years later by some very unhappy [Miners].
Stuff like that was what Hedault’s type of [Enchanter] had to face. To be precise—analysis and alteration.
Enchanting was actually made up of different divisions and specialties. Not that anyone outside of his field really cared. For instance, you had creation-specialists like Archmage Nailihuaile, experts in their own designs. Whereas Hedault was good at figuring out what an enchantment did, and repairing the spell or altering it.
He was precise, careful, and pedantic to a fault. Even Magnolia Reinhart arranged meetings in advance. Hedault did not like…chaos.
Ergo, he did not like the Horns of Hammerad or The Wandering Inn. If he would admit they had grown on him—it was more like moss grew on a moist surface.
Still. The [Enchanter] had arrived precisely forty minutes after receiving the politely-worded request via Montressa du Valeross because he sensed opportunity. He paused outside the door to Erin’s inn on Invrisil’s side and cast three spells.
“[Impact Shield]. [Second Skin: Film Weave]. [Invisibility].”
Then he stepped into The Wandering Inn. Hedault looked around, assessing the situation. If there was any…chaos…he was prepared to leave unless said disturbance was counterbalanced by, say, Grand Mage Eldavin.
He had made a mistake, however. As the [Enchanter] walked through the door to the common room, several people noticed him.
Palt. The Gentlemen Callers, who were considering how all this paid sitting-about was going to their waistlines. Erin Solstice, who looked around with a deep frown. Maviola El.
And every Gnoll in the inn, of course. Most just sniffed the air as Hedault passed by or noticed the movement of air on their fur. And this was because the [Enchanter] wasn’t an expert in subterfuge. He made it halfway across the inn as Erin nudged Palt and whispered to him. He was looking for—
Wham. A little Gnoll charged into the barrier around Hedault and recoiled. Mrsha flopped backwards, dazed, and Hedault whirled around.
“Mrsha! What happened?”
Lyonette exclaimed. Mrsha had gone running at something and collided with the air. Hedault reappeared, looking peeved. Mrsha promptly sat up, shook her head a few times, and then tackled his legs.
“Gnoll child, desist. Do not touch me.”
The [Enchanter] tried to shove Mrsha off his legs. The Gnoll girl, in the way children had of sensing when they weren’t wanted, tried to steal his wand. She slid off the [Second Skin] spell like Hedault had a layer of glass on him.
That only made him more fun. Lyonette grabbed Mrsha mid-leap.
“I am so sorry, Master Hedault. Mrsha, stop that!”
The Gnoll girl stared at Hedault’s side and the wand. The [Enchanter] straightened his clothing, tapping his wrist twice with his fingers.
“I believe I am done here. Once again, this inn—”
“Hedault! Buddy! Sorry about that. Thanks for coming!”
Too late. Erin Solstice appeared with a huge smile. She grabbed Hedault’s arm. He immediately tried to pull away.
“Let go of me, please.”
“Whoops, sorry. Let’s go over there! Pelt’s just about to arrive.”
“I believe my patience is at its end—”
“Don’t be like that. I have snacks! Want some clams?”
“Clams?”
This was why Hedault hated the inn. It was a fascinating puzzle of possible enchantments, the garden, as well as the door being objects of interest. The [Enchanter] liked all that. He just disliked the spontaneous chaos of it all.
He was considering permanently blacklisting the inn, despite the fortuitous events that sometimes occurred within. And that was a serious threat because Hedault hadn’t told anyone he was considering it.
He found himself in one of the private dining rooms. There, waiting for him, was Kevin.
“Hey. You’re the [Enchanter]-guy, right? Nice to meet you. I’m Kevin.”
The [Enchanter] looked at Kevin, holding out a hand and trying to look professional, and the bowl of clams and fries. Were those…appetizers? He pinched the bridge of his nose.
At least she’d kept to her appointment this time.
 
—-
 
Pelt stomped into the inn six minutes late. He ignored everyone, including Erin as she bustled over to him.
“Hey, Pelt! So glad you could make it. Hedault was trying to get out and—”
“Shut up.”
The Dwarf walked around the bar and pulled out a bottle of wine. Light drinking. He took the bottle and a mug with him. Erin faltered.
“Er…help yourself. Right this way.”
She led him to the private room. Hedault was impatiently tapping at his wrist and ignoring the clams.
“Here’s Pelt! Sorry for the delay, guys. Selys, Palt! It’s time!”
The Dwarf found himself sitting next to Hedault, in a presentation-style meeting as Kevin and Erin set up on one side of the room. Palt and Selys stood at the back.
“Hedault, right?”
The Dwarf looked at the [Enchanter]. Hedault nodded slowly.
“Master Pelt. You have my compliments on the Grasgil ring you sent me. I was indeed able to enchant it and the impurity was almost imperceptible.”
Pelt’s expression was sour.
“Damn dust. I would have trashed the entire ring but my apprentices can’t get me enough raw Grasgil. It’s a disgrace.”
That made Hedault smile for the first time. From anyone else, a Grasgil ring of that purity would have been perfect, not even worth critiquing. But a master [Smith] had different, higher, correct standards.
“Can I get you anything, Master Hedault?”
Palt spoke behind Hedault. The [Enchanter] looked at the door, decided he had wasted enough time to not just up and leave, and sighed.
“Water with lemon, please. Purified.”
“Anyone want clams?”
Erin offered the bowl around. Hedault and Pelt stared at her. The Dwarf eyed the mollusks, pushed it across the table, and grunted as he poured as much wine into the deep mug as it would allow. Erin’s smile faded as she saw the level of wine in the bottle half itself.
“I’m not made of time, Solstice. You have until this wine runs out. Or do you think I don’t have work? This had better be good.”
“Uh—well, sorry, Pelt—”
The Dwarf didn’t stop talking or give Erin a chance to speak. He gestured to Hedault.
“Both of us have jobs. We came because you insisted, but this is costing us gold. So if I don’t like what I hear in the next five minutes, I’ll ban you from my forge for a month.”
It was a very efficient way of dealing with Erin. Hedault nodded as the [Innkeeper] spluttered and coughed. When she spoke next, her manner was very subdued.
“Okay! Okay! I’m very sorry. But this is actually important! It’s a big project and we need the best [Enchanter] and [Blacksmith].”
The Human man and Dwarf glanced at each other. Kevin was passing around a copy of a diagram he’d been working on. The two leaned over it.
“What in the name of the Grandfather’s beards is this?”
Pelt stared at the piece of paper, then at the strange object lying on a tray. Hedault peered at it too.
It was, in fact, a gear made out of clay. A fixed gear, the spokes clumsily shaped. Erin drew back the sample gear.
“That’s a part we need Pelt to make. See—the thing is, we have a project we want you two to work on. We want to make…a bicycle.”
The two gave her blank looks. Pelt eyed the gear. It reminded him of the ones Pallass’ [Engineers] kept having him make. Kevin enthusiastically waved the diagram of the bike parts around.
“It’s not hard to make, actually. I was trying to break down the components—we could definitely make a skateboard. We just need some good wood and—”
“A what now?”
Hedault was puzzling over the diagram as Kevin tried to explain a skateboard to Pelt. Erin was telling Pelt about how they’d made the gear out of clay since they’d realized they needed a prototype and how easy that was.
Selys Shivertail, sitting in the back, stared at the worst presentation she’d ever seen with horror on her face. The two master artisans were listening with increasing confusion and impatience. Erin did not know how to present. She was operating from the assumption that everyone knew how cool a bicycle was, and Kevin was talking about skateboards.
“So, you can do tricks on it, it’s good exercise—say, how’s Esthelm treating you, Pelt? Anything new happen recently?”
Selys was no expert investor. But she was a [Receptionist]. She looked around, then clapped her claws together as loudly as possible.
“Excuse me!”
Erin and Kevin stopped talking and looked at Selys. The Drake shook her head.
“I’m sorry. But Erin—stop. This isn’t how you present your idea.”
“What? But Selys—”
The [Receptionist] dragged the two Humans to the side and whispered furiously as Palt hurried in with Hedault’s glass of water. Pelt was still eying the mollusks suspiciously; he thought he’d seen one move.
“What’s the problem, Selys? I was working on Pelt. Let him have a few drinks. He likes me.”
“Well, Master Hedault doesn’t.”
Selys pointed to Erin. The [Innkeeper] peered at Hedault’s vexed expression. In another man, he would have been shouting.
“Uh oh.”
The Drake sighed. Erin was better at Pelt than Hedault. It was a personality thing. She took over.
“Erin. Pelt might be a friend, but Master Hedault isn’t. And they’re both busy. This is a big project. Have you never worked with—listen. You’re going to explain what a bicycle is, from the start, as fast as you can. You have five minutes, maximum. Think of it like that. And you want them to like your idea.”
The young woman blinked. Then her eyes lit up.
“Oh! Like those TV shows! But I’m no good at those kinds of presentations…Kevin?”
He hesitated. He hadn’t exactly majored in business either. Selys looked around. But…there was a better diplomat waiting in the wings. Or hooves, as the case might be.
Palt, the Centaur, glanced up from where he was trying to soothe Hedault and keep him from leaving. The Centaur looked at Selys, at the confused Humans. He gave the Drake a nod and they walked to the front of the room.
The first thing Palt did was dim the lights in the room. In this case, the lantern’s lights went lower. Next, he cast a simple spell.
A miniature grassy meadow appeared. It hovered in the air, like a hologram to the Humans. Pelt and Hedault looked at the illusion and saw, rolling onto it, a bicycle.
Palt didn’t know exactly how they worked. However—he didn’t need to.
“Hey, Kevin. Where’s the picture of the bicycle-thingy? Make this thing work.”
