Is it cowardice, that I hope they’ll flee?
They do not, of course. I only hope they do, that they’ll turn tail and run—though I never would. It would make every war so much easier.
Then, I would not have to kill them.
It looks like rust on metal’s edge as the sun rises. Dark sand and dirt, already stained once over. I can see metal glinting, fragments shining as the sun catches them. A pretty sight if you cannot fathom what it means.
Blood spilled. So recently it has not yet been covered by dust or bleached by rains. Broken armor and weapons lodged in the sand.
A [Scavenger]’s paradise. Are they here? I cannot see them; my eyes are locked on the faces in the distance. Shining armor—they are chanting, now. Blowing horns, rattling war drums. Cheering, as if they intend to hide the truth.
I know they are afraid.
My feet crunch on the ground. I still feel the ground, you know. I can feel the padding in my boots, the way my fingers flex. I feel everything. I am not so divorced from being Human that I have forgotten, yet.
After this battle is done, if there are not more to come—no, even then. By darkness, under the glorious night sky with countless glittering stars, there will be a second battle. People will creep out of the darkness where they hide—sometimes all night, as a battle rages, in danger of stray arrows or spells striking them—rush forwards, and pick over this place.
They will grab broken swords, or better yet, pieces of intact armor or weapons cast down. Fight with each other and, yes, kill each other over such finds. As if there has not been enough already. They are not noble soldiers—if such a thing exists. Nor are they evil. I have seen them and been them. They are desperate, hungry, and, like carrion, they follow us.
We are [Soldiers]. I keep walking forwards. Now—yes, now they know something is off. I can see the army maneuvering. Galloping about; their vaunted colors, such expensive dyes whipping flags and banners.
And the chariots. The damned, idiotic chariots. I grew up thinking they were such grand devices only to learn that few nations employed them in war. But the Silk love to ride on them, casting javelins down and seeing themselves as the star of every battlefield.
Not a one is not painted with reliefs of their kingdom, Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Sigils of the countless aristocracy. Markings to denote kills—even embroidery like fur.
Soon, they will lie in wreckage, broken, splintered wood to be hauled off for firewood or raw material for other, better uses. The proud [Chariot Masters] whoop at me, waving swords in arcs. A few even try to throw spears from afar.
They’re afraid too.
Now, the army advances. I see the real fighters, the ranks of what, to us Humans, appears to be a cruder people. Blunt-hewn expressions. Almost like they were carved of rock compared to the intricate expressions of someone cut of Silk.
Hemp [Soldiers]. As poor as the [Scavengers]—some will be conscripted. Most, in a lesser army. Not so for one of Nerrhavia’s endless hordes, the primary armies from the capital. These will be career soldiers, paid a bit better. Armed with genuine steel since Nerrhavia can afford it.
Still—the first line in the slaughter. Tough. Fearless of blades.
People. I know how they look because I have seen them smile. They look different, and all of Stitch-Folk is only skin-deep. They know that, and those soldiers standing in a line are braver than the riders on chariots will ever be.
I do not want to kill them. Throw down your arms and flee. You know me.
—Perhaps they believe in their cause. In that case, they stand there, and I stand here. Walking towards them. A shield in my left hand. A sword in my right. This sword burns, and they shudder as they watch it.
Just an Everflaming Sword. A cheap weapon even a Silver-rank could afford. I will wield many before this battle ends. But it is a reminder.
Run.
What do they see? I think—they must see a glorious figure. I cannot remember which face I wear. Perhaps she looks like them. Cut of cloth, striding along, hair blowing like fire. Taller than I am in actuality. Her armor will be shining like burnished Truegold and they will know me not for one face, but simply because of that appearance.
Now they realize it. I can see the [Soldiers] turning their heads. Looking up, as if Takhatres’ tribe might be nearby. Scanning the distant, flat battleground for the rest of my army. They won’t find it, but they’re even searching for [Invisibility] spells.
Then they scream my name. Not the one I was given at birth, but the name I chose. I have heard it from either side, countless times. I raise my sword and stop. Yes, that’s me.
“Mars!”
A roar, meant to be contemptuous, perhaps so they believe it. A lone warrior come to meet an entire army of Nerrhavia’s Fallen on the sands. The soldiers are already spreading out to encircle me, but I can see the hesitation on their faces as the officers shout orders.
They have never done this before. Surround a single warrior? How does an army fight one woman?
Exactly. Exactly…you have done too well against the others. We’ve left too many of Reim’s dead. So it’s just me.
I halt as the Hemp [Soldiers] stop four dozen feet away from me. Oh—they’re already shooting arrows. I barely notice.
I can’t even feel the impacts on my armor. Someone tries for a [Piercing Shot] and it feels as though someone tickled my armor. I can see and hear the arrow shafts snapping, though.
I raise my sword overhead and they halt. That’s enough for an entire army. The words come to me again, and I shout them wearily. It rarely changes anything, but I still hope.
“Flee or perish! In the name of the King of Reim! By the will of the King of Destruction! I am Mars the Illusionist! Greatest of the Seven! I will not quit this field until the last foe falls before me or runs howling back into the sands that birthed you!”
I see them tremble at the words. Mere words. Admittedly, they sound as if Zamea herself shouts them. A simple voice-changing spell.
It is my voice which roars in their ears, fit for the name. Mars. Vassal of the King of Destruction. The King’s Seven.
I do not lie, either. I am highest-levelled. There are others who are better than me in many things. Almost all things, actually. Sometimes it bothers me. Takhatres, Gazi, even Orthenon, who is not technically one of us, but is—
Those that remain have so many useful talents. I? I can make my [King] laugh and that is good. But in peace, I am so very useless.
Here—I lower my sword and plant the tip in the ground. My head bowed. I wait. Someone hurls a javelin into my back with all their might. An enchanted tip. A blow from the mighty Silk nobles.
I laugh. A child has kicked me, me, in full body armor. I let them shoot their arrows, watching for spells. If they are clever, they will not try lightning or fire. The first crackling arc of electricity strikes me and bounces, hitting the ground with the crack of thunder.
Amerys would mock them if she could see it. I let them attack me, so they understand.
I am Mars. [Vanguard]. They know the nature of my class, if not the exact wording. And they know my level, or close enough.
Vanguard. Level 66.
I stand alone before an army of tens of thousands. They are beginning to chant again. Do they think it will scare me? I was born in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I conquered their Coliseum of Monarchs. I wait.
Soon…they will muster their courage. I wait for them to attack me. I give them every chance. Not for that [General] who hides in the back, or the charioteers who race around calling insults, but with fear in their eyes. For the poor [Soldiers] who look at me, who will face me the instant they advance.
That is bravery. I grit my teeth. One army, here, in the north. Countless enemies assail us. I lift my sword as I see a wall of [Soldiers] advance, faces set, eyes wide, staring. Such beautifully polished armor.
This will not be easy. It is an act of desperation, even for me. But only I can do it. So I lift my sword, and when I charge, the entire army shudders. I bring it down, and the first Skill makes it a blade far longer than it should be, with the weight of a hill behind it. I see terrified brown eyes staring up at me from behind a helm, a shield raised.
I bring down the sword, shield rising, head turning.
I barely feel the blade connecting.
 
——
 
The first hour of battle is easy. The first ten minutes. The second hour is exhausting. The fourth—I have burned my stamina potions almost to the end.
By the end of the seventh—
I am beginning to bleed.
My armor is beginning to fail. I have to change it, via Skills. My sword? I broke the Everflaming Blade in the first hour of battle. Enchantments fail, in time. The sheer force I or my lord can swing a sword at can blunt the steel.
I have many blades. I have countless sets of armor. But only two hands. One body. And they—
They are still an army.
I cannot tell you how fast I am moving. What does it look like? I have been told it seems like a figure stands in the storm of blades and bodies, swinging a sword without end, cutting through armor and bodies while she blocks only the most dangerous blows. Wading through unenchanted steel and arrows without end.
That is what a [Poet] once tried to put to words. I thought she must not have been close to the battle.
It smells like blood. Blood and urine and death. Although I have stopped smelling anything for a while now. I hear a roar—that too is deafening. But I can hear myself gasping.
Hours of battle. My sword swings without end—that’s true. I lift my shield, blocking an axe glowing with some kind of ghost’s flame. It’s all automatic and it’s all hard despite that. I feel as though I have lead in my very bones. I know what to do.
Block death. Strike. Strike—this sword looks like glass that captures light inside. It is so sharp I sweep through every foe around me—except the strong ones.
Now I am bleeding. The first was an arrow. There is an [Archer] here who can pierce my armor. So I charged him and rammed into pikes, let them try to drag me down.
Idiots. The [Trick Riders] of Jecrass did it and they died. They were a nation’s best. Bring me down with your hands and try to kill me. It’s my armor.
An [Archer] died. He stood on a chariot and he had no helmet. Some brave [Lord] perhaps. An [Emir]’s son? But a gifted archer. I cut off his head and they learned to keep their best away from me.
Now, the [Mages] are remembering how to do it. They try acid. They turn the ground to mud under me. I can see the ground warping, trying to entomb me—see poor [Soldiers] screaming and flailing in the muck as I charge away.
The [Mages] don’t care. Nor, in truth, do I care about them. They will run out of spells before they hurt me. If they could have hurt me, they would have at the start of the battle.
It’s the poor, damned [Soldiers]. They keep coming. I cut an officer down and he falls, screaming, before he can lift that axe with ghost-flames. But here is where I bleed. Here is where the danger lies.
I am cutting them down, and they still keep coming, with a bravery I cannot believe no matter how many times I see it. Then I feel a blow to my shoulder. A chilling pain.
That axe. I whirl and my sword has already taken the wielder in the gut. I see…no Silk-cast officer. No high-level face. Just a staring pair of eyes in a face like mine. Someone from Cotton.
No great warrior. A [Soldier]. One daring enough to pick up that blade and—
I slash, reach for the axe, but now they have ropes. The [General] is sending them in waves, lest I cut them down by scores. Clever—I slash the ropes, and the axe is gone. I see someone toss their spear aside and reach for something. An enchanted sword. I feel another sting, and know my cut shoulder is letting acid inside.
It won’t burn me that easily. I must replace my armor. I have potions, but now they have weapons that can harm me.
I…
I am beginning to bleed.
 
——
 
They send Sand Golems against me. It is a welcome break. They stop when they realize I am letting the giant constructs just hit me around. I think I fell asleep for a minute.
It helped. I want to sleep. I want to rest one second, but now they know. The group that surrounds me has enchanted weapons and armor. Torn from the hands of the dead. For each that falls—I try to sunder each blade, but they pick up even broken metal. And Nerrhavia is rich enough to afford many artifacts.
It comes as my arm burns. I hear them roaring, and I try—but she’s fast. Fast and young, and I am old. She looks like I was—not in face, for she’s Stitch-Folk and Hemp and I am Human—but like me.
A [Warrior] with talents, gifts. Slashing in, dodging my weary thrust from the sword. And she holds—
The glass blade that is so sharp. Broken halfway. I tossed it aside for another sword, but she picked it up.
Foolish. It cuts my armor as I twist. Try to bring her down. The entire army is cheering her as she dives in. I’ve fought for…I don’t know, and she’s fresh.
It isn’t fair, but how many have I killed? The ground is wet, and she—
She runs me through the chest. With that short, broken blade. Piercing my armor. I stagger back and she exhales, as if this all took a single breath. She steps back, her brown skin caked with dirt, eyes like the orange of the fruits, staring at me. Disbelieving. Relieved? They were so determined before.
Their hero. The Stitch-Folk of Nerrhavia are cheering her. They don’t even know her name. I feel that damned sword, my sword, cutting deep.
My lips rasp. Has it nicked a lung? I taste blood on my tongue, but maybe it’s just from some other wound. She must have a Skill. Perhaps she levelled in battle. They are levelling if they survive even one clash with me.
A champion who will go down in legend…but she let go of the sword. She looks at me, and then I rasp.
“Is this your first time here?”
She looks at me, eyes widening, scrambling backwards. I tear the sword hilt free, toss it down, and snap the blade with my boot. The cheering stops.
Her friends pull her backwards, shielding her. Now they’re rallying around her, but—she’s still staring at me. And I? I smile behind my visor. Perhaps my illusion copies it, if it’s still working.
“Do you see…death?”
She doesn’t understand, and I begin to swing my sword again. Now—I have a target. I reach for a healing potion. Out of the corner of my eye, I think I can see it waiting.
 
——
 
Is this your first time here?
It was not mockery. It was an honest question. A warning. I cannot explain to her, not with words, and I am not an eloquent speaker like the others. How can I say it? Trey and Teres—they are her age. Children. Teres has a sword and she is good with it, again, for her age and experience.
Trey might understand better. It is not vanity. It is simply…truth.
