A figure clinging to the exterior of the palace fell, screaming, as their handhold on the stone grew slick. Ceria scrambled up, looked out the window, and wished she hadn’t. She saw the Siren glancing at her, amused.
“You sensed my magic. Illphres did teach you something.”
“Who was…?”
The Siren was already walking on.
“An idiot who thought they’d profit by knowledge. Which they would have if they got away. There are ears everywhere—save for my domain.”
Ceria hesitated, then walked after Revine.
“An [Assassin]?”
“No. I said, an idiot. A [Rogue], perhaps. A [Thief]? It doesn’t matter. Secrets have currency and there are brokers for that everywhere. You should know that. You were at Wistram. Then—expelled. We shall discuss the rest of it later, as I said. Make lighter conversation until we ascend.”
Another searching look. Ceria Springwalker slowed once more, and saw Revine looking at her.
Illphres had been in her fifties or sixties when she died. Ceria had never asked for exact details, but she had claimed to be younger than Ceria in actual, biological age. Ceria had been in her sixties already, albeit as she often said, sixty for a half-Elf raised in the never changing forests. There were days there when you just sat and watched a tree grow all day long, or the shoots of a flower you’d planted.
It only got boring if you realized there was a faster world outside. At any rate, the Siren…did not look so old. She had jet black hair with lines of sea-blue streaking through the darkness, down to the very roots of her hair—but it was wavy, and she could have been in her late thirties, for a Human. Her robes were a [Mage]’s, but had the sigil of Savere drawn large on the back—Ceria saw an anchor, a curved dagger, and a raincloud all in one.
Under the robes, the Siren had a kind of shimmering fabric that Ceria thought might be watercloth; very fitting for someone of her class. And…the half-Elf noticed…she was very conventionally attractive, lips full red, thin, skin without flaw, like a Terandrian [Lady] might aspire to be.
Not that Ceria found Revine attractive. If anything, her killing that [Rogue] only made Ceria warier. What Ceria did think was…
Beauty products. She’s spent a fortune on her appearance. It’s not an illusion spell or I’d be able to tell. Plus, most don’t copy facial muscle movements properly.
Enough to take a decade or two off; more than her clothing or jewelry, that was largesse for anyone who knew to notice it. Ceria thought of her master, whose only nod to vanity was her mask of ice; she didn’t even bother changing her robes most days, having a Pisces-like attitude towards clothing cleanliness.
Ceria was off-guard. It seemed like, from Nerhs to Savere, she kept being tossed into weird situations. But she was alive, not eaten by a giant Creler, and, rather than being captive of a dangerous [Bandit Queen], it seemed like Revine was disposed to like her due to Illphres. So Ceria was cautiously optimistic.
“Do you have anything to say?”
Revine’s snappish tone made Ceria start. She was rather like an impatient client, who wanted you to prove how good you were before she gave the job. Ceria remembered Calruz was particularly good at impressing prospective clients like that; he’d just challenge their bodyguard to a short match that involved him slapping them across the room.
Since Ceria lacked for biceps thicker than her legs, she took an alternate approach. Revine must have been from Wistram; secret brokers sounded very familiar, so Ceria coughed.
“Er…I can’t help but wonder, Siren. Savere is clearly an exceptionally rich nation. You have an, um, amazing wardrobe that I think even an Archmage would be pressed to match in terms of money. But the palace is a bit—is it due to wanting an open window for hydromancy magic? No glass?”
She pointed at the open-air windows, which let in salt and mildew that the hard-pressed cleaning staff—who fled the instant they saw Revine—probably had to work every week to clean.
Revine blinked at Ceria. She glanced at the windows, and her expression changed again.
“No. Not for hydromancy. Practicality. Those fools fight and have no discipline. Do you think I’d litter my palace with vases or other valuable objects?”
“Ah. But they’re under your command…”
“They are still [Rogues] and [Thieves]. I trust them to do their jobs if properly motivated. No more. Savere has an army and my officers are trustworthy enough, but Runsblud has too many guests.”
“I see. So…not even enchanted glass?”
Revine’s expression twisted into one of disgust.
“They would steal the entire window and carve it out of the stonework. I have had entire doors go missing. That is the quality of…door thieves. Who would do something like that?”
She made a disgusted sound, glancing back at her guest to join in the condemnation of door thievery. Ceria bit her lip and avoided meeting her eyes.
They passed into the Siren’s territory in a moment as they reached the stairwell and headed up. Ceria felt a tingle on her skin and stopped dead. The Siren looked back, and, once more, she switched from annoyed to approving.
“What’s…”
Ceria felt the power of water in the air. Not humidity, but like if you stood in a graveyard and you were Pisces, or in the middle of a snowstorm and you were her—
The sheer potential for water magic made Ceria’s own cryomancy instincts tingle. She could raise a wall of ice here in a fraction of the time it would take anywhere else. She looked around, frowning.
Not only that, it felt like this was a distinct ward in the air, probably against hostile magics. How…?
“Oh. There.”
Ceria pointed at something built into the hallway. An archway of strange stone. It looked pitted, like it was corroded—until Ceria realized the gleaming, polished material was coral. Coral mixed with some water-blue stone.
“Lapis lazuli. This marks the boundary of my domain. You may enter; few others can. Speak openly here and nowhere else. Servants! Refreshments!”
Ceria saw people scurry out and looked ahead towards a far grander, far more decorated section of the palace. Actual paintings and pictures—some of Revine, others of a strange Drowned Woman with a glowing left eye—decorated the halls, along with other paraphernalia that was distinctly…
Wistram. And by ‘Wistram’—Ceria glanced at a giant relief of The Wisdom of Mages. There were four copies in Wistram; it was a painting of a bunch of monarchs, lords, generals, and even adventurers, slowly approaching a shining group of [Mages] who were depicted in rather noble poses, dispensing wisdom to the masses.
The same with the paintings. You had to have a few of yourself, but the real showoffs framed…artifacts. Ceria eyed a glowing embossed eye-pendant on a wall, a wand that Revine had personally wielded, almost out of charges…
Yep. This was a Wistram [Mage] alright. So many decorations that Revine swept past—carefully waiting to see if Ceria noticed them—
But such a lonely place at the top of her palace. Her servants bowed, but said nothing to her, and Revine herself halted as Ceria approached.
“Fit for an Archmage, you said? Did Illphres have such treasures? You don’t have to answer that. She never did understand how to put her magic to use. She lived and died at Wistram and barely set her foot out into the wider world. As if Wistram was everything. I thought she would never take an apprentice. When I heard of her death—I knew it was coming. I never thought to meet you, though.”
She stood there, as a glass of wine floated towards her from a serving tray placed on a table. She gestured around.
“Sit. Stand. You and I shall converse.”
Ceria nodded slightly.
“You did know my master then, Siren Revine?”
Revine’s eyes narrowed. Ceria looked around and went to pick up a cup of wine. When she turned back, the Siren was glaring again.
“Know her. Know her? She and I were the greatest of friends as students. She never mentioned me?”
“Er…”
Ceria was afraid of stating the obvious. Revine’s eyes flashed—then she abruptly grew cool. Her moods swung so fast Ceria was having trouble keeping up.
“That would be like her. Not a word about me—the Siren of Savere—to the only apprentice she ever kept. Ceria Springwalker, a student who stayed for only three years at Wistram before being expelled in an incident that slew countless [Mages]. Yet a graduate of Wistram because Cognita of Truestone herself declared it so. I would have never thought that heartless piece of stone would bestir herself for anything but her dead master.”
Ceria jumped as Revine drained her goblet. She didn’t move to fill it from the pitcher—she pointed and a stream of wine spiralled up and poured into her cup.
Casual water magic. Indeed, at Ceria’s glance, with a mocking look she sat back—and water rose from out of nowhere to create a molded seat for her. Her legs dangling, she reclined as it adjusted itself.
“I do know who you are, Ceria. And while Illphres may not have spoken about me, let me assure you it was not because I was inferior to her in any way. In fact, she could never afford anything but magical studies to enhance her power. I have a kingdom’s treasury at my disposal.”
She waved a hand around. The [Cryomancer] stood there, eying the water chair, the rich rooms, the tapestries, and Revine herself. When she replied, it was with a shrug.
“My master would have said magic is all you needed, Siren.”
Revine’s mocking smile went out. Her hand holding the goblet froze—then she set it down on a pedestal of water. Her languid posture changed. She sat forwards, shoulders hunched, hands in her lap. She looked at Ceria, bleakly.
“…Yes. She would have said just that. So you were her apprentice after all. Tell me…”
Revine struggled. She took a deep breath, then stared at Ceria with a fixed look. A dangerous one, but…her eyes shone with some deep emotion.
“I know it. Yet tell me, from your own mouth. You were there, were you not? Tell me…how Illphres died.”
 
——
 
The Siren of Savere didn’t know what to make of this half-Elf girl. A girl, despite being a half-Elf.
She was no ancient [Mage]. She looked like a fool, especially when she had been in the banquet hall. Yet she was sharp enough to notice several things. A capable mage—she had been using Illphres’ tactics when she killed the Crelers.
Even so, it made no sense to Revine that her old friend would ever take an apprentice. Illphres had no affection for anyone. Not for friends or lovers. Magic was her goal.
Yet…she saw something as Ceria spoke. Perhaps it was that.
“You won her apprenticeship by melting her ice with salt?”
The half-Elf ducked her head. Revine threw back her head and laughed.
“I was desperate for a master at the time…I didn’t know if it would work.”
“I am surprised it did. You must have bruised her ego. Illphres was always determined to make ice that no force could ever melt. And for a 1st year student to do it with salt?”
She listened as Ceria told her stories, what few there were of Illphres. And, in truth—there were not many. Illphres had taught Ceria for two paltry years. Well, it seemed. She had even…
“She battled a [Storm Captain] for you?”
Revine blinked. Ceria nodded.
“That was when my friend showed his [Necromancer] class.”
“Yes, yes. I’m familiar with the basics of your team. The Horns of Hammerad. Illphres left the academy for you.”
Ceria blinked.
“It was very…it was amazing and it saved our lives. Was it that extraordinary?”
Revine shook her head.
“I can’t believe she would do that. But then…”
Her voice trailed off. Ceria sat there, across from her.
“Illphres never talked about her past. Or you, Siren. I’m sorry if that’s…unpleasant to hear. She was a good master, but she was driven to challenge the exam.”
“Yes. She was. Perhaps that was why she took an apprentice. Knowing it was coming. Or perhaps—hah. Perhaps it was you.”
Now she saw it. Ceria’s eyes lifted. Her eyes were like pale ice. She had begun showing the effects of her class. Revine felt the chill emanating from her. And her hand—her hand was bone.
Lost from an ice spell she had pushed too far. It was so much like Illphres it gave Revine goosebumps. Had Illphres seen that and—no, that had come after. But it was proof.
“You must have—I’m sure she took you melting her ice into account. If she knew she was challenging the test soon—but Illphres would break her word and refuse to teach you. She was that sort of woman. She had another reason for teaching you.”
Ceria blinked.
“She…did?”
Revine reached for the wine, but it was muddying her memory. She cast it aside and looked back.
“Of course. She must have been reminded of…”
The past. The half-Elf girl leaned forward, and Revine closed her eyes. Incredible as it might seem. Once upon a time—
 
——
 
A young woman stood on the table in the banquet hall, pointing down at another student in her year who had mocked her. She raised a hand as Revine drew an enchanted dagger, menacing the other students they were fighting with.
But the Archmages, the actual [Mages] in the room—they looked over when they heard the young woman shouting furiously. She pointed down at Vilt and shouted.
“I won’t stay down here. I will be the one to pass Zelkyr’s last test! I will become the Archmage of Ice!”
His jaw opened. Illphres turned to look at Revine, who stared up at her, astonished. Right before the laughter began. Illphres stood there, turning slowly paler and paler with fury. She pointed a finger and an [Ice Spike] flashed across the floor at the head table—
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker’s mouth was open.
“She said that? In front of everyone?”
The Siren of Savere’s gaze rose, breaking out of memory. She glared at Ceria…then relaxed. With a rueful smile, she nodded.
“They never let her forget that. Later on, before I left and when she was coming into her full power, she’d throw [Ice Spears] around if someone brought it up. The [Mages] must have decided to walk warily of her by the time you came to the academy. That was Illphres.”
An impetuous, ambitious young woman who had already known how to cast [Ice Spike] by the time she came to the Academy. Talented, and who had befriended a young woman in her year who was talented in water magic, stuck by her even when the latter was found thieving.
Those days. They felt like yesterday and a thousand years ago.
“—and after I created as much water as possible, she froze it all over then shouted that a Chandrarian custard was being served and it was running out quick. So every [Mage] in the Centrist faction went running and—”
Revine found herself talking animatedly and cut herself off. Ceria was smiling, disbelieving, shaking her head.
