Ureita slapped Ceria’s hand down. She leaned in close and hissed at her.
“Don’t get in my way. Just leave—and nothing will happen. Revine’s mine. We’re lovers, understand?”
“Uh.”
Ceria blinked. That was a lot to process, but only she’d heard it. Ureita turned and stalked out of the hall before Omusc or the other [Bandits] could take her to task. Ceria looked at Omusc and pointed at the [Mage].
“…That’s the one who doesn’t like me?”
The [Pillager] reached for a cup.
“Yep.”
Ceria thought about this. She frowned. Something about the way Ureita had said that…Omusc sighed as she glanced out the window and heard shouts from outside.
“Sounds like another fight in the streets. More ships coming in. I hope the Bloodtear bastards leave. You sure you want to drink with them after the lessons? Squirrel? Ice Squirrel? Ceria?”
The half-Elf didn’t respond. She was thinking.
 
——
 
“We’ll have to cut this short. I have business later today. And no, I haven’t been able to muster more than one gang to free your friend, Pisces. They’ve got Djinni guards. At least your ant is staying put with that insolent woman.”
“His name’s Ksmvr. Why do you hate Nsiia?”
Revine glared at Ceria.
“I’m in no mood to debate this. I have ships coming in, the Bloodtear idiots have killed someone under my protection—and they’ll pay blood money for it or I’ll sink their entire fleet!”
Her voice boomed and Ceria saw the skies open up. Rain poured down in a sudden torrent—but not over the palace. It concentrated itself squarely over the docks, and the ships of the Bloodtear Pirates actually vanished from sight.
For a minute. Then the Siren sat back, panting, and Ceria saw figures picking themselves up, shaking fists and swearing up at the palace from the rails of their ships. Still…they looked wary.
The Siren was at her peak power around water and she could slice an Adult Creler in half with water alone. And Runsblud was a port city. You do the math.
“What do you want? We’ll see if you can handle some hydromancy spells along with the others.”
Revine snapped at Ceria. The half-Elf was wary of her temper, but she had to ask.
“Do you teach other [Mages] magic?”
“Only a few. I have [Mages] in my forces—what’s with the stupid questions? I don’t trust most enough to spend the time tutoring them. And you’re only here because you might be useful to me and Illphres was your teacher.”
Revine stalked into her practice rooms. She glared back at Ceria for reasons only partly under the half-Elf’s control.
“Tell Omusc I want to speak with her before you leave.”
“Uh—alright. I was just asking because—do you teach someone named Ureita magic?”
Revine glanced at Ceria.
“You’ve met Ureita? She’s my [Court Mage]…in a sense. She’s one of the best battlemages I’ve ever seen, especially so young. Did she pick a fight with you?”
A sudden, resigned expression crossed her face. Ceria hesitated.
“Not exactly. Er…I don’t know how to say this—”
“Spit it out.”
“She seemed to think I was hogging your attention. Which I am—given that you and she are lovers?”
Ceria delicately appended the question mark to the end of that statement like a butterfly landing on a flower. She saw the statement sink in on Revine much like Apista landing on anyone’s face.
The Siren of Savere’s expression changed from mild shock to a kind of subdued horror. She shuddered, then shouted.
“Ureita! What has that brat done—is she going around telling…? I will peel her fingernails off!”
She almost stormed out of the room, but halted as Ceria called out.
“So it’s not true?”
Revine whirled around. She stalked back and poked a finger at Ceria’s chest.
“Ureita was a girl when I took Savere and became the Siren. She grew up, and I did teach her magic because I saw her potential. She latched onto me, and she has ideas. Make no mistake. I regard her, if anything, like the daughter I never wanted and don’t have. She thinks—”
The Siren shuddered. Ceria winced, getting where she was coming from.
“She seemed, uh, rather taken with you.”
“She is a pest and I would have exiled her to another city if she wasn’t so good at her magic. She even combined her natural talents in lightning with my magic. She wants to be…Illphres.”
Or you. The Siren didn’t say that part.
“To link our magic. We might well be stronger for it, but I don’t trust her judgement or age. Ignore her. Servant. Find me Ureita.”
Ceria felt like she might have made things worse. Still…she left the Siren’s rooms after only an hour’s training, interrupted by the Siren interjecting to complain about her life. Omusc tapped her on the shoulder as she headed out.
“Give me a few minutes. Don’t leave.”
“I’ll wait and grab a snack.”
“Of course you will.”
Omusc sighed, squared her shoulders, and entered the Siren’s quarters as Ceria traded places with her. She was apprehensive—and the first thing she heard didn’t exactly make her feel better.
“Revine! Please!”
“Shut up! I am the Siren of Savere! If I hear you spreading lies about me—”
There was a brief argument—Omusc halted, her back to the door—then she saw another pair of women waiting for her. One was dressed in plain clothes—for her—and had been with the others at the table this morning. The other looked like an upstanding citizen—and both were very apprehensive.
Omusc heard a scream, heard the crack of magic, and saw Ureita for a second. The [Mage] waved her arms—right before a colossal hand made of water picked her up and threw her screaming over the balcony.
That wasn’t enough, incidentally. The Siren of Savere lifted her hands, and an orb of water as big as a house followed her down. The angry Bloodtear Pirates saw the orb strike the water, and the geyser of an explosion afterwards made them decide it was better to pay up blood money after all, steep as it was.
Omusc thought Ureita was probably alive. But that was no light spanking. One of her friends had to dive into the water to fish the unconscious [Mage] out of it.
The Siren watched long enough to see someone grab Ureita…and perhaps that was why she hadn’t drowned and floated. But her head turned, and Omusc and the two [Corruptors] were reminded of something as they stared at the docks where the old [Accountant] was still being pecked at.
This was not a boss you crossed lightly. She was not unfair…most of the time, but Omusc coughed.
“Er—we can come back later, Siren?”
She was slightly hopeful and her companions nodded. The Siren pointed a finger, advancing on them.
“You’re going to get to work, Omusc. I have a ship coming in and I don’t know who it is—go find out. But I want Ceria on our side. It’s been five days, and I don’t see any progress! You—go with her.”
She pointed at the [Agent of Corruption] in her [Bandit] garb. The woman nodded.
“Absolutely, S—”
“Shut up. You’re part of the team working on Ceria.”
The last woman gulped. The Siren beckoned.
“You’re going to explain to me exactly how much progress you’ve made. If I don’t like what I hear, the next time I hear about a Creler nest, Manticore gang, or group of [Raiders] who won’t pay their dues, you’re going to lead the team that exterminates them.”
“Yes, S—”
Revine leaned over.
“That’s Omusc’s punishment.”
The [Pillager] turned at the door. The [Corruptor] leaned back.
“And me, Siren?”
“If I don’t like what I hear right now, Omusc gets a new coworker. So think up something that will make me feel merciful.”
The woman blanched. Omusc and the [Agent] turned at the door and saw the desperate look cast their way. Omusc slowly closed the door. She heard a muffled shout.
“Get me that ship, Omusc!”
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker sat with the Bloodtear Pirates and met the [Captain] of the Plainsblood.
“Captain Aldrail.”
A huge grin, filled with teeth. The male Gnoll had a strange weapon on his back. Ceria eyed it.
“What kind of spear is that?”
“Harpoon. Whale-killer. Ever fought one of them, Goldie?”
Captain Aldrail had a challenging look in his eyes as they drank at the Hanged Bait, one of the best pubs for this kind of thing in Savere. The Bloodtear Pirates weren’t the only people inside; it had a spatial component, which meant you could have literal hundreds. And the [Bartender] was made of strong stuff—he didn’t flinch, even at the angriest [Pirate] or [Bandit].
True, the grille of metal between him and his customers that he could pass a drink under helped. Even so, he was very careful to get anything the [Captain] wanted first.
Because Aldrail wasn’t alone. A Drowned Woman had come off the ships, and she was half-Jellyfish. Half her face looked melted, and she had a strange arm that was wet, glistening—and filled with venom.
Captain Jiupe was known as ‘Screamtouch Jiupe’, because if she touched you…
They were not fancy names. But two Bloodtear [Captains]? The other [Bandits], even ones like Omusc, jested, held their own—and didn’t provoke either [Captain] one iota. There was bravado against a regular Bloodtear Pirate, dangerous as it was, and this.
Jiupe looked up from talking with her second on shore.
“…all the way out there. No sport aside from a few damn raids, but they had to cut wide of the Iron Vanguard. Should we help them?”
She snorted.
“They didn’t get torn up, did they?”
“Not badly.”
“Then we’ll let them sit out there and find their way back. If they want us to sail off and help, they’d better have a good damned reason. I’m more interested in…”
She jerked her head to the half-Elf. She was watching to see what the [Cryomancer] would do in response to Aldrail’s attitude. Ceria Springwalker reached out…and took a huge handful of peanuts.
“Nope.”
The Gnoll waited, but it wasn’t a ‘nope’ that suggested a challenge. It was just…no. And that was Ceria for you. Gorry laughed.
“See, Captain? You’re not going to get a fight out of her that easy!”
The Gnoll sighed.
“Damn. You’re as chill as your name, Ice Squirrel.”
He gave Ceria a hopeful look, but the [Cryomancer] just chortled.
“That’s what Omusc calls me. I don’t mind, but I’m not going to fight you.”
“Why not? Gold-rank’s too good for a duel? Or are you nervous?”
Ceria gave another Bloodtear Pirate a skeptical look. She pointed at Aldrail’s weapon.
“I make it a point never to duel anyone with a weapon as tall as I am. I’m an adventurer. I don’t pick fights if I don’t have to. I like to eat, drink—”
“Dead gods, are you going to eat all the nuts?”
Aldrail exploded as Ceria emptied two thirds of the bowl. She stopped.
“…It’s just nuts. I thought you killed whales.”
The table exploded with laughter; though, it wasn’t really a joke. The Bloodtear Pirates, including Aldrail, roared with laughter as Jiupe got up to introduce herself.
It wasn’t that Ceria wasn’t trying to make an effort—she was, a bit. But mostly, she was neither. Neither intimidated nor eager to please. Neither confrontational nor overly diplomatic.
She just…was fun.
“I’m Captain Jiupe of Blood-By-Tide. You’re Crelerbane, eh? Put it there. From one to another.”
The half-Elf eyed the dangerous jelly-hand as Aldrail leaned back, swearing as his fur nearly tickled Jiupe’s skin. The Drowned Woman grinned mockingly—then swore.
Ceria reached out and shook her hand.
“You idiot—hah!”
The skeletal hand waggled its fingers and Jiupe laughed in delight. She slapped Ceria on the back with her other hand.
“This half-Elf I like! Gorry, you did right by finding her. Get me a round and you’ll tell me how you killed that Creler! Then the village—”
Aldrail nodded.
“You know any Gnolls? Been a while since I was home. Would have gone to the Meeting of Tribes if they wouldn’t string me up.”
“Really? You miss home? Well…the only Gnolls I know are Silverfang. Ever heard of them?”
“Uh…silver. That’s all I’ve got. I forgot you were around Liscor.”
Gorry was hopping with impatience. He leaned over.
“Captain. Wait’ll you hear she says they have a white Gnoll at the inn where she stays. Only, she’s under protection.”
Aldrail’s brows shot up.
“A white Gnoll on land? And the tribes haven’t axed her? There’s a proper recruit.”
Some of the other Gnolls looked askance at the very idea, but Jiupe recalled something about that and leaned over, even more intrigued. Ceria raised her brows.
“We have a lot to talk about. She’s only a kid, but…”
“I can see this is good stew right here. Hey! Drinks, you slow bastard! Get me a Krakenblood shot!”
The others laughed as Jiupe shouted for the famous rum. Ceria rose to her feet.
“And more peanuts! You’re paying, right?”
She turned to Jiupe. Omusc watched with a resigned face as more Garuda waiting at the bar grumbled as the Bloodtear Pirates were served first. The Bleakbeaks were getting less respect, and a ship was coming in. And it was actually fun—which was the problem.
 
——
 
The Siren of Savere stared out the window in her private domain. The top of the palace was hers, and this was a safe place.
Even so, Savere was not somewhere where she exercised complete, unquestioned control. If three Bloodtear [Captains] stood in close proximity to her…the Siren wouldn’t get into that situation without proper security, nor would they just try for her head.
But yes, some forces could push on her, so she did want Ceria on her side. Mostly because two [Mages] could play off each other’s powers.
Ceria could create Ice Elementals. When the Siren had heard that, she’d known. She wanted Ceria’s aid if it could be sequestered. She stared off into the distance. A storm was brewing at sea, but she could still see Runsblud’s own lighthouse by the shore, throwing a bright diffusion into the clouds.
She was tempted to turn it off.
“No ship lands at Savere without my permission. I’ll sink it myself if they can’t show me respect.”
“I think they were caught in some kind of magical disturbance, Siren. I am requesting details now.”
The Siren had one of her personal [Mages] doing that. The [Corruptor] gulped as the busy woman sorted through her work flow.
“…Who’s this ‘Omniscel’?”
“The [Enchanter] you wanted, Siren? He came from Illivere where he was staying—”
“Ah. Send him up instantly. Hm. Yes…where were we, Dascy?”
“T-the half-Elf, Siren?”
The [Corruptor] was known as Dascy. A name that might not be relevant or need remembering in about five seconds.
Especially if the Siren dropped her. She was hanging over the balcony—not over the water, but the sheer rocks below. A hand made of water was holding her there. Revine eyed her as she sipped from a cup of purified water.
