I have done this a thousand times. Ten thousand times. I am bleeding, exhausted, and they still strike at me. Yet.
This was not the battle where I crawled in my own guts to find a sword. 
This was not the day when I wept for weariness and slept among corpses.
This was not the day I saw Tottenval die.
Even so, this may yet be the day I…
Now I feel the blade slide in through my side. It hurts. Every time, after so many wounds, it hurts and I scream for the pain of it. A razor’s edge, hot, burning, trying to bake me from within.
The worst blow I have taken yet. And it is hunting deeper. Trying to end me.
Lift. The. Sword.
I do, and then we meet again. Her eyes are wide, desperate, and she sees me. This is the second time.
This time—the entire army is watching in silence. Her dead comrades lie around me, sacrificing themselves for this single moment. A chance to fell a legend.
An enchanted blade sticking out of my side. A blow fit for a [Hero].
The stuff of stories. After this, they will cheer her. She will be an officer, elevated to Silk or beyond. The Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Yisame herself, will see this warrior kneel before her. If she lives, she will be a legend. The story that began with the day she felled—
The girl recoils as I slash at her, and the pain—it’s still there, but the blade vanishes. She retreats, then freezes.
For I am laughing.
I am laughing, I know. Weeping for her.
The bravery to strike at me, the daring to take a mortal wound to fell a monstrous foe. All of this is genuine. All of it is grand.
But—
“I have been here before.”
She doesn’t understand. Perhaps she thinks I’m rambling. I point my sword at her. Ah—poison runs down the blade. I know how to use this enchantment. I rasp, and it feels like my voice is gone, through screaming, shouting—breathing that bloody air. I look her in her eyes.
“I was you. But girl. I have been here before and held your blade.”
I have been you. Now she understands. I charge, and the army watches. I bring that sword down, and look into those bright eyes until they close.
When I rise—turn my head—I see it in their eyes. That is when they begin to break.
 
——
 
I am on my knees. I cannot remember when I fell. It is dark. I grope around for my sword, but I’ve lost it.
“Not yet.”
So I stand.
 
——
 
Were they reinforcements? Did they rally? All I know is that the sun is rising again. Yet I have a reprieve. Somehow.
Soldiers are screaming and running. No—they broke long before that. Came back. Tried to fill me with arrows, held their ground, retreating, and I kept coming after.
This is different. I raise my blade and pull it just in time. The [Rider] halts.
“Lady Mars.”
I recognize Reim’s crest. I don’t reply, just…stand there. The [Rider] dismounts, calling for potions, as more [Soldiers] charge, scattering the army.
“Pull back. Give me…five minutes.”
The man looks around. He’s no stranger to battle, but perhaps he’s forgotten. Or this is the first time…his eyes are familiar. Is he looking at a legend or monster?
He gulps several times. I just sit down. Five minutes. Glorious.
“Lady Mars. The King of Destruction bid us find you when he heard you had taken to the front alone. This is madness. Please, retreat with us.”
I would have fallen asleep, but I raise my head. I try to make sounds, but—I cough, spit. Try again.
“He spoke?”
“The order came from his mouth, Lady Mars.”
Djinni. They did not send Djinni against me. They told me he was so badly burned—
I am on my feet. No less exhausted. No less in pain. But I look at this officer.
“Is he still fighting?”
The man doesn’t know how to respond to that. I grab the potion, cough as it burns my throat. But I grab him—not even five minutes. The army is coming back.
“Then so shall I. Tell him I am fighting.”
I see him back away. I ignore whatever he has to say. I check my armor. Sword…shield…I swap the shield and begin walking forwards again.
It is a new army. Damn Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Too many [Soldiers]. And in truth—I am one woman. No Amerys who can kill them by the hundreds with each spell. But unlike her—I do not fall.
They shudder to a stop as my allies retreat. This time, I plant my feet on the ground. I raise the sword and strike it against the shield. Like a gong. I shout at them. They are brave—but I would try this against their army.
Not the sons and daughters of the House of Minos. So I laugh and roar at them.
“Challenge me.”
 
——
 
My second wind comes from no Skill or potion. They are falling back. I raise my sword and they look up at me. Am I shouting?
“Reim!”
Yes. I think I am. I sweep around in an arc and my shield catches a lance. They’re trying lances now?
I laugh. And I feel younger, truly. It has been a long time. But I waited for twenty years. I can wait another day.
I gave my life for my lord’s dream. I can still see it. Once more. Once more. They can’t see what’s keeping me upright.
But if he is fighting, so shall I. For a dream of kingdom, and the fallen.
“Tottenval! Queravia! Drevish—”
Like a chant. With each name, I feel lighter. The [Soldiers] shudder at each one. They are legends to you. Perhaps you are old enough to remember them?
I walked with those legends. And I know, in that moment.
I will not fall today.
This army is too afraid. Too broken. Already—they are beginning to flee once more. Perhaps I cut down an officer?
No…I cough, looking around. Suddenly, my exuberance dies.
Another [Champion]? I thought Nerrhavia was too canny to send their best to die against me. Yet—I lower my sword, reach for one of the new potions. Suddenly—alarmed.
I am in great danger. But I don’t see…
There. My sword sings again as I clear the space around me. They are still attacking, yet I sense the shift in the army. The movement in the back ranks.
It takes me another minute of fighting. Another hour, it feels, before I see it again.
Strange. Now they are fleeing, and I try to make sense of the shouting, but I am too tired to latch onto one voice. But why fleeing? I wonder—
Until I see a group swept apart. Recognize a Skill. Someone else is fighting them. And I…I cast aside my sword and shield and reach for my best gear. If I had time, I would replace my armor too.
“Damn.”
Something clears another group of [Soldiers]. A slaughter in a single strike. My hair begins to rise—and it is short-cropped to hide in my helmet, unlike all of my lovely illusions. I am not half as beautiful—not a tenth—as I would like to be.
Hence my name. I grit my teeth and wait, unsteady. That is not Orthenon. Who…?
It…he…appears out of the milling bodies like the one real person among a sandstorm of shades. Not that they aren’t real, but sometimes it feels…I gasp as I recognize him, and I think he does the same.
You are like me. Someone who can walk through an army. Someone who…
I think he gasps, but I cannot tell. His throat is rotted away. Yet his eyes burn with a ghost’s fire. Undead flame. 
He halts in front of me, this warrior covered in glorious armor from another era. He carries a massive axe, ludicrously oversized since he is still a Human, for all he would be a huge man if he were still alive. I break into a sweat at the sight of it, though, since he carries it so easily.
It could break my armor. That is a weapon for killing half-Giants and great monsters. Or foes like me.
The figure stops. He stands there, eyes glowing, yet I see the battle-fury in him abate slightly. We stare at each other, and I recognize a foe that even I have seldom crossed blades with. Undead. This one a champion of Khelt, another threat. A dire omen if he appears before me—or aid? I don’t know. But my skin tingles as I nod to him. An undead warrior from another age, bearing Skills and classes even in death.
Revenant.
 
——
 
The two warriors stood amid the shattered battlefield. Nerrhavia Fallen’s army was fleeing, shattered by two warriors of such level.
An alliance between Khelt and Reim? Disaster! Disaster!
But it was not an alliance. The Revenant, the warrior…regarded the woman. She looked like a battered [Knight], encased in armor.
Yet she was not. [Knights] in far more glorious regalia had died. Even so—
“Salui. You must return to your battlefield! This is Nerrhavia Fallen’s army. You have no permission to attack them! Attend, Salui!”
The angry voice came from the Vizir. The buzzing of a giant gnat with Tier 6 spells. The Revenant reached up and crushed the speaking stone without a word. Then he pointed a hand at the other warrior.
“I. I am Salui of King His-Xe. Greatest ruler of Khelt.”
Mars nodded warily.
“I am Mars. Are you here to do battle or aid me, stranger?”
Her stance was lowered, her shield elevated. She was watching him, and Salui’s blood—no, the memory of it—began to boil. He was shaking—almost—with anticipation, but he caught himself.
“No. You are not the enemy. That one called Fetohep…no. I sought you out. I knew you existed. How do they call you?”
The armored head hesitated.
“What do you mean? Mars is my name.”
“No. No!”
Salui shouted and she tensed. He caught himself again, looking around blankly.
“They call themselves [Soldiers]. I fought…[Knights]. I think. I was told to fight. I left. I had to find you. To know you existed. What do they call you? They called me Salui. [Champion of War]. Yet they called me the Dragon of the Sands. The Crimson Viper.”
She understood. The warrior hesitated, lowered her sword fractionally, and nodded.
“…They call me Mars the Illusionist. In the arena, I was known as the ‘Eternal Gladiator’. They call me Mars. Mars, one of the Seven of the King of Destruction.”
“Ah.”
The answer calmed the Revenant instantly. He stood there, undead eyes fixed on Mars. Then gestured, aimlessly.
“The other one. There are two of you. You. You are…like me. You are from the days I breathed. A warrior. I had to know. They are pale reflections. I thought I was dreaming.”
That was his explanation. Mars hesitated. She didn’t understand his purpose—and when he turned and began to trudge away, she called out.
“Where are you going?”
“Back.”
The Revenant’s head turned. Suddenly, he began to shake again, then calmed himself. He spoke in a flat tone, as his off-hand rose and touched at his emaciated face.
“I am sure I’m not dreaming, now. His-Xe is dead. I went to sleep, to guard his kingdom. He is dead…and I will kill his enemies. You are not one of them. If you become one, we will see who dies.”
He turned away. Began striding back the way he’d come. Mars panted, leaning on her sword.
“Who…who is the other one? The one who’s a warrior?”
Salui turned back one last time.
“They call her Herald of the Forests.”
He began to walk back the way he’d come. Mars stood there, panting. Staring at his back. At someone far, far older than she. Somehow—
She knew exactly what he was thinking.
 
——
 
“They’ve left. That insane warrior and…the mage.”
It should have been a relief. Instead, the horror written across the faces of the army staring at the undead soldiers slowly advancing towards them did not slacken. Because the two Revenants had left so casually.
Just—walked away. The warrior, Salui, had simply stopped fighting in the middle of battle, turned his head, and walked off. Ceased hacking apart foes—the Vizir had left on ‘business’ of his own.
As if this battle had no bearing on them. That was how overwhelming it was.
Claiven Earth, the Terandrian Crusade, and Medain held the line. Say it again. The Treespeaker, High King Perric, and the commanders of the crusade heard that in their nightmares, and it was a waking nightmare.
They held the line. Two of Chandrar’s mightiest nations in the north and an entire Crusade against one tiny one.
The Herald of the Forests lay slumped in her saddle. Another volunteer wing to recreate the Fables of the Forest…their great [Mage] was unconscious from a duel with the Vizir.
This was the moment to push in, in theory. Without the two mighty Revenants. Yet no one dared utter those words. Not with…
“Our predecessors lacked for discipline. Hold the line.”
The booming voice came from a half-Giant, thirty feet tall, ghostly flames blazing in its sockets. Another half-Giant, all bone, took careful aim with the largest bow anyone had ever seen and loosed another arrow.
A half-Giant [Mage] began casting a spell as Khelt’s undead continued forwards. A force of half-Giants, each one likely Level 30 or higher. 
“Serept guides us. Come, [Knights] of Terandria.”
Their leader boomed. His head swivelled the battlefield, searching for targets. He saluted a wedge of armored figures pushing in for a charge and began striding towards them. The only thing the mortals could claim in their favor was that Khelt’s advance was…slow.
Deliberate. Only Salui took risks; the half-Giants, and even the Vizir, refused to even chance their destruction, and the lower-ranking undead were a horde, despite Khelt’s armories. Yet they were pushing in towards the coast and now—now the Claiven Earth was willing to negotiate. Now High King Perric lay sick abed, as his [Generals] frantically begged him to make peace. Terandria refused to admit defeat—for now—and the three combined armies struggled to hold the line.
Yet the Herald of the Forests had a terrible feeling that the war front was stalled out not because of the disinterested Revenants alone, or the necessity for caution in their fighting. She had a feeling they were…
Waiting for something.
 
——
 
But time was up. Suddenly, and just like that.
“It does amuse, you know. Twenty years is a young man’s life entire. For Humans, at least. Twenty years, wasted. They say you are the [King] to terrify other [Kings]. You seem not so grand. Not so to one who has seen greatness.”
In Reim, the world’s most dangerous toasted marshmallow lay in his bed. Covered in bandages, which seemed to be a trend these days.
His skin refused to heal. It was burned so badly by a Djinni’s fire that some worried it might never heal—not without some great restorative. The King of Destruction was immobilized. He could move, speak, but at great pain.
It was a terrible thing. Nerrhavia was advancing, and without him to lead one of the armies—no, it had been a slow withdrawal already.
Now…time had run out. The figure who had entered through the window stood alone in the room. Well…‘stood’.
He floated in midair, in a contemptuous display of disregard for the laws of gravity and the security of Reim. But then, he had flown here invisibly, beyond detection. Flown, in an era where most [Mages] could barely teleport short distances. He was the relic of an earlier age.
