Ceria didn’t see a response forming. Rather—she saw a huge blotch of ink appear on the [Message] scroll, and—she suspected—the wavy line of a hundred hands fighting for the quill at the same time.
“Well this [Message] scroll’s worth nothing. Dead gods damnit!”
Mage Teic threw up his hands, but he looked at Ceria. Omusc was cursing. Not from just Ceria’s idiocy—she was staring out the door at the suddenly very still [Pirates].
What a blunder. The Siren was going to kill her—after Ceria. She saw the half-Elf scratch her head as the [Pillager] whirled to tell Teic to cut the spell. But then she saw something.
Ceria Springwalker didn’t look like a mortified half-Elf. She smiled—and put a skeletal finger to her temple.
 
Typh. Tell Halrac I’m in dicey waters at Savere. But I’ll handle it. The Helm of Fire is for a trade to cure Erin. Hold onto it. We do have artifacts. If I find the others—they have more.
 
“What was that?”
Mage Teic snapped. His eyes flickered and he slapped a palm to his forehead, but he cursed.
“What? What did she do?”
Omusc strode back to stare at Ceria as the half-Elf lowered her hand.
“She sent a [Message]! I thought she couldn’t do that! I missed what she sent—damn—you said you couldn’t do it!”
Ceria blinked at the two. She shrugged.
“I can’t do it long-term. Not for a lot of [Messages]. Plus, I had no idea where to aim. Don’t worry. I just told them something private. No one’s stupid enough to come after Savere. We’re adventurers.”
Omusc’s jaw opened and closed. She saw Ceria raise her brows, innocently. Mage Teic glanced at the hubbub outside.
“Right, well, I’m getting money for the scroll from the Siren. If you’re done…I have some juicy gossip to sell.”
His eagerness to get Ceria and Omusc out of the guild wasn’t just due to him selling the news far and wide. There was a loud argument at the front desk.
“Hey! We want to send some [Messages] today! Why does someone get to cut the line?”
An angry group of people was demanding service, and the one other [Mage] on duty was overworked. Even in Savere, there were things that could not be tolerated.
“Sorry. Siren’s business. Cool your feathers.”
“Watch it, you.”
Ceria emerged from the back to see who was so angry. Not the Bloodtear Pirates—they were grinning fit to burst and Gorry clearly wanted to get her attention.
Rather, this was another distinctive group.
Garuda, with their traditional light armaments, although some had some enchanted armor—a [Raider] group to look at them. But these ones had a similar motif: all their beaks were dyed an ashen grey.
“Bleakbeaks.”
Omusc sighed. She lifted her hands.
“Siren’s business. You see that half-Elf? She’s the Siren’s guest. Cool off.”
The Bleakbeak Garuda glared at Ceria, but then they seemed to recognize her.
“That’s the Gold-ranker from Izril? Huh. And here I thought it was for some no-name idiot from one of the nearby kingdoms. Alright…hey, you. You’re Ceria Springwalker, aren’t you?”
“Does everyone know my name?”
Ceria was astonished. The Garuda glanced at his friends. Then he leaned over, trotting out of line with the others. They muttered—then grabbed some parchment.
“I hear it’s worth some gold. You wouldn’t mind tossing us a few gold coins, eh? Give us one of those, um…autographs.”
He grinned at her with his beak—right before a Gnoll calmly shoved him out of the way.
“Hey! Who wants to die?”
Gorry grinned at him.
“I’ve got dibs on an autograph, landfolk. And it’s a promise. Tonight, at the Hanging Bait—drinks on us?”
He looked at Ceria. She hesitated as the Garuda bristled. One went for a long dagger at his side, and the other stopped them.
“That’s Bloodtear—”
“So? No one pushes us and—”
Gorry’s head turned as the [Pirates] behind him all instantly, and with huge grins, put their hands on their weapon hilts. The Bleakbeaks froze and counted; they were outnumbered by five.
“Break it up!”
Omusc’s shout made both groups turn to her. Fearlessly, the [Pillager] moved both groups back. She turned to face Gorry.
“The Ice Squirrel’s going nowhere. Siren’s orders.”
“Oh? Aren’t you confident.”
The Gnoll had a dangerous look in his eyes. Omusc folded her arms.
“‘Fraid so. Ceria’s got orders to meet with her.”
“Huh.”
The Gnoll tilted his head left and right, clearly thinking on whether this was upsetting. Ceria forestalled him.
“How about tomorrow? Hanged Bait?”
He blinked at her, then grinned.
“Ah, there’s a willingness I like. Tomorrow.”
He watched with satisfaction as Ceria signed the autograph, and then took a piece of parchment and scrawled her name on it. The tense atmosphere defused, and Ceria saw Omusc breathe out, slowly. Ceria felt her own adrenaline stop coursing through her veins.
She’d seen adventurers getting into petty arguments before—but something about the way Mage Teic had been hiding behind a door and Omusc’s desperate orders and invoking the Siren’s authority told Ceria that it wouldn’t be just a fistfight. The Siren’s authority kept a delicate peace indeed.
 
——
 
“You’re damned lucky. You know that? The Bloodtear Pirates are insane. Clap you on the back and stab you in the eye the next second if you cross them wrong. Bleakbeaks? They’ll stab you too—you’re just lucky you’re not a Garuda.”
“Is there anyone who won’t stab me? How does the Siren keep the peace with so many factions?”
Omusc grunted.
“By not having someone start sparks, for one. Second? She keeps them from causing havoc, stealing everything and running off. Mage’s Guild is off-limits. But if they decided to—there would be a hundred dead bodies in the street in the hour.”
Ceria halted.
“What?”
The [Pillager] looked back at her.
“Runsblud’s not like any other city. Ever heard of Drowning Nights? No…hah.”
She exhaled, giving Ceria a look much like she was a Bronze-rank who’d never heard of Shield Spiders. The [Cryomancer] frowned.
“What’s that, a term for Savere?”
“A term. What am I, a [Scribe]? It’s the thing that every gang, and especially seafolk, know to watch for in gatherings like Savere. How do I say it so someone like you’ll understand? An adventurer…”
She stalked off, leading Ceria back towards the palace looming over the docks. Ceria walked after her.
“I’m not exactly a rookie world-wise, Omusc.”
The Drowned Woman hesitated.
“Guess not. You’re not exactly as upstanding as I thought. I thought you’d be some [Knight]-idiot. Terandrian adventurers are all like that.”
“That’s the Silver Swords. Not my team. Yvlon—my teammate—she’s sort of like that.”
The [Pillager] shouldered aside a group engrossed in a shell game. They turned to bicker with her, saw her glare, and decided they’d rather not.
She was some kind of authority, Ceria guessed. Omusc went on.
“Drowned Nights are…when people have too much to drink. One big gang—six it’s almost a given—and let’s say they’ve got blood rivalries going on. On that day, everyone closes their doors.”
She nodded to the wary [Shopkeepers], people doing rather mundane jobs like processing fish, carving furniture, and so on. Ceria frowned.
“…And that’s normal?”
“No, it’s not normal. It just happens. And with the Bloodtear Pirates, it’s more likely than ever. They must have paid a fortune for the Siren to let them in. If a Drowned Night happens, it’ll be a slaughter.”
“Do they attack civilians?”
If that were the case, Ceria thought the people here…wouldn’t be here. She’d known people to live in bad circumstances, but that seemed a cut too far. And sure enough, Omusc shook her head.
“No. If they went after people in homes, the Siren would ban them forever. Even Bloodtear isn’t that stupid. But it’s free game and anyone on the streets—”
She drew a line across her throat.
“—that’s when you level or die. And when groups sort things out.”
Ceria’s skin prickled.
“So Savere can turn into a bloodbath at any time?”
“Yep.”
“And people like living like that?”
“Like it? You don’t have to join in. There are laws. If you’re not a gang, no one can just walk up and stab you. The other groups come here to trade, buy potions—they can’t anywhere else. They’re the ones in danger. Like you. You don’t seem to get that.”
Again, the Drowned Woman looked back at Ceria. The Gold-rank adventurer walked along, digesting that. She scratched at her head, looking speculatively at Omusc, and around the city.
“…I guess that’s why the Siren put me in your care. You must be a pretty good officer, right?”
Omusc nearly tripped. She caught herself, and glared back.
“I’m a [Pillager]. It’s my job to keep idiots in line and make sure the loot’s divided up. I guess that’s why I got saddled with you.”
Ceria smiled faintly.
“I bet that’s not your entire class. Or your only one. Were you born in Savere?”
“What is this, Archmage’s Questions? I’m from Savere. I’m minding you. That’s it.”
“Well, you know all about me. I don’t know anything about you.”
Omusc snorted.
“Don’t get ahead of yourself, Ice Squirrel. I don’t care that much about you. You were on some big raid, you have a bug in your team…that’s what I’ve got. Oh, and you’re too stupid to keep your mouth shut about artifacts.”
Ceria grinned.
“I have a [Necromancer] in my team too. We’re not bad pillagers ourselves either, you know. That wasn’t our first dungeon.”
“Really. You’re going to make me explain why you’re not even a tenth as good as a [Pillager]. You think adventurers steal something? I steal everything. You idiots leave traps, good metal, even bodies behind. Do you know how much Selphids pay for a good body? And that’s only the dead ones.”
Omusc tossed that barb out and watched it bounce off Ceria’s puffy cheeks. The half-Elf smiled at her, eyes lighting up with mischief.
“You might be right. But I hear someone steals the Siren’s doors.”
The Drowned Woman felt a tingle run down her back, the precursor to sweat.
“Yeah? So? That’s basic. Any Level 15 [Raider] could think of that.”
“Well…I stole a magic door with my team. A portal door. Worth a fortune—actually, I think it was the most valuable thing we took, all-told.”
Omusc came to a dead halt in the street. She looked back at Ceria.
“You did?”
 
——
 
It turned out that if there was anything to win Omusc’s respect in this world, the tale of Albez and taking the enchanted door was it. By the time they got to the palace, the [Pillager] was shaking her head.
“Where’s Albez?”
“Why, you want to look for more treasure?”
“No…I want to find that exact spot you all went to, get down to that trap room, and pry all those insanity glyphs off the wall. I’d make a fortune.”
The [Pillager] was salivating at the prospect.
“Even one is a good trap that any [Merchant] would buy. You said there were hundreds in the room?”
“Maybe even thousands.”
“Dead gods. You land-brained idiots—that was the real treasure. Although I’ll give you credit—that’s a dangerous removal job. You want a professional, not some idiot with a dagger and a pickaxe. Stealing that door—that was smart. You might deserve Gold-rank after all.”
She gave Ceria a grudging look of approval. The half-Elf whistled to herself.
“It’s worth that much, is it?”
“Depends on the grade. Sounds like they’re good—I’d say you can get four hundred gold minimum per glyph.”
“Really?”
The Mollusc Drowned Woman was doing a rough calculation.
“Rechargeable, long-lasting magical glyphs of a Tier 4+ spell? Remember, this ain’t something some no-name Level 30 whipped up. This is a pre-civilization spell. From an older kingdom. That just multiplies the value. It turns out this Warmage Thresk was some big shot? Eight hundred, easy.”
She caught herself with a sigh.
“‘Course, they might all be burned or someone else looted them. I’d kill you over it if I thought there was a chance of me getting to Izril and this Albez. I guess that’s just a friendly advisor, yeah?”
She kicked along, regretting mentioning it to Ceria—there was something inoffensive about the half-Elf’s personality. Although it was true that Omusc wasn’t getting there. Ceria grinned.
“I could tell you where we were, roughly. Landmarks shift all the time, but we had a map and I remember the rough spot. If you want to run to Albez—my team’s in no hurry.”
“Don’t shit me.”
“I’m not. You want to know where?”
Omusc halted. She eyed Ceria up and down and then gave a grudging laugh.
“You’re not bad, Ice Squirrel. I’d have to, what, leave Savere, find a crew, get all the way to this place and get out while protecting my haul…”
She stared upwards.
“That would be the adventure of a lifetime. The kind of thing that sets you up for good. I’m no adventurer, but that’s tempting. Money like that, even if I had to give up half of it? I could retire on that.”
“And what would you do then?”
The [Cryomancer] saw Omusc frown, turn to glare at her.
“…None of your business. If this is you trying to bribe me to get on my good side, well…”
She glanced around as they entered into the Siren’s palace. She leaned over and whispered.
“…It won’t do you any good. The Siren’s the boss. No one beats her. Remember that. As long as you’re on her good side, all you have to worry about is people with a grudge who’ll risk her wrath.”
“Good thing I don’t have any of those, then.”
Ceria remarked blandly. The Drowned Woman gave her an odd look.
“You’ve got at least one.”
Ceria halted, blinking.
“…You?”
“No, you idiot. You think you didn’t make anyone mad when you came here and stole the Siren’s attention? Follow me—we’re almost late. I’ll meet you after the dinner thing. Not that you want to go out in Runsblud at night anyways, unless you’re looking for trouble.”
“What am I doing now?”
Ceria frowned around. Since she had woken up so late and gotten a lay of the port city and done her work at the Mage’s Guild, it was early evening. Omusc gave her a look.
“The Siren’s got a plan for you.”
 
——
 
Revine Zecrew watched as Ceria began to sweat. It beaded on her forehead, but only a bit—and it never rolled down her cheeks. It froze there.
The room was cold. Ceria’s aura was in full-force—which was the problem.
“Control yourself. Your aura is leaking. Focus it down. Did Illphres never teach you that?”
“She did—but it’s an aura—”
Ceria was panting as she tried to do as the Siren demanded. It was difficult—not least because she was working on something else simultaneously.
