It all went back to her. Ceria bit her tongue, then spoke, as carefully and professionally as she could. The Siren’s eyes flicked up and she focused on Ceria with a gaze as deep as the sea.
“Illphres. Siren Revine…I am grateful for you saving me and Nerhs from the Crelers. However, I am a Gold-rank adventurer and my teammates are missing. I need to find them, so, er, I’d, uh, like to be granted permission to go soon. I’m very happy to reminisce about Illphres! But if I could ride out tomorrow, maybe? I could pay for…”
Her voice trailed off. Revine Zecrew scrutinized Ceria.
“Your team. Naturally, you’d want to find them. And naturally, I don’t know you. Only that Illphres made you her apprentice. And that you are an adventurer with a history of working for an honorable Silver-rank team. In fact, you lost your hand holding the line rather than fleeing in the crypt of Liscor.”
Ceria blinked. She knew about…?
“A powerful [Cryomancer] who survived the Village of the Dead yet who lacks for any training. I was Illphres’ best friend. I may not be her specialization, but she and I share similar schools and I am an accomplished mage. A Wistram graduate. I could teach you. Savere is a powerful nation. You know, I have heard your friend is captive of Roshal. There is even a bounty out for his freedom.”
“Pisces? You know about—”
Revine lifted a finger and Ceria fell silent. She waved a hand.
“Calendar.”
Instead of it floating over, Joam brought it over in his mouth and received another eel. The Siren consulted it.
“He has been their prisoner for nearly two weeks. I am told one gang tried to free him and failed. He is not at Roshal yet, though. And your other friend—Yvlon Byres—is a gladiator in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The last one, the bug-man? Illivere.”
Ceria’s mouth was wide open. They were all alive! She felt dizzy with relief—and then the Siren looked up.
“It isn’t impossible to free all of them. To gather them here? Not for me. Roshal is a mighty foe, though, and of the three, your friend the [Necromancer] is in gravest danger. I would not take on that request, no matter how much is being offered. Unless I had something worth doing it for.”
She looked at Ceria. The half-Elf shifted in her seat.
“…I’m not exactly keen to join Savere, Your Majesty. I have a…mission. An important one I need to get back to.”
Revine sighed delicately. She sat back as her cat leapt into her lap.
“Very understandable. I can’t force you to do anything. Then you have my permission to go. On the hour, in fact. I will let you purchase a horse and ride off to find your friends with the best of luck wished.”
She raised a hand and made a little gesture with her fingers splayed. Ceria hesitated.
“That’s…so generous.”
“Yes, indeed it is.”
The [Cryomancer]’s eyes flicked to something behind Revine.
“Er…might I make one request, Your Majesty?”
“Hmm?”
“Could I persuade you to…give me back that circlet before I go? It is my property, you see. I earned it at the Village of the Dead.”
The Siren of Savere turned her head. The circlet in question sat in the center of a perfect cube of barrier spells, on a small pedestal. The same circlet Ceria had been about to wear before the last-minute save.
Revine Zecrew looked at Ceria and smiled blandly.
“Ah, but that is my possession, you see. I am a [Bandit Queen]. If you want that back, I may be convinced to turn it over. But you would have to be very persuasive.”
Ceria sighed. It was never easy. She ducked her head as Revine went on.
“I might be persuaded to part with it if you made promises to me that you would return. I am not a fool, Ceria Springwalker. Nor am I blind to your desires and missions. But I do need…an ally.”
Her eyes glinted. The half-Elf smiled weakly.
“You don’t say?”
 
——
 
Revine Zecrew got exactly what she wanted out of the conversation. Which was nostalgia about Illphres and nothing from Ceria remotely resembling a promise.
But she was staying. She wanted that relic-class object. Revine hovered around it after Ceria had gone. Joam was prowling off, hunting mice or something.
“Dangerous.”
Revine stayed well clear of the pedestal. She wasn’t getting anywhere near the circlet and she’d had the best spells placed on it. She knew the dangers of relic-class objects and she was certain it was one.
“Find me every [Enchanter] worthy of the class. I want to know what this thing does. But secretly.”
She spoke, and one of her court mages bowed, eyes locked on the circlet. Revine halted her.
“Don’t think of touching it, Ureita. I have warded it so well that even an Archmage would vaporize if they tried.”
The woman, Ureita, licked her lips.
“I’d never dream of—”
“Yes, yes. Get out.”
The [Mage] scurried out, looking annoyed, but trying to hide it. Revine sighed after her. So transparent. She hadn’t lied about needing an ally.
“But I am not stupid. You’re no Illphres.”
She threw herself backwards and a chair of water materialized. Ceria was also far lower-level than Illphres, despite her accomplishments. Yet…Revine sat there. She eyed the circlet.
“Relic class artifacts aside…servant.”
Someone came out of the darkness.
“Siren?”
“Get me Omusc. Tell her I want to see her, now, about bodyguard duty. And spread the word.”
The woman froze as Revine lifted a hand. The Siren beckoned her back and pointed to the place Ceria had been.
“That half-Elf. I want her on Savere’s side. Tell the guests she’s not to be harmed unless she’s a complete fool. And that I want to see if she’ll join Savere. Persuade her.”
The servant bowed. The Siren’s eyes glowed with a magic of their own. Yes…she had seen the limits of magic at Wistram. That was what Illphres had refused to see. Magic had limits. You filled the gaps with gold and power and alliances.
There was more to power than just magic classes. Revine was something Ceria took lightly.
A [Bandit Queen]. Did Ceria think [Corrupt Accountant] was just a class? She was clearly intelligent, but not as…cunning…as some. That was perfect.
“Chip at what makes her Gold-rank. Tell Omusc that’s her job. See who she really is. Send for the [Agents of Corruption].”
 
——
 
Day Two
 
Omusc found Ceria Springwalker that morning before the half-Elf even got out of her room. She heard the triple-knock, opened the door, and found the woman standing there eying her.
“So you’re the Gold-rank, eh? Ice Squirrel. I’m Omusc. The Siren’s told me I’ve gotta keep you alive. You want food?”
“What?”
The woman was dark-skinned…at least, half of her was. She spoke fast and with an accent, slurring her words a bit.
“Ice Squirrel. That’s your nickname. Heard you ate food like a damn squirrel. You can call me Omusc. [Pillager]. Exactly the kinda thing you Gold-ranks hate, right?”
She didn’t hold out a hand, but a third of her face opened up, exposing her insides. Ceria Springwalker stared at the Drowned Woman.
“Huh? It’s morning. What’s this about?”
Omusc was a Drowned Woman, like many of Savere’s people who lived with the sea. However, unlike many other Drowned Folk, who were half-fish, half-crustacean, or so on…
Omusc was half mollusc. Hence the…name.
Ceria had never seen a creature like her. One half of her face looked like bark, and, as Ceria watched, something moved the bark out—revealing fleshy, pink insides that used the bark as a false skin.
Sort of like a Dullahan. Omusc glanced at Ceria.
“Am I bothering you, Ice Squirrel?”
“It’s morning. What?”
The [Pillager] hesitated. Ceria rubbed at her face. Omusc glanced out one of the windows.
“It’s nearly midday. What’re you talking about?”
“It’s morning.”
 
——
 
Ceria was still bleary-eyed at breakfast. She stared at a giant piece of fowl meat.
“What’s this?”
“Bird. Some kind of it. You picky?”
“No.”
Ceria began chomping down instantly. Omusc reached for her plate. She cracked part of her face open—one of the other [Bandits] at the table turned away, gagging—deposited a slice of meat into her face, and then began to chew normally.
She waited for a reaction. Ceria just blinked at her a few times.
“So you’re Omusc. Is that…a pun?”
Along the table, one of the very specialist classes that Savere could field watched her target. Oh yes. [Corruptor] was a class.
There were always people like her in the world. People whose job it was to bribe, convince, threaten, or do whatever it took to get someone to abandon beliefs.
Sometimes it wasn’t hard. They were needed for sabotage, intrigue, and they could even make [Traitors]. Savere didn’t exist with the goodwill of other nations alone. They had people like her in every area.
Her job, and Omusc’s to some extent, was to fulfill the Siren’s wish and see who this Gold-rank was deep down. Reveal her true nature—sometimes you found just a bastard—or just someone who was like they were normally, only freed of fault.
Everyone had a weak spot. She narrowed her eyes, appraising Ceria as Omusc sat there, bemused. Ceria stared as a frightened person brought over more food.
“Got a problem with my face, Ice Squirrel?”
Omusc was trying to rile Ceria up. And…the [Bandits] grabbed for foods, calling insults at the [Slave] as more was brought around. Ceria turned, saw the collar, and now…the [Agent of Corruption] leaned in.
Now she understood what Savere was. Adventurers were tricky. Not all were upstanding, but some took lots of work. Yet the Siren had no limits, and there were lots of Skills that did many things. But she had to know what Ceria Springwalker was like.
The half-Elf blinked at the [Slave]. She looked at Omusc. She bit into a sandwich of chicken.
“…Is Omusc not a pun? It’s really early. Sorry…why are you with me?”
Omusc’s and the [Agent]’s faces fell. Dead gods damnit. Was she just an idiot?
 
——
 
Ceria rubbed at her head.
“So you’re a [Pillager].”
“Yes.”
“Isn’t that sort of a weird class?”
One of the [Bandits] from the Nerhs raid sniggered. They were her eating buddies, having gained some respect for Ceria after seeing her take down so many Crelers. They were also off-duty, having been given a leave for the incident.
Omusc had multiple eyes. Her entire left side was…mollusc. That meant it was flexible. She didn’t even have limbs. Indeed, her left arm was so long it was uncanny. And, if she wanted to, she could change parts of her body on that side.
Including her eyes. She pulled off the staring, painted piece of wood, revealing the pink insides, and pasted another piece of bark in its place.
A painted eye glared at Ceria.
“The fuck you mean weird? We fight, I pillage. I’m the reason a raid comes back with more loot than normal. Hidden stashes, artifacts—I grab it all.”
“Right…but that means all your Skills are devoted to the one moment when you get everything. It’s just…really specialized. You know, like [Treasure Hunters]. I get it—but they appraise loot, find it, and have Skills to sell it. Sort of an odd distribution.”
“She’s got you there, Omusc. Tell her about your Skills—oof!”
Omusc’s arm shot out and punched someone in the stomach. Ceria blinked. She could extend her arms? It wasn’t lightning quick but…the [Pillager] glared around.
“It’s not a wasted class. Ever seen someone strip gold paint from the walls? I can steal everything. I can steal things that aren’t there!”
She pointed a finger at Ceria.
“You get on my bad side and I’ll steal everything you own after I kick the shit out of you—and your mother’s jewelry, no matter where she is!”
Ceria blinked at Omusc.
“My mother’s jewelry is mostly wood. Painted. Half-Elf jewelry sucks.”
The [Bandits] fell over each other laughing. Omusc strode around, swatting at them. She moved very fluidly, and Ceria suspected she wasn’t lying—[Pillager] was an advanced class. When she came back, more than a few were groaning and swearing at her.
“Omusc, you hit me again and I’ll stab you!”
One woman threatened, raising a dagger. Omusc turned her head.
“Yeah? Go ahead. I’ll let you have five.”
The [Bandit] glared, but she backed up and not just because her friends talked her down. Omusc turned back and eyed Ceria.
“Just so you know, the Siren wants me to keep you alive, but I’ll kick the hell out of you if you mock me again.”
“I’m not mocking you.”
Ceria saw the woman narrow her one real eye. Ceria leaned on her chin, fascinated.
“I know a Drowned Man…but you’re nothing like him.”
“Great. Another expert on Drowned People. You know one, you know ‘em all, huh?”
Omusc rolled her eyes. Ceria felt this was somewhat inaccurate.
“No—I just meant—”
Someone took a swing at Omusc from behind. Without moving her head, the woman twisted her mollusc arm back behind her back, blocked the blow at an angle that would have snapped Ceria’s bones if she tried that, and punched.
Molluscs apparently had eyes in the back of their heads. Or something. Also, Omusc was apparently as tough as nails.
“I’m a Drowned Woman Mollusc. Not sure exactly which one it is—don’t know, don’t care. I know what I can do. I’ve survived more fights because of that than anything else. Like the other half of my body or does it make you sick?”
Ceria shrugged.
“My best friend’s got morphing silver arms.”
Omusc glanced at her.
“Huh. Sounds nice. Horns of Hammerad, right?”
Ceria blinked.
“Does everyone know who I am?”
The [Enforcement Raider] laughed with great amusement.
“Didn’t you know? You were on every scrying orb in the world a while ago! Just for a moment—and we didn’t see you lot, but ‘course we know!”
“Really? We were on the scrying orb?”
A delighted look passed over Ceria’s face briefly. Omusc snorted.
“You had no idea? Truly?”
“No! We were fighting—and then I was in this village in the middle of nowhere—wait. If you know that—did anyone die? The Halfseekers—Griffon Hunt—”
Suddenly, Ceria had a thousand questions and she realized she was in a bandit-held city. But still a city. She turned to Omusc and the [Pillager] raised her hands.
“I’m not a [Mage]. Like I said, I’m your guard—”
“Do you know how I can find out? Is there a Mage’s Guild or…?”
Half the [Bandits] fell over each other laughing again. Even Omusc grinned.
“Is there a Mage’s Guild. What, do half the cities in Izril not have one?”
“But you’re…[Bandits].”
The [Enforcement Raider] leaned over.
“We’re civilized bandits. For instance, we use cutlery.”
She looked pointedly at the finger-food Ceria had been eating. Someone else handed Ceria a napkin. She looked at Omusc, who seemed more amused, and that was how her strange stay in Runsblud began.
 
——
 
