The [Raider]’s head snapped back with a cry. Ceria stirred. She saw Jiupe hold out a hand, and the other Bloodtear Pirates watched in dead silence.
“You b—”
The [Raider] went for a dagger. Then saw the head drawing back.
The second headbutt nearly knocked her out. Dizzy, she held there as the other raiders grabbed at the Dullahan.
“You bitch. Let her g—”
The head went back. Snapped forwards. And this time Omusc heard a crack. The Dullahan, Roisere, broke the other woman’s beak. She shook off blood running down from her forehead where she’d connected as the other Bleakbeak Raiders grabbed her in horror. Because her head was drawing back—
“Stop! Stop!”
In dead silence, the bar listened to the fourth impact. Then saw the [Pirate] draw her head back. The other body wasn’t even moving.
That’s when the Bleakbeak Raiders drew steel. One went for a hatchet and, screaming, charged Roisere. Omusc saw a flash and crouched—she heard the terrible thud, and saw a pinned body on the floor.
By a harpoon.
“Dead gods. Dead gods. It’s a blood feud.”
The [Agent] whispered. The pub was evacuating. Slowly, Captain Aldrail rose. The Bleakbeak Raiders turned.
“You insane maniacs. This won’t stand! You—it was one taunt!”
“That’s our friend and guest. Bloodtear takes that from no one. It won’t stand? Get your gang.”
Jiupe rose, draining her cup. She looked around. There were more Bleakbeak Raiders in the pub, but they were shocked. They’d seen fast fights, but this? The Drowned Woman pointed at the Garuda who’d spoken.
“That one lives.”
Then she hurled the mug across the room. It didn’t break, but the face did. The [Pirates] charged, weapons drawn.
Omusc grabbed the [Agent] and threw her behind her. She backed up into a corner and drew her weapons of choice—sickle in the offhand, a strange weapon, and shortsword in the other. She waited, but the Bloodtear Pirates were after only Garuda.
It was fast. Omusc had seen them fight and they stacked up with the best of Savere’s warriors. [Pirates] were fewer in number than armies, but this lot—took no prisoners. Even when asked.
The [Bartender] was hiding behind the grille and the floor was wet. Omusc stared as the [Pirates] looked around, realized they had no foes left, and began grinning, grabbing drinks and heading back. Laughing.
“It’ll be blood alright. Someone run and tell the other ships we’re here for a Drowned Night!”
Omusc heard Gorry roar. She let the [Agent] run—it was only one person she wanted to see. And that person had risen, but not cast any spells in the brief surge of violence. She, like any experienced bar fighter, had put her back to something—in this case, the bar itself.
Ceria Springwalker stood there. Eyes searching the bar. The Bloodtear Pirates halted as she lowered her wand. Captain Jiupe’s eyes glittered and Aldrail had retrieved his bloody harpoon. He shook the blood off of it.
“No need to thank us, Ceria. The least we can do is shut up loudmouths, even if Roshal’s under negotiations.”
He grinned at her, watching her face. And that’s when Omusk remembered. The Siren had said—
Tell the guests. The Bloodtear Pirates watched Ceria’s expression. Waiting. They saw her look at Aldrail, the dead Garuda, the one who lay motionless, who started it all with the barest provocation.
Ceria scratched at her head.
“…I’m not paying you to fight them. And if you get us kicked out of this pub, I’m going to be upset.”
Slowly, she reached out, picked up a handful of peanuts, and began chewing on them. Aldrail blinked. Omusc stared. Ceria sat herself back down and peered around.
“Wait, I’ve got a spell for this. [Spray Wave].”
A little wave of water rose and swirled around her table and raced out the door, red with blood. Ceria sat back. She raised her brows.
“You can take the bodies.”
The Bloodtear Pirates looked at her, and then whooped and cheered. All except for Aldrail, who looked at Ceria thoughtfully. And Omusc. What was she doing?
 
——
 
At last the Siren knew. She turned as the breathless [Agent] made her report, away from watching the Shifthold dock.
“That’s it. That’s what she’s doing. It’s exactly what Illphres would do. Clever…stupid? Clever, at least.”
“What, Siren?”
Dascy saw the Siren shake her head. She looked down at the Hanged Bait, cursing—it would be a Drowned Night soon enough if one or the other group didn’t leave. Revine could hear Garudas screaming in fury.
“She’s…stepping into her class. Her emotions. Her outrage. Everything. She’s freezing them.”
The [Corruptors] and [Communication Mage] stared at the Siren of Savere in astonishment.
“She can do that?”
Revine turned.
“Of course she can. A [Cryomancer] can freeze anything! That’s why you have no purchase on her. She’s no fool. She has to know she’s in danger. But she’ll go through this ice-cold.”
She sounded almost admiring. Revine shook her head as Omniscel did a little dance, clapping his claws together. She glared at him and turned back to her people.
“We need to thaw her out. It’s not hard. She’s playing a game with her magic, but she can’t do it if there isn’t any magic or we counter it. We’ll—what are you doing?”
The Siren shouted. Omniscel had lifted the circlet out of the containment field and was inspecting it with his bare claws. Then—he ‘held’ it on the tips of his wands.
“Oho. Oho. I think I’m figuring it out. You see, I knew this was a Relic-class object, so I went backwards. Instead of finding out merely what enchantments it was, I looked up a list of powerful circlets—and I think—”
“Are you trying to get us all killed?”
The Drake gave the Siren an offended look. She would have strode over and slapped the circlet out of his grasp—if she wasn’t preparing to teleport to safety.
“It’s perfectly safe, Siren. I’m impressed by your precautions. It’s so clever what you’ve done, and besides—I am an expert.”
“The precautions only work if it’s in the cube!”
The Siren screeched. Omniscel nearly dropped the circlet.
“What? Oh sh—wait a second.”
He caught it with his wands, eyed it, then picked it up with one claw and turned it over and over.
“Hmm…ah good one. I make a few jokes, you make a few jokes. I like this working relationship.”
He stroked his beard with his other claw, and saw the Siren staring at him. Omniscel blinked at the circlet and the Siren.
“Wait. Are you joking? What’s going on here?”
Revine Zecrew was lost for words. She looked at the [Enchanter], at her other minions—at the circlet. She wanted to know that too. Then she’d kill him.
 
——
 
The Bloodtear Pirates had cottoned on to the same thing the Siren and Omusc had. They sat around her, having let the [Bouncers] take out the bodies. Alone—save for Omusc and a few other very brave souls.
But it was true. They had only killed the Bleakbeak Raiders. There was something so…casual, cavalier, even, about it. Ceria Springwalker glanced up, chewing on more peanuts.
“So just so I’m clear—why did you kill that poor Garuda?”
“We killed them for insulting you. Or did you like that idiot needling you about your teammate?”
Ceria hesitated.
“I didn’t. Honestly, no. But I wouldn’t have killed her over that.”
Jiupe smiled.
“That’s the difference between you and us. You don’t do things because there might be trouble. We’re Bloodtear. Free. No one insults our own. No laws, no mercy—except for people we like. And that doesn’t bother an adventurer?”
Ceria took a drink of her ale.
“Should it? I can tell you want it to, you know.”
She tapped the side of her head as Aldrail stirred. Omusc, who had joined their table, kept her face straight as possible, but Ceria just glanced at her.
“It’s, uh—not hard to tell. Honestly. Listen, I know you want a rise out of me, but what am I supposed to do?”
“Object to us killing people? Not that all adventurers’re like that, but you’re calm as can be. Huh.”
Jiupe glanced at one of the Bloodtear Pirates. Calm. Ice magic. She made a little sign.
Get me a [Dispeller].
Gorry watched as Aldrail grinned. Ceria, oblivious, kept speaking. She was scratching at her head, and Omusc feared she had lice. So did some of the other Gnolls, who backed up.
“Listen. Look at it like this. If I do object to [Slaves], you killing people—what am I going to do? Fight all of Bloodtear, Savere?”
“That’d be a stupid fight. So you’re not stupid. But let’s say you and I go for a long walk and I take a nap. You not going to object then?”
Aldrail watched Ceria’s face. She looked at him, and for the first time, a serious frown crossed her expression. She set her mug down, pushed herself back from the table, and spoke.
“…Have you ever fought a monster, Aldrail? A real monster?”
The Bloodtear Pirates looked at their [Captain]. Aldrail began grinning.
“From anyone else, I’d teach them a lesson. From you? I haven’t fought Crelers at sea personally. My crew? A few. But I have fought undead. Goblins. The worst monster I fought?”
He closed his eyes for a second.
“Rech o’ Hell.”
The others shuddered. Ceria’s ears perked up.
“What’s that?”
“Giant monster. Lives in the ocean. Around Rhir. Hell itself. Grabs everything and drags it down. Nearly took out an entire ship one time. I had to dive to kill it. Deep. Two hundred feet down, as it ate my crew.”
Omusc shuddered at the thought. Even Aldrail’s calm confidence turned to grim reflection at the memory, and the other Bloodtear Pirates sobered up.
“There’s a monster you don’t see often. Is that your monster, Ceria? Or can you do one more?”
Gorry refilled tankards. Ceria smiled thinly.
“Maybe. It’s not a bad monster. I don’t even know if I’d call it a monster.”
The Bloodtear Pirates looked at her. The [Cryomancer] spread her hands on the table.
“How’d you mean?”
Aldrail demanded angrily. Ceria shrugged.
“Well, it sounds nasty. I don’t want to fight it. But…it’s just a killing machine, isn’t it? Like Crelers. Adult Crelers…I’m fairly sure they think, but even they’re just things that live to kill. A monster…I’ve seen a few monsters. Monsters like what they do. They enjoy it. Skinner. That was a monster. Facestealer. Another monster. Same dungeon. They killed my friends and I was sure…they liked it.”
Her eyes rose, and those pale, snowy eyes fixed the group. Now the Bloodtear Pirates leaned in. These were the stories they had come for. The true tales.
“Did you kill them?”
“No. One died. The other’s out there. And it’s unbelievably tough. I…couldn’t kill them. But listen, Jiupe. Aldrail. There was one monster I was ready to kill. I nearly did. A monster who enjoyed doing the worst of things. He didn’t…kill nearly as many people as a Creler. He wasn’t as mindlessly violent. In fact, he thought he was doing the right thing. But I looked at him and he’d lost his mind. Lost his mind, his honor—he led the Raskghar, these monstrous people, to kill and sacrifice Gnolls.”
The Gnolls among the group shuddered. Gorry looked at Ceria and she continued, voice level, hands clenched.
“…That was Calruz. My old team captain. Captain of the Horns of Hammerad before I took over. I thought he was dead. When I found him—we defeated him, didn’t kill him. I was ready to. Because that was a monster.”
She looked up and met the eyes of the others.
“You understand? I don’t like what you do. [Slaves]? Killing people? That’s not me. But my team is out there and they need me. So…”
Someone edged into the room. Jiupe glanced up, pointed. A [Mage] grinned and began casting a spell. She froze as Ceria turned her head.
The half-Elf stared right at the [Dispeller]. Aldrail watched, and Jiupe tensed, but Ceria just exhaled.
“Go ahead.”
The [Dispeller] hesitated, and Jiupe nodded. She murmured a spell. Ceria stared at the woman—then settled back. Her face didn’t change. She stared at Aldrail, and now the Bloodtear [Captain] looked at her, curiously.
“Did you think I’d blink?”
That was all the half-Elf said. She looked around.
“Honestly. Do you think I’m a Gold-rank because I haven’t seen terrible things? I’ve taken bad jobs. I try not to. I have regrets. I’ve left my friends to die and watched them die. I’m not going to fall for provocation. Because my team is out there.”
“So what are we? Monsters if we enjoy killing? I think we’re just free.”
Ceria looked at Jiupe, who looked genuinely curious. She shrugged.
“At the end of the day, maybe your crew is, Captain Jiupe. Laws are funny. Some are terrible, and my best friend does things that everyone else tells her she cannot do. I admire her for that. If you’re happy, and you’re living as much as you want…I’m an adventurer. Odds are I’ll die young, but it’s worth doing. Like finding my friends.”
She looked around. The Bloodtear Pirates murmured, and it sounded like admiration to Omusc. The [Pillager] just watched Ceria. The half-Elf brushed at her hair.
“So I’ll hire Bloodtear, do whatever the Siren asks, so long as I can get to my team. But here’s the thing. If I saw Pisces, Yvlon, or Ksmvr haul off and do what you did to that poor Garuda?”
She nodded to the stain on the floor. The memory. Ceria looked at the Dullahan [Pirate].
“I would have stopped them. I’d be shocked—I’d take them to task. If I saw them doing something like that…Ksmvr? Pisces? Something monstrous—or if someone tried to do that to my friend? Yes, you’d see me fight.”
Her eyes were cold. Gorry saw Captain Aldrail look at her, frowning.
“And what’s the difference between them and me, eh? Circumstance? Respect? Fear?”
Ceria shook her head.
“No. I’ll throw down with you if you got every [Pirate] in the world. Maybe not stupidly—the difference, Captain Aldrail?”
She lifted a tankard, smiling wryly.
“You’re not on my team.”
The Bloodtear Pirates sighed. Ah. There was an answer…Jiupe looked at Ceria, then she began to applaud. Gorry banged a mug on the table. They laughed.
“Now there’s something we can respect!”
Ceria Springwalker laughed. She raised her hand absently, cursed, and scratched at her head. Aldrail swore.
“I like you, Ice Squirrel, but if you have lice and it gets on my ship, I will keelhaul you. Much less me!”
The half-Elf sighed.
“No. Sorry. It’s just—I’m so itchy. Hold on…”
She absently raised her hand. Lifted something up, put it on the table, and gave her head a damn good scratch. Ceria put it back on, and saw the Bloodtear Pirates, Omusc, all go suddenly silent.
 
——
 
“It’s so clever, you see? I know it’s dangerous, but once I realized it was just a simulacrum, there was nothing to fear.”
