Fifteen candles were set around the room, burning, but not with any waxy deposits. They burned and would keep burning forever.
Everburning candles. It was Ceria’s job to extinguish them without a puff of air, just suppress the fire magic with an equivalent of ice magic.
It wasn’t something you could do on actual candles, mind you. Maybe it was possible to snap freeze fire, but this was a magical test. Ceria could easily extinguish one, even from afar.
Fifteen? Simultaneously? She had gotten six at a time.
Revine had to admit—the [Cryomancer] wasn’t bad. Even so, she sat on a rolling ball of water, circling the room.
“Illphres could do all fifteen with ease. This is the fundamental of how to chill a foe at range.”
“I thought you couldn’t directly…?”
“No, you can’t. So you freeze the air around them.”
“Oh. Oh!”
Revine rolled her eyes, but she mitigated her temper. She came to a stop as Ceria turned her head.
“…This is the kind of thing Illphres would have told you if you were ready. How did you say that idiotic [Mage] told you to train? Cooling boiling water?”
“Yes. Is that wrong?”
Revine’s expression said it all.
“It’s suicidal. Why…why not just cool the boiling water without being in it? That achieves the exact same goal.”
“You don’t know Magus Grimalkin.”
The Siren shook her head. She sat back as Joam batted at one flame, hissing when he realized it was hot and, therefore, hurt.
“If you need pain to motivate you…you have no desire to improve as a [Mage]. Which might be the case, frankly. How many years since you left Illphres’ care? Even without a spellbook or mentor, you clearly stopped improving your magic fundamentals.”
She eyed the half-Elf and Ceria blushed. It was true. Even later on in Erin’s inn, she had fallen behind Pisces for lack of ambition. She did need the boiling water to force herself to improve.
“You can’t move [Ice Walls], they’re just simple geometric shapes. Your [Ice Spikes] aren’t bad, but you don’t do anything with them. You have no ability to use snow-spells, only solid ice. You have no grounding in trap runes, magical domains, or advanced cryomancy techniques.”
Revine was listing off Ceria’s many faults. Ceria bit her lip.
“…I thought my [Ice Spikes] were fine. Even Illphres said their form didn’t lack for much.”
She lifted a finger, and a jagged shard of ice appeared, roughly twice as long as her hand and almost as thick. A deadly, nasty projectile. Revine pursed her lips and waved her hand.
This was her personal practice room, and as such, the reinforced walls could weather most spells without a scratch. A glowing target appeared on the far wall.
“Hit that if you c—”
Ceria hit the center. Revine blinked at it. She narrowed the target, spun it left.
“Hm. Hit that one.”
Ceria pointed and hit the target dead-center. The Siren peered at her.
“…Now that’s interesting. Illphres was a markswoman too. Did she teach you how to do that?”
“First thing. I had to go out every morning…”
Revine clapped her hands, her face lighting up.
“…With the others and cast spells over the sea? She still does—did that?”
She stumbled, and a scowl appeared. But she had to see it to believe it. She led Ceria to a balcony and began making targets in the air out of illusion magic.
It took Ceria back. She aimed, loosed an [Ice Spike], and hit eighteen out of the twenty targets—even the ones hundreds of feet away. Revine was impressed.
“That’s almost as good as Illphres.”
“Well, that’s what I trained while being a Silver-rank. Lots of moving targets.”
The Siren nodded. Ceria wiped some of the icy sweat from her brow. She was surprised. Omusc had made it sound like the Siren intended something quite dire.
Instead—she was training Ceria in magic. They had begun by establishing where Ceria was, but the Siren had simply started teaching her after that. Spells were hard, but she could show Ceria one and have the half-Elf practice it. She even had a spellbook she loaned Ceria.
“Not bad. But Illphres could use [Ice Spear] and do the exact same. I doubt you have that control. Or advanced [Ice Spikes].”
“Advanced [Ice Spikes]? What, are they bigger? Faster?”
The Siren snorted. She conjured eight targets in an orb-pattern, with one in the center. Ceria watched as she created an [Ice Spike], as fast as Ceria could. The Siren pointed—and the [Ice Spike] flashed outwards.
She…missed the center target. Her aim was off by a hair, but it didn’t matter. As the [Ice Spike] flashed by the center orb, it detonated, spraying outwards.
Five of the orbs vanished. The Siren and Ceria stared at the three glowing orbs remaining. They winked out and Revine turned her head slowly.
Her look dared Ceria to say anything. The half-Elf coughed after a second.
“…I didn’t know you could do that.”
Revine replied after a moment.
“Ice magic is not my preference. Water magic is far simpler. I can create pressurized water jets—but that is the benefit of ice magic.”
She sat back, turning hurriedly towards the practice room.
“There are even variations on the ice you can create. Illphres’ was far stronger than yours. Lesser spells couldn’t even melt it, as you saw. You should develop your own ice.”
“Really? I had a thought—is there blood ice?”
“Yes. Blood, saltwater ice…it’s all varied. I can see I have much to teach you. I will consider the matter. You’ll come here each evening; I’m too busy to do more than an hour or two, and you are years behind. But if you make it worth my while and live up to Illphres’ name—”
Revine realized Ceria wasn’t with her. She turned back, scowling, and saw Ceria scratching at her head.
“It’s not that much harder…”
“[Shatterspray Ice Spike]? No, it’s just an effect. You can layer it onto other spells that harmonize. Not [Fireball], for instance; fire doesn’t work the same way. It is not that impressive. [Ice Spear] is still stronger in most cases.”
“Unless you’re tossing it around a corner. I bet you could even angle the way it explodes.”
Revine’s brows rose.
“Yes. You can do that. Illphres never understood that, but an adventurer…yes. I will teach you that, but on the list of spells you would benefit from, that’s not the highest. As I said, this is the work of years, and in the time you have…”
Ceria’s scratching stopped. Slowly, her finger rose and Revine saw her conjure an [Ice Spike]. The Siren snorted as Ceria aimed it out into the middle distance in the sky. She shot the [Ice Spike] forwards.
“Like—”
The Siren saw the [Ice Spike] explode into a cloud of icy particles. Sardonically, the woman applauded.
“Very well done. That is a complete unmaking of the spell. If you want to learn to diffuse enemy spells in midair—do that. Shattering is taking the power in the [Ice Spike] and directing it outwards.”
You idiot. The half-Elf ignored that last implication—in truth, Revine was impressed she’d even managed to undo her spell in the air. She indulged Ceria, watching the half-Elf’s eyes widen.
“Oh. Oh. A second spell. But can I re-cast at a distance?”
“You could layer both spells in a single cast if you knew how. A predetermined spell—even giving your projectiles a course to follow. That is quite complex, though. In the heat of battle?”
The Siren watched Ceria throw another shard of ice—this one twice as large as normal—out into the air. She saw Ceria jerk a finger.
“[Ice Spray]. [Ice—]”
Revine was about to insist Ceria give it up. She was bending down to tell Joam not to steal the Everburning Candles when she heard a crack. She looked up and saw a spray of shards shoot through the air.
Revine blinked. Her mouth opened in disbelief. She saw Ceria create another [Ice Spike], hurl it out, and saw it shatter, spraying out sideways.
“[Shatterspray Ice Spike].”
The Siren of Savere couldn’t believe it. She had just shown—and the half-Elf had picked it up from two tries? Was it her aura? Or just…
A mentor? Ceria turned, eyes sparkling with delight.
“I did it! I could do that to [Ice Wall], couldn’t I? Each [Ice Wall] becomes a weapon. You could create a maze of attacks!”
“…Yes. Yes. If your opponent doesn’t just blast through it. Well done.”
Revine murmured slowly. She stared at Ceria. This half-Elf was…
She really was Illphres’ apprentice.
 
——
 
Day Five
 
The Siren of Savere was impressed by Ceria, and that wasn’t something either Ceria or Omusc took for granted. Ceria herself was astonished.
“[Glitterfrost Gust].”
Omusc swore as a blinding sheet of snow particles laced with wind blew upwards. She batted at it and sneezed. The other diners in the huge feasting hall looked up and swore.
Tables of rather fine, polished wood sat under three grand candelabras hung over the interior of a room fit for any Terandrian dining hall. Only—there was more of a Chandrarian style to it; a huge rug, regularly cleaned by spells, had a wave-like pattern of colors to it, and the windows of the room even had tinted glass so light could stream through in multiple colors.
However, because this was Savere, these nods to decoration and actual ornamentation came with caveats; the candelabras were fanciful pieces of enchanted water, draped in the air like glass and colored so they looked golden if illuminated. Worth a ton, but if you tried to steal them, you’d get…water.
Similarly, the windows were glass unlike the ones the Siren didn’t have—mainly because they were so high up. Similarly, the tables were too large to steal—but the cutlery and plates were cheap porcelain and wood, such that the forces of Savere, staff, and anyone else eating here couldn’t walk off with anything worth more than a few copper coins.
Amused heads turned as they saw the Drowned Woman jump away from the spray of ice and water. Some curses came from people caught on the edges of it, but they were amused by the regular here. Omusc shook a hand at the half-Elf who tucked her wand away.
“Kraken’s tits, that’s cold!”
The other [Bandits] agreed, shouting insults as they had lunch. Ceria just grinned. That was one of four spells she’d learned—admittedly, this one was a Tier 1 spell, but one she could have used many times.
“Imagine trying to fight through that.”
“Go show Gorry. They like talking about fighting non-stop. I’m just—”
“My long-suffering bodyguard. Sure. Do you want to show me those hot baths later? I miss them. We have a lot in Liscor, you know.”
Omusc was wet and glaring, but the water faded from her clothing, running off it, and she felt as dry as a bone. She eyed Ceria and shrugged.
“Sure. Are you drinking with the Bloodtear Pirates again tonight?”
“Mm…yep.”
“You’re mad, you know. What do you do with them? We don’t fuck with their lot.”
The [Enforcement Raider] from Nerhs was named Abelesque. A very fancy name that was shortened to ‘Abel’, which she was touchy about. But Ceria did know it, and this group of women and Omusc were something like friends.
As were Gorry and the small group of Bloodtear Pirates from Plainsblood, the ship he served on.
“Mostly it’s just been stories. You know, I tell them about Liscor’s crypt, they tell me about fighting Crelers at sea.”
Half the [Bandits] shuddered at the thought. Omusc eyed Ceria.
“That would be a place to start.”
Mutual respect for each other. Not only was Gorry a [First Mate] on a Bloodtear ship, he was a [Dualblade Marauder]—which meant he had seen arguably more combat than even Ceria had. However, it was very amiable and Ceria had realized something. Savere might be lawless, dangerous, and all that stuff—but it had excellent drinks. Just spot on, and cheap too.
“I haven’t met their [Captain] yet. Apparently, it’s a Gnoll-crewed ship, by and large.”
“Well, I’m not joining you. I’ve seen Bloodtear fights.”
So had Ceria. They weren’t punches; they started with knives, and if the [Pirates] bickered, blood was spilled. They generally pulled their blows from an actual kill, but that meant you had someone leaning on a table, drinking a healing potion before they bled out.
Even so, Omusc, who had been there to mind Ceria, had to admit the half-Elf held her own. She barely blinked at any of it, and not only was the Siren making time each day to teach her, she seemed to be thriving in Savere.
…At least food-wise. She was packing in a shrimp-and-cheese pasta, and her nickname, ‘Ice Squirrel’, was spreading.
She was doing too well. And that thought didn’t come from just Omusc. Ceria scratched at the back of her neck.
“…Hey Omusc. Is someone staring at me?”
“Yep.”
The [Pillager] glanced over and Ceria saw a Human woman balefully glaring at her. It wasn’t the first time Ceria had seen…
“You’re treading in the deeps, Adventurer. Watch yourself.”
The [Mage] stalked over, unable to keep herself contained any longer as the [Bandits] broke over lunch. Ceria turned and saw a woman with huge, dangling earrings, about seventeen years old perhaps, Human, with a shocking yellow robe.
Literally shocking. Shockwool, very finely graded and woven into a motif that combined watercloth with the wool to form Savere’s sigil on the arms and back. Where the two cloths met, you could see a line of sizzling electricity, permanently crackling together.
It was a look. Omusc edged away from it since sparks connected the robes to nearby bits of metal. Ceria slowly took another bite of shrimp and cheese pasta.
[Aeromancer]. Lightning mage. Or…lightning and water?
“Um. Hello? What am I doing, exactly? Who are you?”
“I’m Ureita. The Siren’s favorite [Mage]!”
The Human hissed at Ceria. She was definitely young. Ceria was put in mind of Erin’s Earther guests—but Ureita was from this world, and far more worldly at that. She looked confident—and angry.
“Ureita, leave off. Ceria’s—”
“Shut up, Omusc!”
The [Pillager] frowned at Ureita, but the [Mage]’s eyes sparked dangerously and the other [Bandits] edged back. She pointed at Ceria.
“You might be in the spotlight for now, but I’m warning you—stop hogging the Siren’s attention. She’s my mentor and I’m her best [Mage].”
“After the last one ran for it, sure—”
Abel ducked as Ureita pointed a finger and a shot of something flashed past her. She dove, swearing.
“It was a joke, Ureita! Leave off!”
Ceria’s eyes narrowed. Had she just seen…? It wasn’t a bolt of electricity; the shot was too well-aimed to zoom just past Abel’s ear for that. It was a jet of water, infused with electricity.
A combination elemental mage! Ceria was impressed. She stood up to hold out a hand.
“That’s pretty impressive magic. Are you from Wistram? Another academy? I’m not, uh, taking the Siren from—”
