“Hey, we’ve got the Siren’s guest here! Service!”
Omusc led Ceria to a Mage’s Guild that looked like any other. It was fairly well-swept, although the influx of visitors kept it a bit dirty and wet from the harbor, but it was hardly overflowing with rats, and there was even a [Receptionist] at the counter. Everything was the same—until a mage emerged from the back.
“Yeah? Well, why doesn’t the Siren cast her bloody spells herself? Forgotten how to do [Message]?”
He was smoking a huge blunt of dreamleaf, but aside from that, he didn’t have any notab—
The [Mage] poured himself a glass of low-quality wine, and offered one to Omusc. She took a swig.
“Gah. Dead gods, you drink that stuff?”
“Look at you fancy palace-lot. Most of the customers don’t even get wine—or special deals. Is this your fancy guest? Alright, let’s deal with whatever she has. Who am I sending to?”
The [Mage] sneered at Ceria. If anything, the [Bandits], [Pirates], [Raiders], and honest sailors seemed to regard Ceria’s clean robes as something of a provocation.
“She’s a Gold-rank adventurer.”
Omusc said it with no lack of irony. The [Mage] snorted, eying Ceria.
“One who can’t cast [Message]?”
“I can cast [Message]. I just don’t have the range—”
“A Gold-rank [Mage] who can’t cross-continent [Message]. Tsk, tsk.”
Some of the others in line were enjoying the show. Ceria looked around. So this was how it was? She sighed and lifted a cup of wine to her lips.
“Fine. I get it. Can I just get some help or what?”
The [Mage] and Omusc eyed her. Ceria gulped the wine down.
“…What? Tree rot, this is bad stuff.”
The [Mage]’s lips quirked. He took the blunt out of his mouth, fished in his pocket, and offered Omusc and Ceria something.
“Want a puff? Special for the Siren’s friends.”
Omusc waved away the Dreamleaf rollup.
“We’re n—”
“Sure.”
Ceria lit the tip, took a puff, and went cross eyed.
“Wait. This is way stronger than Palt’s stuff. You drink and smoke Dreamleaf?”
“It’s…an acquired taste. And you’re clearly a [Mage] of culture.”
The Savereian [Mage] blinked at Ceria. She snorted in derisive amusement.
“It’s not my hobby, but I was in Wistram.”
“Aaaaah. They still throw massive parties over there? I hear about them sometimes. Ordering ten pounds of Dreamleaf and lighting it up in a single room?”
“…Sounds about right. I never went to them myself, but—”
Omusc stared at Ceria as she began swapping stories with the [Mage] about the things Wistram [Mages] got up to. Which, yes, in a subsection of their student and adult population, included ingesting any number of illicit substances through any orifice possible and a few that weren’t.
Omusc leaned over and glared covertly with one eye at the figure lurking in line. Are you sure she needs corrupting?
The most basic, overt plays were clearly not going to work, so they were abandoned and a deeper strategy employed. Meanwhile, any number of people entered the Mage’s Guild, mostly to see Ceria sitting at one of the tables as the [Mage] got to work.
“…No dead names from either Griffon Hunt or the Halfseekers. Confirmed. Here’s your recording of the battle. Just start playing it.”
He placed a crystal on the table. Ceria got to watch the actual battle as the world had seen it of the Village of the Dead, and Omusc got to watch her reaction to it.
“Dead gods! Ryoka! I forgot! She brought an entire army—is that Tyrion Veltras?”
Ceria exclaimed. Omusc leaned in as Ceria started swearing—she saw the teleporting undead trap, the way the undead began pressing the Gold-ranks.
“Where were you in all this?”
“On that.”
Ceria pointed at the Frostmarrow Behemoth going toe-to-toe with a Zombie Giant. She whistled as Omusc and the [Mage] both turned to stare at her.
“Wow. It looks a lot cooler like this. Is that Halrac kicking Ghouls off that roof? It is!”
She peered at Halrac’s rescue of adventurers on the rooftop. Things like that, or even how Prince Zenol had dramatically gone to fight the Liches, made Ceria fixate on the replay—and the mysterious eye in the sky that had assailed Ryoka.
She had just gotten to the part where the [Sword Legend] appeared when someone plonked down at the table.
“Ceria Springwalker. So you’re the Gold-rank that wiped out Crelers in the north.”
Ceria heard Omusc swear. She looked up and saw a [Pirate].
To be precise, a [Pirate] Gnoll. He had a bandanna tied around his head, and two swords at his side. He also had scars she could see under his fur, which was a typical chestnut brown—
Aside from the red dye. It was on his bandanna too, and the group that came swaggering in.
Bloodtear Pirates.
“Oi. This is the Siren’s guest. Heard about her?”
“All of Savere’s heard about her. The big half-Elf who everyone thought was dead. So this is the Siren’s new favorite pawful of spellcaster? I had to see her myself. I’m Gorry. [First Mate] of Plainsblood. Bloodtear Pirates.”
The Gnoll grinned with all his teeth. Ceria met his gaze as he held out a paw. Omusc glanced at the other [Pirates] as they strode over.
“Hope you’re not thinking of doing anything stupid, friend.”
She leaned on the edge of Gorry’s chair. He glanced up at her, completely unperturbed as the [Mage] in the back of the guild slowly closed the door to his work room.
“And if I was, clam-girl?”
Omusc grinned wide. Several of Savere’s [Bandits] waiting in line looked up and shifted slightly. The Bloodtear Pirates looked about, grinning wider if that were possible. Ceria remembered the Siren’s warning.
“Aren’t the Bloodtear Pirates guests of Savere?”
Gorry glanced at her.
“Sure we are. But there’s always time to throw down and the Siren doesn’t stop a good bloodbath every time.”
“She’ll stop it this time. This one’s a guest.”
“And am I doing anything other than shaking her hand, landgirl?”
The Gnoll and Drowned Woman stared at each other—until Ceria reached out and clasped Gorry’s paw.
“Alright, that’s enough. Gorry? Ceria. Nice to meet you.”
The [Pirate] swiveled back to Ceria, and she shook his hand with a strong grip. He grinned and returned the pressure, looking her up and down. He eyed her right hand, all-bone, and Ceria’s eyes.
“Ice magic, huh? You’ve got some nice scars.”
“Thanks? Can I help you or anything? Sorry, but I’m sort of in the middle of finding out what happened to all my friends.”
Ceria glanced over as the Bloodtear Pirates approached. They stood around Omusc, who glared about, and Gorry leaned back. He reached for something.
“We’ll leave you be, although our [Captain] says he wants to speak with you, Miss Ceria. Not every day you meet a Gold-rank on the news. But before that…”
Ceria watched his paws as they slowly drew something out of his belt pouch. He slowly put a white cardboard square on the table, then found one of the quills and inkpots at the table.
“…I’ll take an autograph. Want to tell us about killing Crelers? Now there’s something sea and land respect. We’ll buy you your weight in wine if you tell us what you saw in that village, eh?”
He grinned at her. Ceria blinked at him and Omusc sighed. Then she remembered.
Bloodtear Pirates. Famous for slaughtering opponents. Merciless fighters…who had also personally escorted the Waterbear after her delivery through the magical hurricane. They loved a display of courage. Crazy madpeople of the sea, even for [Pirates].
She smiled and shrugged.
“I’m willing to talk. Are you staying in port for a day or two?”
The [Pirate] glanced up at Omusc, whose one-eyed glare made him grin even wider. He gave Ceria a speculative glance.
“For a day or two, why not?”
Then the [Mage] came bustling out of the doors. Ceria Springwalker half-stood as he spoke.
“I don’t have the spells for [Communication]—but one of your friends wants a [Message] spell. They’re paying. You free to talk, or are you shanking each other?”
He eyed the Bloodtear Pirates, who turned as Ceria rose.
“Who’s…?”
The [Mage] gave the orb a glance, and Ceria the same look as the others.
“Says he’s Halrac Everam. He wants to know if you’re alive.”
 
——
 
—And then I woke up.
 
Halrac Everam stared at the glowing words on the [Message] scroll. He heard not a sound, including the thoughts in his head. At last, someone breathed hard into one ear.
“Dead gods.”
“Briganda.”
He shoved her away, but the [Shield Maiden] was leaning on his shoulder. Typhenous kept elbowing other adventurers out of the way; most were still with them. Fighting like cats, dogs, and Crelers over the treasure.
“What’s she saying? Let me see. Is it that half-Elf? I’m part of Arcsinger’s Bows, you know…”
A plaintive voice from the adventurers, who, regardless of rank, were jostling to see. Revi growled as she fought for a chair.
“Get off! This is my team’s—”
The chair snapped under the weight of about six adventurers and she went down, cursing. Typhenous’ chair was unmolested. Perhaps because the kindly old man kept poking people with the tip of a dagger whenever they tried. An unsheathed dagger.
“Is she really Ceria? This could be a scam. I hate to bring it up, but it is a classic…”
That came from one of the older adventurers. A senior [Wizard], who’d survived their trial by fire. Halrac nodded. The conversation moved fast—although he had to write legibly—it moved even faster when Revi took over. She and Typhenous had the best penmanship and literary natures of the team, and she was even teaching Cade (and his mother to some extent) his letters.
 
This is Halrac. Your words are coming to us in Renost. We all want to believe this is Ceria, but a teleportation scroll? Some final monster in the center of the Village of the Dead? All hard to believe. Can you prove you’re Ceria? This is not coming from her directly but from a [Mage]’s Guild.
 
“Damned good point, Halrac. Savere. Anyone know Savere well? I’ve heard it’s got more criminals than Scurrydel has rats. How can we tell if it’s the right Ceria?”
Levil of the Pithfire Hounds looked at Keima and Lamont.
“Eldertuin the Fortress might know. He’s a Named Rank and I heard him say he’d been to Chandrar. But…”
He had left. Not all the adventurers wanted to stay here and stake their claim on the treasure directly. He was arguably one of the ones who had a presence even without being there. He also had less interest in being lauded and the talk of every city they passed through, with free drinks and admiration galore. That was why they were moving so slowly towards Invrisil; the adventurers milked the attention for all they could get.
However, a second Named Adventurer seemed content to ride the wave of fame. When she approached, no one jostled her except her daughter, shooting everyone triumphant looks.
“I know Savere. Not personally, but the odds are she might be under some kind of duress. If it is Ceria Springwalker? I will be delighted, but we must be sure, I agree. Ask her…where she decided to place my team for maximum effect in the battle.”
Halrac Everam looked up into the eyes of that famed Named Adventurer. Elia Arcsinger herself. Revi quickly scribbled as Typhenous raised his eyebrows, carefully keeping his face away from Elia or her team. Halrac’s expression never changed from a block of wood. But his eyes were glued to the scroll.
 
Ceria, can you tell us where you deployed Arcsinger’s Bows during the battle? Not where they ended up, but your orders. Or anything else only the real Ceria would know? What did you tell my team?
 
A pause whilst everyone waited with baited breath.
 
Er, I said to Elia’s team to hang back and shoot the big monsters? Halrac…I don’t know. I told you to get on a roof? I can’t remember.
 
A groan from the adventurers. Briganda slowly put her head in her hands and Cade grabbed her arm worriedly.
“She’s such an idiot.”
“Anyone who saw the battle could tell you that! This has got to be a scam.”
Keima whispered. Halrac eyed the [Message] scroll. He muttered to Elia and Typhenous.
“…It sounds like Ceria.”
The old man’s eyes were dancing. He coughed and whispered to Revi. She blinked, and, after a moment, nodded.
“Smart, Typhenous.”
Her next scrawl made everyone but Griffon Hunt blink.
 
Ceria, what is the favorite dish of Flesh Worms in The Wandering Inn? You have five seconds or you’re—
 
The response came before she was even done writing.
 
Acid jars.
 
Halrac sat back with a sigh.
“It’s her. She’s alive.”
The Adventurer’s Guild was silent for a second as everyone looked at him, then they burst into cheers—and a renewed argument.
“Wait, does she get the Helm of Fire? Because we had to fight the Revenant—”
It started up again. Elia rose as Revi kept writing, glaring about. The question was…
 
——
 
Are you coming back? Do you need help of any kind?
 
Ceria Springwalker was dictating verbatim to the [Mage] on her side of the conversation. Albeit, in a private room…but Omusc was listening keenly, eyes on the scroll. And—Ceria turned her head and saw a Gnoll waving at her.
Gorry and the Bloodtear Pirates didn’t even pretend they weren’t listening in. She hesitated.
“Um…”
 
Um, no. We’re too far away right now. I plan on finding my team. You just tell the others I’m alright. I’m going to get them. This is our mess; we’ll sort it out. But tell the others we want the Helm of Fire. We’re ready to negotiate for it, but that’s the one we need.
 
The [Mage] snorted. He was auto-transcribing Ceria’s words via a spell, and was mainly just keeping the spell active as a quill skittered across the parchment. He looked at Ceria and grinned, showing some golden teeth.
“I’m sure that’s going to go down well. You have the biggest Relic-class artifact sitting there and you think you can walk on back and grab it?”
Ceria scratched her head. She feared that was the problem. Elia and Eldertuin—not to mention other Gold-rank teams—might well force the issue. She chose her words carefully.
“We did claim dibs, Mage Teic. One Relic—and we’ll make it up to the others. Not that I want to be bankrupted, but we have other artifacts. Even other Relic-class—oh shit.”
“Ice Squirrel!”
Omusc snapped, and the [Mage] looked down and snatched at the quill, but it was too late. Ceria saw him desperately swipe at the parchment, trying to cross out the words, but they had been written there, ink still gleaming.
 
We did claim dibs, Mage Teic. One Relic and we’ll make it up to the others. Not that I want to be bankrupted, but we have other artifacts. Even other Relic-class oh shit
 
