“Yes. You were explaining why Ceria Springwalker is showing no signs of changing her attitudes and I was wondering if I should drop you or throw you.”
“S-Siren, please. We’re doing our best! You know we are!”
“Then explain why nothing’s working.”
Dascy gulped.
“We’re [Corruptors], Siren. Not Roshal’s lot. We can’t…force people to do anything. You know our classes.”
“Remind me.”
“Well…we need something to latch onto. Most people, they’re hiding something. Like some [Magistrate]. He can act however he wants, but if he’s greedy, or favors one group over another—we can take that. Same with someone who acts high-and-mighty, but really loves the brothel.”
“Hypocrisy.”
The [Mage] supplied helpfully. The Siren turned to glare and the [Mage] decided to continue communications elsewhere. She tapped a foot.
“Yes. You latch on, you offer them what they want, and they start to see it our way. I expected to have Ceria on a raid within the week.”
“She wouldn’t do it willingly, Siren. You’d have to threaten her, and hold the Nerhs people hostage—which is why we brought them.”
“Yes. And…”
Dascy gulped. She did not like floating in the air like this, as the wind blew at her back.
“…And then she’ll push back. But you threaten her, and get her to slowly push at her values—we’ve done it before! [A Crack in Morality]. T-that’s my best Skill. And [See It My Way]. Omusc’s been putting Ceria in positions where she has to see our [Slaves]. She drinks with Bloodtear every night!”
“So why haven’t your Skills been working?”
“I don’t know, alright?”
The Siren recoiled slightly. Dascy snapped, at the end of her wits.
“I don’t know! She’s too laid back! She’s—she’s a glutton! She eats, sleeps, drinks—she’s selfish and she’s not pretentious! She acts like she wants to! Do you know how hard it is to tempt someone who does what they want?”
The Siren frowned. The door opened as she opened her mouth to reply.
“Omniscel the Enchanter has arrived! Forsooth, I have come from lands far—oh. Is this a bad time?”
An [Enchanter] with a magnificent white beard exploded into the room with hands raised. He had a glittering cloak of magic, and wands in both hands—the Drake spotted Dascy dangling in space and hesitated.
The Siren hesitated, because Omniscel, which was a Drake name, for a Drake…she stared at the huge, white beard hanging off his scaled chin. So did Dascy, despite the imminent threat of death.
“You’re my [Enchanter]?”
“Er. Yes. Omniscel the Omnipotent! Grand [Enchanter] specializing in artifacts! And I’m told you, oh great Siren, have a Relic-class object. Therefore, I…are you going to toss that woman? I’d like to step out if I may. I get queasy at the sight of death.”
The Drake eyed Dascy. The Siren hesitated, as nonplussed by him as he was by her. Slowly, the giant water hand pulled Dascy back. She hit the balcony, scrambled into the Siren’s rooms, and lay in a fetal position, hugging herself, as the Siren addressed the Drake.
“No. I have the circlet I want you to appraise right here. It may be cursed…I want you to tell me what it does, what it’s worth—and if you spill any secrets.”
“Please, Siren! I am a professional. Is that the circlet? Dead gods, you put it out there in the open? What if it opens a rift and swallows us whole?”
The Drake recoiled as he saw the circlet on the pedestal. Instantly, the Siren backed up.
“That could happen?”
“I’ve never seen it myself, no. But it could, in theory. Ah, but you have a Cortix Cube around it…that’s what I’d tell any [Mage] to use. So the chances of any curse activating are very slim, even if it’s possessed.”
The Siren relaxed and glared at Omniscel as he stroked his beard. [Mages]. They were either normal people—or people like him. He stalked around it.
“I think I can do a quick appraisal from the get-go here. We’ll need to transport it to a formal working environs to analyze later…I say, this is quite cleverly done.”
“I can transport it now.”
The Siren clearly wanted to get back to Dascy, but Omiscel waved his wand.
“I think I can do a rough appraisal right now, Siren. And I do want to check that moving it won’t trip a Tier 8 destructive spell.”
Put like that…the Siren backed off with Dascy to another part of the huge central room, where she could hiss at her.
“Fine. You have trouble with the half-Elf. But I demand results!”
“I know, Siren! There are six of us on her, but she’s…she’s tough! It’s like she’s some kind of honest [Knight]—or she’s just been through too much!”
The Siren chewed this over.
“You can’t corrupt a [Slaver] of Roshal.”
“That’s because they’re already too far gone. You can bribe them—we can do that, but she’s a Gold-rank, Siren. Rich. And that’s not the problem or else you wouldn’t need us to corrupt her to begin with. It’s finding the chink in her armor.”
The Siren frowned.
“She has to have one.”
“I know, but it’s like hitting a brick wall. Normally we get her mad, but [Slaves], insults…”
“Insult her team. Be more creative! She’s also as oblivious as her [Ice Wall] spells. Have Omusc take her to buy a [Slave] or something—she’s from Terandria. Maybe she just doesn’t care. This is not my job, so figure it out by the end of the week or I’ll start removing digits!”
Revine snapped. She was watching Omniscel edge around the circlet with grave misgivings. The circlet looked like something made of plain silver, incidentally, one smooth, perfect piece.
Although…maybe it was mithril? It was a beautiful pale material without ornamentation or anything else. Revine believed it looked like that as much as Dascy believed she could fly.
It was a Relic, she was sure. And so was Omniscel.
“It’s definitely powerful, Siren! It’s hiding it, but dead gods!”
She wasn’t certain this [Enchanter] was any good. For instance, he had a wand in both claws and he was waving both around like a child.
“Does that idiot actually know what he’s doing?”
She snapped at her [Communication Mage] as the woman hurried back. The [Mage] eyed Omniscel.
“He’s supposed to be a very good [Mage], Siren. One of the best in this region.”
“Well, he looks like an idiot. What news on the ship?”
The woman gulped and cast an eye out towards the storm at sea.
“We finally have a name, Siren. Details. Um—they’re fleeing pursuit. One ship. They claim their pursuers are getting lost in the storm, but they want shelter at Savere. They’ll pay more than just docking fees—it’s one of the Vessels.”
The Siren’s ears perked up, as did Dascy’s. A Vessel was simply one of the ships that had an individual or crew that merited notice. The Four Winds of Teral, the Bloodtear Pirates, the Illuminary—all counted. For good or ill, like the Velistrane, the well-reputed capital ship of the Reinharts.
A Vessel paid for docking at Savere because they always brought trouble.
“Sounds like a pain. Which ship, then?”
The woman licked her lips. The Siren focused on her because she saw the apprehension in her eyes. But before the [Mage] spoke, Omniscel shouted.
“Dead gods! Another layer unfolds! Was it made by the Elves?”
The Siren whirled around and saw the circlet had changed. Suddenly, it looked like the circlet that Ceria had seen. Black bone, with a single gem set at the top. Another illusion? Another—
“The Elves?”
The circlet flickered, and suddenly it was a high crown, with a gem set on every tooth. Omniscel saw all three women race over. The [Enchanter] turned as their eyes turned round. He stroked his beard.
“…Probably not. I don’t know. But look, I can make it change into different shapes, see?”
He smiled proudly. The Siren stared at him. Her own hand twitched toward her wand. The Drake hurriedly backed up around the pedestal.
“I’ll just get back to work, then. Don’t mind me. I like to hypothesize.”
The Siren stomped back to her corner. The [Mage] came over to whisper.
“Siren! This ship that wants entry…it’s calling itself Shifthold. And the [Captain] is…Irurx. Irurx the Alchemist.”
A chill went down Dascy’s back. The Siren compressed her lips into a line.
“He wants entry?”
“Yes, Siren. He’s willing to offer quite a lot.”
The Siren went to the balcony and drummed her fingers on the edge. Dascy exchanged a look with the [Mage]. Of the unsavory lots that Savere found at Runsblud…the Alchemist Irurx was a stain on Savere’s reputation.
“Tell him no.”
“But he’s offering two thousand gold—”
“No.”
The [Mage] scuttled off. Omniscel frowned.
“Uncover your dark powers to me, dread circlet! I abjure you, by my name! Omniscel the Omniscient! They say Relics forged by Dragons have no master, but I…will…master…you!”
He threw up his wands. Dascy stared at him.
“Was it made by…?”
The Drake grinned at her.
“Possibly! Possibly, we can’t rule it out!”
Her face went slack and the Siren rubbed at her forehead. Her plan included tossing the [Enchanter], Dascy, and Shifthold into the ocean and burying them in the shoals if that damned ship dared approach. But they kept coming back.
“Siren, Alchemist Irurx is offering more. He’ll custom-make any ten potions—”
“No. Tell him if he approaches I will capsize his damned ship.”
She could see it now, on the edges of sight. A ship on the waves—a big one. Shifthold. There were places even the Siren did not want to go.
A’ctelios Salash. The deeps of Lailight Scintillation. Shifthold’s lower decks would be another one. But this was not a horror born of Chandrar, for once. If you wanted to lay blame…
This one was Terandria’s.
She stood there as lights began to flash around the room and an unearthly groan filled the air and the wails of the damned turned the air dark. The Siren turned her head.
“Enchanter Omniscel. If you keep casting illusion spells, I will murder you.”
The groaning and lights stopped, and the Drake sulkily got back to work. The [Mage] came back.
“Siren…a thousand potions if he docks. Medium-grade healing potions or more. He swears pursuit will not reach Savere—he only requests the ‘honor of residing at Savere’ while he recoups. He will even promise not to let his crew leave their ship, only himself.”
The Siren twitched.
“A thousand potions?”
She stared out at the ship slowed at sea. After a long moment, the Siren cursed.
“His crew never leaves their ship. He can leave, purchase, as long as he follows the rules of Savere. Tell him Bloodtear and Bleakbeaks are here.”
“Yes, Siren.”
Revine leaned on the balcony. A ship came in with the storm and tides. Dark green wood mottled with strange moss and growths. Sails not made of cloth.
Shifthold came into port and the Siren shuddered slightly. But it was one visitor of many, and Savere had seen worse. She just thought of her project.
 
——
 
And, at last, Omusc saw something that even Ceria Springwalker could not ignore. For once, she didn’t cause it.
Not here. Not in the Hanged Bait pub; if the owner thought the Siren was playing games, he’d ban her crew, and that was no idle threat.
Nor would it have been easy to find volunteers, for any amount of gold. Not with Bloodtear surrounding Ceria. The [Agent of Corruption] had been sitting with her head in her hands, clearly unsure of how to further provoke anything from Ceria.
When it came, it was just…well, from them.
They’d watched the loud Bloodtear Pirates enjoying themselves with the half-Elf, served first, laughing loudly, and they had that problem where someone else enjoying themselves became a detriment to one’s own happiness.
The Bleakbeak Raiders watched as Ceria recounted the tale of the Village of the Dead, and ended on her companions, stranded across Chandrar.
“…Ksmvr’s alive, and so is Yvlon, and they’re not in bad straits. Yvlon’s in the gladiator rings and Ksmvr’s got a bounty on his head, but they can take care of each other. But my friend—Pisces. He’s in Roshal’s clutches.”
Ceria looked around as the Bloodtear Pirates listened. Gorry was grinning as she finished.
“The Siren’s not likely to let me go with my…possessions.”
“You mean what you took from the village.”
Ceria grimaced.
“Yeah. And I hear Roshal’s as dangerous as can be.”
“Dangerous as Krakens at sea, in their own way. You’d need a powerful force to steal from a Djinni.”
“Mhm. So…how much does Bloodtear charge for a raid?”
Both [Captains] looked at each other, then Aldrail and Jiupe burst into laughter. Omusc froze, but Jiupe grinned.
“I knew I liked you! Straight to the heart, eh? You think you can hire us?”
“Maybe? I don’t want all of Bloodtear…wouldn’t a single crew do?”
“Ah, but then Roshal holds a grudge on all of us. ‘Sides, it’s land. We fight best at sea. That’s interesting, though. Very…interesting.”
Jiupe sat back, brows raised. Aldrail grinned.
“I won’t lie, Ice Squirrel. We’re not keen to fight Roshal. How far gone is he?”
Ceria grimaced.
“Two and a half weeks. But I’ll get him back. I promise.”
That was when the mocking laughter started. The Garuda listening in called out from a table well away from the [Pirates] and Ceria, proving they’d been listening in. But the entire pub had; Ceria had to raise her voice to talk to her audience and she was the celebrity of the hour.
“From Roshal? Good luck, half-Elf. Gold-ranks have broken the same as everyone else. No one’s getting free from Lailight Scintillation.”
One of the Bleakbeak Raiders laughed at Ceria unkindly. She looked at the other Garuda, face blank as she reached for another handful of salted peanuts. That was it. Just a moment for mockery. The kind of unpleasantness that was the precursor to truly disliking someone.
The Bloodtear Pirates had gone quiet, eying Ceria as she sat there. The half-Elf slowly raised her cup.
“I’ll get him back. Even if I have to get to Lailight Scintillation.”
“Good luck with that. Izrilians. You have no idea what you’re up against.”
The Raider sneered back and went to her drink. Ceria frowned, and Jiupe nodded.
“She’s got a point. Hey, Roisere.”
She turned to one of her [Pirates], who was a big Dullahan woman wearing wood armor—but very tough wood—and standing around the group.
Roisere nodded. Omusc saw her walk over to the laughing Bleakbeak Raiders. The Garuda who’d talked looked up.
“Hey, what do y—hey!”
The Dullahan [Pirate] calmly grabbed the Bleakbeak Raider and towed her up. The other Raiders shot to their feet, warily. They saw the Duallahan woman draw back her head and headbutt the other Garuda straight in the face.
