“She did that. Master Illphres.”
Revine halted. She looked at Ceria. It was not entirely a sad smile. It should have been. Didn’t she mourn Illphres?
But no—there it was. Sadness. And at the same time…the half-Elf smiled.
“Thank you for telling me. I never knew.”
“…You’ve moved past her death.”
The Siren stood and turned, abruptly. Ceria hesitated.
“It’s been years. I guess…I have. She went up to challenge Cognita and—I’ve never been back. It took me a long time to make my peace with it, everything that happened. If I went back I think it would hit me, but—I never did.”
Revine envied Ceria’s steady tone. She shook her head. No wine; Revine had purified water, the real stuff, and took a drink of it.
“You haven’t been…? Ah, you were expelled. You might well return, you know.”
“I…I’ve never thought of that. Yes. Wistram wouldn’t refuse me entry?”
The Siren sneered as she turned around, thinking of her alma mater, and in a sense, the place where she had grown up as much as the streets of this very city.
“Not Wistram. Not for a Gold-rank adventurer. I have returned to Wistram myself, despite my status as ‘criminal’ by many sensibilities. Rarely; the academy has little to offer me besides politicking, and Wistram is not interested in Savere’s dealings. Too unscrupulous for their high-minded ways. To me, there is little difference between dealing with gangs and [Mages].”
Ceria nodded cautiously.
“Did…may I ask, Revine, why you didn’t stay at Wistram? Or why you and Illphres parted ways?”
Revine snorted bitterly.
“Haven’t you been listening? Illphres stayed. I left. I asked her many times—even when I became the Siren—if she would leave. She refused. Her magic changed her. The academy changed her, when she saw how pitiful the other [Mages]’ dreams were. She was one of a few who loved magic. Everyone else, the majority were…”
She trailed off. Ceria hesitated.
“Petty?”
Revine turned and laughed. She shook her head.
“The rest were like me. Practical. We knew the doors would never open. Illphres was the dreamer. She was the one who was obsessed with the challenge, with the impossible. She kept trying until everything else fell away.”
The half-Elf lowered her head. Revine drank furiously, and turned her head.
“Bring me something stronger! Krakenblood Rum!”
That was it. A simple story. A woman who gambled everything after fifty years of toil—and it was all wasted. Wasted, by that murderous Truestone Golem, an Archmage’s trickery.
Except for Ceria. Revine saw the dark rum being brought over. In shot glasses. She took one, hesitated before tossing it down. Ceria was offered one and Revine snapped at the terrified serving girl.
“Did I tell you to serve her some? You idiot. Don’t try this, Ceria.”
With that, she tossed the drink down. A small shot of Krakenblood, people said, could knock a [Drunk] out. Revine shook her head.
“—I’m a [Hydromancer]. Try it if you want, but if you faint, I’ll throw you down the steps and let you sleep it off.”
Ceria gingerly tasted the dark liquid and gagged.
“My tongue’s going numb! How did you…?”
Revine laughed with genuine pleasure.
“I am a [Hydromancer]. Illphres never could hold her liquor—I could drink all of our group under the table. Liquor is still a liquid. As my class progresses, we learn more than mere magic. Poison—my spells have saved me from poison more than once. I doubt I could ever die of thirst, even in Zeikhal. You’re entering that stage too, aren’t you?”
She eyed Ceria. The half-Elf took another taste of the Krakenblood and put it to the side. She nodded.
“My aura, you mean.”
“Your aura, your eyes…Illphres would have taught you to mitigate it. She never had an aura, but she could create the same effect with magic alone. She never finished teaching you, did she?”
Ceria shook her head, shamefaced. Revine eyed her, swaying a bit despite her boasts.
“I can tell. Your [Ice Walls] are too simple. I saw that copy of her [Fortress of the Ice Queen] spell…sloppy. It only fooled me from afar. You tried to freeze an Adult Creler? You didn’t think to keep a bag of holding with water on you? That is basic [Cryomancer] and [Hydromancer] training.”
“She didn’t prepare me for adventuring. And it was only two years…”
“Even so. You didn’t have any other spells? You said you were stranded in that nowhere village. Nels.”
“Nerhs. Yes. If I’d known, I would have taken water with me. But it was a teleportation spell gone awry…”
The Siren saw Ceria watching her, carefully. She reminded herself—Ceria wasn’t on her side. Just Illphres’ apprentice. Revine sat down on the wobbly water-chair.
“And you didn’t…cast [Condensation] and gather the water? You didn’t think to create an ice domain when you saw the Crelers coming? When you took the well’s water—you could have at least cast [Whiteout Blizzard] and fled. You fought extraordinarily well, but with, what? Four, six spells at most?”
Ceria turned beet red. Revine saw her open her mouth, stutter.
“I—I never learned any more spells from Illphres. I barely caught up to [Ice Wall] last year.”
“Last year…? Are you that stupid? You said Illphres was teaching you herself! She would have disowned any student who couldn’t pick up [Ice Wall] by—”
“She was dead. I didn’t have anything else but memories to go on!”
Revine’s lolling head rose. The Siren blinked. She muttered.
“[Sobering]…what? She never left you anything? Not her spellbook? Not…”
Ceria Springwalker shook her head.
“There was no time to ask. I was expelled and—she must not have included me in her will.”
The Siren blinked. Illphres’ apprentice sat there, looking forlorn. All that time without…?
That wasn’t like Illphres at all. She was so meticulous, and she wouldn’t have…Revine blinked at her.
“You don’t know any ice magic beyond what you’ve levelled and…? Truly?”
“I have a spellbook, but there aren’t many ice spells and I’m missing the fundamentals. I never completed my education.”
Revine’s mouth opened and closed.
“Wait. You said you were in your third year. Then—did they even teach you the higher courses? Linked magic? Domains?”
Ceria Springwalker bit her tongue.
“—I learned about linked casting this year. I cast a spell with my friend, Pisces. My friend who graduated, Montressa, called it natural link magic—”
Revine Zecrew sat back so far she nearly fell over. Instead, her chair turned into a recliner and she lay there.
You never knew anything besides the basics? No—her thoughts changed to astonishment. She sat up and looked at Ceria.
“You entered a death-zone, reached Level 30, became a Gold-rank adventurer without learning magical theory?”
The [Arctic Cryomancer] shrugged helplessly. Revine sat bolt upright, and her heart began to beat with excitement again. That was talent. That was…
Perfect. She was like Illphres, but not. The Illphres who left Wistram, who went out into the world and became an adventurer. She had accomplished this without a proper mentor. If she had one—
She was exactly what the Siren needed.
 
——
 
Savere had seafood. And if that was obvious, well…
The Siren watched Ceria carefully as they dined. She was still getting a handle on the half-Elf’s personality. To that end, she’d requested a dish that made some people turn squeamish. Trust was the thing.
Ceria stared down into a bowl of dozens of tiny, fried eels. Which, yes, looked like Selphids, albeit different in color, or…she slowly put her fork in the bowl, raised it—and began eating.
“This is really good stuff. What is this? Eels?”
“You’ve never had it?”
The half-Elf began scarfing down the actually very tasty food.
“Nope. Love it. Eels? Not bad at all. Do you have it with this rice stuff? That’s new too, but I’ve had it recently.”
“Er. Yes. With chopst—”
Ceria began putting the eels and other side dishes with the rice—and eating it with a fork. The Siren reflected that on the whole…it wasn’t much worse than the rest of her underlings’ manners.
Revine spoke after Ceria’s first burst of hunger had abated.
“I asked Illphres to come with me many times. Her abilities were second to only the best [Mages] living—she might have even made Archmage if she could stand to build alliances.”
Ceria lowered her fork slightly.
“Yes…she did say that she had no patience for it. So she didn’t want to leave?”
Revine’s mouth twisted.
“She did not. I offered her a position just under mine. Savere is a powerful place; the Bloodtear Pirates are not the only powerful force on the seas that comes here. Any [Pirate] that seeks to trade, repair their ships, or gang on Chandrar might well come here. Even groups from other continents. But you can imagine it is not simple to keep them in line.”
Ceria nodded cautiously. Revine glowered at sights unseen.
“I am the Siren—which means I have the right to refuse any group hospitality if they bring trouble. Savere is quite capable of doing battle with any group, so they abide by my rules largely. But there are many after my position. Illphres…with her, I would have feared no one. You understand why?”
“…Because she was that powerful?”
Ceria hazarded a guess. Revine pinched at the bridge of her nose.
“Dead gods. I forget you didn’t even get to your fourth year—they never told you about elemental combinations, did they? Illphres was an ice mage. I specialize in water. We were complementary!”
The half-Elf blinked. She slurped down an eel as Revine explained.
“Water and ice grow stronger together. We are two close elements. So close—temperature is the only difference between us. Fire and lightning. Earth and metal—none are as close as our two.”
She lifted a finger and a twirl of water brought a bowl of light broth up. It froze into a pillar as Ceria watched, and Revine dipped her spoon into the broth, which began to steam before Ceria’s eyes.
“Water magic is infinite in possibility so long as water exists. Frost has power even without water, but requires it for strength. One molds and changes constantly—the other is static, shattering. A duality of strength. And one is weak against the other. You cannot freeze an ocean, but water is helpless once turned to ice.”
Her eyes flicked upwards to Ceria.
“—Which is why I would not trust any [Cryomancer] to help me. But together, we could combine our powers, Illphres and I. Moreover, she would have been someone I trusted. Trust is the most valuable commodity in Savere, more than gems or magic.”
“Is it…that difficult, Siren?”
Ceria’s mind was racing ahead of this conversation. She thought she understood why Revine had gone to all this trouble now, and she wasn’t sure she liked the answer her mind presented her with. But she had to admit, it hadn’t been bad thus far. Revine had clearly been true friends with Illphres and the food was good.
The Siren smiled tightly.
“I trust two people in this world not to kill me in my sleep if it benefits them. My sister, Rasea, and Joam. And I only trust Rasea because she’d rather duel me face-to-face.”
Ceria bit her tongue. She began to say something—decided it was a bad idea. After a second, she coughed.
“Er—who’s Joam?”
Revine’s partner? Was she married?
For answer, Revine made a psking sound and raised her voice.
“Joam? Come here and greet my guest.”
Ceria saw nothing for a second. Revine glared.
“Joam!”
There was a yowl, and then Ceria saw a moving orb of water carrying a startled creature towards them. It leapt off with surprising familiarity, landed in the Siren’s lap, and sniffed the food. She offered it an eel, and the cat, which looked wet despite the orb of water not actually leaving any of it on Joam, accepted the treat.
The Watercat, Joam, had fins and gills. He could swim through water with amazing ease and, apparently, breathe in it, and he dove into the Siren’s chair made of water and out the other side to peek at Ceria.
“This is Joam. The only other being I trust not to stab me in my sleep besides Rasea Zecrew, my sister.”
Revine gave Ceria a sardonic look. The half-Elf hesitated.
“He’s, uh—very handsome. I can see why you trust him…?”
Revine smiled.
“Yes. He doesn’t have hands. Servant! Fetch Joam his meal. I feed him any number of foods—although he mostly does eat fish and the like. Also, Sariant Lambs.”
Ceria saw the cat lick his chops at that. She eyed the cat.
“Er, Your Majesty. I appreciate you telling me about Illphres. But why…?”
Revine ignored the question. She stared past Ceria, and the half-Elf turned her head slowly and saw a very rough sketch compared to the paintings in the room. Something a much poorer person might pay an [Artist] for with a bit of silver. Ceria saw a group of young people and…she blinked.
Illphres. Revine murmured to herself.
“In those days, I almost bought into Illphres’ dream to challenge the Golems. Almost. Until I saw how many people died. We weren’t alone back then, though. If things had played out differently—if she hadn’t vanished—you know, Illphres tried to apprentice herself to a master, just like you did.”
“Really? Who?”
Revine shrugged.
“The only woman who shared her dreams. Valeterisa, Archmage of Izril. But she was a recluse, and besides—she vanished. I hear she’s back. We all had that dream, though. Illphres, Valeterisa, even Viltach used to be one of us in spirit—but he lost his nerve when he had his first child.”
“…Hm?”
Ceria frowned. She felt like she’d missed something there.
“You mean…Archmage Viltach? He has children?”
Revine laughed at her.
“You think Archmages are celibate? Yes, he kept all his affairs outside of Wistram, though. Unlike some Archmages, he doesn’t go after fellow [Mages]. You truly didn’t know? It’s a minor secret at best.”
She seemed delighted by Ceria’s reactions to things like this. Revine leaned forwards.
“Have you kept up with the intrigue at Wistram? There is some grand secret there, but no one will tell me what it is.”
“Some secret…? No. I don’t know many Wistram [Mages] although—I know a half-Elf and a former [Mage], and they both said the same thing.”
Ceria thought of Falene and Viceria. The Siren frowned darkly.
“I as well, but my position and my allies are few there. I have been meaning to ferret it out, but I trust few of those in Savere to represent me properly. There are [Mages] here—decent ones—but not ones I trust. If I had an agent…I could send her abroad. Or trade places without leaving an untrustworthy commander in my place to stage a coup. You understand?”
