“The Vizir Hecrelunn has many titles. You may know the Vizir simply this way, as you are a [King]. However disappointing.”
No Teres, no Venith or Maresar, despite one or the other being near the capital, the other leading the armies in defense. No servants…the figure stirred. The Vizir sneered down at him, eyes glowing a bright red.
“Are the [Kings] so petty in this day and age they can be called Kings of Destruction so lightly? When this Vizir heard that one man had united Chandrar, he was intrigued. Yet all he found were stories of greatness. A pitiful remnant and a burned husk of a man.”
He cast his eyes dismissively around the royal bedchamber. With his hands clasped behind him, he floated past Flos Reimarch, to stare out the window. He wore enchanted clothing as regal as any ruler’s, and he turned to regard the King of Destruction.
“A pitiful ruler without bodyguards or ample protections. Brought low by a single Djinni? This Vizir could snuff your life out with one hand.”
He lifted a finger, which crackled with red-dark light. At last, the figure lying in bed opened his mouth and uttered a coherent word. Two baleful eyes stared at the Revenant.
“Try.”
There was no flesh on the lips to move, but the Vizir still grinned with his deathly corpse-face at Flos. He floated closer and bent over.
“Your death serves Khelt little, King of Destruction. This nation, ‘Nerrhavia’s Fallen’, and other nations which claim greatness, focus on Reim. Better to suit the Vizir’s needs that they focus on you for a time. Yet this Vizir comes to make you an offer, since the current ruler of Khelt is too shortsighted and weak of will to return Khelt to its greatness.”
The King of Destruction’s eyes narrowed and he listened as Hecrelunn bent lower. At least he was direct.
“Swear fealty to glorious Khelt, your lands and armies. They are not without some merit. Do this, and this Vizir shall not only provide healing to your ruined flesh, but an answer to the armies besieging your lands. Surely you know, ‘King of Destruction’, you cannot long endure.”
Flos thought about it for about two seconds. His reply made the Vizir’s crimson flames narrow to pinpoints of malevolent light.
“Not unexpected. Even small men have such egos beyond their true worth. This Vizir thought of that. Yet he has a contract, an oath to be sworn.”
He produced a scroll which glowed with power. The Vizir ignored the buzzing [Message] spells, glancing out the window. Then he looked back at the helpless figure in bed.
“He will spare some time for this matter. Let us speak of persuasion, King of Destruction. He must imagine yours is a painful existence. One cannot simply command oaths of binding—but there is persuasion to such ends. Tell me…”
He bent lower over the bed, and he was grinning now. He whispered to the living [King].
“…Do you think you know true agony?”
 
——
 
The alarm in the palace made the soldiers think it was battle too early. It was not—at least, not a direct battle.
The Vizir Hecrelunn floated out the window of Reim’s capital. He ignored the slashing young woman with a sword and paused only one moment to point backwards and send her flying head-over-heels.
He flew off as people pointed up and screamed, rolling up the contract and accelerating southwards. It was not wholly wasted time, though he left empty-handed.
“—At least he has a monarch’s pride and will. That is more than the petty rulers thus far. Few could free a Djinni with their bare hands in any era.”
That was about as much of a compliment as the Vizir Hecrelunn had paid for centuries. Certainly more than Fetohep of Khelt would ever get. The Vizir stopped, several miles outside of Reim’s capital, and cleared his throat. One more errand.
An arrow flew up at his face. Again, his crimson eye-flames narrowed and he pointed down.
“[Meteor Strike].”
There was the thunder and flash of something striking the earth. Screaming. Then refreshing silence. The Vizir cleared his throat again, and this time no one interrupted.
“By the authority of Eternal Khelt, whose glorious reign extends beyond death and whose majesty knows no bounds, he, the Greatest Vizir of Khelt, Hecrelunn, grants you leave to besiege this city!”
The Vizir pointed to the distant walls of Reim. Below him, a hundred thousand [Soldiers]…a bit less now…stared up at him.
Nerrhavia Fallen’s banners waved in the small breeze, and the [Generals] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen stared up at the Vizir, mouths dry. The Vizir went on, magnifying his voice with a spell.
“For your insolence, you should all bake in your worthless juices as a million scorpions cover you. Know that you have been spared his wrath only because you serve the Vizir’s ambitions, and that of Khelt! Fell Reim swiftly, and you shall know the Vizir’s tolerance.”
He looked around, floating higher, and his eyes flashed.
“Thou petty mortals—remember this day, for you have beheld a being that strode the world and knew the tyrant you heard only whispers of! Nerrhavia, Suzerain of Cloth, Tyrant of the Woven Citadel, Ruler of Clothkind! A being so great even in death she defines your little kingdom.”
A great roar rose up, of choked voices, of horror. The Vizir floated there, looking down at them as the Stitch-Folk froze at what he was saying. Yet Hecrelunn simply floated higher, spreading his arms.
“…And remember this. This Vizir did not bow to her. Begin the siege.”
And with that, he flew off, laughing. Cackling. You had never heard proper cackling, truly villainous laughter for want of another word. Without remorse or regret or forethought to how it might sound.
Pure ego.
In dead silence, the army of Nerrhavia’s Fallen stared at the distant capital of Reim, finally in sight after so long. Their glorious attack force, poised to take the King of Destruction’s head…stared off at the Revenant flying away on important business. The [Generals] looked at each other.
Their eagerness to fight was…quite sapped.
 
——
 
More drama in Pomle. No, truly, though, things were happening. At the same time the Vizir was causing trouble, it was true that the siege of Reim had begun.
At the same time? There were rumors of other great deeds occurring.
Mars the Illusionist laying an army to waste by herself was the stuff of stories. Khelt’s resurgence, the stuff of nightmares. And in that vein—
It was a recording you could purchase. Not shown on television; it had apparently been recorded like Rémi Canada’s ongoing documentary about Ksmvr of Chandrar, who had already been suggested as the Slayer’s replacement. Certainly his heir—an Antinium with incredible abilities.
The recording in question was of about sixty [Martial Artists]. Who, over the course of two hours, kicked, punched, and otherwise threw back a force nearly a hundred times their size. That reminded you of why their nation existed to begin with.
Trouble on the winds. Especially since, while they didn’t show it overtly, only one nation had that many Stitch-Folk being turned into literal ragdolls.
Roshal was still up in arms about the Death of Chains, who had liberated countless [Slaves] from caravans they were still scrambling to go after. Not least the nearly million-gold adventurer on the loose.
All of this as the damned Arbitration Council was now condemning the Drake attacks on Gnolls with the power of words. Not that she was bitter. She hadn’t even gotten on the waiting list for invitations.
As for Roshal…Roshal was an unpleasant enemy, but a bunch of [Slaves] and all the trade routes in disarray?
Plink, plink, plink. The pile of gold coins and even several artifacts had arrived this morning. The woman trailed her hand across the pile.
“Not exactly rich. How much is this?”
“F-four hundred and eighty four gold pieces, Your Majesty.”
The nervous other woman was an [Accountant]. You had to have them. To count things. She was afraid, most likely because she’d heard what happened to the last woman who’d made a costly mistake.
The Siren of Savere didn’t bother addressing the issue. The last [Accountant] had been embezzling money; that’s why she got what she deserved, but she didn’t tell the newcomer that. She didn’t waste lives.
Revine Zecrew sat back and regarded the morning’s income. Which, to be clear, she hadn’t earned herself. It had appeared in its designated spot. But whom, or rather, who it came from was very important.
Who being correct since she did understand basic grammar. She had gone to higher education, which some people might find interesting. Especially in a [Bandit Queen].
“Not a huge haul, but she did tribute it to me. Which means she escaped. Tell me. How faithful has Merr been on her payments?”
The [Accountant] rushed to open her ledger.
“Um. Q-quite good, Your Majesty.”
“Siren.”
“Excuse…?”
“I am the Siren of Savere. Say that.”
Your Majesty was too generic and people needed to remember her title. It was all about respect and titles. Revine looked at the small tribute and sighed.
It hadn’t been sent via traditional means, like a [Messenger] or in a chest. That tempted [Bandits] to steal away with it, and besides—it was so slow. A [Bandit Queen] had better, more secure options.
“So Merr’s back to raiding. Roshal’s going to be after her.”
“Yes, Siren?”
“That wasn’t a question. Shut up.”
The [Accountant] clapped her mouth shut. Revine rubbed at her forehead. She had a headache. She was a [Bandit Lady] and thus technically Revine’s follower.
In practice? No. They would have both laughed until they were sick at the implications of traditional serving and loyalty. This was a business relationship. Revine was on top. Merr was being practical.
“Fine.”
Revine slapped the table. The [Accountant] jumped. The Siren turned.
“Find the nearest gang or raiding group in the region and tell them to join Merr.”
“Tell them to join…? How, Siren? Where do I…I, uh—”
“Go get it done. Ask someone else and don’t bother me!”
The woman fled, white-faced, and Revine cursed, because she should have told the woman to put the coin in the treasury first. That was the problem with new help.
The Siren of Savere, Revine Zecrew, was an unusual ruler for an unusual land. And yes, many rulers could boast the same, but she was a strange criminal class. [Bandit Queen]—an authority that didn’t always exist generation to generation.
Why, in the age of Maresar, there hadn’t even been a ruling [Bandit Queen], and there still wasn’t a [Pirate King]—a ridiculous concept, but they did pop up now and then.
Criminality? Well, that was such a refined word for them. [Bandits], [Raiders], [Pillagers], and [Rogues], oh my. Most people thought they were just disorganized thugs, and that was true for a lot of them.
Yet there were secrets to their classes. [Bandit Queen] was one of them. And Savere?
Before it had been taken, Savere had been a province of multiple local city-states, like other areas on Chandrar. This port-city had been the capital and it still was…only for a new power. It had existed for quite some time, having emerged after the King of Destruction’s slumber, in the chaos of the power vacuum.
Revine had not always ruled it, but under her, the ‘lawless’ Savere had gained some laws. Again—not like another kingdom, but laws as they applied to her people.
She was Siren of Savere. [Hydromancer] supreme; a master of weather magic as well, such that the citizens who lived in Savere would never want for water, unlike other parts of Chandrar. So long as they paid up, that was. Life was not perfect, of course. Revine had her enemies here and abroad. She had to watch her back, stay on top, and there were people she hated, like the Empress of Tiqr, whom Savere had clashed with many times since their inception.
However, she wasn’t in mortal danger, and her sister happened to be one of the most famous [Pirates] in the world. Rasea Zecrew, [Pirate Captain] of the Illuminary.
…Of course, she was the younger sister and they were universally annoying. Revine reached for a glass of wine. She did not want to think of Rasea right now. That idiot sister of hers kept pulling stunts like running the King of Destruction over with her ship. No thought of how that might get back to Savere.
Revine had a project at the moment. An unexpected opportunity—even a boon. And yet…she sipped at her wine as she stared balefully out of her position in her palace.
“I cannot believe that’s Illphres’ apprentice.”
Ah, childhood. Ah, youth and past and regret and friendship—one of the few she had ever made. Revine closed her eyes.
Once upon a time…
 
——
 
Once upon a time, Illphres the [Cryomancer] had been alive in Wistram. Her status had been one of the top [Mages]—even on the level of fighting with Amerys, now and then.
She had been an Isolationist—but a staunchly pro-magic one, who wanted to uncover the true mysteries of the Academy. Challenge Zelkyr’s last test. She was not apolitical, but had stayed out of the center of the debates and power struggles.
Her true class had been a variation of [Cryomancer]. Everyone knew the basic class; few knew the details.
Back then…Ceria Springwalker had been privileged enough to know Illphres’ true class in the last year of her master’s life. Back then…
She had really hated Illphres.
“Student. Get me some Everfrozen Ice.”
“Okay, Master. From where?”
Illphres, the [Cryomancer of Masks], gave Ceria a blank look. Her beautiful mask had colored ice and looked like a real face, but the lips didn’t always move perfectly with her actual flesh. She pointed and her young half-Elf apprentice, the first she had ever taken, looked…out her door.
“I don’t know. Go find some.”
“From who?”
“I don’t know.”
Ceria Springwalker waited, mouth opening and closing slightly.
“…Do I have any money to buy some, Master?”
“Yes. Go find some.”
“From where?”
“I have some lying about. Get me a big block. Oh—and breakfast. And find my other wand. The one with earth attunement. And a Potion of Relief.”
“Relief for—what?”
“My period. Get to it.”
Ceria Springwalker threw her hands up. She stalked out of the room, cursing Illphres’ name. Her master watched, slightly smugly. She had learned the value of largely unpaid labor and it was getting them to do whatever you were too busy to do.
And yet—she was good at her job. Which was freezing things. So good, in fact, that Ceria’s own ice magic studies were progressing far faster than any other student in her year. So by the time Ceria came back, Illphres would have a spell for her to study, or a book to read about famous [Cryomancers] of the past.
