“Read and learn, Ceria. We might not know their spells, but this is how they lived. Some fought—others earned money more traditional ways. They were all geniuses.”
“The one who sank in that ship made of ice sounded like an idiot.”
Illphres slapped Ceria on the back of the head.
“Don’t contradict me. They were better than you. You can’t make structured ice so show some respect until you pass them.”
“Master! I’m learning quickly! No one is even close to learning [Ice Wall] in the 3rd Year!”
“So? You’re comparing yourself to post-Zelkyr [Mages]. And they get more worthless each generation. When I was a student, I knew [Ice Wall] by my third year because some of my teachers remembered what real magic was like.”
Ceria ducked another swat. She glared, shielding her head.
“Well, I’m sorry for disappointing you, Master. What was it like, learning from [Mages] who remembered that?”
Illphres stopped. She wasn’t actually that violent, or even mean. No—she was definitely mean. But she loved magic and so Ceria could get her to reminisce.
“Back then? Not all of them were old enough. Some, like Feor, predate Zelkyr vanishing. But some were apprentices of [Mages] who existed before the upper floors were locked up. They weren’t that different. Infighting idiots. But they knew what they had lost. That’s the difference.”
Ceria sat cross-legged as Illphres slowly sat. Ceria had never asked how Illphres’ face had been damaged exactly, but it had been frostbite, not another injury. She had warned Ceria she could draw too heavily on ice magic if she couldn’t withstand it and damage herself. She hadn’t said ‘never do that’. Only told Ceria the risks.
“You’re a half-Elf. I don’t want to talk about age with you about anyways, you annoying brat. You’re older than I am.”
Illphres grumbled. Ceria rolled her eyes.
“I spent most of my time in a traditional half-Elf village, Master. You don’t age there the same way.”
“Clearly, or you’d master [Ice Wall] already. Well…you know the fundamentals. But I won’t have you casting [Ice Hedge] while you’re my apprentice. When I was your age…”
“I bet you didn’t have any friends.”
Illphres’ kicking foot twitched and Ceria scooted back. But the woman returned mildly.
“I didn’t. Or at least, not as many as you.”
Ceria blinked. The woman sat there and her apprentice asked after a while.
“Did you…uh, are they the [Mages] I know now?”
Illphres blinked.
“Hm? No. They were student friends. Most went off, or died…I don’t keep up with most. I had one or two good ones. Actual complementary experts. Unlike your lot.”
She meant Beatrice and Calvaron, Pisces and Montressa…although Pisces…Ceria’s lips twisted. Illphres gazed at her.
“You should consider finding a [Mage] who can complement your abilities. If you fall in love with a [Pyromancer], though, I’ll disown you as an apprentice. [Pyromancers] and [Hydromancers] work…although all they can do is create steam spells. [Aeromancers] and [Hydromancers] work well—earth magic and water magic, even color magic and water magic. But we’re ice mages, so we’re less complementary with other disciplines.”
Ceria raised her brows.
“You sound like you know a lot about hydromancy, Master. Who was your friend? A [Hydromancer]?”
Illphres shrugged.
“A good one. We worked well together, but she left. Different attitudes. Don’t bother learning too much water magic, though. Ours is superior.”
And that was all she had ever said about that. Ceria Springwalker had forgotten all about it. It certainly hadn’t been an important conversation.
…Until now.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker opened her eyes and stopped meditating in her rooms. She recalled Illphres’ face, the way she would walk, somewhat stiffly, unless she was in battle.
Ceria still remembered how she had frozen the sea and skated across it to rescue her. She wished she had talked with Illphres more, but she had been so young.
Not in age—she wasn’t that much older now. But…Ceria sighed.
“I was so immature. Pisces and Mons and…”
Her skeletal hand opened and closed. Here was the thing about memory and regrets. If. Everyone did it, especially adventurers.
“If I was the me of now back then…”
She would have been able to get Illphres to apprentice her right off, Ceria just bet. And she would have learned all the spells Illphres tried to teach her, rather than only manage to pick them up years after being taught the fundamentals. Ceria would have been able to persuade her not to try the test, accepted Pisces…
But regrets? Ceria shook her head. You couldn’t dwell on them forever. And right now, she regretted Illphres not ever elaborating about her friend quite a lot. Because Ceria Springwalker was a guest of the Siren of Savere, the ruler of Savere. [Bandit Queen], and Crelerbane in her own right.
…Not a nice woman. Ceria was no expert on Savere, and she wished she was, but in coming here as a ‘guest’ she’d seen how the Siren was treated.
The [Bandits] who had come to shake the village down? The [Pirates], [Rogues], and other criminal classes infesting the port city of Runsblud? They didn’t cross her. They were very respectful. Mostly because…and here Ceria glanced out the window again.
“I might be in trouble.”
You could still see the last [Accountant] the Siren of Savere had employed. Well…parts of her. She was hanging from the docks.
That sort of set the tone for Ceria’s stay in Savere. She took a breath, and got to work.
 
——
 
Day One
 
“Ib a squirrel!”
Ceria had a party trick. Which was to fit as much food in her cheeks as possible. A [Bandit] snorted her drink out her nose and the others fell over laughing.
Shortly after she had arrived in the capital, Ceria had been ‘invited’ to the first banquet. She hadn’t known what to expect.
She’d been so tired from being mana-burnt again that, on the way from the village of Nerhs, she hadn’t talked with the Siren much. She’d only learned that the Siren had been a friend of Illphres and that Ceria would accompany her, along with the people of the village since theirs was infested by Creler corpses.
That wasn’t an option either, by the by. Ceria was going with the Siren, and so were the people of Nerhs, and Ceria suspected the Siren would have left them to deal with the dead Crelers alone if not for the half-Elf’s involvement.
In a way, it was for the best. Poor Luaar and Novethur and the others. Their village was a goner, even though Ceria had wiped out the Adult Creler and the others with the Siren’s aid.
Too many corpses. Too many corpses with the potential for little Creler eggs. The entire thing needed to be burned and it was already smashed to pieces by the attack. The Siren had left orders for it to be burned.
And now Ceria was here, in Runsblud, the charmingly named capital port-city. The palace had a frightened staff of civilians, but the Siren’s people were [Rogues], [Bandits], and every criminal class you could name. In fact, the very people who’d tried to shake down Nerhs were sitting at Ceria’s table.
“You are the craziest half-Elf I’ve met. Go on, put another Yellat in!”
Revine Zecrew stared at Ceria as she obligingly tried to cram another Yellat into her mouth.
“If gnna cmb out my noth!”
Some of the other people at the dining tables looked offended by the laughter. A rough-looking man slouched over, and here was a salient detail: the Siren’s staff and indeed, personal cronies, were a largely female force.
“What’s going on? Who’s the newcomer?”
“Some [Cryomancer] Gold-rank. Heard of the Horns of Hammerad?”
He blinked as one of the [Bandits] leaned over. The rest were taking bets on whether Ceria could get another Yellat in.
“Is that who made a fuss at that new village?”
“Yep. Wiped out an entire nest of Crelers by herself. And an Adult Creler.”
“No. Don’t shit me.”
The female [Bandit] grinned.
“I was there. Saw the end of it myself. She had the big one all frozen up before the Siren cut it to pieces. She was probably gonna die, but she got the little ones. Smashed them to bits. Seems the Siren liked her so much she took her here.”
The man whistled as he blinked at Ceria.
“Gold-rank adventurer, eh? Think she’s gonna survive long here?”
He eyed his companions, who were all glaring at the half-Elf because they were trying to have a proper meal here, and the sight of her opening her mouth while eating was putting them off their feed. The [Bandit] shrugged, but she leaned over.
“Don’t know, but the Siren’s interested in her. So she’s not just fish bait. Spread it around.”
The man nodded carefully. No one got on the Siren’s bad side. He glanced at Ceria again and then his eyes sharpened.
“What did you say her name was? Ceria…”
Some of the others sitting at the table looked up at once. Two rose.
“That’s the Gold-ranker on the orb, isn’t it? Krakens awake. The [Captain]’ll want to hear about this.”
“Easy on. She’s under the Siren’s protection.”
The [Bandit] emphasized again. And as if to prove that, the Siren was personally striding over, cutting the laughter short. Ceria glanced up, half-choking on Yellats, and saw an icy glare Illphres would have been proud of on Revine’s face.
She glanced at the clearly disparate faction at the other table. They dressed and acted in a way that clearly set themselves apart from Revine’s crew.
The Siren dressed like a [Mage]-[Noble], with the richness of enchanted cloth, and her palace wasn’t filthy; on the contrary, it was one of the grandest settings Ceria had ever been to.
Yet there was a looseness to the discipline here. Rather than [Soldiers], she had what looked like [Rogues] and [Bandits] who’d taken up semi-official posts. They had good gear, no ragged holes in leather, but they even sauntered around in small patrols, and most eschewed shields.
For instance, the [Bandits] who’d come to Nerhs to demand protection money wore light leather under chainmail, and carried bows, swords, like any [Outrider] group or [Scout] party.
They also had throwing daggers and a few other nasty tricks, like a blast vial. Their [Enforcement Raider] leader had an enchanted, scimitar-like blade and magic boots.
Also—again—it was an all-female group, even the [Corrupt Accountant] who had ridden with them. Very interesting.
By contrast, the men and women at the other table were practically bare-chested. A jerkin exposing skin—to be fair, it was leather—or just casual clothing. They swaggered around with single weapons, not lacking for attitude among Savere’s forces, but they had a curious walk. And, Ceria noticed, they tended to have a wand, side-arm in a sleeve holster or at their belt, and jewelry that was clearly magical.
[Pirates].
The Siren of Savere put them all to silence, though. She stopped in front of Ceria and stared down at the half-Elf who really did feel like a Yellat was trying to come out her nose. Her look of disgust made Ceria swallow, or try to.
“You. Come with me.”
Ceria slowly rose as the [Bandits] bowed or dipped their heads. Meanwhile, the [Pirates] watched. One stood up to tell the others that someone interesting had dropped by.
 
——
 
The Siren of Savere glared at Ceria as the two walked higher. She halted Ceria and pointed.
“Do you understand what Savere is, Ceria Springwalker?”
The half-Elf followed her finger. It traced along one of the open-air windows to the outside. Salty air blew in, along with the other odors of the port. Not great for the drapes…which meant it was a good thing the palace had none, at least in these hallways.
Ceria eyed the largest docks she’d seen short of First Landing. A massive port, heaving with ships and crew, was outside. And—yet again—different from any city like Pallass or Liscor.
She could see a fight on the streets taking place between groups of [Sailors] or [Pirates]. Rather than anyone breaking it up, she thought she distinctly saw one of Savere’s patrols cheering on the fight. From so high up and far off, Ceria didn’t see more than a flash of limbs, someone attacking someone from behind. But she did see blood when someone drew a dagger.
Cargo came off ships, and it did seem like a fairly orderly system. However…Ceria eyed the ships and she saw pendants, flags that were not like the regular ones. Too many skull motifs. Indeed, one of the hulls was even painted red, with some kind of teardrop motif in blue. At least, she assumed it was paint.
“Savere’s a bandit kingdom.”
Ravine gave Ceria a thin smile.
“Savere is the bandit kingdom. There are other places—none so official as this. None that have official borders and trades and makes war with the authority of a nation. I am the Siren of Savere, and you are my guest. Quite an…interesting one.”
Her tone and look made Ceria hastily wipe her face; she had a bit of food on her chin.
“Er, I’m sorry, Siren Revine. Is that how I should address you?”
“That will do. Do you always eat so?”
Ceria’s ears turned a bit red.
“Uh—it’s my icebreaking trick, Siren.”
The [Hydromancer] snorted.
“And Illphres is your master. We did not converse on the ride here overlong.”
“Yes. Um. She was my master for two years. Before she…you knew her? You were her fr—”
Revine made a slashing gesture, eyes sliding sideways. Ceria hesitated, and the Siren glanced out another window.
“Yes or no will do. We will converse in my domain later. There are ears everywhere in Savere. While I am the principal power, I am not the only power here, and you would do well to remember that. Did you see the guests of Savere?”
“The [Pirates]?”
Revine’s expression darkened slightly as she glanced out at the harbor through another window again. She stared at the ships with the painted hulls—Ceria saw no less than nine in tight formation at the docks.
“They are the Bloodtear Pirates. You’ve heard of them?”
The half-Elf inhaled sharply. Yes, she had. The Bloodfeast Raiders were known across Izril as the principal [Bandit] gang, but they were a rare, elusive force. Arguably…copycats of the famous [Pirate] army who flew under one flag and slaughtered their foes.
The Bloodtear Pirates. She felt her skin prickle a bit. Revine looked somewhat approvingly at her expression.
“Then you understand they can be touchy. Half would challenge you to a blood duel for the sport of it if they knew you were a Gold-rank. You are under my protection, so fewer will dare, but that is a warning. The other?”
She flicked a finger as they passed by a third window on the sea-facing corridor. Ceria saw the flicker of magic and dove.
Ceria heard a scream. Revine stared down at Ceria lying sprawled on the ground. The scream had not come from her. Rather, it came from outside.
