She deconstructed the rock, and the flow of water grew from a trickle to a small rivulet running down the wall. It’s working! Encouraged, she repeated the process on a rock near a second trickle, and again, the flow strengthened. A third rock evaporated, and another stream began to pour out of the wall near her feet. She turned and smiled at the sight of the tiny stream beginning to swell with the new influx of water.

Suddenly, there was a sharp crack and a subterranean rumble. Water began to spray straight out of the wall, drenching her and pelting her with dirt and small pebbles. Instinctively, she summoned her barrier to ward off the barrage. Another rumble shook the ground and her friends looked at her, their eyes widening in alarm.

“Ali…” Calen shouted.

But it was too late. The rock wall right in front of her exploded in an enormous geyser of water, flinging boulders outward with enormous force. Ali’s barrier shattered and the pressure shot her tiny body flying. She choked, struggling to breathe as the tremendous flow tore at her clothing and whipped her body around. She cartwheeled out of the gusher, weightless, soaring through the air alongside an enormous spray of water, dirt, boulders, and even a few gelatinous green and brown slimes.

Heart pounding so fast she feared it might stop, Ali summoned another barrier and her body slammed into it painfully, but she immediately slid off the edge as the water turned her magical barrier slick. She dismissed it, summoned a second one, and slid off that too, but this time her grasping hand caught the edge of the barrier and halted her plummet with a painful jerk.

Don’t look down.

Helpless to resist the dizzying pull of the yawning emptiness below, she stared down past her dangling feet, finding herself hanging terrifyingly high in the air. Far below, the roiling, frothing torrent of white water tore through the cavern, only vaguely following the path of the stream. Even the highest branches of her tallest tree wouldn’t have reached up here. She gulped, and her arm began to shake with effort and exhaustion. Her fingers began to slip, and with a strength born of panic, she pulled herself up just enough to grab the edge of the barrier with her other hand.

“Ali!” Malika’s shout sounded desperate and so very far away.

Mustering her tiny strength, she struggled to pull herself up and onto the golden disk that was her safety. Her hand slipped and she caught herself again. Starting over, she struggled up, wishing she had had the foresight to invest more points in strength or at least dexterity. Eventually, after a heroic effort, she hauled her chest up and over onto the barrier, and she just lay breathing, holding on to the edges of the disk just in case she might slip once again.

Two things occurred to her, lying there trying to catch her breath and quiet her racing heart. First, she was still stuck and extraordinarily high up above extremely hard-looking rocky ground with a violent torrent of water below. Second, her barrier magic was transparent, and she had no choice but to look through it at the ground as she lay face down on the disk.

At least I’m a small race, she thought, otherwise, there would have been no chance for her to lift herself.

How do I get down? She carefully sat up and considered her predicament. She had no desire to repeat her risky, painful stunt of crashing through barriers down the ventilation shaft into the ruins.

Her barrier magic was fixed in place – which was quite fortunate for stopping heavy or powerful attacks. Or me when I’m falling. But right now, she would have traded anything to be able to move it. Or to have working wings. I have so little control over these barriers. If I drop it and cast another below – she trembled in horror – what if I miss? No! There must be another way.

Floating effortlessly to the ground would have been perfect. Why can’t I move it?

Ali reached out with her mind and tried to force her barrier to do just that. She imagined it slowly lowering her to the ground, and even tried forcing some mana into whatever that might be, but all she earned for her trouble was a headache. Out of sheer desperation, and a lack of any better ideas, she doubled down and tried to force it with more mana and willpower. Her head throbbed painfully as her energy and mana found nowhere to go.

Suddenly, something within the magical barrier shifted. Light flared along a line across the center of the barrier and strands of magic began to rapidly unravel and reconfigure before her aghast eyes, making it lurch beneath her.

“Help!” she screamed.

Half of the golden disk abruptly vanished, dropping her legs and hips over the side as she desperately clutched the rim of her remaining magic. She flailed frantically with her legs as her head whipped around, but she froze as her eyes caught sight of something shimmering and sparkling like a golden beacon against the darkness. There, under her dangling feet, was the second half of her barrier, floating almost a meter below where it had originally been.

It split in half?

Cautiously, she examined it using Arcane Insight, but it appeared to be perfectly normal, only half of her usual barrier. Slowly, she lowered herself until her stretching toes touched the lower one, and then, even more slowly and gingerly, she put her weight onto it, fully expecting it to give way. But it held and, to her surprise, she found herself standing on the lower half-circle.

How did I do that?

She sat down on the lower barrier and split her focus, willing the upper piece to release while still holding her focus on keeping the one below her from vanishing. She struggled with the unfamiliar focus, terrified that she would unsummon both simultaneously, but the top barrier vanished, and miraculously, the bottom one remained, preventing her from falling.

She breathed. And then taking up the split focus in her skill once again, she mentally held on to her seat while trying to create a small one lower than where she currently sat. It was a tricky maneuver, but the barrier winked into existence after a few tentative tries. She lowered herself again, and then slowly, step by step, she began the laborious process of lowering herself down to the cavern floor below and the anxious faces of her friends waiting there.

Barrier has reached level 13.

As soon as she heard the notification, the challenging task grew noticeably easier. It still required intense focus and control, but the barrier magic seemed to respond eagerly to her will, and her progress improved dramatically.

“Ali! Are you ok?” Malika asked, pulsing a little healing magic into her battered body.

“I’m fine.”

As her friends clustered around her with concerned expressions, Ali tried to reassure them that she really was fine, but her body was shaking from the exertion of holding herself up, and the adrenaline from the explosion and being caught so high above the ground. She had to sit down for a moment and catch her breath. Being totally drenched in freezing cold water wasn’t helping in the slightest.

That was really stupid.

Ali berated herself for not anticipating the pressure of the water behind the rock wall and getting herself caught in the blast. You could have easily killed yourself. It should have been obvious, but in her excitement, she simply hadn’t thought through the implications of her plan.

While she sat there catching her breath, she stared at the destruction she had wrought. Some truly massive boulders lay half-buried in the ground hundreds of meters from the rock wall where they had originated. She had been unbelievably lucky she hadn’t been hit by any of them in midair. A broad swathe of the cavern had been washed clean of dirt, bone, mushrooms, and all signs of the dark and ominous dungeon mana by the flash flood, leaving in its wake a devastated landscape covered in mud and puddles. Hundreds of green and brown blobby forms crawled out of the puddles, slowly making their wobbly way toward the depression at the south end of the cavern which was rapidly filling with roiling water as a gigantic lake formed before their very eyes.

Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 1 (Poison)…Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 1 (Poison)

Seriously? Now I’ve created a biological hazard, and invited a bunch more monsters to the party?

“I’m sorry, guys,” she said. The concern on their faces had begun to ease once she had reached the ground and they could see she wasn’t hurt. But she felt stupid – epically and memorably stupid – and embarrassment burned on her face. Twice. Admittedly, when she had triggered the dungeon-rage there was no reasonable way for her to have known of the danger. But here, she had just let her excitement cloud her reasoning. Calen had even told her to be careful and she had mostly just ignored him.

“It’s ok, I’m just glad you’re fine,” Malika said, sitting down beside her. “That’s quite something, isn’t it?” she added, staring out over the scene of devastation.

“I see a lot of slimes,” Calen noted.

“Too bad they’re too low-level to provide a decent challenge,” Mato lamented.

Ali’s heart began to lift as she realized she was alive, sitting on solid ground, and her friends were not angry with her. They had just been worried, and as soon as she was seen to be safe, had reverted to normal, Calen being a scout and searching for threats, and Mato looking for a challenge.

Her harrowing experience hadn’t been without reward, though. Ali carefully focused her mind, and two separate disks of barrier magic snapped into existence in front of her outstretched palms. It was getting easier to perform this trick, and she was certain that, with a little practice, it would become an extremely useful tool. She could certainly protect herself better, or perhaps even learn to protect another party member effectively.

As long as I don’t do anything so foolish ever again!
