Still, he did manage some satisfaction as he made his way to the exit door. In the safe room beyond stood two chests.

The first was a reward chest with a medium-sized healing crystal, along with a bar of silver metal. He absorbed the crystal at once, hoping that it would help with the lingering pain. It didn't, but the taste of blood vanished.

He had fixed something, and now he was locked and loaded in case he needed to use his killing touch again. The guilt had faded by now, safely buried under the knowledge that had been clearing out the dungeon. Monsters were meant to die.

Speaking of that, he moved to open up the second chest, eager to see the details of his Gift. As he opened it, there was a stupid sound effect of a holy chorus holding a single note.

Snatching the scroll up, he slammed the lid shut and unrolled it.

Gift of Absorption

You are able to absorb all mana types found in dungeon levels 5 and below.

"What? That's it?" He turned the vellum scroll around, looking for more text, but there was nothing. What about his death touch?

He re-read the details of the Gift, growing angrier and angrier. This was bullshit. From the guides, he knew everybody could absorb mana. So his Gift was to do what people already did?

He had been ripped off!

All sense of joy drained away under the realization that once again the universe had proved it was against him.

Derek grabbed up the bar of metal, double-checked that there was nothing else in the room waiting for him, and, feeling sour and sore inside, he left the dungeon.

There must have been a shift change while he'd been in the dungeon, and a new National Guard grunt guarded the dungeon door.

"Congratulations," the man said, without any inflection. "Do you need any medical assistance?"

"No," Derek spat.

The guard seemed a little taken aback. "Oh... uh, I see you have a scroll there. Do you want to register your Gift?"

His useless, pointless Gift? "Sure," he said. Sullenly, he handed it over, and the guard typed it into his database.

"Do you want to register your rewards?" the guard asked.

Derek was already growing tired of this conversation. All he wanted to do was get some dinner and go home. However, he figured he may as well see what he got for his trouble.

"Sure," he said, then moved to the side where a second guard stood with a scanner in hand. At the guard's gesture, Derek sighed and slapped the crystals and the silver bar on the table.

His mood improved when the guard gave him two hundred dollars for everything. Most of it had come from the bar of metal, which had been some sort of pure, special silver.

Huh.

Two-hundred was nothing compared to his old sales manager job, but it was more than he could make during a long shift at one of his gig jobs. This dungeon had only taken him two hours.

As Derek walked back to his car, he felt a faint stirring of hope. He could do this, and do it better than anybody else. If he could find a way to push through the pain of his death touch, he could develop it into a real weapon.

He didn't have to work for other people. He could work for himself, kill monsters, and get loot. He could show his son how real dungeon diving should be done.

Sitting in his car, Derek used his phone to pull up the government list of level one dungeons for this area.

Huh. Demon Chicken Dungeon sounded promising.
