“I also watched you fight in the Grand Arena of Papillion.” Cathy smiled after taking a shot. “I was in one of the other arenas and they showed the battle on the big screen before our main event. I was astonished you pulled that one off. Although in retrospect, cutting that big rhino down to size isn’t so surprising given everything you’ve accomplished since.”

He finished his drink while she spoke, which turned out to be whiskey, then made small talk over the next few glasses.

Nick was relieved that Aurora’s new neighbors were good people and strong enough to look after themselves. Harold and Cathy explained that they had decided to found a smaller settlement instead of heading for the lake because they’d had their fill of bloodshed. They were prepared to defend their home and the Earth if need be, but they simply didn’t have it in them to enter the Labyrinth and take the fight to other planets, realms, and planes of existence.

They intended to turn their settlement, which they had named Desert Rose, into a thriving agricultural community, learning how to farm all over again now that mana was infused within every animal and plant on the planet and magic was a part of their everyday lives.

Over the months ahead, they hoped to not only discover new culinary delights, but research the properties of various species and learn how to produce food and drinks with magical effects, then branch out into alchemical ingredients once they had grown big enough.

That wasn’t a subject Nick had thought through yet, and he found himself growing just as excited as the pair outlined their ambitions for being able to create everything from attribute-enhancing meals to mass-producing healing potions.

When they were done, he explained the reason for his visit.

“There are two reasons why I decided to stop by today. First, I wanted to meet you, introduce myself, and let you know where to find us. Second, Aurora needs to form alliances with other settlements to reach the next tier. Each tier provides powerful benefits, and it’s vital that we unlock them all before the Rebuilding Civilization quest ends and we lose the chance.

“I know you have different priorities, but you’ll need to do the same thing if you want to grow bigger than tier three, which seems likely given your ambitions. I honestly have no idea what an alliance entails, other than if something nasty threatens you, we’ll come running and help kick its ass. I imagine there will be ample opportunities for mutually beneficial trades, shared research, access to our Token store, and the like. Is that something you would be interested in?”

“Quite possibly,” Cathy said. “But we vote on all big decisions, and I’ll need to confer with my people first. Please wait here. Rodger will keep you company. I’ll leave the bottle to help pass the time.”

With that, the residents of Desert Rose walked into their largest building to consider his proposal. There are twenty-two of them by my count. Nick sipped his whiskey and rubbed the dog’s belly, staring up at the wispy clouds striating the endless azure sky.

He took a deep breath and let his mind wander. Humanity’s struggles were far from over, but he was back on the planet of his birth, surrounded by good people, and in a position to make a real difference going forward. He leaned back in his chair and savored the moment until Cathy came walking back over an hour or so later.

“I’ll make this simple. I’m not a politician and it’s obvious you’re not either. I should probably try to leverage this situation to wring out some concessions first, but I’m going to trust my gut instead and accept your offer with no strings attached. We’re all in this together, fighting for the future of our people in our own unique way, and I’m happy to do anything I can to help out—now and in the future.”

She stuck out her hand and Nick shook it, followed by every other person in the settlement. When it was over, he pulled up his City Management Menu, selected the diplomacy prompt, and requested the alliance.

Cathy accepted it, and an update wavered into existence.

You have formed an alliance with Desert Rose and advanced Aurora’s city quest, taking the settlement one step closer reaching the next tier.
