The Dullahan, his armor a decorative mix of silver and wood—painted with floral designs by a master [Artist], very attractive to other Dullahans—watched gloomily as Ressa gulped down her breakfast. Simple porridge and fruit for the [Head Maid]. She was done in less than a minute. It was good food, which was all the more heartbreaking to the [Chef], but he had learned that Ressa ate fast.
This was how Ressa’s day started. By the time the sun was rising and Magnolia Reinhart was waking up, her right hand and best friend had checked the mansion from head to toe, terrorized the staff, eaten her own breakfast, and collected the day’s itinerary. As Magnolia Reinhart’s head rose from her luxurious bed, Ressa was standing next to it, a prim and proper shadow for her mistress, the most powerful [Lady] of Izril. Or so Ressa believed.
Magnolia Reinhart, the Deadly Flower Blooming in the North, head of the Reinhart family, and one of the most famed and feared Human women in the world opened her eyes. She stared at the ceiling, raised her head from the pillow—and let it fall. Then she rolled over.
“Another hour, Ressa.”
The [Maid] stared at Magnolia’s slumbering form. Magnolia rolled over, curling up in her silken sheets. Ressa cleared her throat.
“You have a busy day, Magnolia. You’ll need to be on the road in ten minutes. Dressing alone will take—”
“I’m sleepy, Ressa.”
“I’m aware of that. Should I cancel your schedule, then?”
Ressa’ crooked eyebrow suggested that she would hit Magnolia with her list if the woman did. Magnolia groaned.
“I’d like that. Where am I going?”
“Village inspection. We’re headed to Talizmet and then Embrie. Unless you have other plans?”
Magnolia smiled into her pillow.
“No, that sounds quite nice, actually. Fresh air and all that. Is the carriage ready?”
“Reynold should have it prepared and ready to go. Are you getting up?”
“In three minutes.”
Ressa stared out of Magnolia’s window. A huge eye stared back at her. An enchanted whale swam down the outside of Magnolia’s mansion. Through its transparent body, Ressa could see the sun rising.
“I think you need to get up now. Magnolia. Magnolia Reinhart. It is time to get up.”
“Ressa. You are as terrible as those shrieking sounds those children showed me on their devices. No, worse. Just give me two more minutes…”
Magnolia’s voice faded away. Ressa leaned over her. She whispered to Magnolia’s comatose form.
“If you don’t get up, I will make you get up.”
“How?”
“I will push you out of your bed.”
Magnolia considered this. Wearily and very grudgingly, she rolled over. Then she sat up.
“I detest you at times, Ressa, for all of our long-enduring friendship.”
“I’m prepared to be hated. That’s part of my job.”
Magnolia nodded glumly.
“I fear that hatred doesn’t encapsulate all of the delightful emotions I’m feeling right now. May I at least see my apparel, tyrant?”
Ressa sighed. The wardrobe slid open, and rows of dresses arranged themselves in the air as she clicked her fingers. Magnolia blinked blearily, not one whit impressed by the magical dresser.
“I think the mauve dress. The long arms and lattice, yes. Mm. Nicely trimmed. I’m feeling properly mauve today.”
“As you wish. It’s a dull color, but I don’t choose your dresses for you.”
Magnolia sighed, exasperated as she stood and quickly changed clothes with Ressa’s help.
“Ressa, you wear a black and white maid’s uniform. And your fashion of choice is dark grey, green, or blue. And that’s when you’re not on the job.”
“And you like pink.”
“Mauve.”
“Either way. You’re dressed. Do you want anything else?”
“Dignity? But I suppose I’ll find that later.”
Magnolia sighed. She slapped her cheeks lightly and turned around. The bleary look in her eyes faded, as did the casual, chatty tone in her voice. She sighed, and then a [Lady] gave Ressa a smile that you could use to hammer a nail into the wall. You could bounce bricks off Magnolia Reinhart’s façade. And she’d just woken up.
“Ah, well, time to be about the business of the day. Let’s be on with it, shall we?”
She walked towards the door as Ressa held it open. And the complaining, sleepy Magnolia was a thing of the past. The real thing, or rather, the person everyone else saw, delicately walked out the door, calling a cheerful greeting to the first servant she saw in the halls. Only Ressa saw the complaining Magnolia, the one who wanted to sleep in. She saw Magnolia’s weakness, and that was a cherished moment of weakness. For Magnolia Reinhart let few people see that she had anything close to vulnerability. She had too many enemies and too few friends.
“Are we taking the main carriage or the backup today?”
Magnolia chatted softly to Ressa as they walked through the halls of Magnolia’s mansion. Now the place was beginning to wake up with the house’s [Lady], and servants were filling the halls.
Not all were there just to clean or cook; many had other roles. Tending to guests if there were any, shopping, preparing for little trips abroad to fulfill Magnolia Reinhart’s tasks, battling the encroaching garden…Magnolia had a large staff, and all of them paused to greet the lady of the house. Magnolia frowned absently.
“The main carriage’s enchantment spell is still malfunctioning?”
“Apparently. I’ve had the [Enchanter], Hedault, look at it twice, but he claims the encounter with the Goblin Lord has damaged the wards beyond his ability to repair. He insists we call upon a [Mage] of Wistram for further repairs.”
The two women walked down the mansion’s corridors. Magnolia smiled and greeted servants who curtseyed to her while Ressa glared over her shoulder.
“Damn. But that isn’t his specialty, is it? Hello, Mavi. Don’t mind Ressa. She’s in a mood. Good morning, to you all.”
She passed by Mavi, who was with Bekia as the Gnoll showed her how to clean a vase to Ressa’s standards. Magnolia smiled at the younger, Human girl with freckles as Mavi jumped and stammered a greeting. Mavi paled as Ressa gave her a look. Magnolia sighed.
“Don’t bully the younger staff, Ressa. You’re supposed to be nurturing.”
Magnolia flicked a hand impatiently at Ressa. The [Maid] leaned back, and the fingers missed her by a second. Magnolia flicked her wrist again and missed; Ressa dodged the waving fingers with ease.
“I’m kind to the staff in my own way. However, I am their boss.”
“And I’m their employer. Surely that gives me the authority to give orders?”
Ressa snorted softly. Magnolia sighed.
“Of course not. How silly of me. Good morning, Reynold!”
The two walked out of the double doors of the mansion. A [Butler] stood by an astonishingly pink carriage. He swept Magnolia and Ressa a quick bow.
“Milady Reinhart. Miss Ressa. Where to first?”
He held the carriage door open as Magnolia settled herself inside. The sumptuous carriage was rich enough to make any transport pleasant, and the padded, cushy interior was only a fraction of the carriage’s delights.
As Reynold climbed into the driver’s seat, two ghostly horses appeared, and the carriage smoothly began rolling forwards. The wheels actually levitated a few inches off the ground, and the entire vehicle could reach insane speeds without the occupants feeling a thing. Inside the carriage, Magnolia leaned back as Ressa fussed with a silver-domed, covered tray.
“Talizmet first. What’s first on our list, Ressa? And is this breakfast I smell?”
The [Maid] lifted the cover with a nod. A pleasant aroma filled the carriage.
“Spiced biscuits. Nutmeg. Assorted fruits. Milk. Some butter. A boiled egg.”
“Delightful, delightful.”
Magnolia smiled in genuine delight as Reynold took the carriage out of the mansion and out onto the road at gathering speed. Both women ignored the landscape blurring outside. Magnolia peered around the hot plate of food with dismay.
“However…I heard you say milk, but where’s the tea, Ressa?”
“I have a small pot here. But there is no sugar to add to it.”
Ressa shook a tiny kettle. Magnolia froze as she reached for her cup.
“Well, that’s clearly a mistake. Check the side cupboard. I always keep a spare bag there.”
The [Maid] gave Magnolia a cold smile.
“You’re mistaking me. What I meant to say was, there is no sugar anywhere in this carriage, Magnolia. Even in your hiding places. You’ve been having too much. You’re gaining weight.”
She poked at Magnolia’s midriff. The [Lady] sat up indignantly.
“I resent that! I have a full figure compared to you, Ressa. But I’m hardly overweight.”
“Because I watch your diet. Skills or not, you eat too much sugar. Your teeth should have melted years ago.”
“Hence the ban on sugar for breakfasts?”
“You can have some later. For now, you may have tea with milk. Or none at all.”
Magnolia’s eyes slowly narrowed as she stared at Ressa. She took a deep breath.
“Ressa, I love you like a sister sometimes. And bearing in mind that I am a Reinhart, you should understand exactly how much of a threat that is. Don’t take away my sugar. Or I’ll have to get nasty.”
Her glare could have pinned a gnat to the wall. Ressa was unmoved.
“So that’s no tea, then?”
Magnolia glowered. Then she raised her cup.
“Fill it. And if I don’t have a sugar cube by midday, there will be blood.”
“Duly noted. Eat up. Your food’s growing cold.”
 
——
 
The pink carriage that bore Magnolia Reinhart was obviously as famous as the woman itself. Death to [Bandits], the fastest and most obnoxious vehicle on the road, it could travel over a hundred miles an hour. It could even fly. So Magnolia and Ressa arrived at the village they’d chosen almost minutes after Magnolia had finished her breakfast.
Talizmet wasn’t far; it was, in fact, on Magnolia’s lands. That was to say, the area around Invrisil, the City of Adventurers. Magnolia Reinhart owned Invrisil, the surrounding demesne, and a few other properties as her main holdings. Of course, the Reinhart family possessed far more land, but if any could be said to be Magnolia’s explicitly, it was this area.
“We’re just rolling through this village, Reynold. Keep us moving, but at a walking pace. Ressa, where did the money go?”
“Let’s see. You gave the [Headman] a sizeable fund after the winter snowmelt and spring rains flooded the village four weeks back. The record states that the village suffered extensive flood damage.”
“So I note.”
Magnolia stared gloomily out the window. The pink carriage had slowed as it entered the village, but the wheels still failed to touch the ground. Which was a good thing; the street was more mud than road, and though some parts were dry, it was hardly an ideal walking surface.
In the same vein, Talizmet was not a village on the up and up. Magnolia could see water damage around three feet in height on the exposed foundations of some of the wooden houses. In other places, the water had clearly damaged the wood. Talizmet was based next to a river—too close, really—and the spring rains and snowmelt had flooded the area.
“I don’t see any effort to fix the houses, do you, Ressa?”
The [Maid] was looking out her window.
“None. Neither is the road rebuilt, although the [Headman] had plenty of time to have it dredged or even paved if need be. I believe Sacra left him with the details of several reputable [Builders] in Invrisil.”
“She would have. Where has the money all got to? Healing potions? Or have they decided to rebuild a farm? Shore up the river, perhaps?”
Magnolia’s left hand drummed in her lap. Her face was still as she slowly surveyed the damaged village. Ressa glanced at her notes, printed on costly, clean paper in handwriting that would be a match for any [Scribe]’s. Another task of the staff.
“No. There weren’t many injuries, and the outlying farms didn’t suffer unduly.”
“The river, then. Take us forwards, Reynold. Unless—”
And then they saw it. As the carriage turned around a block of houses, Ressa took in a sharp breath. Magnolia hissed softly. There, standing out like a sore thumb in the middle of the village, was a new building, untouched by water damage. A new, sturdy foundation had been laid, and the building was even raised to avoid the same issues of flooding. But it was one building. And it was—
“An inn. A damned inn?”
Magnolia raised her voice in disgust. Sure enough, a large inn had been constructed, and the lights in the windows told Ressa that the inn was getting business, even in the morning. More than one villager looked to have been getting their breakfast there. And from the way a woman missed a step as she walked out of the building, they’d gotten more than just food.
“At least we know now where all the coin went.”
Ressa’s dry voice hid the anger she was feeling. Magnolia didn’t answer. The [Lady]’s hand had stopped drumming and clenched into a fist in her lap.
“Yes. We have. And I’ve seen quite enough. Reynold.”
The [Butler] looked back through the sliding door towards his employer. His face was equally affronted, although it quickly smoothed over into careful neutrality.
“Yes, Lady Reinhart?”
“Find the [Headman]. Or if he’s not available, one of the sober villagers. I believe you know what to do.”
Magnolia sat back in her carriage, fuming. Ressa silently offered her more unsweetened tea. Magnolia sipped it, stared at Ressa, and poured the tea out the window. Meanwhile, Reynold leapt lightly to the muddy street and looked around, straightening his lapels.
The pink carriage could hardly have been missed as it drove into Talizmet. The color, the enchanted horses and wheels—all of it pointed to one individual. So a number of Talizmet’s villagers were already congregating, and someone had roused the inn’s patrons. They came pouring out of the inn to stare.
“Lady Reinhart? Here? Herself?”
It was inconceivable. But then—this was on her land. And she’d just pulled in. So was she here to see the [Headman]? On some other business? Had she sent word, and had they failed to notice it? The villagers grew increasingly anxious as Reynold stood by the coach, searching the faces.
Like an unsettled anthill, the villagers gathered, and then found their victim. A man stumbled forwards, middle-aged, his cheeks slightly ruddy and flushed with more than just nerves. He straightened his clothes as he marched towards Reynold in the mud.
“Er, sir! Sir Butler, may I help you?”
The [Headman] of Talizmet halted as Reynold delicately blocked his way. The [Headman] craned his neck, but the windows of the carriage were now covered. He stared at Reynold. The [Butler] gave him a polite, small smile.
“I believe you can. I am Reynold, in service to Lady Reinhart. May I ask if you are the [Headman] of Talizmet, sir?”
