“Rare to see [Messengers] around here. They’re normally attached to noble households. Perhaps he’s from one of them?”
Ressa nodded silently. [Messengers] were usually privately employed, as opposed to the public Runners.
“Sometimes I wonder why more Runners don’t use horses, Magnolia. It’s certainly faster.”
Magnolia smiled.
“Ressa, I would imagine that’s obvious.”
“Only to someone like you who delights in studying the minutiae of economics. Just tell me.”
The [Maid] refused to be baited. Magnolia sighed.
“It’s fascinating. No, really! You see, horses are quicker. And with a pony express, or stallion express, or what have you, you can indeed get a package moving faster than most Runners could dream of. At least, anyone who’s not a Garuda or a Centaur. But if you need to send written correspondence, a [Message] is faster than any horse. And if a [Messenger] or [Runner] switches horses, oh, three times on a hundred mile journey…how much more are you paying them?”
“Ah. So it’s about expense.”
Magnolia nodded happily. The [Messenger] was still shouting at Reynold breathlessly. She waved at the mare he was riding. The horse just stared back, panting as it raced its ghostly counterparts.
“Feet don’t require food. Nor do they throw horseshoes, require stabling, and so on. Runners are cheap, if slow. On the other hand, most Couriers can outdistance horses with ease. Which is better, a [Beast Master]-trained horse trained for years and ridden by a dedicated [Rider] that can be lamed or killed, or a Courier who can outrun almost anything she comes across?”
“I understand. You don’t need to belabor the point.”
Ressa sat back. She eyed the horse. She could probably outrun this [Messenger], at least if it were a quick dash. But she didn’t have the stamina to be a Runner. She was meant to kill things at speed and disappear. It used to bother Ressa that she immediately wondered how she’d kill anyone she came across. Now she was used to it. And that fact sometimes bothered her.
At last, the [Messenger] pulled away, or rather, the carriage slowed to let the horseman ride ahead.
“Well? Anything urgent, Reynold?”
Reynold spoke back to Magnolia and Ressa as he steered clear of the road.
“Ogre sighting, Lady Reinhart. A pack of them have descended and are laying waste to the nearby countryside. They’ve already sacked a village; most of the people fled and sent an immediate request for aid. But their gold and valuables were all left behind in the village. The [Messenger] is taking word to the Adventurer’s Guild, but…”
Ressa saw him grimace, which was unprofessional. But Reynold had been born in a small village just like Talizmet, Embrie, or the one being attacked. Magnolia’s eyes sharpened at once.
“How many Ogres, do they know?”
“Sixteen or so, Lady Reinhart. They think it’s an accurate count, but there might be more.”
“I know there are more. Reynold, get back to the [Messenger]. I will guarantee a twelve gold piece bounty on each Ogre head. Thirty for the leader. That should bring any Silver-rank team in the area to deal with the issue.”
Reynold nodded, and Ressa saw a flash of a smile as he turned forwards. The carriage accelerated, and before she shut the sliding panel, she heard Reynold shout to the [Messenger]. Magnolia sat back in her seat, thinking aloud.
“If there are sixteen here, there must be at least fifty total in the mountains. Ogres don’t multiply like Goblins, but they do grow fast. Still, this bounty is sufficient. If the Ogres are well-armed or have magical weapons, I will triple the bounty.”
Ressa nodded. The bounty was generous, but in this she would never call it a waste of funds. After all, Magnolia collected a tax on her lands, and ogres destroying villages and disrupting trade would take far more money than any bounty on their heads. And again, that was what separated Magnolia from other nobles.
“You don’t want to send Reynold and a team up into the mountains? He could probably deal with most of the ogres with some backup. Sacra and Phesofi alone might be enough.”
Magnolia pursed her lips before shaking her head, rejecting the idea.
“You know the family motto, Ressa. Gold for blood. I agree with it, at least in this instance. Bethal does it the opposite way. She’d have sent her Rose Knights in. But would they level from a fight like that? Not unless the Ogres were truly dangerous. She prefers to crush her foes. I would rather adventurers level up and gain notoriety from their deeds.”
Ressa nodded. So the adventurers might get hurt or die. But they would level where Bethal’s [Knights] would advance slowly and not grow as fast. That was Magnolia’s style. And it was why some people called her cruel or uncaring.
Izril’s people had to help themselves. Magnolia Reinhart could only give them aid. She would incentivize the Ogre’s deaths, but she would send none of her people to hunt down the monsters themselves.
“Speaking of notoriety—about our earlier discussion.”
Magnolia’s smiled faded. She looked at Ressa, mildly vexed.
“I was in a good mood, Ressa. Don’t let’s spoil it. Please?”
“Tell me again why it was better for you not to make an example of one or two of the loudest dissenters, Magnolia. You don’t need to poison them. But some humiliation, something to make the other nobility duck—you’ve done it before. Why not now?”
Magnolia was silent. She sat back, pensive, before looking up and replying slowly.
“I must have peace, Ressa. I do not want a political war on my hands. Not now I’ve received an invitation from my Drake counterparts. And it would be war if I used you or anyone else. I don’t have the Assassin’s Guild at my back. The Circle of Thorns is one thing, but rousing the wrath of my peers is far, far less preferable than enduring their petty slaps to the face.”
“As long as it is just that.”
The [Lady] Reinhart ignored that comment. She stared out a window, at a blurring landscape.
“The nobility have their way of doing things. They tolerate aberration and new ideas only as long as they can see clear benefit—and as long as it does not impact their lives. Tamper with it and we face every house as an enemy. It has taken me decades to foster the idea of peace between the Drakes and Humanity. I have my supporters. This squabble has put me in the position of coward, saboteur, and thug by threatening Tyrion. And yet, it has won me some small measure among the Drakes. I will take that.”
Ressa gave a grudging nod. That was true.
“But why not back up threats with teeth? Why not move on the Assassin’s Guild after they sent back their refusal? You could destroy it. Or at least, put a bounty on their guild that would make them run for cover.”
A few Named Adventurers sieging the guild would give Ressa no end of satisfaction. Although it would be a dangerous feat for any one adventurer or team, Named or not, to try it. Magnolia sighed.
“Because it would result in bloodshed. Much of it, Ressa. And while the Guild is my enemy, if I placed myself that openly against them—with the purpose of annihilating them rather than keeping them as—well, the Assassin’s Guild which is free to choose targets, I would have to kill them all. I rather grew tired of killing people, Ressa. It was not something I ever wanted to be good at.”
The [Maid] digested that.
“I’ve never heard you sound so melancholy about it.”
Magnolia Reinhart looked up shortly.
“Do you have nightmares about the people you’ve killed, Ressa?”
“Never.”
“Liar.”
The two women sat in silence. Ressa met Magnolia’s gaze. Slowly, the [Lady] shook her head.
“Better to be less feared than I was a decade ago, Ressa. Better that than even children checking their plates and cups when I pass them by. It may be better for a ruler of any kind to be feared, rather than loved. But what sort of heart can bear it? I missed their smiles.”
She looked at the handkerchief on the table. Ressa only sighed. She couldn’t argue with that. She flipped through her notes. Reynold had lost the [Messenger], and they would be back at the mansion shortly.
“Very well. I’ll drop it. In that case, aside from my petition for you to let me build you an army—”
“My family has an army, Ressa. Regis will give me artifacts if I need it. Izril needs more armies like a Goblin needs teeth. I have a household staff that can deal with nuisances.”
“But not Goblin Lords.”
Magnolia glowered. Ressa crossed the item off the docket.
“A discussion for tomorrow, then. I will convince you. Now…I do have a note from one of our households. The staff report conflicts with their guests. Care to guess who I’m referring to?”
Magnolia closed her eyes for a second and massaged her temples.
“Our guests from another world?”
“Yes.”
“Are they…?”
“Safe. Unhappy, but safe. But vocally unhappy. They want to speak to you. It seems they quite hate being adventurers.”
“Which part? Killing monsters? Diving into their guts for treasure? Risking their lives? I wonder why? They are free to pursue any profession they wish.”
“It seems they would like not to pursue a profession. They want to return to the mansion.”
“No.”
Magnolia gave Ressa a bright smile. The [Maid] returned it mirthlessly. She wouldn’t entertain the idea either. The otherworlders Magnolia had collected had been a nightmare of incivility towards the servants. And they caused a mess.
“Their argument is, and I’m referencing their complaints directly here, that you failed to provide them with any way to succeed. They have no magical gear, no support, little training other than the services they can pay for in their city—”
The thunderous frown on Magnolia’s face darkened further. For the second time today, genuine heat entered her voice.
“And why do they deserve magical artifacts, pray? I am giving them an opportunity. I give everyone an opportunity to rise or fall. They have chosen to sit in the mud and weep about it.”
“That is their complaint.”
Ressa calmly put the piece of paper down. Magnolia stared past her [Maid]. Then her eyes focused. She blinked and intoned her next words very slowly and carefully.
“They came here with nothing, Ressa. Nothing, as lost children, half of them stealing from honest people within the first day of arriving. And they expected me to give them magical swords and treat them like conquering heroes in our backwater world. Because their world can blow cold air out of a box. I say no. Once they prove they can fight without magic swords, they can use them. If they can master a spell by themselves, I will give them a spellbook. If they find a profession and excel, I will sponsor whatever they need. But I do not believe in handouts. Tell them that.”
“As you wish.”
Satisfied, Ressa made a note. Magnolia huffed for a few seconds, then glanced up at Ressa.
“Do you tell me these things just to annoy me, Ressa?”
“I would never.”
The [Maid] lied to Magnolia’s face. Her employer made a fist. She punched, and Ressa leaned aside. One of the perks of being both [Assassin] and [Maid] was that no matter how angry Magnolia got, she couldn’t hit Ressa. Sometimes, it felt like they were young women still. And then something happened that made them feel as old as…
Teriarch.
 
——
 
Magnolia and Ressa returned to the mansion. Reynold immediately went to the kitchens for lunch and a deserved break. Ressa was shuffling her notes, deciding what other issue Magnolia should address first—one of her Gold-rank teams she was actively sponsoring, forging ties abroad, hunting down clues for artifacts—when all of a sudden, she looked up. She dropped the stack of paper in the middle of the hallway.
“Intruders.”
The [Lady] spun as she reached for her door. The staff in the hallway looked up. Bekia, who was polishing the windows next to Mavi, raised her head to howl. Ressa cut her off.
“Bekia, silence. They’re not in the mansion. They’re outside the walls. My wards are all going off.”
Magnolia’s brows snapped together.
“How many and where?”
“The garden and the eastern walls. Twenty, ten on each side.”
“Did they trip a ward by accident? Or are they open?”
Ressa grimaced.
“They’ve tripped three wards in total. But they’re trying to be stealthy. Either this is a ruse—no. What’s the point of revealing themselves? This feels like amateurs. This is a test.”
Magnolia’s brows shot up.
“Of our defenses? We had that with Ryoka, remember? And those were professionals. What is this, then?”
The two had their answer as Reynold slid around the corner. He was panting after having run to the third floor in seconds.
“Lady Reinhart! Miss Ressa! There are two dozen Runners at the front gate! They all have a message for you!”
Ressa turned, disbelieving. That had to be the stupidest trap she’d ever heard of. Only, it wasn’t a trap, at least in full. Reynold had taken one of the packages from the City Runners, despite the Runner’s strict instructions to deliver only to Magnolia Reinhart herself. The [Butler] had checked it twice, but Ressa intercepted the black rose before she let Magnolia handle it. It was clean. But the message was as clear as the look on Magnolia’s face.
“The black rose of cowardice. Well. Well, well. And all the Runners have the rose?”
Reynold was as versed in flower language as Ressa. His face was very pale as he nodded.
“All of them, milady. And they all come from different senders. I—I will turn away the Runners at once if you wish it. I do not believe they are aware of what the gesture means.”
“No. They would not be. Or else they have spines of steel. Well, so this is the escalation of my peers’ ire with me.”
Magnolia gently inspected the black rose. Her hand trembled a bit as she gripped the stem between two fingers.
“A black rose. For me. I stood at the Sacrifice of Roses. This is—eminently fitting as an insult. A coward who would threaten her own peers is a coward as great as one who fled the Goblin King’s armies, is that it? I won’t say they don’t have a point. But what sort of a coward attacks a Drake city that has done no wrong? What kind of a coward welcomes the slaughter of tens of thousands?”
She looked up, eyes flashing. Ressa’s own hand was on the enchanted dagger. Her blood was boiling. Magnolia Reinhart straightened her back, and the air around her grew tense. Heavy. Fury rolled off her like waves.
“Even for an insult. This is too much. Call us cowards. But we fought at First Landing. Nothing will change that. This is beyond tolerable. They have declared war on me, my peers. Or else they invite it. How many declared, Reynold? No—”
