Allows expulsion of mana to environment

Allows transfer of mana to and from capacitive items with direct contact

Maximum transfer rate 1080.0 mp/s (fcs)

Tier 2

Magical Synergy (10/10)

Enables limited synergistic cross-coupling of magical attributes

25.0% of Focus contributes to M.Regen

25.0% of Clarity contributes to Mana

Offensive Auras

Tier 0

Immolate (10/10)

132-151 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 50 mp/s

Refrigerate (10/10)

132-151 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 50 mp/s

Utility Auras

Tier 0

Purify (10/10)

Purify poison, corruption, and contamination

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 100 mp/min

Winter (10/10)

Boost M.Regen by 180% for all entities

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 10 mp/hr

Tier 1

Detection (10/10)

Sense selected items of interest

Not occluded by mundane materials

Resolution: 2.07 mm

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 10 mp/s

Essence Well (10/10)

Transfer mana to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 18 mp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 18 meters

Velocity (10/10)

180.00% boost to speed for all entities

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 10 mp/s

Free Skill Points: 0

It had been a long five days since the rescue mission and confrontation with Rankin. In addition to being incredibly busy with company business, Rain had made a specific point of setting aside two full hours to exercise every morning, and another two for meditation every night. Consequently, he hadn’t been getting enough sleep, but it wasn’t like he was sleeping well to begin with. When he closed his eyes, the memories were there.

He was going to need time—something that he never seemed to have enough of.

Early on in his training, Rain had come to the bitter realization that his initial gains had only been so fast because of how much room he had to improve. That had only spurred him on to train even harder, desperate to hold the pace. Results were mixed, and while Ameliah said that his rate of physical improvement was typical, Rain hadn’t been happy to hear it. Typical wasn’t good enough. Scanning his status, he didn’t see so much as a single point of difference from when he’d checked it a few hours ago.

Rain sighed, closing the window and taking a long drink from his waterskin. His gaze traveled over the piled supplies around him, though the sight barely even registered, so lost was he in thought.

As he was in the relative safety of the city, his training focus was on tolerance for Recovery and Vigor. He didn’t have much use for large health and stamina pools right now, so Strength and Endurance were getting synchronization training instead. If he improved his tolerance for the secondary stats first, that would increase his regeneration. More regeneration meant more training. More training meant faster improvement.

At the moment, he’d decided to keep his Strength at a resting buff of ten. He could have gone lower, but while the city was safe enough, four hundred health was already pushing it. He wouldn’t want to get hurt falling down a flight of stairs, for example. There were other reasons for keeping the stat low as well. Boosting Strength also made him stronger. In addition to being a contender for the ‘obvious statement of the year’ award, this also meant training became more problematic.

At 6.6 effective Strength, Rain already felt superhuman compared to his past self. Going higher just meant he had to do even more pushups. He was already doing enough. Some would say too many, but after his experience with the obelisk, the normal pain of sore muscles was hardly worth mentioning. His training sessions were just as intense as those he’d subjected himself to while he’d been trapped underground. The rule was to keep going until his body physically gave up, then to refresh himself with the ring and keep going, stopping only when soulstrain started to set in. He’d slowly recover over the rest of the day, abusing the ring to make sure that he never hit his cap on any resource.

Rain snorted and took another swig of water. Always. Be. Regenerating.

People had started looking at him strangely, but he didn’t care. He wasn’t abusing potions this time, at least. If he’d wanted to, he could have gone even harder, pushing through the soulstrain. Unfortunately, he needed to be at least somewhat functional. Wobbling around on jelly legs all morning was bad enough. It would be hard to take care of the preparations for departure if he couldn’t even move.

Even with all that work, the results were disappointing. Over the past few days, he’d only earned himself nine Recovery tolerance, eight Vigor tolerance, four percent Strength synchronization, and two percent Endurance synchronization. It wasn’t enough.

If his progress kept slowing down, he wasn’t sure what he was going to do. For Endurance, anyway, the gains seemed to be tied to his resistances somehow. A few of the awakened he’d talked to—though he’d yet to find anyone that even approached being expert on the subject—had said that damaging himself might help. Punching hot sand, maybe?

Rain shook his head, clearing away the half-remembered flash of some random kung-fu movie. Vigor training still came first.

As for his mental stats, Clarity was the name of the game. He’d been boosting it as much as he could every night, despite the fact that it kicked his mind into overdrive and made his sleep even more restless. It hardly mattered with as tired as he was each night, and he wanted his armor fully-charged, especially after the incident with the Razorspine. There was no excuse for slacking off. He’d finally gotten the durability to max and was steadily working on filling the capacitance rune.

All of his questionably-restful power-sleeping had earned him twenty-three points of Clarity tolerance—proof positive that Dynamo made training his mind easier. It had also gotten him a rank-up of Mana Manipulation, which was now creeping toward the cap, something that he had mixed feelings about. On one hand, Ameliah said max-level Mana Manipulation would reveal a bunch of hidden skills. On the other hand, it was his last skill. Once it was rank ten, that was it until he found a high-level blue, and there was no telling how long that would take. The promise of hidden skills even made it worse, in some ways. It wasn’t like he’d be able to get any of them.

Focus… Focus could take a hike. A bigger mana pool did nothing for him, and the tiny boost to his damage output wasn’t worth sacrificing regeneration. Besides, thanks to the ring, he could get that benefit anyway just by dumping points into Focus right before using a spell, then taking them out again when he was done. He’d tried automating that using a macro but found that while he could script his own skills as much as he wanted, controlling an item was different. It was tied in with bonds, and—though this was somewhat speculation—the damage to his paling. The paling was the interface between his soul and the outside world, after all.

Rain yawned, not yet noticing that he’d forgotten why he’d come over here in the first place. Thinking about his soul had turned his thoughts to the subject of bonds. He kicked his feet against the side of the crate idly as he stared vaguely in the direction of Dozer, following the connection between himself and the slime.

Linksight was still broken outside of soulspace, despite his efforts to fix it. The bond with Dozer was the only one that he could truly interact with out here in any real sense. That wasn’t even linksight when it came down to it. His slime-whisperer powers came from something inherent to the nature of the pet-bond. Of course, that, too, was dysfunctional. Rina gets an interface for her slime. Why don’t I? Damn paling.

Rain sighed, picking at a splinter of wood on the top of the crate. His broken soul was making things difficult. All he got from linksight out here were flashes. When something accessed a bond strongly, he’d get a flicker of awareness in his mind—plus a headache, eventually. The awareness wasn’t even enough to identify what had happened, only that something had. It was a far cry from what he’d had in soulspace, but amazingly, it was only mostly useless.

For example, something in his brain had twitched violently when he’d received his custodian’s plate. That had been linksight’s way of telling him that the plate had bound itself to him, though he hadn’t realized that until after he’d had Tallheart examine the thing later.

The enchantment on the plate was threefold, yet harmless. It was just a permanent binding rune, a unique identifier rune, and an ambient mana rune to power the other two. It wasn’t a homing beacon or anything. Tallheart said that a real tracking enchantment like the one Rain had been afraid of was impossible, and he trusted Tallheart when it came to these things. The issue was distance, Tallheart had said.

Still, harmless as the plate was, Rain would have liked to have known about the self-binding enchantment before opening the box.

Setting that small annoyance aside, he found his thoughts dragged back to linksight. The major revelation there was that it didn’t just work on items. It also worked on people—specifically, people in his party. Whenever someone joined or left, he’d get the faintest flicker of awareness, still without any meaning other than the fact that something had happened. He was hoping that it would one day let him do cool things such as summoning the party interface while not in a lair, or creating a macro trigger based on party-member status. At the moment, it did none of that, despite his efforts. It had given him a bit more information about how parties worked, though.

Parties were weird. Rain flared Winter with Aura Focus for a second and concentrated, dragging a few scattered memories to the front of his mind.

[”Val, Samson, I’m going slime hunting near the barricade. Want to come?” *Twitch* *Twitch* Party.]

[”Hey guys. Still working on the suspension? I’ve got a few minutes. Want some help?” *Twitch* *Twitch* *Twitch* Party.]

[”Vanna, I’m going to go see Khurt about the ration bars. Want to come? No? Okay, I’ll help you finish this later, then.” *Twitch* No more party.]

Rain let Aura Focus fade, exhaling a breath that only felt like it should have fogged the air. The memories were clear, but it was just so strange. The world—or the system or whatever—somehow knew what everyone’s intentions were. In essence, if you were working with someone on something, you’d automatically get grouped up, provided that there were eight people or less involved. Why eight? Nobody seemed to know. That was just the way it was.

Just one more thing for the pile. Depths, I’m getting distracted…and I’m thinking in common again. With an effort, Rain switched his thoughts back to English. Fuck off, mind readers. I need to get me a Magneto helmet or learn how to boobytrap my soul or something. I’ve got some heavy ordnance packed away… I wonder if I can weaponize my trauma?

Rain chuckled, but his mirth didn’t last. The damage to his soul still wasn’t healing. As amusing as it was to picture a mentalist getting obliterated by one of his memories, he was fully aware that he had some serious issues. Meditation helped with most of them, but only temporarily. He needed a more permanent solution.

Fortunately, his continued efforts to access his soul each night had borne fruit. Two nights ago, he’d managed to tolerate the tumultuous insanity for a full second instead of being immediately hurled back into his body. He had yet to be able to repeat the feat, but the mere fact that he’d done it was proof that progress was possible. It gave him hope.

The chaos in his soul was…difficult to describe. It wasn’t pain. It also wasn’t color, sound, smell, or even something intangible like emotion. The closest sensation that Rain could think of was the experience of tipping back slightly too far in a chair—that sudden flash of utter certainty that you were going to die. It was like that, except much, much worse, and not nearly so narrowly defined. It was as if the entire logical underpinning of reality had been shredded and thrown into constant flux.

The more he thought about such things, the more questions he had about what the soul actually was. It couldn’t be his consciousness. If it were, he’d have been a complete drooling potato, not just slightly scatterbrained from time to time. Likewise, it couldn’t be his system-self. His skills worked fine, which wouldn’t be the case if they were all twisted up in that insanity. Solving the mystery wasn’t going to be easy. His memories of freshman year covered physics, not metaphysics.

Rain sighed.

Of course, there was always the possibility that the chaotic realm that he was trying to enter wasn’t even his soul in the first place. His intuition told him that it was, but intuition wasn’t something you should be trusting when it came to these things. He needed help, but the only person so far who’d offered was the reason he’d been thinking about a Magneto helmet. That was not an option.

With a groan, Rain rubbed at his temples. He could feel a real ripper of a headache building, but he had too much to do to just go lie down in a dark room, not that there was any darkness to be found in Fel Sadanis. The company wasn’t going to manage itself.

Rain lowered his hands, looking around at the toiling workers as he admonished himself for getting distracted. There were approximately two hundred people inside the compound now, though only a fraction of those had joined the company itself. The rest were those who wanted to help but were unwilling or unqualified to join. In addition to not being an asshole, anyone who came with them would need to be able to defend themselves and travel for days on end through difficult terrain. To that end, he’d set up something of a test.

Anyone who wanted to join had to fight Carten’s Aunt Mazel.

They didn’t need to win, mind. It was more of a test for bravery than anything else, though they did need to get her approval.

Mazel herself wasn’t coming. Rain would have been happy to have her along, despite the fact that her injuries would make things difficult. There were others for whom exceptions had been made. Mazel was an experienced fighter, and more importantly, disciplined. She’d had long years of experience as a merchant’s guard, and she knew how to take orders and how to give them, a skill that was in short supply. Nevertheless, she didn’t want to come. She’d agreed to help him screen applicants, but that was it.

