Rain clicked his tongue, then summoned the beta-version of his word processor, which really wasn’t much more than his terminal plus buttons for bold, underline, and italic, though he hadn’t gotten the last one to work yet. He spent a moment digging through his disordered mind for the specific memory he wanted, then slotted it into the display.

memberlist.odt

B

U

I

Awakened

Level 37

Tallheart - Runic Powersmith

Level 30 (approx)

Ameliah - “Legendary (probably) Jack” [Unknown]

Level 18

Rain - Dynamo

Level 12

Jamus - Arcane Mage [Arcane Mysteries Mage]

Carten - Shield Turtle [Shieldwielding Defender]

Level 10

Staavo - Swordsman* [Swordplay Warrior]

*Note: Hybrid build including magic

Level 8

Val - “Laser Dude” [Unknown]

Level 7

Mlemlek Ko-Latti - Swordsman [Swordplay Warrior]

Ava Lek-Ani - Fire Mage [Fire Evocation Mage]

Level 6

Myth (Bip) - Alchemist [Alchemy Worker]

Reason (Bop) - Chemist [Chemistry Worker]

Level 5

Mahria - Unclassed (cap ?)

Samson Darr - Unclassed (cap 6)

Kettel - Unclassed (cap 6)

Unawakened

Laborers/Porters

Vanna - Good Leader

Tarny - Fanatic (problem?)

Smelt - Dependable

Faas - Prankster

Fredek - Bareknuckle boxer

Kip - Snores

Gardener - Plays the flute

Nails - Quiet, major NPC energy

Delfina - Even quieter than Nails, somehow

Tristin - Gambling (problem?)

Tilian - Decent cook

Evonna - Smooth/cheesy, haven’t decided

Shet (Shettel) - Likes to sing. Also, bad at singing.

Corrin - Kal’s rival

Kal (Kalman) - Corrin’s rival

Ron (Taron) - Funny. Keeps Kal and Corrin in check.

Outdoors/Combat Types

Hanes - Hunter

Tahir - Hunter

Ujesh - Fisher/Trapper

Shortcrust (Joyanna) - Caravaner/Guard

Finn (Finnbogi) - Guard

“Quickhand” Telen - Mercenary

Gigs (Dewiggen) - Bouncer

Unawakened Nobles

Atyl Wagarardrogrum (Wa-Ga-Rar-Dro-Grum)

Lyn Aleuas Draves - Chasm duelist (don’t let Val find out)

Misc Trades

Meloni - Shopkeeper

Clubbs - Farmhand - Scary-good at Ranks

Ruce - Farmhand

Lago (Lauger) - Chandler

Romer - Scribe

Mollo - Servant - Foul-mouthed

Ellis - Apprentice Farrier

Mereck - Innkeeper

Lena - Apothecary/Herbalist

Belson - Barber - Clumsy (watch your ears)

Shena - Carver (wooden knick-knacks)

The list came out to fifty people, which was a nice even number, but more than Rain had been expecting. Fortunately for their supply situation, it looked like that was going to be it. The last person to join had been Shena, late last night, and the city was getting pretty deserted. Other than the company members and those who were sticking around to help, it was essentially just the Watch left at this point.

Demographically speaking, most of the company members were young, early to mid-twenties as an average. Anyone older than that was generally married and had kids, making such a risky expedition an unattractive proposition. Rain had been resistant to teenagers joining, but a few had made it through the screening despite his reservations. He could have drawn a hard line, but he had to face the reality that teens here weren’t quite as pampered as those he was used to. Kettel was a good example.

Speaking of Kettel, Rain hadn’t been expecting him to want to join, especially not after he and Ameliah had ‘stolen’ the loot in the whole Rankin incident. However, Kettel had actually apologized, even going as far as promising to be less reckless in the future. Rain was skeptical, and he still wasn’t sure that letting Kettel in was wise, but he didn’t have the luxury of turning awakened away if he could help it.

Mahria had been another surprise. Apparently, she needed a respecialization accolade and had decided that a lair-hunting company was just the way to get it. Rain was still a little concerned that having her along would bring Lavarro down on them, but Mahria assured him that that wouldn’t happen.

Lavarro had pulled Mahria aside before the news about Westbridge had become common knowledge. She had wanted to explain herself and to say goodbye to her daughter. The conversation had not gone well, apparently, and as far as Mahria was concerned, her mother was dead. As for her father, Mahria said that she’d sent him a message. She also said that he wouldn’t care what she did and never had.

To say that Mahria had issues with her parents was putting it mildly.

Between Mahria and Kettel, Rain thought Mahria was going to end up being the bigger issue. Kettel was an idiot, sure, but that was just because he didn’t have the experience to know better. There were encouraging signs that almost dying had woken him up. There’d be a lot of drills and training in his future to solidify the lesson.

Mahria, on the other hand, was still in denial. She’d been an adventurer for years. Her parents, in addition to all their other issues, were adventurers too. The recklessness ran deep, and rooting it out would take some doing. It was hard to remember that she was his own age sometimes, but her behavior made a little more sense when you considered that all of her adventuring experience had been earned while in the presence of Apache-Mom. The Froststorm incident was likely her first real brush with death too.

Fortunately for Rain’s sanity, no other Guild members had joined, leaving the number of remedial students at two—three if you counted Val, four if you counted Rain himself. Jaks, Stoneshield, Mindyblades, and Elmwood had had the expected reaction to losing out on what would have been thousands of Tel, wanting nothing to do with him. Only one other Guilder had applied, in fact, doing so very early on before word had spread about his selection criteria. It had been Cera, the Water Mage, and Rain had rejected her. Hard. Her asshole interview had made her opinions abundantly clear, and for all that Rain hated confrontations, there were some things he would NOT tolerate.

Recklessness was a tractable problem; it could be rectified with discipline and experience. Bigotry, on the other hand, especially the deep-seated kind that Cera harbored, was not. You couldn’t fix it with a lecture. There was no way that Rain was going to let someone like her join the group before its identity had even been established. She mistrusted or outright hated everyone not from Fel Sadanis—cervidians, islanders, Xiugaaraans, Osarans, everyone. Further, her position on the unawakened was that if they weren’t strong enough to help themselves, then they might as well just die.

Reeducating such a person was a laudable goal, but not something that was achievable in any reasonable timeframe. Cera’s opinions would have been like a poison in the company. There was no place for it. She hadn’t been the only one that he’d needed to reject for that reason, either. The confrontations hadn’t really gotten any easier with practice, though most people hadn’t made as much of an issue of being rejected as she had. Still, Rain was happy to be done with recruiting, and he was planning on putting someone he trusted in charge of personnel so he would never have to do it again.

Delegation was hot on his mind. He’d had the election he’d wanted two days ago—explaining ranked-choice voting to everyone had been an incredibly frustrating experience—and been confirmed as the captain of the company. Not CEO, mind. Having never experienced corporate hell, Rain felt unqualified to recreate it in a fantasy world.

Banking on getting that airship one day, he was thinking more along the lines of pirates. He was the captain, first among equals. Someone, probably Vanna, would be quartermaster. Distributing shares of booty would also be easier than trying to set every member up with their own pay-grade and hourly rate.

Rain sighed. Ugh, I’ll deal with that later. I’m supposed to be making sure everyone has everything they need. He rubbed at his forehead, dragging his thoughts back on track as he reviewed the names and skills of the members. There were notable gaps, such as a skilled carpenter, but there wasn’t much he could do about that. Fortunately, people were generally handy, so they’d be able to get by.

Apart from people, they also had a few pets in the company, though he hadn’t listed them. He had Dozer, and Meloni had Cloud, but that wasn’t all. One of the hunters, Hanes, owned a pair of hunting dogs, and Romer the scribe had a tabby cat. It was a good thing that nobody else had a cat, too; otherwise, the expedition would have been in serious jeopardy. One cat was all well and good, but two? Madness. The last thing that they needed was a catsplosion.

Rain chuckled despite his headache and loaded up another file, this one listing equipment.

standard_equipment.odt

B

U

I

Standard Equipment - 64 Tel x 50 -> 3,200 Tel

Gambeson - 11 Tel

Heavy Cloak - 4 Tel

Leather helmet - 2 Tel

Fur gloves - 3 Tel

Leather Boots - 2 Tel

Knife - 3 Tel

Heavy-Duty Pack - 3 Tel

Spear - 3 Tel

Sword - 4 Tel

Shield - 2 Tel

Bow - 4 Tel

Arrows - 3 Tel

Misc. Stipend - 20 Tel

There was more, of course, but Rain hadn’t bothered making sure that everyone had a spare set of underwear, instead focusing on what they’d need for combat. Some people already had some of this stuff—or didn’t need it in the case of the awakened—but he’d made sure to get extras so nobody would be without some critical piece of kit. He also wanted to have at least one of each kind of weapon for everyone, even if they didn’t know how to use it yet.

Rain got to his feet and headed over to a row of crates, each containing something from the list. He started going through them, checking to make sure that everything was accounted for and that there weren’t any quality issues. It would all get handed out a little later tonight, and then everyone would get some geared marching practice.

The condition of Fel Sadanis made acquiring things problematic, but Mlem had risen to the challenge with a series of minor mercantile miracles. A lot of things, like the gambesons, had to be cobbled together from scraps. Fortunately, many of the people who were sticking around to help the company were merchants and craftsmen. In other words, people with stuff. Negotiating transport for their livelihoods through the teleport platform was problematic, so they were doing as much as they could to liquidate their assets before they left.

Mlem’s position in the company was interesting. On one hand, he’d said he wanted to join properly, agreeing to be a full member. On the other hand, he was still a merchant. Uncharitably, he could be viewed as a tick that had latched onto the company and was draining its coffers to line his own pockets. A more open-minded viewpoint would paint him as something like the company’s personal trade liaison. It seemed to be working, at least for now. Mlem was certainly happy.

The equipment that Rain had purchased was ‘company steel,’ meaning that it remained the company’s property. In general, he was planning on keeping everything like that. The company’s finances would be managed by the quartermaster—which wouldn’t be Mlem, for obvious reasons—such that people wouldn’t need to worry about paying for food, supplies, and basic equipment. Adventuring gains would be split up, with each member getting a share for their own use, and some portion going to the company. An airship wasn’t going to pay for itself, after all. It would be best to start saving up now. The money from Rankin hadn’t gone nearly as far as he’d hoped.

As for why they had to buy all of this stuff in the first place, one reason was time, and the other was that Tallheart wasn’t willing to make equipment for people he didn’t trust. Rain hadn’t even asked, though he was planning on broaching the subject with him later. They were going to need to be careful about managing knowledge of the full extent of Tallheart’s abilities, regardless. If some organization, say, the Bank, decided that they wanted to abduct him, there wouldn’t be much they could do to stop it. That was one reason Rain was so worried about maintaining good relations with the Watch and the Guild. As a custodian and a Guild member, he—and by extension, the company—had some measure of protection. Still, it would be best to keep things covert for now.

Rain sighed, pulling out a particularly ratty gambeson from one of the crates. He tugged lightly, and the loose seam that he’d spotted gave way under the force. Shaking his head, he walked over to a different pile, this one for miscellaneous resources, and tossed the gambeson on top. They could use the linen to repair other clothing, at least. This is why I wanted spares.

Stretching his stiff muscles, Rain surveyed the bustle of activity. There was an endless list of things that they would need to survive out in the wilderness. Food, tools, sleds, snowshoes, evertorches, wood, cloth, leather; on and on it went. Fortunately, many hands meant light work. While Rain had ponied up the cash, he’d let others figure out the details while he focused on equipment and specialty items like Crysts.

Damn it. He shook his head. I wish I hadn’t given away those bribes to the Guilders, now. I’m practically broke again. He looked up with a sigh. We’ll be fine. There’ll be plenty of chances to make money, and we have what we need for now.

While it was true that he didn’t know their entire supply situation down to the number of toothpicks they owned, everyone kept coming to him with questions. Thus, he still had a pretty good idea of what they had and what they didn’t. For example, he knew that they only had about one week’s worth of food and water. He would have preferred to have more, but they needed the space for things that they couldn’t get in the wilderness. Food could be replenished by hunting—a single Stumper could feed the company for a whole day—and water was easy to get by melting snow.

Honestly, if this whole experience reminded him of one thing, it was Oregon Trail. Not the actual Oregon Trail, Oregon Trail the video game. You could either leave Independence with a half-ton of food, or you could just buy a couple boxes of bullets.

Rain snorted. Nobody is dying of dysentery on my watch. Purify is a game-changer. He already had a macro running that activated the aura every two hours. One brief pulse as a signal, then a one-minute delay, then full blast for ten seconds. It was better than having people come over to tell him that they needed to go to the bathroom. There will be no pooping in this company. Ooh! The Vestigial Assholes. Now there’s a good company name. Too bad I already decided.

Rain started laughing to himself. His asshole was just fine, thank you very much, though he’d needed to sneak away to check. Gus had offhandedly asked him if it had sealed itself shut, and he’d actually been concerned for a little while. These are the real questions, people.

