“What’s so funny?” Vanna said, looking up from where she was working nearby.

“Nothing, nothing,” Rain said, waving the question away. Back to business.

He gestured to the crates. “I think we’re ready to distribute this stuff. Do you agree?”

Vanna got up and stretched. “Yes, I think so. We’ll find out if anything is missing pretty quickly anyway.”

“Right,” Rain said, nodding. “I’ll go round everyone up. I’m going to give a little speech once everyone has their stuff.”

“A speech?” Vanna said. “I thought you said you hated speeches?”

“I do,” Rain said. “But this is the foundation of the company we’re talking about here. It’s important.”

“Okay,” said Vanna with a shrug. “I’ll go get everyone then. You just find a spot to stand.”

Rain nodded. He walked over to one of the crates, one filled with heavy winter cloaks. His own cloak was folded neatly next to it, pinned with a small scrap of paper with his name on it. It was the same one that Val had given him, but it, like all the others, had been dyed white and patterned with dappled patches of shadow. The resulting pattern was arctic camo, more or less.

Rain smiled as he shook out the cloak and threw it around his shoulders. Myth and Reason had outdone themselves. They had needed to use a dozen precious Chem-Crysts to make the alchemical dyes, but it had been worth it. Rain would have liked to have dyed all of the equipment, not just the cloaks, but Chem-Crysts were in short supply thanks to the need for evertorches. Some would have called it a waste, given the noise that the forgewagon made, but it wasn’t just about the camouflage. It was about creating a unified identity. Something that everyone could share.

A little over an hour later, the sun was just starting to dip below the city walls. Rain was standing on the same crate he’d been sitting on earlier, surveying the gathered members of the company. Everyone else had been politely ushered out of the compound. He could have chosen to use a proper podium or clambered atop the city wall or something, but this was better. More personal.

What he saw filled him with a heady excitement that made it hard to control his expression. Each and every member was now wearing a white dappled cloak like his own. The company was formed. He’d done it.

Rain cleared his throat, and the chatter of conversation died as people stopped playing with their new equipment and looked in his direction. With a thought, he pulled up a window containing his prepared speech. There was no way he was going to try to do something like this off the cuff. He had the whole speech memorized, of course, but having it in front of him would force him to remain on track.

“Firstly, I’d like to thank you for your time,” he said, doing his best to project confidence. “I know that everyone is busy getting ready, so don’t worry; I’m not going to give some long-winded monologue. I just have a few practical things to tell you. Before that, though, I did at least want to say a little bit about what this company is, and what I hope it can become.”

Rain glanced at Ameliah, and she gave him an encouraging nod. She was standing next to Tallheart, who was fiddling with his cloak, trying to get it to fit better over his armor. Rain smiled, then refocused on the words in front of him.

“I know you all know me, so I won’t bother introducing myself. Thank you to everyone who voted in the election, whether you cast your vote for me or not. It will be my honor to serve as your captain.

“If you’ve spoken with me at all, you’re probably expecting some sort of self-demeaning joke here. Possibly a reference to something that you’ve never heard of. For once, I’m not going to do that. My homeland is far, far away, but this company… This is my home now. In the coming months, you’ll have plenty of time to get used to me. Apologies in advance.”

There was a small rustle at this, but not the smattering of polite laughter that Rain had expected. He pressed on, doing his best to look unfazed by the lack of reaction.

“Ascension. That is the goal of this company, and so, it is what we will call ourselves. Ascension.” He stopped, letting the name sink in before he continued.

“Simply put, the word Ascension means the act of going upward, but it is so much more than that. Ascension is to rise above the mundane. We strive to better ourselves, and, one day, to create a better world. A world where the strong protect and guide the weak. A world where everyone has the same opportunities for advancement, irrespective of the circumstances of their birth. A world where we all work together to create a brighter future.”

Rain smiled. “Obviously, we’re not going to do that overnight. It might not even happen in my lifetime. For now, Ascension will simply be our family. By electing me as your captain, you have chosen to grant me the responsibility of deciding our course. It is a job that I take most seriously.

“I know that many of you were confused when I insisted on a vote for leadership of a group that was, essentially, my own idea. Unfortunately, democracy is a tainted word in Fel Sadanis, thanks to the example set by the DKE. Do not mistake their council of Citizens for anything but what it is: the rule of the powerful over the powerless. What we do here is different. True democracy means that everyone gets a voice and that their voices are all equal.

“The leader of Ascension is nothing more than a representative of our collective will. A captain, not a king. We will write ourselves a document outlining what the captain may do, and what they may not. That will become our constitution. Our code. We will define rules for how and when a new captain is selected, and yet more rules for how a captain that is not fulfilling their duty may be removed. The code will be what defines what it means to be a part of Ascension, and no member will be exempt from its laws, captain or not, awakened or not. Under the code, we are all equals.”

Rain shrugged. “That’s all politics, of course, and I promised to keep this brief. For now, there’s only one rule. The golden rule: Treat others as you wish to be treated. We’ll work out the rest later. On to practical matters.”

He paused, waiting for the appreciative murmuring of the crowd to die down.

“We leave for Vestvall tomorrow morning at ninth bell,” he continued. “Our mission is to search for survivors. After that, we will decide whether to make for Three Cliffs and civilization, or to turn south for the Badlands and the promise of lairs, blues, and awakening. Everyone already knew that, of course, otherwise, you wouldn’t have joined, but I want to be clear. If you wish to change your mind, this is your last opportunity to do so. Once we leave Fel Sadanis, it may be a long time before you get this chance again.”

Rain paused, looking out at the crowd. There were a few uncertain expressions, but the general mood seemed to be one of resolve. He nodded. Good.

“You don’t need to decide now,” he continued. “We will spend the rest of the evening practicing with our new equipment and discussing how we will navigate the dangers of a ranked zone. If you do decide to remain in Fel Sadanis, please, return your gear to Vanna. There will be no judgment nor recrimination.”

Rain cleared his throat, scrolling so he could see the last paragraph of his notes.

“With that, I’m done talking. I told you that I would keep this short, and we’ve got a long walk ahead of us.”

He spread his arms wide and hopped down from the crate.

“Welcome, everyone, to Ascension.”
