Octavia’s head swiveled around. Potions? Saliss had given Erin potions? You couldn’t buy potions made by Saliss of Lights on the open market! When he sold, it was to an exclusive clientele who bid on his goods!
Erin seemed to get all that from Octavia’s bug-eyed stare. And the fact that the Stitch-Girl was resewing an ear onto her head to make sure everything was right. She shuffled her feet as she looked at the Drake.
“Thanks for doing it. I know I was bothering you, and uh—I’m being pushy. But I just need things to protect the inn, so I bug people and—”
“Sure, sure, lay it on me. I’m not Xif. And I’m currying favor.”
Saliss stretched, yawning. Erin and Octavia looked at him.
“Huh?”
The Named Adventurer grinned at Erin.
“I’m currying favor. How much do I have? How am I doing? I get points for helping with Mrsha, right? And giving you that ring?”
He indicated the ring on Erin’s fingers. The [Innkeeper] started.
“Yeah. You did do that. And it’s—expensive?”
She saw Octavia’s expression. Erin looked at Saliss.
“…Very expensive? Why are you doing this?”
Saliss of Lights went for a shrug. Then he eyed Erin and smiled. And it was an enigmatic smile, different from all his grins and taunting smirks.
“Because you have something I want. And this place looks really entertaining. Say, I’ll trade you a really nice potion for a faerie flower.”
Erin blinked at the sudden offer. She bit her lip, staring at the ring.
“No. I—sorry. Look, I can think about—”
“Okay. How about four potions? Of invisibility?”
Erin froze.
“I—”
Saliss spoke over her.
“Eight potions.”
Erin and Octavia traded glances. The Drake pursed his lips.
“Sixteen? Blast potions, poison gas clouds. The arsenal I use. How about it?”
Erin hesitated. She looked at Saliss. And Octavia saw her mind racing. She was screaming ‘yes, give him the flowers for that!’ But Erin hesitated.
She could be incredibly stubborn, Octavia knew. Beyond stubborn. And Saliss—knew it. Because he laughed and slapped Octavia on the shoulder.
“It’s not working. See, Miss Cotton? I knew it wouldn’t work. I’ll have to try another way. Maybe begging. I’m good at that.”
He winked at her. Erin looked at Saliss. He returned her gaze.
“Bear in mind it’s not that expensive for me, Miss Erin. And I just gave you the ring to bother old Chaldion and Grimalkin. Chocolate for the potions. You don’t owe me. Yet. But I hope you’ll look kindly on an impoverished [Alchemist]—wait, I’m rich. Well, I hope you keep entertaining me and giving me the occasional nice thing.”
He winked at Erin. And the [Innkeeper] nodded.
“I uh—no. No, you really did—thank you. I’m…no, thanks. There’s just this thing with the flowers and—I’m sorry. But also, thank you.”
She looked…embarrassed. Which was a new look for her. Octavia stared as Erin backed away, turning red. And Saliss just laughed.
“It’s fine! Uh oh, she’s running.”
He turned back to Octavia, as if vanquishing Erin Solstice was nothing in particular. She stared at him in awe as he leaned against her wall.
“It’s a heck of an inn, isn’t it? I knew that the instant I saw Erin Solstice.”
“It is.”
Octavia was certain of that. The Drake nodded.
“A magical garden. The door. A white Gnoll, oh, a few more interesting things here and there…and she wonders why I take an interest. Well, I like it. And she also has stuff that really interests me. Why shouldn’t I appear?”
He looked at Octavia, but the soliloquy had been meant for more than just her, she felt. Then he nodded, slowly. And his eyes were sharp on the Stitch-Girl’s face.
“Let me give you some advice, Octavia. There’s no real secret to success that I figured out. I experiment, blow stuff up, nearly die, and count my gold pieces like every other [Alchemist]. But the key to alchemy is new ingredients. Rare things. And when you find something rare? Something unique? You go after it.”
He paused. Octavia’s heart was beating fast as Saliss looked around Octavia’s room. He smiled again.
“Xif came here. I know he did. But that old Gnoll made one mistake. He thought Erin only had one special thing. And he’s hung around Drakes too long. He’s a bit greedy; looks at costs and gains. He’s better at being a Drake than I am. Well—so are most people. Your [Princess], for one.”
He smiled and winked. Octavia was nodding, then she paused.
“My what?”
Saliss paused. His calm smile flickered, and then reappeared.
“[Princess]? You know, your…slightly stuck up Human who loves gold and bossing people about? Sorry, Drake joke about Humans.”
He laughed, lightly, and Octavia laughed too, embarrassed.
“Oh, right. Sorry. I’m from Chandrar; we have royalty too.”
“Right, right.”
The Drake relaxed slightly as Octavia nodded, her expression clearing. He sighed, and then fixed Octavia with a sudden, quick look.
“Tell you what, Miss Octavia. I have a recipe for an invisibility potion, which always sells. It eats ruby dust like nothing else, but I see you have access to gemstones. And I’ve got other gem-based recipes. I’ll share my notes if you match it. Deal?”
Octavia’s eyes went wide. Saliss went on, looking at her.
“I like to gamble. And I just bet Xif played his paw far too early. If Erin’s got a flower and a flame, what do you have, Miss Cotton?”
She hesitated. And she thought of becoming famous alone. But—what she hadn’t offered or shown to Xif was different. Saliss was different. He could be faking. But if he was, Octavia would pull out her life-thread herself.
Slowly, Octavia went over to a spot under her bed, where she’d hidden her most precious objects. She cleared away some magicore, gemstones, gold, and came out with a little jar with a tiny bit of liquid in it. It sloshed around as she held it up and turned to face Saliss.
The liquid shone, with a vibrancy and magic that made the other [Alchemist] stop. Instantly. Saliss focused on the jar as Octavia offered it to him. The younger [Alchemist] was trembling as she spoke.
“I think this is a Potion of Haste. Master Saliss—what do you have to trade me for it?”
She waited. And on this moment, all things turned. Saliss stared at the magical potion Octavia had gotten from Ryoka, that she’d never duplicated. He stared at it, in silence, and then at Octavia. And then he exhaled.
Slowly.
“I don’t take apprentices. But I guess I could show you some stuff, when I’m not adventuring. Let me get some of my recipes from my shop and we’ll haggle. Word to the wise? Haggle with me.”
He reached out and carefully patted Octavia on the shoulder. Her eyes went wide. Saliss turned. He walked towards the door and paused.
“Well?”
She stared at his back. Saliss winked at her. And he grinned.
“Are you coming? My shop has all the cool things. Yours is nonexistent right now. Let me show you how to make invisibility potions. The trick is watching out when the potion itself becomes invisible. Don’t forget it’s there. Also, you can mix it with water and it’s hilarious. Come on.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice and Lyonette watched as Saliss came down the steps to the common room. Octavia was following him, clutching a little glass jar filled with a glowing liquid. And she had a dazed expression.
Erin had seen it a few times. But she was looking at Saliss much the same way. The Drake stretched.
“It’s been fun, everyone! But I’m going back to Pallass real quick. I’m borrowing your [Alchemist], Erin. I’ll bring her back! But I’m going to trade for some of her rare stuff. Darn, I guess I’ve gotta pay for that door to recharge.”
He snapped his claws.
“Hey, you know what that door to Pallass needs? More rechargability! I bet you’d get a lot more guests if they could come through without having to wait or pay for a [Mage]. Huh? What do you think?”
Saliss of Lights look around. The others just stared at him.
“No? Well, what do I know? I’m not an [Innkeeper].”
He shrugged, and then strolled towards the double doors leading to the hallway. Saliss paused and looked back at the inn.
“I’ll drop by another time, huh?”
“Sure. And when you do—put on a towel?”
Erin mustered a reply. She saw Saliss grin, and laugh.
“Is that a ‘never’, then?”
The young woman put her hands on her hips.
“Maybe just a splash of invisibility potion?”
Saliss guffawed. He beckoned to Octavia, waved at Erin, and turned. He laughed as he walked towards the door.
“I really like this place. Tonight I’m gonna dance on Xif’s rooftop. He might actually cry.”
And then he was gone. Octavia babbled something about the opportunity of a lifetime and ran after him. And Erin saw Lyonette looking at her.
“That is a Named Adventurer. Erin, I know Grimalkin and Chaldion are one thing, but do you think he’s…sane?”
Erin paused. She looked after Saliss. And she didn’t have Lyonette’s reservations. No, something else rose in Erin, then.
It was a stirring feeling in her chest. And she spoke automatically.
“I like him. I want to be best friends.”
Lyonette stared at Erin. She opened her mouth—and then closed it. Because…the words were frivolous at first. A joke. But then you had to look at Erin. And think.
How many people had she said that about? How many people called themselves Erin’s friends? So many. But how many had she ever said—that about?
Erin Solstice slowly leaned on the counter of her bar, in her inn. It wasn’t that Saliss was funny that made her like him. Or that he was strong, or kind. Or even his quirks which did not resemble her that much. No, she had met other people who were just as brave or strong, or kind.
No, what spoke to Erin was something else. A familiarity that she had felt. That she had seen through him and he through her. A…sense that there was an inner-Saliss, carefully watching him laugh and dance about in the nude.
Like a little Erin, who was sometimes genuinely forgetful, or random or silly. But sometimes calculated. But where that inner-Saliss—or inner-Erin—began to calculate and where they were genuine, you’d never know. Not even they could tell.
But what she saw in the inner-Saliss and the outer was something familiar. A strange, crazy thing in a person in this world. A desire to help people. Without getting something in return all the time. To make someone’s life better. To reach out and grab a flailing hand.
To not be a jerk.
Kindred spirits. Erin wondered if it was just her imagination. By her side, Lyonette exhaled.
“You would like him. He’s a bit like you, I suppose. Maybe. But please tell me you won’t strip and walk around nude.”
“Mrsha does it.”
“…True. We really need to buy her pants.”
Mrsha looked up as the two young women stared down at her. She folded her arms.
You and what armies?
