“Mrsha? What’s wrong? If it’s bad, spit it out.”
The little Gnoll clutched at her throat. Erin looked at Lyonette.
“Mrsha, honey, spit it out—”
The Gnoll began to shake. Then, all of a sudden, and Lyonette tried to pry her mouth open, her eyes went wide. She fell onto her back and rolled over.
She wasn’t breathing.
“Octavia! Get over here!”
Erin shouted. Octavia came running as Relc and Embria shot to their feet. The [Princess] yanked open Mrsha’s mouth, shouting for a potion. Erin spun, desperately. Rufelt had said—were there antihistamines in this world? Healing potions? Something—
As the entire inn converged on Mrsha, the Gnoll’s open eyes swiveled around. She paused, and then waved all four paws urgently. She sat up.
Kidding! Joke!
She signed worriedly. Erin turned around. Lyonette fell back, the color returning to her face.
“A prank?”
Palt had knocked over a trio of chairs. He stared at Mrsha. Erin’s jaw dropped. Mrsha looked around worriedly. She hadn’t expected the adult’s reaction.
“Don’t do that! You scared us so much!”
Lyonette was so furious she was shouting and hugging Mrsha. The Gnoll child nearly cried again as she saw how worried everyone had been. But—not everyone was angry.
Relc was laughing his tail off. So was Palt, and Wailant, who’d come running at the shouting. They had a twisted sense of humor.
The [Innkeeper] herself was well and truly shaken. Rufelt had indeed told her that chocolate was fine for Gnolls; they were not dogs and could process it. In theory they might get sicker than Humans if they ate it like, for breakfast and lunch in quantities, but everyone did.
“Mrsha’s the best. Embria used to pull stuff like that all the time. Kids do it. Stop scolding her, Lyonette!”
The Senior Guardsman advised Lyonette as she scolded Mrsha about bad pranks. Wailant was grinning too. The older adults began reminiscing about their children’s escapades. Embria looked like she wanted to leave.
“It was sorta funny. But don’t scare us, Mrsha!”
Erin conceded as she hugged Mrsha. Lyonette scowled at her.
“It wasn’t funny at all!”
Erin’s lips quirked. Mrsha was much chastised, but Erin had to admit—it had worked.
“Sorta funny. I did the same kind of thing when I was a kid. Like—hiding in a closet all day. Um, my parents thought I was kidnapped. They called the poli—I mean, the Watch.”
She scratched the back of her head, embarrassed. Now she knew what that felt like. Mrsha brightened up as Relc chortled. Lyonette pulled both Mrsha and Erin over and hissed at them.
“I ran away from home. Don’t talk to me about pranks.”
Erin blinked at her. Mrsha looked up. Oh. Right. They stared at Lyonette. When it came to biggest child renegades, there was one clear victor.
A sideways look at Palt confirmed he was occupied, but Erin sidled into the Garden with Lyonette, pretending she was having an adult-talk for a second. Then she turned to Lyonette.
“Don’t they miss you, Lyonette? Shouldn’t you let your parents know you’re okay? I mean, if we were this worried about Mrsha…”
It was a thought Erin had never had before now. She’d been so busy on everything else, she sometimes forgot about stuff like Lyonette running away. It was not a priority when people were in danger or big events were taking place. But now, Erin wondered.
Lyonette only shrugged slowly. She didn’t have a fond expression on her face. Or even a terribly guilty one. Just…melancholy.
“Frankly? Calanfer can live without me or half of its [Princesses]. We’re just assets. I wouldn’t be surprised if my family has one of my doubles standing in for me all the time. And I don’t think my father cares beyond that. Or my mother, really.”
Erin’s heart sank. Mrsha looked up at Lyonette and gave her a hug. The [Princess] smiled.
“Thanks, Mrsha. My sisters are better. Well, some of them. But sending a [Message] would just be trouble, believe me, Erin.”
“So they don’t even know you’re gone? Wait, you have a body double? Like, a literal clone?”
Erin was shocked. Lyonette raised her eyebrows.
“Not a [Clone Person] spell. How do you know about…oh, one of your Earth terms. Anyways, why wouldn’t royalty have a body double, Erin? Public events, even receptions at state events, and especially security.”
The young woman from Michigan opened and closed her mouth. She had never been to a state event, unless you counted, like, attending a New Year’s Eve celebration or something. Some chess tournaments had been important, but that had been as a kid.
“Point taken. Um…let’s go back inside the inn. So…does this double look exactly like you, Lyonette?”
“She’s got the class, Erin. If she didn’t look like me, what’s the point?”
“But how much like—”
 
——
 
After the chocolate scare, Erin and Lyonette went back to analyzing the fruits, or rather, chocolate of their labor. There were…problems, even as Erin poured the rest of the chocolate out for use later.
Not just that it wasn’t perfect; that was fine. Chocolate was chocolate and Erin wasn’t going to sell it in bar form. Actually, that was also the problem.
“There really isn’t a lot, Erin.”
For how much work they’d put in, and so many cacao pods, it was true that the amount of actual chocolate harvested was disappointingly low. Erin hesitated. She felt guilty as she turned to Lyonette, trying to put a good face on it.
“Yeah. I…guess we need more trees, huh? We only had one. But—we can use this. Not for chocolate pieces, but we’ll make a cake. And cookies! Chocolate chip cookies, chocolate milk—”
The [Princess] nodded, flipping out a piece of paper to do some sums on.
“I suppose we can up the prices and attract people tonight. But we’ll have to charge a bit more for them, even more than the sugary foods. I don’t doubt we’ll sell out; I’d love to see anyone copy the recipes without chocolate. But…”
They weren’t going to earn much of a return on it, even with higher prices. Erin bit her lip.
“Sorry, Lyonette. I thought we’d get more out of it. And I didn’t realize how hard it was to make.”
The [Princess] raised her brows and shook her head.
“Don’t worry about that, Erin. We figured out the process and that’s what matters. And this is worth the effort—so long as we’re not doing it. And this will pull in a larger crowd tonight.”
Erin smiled and nodded, relieved. Lyonette went on, frowning at the chocolate they’d made.
“The expenses are worth it, if we have a large enough supply to do it in bulk. We should have kept some of the seeds so we could grow…well, a dozen trees at least. Mrsha can help. It’ll just take a while.”
Erin licked her fingers and agreed. The rest of her guests were having little bites of chocolate, but the majority of it was now in solid form, ready to be stored.
“Let’s save the rest. We’ll have this much for chocolate milk—we can make at least a few gallons. And this much for the cake—four of them? It’s strong, so we don’t need much. Chocolate cookies will take this much—and I’ll need this much. I’m gonna cut them up into pieces. Can I get a bag, Lyonette? With a ribbon or something?”
The [Princess] frowned. All of Erin’s other uses for the chocolate were fine, but she narrowed her eyes as Erin looked around for a suitable container for a good amount of chocolate she’d chopped up—enough to fill a hand-sized bag to the brim.
“Who’re you giving it to? The Halfseekers? Relc? The Antinium? They can pay for it, Erin.”
“Nope. I’m not giving it to any of them. It’s a bribe.”
Lyonette paused. Her expression cleared and she pointed.
“Oh, well then. Here you are. Let me know if you need more.”
Erin Solstice blinked as she took the bag. Sometimes she wondered about Lyonette’s values and what she was teaching Mrsha about the world. But then—Mrsha’s other teachers included Bird, and Numbtongue. Erin was the sane, guiding influence.
It was hard being the responsible parent, sometimes.
 
——
 
“Halt! You’re not authorized to come through at this time! Identify yourself!”
“Hey! I own this door! Don’t tell me I can’t come through! You know who I am!”
“Hands in the air! Don’t move! What’s in that bag?”
“Chocolate! Hey! Hey, that’s a br—that’s a gift! It’s food! Not poo! Eat one, go on! Don’t give me that look! And don’t you dare throw me in jail! I’ve been there! It sucks!”
The checkpoint that now held the door from Pallass to Liscor had gotten a lot harder to bluster through these days. There was no Guardsman Kel that Erin could walk past. Instead, there was a gate, [Guards] who got really mad if you came through unannounced, and other levels of security.
Even so, Erin got through with her new magic catchphrase.
“Chocolate. You take. Chocolate. Chocolate.”
Each time a [Guard] protested, she reminded them they knew who she was, she wasn’t bringing Bird in the little sack of treats, and she gave them a bit of chocolate and told them she was selling it at the inn tonight.
It worked. Erin fought her way out of the checkpoint and realized it was still on the eighth floor. Only, it was located closer to the Watch House on the floor, and Pallass had repurposed a building to act as the new containment for the inn.
“Huh. Wow. They cleaned this place up.”
Erin stared about the city. It was indeed restored to how she remembered it, before the Wyvern attack. People were walking about—it seemed like Pallass had gotten back to normal.
Well, aside from that very large poster tacked onto a wall. Erin stared at it. Noass and Sir Relz grinned down at the pedestrians.
 
Presenting Noass and Sir Relz! Pallass’ [Commentators]! Have an issue worthy of worldwide discussion? Write in now! Now accepting applications for assistant positions and other staffing opportunities! Inquire on the 3rd Floor!
 
“…Noass.”
Erin chuckled to herself. But the poster made her vaguely uneasy for various reasons. What she objected to was how proud people seemed to be of it, and the two [Commentators]. Erin still remembered them commentating over the moth attack.
But she wasn’t here to bribe them. No, Erin had loftier goals. So she stopped the first person she saw on the street, a Drake.
“Excuse me, can you tell me where I can find an [Alchemist]? Saliss of Lights?”
The Drake gave Erin a tired look, the kind of look anyone in a big city gave to the tourist who had to ask you a question they were too stupid not to know the obvious answer to.
“9th Floor, Miss Human. Wait. Did you say Saliss of Lights? What do you want with him? If it’s a potion you want, you’re out of luck. He doesn’t sell directly. And he’s insane. A good adventurer, but insane. Er—a credit to the city, but totally mad.”
It seemed Saliss hadn’t lost his goodwill from the battle with the Wyverns, although it was clearly a bit faded. Erin nodded, smiling.
“9th? Sorry, I thought he had a house somewhere else. And I know he doesn’t sell. But I need to find him.”
The Drake clarified himself.
“Well, all the alchemist buildings are on the 9th. He probably has a house lower. But the 9th is the place to ask.”
He paused as he peered at Erin. And then his eyes widened.
“Ancestors, it’s you! The Human with the Antinium!”
“Who, me?”
The Drake stared. Some of the other pedestrians were looking over at Erin and recognizing her as well.
“I saw you! You were in the scrying orb—and that Antinium, Bird the Hunter—do you know it? And Magus Grimalkin? Wait, you have an inn—”
Erin looked around. A crowd was forming and this was not the moment for an Erin-scenario. She waved and shouted urgently.
“Hi, everyone, the door to Liscor will soon be allowing more than two people a day! Visit The Wandering Inn! We have chocolate tonight, if you can get there! Gotta run!”
She made tracks for the nearest elevator. In it, the attendant gave her the same look. Erin panted.
“9th Floor! And yes, I’m that Human. Hi. Erin Solstice. What’s your name?”
“Sikay.”
The attendant was a Garuda. Erin smiled.
“Hey. So, do you do this job all day?”
 
——
 
Talking to people got you places. Sometimes they thought you were flirting with them when you really wanted just to chat. But that was a guy thing, in Erin’s experience. And talking to people got you directions.
Saliss’ shop on the 9th Floor was a rather large building. Erin gathered that he had a private home and even a workshop on another floor, but this was where he had most of his most expensive ingredients. A rather noxious-smelling [Alchemist] had told her that Saliss would probably be there.
The building was large, and, surprisingly, worn down. Erin stared up at it. For the best [Alchemist] in Pallass, or a Named Adventurer, she’d expected Saliss would have a fancy lab. But this looked like a dump.
An old dump. Something had blown out a window three times, in one case so hard that the brickwork had to be boarded up along with the window. The door looked cheap, old, and the entire place stank to Erin more of what she imagined some illicit drug lab would smell like.
It was even in a poorer section of the 9th, away from the high-end [Alchemists] with their fancy shops and glass windows and multicolored smoke coming out of the chimneys. Erin hesitated, but she assumed the directions were good. So she walked up and knocked.
No one replied. Erin knocked again after a beat, and then pounded on the door.
“Hello? Saliss? Anyone home?”
No reply. But Erin was sure the place was occupied. She could see some smoke coming out of the chimney. She narrowed her eyes.
And perhaps it was Relc’s puzzle-solving skills that rubbed off on Erin. Because she noticed the tiny little bell hidden around the side of the large doorway. Literally, to the side—she had to walk off the steps to see it. Erin eyed the little silver bell and gingerly rang it.
“I’m not interested!”
A voice instantly bellowed back at Erin. It was quite, quite familiar. And disturbingly clear. Erin jumped. She hurried around to the main door.
“Hello?”
The door was decrepit. Old wood, flaking in places—heck, Erin even thought she could see through it into a dark interior in spots. It looked awful. But the angry voice kept speaking, as clear as if Saliss was right in front of her.
“Is this Xif? Go away! I’m not sharing my flame! If you’re a [Merchant], I’ll hit you. With a rock or something!”
It wasn’t coming from the actual door itself. Erin’s eyes narrowed as she turned. She walked around to where she’d found the bell again and stared.
Down low against the dirty wall was a little…Erin bent and scuffed at a patch of dirt. It revealed a shining opal, shimmering multiple colors. It swirled as Saliss’ voice projected from it.
