If she had come with nothing, he might have given her the potions anyways.
 
——
 
Saliss and Erin made a strange pair going back to the door to Pallass. The [Guards] certainly didn’t stop him, although they gave Erin a strange look for associating with him. But Erin was too busy focusing on Saliss, or rather, inspecting him.
When the Drake appeared in the inn, it was a busy time, heading towards evening. Chocolate-mania was in full swing, but the entire inn still stopped when Saliss strode into the common room and posed.
“Gah! What is that?”
A Gnoll choked on his food. Saliss turned, waving his arms.
“Hello, everyone! What a lovely crowd!”
“Put some clothes on, you freak!”
“A pervert! Relc, get him!”
“Hold on, isn’t that—”
Amid the chaos, Lyonette pushed forwards. She had the finger of authority, twice as angry because Ekirra and Visma’s family were here and staring.
“No clothes, no service!”
“But I heard you have chocolate. I have gold.”
Saliss had spotted the chocolate cake, cookies, and other treats on display. He reached out and started dropping gold coins onto the counter. Lyonette stared at him. The Named Adventurer grinned. Lyonette looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] shrugged.
“He’s got gold. You gonna kick him out?”
“Yeah.”
Saliss leaned on the counter. He grinned and looked sideways at Erin. Lyonette spluttered.
“I’m happy to serve you, um, Mister Oliwing. But could you at least wear a towel? We’ll provide the towel. But—”
“Chocolate.”
“Excuse me?”
“Chocolate.”
Erin echoed Saliss, solemnly.
“Chocolate.”
 
——
 
Octavia Cotton emerged from her room late to dinner. Like usual, she obeyed her stomach, which was wondering why it was so empty and hungry. She’d been doing a bit of experimenting in her room since it was fairly blast proof.
She was lightheaded with hunger, so she went to the first spot at the bar. The staff knew her, so Octavia soon had a plate of beef stroganoff in front of her. She ate hungrily—and only noticed the naked Drake after a few minutes.
He was naked. Completely. Octavia paused mid-chew and stared at Saliss. The Named Adventurer was eating a blue fruit salad; he’d already had a bit of pizza.
“Uh—”
“Don’t mind me. Just grabbing some pepper. Adds to the taste, you know? The tongue gets old after tasting ingredients.”
He tossed a few flakes onto his salad. Octavia blinked at him. She eyed the Drake and caught on to the last word.
“Wait, you do [Alchemy]?”
“That’s right.”
Instantly, he made sense to Octavia and she relaxed. She was wondering why Erin would have let someone like this in here, but [Alchemists] were a different kind of mad. Some were legitimately addled from what they inhaled or touched, but others were just insane. It was a quirk of the job. Octavia glanced around for Erin, but the [Innkeeper] was rushing about with chocolate foods. It was a busy night. So Octavia just nodded at him.
“I am an [Alchemist].”
“Oh, hey, that’s excellent! Saliss Oliwing. How long have you been in the alchemy game?”
“About a decade, if you count apprenticing young. Less than half that if you don’t. Octavia Cotton, owner, [Alchemist] of Stitchworks. I’m from Chandrar. Are you new in Liscor, or a resident? Sorry, I just got here.”
His name was somewhat familiar, but Octavia found herself shaking the Drake’s claw. She supposed Erin had mentioned him? She was so hungry she went back to eating as the two spoke. Like many who shared the same class, they had an instant camaraderie.
“I’ve been at it, oh, a bit. But I’m definitely new to Liscor. Would you say you’re the best in the city? Also, anything interesting I should know about? I could use pointers.”
The Drake grinned. Octavia nodded. Ah, an immigrating [Alchemist]. Not uncommon given how you could wear out your welcome even without gang wars. One bad accident was enough. She eyed him up and down. Competition? Well, he certainly had at least a decade on her.
“Actually, I’m from Celum. I’m new to Liscor too, but I hear there’s good materials here. Shield Spiders, acid flies…say, where’d you learn your trade?”
“Oh, everywhere. But I was born and raised in Pallass. That’s where I work, actually.”
“Pallass?”
Octavia paused. That was the big leagues. When she’d come from Chandrar, she’d considered settling in Pallass. Even submitted an application, but she’d been glad when it never got accepted.
Competing with all the good [Alchemists] there? No way. She had somewhat regretted it in hindsight; Pallass might have been competitive, but it had a good market and a thriving economy. Celum had been a fight to be the biggest fish in a puddle.
“Wow. Pallass. I’m uh, from Nerrhavia Fallen myself.”
“Oh really? I’ve been there! How’s Nerrhavia doing? Still having honor-duels between [Alchemists] in the streets? Good times, that. I tried practicing it in Pallass, but no one would accept. Old Xif’s no fun.”
Xif. Octavia stiffened, recalling the name of Pallass’ best…and then Saliss’ name hit her again. It was familiar. Even starved as she was, she knew it. And—he’d been to Nerrhavia? If he knew about the duels [Alchemists] got into…
“Hey Octavia! Have you met Saliss? I should’ve known you’d meet. Hey Saliss. Do you need more food? Are you sure I can keep—”
Saliss waved as Erin stopped at their table. Octavia looked at Erin as the Drake replied.
“It’s all fine. Keep ‘em! I got a lot of chocolate. Boy, it’ll be fun eating it.”
He grinned with pure delight. Octavia caught Erin’s sleeve.
“Erin—who is that?”
She gestured at Saliss. The Drake was grinning ahead, but she had the feeling he was looking at her out of the corner of her eyes. Erin paused. She looked Octavia up and down.
“Um, Saliss Oliwing? Also—Saliss of Lights?”
The copper penny dropped. Octavia nearly bolted out of her chair. Saliss, laughing, waved her back over.
“Hi! I’m Saliss!”
“I am a huge admirer. I am so sorry I did not recognize you, Honored Saliss. No wait, Sir Saliss—I was hungry, and I was just working on something upstairs and—”
Octavia stumbled over her words. Saliss winked at her.
“It’s fine. Hey, so you’re an [Alchemist]? Erin said she had one. What’s your specialty?”
Octavia gulped. But Erin had already run off. In awe, shaking with nerves, Octavia sat at the bar and tried to answer Saliss’ questions.
Of course she knew him, now she’d remembered. He was a legend. Xif, now, Xif was famous. But Saliss was a Named Adventurer. He’d fought his way into the ranks of the best with only alchemy. She found herself stammering replies and realizing she was far too rattled to hold up a conversation.
It would have been better if she’d been in ignorance of who he was. Octavia kept biting her lip, hearing her incoherent replies. Saliss was clearly being patient, but he kept glancing about, and she realized she was boring him. Of course she was.
“Great to meet you, Miss Cotton. But I’m gonna go turn that little Gnoll invisible. Or something. Good luck with your potions!”
Saliss winked at Octavia. The Stitch-Girl gulped. She had to say it.
“Wait! Master Saliss—is there anything I can do? Anything to—to apprentice under you? I’d settle for cleaning your shop, doing errands! Without even instruction!”
It would be worth it just to see what his shop was like. Saliss paused. He had a familiar look to Xif’s on his face instantly. Octavia knew it was a long shot.
“I don’t take apprentices, sorry! The last ones died horribly! So horribly I can’t even tell you how they died! Besides, you’re clothed. I can’t work with that.”
He gestured at Octavia’s clothing, grinning. The Stitch-Girl looked down at herself.
“I’ll take my clothes off. Anything you want.”
Saliss blinked.
“What, now?”
“Absolutely.”
Octavia put her fingers under her shirt. She was incredibly serious. Relc’s head slowly swiveled around. Embria looked disgusted as she stomped on her father’s tail.
Some of the other people who’d heard were staring Octavia’s way. But she would absolutely do it. Saliss gave her a long look. Then he grinned and flapped an airy claw.
“Nah, I’m fine. Nakedness is a way of life, not a bargaining chip! And I’m naked enough for everyone!”
The Stitch-Girl sagged. But she’d known how that would go. A real master would get every male or female [Alchemist] to strip in a heartbeat to learn from them. Well, Octavia would have hesitated at sexual favors, like some of Nerrhavia’s masters demanded. That was one of the reasons why she’d left. But Saliss of Lights…
The Drake was looking at her in a kindly way, as if he could read her mind. Then he glanced around at the inn.
“So you came from Celum? Erin caught me up on being banned. What got you going with her?”
“Oh—well, I owe Erin a lot. She and her friends helped me with my own breakthroughs. I’m not a good [Alchemist]—I owe most of my big discoveries to her.”
Octavia was so deflated she managed a coherent reply. Saliss eyed her. And something lit up in his eyes.
“Really? What did you discover?”
Octavia looked up. She thought of her matches and baking soda. But Xif hadn’t been that impressed. Even so—Saliss was looking at her. To prolong that moment she dashed upstairs to her room where her things were stored.
“Ooh. What’s this? And that?”
Saliss exclaimed as he stared at the match and baking soda. When Octavia lit one he clapped his claws together.
“Ah, like a flint! And this?”
“Erin made the bread out of it, actually. It makes it rise.”
“Really?”
Saliss had to eat the bread himself. He ate it with some butter, happily, and then investigated the white baking soda. He took a pinch and smacked his lips as he tasted.
“Hm. Oh, I know what this is. Trona ore. You’ve cleansed it and done something with it—something wrong?”
Octavia’s jaw had dropped. In a moment Saliss had found the ingredient it had taken her so long to synthesize from Erin’s description. But then he looked at the matches.
“Interesting. Phosphorus molded with…something. Can I eat this too?”
“It’s flammable—”
“Oh, no. I just want to know if it’s alright with you. I’m just tasting it, actually.”
Octavia had to nod. Saliss tasted it.
“Charcoal, obviously. And—I see. You’ve also pasted it on the box. Neat! Hey, these two things aren’t bad!”
The [Alchemist] tried not to glow under Saliss’ praise. But she was also deflated. Saliss could instantly tell what her creations were made of by tasting it? The Drake was talking about selling it, now.
“Right, I can see making some of those. The [Engineers] will love the match-thing, and if it makes fluffy bread, the younger [Alchemists] will be making this all day.”
“Well, if you’d like to, I uh—it would be an honor, coming from your shop, Master Saliss.”
Octavia mumbled. There went her big sales. She’d have to rely on Numbtongue’s findings. And he had to fight monsters to get his jewels.
The Drake, who’d been smiling, paused as he looked sideways at Octavia. And his eyes flickered.
“Oh. Hey. You think I’m going to walk off with the recipes?”
Octavia jumped.
“What? No! That is, if a master like you were to—”
“Hey.”
Saliss’ smiled faded. His playful tone vanished. He leaned over and grasped Octavia’s arms, just above the stitching on her elbow. She saw him smile at her, without the teeth.
“Calm down, Miss Octavia. I’m not stealing anything. I don’t steal. This isn’t Nerrhavia. Also, I don’t really need either creation.”
“Of course. I didn’t mean to—”
“Hey. I’m not done. And I’m not being mean. Did old Xif come by? Bet he did. Did he try to walk off with the recipes? Don’t answer that. Listen, I’m not stealing it. I’m telling you to sell it.”
Octavia shut up. She looked at Saliss. He nodded.
“Sell it to Pallass’ [Alchemists].”
“But how…?”
The Drake shrugged.
“We have a Guild. I never attend. Those go ‘boom’, and most of the good [Alchemists] don’t bother with regular meet ups anyways. But we pass along information and such. We’ll buy the recipe.”
“Buy it?”
Buying a recipe? Octavia had heard of it being done, but [Alchemists] preferred to usually steal each other’s work. That was how it worked in Nerrhavia and Celum. But Saliss was nodding.
“Fair’s fair in Pallass. The [Engineers] used to have the same problem, but the Assembly of Crafts passed a law. Original inventions need to be credited—there’s actually a registry of who made what. But in practice, we’ll just pay you once to let us use your recipe and you give us your notes. I’ll run it by Xif and the other [Alchemists] I know; they’ll do the guild paperwork. We like it, we’ll all chip in and the younger ones can get the recipe. Well, we might make them work for it.”
He winked at Octavia. She felt something warm returning to her cloth heart, currently flesh and beating in her chest. Saliss eyed the matches and baking soda.
“And you say Miss Erin helped you make it? Interesting. Do you have anything else like that? If you do, I’d love to see. Not stealing, again! Just as one [Alchemist] to another.”
Octavia Cotton looked at Saliss. He was the kindliest master of alchemy she’d met. And Octavia Cotton, who had missed friendship for gold and had made bad mistakes before, saw an opportunity. So her mouth took over for her shocked brain.
“I have a room upstairs. With stuff in it!”
 
——
 
“Interesting. Not bad. That’s awful. That’s worse. Nice molds. Are you using them?”
A little while later, Saliss inspected the mess in Octavia’s room. Most of her non-volatile ingredients were piled up, ready to be put into the shop. He was staring at her molds, which had still failed to produce the mysterious penicillin Ryoka and Erin wanted so badly. They were in many colors, and the [Alchemist] poked at a few.
“You study molds too, Master Saliss?”
Octavia hovered behind him, trying to both not get in the way and instantly provide anything the Drake wanted. The nudist shrugged.
“Well, I make poisons. You know that one’s really toxic? You should probably keep that away from the kitchens.”
He pointed at a fluffy spore mold. Octavia winced. She had not known. She made a note to never tell Lyonette and dispose of that one.
“Saliss? Octavia? Lyonette said you were up here. Hey.”
Erin appeared as Octavia began telling Saliss about her various mold cultures. That was almost a relief. Erin could take some of the Drake’s attention from Octavia; she felt like her threads were coming undone just talking to him. Erin didn’t seem to realize what a legend Saliss was.
But she had some notion. She eyed Saliss and Octavia.
“Hey. Um, I just wanted to say thanks, Saliss. For the potions.”
