“Hi, Relc. What’s happening? Hi, Embria.”
“Miss Solstice.”
“Hey Erin. I just got paid, and I heard you have something to eat. Will it be done by tonight? Also—I got two new puzzles from the [Traders] so this week’s great. See? See?”
Relc was excitedly showing Erin a…lock. Well, it looked like a lock, but apparently you could take it apart and put it back together without picking the lock. As she fiddled with it and Relc gave her hints, Embria turned to her father.
“The 4th is getting restless, you know. We haven’t gotten word we’re going back to the rest of the army. We might stay here on semi-permanent duty.”
Her face said she was torn on the issue. Relc paused as he reached for his drink of blue fruit juice.
“Hey, if that’s what High Command says, the [Captains] and [Lieutenants] can tell the regular idiots to shut up. No use yanking your tail. And—well, you’re not fighting, but this is Liscor. Another group of Raskghar emerge, or the Crelers—they saw action.”
His words were unusually careful. The [Innkeeper] glanced up as Embria nodded. Her shoulders firmed.
“Right, right. Obviously. Those idiots are complaining when we nearly went up against an Adult Creler.”
“Not to mention the dungeon. Heck, I bet the Council will start ordering your company to kill threats, like extra Rock Crabs or something.”
“You think so?”
Relc shrugged as Erin blew on the lock and shook it.
“That’s right. I mean, maybe if you offer? Back when I was in 4th, we sometimes did that when we were on guard duty. Slay a monster here and there. But our [Wing Commander], old Splinterscale, had to offer.”
“Right. Well, the Council hasn’t offered, but maybe they haven’t considered it. Only a matter of time.”
Wing Commander Embria’s eyes flickered. She nodded at her father. And Erin gave Relc an approving look. She turned back to the lock. What was this new, helpful Relc? It was almost like he was listening to her advice when he sometimes came in to chat about issues, Embria being one of them.
“Hey, Relc. How do you solve this thing? Give me a first step.”
“Maybe there’s something on the lock you can use, Erin. Like…a long pointy thing?”
Erin had just figured out there was a camouflaged pin in the lock and was trying to get it out when Palt called her back. She waved at Relc and Embria, and trotted over.
“I think we’re nearly done. Take a sniff.”
The Centaur waved at the beans. Erin leaned forwards.
“Ooh!”
They had begun to smell nice. And as Palt carefully picked out a bean and offered it to her with a warning that it was hot, Erin inhaled something like…chocolate. Then she saw one of the beans jump a bit.
“Oh! They’re beginning to crack! Lasica said that’s nearly done!”
Excitedly, Erin waved at Lyonette. The [Princess] came over and sniffed approvingly. She checked the list—and Erin groaned again at the look at her face.
“What now?”
“Remember those [Millers] that Lasica introduced us to? I’ll have them winnow the beans now. The husks are apparently good for something, but the inside—the ‘nibs’ are what we want.”
“Aw!”
Erin glared. Lyonette calmly helped Palt push the beans back into a sack. Then she called for Ishkr.
“They’ll probably be done within an hour or two. They have a Skill. But we’ll process the nibs ourselves since that’s apparently when you add sugar. Or nali-sticks.”
“Ooh! I saw some in the garden! You do that! I’ll find them!”
Erin ran into the garden. Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma all started as they saw Erin appear. They had been creeping up the hill towards a [Farmer] with tattoos who was carefully replanting glowing, crimson Sage’s Grass into the ready earth.
“Hey, Solstice! Can you keep your kids off my back? They keep bothering me!”
Wailant hollered at Erin. She paused.
“Bothering how?”
“Pelting me with mud balls, stealing my crops—the next time one of them does it, I’ll tan their backsides!”
Erin pointed at the kids.
“He means it. Also, Wailant, if you smack their bottoms, I’ll smack you!”
The [Pirate] gave her a grin. Then he grunted.
“Viceria here yet?”
“She said she’s selling stuff to a guest.”
“Must be some [Trader] stopping by. Won’t they be surprised? Prices on Sage’s Grass just went up since we have a seller’s market.”
The [Farmer] had a [Pirate]’s smile. Erin sighed.
“Mrsha! I’m going to find those nali-sticks! Wanna come? They’re really sweet!”
Erin had tried nali-sticks before. Then, they had been very thin pieces of what she assumed sugarcane looked like on the inside. Of course, she’d seen sugarcane too—bamboo-like sticks. But in her jungle biome, the nali-sticks were actually really hard to find.
“Darn! I thought they’d be obvious. Hey, you three find them?”
“No.”
Visma called out and Mrsha shook her head. Ekirra sniffed around.
“Someone pooed here.”
Erin sighed.
“Yeah. It sucks. You have a garden and someone poos in it, y’know? Hey! Was it you?”
She pointed at Ekirra. The young Gnoll looked up, alarmed. Then he saw Erin’s expression of mock fury and giggled.
“No! Not me! Uh—Visma did it!”
“Liar!”
The Drake girl shrieked. Erin whirled.
“Aha! Punishment for the pooers! Get over here! No, wait, was it you, Mrsha?”
She chased the kids around, yelling scatological questions as they giggled and fled. Erin was smiling and panting after a few minutes, but the kids were very pleased. She gave up on looking for the nali-sticks—and just then saw the thin, brown tube growing in the soil.
It was rather like a stick, only—when you pulled it out, you noticed the brown casing was just an exterior, hiding a terribly sweet, sweet, white interior.
“Woo! Sugar! No, wait. This is super sweet!”
Erin tasted the fresh nali-stick and her mouth nearly went numb with that much sweet. In fact, it was so scarily sweet she was afraid you could get addicted to it. She only let the kids have a little piece before she harvested a few and headed back into the inn.
The kids could play. Erin sat at a table with Relc, Embria, and Palt, sampling the sweet nali and speculating how best to use it. Relc was happy enough to eat a fresh nali-stick raw, but according to Palt, they were addictive.
“And you say smoking’s bad. There are people who can’t live without a nali­-stick a day. Fresh ones are far sweeter than dry, by the way.”
“I can see why. This stuff is great.”
Relc was subtly vibrating. Embria’s eyes widened as she sampled hers.
“This is good. Say, Miss Erin, you wouldn’t mind if I took the rest of this back to share at the barracks? A pity they only grow in Baleros; I could see using these in our field rations.”
“Hey, take these. I’ve got more growing there and I can always plant more.”
Erin smiled and offered Embria eight. The Wing Commander nodded a bit stiffly at Erin, but managed a smile.
“See? I told you coming here has perks.”
Relc grinned at her. Palt nodded as he puffed away.
“Funny you thought of them for combat, Wing Commander. [Soldiers] like using them for the rush they give you.”
“Really?”
Embria looked pleased. Palt was good at being part of the table. He nodded and began telling everyone about Balerosian armies and fighting. And Erin experienced her first pleasant conversation with Embria. That was the first time, right?
 
——
 
The processed cocoa beans arrived at last. Erin threw up her hands and danced around as she saw the sack of shells, and the glorious little nibs that would become chocolate. Then she paused.
“Uh oh. That’s not a lot.”
Indeed, cocoa beans were the inner part of the cacao fruit, and they shrunk during fermentation. And during drying…and the nibs themselves were, um…small. The dried beans were mostly shell.
Still, there was a decently large sack Ishkr had brought back and Erin was all-in so far. Lyonette was prepared too. She had a stone bowl and a new device she’d bought for this very occasion.
“A stone grinder from Pallass. See? You put the nibs in the bowl and you just rotate this handle and the stone wheel spins.”
“Oh hey, that’s like a big grinder [Alchemists] use. I was thinking of buying one. Mind if I borrow it from time to time?”
Octavia had come out of her room at last. The [Alchemist] had been going mining with Numbtongue from time to time, but she’d also been supervising her new shop. But mainly, she was just lazing about; Erin gathered it was a new experience for Octavia. She certainly ate a lot whenever it was time for food. Apparently she sometimes missed breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
“You can buy your own. I’m not having bugs in my grinder.”
Lyonette stared at Octavia. The [Alchemist] opened her mouth, and nodded.
“Right. Er, I do mulch roaches and stuff. So—how’s this chocolate being made?”
The last step of chocolate was simple. And hard. What you did with the little nibs you’d acquired after all that work was…grind them up. Grind them up, add some sugar, cinnamon, other stuff to give chocolate that taste and you had chocolate.
But even this single process out of all the steps was labor-intensive. Erin and Lyonette began rotating the stone grinder, pulverizing the little nibs in the bowl. They had a wooden handle they took turns rotating—but it was tiring and they soon began calling in the staff to help.
“Wow, this is hard work! And we paid for fermentation, winnowing, and we’d have had to have dried it and roasted it without Palt.”
“Happy to help.”
The Centaur was idly pointing at the wheel and making it spin as Ishkr took a break. Erin stared at him.
“Can you do that all the time? Or make a spell?”
Palt pursed his lips.
“…Give me a table’s worth of space for a magical diagram and I could probably make it work. Although you’d have to have a trigger mechanism to make it stop spinning if it’s drawing in ambient mana. And if you moved the bowl at all, it would break my circuit. Now, an [Enchanter] could reduce the diagram down, make it smoother—”
“Or I could pay Ishkr to grind it. Gotcha.”
Palt nodded. Erin watched as the nibs began to become…chocolate.
First it was a mash, a semi-solid pulp of the ground mixture. But it was already chocolate, just rough, not yet purely one thing. But with each run through the grinder—and it was a slow process—the chocolate kept getting more and more smooth as it blended.
“Look! It’s getting liquidy! Chocolate! We have chocolate!”
Erin danced about excitedly. Lyonette smiled. She took a bit of chocolate from the edge of the bowl and tasted it. She made a face.
“That’s fairly bitter.”
“Well, yeah, it’s dark. We need to add sugar. Keep grinding, Ishkr! Switch out with someone else in uh, ten minutes?”
The three [Cooks], that was to say, Erin, Lyonette, and Palt, began adding in sugar and the other ingredients Erin had been given. Butter and milk powder too! They weren’t making a dark chocolate, even if Erin liked it more than milk chocolate. Also, Erin realized it was definitely necessary to thicken the chocolate they had. Because it was a lot of work to make and darn it, Erin wanted as much for her money as possible!
And with effort, and time, the liquid chocolate began to develop the proper taste. Erin was just about to pour it into some molds to be frozen via Palt when she heard a disturbance.
Not everything had gone as smoothly as the chocolate. Visma appeared in the garden. She stomped through with tears in her eyes and shouted.
“I hate Mrsha!”
“What? What happened? Oh no! You have a bloody…nostril!”
Visma was indeed bleeding a bit. She cried as Erin saw Mrsha, tail and ears lowered, appear in the doorway, holding Apista. It took a few minutes to get the story out of the neutral party—Ekirra, but the event was simple. Erin summed it up.
“She pulled Apista’s wings, so Mrsha hit her. Which was bad, even if Apista was in pain, Mrsha!”
She looked sternly at Mrsha. The Gnoll child turned away. Visma refused to look at Mrsha. Erin modulated her tone.
“But Visma, Apista is also a living thing. And she gets hurt too. Violence is not the answer—”
“Sometimes it’s the answer. I mean, let’s be fair.”
Relc waved from his corner. Erin glared at the unwanted dad-parenting, especially since Embria was nodding. She turned back to Mrsha.
“—Violence is okay against Crelers. But you’re friends, right?”
“And friends sometimes hurt each other. But they should say sorry. And you’re sorry, right Mrsha?”
Lyonette gave Mrsha a cuddle. The Gnoll hugged her, and then went over to Visma. The Drake refused to look at her.
“Go away. I hate you.”
It was a little fight. But—it mattered. Erin and Lyonette watched anxiously as Mrsha recoiled. She tried to go around and sign her apology to Visma, but the little Drake kept turning around. Ekirra kept watching them, pacing around them anxiously. But Visma refused to accept the apology.
In the end, Mrsha curled up into a ball of misery. Only then did Visma look at her. She saw how sad Mrsha was and she began to cry. Mrsha looked up, saw Visma crying, and started crying as well.
With both of them crying, Ekirra joined in because his two friends were upset. Erin hugged them all.
“No punching each other! And we have chocolate! Okay? Let’s say sorry and make up.”
Sorry.
“Sorry.”
Visma and Mrsha looked at each other. Mrsha nuzzled Visma’s face and the Drake girl copied the gesture. Erin quickly brought down some of the flash-frozen chocolate.
It wasn’t as…perfect as a chocolate bar from her world. And Erin couldn’t make those fancy patterns in the chocolate; she’d just used a quick mold in the shape of a bar. But she broke it into three little pieces now. Visma stared at her chocolate and Ekirra and Mrsha sniffed theirs.
“And it’s okay for Gnolls?”
Lyonette looked anxious. Erin had told her chocolate was bad for dogs, and the [Princess] had objected to giving it to Mrsha on that ground. But Erin was calm.
“Rufelt told me Gnolls have no problem. He eats it, and so does Lasica. It’s fine, Lyonette. Lasica’s a [Chef].”
The [Princess] nodded, a bit relieved. Mrsha was the first to bite into her chocolate, with Visma. Ekirra was more cautious; Erin suspected he thought it was poo after their silly game.
Visma’s eyes went wide as she tasted her first bite of chocolate. It was properly sweet; not overpoweringly so since the point of this chocolate was to be chocolate first, sugar second, but it was a taste. Like ice cream for the first time. The Drake girl began to gobble her small bite.
“Careful! It’s a treat! Eat it slow! Mrsha, what do you think?”
The little Gnoll was chewing her bite with her eyes closed. She smiled up at Erin and Lyonette—and then her face grew confused. Mrsha paused, and then began coughing in the throat.
She froze. So did Erin and Lyonette.
