“Hello? Hello? Darn, if it’s kids I’ll melt their tails off. Where’s the seeing stone? Argh! No! Don’t go out, little flame! Happy flame! Happy flame!”
Erin heard some panicked crashing in the background. She narrowed her eyes.
“Saliss?”
“What? Hello? Is that a familiar voice I hear?”
“Um. Hi. It’s me, Erin.”
“Erin?”
“The Human?”
“Ah! The one with the flame! Did Xif send you?”
“No.”
“Chaldion?”
“No. Look, I just came by because—”
“Say no more! Literally, don’t! This sounds great! I’ll be out in a second!”
Erin heard more rapid movement, some clinking in the background, an oath—then running feet. She stared at the door to the house and looked around.
There was even a bad garden, with some dried up bushes. The small walkway towards the main door had a gate, but it had been open when Erin had walked through. This really did look like a terrible place. But that stone in the wall and concealed bell. Maybe—
The main door did not swing open. But the hidden, concealed section of wall did. The grimy brickwork swung open and Saliss appeared, inches from Erin. The [Innkeeper] nearly jumped out of her boots.
“Aah!”
“Oh, hey. Sorry. I thought someone told you about the bell. It’s you! Come in, come in, before someone sees!”
Saliss grinned and spread his arms wide. He was, of course, naked. Erin stared at him, and then the fake door.
“But that—”
“Fake door. Fake house, really. The door’s rigged. I don’t remember with what, but it does something if you bust on through. And the rest of the house is spelled. People kept trying to break into the old place and this is more fun than a fancy house. It’s a secret laboratory. Cool, right? Come on in!”
Erin Solstice paused. Her first instincts, in order, were to ask Saliss to put something on. Not to stare at his nudity. And third, to say that yes, a secret laboratory was awesome. But she didn’t. It disturbed her, mildly, that people kept comparing her to Saliss. They were not alike. Not at all.
For one thing, the Drake was a nudist. And Erin was not. He was also an [Alchemist] and hurried Erin into a rather comfy laboratory. It even had a carpet, a fireplace—shelves filled with books all around the walls—Erin realized this was more like a research room. The real place where the alchemy happened was through an enchanted magic door.
And that room was built like a testing area. Saliss had metal barricades, stands with glassware out—but very little equipment was on display. Erin saw cupboards made of steel, shining with what looked like various protective runes. One was open and she saw it was filled with any number of ingredients, ordered with neat little notes.
The rest of the doors were closed. And some looked—scorched. Others were dented, but the room itself was unnaturally clean and spartan. Erin gazed about.
“Whoa.”
“Gets them every time. Can I get you a chair? Sorry, I don’t have a chair in here. They tend to get destroyed. Well, everything does. Oop! My mixture’s nearly ready! One second!”
Saliss dashed back to the few objects on a steel counter. Erin saw a glowing liquid swirling under a purple flame…
“Hey! Is that my fire?”
“Yup! Happy fire! Don’t go out! Don’t go out! I just need a bit of heat!”
Saliss urgently prodded more tiny bits of charcoal into the purple flame. It was bubbling the flask on a stand. Erin looked about as Saliss thrust open a cupboard.
“Where’s my Wyvern eyes? Where are they? I have jars of them now, and there’s not one—aha! Gotcha!”
He yanked out a jar of…well, preserved Wyvern eyes. Erin watched, rapt, as Saliss slammed the cupboard shut.
“Wouldn’t it be easier to have it all out in the open?”
“You think that, but no!”
Saliss pointed at Erin as he pulled an eye out of the jar. He grabbed a pair of tweezers and before Erin could process what he was doing, ripped the irises out. Erin made a sound as Saliss repeated the process.
“Oops, sorry. Might want to look away. It’s going to get gooey. I need a jar for the stuff. Can you open that cupboard—”
Erin did. Saliss took the jar and poured the rest of the eyes into it. Then he began to mash the irises up. Just the Wyvern irises. He swiftly added that to the glowing flask. Rather than change colors, Erin saw the liquid steam and begin to reduce at an alarming rate. Saliss cleaned the rest of the eyes up and returned to staring at the mixture. He was like a blur around Erin, never missing a beat even when juggling slippery eyes.
“Where was I? Oh yeah. Got to keep everything contained. When something explodes or turns into poison gas—and it does—anything that can react also does the same. I keep everything sorted and take out what I need. Don’t worry; this room could survive even that Wyvern Lord blasting it with frost! Probably! It can definitely withstand a [Siege Fireball], no problem. I had that tested.”
“What about us?”
Saliss glanced up.
“Well, I’m fine.”
Erin threw her hands up, alarmed.
“What about me?”
The Drake grinned.
“Don’t worry. This mixture won’t ever explode. The worst that’ll happen is that I have to toss it out. I wouldn’t put you at risk.”
That actually sounded reassuring. Erin relaxed as Saliss gestured to the shrinking liquid.
“Give me one second and I can bottle this. I just have to—yes! It’s doing it! You stupid little potion! Reduce! Reduce!”
He danced about, waving his arms and shouting at the potion. He looked—tired. For all he was dancing. And relieved, too. As the potion reduced, it stopped changing colors and became a bright silver. Like mercury, but translucent, and with a faint aquamarine trace of color to it.
“Wonderful.”
Saliss had a little vial ready. He poured the liquid into it, stoppered it, and wiped at his brow. Without a word, he put the vial on the counter. And then he snatched it up and hurled it at one of the enchanted drawers.
“Take that! You do not get the best of me!”
Erin stared as he ran over. The vial had landed, undamaged, and now the Drake began stomping on it. It didn’t shatter, despite his blows, and Saliss threw it a few more times across the laboratory until he was satisfied. Then he picked up the enchanted glass vial and turned to Erin.
“Okay, I’m done. Let’s chat in the study room. I have a chair there.”
He ushered Erin out of the laboratory. Erin found herself sitting in a chair as Saliss lay on his back on the carpeted floor. Only then did she find her voice.
“What was that?”
“Alchemy. I know, I know. It’s a complex process. I don’t expect you to get the nuance.”
“Throwing it against the wall? Stomping on it?”
“I was mad. Also, shouting at your potions helps. That’s obvious.”
Saliss sat up and grinned at Erin. She eyed him. The [Alchemist] shook his head wearily.
“I’ve been working on that potion for eight hours. And I failed six times. I get to be mad! Hi. You’re Erin. I’m Saliss. How can I help you? Also—how did you find my bell? Did Xif tell you?”
“No. I saw it.”
“What? But no one ever looks. Ooh. Clever. So what did you come here for, Miss Erin Solstice with the interesting inn?”
The Drake grinned at her. Now he was done, he seemed to be returning to his normal self. He’d always been, well, Saliss, but Erin had seen him focused like a laser on the potion. Now, he was relaxed and cheerful. She only remembered the bag of chocolate when he began sniffing.
“Is that food? I haven’t eaten in…day…days.”
Erin slowly held out the bag. It was time to engage obfuscation mode.
“Chocolate.”
“Hm?”
“Chocolate.”
Erin stared at Saliss. He stared back. For a second she thought she saw him frown, then he gave her the same look. He stared at the bag, and nodded.
“Chocolate.”
Erin hesitated. That wasn’t what he was supposed to do. She tried again.
“Chocolate.”
“Chocolate.”
“Chocolate.”
“Chocolate?”
“Chocolate!”
“Chocolate.”
“Chocolate.”
“Chocolate-chocolate.”
“Alright, fine, it’s chocolate. It’s a food! I brought it to you. I was sort of hoping we could talk.”
Erin threw her hands up. Saliss grinned. He sprang to his feet from the ground with incredible athleticism.
“Great! I was just about to visit you, actually! I’d like more fire, or the flowers. Or just entertainment. Can I get all three?”
Erin blinked at him. She opened her mouth.
“Wait, I came to you to get help! I mean, this is a bribe.”
“Ooh. Can I have some? Hey, this looks like poo! No, wait, I tell a lie. Not what comes out of me. Sugary.”
Saliss closed his eyes. He savored one piece, gobbled three more in quick succession. Erin began to have regrets.
First, coming here. Second, how this conversation had begun. Third—she was wondering what Saliss of Lights would look like on a sugar-high.
Erin caught the Drake looking at her sidelong. Saliss grinned on his fourth piece of chocolate, biting it in half. Then he offered Erin the bag.
“Want a piece yourself? This is really good. I don’t remember having this. Is it completely new?”
“Sort of. It’s from Baleros. But I have a tree in my garden—I’m fine, thanks.”
“Sure. This is really good, but I’ll save it. So this is a bribe?”
Erin hesitated. That had slipped out. She nodded slowly.
“That’s right. I’m bribing you. Uh…can I have some of your potions?”
She gave him a big smile. Saliss paused.
“Why? You want to blow someone up? Trust me, you could just hire a Gold-rank adventurer to do that for less than what my potions cost.”
The young woman squirmed in her seat. And she realized Saliss had sat in this very spot buck-naked probably thousands of times. She wondered if that was actually horrible. Seats were seats.
“Uh, well, I was hoping I’d get some for free.”
“Why?”
“Because…I asked nicely? And because I’ll give you more chocolate?”
The Named Adventurer paused. He looked at the chocolate. Erin was ready for him to ask if a potion was worth a bag of chocolate. But he just grinned at her.
“Ooh, then, can I have some flowers? Please?”
He fluttered his eyes at Erin. She glared.
“Well played.”
The two took another measure of each other. This was not how Erin’s plan had been supposed to go. She’d been wavering between using the chocolate on Chaldion, Grimalkin, and Saliss, but she’d settled on Saliss because he seemed like he had the most of what Erin wanted/needed. But she’d forgotten what Saliss was like, incredible as it was.
Or perhaps, she’d underestimated him. Erin nodded at the vial in his claws.
“What did you make? Some new exploding potion? And why do you need my fire? I know Xif wants to experiment, but is my fire that useful?”
The Drake shook his head.
“It’s a youth potion, actually. And your fire is helping cut one of my processes and save me, oh, a good amount of gold. The happy flame, you see? The heat isn’t just physical. It makes you feel all warm inside, and that works on an alchemical level too…”
Erin’s mouth dropped. She barely caught the rest of his explanation.
“Youth potion? You mean—it makes you younger? As in, eternal youth?”
Saliss blinked. He waved a claw, laughing.
“What? No, no…just for like, a week. Anti-aging potions are the other thing and they’re a pain to make.”
“But for a week? Wait, go back. You can make anti-aging potions? Really?”
The [Alchemist] grinned.
“You don’t need one. And the best I can do is about two years. And trust me—those are harder to make than these. But this infernal brew—which I can make one in ten times on a good day—will sell for more gold than you can imagine. All the old people scramble for it. Who wouldn’t want to be young for a day, right?”
Erin could just imagine. She looked at Saliss and felt—unprepared. She knew he was good, but a youth potion? He flipped it up into the air and caught it.
“I’m going to run it down to the Merchant’s Guild after this. They’ll auction it off and stuff. Don’t tell anyone I can make them. Or if you do—tell rich people. But I hate being bothered about it.”
He nodded casually at Erin. She just looked at him.
“Why can you make one of those potions? Wait—is it that easy?”
He paused.
“No. It’s not. But I can make them because I’m one of the best in the world at my job. Old Xif goes wide. But I do battle mixes and the kind of stuff that earns real money. And you came to get my potions because you want to blow something up. What, exactly?”
He looked at Erin, grinning. And Erin—hesitated. She could pretend, or she could trust the instinct that said he was onto her.
“I don’t know what I’m blowing up. It could be monsters. Or just something nasty. An Adult Creler, for instance. I have these um, acid jars. Made out of acid fly acid.”
“Nasty! Wait, do you have a source? I’d love to buy that. You can intensify the effects, although containing the substance is hard. Okay, for monsters. And what were you going to pay me with?”
The Drake sat cross-legged. Erin pointed at the bag.
“Um. I have chocolate? And I can make more. Like—cakes. Ice cream. Chocolate milk. I was going to invite you to my inn for food if you want?”
Saliss’ eyes widened. He shot to his feet.
“Food? You had me at food! I’m starving. Let’s go. I’ll leave this here.”
He tossed the vial onto the carpet, turned, and then ran back to stomp on it again. He really seemed to be holding a grudge over the precious liquid. But then again—did he say eight hours and six failures? Erin hesitated.
“I can’t pay you much. But if I could get a few potions…uh—”
She was embarrassed by the way she was asking. She had a different vision of how this would go, hopefully with Saliss having a huge sweet tooth. Which he clearly had, but this was different. To her surprise though, Saliss turned.
“What? Oh, no, food’s different. I pay for food. As for the chocolate—I accept your offer. And I’ll trade you for this.”
He reached for his bag of holding and produced something. Erin blinked as a swirling mixture of separate bands of color appeared in her palms. Saliss pointed at it.
“That’s a Potion of Speed. You need to get away fast? Drink that. You can probably outrun most people. Take an Invisibility Potion too. You can split it several ways; it’ll just last a minute or two if you do.”
He handed another bottle of…nothing. It didn’t even look full, but something sloshed about when Erin took it. She stared at Saliss.
“Wait. What?”
“Chocolate.”
He winked at her and lifted the bag. Erin’s jaw dropped. Saliss of Lights shrugged.
“I’m rich. I’ll trade you more for chocolate. Or buy it. I’ll buy all of it. Do you have more?”
And he winked at Erin. And something in her said that he was serious. And lying to her as well. Part of Erin calmly looked at Saliss.
