Erin Solstice stood over a sack of recently fermented…cocoa beans. The very essence of the stuff that would become chocolate. She spoke to her audience.
“There’s a saying about chocolate. Chocolate waits for no one. Except when it does. Because it’s sort of a pain to make, y’know?”
There was a pause. Palt shuffled his hooves.
“…I’m going to say you’re lying, Miss Erin.”
“Hey. I said there’s a saying. I said it. And I’m mostly right, aren’t I?”
The Centaur opened his mouth. Even for someone versed in Wistram politics and the Ullsinoi faction’s tendency towards creative madness, that was a lot to parse. He looked at Lyonette.
“She’s being dramatic. Or what she thinks is dramatic. Let her have this moment.”
The [Princess] whispered. Palt nodded. Erin glared at them.
“Look at it. Look at it! It looks like cocoa beans!”
Lyonette and Palt stared at the sack that had just arrived after three days of fermentation. It was filled with dark, fat beans. Lyonette nodded slowly.
“Yes. Those are beans. They don’t look like when we pulled them out of the seed pods, that’s for sure.”
Erin nodded proudly.
“We’re a step closer to chocolate. Actually, just so you know, I’m not a huge fan of chocolate. I like it dark, but hey, that’s because my parents do. But chocolate’s okay. I mean, I’m not into alcohol or coffee either.”
The [Princess] and [Illusionist] stared askance at Erin.
“You’ve been talking about chocolate nonstop for the last three days, Erin! Every time someone asks you to do something you don’t want, you say ‘chocolate’ until they leave!”
“Well, yeah. Because it works.”
Erin smiled faintly. Lyonette threw up her hands.
It should have been pointed out before now that Erin, for all her sterling qualities in forgiveness, trust in the essential goodness and soul of people, and her ability to play chess and bring people together—was not always easy to work with. As Lyonette would happily tell anyone who asked. In detail. But then—no one was. Lyonette was bossy, thought Gnolls were overweight, and had a real avarice for gold. Like most Drakes, actually.
“I mean, chocolate’s okay. And I really want to use it in cakes and stuff. Vanilla cake is a crime. It’ll be great to share it with Relc, the Antinium…Relc…and see their faces. Okay, so what’s the next step?”
Erin rubbed her hands together. Indeed, chocolate to her was more about seeing people eat it. Lyonette consulted the recipe Lasica had written up for her.
“We need to dry it. For…ooh. You’re not going to like this. It says for about a week or more.”
The [Innkeeper]’s face fell.
“What? No.”
“Yup. They’re way too wet. See?”
Lyonette prodded some of the beans in the sack. They were indeed unduly moist. Erin threw up her hands.
“I hate chocolate!”
“If you’ll allow me, I think I can deal with that.”
Palt interrupted hurriedly. The Centaur had volunteered to help with the chocolate making. Just the other day he’d been making more Balerosian dishes. He really was cooking his way into Erin and Lyonette’s good graces. Now, he trotted around the sack of beans.
“I’ll handle drying. You don’t need to wait a week; I can use magic. I’ve done this before with other products.”
“Really?”
Erin and Lyonette looked at Palt. He smugly put a cigarette-sized puffer in his mouth.
“Oh yes. Dreamleaf’s just as bad with that. Drying spells and light spells do the trick if you know enough of them. [Light] isn’t powerful enough, but if you’ll give me some room and help me spread the beans out, I’ll draw a little containment circle and dry them. It won’t take more than an hour, tops.”
He flicked a finger and a bit of flame shot from his fingertips—and missed the cigarette as Erin snatched it out of his mouth.
“No smoking. It probably ruins the flavor.”
Palt blew out his cheeks. But he gave up and switched to his vapor-less puffers. Erin and Lyonette found a table in the common room and dumped the beans onto it. Palt produced a piece of chalk—it looked laced with some kind of clear material—and drew a lazy ring around the beans as they were laid out.
Lyonette frowned at how many beans there were. Not a bad quantity, but Erin had only been able to harvest one tree.
“We’re already spending a bit for this chocolate, Erin. It—doesn’t look like much.”
“Well—it’s a lot of beans. Chocolate isn’t something you eat in quantity, Lyonette.”
“Really? From the way you talked about it, it sounded like you put it in everything.”
“No! It’s like sugar, or cookies!”
“Erin, is everything you know how to make bad for you? Hamburgers, your fries, which you submerge in oil, mayonnaise, milkshakes, cake—”
Erin Solstice looked around. She leaned over and whispered to Palt and Lyonette.
“Hey! My country back on Earth has tons of sweet stuff! It’s not my fault that I don’t know how to do other things! I never cooked before I came here! A lot of foods are premade, y’know. Frozen, or preserved. Sort of like magic, but less nice. Also, you can order pizzas. But you’ll get fat if you do that.”
She leaned back over. Palt and Lyonette gave each other looks. Erin smiled.
“It’s great I can tell people that.”
“Well, I never knew how to cook either. So I guess that’s fair.”
“Hm. Well, I like to cook.”
Palt trotted around the cocoa beans on the table, flicking his wand at them. Erin saw a shimmering ball of light coalesce. It was bright—until Palt did something and the light angled downwards, bathing the table in a harsh glow. At the same time, Erin saw him point and murmur.
“…And there we go.”
“Wait, is it working?”
Palt nodded as Erin craned her neck. She didn’t see much besides the light pouring down. The Centaur pointed at the table.
“Put your hand in there. Don’t worry, it’s not dangerous.”
Erin put her hand over the crude chalk outline Palt had drawn. Instantly, she felt her hand drying up. The outer layer of her skin felt like it was cracking and losing moisture in real time. She yanked her hand free.
“Whoa! That’s powerful!”
“Well, you tend to learn for—”
“Dreamleaf.”
Erin and Lyonette chorused. Lyonette put her hand in there and exclaimed.
“That is powerful. You know, there are, um, scenarios where I could see using this spell to harass other people. Or rather, I know of them.”
Palt grinned.
“Oh, you’ve heard of dramas between [Ladies] and nobility as well? Yes indeed, drying a competitor’s skin the night before a ball and whatnot. Hilarious. Unless you kill them by accident.”
“Yes.”
The [Princess] coughed. Erin was fairly impressed that Palt didn’t seem to need to actively maintain the spell. The [Illusionist] just shrugged.
“Letting a spell work in a confined boundary like this isn’t simple—unless you’ve been taught the theory. Then it’s simple. It’s the kind of thing your friends from Wistram would have learned in oh, year five or so. I’ll keep an eye on the beans.”
Erin nodded. She wandered off as Lyonette managed the inn. It had been three days since her outing with Lasica to get the beans fermented. In that time, Erin had only had a few interesting incidents.
A Rock Crab trying to eat the Workers building the second floor, Ekirra learning bad words, oh, and another playground incident. Erin had been banned from Liscor’s playgrounds after she’d once rallied the children in a day-long siege against the adults.
This time, it had been Mrsha and her two little friends who’d attacked anyone within throwing range with their balls. An entire army of Gnoll children pelting adults with leather balls was a sight Erin wished she could have seen.
Normal incidents. And as it so happened, Ekirra and Visma were coming again today. Erin greeted Visma’s older brother, who was once again on child-escort duty.
“Hey! Um—Feiss, right?”
The young Drake boy stared up at the infamous Human. He nodded as Visma hid behind him and Ekirra stared up at Erin. She smiled at them.
“You were here just the other day. Hi Ekirra, hi Visma. Would you like some lemonade?”
Lemonade was a cool thing for kids. Erin had drunk it and thus she associated that with summer and outdoors. Ekirra’s ears perked up; he seemed oddly down, for some reason. Visma was excited as she chattered at ERin.
“Hello. Ekirra learned a bad word. His mom got mad when he said it.”
Erin’s face fell a bit. Ekirra and Visma were Mrsha’s best friends. New friends, but they were so close. Erin was trying to make these playdates a regular thing. And getting on the parent’s good side helped.
The ‘damn’ incident had been a bad one. And frankly, getting any parents to let their kids come to the inn had been a hurdle and a half. The inn had a reputation. But the Garden of Sanctuary, along with some testimonials from Krshia, Elirr, and Selys, had really helped. Feiss left Erin with the two kids after a cup of lemonade himself. No one turned down Erin’s free food, even if Lyonette said it was unhealthy.
“Mrsha!”
The little Gnoll had been on the roof. She raced down, having smelled her two friends. Bird followed, with a bow. Erin stared at it and the Worker lifted his arms innocently.
“I was letting Mrsha shoot the bow.”
“What?”
“It was very safe. She nearly hit a bird.”
Erin paused for a second as she considered all the ways Mrsha could hurt herself and then weighed Bird’s actions on a beratement scale. Eventually, she decided it was probably safe. Bird was an expert at shooting things. And he had really gotten out of his…shell, or rather, tower, since he’d been banned from killing birds.
Heck, he was practically going on little trips with Numbtongue and sometimes Octavia every day. Erin suspected he was also hoping they’d be attacked by Wyverns or something, but she appreciated that side of Bird.
“Well, just so long as Mrsha’s very safe.”
“She is very safe. I did not even let her climb out onto the roof.”
Mrsha gave Erin a wide-eyed, innocent look as Erin turned to look at her. She tugged at Visma and Ekirra’s arms and they ran over to the door.
“Just remember, you stay inside the inn and garden! And if I catch you trying to use it to sneak into the kitchen—”
Erin’s injunction sent all three children fleeing, giggling. Erin crossed her arms and closed her eyes. It had been quiet. Pleasantly so, of late. She hadn’t seen Pawn or the other Antinium yet, and she was beginning to be a bit…worried about them. Or rather, Klbkch. Erin needed to have a chat, when she figured out what they were going to chat about.
But Erin hadn’t been inactive either. She had yet to really dive into experimenting with her fire—it was all about the Sage’s Grass field and her magical garden at the moment. Already, part of the meadow had been uprooted and all the lovely flowers replanted so Wailant could plant his grass.
And with Ekirra and Visma popping in, and after the [Pirate] had so effectively beaten Erin’s aura with a drink to the face, she’d been…practicing.
Now, Erin closed her eyes. She concentrated, spreading out an awareness she hadn't known she had. If people had six senses, this was like a seventh sense that sort of felt like the sixth. Erin hadn’t even known she could feel with her inn-sense until recently.
“Hm. Garden. Pond.”
Erin opened her eyes. She headed towards a wall and the door to the garden appeared.
“Hey! Remember towels, you three! Rolling in the grass doesn’t count and it makes you dirty! Towels before you come into the inn, okay?”
Mrsha, Visma, and Ekirra jumped as Erin appeared in the doorway. She smiled, pleased with herself. They nodded obediently as Mrsha did a breaststroke through the water and grabbed Ekirra’s tail. Apista buzzed around the garden as Erin closed the door.
“It must be a relief, having that garden. When I was a colt, I’d run off and my parents would find me miles from our village.”
Palt commented as Erin wandered over. She looked at him.
“I can’t imagine that. I was a kid and I used to get in trouble for wandering off while looking at chess notations. Uh…that’s sort of normal. The wandering off part. What are Centaur kids like?”
The [Illusionist] grinned.
“Prone to running about a lot. And we get spooked easily. Centaurs are actually fairly nervous as a people. We do not like loud noises, so thunderstorms have us up all night.”
“Really? Well, Humans…uh…uh….we have a thing about eating sugar.”
“So does most of the world.”
Erin paused.
“We…like sitting around and eating?”
“Many a time I’ve done that.”
“You know, Humans are really unique. Because we have this unique feature of…gossiping about people behind their backs.”
“Having lived around the Lizardfolk, I cannot imagine what that’s like.”
Palt grinned as Erin glared at him.
“Don’t worry. Humans are unique. Well, your people have inbred with a lot of species. You’re like the common clay of a lot of people. Centaurs have Human torsos, after all. Or as my people would put it, Humans have odd legs and Centaur torsos.”
The young woman had to smile at that.
“Sounds familiar. So—what do Humans have?”
“An obsession with climbing things. You people see a mountain and you climb it. Centaurs, Lizardfolk, Dullahans—we leave it alone.”
“Huh. But you never wonder…?”
“No.”
 
——
 
After about an hour, the beans were done drying. It surprised Erin, but Palt’s spell was powerful and air-drying was, well, air-drying. Palt assured Erin his little trick could dry wet clothing, and Erin knew from experience how long a pile of wet clothing could take.
She prodded the beans in the tray, pulling a few out with tongs.
“I think they’re dry! Yup! That’s dry! Know it anywhere. Lyonette, we’ve got dry beans! What’s next?”
The [Princess] indicated the recipe lying next to the table. Erin sighed. She had to read it herself? She checked the neat Drake script and frowned.
“Huh. Roasting ‘em. Like coffee! Which I assume you roast. I mean, that’s all I hear about it.”
“What’s coffee?”
“Something not in my garden. But it’s another bean. Wakes you up. I never really saw the point. I’ll do a tea if I need to.”
“Hm. You know, the Elusive Lot…”
“You’re already getting chocolate, buddy. Don’t pretend that you’re not memorizing this.”
Palt jumped and to Erin’s gratification, blushed. She smiled. Old Erin wasn’t that oblivious! Or that old!
“Well, I can do the roasting too. How hot should I make them? I even have the boundary set up…”
The Centaur cleared his throat. Erin shrugged.
“Hot as an oven? But not super hot. Let’s see what happens.”
Palt did just that. Erin walked off to say hi to Relc, who’d come in with his daughter on their weekly father-daughter get-togethers.
