In the distance, something felt off. They were heading for an empty area, but when Jake looked there, something told him what he saw wasn’t entirely right. Narrowing his eyes, Jake also activated Sight of the Boundless Horizon, and when he did, his vision shifted, allowing him to see the truth.

A mountain, or perhaps a large hill, appeared, made entirely of bone, stitched flesh, and webbing. Except at its top, where a familiar-looking worm-like growth sprouted up, with a far larger than average eye at its end. This worm moved around erratically, looking in different directions, but the moment Jake focused on it, it spun around and stared directly at him as Jake used Identify.

[Arachnec Guardian Monitor – lvl 499]

Peak B-grade, though even from this distance, the creature didn’t strike him as more powerful than the Archweaver. In fact, it felt significantly weaker. Still far stronger than Jake with its massive level advantage, but definitely a far easier target if Jake had to somehow try to take it down.

“Your Perception rivals or surpasses that of Monitors many levels beyond your own,” the Archweaver said, having realized Jake saw through the illusion. “That, or you have skills allowing you to peer through illusions. Likely a combination of both.”

“I do like Perception,” Jake said, deciding not to accurately state that Perception was indeed the best stat, as he honestly didn’t want to get into that kind of discussion right now with the bone mound so close.

“Like? A statement implying stat allocation is partly by choice for your race. Interesting,” the Archweaver said, definitely getting more out of Jake’s words than he intended to reveal. He’d kind of forgotten that a lot of monsters had little to no Free Points given, but had all their stats automatically allocated upon gaining levels.

“What is this place?” Jake asked, changing the topic as he looked at their destination. “It’s not a Nest, that I can tell.”

“It is not,” the Archweaver confirmed. “This is what we refer to as a Tunnel Mound. If you are familiar with the Venusians, it functions similarly to the teleportation network they’ve set up between villages, though on a smaller scale. All of them connect to the Nest.”

Jake nodded, also suddenly understanding how these Arachnecs could claim such large territories. Assuming all of their kin were spawned in these Nests, it would take a long time for them to travel to outer territories, but if they had these weird things that were effectively long-range teleporters.

Based on how Jake saw Arachnecs streaming out of the Tunnel Mound, it looked like they were trying to replenish the losses from Jake’s hunt. That, or they just always had this much of a run on their teleporters.

“Aren’t they a safety hazard?” Jake asked, looking at the structure – a term he used very loosely. “What if the Venusians claim one of these Tunnel Mounds?”

“It would achieve nothing but waste the resources of creating one. The Tunnel Mound is like a limb of the Nest, relying on its will to operate. It can be cut off at any moment, rendering it useless,” the Archweaver answered, looking at Jake. “Despite having hunted my kin alongside the Venusians, you seem wholly ignorant about many things. Did they not share this knowledge with you? Curious why they didn’t.”

Jake ignored the Arachnecs clear intent to sow discord as they approached the Tunnel Mound. There were undead spiders everywhere, hundreds of them staring at him, but none moved towards him. He guessed it was due to the magic the Archweaver was using on him, which seemed to not only increase his speed but also make the other undead recognize him as one of their own.

Landing in front of the large Tunnel Mound, they entered a cave leading to its insides, which were quite nasty to say it nicely. Definitely not the kind of place for those faint of heart.

The Nest is definitely not going to be better, is it? he asked himself as they walked toward a dark pit in the center of the Tunnel Mound with undead spiders already crawling out of it.
