The… sand?

The arena had reverted. It was the same as it’d been before.

He scarcely noticed. He retched. He heaved.

He fought for control of his breath.

For control of his thoughts.

…he’d won.

He’d survived.

He’d…

“Well… aren’t you a splendid fighter?” Randall cheered. He raised his arms, bolstering the audience to cheer alongside him. “Give it up for Markus! What a splendid performance!”

He was awash in praise and blood and death and misery. Through it all, he could feel a small shimmer of relief…

But he knew he couldn’t trust it. That he couldn’t trust anything here.

“Let’s see…”

Randall flew down from his chair and stood over the still bleeding corpse of the altok.

He kicked it.

“Hmm! Still a slither of life in there! Don’t worry, he’ll likely succumb to his injuries within seconds…”

Randall bit his lip, tilted his head from side to side, as if he were contemplating a great riddle.

“Only…”

His lips twisted. His eyes trained on Markus.

“I don’t think this fight is entirely over…”

Randall clicked his fingers.

Markus found himself levitating five feet off the ground. He felt as if all of his limbs were being tugged in different directions. It was a momentous task only to breathe.

“What do you think, Markus? Shall we give them another shot?”

What did he…

Markus watched as the worm from before began to lift from the ground, once partially covered by sand, floating now ten feet above ground, its corpse long dead, its tail end entirely limp. The altok, too, began to float.

Randall cackled. “Oh, I haven’t done this in such a long time! Consider it a gift for a battle well-fought!”

Drathok teleported into the arena.

He waved two hands before Randall, demanding his attention.

“No… Great One, I beseech you, your agreement with Elasar was that only Markus would be the one to be endangered, that—”

“Silence,” Randall hissed, tossing Drathok back against a pillar with a flick of his eyes. “I have no interest in honouring a deal with a pit lord, and for an imp baron to even dare speak to me on my actions… you’re lucky I’m in such a good mood!”

He cleared his throat as the spilled blood of both worm and altok began to float around the pair of them, as the two bodies began to float closer to one another.

“I am fair,” Randall said. “Tell your master I will pay whatever reparation he wishes. My only wish is to put on the show of my dreams…”

He waved up to the audience as the two monsters began to coalesce, as the blood began to seep into them both, as they started to become one, an unholy abomination cursed with divine energy…

“Besides!” He raised a hand as the monster’s horrific form began to take shape. “They’re all wonderfully entertained by what’s transpiring down here, well, aren’t you?”

The crowd seemed too shocked to respond instantly, all of them were transfixed by the rippling, pulsing sinew and flesh parting and being conjoined as the altok’s body began to slot within a space along the worm’s head…

Randall waved his cane. Ten, maybe twenty members of the audience exploded immediately, their bodies becoming red paste as they splattered over their fellow spectators.

“Well? Aren’t you?!”

A hurried cheer. It was soon joined by many more.

Drathok gasped at the sudden carnage; Markus felt panic beginning to rise within him once more, bubbling within his core.

“I can’t let you do this to my…”

“Well, what exactly are you going to do about it?” Randall laughed, flashing down to Drathok in a swoop of his wings. “Kill me? Stop me? Cry for your master?”

The massive worm-altok hybrid began to grow legs, first spindly, but soon thick. First it was two, then four, and eventually, six.

“You know what?” Randall laughed. “You know what? I’m tired of sitting here and watching.” He lowered Markus until he was only a few inches from the ground.

“I’ll tear the limbs from this miscreant myself. Forget the theatrics.” He smiled more deeply, an inhuman glee painting his features. “I’ll pull each layer of skin from you, one by one, and tear through each ounce of hope and humanity left within your miserable body. I’ll expose every nerve in your system, and play upon them like an instrument! I’ll paint this place with your entrials! I’ll keep you in that state for as long as you can manage, until you die, until you breathe again, until your very soul begs me for an end, and as I am so generous, I will gladly grant you death, for I AM—”

A flash of motion. Ember appeared.

She leaped.

She bit into Randall’s arm.

He shook her off of him with ease. His arm was scarcely marked.

He drove a foot into the hellhound’s side. He pierced her body, drove it straight through her.

“What is this? You send your pathetic attack dog to maul me, Eris?”

He twisted his foot in Ember’s body. The hellhound howled and whined and squeaked.

“All of you are ridiculous. All of you, all of you are completely, utterly—”

Markus watched as Serena materialised before Randall, immediately blasting him twenty feet back with a pulse of prismatic energy.

“Oh, and now you’re here.” Randall wiped off his gown as he flapped his wings and pushed himself upright before he could get completely coated in sand. He cracked his neck. “You have a problem too, do you? Bored of presiding over the lunaris?”

Serena ignored him. She placed a hand to Ember. A pulse of healing magic flowed through her. The dog’s head twitched.

“Funny!” Randall laughed. “I’d have never expected such compassion from you. You’re here to save this human, are you?”

Serena continued to ignore him. She stood as Ember’s wounds closed, facing Randall. Sand clung to the ends of her dress from where she’d knelt down. The wind ran in a gentle current. In the background, a giant monster continued to form.

Drathok dared say nothing. Markus didn’t attempt to intervene, even through his restraints.

The audience were silent.

“What exactly were you planning to do, anyways?” Randall brandished his cane as he walked forwards, arms outstretched. “You have no Divine Arm, no sacred treasure, your power has been decimated, and you dare to approach me? For what purpose?”

Serena conjured a transparent blade of pure energy. It shimmered with every colour of the prism.

“I didn’t come here for him,” she said. “I came here to skullfuck you.”

“Oho! Well I’d like to see you tr—”

Randall coughed blood, a twenty foot blade of light now piercing his gut.

He began to walk through it, even as Serena moved the weapon up, along his chest, through his neck and all the way along his head, splitting him in two halves from the stomach up, though the flaps instantly reclosed as soon as her blade had retracted.

“Your powers really have diminished, haven’t they?” Randall laughed. He brandished his cane. “I’m not sure I even need this to end you.”

Serena flicked her wrist. Randall dropped to his knees, the sand beneath him caving in.

“Wh-you…”

There was a relentless rumble. It was as if gravity itself was attempting to bury Randall beneath the sand.

Serena strode towards him like a maiden drifting across gentle waters, the touch of her toes against the sand so soft she barely disturbed it, the sway of her dress in the heat so calm that she appeared more picture than person.

She placed a hand upon Randall’s head. Turned to Markus, smiled.

She began to lift him into the air. Ripped an arm from his body.

He regrew it even as he tore a leg from her in turn.

The two of them flitted and danced and teleported between one another, moving further and further away from the arena as Serena continued to pull him, to push him, to force him to lead and chase.

Before long, Markus could barely see either on the horizon, and after that, he couldn’t.

His restraints dissipated, and he fell from midair.

Ember was laying in the sand, stable but still seemingly dazed.

The audience were stirring, fearful, more vocal now that their god, their captor had left them.

The monster beneath them all was beginning to awaken. Without a master to pull its reins and direct it, it seemed intent on smashing whatever laid in its way, and eating whatever it might get close enough to.

It was a monstrosity. A six legged draconic worm with six arms jutting out from its overgrown, metallic head. Layered in scales and steel and flames, this creature looked more than capable of tearing through the entire arena, all of its inhabitants, and likely half of Sun City if it weren’t taken care of.

Drathok hadn’t been joking. Leaving Randall with any control over arena proceedings was…

Perhaps it was Markus’ fault all this was happening. Maybe, if he’d just taken his punishment and not fought back, then—

Screams echoed as the monster’s tail slammed into the side of the arena stands, the side of the mountain, breaking off an entire section of stone as rubble began to crumble down around the onlookers.

Markus clambered to his feet as he spied the fresh hole the creature had left.

It wasn’t hard to tell where it led. Even through the murkiness, even through the tightness of the aperture…

There was a glint of sunlight beyond.

The monster reared. Drathok clambered to his feet. Ember remained inert.

The crowd began to move, to attempt to run for the narrow exits...

What the fuck did he do now?
