The mana glow produced by [Scry] was a sphere of white around Erick’s hand. But [Scry] itself was a deep, terrible silence, and not actually silent at all. [Perfect Hearing] helped Erick understand that the silence of [Scry] was actually an ultra low frequency hum. It was an unearthly sound, one of giant monsters watching you while you slept, or an enemy figuring out your secrets, or a storm rumbling far away. Poi even commented, to ‘please stop that, sir, it’s making me very nervous.’, which was about the same as Erick’s feelings on the sound of [Scry]. Spooky stuff!

[Conjure Force Elemental] was the sound of being underwater, of a whirlpool concentrated into a dot; of a mind emergent, one step removed from being a soul. It was the sound of an amoeba, or a flatworm. The white glow that came out of [Conjure Force Elemental] flowed around Erick’s hand like water around a globe, to catch here and there in streams and eddies.

Erick thought how to combine all of that, as platinum rain fell across farmland.

Erick imagined: [Familiar] seemed to call up a mind out of the ocean of a collective unconscious, put it in a body, and give control of most of that body to the caster, while the parts that were not under direct control were emotionally under control because of… some deep seated horror imprinted upon the [Familiar]?

No… That can’t be right. That seemed… Wrong.

Erick set that problem aside and went through the rest of his spells, looking for a possible harmonizing magic to go with [Familiar] recipe of [Scry], [Telepathy], and [Conjure Force Elemental].

Highlights of those experiments included:

[Call Lightning] was a primordial force given life; a song unto itself, about oceans crashing and mountains crumbling as the sky ripped everything apart. The white glow of [Call Lightning] even shocked Erick a little, leaving tingling lights on his palm that cracked and sparked as they dissipated.

[Pure Force Beam Bolt] was a pure, high ring, a nail upon a bright chalkboard; a perfect spike of white light, flowing out of Erick’s pointed finger.

[Domain of the Withering Slime] was an undulating mass of underwater sounds and a similar undulating mass of white and grey light. That was an odd one. Grey light? Weird.

[Exalted Storm Aura] was a primordial force that had seen some shit, and had chosen to lay down and start a nice life for itself in a place where it wouldn’t be disturbed. The white flare from [Exalted Storm Aura] was similarly sedentary, but not; the light built upon itself, like a cloud slowly growing larger. Erick smiled at that one. He had no idea where these feelings were coming from, when he channeled mana through his spells, but the emotions coming off of [Exalted Storm Aura] were very relatable.

[Airshape] was a wind; flowing high and free across the land, whistling as it danced through grasses, tumbling as it crested dunes, playful, and an extremely airy white light.

[Stoneshape] was a dense, solid sound, producing a solid, unwavering white light.

[Watershape] was, surprisingly, or perhaps unsurprisingly, a swirl of primordial soup, charged and ready to facilitate life, if only it were given a chance. The white glow from [Watershape] was clearly too strong and soul-producing to put into a potential [Familiar]; Erick was not ready to give ‘birth’ to a being made of magic.

[Airshape] though… [Airshape] had possibilities.

Erick channeled mana through the elements of [Familiar], listening to them, feeling them out, understanding where the harmony lay between the three.

And there was none.

Oh, sure, maybe if he listened in a different mood, or if he had a different state of mind, or if he plugged his ears and decided that discordant and disturbing was actually delightful and desired, he could hear a harmony emerge from the ether. But there was no real harmony; not to Erick’s ears. Not, however, until he added a fourth, stabilizing sound: [Airshape].

The horror of all-sight touched upon the sky, and was given wings to see the world. The disaster of looming in the minds of others was given space to be itself. And the swirls of concentrating mana, now concentrated in a rhythm.

Erick sat to the side of the temple, in the middle of Spur’s farms, flowing mana through his spells, listening to them, and feeling them, while platinum rain poured all around from silver clouds; a gentle, constant static, to the emotions and feelings and sounds emanating from his Script-magic.

The sounds he made were small sounds, echoing in the temple, not traveling very far. He wasn’t going to pump up the power and actually try to combine the spell like this, not yet, not while he was using [Exalted Storm Aura]; that spell seemed reluctant to play well with others.

When the scheduled rain was over, Erick [Teleport]ed home. He had things to do, and they needed to be done right now.

- - - -

Erick stood upon the roof of his mage tower, a dozen meters above the ground, surrounded by air and unencumbered by others; except for Poi, who stood at a respectable 5 to 7 feet away, prepared to assist, if necessary. Noon was seconds away; the sun was almost directly above. The winds of the Crystal Forest washed over the northern walls of Spur, flowing around Erick, hot, but cool as they flowed into his loose clothing, touched his hair, carrying upon the breeze the scent of dry sand. He started to sweat, but it was an easy, pleasant feeling. Now was the time to try for [Familiar].

He faced south, toward Ar’Kendrithyst; let them see his work if they were able.

He began to channel mana through the necessary skills, ramping up his mana into something that complemented his words. Or maybe his words only served to complement the vibrations in the manasphere? Either way, he began:

“An eddy turns Transcendental,  [Conjure Force Elemental]

“Caught on Force, ever Sightful,  [Scry]

“an air carves soft, Instrumental,  [Airshape]

“Fear may be, but never frightful,  [Telepathy]

“Appear! Be here, my [Elemental].”   [Conjure Force Elemental]

Erick’s mana drained out of him, funneling into the air. He faltered, but he did not fall; a lot of mana had just left his body, but no new paths had been carved by new particle magic. This was normal magic, and it was magnificent.

A space tore open in the sky in front of Erick, three feet wide but impossibly deep, full of light and booming with a full, coordinated orchestra of spells and sounds Erick had never heard. The space inverted, suddenly and without warning, a world of music turning into something much smaller, but still three meters tall; a creature made of too many wings and so many eyes, floating upon the air on a muted song. Every eye was pure white and took in the world from every direction. Every wing was too white, and flickered in every possible way, somehow keeping the creature made of air and sight in the sky, under its own, completely controlled power.

A huge blue box briefly filled Erick’s view.

Summon Ophiel, medium range, 1505 mana + Variable.

Summon an Ophiel to do your bidding. Maximum 10 Ophiel permitted.

Ophiel persist until killed or dismissed.

All Ophiel are the same creature; to know one is to know them all.

All Ophiel naturally have and regenerate mana based on your own mana and mana regeneration, which they may use to cast the spells that you imbue them with, at your own command or at their own discretion. Comes summoned and proficient with [Airshape], [Telepathy], and [Scry].

All Ophiel are able to change their airy shape, as they are wont.

Imbue your Ophiel with new spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Ophiel. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Ophiel. Variable

Ringed in light and made of wings and eyes, the ophiel hovered in the air, gently undulating in small, pleasant noises; sounding like a flock of birds on the wing.

Erick smiled. “Welcome to the world, Ophiel.”

The ophiel did nothing but continue to look in every direction and at Erick, hovering in the air, unmoving.

Erick hummed. “I guess you’re not sapient?” It did nothing, so Erick said, “Let’s see how you work, then?”

“Sir.” Poi gutted, behind Erick, “Please dismiss it.”

The ophiel gazed at Poi with its hundreds of eyes. Erick turned to his bodyguard. The sapphire dragonkin was a shade of sky-blue; considerably lighter than usual. That wasn’t good. Erick turned back to his ophiel.

Erick asked, “Uh. I guess I overdid it with the angelic imagery.” He asked, “Can you transform into something smaller, and quieter?”

The ophiel just kept staring, floating in the sky, 10 feet tall and gently making small noises.

Erick pressed a gentle command into the creature, like he would with [Conjure Force Elemental]. A dozen white wings collapsed into four, two large, two small, around a central body made of dozens of eyes, but much, much smaller than it was before; only two feet tall, now. With another gentle mental command, the creature further reduced in size. Now the size of a small parrot, the ophiel landed on the railing in front of Erick. It held on to the stone with its lower wings, and looked up at Erick; one larger eye surrounded by smaller eyes.

An ever-present song in the air, like a distant wind, vanished, as it touched down and went still.

Erick knelt down, getting eye level with the summon, saying, “You’re kinda cute.”

“When it’s not three meters tall and blaring out horrors!” Poi stammered, “Uh. Sir.”

“It wasn’t that loud, was it?” Erick turned to the tiny creature, saying, “You’re not a noisemaker; you’re just a baby.” Erick sent, ‘Can you understand me?’

The response that came was just, ‘?’ Not really a word; not really a coherent thought, but a blank question at the world, and right now ‘the world’ was Erick.

Erick explained to Poi, “Sizzi told me about this: it might take years for a rudimentary intelligence to form, but until then, I should treat the creature like a pet in training. Commands and rewards. Starting off small, but strict, and treating it how I want it to act in the future.” Erick thought for a moment, then flexed a command at the not-bird to get on his shoulder. The ophiel breezed into the air and alighted on Erick’s shoulder, securing itself with its lower wings; there were tiny claws in there, hidden under all the feathers. Erick turned to Poi. “Don’t scare the baby bird, Poi.”

Poi’s sapphire color returned to his face. He spoke seriously, “That is not a bird, sir. I have no idea what you have summoned, but I feel you must have your spell looked at, to make sure you haven’t created a life that will turn on you.”

“You’re absolutely right.”

Poi declared, "And that's no angel, sir!"

Erick asked, "What? It's not? What do angels look like on Veird?"

"Like humans!" Poi exclaimed.

"Okay. Well. I guess I should have seen that coming." Erick gently petted ophiel's wings, cooing, "You're not a veirdly angel at all, are you? Cute little thing, you are. Yes you are."

The ophiel didn't seem annoyed at the petting, nor did it seem happy. It just seemed... there.

Erick stopped petting it, saying, "We'll work on that."

- - - -

The mage guildhouse had two towers, five days ago. Now, it had three grey towers, and one of the nearby buildings must have been consumed by the guild, because the grey structure was twice as large as it had been the last time Erick had seen the place, and it sat in the middle of a rather open area. Traffic in the Mage District was similarly increased as it was in the Adventurer’s District, but walking through the grey streets here was considerably easier compared to the density of everyone wearing armors and carrying weapons in the Adventurer’s District. Here, people wore easy clothes like tunics and muffling robes. Even the noise was less, which seemed like a good thing when it came to introducing Ophiel to Spur.

Ophiel was simply entranced the whole stroll to the Mage’s Guildhouse. Erick spoke telepathically with it, explaining what it was seeing, and pointing out new things as they came into view. Ophiel occasionally made windy noises, but mostly, it —he? she? they?— stared at everyone, and everything, unblinking eyes opening and closing along its body to take in more sights as needed, but quickly dismissing many of the extra eyes when it had seen all there was to see. Guards got a heavy stare at first, but Ophiel ignored them past the second group. A man wearing bright pink suit got a response of several new eyes grown quickly, but those vanished just as fast as they appeared. Ophiel seemed to really like the trees, though; greenery, especially greenery moved by the wind, got and held the attention of at least two eyes at all times.

Erick entered the open double doors of the Guildhouse. Sizzi was seated behind the front counter, along with Anhelia, both of them discussing some quiet thing, until Erick walked up.

Anhelia looked to Erick, and smiled a bit, nodding in greeting.

But Sizzi’s reaction was priceless; she saw Ophiel and stood up, wide eyed and with a gasp. She lost all sense of decorum; several nearby people looked at her like she was a disruptive child in a toy store; that wouldn’t have been far from the truth.

“You made a [Familiar] you like!” Sizzi exclaimed, loud and happy, “It’s so cute!” She asked, “I need to see the spell.”

Erick smiled. “All that, and more. Let’s go to a private room, first.”

Anhelia said, “Go ahead,” but Sizzi had already grabbed Erick’s hand and was pulling him into a back room.

