In a plain, heavy duty stone room, five meters by five meters and meant for spell experimentation, Sizzi quickly set out two chairs; one for her, and for Erick. She sat down. Erick sat down across from her as he pulled out Ophiel's spell description and handed the blue box to Sizzi. Her eyes went wide as she read. Then her eyes went wider. She pursed her lips, then recoiled just a tiny bit. She read intently, her eyes flickering back and forth between the winged creature on Erick’s shoulder, and the box in her hands.

Ophiel’s reaction was quieter, but he had grown several tiny eyes to watch Sizzi and her fun reactions.

When she kept silently reading, Erick interrupted, “It’s not a real creature, right?”

“No.” Sizzi instantly said, “No. This is just a very, very good [Familiar]. Shapechange is huge. Innate spells? That’s amazing, too. But the biggest, most incredible feat, is that it has its own mana and regeneration. Summoned creatures like this live off of their mana; their mana is their HP. If it has your MP, and your regeneration...” Sizzi stressed, looking at Ophiel on Erick’s shoulder, “Ophiel has… a lot of HP.”

Ophiel tittered, like a tiny bird; he seemed to like Sizzi's attention, but Erick realized now that he was just anthropomorphizing the little guy. And just like that, Erick decided that Ophiel was a ‘he’, and that a little bit of anthropomorphizing was okay.

Erick said, “He’s quite a good little guy, for sure. But there’s no danger of me accidentally having made a slave, right?”

“No. None.” Sizzi shook her head. “[Familiar] in the Script blocks out all tier 2 soul creation. Even if you used more spells than necessary, at tier 2, you couldn’t create a soul-filled being.” She asked, “You added [Airshape] to the recipe, yes?”

“Yes.”

“How!?” Half-incredulous, Sizzi asked, “How’d you— How did you do any of this!”

Erick smiled. “I sang it into existence with a short rhyme to harmonize the spells together, casting the necessary spells as needed as I went. I started with [Conjure Force Elemental], then—”

“Hold on—” Sizzi summoned a pad of paper and a pencil from the air. She started writing, saying, “I’ll have to write it down properly later, but go ahead.”

Erick nodded, smiling. Then he explained how enchanting was all about stringing mana through one’s magic, and how he used that harmony to create Ophiel. Nothing too groundbreaking; just a bit of lateral thinking to harmonize what was already there. [Airshape] was crucial to that harmony; [Scry] and [Telepathy] felt way too paranoid and scared of each other, or maybe even themselves, to combine without a great deal of luck. Erick cautioned against Sizzi using [Watershape]; even if she believed it was not possible to create life with a tier 2 spell, Erick still felt that [Watershape] was asking for trouble.

Sizzi was thrilled the whole time.

When the explanation was done, Erick showed off Ophiel’s true three meter size, complete with billowing wings and a thousand white eyes. Sizzi laughed with joy to see such a beautiful creation. Poi, though, calmly asked Erick to put away the summon after a minute of full exposure. With a small command, Ophiel quickly returned to blue-bird sized, then sat upon Erick’s shoulder.

Erick said, “I hope that you can use some of my success to create your own, because I couldn’t have done this without your help, Sizzi.”

Sizzi smiled softly, saying, “I only hope mine can be half as good as yours.” She added, “But. Yes. This is vastly different from how I was doing it. It might work, but even if it doesn’t work this well… adding an innate shapechange ability might be the perfect solution to all my problems, though that might make the combination all the more difficult. I’ll find out!” She sighed out. “If only that Xerzeril wasn’t three meters tall… But that’s the past.” She smiled, bowing a bit, saying, “Thank you, Archmage.”

- - - -

Erick stopped into the Sewerhouse and took Al out for drinks and an early dinner. Erick talked of wyrm hunting, and of his new familiar, who was still sitting on Erick’s shoulder this whole time, hopefully learning a bit about everything.

Al smiled over beer and fried foods, saying, “That is quite a set of accomplishments, Archmage.”

“Oh don’t you start with that, too.” Erick said, “I’m not nearly paranoid enough to be a real archmage.”

Al laughed loud.

- - - -

The air ripped open, a yellow scar glowing upon the flat lands of the Human District, as twilight began to fill the skies of Spur. Yetta stood on the other side of the [Gate], along with Jane, on a dark grassy field; a night sky stretching overhead, filled with stars. A cool wind blew out from the [Gate]. It was time to go.

With Ophiel on Erick's shoulder, Erick, Poi, Rats, and Teressa, each hefted their own packs, and stepped through onto the Greensoil Republic. A minor war would start tomorrow. Hopefully it would go better than Yetta's time in Ar'Kendrithyst.
