Cyril said, “Normally there would be a conflict between the Avowed Pacifists and taking part in something that looks, superficially, like the Quiet War. But this is not the Quiet War at all. Koyabez’s clergy was instrumental in forging this temporary alliance between our two people. They used some large scale magic called [Zone of Peace] to facilitate the talks which enabled this coming together of nations to fight a common foe. It is my understanding that you invented this spell, just a little while ago, yes?”

Erick thought back to his vision of Koyabez, in the Interfaith Church, where he showed Erick a dot of glowing hope for peace on the southern coasts of the Greensoil Republic. This must be that.

"So... This isn't the Quiet War."

"Not right now." Cyril said, "And we hope it stays that way."

Jane said, “I’m going to help them infiltrate and kill the Halls of the Dead, both at Odaali and at this research station. You don’t have to decide now, dad, but just know that I’m going.”

Erick looked to Jane, then to Yetta and Cyril. This was a lot bigger than just assisting in killing plants.

Erick asked, “Is this a step toward a complete cessation of the Quiet War? At least on Glaquin?”

Cyril said, “I don’t know. Maybe? It's possible that the Wasteland Kingdoms are just looking to avoid an all out war, but that is good enough for me; we've never been on peaceful terms. For now, at least, the Quiet War will be quieter, yes.”

Erick said, “I won’t be killing people, but… I might be able to assist you in taking back both locations.”

“Fair enough.” Cyril said, “The aid we desire from you will never include overt murder, or participation in a war.”

Erick nodded, a cold weight settling into his chest; a worry, sitting on his heart like iron.

Yetta said, “Cyril and I are leaving Spur tomorrow morning. The assault on Odaali begins in three days. Send me a message, and I can come back for you at any point before the assault, or Jane can come and get you; she’s coming with us tomorrow morning, too. I would prefer you be in place and ready twelve hours beforehand, but four hours is good enough, meaning you have two days before I come and get you. What say you to this?”

“… I will be ready and able to—” Erick looked to Jane. She nodded. Erick looked to Yetta. “Uh. Soon. Tomorrow evening.”

Yetta nodded. “Your [Withering] will be instrumental in taking back my homeland with as little damage as possible; thank you.”

Erick changed the topic, “Anyway: What kind of items do you want?”

Yetta smiled. She asked, “What are our options?”

Erick said, “I’m wearing a Strength ring and a Vitality ring right now; Red Stats seem to play nicely together. Blue Stats play nice on their own, too. But having a Red and a Blue Stat item together is not a good experience— Ah. You know what? Let’s just go to my tower, and you can try on whatever you want of what I have available, or I can make you whatever you want. Or, I could just make you the gems themselves. I don’t mind, either way. I’ll make you five items— ten items, actually. How about… maybe fifteen gems?”

Yetta smiled softly, as she looked to Cyril.

Cyril said, “We would like twenty gems, and to pay you for more—”

“I will not be paid for any of this. You did a quest for me, and you deserve a reward for the horrors you have taken upon your shoulders, but I won’t accept money for further gems. I won’t be selling anything I make; probably not ever. Not happening.”

Cyril frowned a little, but kept his political mask on, saying, “I am the last remaining heir to the throne of Odaali, working with a Champion of Atunir, with companions who were heroes to my decimated people and politically connected to the Tower, who gave their lives to rid the world of a new horror. I ask you now, to please relax your personal motivations and help me get my nation back on its feet, for the sooner I can reestablish order, the sooner I can get back to helping those displaced by this attack. I will need a great deal of help in the coming months and years, if we don’t all die fighting the Halls of the Dead. Some mythical-level Stat items would go a long, long way, to securing my position, once I take back my homeland from a world-ending threat.”

“… Fifty gems, and only after we’ve had a long and thorough conversation so I can be sure that you’re not some secret murdering king, who eats babies, or some shit like that. Only twenty gems, for now.” Erick said, “All I’ve really heard about your republic is that some dragonkin are moving to Spur because they don’t like it over there, for whatever reason, but I’m starting to suspect its because humans are in charge and the dragonkin are second class citizens—” Erick added, “And your Green King tried to murder me! With an assassin from the Green Circle! Jane’s the one who found parasites in our food.”

At first, Cyril and Yetta looked about to laugh, and Jane looked embarrassed, but Erick kept going, and Cyril’s face dropped. Yetta frowned.

Jane said, “Dragonkin aren’t able to hold political position higher than knight. A lot of the problems between human and dragonkin of the Greensoil Republic stem from that, as is my understanding.”

Yetta grumbled.

Cyril said, “I wouldn’t want to support some dictator, either. We can have some talks—”

“Not now, and not while the danger is still out there.” Yetta’s voice turned hard, but not harsh, “I completed your quest; you will assist. Past that, we can see what happens. I would like to leave the political talk for another day.”

“I can agree to that,” Erick said.

Cyril said, “Aye.”

Yetta relaxed. She said, “I would like to get a feel for what items I would want; can we try some on?”

Erick stood. “Let’s go to my tower.”

Yetta stood up, forcing a small smile.

- - - -

Yetta eventually settled on a two-gem belt for 60 Strength, and a ring for 30 Vitality. When she put them on together there was a moment where she looked like she was having a heart attack, or some other terribly drastic event. But she came back to herself saying, ‘That’s a RUSH,’ and it all seemed good. Cyril was much more conservative, opting for two rings; Strength and Vitality, with a backup Willpower ring for casting the bigger spells when needed. Erick sent them off with their own treasures and a promise to create 10 Strength gems, 5 Willpower gems, and 5 Vitality gems; they would work out actually setting them into jewelry themselves.

They would return in the morning to take Jane with them.

They never commented on the state of Erick’s tower and Erick never made an attempt to hide any part of his diamond-growing vats, or rain catcher set-up, or his lathes and diamond grinders. The ease in which Erick promised to have their gems ready by the appointed time seemed to unnerve them, though, if only slightly, like they weren’t really trusting what he was saying to be the truth. But they didn't push, and Erick didn't volunteer extra information.

When they were gone, Erick made Jane a set of Willpower and Focus rings; she wanted to practice her magic, using what she’d learned both from him, and from the old god of magic:

Harmonies in the Script lead to stronger spells? That the Script itself was a stepping stone to greater magic? Maybe, or maybe those were purely surface statements, meaning exactly what the words meant.

Inside his mage tower, Erick said, “I think he was just talking about high tier spells. About harmonizing the base magics into something bigger, more… Orchestral. Less one-man band, attaching every instrument to your body and swinging around hoping to make music; more using two or three instruments well. Or maybe using one instrument really well.”

Jane paused. She slowly nodded, humming, and said, “Maybe.”

“I’m going to try and create a multi-Stat item, though.” Erick asked, “Want to watch?”

“… Yes. I do.”

Erick smiled wide. “But first! Dinner?”

“Very yes.” Jane smiled as she said, “I want to go to a restaurant and order fries, because that’s a thing I can do now. Thank you, dad.”

“Oh~” Erick exaggerated a blush, saying, “It was just some political maneuvering with giving away priceless magics.”

“Oh? Really?” Jane chuckled. “You’re going to need to explain that.”

“Sure. But it involves the nature of light, which may or may not have something to do with these harmonies Melemizargo mentioned, so we probably shouldn’t broach that subject in public.”

“Short version; and then I want fries.”

“Ultraviolet light is just a step up in frequency in the visible light spectrum, and ultraviolet [Special Ward]s are used as a token of royalty in wrought society. Some ancient order of special enchanters called the Gemslicers makes them for kings and queens. And now I do, too.”

“Ah… huh. Okay...” Jane said, “Uh. Okay.”

“Blacklights make wrought fluoresce; Killzone is the brightest purple person I have ever seen.”

Jane laughed loud.

- - - -

Dinner with Jane, out on the town, talking about the little things that had happened to them in the past month of not physically seeing each other, was nice. Jane even talked of her time drinking with Yetta and Cyril the previous night; she had a lot to say about who they were as people, and most of it was good. Yetta and Cyril were good people, who did good things for those around them, like save villages from monsters, or, most recently, walk into Ar’Kendrithyst and kill Planter knowing that some of them would die.

Killing monsters and saving people is one thing, but Erick wanted to know who they would be as rulers; and Jane didn’t know much about that at all. Cyril never expected to take the throne, Yetta never expected to be a Champion; figuring out how to resurrect their kingdom would take them a long, long while. There would surely be disasters of all kinds, assaulting them from all sides the entire time. Yetta’s harshness in dealing with some of the events directly after the murder of Odaali, like killing those two merchants who failed to deliver on aid for Odaali, would surely come back to bite them in the ass.

Jane would keep an eye out for all of that, once they were over in Odaali.

“It might be nice, or it might be horrible, to have an enemy in front of us we can actually end,” Jane said, over her second plate of fries.

Erick stopped eating his chicken wrap, to say, “I understand what the Halls of the Dead did, but do we really have to be so bloody about killing them? Can’t we feel a bit more bad about the tragedy of the Quiet War? The horror that we need to… do this... at all?...”

Jane looked at Erick like he was stupid.

Erick dropped the subject and went back to eating his wrap.

- - - -

Back home, Jane decided to go right to bed. But Erick had enchanting orders to fill, not only from Yetta and Cyril, who would be getting twenty gems, initially, but he also had to clear out his last 50 ring delivery to Liquid. A casual question posed through Poi revealed that Liquid was fine with Erick taking as long as needed; she expected him to take a month producing the first batch.

So with that small weight off of his back, Erick spent the evening and a bit of the night grinding gems into spheres for Yetta and Cyril. He would enchant them in the morning when Jane could watch.

Erick woke up to the smell of bacon; Jane was cooking breakfast. After a nice meal of meat and pancakes, while the sun had yet to brighten the sky, Erick was ready to enchant. Jane was ready, too; she had even glanced through some of Erick's enchanting books in preparation.

With steaming coftea in hand, Erick and Jane walked up to the second floor and entered the southern mage tower. The orange city was quiet, dark, and blue with pre-dawn light, outside of the large picture windows. To the south rose the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst, while across the flat land of the open city, was the rest of Spur. Lights were turning on; other people were also waking up. The farmers would be waking up now, ready to start the day by readying the fields in the cool morning air. When that was over, they would break for breakfast, to get ready for Erick’s rain and the harvest.

Erick cast an audio and a visual [Distortion Ward] into the tower, extending just past the windows.

Jane stood back a bit from the vats and the main table, looking at the distorted city outside the window, asking, “Do you do that all the time? I’m not sure if that’s a good thing, or a bad thing. They can’t see you, but you can’t see anyone.”

Erick said, “Poi suggested I do this, if I was ever to actually talk to someone about what I was doing. I’ll trust his judgement.”

“… We could just use [Telepathy], Dad.”

“Nope!” Erick gazed out at the distorted city, saying, “Concentrating on active magic outside of what I’m trying to do makes the end product much less than what it could be. These [Ward]s are the best solution.” He took off his rings and set them aside, adding, “And enchanting while under the effects of other enchants also leads to an inferior product. A [Personal Absorption Ward] doesn’t seem to matter, though.” Erick began, “To begin—”

“Don’t tell me; I want to see if I can understand what you’re doing on my own.”

“Well… Okay. I can do it that way.”

In front of Erick were three stone vats, each empty. A much larger cistern sat to the side of the mage tower; it was meant to hold platinum rainwater, and it was also empty. Erick [Stoneshape]d open the funnel leading from the outside into the larger vat, and turned on [Exalted Storm Aura].

