Erick and Poi blipped onto the orange stone outside of his house.

Jane stood at the front door, wearing her normal around-town clothes. Her shoes from Earth, pants and an airy tunic; perfect for the desert weather of Spur. Her hair was pulled back into a clip, and she was smiling. They both walked toward each other, and met in a hug. Erick held his daughter; she was warm and healthy, and most importantly: she was okay.

Erick softly said, “I heard a little about what happened, but not nearly enough.”

Jane laughed into Erick’s shoulder, saying, “We’ve got a lot to talk about.” She pulled away.

Erick let her go, saying, “Did you get a chance to test the harmony between two Force spells? I’m working on the pieces for [Tracker’s Instincts] to work my way up to [Hunter’s Instincts] using this method.”

Jane smiled wide, saying, “That’s a very good ability to have, dad; I use it all the time. But I haven’t done much tier work. We’ve got a lot to talk about until Yetta and Cyril get here later.” She walked to the house, saying, “Let’s go inside.”

- - - -

Jane made good coftea; roasting the leaves just right, filling the kitchen with that wonderful caramalized bitter coffee scent. Erick had missed her coftea. He had missed her. They’d only been fifteen miles apart for a month, and they talked almost every day, but it was still difficult knowing that she was in danger all the time and there was nothing that he could do to help her.

Finding out about the harmonies possible between different magics was something he felt could be very important to her success; to her ability to fight the monsters and survive on Veird. But she brushed him off twice now, redirecting the conversation in some other direction, or cutting off conversation entirely. She likely had a very good reason for this, and she seemed to be gearing up for an involved and troubling talk, if her meandering and quiet words around the kitchen were any indication.

Jane cut up cheese and bread on the kitchen counter, while Erick sipped coftea, sitting at the kitchen table, listening to the chop-chop-chop of the knife meeting the cutting board, waiting for Jane to start talking. She almost started a few times, her mouth opening, but she stopped; her words didn’t seem to want to come out.

So, Erick started, “Hunting for wyrms is pretty nice; until you meet the ones that can cut through a [Force Wall] with their thousand [Force Beam]s. I ended up killing it with a swarm of [Conjure Force Elemental]s. I still got a long ways to level all the parts necessary for [Tracker’s Instincts], but the first trial of my new insight with the harmonies of magic is going to be a [Familiar] spell. When I get all of that together, I think I’ll hunt as many wyrms as I can.”

“Mm-hmm.”

“We found seventeen adventurer badges inside the wyrm we killed; so they’re yet another monster that needs to die.”

Jane listened, but kept her mouth tightly closed. She brought the cheese platter to the table and set it between Erick and herself, as she sat down.

Erick waited for her to speak, but she didn’t.

Jane only ever got like this one other time; when she told Erick that she got accepted to her CIA internship, and that she was going forward with her plan to become an international special agent. Her telling him she was joining Spur’s Army was easier for her than this.

Erick was starting to worry, but he shoved that emotion down hard so it wouldn't consume his every thought.

He continued, “Do I need to put up anti-spying measures for this?”

Jane froze. She slowly nodded.

Erick flashed out a pair of [Ward]s to cut off the kitchen from the rest of the spying world; one [Visual Distortion Ward], transforming everything outside of the kitchen into a Picasso painting seen through terrible TV reception, the other a [Sound Distortion Ward], making the rest of the world a static-filled void. Poi, Teressa, and Rats were already elsewhere; they had vacated the area to give Jane and Erick some privacy.

Erick started, “We should be safe now—”

Jane blurted out, “The Shades used your quest, and the Champion’s Kill and Exterminate Quest, to cull their own; they killed eight Shades, I killed one. When Yetta and her team killed Planter, the Shades trapped her, Cyril, Basil, and Dorthy, into a giant statue in order to summon Melemizargo from the Underworld. Allan had already given his life to kill Planter. I ended up talking to Melemizargo, directly, as a spider. There was a very tense conversation for me, but for the Dark Dragon, I think he thought he was teaching a child about magic. He sang a song of [Shadowalk], vibrating the manasphere, and I sang with him, transforming my [Shadowalk] into [Greater Shadowalk].” Jane handed Erick the box for [Greater Shadowalk].

Greater Shadowalk, instant, long range, 10 MP per second + Variable ~{Favored Spell}~

You are the everlasting night.

Jane continued, “Tania Webwalker is Melemizargo’s Champion. She knows that you sang a song to Melemizargo, and both she and he said that they liked that song. The purpose to summoning Melemizargo this time, was so that Melemizargo, restored to more sanity than he has had in centuries because he has been watching us, Dad, would be to remove some of the insanity that he has leaked into his Shades.

“The Shades twist people into musical instruments, they infect adventurers with parasites, they send shadelings out into the world to tell people that Yetta killed ten Shades and that Ar’Kendrithyst is ripe for the picking so that more people will come to them, so that they can work even worse horrors upon the world.

“I want to murder every single one of them, Dad. One was not enough.” Jane stressed, “They all need to die, but we are not strong enough. I saw their true power, and it was worse than I imagined. I am not strong enough. You are not strong enough. I don’t think anything less than a full worldly coalition could actually kill them all, but even that would fail against Melemizargo. And he said that Rozeta is his daughter.”

Erick listened.

When Jane was finished, he collected his thoughts for a minute. She ate cheese and bread, waiting for him to say something.

Erick eventually said, “I did not know most of that, and it’s good to know, but it doesn’t change my plans. I want to kill them all, too. I’ve been talking to a lot of people here and there, trying to gauge the best way to tackle the situation—”

Jane relaxed. She grinned, as she put some cheese onto some bread and ate it.

“—Silverite is fully against truly standing up to the Shades; she’s seen the horror of a Great Purge. Her actions to kill the Shades without care led to the destruction of Spur a hundred and four years ago. Killzone is against killing all the Shades, as far as I know, and I'm not sure why. Mog and Zago are against murdering the Shades, though I’m not sure about any of their real motivations, either. But ‘We don’t want Spur and our families to die’ is a pretty darn good motivation, if you ask me.” Erick said, “Anhelia— you know her? She’s a receptionist at the Mage Guild; she’s the information broker of Spur. She has a direct lineage out of Kendrithyst, back before Melemizargo killed the city and turned it into what it is today. She’s fully for killing every single Shade as well as the Dark Dragon himself, but I’m not sure how to use her as a resource to accomplish this goal. Anhelia has said, however, that if I and her wanted to go Shade hunting, we could do so, and we could probably work through the whole of them, killing them in secret or what have you. I’m not sure what her plans were exactly. But we can’t really do that… because of the reprisal.” Erick stopped, because Jane looked like she had something she wanted to say.

Jane said, “My magic changed, Dad.”

“Show me?”

Jane grinned, as she cast out a [Prestidigitation]. Her hand flickered with mightnight blue light.

Erick said, “It looks like midnight—” He paused. He asked, “Is that why Killzone is so dark? Did the Shades try and fail to do something to him, too?”

Jane laughed loud. She said, “I love you, dad.” She added, "And Killzone is just black... I think."

“I love you too, Jane.”

Jane looked at the midnight glow around her hand, saying, “They did fail, didn’t they.”

“Of course they did!” Erick asked, “Do you want to see what battling a wyrm looked like, for me?”

Jane threaded [Telepathy] to him, sending, ‘Show me.’

Erick started in on the cheese and bread as he showed Jane the fight against the yellow wyrm. She added telepathic commentary here and there about what she was seeing versus what Erick had seen. It didn’t take Erick long to realize, for about the hundredth time, that Jane was a supreme fighter; Erick himself had a long way to go to get on her level.

And then Jane showed Erick images from her time guiding the Champion through Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick watched, horrified beyond the vast majority of many words, unable to eat, only speaking during her tale to let her know that he was fully listening, and to say, at the end, “They all need to die,” and, “We’re not strong enough.”

“I don’t think it’s possible to actually harm them if they’re prepared.” Jane said, “Porter only died because I surprised him in a very specific position, I doubt that would ever happen again. Planter only died because a god demanded his death, and because his death was part of the Shades’ plans. All the rest were murdered by their own, but I doubt that any of them were that much weaker than Planter.”

Erick said, “We shouldn’t move against them right now, anyway.”

“I agree.” Jane looked to the air as another thread of intent connected her to someone else. She said, “Yetta and Cyril are coming over now.”

Erick asked, “Any idea what Stat items they want?”

“Not sure.” Jane stood up, picking up the empty cheese and bread plate, saying, “But I’m coming with you to Odaali, so I might take something, too.”

Erick smiled wide. “You are? That’s great!”

“I’m happy about it,” Jane said, [Cleanse]ing the dishes and putting them away. “I hit 50 and got my Polymage Class Quest.”

“You did!”

“Yup. The Class Quest takes one of every type of monster with one of each essence type, except dragon. I’m going for a unicorn for the light essence monster because, not only are unicorns horrible child eaters, they also have this ability called [Aura of Freedom] that makes them immune to most adverse mental and physical magic.”

“… Of course unicorns are child eaters.” Erick sighed. “Every monster is some horrible awful thing, aren’t they?”

“I’m pretty sure; yup.”

- - - -

Yetta sat in the sun room, sipping coftea along with Cyril, on their side of the coffee table; Erick and Jane did the same on their side of the table. Yetta was not the same reserved, highly suspicious person she was the last time Erick had seen her. Now, she was a bit bubbly, and a bit more open with her face. Jane had said that they had gone drinking and punching through several bars last night, so maybe this was due to that? Or, more likely, Erick reflected, she was just pushing down the horror of having her friends die as a sacrifice to a dark god; she was putting on a good face, and planning for the future when the Halls of the Dead were a distant memory and Odaali was not occupied by murderous plants.

“I’m sorry for your loss,” Erick was finally able to say, after they had all sat down.

Cyril suddenly looked a wreck, with skinny arms and thin hands clutching his coftea, but he kept a mask of pleasantness firmly in place, saying, “They died giving their all for a better world. I can only hope that my own death buys the rest of humanity such a boon.”

Yetta smiled sadly, nodding.

Erick said, “I heard a bit of it from Jane. I saw some of it through her memories she shared. It was… Pretty bad.”

Yetta spoke without a hint of pain, saying, “It was bad. And it’s not over.”

Erick nodded, then asked Yetta, “What kinds of Stat items would you prefer?”

Yetta said, “About that. Cyril has something to ask of you, first. Then we will decide on our items.”

Erick looked to Cyril.

Cyril said, “Thanks to the efforts of our king, our coalition, and the people of the Wasteland Kingdoms, just this morning, the powers that be in the Wasteland Kingdoms have disavowed the terrorist group known as the Halls of the Dead. In a joint effort to rid the world of Daydroppers and those who made them, the Wasteland Kingdoms, and in particular, Queen Tiz, and King Porli, will be supplying the Greensoil Republic and Odaali-in-exile with tactical information regarding the Halls of the Dead. We have already made inroads upon the enemy; discovering their base, and a major complication.”

As soon as Cyril mentioned the Wasteland Kingdoms, Erick expected his Silver Star to turn hot, but it did nothing.

Cyril asked, “What I ask you, is this: Will you help us destroy the Halls of the Dead, too?”

“Uh.” Erick said, “I’m not killing any people. Hard-no.”

Cyril nodded, saying, “We would not expect you to; but there are now two Queen Daydropper Vines in the Greensoil Republic. One at Odaali, the other at a newly discovered research station deep in the Mondariska mountains; the research station where we suspect the Daydroppers were born. Destroying both of the Queen Vines is crucial to ending the Daydropper threat.”

Erick felt his Silver Star. It was still lukewarm; unresponsive to all this talk of killing incani and becoming a part of the Quiet War. Erick asked, “Does Koyabez sanction this action?”

