Once I'm about an hour away from the village, the enchantment fully lights up, and a few seconds later, a man's voice echoes out of the magic device. "Is this Aaliyah of Spotted Creek village?"

“That depends,” I cockily respond. “Is this Giovanni I’m speaking to?”

I hear the familiar laughter of Reel in the background. "Yes, I'm Giovanni. It's a pleasure to speak with you finally."

"Likewise," I reply. "I hear Reel laughing in the background; does that mean everyone made it back, ok?"

“Everyone is fine,” Reel answers before Giovanni can say anything.

“Don’t interrupt!” A third voice berates Reel.

“Does that answer your question?” Giovanni asks me.

"It does; I'm happy to hear they made it back safe. But I'm guessing you didn't send mister emotion to deliver this fancy magic tool for that.”

“Mister emotion, Two!” Reel sounds like he’s having trouble breathing at this point.

Giovanni ignores his laughing subordinate. "I wish that were the case, but I'm afraid we have much bigger things to discuss. How are you planning to deal with Grey?"

"I haven't decided yet," I truthfully answer. "I don't necessarily need to break my contract with him immediately. I'm assuming he plans to use it against me when I try asking about Kervin and why he's not running the deliveries any longer."

"So, you don't plan on cutting ties with him when he comes to pick up the goods you're making?" Giovanni doesn't sound mad after hearing my plan; he sounds more like he's considering all his options.

"I was more curious what you're doing," I say into the magic tool. "I was expecting to hear you tell me that you already had Grey killed by this point."

“If it was that easy, I’d already have done it,” Giovanni matter-of-factly tells me. “Grey is cunning enough to have made plans in case of his death.”

“Does that really matter?” I curiously ask.

“It does. Grey has definitely signed a contract leaving everything he has to someone he trusts. Contracts like that apply to all his deals, including contracts he's signed. It's a common method merchants use to keep themselves from being targeted by assassins. Whoever takes over your contract can use it against you. The same applies for me; it will take time before I can even consider having him killed."

Well, shit, why does everything always have to be so complicated? "Why don't you tell me when you're ready to move?" I suggest to Giovanni. "If we time it right, I can cancel my contract as soon as you move to confront him. If Grey survives the backlash, you can have Reel stab him a few times for good measure."

Reel chokes from laughing so hard.

"You think the backlash will kill him?" Giovanni questions me over Reel's laughter.

"Who knows?" I reply. "A girl can hope, though."

“I’m surprised by your willingness to have Grey killed,” Giovanni remarks.

“He took advantage of my ignorance and screwed me over. I don’t take kindly to that,” I growl into the communication device. “Keep that in mind.”

The other end goes silent for a moment.

"I will," Giovanni acknowledges my thinly veiled threat.

“Good, because I have no problem helping you make a lot of money. I just want our dealings to be straight."

"That's good to hear," I can almost imagine the faceless man on the other end of my connection smiling. "How about you contact me in two weeks or if something should come up."

“I can do that,” I agree with his plan.

“And Miss Aaliyah.”

“Yeah?”

"I'd appreciate it if you keep that communicator secret and secure. The nobility covets magic devices as rare as the one in your hand, no matter which kingdom they hail from."

“So, you’re telling me these would fetch a fortune if I can make more,” I grin into the magic tool.

"You could!?" Giovanni begins to shout before catching himself. "Yes, if you can make more, they would be worth a lot of money," he tells me in a calm voice, trying to hide his excitement.

“I’ll try.”

“Good,” Giovanni coughs to clear his throat. “This was more productive than I thought. I’ll be waiting for your call.”

“Treat Kervin nice,” I add in before I remove my mana from the communication device. "I still want him to be my go-between once everything is cleared up."

“That was always a given,” Giovanni reassures me.

"Good, I'll contact you later." After I say that, I reabsorb my mana from the magic tool and watch the enchantment dim. I know it was a subtle power move, but I wanted to be the one to hang up first.

Twirling around, I start walking back to my village. I leveled my skills today and got my hands on this beauty; I throw the magic tool up in the air and catch it.

"Today was a better day than I could've hoped for." I whistle Country Road all the way home, excited for the future.
