At nine inches, my roots become too unstable to continue. That doesn't matter, though, because I've figured out how to move mana farther away from my body than I usually would be able to.

I sense a rush of experience expanding in my soul, meaning Mana Manipulation leveled up. Focusing on the part of my soul that represents my skill, I pull up a quick notification.

Mana Manipulation (LV61) 0.54%

As if that wasn’t enough good news, I sense that I finally got my mana roots skill.

Magic Threads (LV1) 94%

I expected the name to have to do with trees or roots... but thread? I weaved different strands of mana together to accomplish the skill; maybe that's where the name came from?

Oh, well. It doesn't matter what the skill is called; now that it's engraved in my soul, using it will only grow easier. And the skill looks like it's already about to hit level two. That's incredible for another tier 4 skill.

I want to start practicing with my new skill, but I have to deal with my admirer first.

“You can come out now,” I say to a tree twenty feet in front of me.

Materializing out of the shadow of the tree stands a man I've never met before. He's about five foot ten, moderately built, with slicked-back brown hair. His green eyes study me just like I'm doing to him. His armor is splotched brown, blending in with his surroundings. I also don’t miss the fact that his left hand is resting on top of the twin swords at his side.

I watch his every move, ready to draw my own sword if he so much as twitches.

“Four said I wouldn’t be able to sneak up on you.” The man’s voice is smooth and soft but lacks any emotion behind his words.

“I don’t know who you’re talking about,” I warily tell the man.

The intruder frowns for a second before his neutral expression returns. "I believe you know him as Reel; that's the name he was assigned for his current assignment."

“You work for Giovanni then?” I raise a questioning eyebrow.

“I do,” he curtly replies. “You can call me Two.”

“Ok, prove it,” I demand.

“What?” I hear just a tinge of surprise in his voice.

"Anyone can say they work for Giovanni. How do I know Mr. Grey didn't send you?"

"That is a fair point. Reel told me if you questioned me, I should say, I'm learning to take a compliment. I don't know what that means, but I'm guessing that proves who I am."

I can’t help but chuckle hearing our inside joke in such a monotone voice. “Yeah, that works for me. But you know, you could’ve just come out when you arrived instead of watching me for so long.”

"You noticed when I arrived?" The man known as Two looks briefly surprised again before hiding his expression behind a mask of neutrality.

"You don't have the same magic items as Reel does; it was easy to sense you approaching," I smugly grin at Reel's assassin buddy.

“I’m more direct than Reel,” Two flatly tells me.

“I can see that. I take it you brought a message from your boss then.”

Two reaches into his side pocket and pulls out a small metal disk-shaped device inscribed with the most complex enchantment I've ever seen. "Here," he tosses me the magic item, keeping out of both mine and his sword ranges.

Normally I'd be hesitant to grab an unknown magic item, but I can see it isn't activated. I snatch it out of the air without taking my eyes off of Two. "What is it?" I ask.

“Communicator,” Two tells me. “You’ll need to move closer to Blaiton before you can use it,” Two nods in the direction I would need to go before turning around and disappearing into the woods without a word.

I keep track of him until he moves out of Sense Mana's range. "And here I thought Reel was hard to deal with," I chuckle at my own joke.

I guess I should take a walk and talk to Giovanni for the first time. Gathering up my gear, I head in the direction Two indicated. There's no need to rush, so I start examining the incredible magic tool I was given. I hope Giovanni doesn't want this back because there's no way I'm giving this gem up.

**********

Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

“Why did you have to drag me along with you?” Young Jason complains as we make our way down a dirt trail.

"I needed someone who knows the area," I laugh at his distress.

"I only know the names of the villages that I’ve briefly seen on a map; I've never left Drey before!" Jason remarks, upset I dragged him along with me and my small platoon. We're visiting the more remote villages now that my replacements have settled in.

"The fresh air will do you some good," I tell the young man. "Don't you agree, General Pitz," I turn and ask my captive who's riding our only jelen. The beast is secured to a small cart with our supplies and is always guided by one of my men, so she can't take off with it. If I didn't let her ride the beast, it would take us too long to march between villages.

"You smell worse than the city," she bites back. Young Jason snickers at her comment, and I catch a few of my men trying to hide their smiles, afraid I'd do something should I notice them.

I ignore everyone and ask Jason, "which village are we heading to next?"

Young Jason flicks through a stack of papers he brought with him before answering me. "The closest village is Iron Wood Village. We should be there soon."

“Strong name,” I remark.

"The village was named after the iron wood trees the village was built around. The trees' bark is said to be as strong as iron armor," Jason gives me a quick background of the village.

“I would love to see such amazing trees. Such plants are rare in Scholl.”

“Sorry, but all the iron wood trees were cut down a long time ago,” Jason quickly dashes my hopes.

“Then they should change the name of the village,” I grouchily reply. “How many more villages are in the forest?”

"I'm not sure," Young Jason honestly replies. "All the documents related to the local villages were taken by the previous city lord. The courier guild helped me figure out a few I missed, but even they aren't sure of all the villages in the area. In the end, they had to send out their birds to visit every village instead of specifically targeting each one. Hopefully, Lord Bullok and the others will figure something out before we return."

“Why do you use his title and not mine?” I playfully sneer at young Jason.

“Because he demands I use his title,” Jason looks at me like the answer was obvious.

Kellor Bullok is the man his majesty sent to handle the cities I conquer. I thought he would come by himself, but Bullok arrived with three other minor nobles selected to run the various cities in the area. But for now, the four men are working together to get Drey up and running, giving me some much-needed free time to inspect the surrounding villages before the rest of my army joins me.

My students and Tellis successfully stalled Olebert’s forces around Teeburn, and more soldiers are moving in to reinforce both of us. I have maybe another week and a half before I need to set out to take Blaiton, so leisurely traveling around the countryside counts as a sort of vacation.

I verbally spar with Jason and General Pitz until we reach Iron Wood Village.

A single lookout spotted us approaching before running off to warn his village. The village responds like every other we've visited.

By the time we march into the village proper, everyone is hiding in their houses while a nervous village head moves to greet us.

This village head looks ready to retire and visibly ages as he walks over to us. "Greeting lords and ladies of Scholl, welcome to Iron Wood Village." It's unbearable listening to this man stutter out his greeting. The entourage that's supposed to be guarding him has subtly taken a step back, leaving him on his own.

I know I shouldn’t expect much after how easily I took Teeburn and Drey, but this is just sad to watch. Let’s hurry things along. “Is there a place we can comfortably talk?”

The man flinches at the mere sound of my voice before franticly nodding his head. "Of course, great lords. I'll take all of you to my meager house."

“My men will stay here,” I inform him.

“Yes, of course,” the frightened man agrees with whatever I say.

I give General Pitz my hand and help her down from the jelen. She and Jason have attended each of my meetings for different reasons. Young Jason takes notes to help Lord Bullok when we return, and I bring General Pitz with me so she can tell Olebert how well we're treating everyone when she's finally ransomed back to them.

Walking through the village, I'm impressed with how many farkas they have hanging up for processing. Despite the village headman’s weak appearance, there must be a few decent hunters around with a haul like that.

The village head leads us to his house, it isn't as big as some of the ones I've recently seen, but it isn't the smallest either.

We're led inside and brought to his kitchen. "I'm sorry, but I don't have anything nicer for you. Please don't…"

I silence the man with a wave of my hand. "It's fine; we're not expecting a grand welcome. Did you receive our message a few weeks ago?"

"Yes, my lord," the headman answers, keeping his head bowed submissively.

“That’s good. Our visit is merely to confirm the legitimacy of the letter and to let you know Scholl is not going to be taking over your village or replacing you.”

“Truly?” The headman asks, surprised.

“Yes, I’m here to explain that Scholl is looking to set up many farms in the area. Our goal is to produce as much food as possible. Any contribution your village makes will be rewarded with tax credits,” I explain to the man. “Jason, handle the rest?”

Young Jason nods and starts explaining the gritty details to the headman. While he explains that the village's tax won't be raised, I glance at General Pitz. As Young Jason lays out better terms for the headman, she watches the headman's fear turn into joy hearing his village’s taxes were essentially being lowered not raised.

This isn't the first village that has become happy hearing our plans for the future. Many local villages have been left to themselves for far too long, expected to make large tax payments compared to their relative size. It must hurt the general to see how quickly her people come over to our side with relatively little changes.

“Does that sound good to you?” I ask the headman after young Jason finishes his explanation.

“It does,” the headman bows again, this time in appreciation. “Iron Tree Village thanks our benevolent rulers. May Scholl rule forever.”

And like that, another village pledges fealty to Scholl, unaware one of Olebert's top generals is watching the whole spectacle.

“Would the lords and lady wish to stay in the village?” The headman offers us lodgings.

"We thank you for the offer, but we have more villages to visit," I politely turn him down. My tent would be much nicer than any accommodations he could offer us.

The headman walks us to his front door, spouting needless platitudes.

As we walk past the hanging farkas again, I stop and ask, “I’ve noticed other villages with similar success hunting. Are your hunters that high-leveled?”

“Oh no, my lord. We’ve just been lucky this last half-year. A lot of animals fled the deeper parts of the forest.”

That sounds interesting. “Why is that?” I ask.

“I heard that a goblin horde was spotted around Spotted Creek Village before winter arrived, my lord,” the headman explains to me.

“Is this true?” I turn and ask Jason. Goblin hordes are disasters for small villages; surely, he must have heard about it.

While Jason is thinking, out of the corner of my eye, I notice General Pitz also looks shocked to hear this news.

“I vaguely remember hearing something about it a while ago,” Jason admits. “But I think the lord said it was taken care of.”

"It was," the headman tells us. "Spotted Creek killed the vermin and, in doing so, released invisible magic beasts into the forest."

“They defeated a goblin horde? And invisible magic beasts?” I press the headman for more information.

“Sure did,” he reassures me. “They sent word to all the villages bordering the forest to warn us about them, giant spiders they said.”

“Is Spotted Creek Village on our list?” I ask Jason. Invisible spiders sound like a good way to kill some of my boredom, and a great way to earn some goodwill from the surrounding villages.

“I don’t believe so,” he mumbles as he flips through his papers. “Nope, not on our list.”

“Where is this village?” I question the headman.

"It's the deepest village in the forest. If you follow the forest's edge east, you'll come to the trail that leads to it. It's about a five-day journey, that is, if it's still standing." The headman informs us.

A village that fought off a goblin horde and invisible magic beasts! It may take up the rest of my time, but I have to see this.

“I think we have our next destination,” I grin at Jason.

"He said there were invisible spiders!" Jason whines.

“Giant invisible spiders,” the headman clarifies.

“Giant invisible spiders,” Jason whimpers.

“All the more reason for us to go!” I happily proclaim.

While Jason tries to talk me out of going, I sneak glances at General Pitz. She's trying to hide it, but she looks more concerned now that I've said I wanted to visit the village. What is she trying to hide?

I hold up a hand, cutting of young Jason complaining about us all being eaten. "We're going, and that's final."

Jason's shoulders slump in defeat, but I'm excited. What does Spotted Creek Village have in store for me?

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

While walking through the forest, I’ve been regularly pumping a bit of my mana into the communication device, waiting for it to connect.

