But to ensure that they had time to get all that up and running, Erick had to stay on top of absolutely everything. Not only was Kirginatharp going to show up in an hour, but the wrought had already gotten to Candlepoint, and Erick needed to ensure that nothing bad happened there, too.

So Erick got up from the table. Dinner was mostly done, anyway. “I should go see whatever they’re doing with Mephistopheles before it becomes some other problem.”

Excitedly, Jane also got up from her chair. “Let’s go see some wrought and shadelings!”

Teressa steeled herself, ready to go out and do more things.

… Maybe this wouldn’t be too bad for Teressa, after all.

Poi, however, nixed those plans, “Inquisitor Kromolok has requested that you not interrupt their meeting. It is simply a meeting; nothing more, nothing less.”

Teressa instantly relaxed. Jane glanced at Erick, then back to Poi, then she sat back down. Kiri was thankful nothing was happening as well, because she was a lot more interested in the Headmaster than in whatever the people of Candlepoint and some wrought from some powerful Geode were up to.

And so, Erick sat back down, saying, “Well… Gotta prepare for Kirginatharp in an hour, anyway.”

Kiri offered, “Need any help with that?”

“Thanks, but no need.” Erick already had Ophiel at the meeting location, and at a few others, too, funneling orange sand though a [Gate] and onto the wide root of Yggdrasil, sticking out of the water. “I’m turning sand into stone and putting it together right now.”

Kiri was slightly disappointed, but she let that go, and said, “I’m ready to help change the world whenever.”

Kiri, unlike Teressa, was chomping at the bit for more responsibility. Erick would need to give Kiri and Jane both as much as they could handle. Poi was already comfortable with his current level of responsibility as Erick’s head guard, though, which was good. At least one person’s desires were being met!

“I want about a ten or fifteen kilometer arc of land to the north cleared and walled off, Kiri.” Erick asked, “You want to do that?”

Kiri smiled. “Absolutely!”

“As for the meeting with Kirginatharp, it’s just going to be me, and maybe...” Erick asked, “Do you want to be there, Poi?”

Poi said, “Yes, sir.”

“Teressa? Keep an eye out for any large events, please. I don’t see any right now, but I could be wrong.”

Teressa nodded, a fraction of her worries returning…

Maybe she already saw the future, and was worried about it? Perhaps.

Erick would worry about that later, though.

Erick looked to Jane. “Don’t throw your life away if he attacks. Just stay out of it.”

Kiri half-scoffed, disbelieving that Kirginatharp could be an actual threat, but she cut herself off when it was obvious no one else thought Erick was joking.

Jane lied, “I’ll stay away, dad.”

- - - -

A cold wind blew upon the surface of the lake, trailing chills from the north that caused waves to crest, ever so slightly. It would have been a foreboding, dark place, if not for the massive tree of light that stood out of the waters not a kilometer away. Yggdrasil reached far into the sky, casting green, white, and rainbow light into the world above, and also far down below, deep into the lake, his glowing white roots fanning out through the deep like a thousand twisting dragons. The lake was not dark at all; no; it was bright with twilight, banishing whatever sort of abyss could have existed. Some of those roots curved up and out of the lake’s surface, fully illuminating the waters around them as they crested here and there, sometimes close to the trunk where they were bare glows compared to the brightness that was Yggdrasil, and sometimes a dozen kilometers away, where they were the only bright thing around.

It was atop one of these arcing roots, a bare kilometer and a half away from the trunk, upon which Erick built a circular platform of stone. The root itself was one of the wider ones, at forty meters across and yet half submerged, only arcing fifteen meters out of the lake. The platform was much smaller by comparison; a simple flat surface about ten meters wide that sat directly atop Yggdrasil’s root. The platform, unlike Yggdrasil, didn’t let the light through.

Erick realized this small fact all too late. With this stone, made in this way, he was actually creating a shadowed space upon the lake. One of the only shadowed spots this close to Yggdrasil, actually. There was still plenty of light overhead and underwater, but the platform itself was definitely in shadow.

It was a bad look.

Erick frowned at the platform, saying to Poi, “Maybe I should have made it out of glass, or something like that. This might be construed as the opposite of welcoming.”

Poi stood straight and tall, saying, “I would say that the [Zone of Peace] you conjured into the area is actually less welcoming.”

All around them a [Zone of Peace] hung in the air like an invisible, intangible barrier.

“What? Why? It’s safety for us and for him…” Erick considered, then admitted, “Though he might take offense… For some reason. But I am worried, and he knows this… I really don’t know what to expect here, Poi.”

“Too late to change, anyway. He’s coming right now.”

Ah. Had that much time passed already?

Erick was already panicking, but there was always a point where one could not panic anymore, and Erick recognized that, in that moment, he had crossed that line. He fixed his face into an even expression— And then he found a bit more room to panic, as he glanced to the small table in front of him where a purple teapot and two mugs sat, along with a selection of tea and sugars. He hadn’t put any water in the pot yet, nor had he heated it up. With a quick bit of magic, Erick rapidly grabbed some water from the lake, [Cleanse]d it, put it in the pot, and cast a small heating [Ward].

There.

This was fine.

Erick was ready.

Two chairs, with Kirginatharp’s chair being a bit better than his own. A table with some hot tea… It’d be hot soon enough. A small bit of [Force Wall]s to the north, to fend off most of the chill wind. And even though it was night, the sky and lake were bright with Yggdrasil’s light—

A kilometer away, between Erick’s position and Candlepoint’s twinkling lights in the far distance, there was another light. A depth of radiance upon the lake’s surface, like the brief appearance of sun. That sun crashed down into itself as Kirginatharp —the Headmaster; Erick should think of him as ‘the Headmaster’— as the Headmaster appeared in human emperor form, controlling his light into something smaller; something less worrisome. With a lightstep, the Headmaster crossed most of the distance between them, stopping short of the [Zone of Peace] holding all around.

He was exactly as Erick had remembered; an older man with flowing gold and white robes, who would not have looked out of place on a Chinese emperor’s throne. Or any throne, for that matter. Erick had never actually seen him on a throne, though, or looking like he was a person of power at all. The Headmaster simply was, like a rock upon which so many other things had been built, like Oceanside Academy, and his Elite monster extermination squad, and Mage Bank, and the whole Arcanaeum Consortium which approved magic schools or denounced magic schools as ‘inferior’ the world over. He also controlled the Book Binders; the single greatest publishing house in the world, which used [Duplicate] to copy books for all people to read. It was the only open use of [Duplicate] in the entire world… The Headmaster was also the Second to Rozeta, tagged to take over her job as God of the Script should Rozeta meet some untimely end.

And Erick had briefly thought them equals of some measure, so he had been calling The Headmaster by his real name, as though he had some right to familiarity in that way. Perhaps, Erick did have some right to that sort of familiarity, but the Headmaster was an established power, and Erick was not. Not yet, anyway.

The Headmaster’s face was set in concern, but he didn’t seem overly angry… And yet, the dragon was likely well accomplished in subterfuge.

At least he didn’t have any Benevolence markers upon him. No ring of lightning around his neck. Not even a single jolt. Therefore, he likely wasn’t a danger to Erick, at all. Or at least not a conventional danger—

In an almost conversational manner, and well before Erick had gathered all his thoughts, or before even five seconds had passed, the Headmaster challenged, “I am being told that you are Erick Flatt, though I would appreciate seeing that truth for myself. Please remove that offensive necklace.”

Erick did not do as requested. Instead, he said, “Though I doubt such a small spell would actually stop you, I invite you to actually step inside this [Zone of Peace]. Either way, I am not removing this necklace.”

The Headmaster stepped forward, into the [Zone of Peace]. Solid gold light splashed away from every mid-air footfall as he continued to enter the [Zone of Peace], walking toward Erick, approaching the platform. “I suppose, intellectually, I understand why you have chosen to ally with Ar’Cosmos. I am a threat to those who would harm this world, and yet, I have never moved against you at all, Erick. Ever. I cannot help but feel that you have heard way too many horror stories...” He sighed, but barely. “Of course I come in peace. I am not some barbarian. The barbarians are the ones inside Ar’Cosmos. The ones who already got in your head and flipped switches that you didn’t even know you had. What did they tell you? Though that hardly matters. What matters more is why do you still believe them?” He stepped down onto the stone, a mere ten meters away from Erick, saying, “Liars, cheaters. Schemers and killers. Slavers of minds and slavers of body. The only good thing I can say about any of those dragons is that they leave your soul alone, unless you are a Wizard.”

Erick stood strong, saying, “And so, we come to the actual crux of the issue. If all the world wasn’t rightfully scared of Wizards, then perhaps this could have gone very differently. But, being honest, I’m glad it went this way. The dragons of Ar’Cosmos are going to get an entire Fairy World to conquer, and so they will leave this one alone. No longer will those dragons have influence on any part of Veird, in any way, and if they want to have influence over here, then I’ll help them [Reincarnation] into a new life, bereft of their Dragon Body and their Dragon Curse.” Erick said, “The only time I expect this to change is when it is time for you to ascend to your own godly power in the next world as an actual God of the Script, and you take your Curse with you. By then, we should have some sort of actual system figured out that doesn’t require a berserking Curse to keep dragons from conquering everyone else.”

The Headmaster shook his head a little. “Attempting to buy my goodwill with the promise of an entire world is something that I have never thought would happen. So strange is this offer, that for a good ten minutes after Rozeta told this to me, I was actually tempted. That temptation was a personal failure. One of my largest in a long time. It seems, in retrospect, that I have made lots of failures in my dealings with you and yours. I had thought that by helping you rise to power, that by treating your daughter at my hospital, that by giving you connections with other archmages, that you would have thought me a friend. Never have I imagined that you would think of me as some sort of tyrant to be used and placated. I erred, obviously.” The Headmaster glanced at the teapot. “The tea is boiling over.”

Erick canceled the heating spell. “I would have liked to be friends, but you have a track record, and I am, apparently, a target for your kind. Is it truly any wonder that I stayed as far away from you as possible?”

The Headmaster said, “I had thought that you had merely heard unkind truths from the Shades. That the trauma of Last Shadow’s Feast still weighed on you. That if I gave you enough of an opening, that you would come to Oceanside and we could talk, and I could dispel unkind truths with actual truths, like how we spoke of Messalina. I had thought that you would have been above listening to rumors.”

“What I learned in Ar’Kendrithyst was a lot more than unkind rumors. I recently learned that you sunder Wizards to buy years of life for this world, but even before that, the rumors were more than enough to cause me to do what I did; to stay away as long as I could.”

The Headmaster said, “What I have done against the trespassing Wizards of this world is no more than what you have done to that Patriarch Xangu, and that Red Dot person. Execution when everything else fails.”

“I feel our definitions of ‘when everything else fails’ are very different.” Erick said, “Which is why I have been rightfully wary of you, and why I will continue to be wary of you, and the wrought, and the Shades, and all the people of Ar’Cosmos. And Melemizargo. And the gods. And even the Mind Mages. Tell me I am wrong, and I will call you a liar.”

Poi shifted uncomfortably behind Erick.

The Headmaster looked suddenly tired, as though he had gained a few decades on the face. “Perhaps it was a mistake to try and reconcile tonight.”

Erick flinched as though struck. “Reconcile?” He had not thought that this was about reconciliation at all. “I thought you were coming to attack, or to ensure that you would be right to attack at some later date.”

The Headmaster said, “I did not come here with ill intentions. I will not suddenly gain ill intentions no matter what you happen to say, for I know who you are, Erick. You are the embodiment of Benevolence. Of goodwill and hope for something better. Do you feel that I desire smallness and pain in this world? With your recent alliance with Ar’Cosmos, and with what you have likely heard… Do you think that I enjoy killing the only people who will ever truly understand me, in order to maintain power, so that others won’t rise up in my stead and cast the world into flames? That I enjoy the harm I cause, in order to ensure peace and prosperity for all? That I am somehow ‘evil’?”

