Erick said, “House Benevolence is going to need a Guard, Teressa, but a much larger need is for a prognostication branch. Almost all of what House Benevolence is going to do is going to be preventing large losses of life the world over, or spotting opportunities. I’d love to have you be a part of that, if you’re willing.”

Teressa perked up. “Yes. I will do that.”

Poi announced, “I’m just a personal guard, if that’s alright.”

“Perfectly fine! Glad to have you aboard.” Erick smiled, saying, “I’ll try not to run you ragged.”

“That would be appreciated, sir.” Poi added, “Though I understand that promise is rather dependent on factors outside of your control.”

Erick smiled brightly. “Yup!”

Jane said, “I’ll work with Teressa but I also… Kinda just want to explore all of the world, dad. Once things calm down here. Maybe I’ll go on missions for you? Kill monsters? You talked of wanting to set out your sign and accept kill missions, and I think I want to do that, for sure. The thing with [Gate]s leading to missions would be good.”

Ah! This was fantastic!

Erick said, “Of course, Jane. I plan on asking the Adventurer’s Guild if they want a [Gate] near their capital, so as soon as that’s done, I should have access to a great deal of the world. Not all of it, not right away, of course. But a great deal of it, soon enough.” He added, “I still need to actually talk to those people about that, but… Eh. They might say no? If that doesn’t work then there’s a Geode nearby that might say yes; Aranite, if I recall correctly.”

Jane perked up. “You need to go and ask them? Plant a Yggdrasil down there? I could go and ask them. It’s supposed to be a month-long journey through some of the most dangerous tunnels on Veird to get to Capital City, and you don’t have time for that.”

“… Uh.” It was actually only the work of a few hours to go through the embassy at Stratagold, take the t-station to Aranite, and then perhaps an hour through a well-maintained Main Road to get to Capital City, the home of the Adventurer’s Guild. Erick saw what Jane wanted, though, and though he knew that he needed to give it to her, he couldn’t. Not right now. He needed to be honest. “It would take a few hours to arrive at Capital City through the current diplomatic channels and already-enabled Teleport Stations.”

“… Oh. Well.” Jane frowned a little in confusion, then dispelled that emotion, saying, “I wasn’t planning on taking a month to do it, anyway. I’ll just stick around here for a while.”

Poi spoke up, “You know, we don’t need to move fast for anything besides setting up defenses in case the worst should happen. Taking a week or three to put out the first Gate is perfectly fine.”

Three weeks for the first Gate? Ha! Erick had a good chuckle at that, but no one else felt the need to laugh at Poi’s humor, since, apparently, it wasn’t an attempt to be humorous at all. Erick digressed, “Heard and understood! I gotta make us a house, anyway!” He clapped his hands. “So let’s get moving.”

Everyone started moving, off to their rooms or to the common rooms, to get ready to shift everything they owned into a new house.

Erick had moved houses before, back on Earth, and had gone through plenty of cardboard boxes in order to do so. They used wooden crates here on Veird, but there weren’t that many of those inside the house, and no one really needed any of that sort of stuff, anyway.

A thousand cheers for the convenience of [Gate]!

Never before had Erick moved houses faster than he moved houses now. It was as easy as picking up all of his room inside his sunform light, and stepping through a portal he had cast onto the wall. Suddenly, he was on Yggdrasil’s boughs, while the sun shone overhead and water stretched out in every direction down below.

And then he went back for more stuff.

Soon, all of his stuff was sitting out on a small section of Yggdrasil’s second-lowest branch; one of the biggest ones available. This particular branch stretched northeast. It was a good position, Erick figured, because Yggdrasil’s glowing green canopy started about a handspan or two above the horizon, allowing for an unobstructed view of sunsets and sunrises, and allowed for Erick to see the coast of the lake in every single direction except for to the southwest.

To the north would be ‘gatelandia’, or whatever Erick eventually ended up calling that place.

To the east, about 25 kilometers away, was Candlepoint, looking like a row of black dots upon the shore.

For a long moment, Erick just stood there on the ‘land’ which would become the foundation of his new house. And then he sent an Ophiel through a [Gate] to Stratagold to gather some supplies. With those supplies now secured, Erick got to work actually making the house.

Everyone else took a bit longer to move, and for a myriad of different reasons. Kiri had a lot of enchanting and other magical stuff scattered across four different rooms of the house, and all of that needed to be organized into boxes before it could be moved, while Teressa was on kitchen duty; clearing out all of the pantries and putting them in boxes, and moving all of the appliances that they had added to the house over their year of living there. Poi and Jane took over all the other assorted necessities, like the bathrooms and the libraries. All the while, Ophiel opened portals whenever anyone asked for one.

As they moved locations, Kiri, Poi, Teressa, and Jane, each had their own moment where they stepped onto the wide, white glowing branches of Erick’s largest [Familiar], and they just stopped, and stared, like they couldn’t believe that this was happening this fast, or that it was even happening at all. And then the moment passed, and they all went back for more stuff.

Halfway through the move, Jane went to her father because she had seen something she didn’t quite understand; something that had broken her brain, just a little bit.

Erick was turning a cubic meter of platinum into wires for his [Fairy Stronghold].

Jane eyed the cubic meter of very shiny silver metal, asking, “Is that… Is that platinum?”

“Technically it’s prismatic platinum, or ‘prismsteel’.” Erick drew out another long wire, laying it down with all the rest, saying, “I’m allied with the wrought, and that alliance comes with some special perks. This is only to be used for Gate Network stuff or personal defenses and I’ll give back what isn’t used, but otherwise… Yeah. It’s pure platinum. About 19 metric tons of it. I’ve got two tons of it stretched out to form the runic base.”

Wide-eyed, Jane stared at the pile of pure wealth. She whispered, “Holy fuck.”

Erick moved the conversation along, asking, “How do you want your rooms to be? I’ll start off with something small, at first, but [Fairy Stronghold] is expandable, so we could...”

Soon, all the contents of their house in Spur had been transferred onto the wide, wide white boughs of Yggdrasil, a kilometer above the lake waters, while Erick put the finishing touches on the preliminary runic web for his new house. After his first cast of [Fairy Stronghold] and a few dozen more casts to fill out the first floor, Erick stepped inside, inviting Kiri, Teressa, Poi, and Jane to join him…

And then he stepped right back out of the invisible, intangible [Fairy Stronghold] and spent an awkward but happy few minutes ensuring that all of them could actually see and approach the entrance, and then follow him inside into the first floor of their new home. It wasn’t long till Poi and Teressa began moving stuff into the actual house, while, after a bit more explaining, Kiri and Jane helped to string metal into new frameworks, which Erick then inscribed with runework and power.

Erick’s adamantium knife flitted through the iridescent metal like a lightning-knife through butter, and that was great. He was very happy to see that the shift in his [Greater Lightwalk] to [Pristine Benevolence] didn’t actually impact his runic capabilities.

Soon, new runework framing plotted out spaces for new expansions, and more floors. Once the whole place had a basic runic structure set, Erick began casting even more [Fairy Stronghold]s to fill it out, and then he went back and forth over the whole place, casting even more [Fairy Stronghold]s to add plumbing and cisterns and the required [Gravity Ward] spaces which would move the water around the house. This wasn’t going to be a Songli-style mansion, no sir! Baths, and showers, and toilets, and kitchen utilities with sinks in all the rooms that should have sinks, and all that. This place was going to have it all.

Erick couldn’t have asked for a better way to spend the rest of the day.

It was just so normal. Nice. Calm. Creative, too, because it wasn’t going to be a house of stone like the Spur house. This new place was going to have wooden floors, and nice carpets, drywall walls, and bay windows with little alcoves in which to read, and relax. The old house was wonderful; no doubt about that. Erick liked his home in Spur. But it was quite a lot of orange stone, and stone was not Erick’s favorite building material. After the Worldly Path, stone buildings reminded him too much of building-for-extreme-security, and not enough of home. This new place was downright homey, with white wood to mimic Yggdrasil’s coloration, and tan accents, and white paint…

It was all made of Fae Magic, of course, but that was fine. Fairy Moon wouldn’t come here without due cause… Probably.

Fae Magic was just too good to not use for both security, and convenience. The appliances and beds and such would be real, but they didn’t strictly have to be; for the first few weeks, there would be quite a lot of fake furniture in the house to fill it all out, but eventually that stuff would get replaced. Fae conjured items were just as strong and durable as the real thing, but they wouldn’t be connected to the runic web inside the house, and thus, if Fairy Moon or some other Fae Magic user came around, then those items would burst. The house would remain intact, though.

By the time the sun colored the western sky like a great big ball of red on the horizon, while the rest of Erick’s world was white and green and rainbow with the colors of Yggdrasil, Erick had finished the first floor along with half of the second. Everyone had moved into their respective rooms. The kitchen and a temporary cold storage room had been set up, and Teressa was just finishing up making a nice dinner of steaks and potatoes and grilled corn. Tomorrow, Erick would work on the rest of the house, but for now he just enjoyed the company of his people.

Conversation was stilted, in small ways. Awkward in many. Teressa spoke of how she was surprised that Yggdrasil was so solid to stand upon, even though he was a tree. Kiri commented the same, and Jane spoke of how he was a tree made of stone and other magics, so of course he was solid to stand upon. And then Poi rescued the conversation by telling the news. Everyone in the world was gradually finding out that Erick had succeeded in making [Gate], and the consequences of that action were spreading fast.

That was a much better, more easily-had ‘conversation’, for Poi spoke, and everyone else listened. Toward the end of dinner, though, Poi dropped a bomb. It was a bomb Erick had been expecting, but it was a bomb he would have rather let lie.

“The Headmaster wishes you well, Erick.” Poi said, “He wants to set up a meeting, in person, for whenever you are able. Sooner is better. He plans to ask to have Yggdrasil planted at Oceanside, among other things.”

Jane sighed, expressing Erick’s own thoughts as she said. “I hope that guy isn’t going to pull any shit. I used to like him.”

Kiri sipped her beer, looking at Erick. Teressa did the same.

Poi said, “If it makes you feel better, Erick, the Mind Mages have already secured a promise from him to ‘not to pull any shit’, though we did not use those words at all.”

Erick blinked a bit, thought a bit more, then said, “In an hour, here at Yggdrasil. I’ll set up a station on one of his roots down below, atop the water. That large root just southwest of here.”

Poi nodded, then said, “He has been informed. Also, we can start going over Mind Mage personnel whenever you wish, too.”

“Another day for all of that, Poi.” Erick said, “I still need to make a ‘clan mountain’ for House Benevolence, anyway— Can you find out where Sitnakov is? He should have been here, like, 12 hours ago.” He looked to everyone. “He’s probably going to be living with us for a while. Or something. Still not sure about that.”

Poi looked away, his tendrils of thought shifting; multiplying.

Teressa’s eyes went wide with excitement. “The Adamantium Wind is coming? Here?”

“Shoulda been!” Erick said, “Hours ago, actually.”

Jane smiled as Teressa’s cheeks turned darker green. She teased, “You’re an admirer, I take it?”

“Who wouldn’t be!” Teressa said, “He’s a 10 star adventurer! A true elite— I know the stories are always exaggerated but—” She paused. She breathed. She looked around, at the new kitchen, at the new tables, out the large kitchen window where Yggdrasil’s bright green leaves waved in the far distance. “Oh. This is really happening, isn’t it.”

Jane chuckled at that. “I know how you feel.”

“Same,” Kiri said.

Erick just smiled.

The thick-air tendrils around Poi’s head retreated, as he came back to himself. “Prince Sitnakov is at Candlepoint, alongside Geode Guardian Tasar and Inquisitor Kromolok. They’re talking to Mephistopheles and Justine.”

Teressa paled, because she knew who all of those people were. Kiri was apprehensive, but only because she didn’t actually know all the stories like Teressa did. All in all, Erick wasn’t that worried about Kiri adjusting well to all this new stuff. Teressa was going to have trouble, though; she was likely the worst off here. Why, though— Ah. Erick’s whole ‘Wizard-thing’ was throwing her for a large loop, not only because of the whole Wizard-thing, but also because it highlighted the vast power difference between her and everyone else here in this room. Teressa simply didn’t have enough power to play in these big leagues.

Which was true, at least currently. Once Erick got his prognostication part of House Benevolence up and running, and once Teressa was a part of that, most of her worries should vanish. She would be able to truly see what the future held, and prepare all of them for what was to come.

Hopefully.

