“Of course not. This isn’t about good or evil.” Erick said, “I don’t believe that you’re evil at all, but I know that you will do what you must to ensure that this world remains intact. If I manage to survive and succeed in bringing the world together and opening new ones— I can already foresee myself in your current position in a century or three, talking to some terrifyingly young and powerful idiot who I have managed to offend based on my own past deeds, who will be changing some small part of the New Cosmology even more than I already have. Or maybe they’ll just be a normal person, out to do their own simple Good, but they won’t be aware of how much they will upend by doing whatever they feel is right. Such an event might even happen next year, or in the next month, when some good-seeming people I can’t stop with words and proof of my goodwill, come for me.” Erick said, “I expected you to be one of those people, and for you to be coming at me right now.”

The Headmaster took that all in, and regarded Erick. “It shouldn’t be this difficult for us to work together. Do you not know that I have worked with Wizards before? I have. Back when Rozeta’s Champion plucked [Rebound] out of Mana Altering all those centuries ago, and helped to destroy an old Shadowland, known as Shadehold. That Champion was a Wizard, too. One of the only ones to not go bad. But even of those who did turn to the Darkness... I have attempted to work with many of them before they went that way. I will not disclose the vast majority of events outside of serious protective magics, but they did happen, and they happened because I very much know that Wizards can be the best among us, if they are given the chance.” He asked, “Do you think I don’t respect what you’re trying to do here? I want a Gate Network, too. I want new worlds, too. As far as I know, I want for this world what you want for this world.”

For a long moment, the only sounds were those of the wind, and of small waves.

Erick softly said, “I had heard that Rozeta has tried to work with Wizards… And that it usually goes bad. I had thought you were the hammer to her gauntlet; those who corrected her goodwill gone bad. You, her paladins, and Kromolok, and the wrought. All the forces of good that keep this world running as well as you can, and yet here I am, a new cog trying to fit into the machine.”

“There have been many failures to thrive; this is true. Many failures to bring good things to good people. But I hope this time is different. Rozeta is firmly on your side, and I wish to be as well.” The Headmaster asked, “What can I do to bridge this canyon between us?”

Erick had planned for this conversation to go many different ways.

So far, it was going down the second best possible path. Better than he could have hoped! The absolute best possible path would have been an easy talk that likely lasted for several hours, in which Erick and The Headmaster spoke like actual friends, and not as they were speaking; like two powerful people (one of them vastly more powerful than the other) trying to understand how to operate around the other, without causing undue distress.

As far as possible outcomes were concerned, this was amazing.

Erick decided to go for reconciliation as much as he was able.

“I plan on being very open about who I am.” Erick said, “Therefore, people will come for me. So, I want you to help prevent that with whatever words and through whatever avenues you deem necessary… I am not asking you to fight for me, though. Leave that to me, if it should happen.

“In addition, I need some help running my House Benevolence. Do you have any personnel that could help me organize a worldwide Archmage service, such as you already do for your Elites, as well as help with the administration of the Gate Network? Just two or three people, for now. I will, of course, expect them to be spies. Reporting to you is fine, but undermining my goals, my plans, or acting improperly on my behalf is not acceptable.” He added, “And also, I’m going to have to call you Kirginatharp, because all the other powers I’m already working with will be using your actual name, and I won’t lose face by calling you ‘Headmaster’.”

Kirginatharp stood fractionally straighter with an unexpected, yet welcome surprise. “All doable. I will ask several of my people if they wish to move, and give you the resulting resumes. You can choose who you wish to assist you with your endeavors. How much are you planning on paying? A world class office worker goes for 2,500 gold a month, as well as extreme benefits.”

And just like that, almost all the tension of the meeting broke and vanished on the wind like so much canceled Force Magic. Accepting Erick’s small demands without balking was great. Talking about actual cost was good. It all meant that Kirginatharp was actually willing to come to the table.

Which was fantastic.

Of course, there would need to be several months of this and smaller, nicer meetings, and otherwise, to cement this sort of professional relationship. But this was a very good start.

“If I still have access to Mage Bank, and if our old deals for my Light Dungeon still hold, even though Yggdrasil supports Light Essence growth everywhere he is, then I expect to be able to pay very competitive rates. And that’s before we get into revenue from the Gate Network.” Erick said, “The benefits you speak of would have to be discussed in person, but I could probably make most things happen.”

“You still have access to Mage Bank, and our financial deals still hold. Your Windy Manor at Oceanside is still open to you, too.” Kirginatharp said, “I don’t mind that Yggdrasil supports Light Essence growth, Erick. I never would have cared about that.” Softer, he said, “You’ve done so many great things. Before this mess of history and circumstance drove you to flee… I wanted to congratulate you about everything you have ever done, from the Last Shadow’s Feast, to Yggdrasil, to the war in Songli and the creation of Chelation, and especially to your creation of [Gate] without needing my grandfather’s help. I have many gifts for you, to celebrate all of these wonderful deeds. Maybe in a few weeks, or a few months, after you organize some personnel and get your lands up and operational… I would like to actually sit down, have that tea, and talk about it all. I would very much enjoy pulling apart the lies and the truths of everything you’ve heard. I had hoped that tonight would have been such an occasion, but it was not to be. This is fine. We both have time; I can wait.”

Erick said. “I would like that.”

More awkward silence—

Erick asked, “Has the Angel and Demon treaty been successful, despite my absence?”

Kirginatharp shook his head a little. “No. Nothing solid. The Fate Magic of your Worldly Path has faded, and what little bit of headway I have managed to make on my own went up in smoke this very morning. Their delegations have returned to their sides, and it would take a great power to bring them to the same table again; something that I can no longer manage on my own. A friendly suggestion: you shouldn’t try on your own, either, or at least not for a long while. I suspect both sides will want to leave you alone, so you are likely secure as long as you take normal precautions… Ah. That is a long conversation to have, though I feel I have distilled it down as much as can be delivered in a scant thirty seconds, and in such a public area.”

Erick felt a warmth in his chest. He smiled faintly. “It was good to see you again, Kirginatharp.”

“… Ahah?” Kirginatharp balked, and then chuckled quietly. “It’s not often people use my name. I will need to get used to that; one more oddity among all the rest, I suppose. It was good to see you too, Erick.”

Kirginatharp stepped backward, into the air, splashing golden light from every footstep as he departed. When he got far enough away, he flashed brightly, briefly turning night into day, and then he was gone and his light left with him.

Twilight recaptured Yggdrasil’s lake.

For a long moment Erick just stood there, gazing out at the calm night, experiencing the gentle glows of Yggdrasil all around him, feeling the quiet wind rush around his [Force Wall]s and brush through his hair.

That meeting had gone well.

Erick asked Poi what he thought, and Poi shared Erick’s feelings; yes, it had gone well. Very well, in fact. And then Erick opened a portal back home. On the other side of that ring of lightning lay the living room of his new house on Yggdrasil’s boughs. Everyone was waiting for him on the other side, and while Teressa and Kiri looked relaxed, Jane had a conjured sword in her hand, and dark blue armor upon her body. Upon seeing that Erick was fine, though, all of Jane’s magic broke into so much scattered Force. And then the conversations started. They had all been watching, of course.

There was a lot of relief all around, all except for Kiri; she had never been worried at all. She seemed more vindicated than happy, though.

Kiri said, “Well of course it was going to go well! He’s the Headmaster! He doesn’t hurt people without good reason.”

Erick suddenly laughed.

Kiri instantly added, “Okay! Yes! I know how what I said was rather stupid, but… He’s the Headmaster. I never expected anything to happen, and I am very glad nothing happened. I still had Sunny out there waiting for things to go sideways, though, of course.”

Erick grinned. “Even though I told you to stay out of it?”

“Of course!” Kiri said, “Better safe than sorry. Though I doubt I could have done shit against him.”

“Yeah. Me either,” Erick said.

- - - -

Eventually, conversation ended. People went to their rooms, to sleep, or to read a bit, or, in Kiri’s case, to employ Sunny to rip out every possible monster and mimic from the lands to the north, while also moving a lot of sand around to make walls. She was burning off some nervous energy of her own, and also rather good at doing what Erick asked her to do. But eventually, everyone went to bed.

Nothing too concerning happened in the middle of the night. Erick didn’t even wake up with night terrors. Being near everyone he loved and cared about probably helped with that. He still woke up long before the sun crested over Candlepoint, though. Three hours of sleep had been enough, for now.

With the moons out in full, Erick decided to get to work.

It was time to finish building the house.

- - - -

The sun rose in the east, turning the sky over distant Candlepoint into a wash of pinks and golds. The city looked good from here, at Erick’s new breakfast balcony. Candlepoint was a string of dark gems and green trees, with a spire of glowing white crystal sticking up from the center.

Unless they had named that large crystal something new, that crystal was called the Crystal, and it formed the backbone of Candlepoint’s automated defense systems. When last Erick saw, that Crystal had been attuned for use by a few people in the guard, so that they could summon juggernaut-like melee summons, and robe-wearing mage summons, to patrol the lands around the city, to protect against unapproved people and monsters. Mostly, though, those automatons just kept the mimics and other monsters away from the walls of the city. People just blipped past all those defenses.

Erick would need to limit [Teleport] in the near future. Probably through some sort of Undertow effect, linked to his [Spatial Denial] spell. Soon. Not this very moment, though. Not without talking to everyone at Candlepoint first.

And so, Erick sipped his coffee as he sat there, half of his senses on the moment, the other half elsewhere, flying with Ophiel across the land.

Candlepoint looked rather decent these days. Nice walkways with grasses and trees here and there. Nice stores in nice, new market streets. People out everywhere, doing everything. A lot fewer shadelings than Erick had expected. A few more wrought than Erick had expected, as well—

Erick paused.

Far below Ophiel, in a strange mirror of another time and place, Tasar was getting a tour of the place from Justine, just like how Erick had gotten from Justine, back when Justine was a Shadeling, and Erick had gotten a tour through Ophiel. Now, though, Justine was an incani, with bright red eyes, and Tasar was taking her tour down main street in person, though she did have her blackberry-topped black crystal staff in one hand; she still had her summons with her.

Erick let them be.

He moved on.

The farms to the north of Candlepoint were doing well, with redscale Valok out there in the orchards, introducing a few floating orbs of gold to the myriad citrus. The orbs of gold had to be [Familiar]s, and if Erick had to guess, they were the mouthpieces of the Merchants of Stratagold; the gold caste. He could be wrong, though.

Back in the city, months and months ago when Erick had last been here, the courthouse was still being built and adorned with a bunch of big quartz crystals that Ava Jadescale, the snake shifter sewermaster, had made out of sand. Those crystals had been so that shadelings could move easily through those crystals; to attack and defend from them, if others should come to Candlepoint with less than honorable intentions.

The courthouse of today, though, had none of those spiky crystals. Today’s courthouse was a solid black building with thick, white crystal trim, and it was beautiful. Multiple floors, fountains in back, columns and large open halls. It would have fit well in any metropolitan city the world over. The whole city had that sort of look to it, with simple crystal trim here and there, though for every black building, there were two grey-stone buildings of equal quality. The whole city had a rather good look to it. Not exactly uniform, for there were many individual houses and apartment complexes and businesses that all looked different, with accents of color or outright ignoring the conventions around them. But the general scheme was similar all around.

Most of the original buildings of the original city had been torn down, leaving a lot of space where once it was jam packed to the brim with shadelings. There used to be 100,000 shadelings and maybe that many adventurers, too, back when Bulgan had run the place like a sinner’s paradise. That was before the ballooning spiders, though, which Bulgan allowed to run rampant just to get a rise out of Erick.

Erick scowled, remembering how Bulgan prevented him from helping, how Bulgan released the automatons to indiscriminately kill everything they found. That man’s actions had killed 9 out of every 10 shadelings. Most of the visitors could get away, but not the shadelings. And then, when Erick took Candlepoint from him…

