And then Melemizargo drowned half of the city into the new lake…

Candlepoint had been reduced to a small fraction of what it had been, though that seems to have changed in recent months, since Erick had been gone. Fewer shadelings, still, but a lot more people of other sorts. One new arrival to Candlepoint stood out from the rest of those nearby; a minotaur.

Erick had been the one to ask Hollowsaur to fix the horrors he had made out of those adventurers unlucky enough to run afoul of him, to be turned into cow-people and harvested for their now-magical body parts and their meat. Hollowsaur’s first fix had transformed these people into horrors of a different sort. His second fix, after Erick had Blessed him, turned these people into what they were today.

Strong, with bronzed skin and healthy complexions, and almost orcol-like self-healing properties.

Erick had expected that all of those minotaurs would have accepted Melemizargo’s offer of [Reincarnation] to transform back into their original races. The shadelings had obviously taken advantage of this offer, so it made sense for others to try for it, too. Or maybe it didn’t work that way?

Whatever the case, Erick spotted the minotaur on market street, and traced their direction through the manasphere back to the south, to a compound that held most of the other minotaurs. It seemed that they liked to live with each other? Erick would have assumed that most of them would have moved on to other houses, or something, but Erick counted around six minotaurs per very large house, of which there were five houses all joined together to form the compound. Erick chose not to pry any more than that.

He pulled back. Back into the sky, back to an overview of the land. From high above, and based on what he was seeing, with the size of Candlepoint being about 12 kilometers from north and south, 5 kilometers from the lake’s coast to the outer wall, forming an arc of inhabited land that stretched beside the lake…

There had been around 5000 shadelings when Erick had gained control of Candlepoint, and finally stopped the tragedies. Now, though? Erick briefly checked on the colors of eyes from afar, for shadelings had glowing eyes of white or off-white, while everyone else had normal eyes, and when taken into account with how shadelings were naturally crepuscular and most other people might not be awake at this early hour...

“I… Maybe a thousand? There’s a lot more non-shadelings than shadelings down there, though.” Erick frowned. “I have no idea how many shadelings are left.” He turned a bit, and asked, “Silverite gave some small numbers, but do you have any precise population figures for Candlepoint? Or other general news?”

Poi had been approaching from behind, having stopped at the kitchen before coming up here. He stepped through the open doorway, carrying a coffee in one hand and a plate with a cinnamon roll in the other; his own breakfast. He sat down next to Erick, saying, “About 1200 shadelings left. Most of the shadelings have tried their luck with what they’re calling Melemizargo’s [Reincarnation], but while some have died due to that procedure, most were successful. About 98%. It’s what came after that was bad for most of them. Almost all of those who tried to leave Candlepoint and retake their old lives.”

Erick exhaled deeply, already knowing the results of those attempts. “How many were killed? How many came back?”

Poi said, “Around 3,000 tried some sort of leaving measure. 2,100 of them came back. The stories they’ve told make us think that the others did not survive, or maybe they managed to actually escape the Sights looking out for those types. Shadow-kill squads in the Greensoil Republic, and Treehome, and the Wasteland Kingdoms, have likely killed at least 900. A few times some kill squads have chased former shadelings right back to the walls surrounding the lake. Those former shadelings had access to [Teleport], of course, but most of the kill squads out there have accounted for that. Most of those squads have access to [Tether]-like effects, if not that spell itself. Right now, there’s about 1,100 to 1,200 shadelings, most of whom are trying to make Candlepoint work and never stopped, or never felt the desire to retake their old lives. 3,600 transformed, most of whom are here against their will. All the rest of the people out there are investors looking to make it big on the promises you have given them.; about 15,000 of those types. Because of those investors, the shadelings and transformed who chose to stay are a lot better off than their compatriots. There’s something of a rift forming between those two peoples, though I have no real news on that front.”

Erick nodded slowly, deep in thought. He sipped his coffee.

Poi cut off a bit of his cinnamon roll, stuck a fork in it, and ate it.

Erick said, “I… I wasn’t sure what I expected. Tragedies all around, but… There haven’t been any full-scale attacks, have there?”

“Some assassination attempts but nothing full-scale.”

Erick frowned a little, thinking.

He would hear more about Candlepoint from Mephistopheles and Justine Erholme, soon enough.

He moved on, asking, “Was I too paranoid with regard to the Headmas— To Kirginatharp?”

“You were not unduly paranoid.” Poi said, “If it was known you were a Wizard before your Worldly Path was over, then you never would have been allowed to walk it. Everything would have been different. Wizards are targeted… They’re not known until Rozeta has a reason for making them known, though. It is hypothesized that Rozeta doesn’t tell on Wizards because then that would remove all possibility for them to prove themselves as Good. The system right now still makes it exceedingly difficult for Wizards, but… If you would have asked me years ago what I thought about Wizards, I would have easily said that they should all be killed, without being offered a chance at proving themselves good or evil, at all. I don’t think that anymore, but… Such is the trauma left by the Sundering.”

Erick glanced at Poi, a bit surprised. Then he said, “I suppose I shouldn't be surprised. I think Teressa is going through that same sort of cognitive change, right now— Ah.” Erick changed the subject again, “Which reminds me. I want to see the letters you got while I was in Ar’Cosmos, to see if they’re the same ones I sent… Though that might be too much paranoia. Is that too much paranoia?”

Poi smiled a bit. “That’s the correct amount of paranoia to have, in my opinion.” He lost most of his smile, “And yeah; I have come around to the idea. Months ago… A lot later than I should have, if we’re being honest. I feel a bit ashamed, actually, that I was still judging you based on your capability and nature, and not on your deeds and your person.”

Erick nodded, knowingly. “If we’re being honest, I’ve been worried over you controlling my mind for the last few days and that meeting with the Ascendant Prime was terrifying, but that’s just lingering fairy trauma. But... I guess that sort of fear has always been a bit present.”

“Mind control is terrifying. It rips apart families and destroys trust and kingdoms and lives. But there is help for that sort of trauma.” Poi said, “We do have therapists.”

Erick smiled. “I know. Maybe I might actually go to one, eventually. It would be the healthy thing to do.”

“Do you want to talk about what that sort of therapy would look like?”

“… No. Not today.”

The northern breeze brushed past the house, swirling steam from the coffee pot. Both of the mugs were empty, but Erick fixed that problem by reaching through a small [Gate], to the kitchen. Soon, the two friends were enjoying more coffee. And then Poi finished his cinnamon roll, and another [Gate] retrieved two more cinnamon rolls; one for Poi, and one for Erick. They were good rolls. Teressa had made them two days ago.

While cutting into his second roll, Poi asked, “What do you want to do today?”

“If nothing is on fire…” Erick checked the manasphere, gazing slightly into the future. His [Future Sight] wasn’t that great, but if there were any massive events then he probably would have seen them. Maybe. He wasn’t wholly sure, but it felt like it… He decided: he needed to work on his [Future Sight]. But for now, Erick came back, saying, “I can’t see any fires on the horizon. So… What am I going to do today? Nothing.” Erick sat a bit straighter, feeling secure in that decision. “That’s what I’m going to do today: Nothing. A fat lot of nothing.”

Poi chuckled.

Erick asked, “Do you like the house? Did I get your rooms right?”

Poi smiled. “The office looks great. I love it. I’ll need to get some furniture to replace the conjured stuff, but these conjured [Fairy Item]s are as durable as the stone walls of the house back at Spur.”

“As long as no one else casts any Fae Magic around them, they’ll stick around like they were real.” Erick smiled at the horizon, thinking back to Spur. “And it was a good house. I’ll keep it around, but… This is more secure, by far.”

“Living on a World Tree, inside a [Fairy Stronghold] is something that not even kings and archmages can boast. It’ll take everyone a while to understand just how secure this location actually is… It’s not very secure against that one person, I suppose.”

Erick shrugged. “Can’t stop forces of nature, and the consequences of her messing with my family are very, very large. I don’t think that will stop her from interacting. But… We’ll be fine. Either way, I’ll have to go over this spellwork with everyone here so that they know all of those nuances.” Erick paused. He said, “Tomorrow, I think. Not today…” Erick changed his mind. “Later today, actually… if I feel like it.”

Returning to a better topic, Poi said, “I like how you transported the entire garden south of the house. So many people stole so many of those vegetables, just to see if they could, but they’re going to have a much harder time of it now.”

Erick smirked, saying, “The cocoa trees are still in the backyard at Spur. People can steal those if they wish.”

“They already were!” Poi said, “So much shit happened after we split ways.”

Erick smiled brightly, saying, “Tell me all about it.”

They spoke about everything and nothing in particular as the sun rose over Candlepoint, and passed into the greenery of Yggdrasil overhead. As the full day dawned, Yggdrasil tucked the world back into small shadows through his usual [Control Weather]. Clouds rolled across the clear blue sky of the Crystal Forest, providing shade for the shadelings of Candlepoint.
