In the kitchen, with Poi, Kiri, Teressa, and Jane standing around the table, Erick called a meeting.

“I know I told them that you’d be coming with me,” Erick started, “But I want you to know that this is going to be dangerous. You don’t have to come with me to Candlepoint if you don’t want to, but I do want you to come. This is a big change, though. Like. Really big. People will be coming after me… And I have no idea how dangerous that is going to get.”

Although the fallout of all these changes was yet to happen, or even truly start to happen, Erick was absolutely sure that everyone in that room understood some of the severity of the situation. Erick wasn’t sure if he, himself, understood it all, but he did have a good idea of some of the more immediate, material shifts.

To move to the city of shadelings. To start a new city in the Crystal Forest. To live upon Yggdrasil, high above the waters of the freshwater lake. To work on a Gate Network, and to become a part of whatever organization was to come. To challenge the established powers of the world in strange, and unknowing ways, and to create a new place for… Something new to happen. Erick still wasn’t sure what, exactly, he was going to make, or what the end result would look like, but it was going to be categorically Good; as much Good as he could make it, anyway.

Erick needed help, though.

He hoped his people came with him, but he was prepared for them to say ‘no’, now that they had a night to sleep on it.

This was a big ask.

… Maybe he was asking for commitment too soon.

Kiri, Teressa, and Jane had all found out that Erick was a Wizard, just last night. Jane didn’t seem to care much about the stories she had heard of Wizards, and was more interested in what ‘Wizardry’ meant, exactly. Erick had gone over a lot of those nuances with Jane last night, inside the white lightning domain of his [Gate Space]. The only thing that truly separated a Wizard from a normal person was their personal mana generation, though there were a lot of caveats to what that meant.

In the Old Cosmology, that mana generation meant that Wizards used to be able to create worlds, or destroy them, or travel all through time and space, but mostly it just meant that Wizards had a leg up on spellwork. But with the advent of the Script, that ‘leg up’ was mostly mitigated; the ultimate powers of Wizards had been removed (mostly), and everyone else had been gifted easy magic to match the challenges of this New Cosmology.

And yet the horror stories of the Sundering still lingered in the minds of popular culture. That single greatest abomination of (probable) Wizardry to ever happen, which killed all of the entire Old Cosmology, had forever tainted how magic was taught, and how mana was viewed.

Erick looked to Teressa and practically saw all those horror stories of Wizards rushing through the micro expressions of her face, as Erick laid down the gauntlet of ‘will she, or won’t she, come to Candlepoint’.

Kiri was having less trouble with her decision by far. With bright green eyes and set shoulders, she said, “I admit, I probably came off a bit scared last night, but of course I’m going to come with you. Now… I’m not too comfortable about… Candlepoint. But of course I’m going to come with! I said as much last night and my choice remains the same.”

Erick felt a rush of quiet joy at Kiri’s heartfelt words. He nodded. “Thanks, Kiri. My initial plan is to make a new city north of Candlepoint, or at least that’s where the Gate Network will go. If you want, I want to teach you runework so that you can help with all that, and also the Undertow effect, and how [Renew] works. All of that will be necessary for what is to come.”

Kiri smiled, saying, “Sounds wonderful.”

Jane said, “Well I’m coming, of course. I still want to go explore the world, but—” She smiled as an idea came to her. “You know the angels and demons who cast the [Gate]s that the Headmaster’s Elites use to go around the world, solving problems? I want to do that, dad. I want you to make that sort of system.”

Erick was absolutely thrilled to hear those words. “Yes! I can absolutely do something like that!— Though… People are going to find out that I’m a Wizard, since I’m not hiding that. So it might be dangerous for a while. Eventually, I want to set out my plaque again and take requests for monster kills, but it’ll be a while.”

“I don’t have to do anything like that right now.” Jane waved a hand, saying, “Just thoughts for the future. Anyway. I don’t understand the big deal about Wizards. Sure; Wizards make mana and mana is used to make magic, but anyone could have caused the Sundering, if I understand it right.”

Teressa let out a small sigh of worry.

Kiri questioned, “But only Wizards made mana in appreciable quantity, right? And it’s personal mana that makes it easier to make new magics.” Kiri paused in thought. She looked to Erick. “Did I get that right?”

“Yup.” Erick happily said, “As far as I know, the amount of self-generated mana one has is the only marker of a Wizard. Literally anyone can achieve the same results as a Wizard if they save up enough of their own mana.”

“So I just have to not cast spells for a week, or two, and I can make new magics more easily?” Kiri asked.

Jane nodded along; Erick had explained all of this to her a few times last night, but that was when it was just the two of them inside of Erick’s [Gate Space]. Kiri had only heard all this once, and she had been drinking beer at the time.

“Yup!” Erick said, “Most people make 10 mana per day. So if you don’t spend any mana for two weeks, you could have enough personal mana banked in order to easily create a 200 mana cost spell. As a side note, this is the reason why your first cast of any new spell costs full mana costs, and why Clarity and otherwise only kick in after you make the spell, and the Script solidifies that spell in your soul.”

Kiri’s eyes went a little wide as she connected several separate dots, saying, “There’s always some seemingly illusion-touched mage going on about the benefits of not casting anything for a week before trying a new magic. They keep those stories out of the updated Arcanaeum Consortium Anthology they release every 5 years, but those sorts of stories always make it into the lesser publications. School-publications, especially.”

Teressa frowned. Her voice was a softer thing than usual, “Imagine how many stories out there are complete lies.”

Erick had a lot of thoughts to say on that subject, but he held his tongue—

Because Jane nodded, saying, “A lot of them.”

“Well of course!” Kiri said, “Can’t hand out magical knowledge to just anyone. Like— Back at Tower Academy it was widely known that the common education would get you pretty far, but it was nothing compared to the noble track. Oceanside was a lot better about that sort of separation, but I suspect that was only because I was attached to Erick. And yet! All of it looks like shit education once you really get to know what they’re keeping hidden. I shouldn’t be surprised! But… I am.” Kiri said, “Like take gridwork, for example. I would have expected that to be taught everywhere. There’s absolutely no reason not to teach gridwork in introductory lessons.”

Jane countered, “But you’d need to know about the Remake Quests, and aura control, and how Elemental Bodies can be used in lieu of aura control, and how mana sense is necessary in order to see any of that at all, all before you get to the point where you can even understand what you’re actually doing when you use gridwork to construct a spell. All of those things are outside of the Script.”

Kiri wasn’t convinced. Teressa was half-convinced.

“About all that:” Erick laid out another truth of what was to come, “I’m starting a magical revolution here, but I’m going to do it slowly, and securely. Benevolence seems to allow me to see any Sundering-level problems approach long before they actually get here, so I should be able to navigate any Forgotten Campaign-level issues, but still… I’m going to slowly go about changing the world. Teaching people real magic. Probably through creating magical appliances and small, helpful things that people will want to take apart to try and understand. Record players. Planes, maybe, if that seems like it will be a good idea. Better printing presses. Anti-magical devices that will shut down unauthorized magic in areas, like Songli’s Void Song. And a Gate Network to make it all possible. Teaching some of the stuff I learned on my Worldly Path to others will come in time, too. Of course you all will benefit first, but there’s also going to be a lot of oversight from the wrought and Kirginatharp and all the rest, so I’m going to go slow.”

Kiri smiled wide, almost too excited to contain herself.

Jane said, “You should try reinventing film and movies, too, dad.”

“Oh! That’s a good one!” Erick hadn’t considered that one. He said, “Added to the list. I can start with the lightboxes already out there that help a person use the spell [Painting] to capture images… Ah. Well… The [Painting] spell uses actual paints, so that doesn’t work for film. I’d need to do, like, chemistry, in order to go about affixing… Maybe I can just do black and white?” Erick smiled. “Cellulose stuff and dyes and whatever! I can figure it out. We can make some motion pictures! Records of history being made.”

Teressa’s eyes went wide. She spoke before her mind fully caught up to what she was saying, “I want to come too— I mean. Of course I will be there. Was there ever any doubt? … Sorry about not actually saying that fast enough. Yes. I want to go. Obviously.”

Erick smiled wide. “Glad to know. Glad to have you aboard, Teressa.”

Poi said, “And I’m coming too so let’s get moving before all the world starts showing up at the door.”

“Ah! Right.” Erick glanced outside. “… Ah. There’s a crowd, it seems.”

Luckily, none of the hundreds of people outside the property seemed willing to breach the low stone wall that surrounded the place, either due to etiquette or due to the extra guards out there, courtesy of Silverite. But those breaches would happen soon enough. A lot of those people out there were asking to be let in so they could conduct some ‘very important business with the archmage!’ and other such small demands.

… Erick still needed to actually make a house over at Yggdrasil, tho—

“Where are we living?” Jane asked, “On Yggdrasil? Or in Candlepoint?”

The answer to that question had been up in the air, actually, but Erick was already leaning toward living on Yggdrasil, as he had told Jane last night. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, which had been floating in the room with them, bounced at the mention of his name. With no obvious objections, and Kiri and Jane looking excited at the prospect (Teressa and Poi were ambivalent), that cinched it.

Erick said, “On Yggdrasil’s boughs, of course! There’s no safer place in the world, and for a while, safety is necessary.”

Yggdrasil happily bounced and twirled. Ophiel twittered with violin sounds to see his brother so excited.

Erick added, “Everyone gets to design their own rooms and what they want out of the house, too, and if you want a separate house I can swing that as well. There is a lot of room on Yggdrasil’s branches. It’s at least fifty meters to both sides of the branches before the branch starts to curve down. There is a literal kilometer of distance to build upon, from the trunk to where the branch starts to split.”

At the mention of multiple houses, Poi, Kiri, Teressa, and Jane, all looked at each other. In that moment, Erick got the distinct impression that they had already had a discussion on this topic.

Poi announced, “Same house, if you please. As large as it can be to still fit your [Prismatic Ward].”

Erick said, “Sure. It won’t be much larger than this house, then.”

Poi nodded. “That is expected. This is plenty large enough for the five of us, though some rearrangement of rooms might be nice. I would like an office, for instance.”

“Of course! We’ll figure out all of that.” Erick moved on. “But we also need to discuss compensation. You’re all getting paid through Spur as a part of the Army, but that’s going to change, since we won’t be part of the Army anymore. What sort of compensation do you want? And what sort of work do you want to actually do? If anything? Guards are good, but you can be more than a guard if you want.” Erick stressed, “I’m starting a very large shift in the world right now, and you all are on the ground floor of that. Whatever you want to be, or do, in this new world, I will help make sure it happens.”

Poi and Teressa both frowned a little, and for similar reasons. Poi was unsure what he wanted, or what Erick was actually offering; possibly because Erick wasn’t sure what he was offering, either. Teressa was feeling much the same, but she also had a generalized trepidation over this whole new enterprise.

But Kiri laughed once, then instantly said, “Apprentices get paid in knowledge, and I still want to be an apprentice. No pay; same setup as before.”

With a put-upon expression, Erick instantly retorted, “You need money, though. I’m not sure that I can still get money out of Mage Bank.”

Kiri smiled. “I think my opening pitch to become your apprentice was me asking to be your secretary, and then getting told to go run off and vet myself with the Army, first. If you can’t get money out of Mage Bank, and people start just piling up gold in boxes you put beside the Gates, then I can count that money and set it aside, or something, while taking a cut. But really Erick. I don’t need money. Money will come later. For now, we need security, and money ain’t gonna buy any of that—” She briefly paused as she realized something, then she rapidly said, “Oh! I want my family to move to this new place. Get them out of Greensoil. Odaali has been good to them, but this changes everything.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Of course. We can move them to Candlepoint, too. Or perhaps, the new city to the north?”

“The city-to-be-built north of Candlepoint would be better.” Kiri added, “I don’t actually know if they would move… I haven’t asked them yet and Odaali has been good to them, but I’m going to ask them.”

“Sure,” Erick said, smiling a little.

Teressa finally decided something. “I would like to stay a personal guard until I know nothing bad is going to happen, but eventually I think I’ll join the Guard… or something.”

