Erick’s skin crawled. The last time he had been here was to ask Merit how Spur had protected him while he had been oblivious to the dangers of Veird. She gave him a whole list of his personal defensive failures, along with a detailed idea of how he had been threatened without him ever knowing.

And that was good. He had needed to know how he had failed to take the danger of Veird seriously.

But now, months later and with Spur’s much larger population, the Guardhouse was simply chock full of ‘officers’, and that made Erick feel weird.

And then they were in a different, calmer part of the Guardhouse. Nice big offices lined a quiet hallway, where few people walked, and those that were here, wore office clothes, instead of the silver armor of the guard.

Erick pushed his unfair judgments out of his mind, and prepared to help Merit with whatever she needed. Teressa had said something about finding some missing people, right? That was a good use of Erick’s time.

“Just down here.” Teressa led the way through a tall archway, into a nice courtyard. “Here we are.”

The outdoor couryard was a large, austere space of stone and open air and shadows cast sideways by the afternoon sun. Flat walls rose up from the four sides that held windows to offices above. A few tables were scattered in the courtyard, but most were pushed to the side. Merit, the orangescale, silver-armored Guardmaster, waited for Erick alongside an incani man that Erick almost remembered, but not quite. The two of them stood by a table that held several items on metal plates.

Merit smiled, revealing sharp teeth. “Erick! Glad to see you again.”

Erick smiled back, as he walked closer. “Hello, Merit. I hear you need some help finding some missing people?” He had already summoned his full squadron of Ophiel and sent them blipping out to other locations, well before he arrived, so he said, “I’m already set up to search almost anywhere you want, except Kal’Duresh.”

Merit frowned, as the incani man spat curses in inferni, which Erick barely understood; he needed to read more of those beginner inferni books.

Merit asked, “Why not?”

The man’s voice pitched up in intensity as he took a step forward, and said, “She’s either at Kal’Duresh, or at Candlepoint, and if she’s not there, then she’s probably—”

“Mister Saker.” Merit’s orange fire glare and voice cut the man’s emotions short. She calmly stepped forward, ready to keep Saker from Erick, saying, “Erick, meet Kirzal Saker. Mister Saker, Archmage Flatt.” She turned to Erick. “Why not?”

Erick looked to the man; same dark purple skin, same shape to the horns. Saker was Zimmy’s last name, right? She was the girl who had introduced herself with a [Force Shrapnel] to Erick’s face, when Jane and he were hunting for houses in the destroyed Human District. Then, Zimmy took part in Mog’s remedial adventuring class, alongside Erick, where she apologized, and Erick forgave her. Was the ‘she’, the guy was searching for, Zimmy? This guy was her father, right?

Erick asked, “Did something happen to Zimmy? Your daughter, right?”

“She gone!” said the man, desperate. “I had to pull every string I had to get this meeting. And now you tell me you can’t search one of the main places she could be!” His voice devolved into curses and quiet hatred, and then he went silent and turned away.

Erick brushed over the ‘pull every string’; he would get back to that later. He said to Merit, “The Baroness explicitly forbid me from using that spell on her land. Said something about suing me, or something. ‘Pressing charges’. I’m not sure what she’d actually do, though.”

Merit frowned. “Fines, mostly. We three cities near Ar’Kendrithyst interact a lot, but not so much Frontier and Kal’Duresh, so we have a few legal ways to interact with each other, too.” She said, “This is troubling. We need to be able to scan both Kal’Duresh and Frontier… Every city, actually. I was not aware this was a problem.” She said, “But I can fix it. You could probably fix this, too. Just talk to Sirocco.” She asked, “What were her complaints? The blood magic thing, right? Is [Cascade Imaging] blood magic?”

Erick said, “Technically? Maybe? I don’t know. Everyone seems to think it is, and I guess I can see that, but that wasn’t the idea behind the spell.”

Merit said, “Xelxex has this thing against blood magic. Someone used it to great effect to control her parents when she was younger.”

Kirzal turned back to Erick, calmly asking, “Please help me find my daughter.”

Merit said, “Kal’Duresh can stay unobserved for now. I’ll solve that problem on my end, Erick.”

“Sure.” Erick cast a [Cascade Imaging] into the courtyard, to the side, with the orb high enough in the sky to catch all of Spur and a little bit more besides, but close enough to the ground to provide fidelity. White mist began to resolve into a floating image of Spur, as Erick turned to Kirzal and Merit, and said, “I’m going to need something that Zimmy bled on, or a hairbrush, or—”

Kirzal immediately pulled a plate from the table, containing a braid of hair. “I found her hair in a pile next to a note telling me she was leaving. You can use this, right?”

Erick frowned, and Kirzal’s hopeful facade crumbled. Merit simply gazed at Kirzal like she had likely already told him what Erick would say.

“I need hair with the bit at the end. The root.” Erick said, “I’ve tried with hair that wasn’t rooted, and that sent people on wild chases, finding a mother and a grandmother, but not the target.” He attempted to cheerfully add, “I could also use a horn clipping? Did you keep her baby horns? I understand that’s a thing, right?”

Kirzal’s fingers turned rigid with frustration, gripping the plate of his daughter’s hair. He said, “You’ve seen her and sparred with her. I heard you could search that way, too? Couldn’t you just… try?”

“Of course, Mister Saker.” Erick’s mind turned inward. He had personally sparred and spoken with and been attacked by Zimmy. She was a hotheaded girl who hurt herself rather severely when she struck Sizzi’s summon, Zog, and been subjected to Sizzi’s [Melee Reflection]. She had large horns and a blueish purple skin, and she liked to use daggers. With those thoughts in mind, he recast [Cascade Imaging] several times, in several different parts of the Crystal Forest, including right there in the courtyard. With half his attention on the map in front of him, and half of his attention spread out rather far, he said, “It might not work.”

Merit looked to Kirzal, saying, “We are aware, but thank you anyway, archmage.”

Erick asked, “What happened, anyway?”

Kirzal said, “She heard about Candlepoint and I told her not to go, and it drove a wedge between us.” His eyes were fixed upon the resolving image of Spur, hovering in the air of the courtyard, but his gaze was distant. “Maybe I should have let her go. At least then, she wouldn’t have cut off all [Telepathy].”

“How long has she been missing?” Erick asked.

“Two days.” Kirzal said, “She Matriculated almost a year ago, but she hit a wall, and I wouldn’t let her apply for a permit to Ar’Kendrithyst. She wanted her Class… I don’t even have a Class. What does she need a Class for?” Kirzal calmed, muttering, “Sorry.”

Merit said, “A lot of people are attempting to gain whatever advantages they can, while they can. There’s no telling when the Shades will turn active.”

Kirzal threw his hands out, saying, “But to go to the Shades, to get advantages over them?! That’s crazy! It’s a trap!”

Merit said, “Mister Saker. Please. Erick is trying.”

“I know. I know.” Kirzal muttered, “I know.”

The man was not holding up well. Erick checked the Ophiel nearest to Candle—

“Uh.” Erick’s eyes went wide, as he said, “I need to take care of this. Good news: we got a ping in Candlepoint. Zimmy is there.”

Erick nodded to Poi, and the man nodded back, his blue scales a little paler than before; he knew what had happened, what Erick had seen. Erick shifted his senses to the Ophiel near Candlepoint, while Kirzal collapsed to his knees, tears flowing, curses streaming from his mouth.
