“Haunting Sphere” he commanded, pointing the hand not holding his umbrella at one of the orbs in the Brute’s hands. The artificial focus took him; his vision narrowed. His fingers flicked.


The sphere screamed and disappeared. The Brute flung it with a manly grunt of effort. Hopefully it hit Kon’s brother. Alden couldn’t spare the attention to check.


The three of them started across the gym together.


Thanks to the semi-brainless way spell impressions worked, he could cast “Haunting Sphere,” jog, and hold his umbrella between his body and the enemy at the same time. But anything more was going to be tough.


He felt something smash into his umbrella. He ignored it.


Three invisible spheres. Four. Five.


That’s enough.


He quit casting, and he and Kon split off from their Brute protector. Alden ran flat-out the last few yards toward the first victim. Since people were actively trying to kill all the victims, it just seemed wisest to go for whoever was closest instead of trying to figure out who was the most injured. Diving behind a broken block wall that looked like it had been stolen from a real disaster site, Alden and Kon examined the student lying there. She was a girl with the spiky hair who had her arms and legs in a starfish posture. Her tongue was lolling out. She had a piercing.


“What’s with the tongue? Are you supposed to be dead already?” Kon asked.


“Are you unconscious for this exercise?” Alden asked, targeting her and flinging the umbrella at Kon.


She didn’t answer.


“Guess she’s a method actor. And she’s unconscious,” the Adjuster said, closing the umbrella. “I give her body to you, Bunny Dude.”


“Freak,” said the girl, cracking open one eye to glare at him. “But, yeah, Bunny Dude! You can pick me up.”


That was good. The faculty must have filled the victims in on the entrustment thing.


“Great,” Alden said quickly. “Kon, are we clear enough for you to grab a second victim and follow, or—?”


“Should be. We moved so fast. Let me check. You stay down.” Kon popped his head up over the wall.


“Well that’s not good.”


“What?”


“We’ve already got a problem. Their team’s Ground Shaper just threw a twenty-five kilo sandbag in our Torture Wright’s face. Guess he missed with his evil pain stick? Yeah…now she’s got him on the ground and she’s smashing him in the stomach with it.”


Alden winced. A fifty-five pound sandbag backed by telekinetic force didn't sound like a good time.


“Ha!” said the unconscious victim.


Kon and Alden both looked at her.


“That guy deserves a taste of his own medicine.”


“He’s getting pummeled. Emma and Caltrops Girl have got two of them pinned in the far corner. Our Strong Guy is pelting my brother with spheres and running at him, so we might be all right if he can deal with Lexi fast then handle the girl with the sandbags…but I don’t actually think he can deal with Lexi fast. And if we split up to take two victims, the sandbag girl will for sure stop one of us.”


As the slightly more useful team member, Alden was supposed to keep his head down, but he was having a hard time picturing what was going on from the description.


“Can we make it across the gym with just this one or not?” he hissed.


“I don’t know,” Konstantin said. “If we go together, I can maybe distract the Sandbagger—”


He’s just giving everyone fake names at this point.


“—but if Lexi told her what my skill and spell are, then she might ignore me altogether in favor of rapid-smacking you and then the victim. It would really help if Torture Wright would at least try to point his weapon at her.”


“Do you think she’s an A or an S?”


“A. She’s a bludgeoner, too. No refined shaping techniques yet. That’s why she’s using the whole bags instead of fooling around with loose sand. She’s going to hit hard, but she’s not going to do something awesome like make sand fingers.”


“You can just tell?”


“It might be more obvious if you grow up around Avowed, and you’re used to seeing everybody get their powers.”


Oh. True. He’d probably seen half a dozen people from whatever school he went to come out of affixation with a similar set of talents.


“Let’s change plans,” Alden said, hoping it wasn’t a stupid idea. “You carry the victim. I’ll shield you.”


Kon ducked down behind the wall. “Why? You’ve got the rescue people skill.”


“You’re just unconscious, right?” Alden asked the girl. “Or are you supposed to be bleeding out and on the verge of death? Do you have some damage that will be seriously worsened if you’re not frozen in transport?”


“They just told me I’m unconscious.”


“So it’s not actually necessary to preserve her, is it?” said Alden. He switched targets to Kon. “You’ve got to be stronger and faster than me—”


“Oh god yes,” said Kon. “Do I look like I wasted points on fluff like Appeal? It’s mostly in Strength and Agility.”


“So you carry the victim. I’ll be able to keep up with you and shield you. We’ll move way quicker.”


“And you’re just going to take hits from flying sandbags with your umbrella?”


“I think I can.”


“She’s got a rank on you.”


“I can do it.”


Sandbags weren’t arrows. And she was only working with one right now. He’d definitely see it coming.


And it’ll be good to know how I compare.


“Let’s go with it, then,” said Kon. “Being your caddie wasn’t doing my coolness justice anyway.” He stuffed one of the remaining temper spheres into the sleeve of his suit and passed the other one to Alden, who did the same. “I give you back your umbrella shield.”


Alden hadn’t mentioned that the entrustment didn’t have to be quite that literally spoken, and now didn’t seem like the time to explain. He took the umbrella, opened it, and preserved it.


Kon grabbed the girl with the tongue-piercing by the ankles.


“You’re not even going to carry me?” she asked. “So lazy.”


“What are we? Newlyweds? I think dragging you like this is one of the safer ways to move you since you’ve got unknown injuries. I’ll carry you if we have to run through the caltrops or something.”


They moved.


As they came around the wall, Alden got his first look at the mess that was the battlefield. Kon’s brother had been tackled, disarmed, and pinned to the ground by the Strong Guy, so that was good. But Emma had lost the other team’s Strong Girl; she was heading to rescue her fallen teammate. The Sandbagger was standing ten feet away from the Torture Wright, lifting and lowering one of her arms repeatedly to smash him with the heavy bag.


That seems overzealous. But I guess he brought a pain wand, so she figures it’s justified?


The Object Shaper from Alden’s team was occasionally flinging a spiky metal ball at one of the enemies as she hurried over to stand guard over the other two victims.


I think she should probably go attack the runaway Brute instead of retreating to do guard duty, but—


No more time to think. Kon was dragging their victim at a speed that was just shy of a run. Alden was keeping pace, holding the preserved umbrella at the ready. She’ll notice us any second.


The Sandbagger slammed her weapon of choice into Torture Wright one more time. He was groaning and retching. And then she threw both of her arms toward the girl Kon was dragging.


Alden jumped in front of the victim, prepared to intercept, but the sandbag missed. It hit the floor in the spot they’d been just a second ago.


“Careful!” Kon called, dragging the victim around a pile of metal drums and continuing toward the safe zone near their team’s starting point. “She’s getting into range for another—”


The Sandbagger ran toward them, arms outstretched. A second later, the sandbag lifted a couple of yards into the air and flew at a downward angle toward the girl with the tongue piercing.


She was dedicated to her role, and she had guts. She didn’t spring up to rescue herself or even throw up her arms. She just clenched her eyes shut and let Kon keep dragging her.


Alden barely got underneath the bag in time. He threw himself down and backwards, stretching out his arm over the victim’s torso. His umbrella caught the sandbag just in time.


This feels a little different than I expected, thought Alden, flinging the bag away from him with a gesture. Think about it later.


“Nice!” said Kon.


Alden made it back onto his feet in time to catch the sandbag with the umbrella again. This time the Shaper kept smashing the umbrella with it, seemingly trying to get Alden out of the way. She was waving both arms at him in a comically worshipful-looking gesture to do it.


Smash. Smash. Smash.


They were hard hits. Alden felt his skill-bound authority rising to the occasion and protecting the umbrella. He felt the impacts.


But he was solid.


“What the hell!?” the Shaper snarled, smashing the bag into him again. “Fine!”


She threw her arms in Kon’s direction. The sandbag lifted into the air and flew toward the Adjuster. He’d been making a break for it with the victim while their attacker was distracted. Alden wasn’t fast enough to chase the sandbag down. It crashed into the S-rank, and he crashed into the nearby barrier in turn.


Mentally cursing, Alden raced over, let the umbrella dangle by its wrist strap, and bent to grab the victim by the feet and drag her the last few steps into the safe zone.


[1 Victim Rescued]


The girl with the tongue piercing sat up and grinned at him.


“Good luck!” she called as Alden left her there and hurried back to help Kon. The other boy was being slammed into the barrier by the sandbag again and again for no practical reason. The Adjuster wasn’t even fighting back; he was just shielding his face with his arms.


Torture Wright was still on the ground, curled up in the fetal position. He shouldn’t be in pain anymore. He was just freaked out.


Their team channel was completely unused so far. Apparently, with the pace of things, nobody had had time or confidence enough to stop and give advice to anyone else. But Alden accessed it now to send a hasty mental text to the downed Wright. [You can get up. Nobody’s paying attention to you. Go help someone.]


It was worth a try, he figured. But only one. Now he had to collect his own scattered thoughts.


I guess I should attack the Shaper? Or do I grab another victim on my own?


His job was rescuing the victims, but that didn’t mean letting Konstantin become a victim in turn did it?


Where is everyone else? What are they all doing?


No. Shit. Don’t try to figure out every little nuance. Eyes on my own thing.


Kon didn’t seem to be seriously suffering from the sandbag attack. It was just strong enough and fast enough to keep him from closing the distance between himself and the Shaper. But if Alden went solo to grab another victim, what was he going to do when he got them? Crossing the battlefield all by himself while he dragged or carried someone would leave him vulnerable.


Wait nobody’s watching me at the moment either, so I can…


He dropped his preservation, closed the umbrella, and started unraveling fishing line from around the pole as fast as he could, spinning it rapidly so that the weighted line unspooled. What is that? Ten feet? Twelve?


Enough. He re-preserved.


Just don’t clothesline anybody with it. It should be fine.


He ran toward the Sandbagger, his bizarre fishing line lance extended in front of him.


Her arms were still going up and down to direct her sandbag.


Stop her hands or the bag?


He went for her hands. As soon as he was close enough, he angled the preserved fishing line to intercept her waving arms. She was so focused on Kon that she didn’t even see it. She smashed both of her palms into it and yelped in surprise, drawing her elbows back and clutching her hands to her chest.


Alden threw his arm to the side to smack her across the chest with the line for good measure. She took a step back, her head whipping around in confusion.


The sandbag hit Kon in the hip with regular momentum instead of telekinetically powered force. He shoved himself away from the barrier and flung himself at the startled Shaper.


Alden hastily lifted the umbrella over his head before his own teammate ran into the attached line.


Now what?


Kon swept the girl’s legs out from under her and tackled her to the ground.


Now what do I do?


“Figure this out!” Alden shouted. “I’m going to grab the next victim.”


Kon didn’t answer. He was busy kneeing the Shaper in the stomach.


I hope he heard me.


Alden ran toward a cluster of metal drums and ducked down. Heart pounding, he glanced around one, trying to figure out what to do. Their Wright was still lying on the floor.


I guess if he won all his duels the way he did, then he might not have taken a real hit before. So…he’s just not getting back up.


Alden’s team of six had been reduced to five. The villain team was still one member smaller, but they didn’t have two victims to protect. Emma had given up on using her voice, and she’d switched to basic Brute muscularity to wrestle the person she was dealing with.


The Strong Guy on Alden’s team was dealing with the villain Strong Girl, who appeared to be his equal in every way, and…oh, good. The Object Shaper had run over to help. Lexi was lying on the ground being pelted in the face and hands with caltrops now.


Ouch.


The victims were completely unguarded. And any shift in the battle was going to send one of the villains straight at them.


Okay. Just grab one and move as fast as I can then. That’s all I can do at this point.


