He ran. He held his closed umbrella down and behind him slightly as he did, twisting it with his wrist so that the line swept back and forth rapidly. It probably looked dumb, but maybe if someone ran at him from behind, the frozen line would hit them? There was no time to drop preservation and play around with the shape of his object again.


It’s fine. Everyone else is busy. Focus on speed now.


He made it to the nearest victim, who was positioned behind some concrete block rubble and crouched over him.


“Are you unconscious?” he demanded.


<<Yes. I also have a broken left leg.>>


Alden examined him. The guy was big. Big enough that Alden wasn’t going to be carrying him across the whole length of the gym anyway.


“Be right back.”


<<You don’t have to tell me that. I can’t hear you because I’m unconscious.>>


The next victim was only a few steps away.


“Save me!” the brunette girl yelled as soon as Alden reached her. She was clutching at her stomach. “There’s so much blood!”


If there was really so much blood she’d probably be a goner by now.


On the positive side, she was small and could entrust herself. On the negative…if her character had a terrible gut wound, he probably shouldn’t go so far as to ask her to climb onto his back for easy carrying?


I think they want me to preserve at least one person. The assignment said focus on skill use.


Nothing to do but give it a try.


He held his umbrella out to the side so that the line wouldn’t wrap around him when it resumed its spin, then he targeted the victim. Switching his entruster meant the preservation dropped instantly. He heard the metal washer ping off a cinderblock. No time to fool around with winding the line back up. It can just drag.


“Can I pick you up?”


“Please get me out of here!”


He knelt beside her and leaned over her. “Could you wrap your arms around my neck so that my hold on you is more secure?”


She considered it for what he felt was an unnecessarily long time. Alden wondered if she was trying to decide if doing it would be too helpful to a competitor.


Pretty sure you wouldn’t argue if you were actually in danger.


She did do it, though, and Alden lifted her. He tried to get a decent grip on her, then he preserved her. As he did, he heard a girl scream.


I really hope that wasn’t our Shaper or Emma.


No way was he making it back to the safe zone with this victim unless all the villains were occupied.


He hustled across the gym, taking the straightest path he could manage. The best he could do with the added weight was a speed-walk. His legs, tired from all the odd laps the assessors at the track had made him do, protested. He ignored them.


There was a clanging sound from his right. Someone was beating on one of the metal drums, or they were beating someone else with one.


He didn’t look. The route was strewn with rubble so he shouldn’t take his eyes off it.


There were angry shouts, swearing, the sharp note of a slap.


Amateur fight school is something else. I think when I’m done with this it’s going to feel like a crazy dream I had.


Alden hurried past the Wright. The other boy had pressed his face to the floor so that he couldn’t see anything going on.


Almost there. Just a couple of steps—


Something wrapped around his waist and yanked him backwards hard. He fell with the girl on top of him. The air rushed from his lungs. There was a line of sharp, burning pain across his stomach and his back.


Preservation dropped, and his victim sat up on top of him in surprise, looking around.


“What?!” she said in astonishment.


You’re supposed to be too badly injured to do that.


Then she looked around and yelped, her eyes going wide. She scrambled to her feet.


<<Stop that! I won’t get credit for attacking you if you’re running away from your own rescuer. That’s not how the game works.>>


Still trying to draw in a full breath, Alden rolled over and got onto his hands and knees. Whatever was around his waist tightened like it was going to slice him in two, and the gym suit helpfully ratcheted up the pain.


He looked down and saw a thin chain, sparkling with white light, wrapped around him.


<<You stop it, too,>> said Lexi in an angry voice. Kon’s older brother was standing around nine feet away. He was breathing hard, and his dark hair was scrambled. Both of his hands were on the handle of his whip. The entire length of it was glowing. <<This whole exercise has been a joke. I’m going to end it.>>


Stop him, thought Alden. Delay until help gets here. Don’t let him use the whip on the victim.


Alden grabbed onto the chain.


It felt like he’d grabbed a burning wire. Gritting his teeth, he tried to yank on it, and got nothing for his troubles at all except for a feeling like he was slicing through his own fingers. Lexi’s arms didn’t even budge.


Meisters could be pretty physically strong. Very strong depending on their subclass. But something about this didn’t look right.


Alden hauled backwards, using as much of his bodyweight as he could, and…Lexi’s grip on the handle didn’t change at all. He wasn’t even looking at Alden. He was still glaring at the victim in annoyance, clearly pissed that she wouldn’t lay back down so that she could be properly killed.


Magic weapon. Fuck.


He’s fighting with magic, and I’m fighting with my muscles.


Him trying to manhandle the chain whip must be the same as Natalie Choir and her roommates taking on the ice cream cone protected by The Bearer of All Burdens with slaps and meat hammers.


Gotta try the more mundane target then. If I stay tangled up with his whip and keep his body tangled up with me, then he hasn’t got anything to kill her with, right?


Alden got his feet under him and launched himself at the Meister’s knees.


The physical attack was so much less effective than it had been versus Tatiana Evans earlier. He hit Lexi, and Lexi did hit the ground.


And then a fist smashed into his back so hard he lost the ability to breathe again. That was the only thing that kept him from shouting out loud as he felt something pierce his right calf muscle. It felt like his leg was on fire.


<<Just lay down and stay there!>> Lexi shouted, digging a fist into Alden’s ribs this time.


The burning whip Alden had been counting on keeping entangled with himself suddenly disappeared from around his waist.


It didn’t unwind. It was there one instant and gone the next. Lexi kicked Alden off him and stood. The whip was in one hand. The chain was short and gold again, like it had been when Alden had first seen it this morning.


Can he phase it? Or recall it?


Alden tried to rise but before he could regain his feet, Lexi lashed out with the whip again.


Not at him.


No.


The chain lengthened in a flash into its glittery white magic mode and wrapped around the girl. Alden had been down for long enough, and she’d refused to play victim for long enough, that Lexi thought she was fair game now even if she wasn’t pretending to be injured anymore. The tip of it elongated and struck like a snake. It jabbed the glowing red mark on the girl’s shoulder that was her kill point dead center, and a notification flashed:


[1 Victim Deceased]


Someone on the other team cheered.


Lexi nodded in satisfaction. His whip vanished from around the victim and returned to its starting form. Then he turned and started to run.


He’s going for the other victim.


Alden was on his feet and after him in an instant. He was almost fast enough to catch him. He definitely would have been if the gym floor was ground and his trait was active.


I’m not going to make it.


Then a cell phone smacked into the side of Lexi’s head. It wasn’t a very hard strike, but at least the Object Shaper had made an attempt. She was coming up from their left. Lexi threw the hand with the whip out almost casually, and the tip of the chain struck her in the stomach.


She screamed and bent double.


Lacking any better idea, Alden grabbed the temper sphere from inside his sleeve and threw it as hard as he could at the Meister’s back. It probably didn’t hurt much, but it did make the other boy look back.


“Haunting sphere!” shouted Alden, pointing.


He only did it because it was the one tool left in his arsenal. He didn’t have a single expectation for it. So it was a big surprise to him when, at the sound of the ball’s scream, Lexi jumped and whirled around with his whip raised. His head jerked back and forth, looking for the source of the noise.


He didn’t know the spheres did that. He was deaf from Emma’s screaming when they were going off earlier.


Alden forced himself to keep running at the Meister even though he knew what would happen next. Lexi flung his whip out again. The chain caught Alden in the side. There was a burning feeling as if he’d just been sliced, but it didn’t wrap around and yank him off his feet this time.


<<Just stop, you moron! Do you love pain? You can’t do any—>>


“You just stop!” shouted a voice from right behind Alden. “Your shitty Russian is an embarrassment to our ancestors!”


Kon dashed past. The whip struck him across the chest, and he completely ignored it. He leaped with a grunt of effort and flew through the air toward Lexi.


“Fuck,” said the Meister, a split second before his little brother collided with his chest.


They both crashed to the floor. In an instant, Kon was sitting on his brother’s stomach, facing his feet.


“Don’t you fucking—!”


Grinning, Kon drew back both arms and delivered a double-fisted punch to the groin.


Lexi’s whole body jerked, and his face lost all color.


Jeez, I’m glad I don’t have an S-rank brother.


Alden didn’t stop to watch the siblings fight. He ran toward the last victim, and his stomach clenched in dread as he saw the other team’s Brute heading in the same direction. She cleared a block wall taller than Alden’s head by springing over it.


Strength Brute. A-rank. That’s a bad matchup.


Probably the right thing to do if this was a real crisis was run away or wait for more qualified help. But that wasn’t the point today.


I need a shield.


Thank goodness for wrist straps. The umbrella was still with him, though a tug a few seconds ago made him think the washer had caught on some debris and the line had snapped.


“Target Kon!” he gasped. He couldn’t take the time to turn around and point, couldn’t think through the authority control required for targeting someone he couldn’t see at this moment. The System was still a valid quick choice. “Text Kon! Kon, tell me to pick up the umbrella!”


Even as he said it he flung the umbrella ahead of him. It bounced off the ground and rolled toward the third victim.


He really didn’t expect the Adjuster to hear his shout or see the message in the midst of what sounded like a zealous English/Russian swearing match with his brother.


But Kon must have had more presence of mind than Alden had given him credit for.


“PICK UP THE UMBRELLA!”


Thanks.


He reached the last victim. He snatched up the umbrella, popped it open, and turned to face the oncoming Brute.


She’s already on top of me. Shit!


Instead of hitting him, grabbing his umbrella, or dodging, she just tried to bull right through like Alden didn’t exist.


That is such a Strength Brute thing to do.


She smashed into the umbrella and bounced off like she’d hit a wall. She sprawled backward on the ground, dazed and blinking up at the rafters of the gym.


She took a deep breath. Then…


“Oh!” she said in surprise, lifting her head to look at Alden with wide eyes. Her brown ponytail swung as she hopped back onto her feet. “Okay!”


She’s going to hit me.


He stood in front of the victim, holding the umbrella out. The girl picked up a cantaloupe-sized chunk of broken concrete. She held it in both hands, crouched a little, narrowed her eyes—


Oh fucking no.


She threw it at him, aiming low. It flew so fast, he considered it a miracle that he intercepted it. It hit the very edge of the umbrella, and it shattered.


Alden felt chunks of it hitting his lower legs and the tops of his shoes. More importantly, he felt his skill straining to keep up with the force of the impact.


That was almost too much. I’m positive if I wasn’t lying about my skill level by a massive amount that would have taken out the umbrella. And my arms. And probably both of my legs.


“I guess I should go behind you, huh?”


Damn it.


She bent her knees and jumped over his head.


<<Great,>> said the supposedly unconscious victim. <<She’s gonna smash me from above.>>


Alden spun and threw the umbrella out to protect him. The Brute girl landed on top of it, lost her balance, slid off the side, and elbowed the victim in the kill point as she hit the ground.


It almost looked like an accident. Maybe it was.


But the rescue game was still over.


.
