Nick’s eyes went wide when he read the words on the floating screen. Not because of the shock, although it was an astonishing revelation, but because he felt something pulling him away when he imagined the danger that was coming.

Kenji and Bandit had begun a rapid-fire analysis of the System’s warning, but he was too distracted to parse the meaning of their words. Acting on instinct, he bent down and placed his palms on the floor of the conduit, chasing the elusive sensation that came over him the instant he became aware of the pressing threat.

In what he would later recognize as Portal Visionary and Ascendant’s Insight working in concert, his consciousness left his body and sailed across the Labyrinth, circling the fringe’s perimeter at an unfathomable rate. In this strange state of augmented awareness, Nick could sense what was happening on a grand scale and granular level at the same time.

As the System had stated, four armies were on the march, heading from the maze’s inner quadrants toward its newly integrated sectors. They were comprised of the mightiest creatures he had ever encountered, each more terrifying than the last. The elite soldiers of Taltos’s pantheon were strikingly different in feature and form. Although they were unified in purpose, the deities’ servants went about their mission in manners that were true to each god’s nature.

The fiends that were headed Earth’s way felt familiar in a way that was hard to put into words. They were hulking slabs of muscle and rage—brutal bodies designed to pulverize and rend, prioritizing offense at the sake of all else. Some were close to Nick’s size. Others were bigger than buildings. All of them were wreathed in a palpable aura of bloodlust that took his breath away.

That realization helped him remember where he’d felt that insatiable desire for carnage before. It’s just like when the Herald of Slaughter unleashed her killing intent over the arena. These must be the Red Lady’s forces. The vicious creatures tore anything they encountered apart, even turning on each other at times. He couldn’t imagine facing more than a handful at once and prevailing, even with all of Team Earth combined.

The next army was something else entirely. They looked far more human, although there were plenty of bestial forms marching too. Gold, glitter, spangles, and flair—every aspect of their appearance was designed to draw the eye. Many of them were shining bright, emitting flashes and beams that made it hard to focus on anything else. His instincts were telling that he was gazing upon the elite forces of Spectacle, god of bloodsports, deathmatches, and high-stakes wagers.

The third set of invaders was far fewer in number, but their equipment was top of the line. Every piece of armor was Epic or above, and Nick spotted quite a few weapons of Legendary grade. The priceless pieces were prominently displayed, screaming that this wealth of gear could be his if he was willing to put his life on the line to claim it. That must be Splendor’s army, the god also known as Greed.

The final force wasn’t an army at all. While they were heading into fringe, the horrific entities were utterly consumed with chasing the monsters that ran before them. Their visages had been pulled from the darkest depths of nightmare.

The sight of Suffering’s champions made Nick glad that Slaughter’s forces were headed his way. It sounded absurd at face value, but the fates those abominations were dealing were far worse than death. When they caught their prey, they didn’t merely kill it or rend it asunder. Instead, the foul beings put their victims through the worst torture imaginable, inflicting torment upon body, mind, and soul while basking in their misery.

Each army included a dozen or so generals—immensely powerful entities that were deep into B Grade and peak Tier 3. From this far out, Nick couldn’t be certain which of Slaughter’s generals was coming for Earth, although from their positions, it was likely one of three. Ascendant’s Insight provided their names as his mental projection made a closer pass.

The Ravener was a skinless giant with bulging muscles and jet-black claws. It reminded Nick of the fallen rhino he’d battled in the arena, only a thousand times worse. The Butcher was the most human of the lot. He wielded a pair of immense cleavers he used to carve his opponents and consume their flesh midbattle.

The Endless Maw was well-named. It was a vast blob of ruddy flesh the size of a city block. Every visible surface was covered in mouths, everything from sharklike jaws to spiders’ fangs to lips that looked far too human. When one of Slaughter’s troops got too close, the mouths stretched out from the general’s body, fighting to be the first to feed. They devoured the unfortunate mutant down to the bone before consuming them too.

In front of the pantheon’s armies ran two waves of monsters. They weren’t completely distinct, but the bulk of the creatures was divided into two thick bands. Terror propelled them toward the outer fringe. Anything that was too slow was obliterated by the elites driving them forward. The first wave was considerably weaker, but the monsters would be a difficult challenge for anyone but Earth’s mightiest champions.

Before the vision ended, Nick noticed something strange taking place along the fringe’s inner border. Thousands of pockets of stable space, which seemed to be artificially generated instead of natural nodes, were arranged at precise intervals. They were fuzzy and hard to focus on, but Ascendant’s Insight informed him that each bubble contained a potent magitech device, although divining their purpose was beyond his trait’s ability.

When he peered into an artificial node that had just sprang into being, something noticed his presence—an entity he had encountered once before when entering Darkstone Tower. Rizzen reached out to destroy the creature that had caught wind of his scheme, only to realize it was one of the System’s pawns and not a servant of the Mad God.

The infamous scientist met Nick’s gaze, surprise and approval clear on his features. This makes a second unexpected meeting, young champion. You have undergone some intriguing changes in a short span of time. If you survive this trial, we shall speak again. Rizzen made a shooing motion, and a tsunami of essence drove Nick back into his body.

“Whoa.” He realized his friends had stopped talking and were looking at him with concern in their eyes.

“Are you all right?” Bandit reached out to pat Nick’s hand.

“You looked like you were a million miles away,” Kenji added.

“That’s because I was.” Nick explained everything he had witnessed.

“Your visions have always been an amazing gift,” the lemur said. “It seems like they will only be more useful going forward.”

“Your revelations are fascinating, but we’re on the clock.” Kenji gestured to get everyone moving. “Let’s push hard and reach the next node as fast as we can. We need to check out the hall and see if it can help us survive the impending ordeal then make it home in time to bolster Earth’s defenses.”

***

Nick stood before the rift marking the conduit’s end, contemplating the virulent colors and inscrutable shapes while Kenji outlined their plan for a final time before pulling the trigger.

“When we cross the threshold,” the strategist began, “we will appear on one of the largest platforms comprising the city’s central strata. Those mimics gave us quite a scare when we passed the other way, and creatures crossing through the conduits are their primary source of prey. We should assume the colossal shapeshifters will be lurking nearby, so keep an eye out for any structures that weren’t there before. While we’ve grown a great deal over the last few months, engaging carnivorous blobs the size of buildings in hand-to-hand combat is a measure of last resort.

“Moving on, there are hundreds of monsters laired within the fallen settlement. The mutant spiders are the most prolific, and I’m certain we will be battling them before the day is done. Next on the list are scattered packs of other species. Some of them seemed quite dangerous, but we should be able to handle isolated packs if we don’t draw too much attention to ourselves in the process.

“That brings me to the third and most pressing threat, the immense Tier-3 arachnid that spun the outer web. I’m not sure what we can do about node’s apex predator, but we don’t want to make too much noise and rouse its ire, or we might not reach the hall before it arrives.

“Once we confirm that the landing is clear, we will survey the platform holding the Hall of Heritages and come up with a strategy for how to proceed. The hall is sitting at the bottom of the lowest level—not too far from the rift, horizontally speaking. The stairs are covered in tripwires and sticky webs, but thanks to Nick’s Arcane Shield, we don’t have to take them make our descent.

“The monsters on that strata were too powerful to consider fighting before. I’m optimistic that we can tackle them now, but I won’t be certain until we lay eyes on them and Nick can use Size Up. Unlike the other structures on that level, the hall was undamaged, and I assume it’s tough enough to serve as a fortified position. None of the entrances were wider than a set of double doors, so after we duck inside, we should only have to deal with monsters Lurk’s size or smaller, although it’s always possible that the mimics can squeeze through.

“The tricky part is that we have no idea how many spiders are laired inside or how many will come swarming from other platforms once they realize we’ve arrived. I spotted a few monsters moving through the main entrance when we laid eyes on it before, which means there isn’t a barrier in place like the one that protected the library.

“Once a battle breaks out, it’s only a matter of time before the Tier 3 arrives. It is imperative that we fight our way into the hall before that happens or this operation is going to go downhill fast. If we decide to proceed with our plan, we’ll head straight to the hall and bunker up, clearing it out while using the entrance to bottleneck the monsters attacking from outside.

“After we learn how the hall works and determine whether we can access the Heritages right away, we will weigh our options and go from there. If something goes wrong, we will either use Nick’s platforms to return to this rift or ascend to the highest level and escape into the conduit leading to Earth.”

Kenji turned to look at the dinosaur looming above him.

“Lurk, no matter what happens, I need you to stick with the team. There will be plenty of monsters for you to eat, but if you charge straight into the press, we might get tied down long enough for the boss to arrive. I have no desire test its might without a lot more information and some extensive planning. Any questions?”

The dino grunted her agreement and no one requested clarification. After switching on their abilities, the party fell into formation, entered stealth mode, and crossed through the rift.

When his senses unscrambled, Nick found himself standing in the lost city of Eroquis, gazing upon the great web that encapsulated the node. With his current attributes, he could remember exactly where each building had been positioned, which made it easy to pick out a half-dozen mimics that had changed positions in the interim. The ambush predators remained perfectly still—hoping their disguises would lull their prey into drawing near—which suited him fine.

His evolved eyes were sharp enough to spot tells he hadn’t noticed before, including differences in temperature, humidity, and the way ambient mana flowed around the shapeshifters versus the abandoned structures whose appearances they bore. He turned in a circle, surveying the platform before walking to edge to inspect the strata below.

There were several colonies of Tier-2 spiders laired beneath the adjoining blocks, along with roving packs of other species, but nothing had noticed his team’s arrival. When Kenji gave the signal via Tactical Command, the party made their way to the precipice and inspected the series of platforms lining the bottom of the node.

With his sensory-boosting ability, Nick could make out minute details that had evaded him the last time around, Sizing Up the throngs of predators dwelling within the city’s depths. It came as no surprise that the Hall of Heritages had been claimed by the arachnid variant—bigger, stronger, and meaner than their cousins prowling the upper stratas.

As Kenji had noted, the hall was completely intact—undamaged by the passage of time, warring monstrosities, and the calamity had befallen the settlement before becoming part of the Labrinth. He didn’t detect any active magic surrounding the structure, which meant the board was green to proceed with their plan.

Nick considered fighting the monsters from the air using Arcane Shield but decided against it. Some were bound to possess ranged attacks that could reach him, and there was always a chance that the creatures could nullify his barriers, which wasn’t a risk he was willing to take. Besides, a brawl will attract the big one’s attention. I don’t want to be anywhere near the creepy bastard without a clear line of retreat.

From this distance, Size Up couldn’t determine the spiders’ abilities, but it provided a general sense of their combat prowess. While they were fearsome opponents, he was confident that he could deal with at least a dozen by himself. His team should be able to tackle every monster on that block if they played it smart and didn’t let the creatures surround them. The unknown variable was how many creepy crawlies were lurking inside the hall, but after his explosive growth, he could handle hundreds after finding a fortified position.

Everyone shared their observations and the team conducted a whispered brainstorming session, cementing their strategy before making their move. Twenty minutes later, they were as ready as they could be.

Nick cast Arcane Shield four times, then everyone stepped off the platform’s edge and onto the hovering forcefields. Lurk was too heavy to ride his spell like a surfboard, but his Magic was high enough to serve as an elevator. The dinosaur watched with hungry eyes as the Hall of Heritages and the legion of spiders living nearby grew larger with every breath she drew.