Markus felt somewhat better now. Sure, the walls were closing in around him, a god wanted to turn him into his personal plaything, and his brain was still wracked with guilt about the things he’d done in his own ignorance, but hearing the way that Cyrus spoke about what he considered to be his own transgressions, Markus began to realise…

Cyrus’ guilt stemmed from a desire to defend himself and do the things he needed to in order to stay alive. His method of coping was painful to even hear about. It was probably unhealthy, and not just in the physical sense.

And yet he’d confirmed within Markus what he needed to know without ever directly saying it. If such a gentle and kind soul as Cyrus could kill, survive, train, and go on with his life while keeping it together, even if he wasn’t entirely perfect, he was a good example to live by.

Cyrus was an indicator of morality within this hellscape. His code mattered to him. He cared.

Such a man being able to kill so efficiently, even if it took a heavy toll on him, told Markus all he needed to know about what he was doing and how he should endeavour to feel.

It wasn’t about excusing the things he had to do, but finding healthy ways to live with them. It was okay to feel guilt. Important, even. It was one of the main factors separating man from monster.

It wasn’t okay to let that guilt control you.

Even then, bearing so many scars, physical and emotional, Cyrus had yet to lose himself. Markus couldn’t allow himself to either. Too much was at stake.

Balance was important. It was what would keep him stable and level-headed from here on, and what might allow him to survive.

But more important than staying alive was having a reason to live. That was the whole reason he’d said no to so many offers, done so many things he’d wished he hadn’t had to. Not just to keep breathing, but for something beyond that.

People to save. Revenge unsatisfied. Things within this world to change, issues to resolve back home…

Markus went to find Lexi. He offered to treat Cyrus once more, but he refused.

It didn’t take him long to find her. All he had to do was find a single imp. They all knew her, and fetching her was as simple as teleporting to her.

She took the pair of them to the training halls, grinning all the while, her massive black eyes staring up at Markus.

“Sooo, what did you wanna learn first?”

He supposed asking her ‘how to kill a god’ probably wouldn’t get him anywhere, so Markus settled with the thing that’d been subtly playing on his mind ever since he first came here, ever since he’d met Drathok, ever since his first fight.

And now, with this Dark Knight class sitting within his repertoire, the time felt more fitting than ever.

“Teach me how to use lightning.”
