Exhausted by my mental gymnastics, I give up on the Dao for now and check our current progress. We’re still a good five minutes away, if not more, so I need a distraction quick. I didn’t bring any floofs with me, but it’s always fun and exciting to watch Ping Ping navigate through crowds. Then again, considering how much effort and concentration she needs to move through the streets without stepping on someone or something, it’s probably best not to distract her. Glancing at my honour guard jogging alongside the rickshaw, I inwardly sigh and use my option of last resort. “Brother Biao, would you care to come up and discuss something with me?”

“This one would rather not,” he quickly replies, his eyes darting back and forth through the crowd and never turning to meet mine. “The crowd might hide many dangers.”

Right, those poor, scared people might accidentally shit themselves in fear and stain my rickshaw. How terrifying. “I’m sure the others have my security well in hand. Please, brother Biao. Come have a seat. At the very least, you’ll have a better view of the surroundings”

It’s cheating since that’s just a politely worded command, but Kuang Biao hops into the rickshaw with a ‘By your will’, and that’s good enough for now.

“Erect a Sound Barrier, please.” The hubbub of the crowd cuts out leaving us shrouded in deafening silence, and it takes a moment or two to adjust. Bound by his Oaths to keep me safe, Kuang Biao continues to scan the crowd while I study his stern and youthful features, so utterly unreadable he could give Song lessons on neutrality. A thirty-seven year old Peak Expert, he is quite clearly an outstanding talent and phenomenal warrior, one who was destined for glory and greatness before the squabble between Yang Jixing and myself reduced him to a mere Death Corps guard. I can’t imagine how angry he must be, to have his promising future wrenched away and forced to obey another’s whims, but honestly, considering how easily his life was turned upside down, I bet loyalty and tradition bound him every bit as tightly as the Oaths do now. “You don’t have to answer if you don’t want to, but I’m curious to know: how do you manage your anger?”

The question catches him off-guard, and for the first time in forever, he meets my gaze with brown eyes burning in fury. “What?”

“Your anger,” I repeat, feeling bad for bringing it up but needing his answer regardless. “How do you manage it? You devoted yourself to the Martial Dao and sacrificed so much for the Imperial Clan, but then Yang Jixing all but threw you away because I didn’t know to keep my mouth shut and outed you as a Royal Guardian. Are you not outraged? Do you not hate me? How do you keep it from impacting your Martial Dao?”

“Such is life.” He looks away and goes back to scanning the crowd, but not before I spot the pain and resentment within them. “Trials and tribulations without end. But Imperial Consort is mistaken.”

“How so?”

“Anger, outrage, and hatred are not taboo to the Martial Dao,” he says, frowning while struggling to find the right words. “Or rather, they are not the dire stumbling blocks you seem to view them as. Any emotion is dangerous if taken to their extremes, but as your elders have pointed out many times in the past week and several times this morning, Balance is the key, Imperial Consort.”

...I knew this. Or I knew it at one point and just forgot. Charok, Dad, Akanai, even Fung and Lin-Lin told me all of this before, but I keep falling into the same trap. I can’t help but think in terms of ‘good’ and ‘evil’, but that’s not how Balance works. Like protons and electrons, Heavenly Energy has nothing to do with morality, it simply exists. Yes, the Defiled seem objectively evil, but a stag also sees the wolf as objectively evil. It’s just a matter of perspective.

...Which is why cultivation means to ‘seek the truth’. There is no immutable truth, because what is true for one might not be true for another. It’s not about defining the Dao, but rather discovering how you personally fit into it, or more simply, finding your place in the world. There is no more simple truth than that, which makes things complicated because I personally don’t fit. Technically, I don’t think I was ever supposed to be here. My current life is all thanks to some giant, cosmic mistake, so maybe that’s why the rules don’t always apply.

Or maybe not. Maybe I’m looking at things the wrong way and I’m the chosen one, here to bring Balance to the Dao. Who can say for certain? Not me, that’s for sure, but maybe Kuang Biao can. “Brother Biao, I know you’re not allowed to reveal Eastern secrets or anything, so without touching on anything forbidden, what are your thoughts regarding my Martial Dao and all the advice I’ve recently received?”

“This one believes the answers lie before Imperial Consort’s face, but he refuses to see them.”

“...If that’s the case, then please, tell me what exactly those answers are, in detail.”

“This one cannot, because this one does not know what they are. Imperial Consort holds too many secrets for this one to fathom.” Shrugging, he adds, “However, considering your performance in Sunuji, it is clear you hold the true answers within your heart, or at least enough of an answer to move forward. Imperial Consort is a brilliant and talented Martial Warrior who will go far,” he adds, then without missing a beat, continues, “Unless he is brought down by his staggering arrogance and sheer idiocy in all other facets of life.”

...Ouch. “Explain. Please.” I am not mad. Just hurt. He’s stating his opinion, and he should be allowed to, especially since I pretty much ordered him to.

“Imperial Consort believes himself omniscient and omnipotent,” Kuang Biao begins, but before I can offer a vehement denial, he continues, “Or why else would he accept blame for matters he cannot possibly control? This one’s fate was sealed the moment he was ordered onto the stage, and nothing Imperial Consort did could have changed it. You think you were the only person to notice this one’s status? At the very least, making it known to the public allowed this one to keep his small life, else the Imperial Clan would have lost face for silencing a Peak Expert over a personal squabble.” Turning back to face me once more, he doesn’t quite meet my eyes and says, “In the same vein, your friends, your comrades, your guardians... You are not to blame for their deaths. They were true warriors one and all, and this one was honoured to fight by their side, thus he feels compelled to point out the following. They made their choice to fight, and Imperial Consort does their memory a grave disservice by taking responsibility for their actions.”

I hear what Kuang Biao is saying, and I understand what he’s getting at, but if irrational guilt and a persecution complex were so easy to logic away, well... it wouldn’t be irrational, now would it? “Brother Biao,” I say, smiling faintly despite the pangs of sorrow and regret. “Are you trying to console me? Be honest now.”

If looks could kill, I’d have died a thousand times over from Kuang Biao’s deadpan stare. “You,” he begins, before taking a deep breath to rein in his anger. “You are the most stubborn and infuriating person I have ever had the misfortune to meet.”

“I like you more when you drop the pretenses.” It’s not a victory if I order him to be informal, he needs to decide for himself. Yes, he’s bound by his Oaths, and while he might never regain his complete freedom, that doesn’t mean he has to become a nameless, Death Corps slave. He could be like Song and Dastan, bound by Oaths but not defined by them, and as minor a distinction as it might be, that’s really all I can do short of risking Kuang Biao’s life by destroying his Spiritual Weapons and shattering his Core, thereby turning him into a cripple and maybe freeing him of his Oaths. Struck by an errant thought, I file it away for later as we’ve arrived at our destination and it’s time to meet the Legate.

I hope he has more tofu pudding. I’ve been craving it for weeks now...

Nodding at the Seneschal who stands waiting to receive me, I leave Ping Ping, Kuang Biao, and the other Death Corps guards behind before following the old servant into the building and up the stairs. This is going to sound terrible, but I kind of miss my mini-palanquin, because God do I hate stairs. Five stories doesn’t sound like a lot, and it really isn’t, but I’d forgotten how unpleasant stairs can be. Thankfully, the Legate doesn’t call me for meetings often, so I soldier on and push through to the uppermost level. As per usual, two Death Corps guards hold the door open and my nod of greeting goes entirely unremarked. With the Seneschal on my heels, I stride into the room and get ready to greet the Legate with a salute, but as the doors slam shut behind me, I realize the Legate isn’t here. It makes sense, what with him being a busy guy and all, but I’m just used to him standing by the window trying to look cool or sitting in his seat ready and waiting for my arrival, but apparently he’s trying to make a point by leaving the room entirely bare. No chair for me to sit in, no art for me to appreciate, not even a carpet for me to stand on, all of which sends a message which says ‘I don’t like you much’. Mildly annoyed by the stupid political games, I turn to ask the Seneschal for an E.T.A on the Legate’s arrival and feel a sharp pain in my belly.

A sharp pain which quickly intensifies into fiery agony as I look down and realize I’ve been stabbed.

Grabbing the Seneschal’s wrist to keep him from gutting me and finishing the job, I clutch tight and prepare to struggle for dear life, but my efforts are wasted. Through the haze of pain and adrenaline, I soon realize why as my legs give out beneath me and I drop heavily to the floor. The Seneschal’s blade was perfectly aimed and pierced clean through my spleen, so all he needs to do is keep me in the room for the next few minutes and his work is done. Maybe he wants to see me suffer, or maybe he was ordered to do so, because he has no intention to speed my death along. Standing over my fallen frame, he watches me with bloodied dagger in hand, his expression utterly devoid of emotion or interest as I draw my final breaths.

I need to fight. To struggle. Embrace the pain, don’t let it get in your way. Push through it and find Balance. You can do this. You’ve done it before. Just do it again.

Divesting myself of rage, fear, surprise, contempt, and all other emotions, I still my thoughts and reach for Balance.

Those emotions. An offering to the Heavenly Energy perhaps, or bait so I might tie a leash around its neck? Curious.

A moot point. There is no warm embrace of the Mother to greet me, no rush of power with which I might Heal my bloodied wounds, no final surge of strength with which to strike at my foe.

Only more pain and the empty nothingness of the Void.

And then, even that is lost as my eyes grow heavy and the darkness consumes me.

Chapter Meme
