“The inevitable happens,” Rhys finished for her. Many things made more sense now; why they Demon King was no longer, but they struggled to face the Emperess; why the Empress wasn’t seen as quite as terrible as the Demon King, while being unquestioningly a terrifying force of oppression. He took a deep breath, then smiled. “If the cream of the crop all got killed, then it’s left to us trash to scrabble our own freedom, huh?”

“I suppose,” Sable said, giving him an odd look.

“Then again, if the Alliance is so desperate for power, why not utilize the Remnant Weapons?” Rhys asked.

She pursed her lips. “I know Straw is a friend to you, but… to most of the Alliance, he’s a monster, a horrifyingly corruptive influence that’s as likely to destroy this region as our neighbors. Imagine you have a tiger on a leash. Do you feel safe?”

“No. That thing’s gonna whip around and eat my face—oh,” Rhys said, realizing her intention. He nodded. “I guess… I mean, I don’t agree with it, but I do understand their perspective better, now.”

She shook her head. “I’m glad I was able to provide basic history to you.”

“Hey. Don’t knock it. My librarian likes porno books and the orphanage gave me some political bullshit instead of learning. Basic history can be hard to come by,” Rhys countered.

“What about your academy? Once you became a mage, that is.”

Rhys laughed. “You’re kidding. I was the janitor, not a student. A standard curriculum? You can forget it.”

He left out that he willfully ignored anything like a standard curriculum, having become beyond inured to standardized education in his first world.

Sable blinked, looking at him in a new light. She tilted her head, and the fang drifted across her forehead. “Huh. We may be more alike than I thought.”

I dunno about that, Rhys thought, but he kept that to himself, knowing she’d take it the wrong way. It sounded like he was saying ‘you and I aren’t alike at all!’ when what he meant was, ‘I’m a stubborn-ass gremlin from the underworld of the deep internet, there isn’t a scum like me in this whole world.’

Instead, he turned to face forward. “We’re almost back. Try to look as un-threatening as you can.”

Sable gestured at the bones protruding from her body.

“I realize it’s a challenge, but…” Rhys said with a laugh. “Where’d that cloak of yours go?”

“Corrupted by the well,” she said.

Rhys paused, once more feeling a little embarrassed. After a second, he waved his hand. “I’ll make you a new one. Come on. Home’s just ahead.”
