In the end, legacies were important. While Grace’s impact on the end of the war had been unfortunately minimal, she was still one of the most renowned names from its prior stages. The woman might have abandoned that legacy, but Night would still make use of it.

He concluded the engraving of Grace’s name with a subtle mark—one that no one else present even noticed, concealed within the minor imperfections of the stone. He would have to mirror the mark on the Indomitable Wall when he next returned to Ariminum.

Night had a habit of making special marks by the names of every Sentinel that had the potential of being encountered again. Dawn, one of the more ideal Sentinels of the previous age, had been the last recipient of a similar mark. Had Aurora lived long enough to attempt her foolish plans to reach the darkness beyond Pallos, she would have likely received the same mark that Dawn had. Yet that never came to pass—instead, she fell to a shimagu twin, though she at least managed to make it an act of mutual annihilation.

Grace’s mark was different. It was a mark that Night had only made once before, throughout Remus’ long history.

It was the mark of a potential enemy.

Three seasons later, Night finally found a chance to return to a chamber he had planned to revisit ever since Grace vanished. His memory Skill was impeccable, though it was good to occasionally revisit his eldest records—those old enough to be recorded on tablets, rather than scrolls. It was a location that he had lost access to and recovered more than once throughout his long history, and the formorians had come dreadfully close to breaching its copper walls while they had control over the area.

Fortunately, the subpar copper that had been sourced for the chamber was isolated and expunged before construction got underway. Copper was admittedly outmoded as a defensive material, but it had proven to be sufficient to withstand the expansion of the formorian’s tunnels.

Every record present within the chamber was replicated elsewhere, yet these tablets had each been recorded by his hand, before Remus even came into existence. There was something to be said for an opportunity to consult the originals—to revisit the outlook he carried at the time.

Things were changing rapidly. Remus had committed to expanding its borders and the operation to kill the plant within the Nostrum Sea was underway. Remus was reentering the greater world, but that had been inevitable from the day that its first emperor formally declared war upon the shimagu. And just as events were set in motion, a new fervor enkindled amongst Remus’ leadership.

The Genie—an entity that had remained silent for a great many years—had spoken. The wish that Hwinthel, allegedly an elven historian of little import, made was simple enough. System notifications that were given when a species went extinct were an incredibly useful tool, especially with Solace and other teams hunting the final remnants of the shimagu. But those in power weren’t interested in that wish.

Instead, they outright salivated over the idea of a being that could grant wishes. The expansion of Remus had taken on a new impetus, and it was forcing plans to be accelerated beyond what was wise.

But Night had finally found a lull in the preparations and active tasks that required his personal attention, so the time had come to pay an overdue visit to a specific repository of his memories. The tablets were slightly difficult to read—it was easy to overlook just how much the language had drifted since the gods saw fit to shove it into the heads of those like him—but little time was required to return his mindset to the language’s original form.

Tablet after tablet, all taken from a specific shelf. Many were off-topic, yet those were still fewer in number than Night had expected. Even if there was precious little chance of his existing conclusions being changed, the process was still worthwhile. Night could hardly claim to be the same being that he was back then, and even with the System’s influence, time still changed how recollections could be perceived. In contrast, records engraved in his own hand bore clear signs of his mood at the time—he had possessed much less control over his emotions back then. The depth of characters, embellishments and their absence, and even outright mistakes spoke volumes.

The differences were striking, but the similarities couldn’t be denied either. Grace—rather, Ranthia—had changed in important ways, yet without continuous oversight, it was difficult for Night to remain confident that former behaviors and dangerous patterns would not reemerge. There was little doubt that they were one and the same; Ranthia herself had provided all the evidence that he needed with her limited recollection.

And he was one of the few beings alive that knew what the woman was truly capable of. Since almost the very day the gods placed humans on Pallos, vampires had watched over them. It was a mutually beneficial arrangement—by day, humans protected vampires, and in the darkness, vampires kept vigil. And from the very beginning, Night had been there. Even when humans forgot their debt, he continued his role.

And he would never forgive those that came so close to shattering the alliance that predated every nation. His fury and pain were engraved in those tablets, and it was hard to not be affected by it—even after so much had passed.

For the time being, he would use her legacy to his advantage. But if she returned to her old ways—and sought to return to Remus—that was fine. Night just needed to remain vigilant and, if it became necessary to do so, he would deal with her.

After all, he had his ways.

And he had killed her once already.
