After we returned and informed Akanai of what happened, she ordered all villagers to be escorted by sentinels and cadets within the city. I decide to do some training in the courtyard, to take my mind off things and stay safe. It's been awhile since I've had time to go through the Forms. Concentrating on my mental image, I try to emulate Akanai's performance, smooth and graceful at times, yet abrupt and harsh at others. A combination of several different forms. The tiger form 'Stalking the Dragon' into the bull form's 'Uplift the Sequoia'. Mantis form 'Hanging Branch Grasp' into Snake form 'Darting Fang'. It's rough, and unpolished, even after several tries. No good. It requires too much focus for me, leaving me unable to reach Enlightenment. Stopping my practice, my breaths coming in pants, I sit down and meditate.   It's not just Akanai. Husolt is incredible as well. I can see the Forms in his fighting. A charging thrust, Deer form 'Pierce the Horizon'. Spinning his staff overhead, Oriole form, 'Fluttering Raindrops'. The over-hand body slam. Husolt form, 'Papa Smash'. Terrifying.   I can't make out all the forms either of them demonstrated. They're too abstract, too varied, even in the short demonstrations I saw. Asking them won't help, it'll probably just confuse me even more. I just need to come up with my own combinations of the forms. I can't puzzle anything together in my head. I just need to move, let my body tell me what needs to be done. Enough rest. Standing, I take my stance, and begin Performing the Forms again. Not the rote repetition I do every morning, but instead, I picture myself fighting the bandits once again. This time, I stay out of my body's way, just letting it move, reacting to my imaginary foes, random forms flying out in different attacks. I move against the shadow bandits, sometimes killing them, mostly dying to them. I raise them up again, only to strike them down or be struck down in different ways. They come at me one at a time, or all at once. I fight them again. And Again. I kill and I die for hours, and I kill and die some more.   A sensation on my face and I jerk away, snapping around to thrust my weapon at the new disturbance. Deer Form, Pierce the Horizon, stopping midway. Mei Lin in front of me, smiling. My hands are empty. Jumping back, shaking my hand loose, I grimace and slap myself on the cheek twice, lightly. I lost myself in my training, forgot my enemies were all in my mind. I wasn't actually holding my sword, thankfully, or I might have actually hurt Mei Lin. Still could have, if I followed through.   “You're so silly, Rainy. It's almost dinner time. You skipped lunch, but you can't skip dinner. Go take a bath, I don't wanna sit next to you all sweaty like that.” Her chubby childish cheeks, smiling at me innocently, unaware I just attacked her. I grab her cheeks and pinch lightly. Dangerous, I need to practice somewhere safer from now on.   Mentally apologizing while patting her on the head, I walk to the bathing rooms. A tub is ready for me, arranged by Mei Lin in advance. She's too good to me, an adorable, doting little sister. A servant remains behind, cutting my hair after a quick rinse, leaving it longer than I'd like, but still looking nice. I could get used to this pampering. She leaves me alone to wash up. I was kind of hoping she would stay behind, maybe insinuate something, but no dice. I soak in the tub, enjoying the heat.   I didn't come up with anything new or useful during my training, but it was still somewhat productive. Mostly half-baked ideas that won't work in real combat, but eliminating what doesn't work is helpful. It's good practice, shadow fighting, but I need a more solid image of an opponent, someone closer to my level. If I use Akanai, Baatar, or Alsantset, I'd lose too quickly. They're too strong. I wonder how many of the villagers are as strong as them? The bandits, on the other hand, were too weak. If I had fought them with good light, one on one, it would have been too easy, instant death for all of them. I need a good sparring partner. Maybe Sumila, if she's willing. Unless she's too strong as well, which would be embarrassing. Gender roles are very equal in the village, but even then, I don't think my pride could handle being roughed up by a teenage girl.   New clothes are waiting for me, a beautiful blue high collared jacket with what I think are white pearl buttons, and white fur cuffs. No stupid loose sleeves, either. A scenic picture is stitched in, three birds in a pond, with a plum-tree in full blossom. The pants are matching, and just as ornate. A servant helps dress me, wrapping me in a white sash, while the pretty haircut servant brushes my hair. She even put a ridiculously tiny hat on me, more of a hair decoration than anything. Like a little tiny cloth bun on my head. I like it.   “Why do I need to dress so fancily?” I'm kind of enjoying it, if I'm honest. It's not every day I get dressed up by lovely ladies, and in such nice clothes as well. It makes me feel... pretty. I will never admit that out loud.   “Young Master will be dining with His Esteemed Magistrate, Tong Da Hai, tonight, at his Palace.” My stylist gives me a smile, with big pouty red lips. I wonder how they taste. Damn. Yesterday's fun didn't slow my sex drive down at all. I smile back at her. How do I seduce a woman? Especially a servant, I don't want her to think I'm pressuring her into anything. I keep quiet, due to my own lack of wits. She probably wouldn't want anything to do with me anyways. This is just her job. When they're done dressing me, I walk out, sword tucked into my sash. Dressed to impress, but still comfortable and easy to move in. I could fight in this if I had to. I need more clothes like this. Fancy. Poorly dressed, my ass.   Mei Lin is waiting for me in the hall. She has a similarly tiny hair piece, among many pins and clips all with tiny bells, immobilizing her ears. She jingles as she curtsies in her short, loose blue dress, a second longer layer underneath, with a white furred hem, matching my outfit. It has an eye-catching pattern sewn into it, repeated in several areas on the dress, and a white silk scarf around her shoulders, wrapping around her arms. It's jeweled and a chain runs along its length, and just seems prohibitively long. If she puts her hands down, the scarf will drag on the floor. Fashion, I guess. “You look adorable, little Mei Lin.” I bow back, smiling. She ruins it by sticking her tongue out at me, and latches onto my arm as we walk out into the courtyard.   Taduk, Husolt, Akanai, and Sumila are waiting for us. We all match, blue and white, but in varying shades, patterns and cuts. Sumila looks adorable as well, and I receive the same reaction, minus the arm grab, when I tell her. Why can't anyone take a compliment? Husolt looks just as fierce and imposing, adding majestic to his qualities, eschewing the hair ornaments. Akanai is a knockout, lacking the longer inner dress, dressed in a short tight piece, her bare, pearly white calves on display, open toed cloth shoes on her feet. The overall effect is a little ruined, seeing as they are both armed to the teeth, Husolt with his staff, Akanai with a double crescent ax-lance hybrid. Daggers and swords line their belts, bracers on their wrists. Akanai's hair ornaments are even hanging tiny daggers instead of bells. Sumila is similarly armed, carrying a patterned polished steel round shield in addition to her short spear, both held in one arm by the straps like a purse, even managing to look ladylike.   Taduk claps me on the back, looking dashing in his outfit, hares all over, holding only a fan. “You look fetching, my boy.” He gestures towards a servant, who walks forward presenting me with my long spear. Accepting my weapon, I tilt my head at Taduk.   “You do as well Teacher. Why are we so heavily armed? I was told we are having dinner with Fung's dad. Are we … invited?” God I hope so.   Taduk laughs. “Of course we are, my boy, but don't refer to him like that outside these walls. Courtesies and all that. Mei Lin will explain. We've been invited to a gathering, with good food and good wine. There just may be a tiny bit of bloodshed as well. Don't worry, you shouldn't be in danger, and if you are, just don't die, and I can heal you back up in no time.” He pats me on the shoulder, and my stomach drops. Before I can say anything, he climbs into his rickshaw and leaves. Husolt and Akanai's rickshaw follows, Sentinels marching alongside, fully armed.   Dinner and bloodshed? They don't do anything peacefully here. 'Just don't die' he says. Thanks for the advice. I help Sumila and Mei Lin into the last rickshaw, and climb aboard. I hope we at least get to eat before the fighting starts. I'm starving. Wouldn't want to die on an empty stomach.
