If there were two factions amongst the four, then Jin had shifted sides from the camp survivors’ side to Jack and Sarah’s.

It was a remarkably human decision from Jin’s side. Was it Jack and Sarah’s character that had moved her, or was it her decision to prioritize her strength above all that led her to the stronger side? Was there any truth to her oath? Would she choose a third party over them tomorrow, if they proved to be stronger?

Jack didn’t know and he had no way of knowing until it happened.

But did he have any reason to turn Jin away after they had fought side by side?

Jack was a human, no more or less than any other. He would do the same thing to survive and he had reached the same conclusion Jin had far faster than her.

“I’m okay with it,” Jack replied, turning to Sarah.

Sarah nodded, still seeming more confused than anything else.

“Don’t make us regret this, Jin,” Jack softly added, knowing precisely what happened when parties fell apart.

Jin bowed before standing tall and walking over to their side.

Jack’s gaze turned to Marcus, quick enough to catch the ugly scowl on his visage.

“What about you, Marcus?” Jack asked.

“What about me?” Marcus replied, just about managing to have schooled his expression.

“You don’t have to follow us,” Jack calmly replied, knowing that Marcus had been having problems with his authority for a while now.

“That’s a death sentence!” Marcus protested angrily, his expression tensing as he exclaimed.

“Not quite,” Jack replied. “There’s a reward waiting for your contribution to the Werewolf’s kill right there,” He pointed to the chest and Marcus’ gaze followed. “How many TP were in there, Jin?”

“Seventy-five hundred.”

Jack nodded in understanding, before continuing, “You might get more TP than that, but it won’t be less. That’s an armor set right there, giving you as much of a chance as anyone here.”

“And if I want to stay?” Marcus asked.

“Then you need to understand that someone needs to lead and it isn’t going to be you,” Jack declared, his gaze flitting over to Sarah, who gave him the nod he needed to keep going, “We can’t have friction in the group when there are literal man-wolf hybrids prowling this fog. So you can either listen to what I say for the cohesion of the group or make your own way through, either way I think we’ve done right by you,” He stated, an iron to his tone that made it very clear that this was the final offer he was extending.

Slowly, Marcus got back up onto his feet, deflating a little as he nodded with a curt, “Fine.”

“Are you sure?” Jack gave him a searching look.

Marcus nodded.

“Great. Show me your Dao Mark, please?” Jack requested.

“W-What?” Marcus sputtered, the sheer unexpectedness of the request catching him off-guard.

“If we can’t trust each other, this doesn’t work. If you’ve got a weapon you can point at the enemies, all three of us need to be aware of it before you unleash it on the battlefield.”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Marcus deflected, his tone about as even as he could manage it as he looked Jack dead in the eye.

“I’ve seen a Dao Mark before, Marcus. And when I say seen, I really mean it. Up close, an inch from plunging into my gut. Show me your Dao Mark or leave.”

“It’s a bit too late to deny it, all of us heard you Marcus,” Sarah added, not bothering to hide that she knew what a Dao Mark was as well.

His expression falling, Marcus did a good job of balling his fury up into two fists. Then he unclenched them and his shoulders sagged a little, before he replied with a dull “Fine.”

Bringing his palm forward and keeping it pointing upwards, Marcus revealed the flame symbol that had been engraved into the side of his arm before he activated it.

Jack didn’t really know how Dao Marks worked yet so conjecture on that matter was pointless. He wasn’t even sure if Marcus or Trent would have been able to explain how their Dao Marks worked, given that Jack was far from understanding the nuances that were involved in the way he himself manipulated Qi. His Essence Syphon Art had given him a glimpse into the underlying mechanics but he was still a ways off from making them his own.

Still, Jack watched with rapt focus as Marcus’s open palm burst into flames, the heat emanating from it as real as the juvenile werewolf they had slain.

Jack called upon the Primordial Claw he had been secretly preparing and lunge forward before anyone could understand why.

There was something Jack had to test.
