Special Jessica chapter here. If you're here to read Jackie ramble on about another fortress he made from mud, you might want to skip to the next chapter. This one's gonna be a little different.

In all the chapters you read before, we talked about the essentials and logistics of war. Everything it takes to keep a troop supplied and combat ready, and all the goofy little fucking shenanigans that happen in between. Here's the thing: Wars are not duels. Every now and then, you might find yourself facing a single opponent, better than a showdown, with no one else interfering. These times are rare. Duels are ultimately social affairs. Never get that confused: Yeah, it's primarily combat-based, but it's a social affair because there's usually only one main reason people fight duels in the Yellowstone Republic—pride.

And pride's both powerful and pretty fragile when you're noble or someone with a heavy reputation.

The way this usually goes is like this: You offend someone, or someone offends you. The insulted insults the insulter back, and they get more offended. Then you, whichever one you are, start declaring a challenge. Usually in an area you are well-versed in. If you're a Rider, you wanna joust them. If you're a sword-fucker, you wanna stab them. If you're a brawler, you wanna drag them down into the mud and then beat them to death with whatever you can rip out of their body.

But your rival gets a say as well. Even before the duel begins, you start the social battles. Where are you gonna fight? What are you gonna fight with? Who's going to be your second or third in case things go wrong? Who's going to officiate? Is this going to be an officially sanctioned duel at all, or are you just gonna do this on the spot, impromptu? All this stuff needs to be considered, because going half-assed into a duel is a real great way to see yourself humiliated or deaded.

And it's usually the former that has more sting if you're a noble. You see, your name carries weight. I don't much like nobles, but one thing I have learned over the years, and one thing that has been taught to me over and over again, is that the common folk are fucking morons. They are. If you're reading this, you're a fucking moron because you believe in a bunch of bullshit that shouldn’t be real. Bloodlines are not a real thing. Yeah, sure, the whole genetics thing is actually real, but there is a lot of weird variability in that, according to a bunch of bio-engineers I know. Short of you ramming a bunch of favorable traits into your kid or trying to code them into yourself at some point, yeah, you're kinda rolling the dice. Except there are so many sides, you have no clue what you might get.

So, any time a noble claims that they're naturally and inherently superior to you, that's mostly horse shit, but enough of you believe it, so it's technically true anyway. And because you people think that's true, it becomes functionally and socially true, a part of our whole culture—an extension of identity. Because when you have a bunch of prime-blooded motherfuckers running around, one of them has to have worse blood than another, right? So someone needs to figure out who's better. And that is the primary reason and the primary tension behind most duels. If you lose, you're shaming not only yourself but your bloodline as a noble. Individually, though, there's also shame. Shame that you're an inferior Pathbearer.

This is why you usually don't have Vanguards challenging Mages to swords or spears. There's no rule against it. You can invoke that challenge, and they can accept, but it just makes you seem like kind of a cowardly asshole. And it goes the other way too. A Mage challenging a Vanguard to a magical duel? Yeah, absolutely humiliating for the Mage. So, lots of social barriers are already in place.

And then there is a lead-up time to a duel, a time for both or one to find an excuse to back out. This happens a lot more than you think, because again, most duels are built on the foundations of pride, and losing is usually a lot more painful than the pleasure of winning. That time is a double-edged sword: You prepare, you gather information about your enemy, and you try to find a way to beat them down in advance. Another social warfare thing. They're going to be using that too. They'll send people to sabotage you. You can do that to them.

Don't ever think a duel is about being upright and honorable. No, you're supposed to do upright and honorable things while you're fighting, but everything up till that? Fair game, and that's part of the duel. But if you both manage to make it to the day of the decided bout and neither of you backed out over some sudden and mysterious injury or a desperate need to aid your family somewhere on the other side of the Republic, then the fighting starts. This can go several ways.

Most duels aren't to the death, because when people die, that's blood, and blood between families is hard to wave away. Duels are not death. People can hold a grudge over wounded pride, but that's just it. It's just a grudge. Someone killing someone you care about is not a grudge; it changes your way of life, and enough of that means the Republic collapses in on itself.

Short of extraordinary circumstances, you can't exactly invoke a to-the-death duel. The typical options are: First Blood, submission, official decision. Believe it or not, Flamecrown actually has an entire office dedicated to watching over and deciding who won which duel. Which was how the dueling circuits became a thing in the first place—and why representative duels are more common than personal ones.

After all, having a stand-in who won all their bouts address your slight is a better idea than getting maimed and shamed yourself.

But if you have to fight yourself, well, it’s time to start your very specific training, because instead of wanting broad options and Skills, you’re trying to figure out exactly how to counter the abilities of a single person with what you got and what you can get in the time leading up…

—Memoirs of a Master-Tier Warmage

384

Contender [I]

“Shiv! Shiv! What is this shit?” Jessica came storming through the crowd, gliding between people using her diminutive size. Most of the former slaves and civilians were wise enough to part when a Legend approached, but some were far too slow, and she simply slid through them like a dagger slipping between the gaps in armor. In her hand was a flyer, one that had been distributed all across the Gate, and upon its page was an illustration detailing Shiv leaping up into the air, trying to smite Roland Arrow from the sky before the latter shot him down.

The header held a cursive chain painted in magical filigree: The Blackedge Grudge Match: The Dead Against the Dread!

The ridiculousness of the depiction made Shiv snort. For one, his head wasn’t that small in proportion to his body. The way he was drawn made his face look like a small skin tag sticking out from a mess of tumorous lumps, while an endless tide of nightmarish flies spilled out from his ass. Meanwhile, Roland looked like a divine hero of beauty and grace bearing a furious bow made to fell the meanest of monsters.

“Felling artists. Anyway, Jessica, you want a potsticker?” Shiv gestured to the small mountain of potstickers stacked at the center of the Surface District.

The central square was almost entirely occupied by his foodstuff, and the taste of heated pork and baked dough wafted in crushing waves that drowned every tongue and throat. The locals, only just recovered from their ordeal at the hands of the mana leeches, were practically scrambling over each other, climbing off the pyramid-like steps to seize a potsticker for themselves. On average, it took two Initiate-Tiers to carry the burden of a single potsticker, for they ran three meters long and constituted three hundred kilograms in terms of mass—not to mention having far higher caloric density than most non-monstrous organics would ever need.

I think my flames boosted the nutritional contents too, Shiv guessed. That’s probably what’s imbuing people with those endurance and satiety enhancements.

Jessica jumped up and slammed her poster straight into Shiv’s face. Her thrust was hard enough to paste the skull of an Adept, but Shiv didn’t even blink. Jessica was about to start complaining again, but then she did a double-take, and her jaw fell open at the edifice of fried dough-dollops nearby. “I… Holy shit, those are some big godsdamned potstickers.”

“I made them for dragons,” Shiv said, grinning against the rough paper. “Can probably feed a goblin or a goblin-sized human for years.”

She scowled. “Fuck yo—Ugh, what is that smell?”

“Philosophy. A lot of it is my Nihilism.”

“Philosophy? Shiv, what the felling fuck are you talking about?”

“Oh, my new Pyromancy Evolution draws mana from kindling philosophy.”

“That I do,” the Nihilist proclaimed.

Jessica’s befuddlement grew three times that second. “Did your fire just speak to me? Wait, was that who was talking earlier? The gray shit that bounced off my armor?” And then the worst part of Shiv’s declaration smashed into the back of Jessica’s skull like a boomerang. “Wait, new Pyromancy? You did another evolution?”

“Philosophy. Pyromancy. Cooking.” Shiv held up three fingers and casually shoved them against Jessica’s forehead to taunt her. “Heroic-Tier. But functionally Unique. Cause no one else's as special as—”

She exploded in size, dwarfing Shiv in an instant as she seized and began to throttle him. “You little fucking shit.”

“N-n-not my fault,” Shiv stuttered, grinning and limp as she tried to rattle the life out of him, “that I'm so much b-better than you.”

“Rusty! Sheathe this ass!” Jessica’s order caused Shiv’s smile to crack and his body to tense in more ways than one. Muscles he normally couldn’t control in his ass woke and squeezed his rectal path until not even a molecule could pass through.

“I refuse,” Rusty rumbled, displeased with his wielder’s behavior. “Jessica, compose yourself.”

“A triple Heroic Skill Fusion in a fucking week! You wanna know how long it took me to become a Hero in a Skill? Decades! Felling decades!” The now three-meter-tall Jessica was seething at Shiv, while the latter enjoyed so much smugness it should have evolved its own skill.

“You should really try a potsticker,” Shiv said. “You can be pissed at me, and also enjoy the food at the same time. It’s a win-win. Or don’t, and make yourself easy to manipulate.”

He could practically see the flames of frustration behind her eyes. “Excuse me? Easy to manipulate?”

“Yeah, if I didn’t say that, you would have gone hungry out of spite because that’s your nature: someone tells you something, and you do whatever you want. Aside from Veronica, but you know—”

Jessica punted Shiv between the legs so hard a concussive blast swept out and flung dozens of residents and guards off their feet. As their bodies toppled over each other, Shiv's form went flying skybound, and even then, he remained indifferent, though there was a slight bruise forming on the underside of his fifth limb. Even so, he kept his Shapeless Tides in restraint, for he was building up as much as he could in anticipation of the coming duel. His Physicality was an appreciating asset—one he couldn't spend frivolously right now because he needed to preserve everything he had to give Roland a new asshole.

As he crashed back down, Shiv bounced once, gave Jessica a nonchalant nod, and returned to seeing the public served. While one body was committed to seeing the denizens of the gate fed, the others were hard at work and in anticipation of the duel to come.

Back in the capital, Marcus Unblood was studying harder than ever before, with his main focus given to Chronomancy. Shiv had to give his Legion of Self routine breaks to not lose hours to cognitive exhaustion, but for now, he still possessed ample energy, and the mind fog remained a distant threat. Spread open before him upon the pages of his tomes were spell shapes and mechanics bound to the principles of Magical Alacrity. As his reading revealed, every time he used an anchor, he was exercising a portion of magical alacrity, effectively pinning a section of his own temporal mana onto the world. What he needed to do then was expand his Chronomancy to encompass another spell or action he was performing in a moment, and then accelerate that forward until it was swept into its Chronomancy, held in place, and primed to be used at any point in the future.

However, storing spells and actions within his Chronomancy placed variable strain on his mana. Capturing a series of punches and slashes was simple; all he needed to do was imprint a temporal anchor of himself on the world and then draw that anchor back into himself. He could do that over and over again until his Harbinger was on the verge of cracking. But placing a spell derived from another mana type inflicted another level of strain altogether.

