“Our advantage is that we possess an immense quantity of mana fueled by rage and emotion, but to fully draw on that power means we must be focused; we cannot think of Adam or our regrets or grief lest that see us broken,” the Harbinger advised. “Simplicity, quantity, and reliability. We are not skilled enough in magical theory or, frankly, any of the magical lores to construct a single siege-level spell, let alone a more complicated working that normally requires a formation working in concert. Even if we spend every waking moment across all our bodies digging through textbooks and tomes, we won’t be able to match up against the decades or centuries of experience amassed by a single mage. As such, we should build up a reserve of strikes and slashes from our Last Morsel and deploy them in reserve against Roland in an emergency. But to counter his endless rain of arrows, we should focus on capturing our cutting aura and the hollow flames to create a protective barrier that we can spawn at any moment so we can stay focused on the actual fight.”

Shiv was about to agree when a huge hand seized his Surface District body from behind and started shaking him again. “Jessica, come on—oh, how do you like it?”

She still looked three shades of pissed, but she was gobbling one of his potstickers. “It’s… Yeah, it’s good, but the whole philosophy-cooking is… is…” The redness left her face, and she smacked her lips together. “Huh. It’s pretty good. Is that what nihilism tastes like? Almost… sweet and bitter?”

“Mixed in with a bunch of other perspectives at the same time,” Shiv said. “So think of it as a unique sauce derivable only at a specific place, from a specific group of people. If I used another group of people to kindle my flames as a critical focus, then it would probably taste different.”

“Shit, kid, that’s actually… That’s got some kick. Reminds me of my first liquor.” Jessica shook her head. “Not just in the intensity, but the feeling of… of…”

“Acquired taste?”

“Yeah, that. It’s really an acquired taste. It felt like I was swallowing shit for a moment at the start, but later it really stuck to me. You know something, you should advertise that—I think this’ll get you shit-tons of customers if you ever manage to get your monster-kitchen up in the air outdoors.”

Shiv looked over the crowds—some of whom were actively staggering back to their feet and giving the Deathless and the Giantsbane a wide berth. Despite him coming to feed them, there was still a heavy feeling of nervousness when he was nearby—and he understood. Tier-Dread was a very real thing: the kind of primal, instinctive terror you would feel when you had to coexist beside someone so much more powerful than you in practically every way. A single sloppy swing from a Legend could see the entire district rendered rubble, and there was nothing anyone present could do about it.

But though the feeling would never fully go away, it could be alleviated. Shiv had no problem with people fearing him. On some level, he even enjoyed it. But he wanted more than their understandable terror, because there were multitudes to them and there were multitudes to him. Even if they remained wary of his strength and volatility, they could still appreciate his service as a chef and judge him by his character.

“It will,” he reassured her. And himself. “Real soon. I think I’m going to start inside the Gate first. Have all the residents and mercs come aboard for the opening night before heading out and seeing what we can do for all our new guests.”

And there were plenty of new guests flooding into Gate Piety with every minute. Uva, the Arachnae Order, and the remains of the Blackedge guard were being taxed to the limit trying to process everyone. Apparently, the surface gateway was completely surrounded by encampments and pocket dimensions housing Pathbearers from all across Integrated Earth.

Roland Arrow’s reputation carried a great deal of gravity, and it seemed few could resist its pull, be they enemy or ally.

The bridge leading to the surface gateway had been expanded into a customs tower—something Gate Theborn once had as well. All the newcomers were directed to wait and declare themselves in detail before they were allowed to mingle amongst the existing population.

At the same time, Can Hu and the Geomancers were literally dragging entire residential clusters up from the soil. Domiciles and housing were desperately needed, and even with all the experience the Penitent possessed, they would be hard-pressed to satisfy the logistical demands that came with a population spike of this size. And these were just basic worries. Aside from shelter, sustenance, and protection, people often needed things to occupy their interests and time.

Such was why most places had practice arenas, racetracks, debate forums, theaters, and more. With so many different Pathbearers bound to so many different Paths, there were countless skills they all needed to hone, and with the proper facilities and resources, they would find the gate lacking as well.

But that gave Shiv a hit of inspiration. Maybe I can distract them from how rough the Gate is using myself. This could be a benefit to me too: I can see if some of our guests have what it takes to break or even kill one of my bodies. Yeah, Deathless practice dummy. That’ll give me a few Pillar levels.

“Look, you should have talked to me about this,” Jessica said, causing Shiv’s attention to snap back to his surface district body again.

“About what? Sparring with Roland?” He rubbed his nose. “Yeah, don’t take this the wrong way, Jessica, but our grudges are separate. I know you still might want to put Roland down, but—”

“It’s not that,” Jessica said, shaking Shiv with a single hand and frowning at him. He arched an unimpressed eyebrow as his Gardener of Doubt and his Harbinger both signaled how much shit she was spewing. “It’s not entirely that. Look, I’d love for you to drag Roland through the dirt and give him the ass-beating of a lifetime, but you’re rushing into this. You should tell him the fight’s off—or get an extension or something. A month, at least. To prepare and build yourself up.”

“A month?” Shiv chuckled. “Are you worried he’s going to hurt me? Because I’m not. I got deaths to spare.”

“No, it’s just…” She clenched her spare hand as a look of motherly agitation came over her. “Fuck’s sake, I don’t want to see you humiliated.”

He paused. “Huh?”

“Dying’s one thing, but humiliation is another. I don’t want to watch Roland Arrow beat your ass so bad that he breaks something inside you.” Jessica paused, and she shot a quick look around, worried someone might be listening in. “Look, can we do this talk in private? Because I’m pretty sure Roland is listening to everything we say.” To emphasize her words, she cast a wary look toward the Perch in the distance.

“Telepathy?” Shiv asked.

“No. Inside Rusty. It’s the safest place we got right now.”

Shiv shrugged. “Alright. But I’m going to do this: It’s been a long time coming, and a little violence between us will probably be good. Let us both get some of that nasty shit we’ve been holding inside out.”

“Yeah, in my experience, the nasty shit coming out just means you get it all over everyone else instead of getting rid of it,” Jessica replied. “But what do I know? I just got a bunch of kids who I can barely talk to and a series of bars I can’t go back to. Rusty!”

Her Legendary blade shot up into the air like a static missile and then exploded in size to become like a ten-story tower. A series of worried shouts sounded from the various diplomats and former slaves that made up the surface district’s population, and Shiv winced. Their voices were cut off in an instant as Rusty splashed down over him, and they found themselves hovering over a vast opalescent platform that stretched far beyond the visible horizon. To Shiv’s surprise, he saw chains connected to the skies above, and massive blades, spears, shields, and more bound in that messy nest of alloyed knots.

“How many of these dimensions do you have?” Shiv asked, regarding the vast and resplendent arsenal looming directly above. “Because this place is pretty—”

Shiv grunted as she spiked him into the ground. He slammed dead-on against the platform—but it didn’t break. Instead, all the kinetic energy contained within his collision was inverted, causing him to bounce right back. Again, Jessica swatted him down with the palm of her hand. Then, like a yo-yo, Shiv went back up.

“Come on, Jessica—” His voice was interrupted as he crashed skull-first against her index finger. She started dribbling him like a godsdamned ball. “Fucking—Jessica, quit it! I’m trying to save up my Shapeless Tides for Roland. I don’t have time to mess around with—actually, wait, hit me harder. I can use some more Pillar levels.”

With a final launching toss, she dashed him against the platform. The air sparked, ignited, and then ionized. Plasma blossomed and embraced Shiv, licking at his flesh and washing over him in a tide of heat and devastation. A ligament in his shoulder tore, and his blasé expression broke—Jessica was genuinely trying to hurt him now.

He rebounded into the chains in an explosive instant, but what they struck was his mana first—for the chains were tessellating like lengths of fluid bricks.

Inertium, Shiv realized. How the hells does she have so much of this stuff? I thought—

An explosion of light and force washed over him from behind. Shiv tilted his head to the side as he barely managed to dodge Jessica’s spinning roundhouse that painted an arc of flame in the air as the wheels beneath her feet spun.

Continuity Error 233 > 234

Rolling in mid-air to face her, Shiv scowled but kept his hands low. “Hey, it was funny a minute before, but now this shit is getting annoying. I’m not fighting you, Jessica. You wait your turn after Roland if you want to kick my ass. I’m doing everything to keep these tides in circulation.” He held out his arms and showed her all the striped vectors stacked against each other, swimming over his body. “They’re for him, not you.”

She replied with a hoarse, bitter laugh. “And you think you’re ever going to get close enough to Roland to use them?”

“I won’t need to. Grudge-Tethered will let me take a swing at him the first time he takes a shot at me from far off,” Shiv said. “He’s not going to be able to avoid a brawl even if he wants.”

Jessica shook her head slowly. “Roland’s going to be able to decide whatever he wants, whenever he wants to. How many skills do you have? Are they over a hundred?”

He briefly brought up his skill status and counted. “No. But—”

“Roland told you how his Unique Skill worked yet?”

Shiv paused. “That level-shuffling one? Yeah. Well, more like he told Adam first—”

“He has more than just Respec. More than all those special arrows. He killed you once before, right? While you were scouting Lost Angeles?”

“Yeah,” Shiv answered. Then, the subtext in her words struck. “He has an arrow based off my Vitae.”

“Probably. But that’s not even the worst of it. Besides the three Uniques, the Inquisition suspects that he’s got a whole arsenal of Legendary weapons hidden away—and a bunch of different armors he can swap between depending on who he is fighting. He can choose which skills he wants to evolve and fuse, and you don’t have any skills that can pin him down. He knows general Magical Theory better than a lot of Mages, can choose which lore he wants to go Heroic in, even for Magical Skills he’s not really trained in, and that’s not to mention the really weird shit he can start doing by mixing Pyromancy and Writing. You ready to burn every time you read and understand a word he paints in mid-air?”

“Can he really do that, or are you just trying to psyche me out?” Shiv squinted.

The Giantsbane sighed. “You know what it takes to beat the shit out of a Master-Tier as a Low Adept?”

“Skill? A plan? A lot of luck?”

“A miracle,” Jessica said. “A miracle for most. There’s no fight when someone is faster than you by a magnitude. There’s no fight when none of your attacks really shake them. None. But Roland broke a Master before he even left the academy. He embarrassed so many people that there were no duels issued to him by his final year—fucking House Heads were just trying to arrange his assassination instead. Even before he went Unique and decided to hide just how powerful he was, he was his own miracle. The first time I met him, I watched him butcher a Heroic-Tier Stormlord while he was just a Low Master.”

“Yeah, yeah, I get it: Roland Arrow’s a genius Pathbearer,” Shiv said. The Harbinger helped convert his jealousy and annoyance to something useful, but the feelings were still there. “But I’m not going to let how good he is turn me away from facing him. I’ve fought plenty of favored and geniuses. I’m not afraid of humiliation either. I’ve been hated my entire life. Losing’s not that bad if you learn, build, and don’t stay broken.” Shiv folded his arms. “If this goes bad for me, it goes bad. I want to know how good he is for myself, and I want to understand so I might be able to match and beat him—whatever it takes.”

The agitation within Jessica dulled, and her shoulders grew limp. More than anything, she seemed tired—emotionally tired. Genuinely worried.

Shiv snarled. “Fucking Veronica. Look at what she’s making you do.”

Jessica froze. “And what is—”

