“You’re not bullshitting me, so I won’t bullshit you: I’m glad you’re here and for everything you’ve done, but Veronica’s scheme to have you close to us and use whatever friendly pseudo master-student thing might be here is obvious. But she doesn’t care that it’s bothering you more than it’s influencing me.”

His words struck like a blade across the throat. Jessica was silent and calm on the surface, but he could see she was gushing blood where it counted. “I don’t hate you for caring. And I’m sorry I was so rough to you before. I don’t know what it’s like. Even after losing Georges. I don’t know what it’s like to be you. I wish you had an Adam or an Uva or someone who bothered to do right by you when you needed them. I wish you had a Jessica yourself.”

An enkindled shadow hissed out from Jessica’s cracked core, but the shade that formed wasn’t of her, but a man shaped from stone—a man who was crumbling, reaching out from her, but never able to truly touch her anymore.

These Words of Truth and Adoration 87 > 89

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 326 > 329

“Go away, System,” Shiv spat as the notifications appeared. “Don’t give me this shit now. I’m not trying to manipulate her. I’m not her.”

“Levels?” Jessica said, trying to hide it.

“Yeah,” Shiv sighed. “Harbinger’s taking effect on you. Pre-Legendary. It’s just—”

“I know you don’t really mean it. Veronica would have never told me.” Jessica nodded and lowered her eyes. “I know.”

For a moment, neither had anything to say.

“I was going to come looking for you earlier,” Shiv said honestly. “I want your help—whatever you can give in this short time. You and Valor and Uva and anyone. And at the end of this day, I’m still going to tell him that we need to have it out. Because he needs it.” And a lance of pain went through Shiv. “And I need it too. I might be a different person now, but I still remember biting into rats, Jessica. I still remember what it felt like to be hated, the way the stones cut me, and how the cold winds made the sting worse. The Omenborn isn’t done hating the Town Lord. And he isn’t finished hating the Lowes. So. I think we need this. Time is not going to fix this wound. It might get me more prepared, but… The fight itself happening now is worth more than any victory. Because of Adam. Because we need to be better, if only for him.”

Instead of using any kind of scheme or logic this time, Shiv bled. He bled emotionally, in front of the wounded Jessica—because there wasn’t a need for a lie. He just had to be honest, and it felt like the right thing to do.

Slowly, something inside her dislodged, and she sighed. “But you would like to win.”

“I would felling love to win. I would love to kick the shit out of him.” Shiv clenched his teeth. “Can you help me?”

Jessica closed her eyes and almost reluctantly nodded. “Yeah. I don’t think this is going to fucking go well, but let’s see if I can make a bigger miracle out of you than the Starhawk made with Roland.”

“It’s not just you,” Shiv said. “Valor—”

“Ah, you remembered me again.”

“FUCK!” Shiv squeaked, spinning around. “You scared a squirt of piss out of me, Valor!”

Valor—who'd been right behind him for an uncertain period of time—nodded—and used the nod to dodge a reflexive slash Jessica sent toward him via an invisible blade. “Yes,” Valor intoned. “Surprise, deception, and stealth are essential weapons in war. And they might be the only true edges you can deploy against Roland Arrow. Remind me, Shiv: What Stealth Skill do you have? And what level is it at?”

Jessica barely held herself back from skewering Valor, but the old lich paid her no heed as the green flames behind his magic-formed eyes narrowed.

“Uh, Master-Tier. The Creeping Void. It’s at 175.”

A sound of pure disgust escaped Valor. “Absolutely horrid. Unspeakable. Disgrace. This won’t do. This won’t do at all. It must be corrected with utmost haste.” Then, a smirk came over his expression. “And I think I have an idea how to incentivize this growth, improve your other skills upon failure, and potentially see another objective fulfilled. And since you have multiple bodies, you can undergo direct combat training at the same time. How opportune…”

Shiv suddenly felt a lance of searing pain travel up his asshole. “Valor. What… what is this idea?”

“Hm. Shiv. Use your Severed Shadow and go seek out Uva, Legend Hymn, Candles, Tulveg, and everyone who can render aid. After that, find Enchanter Merrielmel and have him set up his Slipgate in the Tutorial bunker. Remember how one must level, Shiv.”

“Strain and… and novelty?”

“Yes. And constant, extreme, borderline torturous struggle.”

“Oh,” Jessica breathed. “I think I like the sound of this.”

“I fear we have incensed a terrible wrath in Valor by not speaking to him about this first,” the Harbinger whimpered. “His core… it is aflame with scorn and jealousy.”

“Valor,” Shiv began, trying to apologize.

“For now: endure.”

“What?”

“Endure!” Valor repeated. “Pillar only! Toughness training!”

Then Jessica smashed her heel down on Shiv’s head before he could blink. Once more, he blasted straight down—this time sporting a full concussion rather than a meager bruise. And once more, he bounced off the platform and rose high into the air—where both Valor and Jessica hovered with malice and blades in wait.
