[Selene Silverspire's soul has been linked to yours by a divine contract crafted by the Celestial Ink Dragon Kaida]

...

The notifications came flooding in, but Ashlock ignored them. Instead, he spoke into Diana's mind.

"I'll leave the Silverspire family to you for now. Once this ritual is over, have them gather as many spirit stones as possible to pay for the repercussions. In the meantime, I'll set up the portal network."

Diana nodded, "Understood, Patriarch."

With that, Ashlock got to work.

***

A busy week passed in a blur.

Idletree Daily Sign-In System

Day: 3679

Daily Credit: 21

Sacrifice Credit: 1837

[Sign in?]

Within his Inner World, there was a man-made landmass that could only be described as an extinct volcano. It was filled to the brim with dimming spirit stones and his ethereal roots spread throughout the pile of spirit stones, sucking the Qi from them and redirecting them to his offspring deep within the beast tide to rapidly advance their cultivation with one goal in mind—to have them reach the Star Core Realm and trigger heavenly tribulations.

What had started as a plan of empowering his offspring to make them resilient enough to survive the extreme winds became somewhat redundant after upgrading his Cursed Sap—but a new way to fight monsters had appeared. Simply strike them down with endless waves of heavenly tribulations.

"Things are going well," Ashlock mused as he looked at the beast tide storm from afar. It had stalled. Above it, heavenly rifts rained down lightning on the storm below. He had feared that the number of spirit stones he could feed his offspring via his cultivation technique {Divine Cycle of Creation and Ruin [SS]} would have run out by now, but the Silverspires were not only filthy rich but also money-making machines.

With the help of the portal network, their metal and spirit stone mining operations had increased in efficiency almost tenfold, giving them an absurd inflow of wealth which the youth, Elders and even the Grand Elder swiftly burned by taking a portal to Ashfallen City and buying as many pills as they could from the Ashfallen Trading Company.

They had even started working alongside the Mudcloaks to create weapons and other things, which they sold to the Eternal Pursuit Pavilion for Yinxi Coins, which then were exchanged for spirit stones.

In fact, the Ashfallen Sect was quickly becoming the largest purchaser of spirit stones in the entire pavilion.

"Taking on the Silverspire family might be one of the greatest booms the sect has seen," Ashlock muttered. He understood now why the Blood Lotus Sect had treated them with care and hadn't been rushed to crush the Grand Elder from ascending. They were invaluable allies. Their fear and respect for him also increased his sacrificial credits to a healthy balance.

"I should look to upgrade or do some draws soon," Ashlock mused as he continued to monitor the distant storm guarded by his Bastions. He knew the level of destruction his antics were causing to the monsters inside, as he regularly went in there to turn the charred corpses into Ents. It was a great system as the monsters couldn't fight back in any sustainable way.

At this rate, he might defeat the beast tide without them ever reaching Red Vine Peak. Only the Overlords and perhaps Nascent Soul Realm monsters would be left if this kept up.

"Those are the real ones I still need to worry about. So long as I have to hold the storm back with desolation Qi, I can't advance my cultivation." Ashlock sighed. He really didn't want this beast tide to keep going.

A sudden flash of white flames interrupted his thoughts. Stella stood on a flying sword in her tattered cult cloak, billowing in the wind. Maple was happily asleep on her head. "I thought I would find you here, Ash!" she said excitedly.

"What's going on?" He asked.

She pulled a glowing green stone from her sleeve and held it up. "You will never guess who's calling!"

Ashlock mirrored her excitement—he had been waiting all week for this.

"Is that the communication stone I gave you? Then it must be Nymeria, that half dragon and half human." Ashlock glanced at the destruction in the distance and couldn't help but chuckle, "It's about time those arrogant monsters came to negotiate."

= Book 7 End =
