“That is the face of a predator,” the mask maker said, taking note of Jessica’s attention to it. “One that does not ask what it should be. It does not question. It does not hesitate. It follows its nature… and in doing so, it becomes exactly what the world expects of it.” Those voids of eyes then tilted downward, towards Iris. “Not unlike a Hell Hound.”

“I’m not… like that,” Jessica muttered.

“No? Then perhaps one of the other masks calls to you?”

Jessica looked along the other three. If she had to choose the kind of person she was going to become… wouldn’t being a protector be better? Saying that definitely sounded better than ‘I want to be a predator,’ at least. She looked at that third mask and began to reach for it, but paused.

The mask was solid. Broad across the brow, the lines carved deep with thick cheekbones, teeth clenched together as if ready to take a hit. Yet, her hand paused.

I’d be such a liar, she thought. I’d never protected anything in my life. I’m not protecting anything now…

Then she tensed her fists and looked away from the table.

Why am I even thinking about it so hard? It’s not like I care about any of this! These stupid masks. I should just grab one and move on. I’m not Elva! I’m not from the Bloody Peaks Tribe. I don’t believe in their religion, and I don’t feel responsible for them! In fact…

She relaxed a little as she glanced down at Iris.

In fact… if I did somehow end up leader of the tribe. I’d just hand that power off to Iris anyway.

The mask maker spoke again, but not to Jessica this time. “Helga. Come, let’s leave her alone to think it over. The child may feel rushed if we are hovering.” The woman let out a low cackling laughter.

Her aunt nodded. “Alright. Take your time, Elva. This very well may be the face you wear for the rest of your life. So think it over with care.” With that, the two women left, leaving Iris and Jessica alone with the four masks.

“S-Sorry I’m taking so long, Iris. I know you want to get out of here,” Jessica whispered once she was sure they were out of earshot.

“This choice is important?” Iris asked.

“Uh… I mean…” Jessica looked over the masks again. “I don’t know. Not really? It’s just a mask, right?”

“Will it help you hunt?”

“Not really. I’m not sure why I’m overthinking it. I don’t really care about any of this.”

Iris then hunkered down so that she could pop back up, and got her front paws on the table. She could barely see over the top, but she looked along the masks, sniffed at them, her nose snorting at one, then the next. She let out a final huff before letting her paws slide off the table once again.

“They… mean things? These masks?”

Jessica nodded. “…I just don’t think any of them really fit me. Protector? Predator? Something in between? I mean… if they’re meant to represent how I see myself… You know, I don’t really want anything in particular. I’ve just been… trying to make sure the two of us survive. That’s it. It’s just been one thing after another. Fight. Adapt. Don’t die. And make sure you’re safe. That’s it, so…” She glanced back at the masks. “Protector? I should take the third mask, right?”

“I do not need protection,” Iris cut in rather coolly.

Jessica blinked. “What?”

Iris’s gaze sharpened. “I am not something you must keep safe. I fight. I kill. I survive.” Her tail flicked behind her. “I am not prey.”

“I— I didn’t mean it like that.”

“Then why speak as if you stand in front of me?” Iris continued, her voice low and steady in Jessica’s mind. “We have fought together. Killed great foes together.” Her white eyes locked onto Jessica’s. “We are pack.”

Those last three words hit Jessica. She felt a warmth in her chest upon hearing them.

“Pack… huh?” She smiled. Hearing that word—not just that it was said, but the way Iris said it. It felt really good.

It was true that, ever since waking up in Elva Wyrmscar’s body, she didn’t really have an answer to what she wanted and what she should be doing here. She was Jessica, but this wasn’t Jessica’s world, it wasn’t Jessica’s life. Though she was here all the same. But with Iris, she had a bond. A reason to exist. If Jessica couldn’t have any dreams or goals of her own, then she could at least support Iris in hers. Not as a protector. But a pack mate. That felt better.

Jessica reached for the fourth mask. She was pack mates with a Hell Hound, and what were Hell Hounds? Really, they were predators. But that didn’t have to be all they were. Iris loved her family, Jessica could hear it in the way she spoke about them. Iris was so set on revenge, but Jessica hoped she could steer her towards that love as well. Because a pack didn’t just kill and survive, they supported each other, take care of each other.

If she were going to have any purpose in this life, that felt like one she could believe in.

She picked up the predator mask and stared at it. The mouth itself was more humanlike but still had wolflike fangs and teeth. She turned it around, brought it up to her face, and put it on.
