Niala's ears wiggled as she pondered the question. Eventually, she shook her head. “I don't think so. I mean, our bodies, maybe? But I don't feel like a machine. What about our souls?”

David looked at her, then back at the pictures. “I can't tell why, but it sounded wrong when I said it. I think you're right about our souls...” He trailed off as he thought.

She leaned on him and looked up into his eyes, her tail gently coiling around him. “What's bouncing around in that big, muscly brain of yours?” She asked with a smirk.

He smiled at her and ruffled her hair as she pressed her head into his hand. He sighed. “Nothing useful, kitten. Rather, I want to think about if we can use this for anything.”

“For when we face whatever's controlling the hummers?”

“Yeah. Have any idea?” He asked, looking at her.

She blinked once, then smiled, her ears twitching. “I might... The question is, what are you ready to pay for my genius ideas?”

He let out a huff, put his fingers around her chin, positioning her head at the right angle, and leaned down, pressing his lips against hers.

She tensed for half a second before melting into his hand, her ears going flat, her eyelids drooping closed.

Pulling back, he watched as she half-opened her eyes, her body still soft as putty against him. She almost purred, “Hrrrmm, a few more like that and I could be convinced...”

He smiled and resumed his negotiations.

For a good half a bell.

Once sufficiently bribed, Niala revealed that her “idea” was more of a question; why did David's imbuements affect solid objects when he pooped out his mana through Leviathan? After all, he wasn't engraving runes on the receiving object, but it still received the effect.

Her guess was that, somehow, the tendrils of imbued mana were creating something like artificial, temporary pathways in the objects. As justification, she pointed out that Azure guards had imbuements that could empower held items. If that was possible with imbuements, then wouldn't it be possible with enchantments as well?

Those were very good questions, David thought. The problem was that he was nowhere close enough to that level of proficiency with enchanting to be able to explore this idea.

But he knew some people who were.

TIMELESS RUNEWORKS

Paul scratched his nearly bald head. “An enchantment that would propagate into nearby material?”

Paul, Natalia, Sarubine, Ellis and Madeline, the five senior enchanters present, gave David puzzled looks as he nodded. “Imbuements can do it. Why couldn't enchantments?”

Sarubine re-adjusted her glasses. “Sir, imbuements work because they inject mana pathway resonances into the held object. Enchantments do not have pathways.”

David smiled, taking out the two books from before, showing them that pathways were, in fact, made of runes.

The five masters stared at the two pictures in total silence, apart from Sarubine fiddling with her glasses several times.

Collectively, they looked at each other, exchanged nods, and turned to face David. Paul Avertin, the minor noble and “leader” of the group, addressed him. “If this is true, then...”

David nodded once. “Then we should be able to create tools that expand. The limiting factor for small machines has always been that the smaller the engraving, the less mana it could contain, but...”

Natalia, the second oldest enchanter, clapped her hands together. “But if the held tool is simply used to inject a temporary rune sequence, there's no limit to how big we can magnify it-”

Ellis picked up. “-and that means we're not limited by mana density anymore. But how exactly do we create a rune sequence that can force itself into another object?”

Madeline held her chin with her hand. “We apply echo-rune's resonance principles. Except, instead of having the resonance point inside the enchantment-”

Sarubine pushed her glasses up. “-We project it outside, and build upon it.”

Paul gave her a concerned look. “But the calculations! We would need a team of at least a dozen calculators to project even a single rune sequence!”

The concern deflated the other four enchanter's sails, as they lowered their head and began dissecting the problem.

David looked between the lot of them. “I didn't get all of that, but you're saying the main problem is... mathematics?”

They nodded as one.

He smiled. “I might have the solution, then.”

Six hours after sending her a ping through the Weldtree, Totori walked through the portal linking their worlds. She swayed her tiny hips as she did.

“David, baby! The Stormborn movie is killing it! The merch is flying off the shelves! We can barely keep the Stormblood drink stocked! We're so rich!” She exclaimed, taking a pose and throwing her hands up.

He gave her a polite smile while Niala's eyes lit up with excitement.

Before she could ask about the media frenzy, he spoke up. “Totori, hi, thanks for showing up. I need to ask you; you guys have machines that do calculations, right?”

The fairy let her hands drop and tilted her head. “You mean computers? Yes, why?”

He nodded. “Yes, those. How good are they at doing math?”

She scratched her head. “Ah, well, I'm not an expert, but... really, really, really good? Like, even the most basic computer will do thousands of operations per second. Do you want one? I can get those easy!”

David smiled. “How fast do you think you can get a computer expert out here? I have some people they need to meet.”

Totori scrunched her mouth. “Am I allowed to throw money at it?”

He nodded. She grinned. “Then, give me an hour!”

She was back within three-quarters of a bell with an awkward-looking fair in tow who had a too-tight collared shirt, a pocket protector, and glasses about as thick as one of their fingers. Totori introduced her as Pearly Dewrose, the lead design engineer for one of the major computer companies in the Fairlands.

They brought her and Totori, who wanted to follow along, curious about the whole thing, to the enchanters at Timeless Runeworks.

After letting the initial shock of meeting living, real fairies pass, David explained to everyone present why he'd asked Pearly to come. Once he and the enchanters described their problem, the so-far reserved fairy transformed into a hound.

She asked what kind of computation they needed, how many layers they had, how often they needed to be updated, what decimal precision they needed, and more.

They ended up staying for over three bells, and the little fairy called it a “preliminary information gathering.” By the end, however, she assured everyone present that her company, Incredible Bean Machines, already had the “hardware” necessary, and the “software” would only need a few weeks of configuration.

Nobody but the fairies really understood, but the promise of being able to calculate thousands of runes per second made at least one of the enchanters drool.

When Pearly asked what kind of budget they were looking at, Totori only laughed.

The perplexed fairy looked at David, who in turn smiled and gave a thumbs up.

She began to question what she'd been brought into.

With David's permission, Totori ended up throwing all the money at the problem.

It turned out that an early-delivery bonus starting at 100 million and dropping 5 million per day thereafter really could move heaven and earth.

The super-computer, as the Incredible Bean Machine technicians called it, arrived in crates before the week was over, and they began assembling it right then and there, with three teams working around the clock.

A week after, the most important pieces showed up: Mundaneworld-attuned interfaces; video screens, keyboards, and “sliders”; little ovaloid tools which controlled a cursor on-screen.

With the super-computer installed, and the appropriately-sized interface in place, the technicians were replaced by training personnel.

A week later, the Timeless Runeworks enchanters were geeking out with their new toys, running simulation after simulation of every rune combo they could think of.

The one small hiccup came in the form of power. The super-computer, it turned out, used quite a bit of mana when crunching through all the numbers. Riverwall's recently-upgraded mana-grid could power it, but barely so while still supplying the rest of the town.

Again, David decided to throw money at it. He got Caleb to enact phase 2 of the mana-grid expansion plan years ahead of schedule, fully funded by the Allwardens.

In the short term, they would simply throttle themselves if the load exceeded the grid's capacity, but the issue wouldn't last for more than a year, at most. They figured that, worse come to pass, they'd schedule the biggest simulations to run at night.

With their new toy/tool, the enchanters were much more optimistic about coming up with a solution to David's proposition.

There was one big question left to answer: what kind of enchantment was David looking for?

For now, he told them to just make a light, as a proof of concept, because what he really wanted would need a really powerful source of mana, and it couldn't be him; it had to be something he could throw.

Something he had managed to do once, but only while he was unconscious and confronting his nightmares.

He was hoping he could repeat the exploit without the second part.

“I want to make more mana tears,” David said, eyeing Leandro, Niala and Jordo, the three who were there with him the first time it happened.

Niala's ears flattened. “Please don't tell me you want more dream poison...”

He smiled and shook his head. “No, kitten, not if I can help it. But I'll need your help.” He turned his head to Jordo. “And yours especially, my friend. You said you were analyzing me at the time?”

The golem bowed. “I was, Sir! Anything I can do to help you in this endeavour, I shall!”

David dipped his head and looked at the fourth person present. “Leandro, you were there, and you're a manalogist. If you have any insight, we'll be grateful.”

The large man narrowed his eyes for a second. “I am not certain how much I can contribute, but I will try. I do have one question.”

“What is it?”

Leandro crossed his arms. “Why exactly do you want more David's tears?”

“Mana tears, and because I have a... project going on with the Timeless Runeworks team. The project will need a concentrated source of mana.”

“That is only part of the answer, boy.”

David sighed. “It's for when we go back up north.”

“To fight the hummers once more?” Leandro asked.

“Yes.”

The large man hummed and leaned back in his chair. Niala's ears wiggled. “Well, whatever it is, I'm with you, as long as you're not trying to hurt yourself!” She warned before mellowing out. “But... did you have an idea of how to cry more David's tears?”

“Mana tears, and I have a few ideas. The first one will need something from you, though.”

Her ears twitched as she blinked, “Ah?”

His first idea had been simple; he was unconscious and dreaming the first time it happened, so he asked Niala for a potent sleeping potion. Once he was asleep, Niala was to come seek him out through their shared link, something they didn't have at the time.

The hope was that he would be half-awake in his inner world, much like when he woke up Niala that way. Along with Leviathan, who was present at the time it happened, David thought that the three of them together might achieve something.

It didn't work. His sleepy self mainly tried to hug and kiss Niala and protect her from Leviathan, who had sat there, watching passively.

She was sad that his idea hadn't worked, but tried to console him by saying that she had a lot of fun. Between his first attempt failing and not being able to remember the fun times with his wife, David ended up a bit irritated.

They then tried reproducing the brain waves that Jordo had recorded, which turned out to be impossible, though he managed to get somewhat close for a few seconds at a time.

The next attempt was to try and fill his inner with mana, but that resulted in the usual mana-explosion and Leviathan being summoned into the physical world.

There was one last thing to attempt before they had to start considering the dream poison; according to Leviathan, David's tears had probably formed when his Lord had accepted him back. The mana sea had rushed back into his pathways, which had been severely underutilized until that point.

The solution, then, was to try and recreate that state.

Niala knew of a way, and it turned out to be a poison, of sorts; a mana blocker potion.

It did exactly what the name said, and affected the intake of new mana into someone's pathways. Most versions only restricted the flow, as total blockage would eventually lead to death. David would have to contend with that version, as she refused to brew anything stronger.

So that was the version he ended up drinking.

They figured that he would need to “drain” his mana pathways, and Leandro was happy to help there, dragging David out to the night chapel and having him train the new imbuements he was attempting to learn.

To the marshal's dismay, it took two days before David began feeling the strain. He could still pull mana, since the flow was only severely restricted, but he tired quicker, each imbuement draining his stamina in addition to his mana.

Still, they kept the training up, David returning home with dragging feet, much like in the early days of his training sessions with Leandro.

And, much like that time, Niala's nurturing instincts seemed to go into overdrive.

That convinced him; she enjoyed having him exhausted and spent so she could pamper him. She denied it, of course, defending her actions by saying she was concerned for his health and nothing more.

The beaming smile she had every time she broke out the relaxing oils to give him invigorating full-body massages didn't lie, however.

Having a big baby to take care of made her happy.

He wasn't complaining now, of course. He quite enjoyed the care he was receiving. It was just that he knew, with certainty now, that when they had children, he would be a distant second.

And that made him sad a little.

His kids would have one amazing mom, though.