“Should have just mixed the sauce, sauce-mixer,” Mortar rumbled, laughing. Then, Band and Whisper laughed too, leaving Tequila to contend with the hard gazes levied upon him by Shiv and Uva.

“Oh, Challenger, this might be a short run,” Tequila mumbled to himself.

"And Band," Shiv said, staring at the final orc.

Band lowered his violin and grinned at Shiv. "Yes." His voice was like gravel grinding against a chalkboard surface. "Your. Orders. Chef."

Shiv had something special planned for that one. He had a knife—the same kind Georges gave Shiv. And there might be something there connecting Georges to the orc. Something Shiv wanted to know about. “I want you preparing the main dish beside me later. But start with the vegetables on the side. I want to see how good you are.”

“Why’s he special?” Mortar grunted. “This is bloody favoritism, Chef. I ran the chain.”

“Yes. But he has a Moonsteel chef’s knife,” Shiv said. “And I want to know why and from where.”

Mortar eyed Band and let out a grunt. “I could tell, Deathless. I could tell you all about this sentimental bastard. All kinds of things.”

“Fuck. You,” Band snarled at Mortar, but the big automata-armored orc just blew Band a mocking kiss.

Shiv’s Outside Context Problem trembled—and that provoked a reaction from Band. The musical orc’s eyes widened, and his violin immediately came aglow with violet energy—so much Divination mana it spilled into the visible spectrum. He pulled hard on his bow just as Shiv started to have a vision—the screen gone since there was no Rose to filter the details through. Before Outside Context Problem could trigger, the orc canceled it out with a screaming note from his instrument.

Outside Context Problem 61 > 64

A splash of Vitaemancy broke away from Shiv. The vision died. He clenched his fists—but froze as Band held his violin high.

“Tell. After,” Band said. A mana strand hovered just a meter away from his head. The musical orc glared at Mortar with an expression of loathing. If this hate was fake, Band was one hell of an actor.

“Shiv?” Uva said, her tone focused and cold as winter. “Are you alright?”

“Just fine,” Shiv said. “No idea what he just did, though.”

“He canceled out something,” Adam said. “I saw a pulse of Divination—broke my focus for a moment. It conveyed a message to me too…”

“Told. World. Stop. My. Secret. Tell. Later. Cook. First.” Band sneered at Shiv. “Tell. Everything. If. Cooking. Not. Shit. Most. Cooking. Shit.”

And that confirmed something for Shiv. Band had definitely had an encounter with Georges before. “Not shit, huh? Fine. I’ll show you not shit. Commis! Stations!”
