“They say there will be war with Ailendamus soon. If it occurs, it would be the entire kingdom versus Kaliv, Calanfer, and Gaiil-Drome, assuming the old pact holds. Pheislant would be included as well, given their relationship with Ailendamus.”
“Go on.”
“I predict Taimaguros would side with Ailendamus—they have a defensive alliance, and the war would benefit the Taimaguros Dominion. So that would mean two major powers and all the allied nations fighting the traditional Dawn Concordat plus Pheislant.”
“Doesn’t Pheislant have the Order of Seasons? I remember the games at Daquin, seeing their [Knights] there. House Kallinad, correct?”
“Correct—but the Order is one [Knight] order. Ailendamus might well call upon its Orders, and Season [Knights] are few in number.”
“Intriguing. How would this affect us?”
The Emperor of Sands paused. She looked at herself. Another aspect of herself, rather. A head sat on the armrest of her throne. It, like she, was made of cloth. But cloth that lived, and breathed, and spoke.
String-people. The [Empress] nodded at the head, which lived despite lacking a body. He was her, a young man, in the fires of his youth. And she was the [Emperor of Sands] as well, although she styled herself [Empress] when she wore this head. She was—had been—the most beautiful and intelligent [Emira] in her nation before she had become the [Empress].
She was the [Empress], he the [Emperor]. Both the same being. If the distinction was confusing, well—even other String-people would have found their nature perplexing.
Even horrifying. For, the [Emperor], the [Empress], the ruler of the Empire of Sands, was a String-person. That was easy enough. But where they differed from the artificial folk who hailed from Chandrar was that they could sew and replace any body part they chose.
Even their head.
Most String-people had a mortal flaw, in that while they could replace limbs, organs, any part of their body as they chose, changing material and cloth and cut to make their arms more attractive, stronger, and so on—they could not replace their heads.
The head contained the String-person’s original thread, from which their life originated. It was the most magical part of them—although [Alchemists] the world over were banned from ever experimenting with it on pain of death in any country ruled by the String-people. And any rumored to be experimenting with it outside of Chandrar’s domain died.
Long ago, the String-folk had won their freedom, and they were no one’s puppets. The living string in each String-person’s head grew with them. A String-child had but a thread; an elder who died of old-age—and String-people could live into their hundreds, if seldom—would have a small skein of thread that would turn to dust shortly after their death.
You could not replace it. Even creating a new child was painful, and yes, sacrificial on the parts of the parents. Thus, the String-people, who could be vain indeed, never replaced components of their heads save at more dire need. That was how their caste system worked; no matter what you became, someone born of hemp would show it, in their face if nowhere else.
String-people valued cloth like other species valued strength, beauty, fertility, and so on. Those who had been made of silk or rarer fabrics stood at the height of society, beloved and envied. Below them were common fabrics, known collectively as cotton. At the bottom were the rough, hardy folk. Hemp.
That was what the String-people of Chandrar were. Highly social, even bitterly so, reclusive about some secrets, but strong fighters, a people who had built themselves and were thus comparatively new to this world. They had many advantages in life, including their ability to repair even crippling damage, but they seldom left the deserts.
Like every species, String-people had fought in wars of conquest and defense, but String-people had seldom threatened the world for one simple reason: they burned. And if you damaged the magical string in their brains, they died like anyone else.
Now, the Empire of Sands. A growing power in the west of Chandrar, a nation ruled by String-people. It was already considered to be one of the great String-folk powers, behind Nerrhavia’s Fall, but new. Growing. The [Emperor] who ruled the nation, the Emperor of Sands, was a mysterious figure.
Male. Female. They had multiple heads. Most String-folk died if you cut off the head; the magical string needed energy, and without a body to sustain it, it died fast. And how could one being have multiple heads, anyways? Let alone…
The [Empress] stretched lazily. She wore a body of silk, so languorous and beautiful it would have driven a thousand [Poets] to compose odes to her beauty. But none were present; she sat in her throne, which was made entirely of sand, comfortable to some degree, yet hard as any stone.
She did have a motif. And the head of the [Empress] was beautiful.
Once, she had been called Emira Saet-rei of Doran, a small nation subsumed early by the Empire of Sands. She had led the defense of her nation well, Emira Saet-rei. But in exchange for the safety of her defeated folk, she had agreed to a deal by the then-[Emperor]. She had vanished.
And the [Empress of Sands] had worn a new face from then on.
You didn’t need to be a genius to figure out a trend, especially since the [Emperor] had nearly a dozen faces. All of them String-folk, by the way. The young man whose head was conversing with himself had been a fearsome [Lieutenant]. Now he was an [Emperor] and united in purpose with his other heads.
But each head was a different personality, a different strength. The [Empress] smiled down at her younger self.
“War in Terandria? It matters not at all. Unless you care to think of advantage. Terandria has always meddled. The nations of the continent will be more focused in that war. Perhaps there is even room to alter events.”
“What do I care?”
The young man’s tone was brash, unrepentant. The [Empress] sighed at herself.
“I care because all news is worth knowing.”
The young man’s head looked up at his smiling face.
“Put me on. And I will know all that is worth knowing.”
“No. I am impetuous when I wear you. And this is not a time for impetuousness. When I must lead a battle, you may come out.”
The head on the armrest glowered.
“I should be worn. He is out there. What care have I of Terandria when the King of Destruction hounds my dreams? When his vassal incites rebellion and musters other nations against me?”
The [Empress of Sands] sighed. It was true. Takhatres, of the King’s Seven, was a growing name in her vast, growing empire. She had sent armies against him specialized in defeating Garuda. After two battles, in which he had dealt as much damage as his tribe had received, he had retreated. Now, he was a moving force, striking weak targets and—worse—rallying enemies of the Empire of Sands against her.
And there were many. The [Empress of Sands] was expanding her reach, nation by nation. Alarmed, the other nations of Chandrar were mobilizing to curtail her power. The only reason why her name was not screamed across all of Chandrar as a watch-word was because one voice was louder.
“Flos of Reim.”
“His kingdom is still small. Put me on. And I will lead six of our armies across Zeikhal! The Great Desert is vast, but I have the resources. Let me crush him now, before he absorbs another nation.”
The younger head urged his older self. The [Empress] turned her head.
“No. I do not gamble with the fate of my empire. And even now, facing Flos of Reim and needing to march so far is a gamble. I will arm other nations with blades, but it is far better to create an empire so vast that he is helpless when we finally clash, rather than risk it all now.”
“I am a fool.”
The [Empress] glared at herself. It was, indeed, an odd sight, to see the ruler of a nation bickering like this. But whom else could she trust? The only voices she respected were her own.
And now they came, echoing down from the throne room. Both heads of the [Emperor of Sands] looked up. And listened.
“The King of Destruction is a mighty foe. Before I was [Emperor], I saw the extent of his might. I fought with him until he fell into his slumber. I should remember.”
“We do.”
Both heads glared up at a third disembodied head, sitting on a pedestal where it could watch all that passed in the throne room. The old [General] glared back.
“Put me on.”
“No, put me on.”
Another head, a grinning face twisted by a scar. The [Empress] eyed her other self distastefully.
“No, and no. Some of my selves were a thing of necessity. This head makes me a genius, but too ambitious by far. And this one—I regret adding so many aspects of myself at times. When I wear this head, I am debauched, murderous.”
She stared at the scarred head. He grinned at himself.
“But powerful.”
“If the King of Destruction were a head, what might I be if he was me?”
A third head mused quietly from her pedestal. Aside from the head she wore, there were only two female heads in her collection. The [Empress] thought that was a fault; because she had worn so many male heads, they kept adding to their number of their gender.
But she wore this head because all of her, even the male personalities, knew that this one was the most complete. The most reasonable, if not the best suited to personal combat, or war.
The [Empress of Sands] lifted a hand and the bickering heads quieted. She looked past them all as her attendants waited. They could replace her head at a moment’s notice, change her very body to suit her new form.
“Let us think. Flos of Reim. How do you kill such a man? We know so much. Yes.”
“Yes.”
“Everything there is to know.”
“Unless he has grown.”
The [Empress] nodded to herself.
“Which is why we know his flaw and strength. He could destroy me, perhaps even with six armies at my back. If he were prepared. If he saw me coming.”
“His [Army of the King].”
The young man’s head silently agreed. The other heads above fell silent, so that two of the [Empress]’s thoughts could air themselves.
“It has a great flaw. But with it, even with a far smaller army, he could humble even Nerrhavia. That is why the other nations fear to invade, as much as his Seven. But if he uses it once, he is vulnerable.”
“It is not invincible. He used it at Reim. And he would have lost, but for the grand enchantment on his city! I did not know Drevish had created it!”
The [Empress]’s face was sour and dark.
“He kept it from us. I should not have executed him. But I was wrathful and without reason when I wore you.”
She pointed up at the old [General]’s head. He did not respond to himself. The [Empress] shook her head.
“I will not wear that aspect of myself for a long time. If he had joined us—Flos of Reim might have fallen. But he used his Skill and he can use it again. If he is to fall, he must use his [Army of the King]—and then be slain before he is able to use it again.”
All of the [Empress]’s heads murmured acknowledgement. The young man glowered.
“And so we do what? Wait, and try to hunt one of his vassals?”
“We grow.”
The whisper came from above. And even the [Empress] was silenced by herself. She nodded. She knew her other self’s thoughts and will, if not the nuance.
“Yes. We grow. This is the wrong game I think of when I wear my personalities of war. Clashing with Reim is foolhardy. Let other nations burn themselves against him. The Empire of Sands grows. As do I. And when the time is right, I shall throw every measure against the King of Destruction. Then, and only then, I will shout my name to the world.”
“And if I lose?”
The same whisper. The [Empress] looked up and met her own gaze. Dark amusement behind a ruined face. She nodded, acknowledging her dark humor. Her twisted desires that could sabotage herself. The head she had worn but once.
“Then I was not fated to rule Chandrar. But I do not believe I will lose. After all—”
She smiled.
“—I have perspective he does not.”
Half the heads groaned aloud. The [Empress of Sands], when she wore Saet-rei’s head, had one great flaw; her love of poor puns. Indeed, the young man grumbled and glared as she placed him on a pedestal, to wait until she needed to be someone else.
“I believe you wear that perspective too long, myself. I have little care for frivolity. Or my lovers. Make them female.”
He seemed offended. The [Empress] laughed. Attendants came into the throne room, bearing some of the heads away on pillows. The ruler of the Empire of Sands was said to be able to be in many places at once. And they were—just not in one piece. She called out, although she knew what she was going to say before she said it.
“I embrace all my lovers when I wear this head. My other selves are strong in cunning, war, leadership, and violence. But not love. Not empire. Now, I have work to do. Manage my empire, my selves. Plan cities. Lead, decide. Hunt the Lord of the Skies. Leave the King of Destruction his dues. He has sworn peace.”
“It will never last.”
The [Empress] looked up at herself.
“He lost Tiqr to hold to his oath. Now, he is trapped by his words. Who would be foolish enough to force his hand now?”
She waited. But all the [Empress] heard was her own laughter.
 
——
 
Flos Reimarch. The King of Destruction. Such a grand name and such a title for one man. But it was true he deserved it. Once upon a time, he had made other nations shake at the possibility of war. He had united a continent under one banner.
And it was Chandrar, the land of sand, often scorned because it lacked the richness of soil or the benefits of other nations, who had caused other continents to fear what the desert-nations might do. That was what Flos Reimarch had done as a young man, until his slumber.
Now, he rode forth again. And his deeds were as notable in what he did directly—and what he inspired in other people. Flos Reimarch was like a stone in a stream; he distorted the current. People had to make plans around him, or be swept away.
The [Empress of Sands] was not the only one to make plans. But her sanguine discussions were different. She had power and space and time on her side. Other rulers had none of the above.
“The [Army of the King]. In regards to defeating the King of Destruction, that seems to be the common issue, along with his Seven.”
A man spoke heavily from his throne. His crown lay wearily upon his brow. No one answered him. He could hear whispers from the back of his court.
“Did you see the battle with the Wyverns at Pallass? A good show, that.”
“I missed it. I don’t keep a scrying orb at home. You must tell me about it. Wyverns? I don’t believe I know them.”
