“You can’t copy her music! Did you hear the drums? And the other things? She’s got new instruments, they say!”
The [King] had to admit he couldn’t see a [Bard] or even a performing troupe imitating the strange style he’d heard. He sighed.
“The Realm’s finances are stretched, Jecaina…you have an allowance.”
“I know that!”
His daughter sounded hurt, but Raelt didn’t miss the flicker in the crown princess’ gaze. She paused, clearly rethinking.
“You could…invite her to Jecrass. People would pay to see her! And she’s only in Terandria, for now. She might listen to a [King], if you requested it.”
“Might?”
Raelt looked at his daughter. She shrugged.
“She’s famous. She’s played for royalty! She’s all the rage in Terandria.”
“Well, I suppose I could write a letter. Then again, if you wanted to travel…it’s a bit tricky in Terandria I hear, with Ailendamus, but Lyfelt assures me it would be safe. Why not? You could bring some of your friends.”
Raelt muttered, trying to weigh the risks of sending Jecrass’ [Princess] abroad versus keeping her here. Jecaina brightened—and then frowned at her father.
“Oh no. I want to meet the King of Destruction first.”
“Jecaina—”
“If I beat you in a duel, how about it? I’m not going to swear myself to his service, father.”
Jecaina drew her foil and pointed it at her father’s chest. The [King] ignored the threat to his life and sighed.
“Jecaina—”
“He’s sworn to peace! And you said you met him! You never talk about him, but the other River Wardens say you and grandfather fought in his armies.”
“Twice! Jecaina, the answer’s no.”
“What will he do, imprison me?”
“It’s not you, it’s the politics of the matter.”
His daughter rolled her eyes. The [Fencer]-[Princess] shook her head.
“You’ve been in the vault, talking with Lyfelt with your statues again.”
“He’s my neighbor and a fellow ruler. I trust his counsel, Jecaina. Moreover, I wouldn’t put it past you to challenge one of the King of Destruction’s Seven to a duel.”
“Who, me?”
Jecaina innocently cooled herself with one of the magical fans that young people loved to wear. Raelt glared at his daughter.
“This is exactly what I’m talking about, Jecaina. You are a [Princess]! And aside from politics—you’re overestimating your skills. A silver bell does not mean you’re equivalent to one of the King’s Seven.”
The [Princess] opened her mouth and imitated Raelt lecturing until he glared at her.
“I know that! But I can’t train my class on most people in the kingdom! Just one trip, father. And then—I’ll go to Terandria and meet the Queen of Pop and learn from [Fencers] there.”
Her eyes glittered with eagerness. Raelt felt a father’s despair and worry over his daughter. And stubbornly ignored all thoughts that he’d been like her when he was young. Geril kept mentioning it, but the old man was growing senile.
This was King Raelt’s day. He was probably a good [King], although he just took it one day at a time and planned for the next days. But like everyone else, he was moved and influenced by the King of Destruction. Flos was always there, a reminder, even though his kingdom had been quiet since summer began.
Until the moment he wasn’t just a reminder.
Daughter and parent were arguing lightly when the door burst inwards. Both turned, and both had swords in hand. Geril raced into the room, panting.
“Your Majesty!”
“Geril?”
Jecaina lowered her sword in astonishment. Raelt had already sheathed his.
“What is it, Geril?”
The elderly man was clutching at his chest, and Raelt feared he’d had a heart attack. Raelt was already reaching for one of the personal potions he carried. But Geril strode over to his [King]. There was shouting coming from the corridors. Jecaina and Raelt stared at him as the man gasped to speak.
“It’s—there is word from the borders! He is on the move! Heading here!”
“Who?”
“The King of Destruction. He’s leading a vast army! And his [Steward] and Mars the Illusionist!”
King Raelt of Jecrass froze. And his daughter’s jaw dropped. Raelt looked at Geril, and felt normality die. He was always there, in the background. Until he strode onto your stage and took your breath away. For a moment, Raelt wavered. Then he rose.
“Summon the River Wardens. Find General Lael! And—send a [Message] to Belchan! To Nerrhavia!”
 
——
 
“Is it war?”
The halls of Raelt’s palace ran with the question. King Raelt asked it himself, as he stood in the war room with General Lael and Geril. Jecaina hovered in the background. No one had sent her out, and she deserved to be here. Some of the River Wardens who hadn’t left yet were present as well. But Raelt only had attention for his manservant and [General].
“General Lael, is it war?”
“No, Your Majesty.”
“You’re sure?”
Lael licked her lips.
“Absolutely. The King of Destruction is flying the banner of truce. And he’s sent ahead messengers, a City Runner—he’s come to parley.”
Raelt exhaled. He looked around, some of the tightness in his chest easing.
“With an army.”
“Yes, sire. But I have this missive—and he is flying the banner—”
“Is the army deployed?”
River Warden Winta squeaked. Her face was dead-white. General Lael nodded.
“I’m placing them at the border, but holding back several miles. We do not wish to cause an incident—”
“Pull them back further.”
“Your Majesty!”
Raelt ignored the River Wardens. He looked at Lael.
“He has his [Steward] and Mars the Illusionist?”
“Yes, sire. But he is flying a banner. He wishes to parley with you. The missive—”
Geril offered it to Raelt. The [King] read it. He looked at General Lael. It was useless to ask her again. Raelt tried to think.
“So, he’s coming here. I’ll have to meet him.”
“Your Majesty?”
Everyone stared at Raelt. The [King] gritted his teeth.
“It’s just like him. Inform my River Wardens. We will ride to the border with a small escort.”
“But if it’s a trap—”
“Flos Reimarch doesn’t set traps. He’s coming to parley. Literally, to parley. Geril, send riders ahead to announce my arrival. How soon until he reaches the border?”
“He is using a Skill and marching his army fast. He should be there within six hours—”
“Very well. My River Wardens, you may bring a small escort, but no more than…twenty a person.”
“But sire, if it is a trap—”
“Then he is forsworn! But he won’t set a trap. That’s not Flos!”
Raelt snapped. The unexpected heat made River Warden Dulfe pause. There was a pause, then an excited voice.
“I’ll go too!”
Jecaina was adjusting her belt, eyes shining with excitement. Raelt looked at her, and then at Lael.
“General Lael, confine my daughter to the palace under guard.”
“Father!”
“You will not meet the King of Destruction. We will see him at the border, entertain his delegation, and send him away. He has no cause to attack, and whatever he wishes, Jecrass will refuse him.”
The [King] spoke firmly. The River Wardens were nodding. Jecaina was outraged.
“He is at our border! As crown princess—”
“You should be safe. In case I should fall. General Lael. Geril, come with me.”
The [King] felt bad, and knew he’d never hear the end of it, but Jecaina’s protests fell behind him as he strode through his palace. It was like someone had kicked over a beehive. River Wardens were racing back to the throne room, terrified, and more messengers were coming in second by second.
But Raelt was a [King], even if he wasn’t the most powerful one in the region. His attendants, led by Geril, closed ranks. Raelt was riding out of his palace towards the border within twenty minutes, and everyone had to catch up.
Half of the palace’s garrison was riding with Raelt, and General Lael herself. [Riders] were racing across Jecrass’ flatlands, calling for the army to muster. And still—Raelt rode, listening as messengers raced for him.
In truth, he didn’t need to do much. His role was to ride, and his people handled mundane tasks. That was—until the [Messages] started coming in, and City Runners started racing towards him.
“Your Majesty, the Empress of Sands is requesting an audience!”
“What?”
Raelt spun on his saddle. Geril himself rode forwards, pale-faced. Raelt stared at the proffered speaking stone. Then he heard a babble of voices.
“Prime Minister Lyfelt is speaking, Your Majesty. He requests a moment of your time at utmost urgency!”
“Medain’s High King—”
“Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen—”
“Two Archmages—”
“Enough!”
Raelt stared at the first speaking stone. Then he took it.
“I am King Raelt of Jecrass, ruler of the Realm of Jecrass, Guardian of the Rivers and First Rider of the Fields. To whom am I speaking?”
A female voice answered him, soft, but piercing. Sound fell away as Raelt listened.
“King Raelt, I am Empress of Sands, ruler of my empire. I greet you and Jecrass. I have received word of the King of Destruction’s army. May we speak?”
She gave no list of titles, nor her name. The hairs on Raelt’s neck rose. He’d heard of her.
“Empress of Sands. I greet you and your empire. To what do I owe the honor?”
“The King of Destruction. I offer you the full support of my empire should he threaten your borders. As for his intent? Let us speak quickly, Your Majesty. I would not wish to take from your pressing situation.”
Briefly, they spoke. Raelt felt sweat beading his forehead as he listened, replied succinctly. He closed with a simple, hurried farewell.
“May the rivers never run dry, Empress of Sands. I am—grateful for your assurances and I shall bear them in mind. Until next we speak.”
He looked at Geril as the conversation ended.
“How many are waiting for…?”
The [Head Servant] held up two hands. Raelt stared.
 
——
 
Two hours later, Raelt finished with half of the people waiting to talk to him. He’d gotten through a number of conversations, some long, but the list of people waiting to converse with him at once had multiplied. Still, Raelt’s initial worry—a [King] did not panic—had subsided once he figured out what they wanted.
Almost all the conversations went the same way. Raelt impatiently spoke into the scrying orb.
“You have my word, Queen Yisame. I have no idea what has prompted King Reimarch, but Jecrass has taken no action towards Reim thus far.”
The beautiful [Queen] pursed her lips, perhaps at his brusque tone. Raelt tried to reconfigure his expression and tone, but this was the eighth such conversation he’d had.
“If the King of Destruction is unwise, Nerrhavia’s Fallen will of course take suitable action, Your Majesty.”
“Thank you, Your Majesty. I shall bear it in mind. I see my [General] calling me. May the rivers never run dry.”
Raelt pretended Geril had cut the transmission as Yisame replied. Diplomacy was not Raelt’s forte, and half of these rulers he’d met but once, or never. He’d spoken to two Archmages an hour ago! Dead gods!
“Who’s next, Geril? No—unless they’re as important as Yisame, tell them I’m busy.”
Geril was fumbling with the magical speaking stones. A Courier had raced towards Raelt to deliver one personally!
“Well, that would leave—four, Your Majesty.”
“Give one to me, then.”
The [King]’s head ached. He collected himself, put a smile on his face as he took the next scrying orb which was being set to someone else. Raelt stared into the blank magic glass as he waited.
The conversations were the same. The [Empress] had unnerved Raelt at first, but she hadn’t been that different from the rest.
What all these important rulers and leaders wanted was to do three things: firstly, ask what the hell the King of Destruction was doing marching towards Jecrass. Then, assure Raelt that he would not lack for support in rebuffing the King of Destruction. Finally, making sure that was what Raelt intended, instead of giving Flos any kind of aid.
They said it directly, indirectly, with flattery or veiled threats in Yisame’s case. But their individual skill at diplomacy aside, Raelt had heard the same refrain repeated so many times the other rulers were rather stepping on each other’s toes.
They ‘would take action’, or ‘would stand by allies of old’. No definitive promises, the kind you could nail down with a Skill or recording or spell. The truth was—Raelt was a [King] so he thought he knew what they were thinking—they had no idea what Flos Reimarch was doing either and they didn’t like it.
But it was Jecrass that Reim was marching on. And Raelt was heading right for the King of Destruction and, apparently, an army of sixty thousand.
Small, in short. Just a small…army…led by Flos Reimarch himself, and his [Steward], Orthenon, the Left Hand of the King of Destruction. Oh, and Mars the Illusionist, his [Vanguard].
Raelt didn’t like the taste of fear in his mouth.
 
——
 
They reached the border within five hours. Raelt had his own movement Skills and Jecrass’ horses rode fast down the roads. An army was already waiting at the borders. Tens of thousands of [Soldiers], and more riding in every second.
All mounted. That was for speed, and, General Lael had confided in her [King], to allow the army to fall back if worse came to worst.
Which it would not. Everyone was certain of that. And ‘everyone’ had the luxury of not being Raelt. The urgent demands for a chat had stopped, at least, and now Raelt waited with his army as more River Wardens appeared.
They came. That was the fascinating thing. Raelt half-expected some of them to pretend they weren’t able to make it, or that they’d missed the [Messages] and [Messengers]. But the River Wardens came, some with their entire army at their backs. Not a one stayed back.
He was…proud of that. Even if the River Wardens were convincing themselves that this would just be a show of Jecrass’ might. Already they’d brought double the army Flos was leading and it looked to be three times as large in the next few minutes as another River Warden arrived, bringing tens of thousands of troops.
Raelt was giving orders. Flos’ army was slowing as it approached the border and the [King] wanted nothing to go wrong.
“We will ride as I instructed, River Warden Telimt. Twenty followers per River Warden. No—ten. After the greeting.”
“Your Majesty, a show of force might make the King of Reim think twice—”
“Force? Show him what?”
Raelt stared incredulously at the River Warden. Telimt fell silent. Raelt turned his head.
“No one is to offer any provocation. On pain of death. No matter what is said, understood?”
The River Wardens nodded silently. Raelt looked past them.
An army waited at the borders. Ranks of [Riders], horses nervous and antsy. Tens of thousands. Hundreds of thousands.
