He really hadn’t changed.
In short order, King Raelt found himself reclining and speaking to Flos. The River Wardens were doing the same, speaking to members of Parasol Stroll, the leader of Serpent Hunt, even one of the Nomads of the Sky, who sat outside the pavilion, cross-legged. She was so tall she had to peer down at the people just to hold a conversation.
In truth, it was something of an outrage—the [Mage]-leader and a half-Giant weren’t nobility, so technically the River Wardens were being snubbed not speaking to Orthenon or Mars, who were attending their [King]. But the River Wardens were too awestruck to think of that.
Raelt had no one. Geril, his retainer, wasn’t able to join such an august company. If Jecaina had been here, she would have been present. But Raelt thought it was best that neither was at his side. Jecaina might have said something if Flos hadn’t blown her away with his sheer presence. And Geril would have had to suffer sitting next to Mars.
The Illusionist had on a very revealing set of armor. Raelt, who knew Mars the Illusionist, was sure the buxom, beautiful visage of the female warrior was fake. But it was an illusion his personal spells couldn’t see through.
She was on his right, eating a soft cheese with her gauntlets on. On Flos’ left stood the [Steward]. Orthenon was even more distracting. The tall, gaunt man was like…Raelt kept not looking at him, but he made the [King]’s skin crawl with unease.
But Flos Reimarch could pull your eye even with two of his mightiest vassals flanking him. The [King] was in great humor. And he was disarmingly frank and at ease after his dramatic entrance.
“Ah, but I apologize for the stunt. I wouldn’t have bothered, but I’ve been scried and a [King] must live up to his reputation, eh? I thank you for meeting me under such short notice. I sent word ahead of myself, but I forget what a stir a tiny force causes these days!”
He laughed as he plucked some fat grapes out and ate them. Raelt, who had no thirst or hunger at the moment, drank from his cup of iced water. Reim had provided some of the delicacies, but most of it was Jecrass’ bounty.
“What does bring you with an army to Jecrass’ borders, King Reimarch?”
“Exercise.”
The other [King] laughed louder at Raelt’s expression. He was in a great humor. He waved at the army waiting behind him.
“Come now. You surely heard my oath of peace? This army is purely for my protection. And exercise. I have yet to make an army worthy of the days of old out of my forces. Though they have the same will. But come, cousin! Let us catch up the years! I remember your father. I grieved to hear of his passing so soon. What was it?”
“A failure of the heart. Sudden. I remember you sent condolences. You have my gratitude.”
Raelt murmured. Flos waved a hand.
“The years seem so strange to me. I was in a slumber so long, I felt each second passing, and yet the years flowed by in an instant. I am a waking man in a changed world. At least I haven’t gone gray with age! Mars, stop eating that cheese by yourself. Is there good wine?”
“Your Majesty.”
Mars sat up and found a bottle. Flos had also shooed away any servants. Raelt was certain this pavilion was being warded from prying eyes or spells. He eyed the famous [Vanguard] as she offered to pour him a drink.
“I am well contented, Lady Mars.”
“Come, we must drink. I will pour myself. And then you will have no excuse. Do not be so reserved, Raelt! Or Your Majesty if we must stand on formalities. But surely we may speak of times long past?”
Reluctantly, Raelt took the cup of wine. It was a good vintage. Flos drank deeply from his goblet.
“I’m afraid I was a boy at the time. I fought in two major battles.”
“Where?”
“Hellia’s Pass, and around Cadistell.”
“Ah, I wasn’t part of either battle. But I remember your father. A great [Rider]! And your mother—”
“She passed within a year of him.”
Flos’ face fell. That was one thing Raelt remembered correctly. He didn’t play games with polite emotions. It made him easy to talk to. Unfortunately.
“Alas. Love is crueler than poison. Then you must have been…barely twenty?”
“That’s right. I was in Terandria when I received word. It was—an unpleasant ascension to the throne.”
Raelt found himself talking with Flos about his first few years. The King of Destruction nodded soberly.
“Ah! Jumped up nobility! That’s one thing I managed to solve after a few wars. I had a rebellion—I never quite reinstated my nobility. I just promoted my vassals. Like Venith Crusland.”
He looked at the River Wardens and shook his head. The nobility hadn’t heard Flos’ words, but they bowed hurriedly. Raelt smiled for their benefit and raised his cup. He heard them toasting him loudly, professing their loyalty.
“My pack of vultures is here to stay, King Flos.”
The King of Destruction laughed as Mars offered him a cut of meat. He ate—Raelt realized he had missed lunch. It was too cordial, sitting with the [King], talking about their woes. As if they were equals or this was a social call! He had to get to the point—
“Trade? Orthenon handles that. Do you have a fellow for it?”
“I’m afraid I have no [Minister], but I speak with the [Prime Minister] of Belchan. Lyfelt. He has given me some advice.”
“Lyfelt. Lyfelt…I don’t believe I know the name. And I don’t forget names or faces easily.”
“The Republic of Belchan is a democracy, Your Majesty. Prime Minister Lyfelt has held the position less than a decade.”
Orthenon spoke up for the first time in the conversation. Flos turned to him, smiling and nodding.
“Ah, that would explain it. Republic? I thought it was a Magocracy.”
“They switched after the war ended.”
The [Steward] nodded towards Raelt. Flos raised his brows.
“Really? Well, much luck to their experiments. I’ve actually had this democracy idea talked up to me quite a lot, Raelt. But I think it doesn’t work with classes. A [King] must be strong!”
“Or [Queen].”
Mars interrupted her ruler. Flos nodded towards her.
“Or [Queen]. I admit, after seeing Calliope of Hellios, I’ll concede that a poor ruler is worst of all. Orthenon, any advice for King Raelt regarding trade?”
“I would not think to lecture a sovereign ruler of a nation, your Majesty. Jecrass has done exceedingly well competing in its breeds of horses with Terandrian influence. I could not think to do better myself, save for perhaps tapping into markets Terandria has struggled in. Izril’s trade routes have suffered from the Antinium Wars, and their history with Terandria is exploitable, but I am hardly an expert, and King Raelt’s acumen has enriched his nation.”
Orthenon bowed towards Raelt. The ruler of Jecrass inclined his head, although he couldn’t help but feel pleased by the legendary [Steward]’s comments. Well, he was being polite. Izril? Well, why not? He could look into it—
Then Raelt looked up at Flos’ smiling expression and felt a chill. Raelt glanced over Flos’ shoulder at his army to remind himself. This was not a friend.
“Orthenon is vital to me, Raelt. I am poor at everything but war, you see! But war I do well. And horseflesh is the reason I am here—but permit me my curiosity, please? Do you have a daughter? Orthenon mentioned as much.”
“I do. Jecaina. She is just past her second decade.”
“Oh? Will she be joining us?”
“I fear not. She is rather unruly, and I would hate to see her challenge Mars to a duel.”
Flos nearly fell off of his couch laughing. Mars laughed too, spilling wine all over herself. Orthenon glared at her, but the [Vanguard] didn’t notice.
“You should have brought her! That would be a sight! Ah—then, would I be meeting a Queen Leysars?”
“…No.”
“Ah. Dead?”
Again, the King of Reim grew grave in a moment, as if it was personal to him to hear of a loss of someone he’d never met. Raelt found himself rushing to explain.
“No, Jecaina is adopted. My half-sister…”
“I see, I see. No wonder. Well, I should love to meet your daughter. If time permits. Which I suppose brings me to a question—would you entertain my presence within Jecrass, King Raelt?”
The question threw Raelt completely off-guard. He nearly spilled his drink and had to set the half-empty wine cup down. Half-empty? He grabbed his water. He shouldn’t be drinking!
“Entertain your presence? How do you mean, King Flos?”
“I’d simply like to cross your borders.”
Flos came out with it as he casually chewed on a piece of unleavened bread and soft cheese. Raelt stared at him.
“And your destination would be…?”
“Hm. Medain? I’d like to challenge one of the famous dungeons. Although I fear that might be tricky with the self-styled ‘Adventurer King’. I never did take to him. However, if you have any issues cropping up in Jecrass, I’d be happy to solve them.”
Raelt couldn’t resist a grimace of his own. But he stared at Flos.
“Solve…?”
“Yes! [Bandits]. Monsters. Dungeons would be preferable. Just point me in the right direction. I’d happily crush any large group of [Bandits]. I hear Belchan has a Manticore infestation, so I plan to drop by there as well. Assuming I am welcome within your borders?”
The King of Destruction looked at Raelt. The other [King] leaned back. He put a few pieces together quickly.
“…I’m afraid that would be an unfortunate decision for Jecrass at the moment.”
Flos sighed. He was eating a grape and he spat a seed past the carpet onto the sand.
“I feared you might say as much. But the offer is in good faith, Raelt. I would swear in blood that I meant to offer you no offense or danger. Consider it—my army is small, but you’ve seen some of my elite vassals. Orthenon alone could crush a [Bandit Lord]. Any bandits? A few Gold-rank monsters, perhaps? Some…evil and ancient entity?”
He gave Raelt a hopeful look. Instantly, Raelt had to suppress a litany of woes. Trolls hiding by the river, a group of speedy thieves who stole horses, those damn Manticores that Lyfelt couldn’t get rid of—
It was a handsome offer. The King of Destruction, playing a [Mercenary]? But this was exactly what the other rulers had worried about, no doubt. Raelt had to shake his head. Flos sighed.
“May we cross Jecrass’ borders?”
“Again, that would not be in Jecrass’ interests. I must apologize sincerely, King Reimarch…”
“Oh, don’t. I’m well aware of how Reim stands. The offense is mine for asking.”
The [King] sighed, his red-gold hair waving in a slight breeze. He paused for a moment.
“Well then, it may be a stretch, but would you permit me to buy any worthy horses?”
“Horses?”
Raelt paused, gulping down more wine by accident. Flos nodded.
“Magical breeds. You may have noticed my personal stallion is hardly the best Chandrar has to offer.”
The Ruler of Jecrass had noticed that. Flos had a perfectly good stallion, fine lines from what Raelt had seen, but hardly a quality breed. Let alone…magical. Raelt frowned, though. Even this put him in a difficult spot.
“I’m afraid that would be unwise for Jecrass at the moment, King Reimarch.”
He braced himself for an ugly rejection. Flos Reimarch was beginning to look a bit put out.
“What, not even a Pegasus? I promised I’d buy one if I could. One of my vassals is quite taken with the idea of riding one.”
“I regret that we don’t have any.”
Raelt lied smoothly. Orthenon stared at him. Flos glanced up and shrugged.
“Nightmares? Or Nightstallions, I’m not picky. Galadrin-breeds? I’d pay double for one of the legendary lightning dune stallions. Even a bicorn!”
He was…pushing a bit. With his aura. Raelt pushed back, stubbornly. He thought quickly, and replied as he lifted his goblet.
“We have zorses. And I could arrange a kelpie for you, if you wished it, Flos.”
The King of Destruction’s eyes bulged as he took a drink. Then he nearly choked on his wine laughing. The River Wardens and others gathered in the pavilion looked over as Mars and Flos nearly fell over with hilarity. Even Orthenon had to smile.
Raelt breathed a sigh of relief.
A word on horses. Jecrass, as a famous horse-breeding nation, had rare magical breeds of horses as well as normal ones. Nightmares, the evil, inbred cousins of unicorns were notoriously dangerous. They left flaming hoof prints, and their manes and tails were made of fire. They were also intelligent and ferocious in combat.
Galadrins were a breed of horses with magic in them, like how cows or even rabbits had evolved over thousands of years to use magic. They were known as dune-riders, horses who ran and collected lightning they could discharge in various ways.
Bicorns were horses with horns, like a bull. And they were generally as sturdy as bulls. Raelt didn’t like horses, but he had to know these things.
The joke that had gotten Flos laughing was that Raelt had offered him a ‘zorse’, or a horse crossbred with a zebra, whose only power was to be confusing. And a kelpie was a magical horse, but one that was aquatic. They would die quickly without a steady supply of water, and Jecrass had three of the damned things.
“Well played! Well played! Ah, I see this won’t be too fruitful, will it?”
Flos caught himself after a little bit. He looked at King Raelt, and the other [King] had to shake his head slightly.
“I regret to say all eyes are on Jecrass, Your Majesty. And expedience…”
Flos sighed. But he nodded, and Raelt excused himself on the pretext of relieving himself to stand up. He was relieved Flos hadn’t pushed harder. Bu,t friendly or not, Raelt was going to be in trouble if he sold Flos a mount that the King of Destruction rode about while conquering nations.
“Geril, make sure all our rarer breeds of horses are pulled from the border. Especially the magical ones.”
The [King] whispered to his retainer. The man hurried off. Raelt lingered by an out-tent set up for privacy since both armies were staring at the pavilion. While he was gone, Flos Reimarch looked at his servants.
“A shame Teres couldn’t be here. Or Trey.”
“Their presence would be noted, Your Majesty.”
Orthenon looked pointedly back towards his army. Teres was amid the [Soldiers] somewhere. Flos nodded.
“And Trey is busy. Did Gazi say when they were expected to return?”
“No, sire. But I imagine their journey is nearing its conclusion given the speed of the magic carpet you loaned her.”
Flos nodded. Then he stared at where Raelt had been. The River Wardens were beneath his concern. But Raelt himself had sparked an interest.
“Mars, what do you think of this [King]? I did know him vaguely as a boy, but I have not visited him since. The man is new to me.”
“He walks like a [Fencer], Your Majesty.”
Mars looked up from a bowl of nali-sticks. Flos nodded slowly.
