Raelt nodded, and his servant, Geril, dismissed the court. They went, murmuring nervously. More than one looked at General Lael as she bowed and knelt before the throne. Perhaps, she was discussing in detail some secret plan. But against the King of Destruction? They thought about the bands of refugees.
The King of Destruction had proclaimed peace. He would make no war, unless his kingdom or his people were attacked. And he had also demanded that any people in any nation who claimed loyalty to him be given free passage to Reim.
Outrageous demands, but he had kept his word as Tiqr fell. And now more and more of his people were actually coming, making the long journey across the continent. The River Wardens had been annoyed at the caravans passing through their borders. And they had conveniently forgotten Raelt’s decree to give them aid. Now though…
“Thank you, [General]. That will be all.”
King Raelt had no secret conference with General Lael. She saluted, still pale in the face. She had not liked giving such a blunt answer. But Geril came forwards, bowing.
“Well done, sire. I believe they will begin patrolling and guarding the refugees more studiously now.”
“One can only hope, Geril. General Lael, you have my gratitude.”
“I spoke only the truth, Your Majesty. But I would like to increase the army by another five thousand. At least.”
The woman bowed towards Raelt. He paused.
“Let the River Wardens stew on the thought of an invasion another week, General Lael. But go ahead and make readiness.”
She bowed. Raelt sighed.
“You are dismissed. Geril.”
He left his throne room. Raelt felt extraordinarily tired, as if he’d been at his personal practice court for a few hours. But meeting with his royal court was just as tiring.
Outside of his throne room, Raelt was a bit less kingly. He was still a [King], but he walked with alarming speed. Raelt moved fast when he wasn’t on parade before his subjects, and his [Head Servant], Geril, had to hurry fast to keep up. The [King] was actually a fairly athletic sort, and so joined the group of people who thought speed-walking was an optimal way to go about life.
“All that to make a point. Get me an orange, Geril. I’m going to hit one of them with it.”
It was Raelt’s hobby to eat half-rotten oranges and then accidentally toss them out the windows of his palace and hit visitors exiting his castle. He was headed towards the Sunset Retreat corridor, where he could ‘accidentally’ brain one of his subjects with a fruit. Unfortunately, his huffing elderly aide, Geril, had to stop his [King].
“I’m afraid we are out of oranges, sire. You went through them all this week.”
“All? I thought the [Gardener] had a huge plot of oranges. He knows how much I…love them.”
Raelt hated oranges. He hated a number of things in his kingdom. His River Wardens, oranges, and horses. Ironic, since Jecrass had all three in profusion. Geril ducked his head apologetically.
“Apparently there was an infestation of fruit flies.”
“That’s fine by me. Bring me five.”
“I’m afraid the [Gardener] destroyed the fruits, Your Majesty.”
Raelt sighed. He’d have eaten a nasty bit of fruit if it meant he could hit some of his wardens with them. Accidentally. But it was just as well—they were starting to catch on to all the ‘accidents’. Raelt’s love of fruits was well-known, but there were limits to how long you could get away with it.
“Very well. In that case, I will retire to my quarters.”
“Very good, Your Majesty. Shall I prepare a refreshment?”
“Water.”
Raelt left his servant, a man who had helped raise him as a child, to go issue orders. The [King] walked through his castle, acknowledging servants unconsciously. It was his home, and he was used to being a [King]. In fact, so trained was Raelt that he only let out an angry sigh and let his royal façade slip when he was in his rooms. Then he pounded one knee before the water arrived.
Dead gods damn it, they had an army! And Jecrass had been to war during Raelt’s reign! General Lael had fought some splendidly mundane battles against Jecrass’ northern neighbors, pushing back incursions into Jecrass. But Jecrass hadn’t fought in any major wars since…well, they’d been part of the King of Destruction’s empire.
Raelt thanked the young boy who’d delivered the pitcher and poured himself a cup. He drank gratefully; Jecrass was blessed with more water than the southern nations like Hellios or Reim thanks to its rivers, but Chandrar was a hot, dry place. And water was a luxury. Rhir’s hells, they even sold some water each month to Khelt.
Was that a bad idea, now that Khelt was at least marginally cooperating with the King of Destruction? Perhaps he should ask his friend, the ruler of Belchan, Prime Minister Lyfelt, if it was a bad move to continue trade. Lyfelt was a political person; he would know. But—Fetohep paid dearly for water that Jecrass could spare. And with increasing the funds to Lael’s armies…
Raelt’s head hurt, so he pressed a cool bit of ice from the pitcher against his forehead. Another extravagance, but there were chilling spells to produce some of the precious ice in the cellars. The [King] let his head work over the issue of water. And in his way, he too was ignoring the huge problem.
Flos Reimarch. Raelt had convened his court to make them take the refugees crossing Jecrass’ borders seriously. He hadn’t really entertained a war with Reim. Because…what could you do?
“The [Army of the King].”
Raelt bowed his head as he sat on his silken bed sheets. Restlessly, he got up. Maybe he’d practice a bit with the sword. He was fairly good with one, and it calmed him down. But he couldn’t help but feel anxious. If it came to a war—he and Lael were in agreement. The King of Destruction wouldn’t be stopped with Jecrass’ armies.
“Even a combined military force—you’d have to bait him into using that Skill. It could destroy an army many times his size. But how do you allow that to happen when his vassals could win a battle for him? You’d need—two huge armies. One just large enough to force him to use it—and then that army is gone, and his army’s leveled up, so the second one has to be able to defeat him before he retreats and has time to use it again—”
The [King] did a slow lunge, letting his muscles relax as he moved his legs. He actually exercised quite often, even without the sword. He had to do it in private, though; the sight of a [King] doing exercises like shuffling his feet across a room was considered ‘unkingly’. And part of being a [King] was your public image.
Something went pop as Raelt stretched his body. He grimaced. Raelt was not a young man anymore, a thought which was mildly peeving to the [King]. His daughter, Jecaina, was twenty-two, and acted like she was still in her teens at times. But Raelt himself was exactly forty years old. He supposed that was still a bit young, for a [King]. But his father had been scarcely older when he’d died.
His father, [King] Meriden Leysars of Jecrass had been a good [King]. Beloved by all, popular with the people, a decent fighter, a good father, and wise enough to know to bow to the King of Destruction. He had a statue in Raelt’s palace, and one in three cities. Raelt had commissioned half of them, himself, but he’d been pleased when the other two popped up.
King Meriden had seen the King of Destruction rise to power and he hadn’t gone to war when a young Flos Reimarch had marched towards Jecrass with an army thrice as large as Jecrass’ at his back. He’d pledged Jecrass as a vassal to Flos, and in doing so, preserved his country from pillaging and reaped some of the benefits of Flos’ growing power.
Of course, then there had been reparations after the King of Destruction had entered his slumber and, like all nations, Jecrass had fallen into a decline, but Meriden had weathered it well and brought Jecrass through the turmoil.
For a short while. Meriden had died of heart failure a few years after the King of Destruction had entered his slumber. Peacefully. Still…still too young. [Prince] Raelt, then a young man barely past his majority enjoying peace in Terandria, had been summoned home. He’d found his father dead, and his mother, rest her soul, followed soon thereafter.
That left the young [King] Raelt with a kingdom to manage, a new class, and uncertainty. And to cap it all off—his half-sister had helpfully abandoned her royal class for a love-marriage, and then abandoned her baby in the royal palace.
He’d done it all, back then. Raelt stared at the ceiling. And somehow, he’d never gotten a wife. Which was fine. He had a daughter. And he’d been so busy trying to measure up to his father’s legacy without knowing how.
King Meriden had been a good man. Fond of horses, unlike his son. He’d had all kinds of royal advice, although neither he nor Raelt had expected him to die so soon. But what he’d imparted had mostly been how to rule a kingdom…in horse analogies.
‘A kingdom is like riding a horse, Raelt…’
‘You can know a good man to trust by the way he treats his horse…’
‘War’s like horses…’
Some of it had been good, sensible advice. But Raelt wished he’d sat his father down as a young man and said—
“Look, father. Can you just give me a list of things to do and not to do? How do I handle trade negotiations with Belchan? What’s a good tariff to put on Terandrian goods? How do you discipline the River Wardens without them making a huge stink and trying to withhold taxes?”
Raelt muttered at the ceiling. He could almost imagine his father’s response. Raelt wished his face were clearer, but he had to look at a picture these days to capture everything. Time…
‘The River Wardens are like horses, Raelt. All of ‘em bastards who need a bit, a bridle, and a carrot to go with the sticks up their asses.’
The [King] smiled and laughed as he lifted his sword and did a careful lunge, to avoid hitting one wall. The problem with analogies was this: a kingdom was like a horse, until it wasn’t. Because it was a damned kingdom. Still, Raelt managed as best he could.
His father had been a good ruler. A good [King], and a good man. Raelt knew that because he’d investigated after he’d gotten to know his new position. It was a terrible thing, to ask. But every nation had secret records. Another thing that no one told you.
But he had been a good sort, the late Meriden. He hadn’t done terrible things. Just made normal, mundane faults. Raelt had discovered his three illegitimate siblings, arranged to meet them without their knowing, and ensured they’d live comfortably without ever knowing their relations to the crown. His half-sister was bad enough. She had only one good thing in this world. And, true to her nature, she’d left it behind.
Ding. Raelt paused with sword in hand as someone thrust open the doors to his chambers. Not his bedroom; he had a royal suite.
Few people could do that. Raelt had guards on the doors who announced almost everyone, a magical key, and his rooms were warded against [Assassins]. General Lael, Geril, and a handful of others could just walk in. Like Jecaina, [Princess] of Jecrass.
Raelt knew his daughter was approaching by the chiming of her bell. And as she strode into his private study, Raelt walked out to meet her.
Jecaina had hazel-green hair, because she took after her mother, Raelt’s half-sister. Green hair was fairly abnormal, but not too much. Jecaina, like her father, was tall. And she was just as quick and limber. She wore a tunic and leggings, to move about freely in. And at her waist sat an enchanted foil, a [Fencer]’s weapon, and a silver bell, attached to the handle.
She never went anywhere without the bell. It was a mark of skill, which meant her skill as a [Fencer] was recognized the world over. Jecaina wore it proudly.
Raelt, as it had been established, hated horses almost as much as his River Wardens and oranges. He also hated bells.
“Father? Oh good, you’re done with your court.”
Jecaina greeted her father brusquely. She had something in her hand and Raelt’s honed father-senses told him immediately she wanted something. Jecaina was in her wild years; Raelt could empathize. As a [Princess], she was doing what most [Princes] did in their youths—travel about, explore the world, before they had to become [Kings].
Raelt had gone to Terandria before his youth had been cut short. Jecaina wanted to go to Terandria, but Raelt wasn’t sure he trusted her judgment yet. She’d nearly worn him down before the King of Destruction had awoken, and then she’d kept begging to ride to Reim and meet him herself. She had somehow fallen in love with the idea of the King of Destruction, the legend of Chandrar. Just another reason to resent the man.
But today, Jecaina was more intent on something in her hand. She thrust it at Raelt’s face.
“Father, you must listen to this. Mellia just brought it to me.”
“What is it? And hello, Jecaina.”
“Hello, father. It’s a recording crystal! It holds sound! Look! It’s by the Queen of Pop!”
Raelt went over to a plush armchair and sat down in it. He waved at the fireplace and magical fires sprang to life. Jecaina stood in front of him, expectantly, her eyes glittering with excitement. Raelt sighed.
“Is she an actual [Queen], Jecaina?”
“She might as well be. She’s the greatest [Singer] to ever have been born in ten thousand years! She has tons of albums, and everyone’s talking about her! Listen! Wait—I think you play it—”
Jecaina began to fumble with the magical artifact. Raelt watched her. She definitely wanted him to pay for more. He sighed.
“What’s an ‘album’? Jecaina, it has been a long day and—”
Music began to play from the crystal. Raelt jumped as a female voice began to sing. But not just a female voice. Raelt had heard musical instruments, but the concept of a pianowas new.
As was the style of the song. The [Singer] had an accompaniment, and a beat. And—Raelt stared at Jecaina as she smiled.
It was of course, pop. A song from another world. But Raelt didn’t know that. He only knew that was a foreign song. Jecaina began dancing a bit. Raelt stared at her. His own foot began to tap to the beat, but he caught himself.
“Well?”
When the first song ended, Jecaina insisted on playing another one. Raelt liked the first song, but the second one got on his nerves. His daughter seemed to enjoy it, though.
“It’s quite original. Is this some new musical trend? Where’s it from?”
“Terandria! There’s a famous [Singer] there! And she has these—these recordings! Albums, they’re called! This is only a three-song recording. But she has tons of them!”
“Well, I’m sure a [Bard] will begin playing them soon enough.”
Raelt temporized, knowing where this was going. Jecaina scoffed.
