“Hm. So he does. I forgot if he was ever good in war or not—Jecrass seldom fought in my personal army. I do recall that he visited Terandria before his father died. A [Prince]’s outings before he takes on more duties, you know. He came to his crown early.”
“Not as early as you, sire. He’s got the walk, but I hear his daughter owns a silver bell.”
Mars grinned, watching Raelt speaking to his people. Flos looked at her.
“Really? And she’s…?”
“Twenty two, I think?”
“At that age? Not bad. Budding talent, it seems.”
Raelt returned. The [King] was more at-ease. As far as he could tell, the negotiations were over. Flos Reimarch could have pushed, but there was a limit to what he could threaten, if the man had been that sort. There were just pleasantries left.
“Let us have a small lunch. I’ve been taken with some foreign foods, Raelt. If you would care to join me?”
 
——
 
There was no help for it, but Raelt did find the unusual foods he was being offered quite good. As was customary, they sat in the faint shade of the colored canopy, the sunlight filtering through the fabric still warming, but mitigated by plentiful cups of water, followed by tea. Everyone sat on bright cushions, cross-legged, eating from dishes heated on a small metal stand around a fire.
Flos pointed at one dish Raelt was scooping from a pot with a small spoon.
“A tortellini-thing. I was never a fan of…Izrilian cooking? I think that’s the closest approximation. Or Terandrian. But it’s quite good, for all it wastes water.”
Raelt murmured his agreement. The noodles were stuffed with meat and it was filling, rather than delicate. It was good fare for something an army was bringing on the move. Rough for a [King], but Flos Reimarch had spent most of his life on campaign.
“So, your army will go elsewhere next?”
“Since I have been rebuffed, I have no choice. If I can’t buy a horse or hunt monsters…on to Belchan, I suppose.”
The other [King] didn’t seem put out by the idea. Raelt paused. Some of his River Wardens looked like they’d love to ask Flos a question just for the daring of it, but Orthenon was casually holding down the table with a glare.
“Is it your intention to conquer Chandrar, King Flos Reimarch? Or was your speech just that?”
The question slipped out by accident. The table froze. Mars and Orthenon fixed on Raelt. So did Flos. His brows creased and then—he smiled.
“I meant every word I said.”
“But—er—Your Majesty Reimarch, your oath…”
One of the River Wardens spoke up, half-choked. Flos looked at him and the man paled.
“Well, I stand by my oath. But I have no doubt Reim will be attacked. And if it is not, well, I have one enemy I have sworn eternal war against. The Empire of Sands. If I must cross Zeikhal to do it, I will behead the [Emperor of Sands].”
The table fell silent. Flos was smiling, but he had a glitter in his eyes that forbade silly questions. After a moment, the King of Destruction relaxed.
“And certainly I mean to conquer all of Chandrar! Jecrass has nothing to fear from me, of course; I consider King Raelt a friend, and I owe him some gratitude. But I intend all of Chandrar to be mine, so there it is! Quite a conundrum, considering my oath, wouldn’t you say?”
Relieved laughter ran up and down the table. Nervous too; they couldn’t quite tell if that was a joke. Raelt knew it was not. He looked at Flos, and then toasted the [King].
“It seems you were born in the wrong era, Flos. One far too small for a legend like yours.”
It was supposed to be an offhand remark, a joke and a bit of needling to break the tension again. But across the table—Flos’ vassals fell silent. The [Mage]-leader of Parasol Stroll, Ulyse, Orthenon, Mars—even Flos himself looked sharply at Raelt.
The table went still. Raelt’s smile stopped on his face. What had he said? Flos regarded the younger [King] and shook his head after a moment.
“You think so, eh, Raelt? I used to believe the same. Now? I fear I was born two decades too early! This era…is large enough for my ambitions, believe me.”
He fell silent, and his eyes were thoughtful. But Orthenon and Mars were nodding. King Raelt glanced at them and then at Flos.
He did not like that one bit.
 
——
 
The lunch was somewhat quiet after that. Flos soon regained his humor, and he and Raelt were sipping from their second cups of wine afterwards. It was nearly time to leave and Raelt was about ready to ride back home and breathe a sigh of relief. He didn’t think he’d exhale properly until then.
“A true pity. I was hoping to buy a proper warhorse, but I can’t fault Jecrass, especially with the Claiven Earth and Medain at your north. Are you sure I couldn’t convince you? Mars has been itching to fight a proper monster. You don’t have an Elder Creler stashed anywhere, do you?”
“If I did, I’d welcome your army across my border, Your Majesty.”
Raelt replied drily. Flos smiled. It was King Raelt who paused, and looked at Flos’ army and then the man himself.
“Jecrass is neither interested in cooperation or enmity, King of Reim. I hope you feel the same?”
“Enmity, no. Cooperation…”
Flos paused. And his eyes looked Raelt up and down again. He seemed to be trying to unravel Raelt’s very soul with a look. Flos Reimarch paused and shook his head.
“I bear you no ill-will, King Raelt. And I mean to keep my oath. So long as my kingdom or subjects are not imperiled, I will not declare war on Jecrass. You have my word as [King].”
Raelt sighed slightly. It was enough. Flos of Reim hadn’t changed that much. Raelt began to nod, preparing a formal goodbye speech for everyone. But Flos stopped him by laying a hand on Raelt’s shoulder.
It was the second contact between the two that day. Raelt stiffened. Flos looked at him.
“We have danced about the subject, but let me simply ask you outright: would you not consider joining Jecrass to my kingdom of Reim, King Raelt? Your father did, in decades past.”
The Ruler of Jecrass turned. Flos Reimarch stared down at him. He was not taller physically, but Raelt thought he felt it. He spoke slowly.
“I would vassalize Jecrass. You recall my first conquest of Chandrar, surely? Jecrass would not be a defeated kingdom, but one which rose with Reim. I have promised the Quarass of Germina rewards for her aid; I would consider Jecrass an ally under my rule.”
“Under, though.”
Raelt had to gather himself to say that. Flos Reimarch paused.
“True enough. I feel I still must ask. I can gain a measure of a person, or so I feel, and I would welcome you to my kingdom with open arms above the other rulers I know.”
The words were surprisingly…gratifying. Raelt paused, but only to figure out how to respond. Then he shook his head.
“I may be a small [King] compared to the legend of the King of Destruction, but I am still a [King], Flos Reimarch. What could you offer me that is worth more than my crown?”
Flos of Reim had to smile.
“Well said. I suppose that is an answer. But…”
He trailed off, looking for a response, and then had to shrug helplessly.
“Mm. In the future? Rewards as great as your deeds, Raelt. I know that is something of an empty promise, even from my lips, though. Today? I could offer you…Hellios.”
Raelt froze. He stared at Flos Reimarch.
“Hellios?”
The King of Destruction nodded, a bit ashamed, as if it was a small bauble he was considering, not one of Jecrass’ old allies/enemies, a nation unto itself.
“Hellios, indeed. Germina rules itself, but Hellios…don’t give me that look. I will conquer all of Chandrar once more. And further still. What is one nation to my ambitions? I mean what I say. I would hand you Hellios tonight if you swore alliance to me.”
His eyes sought Raelt’s. And again, Raelt felt like he could hear thunder. The two [Kings] stared at each other. And then Raelt turned. Flos’ hand left his shoulder and the Ruler of Jecrass bowed slightly. Just a small dip, from one ruler to another. But acknowledging a superior, in a way. And yet—
“I’m afraid you do not know me, King Flos. Not at all, to make me an offer like that.”
Flos’ gaze was steady. He inclined his own head.
“I suppose not. Time makes a mockery of my memories, King Raelt. How have the last decades treated you since last we met?”
Raelt paused, walking back to his delegation. He looked back at Flos and sought for an answer. At last, he replied.
“Almost as well as they’ve treated you.”
Flos laughed.
 
——
 
The two delegations gave a speech of farewell. For the benefit of the unseen listeners, Raelt reiterated his refusals. Flos’ reply was simpler. But he did add a twist as he stood to clasp Raelt’s hand on horseback, [King] to [King].
“One last thing, King Raelt. My refugees, my people returning to Reim.”
“Yes?”
Raelt was on-guard at once. But Flos just smiled. He waved at Jecrass’ army as it prepared to withdraw behind him.
“I am told you give escorts to them as they pass through Jecrass, the opportunity to trade, and so forth. I am grateful. Some of my people have told me of privations or [Bandits] or worse on their journeys here. I owe you a boon for your kindness towards them.”
He actually bowed his head then, deeper than a formality warranted.
“Oh. It was only natural.”
Embarrassed, Raelt tried to wave it off. But Flos just looked at him and nodded again. Then he smacked one arm against his saddle.
“Ah! One last thing! I meant to show you at the beginning, but it slipped my mind! Here!”
He reached into his bag of holding and tossed something at Raelt. The other [King] caught a hard, cuboid object. Flos grinned at Raelt’s puzzled face.
“It is called…a rubik’s cube. It’s a little puzzle. You twist the sides to make them match up, you see?”
“I see. Is it some…[Strategist]’s toy?”
“Perhaps? I think it’s more of a game! One of my vassals came up with it.”
“Your Majesty—”
Flos waved off Orthenon and called out to Raelt as he turned around.
“Keep it! And may the rivers run forever in Jecrass, King Raelt!”
And with that, he was gone. Leaving only a memory of his presence behind. And an echo. But that was the thing about echoes. The louder you shouted, the louder the reverberation. And as Raelt rode back towards his capital, he heard the King of Destruction’s name everywhere.
Raelt wished he could hate the man.
 
——
 
That night, Raelt of Jecrass yawned as he poured himself another drink. By all rights, he should have not been drinking, and been in bed, but he couldn’t sleep with an army marching around Jecrass’ borders.
It had been a long day. Most of it Flos’ fault. The other world leaders had insisted on calling Raelt again after the meeting. To pry and ask what he might have said to Flos, any hints. This time Raelt had rebuffed almost all of them, keeping his own counsel. A fat lot of help they’d been.
Jecaina had, predictably, been furious at not meeting Flos, but her fury had been tempered by the impression Raelt had made. Apparently, standing his ground and even being chummy with Flos had given him a touch of the King of Destruction’s myth.
Just a touch, but Raelt saw his River Wardens and servants and [Soldiers] all looking at him with respect, and all of them were using his full title as they bade farewell.
It would wear off in a few days. What Raelt was afraid of was that the King of Destruction had been terribly clever. He’d gotten neither horses nor access to Jecrass, but his presence had already lit a gleam in Jecaina’s eye.
Worse, apparently hundreds of young men and women—mostly men—had tried to cross Jecrass’ borders to enlist in the King of Destruction’s army. He was a marching [Recruiter], Level 50!
“I’ll deal with it tomorrow.”
Raelt muttered as he yawned again. He was deliberately keeping himself from slipping off to sleep by alternating his drinks.
Shot of stamina potion, shot of alcohol. Kept you awake and drunk, just like when he was a young man. Strange—Raelt recalled it used to take more alcohol and less stamina potion for this to work.
But he’d done it. No war with Jecrass. The King of Destruction, met and sent on his way. It was a good outcome. Raelt looked around and his eyes alighted on a new addition to his private quarters.
The rubik’s cube sat on the table, all six sides showing one uniform color. Raelt wondered what he was going to do with it. He rather liked it, but how had Flos gotten his hands on it? Just another new thing, Raelt supposed.
It had been a long, weary day, but it was over. And whatever tomorrow brought—Raelt was certain it would be alright. That was what he told himself as his head laid on the pillow.
 
——
 
“For Izril, Wyverns! For Terandria, Griffins and Hippogryphs! Hydras in the swamps of Baleros! And Chandrar has—Manticores!”
The next day, King Raelt of Jecrass had a headache. And the little image of Flos Reimarch laughing in the scrying orb was not helping.
The King of Destruction was fighting Manticores. Not a city-ending army of a thousand—just a hundred or more.
‘Just’ a hundred. The kind of group you had to hire multiple Gold-rank teams to deal with, or even a few Named Adventurers, or bring your army to fight with casualties. A ruler’s headache.
But there he was. Flos of Reim laughed as the Manticores flew at him. Part lion, part scorpion, part bat, and all bad idea. The damn things could fly, despite being five times as large as actual lions or larger, and heavy with muscle—oh! And they had a stinger with lethal venom!
The army of Reim was fighting them—or rather, the elites. [Mages] were twirling their parasols, blasting Manticores out of the sky while they created barriers on the ground. Raelt winced as he saw one of the half-Giants swat a Manticore out of the air with a huge staff.
It was a rout. The image of the battle saw the Manticores being taken to pieces as the Rustängmarder refused to give one inch. In a last-ditch attempt, a remaining group of six flew at the King of Destruction. They had spirit and they must have sensed it was the [King] the army was based around.
But they never made it. Mars the Illusionist charged one and knocked it onto its back. She stabbed a glowing sword through its stomach and it died. Orthenon cut with his spear, severing another’s wings mid-flight. Then he hurled the spear through a second.
Flos of Reim took on one as his two vassals took on another Manticore apiece. Raelt watched the battle glumly.
“Not even a fight.”
The King of Destruction had a magical shield and sword. Nothing fancy. The Manticore hit the [King]’s shield with all of its weight. He grunted and his feet sunk into the earth. The shield glowed, and a burst of light blasted the Manticore back as the enchantment activated. The [King] lunged in.
“He went straight through its leg!”
