Nearly a hundred and seventy thousand [Soldiers] were present, and nearly half of them mounted. It was a huge portion of Jecrass’ military might. Jecrass had fought powerful nations before, like Medain, the Kingdom of Adventurers to the north. It had a powerful army.
Indeed, the River Wardens seemed to take heart from the host. More than one group began blowing horns, cheering as, in the distance, the King of Destruction’s army was sighted.
First they were a shadow on the horizon. Then, a growing number. Distant shapes. Raelt declined to use a vision-enhancing tool.
“The army of Reim is spotted! Sixty thousand and some! Mostly infantry!”
“Infantry? We could sweep them aside with just the horse!”
One of the River Wardens joked. The others were relaxing. Raelt did not. He looked at Geril, his oldest and closest retainer. He hadn’t armed himself; neither had Raelt, save for his sword. This wasn’t a battle, but both had seen it before.
“Geril, is Jecaina still locked up in the palace? I wouldn’t put it past her to try and escape.”
“She’s there, Your Majesty.”
“You’re sure?”
“I had her locked in the vaults. General Lael’s [Soldiers] are ensuring she doesn’t escape.”
The father almost smiled. His daughter would tear down his palace to know she’d missed this. But—he stared ahead.
“Only sixty thousand.”
Someone murmured. The air was hot, and it almost felt silly, such a vast army three times as large as the one coming towards them. But then—Raelt almost felt like the aggressor, coming to bear on the force that had become more than a distant shape.
The army of Reim did not spread out to fill the horizon. They marched in a long, winding column. And were made almost ridiculously small by the host of Jecrass by, say, anyone watching from a scrying spell. Which was probably half the world at this point.
Jecrass’ army began to cheer and blow its horns as the army of Reim approached. They set up such a din that Raelt’s own horse nearly unseated him as it reared. But the cacophony was impressive. Here, the army roared! Here is Jecrass!
And on came the King of Destruction’s army. A smaller force, on foot. Their armor did not shine with magic like in the legends they told. They were not an uncountable legion. Those watching, the River Wardens, the invisible watchers, even Jecaina from the vault where she was imprisoned, might have felt let down. A legend was just that.
Raelt waited. And as Jecrass’ triumph died down, hoarse voices subsiding, the silent march of Reim’s army began to take on a presence of its own. They were growing larger, now. And if you looked hard—
You could see him. A figure sitting at the front of his army, like a character from a story. An idiot, you might say, since he was without protection and you could easily shoot an arrow at him. But at his left rode a gaunt man as serious as the blade he carried.
Orthenon, the King’s Steward. And at his right, a beautiful woman, dressed in gleaming armor.
Mars the Illusionist.
Ordinary people. Even the still-distant [King] seemed too small. But what was he supposed to do, fill the horizon? He certainly had the ego for that, but the man himself was just a man. That was what the River Wardens murmured.
Yet onwards the army came. Now, there was silence. And Raelt began to feel something in the air. Something he, as a [King], identified, but the others didn’t realize was holding their voices down.
A presence. Pressure. An aura so vast it held down Jecrass’ army from cheering. Now came Reim’s army. And when they were close enough to fully behold, twenty minutes or so, there was sound.
“Is that…singing?”
Warden Winta started, staring ahead. The army of Reim seemed silent. But the rumble of so many footsteps had another layer of sound. Deep tones, like the largest of bells. Raelt watched.
Then, his eyes widened as figures distinguished themselves out of the mass of bodies. At first, you missed them from so far away. But the small Humans who marched in rank and file were not the singers.
It was them. Figures who towered over their smaller kin. Tall folk. Raelt heard a bass tone, female, as loud as the beating of his heart. Raelt and his court realized some of the distant figures were much taller than the rest of the army.
They kept growing. Tall figures growing taller. Unbelievably high, as they covered the ground with long, slow strides. The fast-marching Humans could barely keep up with a single stride, even with a Skill hastening their steps. And onwards, they grew.
“Impossible. They can’t be that tall. They can’t—”
They were not all of equal height. But the smallest stood nine feet tall. The largest? Raelt looked up at a figure…thirty feet tall. Maybe more. She carried an axe on her back, a weapon larger than he was. And she was only…half. Maybe even but a quarter of the legend.
She alone shook the earth as she stepped. Perhaps Reim’s army had used an illusion to hide her at first. Mars the Illusionist smiled as the laughing, singing woman walked on, behind the [King]. Her kin walked with her, with footsteps and song that shook the earth.
Half-Giants. They strode ahead of the infantry, singing like the hills themselves had voices. They carried long axes as weapons. Some marched with great staves, and magic shone in their eyes. They rose, shedding the illusion that had made them look like a normal army.
The kindred of giants. Some were…small. Nine feet, ten feet. Most were no taller than sixteen, or twenty. But in a few, the old blood of Giants ran strong.
Giants. They had walked the world once. And they lived now. Raelt looked up at a laughing face. She sang and the earth shook. Sang a song for the King of Destruction.
“The Nomads of the Sky.”
Jecrass’ vast army stared at the folk who had been made of mountains. Or so the legends said. Once, Giants had walked Terandria and every continent, taller than castles. Now, their descendants roamed Chandrar. And their blood was faint, diminishing with each generation.
But it still roared. The Nomads of the Sky hoisted their weapons and shouted as the army of Reim approached. They spread out to the left and right of the King of Destruction, and the beasts of Jecrass tried to flee their laughter and music.
“Steady. Steady—”
More wings of the oncoming army were moving in concert. Behind the half-Giants, walking peacefully in unison were a few dozen…[Mages]. They walked with no staves, but parasols, each one colored art, twirling as they followed their [King]. As one, the [Mages] twirled their magical parasols, and Raelt saw them unfold.
Parasol Stroll. The [Mages] were followed by a laughing army of String-folk. Each one who rode or walked with vivid designs of serpents and the bright colors of poison etched on their armor and skin.
The Serpent Hunters. Raelt recognized the other company famed for its use of venom. He looked around. Jecrass’ army was silent. That pressure was—growing.
The King of Destruction was riding slowly. Straight towards Raelt. His half-Giants had been still singing, but they abruptly fell silent. And a group of soldiers marched forwards, flanking the [King]’s advance.
They were just a few hundred. But their blank faces and perfect movement was as unsettling as the Nomads of the Sky. Each one’s face was covered by a visor that let no one glimpse their faces. Their armor was dark, unnaturally so. And they seemed to be staring right at Raelt. Right at him. He felt like he could feel their gazes from behind their visors. An unending stare.
“The Rustängmarder. The army that doesn’t die or retreat.”
General Lael was staring at the elite [Soldiers]. Uneasily. Raelt nodded as well. He’d heard the rumors. And he had seen them fight. His skin crawled.
“Only a company of them. They won’t stop even if all their limbs are broken. You’d have to wear them down with arrows and magic, retreat, wait for them to die—”
Some of his River Wardens were staring at him. Raelt realized he was holding his sword’s hilt.
“We’re not here to do battle.”
He said it as much for himself as everyone present. But now the pressure was pushing down on him. Raelt stared at the man riding forwards.
The army of Reim halted on Jecrass’ border, a few hundred paces away from Jecrass’ army. They were small, compared to Jecrass’ might. But no one was jesting. The Nomads of the Sky waited, leaning on their weapons. The Rustängmarder paused, a line in front of the other [Soldiers].
And Flos Reimarch rode forwards. Orthenon and Mars waited as he rode forth a few dozen paces. The [King] looked ahead.
“A show of force.”
Raelt murmured. His was the only voice. The pressure intensified.
Slowly, Flos Reimarch raised his hand. He clenched one fist as Jecrass’ army watched. And his army roared.
“King of Destruction!”
Beneath him, Raelt’s horse suddenly reared at the sound. Panicked, it tried to turn. Swearing, the [King] fought it down. Jecrass’ entire army was in chaos as animals suddenly tried to flee. He heard shouting, confusion—then silence.
Flos Reimarch was riding further forwards still. He was grinning. That damned [King]. Raelt saw him spreading his arms, as if welcoming the army of Jecrass. He stopped and bellowed at Raelt, at Jecrass, and the invisible listeners in the sky.
“I am Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction! King of [Kings]! Look upon my army, ye mighty, and despair!”
Ridiculous words. But he bellowed them at the sky. And then he laughed. He laughed, as if it was all one great joke. But no one on Jecrass’ side could say a word. Raelt saw Flos Reimarch’s eyes fall on him. The [King] of Jecrass stood with his back straight, refusing to bend. But the pressure was aimed at more than him.
“I ruled Chandrar. And I have awoken from my slumber. I am your king.”
Three facts. Flos Reimarch raised a hand. And Raelt saw his army kneel.
Not all at once. [Riders] bowed in the saddle. Others fought their horses as even the animals began to take a knee. [Soldiers] fell to their knees in pockets.
“Stand! Stand!”
[General] Lael was bellowing, riding down the ranks of her army, urging her forces to their feet. They did so, staring. But it was hard.
The Nomads of the Sky towered over the army of Jecrass. The Rustängmarder waited, the army of the repentant, who had embraced their deaths. Orthenon and Mars sat, as he laughed.
Here was a legend in the flesh. Just a man. A [King] with red and gold in his hair despite his age. Powerful, but one man. Yet he seemed to tower over even the half-Giants the longer you looked at him.
He was trying to crush all of Jecrass’ forces. Raelt saw Geril swaying on his saddle and biting his lips hard enough for the old man to draw blood. The [King] turned. He pushed at Flos’ aura. It felt like moving a mountain. But Raelt was a [King]. He took a breath.
“Steady.”
The air around his company stopped shaking. Half of the River Wardens caught themselves, mid-kneel. They surged upright, faces pale. And Raelt met Flos’ gaze.
The [King] had stopped laughing. Now he leaned on his saddle, looking at Raelt. Slowly, his presence stopped pushing at the army across the border. Men and women relaxed. Animals stopped misbehaving.
And the air between Raelt and Flos became electric. Raelt dared not look away. He dared not blink. For a lifetime, the two looked at each other. Then, Flos Reimarch nodded. From one monarch to another. He raised his other hand, and Orthenon and Mars rode forwards.
Carrying a white flag. A sign of parley. The [Steward] himself rode across the border. Raelt exhaled, breathing raggedly.
“Sire?”
Geril looked at his ruler. Raelt stared as Orthenon made the [Soldiers] back up by himself. He stared at Flos, his army.
“That damned [King] hasn’t changed one bit.”
That was all Raelt said. He stared at Flos as General Lael rode forwards to meet Orthenon, forgetting protocol. Damn the King of Destruction.
He was too large for a kingdom like Jecrass.
 
——
 
The two sides exchanged assurances of peace. That was simple. The army was one thing, and Flos’ stunt another, but the rules of war were simple. A white flag was a binding oath. Even had Flos brought an army a million strong, in theory, if one side flew the white flag, the other had to at least consider the offer of parley.
And since both sides had observed it, there was no danger. Both armies pulled back. But still—Raelt had goosebumps and his River Wardens looked like they might be sick.
Because at the border waited Flos Reimarch. He had called for a parley, and set up a small space. Well, Raelt had called for the same. Provisions, drinks, even places to sit and talk.
A conference. It would not do to send the King of Destruction away rudely, no matter what the other nations would have preferred. That would be an insult.
So that was how Raelt of Jecrass found himself dismounting at the edge of the peace grounds, and walking with his River Wardens clumped up behind him towards a living legend. But here at least, the myth ended. Flos Reimarch spread his arms wide as he saw Raelt, and strode towards him.
“King Raelt of Jecrass. Well met!”
He clasped Raelt’s hand. One second he was standing there, the next, Orthenon and Mars were by his side. The River Wardens were petrified. Raelt stared at Flos.
He had aged. Flos was older than Raelt, and he had slumbered over two decades, so he had to be at least…
He looked like a man past his prime, but no less of a monster for that. Flos had resisted age and his beard and hair had not a hint of grey. He wore no armor, but the royal attire of a [King], altered for riding in hot Chandrarian weather. And his eyes flashed emerald green as he laughed.
“Well met, King Flos of Reim.”
It was a casual greeting, too casual for two rulers who had never officially met. But Flos Reimarch was laughing. He exclaimed, looking Raelt up and down.
“I remember you as a boy! But then I was barely a man then myself. You fought with your father under my banners twice, if I recall! It’s incredible to think but you must be what, forty?”
“Exactly forty, cousin.”
Raelt had to fumble with the address, wondering how informal he should go. At that, Flos burst into laughter. He slapped one leg, totally relaxed.
“Cousin! Ah, but I apologize. Let’s not stand on formalities, shall we? And are these your subjects? Your nobility?”
“I present to you the River Wardens of Jecrass, King Reimarch. And I greet you in the name of the Realm of Jecrass, under the flag of truce.”
The [King] of Jecrass replied somewhat stiffly. Flos sobered for a second. He nodded brusquely at the River Wardens, dismissed them with a glance. He looked straight through them.
“I have brought a small entourage with me. Let us eat and drink and talk, King Leysars.”
He looked back at Raelt, his eyes dancing with more mirth than his tone. Raelt sighed.
