Jecaina stared in awe as the [King] brought down the huge monster. He was far too strong. Raelt saw him shove the Manticore backwards before delivering a death-blow to the monster’s head. The King of Destruction raised his sword and his army chanted his name.
“Geril, enough. When was this?”
“An hour before you woke up, Your Majesty. Wistram is somehow rebroadcasting it. They claim that this…channel they are operating will have noteworthy events or replays of previous recordings all times of the day.”
“Wonderful.”
Raelt rubbed his head, motioning the scrying orb away. Jecaina was delighted. Raelt was peeved. He ate his breakfast, and then strode towards the secret vault in his palace.
“What are you doing, Lyfelt?”
The marble bust of a face blinked and then smiled, although it wasn’t Lyfelt’s face. The [Prime Minister] and King Raelt communicated via this magical statue system; there was a double in Belchan, the neighboring Republic. Right now, it was probably glaring like thunder.
“Didn’t you advise me not to give the King of Destruction any aid?”
“This is hardly aid, Raelt. And he is ridding us of that Manticore pack that has been troubling Belchan—and Jecrass—for months!”
“And in the doing so, he’s gaining experience, and making a spectacle for himself.”
Raelt paced back and forth in front of the statue. He glared at Lyfelt’s bust.
“You and every other ruler insisted I not even give the man a drink of water, and you let him into Belchan and hire him to hunt Manticores?”
The [Prime Minister]’s face was apologetic, and his voice was soothing. Raelt knew Lyfelt was using a Skill to calm him down, but it didn’t work at the moment.
“Firstly, you did get a poor deal. You were first, so naturally everyone was rather concerned, Raelt. But I saw the King of Destruction coming—you did give me a warning. And secondly, I had plenty of time to consider how to use him best.”
“Use him.”
“He is not being paid to hunt the Manticores. Indeed, he might take their hides and parts, but the meat he will leave behind after feeding his army. He offered to settle the matter for free. I hope he will have time to deal with a group of [Pillagers] as well—either way, he gets his attention, I rid myself of the Manticores, and the world’s eye is focused on Belchan for a moment. Did you hear about their…magic-vision network?”
“I don’t care about that. Lyfelt! What do the other nations think of this?”
“Some aren’t pleased. But they understand my position. I had a number of very lengthy talks. Productive ones! Raelt, Raelt, I am a [Politician]. Events like this only serve to help me, and thus Belchan.”
“It’s a mistake. Lyfelt, if another nation sees this as giving Reimarch aid—”
“They don’t. Because I explained it to them, Raelt.”
Lyfelt’s voice had a tinge of impatience in it. Raelt hesitated.
“You’re sure?”
“Of course I am. Old friend, Flos Reimarch may be clever about his goals—leveling up his army, getting attention—he’s stolen some of my young folk to his army, as he has Jecrass. But he’s playing politics, and he’s a novice in that realm.”
The [Prime Minister] sounded extremely pleased with himself. Raelt just had to shake his head.
“I think you underestimate him, Lyfelt, I do. You’ve given his army a boost.”
“How many? Raelt, his elites fought the Manticores, not his regular [Soldier].”
“They’ll level up from it.”
“They didn’t fight.”
The [King] liked his friend, the [Prime Minister], but sometimes he thought too much like a [Politician].
“Lyfelt, that’s not the point. Flos Reimarch is the King of Destruction. He could level an army just by breathing.”
There was a pause. Lyfelt’s expression of satisfaction changed slightly on the stone bust.
“That may be so, but it’s still to Belchan’s benefit. And there is his oath.”
“Yes.”
Raelt sighed. He massaged his temples, and then looked at Lyfelt.
“Forgive me. I’m just worried for the future. There is the oath, but Reimarch seemed to believe he would have cause for war soon enough.”
“You must tell me what he said. I offered to host him for a dinner, but he declined. He spent longer talking with you.”
The other ruler sounded envious. Raelt shook his head again.
“You’re too trusting. And—Lyfelt, you should really watch your borders better. More of his refugees are coming through Jecrass, and I have had to mobilize my River Wardens to protect them. From [Bandits], monsters, and simply folk that hate them.”
In the best of times, refugees were not well-loved. And the King of Destruction’s people were doubly targets of hatred, abandoning their countries to serve him. Raelt had worked hard to ensure they were protected in Jecrass.
Lyfelt had not. The [Prime Minister]’s voice was scornful.
“Raelt, you work too hard to do good for people who will give you nothing. I’ve allowed refugees through the border. But as far as I’m concerned, that is where my aid to Flos Reimarch ends. Don’t mistake me—I am grateful to them. They’re the subject of ire in Belchan. Much hated—I think I can easily win a reelection this year.”
“Treat them well, Lyfelt.”
Raelt warned the other [Prime Minister]. He disliked this part of Lyfelt, though he’d never said it. The man could play with lives like they were numbers.
Lyfelt paused.
“I’m not ordering anyone to attack them. In fact, the standing proclamation is that they’re free to travel. But if some of my districts take objection? Better a galvanized nation against Flos, than one which admires him.”
The King of Jecrass bit his tongue. He nodded slowly, unwilling to say more. Lyfelt admonished him gently.
“Raelt, you are a kindly [King]. But to succeed with monsters and demons on each side, you have to be willing to play sides. Flos Reimarch is a larger monster than most, but even he has rules.”
“I hope you’re right, Lyfelt. What is Reimarch doing next, do you know?”
A shrug.
“He won’t go north. Claiven Earth and Medain would declare war before letting him cross their borders. I think he’s headed south, next. To try Nerrhavia. He’s certainly marching his army hard.”
“Leveling, Lyfelt. He’s leveling them.”
“As you say.”
 
——
 
The army of Reim, or at least, the army that marched with the King of Destruction, was indeed a small one. But it was one Flos Reimarch himself had chosen to follow him for a number of reasons.
Firstly, it was small and consumed fewer supplies on the march. Fielding a huge army was still taxing on Reim’s supplies, although the spring plus the King of Destruction’s [Edict of Bloom] had begun to fill empty warehouses that had been long-abandoned since Reim’s decay.
Second, the army wasn’t that threatening to other nations. It was an army, but one small enough not to provoke a huge response or make other rulers paranoid. Teres sort of doubted Flos had managed that, but she conceded that they’d gotten to enter Belchan, even if Jecrass had been a bust.
And third—all of the [Soldiers] had been below Level 5 when Flos had formed the army. Today?
“Level 13? You’re sure?”
Teres looked at one of the [Soldiers] she’d gotten to know while on the march. She was a Garuda with pink feathers mixed with orange named Mefaa. She was in awe of Teres, but the two had a friendship of sorts—despite Teres being one of the King of Destruction’s personal servants.
The Garuda was nodding proudly, though. And Teres herself was impressed. Mefaa had been Level 2 when she’d begun the march. In less than two weeks, Flos had somehow made her Level 13—and she’d gained another two levels after the battle with the Manticores.
Despite never having taken part! It boggled Teres’ mind. She herself hadn’t fought either; Flos had forbade it. Manticores were above Teres’ level and despite the flexible leather armor she wore, she was considered at risk of serious injury or death.
Only Flos’ elites had fought, and the King of Destruction was well-pleased with the battle. Teres asked him about it after he came striding into camp, in a great mood.
“Why did Mefaa level? She didn’t even fight the Manticores?”
“Ah, but she was there Teres. She was moving in formation, readying herself if the Manticores broke past the Rustängmarder.”
“Which would never happen.”
Teres glanced at the serious, silent company of the elite army known as the Rustängmarder. They almost never removed their helmets and their armor covered their entire body. She had seen them practicing and she was convinced they could hold back anything.
Anything but the Nomads of the Sky. Some of them had joined Flos on his march and the giant-folk still awed Teres every time she saw them. One of them was ten meters high! Which was thirty feet, which was…
A giant. Teres stared at Zamea, the leader of the Nomad’s Sky, tallest of the half-Giants. Not even fully half-Giant apparently, but the one who has the strongest bloodlines. She was the one who was thirty feet tall and she’d punched one Manticore in the battle; the rest had fled her.
“True, the Manticores would have never hit the army, but it’s the battle that counts, Teres. You’re not thinking about classes as they are. A [Soldier] is more than a [Fighter]. They are part of an army. Obeying orders, marching—that is what a [Soldier] is.”
“So that’s how they’re leveling? By just doing [Soldier] things?”
It didn’t quite seem fair. Apparently a good army had an average level of 10 among its normal [Soldiers]. Flos had just passed that in two weeks. He laughed as he cleaned blood off his sword.
“Teres, Teres. Regular conscripts are low-level by nature. Any army relies on a unit of veterans, say Level 20 on average, but the majority will be low-level. You supplement that with officers, elite forces. I’m just creating a slightly better army than most.”
“In two weeks?”
He spread his arms, smiling.
“Am I the King of Destruction or not? Teres, I have Skills that advance my subjects faster. I am also quite good at raising and leading armies.”
“True enough. So what now? You slew your Manticores.”
“Yes. I only wish there had been a thousand! Although they might have killed a fair number of our army since we’d have to fight them. Still—we have their hides. That Lyfelt fellow was agreeable. If not to my taste. Raelt was a far more intriguing sort.”
“I’ll take your word for it, since I didn’t meet either of them.”
Teres crossed her arms. Flos laughed again and examined his clean sword. He rose and ruffled Teres’ hair. She glared at him.
“Teres, the world will know you soon enough. But not yet. For now, I value your hidden qualities more than eyes on you. We’ll march south, I think. Trey should be returning with the Quarass and Gazi, and if I cannot cross into Jecrass, I might as well try Nerrhavia. Although Queen Yisame is bound to disagree with my presence!”
Flos Reimarch paused. He stroked his beard. He was happy about being on the march, Teres could tell. But peace did not sit well with Flos Reimarch. Even this battle with the Manticores left him antsy.
She wasn’t sure if he was thinking of breaking his oath, or finding trouble, or if he believed it was coming to him. But the Empire of Sands was distant, and no other nation had yet to provoke him.
“Well, yeah. Maybe I’ll do that. I might as well chat to Nawal. Or Zamea.”
Teres nodded lamely. She wished Trey were here too. There was a limit to how much the twins could entertain the King of Destruction’s interest. Flos could be moody. But the King of Destruction kept turning his head.
“Yes, do that. Trey should be back soon. The Quarass will bring good news, I think. Not of war. But…I do feel as though something is coming, Teres. Something I…dislike. Which is why the core of my armies cannot level quickly enough.”
He frowned off into the distance. Not at any one thing—turning his head as if to stare. Teres wondered what he was talking about. She slowly nodded.
“Do you—so are we marching off now?”
Her words made Flos start. He broke off, looked around, and then laughed again.
“Not this instant! Let us greet my subjects. My ride is bringing me thousands by the day, Teres.”
He gestured towards the edge of their camp. Teres looked around for Mars or Orthenon, but the [Steward] was managing the army, and Mars was…probably getting drunk. Flos Reimarch strode towards a crowd that had gathered on the outskirts of the camp.
Young men and women. Some old, actually. But—Humans from Jecrass and Belchan, who had seen the legend and wanted to be part of it. By the time Flos left both nations, he might have added ten thousand to his number. Or more!
And they would be [Soldiers] and gain levels too. Flos certainly had a working strategy. But still, the King of Destruction had been happier after meeting Raelt of Jecrass. He was looking ahead, perplexed.
They never made it to the volunteers to the army. Orthenon rode down on the two, as fast as always. His horse could run like a bolt of lightning when he chose, and he often chose to do just that. The [Steward], who made Raelt’s speed-walking look slow at times, bowed to Flos and nodded at Teres.
“You may want to see this, Your Majesty.”
“What news, Orthenon? More Manticores?”
“No, sire. Another group of people claiming allegiance to you. Bound from Jecrass. They heard news of Your Majesty’s arrival and immediately made for the army.”
“I did hear from some of my subjects that Jecrass was hospitable to their passing and Belchan was not. Shepherd Zamea, a word if you please?”
Flos mused, and then bellowed at the distant shape of Zamea. The earth trembled and Teres herself stepped back behind the [Steward] and [King] as Zamea towered over them.
Trey had met Zamea briefly, but he’d been whisked away by the Quarass to fly on a magic carpet. Teres was a bit annoyed about that, especially because they were going to visit the other Shield Kingdoms. Flos had kept her since he got bored without one of the two from Earth to talk to him, but Teres’ dream of owning a Pegasus hadn’t appeared.
Of course, Teres could talk with Zamea, a half-Giant. And she would! Or Nawal, or the Rustängmarder, or any of the other really interesting vassals who’d arrived in Reim. She was going to—Zamea just scared her. A bit.
“A word, Reimarch? How about ‘yes’?”
Zamea laughed. She was truly a towering figure, but she and Flos had laughed at the idea she was close to a true Giant’s height. Teres had no idea how anyone could have fed them, let alone the Nomads of the Sky, but the half-Giants didn’t seem to need to eat as often as other people.
