And they were different, oh yes. Bold as could be, but cautious around the ‘small folk’. The ones who were taller even looked different than a Human scaled up. Zamea’s skin looked tough. Craggy, would be Teres’ turn of phrase. You couldn’t even call it ‘rough’.
Yhe half-Giant woman was good-spirited, though, kind—like a certain [Groundskeeper] from a certain magical story. Where she differed was that she laughed as she culled her flock. Not her Nomads of the Sky, but the actual flock of creatures, including very large sheep, that the Nomads owned.
Zamea was kind to the small folk, but she culled animals for the slaughter with a laugh. And the small folk were below her in more than just stature. The only people Zamea treated like her fellow half-Giants were Flos, Orthenon, Mars, and Gazi. And perhaps the Quarass, but Zamea hadn’t met her.
“A good word, Zamea! But I crave two things! Do you see a group approaching us? More of my people, from the east? Also, I heard tell they came from Jecrass. Was that the preferable route for you?”
Flos shouted up at Zamea as she cupped one ear. The half-Giant paused as she shaded her eyes. She had excellent eyesight.
“Ah, I see them. From the east. Yes, they are there. Several thousand! Six?”
“Six thousand?”
It wasn’t the largest number, but Teres was still impressed. These caravans kept rolling into Reim day by day! But for the [Edict of Bloom] and Reim’s recently filled coffers from the…selling of prisoners of war to [Slavers], they would have never fed them all.
Flos smiled.
“Six thousand is a good number. I will greet them, by all means. Jecrass over Belchan, Zamea?”
She shrugged.
“We walked with the Rustängmarder. No one gave us trouble. The Nomads walk where we will. But the small folk we decided to escort—they feared to go by way of Belchan. Other nations were not kind to them. And that unkindness was sometimes word or arrow.”
Flos’ brow was troubled.
“I see. Perhaps this is something I should speak to their [Prime Minister] about.”
“Let some of my people escort yours! Arrow or word means nothing to our skin.”
Zamea laughed. She slapped her chest and the crack and rush of air made Orthenon’s steed rear. He soothed it as Flos nodded.
“Then, Shepherd, would you care to walk with me? Or stay with the camp? We owe the Nomads a feast of Manticores!”
“Stay. But come back from your little folk to dine with us tonight, King of Destruction! Food tastes better with one like you to enjoy it.”
Zamea smiled and the [King] nodded to her. By this point Orthenon had two more horses for Teres and Flos. They mounted up—Teres was a natural rider by now.
“Let’s investigate, Orthenon. I feel cooped up, even after that battle. We can discuss the battle and magical artifacts later. But I do want to replace my shield.”
Flos urged his horse out of the camp and Teres and Orthenon rode after him. The [Steward] was, as ever, fixated on work.
“Your Majesty, will we be marching onwards to the [Bandits] which [Prime Minister] Lyfelt recommended to us?”
His voice was disapproving—he had disliked Flos’ idea to roam around, offering his services like a [Mercenary]. Flos had loved the idea of a [Mercenary King].
“Not at all, Orthenon. I have no desire to catch them. We’ll head back to Reim. Ready the camp.”
“As you will.”
The [Steward] vanished for a moment, and reappeared a minute later as they left the camp. Which meant it would probably be packed up and ready to go by the time they got back. They had a lot of Manticore meat and Teres was willing to admit she wanted to know how it tasted when they stopped for dinner.
She, Flos Reimarch, and Orthenon rode out of the camp, in the direction Zamea had pointed. It was early summer, and Flos Reimarch sat in his saddle, at peace with the world. But he had gathered an army for war.
Which war? Teres didn’t know. Trey had his own mission, and she wondered how Flos or some other nation was going to dodge his proclamation of peace. Perhaps no one would, and Reim would just have to prepare for war…forever.
But as she looked at the King of Destruction, Teres felt certain something was coming. Because Flos had an instinct for war, and he had been restless. Perhaps that was why they were here.
Either way—Teres looked ahead.
“There. A group, just as Zamea said.”
Flos pointed. Orthenon signaled, and a group of veteran [Riders] fell in behind Flos, smoothly. They were used to their ruler’s flights of fancy. Flos took no notice. He just stared ahead.
“Odd. They’re on foot.”
“Probably poor. It’s hard travelling all this way, right? Maybe they sold the horses?”
Teres had nothing but her opinion, but she gave that willingly and unprompted. Flos laughed.
“No. My eyes aren’t what they used to be. Orthenon—”
“Yes, Your Majesty. I think you’re right.”
Teres shaded her eyes, but she couldn’t see anything more than dots. The two men accelerated and Teres had to follow them.
Flos Reimarch rode hard and fast across the road of Belchan, ignoring the people who had come to stare at him. The King of Destruction rode past a [Princess] who turned in her saddle to stare at his back. Ahead, at something new, even for him.
A change. Flos Reimarch drew closer as the group in the distance spotted him. Teres saw them hurrying forwards. And she heard…a howl?
She stared. What was she looking at? The King of Destruction stared too, then he threw back his head, grinning.
“Do you see it, Orthenon?”
“I see it, Your Majesty.”
Orthenon was smiling. Wary, but smiling, as if at some big joke. Teres just stared. But Flos, guffawed. He laughed and laughed.
“Look! My subjects from afar. Teres, do you see them?”
And finally, she did. Loping across the arid ground, howling, pointing. Teres saw her first glimpse of another species, a caravan of at least eight thousand…
“What are they?”
No, who were they? Flos answered for her as he began to ride towards the people claiming fealty towards him. The kind of people that made his enemies sweat, and eyes turn back to the world stage. For here came a group of Lizardfolk, and loping ahead of them…six thousand strange beings. He smiled as he raised a hand.
“Gnolls.”
