Grick jumped onto Lily, and we doubled back as the humans started running in our direction.

“Spread out, find the injured enemy,” I told Lily through Pack Bond. I figured we'd get a better chance of snagging the easy kill if we covered more ground in our retreat.

Sure enough, the plan worked flawlessly as I soon heard, “Here, sister!”

I instantly changed my course back towards Lily. The remaining Drakewolf may have been injured, but it was still way higher level than her. But by the time I arrived, Grick had already jumped down, and Lily was doing her work with her shadow clones.

Two Lilys feigned attacks from the front, the Drakewolf trying to look as menacing as possible to keep them off. The real Lily slid around behind and chomped its already broken leg. The Drakewolf howled and flopped over, but Lily continued to drag and twist the shattered limb. Then, when I pounced on top, it was as good as over for the so-called “domesticated” monster.

We chomped, and Grick came in for a few slashes of his own, and when I was satisfied we'd done enough, I lifted a paw—

{Soul Rend}!

Foe Eliminated! Level 18 Domesticated Drakewolf

Experience Gained!

Essence extracted!

0 health restored

90 mana restored

50 Stamina restored

+10 to all attributes

With that, I was as good as new! Most of my Mana and Stamina were replenished, and I basically had a couple extra levels of bonus stats!

But, using a quick {Pulse Sense} to check for our pursuers, I figured now wasn't the time to press the attack. There were too many combing through the woods—I’d spotted human-sized heartbeats fanning out wide all around us.

No, it was time to make a quick escape along the riverside. Once we’ve made it outside of the perimeter they were trying to form around us, we could disappear deeper into the forest.

“Follow!” I ordered my pack.

Grick instantly ran to Lily and swung his legs up as he mounted her, and she bolted after me. When I didn't have Give Chase actively improving my movement speed, she was actually the faster one, but she kept pace with me anyway.

Once we made it closer to the river, I used {Pulse Sense} once again and found only one human who had moved just a little too wide. It seemed he was alone, and I thought, why not snag one more kill while we were at it? We'd just have to be quick.

“This way!”

I zeroed in on his heartbeat and soon found him charging through the woods with a confidence that instantly drained from his face when he saw the two Hell Hounds and their goblin coming at him.

“They're over here!” he screamed to his allies, “Help!”

But I knew better than him—he had mispositioned himself too far from the racing pulses of his fellow bandits. It was a critical error that would now cost his life, and Give Chase only made him all the more vulnerable as he turned to run.

As soon as I was in range, I leaped on top of him, my claws raking his back as I brought him to the ground, and I went right for the neck. The bonuses from two nice stacks of Soul Rend were felt in every muscle as I gripped and shook, feeling the satisfying pop in moments.

Prey Eliminated - level 15

Only level 15 huh? Oh well, it was one more notch off of the quest and—

I looked up just as something came whizzing at me through the trees. I barely moved in time to avoid taking an arrow to the face, but it still plunged into my flesh just under my shoulder and—holy crap did that hurt!

The pulses were closing in already, and I knew it was time to quit while we were ahead!

“Time to run!” I told Lily and led the way away from our pursuers. I was very grateful that human legs were so slow, because after only a couple of minutes of flight through the woods, the humans were so far behind they were out of range of my Pulse Sense.

I trotted to a stop once I knew we were safe, both Lily and I panting, but unable to help giving each other wolfy smiles as we met eyes.

“Puppy hurt!” Grick exclaimed as he jumped down and came to my side, examining the arrow that was stuck in me. “Grick helps,” he assured as he reached for it.

I flinched away and gave him a low growl. “Be careful! Don't just yank it out!” It was in deep enough that its barbed tip would have to be carefully removed.

“Hold still, puppy!” Grick chastised. “Grick looks closely! Grick doesn't yank!”

I blinked, surprised by the sudden outburst. I guess it was wrong of me not to trust him. He could be silly, and he had a goblin's understanding of how things were valued, but he wasn't stupid.

“Now puppy lays down!” he ordered.

I huffed and carefully lowered myself. He looked closely at the arrow, grabbed it with a careful testing pull that made me wince. “In deep. Grick cuts out, it hurts puppy a little,” he warned.

I huffed. “Go ahead and do what you think will work. I trust you.”

Grick’s ears switched at that, and for a moment, he looked almost absurdly proud of himself.

“Good. Puppy brave,” he said.

That was when Lily stepped in close and pressed her muzzle against my cheek. She was worried; the sight of the arrow buried in my shoulder had rattled her.

“I’m fine,” I told her softly through the bond. “It hurts, but I’m fine. And I’ve had far worse.”

She gave a little huff and a glare that told me she wasn’t fully convinced.

Grick knelt beside me and produced his dagger. He looked the arrow over again, muttering to himself as he shifted my fur aside and inspected where the shaft had gone in.

“Grick breaks stick. Stick in the way.” His little hand then grabbed it close to the wound and gripped it firmly with the other further down the shaft. He froze with focus before giving it a quick snap. I winced slightly from it being moved, but he was surprisingly efficient. “Now Grick cuts little, makes it easy to pull out nasty human thing!” he assured.

I looked away, not really wanting to watch as my flesh was cut into. As his dagger began to slice me, I clenched my jaws, and Lily whined softly. But then, I felt a quick tug that accompanied a final flare of pain, but as soon as it was over, the pressure of the embedded arrow was relieved.

“Good puppy,” Grick said, patting my side. “Nasty human thing gone!”

“Thanks, Grick.”

I then scanned the woods and used another {Pulse Sense}, just to be safe---and still no humans.

I then checked my mind's eye for that sentry I had Death Marked at the beginning of all of this. He was pretty far away, and if I wasn't mistaken...

No... Yes... Maybe?

Wait, yes. He was definitely walking away from us now—walking, not pursuing. The Death Mark didn't let me see my prey's surroundings, but it was still a good sign that the rest of that force of bandits had given up on getting us.

They would no doubt be pretty mad about us killing three of their guys and two of their dogs, but how much would that motivate them to continue a hopeless pursuit?

The more critical question is how cautious would they now be? We didn’t behave like ordinary monsters, but would they realize that? At least one of them probably spotted Grick, which would only send their gears turning more

Still, no reason to stick around close, so I got up and began to lead the—

“Huh!?” Grick sat down suddenly and stared off into space. Not quite like reading a System screen, more like he was listening to something. “Grick gets…” He waved a finger through the air. “Voice thing! Grick gets new voice thing! Grick gets—!”

I quickly checked his status screen, glancing over it, but before getting too far down, my eye caught the most exciting part!

Name: Grick

Race: Goblin

Level: 10 (+3)

Path: Cave Dweller

Stage: 1

Body Development: 100%

Body development was at 100%! That meant the little guy was about to grow! He must have gotten an achievement that pushed his development up! Just as that realization caught up to me, a golden glow surrounded him. The goblin stood with his arms raised into the air.

“Grick becomes powerful! Grick becomes Super Grick!” he cheered.

Lily yipped in excitement, and I have to admit my own tail was rapidly beating back and forth right along with her as we watched. Grick’s limbs extended slightly, he was growing taller, but not by too, too much—he’d still be able to hop onto Lily’s back.

More noticeably, his scrawny twigs of arms bulked out and became far more defined. He still wasn’t exactly a miniature goblin version of Mr. Olympia or anything, but he was beginning to look like a scrappy kid who made regular trips to the gym, at least.

Would he get a new Path as well? I wondered what kind he would end up with! Once his transformation was complete and he took a moment to look himself over, I began to read through his status page.

Lily, however, must have been able to interpret the changes faster as she yipped as happily as I ever heard and began darting excited circles around him.

I gave a wolfy grin as I watched them, used a quick {Pulse Sense} to make sure our celebration wouldn’t be interrupted, and then finally put my focus back on his stat screen­—
