In this, he sees a means to an end, because if commoners learn to fight effectively against Martial Warriors, then the balance of power shifts in their favour. Not only do they form the backbone of the economy, there are also a hell of a lot more of peasants than Martial Warriors. So long as no Divinities get involved, then a battle of attrition swings in their favour, which can only lead to good things in the future. Justice for all, Xuande’s ultimate goal, because in his eyes, all people are born equal.

On the other end of the spectrum, Natal Soul 847,386 is busy with a Defiled Imperial, a commoner named Santosh. Just over a year ago, he lived a hard, but good life, working eighteen hour days in a gold mine owned by the Mataram Clan. Not all of that was spent down in the mine-shaft, as the Mataram Clan treated their workers well, especially those they trusted enough to work in their most lucrative holdings. There was food and water aplenty for him while he worked, and at least one fourth of his work-day was spent resting in intervals to prevent injury or exhaustion, and the only times he ever saw a whip come out was when a worker was caught trying to steal. A good job, all things considered, though it meant Santosh could never leave the mining town until the entire vein was tapped out, but it was still better than the alternative. Here, his family lived a good life, safe from thieves and thugs while his children were given a free education to better serve the Mataram Clan as vassals in the future. Letters and numbers would be their future trade, a better life than he could ever dream of, and for this, Santosh would forever be grateful to the Clan.

Then the Western Wall fell, and a few days later, the Defiled found the mining town.

The Imperial Clan was to blame for this, or so Santosh had decided. The Imperials were the reason why he had to watch his wife die. The Imperials were responsible for what he’d been forced to do to his children. The Imperials abandoned the West, abandoned the people who needed them most, and for all this and more, they had to pay. The Emperor needed to pay, to suffer as Santosh suffered, to weep, plead, and scream as he had, and only then, would the scales of justice be Balanced.

“What of the Mataram Clan’s sins?” I ask, picking just the right moment to butt in, when his tired mind quiets to rest after a long, stressful engagement. “Their enemies spent years scouring the Western Province for hidden encampments like yours, so how did the Defiled find it so quickly, mere days after the Wall fell? Curious how the Mataram Clan didn’t fight the Defiled either, with every man, woman, and child joining the Enemy in outright rebellion of the Empire. Think, and the truth will reveal itself.”

Despite my efforts, Santosh will not listen, not because he is incapable of reason, but because to believe otherwise would be to take responsibility for his own actions, a move which would be his undoing. The man is barely clinging to sanity by his fingernails, and to go any further would consign him to surrender, but nonetheless, 847,386 keeps trying. There is something inside Santosh that might still be reached, the part he’s kept closed away this past year, his innermost self that loves and cherishes his wife and children above all else. That part of him is dying a slow death, because it has no reason to live, but still, I must try, because if I can wrench one soul from the Enemy’s grasp, then I would call this a success. I never could figure out why I couldn’t cleanse true Defiled, but now I understand. The Defiled themselves do not wish to be cleansed, clinging tightly to the lies they so desperately need to believe. It will take significant effort to break through their self-denial, and doing so much might cause irreparable harm to the person involved, but I must try.

That’s why I’m here, after all. So I can get out all my hopes and regrets before severing ties with the mortal world and sinking into oblivion. For this reason, Natal Souls 2 through 68 are busy indulging my pets, who really don’t need the attention. These floofs don’t scare easily, or at least are capable of handling the stress, but I don’t want them to be sad when I’m gone, even though there’s nothing I can feasibly do to stop it. Aurie, Ping Ping, and Mama Bun have it the worst, unable and unwilling to understand what I’m trying to tell them, that I’m going away, but they’ll still be loved and cared for. They’re greedy little beasts who want the best of everything, to take what I am promising them and still keep me around to love, because that’s just how they’re wired. Banjo and Baloo aren’t happy either, but at least they’re willing to accept it, while Jimjam is more torn up about it than I would have suspected. He’s a contrary cat, but he does love me all the same, and he’s feeling a little lost now that he knows I’m going away. Sarankho doesn’t understand, but she accepts it, the smartest kitten who still remembers the love of her mother and has mourned it many a night past, but found much of that same love from Song.

As for the rest of my pets, they don’t really understand what’s happening save for Zabu and Roc. Those two will mourn me, but they’ve lost before, and life goes on. Honestly, I wish all of my pets were like them, because then I could rest easy.

There’s so many more people and animals I want to say goodbye to, but even with a million and one Natal Souls working in tandem, there’s only so much I can do. There are seven million individuals on scene right now, and almost a third that in animals, and while some might argue calming a horse, bull, or quin isn’t all that important, I can’t change who I fundamentally am. If I see someone in distress, I feel compelled to help, because empathy is one hell of a burden. For this reason alone, I have Natal Souls 18,545 through 26,342 all covering the Imperial Irregulars, poor, terrified commoners who are only here because they believed in me. Song’s inspiring Aura helps soothe their nerves, but the Demonic Aura is not easy to shake, and all my best efforts are for naught.

Until one man, a cobbler’s son named Yazhu, takes in the battlefield and, unprompted by me, shouts, “The Legate’s carriage!”

Lixian, a farm-hand who dreamed of glory before coming here, repeats the call, remembering just how happy his family was when his old man brought them to the border and settled into their new farm. “The Legate! Save the Legate!”

Shodo, Wen Na, Ogum Chuwon, Su Jia, Tengo, Minoru, and hundreds of other Irregulars take up these cries, and together, without prompting from me or my Natal Souls, they all find courage and attack the Defiled en masse. Much as I wish I could say they did this without fear, I know better than anyone else how terrified these poor people are, yet still they throw themselves into the blades of the Enemy, recklessly risking their lives out of mistaken belief. The Demons make short work of these mere mortals, but this does not give them pause or drive them to retreat, for they are my most fervent supporters, more fanatical than even BoShui could ever be. “I’ll be fine,” I try to tell them, “The Legate will be fine. He has many Martial Warriors to guard him, many hidden Experts waiting in the wings. All you need to do is move aside, and the professionals will handle it.”

And still the Irregulars fight, because they believe they owe me their lives, and are more than happy to spend them. In my panic, I convince Ping Ping to join in on the fight and tip the balance of power, an idiotic move which sparks off a debate between Divinities. That’s the problem with limited omniscience; I know all, but I can’t see the future, nor do I know anything until I consider it. Now I know the Enemy is deliberating if they want to launch an attack to kill sweet Ping Ping, since they could easily claim that they were merely equalizing the field. An eye for an eye, a Divinity for a Divinity, a marked flaw in my plan which I, even with all my knowledge, know not how to correct. It would’ve been better to keep Ping Ping from acting, since now the Enemy has a chance to study her power, but there is no cure for regret, even for someone as powerful as I. Thankfully, the Enemy makes no move to escalate the situation, partially because Ping Ping isn’t exhibiting all that much power, but also because the growing storm overhead concerns them, a storm whose purpose even I cannot divine. Regardless, the Enemy Divinities can sense the power contained within and don’t know who is responsible, meaning they will tread carefully and keep their heads down lest they become the first of their kind to fall on this battlefield.

All the while, Irregulars continue to die in droves no matter how much I plea or cajole them to retreat. They will not have it, for they would rather die than see me come to harm. Never once do these brave souls waver, and never once do they regret dying in my name, for they believe their cause is just as they willingly give their lives for the only person they believe truly cares about them.

Me.

The heartbreak here is almost as bad as losing all my loved ones, but the Irregulars win out in sheer quantity. Difficult to stay detached while watching people willing to die for my sake, not that anything else I’ve been doing has been any easier. Mom, Alsantset, Yan, Mila, Song, and sweet Lin-Lin, engaging with my loved ones tempts me to reawaken and rejoin them, but fear holds me back as it always has. What if they’re not really alive? What if I’m just deluding myself again? What if I open my eyes, only for the steel-toed boot to greet me again? What if Zhen Shi really killed them, and I’m back in the Citadel, faced with all the people I let down? I’m so many levels deep, I can barely keep track of what’s real and what’s imagined. This is fine. This is for the best. I’ll do what I can, say my goodbyes, and drift off into eternal slumber undisturbed by any trials and tribulations. It’s not perfect, in fact, far from it, since there is still so much left to do, but if I put it off now, I might never have another chance. It hurts me to leave the people I love behind, and it hurts that I can’t say goodbye to Dad, Taduk, Luo-Luo, Charok, the twins, Husolt, BoShui, Mafu, and so many more, but they’re not here and I can’t reach them, so there’s no helping it. I’d love to snap my fingers and destroy the Defiled Army, but not only do I lack the ability from here, if I return to the waking world, I might discover I never had the ability at all, and that I’ve just been deluding myself here in the void.

There’s no perfect answer, but this is my answer. I will spend my last moments making the world a better place, teaching my friends and comrades to better utilize their strengths, instilling doubts in their enemies, and finally, saying goodbye. Once I’ve done all that I can, I will leave knowing they can manage without me, because I am too weak and afraid to continue as I am. I always have been. The first day I woke up in the slave pens, I wasn’t meant for this world. I’m not cut out for this life. If trials and tribulations are all that await me, then I, and everyone I know and love, will be better off if I lose myself in oblivion.

And so I continue my work. Awash in her Blessing, Mila shines as bright as the sun, but her radiant smile outshines even that as she wreaks havoc on the battlefield, going toe to toe with powerful armoured Demons and holding her own. Her heart surges with joy as I whisper sweet nothings, her spirits buoyed by my presence more than anything else. Further down the line, Huushal needs a hand, so I remind him that he is neither man nor wolf, but human at the core, something he has yet to figure out. Telling him won’t change a thing, because he sees himself as half-beast or demi-human, but everyone has their own foibles and inner conflicts, so why would being half-beast make him any less human? Once he figures it out and accepts the truth, his burdens will be lessened, but until such a time, all I can do is support him.

Easy to forget when all you see is his gruff exterior, but Huu is a big softie inside. He treasures our friendship, and our estrangement has been harder on him than it has been on me, but he will get through this. When the rage of battle takes over, he requires no assistance from me, not that he would listen even if I tried. Pound for pound, he can match the Defiled Chieftain with relative ease, but Vithar is a canny Warrior who has survived many a battle against foes stronger than he, so dealing with Huu is almost nothing. So I appeal to his darker nature, urge him to stretch out this battle and enjoy the exchange for what it is, and find that Vithar, a hateful Defiled who maims and tortures for laughs, cares deeply about his fellow tribesmen. Not in the way I care about civilians, but like a commander looking out for his soldiers. There is no love lost between them, but he will not recklessly spend their lives as Zhen Shi is so eager to do, and I strike while the iron is hot and drive a wedge between Vithar and the Uniter. I work this same thought into the minds of every Defiled Chieftain and Champion present, reminding them of all the promises the Uniter made to them, and how he cares not for their lives or the lives of their tribesmen.

