Unlike my heroic Irregulars, the Defiled believe in no cause but their own, and they are well-used to listening to the Spectres. Alas, not all care enough to consider the future, and many are too blood-crazed to even pay attention, but nineteen Chieftains heed my warnings and begin withdrawing their tribes from the battlefield. Judging by their festering dissatisfaction, Zhen Shi is in for a rude awakening as his tribal auxiliaries return to the West and begin carving out kingdoms of their own instead of marching away to war like the good puppets they were. That will buy some time for the Imperials, but how much, even I don’t know, so all I can do is keep trying.

Many of my allies need no assistance, staunch Warriors like Hongji, Binesi, Ghurda, and Tursinai, but others need a bit of a nudge in the right direction. Tenjin’s living flames are beautiful to behold, but the power leaves much to be desired, because he himself does not understand the flames. They must feed to grow, and while he himself only has so much to give, one benefit of Fire is it cares not what it consumes, so long as fuel is available. A minor epiphany, as far as Insights go, but that is all he needs to unleash a Fire-Bird and fly it deep into a Demon’s gullet. Seconds pass and the Demon collapses, only moments before the Fire-Bird emerges from the monster even larger than before, having consumed that which gave the Demon life. Over on the flanks, Wu Gam experiences an Insight of his own. To him, the Blessing of Earth is similar to a towering mountain, mighty and compelling but ponderous and immovable. The thing is, the Earth is always shifting beneath our feet, something the half-fox can sense, yet never wholly understood the significance of.

There is power trapped beneath your feet, power just waiting to be unleashed. All you need to do is free it.

The ground erupts as a fissure cracks open in front of Wu Gam, a small cleft measure 1.23 metres long and 27 centimetres wide at the thickest, but a fissure nonetheless. Awed by what he just discovered, the excitable young man Sends his findings to Eccentric Gam, a man who is his father in everything but blood and name. The older Warrior catches on quickly and wastes no time committing all of his Chi to a single attack. His staff rises, then falls, slamming deep into the ground at his feet, and the earth splits apart into a true fissure, more than eighteen times the size of Wu Gam’s. 43 Defiled Warriors and six Demons fall in, only for the walls to close around them and crush them into meat paste as Eccentric Gam releases the hold he has over the earth.

An imperfect application, but with a little practice and the proper set up, he might one day consign hundreds, if not thousands of Warriors to their death in the same manner. Assuming he gets over his death wish, chasing strength for the sake of strength and endangering his life because he feels guilty for surviving where so many of his siblings, all of whom he raised like his own, did not.

All across the battlefield, I do my best to help Inspire the Warriors of the Empire, but even still, this is just barely enough. Mila’s foot slips forcing her to block an attack best avoided, one which breaks her shoulder in the process. Focused on catching her ricocheting shield, Yan nearly loses her head to a Defiled Warrior, but Kyung steps in before I can even warn her and saves the day. Huu almost dies several times while fighting his Defiled foe, but I can rest easy knowing the old wolf will keep him safe. Zian fights and unleashes all he’s learned, but I can sense this still won’t be enough, and guide his mother over to his side, forcing her hand and upsetting her plans for the future, plans I only just now realized. The Imperial Army is barely holding on when the reinforcements finally arrive, and while Imperial spirits surge thanks to Mitsue Juichi’s flashy entrance and the appearance of an army alongside two other Colonel Generals, they plunge to all-time lows once Hideo takes the stage.

If the Father could tempt even the Disciple of a Living Legend, what hope was there for anyone else?

Despite knowing all the horrific travesties Hideo committed and how this was all sparked off by petty jealousy, I cannot help but sympathize with his plight. A part of him knows what he’s doing is wrong, and despite all his mistakes, I try to tell him that all is not lost, but tempting him with hope only drives him away. He has too high an opinion of himself to even acknowledge his faults, so it’s easier to break his trust in the people who tell him everything he does is right. Hiding from the truth doesn’t make it go away. It will always be there, just waiting for you to remember, a lesson I all too quickly discard into the Void. “The Monk lies too,” I whisper, already forgetting my momentary panic. “He oversaw your descent into madness and did nothing to enlighten you, because the Razor’s Edge is not True Balance, but controlled insanity. You are a monster in human flesh, but by his own admission, your sins pale in comparison to his own.”

Okay, so I’m not entirely neutral and may have been a little harsher than necessary, but I saw what he’s been dreaming about doing to Luo-Luo and what he did to poor Eri-Hime, so I couldn’t hold back. I am, after all, still human, which is the fly in the ointment I’m still trying to fix.

Hideo resists, so I try for subtle, reminding him of his father who loved him, but this has no effect. I appeal to his intelligence, telling him, “The Noble Eight-Fold Path is not about strength, but purpose and intent. What is your purpose? What is your intent? To seek strength? Why? Why do you seek strength?”

My questions drive him over the edge, as I knew they would, and in a single moment of weakness, I drive home everything he already knew, or should’ve known if he thought about it. Mitsue Hiroshi was Juichi’s true Heir, there was no doubting this now. Juichi loved Hiroshi like a son, and Hideo like a grandson, and only ever wanted the best for them both. “Why do you desire strength, Mitsue Hideo?” I ask, as he struggles with the truth he tried so hard to ignore. “Better to seek forgiveness. Open your eyes and see the truth you’ve worked so hard to deny.”

Upon forcing him to take notice of the hidden Spectres, Hideo’s mind all but shuts down, and there is no longer anything to discuss. Seeing his struggle hammers home just how cruel and unforgiving this world really is, and I have no desire to be a part of it anymore. Despite all my efforts to empty myself, I am no closer to my goal now than when I started, and might well be further behind than before. There’s just so many things going on, so many people dying and emotions flying that I cannot divest myself of it all. The more I learn, the more I feel, and it’s all building up in my chest like water pushing against a dam, but sooner or later, the waters will overflow and bring the dam crashing down to the earth below.

Panning my screen up to look at the clouds, I wonder why the storm has yet to unleash its fury and stumble across an Insight of my own. It seems so obvious now, it’s a wonder I never noticed it before, but I never was the sharpest tool in the shed, no matter how much I professed to be a man of science. The Energy of the Heavens is driven towards emotion. Why? Because our emotions are the purest form of our existence. Thoughts are a product of the mind, but emotion is the product of the soul, and it is this bond, this connection, that the Divine Energies seek out and obey, regardless of morality or affiliation. In many ways, our souls are intertwined with Heavenly Energy, one indistinguishable from the other, the magic which takes base molecules and shapes it into living, breathing, thinking creatures. That’s why I need to purge myself of Emotion, because so long as I have them, there will be Heavenly Energy within me, preventing me from reaching true oblivion. I knew the what, but now I know the why, and with this, so much more becomes clear.

Our souls are the vessels within which we hold all our emotions, not in so many words or memories, but the raw, visceral experience of each and every event, encounter, and ordeal. When we meditate in the Void, we become more in tune with our Souls, or perhaps more accurately, become One with the Soul. The Core, Natal Palace, even Aura and Domain, every milestone along the Martial Path is marked by a change in the landscape of our Souls, a development which helps us utilize it better, for we Martial Warriors harness the power within to manipulate the Energy of the Heavens, and this is what sets us apart from commoners.

So why only a one percent success rate for Core Formation? Panning back down to study the Irregulars, I discover that not even our souls are without flaw. This isn’t to say commoners are deformed, but rather Martial Warriors have that one-in-a-hundred abnormality which allows our minds to sync with our souls, an adjustment the Spectres force upon the Defiled which drives them quite mad. It’s akin to modifying a car engine to accept jet fuel or a power socket to draw unlimited power, possible if handled correctly and exceedingly dangerous if not.

All this has nothing to do with the storm, but the answers still appear even when I lose focus, a calamitous mistake which costs me almost a full second. Not just me, but also all million of my Natal Souls, and while a second might not seem like much, Zhen Shi and his Spectres can do a lot of damage with the right word at the right time. Getting myself back on track, I set my Natal Souls to work all about the battlefield while I pan back up to the storm above. I’ve been doing this all wrong, trying to ‘spend’ all my emotions and drain myself of them all, but emotion is a bottomless well. Interacting with people has done nothing but make me feel even more emotion. Now more than ever, I want to stand up and fight, to lead the soldiers here against the foul Enemy and drive them from the Empire. I want to save every Defiled I can, to scour the world of Spectres until none remain, to enact laws to protect commoners and teach them to defend themselves.

I want to hold my wives in my arms and feel the warmth of their skin, to hug my pets tight and nuzzle them close, to sit with Mom and Dad and have a nice, family meal, to train and compete with my friends once again. I want all this and more, but despite my longing for life, I am still too afraid to risk it. Hope in life only prolongs my torment, a perilous drug, one which has hurt me far too many times before, and I will not partake again. There is no hope. There is no life. There are only trials and tribulations if I should wake, so my only recourse is to seek oblivion.

Why the storm? A question answered with another question. Why do we cry?

To shed emotion.

No longer do I dare meddle in the lives of those around me, and instead give everything I have to the storm. All my fears, doubts, concerns, and nightmares are fed to the dark clouds, consumed by the writhing Energies of the Heavens within. Next go my anger and hatred, my love and joy, followed by my failures, regrets, dreams, and aspirations. Everything that I am is severed from my being, my Soul butchered by my own hand and cast into the wind, for only then will I find freedom.

Emptiness within, and emptiness without, my goal almost within reach. However, I cannot divest myself of everything, for I still cling to the tiniest of hopes, a hope that I can open my eyes, and all will be right in the world.

A lie, for there can be no hope, not here, not now.

And so, I watch the clouds unleash their payload from over top the battlefield, covering the world in tears. My tears, cried not by my eyes, but by my very soul, purged away in a single, cathartic, metaphysical sob-session, one not in the form of the name I was born with, but one I have come to cherish all the same. Personally, I don’t feel the sadness or the relief, because those emotions are not mine anymore, all cast out into the world alongside the severed vestiges of my one-million Natal Souls, all of whom have been set free to right my wrongs without my input and guidance. Some offer platitudes for soldiers in pain, others spout truths to Defiled minds who will not hear them, and still more work to uncover hidden talents who might help elevate humanity as a whole if provided with adequate support. Some of my Natal Souls even sacrifice themselves to adjust and modify the souls of the people on the battlefield, gently mending invisible wounds and igniting hope for the future. This work goes largely unnoticed, and most react poorly to my efforts, but while old me would feel brokenhearted, this me, the empty me, does not care.

The parts of me that did care are all out there, and will do what they must until they are spent, my needs satisfied and Intents fulfilled. I sense them comforting loved ones and reassuring friends, bolstering allies and reinvigorating those I look up to. Still more present Insights to those deserving, while others correct misplaced steps and breathe new life into older Warriors or set others on more sturdy paths. Many lives were lost here today, and many more will fall before this war comes to an end, but I’ve done my part, and I will do no more.

Taking off my headset, I turn off the monitor and unplug the PC, leaving myself alone in the vast, empty call centre of the void. My cubicle is all that remains, but I make no effort to leave it, for herein lies the last of my hope, my last connection to the world outside and to a past I’ve long since forgotten, all the things I still cannot leave behind. The dark screen tempts me, and I cannot pull my eyes away, but I do not move to reconnect it. There I sit, staring into the void, and the void stares back. Emptiness without, but within...

