Peering at the other bonuses, they explained some of what I'd unlocked over the years. Having Schema recognize my monolith cities during the lottery accomplished more and less than I expected. Pretty much anyone could establish a city anywhere if they fulfilled the requirements. This made my monolith cities seem far less unique.

However, the more I thought about it, the more I dispelled that line of logic. The hardest part of establishing a city was the requirement for 100,000 people working nearby. That was essentially impossible on a fringe world and would've been extraordinarily impossible on L-7. The other conditions piled onto that inconvenience to the point where cities didn't seem worthwhile on questionable planets.

My process skipped all that, letting me ignore the red tape and flaming hoops everyone else dealt with. I could even have dungeons and eldritch within my cities, allowing me to harvest gains from them. That meant that once the dungeoneering problem was solved, the other parts of empire management would fall in place.

That process began with Earth. I wanted everybody in my guild so they'd reap the benefits of my endurance legacy and tree bonuses. It would give humanity a leg up that they needed against the eldritch. Beyond that, offering basic supplies and necessities would help people prioritize leveling.

Most of that could be handled by building a constructor golem and sending them off. It could give food, water, and shelter to people. Beating basic eldritch also wouldn't be a problem, given how much stronger my golems were because of my stats. However, they could be abused.

My constructor golems lacked finesse, being unable to manage themselves or handle complex situations. We needed some task handlers for the big lugs of steel. After consideration, I figured pretty much any guildmate would do.

It was something I'd thought about for a while. My guildmates had survived Yawm's invasion or joined the guild through Torix's recruitment. My legacy allowed them to establish necessities and threats for a settlement, especially with a golem's help. I could run in afterward, sweep the place clean of Eldritch with Event Horizon, and establish a city.

Flying around would take a while, so I figured having Helios with me for warping was necessary. In fact, I could establish a few preliminary cities around major population centers before starting the operation. The warp centers and Schema's shops could help the teams travel faster and manage supplies. I could also model what and how I wanted this done.

Once established, I'd start taking in talent with assigned Speakers for different places. Leaving a stockpile of earnable rings and artifacts in the cities would be the icing on top. With my guild members in each city, we could communicate with our guild messaging. If anything went awry, I could be there in moments.

Income would pour in, and I could buy a ton of obelisks. I'd send them to each city since communication would be vital. We'd need a thousand golems and guild members helping out for the plan to work. I'd sweep to the largest population centers before we all dished out help in more rural areas.

It seemed like a reasonable plan and utilized my guild's full potential. In fact, I could get a reference sheet for the most populated areas pre-Schema. With it, I could send a golem-guildmate team, or GGT, per million people on the given site. Detroit would get ten GGTs, while Lansing would get about two.

It seemed like a reasonable plan for now.

Before moving on, my extra psyches inspected my different status screens while I toiled. I might be missing something they'd find. They handled that while I returned to my current task - making the amulets for everybody. These artifacts ensured my guildmates' safety while I left, letting them go anywhere without worry.

Well, without my worry, that is. After watching Obolis's downfall, I couldn't help but find myself in a similar place. He founded his empire and jumpstarted his species' prosperity, but he hoarded his gifts. Because he never took the time to fully arm those close to him, he lost everyone. I wouldn't be caught dead in the same position.

That's why I would take this moment to ensure my people's safety. It was why I spent so much time on Mt. Verner, even as people died halfway across the globe. I was being selfish, and I couldn't deny that. But if I lost someone because I was conquering a territory instead of protecting them, it would kill me on the inside.

To stop that, I pulled out a dozen blue cores, rotating them above me like a solar system of glowing Neptunes. Taking out my list of deserving guild members, I popped my grimoire out of my dimensional storage. I opened it and faced the cipheric carving I jotted down while Hod trained with Torix. I had a hundred-plus pages to reference.

It was time to deck my guild out.
