“No, you don’t.” Wess said to Erick, “Your welcome is strained, and will only be approved again if we get results. So let’s get those results.”

“Yes!” Clarice said, “Let’s go to floor 5.”

Erick sighed a little, as he turned around and walked out of the room, saying, “Floor 2 is where most people spend their time in this dungeon, therefore the most obvious places to check for signs of habitation are in floor 2. I know I wouldn’t want to move bases constantly, so I would stick around where people were most likely to fail for a long time.”

Clarice and Wess walked beside and behind Erick, with Clarice saying, “That’s probably a dead end.”

“Why do you say that?” Erick asked, as he turned a corner and took the more direct route to the outside of the mountain. “And I need a real answer, not just ‘because that doesn’t get me what I want’. Logically, if we’re looking for Riamites, then floor 2 is where most of them are, and everyone runs away from the main forces on that floor. I checked, and no one but me has full-cleared the place in 5 years, and that was only because this place was still stabilizing 5 years ago, and less dangerous than it is today.”

Clarice had been about to refute Erick, but then Erick kept talking, and now she wasn’t sure how to tell him he was wrong. So she said, “You’re wrong. Let’s go to the fifth floors.”

Wess sighed, and said, “We’ve done all of this searching before, and we even have people out there right now, looking into various locations. We’ve had people in the second floors before, and they never turned up anything or anyone. Personally, I think they’re in the monster floors.”

Erick shook his head. “Nope. Not there. Too dangerous; too many monsters always shifting hunting grounds, always looking for the best prey, or running from larger prey, or testing themselves against larger prey. Nope. Not there.” He asked, “Besides? You already have people searching there?”

“… We do,” Wess said.

“I’m not interested in searching where the Inquisitors are already searching.” Erick reached the balcony that led to the outside world. With the dark light coming down from all around, illuminating the golden sea ahead and the silver mountain underfoot, Erick held out a hand and channeled some mana from his core into his palm, hoping to cast a smaller version of [Cascade Imaging]. Something that would just pop up a light and a direction, and which he could use to still pretend at this ‘Ashes’ persona for longer. Lightning sparked under his skin, damaging him instead of escaping out into the world. He hummed. “Expected, but not altogether impossible to overcome.”

Clarice huffed a small laugh, then said, “You can cast normally if you’re near the Dark, where the tide has cleared away the golden sea. It’s dangerous as fuck and I’m not following you out there, but it works.”

“I won’t be doing that,” Erick said, as he held up his hand again. Light flickered again, and this time Erick twisted his aura in some further internal magic, to maybe light up a finger when he pointed in the right direction to the nearest person that was over ten meters away— Lightning crackled and broke. Blood spilled. Erick shook his hand out as his flesh slowly knit, thanks to his Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation]. “Hmm.”

Erick had another idea.

He held up his staff, and asked, “Do you know where the demonic killers are?”

The not-gold staff glowed a little. And then did nothing.

Clarice smirked behind her armor as she stepped forward, saying, “Let’s just run around the place and keep our senses open. It’s just Sighting what? Like 30,000 square kilometers of space? Might take a few days if we’re running as fast as we can, and Sighting just as fast. Two weeks for triple searching, to account for mundane hiding techniques.”

Wess said, “There are around 25,800 square kilometers of backroads ‘coastline’, in and around every floor. Most of that is around 400 meters wide, but some places between confluences of multiple floors are much larger.” He held out a hand and a ring came to life in his palm, displaying a map of the local area, like the one they had seen back in the map room here and the map room in the control room. It was cruder, though, and by a lot. “I will be tracking our progress, you two with the mana sense to Sight these sorts of things will be doubling up on the search pattern. We will be going around every floor twice. We will head to the more likely places first.” He looked to both Erick and Clarice, saying, “Unless you two wish to stop with the lies, and actually cast some real Scanning Magics that might narrow down our searching locations.”

Erick wanted to just cast a proper spell, but… he had actually tried. Wess seemed to think Erick was lying about his ability.

… Erick should probably keep up that lie.

“I’m sure that it won’t take us two weeks to search the whole place,” Erick said.

Clarice stepped to the edge of the balcony, where a low railing stopped people from just walking off. She cast her gaze across the land, then playfully looked to Erick. “How deep do you want to go into the Dark?”

Erick wondered at that for a moment, as he stared out at the golden sea, and at the deeper Dark, far away, lapping at the gold like a black ocean. It had been a very long time since he had needed to actually search for anyone or anything. With Ophiel, he could have searched this whole place within a few hours. With [Cascade Imaging] he could have searched it within minutes.

He had tried to manually cast [Cascade Imaging] inside his hand; to overcome the magical restrictions of the Glittering Depths through ingenuity and power. It hadn’t worked. But, even if it had worked, would it work down here? Likely not. There were too many oddities inside this dungeon space to believe all of what an Imaging could show, not to mention the layered, thick ground would have been hell to punch through with radio waves.

Erick had expected all of that, though.

He had two more things to try, and while one of them would work in a basic sort of way, and likely be useless, the other was a [Far Bolt] of a different sort, and not one he wanted to use lightly. But a little bit of Wizardry might work well.

So Erick relaxed his core. White light began to flow out of his body, illuminating him from within. He infused his words with intent, white glows flickering at the back of his throat—

Clarice rapidly lost her smile as she stepped away, fast. Wess realized that Erick was doing something odd at that very same moment. He backed away, slowly and surely.

—and Erick spoke, “If I’m on some sort of Benevolent Path, then show me the way toward finding the Path in here. Help me end a war before it can begin.”

- - - -

The floating screen of the control room did not capture what Kinder felt, as he watched Ashes open his mouth, revealing a pit of light, there on that balcony of the Workshop.

It was as though an unnoticed current in an unknown river changed directions. A shiver came and went, revealing a depth to Kinder’s soul that wasn’t there before.

And then the shift passed.

The dungeon reasserted its power. The river returned to its course, the dark retreated from the golden shores. The Core of the Glittering Depths remained untouched.

Kinder breathed out, took a moment to compose himself as his heart beat way, way too fast, and then muttered, “Damned dragons.”

- - - -

Erick watched the world as his words passed into the air, his core cooled, and an inner light faded back to normal levels of calm.

… And nothing happened.

Erick frowned a little, his eyebrows coming together, as he said, “Well that’s… Not what I expected.”

Clarice chuckled. “No worries! It happens to everyone eventually!”

“Don’t do that again, Ashes,” Wess said, “Or else this partnership is over and you’re banished from these lands. Promise me you won’t do that again.”

“I’d love to promise you that, but I have better sense than to lie to you.” Erick went to the edge of the balcony, and stepped off the side. Wind caught his lower body, gently lowering him to the mountainside, as he called out behind him, “Come on then! Let’s get a move on!”

Clarice hopped over the edge, following fast. “But where are we going?”

Wess caught up.

Erick landed on the ground, where the gold ocean touched the silver mountain. “The Inquisitors have already investigated everywhere of interest and they continue to do so, but illusions are stronger down here than they are anywhere else on Veird, so we’re going to investigate everything all over again. Just once over, though, and on the outside tracks, around the floors. None of the interior spaces that people actually move through sometimes.” Erick said, “We’ll start at the spaces around the second floors, because like Mariia said, people probably aren’t sticking around in the backroads all the time, and like I said, the second floor is usually open the longest of all the floors. It’s the best place to hide with fellow Riamites and then leave when the floor closes.” Erick finished, looking to Wess.

And Wess reluctantly said, “This fact has already been considered, but it would be one of the better places to check first. We might as well.”

Clarice shrugged. “We can steal some blue tabards from some elites in there and make ourselves blend in.”

“Or red tabards, and try not to draw the attention of whoever is delving those zones, as we blend in with the Riamites,” Erick said.

Clarice objected, “No. They’ll recognize us as non-Riamites. You can’t just blend in with the NPCs; they notice you for you, unless you’re using actual Illusion Magics.”

Erick was about to object, to say that he had heard that people had had success with blending in—

Wess said, “Or we do none of that, and simply remain hidden all the time.” He looked to the air. “Control room. List the currently-open second floors, and their status.”

Words appeared in the air.

Second Floor #1, delvers: 3, elapsed time: 1d:3h, estimate to completion: 18d:12h

Second Floor #2, delvers: 5, elapsed time: 7d:18h, estimate to completion: never, currently unoccupied

Second Floor #3, delvers: 2, elapsed time: 5d:10h, estimate to completion: 21d:0h, currently unoccupied

Second Floor #4, delvers: 7, elapsed time: 1d:6h, estimate to completion: never

Second Floor #5, delvers: 3, elapsed time: 19d:4h, estimate to completion: never, currently unoccupied, scheduled for sublimation

Second Floor #6, delvers: 2, elapsed time: 18d:8h, estimate to completion: never, scheduled for sublimation

. . .

Second Floor #36, delvers: 4, elapsed time: 4d:7h, estimate to completion: 16d:12h, currently unoccupied

Second Floor #37, delvers: 2, elapsed time: 10d:8h, estimate to completion: never

“Wow,” Erick said, “That’s a lot of floors.”

Clarice said, “Most of the Glittering Depths is dedicated to the Blasted Plains, but it’s quite odd to see so many ‘never’s in there. Even the Endless Depths aren’t that large because those floors rise and fall out of the Dark when they’re needed.”

Wess ignored Erick and Clarice as he looked over the floating text. He determined, “Number 4 as a good bet, or 8, or 17. All of them just started, and all of them looked to never complete, which means that the people chose to fight the Riamites and have proven ineffectual, and they had a tough time doing floor 1.”

“Why not number 1 or 3?” Erick asked, “Or any of the other ones that look to complete in 20ish days?”

Clarice looked over the very tall list, as she said, “Those parties must be trying to escape to the Mountain. An invader setting up shop in there would stretch the dungeon interior too much to account for the vast distances between real delvers… Even if all the floors are pretty much internal infinities anyway.”

“Stretching leads to problems?” Erick asked.

“Mostly in the form of a floor-wide warning,” Wess said, “Which would alert the delvers that there were more people in there with them.”

Erick almost gasped as he realized something, but he did not. He kept silent.

For he had cleared floor 2, and was prepared to stay there for a month to play around with meta-artifacts. But Kinder had stepped in and guided Erick onward to Utopia? Had there been invaders in that dungeon instance with him?

… Had Kinder known?

Had he rescued Erick from the invaders? Or had he thought Erick was one of the invaders?

“So #4, #8, and #17, are good options,” Erick said, moving on, “Lead the way, Wess. The long way around, if you could, avoiding any known Inquisitor locations. No need to double-up search patterns, of course.”

Wess looked to Erick. “… Of course.”

And then Wess took off through the golden wheat fields, the air around him bending hard as he soared across the plains.

Erick followed, stepping on the wheat, his wind-covered boots barely disturbing the heavy stalks of grain underfoot as he followed Wess across Atunir’s discount heaven, tapping his way across the gold ocean. Clarice gave chase, proving herself even more graceful than Erick, and not even needing to lay a silver boot on the grains underfoot. She just flew.

As the three of them moved a great wind followed in their wake, sending waves of golden grain rippling under the black sky.

- - - -

The black sky touched the golden sea only half a kilometer away, with barely a touch of empty land between the two. That not-sky arched overhead, and if Erick were to leap up, he would touch it, and surely be disintegrated. Even Jane never truly survived the Dark, when she and her teams killed dungeon cores and were ejected into the black. Those spaces were like jumbled Reality imposed upon the utter blackness that was the True Dark, and dungeons didn’t instantly vanish when their cores were broken.

But the Dark at the edge of these Glittering Depths was actual Dark. Nothing survived that.

Erick followed the path of gold through the black, keeping his mana sense open on his surroundings.

The landscape gradually changed.

- - - -

Erick slowed down, and when he did, he sunk into the wheat.

White cliffs 500 meters tall rose ahead, and then rose again above that first layer. And then again and again. It was a massive cake of white cliffs, layered up and down, invisible from this angle for the curve of Dark overhead obscured the higher floors, as though this was an Underworld land, and all of the Glittering Depths were merely inside a cave. To the right, the backroads descended, angling down beside the outer edge of the floors ahead, while to the left, the backroads ascended, leading up to the floor above, and then the floor above that one as well.

