The largest layer of the Gem Dungeon was just below the real-world surface, stretching out in every direction for a hundred kilometers, and fading at the edges. This layer was Utopia, and if Erick was correct, then Utopia lay just below the golden sea of wheat outside the Workshop. If Erick were to somehow get through the ground there, he would have fallen through the sky of the main city of the Glittering Depths.

Piles of layers held here and there on that central layer, rising up, or descending; colored blue or red. Yellow roads lay everywhere around every floor, and at the edges of the yellow lands lay black edge; pure death; the Dark Itself. The whole map was surrounded by a faint blackness.

Imara slapped the surface of the silver map pillar, saying, “This is the Glittering Depths! And it’s the size of Greensoil itself! You’re never going to find your quarry, and that’s IF they’re out there in the backroads, which is a big ‘if’. Personally I doubt it, and I don’t care to help you at all, but I will, if you give me what I want!”

Erick already had a few ideas of how to trivialize this search, but one of those ideas was to use [Cascade Imaging] here in the dungeon, which would give his true nature as Erick away. So he decided to humor the woman, “And what do you want?”

Imara demanded, “From Clarice, I want your secret of [Illusion Rend]! From Ashes, I want your secret of [True Sight] in a manaless atmosphere!” She chuckled. “I have had such a difficult time understanding both of Clarice’s powers, but now that I have you both where I want you, I don’t have to choose! So tell me, little dragons! Tell me your secrets!”

Clarice answered, “Wizardry.”

Erick answered, “Wizardry.”

Imara exclaimed, “Dammit!”

Wess said, “Let us move on.”

“Bah!” Imara said, “I tire of this intrigue. Mariia! You’re up.”

Without further words, Imara walked away, her cane tapping against the not-stone ground.

… Well okay then, Erick thought.

And a Marii, from the second floor, walked away from the side of the room to stand near the projection. She looked a lot different from the last time Erick had seen her— or rather, seen one of her kind. This Marii’s right side had been caught in some sort of explosion, and though she had mostly healed from the blast, her red hair only hung down her left side of her head, and faint scars marred all of the right side of her body.

Mariia spoke with a clear voice, “Imara is the oversight of this location, and we tolerate her, but I’m the actual boss, and loyal to both Atunir and Greensoil.” Mariia said, “And you’re never going to find anyone through the backroads. The Inquisitors tried and failed tens of times, with a much larger search party than three people. This map right here is just kept so that we can keep track of where people are testing magics in the backroads so we don’t run into each other. The map here has no [Scan]ing functionality like the map in the control rooms, and even that one doesn’t do much more than this one. That said: We will strive to assist you in any way you desire. How can the Workshop be of assistance?”

When Imara spoke, Erick had thought her a little insane, but Mariia seemed a lot more normal; he was glad for the change.

Erick said, “I’m aware of the [Scan]ing inadequacies of the maps, but that’s not why I’m here. Honestly, if Imara would accept a [Reincarnation] that wasn’t pointed toward her attempting to inflame the Quiet War, then the Wizard would accept her offer of teaching mana crystal magics in exchange for a [Reincarnation]. That goes for everyone here, by the way. Candlepoint is open for immigration, but not for war of any kind—”

Mariia gasped ever so slightly.

“Ashes,” Wess said, as a warning.

Erick ignored Wess, and continued, “I mainly came here to check out what was happening here at the Workshop and to make some new connections, before moving on into the backroads to find whoever might be killing nobles and using all of that yellow space as a base of operations. I’d love a tour of the Workshop and to learn more about mana crystals, and all that.”

Mariia nodded, then said, “If you’re going to be exploring out there then you should know that as long as you’re in the wheat, then you’re not in danger of falling off the path, into the Dark.” She touched a part of the silver projector, and some silver dots appeared in the center of the projection. “This is where we’re at, and where the nearest teams of meta-item testers are located in the near backroads.” She slowly swiped her hand across the edge of the table, giving visual clues to what she was really doing, which was using her aura deep in the construct, according to what Erick could See. The map zoomed in and showed the four silver islands, and the nearest 20-ish kilometers of yellow backroads, along with an edge of black to the south that wasn’t really there at all. “This is the Workshop and the Representative Edge, located in the center of the dungeon. That fourth island is the lighthouse, which keeps an eye on the edge, and tells us when nearby dungeons press against the Glittering Depths, and then the Inquisitors go out and kill those dungeons. That island is property of the Viridian Throne, and we don’t use it.

“This island you’re on now is the first of the four islands, and this is the main project zone.

“The second and third islands are residential. They have some permanent connections to Utopia on the third island, but those are well-guarded; only known people get through there. Anyone who asks the dungeon for a direct line goes through that platform you took; it’s far enough away and visible enough that we can safely bombard that location, if bombardment should prove necessary to combat an incursion.” Mariia said, “And that’s the quick tour. Anywhere you want to see in particular?”

“The metamond creation rooms,” Erick added, “If they’re not simple mana chambers. Basically, if you have any special mana crystal creation locations, I want to see them. And also books on the subject; what you have found, etcetera. What’s the difference between interior-infinite mana crystals, like the metamonds you make in a chamber, as opposed to exterior-expanding mana crystals, like how they usually are? And how did you decide to make that shift? How did you think of that option, to go interior instead of exterior, and what sorts of repercussions has this had?”

Mariia paused for a moment, and then she grinned a little. “Mana is possibility and that means that everything external can be made internal with no loss of functionality, because we demand it to be that way. It does take some doing to get it— Well. I should start earlier than that. How it looked to me, when I was in the dungeon, was that I worked for 30 years of my life, trying to make mana crystals easier to use, while using theoretical and proven models created under 110 years of previous works, made by Resistance leaders and skilled artisans like the Summoner. All of that work was kinda trash compared to my understanding of the process now, here on Veird, where people actually share their knowledge of magic widely.

“They say that mana is possibility, but the truth is more nuanced than that, for possibility must be created at least once in order to be created again. When the Wizard made Benevolence; that was a major creation. But now, anyone can use Benevolence to make any matter of Benevolence-based spellwork; mostly [Renew] magics, these days. Node Networks and buffing magics, and all that.” Mariia said, “Anyway: In the past, the Old Cosmology had a certain inertial weight to it that kept it going forward and in mostly the same configuration, so that sort of stuff didn’t really happen. Even making new magics out of old magics was much harder… But that’s a philosophical issue, truly. People didn’t share their shit at all back then, so maybe that’s why we never had much innovation? Either way, it was extremely difficult to make internally-infinite mana crystals in the Old Cosmology. But we could still do it.

“But here in the New Cosmology, under the Dark, and in the Light of Atunir, where She has delivered us unto a new life in a land where that internally-infinite possibility is already known… All it took here was almost the flipping of a switch; of treading a path already well-worn by the weight of history. Now anyone can simply invert a mana crystal to make a metamond, as you have already found out.

“There’s no actual difference between the two types of crystals.

“Internally-infinite and externally expanding mana crystals are exactly the same, but the internal ones don’t take up more and more space as they grow, and they can be insulated from outside-influence and change a lot easier. Those are the main differences between the two, and why we chose to make internal mana crystals in the first place.”

“… Huh.” Erick said, “What you’re saying makes it sound like Dungeon Magic had nothing to do with the metamonds; they just allowed an old magic to shine through the Dark.”

“Exactly!” Mariia smiled as she said, “Dungeon Magic was the starting point for the meta-artifacts, but that start has blossomed into the power of Endless Delvers like Clarice, and then there’re the Iron Bandits, pushing past floor 230. The spells of the people here are so much more than I ever envisioned back there in my previous life. And now we have people making these Dungeon Magic-supported items real, like the staff you’ve made, and like that amulet of yours, too. I’m not sure you understand just how rare of an accomplishment that is, but trust; it’s rare. And now that you’ve made one true meta-artifact on accident and one on purpose, I’m rather sure you can make many more.”

Erick thought for a second, then said, “Well that’s interesting… So the controlled growth and space concerns are all that make metamonds truly special… But by that same token, metamonds are able to be altered a lot easier, too? Like if a mana crystal is corrupted by an odd shift in Intent-based growth, then you can discard that growth —either through chipping or carving that growth away— and work with what you already have, to try and grow it again. But with a metamond, if a corruption occurs, then the entire thing is changed. Like when you take a basic [Fire Bolt] metamond and add in [Water Bolt], to make [Steam Bolt], you can’t work with the [Fire Bolt] ever again; you have to make a new one of those.” Erick said, “It’s hard to unbake a cake.”

“Correct again!” Mariia said, “On the whole, though, metamonds are easier to use than mana crystals, because a mana crystal can easily outgrow its initial parameters and mutate into something else entirely, but metamonds don’t do that. As long as a metamond isn’t exposed to a high-mana environment, then the diamond-like barrier of the metamond will not interact with any other solid-mana spellwork. It’s like… You can take an ice cube anywhere you want in a blizzard, and the ice will stay the same, but when you move to a hot room you better be careful, or the metamond can deform.” She shrugged. “It’s the same with mana crystals, really, but mana crystals can be trimmed more easily, to prune off bad growth. You generally have to break a metamond if it goes bad.”

Erick began—

Wess interrupted, “Please, Ashes. Let us continue with the investigation.”

Clarice scowled at the inquisitor, for she too had been heavily interested in Mariia’s words.

Erick refrained from scowling at Wess, as he said, “I suppose there’s plenty of time to come back and play with mana crystals in a proper laboratory environment, if you would have me here for a while?”

“Of course!” Mariia said, “We welcome House Benevolence into the auspices of Atunir.”

Erick smiled a little at that, and moved on. He gestured to the map. “Is that map better than the one in the control room?”

“No, it is not,” Wess answered for Mariia. “We can query the control room for an update on our surroundings when we’re out there in the backroads, but we must actually be at those surroundings before they can scan our locations.”

Mariia nodded at Wess’s answer. “We have good coverage of the nearest tens of kilometers, but nothing past that.”

Erick asked Mariia, “Any suggestions for where to look?”

Wess frowned because he was a stick in the mud, as far as Erick could tell.

Mariia raised an eyebrow in surprise, then said, “I don’t think anyone would want to live in the backroads at all. They’re stable locations, but the dark tide does shift now and then, and rather unpredictably, too. So look in the low-mana areas instead; Those lands are the only places where people could actually hide with effective Illusion spellwork. But since you have Clarice and your own [True Sight] magic with you, those areas should prove easier to search.”

Clarice piped up, “Which is why we should go invade the fifth floors! The Ritual.”

“Yes yes,” Erick said, “We’re getting there, Clarice—” Erick paused as he looked to Clarice, and then to Wess. Clarice’s ability to [True Sight] through mana-less zones had been known for a long time. So… “Why didn’t you two work together before? To search those areas?”

Clarice laughed, then said, “Because people die for real in the backroads, and I wasn’t going anywhere with any Inquisitor at all, especially when Riamites were involved.”

Because she was a distrustful hermit, Erick heard and understood.

Wess frowned. “Every time some unauthorized person finds their way back here they die, and the dungeon masters get blamed for it. It led to legal battles among the nobility, and so, years ago, we decided not to allow anyone back here at all, and anyone who does get back here is on their own.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Distrust, all the way around. Reinforced distrust, too.”

Mariia spoke up, “If you stick next to the edges of the floors, and stay away from the dark tide, then it’s not that dangerous to be down here. But yes; this is a liminal space. It’s not safe at all. If there are people down here then they’re likely ducking into floors when the floors are occupied, and then not sticking around when the floors are closing and being reset.”

Erick smiled a little bit at that. “Thank you, Mariia. That’s very helpful, actually.”

Mariia blushed—

“Ha!” Clarice laughed harshly. “I thought you had a boyfriend.”

Mariia scowled.

And Erick rolled his eyes. “What the fuck, Clarice. Come on. Let’s go. It was nice to meet you, Mariia. I’ll be back later, if you’ll have me.”

Mariia’s anger vanished as she said, “We welcome House Benevolence back to the Glittering Depths whenever—”

