The floors themselves were well-secured in the Dark by those stone-like edges to them, but the ocean of golden wheat under Erick’s boots was barely a meter and a half deep, with Darkness probably a meter below that, under the not-stone backroads. This whole place was more Reality than reality; an imposition on the Dark, made by the dungeon core, and allowed to exist at the Dark’s whims.

Erick put on a smile. “So which one is number 4?”

“Is that the one we’re going with?” Clarice said, as she gazed upward.

“Even floors above, odd floors below.” Wess pointed at the floor ahead of them, and then pointed up, then down, then up again, as he said, “One, two, three, four. We only have to go up two levels.”

“Sounds good. How do we get in, though? Through the walls? Can we go through the wheat floor, into the sky of instance four, from above?” Erick asked, “How does that work?”

Wess said, “You have to enter the floor from the wheat field. You duck down and then walk into the wall, and beyond. You’ll end up on the floor, near a patch of golden wheat near a safe zone, near a white pillar about four meters tall. To exit the floor, you have to call for a dungeon exit, and then you’ll end up on the entrance floor. Or you get back to that field of golden wheat, and then you duck down to fully submerge, and walk into the white pillar, in order to exit that floor and end up back here, in the backroads. You can’t exit or enter a floor any other way; all that white stone is stone, until you enter properly.”

A different way to do it than most, but if it worked, it worked. That would also neatly explain why, when Erick turned his All-Seeing Eye up, all he saw was either stone or Darkness ahead; no Second Floor at all.

Wind and curved light swirled around Erick, as he stepped back on to the top of the golden wheat. “Let’s circle all the way around and get on top of the fourth instance, too. I want to check out everything on every level.” Erick guesstimated the size of the floor, asking, “It might take a few hours?”

Clarice rushed forward, saying, “Less than an hour.”

Wess followed, with Erick taking up the rear.

As Erick ran around the sides of the floor, with the cliffs on his right and the Dark on his left, he watched for anything unusual in the wheat. After twenty minutes of nothing, he looked up, and the full majesty of the stacked floors appeared beyond a curve in the Dark sky.

“It really does look like cake stacked high,” Erick said, over the whistling wind.

Clarice laughed. “That’s what I thought, too!”

- - - -

An hour later, they had circled all of the fourth instance of the Second Floor, both below, and above.

“Nothing,” Clarice said, as they stopped near where they started. She looked up. “They might not even be in there. We should just go to the fifth floors.”

“There are quite fewer fifth floors active at any one time,” Wess said, standing in the golden wheat. “If they’re hiding on Floor Five, then they’re probably hiding on Floor Two, since that does make the most sense.”

“How large is the Second Floor?” Erick asked, “The absolute size?”

“The exterior is only a 10 kilometer radius, 500 meter height,” Clarice said, “But the interior is a few thousand kilometers across. Large enough for a month-long chase through the woods between the Plains and the Mountain.”

“Is that Spatial compression? Or what?” Erick asked.

Clarice said, “Just Fairy Magic.”

“If you don’t know then that’s fine, but lies are less than helpful.”

Clarice laughed.

Wess said, “Clarice is not lying; it’s Fairy Magic. But it’s also the divine magic of both Atunir and the Dark, and it doesn’t actually get that large before warning messages of distances start appearing for the delvers inside.” He moved on. “Are we going in?”

“Yes,” Erick said, “Let’s go in.”

Wess did not hesitate as he walked forward, to where the golden wheat grew directly against the white cliff wall. He flicked aura control though his armor, and the green enamel vanished momentarily, leaving silver in its wake. Another half moment passed, and his armor turned blue.

Clarice did something to her own armor, but mostly to her silver cloak. Brilliant blue, deep as the ocean, cascaded down her back.

Erick was the only one without clothing-color magic. … Which was an oversight on his part, he guessed. Clarice had spoken about taking some blue garb from the bodies inside, so that if they met the delvers the delvers wouldn’t attack them on sight, but apparently that was not necessary.

Wess said, “There are seven delvers in this area. They will not be passing this floor because they’re too focused on trying to kill the Riamite camps, which appears to be impossible for them. It would be highly rude to interrupt their delve, so we try to stay out of their sights. No doubt the demonic killers would do the same, since if they did interrupt the delve they would be spotted by the control room. The control room should be focused on this instance now, but they don’t see anything there, or else they would have messaged us by now. They must not have seen anything while we were out here searching the backroads, too, but they can’t actually see everything. This is why it is up to us to go inside.” He looked to Erick. “I assume you want to visit the main Riamite encampment in the destroyed Plains base?”

Erick smiled, saying, “That’s exactly right! If the demonic killers are Riamite, then it makes sense for them to hide in the largest Riamite zone in the lands.”

“I’m not convinced,” Clarice said. “Once an NPC becomes real, they aren’t welcome in the lands where they were born; a realized Riamite would have just as much trouble with an NPC Riamite as we would. It’d be like they were delvers, dressing up as Riamites, and having their disguise seen through anyway.”

Erick said, “Even so. They’re in here just as much as they could be anywhere else. So we’re going in.”

Clarice shrugged.

Wess ducked down under the golden wheat, his voice vanishing slowly as he said, “We go and investigate for ourselves...”

And then he was gone from Erick’s senses. Just like that.

Erick went, “Well then. That really is how you get into the dungeons, eh?”

Clarice said, “We could purposefully lose him now. Head to the fifth floors.”

“… Nah.” Erick ducked down under the wheat and walked forward on all fours. His Rod of the Lightning Guardian and staff clunked against the ground, as dense wheat filled his vision. “Let’s just go…”

Erick’s voice and everything seemed to slip away from him as the world transformed to all his senses.
