Arthur knew then that these were people who had the same unique problems as he did. Brixaby was a strong personality and could—and sometimes did—run roughshod over his retinue. Arthur did what he could, and on the draconic end, Sams seemed to know how to deal with him. But that was mostly because Sams was older, wiser, and so much larger than Brixaby.

Brixaby was closing every one of those gaps.

Arthur had also noticed that he had been more pensive than usual. Upset about having to gain new forging equipment for his larger size, worried about what the Call of Life meant for him. Arthur thought that part of it was him maturing, but what if he had completely missed a deeper layer of unhappiness? One that Brixaby didn’t realize he was feeling, himself?

He remembered how eagerly Brixaby had taken the wild dragons from Wolf Moon and how deftly he had managed those Purples when they had been Wing Captains.

That aside, he realized he needed more retinue riders to represent himself and Brixaby in future eruptions. No, he needed more retinue riders now to deal with Rowantree estate.

All of this passed through his mind in a flash. Meanwhile, Ismael was still speaking. “Legendaries tend to be strong-willed, and the ones that aren’t are fairly stupid.”

“Like Whitaker’s beast,” Rose said with a mean little smile behind her wine glass. “But that may be why he picked Whitaker.”

“To circle back to the point, Arthur, you need a strong retinue,” Ismael said.

“Not those hatchlings,” the man from Worm Moon grumbled.

“Those are my riders,” Arthur warned. “I’m not getting rid of them, and I’m not taking in Rares from other hives.” These people were playing nice right now, but that was a guaranteed way to bring spies close.

Ismael smiled like he had passed a test.

Unexpectedly, Hale spoke up. He seemed to be a man of few words and had kept mostly quiet during this conversation. “No one is suggesting that. We’re saying make them stronger.”

“With cards?” Arthur asked, silently thinking of that empty library. Curse Chester.

“Well, that, too. But those babies of yours need to grow up. That’s where I can help.” Then to Arthur’s shock, he casually flicked out a description of his card.

Like Sands Through The Hourglass

Utility/ Spatial

Legendary

The wielder of this card will be able to create a medium-sized pocket dimension that will either run faster or slower than current time on a log base 5 scale, depending on the wielder’s will and rank of sacrifice shard. The wielder will have complete control over who is allowed to enter or exit this space, and may enter or exit at will. This card is able to create multiple pocket spaces, however each space will require its own sacrifice to create and run. This card does not use mana and instead runs off sacrificed shards, which are immediately powered into an hourglass that is visible in the pocket dimension in place of a sun. Denizens inside may sacrifice one shard to the hourglass to maintain the integrity of the dimensional space. The wielder may make this sacrifice while outside the space. Note: Refresh rates are based on time inside the dimension, not outside.

Pocket dimension shard cost:

Common: 1 to open, 1 refresh every 5 hours.

Uncommon: 2 to open, 1 refresh every 25 hours.

Rare: 3 to open, 1 refresh every 125 hours.

Legendary: 4 to open, 1 refresh every 625 hours.

“It’s great for growing crops,” he said. “Snow Moon’s even more northern than Wolf Moon, and it can make the difference between having a meal or having ice to eat.” Full of good cheer, he winked at Arthur. “It’s even better for making hatchlings and their riders grow up fast. You interested?”

Outtake:

“But he surely took Chester’s card,” blurted one man.

“My dragon took his card,” Arthur said. It wasn’t quite an answer, but he didn’t feel the need to hide the fact.

The man’s expression darkened. “I hear your dragon likes taking cards.”

Arthur flicked on a pair of sunglasses. “It’s kind of his thing.”

Then, flipping the double-bird, he jumped backwards off the ledge. Brixaby caught him mid-air, and for some reason there were explosions right behind them. Neither looked back.
