There was a tall, board fence at the end of the alley. Penn leapt, got one hand on the top, and launched himself over. When he landed on the far side, he crouched there, listening. He heard the slap of Haley hitting the wall and saw the inspector’s fingers curl over the end of the boards.

Ryce groaned, got up, and kept running.

“You know, you never thank me for all this training I’m giving you,” he yelled.

“Shut up, Penn!”

“I thought I ran slower when I talked.”

Two streets further, Penn turned into another alley and staggered to a halt. If it was death or prison, he’d take prison; he needed to breathe. Haley stopped at the end of the alley to keep him from escaping. The thief was relieved to see the inspector was bent over, one hand on his thigh, and gasping almost as much as he was.

Ryce hobbled two steps closer. “Look, I thought we might be able to talk about this murder of yours.”

“No!”

“All right! All right. Fox and hound then. Our favorite game.”

“Stay out of this. I finally have a crime I can prove you weren’t involved in—for the love of god, leave it alone!”

“That doesn’t make any sense at all. If I’m not harassing you, then that means I’m out stealing something, and we can’t have that! It’d distract you from your investigation.”

“Then don’t steal anything!”

“I’ve considered the option. It doesn’t appeal to me.”

Haley leaned back against the wall and closed his eyes for a moment.

Penn approached by another two steps. The only thing between them was an old metal hitching post. The thief leaned back as well.

“Haley, do you smoke?”

“No. I have to chase you.”

For a few seconds, the only sound in the alley was heavy breathing.

“What about you, Penn?”

“No. I have to run from you.”

There was the sound of out-of-breath laughter.

Haley looked at the thief. “Do you have any other enemies I need to know about?”

“If you mean dangerous ones, I don’t think so. You took care of most of them for me last night. Thank you, by the way.”

“Taking out Farnham was my pleasure.” The inspector hesitated before muttering, “Thank you for getting Lady Serrs out safely.”

“Oh, no,” Penn said. “That you don’t have to thank me for. It was my fault she was there, and I would never have forgiven myself if she was hurt.”

“She was hurt.”

“I know.”

As the silence stretched on, Penn glanced at his adversary.

Haley was gazing at him with a bemused look on his face. “Why are you a criminal?”

The thief shrugged. “Probably for the same reason you’re a policeman.”

“Because you believe in upholding the law?”

“Ah. Well, no. I thought you did it because it was exciting.”

Haley stood away from the wall and turned to Penn. “All right. Rest time is over. I’m placing you under arrest—”

“You’re trying to place me under arrest,” Penn said as they faced off.

Haley put his hand under his jacket and pulled out a set of handcuffs. They were already open and set to spring.

They went for each other at the same time.

Haley swung with the fist holding the handcuffs. When Penn dodged, the inspector used his other hand to grab the thief’s wrist. Penn twisted out of it and wrapped his arm around Haley’s elbow. The inspector moved closer to prevent the thief from hyper-extending his joint. That brought him close enough to land an uppercut in Penn’s side. The thief winced. Haley used the moment to get one side of the handcuffs on Penn’s wrist. Penn elbowed him in the chest and forced the already bound wrist into the other half of the cuffs. He turned so his back was at Haley’s chest and pressed the release catch to lock the cuff.

His triumphant laugh at having acquired a new set of iron bracelets was cut off when the inspector threw an arm around his neck. Penn shrugged his shoulders to toss Haley to the ground, but Haley wouldn’t let go. They both tumbled.

Penn, however, knew how to roll, and Haley’s leg hit the metal hitching post with enough force to make him cry out. The thief was on his feet and running before Haley could even get to his knees.

The inspector cussed as he scrambled to his feet. By the time he limped to the alley’s corner, Penn had disappeared. Haley leaned on the wall again and dropped the back of his head against the brick.
