He was certainly going to have nightmares about seeing so many empowered hellfire fireballs coming his way and the suffocating pain of nearly drowning in the lava ooze Ali had summoned to protect him. He had no idea how Ali thought up some of this stuff, but he couldn’t deny he was still alive – and he most certainly wouldn’t have been if he had taken all those fireballs at the same time. Still, having his face burnt off was not something he wanted to experience ever again.

Radiant Archery has reached level 33.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 38.Motes of Light has reached level 22 (+2).Explorer has reached level 34 (+4).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 25.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 26.Righteous Fury has reached level 21.Azrael's Wings has reached level 18.Mirage Armor has reached level 15 (+3).

Wow, Explorer advanced a lot. He hadn’t forgotten the message it had given him as he stepped through the threshold into the abyssal plane. He had been rewarded with a powerful Blessing of the Wanderer, an upgrade to his future patron blessings, and four skill levels for being in the first group of people to set foot on that particular plane, all under high-risk circumstances. Explorer was not a combat skill, and so it leveled differently than his other skills, however, it suited him perfectly – and if the blessing was anything to go by, it suited his patron deity perfectly too.

Skinning has reached level 8 (+3).

Oops, almost missed that one. Highly important. He smiled to see his skinning had grown so well. The Hellfire Wargs produced very valuable demonic hides, and the Flamecaller scales might be even more valuable – at least according to Malika. Although he may need to take them to Ciradyl to find a leatherworker sufficiently advanced to want to purchase them. With Ali and Malika on the team, they were never short on money to buy the potions he needed, but it felt good to be able to pay his own way.

I’m a gold-ranked adventurer. It slowly sunk in. He had reached level sixty, and that was a significant milestone no matter how you looked at it. He should be able to upgrade his guild ring tomorrow. It probably meant a rank upgrade at the Pathfinders Guild too.

“Oh, Calen, this is definitely for you,” Ali’s voice broke through his focus, as he glanced over with a start. Ali looked positively ridiculous trying to lug a bow that was over twice her size to where he sat; he got up quickly to help her with it.

“Is this what I think it is?” It wasn’t as if he could forget the sight of this powerful bow, even dormant without the hellfire wreath.

“Yup, I stored it when I deconstructed the boss. It had a pair of Flamecaller Bracers too, but it’s the same as the set you already had, so I gave that to Malika to sell.”

“Can you identify this for me?” he asked, and suddenly choked, coughing, and spluttering in surprise as the text appeared in his mind.

Howling Hellfire Bow – level 60A powerful recurve bow of exquisite construction. When triggered, this bow’s ability wreathes it in hellfire and causes a demonic howling when fired. Damage: Ranged, Physical, HellfireStamina: Attacks gain +20% additional damage as Hellfire.+15% to Attack speed.+2% of your damage is returned as Stamina over 30 seconds.This weapon will gain experience as you use it, up to +20 levels.Requirements: Dexterity 210, Strength 100Two Handed – Bow

“You ok?” Ali asked, with a mischievous grin.

“Yes,” he wheezed cheerfully, pretending to clutch his chest. “This thing is insane!” It truly was insane; it was no wonder the Demon Hunter had felt so powerful. Twenty percent more damage as hellfire whenever he chose. Attack haste and stamina leech. As if that wasn’t enough, the bow would level up – an enchantment he had been certain only existed in the storybooks.

“It is, rather,” Ali answered. “Malika said it’s worth a fortune.”

“I can’t use it, though,” Calen said, feeling the sudden pinch of disappointment as his eyes found the requirements. “I don’t have one hundred strength.”

“You just leveled to sixty, Mr. Gold-Rank Adventurer and Pathfinder,” Malika chimed in from the side, smacking his shoulder with a grin. “Or did you already spend your points on dexterity or something?”

Malika had been teasing him a bit more than normal lately, but he couldn’t help smiling as he realized he had sixty unspent attribute points. Immediately, he spent fifteen points bringing his strength attribute up to just above the amount needed to meet the bow’s requirements and then he picked it up, feeling the weight of the larger bow in his hands.

Ooh, that’s so… shiny! Yes, he was turning into Aliandra. Almost blushing at his wayward thoughts, he looked around, not finding anything to shoot, but Ali simply gestured toward the jungle and a neat slit appeared in the barrier, above the level of the oozes and the rivers of poison. The bow was a little larger than he would have preferred, but it would work. His wings flared from his back, and he flew up to the barrier.

He drew the bow, taking a moment to get a feel for how heavy it was in relation to his newly enhanced strength. Once he was ready, he conjured a single arrow and let it fly. The bow had a great sense of power, the craftsmanship was superb, and the balance in his hands was exquisite. The Vampire Hornet he shot out of the air spiraled down to be finished off by an uncountable number of oozes. He marveled at the unfamiliar sensation of stamina flowing into him from the bow, regained from the damage he had just unleashed.

And now for the real test. He conjured a flight of four arrows and activated the bow with his stamina. Instantly, a great flame of roaring black hellfire wreathed the bow, surprisingly not burning his hands. As he pulled the bowstring back, the hellfire infused his arrows, blending the burning black flame with a core of intense white light. He released the arrows, filling the library with the eerie howl that the Demon Hunter had created every time he fired. His arrows smashed into a demon with an echoing crash that shook the tree branches nearby.

Calen studied the bow in his hands with a newfound respect. Quickly, he distributed his remaining points, twelve each to dexterity and perception. Eleven to intelligence and five each to vitality and wisdom. Then he activated Righteous Fury, downed a mana potion, charged his arrows with Explosive Shot and extra light magic damage, and let loose thirty seconds of explosive force into the remnants of the demon horde. It was a rush wielding such a potent weapon, and to his amazement, everything he did was enhanced by hellfire, even the explosions were wreathed in black flame, and the extra damage from his Motes of Light was enhanced too. Throughout his assault, his stamina kept bouncing off full, refilled by the bow’s potent stamina leech enchant.

He turned to find the novices staring at him open-mouthed and wide-eyed.

“It looks good on you,” Mato said from where he was standing nearby. “I think Lyeneru would approve.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
