The wind whistled in my ears as I slowed my descent. Landing near them, I sprinted up towards Kessiah's injured. She looked up at me, pointing at the healed gialgathens behind her,

"Just take the Hybrid out of them. That's all you need to do."

I gave her a nod, and she refocused on healing wounds. I honed all my intents onto removing the Hybridized parts of them. This was a necessary adjustment. Ever since Polydra, the gialgathens we saved were more and more hybridized. This left fewer and fewer gialgathens alive after we got them back to Elderfire.

To counter this, we needed a more effective and less haphazard rehabilitation process. With a near factory line level of efficiency, we achieved just that.

We saved hundreds of them.

Moving from pit to pit, Kessiah and I burned through the injured gialgathens. We took a broad stroke approach, doing as much as was needed for the gialgathens to live. The healers behind cleaned up any missing parts we left behind. This high octane, rapid approach over doubled the speed of our healing.

Even better, the silvers that Torix controlled carried the healed back through the open portals. Of course, the enemy forces attempted stopping us, but we implemented yet another new strategy of Torix's making. This plan was simple yet stunning in its effectiveness.

It came in three parts. The first part needed aerial superiority, which we established instantly. With it, our gialgathen forces could comb the city and use their flames at a distance. This kept an appropriate distance from the flyers and the Hybrids. Distance meant the close combat capabilities of the Hybrids were a moot point.

The next part of the strategy involved tactical use of the silvers and Hybrids that Torix controlled. Given his inability to control an infinite amount of them at once, Torix regularly sent them to their deaths. He then conquered more forces as needed. This tactic reduced the enemy's troops on two fronts.

At the same time, this recycling wheel of new troops meant Torix never needed to control tens of thousands of individuals at once. It worked around his limitations, letting him focus on his other responsibilities. It also fed into the third part of the plan.

By creating chokepoints of controlled troops and enemy troops, Torix generated clusters of enemies. Given our gialgathens could see these clusters, they set fire to every monster fighting in them. This decimated entire legions of troops as a group of gialgathens passed above. It let them scorch the earth and all the enemies involved. Mitigating contact, this approach saved most of our forces.

All these factors culminated in a ruthless war machine. Three hours of well-oiled destruction passed. By then, Torix, Krog, Kessiah, and Schema's sent troops stood near Fausel's auditorium. We were moving out the last of the injured gialgathens through opened portals.

I walked up to them, dragging a Hybrid behind me. It reared back to life in my hands before I smashed its skull in my fingers. In front of me, Torix sent several messages a second. He controlled the troop's escape with an enviable serenity. There was no nervousness or doubt; Torix understood what was needed.

In many ways, the battle acted as a turning point for the necromancer. Several of the people gathered here doubted him in the past, Spear in particular. Watching Torix in his element could change even the most biased party, and that's precisely what happened.

The entire group looked at him differently, Spear and Krog, in particular. It was like they looked down on Torix before, and now they looked up at him. Subtle as that change was, it stuck out to me. Even Kessiah, a long-time friend, seemed moved by Torix's display of competence.

In fact, the only person that didn't look at him differently was me. The reason for that was obvious - I never lost faith in the guy in the first place. Stepping up, I held back a few 'I told you so's.' Before I could congratulate Torix, One of Schema's troops walked up. Staring at the lich with reverence, the faceless trooper saluted Torix,

"If I may sir, I wanted to say this was a slick operation. The Overseer said we'd be with the best of the best. He wasn't exaggerating."

Torix closed his status, staring at him for a moment,

"I merely gained the correct stage to showcase my talents...but thank you for the recognition."

Torix turned towards the destroyed city, "I must say, replicating this should prove feasible. In many ways, we've cracked the code for dismantling the Adiar's operations."

Spear glanced at the warp specialists then back to the lich, "Layering the portals in such a way...That was smart."

Spear and Torix locked eyes for a second. It was one of those stares where a conversation took place. To me, it looked like Spear ate a fresh, delicious slice of humble pie. Torix saw through this as well. Torix's blue eyes flared brighter as he looked down on the Sentinel.

For a trice, it looked like Torix was about to give Spear a lecture on respecting his elders. Before Torix did, the lich peered at me for a split second. Torix clenched one of his hands into a fist before letting it go. The ancient necromancer turned a palm to Spear,

"It's an idea I've used to mobilize my undead armies in the past. It would be impossible without your warps."

Torix turned towards the entire group,

"In essence, all of your talents culminated in our victory here today. Without each of you, this would've been impossible. As your commander, I wish to tell each of you that I could never have asked for a better fighting force."

Several of the people here cheered. I smiled at the guy, proud of him. Glancing above his status, I found he made progress. He deserved it.

Torix Worm, the Harbinger's Erudition(lvl 10,000)

Good feelings aside, we prepared to get out of here. Spear cleaved apart dimensions, and I pried it further apart. As we did, another portal opened in the distance. It was golden-hued, sending a chill up my spine. I turned towards everyone present,

"Enough chatter. Let's move."

Those here ran through the portal as Lehesion's mammoth claws sliced our dimension apart. His golden maw reached out, one of his eyes meeting my own. I turned around, giving him a wave of my hand as I stepped through the portal.

Like bandits, we got the hell out before the cavalry arrived. Our army amassed in the jungled dessert, I glanced at everybody. Everyone stared at me with expectation. Not wanting to let them down, I raised a hand and thundered,

"We won."

Simple as the words were, they carried a tangible impact. The gialgathens raised their heads, roaring out. Krog joined them, his entire demeanor changed from before. He looked hopeful and young as if the fight shaved a few decades of age.

That same feeling applied to every gialgathens here. We were guerillas before this fight. We might save some gialgathens, but everyone understood we weren't actually winning the war. With Torix's arrival, the situation changed, along with the mentality behind it.

Once the cheer ended, we handled the rest of what was left to do. The first part involved handling the injured and new members of Elderfire. Considering the size of the city, finding them homes grew in importance.

With that in mind, Torix and I handled the logistics involved. He registered the new members so we knew who was here. After that, we created homes for them. With my quintessence, I molded houses of stone, keeping to general, vertical layouts. I usually reinforced the walls with steel for stability. Combine that with a bit of added nature, and they had an Aztec feel to them.

Once stowed away, Torix organized a few meetings with them. Getting them accustomed to life here was an important task considering. Organizing food and other resources meant provisional efforts were needed as well. I handled most of the production efforts while Torix dispatched the resources.

Settled away, the gialgathens would begin life here. Torix actually gave them regimented schedules to remain here. I discovered the details as we constructed the homes. To get the gialgathens into Schema's system, Torix created a dungeon a day protocol.

Spear would warp the gialgathens into a silver infested territory and let them handle an eldritch infestation. This gave them experience and allowed us to gain more usable soldiers. Just as well, it was better than each of them wallowing at home.

In a way, I couldn't blame them for that struggle. After all, this transition was difficult for them. Their lives flipped upside down after the Adair Family made its move. Because of that, they grappled with the sudden shift to military life. Sitting at home didn't seem to help them transition, and we couldn't afford that level of care either. Just as well, I recognized this wasn't the best treatment for them. The thing was, it was the only kind of treatment we had. Desperate times called for desperate measures after all.

Several hours after the battle, we handled those here. Finally able to sit down and think for a minute, I walked up towards my temple cove. It was near Torix's evil lair, a few rooms down. I had nothing in the place outside of a few pieces of unfinished metal works.

For the first time in a long time, I laid down on my back, wishing I could sleep. Instead, I closed my eyes for a minute, clearing my mind. Even with my eyes closed, my status popped up in my line of sight. Someone sent me a message. I considered brushing it aside.

Pushing through the mental fatigue, I took a deep breath before opening my eyes and getting back to work. I could rest when I was dead anyway. I opened the message. It wasn't what I was expecting, not by a longshot.

Helios Nova, Ruler of Worlds(lvl 15,000 | Guild: The Empire | Ownership: Belka-623(planet), Meliton(planet) | Class: Fringe Walker | Titles: Winter's Wrath, Cold of the Void) - Daniel. The emperor wishes to meet you and Torix after your battle at Fausel. He understands if you lack the time for a meeting. That is why he wants to visit you. We lack knowledge of where you're situated, however. That is why I'm asking for the coordinates.

I understand if you're wary of open communications. Considering all that you're involved in, perhaps a personal meeting to discuss the details would suit you better? Inform me of where you would need to meet for your convenience.

I closed my status and stared at the wall for a moment. It looked like my appointment with the emperor came early. Why exactly?

I had no idea, but I was about to find out.
