I’d spent countless hours in the gym back on Earth, been forced into a bunch of school competitions along the way. Brännboll, back in Sweden. Athletics, a couple of times. Math, just the once. (And hadn’t that been a spectacular failure?) To my utmost surprise, the sensation right before a school competition was about to unfold, and before leaving to risk my life? They were essentially the same.

We moved around haphazardly, windmilling our arms, rolling our shoulders, doing whatever we could to ensure that we were warmed up, that everything felt right – finding some small thing to focus on that’d distract us from the oncoming challenge. I jumped up and down a few times, testing that my shield was fastened properly to my arm. Meanwhile, no-one talked much, outside of a few bad jokes attempting to calm our nerves.

My shield. My glorious shield. Sure, I’d nearly gotten myself killed in the process of earning the alloy Stalwart needed for the metal, but it had absolutely been worth it. My right arm slid across the front of the blue-tinged metal, buffing it up. There were no dents or tears in the solid material, and I felt that I’d found a solid companion.

The same could not be said for my right-hand buckler. I’d looted it off the young Adrastian merc who’d tried to rob me and gotten himself killed. The iron of the dinner-plate-sized shield was slightly warped, and several rents on the edges marked where suicidal Ghastlings tried to eat through the buckler in their haste to get to me. Eventually, I’d want to have the buckler replaced. But as it stood, our access to metals was still extremely limited, and I didn’t have a proper replacement ready. It was also… not essential. Just a distraction. Something for my mind to latch onto in place of the imminent danger. I raised my voice. “I’m ready. Everybody else?”

Steve emerged from out of nowhere, making Samuel snarl and aim his bow at him. “Brother! That… could have become unhealthy for you!”

Steve apologised profusely before turning to the rest of us. “No surprises for us. I saw no traps, no signs the Lurkers have something horrid waiting for us. In fact, their bodies look slow and cumbersome. That by itself might be a hint. In this world, that would make them easy prey, and they’d never have been able to rise to the higher levels they have reached without some kind of tricks or power. Also, I doubt they’d be able to ambush entire human teams.”

I slapped him on the back. “That’s a damn fine point. We know they’re hiding something, just not what. Expect them to come up with something unexpected and adjust appropriately. Run if needed. They look slower than Sunderland works laborers. If the ugly things surprise us somehow, just get behind me, we’ll band together and hold them off.”

“Hah.” Samuel barked. “You should price yourselves lucky if you get the chance to face off against a single one. I ache to show you my might!” Having said his piece, he raised his bow – a tall, recurve bow that looked to be made from bone and some sort of glue – nocked an arrow, drew the bowstring back and released, all in one movement that looked ridiculously smooth and effortless.

He immediately disappeared from our group, losing all those lovely buffs from Steve.

The arrow sped through the air, surrounded by a hazy effect that had to be a talent.

I had to hand it to Samuel. Loudmouth, show-off, paladin wannabe or not? He was scarily precise with the bow. The arrow struck, impacting right at the junction of the neck and the head of the closest Glacial Lurker and carved deep into the neck without any visible resistance whatsoever.

The beast reacted immediately. The head stiffened and jerked. Then it slowly sank back down and, without any fanfare, the Lurker died.

I glanced at Samuel, who was already raising his bow again. A one-hit kill on a Level 16 beast? Impressive!

Around the dead beast, the forest erupted. Every single remaining Lurker arose from their ambushing spots, revealing thin, pincer-like legs that looked too thin to really support their bulky, armored bodies. As one, they rose, and, with an ominous series of shrill clicking sounds, the beasts started moving. Farther into the forest.

“Ahaha! They are fleeing. Clever of them. Yet, they will not get away from me!” Samuel showed his teeth in a bloodthirsty grin and loped forward with long, springy steps.

I cursed under my breath. Then, deciding that wouldn’t do it, I cursed out loud. “Get your ass back here, you wanker. You’ll get yourself ambushed!”

He was already gone, though, loping through the outer edges of the forest like some alternate-universe-version of Aragorn with less self-control and a hard-on for animal slaughter.

I told the others. “They’re out of range of my taunt. We follow. In formation. If he gets himself killed, that’s on him. Steve. Buffs set to Agility, in case we need it. Victoria. Ready your debuffs for Agility, too. The Lurkers look slow and you should be able to stop them entirely. Both of you stay ready to back me up. Somsak. Stay safely in the back and out of trouble.”

We moved together. It wasn’t pretty, didn’t feel natural. Not yet. But we’d get there eventually. The important part was that they stayed back, in relative safety.

Steve was… well, I expected him to be around, given that he was invisible right now. Victoria looked tense but eager, eyes scanning the forest for signs of any surprises. Somsak looked afraid, but decided.

My eyes were everywhere as I moved, I scanned the ground, the trees, anything. I consistently kept Spot active to see any hint of movement that might have evaded our attention.

There was nothing. We moved for a minute, two, following Samuel’s voice and shouts of exultation. It sounded like he was having a grand old time of it.

Then the sounds changed. A loud, infuriated roar preceded a shout of sheer indignation. “How dare you?”

I did speed up at that. But I made sure we didn’t overextend. “We’re not getting ourselves trapped. Stay in formation.” I yelled, as we moved past petrified and normal trees the size of redwoods and, twice, downed Lurkers. The capillaries from that Eternal Shard were a constant inside the forest, though they did, fortunately, remain inert. If they’d started glowing or pulsing, I’d have pulled back, let that stupid hunter and his ego fend for themselves.

Seconds later, we spotted Samuel.

He’d followed his prey into a wide clearing, as evidenced by yet another Lurker almost smack dab at the centre of the clearing, neck perforated with several bleeding wounds oozing dark brown blood. Another dead Lurker at the far edge of the clearing showed which route he was aiming to take next.

He’d missed the one in hiding.

I couldn’t entirely fault him. I couldn’t even see it myself from where I was standing. The clearing wasn’t level or anything. Rather, it was a torn-up mess of boulders, shrubs and broken line-of-sight. Clearly, Samuel, standing on the tallest boulder had taken a quick look and estimated that he was in the clear.

The bright blue lines stretching from out of a dip in the landscape ahead of Samuel showed that he very, very obviously was not. The hazy, magical effect reached up and out and seemed to hang onto him. Whatever they were, magical limbs, tentacles or summoned shackles, I wouldn’t hazard to guess. But the effect was clear to anybody, as Samuel tore and pulled at them, trying to get away… and failing.

Now, the Lurkers showed their true faces. At the far end of the clearing, first one, then several of the beasts showed their ugly faces, skittering closer, seeing as how the trap had closed. Predator turned to prey.

“I’m going in.” I shouted. “Victoria. Poison and debuffs. Steve. Stay invisible for backup, move in if needed. Somsak…” I hesitated before looking at the speed at which the incoming Lurkers were traversing the uneven terrain. I couldn’t be sure that we could reach him in time. “Shield Samuel.”

I activated Mirror of All at full power, letting the fury in any beast nearby explode and force them to attack me instead. Then, to the tune of infuriated screeches and clicks, I kicked into action.

Movement these days came easy to me. I’d never been one to slack when it came to training in the first place. Also, anybody in my weight class who spent any time in the ring knew the importance of mobility and agility. Yet, with Steve’s buffs raising my Agility, Perception and Strength, on top of the numerous increases to Climb, Leaping, Athletics and Balance alongside Running, I moved and reacted with a level of speed, power and co-ordination I’d never have been able to copy or even imagine back on Earth. I activated my Athletics boost to help me even further, then ramped up my speed with an initial sprint, leapt off of three boulders in quick succession and avoided a hole in the ground at a moment’s notice before I hit the soil at a dead run. All with little to no mental activity. My body simply acted.

I shouted to warn Samuel, hit the soft soil next to him and, using my right hand to bounce off a jagged boulder, killed the speed, skidding to a stop a few meters ahead of the tall blonde hunter.

“I’m here.” I said, between gulps of air. “Now stay the fuck back while I save your bacon.”

Bracing himself against a small stone to avoid the insistent pulls from the arcane limbs wrapped around his legs, Samuel responded. “Ah. No need for a save. I’ve got this. I just…” He trailed off, blinking, as his gaze locked on something on the far side of the clearing. “What is that?”

Little did I know the real ambush had already hit.