Perhaps I inherited the pocket realm in a way? Or maybe it had even belonged to a relative of mine, and I had gotten lucky with choosing it? Though I had felt drawn to that pocket realm, so maybe it chose me? Mhm, there is also the possibility that any person ascending to the Monarch Realm within a pocket realm would cause it to collapse, or maybe it was a feature of the Eternal Realm all along?

Too many questions, and only guesses for answers. Why and how it had happened were ultimately not important. Magnus had spent a long time in that pocket realm and ensured it was effectively empty. It didn't seem to have any purpose—there were no hidden inheritances, monsters, or even formations that would suggest the place had been used for cultivation by anyone. It was simply there, a pocket realm filled with fire and volcanoes.

Now it was inside him, in a way.

Magnus sighed and lowered his hand, watching the many shards pass around him. He looked up at the seemingly infinite number of them.

I know they say there's always a higher mountain, but I really let myself believe the Monarch Realm was the absolute peak. Yet faced with this, he was reminded how insignificant he truly was—no different from anyone else who called the ninth layer of creation home.

His hand slowly curled into a fist. For some, such a realization might hollow everything out, making all effort feel pointless. But for him, it did the opposite. If the Monarch Realm, once an impossible dream, could now be revealed as just another step on a much taller climb, then the next step was just as reachable. Learning how little his current height meant only confirmed that he could ascend even further.

Magnus turned and left the Eternal Realm behind. The threats Ashfallen faced were on the constant rise, so he knew he would return someday soon.

But until then, he wanted to relax and enjoy the simple things reality had to offer.

Feeling the celestial fog wash away around him, he stepped out into Ashlock's Inner World and blinked at the unexpected being heralding his return. The shadow angel floating before him simply met his gaze.

"Welcome back, Magnus Redclaw," Ashlock's hundred overlapping voices echoed in his mind, shaking his freshly formed Inner World to its core.

Magnus sighed.

Sometimes, he wished the Ashfallen Sect could be a little less reality-breaking.
