Huu broke the moment with a happy, “Your clan has a new home in Eralis. May it forever protect you and your descendants.” He bowed to Tsung, who was barely understanding that he had been spoken to, and then he bowed to Erick, saying, “It was a pleasure, Archmage Flatt. Thank you for all you have done for Songli. I will take my leave.”

Erick bid him, “Farewell, Huu.”

Huu nodded, then walked away, down the white road of the Alluvial District.

Tsung ignored the departing administrator, and exclaimed, “IT’S WHITE!”

Erick laughed. “You can paint it if you don’t like it.”

“NEVER!” Tsung exclaimed.

Soon enough, everyone was talking.

Some of the people on nearby mountains had similar reactions to Tsung.

It was a good day.

The night was even better. Surviving students and clansmen and otherwise would be moving into the mountain over the next few days, but a small gathering was held in one of the larger rooms with everyone who was available. Tsung had invited Erick to be the guest of honor, and Erick went. It was a small affair, marked mostly by speeches of thanks, and toasts, and decent food.

It was nice.

Poi informed Erick that he was now flooded with requests to rebuild more of the Alluvial District, if he wanted. People were offering upwards of 750,000 gold for his conjuring and crafting of new clan mountains. Erick denied them all, for now.

- - - -

Erick had a few more things to do before he went after the dragons.

And so, the morning after the remake of Red Ledger’s mountain, Erick sent an Ophiel to the House of the Wandering Soul, to check in on how the kids were doing with their new mana sense blockers.

Ophiel slipped down through the sky, toward the house, where dozens of confused spaces in the mana blocked his mana sense, but the house seemed more alive than ever. Sounds carried well, now that many of the generalized sense-blocking spells had been taken down.

Children laughed and played with each other inside, and outside. They took music lessons with teachers, or they read in the library. They were kids again, and they relished in their freedom.

A few of the caretakers who remained outside of the various obscuring spheres saw Ophiel, but all they did was look his way, then turn back to what they were doing; be it cooking, or cleaning, teaching, or watching over the kids.

From what Erick could see and hear, the children seemed to be getting on quite well.

But he was here for a specific thing. Erick found what he was looking for quick enough. A stone box, about half a meter square, had been built outside the front door and placed on the second level of a small 8-sided, two-tier pagoda. The box had been labeled ‘Charms’. It was quaint.

It was filled with letters.

Erick took the letters instantly and brought them back to himself, with a [Cleanse] halfway through because he was paranoid in an offhand manner. He opened the first letter. It was from a girl named Toori, written in precise brush stroke letters upon lined paper.

She was six, and she could finally venture outside of the bubble they kept her in, because otherwise she was too scared to be in the outside world. Her mother had named her after a water bird, and now she finally got to go to the lake, and see the toori peck the water to find fish. They were pretty birds.

Toori had drawn him a picture, too.

It was a lovely picture, made by a child’s hand.

… And now Erick was crying. Ahh. Yeah. This was happening. He continued to read. He started bawling on the second letter. The third letter was from a brat of a kid, wanting a wand of [Fireball]s. Erick laughed at that. The fourth letter had him crying again.

There were forty three letters in the pile. Some of the letters were from parents of the kids, thanking him for making it so their child could come home for the weekend. Two of the letters were from Caretaker Shani, and Warder Azrin Severing Crescent. Shani expressed her thanks, and politely requested some variations on the charms (if it was not too much trouble). She included a list of desired Shapings. Azrin’s letter was a postulation of his own theories on how Erick had managed to make his [Delirium Charm]s, and a polite request to know if he was correct.

Erick decided that Shani would get her adjustments, but Azrin would not get any answers from him. Erick had already given the man enough hints, hadn’t he? Yes, he did. The main reason for denying the man, though, was that Erick didn’t want to start some cycle of questions and answers with Azrin.

For his reply, Erick had an Ophiel go out into an open space, outside Holorulo, and gather some stone. With a simple Shaping, Erick transformed the stone into some durable boxes. Temporary [Conjure Item]s were good enough for small, temporary applications, but Shani’s letter hinted that what she wanted might be more permanent than Erick’s original distribution of charms.

Erick started summoning Charms.

He conjured ten charms sized to their full, 3 meter radius sphere. He made ten of a 3 meter diameter sphere. And then, in the process of Shaping the spell into something similar to a [Personal Ward], a blue box appeared.

Personal Delirium Charm, instant, close range, 1256 mana

Create a charm which blocks the sensing of mana around the wearer.

Lasts 10 days.

“Unexpected, yet not unwanted.” Erick tested the charm on himself and was surprised at how perfectly it worked. He could still mana sense his insides, though. He smiled. “The kids are gonna love this.”

Erick took the charm off, then conjured forty of that particular charm. Shani only asked for ten, but he suspected that she would want a lot of this one. There were a few more variations of the original [Delirium Charm] that went into different boxes, but Erick gained no new spells for those simple transformations.

When that was done, Ophiel took the boxes and lightstepped them back to the small pagoda outside of the House of the Wandering Soul, along with his own letter, saying that he was very happy to receive the children’s words. He almost signaled to one of the caretakers, but it was unnecessary; they saw Ophiel fly in the first time.

The kids had seen Ophiel fly in the first time, too. They were waiting; some in the hallways in the house, by the front door, others in the woods, watching the pagoda from ten meters away.

It was a mad dash to the new toys—

A caretaker appeared beside the pagoda and cast some [Force Wall]s around the structure, after Ophiel left. The kids, naturally, objected. The caretaker told the noisy kids that they needed to wait, and that Shani would be here to distribute everything.

Erick smiled wide, back in his room in Holorulo.

And then he moved on to his next project: how to hunt a drag—

Ah.

No.

… Erick could wait one more day. He could hunt the dragon tomorrow.

He didn’t want to do that right now.

So instead, he tried a few of the aura control techniques he had learned from Kaffi. First, he went to Teressa, asking her how she had figured it out. Then he practiced with her for a few hours. Lunch came and went. Erick went back to trying to find his aura, though he did not drop his [Personal Ward], nor did he take off his rings, both of which were definitely holding him back.

Well… he did take off his rings, once, and then he put them on, and then he took them off. This repeated a few dozen times.

He frowned as he put his ring back on, saying to Teressa, “I don’t get it. Rings and other Stat accessories work by connecting to the aura of the wearer and powering up the soul, which adjusts the body in temporary ways… This should work! I should be able to feel my aura by doing this.”

“I agree. You should be able to feel your aura when you put on the ring.” Teressa said, “I don’t get it either.”

Erick left the ring on and went back to meditation, to ‘feeling out his aura’. Teressa’s aura was already manifesting outside of her body as a grey shimmer, but only when she wanted it to shimmer. She was already working on increasing her area of control.

This was frustrating.

… He could drop his [Personal Ward]—

No. He could be attacked at any time… Which was a reason for pursuing the dragon sooner rather than later. But...

Tomorrow. Tomorrow he would put out feelers to find the dragon. Some spells in the sky. Some illusions, perhaps. Something…

Or maybe he would go see how Tadashi was doing with chelation and all that.

Erick had a good reason for putting off this dragon thing. He wasn’t fully sure, but he felt as though finding the dragon would be another step along the Worldly Path. A step he could not take back. As soon as that happened, he would need to move on from Songli.

Therefore, before he went after the dragon, he needed to be sure that everything he needed to do here was done.

- - - -

At night, Erick slept.

He had a nightmare about dying daughters and sundered souls, and so, he woke up, covered in sweat and trying to purposefully forget what was easily forgettable. He laid there in bed, covers thrown to the side, air drying, now that he wasn’t terrified and producing even more sweat.

Eventually, he knew he was never getting back to sleep. So he got up, and got on with his day.

He hoped these nightmares wouldn’t be a normal thing.

- - - -

Light unraveled around Erick as he set himself and his little group down in front of the target house.

It was a quaint place, large enough for a single family. A growing house made of glass was set apart from the main house. Plants grew within, but also in the open gardens around the property. A woman stood on the front porch, wearing bright blue and subtle orange robes that looked a lot more expensive than her home. In moments, a man joined the woman, wearing clothes that were of dark blues and dark greens. The woman was clearly incani, with red skin and red horns. The man was human. Both of them were Erick’s age; in their late forties. According to their house, neither of them could have easily afforded what they were wearing.

If the hidden guards stationed around the property weren’t hint enough, the parents’ clothes were evidence that Star Song was treating Tadashi’s parents better than they were accustomed to. That was good.

Erick walked forward, with Poi and Teressa following behind and Ophiels fluttering about wherever they wanted to go. Only one of the little guys stayed on Erick’s right shoulder; Yggdrasil’s eye hovered above his left. Erick approached the couple.

The couple bowed; Erick did not.

The woman, Raniza, said, “We welcome you into our home, Archmage Flatt. Our son would come to greet you but he physically cannot.”

“I understand. I do not wish to stress Tadashi, or you. I merely came to assess his condition, to see if there is anything I can do to help.” Erick added, “I also came to extend my condolences for the loss of your son, Wabi. I heard Wabi gave his life in defense of his brother. I am sorry for your loss.”

Raniza froze, then broke in a hundred small ways. A tear escaped, but she controlled the rest of her reaction to a small sob. She whispered, “Thank you.”

The man, Oorol, had a reaction that was much the same. He gestured to the open doors behind him, and his voice cracked as he said, “Please come into— Into our home, and partake of our hospitality.”

Erick did so, without reservation.

Tadashi’s parents led him, Poi, and Teressa, to an open air gathering room, with a view of the garden and a tea set waiting upon a table. Raniza began making tea as Oorol gestured for Erick to sit. Soon enough, the three of them were sipping by a garden of flowers and pungent herbs. It was not a bad smell.

Erick had already checked in on Tadashi by looking for the hole in his mana sense. A tendril of light snaked in that direction to allow actual viewing of the man.

What he saw wasn’t good.

Tadashi was sleeping in what amounted to Veird’s idea of a hospital bed; it was more of a deep recliner chair, with Tadashi’s back raised on pillows and what remained of his legs raised on even more pillows. Both legs were shortened to the knees and wrapped in bandages, though a blanket covered that half of him. His torso was lightly covered, and a nasty scar marred half his face and continued down under the wrappings around his chest. He still had both eyes, though he looked terribly weak. His potions were set to the side, lined up and ready to be administered whenever needed. They were all mundane potions, too, not a single one of them glowing, along with a few jars of pills.

Oorol brought Erick back to the moment, saying, “I have heard that Tadashi’s colleagues have solved chelation without him, but I have not heard much more than that.” His voice was full of guarded hope, “Do you know when they will allow our son to take the medicine he invented?”

“I apologize, for I do not know any of that.” Erick said, “I have been busy with other matters.”

Oorol instantly said, “Of course, of course,” but he could not fully hide the hurt in his voice.

Raniza spoke with some strength, “We will get the medicine when it is safe, I am sure. Tadashi need not live a life like his grandfather. It is simply a matter of time. We will wait.” She said, “You will have to come back when he is walking around on his own two feet again, Archmage Flatt. We will have a huge celebration. Star Song is treating us quite well, so I am already planning for three hundred guests.”

Erick recognized a deep, perhaps delusional hope in Raniza’s entire being.

He would not fault her for that, though, so he simply said, “I look forward to receiving that invitation.”

“As well you should!” Raniza happily said, “It will be wonderful. We’ll have all his favorite foods— Ah! Do you have any favorite foods? I will be sure to include them!”

“I have enjoyed almost everything I have eaten around here, and I like new things, so whatever you plan would be good, I am sure.”

Raniza relaxed a fraction, saying, “Oh, good! That makes things simple.”

Erick nodded, then moved on. “May I speak to Tadashi? If he wakes over the course of our own talk, of course; I do not wish to wake him if he is sleeping deeply.”

Raniza almost spoke, but her temporary joy faded from her face.

“He will want to be awake for a little while, to speak to you; he has already told us this much,” Oorol said, taking the reins. “But if you do not mind, we would like to keep that short. I would prefer for us to answer any questions you might have.”

“I am perfectly fine with that.” Erick said, “How is his recovery going?”

