Raniza found herself again. “The Doctors assure us that sleeping all day is normal for long term recovery. Star Song even gave Tadashi extra… I mean. After Patriarch Zalindi…” She was losing it again, but she mustered her composure, and said, “Tadashi visited a Registrar and— Patriarch Mirizo of Star Song gave him 8 points for defense of the realm. I understand they had a meeting, while Tadashi had enough potions in him to remain cognizant. Our son moved a few things around in his Status, planning for the long term, you understand.” Raniza brightened. “He’ll get better. Long term recovery is always dangerous, but our son will make it. I know he will.”

Raniza was utterly hopeful.

So Erick kept Oorol in the corner of his eyes, watching the man’s reactions. Oorol believed that Tadashi would make it, but he was more cautiously optimistic instead of openly optimistic. Erick had seen such reactions to medical problems many times before. Raniza’s and Oorol’s reactions were no doubt heightened by the death of their other son, Wabi, too.

“I know Tadashi will recover.” Erick said, “When this chelation treatment is perfected, I am sure that your son will be on the list. If he is not, I will be sure to talk to some people about that.”

Raniza wiped away a sudden tear and smiled. Her voice came out weak, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt.”

A soft whisper came from the other room, “Mother? Is he here?”

Oorol stood up, saying, “He doesn’t sleep very deeply.”

They moved to Tadashi’s room. The boy looked a lot better when he was awake, or at least he looked more lively.

Erick said, “Hello again, Tadashi.”

“Hello, Archmage Flatt.” Tadashi said, “I hope you can forgive me for not getting up.”

“Don’t worry about it,” Erick said, smiling. And then he lost his smile. “I am sorry about your brother.”

“It… It is what it is. He saved me.” Tadashi said nothing for a long moment, then he said, “I think I made him feel too much guilt over letting me get taken in the first place. He could have saved himself, but he saved me instead.”

Another silent moment passed.

Erick asked, “How are you doing?”

“About as well as can be expected. Wabi was my liaison with the other Alchemists, but without him here… Ving comes to see me every other day, to talk about particles and molecules and bonding forces. I think she would rather talk to you. I promised her that if I ever saw you, that I’d tell you that. And now I have.” He smiled, closing his eyes a bit as he leaned back. “Now I only owe Star Song 7 more points.”

Erick smiled, gently. “Maybe I’ll talk to her if I feel like it.”

“Oh!” Tadashi joked, “A favorable reaction. Now I only have 6 more points to repay them.”

… Erick arrived at a sudden decision. With a flick of lightform, he grabbed his half-drained cup of tea from the other room, and brought it to his hand. He asked Tadashi, “How would you like another 10 points? Quick, yes or no.”

Tadashi’s eyes went wide. “Uh. Yes.”

Erick set his cup of tea on the bed beside Tadashi’s hand as he filled out the Quest. With a gesture, the Quest floated through the air toward the bed bound man. The blue box fizzled a bit as it entered Tadashi’s antirhine aura, but it remained. Tadashi read it. Then he moved his hand and took up the cup. He strained a bit, his grip weaker than it should have been, but he lifted the cup and held it out to Erick, as far as he could go. He didn’t make it the whole way, but that was okay. Erick took the cup from him.

A blue box appeared.

Your posted quest ‘Hand me my cup of tea’ was completed.

Tadashi’s arm crashed to his side. He smiled, saying, “Thank you.”

“You spend those. They weren’t for paying off a debt.” Erick said, “Make yourself better, faster.”

Tadashi laughed a little. “Someone probably noticed the 10 point Quest.”

“Then they can feel free to complain to me.” Erick said, “With the extensive injuries you received, I would expect a recovery period of months, but that calculation is based on my own experiences with helping people with disabilities back on my home planet. With Health and Vitality and all those modifiers, I expect you up and about in a few weeks. And then there’s physical therapy to ensure that you heal properly. It is important to be active, once you can be active…” Erick wondered, then asked anyone who could answer, “Do you have wheelchairs?”

Confused looks met him, but one person had an answer.

Poi answered, “No, sir.”

Erick said to Tadashi, “Have someone in Star Song invent you a wheelchair. It’s just a chair with large wheels—” With an Ophiel, he grabbed a stone from outside, and brought it to his hand. He conjured a small lightsculpture of Tadashi on a modern wheelchair, pushing the wheels with his arms and with a tiny smile on his face. The scar was there, but it was minimized. Erick wouldn’t lie to the guy. He set the wardlight to the side, on a table, saying, “Someone should be able to look at that and make it for you.”

Small tears escaped from the corners of Tadashi’s eyes. Everyone pretended not to notice.

Erick added, “At least you don’t have to worry about bed sores here on Veird.” He paused. He asked, “You’re moving in your bed, right? Can you, yet? Don’t want to get bed sores.”

“I have none of those. With my new Vitality, I likely won’t ever get them. Thank you… Archmage Flatt,” Tadashi said, closing his eyes. He seemed to be breathing better now than when Erick first arrived. “Thank you.”

Erick said, “You rest up, now. I’ll see you around.”

Tadashi nodded. He was already halfway asleep.

Erick gave his farewells to Tadashi’s parents, then went on his way.

- - - -

Erick was feeling pretty good. The wandering soul kids were doing well. The university and its adjacent hospital were up and running with new staff; Erick’s money going to good purposes. Red Ledger’s mountain was back, and that whole clan was reorganizing under Tsung. Star Song was progressing with its chelation technology. Tadashi was doing… fine, for a certain definition of ‘fine’. Hangzi was learning how to be a patriarch of a High Clan. His little brother, Warzi, was doing a lot better. After Erick handed over one of his new [Personal Ward]-sized [Delirium Charm]s, Warzi started crying with happiness.

Eralis was healing. All of Songli was healing, in fact, and Erick had helped to excise all the small ‘cancers’ of Hunters and Face stealers that would have harmed total healing. All of Terror Peaks was gone, except for the people Erick had blessed, who were doing well in their paddy house, unlearning the brainwashing that they had been raised upon. The pirates to the south were no more. The warlord clans were organizing under the Compact of Songli, with an eye toward becoming the fourth main city of Songli.

A lot of problems had happened, and then solved to the best of Erick’s ability.

A lot of problems remained, not many of them were problems of other people, though.

Ari was practically chained to the Palace of the Eternal Court, and that sucked, but she seemed fine with it, for a certain definition of ‘fine’. Xue was doing better, though he missed his wife, Sikali, terribly. Riri was on her way to becoming a financial power all on her own, but that outcome likely leaned more toward the ‘good’ than the ‘bad’. She still missed her Pearlchan, though, to hear Jane tell it.

Jane was setting herself up to be a power in Songli…

Erick was worried that she would want to stay behind.

Erick had a lot of worries, and unfinished business of his own to work through.

Aura control still hadn’t happened. He would need that before he could Remake the Shaping spells, and thus gain those 6 points back. Understanding Illusion Magic was a new necessity, for it seemed way too useful. Even if it wasn’t exactly what it appeared to be (which would be exactly what Erick expected out of Illusion Magic) the ability to ‘nudge’ Reality into reality boded well for the creation of many types of difficult-to-make magics, including [Gate], and [Renew], and [Draining Elemental].

Erick more than felt that he was approaching a major marker in his Quest for [Gate].

He was at a crossroads, and not only because of everything he had learned and done, but because of what lay ahead. The answers to [Gate] were held by the dragons. Erick already knew this because of his time with Tenebrae, and now, there was a dragon gunning for him.

The Worldly Path would take Erick directly to that dragon, and then many of the others, for sure. Of this, Erick had no doubt.

It was just a matter of taking that first step.
