It dripped down, drenching the wet and pallid seafloor. As blood dripped over us in the dark, Nissa trembled. She let out small whimpers of fear. Jamal prayed while peering up. He tried to avoid flinching as the droplets pelted his forehead and eyes. Jasmine froze in place, her breath held and her heart calm.

Minutes passed, the room cracking under pressure. As it filled with water, panic set in alongside claustrophobia. Jamal grabbed Nissa's shoulders. He said, his voice full of hollow confidence.

"Hey. We're getting out of here, alright?"

Nissa shook. Jamal tilted his head at me.

"Besides, look at Daniel. He doesn't even look worried."

I whispered my words.

"We'll be fine. We get to clean up this mess after the eldritch finish eating each other. Remember that."

Jamal nodded.

"Exactly. Nissa, please set up the shields. Oh, and take your time. We've got it to spare."

He spoke with sincerity. Nissa gulped before taking a steadying breath.

"Yeah. I've got it covered."

On her second try, she put the air-breathing shields and magic back over us. As the water enveloped our faces, Jamal put his forehead against hers.

"That's our mage for you. Cool under pressure."

She rolled her eyes, though a grin crept up her face.

"It's the least I can do after Daniel bought us some time."

Jasmine stammered.

"Guys. I froze. I...I feel like I passed out."

I held down a burst of laughter as Jamal rolled his eyes.

"You could've just let us think you had it handled.

I knocked on the earthen wall.

"Come on, guys. It's about to collapse, and the feeding frenzy is done."

The others nodded. I reared back a fist.

"Ready?"

After some affirmation, I slammed my fist through the rock wall. I put enough power to match Jamal. After swimming outside, we couldn't see anything. It was pure, thick red in all directions. Occasionally, a swollen fish swam by my eyes. As we wafted beside the corpses, Jasmine used cleaning magic to condense the red into a single, congealed ball.

She put it in her pocket dimension. Ew. All around us, the sea cucumber's body sat in half-eaten fragments. Piranhas devoured tiny slabs of meat on the sea cucumber's torn body, and sharks rested inside the meat chunks, their entire bodies immersed in food. Below, the symbiotic coral fragments exposed cracks all along their surface.

Jasmine began carving out the essential pieces from animals, taking the most energy-laden parts. During her harvest, Nissa, Jamal, and I grabbed the various pearls, shells, and other valuables left behind. It took nearly three whole hours to catch everything, and we ended up swimming out of the expanse with their storages full.

It arrived with an air of solemnity. It turned into quiet focus as we passed the caverns, and we found a new route back that shortened the distance dramatically. I had memorized the path back along the way, turning a two-hour swim into a thirty-minute one. At the end of the cavern, we found the steel rope still hanging by several trees in the exposed grotto.

After crawling back up and dripping all the while, they gasped for air while I kept everyone secure. As if all the tension had faded. Jamal held up his hands and let out a quiet, whispered roar of success.

"We did. We fucking did."

I smiled at them.

"We did."

Jasmine fell backward.

"Dude, I thought we were done for when we were in that little earth torture chamber."

Nissa gasped.

"Oh, please don't remind me. That was a literal hell on Earth. No more underwater caverns."

Jamal shook a hand in success.

"That was brilliant work with the fish sauce. I never even thought to use cooking ingredients as a lure. What made you think of it?"

I shook my head.

"Honestly?"

Jamal snorted.

"No, lie to me. Of course, be honest."

I peered at the vast open sky.

"I figured that fish would know better what makes fish taste better for fish."

A quiet passed over everyone before the group laughed, the relief palpable after nearly dying. I kept my gaze sharp.

"Guys, something could get us, and we're weighed down with valuables too. Another group could come by."

Jamal's eyes narrowed.

"Hm. Good point. Everybody, let's get up and go."

We got up and headed back to the main road. Jasmine collected herself under the trees, her home here among the greenery. We followed her lead as she kept us from unsettling the monsters of the wood. Mountains and valleys blurred in my eyes before we reached the main road. At that point, once we stepped on the dark bricks, Jamal shouted.

"We made it. Hah."

Jasmine and Nissa grinned, their success giddy and full of greed. Nissa rubbed her hands together.

"Oh, we're going to be so rich after this."

Jasmine raised her hand.

"I don't know how much we can make off of everything, but-"

She shook some pearls.

"It's gotta be worth something, right?"

I nodded.

"Right."

We headed back out, each of us running along the road. Even a normal systemized individual could run around 50 kilometers an hour. Since we didn't need to make massive twists and turns, we found ourselves peering at the growing skyscrapers of Springfield within hours.

Each spire pierced the sky as an immaculate, shining pillar of stone. It grew in our sight; the materials and designs varied yet in harmony. At the edge of the city's colossal barrier, we passed through customs. The shades and golems gave me another wave as I shooed them off. In the town, we parkoured our way back to Joshua's bar, and as we went inside, we found Joshua pacing back and forth.

The bar had been closed.

When he saw us, his eyes lit up as if he won the lottery. He spread his hands.

"It is so damn good to see you three safe."

Jamal pushed me forward.

"That's because of this big lug right here. It turns out he's pretty resourceful when he needs to be."

I gestured a hand to him.

"don't sell yourself short. The earth shield stopped us from getting caught in the feeding frenzy."

Nissa raised her stave like a gun.

"Did you see my shot on that fish sauce bottle?"

Joshua's brow furrowed, his mustache crinkling.

"Excuse me, but uh...Fish sauce bottle?"

We sat down and told him the long story, and Jamal enlivened the tale, making it far more than it was. To me, it had been a desperate struggle for survival where we escaped by the skin of our teeth. No matter how we tried to twist the results, I nearly had to expose myself. If I had, that meant a normal group would've died.

It left me quietly stunned. Hours ago, they had been so close to death, yet everyone here cheered as if nothing happened. The normalization of life and death struggle wasn't something I had expected to take hold so quickly, and yet here it was, hitting me like a sack of bricks. Something about my expression gave away my internal thoughts, and Joshua leaned over his bar at me.

"I'm guessing things got pretty hairy?"

I shook my head.

"Hairy as a sasquatch."

Joshua nodded before pulling out a glass. He pulled out the ingredients for his tonic. As he made them, I leaned back. I stretched my arms overhead.

"Aren't you supposed to save those for hangovers?"

Joshua didn't say anything. After a minute, he finished the tonic and slid it over to me. I opened my status to pay before Joshua put his hand through my screen. He scoffed.

"It's on the house."

I picked it up and sipped. It was delicious, as always. I smiled.

"Ah, thankful I helped keep them alive?"

Joshua turned to the team.

"I'll leave that up to you to decide. All that said, you can have as much of that tonic as you'd like. You won't ever have to pay a dime."

I lifted my glass.

"Thank you kindly."

His eyes grew serious.

"No. Thank you."

After a few hours of drinking, everybody passed out on counters once more outside of Joshua and me. Without a word, I picked the three of them up and waved a hand at the barkeep.

"See you tomorrow?"

Joshua polished a glass.

"As always."

After setting the others into the backroom, I sat down on my own cot. At that point, my mind raced across the holes in my guild. Firstly, I wasn't thinking about incentives as I distributed my support. People would form industries and businesses to fulfill a need. If I took away that need entirely, there'd be nothing to brim the void if I wasn't there.

In fact, my guild likely already eroded the armor industry, eliminated stamina potions, and destroyed construction as a concept. While some of it wasn't a problem, the armor was a particularly salient point. People looking for my legacy created squishy builds in anticipation of the incoming defensive stats. My guild, one built on endurance, attracted the squishiest builds.

How ironic.

Worsening that trend, our guild barely had smiths or armorers. Even Diesel's power amor project ended whenever my golems came online. We thought of putting people in the golems as if they were Gundams, but the project fizzled since people experienced whiplash in them. It was like putting a water balloon in a rocket.

Either way, we had to get the armor industry up and running. We couldn't dictate what people did with their builds, but we could at least help in the meantime with excellent defensive gear. In fact, offering up a store that sold defensive treasures of all kinds would be a massive boon, one that supported the guild by keeping prospective guildmates alive.

Our scouting was atrocious as well. It had always been a personal weakness since I had the habit of running into the fray. Of course, on most occasions, my enemies were simply too far away to ever gather meaningful info. However, dungeoneering was entirely different. We needed to develop a database of dungeons alongside their development trajectory. I sent that request to Amara since her system abilities dwarfed my own.

Lastly, we needed to further clear out the forests. I sent a few requests to leading Speakers of the guild, asking them to organize cleansing missions of surrounding eldritch. Over the next few years, we may be able to walk through the trees without fear. Well, maybe. Time would tell on that front.

All that drifted through my minds as I rested on my bed. I no longer felt the desire to sleep, and my scars steadily faded, the insidious expansion of my armor like the slow march of time. The fighting and movement helped the healing, acting as an active recovery. My wounds were like a timer for this new life I had.

And I aimed to soak in the fun while I still could.

However, my healing also came alongside an expanded faucet of myself. As my actual body regenerated, it carried an expanded dimensional wake. I should've only been able to encompass a corner of Springfield in my current state. That assumed the ratio of mana production and the number of minds aligned to my wake's breadth. There wasn't a reason to believe otherwise.

Despite that, I could feel the limits of my wake crawl further than they should. Even more so, each shade of mana arrived alongside a strange, burgeoning sensation. Event Horizon carried a profound hunger, one that could assimilate without end. The Rise of Eden held the ability to purify the energy of a land, almost turning it holy. Even Perfection's Providence felt as though I could bend minds to my will.

As I gazed at my palm, I felt a resurgence of memories alongside my healing. I had gorged on the interdimensional energy for a long time, and in turn, the faculties of my armor expanded. It felt good, like becoming something greater. In tandem, a sadness spurred forth. I would only get further and further from a life like this as time passed.

A part of me accepted that. Another part raged against this machine made of momentum. Either way, as Joshua left his bar's main room, I turned to the wall, gazing at the blank stone. I could only take every day one step at a time, by grounding myself, I could achieve a sense of purpose in my life.

And my purpose was to move. It was time to enact change.
