“Riverfarm might not be as rich as Invrisil, but Sariant Lambs value safety over luxury, Emperor Laken. Your empire is a byword in safety; no bandits, no monsters. Believe me, many people are coming just for that. Why not the Sariants? More than that, however…a big city is more dangerous than somewhere like Riverfarm. Sariant Lambs can be run over, and many would steal them to resell. They like to stay together; they are a herd.”
“Hence Riverfarm being their paradise. Wonderful.”
The problem to Laken wasn’t killing the lambs. He’d had enough of killing sentient species, thank you. It was more that the lambs were cute and cuddly. People liked having them about and they were keeping people smiling. If it wasn’t for the other things, they’d be fine.
“Do they ever stop infesting a place?”
Eloise nodded.
“It would take months. A settlement loses its prosperity, or quarrels too much. Or…the animals run them out.”
“Really. But the dogs and horses…”
“They can only starve so long, your Majesty. Cats, now. Intelligent cats, or animals owned by [Beast Tamers] would do it fastest. They won’t let the Sariants kill them off.”
Laken rubbed at his face.
“This is such a stupid problem.”
He stopped as something went baaah in front of him. A little lamb rubbed against his leg; they were still following him and kept trying to touch him.
It actually reminded him of how Rie had tried to manipulate him, so Laken wasn’t fooled. He squatted down, and turned his closed eyes to the little sheep.
“How smart are you?”
It backed up a step, and then tried to climb his leg innocently, begging to be picked up and held. Laken didn’t like that answer. He turned to Eloise, who was—aiming a wand at a lamb trying to come up to her. She put the wand away as the lamb fled.
“Could they perform some kind of duty like the dogs do? They are as smart—smarter—than any animals I’ve met. Smarter than monkeys back home.”
She glanced at him and Laken recalled he hadn’t told the [Witches] his big secret. He would—perhaps only to spite Tamaroth—and they knew it existed, but it was one of the things he was currently waiting on. He had no idea how they’d react.
Hedag strode up, aiming a kick that missed one of the lambs who hopped out of the way. The Hedag laughed, but even her laugh had an irritated edge to it.
“That’s the issue we put before you, Laken-boy. And you see it clearer than most, eyes or not! They might work, since they’re smart’re than most, but they have a weakness that makes them not worth spit.”
“Which is?”
Laken Godart sensed Hedag lean down. She whispered the Sariant Lamb’s fatal flaw into his ear.
“They’re lazy.”
 
—-
 
Two weeks had passed and the Sariants were driving Laken crazy. Riverfarm’s people still defended them, but they were taking up more time. They wanted special food, petting, affection—and they had begun to breed.
They’d spawn like rabbits, and by now, Laken was sure something had to be done. He had sat in…conversation…with one more advisor and received an amusing response.
“Murder them.”
Apparently, they got even on a certain bearded man’s nerves. But that just made Laken want to object. He came upon a good solution, and an obvious one, when he entertained a rare visitor to Riverfarm.
Lord Gralton Radivaek was closer than Yitton Byres, and sometimes dropped by.
“Heard you had a bunch of Sariants.”
He grunted, bringing his usual armada of dogs, who were usually instantly played with. This time? They came up to people fawning over lambs and barely got a scratch. The dogs sniffed the lambs, who wiggled their noses, cuddled—and promptly backed away.
The [Dog Lord]’s hounds weren’t fooled. Laken glanced at Radivaek, and couldn’t read the man’s face from his [Emperor]-senses, but got a rumbling chuckle.
“Hate the buggers. I came to ask if you had a bone in the Oswen fight.”
“The—? Oh, the border dispute with House Veltras’ people?”
It was one of the new political events Riverfarm was now big enough to weigh in, being close-ish to the group that was feuding with the swamp-region over some kind of hunting territory dispute. Radivaek nodded.
“I’m on Oswen’s side.”
“About the hunting lands and the legal territory…?”
The [Dog Lord] gave Laken a blank stare as he tore into some meat and tossed the bones to his dogs. Laken let one climb into his lap; he liked the hound a lot more than the lambs; the dogs were genuine. They got bored with you, they didn’t act. When they wanted to play, they asked.
“Who cares about who’s in the right? I’m on Oswen’s side because they do right by me. Was hoping you’d do something.”
“Militarily? Economically?”
“Nope. Just agree Oswen’s right. Might tip the scales; they’d thank you.”
“Hm. Well, how many repercussions might that invite?”
Laken wished he had Rie, or Yitton. He had learned that Gralton was far more complex than he indicated—but the man still liked to pick fights. Gralton, predictably, had no idea.
“Maybe they’ll get snotty. You have your totem-things. Listen, Oswen’s good people. They have great dogs. Ever seen them? Hold on—I think I brought some with me. Trotter! Find me Waterskip and Droplets!”
One of the warhounds bounded off and came back with two more dogs. Laken had no idea what the dogs were—only that they were fairly large. His senses as an [Emperor] meant that features weren’t visible, so he reached out with his hands and found smooth, oily fur. He felt at the long dogs, their webbed feet, long ‘tails’, and laughed in astonishment.
“Gralton! What are these?”
“Otterdogs. Crossbreeds that pull Oswen’s water sleds. I knew you’d like ‘em.”
“You have Oswen’s breed?”
Gralton laughed in Laken’s face. He was Lord Gralton! He had every dog breed.
The otter dogs were affectionate, playful, and as fast in water as their cousins were on land. They had been bred with magic or something to be natural-born swamp hunters. They were delightful.
A bit smelly, but Laken didn’t object. He had to go down to the river and see them race through the water.
“Brilliant fellows. Not much use on land compared to a hound specialized for that, but Oswen’s got them hunting fish, pulling their water sleds—y’see, you shoot down game from their homes on stilts, and you send a dog out to fetch the kill. I’ve visited for fun; it’s a great place to relax. You should take that Durene and some of your folk and visit. They’ve got hot baths too. Unicorn horns embedded in the biggest one.”
“Er—willingly?”
“Think so. Some old pact back when you had the horned things wandering about.”
Laken scratched a wet otter-dog as the liquid ran off its fur. He smiled.
“You know, I like these Otterdogs a lot more than the Sariants already. I asked if you’d consider selling Riverfarm more dogs—how are the kennels?”
“Booming. Lots of puppies running about. Why, you want some dogs?”
“Maybe some Otterdogs? We could use some fun creatures about that don’t want you to trim their hooves every two seconds.”
Gralton folded his arms and thought about it.
“No.”
The Unseen Emperor straightened in surprise.
“No? Why not?”
Gralton glanced around Riverfarm and shook his head.
“Not enough wetland. Not enough water. Maybe if you expanded to the marshes to your east…then you can have some.”
“You…don’t want me to pay for your dogs?”
The [Dog Lord] fixed Laken with a look the [Emperor] felt. Like an aura of a beast, pressing on his. He realized Gralton was offended by the offer.
“My dogs are meant to work. They need a purpose. All animals do. I won’t sell them to grow fat and discontented. I’ll give you more terriers and sheepdogs and the Otterdogs if you have someone needing help in the marshes. And only if you get rid of those thieving sheep. I know they eat from the dog bowls and there’ll be hell to pay if I find a dog’s hungry.”
Chastened, Laken slowly nodded. That was why he respected Gralton.
“You’re right. I apologize.”
“Good. Now, if you want a dog that sees in the dark for your Darksky Riders—I’ve got a new breed in…”
The issue of the Sariant Lambs came into relief as Gralton extended his stay. The two Otterdogs did eventually come to live at Riverfarm, because Laken was planning on going into the marshes. So he asked for Waterskip and Droplets to try themselves out with one of the [Marsh Hunters] who’d fled the fires, but wanted to resettle his home. Ryoka had met him on one of her runs.
As for the Sariant Lambs? Gralton was the first person to agree with Laken.
“You can’t just kill all of them.”
“Thank you. I’ve been told to either let them parade about or to murder all of them in cold blood. What would you do?”
“No idea. I just run them off if I find them.”
Laken covered his face. Gralton laughed.
“Cheer up! Maybe there’s a secret power you’ll get from having so many. Seventy? That’s a lot! Bound to be twice that in a few months with them breeding. Now…me? I like—changing with my hounds.”
He meant his secret ability, to turn into, well, a Werewolf. Laken had been astonished to learn he could do that, although it was more like a Weredog. Gralton grinned at the [Emperor].
“You could become half-sheep.”
“No thank you. I think…it’s time to make the Sariants an ultimatum. I won’t have them disrupting Riverfarm, and I won’t kill them. If I drive them off—they might just come back, or my people will hide them.”
“What, then?”
Laken Godart frowned. Then he realized he had another special guest, who’d come out of her domain to greet Griffon Hunt. They were inbound. Laken snapped his fingers.
“I know just who. Excuse me, Gamel? Please bring me…”
 
—-
 
Pebblesnatch. The Goblin [Cook] met with Gralton and Laken. She was an emissary of her people, one of the few who ever left the Goblin Lands. Usually to ‘borrow’ cooking supplies or visit Nanette.
She stared at Laken and the [Dog Lord], quite unimpressed by both. After all, she had beaten the [Emperor] with a ladle and neither forgot that.
“Pebblesnatch, thank you for agreeing to meet with me. I was hoping you could take a look at Riverfarm’s newest…pets.”
Laken had Durene’s Sariant Lamb in the room, but he’d exiled his lover and all other busybodies except Gralton and the [Witches]. Pebblesnatch blinked at the lamb.
“What that?”
“A Sariant Lamb. It’s—”
The little sheep stared at Pebblesnatch and interrupted Laken as it came over, mewling cutely and staring up at her with huge eyes. It nuzzled the Cave Goblin, who retreated, then bent to stare at it.
Pebblesnatch had never seen a Sariant Lamb. The Sariant Lamb had never seen a Goblin.
The lamb did its best. It cuddled up, sniffed at Pebblesnatch, did a little flip on its hooves, and licked at the Goblin’s palm. All classics.
The Goblin felt at the soft, cuddly creature, and listened to it mewl and soothe her. She smiled. Then she sniffed the lamb. The Goblin experimentally opened her mouth and bit the lamb on the neck gently.
“Yum. Soft. Is good meat. I get?”
The lamb instantly freaked out. It began wailing, and Laken covered his ears, but grinned. So did the [Witches]. Hedag laughed.
“It doesn’t fool the Goblin’s stomach!”
Durene was summoned to rescue her lamb. Laken consulted with Pebblesnatch after the Sariant Lamb was gone.
“You didn’t think it was cute enough not to eat, Pebblesnatch?”
The [Cook] gave the [Emperor] a narrow-eyed look, as if trying to figure out if this was a test. She shook her head in the end. Yes, the Sariants were cute, but ‘cute’ didn’t fill her belly.
Laken clapped his hands together. At last! A species immune to the Sariant’s charms!
Goblins were in the unique position of being pragmatists; unlike monsters or animals, they’d be damned if some furballs would live if they starved. And unlike ‘civilized’ peoples, they didn’t like the idea of wasting resources on layabouts even if they were flush with food.
He grinned as he stood. It was not a nice grin, and both Durene and the Sariant she held looked apprehensive as Laken summoned them back in. He turned to Gralton and the [Witches], and smiled.
“I think I have a way to deal with the Sariants. Find them—all of them. No objections. We’re going to give them…shock therapy.”
Pebblesnatch glanced up. She began thinking of lamb recipes as Durene began protesting and the lamb squeaked in horror.
 
—-
 
“This is the issue. Sariants cannot breed out of control. They can’t demand to be pampered. A bit, yes, but they have to eat corn without wanting spices on it. I am willing to have them here! Just not at the expense of Riverfarm’s other animals. Lord Gralton has issued a complaint on how the dogs are being neglected.”
Riverfarm’s people listened with dismay as Laken laid out the issue. They stared at the nervous sheep, who were under [Silence] spells. Yet they could hear Laken. He sat on his throne, in front of the mass of supplicants and the lambs.
This was the weirdest throne room deliberation he’d made thus far, but Laken pretended nothing was untoward about it. He leaned over the armrest of his throne and turned his head to the Sariant Lamb’s ‘leader’.
“I am aware the Sariant Lambs are intelligent enough to be helpful—that they chose not to be is their choice.”
The lamb tried to baah at Laken, but he spoke over it.
“That they haven’t been so far is disappointing. The Sariants do seem to have a kind of charismatic power over Riverfarm’s people…so I’ve decided to give us a break.”
“Your Majesty, if the [Witches] convinced you to—”
Ram began hotly, but Laken spoke over the man.
“No one is going to kill them. Be silent, Mister Ram. I am [Emperor] of Riverfarm. Not the Sariant Lambs. I do not intend to kill them. However, they will not be coddled—and they will be absent. For one week. In their place I have asked Gralton to lend me his dogs, to be affectionately cuddled and taken care of.”
The people of Riverfarm muttered, but more dogs didn’t offend most. Only the most strident dog-haters around would object to that.
“Where will the Sariants go?”
Laken smiled nastily. The little lambs looked like they were ready to head off to greener pastures, but Laken wasn’t letting them off that easily.
“Why, I have prevailed on our allies to take care of the lambs. Without eating or harming them. It should be a fun week.”
The Sariant Lambs looked left—then right—then realized who Laken meant. Pebblesnatch grinned. She smacked the ladle into her clawed hands and pointed to the object Gralton had given her with a laugh after she’d come up with it.
A little dog-sled. The Sariants stared in horror at the sled and Pebblesnatch.
“Mush.”
