The man looked as bewildered as Vors felt—the difference was that he showed it. He was garbed in dress clothes of all things, not armor like Vors’ enchanted cloth, or Tusxe’s metal. He looked incredibly confused as he came out of his room.
“You wouldn’t happen to know when I’m meeting with General Idecan, do you? I was scheduled for a meeting two hours ago, but—”
“Two hours?”
The two commanders chorused in horror. Vors instantly turned to the man.
“Why didn’t you ask what the delay was?”
“Well…that would hardly be fitting. I am representing nearly six nations, and I am quite aware of Rhir’s status—it was also a long journey, so I confess to having nodded off.”
The [Lord] of Avel was embarrassed, but to Vors’ surprise, stuck out a hand as he bowed slightly.
“How do you do? I apologize, sir. I haven’t asked your name.”
“Er—General Vors of Fissival. Exceptionally pleased.”
Solvet blinked at Vors’ clawed hand and hesitated, nearly withdrawing his hand. He was wary of Vors’ claws. The [General] was amused and shook the man’s hand without scratching him. Tusxe did likewise.
“A pleasure. It looks like we’re all sitting around. Do you think they’ll mind if we talk out here?”
“It certainly beats my room. It’s—cramped.”
Vors glanced around, unsure how much to say if someone walked in on them. Solvet hesitated before nodding.
“It ah—lacked for certain refreshments. I suppose Rhir pours its budget into the defense of the nation—commendable! I might suggest to his Majesty—of Avel—that we add a bit more to our contributions, however. My room was, ah, slightly stuffy.”
Tusxe glanced from man to man, and snorted.
“My room was a craphole; I’ve had better stays in inns in a village in the middle of the jungle. I could swear there was something moving in my bowl.”
“You too?”
The two chorused before they could help themselves. Vors and Solvet exchanged glances.
“—Hang on. Would you mind if we looked inside your room?”
He turned to the Lamia. She shrugged.
“It’s not like I’ve got anything in there. Come on.”
She opened the door and the two followed her. Solvet and Vors found exact copies of their room, down to the bowl of nuts.
“There it is again! What is—”
Solvet recoiled in horror as a beetle scurried out of the bowl. Tusxe made a noise of disgust—Vors lost his temper.
“That’s it. I’m finding whoever put us in here. If this is some kind of a joke—this is what they’re serving to the High Command of our nations? What are they feeding the soldiers?”
“Isn’t that uh—different—for your species? Could that be construed as a snack?”
Solvet suggested timidly. Vors stopped, halfway out the door. He turned back and Tusxe and he exchanged an incredulous look and stared at the Human. Tusxe spoke first.
“Excuse me, Lord Solvet. Do you happen to eat bugs?”
“Me? No, no. I just—”
“Well, I don’t either! Get a Selphid for that. Who eats bugs?”
Vors had to admit, he’d heard that Lizardfolk might eat bugs—from some rumor, but Tusxe and he being put into the ‘scaled people eat bugs’ category was offensive enough. Solvet raised his hands, trying to apologize.
“I’m sorry! I just assumed—I wouldn’t have dreamed Rhir would have an infested bowl of foodstuffs! And there are bug-eaters in Terandria. Half-Elves, you know.”
“Half-Elves? Really?”
The Drake was agog, and actually had to stop again. Solvet nodded. Tusxe was just as surprised.
“Really? But you think of half-Elves as these…mystical…heirs to magic! Descendants of Elves! Fabulous cities of craft and marble and such!”
“In forests, you mean? Is that your image of half-Elves?”
The Drake and Lamia nodded. Solvet sighed.
“Well, they tend to be connected with the forests. Deeply. City-dwelling half-Elves are one thing, but I have seen them lick moss off boulders in the villages.”
“That’s…”
Vors couldn’t suppress the cough of amusement. Tusxe grinned. It was right then when he heard a curious sound.
Something was in the hallway. He turned, hearing the slight sound. Solvet glanced up; for all the [Lord] seemed oblivious, he’d heard it too, instead of Tusxe, who was asking about worms.
“What’s that?”
The three went to the door. Now, they all had a feeling something was up, so Vors relaxed the blade at his side. He saw Tusxe check her staff. Solvet? He had a belt knife and glanced at it, dismayed.
“You don’t suppose there is a crisis, do you? I ah, may have been eavesdropping—I’m without weapons.”
“You don’t have—what did you think you were coming here for, a dance?”
The Lamia cast scornful eyes at him. The man huffed a little; he had a slight wavy mustache, Vors realized. The Drake stared at it, having never seen that kind of facial hair around the mostly Gnoll and Drake peoples.
“I apologize, Commander Tusxe, but I use a longbow in battle. It’s considered slightly indecorous to walk around with a six-and-a-half foot bow when greeting dignitaries.”
“Really? You use a bow?”
“I do come from Avel.”
The Drake and Lamia had another blank look for the man. The [Lord] was dismayed.
“Avel? The Kingdom of Bows? Renowned for their archers?”
“Never heard of it. Hold on—I’m sensing something outside.”
Vors sent a spell. He saw Tusxe twist her claws and did the same thing. Both frowned—then glanced outside.
“That can’t be right. Is that a…”
Something went oink outside the door. All three leaders recoiled, then peered outside and found…a pig.
It was a small pig roaming the corridor! Well, ‘small’ for a pig, as Vors had seen some gigantic ones. It was probably four feet long, low to the ground, and had the oddest skin and coloration he’d ever seen.
Some of the pig was a rosy pink, even trending towards white on the underbelly—no dirt at all. The rest? It had some kind of…goldish…armor on it. Like scales or plate!
“What the hell is that?”
Tusxe pointed at the pig. Solvet’s eyes nearly popped out of his head.
“My goodness! Is that a Goldflake Pig? What’s it doing here? And…just running about?”
“A what?”
Vors looked about the corridor, but he saw no one, nor where the pig had come from. Solvet explained as the pig sat on its haunches and looked up at the bemused three.
“It’s a rare breed of pig. It eats minerals of all kind. Well, the name gives away what it does. Goldflake. Nicknamed the Goldfake Pig.”
“Because that isn’t real? Does that hurt? Hey, hold still, you. Is anyone checking if it has an explosive spell embedded in it? Hostile artifact?”
Vors snatched his claw away from poking at the gold ‘scales’ growing out of the pig.
“Who would do that?”
“Hello? Hostile Demons? We’re three high-value targets—you haven’t ever had to watch out for that?”
The two non-Baleros leaders looked aghast. Tusxe snorted. She scanned the pig, leaning back.
“…It’s clear. So that’s not gold on it?”
“Not at all. Come here, you.”
The pig was skittish, but Solvet made a clicking sound and it froze. It turned, trotted over, and sat down. Vors was doubly impressed.
“It must be trained.”
“Ye-es. For wardog commands. I really didn’t think that would work. Hm…it’s not shedding, and someone’s kept the fake gold trimmed. You see, they eat minerals and produce fake gold.”
“Pyrite. That’s actually useful in spells. I guess this must be the property of someone in Paranfer.”
The other two looked at Vors. The pig glanced up at Solvet, then got to its hooves again. Tusxe blew out her cheeks.
“Well, now we’ve got pigs roaming around and bugs. A fine welcome. Feels like home.”
“Agreed. Perhaps something is wrong?”
Solvet hesitated. Vors was about to suggest they all go searching, but Tusxe beat them to it.
“Let’s check. And stay on your guard, you two.”
They headed down a corridor, the three of them, leaving the pig behind. Vors sensed the Lamia tossing scouting spells—he just began casting his own battle-spells from a list. As an afterthought, he tapped Solvet. The man jumped.
“What? What are you—?”
He blinked as Vors’ [Mage Armor] spell appeared on his body. Tusxe eyed it. Solvet was surprised, but nodded at Vors.
“Um, thank you.”
“Just in case. Do you need a backup weapon? I can lend you my Wand of Fire Bolts.”
The [Lord] hesitated, eyed his belt-knife, and nodded.
“That—would be appreciated. I shall try not to waste the charge. I have aiming Skills.”
“Good. Don’t worry, though; it’s rechargeable.”
Tusxe glanced back as she came to the end of the corridor. Something was on the door; a bit of paper clumsily tacked to the cracked wood.
“Really? Fancy. How do you do that? I’ve heard you can recharge wands, but mine just break when used.”
“Fissival-made. Rechargeable sidearms are standard.”
Vors smiled smugly. Right up until he saw the note on the door.
 
Apologies for the delay. General Idecan is unavoidably detained. Please help yourself to rfrshments.
 
‘Refreshments’ was misspelled. Vors stared at the note. He was tempted to crumple it up and stomp on it, but he held back, aware he was in company.
“No way. They just put that up there and…? Without telling us?”
Tusxe stared at the note. Then at Vors. Then both she and Vors recoiled as Solvet raised the wand and blasted the note with a bolt of fire. Vors stepped back from the flash of heat, but Solvet just handed the wand back.
“Apologies. I lost my temper. I would appreciate it if you didn’t mention that to General Idecan.”
The three looked at each other, and then back down the miserable corridor. As they turned back, they saw a little roach scurry out of the corridor, heard a squeal, and then the Goldflake Pig caught the bug up in its mouth and crunched it down. It stared at the three, wagging its spiral tail as Vors, Tusxe, and Solvet stared at it.
They looked at each other, the pig, and then burst out laughing.
 
—-
 
Thirty minutes later, Vors found himself flipping peanuts at the pig as it stood on hind legs, opening its mouth to catch them. It even did a little hop, and fell on its back, all four legs flailing.
He started laughing, and so did Solvet, but Tusxe helped the pig get up.
“Don’t laugh! Alright, you’re okay, you stupid pig.”
It smiled up at her, or looked like it. The Lamia gave it a pat on the head.
“This pig is the best part of the wait, accident or not.”
Vors offered. Solvet nodded. He flipped a peanut high into the air, and the pig jumped and caught it in its mouth. He had a lot more dexterity with his ‘flat’ thumbs than the Drake and Lamia did with claws. Vors saw Tusxe admiringly shake her head.
“So handy.”
“Was that a pun?”
She grinned and Vors sighed, but all animosity was drained from him. They sat in his cramped room, the door open, hoping to hear from whoever was in charge. They’d debated leaving—right until they’d found the door was locked.
Solvet had kicked it so hard he’d sprained his foot. The man could be surprisingly hotheaded, Vors realized, for all he tried to be polite. He was massaging it now, but declined to use a potion.
“It would hardly do for a [Lord] from Terandria to need a potion after encountering a door. That would be the last thing our contingent needs and I am sure my fellows would not thank me.”
“No one would say that.”
Tusxe coughed into her arm as Solvet looked at her. The [Lord] glanced at Vors, who murmured something about ‘all being in it together’. He offered the pig another nut, sighing.
“We do have ears, you know. We know what other peoples—no, other continents think of us. Soft Terandrians with [Knights] and ineffectual leaders.”
“We don’t say it just about Terandrians. Drakes tend to direct that mostly at Izrilians in the north.”
“There’s a difference?”
Tusxe missed her own face with one of the nuts, which were actually palatable despite the bugs in each bowl, and laughed at the other two’s expressions.
“I’m joking. Of course I know there’s a difference. Something. Look at this goofy pig. They have pigs like this in Terandria and Izril? All of ours are Stelbore; covered in armor and mean as can be. Big.”
The pig was lying on its side, begging for Vors to toss it a peanut. The Drake tried and missed; the Goldflake Pig stared at the peanut lying five inches in front of its snout.
How could you? Its eyes reproached the Drake. Do you do this just to make me suffer?
Highly amused, the Drake flicked a finger and the nut soared into the animal’s mouth. Solvet tossed a peanut unerringly into the pig’s jaw and the oink made them all smile.
“I must admit, you two were ready for battle more than I. Keeping my longbow on me would be the germane thing to do, wouldn’t it? Rhir’s highly martial…ah, General Vors, that wand of yours is quite nice.”
Solvet was admiring Vors’ custom-designed wand. Wistram manufactured wands; so did Fissival and a lot of magical institutions. However, his was custom-contoured to his grip, and had a tiny addition; a magical lens built into it such that it showed what you’d hit.
“Thank you, Lord Solvet. I made it myself.”
“Really?”
That impressed the Lamia. [Battlemage] she might be, but Tusxe hadn’t his classical training. She was quite good with spells, though.
“I bought everything I have. Staff included. Glad I didn’t have to use it—or injure this pig. They shouldn’t let it roam about; I might have hurt it!”
She indicated the staff with glass embedded at the top. Vors eyed it. It was Solvet who asked.
“Is that a…viable weapon, Commander Tusxe? Forgive me for asking, but it isn’t what I’d expect a [Mercenary Captain] to use.”
The Lamia grinned at him.
“Solvet, have you ever seen someone hit by a bunch of glass bottle shards in the face? Or seen a bottle smashed into your scales?”
Solvet shook his head, fascinated and horrified. Vors raised a claw.
“I have. It doesn’t seem that much better than a sword, though. Even enchanted…a sword kills. Glass maims.”
The [Battlemage] winked at Vors.
“Yes, exactly. Which would you like to be hit by, though? A stab to the face or…?”
She flicked the staff, indicating a blow to head-height. Vors winced. Tusxe went on.
“The thing is, I’m a [Mercenary], as you said, Lord Solvet.”
She nodded at him. The man raised his hands.
“I didn’t mean to imply there was anything to do with rank…”
“Well, I did. And I wasn’t sure if I’d have to work with a [General] or whatnot…I’m leading a mixed-company, but mostly Lizardfolk. And I’d have hated to get some idiot who can’t figure out how to use a Lizardfolk in battle, no offense, Vors.”
The Lamia looked at the Drake. Vors hesitated, but then he ducked his head.
“You know, I had the exact same thought. I suppose that since we’re here and since no one’s coming…”
