She pointed. They began to wail, but they were under [Silence] spells and the [Witches] herded them off. Laken ignored the objections and Gralton’s dogs bounded forwards, reminding the spellbound people of Riverfarm there were other things than lambs in life.
 
—-
 
In truth, Laken suspected the Goblins mostly left the Sariants alone, Pebblesnatch’s fun aside. They weren’t actually cruel.
They might be hungry, though. But the Sariants were charming enough and even if one or two vanished…well.
A week of shock therapy did the trick. A bunch of ragged lambs came back, with grass stains on their fur, no owners to comb them or feed them on pillows; they’d had to find food, slept under the rain and lightning that a few malicious [Witches] kept conjuring, and fought off bugs, ticks, and, apparently, a really hungry giant centipede.
Laken Godart met the herd of Sariants before they were allowed back into Riverfarm. The Emperor of the Unseen Empire knelt down as the lambs stopped, staring at him.
“Here is my deal, Sariant Lambs. I know you can understand me. I am happy to let you eat, reproduce—in safe numbers—and have people look after you all your lives. But not if you take up all their time. Everyone must work.”
Gralton had reminded Laken of that. The [Emperor] went on.
“You will want for nothing in my lands, but you will not bother the other pets. If you are helpful, you may stay. If you continue as you have the last few weeks? I will have to force you to leave.”
The Sariants glared at him. Laken smiled thinly.
“I’m sure you think you can persuade your owners to get you to stay, and I have no doubt they’d try to smuggle you in. Which is why if I have to exile you—I will declare open season on Sariant Lambs. Not among my people, you understand. I’ll simply let the [Witches] keep Riverfarm clean of pests as they see them.”
Witch Mavika, Hedag, Eloise, Agratha, Wiskeria, and the others stood behind Laken. They stared at the little lambs and the lambs…hesitated. Laken Godart got back up.
“Let’s get you to your owners. Think about what I’ve said, would you?”
He let them go, and turned back to Wiskeria. Laken Godart rubbed at his forehead.
“…This is so stupid.”
He walked off and went to sleep to put an end to this debacle once and for all. But—well.
The world had the last laugh.
 
[Natural Allies: Sariant Lamb obtained!]
[Pact: The Hard-Working Lamb (Sariant) obtained!]
 
—-
 
The next day, Laken Godart followed some lambs around in his head. They helped tidy up the houses, nuzzled their owners, then lay down to sleep. A few followed their owners to work, and in general, lazed about.
“I suppose that’s as hard-working as a Sariant Lamb gets. But they’re not demanding attention or pampering.”
“You actually struck a deal with Sariant Lambs?”
Wiskeria tried not to laugh over breakfast. The [Emperor] regarded her, in his mind’s eye. For the daughter of Belavierr, she clearly found this normal, if funny. He shook his head, resigned.
“I don’t know what I find more offensive. The fact that I can strike a pact with Sariant Lambs, the fact that they are Riverfarm’s natural ally—or that the Skill isn’t new. Someone’s done this before.”
Wiskeria just shrugged.
“As long as you have the deal, we’ll abide.”
Laken Godart nodded and sighed. More of Gralton’s dogs had gone to stay, but the Sariant Lamb…he sat up and cursed.
“No! Absolutely not! Wiskeria, get Hedag and her axe!”
He shot to his feet, but it was too late. The growing empire of Riverfarm had fought over the seventy lambs. The empire, already into the tens of thousands, would not have to anymore.
Over the next three days, six more Sariant Lamb herds converged on Riverfarm. Laken Godart, the [Emperor] of lambs, decided to spend more time with Bismarck and Frostwing. Mossbears. Now, why couldn’t it have been Mossbears?
 
[Emperor Level 25!]
[Empire: Will of the Beasts obtained!]
 
—-
 
Pets across the world. Useful and useless.
Pets, not Healing Slimes or skeletons. Pets—animals who had a unique relationship with their owners.
Like the Fortress Beavers of The Wandering Inn—they weren’t pets. Not exactly. They had been left behind, abandoned the [Garden of Sanctuary]. They were Defenders of the Cave, and the pond, however lovely a retreat, was simply too small for them.
Animals needed to work. The inn was abandoned by even the animals. Selys Shivertail did have a reason to appreciate the Fortress Beavers.
She stared at the groaning [Thief] who had been after the Heartflame Breastplate, still breathing heavily. It hadn’t even been in her apartments; it was always on lease, but idiot [Thieves] didn’t know that.
The Fortress Beavers sat on the Drake who had sixteen broken bones. Somehow, they had snuck into her apartment and then proceeded to rescue her. It turned out a knife might threaten a Drake—but not a Fortress Beaver whose fur was so powerful, Mrsha had a Skill based on it.
Fortress Beavers, the beavers who could build dams so impressive they stopped entire rivers. The same beavers who had once dammed up a river with a fortification so impressive that two hundred Drakes had failed to dislodge them and been beaten back by the den, hence the name.
Selys was going to buy a big house with a water feature for them. She watched as Beaver Gang slapped their tails, giving the bemused Watch a side-eye.
…But they weren’t pets. The Defenders of the Cave were separate from The Wandering Inn’s only true pet. She buzzed along, intelligent, but still someone’s beloved animal. Selys realized…she hadn’t seen Apista. Nor would she find the bee when she went to check the next day.
Not in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Not in the inn, tending to her hidden little honey nest. Nor about the inn, on the flower-hill. Apista was nowhere to be found, because she had left the inn.
They all had. The brave and foolish, leaving home to rescue that silly little Gnoll. The bee buzzed along, determinedly keeping up, avoiding the Gnoll [Sergeant] who kept swatting at her.
“Are you sure that thing’s part of the inn? It’s got a stinger longer than my finger!”
Sergeant Gna pointed at Apista. The bee did a barrel roll past her face. But she wasn’t high. There was no time for hedonism. Her little white creature was gone! Her pet, who fed her things. Apista had to get it back or Lyonette would be heartbroken.
The faithful bee buzzed ahead, ignored by most of the others. Octavia, fiddling with her supplies, ill-at-ease on the horse, Fierre with an umbrella, Fals and Garia, jogging along, Antinium, Goblins…
Only one of them glanced back at Apista and realized the bee meant business. Apista was angry. She was furious. She buzzed, a bee as large as your hand. Her dark stinger was poised and she was no ‘one sting bee’. She was a princess of bees!
She had been taking it too easy. Sitting complacent in the inn. That time was over. Someone had stolen Mrsha. That stupid hat-thing had hurt her. 
It was time for the world to see Apista’s true form. Training wings off. She had to unleash her full potential.
The others mocked her, or tried to shoo her back to the inn. They didn’t understand. Apista wasn’t the weak one here. That was probably…uh…someone else!
It was Ulvama, the lone experienced spellcaster of the group who did a double-take and eyed Apista warily. She rode forwards and nudged Numbtongue, who was riding ahead, eyes set on the road.
“Hey. You see that? What that?”
She pointed warily at Apista. Numbtongue glanced back, irritated—then frowned. Both Hobgoblins peered at the Ashfire Bee. Apista gave them a salute with one antennae.
That’s right. Fly wary, I’m packing real heat.
Ulvama leaned back as Apista buzzed past her face. She stared at the tip of the bee’s stinger. The glittering tip that caught the light. Her jaw dropped as she recognized what it was.
The Naq-Alrama needle glittered on the tip of Apista’s stinger. Apista had tried to ‘glue’ the fragment of needle with beeswax to her stinger until she’d accidentally jabbed it in frustration. It had lodged in the already-sharp queen-bee stinger, and the tip of it poked out. Apista had decided it was an upgrade. She buzzed angrily as she scouted for someone to poke.
Oh boy, she was going to sting someone in the eye with this.
The most dangerous, anti-[Mage] bee in the world buzzed ahead.
After her beloved little friend.
