“There’s a rhyme for the little [Witches]. ‘A good [Witch] adds more than they take. Even the bad one takes, and uses it to create. A [Witch] who leaves naught at all is a mistake.’ Compared to us—yon lambs? Parasites, more like.”
Hedag laid out the fundamental difference between Sariant Lambs and [Witches] like that. [Witches] used emotions. So did the lambs.
The difference was that Sariant Lambs had zero qualities of their own. Their wool was fluffy and had market value, but like sheep, they were incapable of shearing it themselves and suffered if it grew too much.
Their tiny size meant that Sariant Lambs could neither run, nor actually obtain food that easily. Sheep, for all they were herbivores, had a number of survival mechanisms.
There were no rams among Sariant Lambs—they had both genders, but both were cute and cuddly despite age. The way they survived was by finding someone else to protect, house, and feed them.
If that seemed like a stupid self-defense mechanism, well, Laken saw all seventy lambs already being fought over as people wanted to have one in their homes—no, two! And it didn’t stop at people.
“Sariant Lambs can get anything to like them. You saw your bear? Well, they’ve done that kind of thing to no less than Wyverns.”
Laken turned to the [Witches].
“Ridiculous.”
Wiskeria just snorted.
“I wish. They’re not big enough to be even a mouthful. They’re exceptionally intelligent; they can understand what you say, and they can make themselves useful and beloved. For a while. There are cases of Wyverns protecting the stupid things, even fetching plants to feed the lambs.”
“Do they have any natural predators?”
“Sure. Crelers, undead…Eater Goats. Sariant Lambs fear them like the plague. Anything that can’t be bought by cuteness.”
Laken was beginning to understand, but still, this beggared his belief a bit. He gestured at the lambs. Cute they might be, but…
“Surely other predators would eat them. Like Bismarck if he was hungry.”
Eloise gave him a patient sigh. She walked over to one of the lambs.
“Your Majesty…watch.”
The [Tea Witch] bent down and seized a lamb by the scruff of the neck. She produced a belt knife, and the lamb freaked out. It opened its mouth and—began to wail.
It cried almost like a child, but—cutely. Instantly, every person looked at Eloise in horror.
“Witch Eloise! What are you doing to the poor creature?”
Even Bismarck came over to protectively shield the lamb. Eloise gave it up without much more of a fuss, and walked back to Laken.
“That sounded like a baby! A cute baby!”
Laken was rattled. His head tracked the lamb, but all he could ‘see’ was its outline. Eloise nodded, adjusting her hat and tucking her knife away.
“It’s just as well you can’t see them, your Majesty. Their charms aren’t working on you. Which is also why we came here, to warn you about the danger. Sariant Lambs are intelligent, and they know what they’re doing. They sought out Riverfarm, so don’t be fooled—they’ll be a pest worse than Vorepillars in the fields since you can kill one, not the other.”
The Unseen Emperor nodded slowly. He had to admit, that the [Witches]’ commentary and his own lack of insight was revealing the Sariant Lambs as little, cynical manipulators rather than the cute, helpless animals.
As if they suddenly sensed that the leader of this place wasn’t being won over, one of the lambs broke away from the crowd and trotted up to Laken. It stopped in front of him, on its bottom, all four hooves raised, and waved them.
“Baah, baaah.”
It was an adorable display. Laken Godart didn’t pick it up.
“It wants you to hold it, your Majesty!”
Miss Yesel called out. Laken bent down. The Sariant Lamb stared up at Laken’s face.
His face, with his closed eyes. The man frowned at the little lamb.
“Hm. It sounds cute.”
The Sariant Lamb backed up, clearly confused at this lack of pure adoration. The other lambs glanced at each other. Then one baahed, and came forwards. It moved past the first, and began nuzzling Laken’s leg.
It was so soft! Laken put out a hand and the second Sariant Lamb began to nuzzle it. He blinked, then smiled despite the [Witch]’s warnings.
“You clever little sh—”
Wiskeria actually kicked at the lamb, but Gamel blocked her. It ran away, crying piteously until it was scooped up. Laken stared at his hand.
“I’ve never felt something so soft!”
“Don’t let them fool you!”
“Witch Wiskeria! Please! I don’t know what you’re talking about, but this won’t lose us productivity or start fights! Your Majesty, we can’t leave these creatures to be eaten up. Won’t you let us take them in?”
The [Emperor] sensed more lambs crowding around as Prost made an appeal on behalf of Riverfarm. He hesitated—then stood and backed up. Behind the line of [Witches].
“Hedag, Eloise, Agratha, Wiskeria—senior [Witches]. Quick conference.”
 
—-
 
Laken had to shake off the soft touch of the Sariant Lamb. The [Witches] gathered around him.
“Alright, what’s the actual concern if we allow them to stay? They’ve already won over everyone here.”
The [Witches] glanced at each other. Laken was almost more wary of the lambs now than before, having experienced their charm. It was almost like magic. It might be magic.
“Well, they’ve come to Riverfarm, and fallen right into our trap, your Majesty. This flock’d run if it thought we were hungry or weren’t fat enough to feed them. They didn’t know there are [Witches] here, though. Give me five minutes with an axe and we can have fine eating for the next few days.”
Hedag grinned. Even Laken gave her a look of horror.
“Witch Hedag, those are thinking animals.”
The Hedag of swift justice scowled. Laken wondered if it was the Sariant Lambs already having twisted his mind—but murdering a bunch of animals wasn’t something many people from Earth were at home with.
“So’re leeches. Bah, I can see that’s not going to work. We can sell them, but [Beast Tamers] are wary of the devils. They like to breed and it’s hard enough to cull regular animals, let alone them.”
“Let’s say we let them stay. What will happen?”
Hedag growled, thinking.
“They steal other animals’ food, distract people from work, and the things’ll breed until they get so large a smaller herd splits off to infest somewhere else.”
“On the plus side, they will be helpful and motivate people for a while, your Majesty. They won’t show their true colors until a week or two when they’re ‘settled in’.”
The [Emperor] nodded. He glanced at the Sariant Lambs, and wasn’t oblivious to the mood of his people. He turned to the disgruntled [Witches].
“I don’t believe there’d actually be a revolt if I ordered them all killed, but I doubt we can drive them off without people disobeying. Let’s see what the lambs do first, [Witches]. We’ll make plans based on that.”
The [Witches] protested of course, but Laken could either give an order he knew wouldn’t be obeyed, or slaughter a bunch of lambs in front of the children and adults. He let them keep the lambs, refusing an offer of one and had Prost divvy them up between households.
The [Witches] hated it and glared daggers at the little lambs as they were carried off and everyone got, reluctantly, back to work, although some of the [Farmers] found the lambs following them around as they worked, to their delight. The women with hats stomped off. Laken distinctly heard Agratha muttering to the others.
“So ends Riverfarm.”
 
—-
 
The next few days passed by with the Sariant Lambs continuing to delight, and doing everything from ‘trying’ to make a bed, to proving to be perfectly house-trained, to enjoying baths and dancing together for fun.
They were a bomb of adorable, and it was a bomb, because Laken began seeing the fallout that the [Witches] had promised within three days.
He sensed it because the lambs were clever. But after twelve incidents, Laken summoned Eloise and a small group of [Witches] to his home.
“Witches, I believe you’re right.”
“Now he listens?”
Laken had to admit, he’d been a bit dubious, but he explained what he’d observed.
“I just sensed twelve instances of a Sariant Lamb stealing food from a dog bowl. One of them was actually eating from a horse’s trough and the animals just—let them do it!”
“We told you they were parasites. They won over animals and folk alike.”
Hedag growled. The [Emperor] agreed at last, reluctantly. The [Witches] hadn’t exaggerated the Sariant Lamb’s true natures—much.
They were little bullies. When no one was watching, they took food from the other pets. They demonstrated that in increasingly needy ways; one even competed with a baby for attention, wailing more piteously and with much more cute rewards when the parents fed it. An infant was inherently stupid; Sariant Lambs were smart.
Too smart. They were stealing food from the other animals in Riverfarm. Mostly sheepdogs and ratters and such—but also horses’ food. Laken fixed it, of course, ensuring that the food was placed higher up and that the animals were fed.
In response? He actually had to walk into a barn as the lambs fled and touch the ladder they’d dragged over to a food trough to believe it.
The only benefit Laken had in this shadow-war was that the lambs clearly didn’t know he could sense what they were doing. In front of him, they pretended to be as cute and helpless as could be, and they clearly knew he was the [Emperor]; no less than six followed him around if he was outside, much to the envy of his subjects.
They were turning Riverfarm into admirers, that much was certain. Durene loved the wretched things and even though they’d been told, all of Laken’s counselors couldn’t quite bring themselves to even suggest getting rid of the lambs.
Not that the Sariants found Riverfarm as easy pickings as other places. The [Witches] were responsible for that. The Sariant Lambs couldn’t charm even the apprentices, and the [Witches] reminded people—loudly—of their worse qualities, like trying to steal literal food from babies. The lambs had to be helpful around the [Witches] to prove the hat-women wrong.
Nor did their food-stealing trick work on one type of animal. Even Frostwing would let a lamb sniff her bowl of meat—although Sariant Lambs were herbivores—but the Sariant Lambs tried their food-theft trick on the wrong group.
On the fifth day, one sidled up to the pile of meat scraps, and grain and other crops promised to Witch Mavika’s crows, who kept the fields clear. The birds cawed warningly, but the bold lamb just tried to cuddle one crow, charm the rest. They let it do it—right up until it began to eat one of the corn cobs.
The crows ate the lamb after they pecked it to death, much to the horror of Riverfarm’s folk. True to Eloise’s word, the lamb screamed loud enough to distress everyone in several thousand feet. But it was dead before anyone sprinted over.
Witch Mavika refused to comment on the dead lamb, when the people of the Unseen Empire wanted to take her to task over it.
“A pact was sealed, and no one will break it. Not lamb or woman. Would you like me to show my displeasure on these little pests?”
Thousands of crows cawed warningly and the lambs instantly ran into houses. The people backed away as the [Crow Witch] tilted her head.
The [Witches] played no games. Indeed, on the sixth day of the Sariant Lamb invasion, Wiskeria brought it up to Laken over breakfast. Durene wasn’t with him; she was off feeding her lamb scraps of corn mush she’d personally prepared with a bit of spice the lamb wanted, and Laken was beginning to get sick of the needy lambs—he had refused to have one with him.
“They’re certainly showing their true colors. Why do lambs want flavor in their food?”
“Why do you?”
Wiskeria retorted. Laken had to admit, he’d invited that one. Apparently, all the Sariant Lambs had refused to eat breakfast until they had properly prepared food, and some of his [Cooks] were whipping up gourmet lamb breakfasts.
“I can see I was wrong, Wiskeria. These lambs are getting worse and they’ll be even more annoying in a week. What do you propose?”
His [General] hesitated. She looked around, for a lamb, not Human eavesdroppers, and leaned over the table.
“Laken. If…say…all the lambs were to vanish overnight, with no one knowing how it happened, with no blood or traces ever found, how angry would you be? No one would ever know—well, be able to prove anything.”
The [Emperor] stopped eating and raised his head. Wiskeria sat back. Laken Godart swallowed, and then burst out.
“There has to be a resolution between keeping them here and murdering them all in the night, Wiskeria.”
“Well, I’ve never heard of one. Either sell them or figure out something, because the [Witches] can see what’s happening as well as you can.”
The [Witch] snapped back. She was genuinely worried.
“They’re just lambs. They’re not a threat beyond—disruption to work and stealing from other animals! Parasites, not like Crelers. Right?”
The [Witch] was silent. Laken faltered.
“…You must be joking.”
Wiskeria fiddled with her glasses, and looked around again. She leaned forwards.
“Let me put it like this, Laken. We, [Witches], that is, don’t think they’re actually an organized threat. They’re just manipulative little geniuses. However…Queen Geilouna of Desonis owns one. I know there’s a Sariant Lamb owned by the Queen of Ailendamus, the King of Avel…and that’s just Terandria. There are Sariant Lambs owned by the rich and powerful—because that’s what Sariant Lambs like, to be pampered—across the world. If they were subtly manipulating their owners, who could tell?”
This was the stupidest conspiracy theory that Laken had ever heard. Yet he couldn’t quite deny it; the lambs were intelligent.
Case in point; one had apparently unlocked the warehouse door with a key it had somehow ‘found’ and they’d gorged themselves on food. The fact that a lamb had figured out which key was in Prost’s house, gotten it to the door way over its head…
No. The lambs were a problem. What Laken wanted to know was, why Riverfarm?
“These cute things could have gone to Invrisil. They could have bothered Magnolia Reinhart or a [Merchant]. Why Riverfarm? We’re not rich!”
“You have everything they want.”
Eloise gave Laken a cynical smile. She was walking along as Prost hurried—with a lamb in a carrying sling—to chivvy some of Riverfarm’s people to get back to work. The lambs protested; they wanted their fur hand-combed and all dirt and specks taken out! And hoof-manicures!
The [Tea Witch] gestured around the village.
