You’d think that the daughter of one of the greatest [Witches] of all time would be a bit weirder, wouldn’t you?
He’d run a ‘test’. The fruits of that test were apparent as Wiskeria raised her voice.
“No. He didn’t.”
She was gossiping with some of Riverfarm’s women, from various positions in the village. It was just…relaxing, having some of Eloise’s famous tea. Wiskeria looked shocked.
“Cheating? Did you ask a [Witch] to sort it out? Miss Yesel? Or…?”
There were internal judiciary systems within Riverfarm. The young woman shook her head tearfully.
“No—and please don’t ask, Miss Wiskeria! I don’t want him to lose his head, if Hedag were to hear…”
“She wouldn’t do that. And something should be done.”
Beycalt was frowning. Wiskeria nodded, looking disturbed.
“He’s your fiancé, isn’t he? You have to do something, Elaiere! I could talk to Prost or even—”
“Not his Majesty! I’ll…he said he’d make things right, break it off. It was only once!”
The others looked at each other. Laken, leaning against a windowsill, made a mental note not to intervene or pretend he’d heard about this. Some things an [Emperor] did not need to deal in, and this?
“It’s not once.”
“He said—”
Wiskeria’s hat swiveled back and forth as Beycalt glowered and the poor Elaiere defended her unfaithful fiancé. Fascinating as this was, Laken only focused on Wiskeria. Because…she was genuinely disturbed.
Disturbed, upset on behalf of Elaiere, the [Seamstress], a talented young woman, whom Wiskeria had befriended. Given tips to—of course Wiskeria knew how to sew. And it made sense! You’d support a friend who realized she was being cheated on, wouldn’t you? Be upset?
“All checks out. That’s genuine emotion right there. Wouldn’t you think, Gamel?”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
The [Knight] hovered, palpably uneasy at eavesdropping, although his [Emperor] had insisted. Laken nodded to himself.
“So—how did Wiskeria react to the other tasks I asked her to oversee and help with?”
The [Knight] didn’t have to think.
“She helped cull a bunch of animals, and butchered them without a blink. Even some of the [Farmers] were surprised by how chatty she was. Then she went and helped the [Mortician] with…”
He gulped. Laken nodded.
“Preparing the dead bodies. And have you ever seen her look upset while fighting? What about when we were burning the Creler bodies? Anyone?”
The [Emperor] asked the other warriors who were on bodyguard duty. They shook their heads. Laken nodded.
That was Wiskeria’s secret. She never stopped being normal, even when she should be. Seasoned warriors could fight in a battle, but even they might blanch at culling and butchering animals. Wiskeria? Not a bat of the eyelid.
Crelers, dead bodies—spooky [Witch] apprentices. Laken remembered her chasing them off. Nothing fazed Wiskeria, except, apparently, infidelity.
Emotional, social matters. She raised her voice behind Laken, visibly upset.
“Elaiere, you can’t let him get away with this. This is more than just being unfaithful! He made a promise to you! An oath of love! You have to resolve this.”
“How?”
The [Witch] thought about it.
“For someone who breaks the vow of love? You could break his legs.”
“…What?”
Laken sat back up. Gamel, and the rest of the squad turned. Wiskeria was pacing back and forth in front of the women. Beycalt laughed, but Wiskeria shook her head.
“I’m serious! It’s a broken vow! Demand something of his—you can’t trust oathbreakers. The engagement’s off. Demand—I don’t know, I’ve never been engaged. What’s the penalty for breaking an engagement?”
“There’s not one, Wiskeria! It’s…love.”
The [Witch] whirled on her friend, angrier—Laken realized, angrier than any of the other women for different reasons—and pointed at Elaiere.
“And love demands a price. He’s broken his word. You were going to get married! Demand fair recompense, Elaiere. Demand…I don’t know, one of his testicles.”
“What?”
The [Witch] looked around.
“She doesn’t need to cut it off herself! It’s just—that—that’s not what you’d normally do, is it?”
She hesitated, as she saw the other women looking at her. Wiskeria opened her mouth, then promptly shut it.
And that was the mystery of Wiskeria, partially solved. Laken strolled out of the home, and looked at Gamel.
“Ask Beycalt later if anything’s done. Otherwise—Prost can handle it. No testicles being removed.”
The [Knight] nodded, glancing back towards the circle of arguing women. Laken walked on.
The thing about Wiskeria was that she slipped. You had to catch her. He just bet that the talk about breaking promises was something she’d learned from her mother.
“Woe to anyone who ever broke a promise to Wiskeria as children.”
“Ah, well, we all have our complaints, Emperor Godart. But if you wanted to know Wiskeria’s differences, you might have asked us.”
All of Laken’s company jumped and half his bodyguards nearly drew their blades—but they saw Eloise standing there and relaxed. The [Witch] had snuck up on them all!
“Eloise, you caught my spying.”
“An [Emperor] does not hide well. Are you wondering what makes Wiskeria different?”
Laken ducked his head, a bit shamefaced.
“Wiskeria has always dodged questions about her past. I did not wish to push. Eloise, I don’t suppose you can elaborate?”
The [Tea Witch] considered the question and Laken knew she was weighing her ‘service’ to the Unseen Empire against the code of [Witches], whatever that was. She gestured.
“Shall we walk, your Majesty?”
They did, towards the river and the fields, as Eloise hummed, then spoke.
“You noticed Wiskeria doesn’t blink at most things; well, many [Witches] could say the same. If you want to truly see how Belavierr changed her, look no further than how she talks to her mother. Or—had you any [Murderers], [Bandits], or other unsavory folk in Riverfarm, you would have noticed it already.”
“I tend not to enjoy that kind of person, Witch Eloise.”
“Oh, I know. They would have been—instructive. You know Wiskeria has sworn to kill her mother? They both know it.”
“Yes. Her conversation was entirely polite, though.”
Eloise nodded.
“That is Wiskeria. She can speak to a monster—a true monster, regardless of the face—and deal with them in a friendly way. Then kill them in the next hour. Both she and her mother know that one day, one of them might die. They can still be mother and daughter until then.”
Laken drew in his breath.
“So that’s it. And that…sounds entirely like Belavierr. Practical.”
“Able to differentiate. I can be your mortal enemy, Emperor Laken, but offer you tea. It is not a skill many Humans learn. Many species at all. Will that satisfy?”
It would, and Laken thanked Eloise. Of course, the [Witch] had sought him out today to propose more lessons in tea for anyone interested. Maybe a few tea sets?
“And while we discuss it—the new fields are doing well, and your ‘greenhouses’ would allow crops of all seasons. Perhaps I could petition you to grow some plants? Tea sells quite well.”
“Of course, Witch Eloise. Shall we visit Mister Ram?”
She smiled, and Laken pointed in the direction he sensed the [Head Farmer]. It wasn’t exactly payment for just Wiskeria’s background, but he reflected that the [Witches] certainly knew what they wanted. Eloise had an empire’s worth of customers, and it seemed, might have cheap access to all the tea leaves she could want.
It was at that point when the plague arrived. Laken slowed as he realized the [Farmers] had abandoned their stations.
“Hm. They might have found something. They’re all gathered in the field.”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
The [Emperor] realized Gamel could see what he had observed; his [Emperor]-sight didn’t trump regular eyes all the time. The [Emperor] began to walk that way, and noticed more people coming.
Durene, Prost, even Hedag and Wiskeria and a few others, noticing the lack of work. Beniar’s [Riders] too, calmly assembling.
“Is there danger, Emperor?”
Eloise was standing on her tip-toes to see, being shorter than the others. Laken frowned.
“No. They’re all clustered around…hm, it must be nearly six dozen…did one of the pens break loose? They look like baby sheep.”
The company relaxed instantly. Unless they were carnivorous, or even if they were, that didn’t sound like monster-class threats, and the [Farmers] would have raised the alarm if they were.
However, it was Eloise who suddenly lost her smile. She looked ahead.
“Baby sheep? Lambs? You don’t mean those wretched—”
Laken glanced at her, interested, and then heard the cutest baah he had ever heard in his life. He arrived with the others just in time to find that the [Farmers] were petting, cuddling, and feeding scraps of vegetation to their unexpected guests.
“Your Majesty! It’s wonderful! I’ve never seen so many, and they just came up and started nibbling the corn over there! They’re beautiful and friendly as you want! They’re—”
“Sariant Lambs.”
Eloise hissed. Laken could not see, but he sensed the [Witch] recoil from the adorable, seventy-plus herd of lambs that had waddled over, mewling and baahing. Laken Godart raised his eyebrows.
Today was a weird day.
 
—-
 
Sariant Lambs were known the world over for one thing: they had obtained the record as the world’s cutest, most adorable and beloved pet.
No other animal beat them. You could object and say, ‘dog this’, or ‘cat that’, or ‘fluffy bunny whatever’. You would be wrong. It wasn’t that any other pet was less cute or adorable, but Sariant Lambs were better. Superior fluff! Superior cuteness!
One touch of their fur, ranging from white to black with some surprising shades in between, and you couldn’t help but feel like you were touching what a cloud should feel like. They would beg to be picked up, their little eyes and heads staring up, lick your cheek—they never got as big as regular sheep, being a dwarf breed.
All of Riverfarm that heard about the animals flocked over. The Sariant Lambs didn’t run; nor were they even skittish. Other animals needed to be trained, and even the best got nervous in large groups. Sariant Lambs loved the attention.
“It’s so cute! Mother—mother! Can I have it?”
A girl shrieked as the lamb nuzzled her, running up to her parents. The others had lambs in their arms—Durene was tentatively, tentatively scratching the stomach of a little lamb who’d rolled over winsomely.
Laken Godart heard similar sentiments—people were talking all around him. Prost turned to Ram.
“They just showed up, you said? They’re valuable! Each one’s worth a fortune.”
“Prost, you don’t want to sell them? This is a miracle! We could have them in a home, one to a family. They don’t need much to eat—this could solve his Majesty’s worries about entertainment! Who needs books when you have this cute thing?”
The lamb baahed and burped in his arms and both men laughed. Sariant Lambs were more than just cute—one was gamely playing tag as a toddler ran away. Another was hopping like a bunny, mimicking an actual bunny pet.
It was…the most memetic display Laken had ever ‘seen’ in his life. He had never seen cat videos, or dog videos. The blind man got absolutely nothing from that kind of thing when a friend was showing the video around. And someone saying ‘look at the dog as it takes a bath!’ was not actually fun.
In his head, the Sariant Lambs were doing all these things to the delight of the people watching or interacting with them. Laken was glad the lambs were bringing some levity and enjoyment to Riverfarm, but what he was really curious about was the reaction of the [Witches].
They had gathered at the news of the Sariant Lambs. Unlike the people of Riverfarm, they hadn’t flocked forwards to pet and touch the creatures.
The [Witches] were standing in a line, apart from the cooing people. They were not impressed. Rather, as Durene whispered, they were ‘giving the lambs a look like slugs in the wheat field.’ Which Laken was quite amused by.
“What’s the matter, [Witch] Hedag, Eloise?”
The two senior [Witches] were staring at the lambs. Hedag flipped her hat up.
“Looks like you’ve got parasites, your Majesty. Didn’t expect they’d show up, but I’m glad you’re not cooing over the little things. Happiness leeches is what they are. Affection slugs. Shoo.”
She kicked at a Sariant Lamb as it waddled over and it made a distressed noise that immediately made Durene pick it up and hold it protectively away from Hedag with a glare. Laken got what Hedag meant. He smiled.
“Competitors in the same field?”
Eloise’s head slowly rotated around, but her rare look of extreme displeasure was lost on the blind [Emperor].
“I didn’t think you were that tactless, your Majesty. Hardly. Sariant Lambs are parasites—just not shaped like them. Parasites for people and culture, not animals. Is it a surprise [Witches] don’t care for such things, as lovely as their appearance might be?”
Parasites? Laken Godart glanced over. He heard a whuff, and then a caw. Instantly, he held out an arm—winced—
Frostwing landed on his shoulder, having taken off from her usual perch of Bismarck. The Mossbear and bird had both come over to investigate the noises. Instantly, one of the Sariant Lambs broke off from the crowd, and approached Bismarck. The bear sat back on its haunches, but then stared as the little Sariant Lamb made an approximation of a growl, like a bear. Only, cute.
It came over, inspected his paw, and to Laken’s amazement, found a little thorn that had been troubling the Mossbear and pulled it out with its teeth. Bismarck instantly perked up, bent to nuzzle the little lamb, and everyone was doubly impressed.
“It even got the bear. Let’s kill them when everyone’s asleep.”
Laken heard Witch Agratha mutter. He turned.
“Just what is the problem? That seemed like a wholesome interaction.”
A line of angry [Witches] turned to face the [Emperor], arms folded. It was Wiskeria who gave the explanation Laken needed.
“They seem nice now, Laken. But they’re buying your affection. In a week? They won’t be as ‘helpful’. They’ll demand feeding, petting at all hours, or they’ll start crying. In a month? Half of Riverfarm will be fighting to win their affections. They’ll turn households against each other, starve all your pets, and if the empire collapses, they’re on their way.”
The [Emperor]’s head turned. He could not see the Sariant Lambs, and perhaps that was a good thing. But suddenly—Laken Godart wondered if the ‘smiles’ the Sariant Lambs were apparently giving to the Humans were actually more like disguised smirks. He stepped back and looked at Wiskeria.
“Tell me more.”
 
—-
 
