Back in his cabin, the pilfered knife was used to get the pad open and retrieve the skill shard.

With it in hand, Matt reassembled the pad before realizing he didn't know exactly how to absorb the skill. No one ever discussed the details. People acted like it was self-explanatory, but Matt was clueless about where to begin. Fear seeped in that he would somehow ruin the skill by experimenting.

Matt opened the PlanetNet and quickly found a guide. It wasn't free, but only cost one hundred credits. He had six thousand credits saved from Benny's and a credit limit of twenty thousand. Still, he paused.

Why am I worried about such a small price?

With warring instincts, Matt inputted his account information and waited as the purchase was verified.

As Matt read the guide, he was glad he purchased it. The actual process of absorbing a skill was easy, just send a strand of essence to the skill, and it would flow into your spirit.

According to the guide, there were three ways to absorb a skill. Or rather, three different functional degrees of distance you could pull the skill into your spirit, which was the determining factor on how long a skill took to absorb.

The first example was called core skills according to the guide. The number of such skills your spirit could hold depended on Tier but could also be influenced by Talents. However, on average, Tier 1 people could hold two skills in the core spirit.

The limited number was made up for by a notable boost. Skills in the core generally saw around a 30% boost to some combination of their efficiency, power, and casting speed. Being in the core of the spirit also allowed the skill to be modified by the user far more easily. It was recommended that build defining skills or lifesaving skills went to the core spirit.

There was a trade-off, though. Even at Tier 5, most people only had three slots, and then at Tier 10, four. Every tenth Tier after that allowed for one more as the spirit grew with cultivation.

Next was the inner spirit. This was where the average skill was presumed to be added to. At Tier 1, six slots were the norm, with two more being added with each new Tier. The inner spirit was the place general combat skills were recommended. Space was plentiful enough that most wouldn't have enough skills to even fill it as they advanced. It was the average, the baseline everything else was judged on.

The outer spirit was last. By far the largest area, it had room for twenty skills at Tier 1 and expanded enough for five more each Tier. The skills located here were slower and weaker by about half, with the mana cost also going up 50% on average. Non-combat spells like [Purify], [Cleanse], or [Create Water] were often put there. Skills that, while useful, were not time-critical to cast.

According to the guide, while skills could be shifted around the spirit after initial absorption, it took months of deliberate meditation.

Finally, and most importantly, was how long it took to get the skill into each of the spirit’s areas. About a day was required per area it moved through, starting with the outer spirit. That rate would be slightly sped up by Tier. So long as the shard constantly had essence circulating, the skill was considered to be in the integration phase and would slowly move closer to the core region.

The guide explained he should feel the difference as the skill moved along, and its progress through his spirit would give him a good example of the core, inner, and outer regions of the spirit.

Learning all this, Matt was relieved he bought the guide. He'd never heard anything about this and was sure he'd have ended up with his single very synergistic skill languishing in the outer spirit without the guide, losing out on a ton of power.

The guide recommended skills being absorbed should be secured to the body with specially made holders so they couldn't be stolen or dropped.

Matt taped it to his chest.

Once the shard was secured, he directed a strand of essence to the shard and felt the process take over. The skill shard seemed to gently pull his essence while feeding back the essence after circulating through the shard, completely automated. He just had to be mindful of his chest until the skill moved to the core of his spirit.

***

The next day, Matt felt a jolt in his spirit. He instantly knew that if he directed mana through the skill structure still moving in his spirit, he'd activate the skill [Cracked Phantom Armor]. With a day-long grin, he anticipated the arrival at Durham and then the PlayPen in two more days.
