Chapter 3

Lying in the dark, Matt cradled the pad in his hands. He had tried to get some rest, but the anticipation and thrill of getting away with the theft kept sleep away.

He looked at his pad again. This was his lifeline. Some part of him kept expecting Benny or the party leader to burst into the room and snatch the pad and skill shard out of his hands. But all was gloriously quiet.

Delving without a skill was common at lower levels, but the casualty rate was much higher for those unlucky delvers.

Matt already decided he wouldn't let this pad out of his sight for the remainder of the year. This skill was near perfect for him. A channeled skill would allow him to use his full 1 mana per second of mana generation while he was under 0.1 mana.

Matt used his PlanetNet voucher time to check on the status of the Glesie public rift. The purchase price for a spot was still ten thousand credits and holding steady. A while back, it had spiked to eleven thousand for a few weeks before dropping to nine thousand for a bit. Now, it was back at its usual price. He then quickly searched for average mana stats for lower Tier mages and found a guide put out by the Juniper family that had the barony over the planet.

The guide was only recommended up to Tier 3, then more advanced versions had to be purchased. It focused on directed mana cultivation and its three aspects: Maximum Mana, Mana Regeneration, and Mana Concentration.

Fascinated, Matt read on. The orphanage hadn’t covered the nuances of directed cultivation. They taught that as you gathered essence from killing monsters in rifts, the person dealing the final hit absorbed the lion’s share of the essence.

Most teams wore devices that automatically divided the essence amongst the rest of the party. Ratios could even be changed so one person could get nearly all the essence, which was how crafters got the necessary essence to advance without having the skills to fight monsters themselves.

Once out of the rift, you would process the essence, allocating it to either your body or mana.

Cultivators could direct how they allocated the essence. Physical and mana were the two sides of cultivation. After that choice, you could target sub aspects of each, which was called 'directed cultivation,’

The other option was to let the essence go where it was needed, called undirected cultivation. It was an easy way to shore up weak areas.

The guide described directed cultivation as making mountains to have specialization and letting the valleys get filled in, raising the baseline to build your peaks even higher, is called undirected cultivation.

All power needed a strong foundation, after all.

None of these details were discussed at the orphanage. They were just told that the group they joined would have their own guidelines and recommendations specific to their position.

The guide said the goal at Tier 3 was to have 1,000 mana and Mana Regeneration of about one mana every two and a half minutes. The guide explained this was the ideal ratio for directed mana cultivation at lower levels, with 70% directed mana cultivation and 30% undirected physical.

The guide strongly warned against attempting directed physical cultivation until Tier 3, and only when the appropriate classes were taken. The guides specifically for it were not available until after the classes were taken.

What's the difference? Why are you allowed directed mana cultivation but not physical at Tier 1? Matt wondered but got back to reading. The information was interesting but not particularly useful until he could collect essence in a rift. It was still something to do, so he kept reading while he couldn't sleep.

The general idea was that a mage would regenerate 576 mana a day. It also wasn't recommended to delve more than once every three days, and delve slots reflected that. That would let mages fully regenerate their mana pool in under two days. That extra mana could then be used for practicing their skills or stored in rechargeable mana stones for quick mana recharges in a rift.

The rechargeable mana stones were particularly recommended. Because it was mana from your own mana pool, there wouldn't be any time needed to aspect the mana to match your natural mana pool. The guide also recommended emptying and refilling any low Tier rechargeable mana stones after a week because the mana would un-aspect, turning into ambient mana.

Un-aspected mana was great for powering devices but was hell on a cultivator's mana channels. Directly using it could cause near permanent damage.

The last and most interesting part of the guide covered Mana Concentration. Allocating any essence into Mana Concentration before Tier 5 was flatly not recommended.

Mana Concentration shrunk your other mana cultivation aspects to make your mana denser and more concentrated. Denser mana gave your spells more power for the same cost, but the returns were terrible.

To double the power of a spell with Mana Concentration, a Tier 5 mage would need to diminish their base Maximum Mana and Mana Regeneration values back to what they had at Tier 1. That was at a 70% essence allocation to mana through all the preceding Tiers.

That brought Matt up short.

What an insanely bad return.

The amount of essence a Tier 5 had would be massive. In the early Tiers, advancing to the next Tier required ten times the essence of the previous one. If it took ten essence to reach the peak of Tier 1, then it took a hundred to reach the peak of Tier 2.

It was why people didn't farm low Tier rifts despite them being safer. The monsters didn't have enough essence to make it worthwhile. Killing a single monster in a Tier 2 rift was worth the equivalent of killing a dozen in a Tier 1 rift.

The amount of mana and Mana Regeneration a Tier 5 mage would have would be insane, completely incomparable to a Tier 3. Doubling the power of each skill would force them to give all of that up to reset back to the base of around 100 mana and one mana every twenty minutes.

Mana Concentration, for all its downsides, was an important part of mana cultivation. Maximum Mana and Mana Regeneration had diminishing returns when applied to the allocated essence after a certain point. The spirit could only grow so much without strain, and Mana Concentration increased that cap farther than the cultivators lost from Maximum Mana and Mana Regeneration when allocating to it, eventually allowing a mage to have millions of mana.

Which just proved going from Tier 5 mana levels to Tier 1 wasn’t worth it. But, then again, this guide was tailored for lower Tier mages. Matt doubted this was the whole truth.

It was a good warning, though. Matt was sure many a young mage would have crippled their mana cultivation early on without that warning. They would be in the same boat as Matt, unable to cast a single spell but without his advantages.

Matt stroked his pad. His Tier 1 Talent wasn't perfect, but this skill shard synergized with it amazingly.

Before falling asleep, he plugged the pad in so the mana battery would charge overnight and tried to drift off.

***

The vibration of his pad woke Matt up. It was 3:55 a.m.

Panicked, Matt clumsily tapped around the pad, finally opening a video to hear nothing. Sighing, he flopped back to his bed.

All was well. The skill shard hadn't managed to run off in the night somehow. It hadn’t all been a dream. Still exhausted, he forced himself to get moving. Midnight had been rolling around when he’d finally fallen asleep.

I can nap during the day in the maintenance room.

Despite his weariness, he arrived at the training room only a smidgeon late. According to his schedule, today was only flexibility training. If it had been a strength training day, Matt didn't know how he would have done anything. Stretching was a perfect way to wake himself up before Dena and Eric came down to spar.

When they arrived, both headed straight to his corner. Matt was surprised. Eric had recently said his control training was almost done, so he was doubling down on the practice to get it over with quicker.

As soon as they got close, Eric announced, “Matt, Dena and I talked it over last night. You have talent, and it's wasted here. We want to help.”

Matt started to say it wasn't necessary. He didn't want to take charity from them. They were too kind. It would make him feel dirty.

He thought back to last night, the skill shard he’d swiped. Did he still even deserve help after that? If it had been theirs, he knew he wouldn't have stolen it. The arrogant stranger was another matter.

Before he could get anything out, Eric continued, “It's not charity. You’re going to earn it in a spar. Unless they have a Talent that boosts physical cultivation, a Tier 1 fighter just landing a hit on a Tier 3 is more than enough to earn them a guild invitation. Anywhere but here, at least. It's actually a pretty standard test in the Empire proper. Though they usually make the fight against a peak Tier 2 with a 70% split.”

Dena returned from the weapons rack with a pair of blunted daggers.

Instinctively, Matt wanted to reject her offer. On the other hand, though, this might be his best shot at escape from this shit hole city. He wouldn't need to spend another nine months slaving away. He could escape with his stolen skill shard all the sooner.

Dena clearly saw his internal struggle because she preempted, “Remember, this isn't charity. You're either going to earn the hit or not. And I’ll be fighting at Tier 3 strength and speed.”

The hesitation didn’t completely disappear from Matt's face, so Eric followed up, “We won't force you, but sponsoring a young talent isn't unheard of. It's really not that uncommon in the Empire proper. You're hardly the first person to ever come out of the Awakening with a…less than ideal Tier 1 Talent. The Emperor doesn't want potentially strong people to languish in the gutters because they were born on low Tier planets or with weak Talents.”

“That's where the Path of Ascension comes in. A sponsor even gets rewarded if their sponsee does well. Make it to Tier 5, we get some small rewards. Make it to Tier 10, we keep getting more and more, all the way up to Tier 25.”

Eric looked wistful as he continued, “The Empire wants powerhouses, needs them. But it also won't waste resources on those who won't put them to good use. This system helps all involved, but we won't recommend anyone if they don't have the drive to advance.”

Matt swallowed. It didn’t sound like he’d be taking advantage of them. But what would happen if he didn't do well?

Dena anticipated his question. “If you stop advancing or die before Tier 5, you simply get marked as a failure. If a sponsor has too many failed recommendations on their record, they lose the ability to sponsor more people. That's really just in place to stop people from recommending everyone they see to play the odds.”

A final bit of reticence held Matt back, so Eric added, “This moment right here, this is exactly how we got started, two street rats from a Tier 5 planet. Someone saw potential and gave us a chance to prove ourselves. There are thousands of low Tier planets in the Empire, Matt. More great people than you probably think come from places like this.”

He and Dena shared a smile, reminiscing on their own beginnings.

That decided it for Matt. “All right. I'll do it. I'll rise all the way to Tier 25 eventually and get you those rewards.” Matt tightened his grip on the training longsword. Who didn't want to complete The Path? Who didn’t want to be a legend?

Dena laughed. “That's the spirit!”

With that, she lunged at him and started the most intense fight of Matt's life. She moved faster than in any previous spar. Matt strained his eyes just trying to make out some of her movements. They were mere flickers that left lines of pain in their wake.

As the five-minute mark passed, Matt realized there wouldn't be rounds between engagements to catch his breath in or rethink his strategy. This would only end when he gave up or landed a hit.

Matt's resolve hardened. He hadn't chanced stealing the skill shard because he was afraid of a risk or a challenge. He could take some risks in a spar. So, he concentrated on keeping his movement defensive, disregarding Dena's strength and speed advantage. Her Tier 5 endurance meant she could just attack at full speed until he collapsed. Even if she kept her speed to a Tier 3.

Matt sent out more attacks, probing his opponent. His was the longer blade, so offense was his best defense. When she closed in, her more maneuverable daggers had the advantage. One could tie down his blade while she got in vicious stabs with the other.

Switching his attacking pattern bought Matt some breathing room. With a moment to think, he concluded Dena’s lack of skill with her staff did not extend to her daggers. The woman had mentioned she preferred them as her main weapon, and it showed. She was intimately familiar with her range and light on her feet, which let her evade every blow as if she saw the future.

Matt stayed patient. He wasn't trying to kill her just land a single blow. Not an easy feat on someone with much higher physical abilities than a Tier 1 like him. While each Tier didn't quite double the power, if two people had the same allocation ratios, the difference was significant.

Higher Tier meant more essence. More essence meant more power.

The golden rule stated total essence distributed equaled increased power. It was the reason the higher Tiers required more than ten times the essence to rank up and was also why the higher Tiers had such massive jumps in power between them.

After another few exchanges, the fight stalled. Dena was content with sending probing attacks or blocking with her daggers or forearm guards.

