It popped right out. It was so light and so unattached that the Cave Goblin shifted it away from the hole instantly. He overbalanced, and Infinitypear ran around the cave to catch him—but Rasktooth caught himself.
“Hey! This plug isn’t on at all!”
“Oh? What’s—”
Then the buzzing grew louder, and Rasktooth froze. He tried to put the plug back, but too late.
Ashfire Bees blew out of the tunnel in a swarm. Nearly a hundred of them flew up in a mass, and Infinitypear looked up—
And then thought of how big Apista’s stinger was. How dangerous she might be if she were mad. Rasktooth was flailing, covering his face as they descended—
“Stop!”
The Ashfire Bees halted, covering the Cave Goblin, and their stingers did not jab into his flesh. They were filthy, covered in—something strange—and—
And a second swarm of bees flurried around, bright yellow and black. More Ashfire Bees as the first one retreated back into the cave.
What was going on? Infinitypear and Rasktooth froze as the second swarm landed around the roof of the cave, and the dirty bees from within crawled around the entrance. They were rubbing antennae…kissing? But who had spoken? Where had the other bees come from?
The answer appeared as four buckets were slowly placed down and a bit of sugary water sloshed between the buckets. Both bee nests descended, and a figure raised one of their hands as all four buckets fed the two Hives.
“This is dangerous. You are not Miss Mrsha. Did she hire you to take my job?”
Rasktooth blinked, and Infinitypear brightened.
“Grass Shell!”
The [Shaman] backed away as the two bee colonies devoured the sugar buckets. He looked like a plant. More grass had grown on his shell, even a flower or two. A bee landed on his shell and began to suck nectar out of it.
“The bees in this cave are angry-angry. They will sting you. The new bees don’t go in. Except if they are needed. Something bad is there. The new bees feed this one. See?”
He pointed to the ‘kissing’ bees, and Rasktooth and Infinitypear saw they were actually doing what bees did—trading nectar and food.
“You have a job feeding bees?”
“Yes. A Drake did it last time, but he overcharged, so I took his job. Is it my turn to lose my job?”
Grass Shell looked resigned to the whims of economic fate, but Rasktooth and Infinitypear assured him they were just adventuring. The [Shaman] brightened up.
“Oh. Then I am happy. I am feeding the bees. I am allowed to buy sugar and water and things bees eat and put them here every week.”
“What’s in the cave?”
“I don’t know.”
“Where did new hive come from?”
Rasktooth decided he was afraid of bees—especially the Ashfire Bees who were flying around and eating from the Floodplains’ flowers. Grass Shell shrugged.
“I don’t know. They flew here? I feed them too.”
“Why?”
Both [Adventurers] had many questions, but Grass Shell just puffed out his chest proudly as he put his hands on his hips.
“Because I am a [Shaman]. A [Beekeeper Shaman].”
The Goblin and Antinium looked at each other. Rasktooth held up a hand.
“Is that a good class?”
Grass Shell pondered the question.
“I get free honey.”
“Ooh. Good class.”
“Yes.”
This adventure had nearly ended in calamity, but it turned out to end in free honey. Grass Shell didn’t collect any from the angry Hive of dirty bees, and they actually pulled the plug back into place. Rather, he knew that the other Ashfire Bees were starting hives, and so he gave Rasktooth and Infinitypear a taste of a small jar he was allowed to harvest. It was so sweet it gave the two adventurers energy to race off—after thanking Grass Shell for his treat.
“So many caves! Dangerous caves. Let’s not go to bee-cave again.”
“Yah, yah.”
Rasktooth agreed as they wandered on. Infinitypear pointed to a new crack in the rock, so thin he could barely squeeze into it. Rasktooth, with his skin-body, would have had less trouble, but Infinitypear wondered if he could widen the gap.
It looked like it went into the mountain and down. Down deep, if Infinitypear were right—he tapped on the crack and heard an echo deep, deep down.
“Ooh. Big crack. Think we should go in?”
“No.”
The Antinium didn’t notice how Rasktooth had frozen on his shoulders. He peered down and wondered why his [Dangersense] was humming.
“Maybe a big drop? Maybe just a look—”
“Don’t go in there.”
Infinitypear halted—and Rasktooth stared into the crack in the mountain. The Worker slowly backed up. He tilted his head up to look at Rasktooth.
“Why?”
The Cave Goblin just stared at the crack in the rocks.
“The dungeon is down there. Bad death. Death…this is where Numbtongue went. Redfangs. Shield Spiders’ nest is here. And worse things. Below.”
Infinitypear backed up fast. Shield Spiders? As in the entire nest of them? He looked at Rasktooth, alarmed.
“I thought adventurers sealed it.”
“They sealed some parts. This goes to Shield Spider nests.”
“How do you know?”
The Cave Goblin glared down at Infinitypear.
“I know. I live in dungeon all my life. I know everywhere in it. Even death-death-death city. Even metal armor place. Don’t go in. Stay away. Bad things are down there. Bad…things.”
He was so adamant that Infinitypear marched away. Somewhat upset, the two [Adventurers] slowed.
Bad things had happened there. Rasktooth didn’t look like he was in the mood for adventure any more.
“We go home now?”
Infinitypear pointed timidly at the inn, and Rasktooth nodded silently. They trooped back to the city.
Some adventures were too much for them. Too dark—and they wanted good adventures. Both of them knew they might not have a choice. Erin had promised them free food for a month, and what would happen after that?
What would they do? Infinitypear had worried—but as he neared the inn, that worry coalesced. He didn’t want to abandon Rasktooth—but he was still a Worker.
“Infinitypear. Before you go to the inn, you have to come with me.”
Grass Shell was on his way back, but he wasn’t headed to the inn. Infinitypear slowed as Rasktooth, who had been silent, looked up.
“Why?”
“Because we have been ordered. Remember? We go to the Free Hive. Revalantor Klbkch wants us.”
Then Infinitypear felt his heart sink. Rasktooth looked at Infinitypear as the Worker pointed to the inn.
“Let me put Rasktooth in a seat.”
“No. I go with?”
The Cave Goblin patted Infinitypear on the head. Because he felt the Worker tremble when Grass Shell said that name. He knew what Klbkch did to Workers he didn’t like. To Aberrations.
“That is not permitted.”
Grass Shell hesitated. Infinitypear’s antennae waved.
“There is no rule against Goblins in the Hive.”
“I’m pretty sure there is.”
Grass Shell muttered, but then the three were heading into the Hive of the Free Antinium via Erin’s basement. Perchance for destiny. But it was not one they wanted.
Everyone knew how a Worker’s story ended. The same for Cave Goblins like Rasktooth. The two [Adventurers]…
They wanted something more. Something better.
But the Slayer awaited.
 
——
 
A skeleton ran past a gateway deep in the dungeon. A barred door—and barred from the outside. As if it were there to keep something in.
Armored figures and Crypt Worms halted at the edge of the tunnels. They hesitated, and a few passed the barrier.
A writhing worm lashed out with arm-whips, screaming as it tried to tag the skeleton. But the figure—flew. It was running like a track champion from another world, and as it sensed the whips coming up, someone shouted.
“Jump!”
The skeleton leapt, both arms rising, a long-distance leap that carried it to safety. Then it touched down and began to cartwheel forwards. It sounded like it was laughing—but that was just the voices.
“We did it! Get the maps!”
The skeleton was dancing in place, raising its arms as the confused monsters looked on. The fact that it did celebrate—was because it deserved to. That was the difference between this undead and the mindless ones who walked the dungeon.
This skeleton began doing back-flips. And the voices continued.
“Make it flip them off. Look, that Crypt Worm actually looks sad. Can your skeletons spit, Ama?”
“I have heard throwing feces is a valid tactic. But I have not been allowed to keep a storage unit.”
“Ksmvr—who tells you this kind of stuff?”
“Bird.”
There the skeleton stood as the monsters, even the suits of armor with no flesh to break or lose—looked up. The Crypt Worms writhed forwards uncertainly, then turned to head back to the gates. The other monsters retreated, and the skeleton’s head slowly swiveled.
The celebration stopped.
“Dead gods. That’s…a lot of them. Ama, can you outr—they’re fast. Ceria, were they always that fast?”
“I—yes? We had a hundred Raskghar, sometimes. Ama, can your skeleton find Stalker? He’s in a plaza.”
All the skeleton had to do was climb one of the buildings, but shapes were emerging from the houses. Thousands of them, bounding across the streets, screaming—
Fleshy beings with no clothing, vaguely humanoid. Filled with missing holes and red, glistening flesh.
“A’ctelios Salash looks more inviting.”
Another voice cut in, and Colth’s tones were strained. The skeleton itself didn’t waste time arguing. Nor did its controller speak as she guided it to one of the buildings. It leapt up, caught a roof ledge, hauled itself up, and then leapt onto a balcony. From there, it ran at a wall of another house, kicked off it, and yanked itself up a window. Boosting itself up higher—
“This is amazing. I had no idea skeletons could move—they’re coming up. Pisces, you taking notes?”
“I am.”
This building afforded the skeleton a view of the entire area, and what it showed was…a city so vast it really did match Pallass. Then, the voices were silent. Only one spoke, cool, but trembling.
“I think we’d better save this image for someone more important to review. Chaldion, perhaps. There. There’s Stalker’s corpse.”
The swiveling skeleton stopped. The inhabitants of this place were climbing, but the skeleton pointed, and its finger saw a plaza not too far from here and a familiar monument.
“This must have been the exact same door we came through. I can even sort of see Stalker’s corpse around the monument.”
Yvlon grunted.
“I can’t. No…wait, is that a bloodstain? That plaza—compare it to Shivertail Plaza. That monument. Ceria, how big is this corpse?”
“Big enough that no bag of holding is going to cover it.”
Colth remarked, and there was excitement in his tone—and wariness. But the last voice broke in gently.
“Ama. We’ve found it. But I don’t think your skeleton…Scottie, is going to make it.”
The skeleton stood there on the tower’s roof, looking down at the screaming maws of teeth and thrashing tails and limbs from the things below. Then, and only then, a quiet voice emerged from its mouth, and its jaw moved in sync with a younger woman’s voice.
“No. No, he did a good job. You hear that, Scottie? You did the best job. No one could do it. Only you. Rest now.”
Scottie the Scout Skeleton stood there, his blue-flame eyes glowing in this place, a blank undead with no personality. No soul.
But these things were still given to him. He still had a name. So, even if she made him do it, the skeleton saluted. He grinned—and then the spell in the scrying stone cut out. The first figure pulled itself up, and the skeleton swung a fist.
 
——
 
It was done. Colth let out a breath it seemed he’d been holding the last hour as a single skeleton defied all expectations. Pisces lowered his hand, and his sweating brow was mopped by Ksmvr, who had decided offering drinks and handkerchiefs was his role.
Twenty-four times. Pisces hadn’t even known you could remotely repair someone else’s undead—or that link-magic worked between [Necromancers] like that. Twenty-four times he’d mended Scottie’s broken or seared bones and amplified the skeleton’s mana.
Ceria was reading from one of the spellbooks she had, the burned one.
“[Speed]. [Speed]…imagine what we could do if I actually studied enough?”
“He had [Lesser Speed].”
That was the only thing the young woman said. Ama, the [Necromancer], sat in the middle of her coven. Oh, her apprentices tried to pretend they were just ordinary bystanders, but the Horns knew better. So did Colth, but he seemed fine on ignoring them if they helped him find the treasure.
Each one of the junior [Necromancers] had thrown skeletons into the dungeon with about Pisces and Colth’s adeptness at best. But Ama’s skeleton—
Scottie. Ama had a hood on and a mask. She’d moved the mask so she could sip drinks, but not to be outdone, she’d still had a layer of face-paint underneath to make her features as white as chalk. Now—she sat there, very still.
The Horns’ skepticism of her was by now long gone. Even Pisces hadn’t expected the first skeleton to make it that far. Colth’s whoop of joy, though, never quite came.
Ama’s pale makeup ran and dripped from her chin, past her mask. Splatters of paint-tears landed on her robes. Yvlon looked askance. She glanced at Pisces—but he had never wept for his undead.
Ama, though—Yvlon looked at the crying young woman, reached out to pat her shoulder, then coughed and put her hands behind her back. She spoke, straightening her spine, as if she were some [General] delivering bad news to a grieving widow or lover.
“Scottie did a great job. The best of jobs, Ama. I’ve never seen a better skeleton.”
Pisces opened his mouth, and Yvlon, Ceria, and Ksmvr glared at him. He shut it. Yvlon went on.
“He did the impossible and kept going, even through traps and monsters—Facestealer itself gave up on him. Thanks to him, we’ve found the corpse of Stalker. And I—we’ll definitely reward you for your help. I hope Scottie can be remade?”
“Not with the same bones. I helped make him.”
One of the coven’s [Necromancers] muttered. They looked misty-eyed too, and one of them sniffed.
It was a skeleton. But somehow, Pisces watched Ama and realized that her skeletons mattered more than his warbear and even the Frostmarrow Behemoth. Because hers had names.
In fact—her skeleton was like—
Ivery. Ivery and Bearbones. Despite Pisces’ objections at the time to the naming of the Skeleton Lord and his warbear mount, because it made no difference—it clearly did.
The only cost was the emotional damage when you lost one of the skeletons. Again, why Pisces eschewed the practice.
And yet—here sat Ama. Ksmvr went over to Numbtongue to request a dirge, and Yvlon decided to pat her on the shoulder after all. Which the Hobgoblin began to play.
“Thank you for helping us, Ama.”
