Nailren’s team and Anith’s Vuliel Drae were drifting towards Ylawes’ team. The Silver Swords didn’t know what was up, but Deniusth’s loud voice made everyone raise their heads.
“Almost done? What’s taking you all so long? You’ve been an hour and a half and you can’t tell—fine! We’ll wait!”
They really were just checking to see if there was some final death-trap spell. Ylawes sighed and decided he needed to pee too. He was wondering if they had a latrine or if he’d have to march for a while to get out of range—and smell—of the other teams when he heard a commotion.
Instantly, half the adventurers turned, expecting the trap. This was it. There was always a damn catch—
Deniusth lifted his violin bow with a curse, and Eldertuin put his shield up. But what they heard wasn’t an alarm. Rather—one of the adventurers landed, panting.
Wasn’t that the Gold-rank Owl Beastkin strategist from the Village of the Dead raid? She pointed.
“Captain Deniusth—there’s an army coming our way! All the civilians are running for it.”
“What? What army—the Antinium?”
Deniusth looked blankly at her. But the [Strategist] just shook her head.
“No—they’re flying Remendia’s colors! The entire city’s standing forces are headed our way with Ocre’s colors too!”
“What the—”
Ylawes was already on his feet as Orchestra and all the other teams abandoned the laboratory and rushed to the edge of the pit. The Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, and other teams arrayed warily at the edge of the ruins.
Sure enough—Ylawes saw thousands of Humans coming their way. Deniusth swore.
“That’s the city’s entire army. It looks like the Watch and—”
“What’s the move, Deniusth? Are they trying to steal the treasure?”
Viecel was alarmed. He bared his teeth, and the Captain of Orchestra looked around.
“They had better not try. Hey—Solar Strikes, deploy your team here. Jelaqua, put Moore up on the road. Everyone—fan out and stop them from encircling this place. We’ll go out and meet them, but no one sneaks down to the dig site!”
The other teams he knew nodded and fanned out fast. Ylawes caught Deniusth’s arm.
“Captain Deniusth, this can’t be a fight.”
“It won’t be—but we can’t let a city steal this treasure. Damn vultures.”
The Named-rank had a point, but Ylawes refused to let Named-ranks fight low-level [Soldiers]. He had seen Orchestra’s Combined Skill. It would be a massacre—and a disaster.
However, Eldertuin seemed just as determined to prevent this. He turned to Halrac.
“Got anything white? Raise a flag, Deni. We’re being peaceful.”
“Sure we are—Eld, you come with me. Ivirith, Captain Halrac—Captain Ylawes, you too, even. Might help to have some local teams. We’re being peaceful, and it’d damn well better stay that way.”
In short order, a group of adventurers, including Ylawes, were marching down the slope towards the Remendian army. It was a small army, and Ylawes bet they were under ten thousand strong even with Ocre’s help.
…But they outnumbered the adventurers by far. Deni was looking around.
“Damn. No one brought anything to impress them with? Maybe we should have ridden out. Where’s our horses?”
“Other side.”
“Well—just look impressive. Tell Moore to come with us.”
Ylawes didn’t worry about that. He was just watching the Remendian army slow down. He saw…a lot of nerves.
A very nervous Watch Captain and a local military commander who looked to be in his mid-forties halted, and there was a flurry as low-level [Soldiers], possibly even [Militia], came to a scattered halt.
Not a good sign. For them. Ylawes knew soldiers from House Byres—his family did have a standing force. This was an untrained lot. Still—the [Commander] shouted.
“I am Commander Leir of Remendia! Captain Deniusth of the Named-rank team Orchestra! On behalf of Remendia, Ocre, and the town of Eesfalt, we would like to parley in peace! [A Pact of Trust]! Do we have your word?”
“What is Remendia doing here, Commander?”
Deniusth hollered back. The Commander paused.
“I would like to discuss your finds at Albez! Cordially, Captain Deniusth! Do I have your word?”
“Damn. They know. Who leaked the information? One of the [Diggers]?”
Deniusth cursed, but he called back after a while.
“Yes, of course! Peaceful! We will approach!”
A small group of adventurers walked forwards as the other teams watched. Ylawes looked back for Anith and Nailren, hoping they weren’t doing anything provocative. If the Waterborn Raiders caused trouble…to his relief, he didn’t see anyone taking up archery positions.
That might have been enough for some of the soldiers to run. They knew they might be up against Gold and Named-ranks, and they stared with awe and horror at Deniusth as he stomped across the ground.
The [Commander], Watch Captain, two low-level [Negotiators]—and the head of the local Adventuring Guild—were all mounted. They dismounted, and Ylawes realized Remendia’s ruling Council wasn’t here.
Possibly Deniusth’s scowl had chased them behind the soldiers or this was a matter they thought better represented by combat classes.
“Captain Deniusth, we realize this is an…unfortunate moment. However, we felt we had to insist on this meeting.”
“With an army at your back, Commander? I warn you now—we are adventurers of the Adventurer’s Guilds of Izril. Strong-arming the treasure in Albez will not go well for you here or politically.”
“Strong-arming? You—”
The Watch Captain fell silent as one of the [Negotiators] took over.
“Captain Deniusth, we are acting prudently. Legally, we have given you the right to excavate Albez’s treasures. However—we are aware this excavation is being done in part by the [Emperor] of Riverfarm.”
Was that what this was about? Ylawes stirred, and Halrac gritted his teeth. Deniusth’s face, though, was blank.
“And if it is?”
The Remendians shared a quick look. The [Negotiator] hurried on.
“…We are entirely aware of multiple forces in Albez, and it is true no one lays claim to the ruins, but we are still the gatekeepers. If there is a negotiation, we are willing to take it on in good faith. But Captain, we must insist on a share of Albez’s treasures.”
At least they weren’t trying to hide it. Deniusth’s teeth shone pearly-white as he gritted them.
“Ah. And you think this army will force us into giving over…a ‘fair share’? I regret to say, this [Emperor] merely facilitated finding Albez. Whatever shares he is entitled to are proportional. Frankly, I would have said Remendia is owed a similar due in gold—but I will not be forced into giving over a large share of Albez’s treasures, Commander.”
A quick look between the Remendian delegation seemed—confused.
“Just so long as you intend to pay us something, we’re willing to negotiate. We’ll halt here and begin the discussions if you will, Captain Deniusth.”
“At the tip of a sword? I don’t think so. Your army needs to stop now, Commander. I don’t trust them around Albez.”
The Watch Captain was purpling with anger as Deniusth glared. He burst out, despite the others trying to keep him silent.
“Well, we don’t trust you with the treasures unwatched, Captain! Named-rank or not, we won’t let you run off with everything! No matter how many adventurers you have—”
Orchestra’s leader bristled as Eldertuin frowned. The Guildmaster of Remendia’s Adventurer Guild interrupted.
“What Watch Captain Illthe is trying to say is—the Adventurer’s Guild will look coldly upon any hoarding of due shares, Captain Deniusth. I am here to negotiate in fairness between all parties.”
“Fairness? How much did Remendia pay you? When First Landing’s Guild hears of this—”
Remendia’s side was getting agitated, and Deniusth was red in the face. Neither one was about to draw a blade, but the Captain of Orchestra looked ready to throw hands. But before he could, Eldertuin touched his shoulder.
“Hold, Deni. I think we’re working at cross angles on the same tree. Commander, can we clarify something?”
Ylawes had picked up on the oddities too. The Commander of Remendia looked relieved as Eldertuin, calmer by far, stepped forwards. Viecel frowned as Eldertuin gestured at the army.
“What, exactly, are you accusing Deni and the adventurers here of doing, Commander? Our assumption is that Remendia is trying to…persuade us to give them a larger share than they’re due.”
“What? No—we’re trying to make sure we get a share at all! Rather than you running off with everything!”
The Watch Captain exploded, and Ylawes felt a prickle on the back of his neck. He swung around, and Eldertuin’s brows rose as Jelaqua made a confused, ‘huh’ sound.
“Wait—Watch Captain, I assure you in the name of House Byres, we are not going to simply disappear with the treasures. Captain Deniusth was prepared to recompense every side for the artifacts recovered in gold—if not loot.”
Ylawes stepped forwards, and he was recognized. Commander Leir actually bowed slightly to him, looking relieved.
“Captain Ylawes of the Silver Swords! I almost didn’t recognize you—that’s a relief to hear you say that. You see, Captain Illthe? If an honorable [Knight] vouches for this—maybe this is all a misunderstanding.”
“I don’t understand. Someone spell it out for me.”
Deni growled. The Remendians looked at each other, and the [Negotiator] spoke up.
“We, ah—we were assured that your teams—not Orchestra specifically—but the adventurers present were intending to loot this new find in Albez and share none of it with Remendia. Or any other groups, including the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“Huh? What? Who said that?”
Jelaqua Ivirith’s eyes widened. But Typhenous was whispering to Halrac, and the Gold-rank [Bowman] was staring back at Albez. Without a word, Halrac whirled.
Deniusth gave the Remendians such a disbelieving look that even Watch Captain Illthe hesitated.
“Me? Defraud a city and the guild of…I was one of the adventurers who conquered Chalence. I paid out my dues then, and I have the coin to recompense everyone personally, even if I took every artifact in this laboratory we found! Who’s saying that? Are the [Diggers] unhappy I paid them standard rates? This is outrageous. This is…”
Ylawes Byres had begun to feel a sinking sensation the moment he saw Typhenous’ look of pure alarm. He looked at Halrac, and the [Bowman] was striding back, calling to Revi and Briganda on the ridge. Deniusth’s mind caught up with his mouth, and his head slowly turned, and Eldertuin groaned.
“No.”
Viecel the Gambler just looked back without a word. A…copper coin seemed to drop in Commander Leir’s mind, and he muttered as Viecel began running without a word. Ylawes saw him turn to the Guildmaster.
“—Who exactly called in that tip to your Guild? Guildmaster Penec?”
The Guildmaster looked at Deniusth’s slowly widening eyes, the teams on the ridge slowly turning—the Gold-rank teams mostly, and northern teams at that. He replied with a sudden wobble in his tone.
“W-we wouldn’t have taken that suggestion so seriously of Captain Deniusth from a civilian. Believe me. I had it from a Gold-rank Team. Three, actually. But the Captain of the Waterborn Raiders himself—”
Ylawes didn’t hear anything else. He was already running back the way he came. All the adventurers were. Deniusth flashed past him, and Ylawes was pounding up the slope as adventurers raised weapons.
Half of them were staring at Remendia’s forces, expecting them to charge, but Dawil roared down.
“Hold your fire or I’ll break your toes! Ylawes, what’s going on?”
“It’s a trick! Dawil, the lab! The lab—”
The [Knight] shouted, but he didn’t make any sense. Dawil gave him a blank look—and then Typhenous howled.
“It’s a double-cross! They’re stealing the treasure!”
Every adventurer looked up—then whirled to the dig site. Deniusth screamed.
“Orchestra!”
They charged up the slope, and now, Remendia’s army was following them. Ylawes wasn’t first by far—Jelaqua was faster with Viecel, rampaging, and Seborn, Deniusth, and the faster adventurers leapt over the slope shielding the ruins and the dig site from view. By the time the [Knight] got up there—
He saw what was going on.
 
——
 
The Laboratory of Udatron. Possibly one of the greatest hauls in Albez’s history, let alone modern times. It had never been pillaged, even when Albez was buried. Guarded only by the late Warmage Thresk, it had lain abandoned.
And it definitely had a trap, right? More than the elementals? There had to be a catch.
What if…the trap wasn’t there, though? What if you just actually, genuinely got lucky? Assuming that was true—there was loot for all. Of course, only the Named-ranks would get it and the top, new teams from the north who got to luck out just by coming this far south.
How many local Silver-rank teams and Gold-ranks might be upset by that? Especially teams who’d gotten a hefty payout—but no relics from the Village of the Dead raid?
Let’s assume you had motive. And enough teams were on board. The next question was—how would you get to that treasure before the Named-ranks? They would never give way to that kind of mass-pressure, and they were dozens of levels above the other teams.
A distraction would have to be on the size of an army. And it wouldn’t last long. But if every team in on it stayed behind, pretended to be digging in while everyone rushed to confront Remendia…that was their opening.
It didn’t take long for Deniusth to meet with Remendia’s leadership, but he had to be wary. The conversation was short, but between the posturing and miscommunications—he gave them about twenty minutes.
Twenty minutes was a short amount of time. Some people couldn’t finish breakfast in twenty minutes.
But time…as Udatron would have told you, was relative. Twenty minutes might be a sliver of time to read a book or write one.
…But to run into a laboratory? Especially one that the [Rogues] had already checked and were just pretending to check now? If you were inside, feigning casting [Detect Magic] on a rack of weapons, how much time did it take to grab one and stuff it in a bag of holding?
How many books or artifacts could you stuff in a bag of holding in five minutes? The next question was—how did you get away in the fifteen you had left?
Again, the trick was—Ylawes saw the last teams scrambling for the horses and wagons. Half were already riding out, and he saw pack animals running as figures cut their reins and made them stampede.
“Stop! Stop!”
Deniusth was howling. He raced down the slopes, faster than anyone else. The Named-rank adventurer was sprinting at a group of Silver-ranks.
