Bird drew an arrow and loosed it. The Garbichug was over eight hundred feet away, but Bird had the Skills and aim to hit it. The arrow sped at the bird-monster—and the Garbichug ducked.
“I hate you.”
Bird shook his fist at the Garbichug, and it turned and flipped up its tail at Nanette and Bird. That gesture was bad enough—then it began to defecate.
“Ignore it. Nanette, do you know why the Redfin flies like that?”
Bird stared up at the Redfin, still swirling through the air. It was not ideal for getting anywhere, and he wasn’t shooting arrows at it. Nanette frowned. There was no visible mate, so…
“Because it wants to? For fun? Because the Redfin is happy?”
Bird looked at Nanette. He put out a hand and patted her gingerly on the shoulder.
“I see you are wiser than Erin. No wonder you are teaching her witchcraft.”
She laughed and ducked her head, and Bird and she went back to watching the landscape, ignoring the Garbichug. It was eating its own waste. It would spit it out at attackers later.
Bird had a new hobby, and he confessed it to Nanette as some visitors came up towards the inn. A Human was wearing a huge, rose-shaped hat, which really did look like a rose from above. It had multiple folds of cloth, had to weigh eight pounds, and was two feet high.
…Presumably, it was some latest style, but the woman looked about to take it off when Bird rose from his tower, cupped two hands to his mandibles, and screamed down at her.
“YOU THERE!”
She jumped, saw an Antinium staring at her, and froze. The guests looked up as Bird screamed down at the woman.
“I…LIKE…YOUR…HAT!”
The Human stared up at him, checked her hat, and waved back and said something neither Bird nor Nanette quite heard. Bird sat back down as she continued on her way, bemused. He stared at the sky, then at Nanette.
“I am in a quandary of thought, Nanette. Every day, I dive deeper into my new class. I am a [Liar].”
She blinked at him, and Bird went on. He stared blankly at the hatted woman.
“I lie important lies. About her hat. Which is trash. It does not even belong in a garden. Why do I lie? I have been thinking—I lie because I wish to level. I lie about the truth because the lie in itself makes someone’s day better. It must be a good lie, or what is the point?”
She listened to Bird’s philosophy, which sometimes he spoke to the Workers who came to hear him. Bird, the [Hunter]. The [Liar].
By the time Erin found them, Nanette and Bird had been sitting for nearly fifty minutes. Bird was smiling, and he looked at Nanette—then at the Garbichug edging towards the road in hopes of scaring some of the travellers for food. It was watching him—he’d fired eight shots at it so far, and it kept dodging. Bird looked at Nanette, then turned around so the Garbichug was in the opposite direction. Then he looked straight at it.
“I’m looking in the other direction. I’m looking that way.”
Nanette politely looked the way he was pointing. Bird’s head never moved—but the Garbichug eyed him, then began a waddle-charge to the road as one of the [Guards] shouted and they began to stride out to chase it off.
Bird’s bow flashed up, and he loosed an arrow. The Garbichug looked up just in time for Bird to shoot it through the head. It flopped backwards as he fired three more arrows into its head.
“That was a lie, you idiot. I lied!”
Bird shouted down at the dead Garbichug. Nanette was vaguely impressed. She had no idea a [Liar] could do that.
Erin was less impressed.
“Bird, you’re not gonna eat that thing, are you? There you are, Nanette! I’m going to Riverfarm to meet the [Witches]. You want to come?”
The young witch looked over and thought as Bird gave Erin a look of horror and indignation.
“Riverfarm, Miss Erin? I might pass.”
“Oh—okay. But do you want to do anything? I could go into Liscor or…”
“I’m fine, Miss Erin. I’m sitting with Bird. He’s very kind.”
“Ah. Well—that’s great. Yeah. If you want anything, just ask, okay?”
Nanette nodded politely. Erin gave Bird a look, and he saluted her.
“I cannot read your eyes, Erin.”
“Be nice, Bird.”
Erin didn’t quite know what else to say. She tromped downstairs as Nanette and Bird sat there, peaceful. After a while, Bird murmured to Nanette.
“Do you have any good lies, Miss Nanette?”
“Hm. My mother said the worst lies are the ones we tell ourselves. Then the best ones must be something else.”
“Oh, interesting. Interesting. Then tell me a good lie—and about birds. You see, I am a columnist for the newspaper, and I must know lots about birds. The Garbichug was a native bird of Rhir that no one wanted. It is actually over thirty thousand years old and predates the Blighted Kingdom. No one bred it nor did they spread them to other continents because anyone thought they were a good idea. The stupid birds swim. They are clever enough to dodge arrows, and they survive too well, so every continent has them. In the Rihal Imperium, Garbichugs were cultivated as a war animal and unleashed on their foes, which earned them international censure…”
 
——
 
“Not going to take Nanette to Riverfarm, Erin?”
“Nah. She’s listening to Bird talk about bird-history. Which is like the one thing he doesn’t lie about and he’s somehow qualified to talk about. I guess I’m going alone. Unless anyone else wants to come? It’s not a two-day trip. Anyone?”
Erin looked around, but Octavia had work, Numbtongue was looking over from where Badarrow and Snapjaw were preparing for a Wyvern ride with Icecube so they could all go mining, and Lyonette was trying to run the inn.
“Do you need to go to Riverfarm, Erin? I am sure His Majesty is negotiating—delicately.”
Which means don’t mess it up. But Erin just flapped a hand at Lyonette.
“It’s not that. I’m going to speak to the [Witches].”
“Oh. Oh? Well—Mrsha might be interested. Ser Dalimont could take you both if you’re good. Mrsha?”
The girl was thinking. Either she stayed here and Lyonette gave her lessons and the inn had to do its thing or she went into the city and had fun—but Visma was busy painting her dolls. Nanette was sitting with Bird, and Gire was being an adult-Chieftain.
And what were the odds Erin did something crazy? Mrsha decided to bet on Erin. She marched on over as Ser Dalimont nodded. Erin sighed.
“It might not be that much fun, Mrsha.”
The girl shrugged. Worst came to worst, she could play with Riverfarm’s kids or see what Traffy was doing.
Traffy, the nickname for the first Elemental of Law with its glowing eye, who often glared at misbehaving people. Like Mrsha and Erin.
 
——
 
In fact, Traffy was one of the reasons Riverfarm was so popular. A strange creature like it was—all metal and magic—was enough for people to point at it. Some wanted to prove they’d been here, and Laken had begun asking Mister Helm to make, with a [Painter]’s help, little keyrings with Traffy’s likeness on it.
And he’d asked Nesor to figure out a way to make magic pictures accessible for all. If you could do a scrying spell and record that—why not an image?
Well, progress marched forwards, and Traffy scuttled on its legs, followed by a crowd of fascinated tourists. Erin saw the light it was based on flashing colors—and it was one of three already.
“Miss Solstice. Good morning to you. Are you here to meet His Majesty? He is wrapped up in talks, but if you have any—designs—we would, as always, appreciate knowing in advance.”
Lady Rie spotted Erin within minutes of her coming through the door. Well, the guards who were watching the door had probably found her.
“I’m not causing trouble! I’m just, uh, looking for a [Witch] or two, Lady Rie.”
“Ah, well then. Witch Eloise and Hedag are advising His Majesty, but may I help you find another Witch?”
“I guess. Agratha or Oliyaya?”
Rie smiled and found one of her people to escort Erin and Mrsha down the brick street. Erin huffed a bit at the implication she was going to cause trouble—but even here, people noticed Erin.
The crazy innkeeper. The one who nearly flooded Riverfarm. Mrsha patted Erin on the leg solemnly. She knew what it was like to be stigmatized as a monster who caused trouble.
In Erin’s case, Mrsha felt it might be justified.
 
——
 
“Witch Erin! My, and little Mrsha too? To what do I owe the pleasure? Come in, sit, sit.”
That bright and cheery greeting belonged to Witch Agratha, the [Witch] of normalcy and friendly cooperation.
…Which was why it was so disconcerting to hear it from Witch Oliyaya of all people. The hook-nosed stereotype of a [Witch] cackled gently as she admitted Erin, Mrsha, and Dalimont into her abode.
As Erin had noted, if Agratha was friendly, Oliyaya was her inverse and liked being the bad [Witch] in stories. However—she seemed to like both Erin and Mrsha well enough.
Especially Mrsha, in fact. The [Witch] pulled Mrsha’s cheek gently as the Gnoll somewhat respectfully climbed into a seat.
“A troublemaker after my black heart. Burned down any homes yet?”
“Don’t give her any ideas, Witch Oliyaya. Lyonette’d kill me.”
Yeah, she was a good girl! Mrsha held up a card, but Oliyaya just laughed at her.
“A girl or young woman must be free to cause trouble. Run rampant! Anyone who tells you to sit and plait skirts and mind your manners is a fool. You, my girl, if you haven’t burnt at least one house down by the time you’re a woman, you’ve wasted your life.”
She gave Mrsha a serious look, and Dalimont bit his tongue. Mrsha had to really think about this one.
“Surely it would behoove Miss Mrsha to have some manners, Witch Oliyaya? With greatest respect.”
“And what would you know, [Knight]? Did you, as a lad, ever break a window or a cup by throwing rocks? Wrestling in the mud? Pulling the tail on donkeys? Always a good way to break a jaw early.”
Oliyaya tapped Dalimont hard on the chest, and the [Knight] regretted his comment.
“…As a boy, I was indiscreet, Witch Oliyaya—”
“Then a girl should be just as much so. Especially this one. Now, let my apprentices fetch you some tea. Witch Erin—your hat is upon your head, and I greet thee.”
Then Oliyaya tipped her hat with its staring eyes, and Erin reached up and lifted a hat made of flame. Erin looked at Oliyaya and began to get a sense of what made the other [Witch] tick.
“Thanks, Oliyaya. How’s business?”
The old woman shrugged.
“I am a [Witch] of cities, now. Larger, with more emotions to use in forming hexes. Grudges that run deep—but so many people! The old magic may suffer, but I admit—gold has its uses. Just the other day, I sold a charm to attract lice to a very nice young woman.”
Dalimont winced. Oliyaya slapped his knee with a long ladle—she had a cauldron on.
“A comment from you, [Knight], and I will ask if lacing a rival’s birthday cake with shards of glass is more or less foul than my charms. And then I will eject you from my domain. Nastiness must have an outlet, and sometimes the punishment is deserved. Do you know that young woman’s reason to curse another? I thought not.”
The [Knight] decided he’d be quiet for the duration of this visit. Erin gave him a side-eye.
“Do they really do that in Terandria?”
“There’s foulest sorts of all kinds anywhere. Noble classes and squabbles means they go to extremes more often than not. Ask Eloise—or do you think she’s not used daggers while drinking tea? What can I help you with, Witch Erin?”
Then Mrsha realized she hadn’t actually known why Erin wanted to meet [Witches] again. Her last encounters, while fruitful, had been—fraught. Why again so soon?
The girl noticed Erin Solstice doing something for the third time this morning. The [Innkeeper]—who, despite her rest Skills, didn’t look as fully rested as she could be—wiped the fingers of her right hand on her shirt.
The gesture did not escape Mrsha this time, or Oliyaya. Erin lifted her hands and spoke hesitantly.
“Oliyaya, I’ve been having this, uh—problem. And I’m not positive, but—is there a way to tell if someone’s messing with your dreams? Or if you’ve been cursed?”
The other [Witch] raised her brows.
“You’ve come to the right [Witch], Erin. Only Mavika or perhaps Alevica could help you as well—tell me what you dream of. Coise, my bag of tricks.”
Her apprentice, one of three, brought Oliyaya her bag of holding as Erin hesitated.
“It’s…someone in my dreams who’s bothering me. I’m pretty sure they’re there. I don’t wanna say specifics, but it’s very vivid. And it’s been bothering me when I wake, too. It wasn’t so bad, but they’re harassing me more and more. Probably because I kicked them.”
Mrsha and Dalimont sat up and looked at Erin in astonishment, but Oliyaya was already at work.
“Ah, a bully who knows the old ways of hexing and dream-speak. Interesting.”
She took a little bag that looked like it was made of silver cloth and poured in a number of substances.
“Your inn and level should protect you as much as that hat on your head, Witch Erin. But I suppose even Belavierr could be hexed—and you don’t weave protections, eh?”
“Nope. I thought about sleeping in my garden, but I felt like that wasn’t a long-term solution. And it feels like running away.”
“Well said! You should take what’s under your hat and build some great magics.”
“You think so? I’ve been pondering what to do first.”
“Protections before anything else. If you need help, come to us—but first, let’s see how badly this interloper is meddling. Here is a little bag—but before you touch it, can you tell me what I’ve done?”
Oliyaya put the silver-cloth bag on the table, and Erin hesitated as she reached for it. Like another [Witch]’s style, Mrsha realized this was a test or teaching. And Agratha explained—Oliyaya tested.
“Hm. Well, uh, I’m not an expert, but Nanette has had a few talks with me, and I know the basics. My guess is that you put a bit of craft into an object that lets you focus your magic.”
“Like all witchcraft. What did I do?”
Erin floundered, then she eyed the bag and peered inside.
“Silver. Silver’s like a natural de-curse and purifying thingy. You put silver in here and powdered Sage’s Grass? Aloe vera…I don’t know the others.”
Erin had seen the familiar plant, but Oliyaya nodded.
“Spider plant and aloe vera—plants that purify, yes. But the trick is to have meaning as well as natural plants with such qualities. I also placed in that pouch the shoe-dirt of an honest man. Riverfarm has a number of them, helpfully. Men and women. And lastly, a piece of quartz which glows.”
She showed Erin the final lynchpin of the curse-bag, and the stone glowed serenely.
“Now put it around your head—or fingers—and we will see if it reacts to ill-intent.”
