Erin spoke lightly and turned from the adventurers hard at work. Grimalkin’s claw twitched as if he were reaching for a quill. The problem was that she was actually a very, very hard-to-read person. Chance words…could just be that.
Again?
Yet where Grimalkin before would have pressed her for answers, now the Sinew Magus had to wonder something.
Am I the unworthy one? Is she playing a game where I’m blundering around like the fool?
By rights, he should ask for her time, but he felt rooted in place. Not everyone was.
“Erin, are you done with your task in Riverfarm? I could use you making more magical foods.”
“Later, Lyonette. I’m actually going on another errand. Can I take Mrsha?”
“I—how dangerous is it?”
“Um—not very?”
“Really, then let me ask Ser Dalimont. Why do you have a bird tied to your finger?”
“It’s a charm. Geeze, Lyonette. You act like you’ve never seen a curse-sensing charm before. Say, where’s Nanette? Is she still sitting with Bird?”
The [Princess] looked about, and Grimalkin remembered someone mentioning the inn’s new guest. Again, he wasn’t regular enough to realize that this Nanette was a new part of the family.
I’m missing out. What else had he missed? Grimalkin looked around and saw nothing out of the ordinary. Mrsha seemed unchanged; although, he could no longer confirm this via [Appraisal]. Saliss was lying front-first on the floorboards, possibly unconscious, the [Bard] wasn’t here, a little lamb was staring at him from the basement d—
Grimalkin stared at Nerry. The lamb ducked down. Then poked its head up innocently, as if it were playing hide-and-seek. Unlike Nanette, the inn’s second new addition was deliberately keeping out of sight. Besides, Ishkr fed her whenever Nerry needed food.
Lyonette didn’t notice the lamb snooping on them. She turned about.
“I…no. She wasn’t up there when I took Bird lunch.”
“Well, maybe I’ll find her first. Saliss? Are you dead?”
He raised one claw up behind him, and Erin shrugged.
“Cool. Grimalkin! Hi! Do you need something?”
And there it was. The Drake knew she had seen him, and he sighed. Embarrassed, he straightened his spine and nodded at her.
“Not much of your time, Miss Solstice. If you can spare it.”
She gave him an odd look, and he wondered if her new class allowed her to sense his emotions—and she had already been good at that.
“Well, I’m sorta busy, but I’ve got time. Want to find Nanette with me? Mrsha, get yourself some lunch. You too, Dalimont. Can you make me a sandwich? I think I want to chase down this curse.”
Mrsha scampered off with the [Knight] as Grimalkin rose. Erin smiled at him, and he tried one on for size.
“I notice you are up on your feet, Erin. With a [Lion’s Strength] spell.”
“Gonna lecture me about using magic?”
“…No.”
He was tempted to, but the Sinew Magus let it slide. Erin cast around the inn.
“Locate Nanette. Locate…aha. She’s in the garden. Duh. Come on. How’s it been, Grimalkin? How’s things in Pallass now that the Meeting of Tribes has ended?”
He followed her to the open door and felt a nostalgic sense as he spoke.
“Pallass has not suffered unduly from the war, culturally or militarily. I understand there are Gnollish riots in some of the other cities. Not that Fissival had many, but there were protests in Zeres. Manus had them. Briefly.”
“City of War, huh?”
“I don’t believe they were dispersed with unnecessary force.”
“Just dispersed.”
He wasn’t going to defend that. Grimalkin walked with Erin around the garden and noticed more trees growing, but Erin was looking around, and her head rose.
“Ah. She’s up. And how’re you?”
“Adequate. I have been communicating with Ferkr, mostly. She may return to Pallass—but her future seems to be among the tribes. I have been sending her spellbooks, a curriculum, weight sets—”
“Isn’t she your apprentice? I thought she wasn’t ready to be a [Mage] yet.”
“She is possibly the finest apprentice I have ever trained. And I had little to do with that.”
Erin slowed as he ascended the hill. She looked at Grimalkin, and those words were true and close to his heart.
“She did the right thing. Didn’t she? You’re proud of her?”
The Sinew Magus straightened his back once more. He exhaled and felt his chest tighten.
“Immensely. That was entirely her character.”
“Yeah, but you taught her. You get a bit of credit for that, don’t you think?”
He felt gratified by that. Grimalkin ducked his head as Erin led him up the hill. She could be kind indeed.
She could be thoughtless. Well, Erin had too much to do, it wasn’t fair to say this was entirely her fault. But…
Nanette had free rein of The Wandering Inn. She was allowed to go anywhere, and the inn was safe. The family knew about the dangers of Erin’s other gardens, but Nanette had been told about that. She was intelligent and wise enough to occupy herself.
But someone—someone really should have warned her about the hill. It had slipped their minds.
 
——
 
That was how Erin and Grimalkin found her. She had been here for a while. Head raised, two brown braids hanging down the back of her neck. Her blue robes pooled around her legs in the grass.
Nanette was sitting, looking up at someone as if her legs had collapsed. As if they had no more strength to give. Her face was not blank—but it wasn’t torn by tears or grief.
It was just—stunned. Too stunned to properly register…
Erin put her hands over her mouth, and Grimalkin lowered his head. For there, standing with one hand on her hat, peering into the distance, was a tall woman. A [Witch], looking ahead as she so often did. Stern, but not unkind.
She stood alone, next to a tree, in this quiet place where mist clung to the ground. Nanette said nothing until she noticed Erin standing there.
“Nanette. I—oh no. Didn’t I tell you—didn’t someone—”
Erin looked around, but this was all her fault. Yet Nanette just looked up.
“I realized what this place was when I found it. Bird told me.”
“Bird?”
“Don’t be mad at him. He said it was a good place. I just…I didn’t realize my mother was here.”
Nanette looked up. Erin gazed around, and a scampering little girl ran up the hill with a sandwich. Mrsha dropped it when she saw Nanette and the statue and looked horrified.
“Nanette, I’m so sorry. I should have told you—warned you—”
The [Innkeeper] walked forwards, and Nanette shook her head. She looked up, and her round face stared at her mother’s. Longingly. Lost…but also with a kind of relief.
“She looks like I remember her. No, Miss Erin. Don’t apologize. I’m glad she’s here. It means…it means you remember her. She should be remembered.”
“Yes. She should.”
The little witch looked at Erin, and she understood what this Skill meant…more than most. She took a slow breath as a little Gnoll girl guiltily walked over.
“I’m fine. Really. It’s just…”
She looked up, and her brown eyes shimmered a bit. Nanette wiped at them.
“I’m allowed to cry, aren’t I?”
Tears trickled down her cheeks, and Erin looked so guilty nothing could be done. Nothing—but for Mrsha to hug Nanette. Erin bent down, and the little witch cried for a while.
Then she stood and nearly fell on her butt when she saw the giant Drake. He nodded at her.
“Miss Nanette. We have not met. I am Magus Grimalkin of Pallass. An acquaintance of the inn.”
“Oh. How do you do? I’m sorry, sir.”
“Not at all. I apologize for disturbing you.”
Nanette looked back at the statue, but she had been there long enough. Erin led her down the hill as Grimalkin picked up the sandwich.
“I’m so—Nanette, come on, let’s get lunch. Lyonette, uh—uh—she was at the hill. And I didn’t tell her—”
They returned to the common room, and everyone saw Nanette’s red eyes. Numbtongue looked up, and Lyonette gasped. Guiltily, the inn’s family gathered around except for Bird, who had done nothing wrong.
“I’m fine, really. I’ve been enjoying poking around.”
“Well—we need to be with you more, and you need to tell us what you want to do, Nanette! I mean it. How’s your room?”
“Very nice.”
“How’s…the food?”
Calescent looked worried until Nanette smiled at him.
“It’s all fine. I can’t ask for more, Miss Erin. Truly. I know you’re busy.”
“Is there anything you could possibly want?”
“Well…”
Shyly, the girl looked around. She kicked her legs as Mrsha handed the sandwich to Erin.
“…I was wondering if there were any books in the inn. Numbtongue has a few, but I like books. Mother would always take me to a library if there were one in the places we visited.”
“Books! That’s it! Let’s get books! I’ve been meaning to get them anyways!”
Erin threw up her hands instantly, and Lyonette nodded.
“I’ll give you a budget.”
Guiltily, the inn’s family rushed about as Nanette protested they didn’t need to get—Grimalkin cleared his throat.
“If you’re looking for books, Miss Solstice, I recommend Invrisil or Pallass to buy them. I could list a few titles.”
“Thanks, Grimalkin. Why don’t we go now, Nanette? You and me, huh? I was meaning to go on a trip too—we can take Mrsha and get books, Lyonette. To Invrisil, I think.”
The [Princess] blinked, but one look at Nanette and she agreed. Erin decided they’d have a quick lunch, but she looked at Grimalkin—
“You wanna come? We can talk if it’s something you need to talk about.”
He hesitated, then nodded.
“Why not?”
That was how he, Nanette, Ser Dalimont, Erin, and Mrsha ended up going for a walk into Invrisil. After a pastrami on rye sandwich.
 
——
 
“Like my new door?”
“It’s certainly a choice.”
Erin rolled her eyes as Liska operated the [Portal Door]. It worked like the last one, but instead of a cheap system with stones, it had a window that showed you what lay on the other side, and the dial was beautiful, made of metal, and swung from icon to icon burned into the wood. Invrisil’s looked like the City of Adventurers’ crest, the same for Pallass and Liscor. Celum’s wasn’t one of the city—it was a little pirate’s flag and a bit of growing wheat.
“Wailant’s Farm, see? The sigils just appeared. I think, uh—they look like what I’m feeling.”
“Ah. So Riverfarm is a crown over a stylized piece of feces?”
“…I should probably change that.”
Erin rubbed at the door’s sigil as if she could erase it. Grimalkin eyed the door and frowned.
“I don’t see more than eight symbols. I thought the old door had more connections than that.”
“Me too! But here—let’s go to Invrisil, and you can see what’s weird.”
Erin opened the door, hopped through, and they appeared in a street in Invrisil. A crowd was waiting, but as a few guests piled through past Grimalkin, Nanette looking around in delight, the door vanished.
Grimalkin turned, and to his bemusement, he saw something in its place. An…engraved stone, much like a druidic marker or some ancient waystone, was embedded in the paving stones.
“Fascinating. A gateway marker.”
“Yup! I think it only works places I know. So, uh…everywhere I haven’t been? I can’t open it. In fact, I’m pretty sure I now need to go somewhere to set up a marker.”
“Indeed. Not an upgrade.”
Erin put her hands on her hips and glowered.
“Well, guess what? You can’t steal this! Go on! Try! You can’t! People have been trying to move it all day. But only if I say you can, you can. See?”
That was useful for security, and Grimalkin gave her that. The stone was still heavy when she let him pick it up, and Mrsha and Nanette could barely lift it before he had to take it from them.
“Very useful—but again, the original door had a number of uses on its own. Yet you can transport how many people here?”
“Two hundred. Every two hours.”
“Incredible.”
Nanette whispered. Grimalkin nodded. If Erin visited more spots, she could doubtless install her gateway there too. He wondered how likely that was.
At any rate, they moved on as Erin asked where to go first. At least Ser Dalimont knew the city, and there were a number of good bookstores Grimalkin had requested books from. He was just about to direct her to the first one when he noticed something.
“Erin. Did you say that was a charm to sense a curse?”
Erin blinked down at the little wicker bird hanging from her fingers. She raised it—and Nanette peered at it.
“Oh, Oliyaya’s work. It’s moving that way. Very strongly, too.”
Erin Solstice’s eyes widened, and she saw the wicker bird pulling, pulling her down a street to her right. She looked at it, and Ser Dalimont hesitated.
“Miss Solstice, Witch Agratha did indicate this might be dangerous. Now is not the time?”
The [Innkeeper] nodded, but her eyes swung to Grimalkin.
“We do have Grimalkin. What if we just—checked? This is a big city, and I doubt, uh—I doubt it’ll be dangerous in the most dangerous of senses. I’ve just got this curse on me, Grimalkin.”
“As one does?”
Erin winced, but Nanette smiled.
“I wouldn’t mind seeing where the bird leads. It sounds exciting. And if it goes somewhere dangerous, we can turn back. You can always turn back.”
“Hey, that’s right! I’ve never done that. Well, it’s time for books and curses! Follow the bird!”
Off they went. Grimalkin realized they were going on an adventure. Funnily enough…he didn’t mind. After all, he had once resented it because it felt like Erin was making use of his power to her ends.
These days—he saw her glance at him and wondered who was going to help who.
 
——
 
The cave was…
Buzzing.
Infinitypear and Rasktooth hesitated as they saw how it had been blocked off. They had been wandering around it for a while, and save for the odd stone plug on top, clearly designed to be removed, it was sealed.
“What is this, Infinitypear? Magic buzzing cave?”
“No. Bees.”
“Oh.”
Rasktooth didn’t really know bees, having lived in a cave all his life. Thus, he wasn’t really afraid as the only bee he knew was Apista, and she was nice. Infinitypear had also never been stung by a bee—small bees would never pierce his carapace.
They were less wary than they should be. But the two [Adventurers] were debating unplugging the gap.
“Is this stupid, Infinitypear?”
“Yah. But maybe lots of Apistas stuck in there? We should free them.”
Since the plug was on top of the cave’s roof and Infinitypear had a clumsier Worker’s body, Rasktooth was climbing up there with his arms and prodding at the stone plug. The buzzing…seemed to thrum through the stone, and Rasktooth wondered if this was a bad idea.
Maybe just a peek? He wondered how secure the lid of the plug was. Slowly, Rasktooth lifted the plug and—
