Then, they’d uncovered five silver coins and an old dagger buried under the blue fruit trees where Erin got her fruits. And beaten up eight Shield Spiders.
They’d had some great adventures, hadn’t they? This time, Infinitypear took them towards the caves as Rasktooth fed him an apple he’d snatched from the breakfast table. He cut it up, handed a piece down, and crunched on one himself.
“Enchanted hat is just for me, Infinitypear? What about you?”
“I don’t know. Don’t care. Hat is good.”
“You sure?”
“Yah, yah.”
Rasktooth patted him on the head. They liked that word, ‘yah’. A combination between yes and yeah. The Goblin grinned.
“Yah, you good. But what about other Antinium? You don’t want to go to your Hive? Sing?”
He was hinting. Infinitypear took him everywhere, but he knew the [Crusaders] were back in the Hives. They were everywhere, and the Free Hive was important, and Infinitypear was hanging out with the Goblin.
“It’s okay. All Painted Antinium and Individuals have to report in the Hive. Later, later. Doesn’t matter.”
Infinitypear airily wandered away from the Hive, and Rasktooth looked down at him.
“You not bored with me, Infinitypear? You can say.”
“No. We brothers. I said I would carry you places. Liscor…other places. Far, far away.”
The Antinium [Adventurer] looked up. Rasktooth patted him on the head.
They had met during the Fellowship of the Inn, on their quest to save Mrsha. It had been chance that they grew to be friends, but Rasktooth and Infinitypear…understood each other.
Neither one had known the outside world until it came to them. For Infinitypear, as one of the Antinium who was lucky enough to be painted by Pawn’s new ways. For Rasktooth?
The five Redfangs had killed the Raskghar who ruled them and set the Cave Goblins free. When he had first looked up at the sky, the Cave Goblin had sworn never to go back to the dungeon. And Infinitypear had gazed into the wild world beyond Liscor with the Titan leading them and realized how much more there was.
“Am I heavy, Infinitypear? You’re an [Adventurer].”
“So are you.”
The Cave Goblin nodded.
“Yes. But…other lands is far. Very far. You don’t have to carry me. The inn is nice. Has lots of food.”
“I will carry you. We are brothers. Yeah?”
“…Yah.”
Sometimes, Rasktooth said silly things like that. He had paid a high price for going to save Mrsha. As high as Apista, and she was flying again. The Antinium ignored the suggestions.
They had a connection deeper than either one had figured out how to say. But they liked the words.
Brothers. A thing that Numbtongue had taught them. Rasktooth looked up and swung his crossbow up as they headed to their first cave. He sniffed the air.
[Hound’s Nose].
His Skills were different than Infinitypear’s. The Cave Goblin sniffed and muttered.
“Smells like foxes.”
“We kill foxes? Sell pelts?”
The two thought about that. Rasktooth thought he heard scrabbling and wondered if there were a family of them in there. Liscor’s fox population was small, and they had bright orange fur.
“Nah.”
“Naaaah. Want to try feeding foxes?”
“Good idea. You got food instead of this apple?”
“Dried meat in my pouch. Do foxes eat apples?”
They spent the next fifteen minutes trying to lure a fox out by tossing treats into the cave and making fox-like noises. No fox came out, but the two were heading away when Rasktooth saw a little shape dart out and grab the food. A cute little one!
This was a pretty darn good adventure already. Then Infinitypear was marching to the next cave. And his pace seemed to pick up, despite the pack he wore and the spear and armor and Rasktooth.
[Spirit of the Wild]. The further he got from Liscor, the more energized he got. Plus…
[Find Roads Less Travelled]. Rasktooth cackled as he spotted a promising hill in the distance and a crack in one of the cliff faces bordering the Floodplains. He pointed ahead and aimed the crossbow at a Shield Spider pit he spotted. Liscor was fun enough for now. But Infinitypear wanted to see the sea and everything beyond it.
Rasktooth wondered if they’d be together when Infinitypear did. He hoped so. But today, they quested for enough gold to get that hat. It was a pretty good day.
 
——
 
Rasktooth and Infinitypear were the happiest adventurers in the entire region. The Horns of Hammerad—were not.
Pisces glumly stared at a bag of shattered bones and powder that Ksmvr and Yvlon came up with. They ascended the ropes cautiously as Ceria covered their exit with Colth.
“Okay, the dungeon really doesn’t like us. It definitely knows the skeletons are foreign. How many did we send?”
“Eight. Eight, and I think I found the iron armor we put on our leader.”
Colth waved a mangled piece of metal with a hole in it. A suit of enchanted armor had punched straight through it.
Pisces tossed the scrap metal aside and shook his head.
“I’m running out of bones. At least—bones I can use for lesser skeletons. Why is this so difficult?”
In fairness, the Horns had done some good work. They’d found four Raskghar camps or spots that Ceria had thought they’d used as outposts. They had expanded the map that the other adventurers had used incredibly far, if narrowly, hoping to find the inner city—
But their progress had stalled because it felt like every monster in the dungeon and Facestealer itself were after the skeletons. Almost as if…it or something else had taken notice of the intrusions and decided to do something about it.
“We could go down there?”
Ceria suggested mildly. Colth made a face.
“I don’t really want to take down that Facestealer thing when it’s waiting for us, do you?”
“Ah, point. At least it’s too heavy to climb the ropes.”
They suspected it had tried, multiple times, but the adventurers didn’t just leave the ropes attached—and the one time something had jerked the rope when Yvlon lowered it down, it had snapped it clear of the anchors.
The possibility of that horror just waiting for them to descend was a good incentive not to head down, but Pisces was getting sick of rebuilding skeletons.
“This is…I agree this is the safest, most expedient option, Colth, and you can control one or two skeletons while you’re helping me.”
The [Supporter] had been practicing and looked up as Pisces rubbed his forehead.
“However, this is extremely taxing to send undead so far into the dungeon. I have a headache, and we’ve only done two waves.”
“Maybe take a break on it, then, Pisces. The last thing we want is for you to snap or get tired. How about I do a skeleton run from the traps? Facestealer doesn’t seem to want to go through that area. It just takes longer.”
Pisces nodded, and Ceria looked at Ksmvr and Yvlon, who had less to do.
“Sounds good. I know it’s slow—so how about we take a little break? I’ll help Colth navigate. Yvlon?”
“Ksmvr and I will head to the markets, then. I want to find some good saddles. Even if we use undead horses—and I really don’t know if we want to chariot-ride across Izril—we have to have good saddles.”
“And food. I will keep inquiring as to the best food supplies to take. If we go on a long adventure into lands hither-to unexplored.”
Yvlon sighed.
“Yes, if.”
“If. Hypothetically. Theoretically. In reference to Comrade Pisces’—”
“Yeah, yeah. We get it.”
Ceria rolled her eyes, but fondly, and Pisces bit his tongue. Neither Yvlon nor Ksmvr had said they were going outright yet, but Colth glanced at Ceria and then at Pisces.
They hadn’t answered his statements about going to the new lands—but they were acting as if they would. Pisces grouched back to the inn, rubbing at his head.
 
——
 
It was odd, you had to admit, for The Wandering Inn to have a routine. Even a temporary one. Yet it seemed like some of the excitement had left, and Erin Solstice realized four whole days had passed without her causing some kind of incident.
Not to say something wasn’t happening. Oh, no. Liscor and Riverfarm were negotiating, and there was important stuff in the works for the Horns and elsewhere.
“No luck, Pisces?”
“Monsters and whatnot, Erin. Monsters and whatnot.”
“Almost makes you want a Toren, huh?”
He gave her a wan smile.
“Not quite—but I’m starting to see the appeal of a stronger undead. Maybe I should work on it. But, argh, I just don’t have the right bones.”
“Don’t you have all those fancy bones from the Gargoyles and…?”
Erin waggled her fingers, and he shrugged.
“Oh, Gargoyle bones. Yes. But I was hoping for some real, high-quality ones. You see, there’s bone and…I can see I’m losing you.”
Erin was edging towards the stairs.
“What? N-no, I’m just, uh—I’d love to hear you talk about bones for thirty minutes, but I’ve got this thing I’m going to do and—has anyone seen Nanette?”
Pisces rolled his eyes and waved Erin off as he sat down. Erin looked about, and the truth was, these quieter days were just fine.
Larra’s inn was still moving south to Liscor. The adventurers were about to get their due excitement. It was only a matter of time. The new lands waited.
Wasn’t this fine? Yes, it was. In fact, Erin only had one—two concerns, really. She wiped her hand on her apron as she walked around the inn. That one problem was—
Nanette.
Mrsha the Exceptionally Welcoming abandoned the table where she had been taking lessons on palace dynamics from Lyonette and Ser Sest. The [Princess] sighed loudly, but she let Mrsha go because the girl had a good reason.
Nanette. Like Calescent, but even more so—the witch was the inn’s newest member of the family. She was Erin’s responsibility, and the [Innkeeper] had realized she needed to be mindful of Nanette in a way she hadn’t with Mrsha.
Not just because Nanette needed support. Not just because Erin had promised. The truth was—Nanette was a pretty resourceful girl and older than Mrsha.
But that wasn’t perfect. Nanette deserved more. The problem was, ironically, that if Erin didn’t bear Nanette in mind, the young witch would take care of herself.
 
——
 
Nanette was in The Wandering Inn, but it took Erin a while to find the young witch. Mostly because Nanette stood at the highest part of the inn. Or rather—just below it. She called up the stairs into the tower as a Worker peered down at her.
“Hello, Mister Bird?”
“Hello, girl witch Nanette. Is something wrong? Are we under attack by monsters or armies?”
“No, Mister Bird. May I come up into your tower?”
The Worker considered this. He had begun locking his tower, and he had a big sign that said ‘Only Birds Allowed’ on the door. But Nanette was peering up at him, and he stared at her round cheeks and earnest face.
“You ask permission. This is good and wise. Let me see. Do you have tribute?”
The Worker sat on his tower perch, listening to the hustle and bustle of the inn below. Above it all, a bucket of arrows sitting by him as he fiddled with his bow. Nanette fished in her pockets.
“I have a speckled green egg shell I found in Riverfarm. A baby bird hatched out of it, and it was blue.”
“Oh. Oho. This is a worthy tribute. You may ascend.”
Bird grandly waved, and she came up the stairs. She presented him with the egg, in a few pieces, but glued back together, and Bird admired his gift.
“Very good. Very good. I, Bird, accept your tribute. As I am an emperor of my tower.”
“Are you an emperor, Mister Bird?”
He thought about it.
“I have too many classes as it is. So no, not an [Emperor], just a ruler of my tower. Which I must zealously guard. Did you want to survey my domain?”
He pointed around the tower, and Nanette admired the view. In all four directions, she could see the sky and the landscape of the Floodplains. Only the walls of Liscor had a better view. And the [Guards] didn’t get to sit down much.
“May I sit for a bit, Mister Bird?”
“Oh, of course. Have my seat.”
Bird stood up, and Nanette refused—but eventually sat as Bird stared out at the people coming through the gates. He said nothing at all, and Nanette watched him.
So this was Bird’s life. He sat, the wind blowing on his face, and watched it all, sometimes without speaking for an entire day. And he seemed happy.
He didn’t shoot as many birds these days. Just the ones that mattered. Bird was surprised that Nanette didn’t say much—Mrsha chattered, despite being mute. But Nanette seemed to understand how Bird liked things.
Or perhaps she was doing what a witch did and learning before judging. Yet Nanette had brought something, and she timidly offered it to Bird as she placed a kettle on the ledge of his tower.
“Would you like some tea, Mister Bird?”
“Oh? Oh. That would be nice. I have decided I am a tea person. Coffee is too fast. Also, it tastes bitter.”
“When did you decide that, Mister Bird?”
Nanette poured them two cups, and Bird took one. He sipped it gingerly—Antinium had to use straws because they had no lips, but he seemed very pleased nonetheless by the steaming cup.
“Just now. Aha. This tea tastes like what I imagine flowers taste like but they do not. They are also too bitter.”
Nanette laughed. She blew on her cup and sipped it, for it was growing cold, and she and Bird felt very, very pleased. So much so that Bird pointed something out to Nanette.
There were a number of mundane and magical birds that only a true watcher of the skies could observe. He pointed out a dove-tailed swallow, bright red, flashing through the air. He had hunted them before, but this one was performing several aerial feats.
Loop-de-loops in the air at high speed. Each one graceful, spiraling into the next. Bird pointed it out to Nanette.
“That bird is called a Redfin Swallow. It comes from northern Izril around the Vail Forest. It is a graceful bird that has a lot of friends where it nests. Unlike the Garbichug Revolter, which is the most disgraceful not-a-bird because it neither flies nor tastes good and eats waste. Which is over there.”
He indicated the nasty-looking bird, four feet tall, drooling, with teeth in its ‘beak’ and a ragged plume of filthy feathers. The garbage-eating pest was a hazard that Liscor paid Bird to shoot—but not even he would eat one.
Nanette wrinkled her nose at the famous pest, but then she admired the Redfin. Bird watched it glide in a loop over the Garbichug’s head. It insulted the monstrous bird, who would eat sewer waste or other birds or their eggs if it could climb their trees.
Tswah! Tswee—that was the kind of sound the Redfin made if Bird had to do anything as inelegant as translate bird-speak to words. The Garbichug made a sound like an explosive meal going through a digestive system in reply and snapped its mouth open.
