Barely cut. The smile never wavered as the half-Elf tried to freeze Snatcher solid.
She could not.
The [Necromancer] lifted a burning rapier and hurled it at Snatcher. He fired a [Deathbolt] at Snatcher as if to take its life.
He could not harm Snatcher.
Fifteen arrows had hit Snatcher in one socket, and it dug out the broken bits of metal and wood with a claw. The insect held back, but the woman with metal arms charged.
FURY.
She, like Skinner, ignored the paralysis. She punched and tried to tear—it held still. Her blows tore up the earth, and her arms made the air shake.
She could not harm it.
A sting. The adventurer drove a blade into Snatcher, and it turned. It grabbed—and the adventurer rolled. So Snatcher used a trick. It dug a claw into the soft earth, deep, a foot, two feet, six, digging down into the earth and stone—then pulled up.
The ground moved and hit the woman with metal arms and knocked her down the hill. The [Necromancer] dodged, and so did the adventurer—but Snatcher bent down to take his head.
“[Evasive Flip]!”
…Snatcher missed his leg. It turned, slowly, as ice formed around it. Walls of beautiful ice such as it had never seen in an age. Snatcher admired it as the ice coated it deep. Then Snatcher moved its legs, and the ice shattered.
The adventurer was laughing. As his kind did. Fearlessly, he stung Snatcher’s body with his blades. They were the only things that cut Snatcher’s hide. Snatcher reached for him once more—
Then the world exploded.
Snatcher—stumbled—and lost track of everything. It turned—and saw the building on the hill.
FAMILIAR.
What was it? Snatcher stared at the inn, and another force rocked it. Snatcher almost moved—and saw it.
A Drake upon the hill. He had no clothes. But he was throwing alchemy down. And the alchemy…hurt. A second one stood there with blades and shadows surrounding it.
ADVENTURERS.
Snatcher feared none of them. But it did—raise one hand to shield itself as the alchemy rained down. They could not hurt it badly enough.
“—just standing there—”
“Ksmvr, don’t get close!”
“I cannot attack—”
Voices. Snatcher barely paid attention to them. It was staring past the two Drakes. Up. Up. At that inn.
It had never seen it before. The inn was completely, utterly foreign, as was this little city. Even the land changed. All was different. Yet.
FAMILIAR.
Snatcher stared up at it, and a word rose in its memory, of long ages ago when its home had not been buried. When Mother was young. When Skinner and Stalker lived and there were more. From those days, the thought arose. Something it had seen once.
SANCTUARY.
Ah. Then Snatcher began to walk. Towards the Drakes. Towards the building. Yes. That…that was something it wanted too.
It rocked slightly. The alchemy hurt. It wasn’t enough—but its hide began to burn. And the adventurer with the blades was digging them into its back.
Them first. Snatcher feared them not. And now—more were striking at it.
“Stay back! Stay back—only adventurers—”
A man of cloth with a staff battered Snatcher’s arm. Snatcher caught the staff—and broke it. A thing of eyes, a Gazer, tried to hurt it. A Dwarf—Snatcher reached for her as the others dragged her back.
So many heads. But they were fast and nimble, and this was no dungeon. It should have snuck up on them one-by-one. The adventurers were always too quick.
These were not the ones who had come after Mother. These were not the armies to fear. Snatcher, even above, just had to wait for them to tire.
They could hurt it not. Yet—Snatcher needed more tricks.
Where had the woman of string gone? The beautiful head that scared even Snatcher? Her tricks were very good. Another trick?
Snatcher saw the half-Elf with her ice, and a lance of it struck Snatcher in the chest. It broke, of course—but Snatcher picked up the pieces and hurled them back.
“Ceria!”
…Not in pieces. Just thrown. A barrier breaking. Alive. Snatcher picked up a stone and looked around. Then it heard a voice.
“[Bane Blades].”
Aaaah. A blade pierced into its back, into Snatcher’s bone. The adventurer turned, and Snatcher threw the stone. It missed—and the stone hit the walls of the city and cracked there.
Faster, then. Faster—Snatcher began to grab and tear the air faster and faster. So fast the smiling man was nearly caught—but that smile never wavered.
A hatred upon his eyes.
“[Death Gamble].”
“[Disable Friendly Fire].”
Yes, those were the words. Pain upon his back. Acid? Snatcher—laughed.
The third adventurer was waiting, guarding the hill. Snatcher faced the woman of metal arms, the grinning adventurer, and the naked Drake now. It feared them not.
And now they were so close, kissing it with steel, and they knew it not. So Snatcher focused on the words, for it knew them too.
[Aura of Paralysis]. [Reconfigure Aura]—
Snatcher waited for their faces. For their faces to change to the ones it wanted. Then it would take their heads. The grinning man first.
They were changing beautifully, like all of the others, when Snatcher heard a shout. It looked at the building and saw a familiar Goblin with a crystal blade.
You, too. 
Snatcher remembered being trapped and felt the fury. It raised one claw and then—someone kicked open a door made of wood. A little closet next to the big building.
Snatcher saw a Gnoll. Brown fur kicking off paper. An expression of wariness and fear. It feared her not. She raised something on one arm—and Snatcher heard her cry.
“—the City of Stars!”
Then Snatcher froze. Then heard it, ringing through its being. A ghost’s howl—and it saw the light.
THE CITY OF STARS?
Snatcher threw up its claws. It saw the Gnoll change—and the light—the light!
A Gnoll in armor charged at it, and Snatcher screamed within its mind. It backed away as the blade kissed its hide. It did not harm Snatcher, but it began to back away. For it feared what came next. It sheltered its head from the sky, not the blade.
THE CITY OF STARS! MERSHI’S WRATH UPON US. THE SKY FALLING!
Suddenly, Snatcher was no longer unafraid. It turned—and began fleeing back home.
“—it’s running—don’t let it—”
“Lehra, watch out—”
The warrior of stars pursued it, howling, and Snatcher ran. It ran, sobbing, for it thought they were gone. Gone and dead.
Only when it was close to the chasm did it pause. The blade of Mershi tore its hide and tried to scratch its bone, but it was less painful than Snatcher remembered.
It hurt Snatcher less. The panting Gnoll stared at it and it stared back.
…Is that all? Is the blade no longer sharp? Where is the skyfall? Where is the army of stars? 
You…
YOU COULD NOT STOP ME WITH THAT. 
Not all the little heads it had gathered. A mountain of them, until the wrath fell upon it and mother and its city. If this was all—they would have laughed. Laughed and laughed in their warm graves.
Snatcher hesitated upon the edge of its home. It backed away from the blade of Mershi—and then it felt another lance of pain.
“Colth!”
Two blades dug into bone. Too many. Snatcher backed up again, and the man who smiled produced something it recognized. A burning brand, which pressed upon its hide and made the [Necromancer] howl in pain.
Then came the naked Drake, and he wore alchemy’s guise. A champion of Pallass? Too many—too many.
Snatcher backed away. It stepped back from Mershi and Pallass’ wrath, from the adventurer’s brand.
And fell back into its home. Snatcher fell and fell and struck the ground, and it hurt it not. Then it slunk away, back into the caverns. Too dangerous—and it felt the brand burning for it was marked.
It knew that name too, if only from afar. A name almost forgotten. It thought it was…
ROSHAL.
 
——
 
Facestealer fell back into the dungeon, and only then did Ceria’s ears stop ringing. Her [Dangersense] stopped making her want to puke.
The walls of Liscor were still sounding with alarms. The Antinium, the Watch—Ceria looked back at the battleground of the last…eleven minutes?
Eleven minutes of eternity. Of watching the monster take Tier 4 spells and ignore them. Stand there, as if mocking Yvlon, with Ksmvr and the warriors barely able to approach.
Her circlet hadn’t done enough. It had destroyed the Frostmarrow Behemoth! She didn’t think Facestealer had moved when the undead charged it.
What—
That was in the dungeon, and we were just partying above? Ceria’s blood ran cold, and she wondered who was more dangerous. It or Tolveilouka?
Probably Tolveilouka, because Facestealer hadn’t tagged Colth. It had gotten Ceria—her robes and barriers had saved her from it caving in her ribs. Colth—Colth had cuts and bruises from where it had hammered the ground and hit him with flying dirt and debris.
But he still grinned like a madman. Grinned—until Pisces seized him.
“What was that? What was—”
“Pisces? Peace! It’s gone—Lehra, come back!”
The Stargnoll was trembling despite the cheers rising from the inn. She alone had scared Facestealer, scared it back to the hole. But it was hard to say who was more terrified, her or Facestealer.
Saliss was morphing back into a Drake. The Named-rank [Alchemist] spat into the hole and turned.
“That confirms it. Watch Captain! Get the old man and post a guard on this hole and the dungeon’s entrance. You can’t stop it—but you can stop it coming up. I’m going back to my laboratory. Where’s Octavia?”
He stomped off, and Ceria thought he had seldom looked that disturbed. Yet her attention was on her screaming, cracked ribs—and Pisces.
“Pisces, what’s wrong—I’ve marked it. I need to talk to Larra, Viecel—everyone—”
It was something Colth had done. He had been a flurry of blades, but what—
“What was that?”
Pisces was staring at something in the adventurer’s off-hand. Colth had stowed one of the curved shortswords, and he’d used something against Facestealer. A glowing…
It took Ceria a second to figure out what it was. She’d seen the like in stables, but half-Elves didn’t bother with them. But it was, unmistakably, a glowing brand.
An odd one. A long strip of metal shaped into the brand at the end, glowing red-hot though Colth had not put it in a fire. It must have been enchanted—what Ceria noticed were two things.
One—the logo looked familiar, and her stomach twisted when she realized why she recognized it. Roshal. But the second—Pisces was white and shaking.
“You—why do you have that?”
Colth’s eyes were calm, but he had Pisces’ own arm in a grip so strong he forced the [Necromancer] to let go. Yvlon, her arms cut and her skin gashed from her wild attacks, looked at Colth as Ksmvr’s blades, unused this battle, slowly came out of their sheaths again. Yet Colth just looked Pisces in the eye, and Ceria saw the brand…
Or a third of a brand. Because any branding iron was long—like a poker, to be inserted into a fire before the target. This one—was snapped off, so Colth held it like a dagger. He held it as Pisces’ arm trembled and spoke very quietly to the [Necromancer].
“Pisces, calm down. Pisces—it’s just a tool. We use every tool we have.”
“That item is from—why do you have it?”
Colth smiled, but not like he had smiled before, like someone courting death or the friendly, bland smile of the Named-rank. His third and last smile was perhaps the most genuine and secretive, and he spoke only for Pisces to hear.
“It does not define us. Any more than chains or scars.”
His hand tightened on Pisces’ arm—then he pushed the [Necromancer] back. Pisces, white-faced, hesitated, rapier in hand, and Colth’s lips moved.
The Horns never heard what he said—because he didn’t say anything, but Ceria saw Pisces stop—and then lower his rapier. Then they were lost in Zevara demanding to know what they thought, and Colth speaking. For Colth said two things that made Ceria think long and hard. The first was this:
“I am going to kill Facestealer. I’ve marked it—we can track it down. We’re going to kill it. On Larra’s Haven, I promise you. Once Deni and Eld get here, we’re going to take it down.”
Roshal’s brands never faded, and they tracked their quarry to the ends of the earth. That was one thing. The other? The other took Ceria a long time to figure out.
Mostly because unlike Pisces, she read no lips. But the circlet gave her the ability to replay what she’d seen Colth saying again and again, and she phonetically copied out what she thought he’d said. It was still tough because the first part of his short communication made no sense—proper nouns were like that.
But she thought he’d said:
“Azam’du says hello.”
