Their anxiety was infectious, and he found himself gazing out the windows expecting to see monsters lurking in the grass. He didn’t. The strange vehicle moved swiftly, leaving a trail of crushed vegetation in their wake. Their ETA to the farm was just fifteen minutes.

Just how far out of pocket was this place? Joe had said half the moon was a protected zone, but they must not have been anywhere near there or these guys would have left the lab in this car thing to reach it, right?

And the professor had indicated that ships were in short supply, but unless he was misunderstanding, someone had come to get the other assistants who’d chosen to change employers. Why didn’t they just pick these people up, too?

Alden had a ton of questions. But with the language limits the best he could do was say, “Where did others go?”

<<Other what, Honorable Alden?>> the old man asked.

Well, he couldn’t just leave it hanging. And he’d already committed himself to sounding like a caveperson so he might as well lean into it. “Other Worli Ro-den friends?” he said. “The other Artonans go before, but you are here. Why?”

Please don’t think I’m stupid. I’m pretty sure I’m doing okay considering how small my vocabulary is.

They understood the question, and the driver in particular seemed eager to badmouth her former coworkers. Over the next few minutes, Alden got an earful about the situation.

Apparently when Joe had first been called to account for his crimes—which weren’t crimes at all! Oh no! They were brilliant and extraordinary magical advancements!—he and his many assistants had assumed he would brush off the charges as usual and return quickly. But he didn’t. And they soon received word that the lab was being handed over to Yipalck Corporation. Another wizard scientist would soon take charge, and Joe’s employees were expected to transfer over.

Only some of them didn’t want to. Joe was, as Alden himself had experienced, good at obtaining peoples’ service. The Yipalck Corporation wouldn’t pay as well as he had, and the assistants, who were mostly crazy science buffs themselves, didn’t expect to have the same freedom to play around with the lab equipment that they’d enjoyed under Joe’s leadership.

But there was a lot of pressure to shift loyalties and a lot of doubt about what Joe could do for them now that he was out of favor with higher powers. Eventually, most of the assistants gave in and signed on with the new owners, and only these few holdouts had refused.

They assumed they would be shipped off to a safer, more populated area as soon as the new wizard arrived. Eventually, Joe would arrange for them to travel to the mother planet by spacecraft, and from there, they would be able to safely teleport and join him at the university.

However, to everyone’s surprise it went the opposite way.

The promised new wizard never appeared at all. The chaos index, whatever that was, rose rapidly for months. And when it finally hit some particular limit a few weeks ago, everyone at the lab requested evacuation.

But the Yipalck employees were classified differently than the Joe loyalists. A ship came to pick them up along with some of the lab equipment, but the loyalists were told they had to remain behind.

Unless they were willing to quit Joe’s service.

It sounded to Alden like the assistants’ skills and their knowledge about Joe’s research were valuable to the new owners. So they were basically being held hostage until they agreed to switch sides.

He was also interested to learn that the people who came to evacuate the other assistants were Avowed. Apparently they were a common enough sight on Thegund. Just not here, on the wrong half of the moon.

It was an uncomfortable thought.

If I’d been given a quest by the corporation, I’d have been sent here to strong arm a bunch of scientists by holding a possible rescue over their heads.

He tried to think of anything in the human morality concessions of the Contract that would prevent that…and he couldn’t.

Supposedly he couldn’t be used as an outright murderer of innocents, but of course he could be told not to help someone. Or to prioritize one group over another.

That would feel awful.

He was still trying and failing to imagine his way out of such a scenario when they reached the farm. They approached from a different direction than Alden had left from, and it took a second for him to orient himself before he could direct them toward the packing warehouse.

He had them stop a little shy of it so he could grab a handful of berries from one of the bushes and shove them into his pockets.

As soon as he did, his quest updated and offered him an option to request a return teleport. He would have been automatically returned in less than an hour anyway, but there was no reason to hang around.

He showed Joe’s assistants the way into the warehouse and pointed at the teleportation alcove. They promised one or more of them would be here waiting for him at the appropriate time tomorrow. There would be no need for him to travel to the lab itself again. From here, his nightly teleportation trips should be swift and simple.

The old man kissed the other two on the cheek, then took the cases full of supplies. <<I’m ready when you are, Honorable Alden.>>

He looked a little afraid.

Alden wished he knew how to say something comforting, but all he could do was smile and nod and act like all of this was business as usual.

“Go home happy,” he said to the other two.

It wasn’t the right sentiment, but he didn’t know how to say “travel safely.”

When everything seemed to be in order, he clicked the request teleport button.

[Request Approved. Please enter the alcove.]

[67 s]

It would be so stupid if I botched the timing here at the end.

He knew he wasn’t likely to develop sudden clumsiness, but he couldn’t help but think of the look on Joe’s face if he showed up alone because he’d dropped the assistant or failed to keep his skill active.

He ushered the elderly Artonan closer to the alcove and then watched the timer tick down. When there were only five seconds left, he picked the man up, felt him freeze, and stepped inside.

He held the guy around the waist in a full bear hug, leaning back to make absolutely sure no part of his passenger was dragging the ground. It seemed to him that his skill usually faded between one and two seconds of no motion, so when the timer hit one, Alden hopped up and down.

His calf muscles, burdened by the extra weight and still sore from his run to the lab, protested.

Then, the teleport hit him and he couldn’t feel them anymore.

Just like before, everything went black, and he became a disembodied awareness. But unlike before he was aware of something beyond his own thoughts.

There was an unwelcome sensation of pressure from every direction. And because he could feel it, here in this place where he had no body, he had faint sense of what it was that was actually being affected.

Around him, cocooning him from the teleportation magic, was something that was uniquely his. He tried to understand it, tried to to see it in a way that had nothing to do with sight.

For an instant, he had an impression of a dense cobweb surrounding him.

That’s my magic, he thought.

Maybe he was aware of it now, when he hadn’t been on his last trip, because it was under more pressure with the added burden of his passenger?

His magic was being buffeted by the teleport, but not in a way that seemed overly dangerous. He was curious. He wanted to figure out what it meant.

But almost as soon as he had the desire, he was back in his body, and his ability to “see” his magic was gone. His arms were clamped tightly around Joe’s assistant. His legs were sore. He felt tired and dizzy.

He dropped the man back onto his feet and stumbled a few steps away, trying to re-orient himself. The light from the runes on the floor of the Summonarium seemed to be stabbing through him in a way that he knew wasn’t physically possible.

A metal pan slid across the floor and stopped neatly in front of his shoes.

Alden stared down at it then glanced up at Joe, who was beaming at the old man and patting him on the back enthusiastically while he tried to bow.

“What’s the pan for?” Alden asked.

Joe turned to him. “Aren’t you going to throw up?”

Alden didn’t feel totally solid, but he didn’t think he was about to lose his lunch. In the past, he’d felt more nauseous during trips to Anesidora. “I’m okay. The teleport was kind of long. And different. But I’m fine.”

“Really?” Joe looked him up and down. “Aren’t we the sturdy one!”

“I guess so?”

“Well, excellent work!” Joe’s voice echoed through the room. “Wonderfully done! How does it feel to complete your first contract?”

The man Alden had brought along with him had finally managed to complete his bow. He was trembling, and Alden worried the journey might have affected him badly. But when he stood up, there was such profound gratitude on his face that it was almost painful to look at.

“Professor…” Alden hesitated. Now that he’d been to Moon Thegund, he realized he should have asked for a little more clarification about just how dangerous the place was.

Joe had told him it was risky, but that he wasn’t likely to run into trouble. And he hadn’t. It had all gone so smoothly. But that oppressive silence and the total abandonment of a large facility like the lab painted a grimmer picture than he’d expected.

Well, I’m only going to be there for a few minutes at a time from now on. Just straight to the farm and back.

And with the old man looking at him that way, he couldn’t quite bring himself to seriously consider not returning for the rest of them.
