The three of us nod our heads and move back to the entryway and grab our gear. As master and Ronald leave through the door the headman calls out to me. “Oh Aaliyah, please give my regards to your mother. Tell her I’m happy you made it home safely.”

The hair on the back of my neck stands up. “Uh, why does she need to hear that from me?”

“She’s visited my house every day since we made it back and… well… we ‘talked’ about my horrible decision in allowing you to stay behind… just let her know I apologize again.”

Oh gods! I look down at myself. I don’t have any injuries but I’m filthy. Leaving the headman’s house, I’m lucky the onlookers have dispersed by now so they won’t see the panicked look on my face. I try to hide my nervousness from the people still intensely staring at me as I make my way back home.

I half expected mom to be waiting in the doorway for my return, is her absence a good sign or a bad one?

I open the door to our house and I almost draw my axe when I feel the bloodlust hit me.

Mother is standing, no towering over me, a few feet away from the door with a presence I can’t describe.

“Mom! I’m so happy to see you!” I try to choke out the words. “I’ll give you a big hug in a second, let me clean myself first!” I avoid her eyes as I set my pack down. chock

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

I feel like a snake sheading its skin when the spell activates. Soon my whole-body sheds at least four pounds of dirt and sweat onto the stone floor below me.

“See mom! Not a scratch on me.” I twirl in place showing off my unmarked body, thank the gods my high Vitality let my scrapes heal in time.

I still can’t meet mother’s gaze but I noticed father silently standing in a corner. He looks at me and mouths ‘run’.

“Oh no! I made a mess over here.” I quickly bend over and grab a bucket by the door. “I’ll get some water to clean it up. Be Right Back!” I twist and move to open the door to flee.

“Darrius, door.” The sound of mother’s ice-cold voice causes me to fumble with the latch. I have 113 Dexterity, how is that possible!?!

I only get the door open a few inches before dad arrives beside me and pushes the door shut, closing of my only escape route.

“Where do you think you are going?” I hear mother walking towards me. I’m scared to turn around.

“Traitor.” I whisper up at father.

“You made me come home alone, you betrayed me first.” He whispers back. Our quiet conversation might as well have been a shout in our silent house.

Ever so slowly, I turn around. “Let me explain before you...” The words die in my throat when I finally see mother’s face.

Her two eyes are brighter than the magnesium fire I used against the spider.

Hopefully in my next life I’ll be able to make it to 30.
