I reach into the leg again and rip out another two chunks of meat. I set up the two new skewers next to the fire like I did the last one. Only this time I feel like I should pull them back a little bit more this time. Did I level my Cooking skill again?

LV: 60 Experience: 87,929/ 420,152

Health: 1,012.68/2,030

Stamina: 519.41/1,343

Mana: 231.51/1,000

Vitality: 203.00

Endurance: 80.03

Strength: 120.00

Dexterity: 113.00

Senses: 60.14

Mind: 62.20

Magic: 100.19

Clarity: 75.14

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV68), Axe Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV50), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Chanting (LV44), Mining (LV42), Drawing (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31), Cooking (LV31), Acting (LV30), Trading (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV19), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV76), Double Step (LV51), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV37), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV34), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Intimidating Shout (LV29), Dagger Arts (LV12), Increase price (LV7), Marching (LV5), Lower Price (LV4), Gourmet (LV2)

Tier 3:

Expel mana (LV53), Mana Manipulation (LV42), Precise Strike (LV24), Double Strike (LV23), Flash Step (LV3), Weighted Strike (LV2)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV40), Mana Skin (LV36), Mental Resistance (LV34),

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV25)

Increased Skill Levels

Chanting (LV43-44) 4,350exp

Cooking (LV30-31) 3,050exp

Gourmet (LV1-2) 300exp

Mana Skin (LV36) 9,000exp

I snort when I see my new skill, Gourmet.

“New skill?” I’m surprised master can read me that well.

“Yeah, a new skill that helps me appreciate food. I’d didn’t think I subconsciously wanted a skill like that?”

“You got the Gourmet skill.” Master chuckles under his breath.

“You’ve heard of it? How does it work?” It’s rare that master can advise me on non-blacksmithing skills.

“It’s a skill earned by those seeking new and exciting foods. It’s hard for most people to get because whether you’re rich or poor you are used to the food you normally eat. Only eccentric people who go out of their way to try something crazy that’s placed in front of them manage to earn the skill. Usually the skill is obtained from chefs or others researching exotic foods. I heard it helps people determine how edible something is. It’s also one of the harder tier 2 skills to level because you have to keep trying new things and just because it helps you decide what’s edible that doesn’t mean it prevents food poisoning or other ailment’s that come from shoving something random in your mouth.” Now he’s laughing out loud.

“Will Ronald get the skill after he tries it?”

Master tries to rain in his laughter. “No, he won’t get it that easy. He’s seen you eat it and has decided to try it after seeing how much you enjoyed it. To get the skill you have to willingly try something you have no prior experience with, without being influenced by your surroundings.” Master watches me turn the meat. “Make a small one for me too. It better be as good as you say it is.”

I happily start roasting a smaller piece of meat for master. While I’m watching the meat, I do some math in my head and calculate how much experience I got from killing the chameleon spider. 7,600 experience is a lot but nowhere near the amount I gained from the horned hob. The danger factor must be a bigger multiplier than I previously thought. I almost died in a one on one fight against a weaker hob but earned more experience. With the three of us facing the spider together, I only suffering that one hit from the spider, and then just stood back and roasting the blasted thing earned me much less experience.

I inspect the meat before I hand it to Ronald and Del. Both watch me take the first bite from my second skewer before they each try their own. The second helping of meat only keeps the warmth emitting from my stomach going and doesn’t increase its potency at all.

Ronald is eating his at a steady pace while Del looks like he’s trying to decide whether he likes it or not.

“Good.” Is the only conformation I get out of Ronald before he takes his next bite.

“It’s ok, not the best I’ve ever had. Though it’s not as bad as I thought it would be, I was sure the meat from a bug would taste a lot worse. The forest taste is a little overpowering I would say.”

“Now who’s a gourmet.” I poke fun at master’s over complicated yelp review. “You could just say it’s better than jerky and the fruits we scavenged.”

“More, please.” I look over at Ronald and see he’s handing me his empty stick back.

“Sure, one moment. Do you want another one, master?” I start prepping another round of meat.

“Well, if you’re making more…yes please.” I’m happy they both like it.

With this round of roasting, the chunk of leg I pulled the meat from is empty. I glance back at the pile of materials we harvested. “We’ll never be able to eat all of that before it goes bad. I would’ve like to share it with my mother and father.” I can’t help but frown at the thought of the food that’s going to go to waist.

“You don’t have to worry so much.” I look back at master. “Magic beast meat can last days, depending on how strong the monster was. The lingering magic in the flesh is too strong for insects to eat without dying, so as long as we make it back to the village in a few days you should be able to share it with your family.”

“That’s good news.” I grin at the thought of mother’s reaction to the magic meat. Maybe that will be enough to keep her from yelling at me… probably not. “Master, what did you mean the magic will kill insects that try to eat it?”

“The amount of magic contained in the monster’s flesh is too large for regular insects to eat it. You said the meat is helping you to regain your magic right?”

“Yeah.”

“Well what do you think would happen if your mana pool was full like mine and Ronald’s?”

My eyes grow wide at the realization. “Is the meat giving you guy’s mana poisoning?!”

Ronald just keeps eating and master waives his hands in a placating gesture. “It’s like the magicite down at the bottom of my mine. Too much can be deadly but that doesn’t mean our bodies can’t handle it, especially because the two of us are of such a high enough level.”

“That makes sense but why does the meat help my mana pool while the magicite doesn’t increase my mana regain?”

“The mana that flows through nature is inherently violent, however everything living processes that violent mana and converts it into its own internal mana. Eating magic plants or animals still forces more mana into the body but it’s much less violent because it has already been converted from nature magic to an organic magic.”

“Does that mean the rest of the chameleon spider we left behind will stay there for the next couple of days?”

“If it was farther away from the denser parts of the magic forest it might last a day or so but it will probably be picked clean tonight. Farkas would have trouble getting through the shell but they would still be able to eat most of the meat. Plus, with the body being so close to the deeper parts of the forest I’m sure magic rodents and other scavengers will be attracted to the free meal.”

I notice the meat is ready, so I pass the skewers out. “If we can’t recover the rest of the materials, then what should we do next? Do we try and hunt another spider or do we make our way home?”

“We should check the surrounding area and see if any of the spiders are moving this far from the deeper parts of the forest. Whether we find more spiders or not we should report back to the village. The other hunters and everybody else need to be warned about the dangers possibly hiding in the forest.”

“Yes”

“Sounds like a plan, master.” We make a pretty good team. It helps we’re all on the same page.

I take another large bite out of my skewer.

Today was a scary day. We went looking for a monster and we found it… we found them. But the three of us overcame the beast and now we’re feasting on the best food I’ve had in decades. I can’t lower my guard tomorrow but something in my gut is telling me the rest of the trip isn’t going to be as hard as today.

“Burp!” … “Sorry, excuse me.” We all share a laugh around the fire. Maybe that gut feeling was indigestion. Either way we’ll overcome anything tomorrow, together.

The familiar clearing lies directly in front of us. Tired and dirty, I’m not sure if I’m ready for this. How are we supposed to move on after everything we’ve seen?

My first step out of the trees fills me with emotions I’ve long since buried. Stretching in front of us is a mass of bodies.

…

The sight of the villagers tending to the fields almost brings a tear to my eye.

“What are you stopping for? We need to head for the headman’s house.” Del pats my shoulder as he and Ronald pass on either side of me. I stand still for a moment taking in the sights before I run to join up with them. Three days of marching, a battle, a day to rest, another battle, scouting, and finally two days for us to make it home. It feels like it has been months since I’ve seen the village instead of only nine days.

As we move along the side of the field, we all pause feeling like we’re being watched. Our time moving through the forest has us all still on edge. We snap into formation and scan our surroundings.

The three of us relax slightly when we see the farmers staring at us across the field. So many emotions are carried in their gazes.

Respect

Fear

Sadness

Loss

Hope

In between the distant faces I can see gaps in between them where people aren’t standing. A few faces I’ve been accustomed to seeing are missing in the crowd.

Awkwardly, we continue our march towards the headman’s house. Each villager we pass sends a shiver down my spine. I can feel the number of eyes on us increase as we pass more and more people. A few homes we pass have their doors wide open and the villagers watch as we pass in front of them while they remain in the comfort of their doorways.

I’m not sure if someone ran ahead of us and told the headman we we’re coming but Nicolas is waiting for us in front of the headman’s house. “Welcome back Ronald, Del-Razen, and miss Aaliyah. The drawing room has been prepared for you.” He turns around and opens the door, holding it until the last of us pass through. As he closes the door, I notice a small crowd still staring at us through the shrinking gap.

“You can leave your bags off to the side.” We follow Nicolas’s instructions and gently set our packs off to the side.

None of us say a word as we’re led to the same room, I first met with the headman alongside Master Del. We don’t even all make it into the drawing room before Camden is on his feet greeting us.

“Thank the gods you’ve finally returned safely! Each day you didn’t return the village has become more and more restless.”

Taking my last steps into the room I see Camden and his wife standing in front of us with their son’s flanking their sides.

“When did your group make it back?” Master asks the headman.

“Everyone was eager to make it home. We only took short breaks and followed the hunters through the night. We managed to make it home before sundown on the second day.

“You’ve been back for three days?” I can’t help but exclaim. We took the same amount of time to make it home but the three of us can move much faster through the woods. They must have moved tirelessly to achieve the same pace as us.

“Where are my manners?! Please sit, need anything to drink?” He looks between us.

Ronald gives a, “Good.”

Master answers with, “I’m ok.”

“No thank you.” I answer politely.

“I was told you all brought back large amounts of beast parts. Did you find the reason why the goblins were moving into our part of the forest?” The headman is sweating by the time he finishes his question. Now that I look at him, he appears to have aged a few years since I’d last seen him.

His nervous smile fades as he sees the complicated look on our faces.

His brow starts sweating more as Master Del recounts our scouting. Master brushes over how we managed to defeat the chameleon spider but makes sure to stress the fact that we could barely match the beast’s ferocity with our strength. All of the headman’s family were pale faced when we described the creature’s ability to hide. When master mentions about how many others we came across during our retreat the poor man looked ready to cry.

“Are they moving towards the village?” Camden asks in a shaky voice.

“We found one of the spiders the same distance from the deeper part of the forest as our camp was located. We’re not sure how far some of them have spread out but it appears most are staying close to the deeper parts of the forest. Hopefully they retreat back into the magic part of the forest when winter arrives. The three of us talked it over and we can spend a few days each month scanning the area incase they decide to move closer to the village.”

“I’m grateful for your willingness to help but this is really bad. Everyone is still reeling from our losses during the battle. I scheduled a village meeting tomorrow to honor the eighteen people who died. Now I have to tell them we have massive magic beasts hiding in the forest.”

No one says anything for a while.

“What am I doing? I’m sorry I kept the three of you here for so long, you must be tired. I hope you all can rest well and hopefully make it to the ceremony tomorrow at sunset.

