For once, the monk has some helpful advice and I commit his words to memory. The first bit at least, ‘don’t let fear control you’. Kind of obvious and only mildly useful, but still good to keep in mind.

If only he wasn’t so long-winded...

With Peace and Tranquility in hand, I take a deep breath and step off the boat, plunging into the cold waters of Nan Ping Bay. Trembling from head to toe, I do a full scan of my surroundings in all directions, keeping a wary eye out for sharks or other nasty critters. It’s easy to say ‘control your fear’, but another thing altogether to actually do it. Don’t forget, I’m 90% sure someone is trying to kill me and 100% sure they’re not going to pack up and leave after failing once.

Problem is, I still have no idea who tried to kill me. I have tonnes of suspects, but which one of them had the means, motive, and opportunity to carry out this attack?

It’s been a full day since the shark attack and I’ve gotten nothing from the Legate. No praise for keeping Ping Ping alive, no condemnation for putting her in danger, not even an official statement addressing the attack. This and the fact that no officials came to check if Ping Ping was hurt makes me think my earlier suspicions were on the mark; the Legate doesn’t really care about my sweet turtle, he’s just using her to raise morale. While it’s unlikely he’s behind the attack, I can’t rule him out either, but what would his motive be?

Egotistical and unscrupulous as they are, I doubt the nobles of the Empire would disobey an Imperial Decree in such an overt manner, especially when the benefits are so small. Sure, if the plan had worked I’d be dead, but the noble families involved could never admit their part and gain face. In the Legate’s own words, attacking Ping Ping is treason and heresy, crimes punishable by nine familial extermination. That means putting every living relative you have at risk, and number one talent in the north or not, I’m a bit player in all this which means the risk far outweighs the reward, especially when there are easier ways to deal with me and the Bekhai.

The Canston Trading Group is another suspect, but after looking into them, I concluded that the branch in Nan Ping lacks the manpower to pull this off. The merchant house was a shipping warehouse, not a main office or anything, so they only have around thirty guards, not nearly enough to carry this out. More importantly, if they’re responsible for the attack, that means they planned and flawlessly executed a massive shark attack in less than twenty-four hours after our exchange. It’s possible, but highly improbable. According to Bulat, we were attacked by more than one school of sharks, which means someone tracked down multiple packs and gathered them together before herding the uber-school into the bay.

I sent him out to spread rumours and that’s all I got from it. Worst ten gold spent, ever. At least the common people are on my side, for whatever that’s worth.

Knowing what I know, this means that either a handful of super experts or an army of normies coordinated their efforts to carry out this convoluted scheme. Judging by the contents of the sharks’ stomachs, the second option seems more likely, especially since experts would probably just kill me outright. Problem is, normies take time to work, which means unless the Canston Trading Group had this plan in their pocket all along, that makes it more unlikely they’re behind the attack.

No matter how much I want it to be them.

So maybe it wasn’t about face and more about revenge. During my duels at the Wall, I killed Ouyang Yu Jin, the Ouyang Clan’s young patriarch, and Teng Wei Chuan, a prominent member of the Baiji Sect. That’s motive. They also had plenty of time to gather up the sharks between Nan Ping and the Northern Province, which is means. Problem is, the timeline doesn’t fit. The Society arrived four days ago, one day after I took up swimming in the bay. If they knew about my habits, why’d they wait another three days before going through with their plan? I suppose it’s possible they hatched their plan after arriving in Nan Ping, but I dunno. It doesn’t feel right. From what I’ve seen, the Society is more about earning face, not about avenging personal deaths. Elder Ming was all gung-ho about killing me, but he had to openly renounce the Society before giving revenge a go. I hardly think two smaller groups of the Society would go against the grain and try to take me out in secret, but it’s not outside the realm of possibilities.

In the end, I’ve ruled all my suspects as unlikely, but one of them has to be guilty, which means I pretty much know nothing.

Ugh. Crime solving is hard…

Mafu’s upside-down head floats into view and puts an end to my fearful pondering, his pout too adorable to ignore. Cowardly though he may be, my sweet quin knows that when my weapons are drawn, it’s time for work, so he stayed by my side instead of going off to play with his friends. Eager to join them, his wide-eyed pleading stare tugs at my heartstrings and I belatedly give him the signal to go play. Overcome with sheer delight, his adorable quin face stretches into a grin as he darts off to enjoy life, giving no thought to the past or the future and living only in the now.

None of the animals care about the shark attack from yesterday. They only know they’re alive today, so they must live life to its fullest. It’s like the monk said, ‘Dwell not in the past, dream not of the future’. There was more, but it’s not important. What’s important is he finally stopped Sending and I have my long awaited peace and quiet, so why waste it getting hung up on things I can’t control? I might as well worry about meteors crashing into the world and wiping out all of existence.

What happens next doesn’t matter. What matters is how I respond to what happens. I’ve chosen to allow fear to paralyze me, but now I make a different choice.

I’m here to meditate and find Insight, but that doesn’t mean I can’t enjoy the beauty and serenity of this underwater world at the same time. While watching the quins and Ping Ping play, my body relaxes and mind empties, not because I’m seeking calm but because I’m finally allowing it to happen. It’s so simple, I don’t know why I didn’t see it before. It touches on the basics I learned years ago, back in the village where some of my happiest days took place.

Back then, my loving family told me everything I need to become strong, I just wasn’t listening.

Calm your mind.

Focus on nothing.

Draw yourself inwards and open yourself to the Energy of the Heavens.

Seek nothing, find everything.

Be aware of nothing, but awareness itself.

Time passes. A minute, an hour, a day.

My nerves tingle, from my scalp down to my toes.

The pores on my skin open.

Barriers fall and the truth slips through.

A cool current reaches out.

It encircles, embraces, and envelopes, a sword and shield against what lays ahead.

Trials and tribulations, but not without purpose.

Not without end.

Chapter Meme
