While treating Dastan’s injuries, Rain explained everything through Sending, which explained all the hand-holding. The teachings Dastan relied on until now were nothing but lies and deceit, drawing him closer to the Father’s Maw each day. His reliance on anger and fury left him on the edge of imbalance and ready to become Defiled. His entire retinue was the same and likely many of their family members, but Rain was blessed by the Heavens and in possession of a Tear of the Mother, the aforementioned Blobby. For the past two weeks, he’d worked in secret to master its usage, and now, after a breakthrough, he used it to cleanse the Defiled Taint from Dastan’s body, leaving him weakened, but free. After this, he would do the same for Dastan’s family, his retinue’s family, any of the Militia who might be tainted, and bring them to the Bridge. Alive.

Unless they were too far gone. Not even the Mother’s Tear could help those.

“Keep this a secret,” Rain said as he stood to leave.

“Why,” Dastan whispered, filled with wonder and reverence. “Why hide your gift? The Shrike might have listened and you’d save so many lives...”

“I didn’t discover Blobby until after the Purge, during the battle for Sanshu, but I’ll reveal it if necessary. Major Yuzhen knows the details because Gerel couldn’t keep his mouth shut. Whatever, it works out, so if a Purge seems likely, she’ll send word and I’ll reveal everything. I’d rather not though, I’d like to live a long, peaceful life with my family. Welp, there’s like 300 more people to go through, so I’m gonna leave now. Rest easy.” Closing the door behind him, Rain left Dastan alone with his thoughts.

Closing his eyes, he channelled the Energy of the Heavens and whispered a prayer. “Thank you Merciful Mother for guiding your wayward servant back to the light. I was blind but now I see. I, Dastan Zhandos, under no duress, freely and readily pledge my life in defence of Falling Rain.” The words said, nothing changed, but his slave’s Oath no longer weighed him down. In its place was a new purpose, a divine mission, the holiest of duties.

It would be his honour to serve the Mother’s Chosen Son, Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
