Two sides of the same coin, one seeped in emotion, the other detached from it. The latter is the Eternal Emperor’s Dao, or rather a portion of it, for it is difficult to sum up the entirety of a single person’s perspective in a handful of words or even sentences. Humans are complex, multi-faceted creatures, and though I understand the Eternal Emperor a little better than before, I still have no idea what drives him to be who he is, or why he holds his own humanity and emotions in such disdain, while still cherishing the memories of his mother so fondly. It’s to the point where I suspect he may have engineered the whole Mother and Father religion just to pay his respects to the woman who birthed him and denigrate the man who sired him, though to be honest, this is merely an unfounded suspicion which I have no real proof of either way.

Either way, even though his Dao is steeped in logic, it is a twisted sort of logic that I cannot entirely make sense of, and thus have no idea how to counter it in an indisputable fashion. Despite having seen and experienced memories of a world unlike anything he’s ever seen and been proven wrong on so many different levels, he’s still yet to succumb to the weight of his emotions and is fighting to make sense of it all instead. This is a man who is sitting on a stockpile of suppressed emotions accumulated over several millennia, emotions he’s struggling to control with Zhen Shi back in the mix, yet even then the Eternal Emperor’s Will remains too strong for me and his Natal Soul to overcome. Now that I think about it, I’m not even sure I want Zhen Shi to win, because said stockpile of emotions would empower him to levels previously unmatched, so really, I might as well just call it quits and flip a coin to see what happens.

On heads, my opponent wins, and on tails, I lose.

Coming at this from another angle, I think back to the storm I created which helped three-thousand Storm Guards achieve Core Creation during my misguided efforts to divest myself of emotion in JiangHu, which is only scratching the surface of what I’d accomplished. The reason I was able to unleash all that power was due to the strength of my emotions fuelling my desperate escape, emotions I experienced over the course of two measly decades. If I could tap into that power again, I might well stand a chance against my foe, but the problem is, I no longer possess the desire for oblivion no matter the cost, nor am I willing to die anymore, not unless I absolutely have no other option available, and even then I’m not sure if I could muster the willpower to go through with it, not after knowing just how much it will hurt Lin-Lin and everyone else who loves and cares for me. That’s the flip side of the power of emotions, because while there is plenty of potential just waiting to be unleashed, those same emotions can also prove a hindrance when it comes to doing what has to be done.

Shen Zhen Wu – no, Liang Wu Di was right. My Dao is one of freedom, but the freedom I seek does not truly exist, for I have bound myself in chains of my own making, chains of love, morals, principles, desires and more from which I can never escape.

Not the worst thing in the world if I’m being honest, for freedom would be meaningless without said chains, but as if to prove his Dao is right and my Dao is wrong, the Eternal Emperor regains control of his emotions before I finish my little inner rant of doom and gloom, only to hit me with all the force of an electrified truck. Unable to even grit my teeth in an effort to endure, I find myself screaming bloody murder as the torment overwhelms every fibre of my being, and all I want to do is run and hide. There is no escape however, no end to this suffering and no respite in sight as the Eternal Emperor’s rage washes over me in a deluge of disgust and disdain. There are no words shared between us, no conversation to be had, for his Will is focused on inflicting pain and nothing else, while mine are fixated on unattainable escape.

Only for sweet relief to present itself amidst a deafening din of horrifying shrieks, one which erupts without warning. Dread and dismay threaten to overwhelm me where I stand as a black, disklike object blots out the light of the sun and descends upon me from above, emitting a whiny pitch that promises death and suffering both as it strives to draw us into its concealed maw. Shocked and confused by this turn of events, all I can do is stand and watch with jaw dropped as the Emperor retreats from the source of our shared consternation, for even he is unwilling to face this terror head on. There is no logic to this fear, no discernable reason to be alarmed, and yet even I find the panic all-encompassing as the massive, shrieking object chases after the fleeing Emperor and drives him out of my Manifested Natal Palace, a reasonable decision I resist only because I recognize the source of those cacophonous shrieks.

That’s my Roomba, the little robot vacuum I bought to wage war against the never-ending droves of discarded dog hair, only about ten-thousand times bigger and scarier than I remember.

It doesn’t take much to figure out what just happened, because I sure as hell didn’t Manifest an automated vacuum as a Dharmic Icon of Insurmountable Terror. Acting on instinct alone, I teleport into my bedroom and dismiss the majority of my Manifested Natal Palace, leaving only the condo itself and nothing else. Granted, this means setting free the Supreme Ancestors who were trapped in my Natal Sea, but it’s not like keeping them contained was helping me any. What’s more, keeping so much of my Natal Palace Manifested was straining the limits of my abilities, which I only now notice in the absence of said strain, one that is neither physical nor spiritual, but something else entirely as I pant and heave in place. Difficult to say how much more I have left in the tank, but even then I’m able to reinforce the defenses of my condo and still have effort to spare, now that only a tiny fraction of my whole Natal Palace is Manifested here in the Void.

There will come a day when I make sense of all this, but I fear that day will not come soon enough...

Inside my bedroom, Buddy greets me with the love and enthusiasm only a dog can muster after so little time spent apart, and once I am sure that my foe can’t just stroll right in, I pat my doggo’s head and scritch his cheeks in thanks for all his efforts. “Good dog,” I declare, just grateful he’s not completely useless and had some contribution to the fight, because I hate to think that I wasted my once chance to defeat the Eternal Emperor by giving my dog a physical form. No regrets, but it would still suck to immediately die after this most awesome of reunions, especially since we have yet to do anything fun. “Soon as this is all done, we’re going for a walkie. Promise.”

Reacting to the mere thought of the word, my doggo’s tail wags even harder as he Manifests his leash and collar which he holds in his mouth, the latter dangling at the end of the former instead of just appearing around his neck. It’s adorable how he expects me to put it on for him even though he could do it himself, which I suppose makes sense from his doggy perspective, and seeing how he just ran the Emperor out of my Natal Palace, I shouldn’t look down on Buddy’s Dao. He didn’t do anything outside in reality, because he thought I could just run, but seeing me trapped in the Eternal Emperor’s grasp, he finally found it in him to protect using a method wholly in accordance with who he is.

This is the power of Dog Logic, which is every bit as incomprehensible as the Eternal Emperor’s Dao, but apparently no less effective. A shame I can’t convince my doggo to weaponize his irrational fear, because I suspect that irrationality is partially responsible for why the Eternal Emperor reacted so strongly to the vacuum. His Dao is based on logic, whereas Buddy’s Dao is based on what makes perfect sense to his doggy brain without any regard to logic whatsoever, so I suppose the two perspectives resonate on many levels

“Come and face me, worm!” The Eternal Emperor’s challenge echoes through the Void and pierce through the defenses I have laid all around my condo, but thankfully, said defenses are still strong enough to ward off the earth-shaking attacks delivered by my foe and his army of souls. While I was praising my doggo, they surrounded my condo while standing a good distance away, not so far as to seem distant, but not so close as to crowd me out, because the last thing I need is to look out my window and see strangers with their faces pressed against the glass. Truly the stuff of nightmares, but having a crowd encircling me in the Void is only marginally better as I lock eyes with the most formidable foe I have ever faced.

Another barrage of attack lands along the border of my Manifested Natal Palace, and this time, I am watching closely enough to identify the powers being used. There’s Fire, Spear Intent, and good old fashioned Materialized Domain, but also plenty of other options which I can only vaguely identify, most of which come from the gathered souls. The other three basic Elements are present and accounted for, but even with duplicates, none are capable of matching the Yang Ancestor’s prowess. The Auxiliary Blessings are also present, with blasts of lightning, spheres of flaming rock, spears of frozen ice, globs of dense, viscous, and weighty mud, as well as wispy clouds of withering mists and blossoming flowers of deadly beauty. Plenty of Esoteric Blessings in the mix too, with beams of light, darkness, sound, microwaves, and more landing alongside Materialized fists of slime, Manifested pools of murky liquids, tendrils of melting acidity, and a whole host of things I can barely even identify. More impressive than the dizzying array of various attacks is how perfectly coordinated each wave of attacks is, with the moment of impact arriving at the exact same time for each and every single attack all focused on a single area of my Manifested Natal Palace no larger than a fist.

How my defenses are able to hold out is a mystery even to me, but I suppose it’s much harder to break into someone’s Natal Palace when they’re so guarded against intrusion. The frustration is evident on the Eternal Emperor’s expression however, which tells me that even though he was able to hold firm and rally back from my mental attack, he is not back to 100% just yet, but I’ve thrown everything at him plus the kitchen sink and really don’t know what to try next.

“Is this your final gambit?” Lips twisted in a sneer of utter contempt, the Eternal Emperor unleashes a massive palm strike that condenses at the last moment and almost knocks me off my feet, even though it fails to break through my defenses. “To cower within your fortress and pray for deliverance from the Heavens Above?” Before I can make sense of that last bit, he helpfully continues, “Even putting aside your remarkable fortune and attainments, you are a talent unmatched by any, but while you have proven yourself capable of moving the Heavens themselves, this Sovereign’s Authority stands second to none. Truly a fool unlike any other you are, to try and turn the Heavens against their Chosen Son.” Huffing and puffing despite the fact that he has no need of air nor any lungs to breathe, the Eternal Emperor brings all his rage to bear in an effort to cow me where I stand, but little does he realize how ineffective his efforts prove to be. Gone is the calm and dispassionate individual who was so dignified in his indifference, a grand and stately noble who gave up his throne without so much as blinking an eye. In his place is a furiously unhinged tyrant who feels the need to taunt and gloat to make up for the loss of face he suffered by fleeing from my Natal Palace, a petty despot desperate to prove that he stands above me.

And just like that, it all comes together. I feared the Eternal Emperor because I did not understand him, but this man I see here before me now? I pity him, for this is the true Ying Zheng, the man hiding behind the mantle of the Eternal Emperor. Distraught over the loss of his mother, he slaughtered the man who sired him in a fit of rage, and from then on, he was lost and without direction. He lived his life one battle at a time, moving from one war to the next without rest, and when a lifetime had passed and he discovered he had no one left to fight, he found that his life was still empty and without meaning. What good is an Empire to a man with no desire to be Emperor? And yet, Emperor he must be, a role he desperately clung on to because if not for this, he would truly have nothing left. Talent and Need drove him this far, saw him rise to heights greater than anyone who came before or after, and perhaps his story might have turned out differently had his descendants not turned against him, a betrayal that no doubt cut him deeply because of all he’d done and sacrificed so that they could know peace.

