A wild guess without any proof behind it, but I suspect I’m closer to the truth than he would care to admit. Ying Zheng was a man of emotion, not just anger and rage, but love and camaraderie too, and I can’t see a man like that neglecting the blood of his blood. Maybe that betrayal is what set him down this Path, one in which he shelved all his emotions and buried them deep, not discarding them, but not partaking of them either, because then they could no longer hurt him. Alas, because of this, he no longer took pride in his accomplishments and found no joy in his relationships, which is likely why his sworn brothers turned against him, but as fascinating as I find this character study to be, I’m still not sure how to use it against him. I know now why my verbal and emotional assault failed to shake him, because he doesn’t really care for his role as Emperor or what he could have accomplished. He only cares for the title itself, would kill to hold onto it at all costs, but the responsibilities mean nothing to him at all. Humanity means nothing to him, and thus he has no drive to do anything for them, because in striving to shelter himself from the pain of emotion, he has become a monster who only cares about himself. A monster of his own design, which means any attempts to appeal to his compassion or use his shame against him will be largely ineffective, while anger and hatred only serve to empower him. Add in the fact that he can somehow override my Authority over the Heavens, even after I miraculously harnessed them as a whole, and I see no way in which I can defeat him, no avenue to victory for me to take. I’m not giving up, because I still draw breath, and where there is life, there is hope, but try as I might, I sure as hell can’t see where my hope lies. Stifling a sigh as I settle back onto the bed, I pet my doggo’s head and mutter, “I’m in over my head. Don’t suppose you have any bright ideas, do you?”

In response to my desperate plea, Buddy cocks his head to one side before nudging me with his nose once more, still holding his leash and collar between his jaws. The message is clear, he wants to go for walkies, but now is not the time. While I wrack my brain for a new plan of action however, my doggo is relentless in his desire, avoiding my efforts to pat his head and nudging me from various angles with his cold, wet nose, and all the while shoving his front paws into the bed like it owes him money and he’s trying to collect on its life insurance. Eventually, he gets so insistent that he even jumps off the bed and stares at me from the bedroom door, which for Buddy means he’s about twenty seconds away peeing out of spite because he won’t take no for an answer. “We can’t go out, Buddy,” I begin, pointing outside at the army of souls just waiting for me to make a move along with the Eternal Emperor who is still monologuing in an effort to demean and belittle me, but his ability trash talk is sorely lacking for someone who has never known defeat. “It’s too dangerous to go outside.”

To which my doggo responds with a short and insistent bark, once again demanding I bring him out for walkies or face the filthy consequences.

There’s no arguing with him when he’s in a mood like this, and I’d rather not find out if he can actually poop and pee here in my Natal Palace, so I head over and affix his collar around his neck before taking a deep breath in preparation of teleporting down to the lobby. It’s probably not as safe as staying in the bedroom, but maybe Buddy’s doggy brain will figure it out if he sees the crowd waiting outside from a different angle. Before I can jump us down however, my doggo bolts away and tugs on his leash before uttering another short and insistent bark in his half-hearted efforts to drag me towards the front door which I have yet to use. Since I’m already humouring him, I might as well go along with him the entire way, so I follow him out into the hallway and over to the elevators, where he sits down and settles in to wait. Pushing the button to call the elevator, one immediately opens up and we head inside, where again he takes a seat while the doors close behind us. Hitting the G button to bring us to the ground floor, I watch the numbers go down one by one in an almost surreal elevator ride, one in which I temporarily forget about all the big nasties waiting outside and fade into that fog of obscurity so commonly experienced during long, boring elevator rides.

And when the elevator dings, Buddy hops to his feet and jams his nose against the door, which slowly opens to reveal –

Not the lobby I was expecting, but the sweltering hot sands of the Western desert, as I stand face to face with the current Emperor’s distracted host.

Glancing at my delighted doggo who immediately sets to sniffing and sneezing the sand, it all comes together in a moment of clarity I would really rather do without. In my sweet, stupid doggo’s mind, elevators have always been magic, which is why he thought we could use them to get out of the host Emperor’s Natal Palace and back to my body.

Well, you know what they say: if it's stupid but it works, well… then it ain’t stupid.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
