Despite the increasingly unlikely scenarios my mind conjures up on a whim, the obvious answer presents itself as I crash into the waters of my Natal Sea and am reminded of the four souls trapped within. They’re still struggling to no avail in a desperate effort to escape and no closer to shore than when I last left them, but currents remind me of their presence which puts me in mind of the army of souls stationed just outside the bounds of my Manifested Natal Palace. Therein lays the answer I seek, the souls of former Emperors and Imperial Talents held prisoner for who knows how long, prisoners who no doubt serve a purpose else why keep them around for so long? This must be at least partially why the Eternal Emperor’s soul is so much more powerful than mine, though the exact specifics still elude me. I don’t know if he’s siphoning off Spiritual mass from the army of souls he’s captured, gained this strength by challenging so many souls for control of their Natal Thrones, become stronger due to the presence of the souls themselves embedded within his own, or something else altogether, but suffice it to say that the army of souls plays some role in Ying Zheng’s strength. Either way, without the full weight of the Heavens behind me to follow through the entirety of my attack, I doubt there is anything I can do to break through my opponent’s last line of defenses and kill him in a single strike.

Why did the Heavens balk at the last moment? Was it something I did? Some change within me that I failed to account for? I don’t know, but how in the hell am I supposed to defeat a monster like this? I’m just a guy with less than twenty years of experience in the Dao and no real understanding to speak of, all of which amounts to a mere drop in the ocean compared to the Eternal Emperor’s vast trove of experience. Just like that, this minor thread of doubt is enough to sever my connection with the Heavens, for I am no longer as united as I once was.

Not like it would’ve helped.

Throat constricting and chest heavy, I allow myself a brief moment of self-pity desperately striving to find that sense of oneness again, but the more I struggle to grasp it in hand, the more this inkling of a fast-fading sensation slips away, like trying to remember a dream that is intent on being forgotten, until all you have left is the awareness of having dreamed a dream and nothing else. A futile effort anyways considering how the Heavens trolled me at the last second, so with no other choice left to me, I throw myself back into the fight. Bursting out of the water with Unity in hand, I am determined to see this battle through to the end despite knowing not what to do now. My perseverance immediately pays off as I lay eyes on my foe once more, for disappointing though my attack might have been, I see that it was not entirely ineffective as Ying Zheng is still reeling with agony due to my Sword Force running rampant throughout his very soul. Having felt the same agony myself, I know that a lesser man would have given into the pain and might well have been crippled by it, but my foe is made of sterner stuff and still stands with back unbent and head held high. There is anger aplenty in his heated gaze, hatred and contempt just emanating out from his narrowed eyes as his expression twists with fury unrestrained, but the damage I’ve done to his soul with sword and glaive is nothing in comparison to the inner turmoil wrought by my words alone.

A fact which is both satisfying and disheartening at the same time…

Then again, maybe not as I realize why my foe has been standing stock still and taking every one of my attacks to the chin. While my ‘physical’ efforts to do away with the Eternal Emperor might well have fallen short, my words had more of an effect than intended. In revealing my past life’s memories, with no small amount of science fiction sprinkled in to make it seem even more inconceivable, I was aiming to send him into a downward spiral of doubt and self-loathing, and it sort of worked. Not in the way I’d hoped, since Ying Zheng is made of sterner stuff than most and simply refuses to Demonify, but unlike him, his alter ego Zhen Shi is a delicate little snowflake who cannot stand being criticized by someone he sees as beneath him. Though the latter is far weaker than the former in terms of the Dao, there is power in emotion which I cannot yet quantify, power which Zhen Shi is using to contend against Ying Zheng for ultimate control. An unseen struggle for dominance which I am not privy to, but for which I am solely responsible as Zhen Shi’s rage and ire both are driven to new heights by the truth revealed by my memories.

For in Zhen Shi’s eyes, his other self is unworthy of leading the Empire, and it has long been his dream to reclaim the throne for himself.

That might be my key to victory here, helping Zhen Shi overcome Ying Zheng and then moving forward from there, because even though they are two sides of the same coin, the former is more vulnerable than the latter. That being said, I’m fairly certain Ying Zheng can protect himself from Emotional Aura, and even if I could bypass those defenses through a meme like before or some clever usage of Oration, I simply lack the capacity to express rage unchecked. This is simply my nature, for I am not an angry person, nor do I have the hate or spite required to empower Zhen Shi even further. Pique and indignation I have plenty of, as I do so love to complain, but when it comes right down to it, I’m not one to really hate. Sure, I hate the bristleboars, but it is a reactionary hatred, one which stems from fear and anger over how I suffered at their hands. Otherwise, I’m not one to embrace the dark side, as I don’t even really hate my parents who abandoned me in this life. The woman who birthed me was damaged in her own way, unable to cope with the loss of her first son and unwilling to allow any others to replace him, while my sire is just a stone-cold bastard who might as well have been a stranger to my younger self. I didn’t hate him, because I never had any expectations of love from him, no desire to connect or win his approval, and I still don’t.

In short, whether he lives or dies is really no business of mine, unless he happens to kill Dad or Naaran. Maybe Gerel too, but I dunno. I mean, technically, he’s my brother, but he’s just so damn annoying…

In short, I never truly saw my parents as family and never truly expected any love or affection from them. I’d hoped for it, yearned for it even, but it came as no surprise to learn that they held no love in their hearts for me, and so I never saw the point in hating them, because it’s not like I ever held them in high esteem. No, all my hate I saved for myself, but that is not a hatred I care to share, nor is it one that would help me here, for my self-loathing is rooted in a sense of weakness and inadequacy, a far different emotion from Zhen Shi’s rage born of an overinflated sense of self worth and the denial of what he believes he is owed. In his eyes, he is Ying Zheng, the Eternal Emperor who should have been, and thus the throne his birthright which was taken from him by his other self. Thus, my particular brand of hatred would not resonate with him the same way my despair and dejection did, because like I said before, everyone knows what it’s like to feel sad, and while depression is more than just extreme sadness, everyone can relate once they’ve experienced it for themselves.

Or you know… should be able to relate unless they’re incapable of empathy, like Ying Zheng and Zhen Shi across from me.

So now for the million-dollar question: If Zhen Shi and Ying Zheng’s Paths are two sides of the same coin, what is it about the former’s perspective that makes him so susceptible to emotion? No, better question, what is it about Ying Zheng’s perspective that makes him so unshakable, to the point where even nigh-on irrevocable proof of his ignorance is not enough to shatter his determination and conviction? Despite having seen how far humanity can progress in less than a thousand years and then some, the Eternal Emperor still believes in the legitimacy of his rule, that he is the Chosen Son of Heaven destined to take control of the world, which is how he’s able to hold strong when faced with Zhen Shi’s emotional assault. My words and memories have introduced an element of doubt into the mix regarding his actions and decisions, but that isn’t enough to derail him from the Dao he’s pursued for as long as he can remember, one I cannot exploit because it’s steeped in pure logic yet makes no sense to me whatsoever.

At least, that’s how it appears given everything I know. I’ve seen the man’s life story, watched him grow from lowly cattle herder to first Emperor of the Azure Sea, and while I’ve some insight into what makes him tick, I still have no idea what made him into the monster he is today. Granted a different sort of monster from Zhen Shi, and if not for the fact that their souls look exactly alike and admitting to it themselves, I would’ve never suspected they were two parts of a whole. They’re almost nothing alike, but then again, the Eternal Emperor before me is also nothing like the Ying Zheng I saw in his memories, a man whose Dao was rooted in the flames of fervent emotion. Hell, I would even go as far as to say that Zhen Shi is more like the Ying Zheng of old than the Eternal Emperor, with his Dao of the Razor’s edge being a direct improvement to how Ying Zheng allowed himself to be driven by emotion. I suppose the similarity makes more sense when you factor in how Zhen Shi was severed away from the original host soul so soon after the founding of the Empire, but seeing how his mission was to study the ‘other side of the coin’, this tells me that no matter how different their perspectives might appear, Zhen Shi and the Eternal Emperor’s Dao share the same roots.

So I know Zhen Shi’s Dao is the Razor’s Edge, wherein he experiences and indulges the full breadth of his emotions in full while adhering to logic above all else, but what of the Eternal Emperor’s Dao? At first, I thought the flip side to the Razor’s Edge would be divesting oneself of emotion in adherence to logic, but that can’t be true. If this were the case, then the Eternal Emperor would possess power comparable to what I wielded in JiangHu, for there is power in the sacrifice of emotions. What’s more, if he were aiming to divest himself of all emotion, then he would have long since abandoned his role as Emperor of the Azure Sea, because as far as I can tell, he’s only holding onto the throne for sentimental reasons, misguided though they might be. I already noted how he believes his role is to be the guardian of all humanity, one who maintains peace and Balance at the expense of all else. A role he would not care for if he was willing to divest himself of emotion, so clearly I’m on the wrong track here, but if the Eternal Emperor’s Dao is not that of rejecting emotion, then what could it be?

So I got to thinking… what if Zhen Shi is more similar to the Ying Zheng of old by design? What if the Eternal Emperor is the way he is now because he strove to become better than the man he once was, whereas Zhen Shi was meant to discover what it would have been if he kept going? Yea, I can see it now, the aged first Emperor seated upon his throne as the days pass by, with nothing to do but deliberate the Path he took to arrive at his current lofty heights and where to go from there. In his eyes, he sees all the mistakes he made and time he wasted due to indulging his emotions, and how much more efficient he could have been if not for them. Why kill his father and sell his sword to the highest bidder? Better if he’d suppressed his emotion and taken control of Qin from within instead, catapulting his progress ahead by decades, if not more. All those years squandered in anger and hatred, all those battles fought out of pure spite and malice, a waste of effort and resources if nothing else.

Though lacking any and all proof, I just know that I am right, for much like Zhen Shi, the Eternal Emperor believes in logic above all else, but rather than walk the Razor’s Edge and experience all his emotions in full, he seeks to elevate himself beyond them. He doesn’t reject emotion, because he sees the power hidden within, power he used to conquer his Empire in the first place, but once all was said and done, he found a way to utilize this power without being beholden to it. Since he doesn’t discard or reject his emotions, the only option left is for him to hoard and suppress them, burying them deep down within and refusing to ever face them head on, like how he avoids reminiscing of his mortal relations like his five sworn brothers or any wives or children. This is how he views Balance, with all his emotions there, but not there, present but distinct, with all of the benefits of emotion when it comes to harnessing the Energy of the Heavens and none of the perceived drawbacks like illogical behavior, irrational logic, or pangs of conscience and regret.

