“Yeah. Fortunately, I know what the Converted look like. It’s easy to spot once you know what to look for.” Syllea’s eyes went a bit concerned, but before she could ask, Erick said, “I haven’t seen any in Treehome, yet. Mostly, I’m just waiting for the current holder of the Black Star to spearhead that problem. It doesn’t feel right stepping on the toes of the incani people. I was contracted to help with the Breach Demon, after all.” He tapped the crystal star on his chest, saying, “And you gotta be impartial in this Quiet War business… I guess. Or at least you gotta be fair.”

Syllea gained a measure of composure as Erick said there were no Converted nearby. But she was still worried about that. She asked, “How can you tell if you have a Converted?”

“Here. Let me…” Erick sent her a telepathic package of what he had seen down in the dungeons of the Wasteland. “Like that.”

Syllea went silent for a moment. She handed Erick back the blunt, as she thought.

Erick took a drag, then took another.

Syllea sprouted a few tendrils of telepathic thought; she was obviously talking to someone, and she said as much as she mumbled, “Sorry. That was an unexpected turn of events. I have to shove off some thoughts to others.” She added, “I’m gonna need to teach you how to get [True Sight].”

“I’m not in any rush, but yeah; I’d like to learn [True Sight]. I will take that offer.” Erick glanced around the small area, at the other occupants who were doing a terrible job of not staring directly at Erick, or Syllea. “But we could probably move to a more private area. We can talk about some denser topics, too, if you wish.”

“Yeah… Let’s do that.” Syllea asked, “You two want to come to my place?” She glanced to Bayth, saying, “I think Bayth is all tuckered out, anyway.”

Bayth rolled her eyes.

“I would like that.” Erick looked to Poi, asking, “Sure?”

Poi nodded.

Erick repeated, “Sure.”

Syllea let loose with a few other tendrils of intent, touching each of them, as she said, “Here we go—”

- - - -

The world resolved into a space of warmth and clean smells, with Erick at the center of a living room he had never seen before. Blanket and fur-covered couches arced around a fireplace without a fire, where the floors and walls were made of dark wood, and the ceiling was a skylight where rain drew rivulets across the glass. Beyond the roof, clouds swirled around a tall, dark Arbor, high above, only visible in the night because of countless bright orbs, like stars, scattered among his lofty boughs. All around Erick, Syllea, Bayth, and Poi, hovered a thin, star-filled brightness in the mana of the air; the Domain of the Arbor above.

Erick stared through the skylight, asking, “That’s Wyrmrest, right?”

“Yup! The original, and the largest!” Syllea stepped around the couch, headed towards a kitchen area. “You want more ale?”

He dropped his gaze to his host. “I’m ready to switch to water, actually. Or tea, if you have it.”

Syllea said, “I can do tea.”

Bayth said, “I’m going to head to the other room.”

“You don’t want to stay?” Syllea asked.

Bayth waved her off, and walked away. Poi bowed, then stepped away, following Bayth down a hallway into another part of the house.

Syllea grinned at Erick. “Just you and me, then. Pardon me if I do this the easy way.” With a pulse of intent, she flowed invisible control into the kitchen, pulling out a teapot, mugs, and a few small clay pots. She drew a globe of water from the faucet. With expert control, she joined the items together and heated where necessary. In three moments, she walked back to the couch area, her collection of items floating before her, steaming, as she gestured to a couch, teasing, “You can sit, you know.”

“I was just watching.” Erick sat down upon a fur, atop a comfortable couch, adding, “I couldn’t quite tell what spell that was. But I’m guessing it was just a [Telekinesis] aura?”

Syllea sat down on a couch beside Erick as the tea floated down onto the table between them. “Correct.” The tea steamed, as it steeped. “This Converted problem. How long has the Angel been active? Have they made any aggressive moves aside from the people you showed me?”

Erick glanced at the cigarettes they had bought, sitting on the table. Then he ignored them. “I’m not sure. I haven’t gone too deep into any of that. I have yet to go to Koyabez or— Did you hear about Shadow’s Feast? The full story? I told the Holy O’kabil earlier, and she seemed to imply that she would be telling others.”

“I've heard the story from many angles. I heard it from Wyrmrest, though. I know about Caizoa and the Black Star.” She said, “Asking Koyabez for guidance might be a good place to start, if you want to go down the path of full confrontation. But Converter Angels aren’t as completely violent as Breach Demons, as long as you aren’t their enemy. If you were, then you’d have been the target of assassinations well before now.” She said, “That’s how it usually goes.”

“I’m pretty sure I am their enemy.”

“If you were, they would have come after you by now.”

“Ah. There are many reasons why I believe I haven’t been attacked yet.” Erick smirked, then said, “Its minions are rather hard to miss, once you know what you’re looking for. Once I broke the Feast Barrier, it started moving all of its forces the world over. And then there’s this Silver Star on my chest; it’s a great way to fight against the thing if it should show.

“Taking all of that into account, and the fact that I’m already honor-bound to kill it should it show, I think it’s staying away from me if it can.” He said, “And I’m staying away from it, too, just because I’m not ready to start that war yet. There’s no way there wouldn’t be collateral damage. Maybe it knows this? It’s like how you said: Converter Angels aren’t as ‘raze the countryside’ as Breach Demons. More subterfuge and assassinations than overt war.”

Syllea glanced at the crystal star, saying, “So it’s true. That’s a Greater Artifact of Koyabez. You used that against the remaining Shades. Cursed them into mediocrity.”

“Well… I wouldn’t put it like that.” Erick scrunched his face a little, then said, “Cost me one of my spells to make, but I think it was a good trade off. There’s no way that Melemizargo isn’t going to remake his Clergy at some point in time, so if those Shades form a better base than what came before, then that’s good, right?”

Syllea didn’t look convinced, but she said nothing. She just thought for a moment. Then she poured tea. One for her, and one for Erick. She asked, “Sugar?”

“Sure.”

Two sugar crystals went into Erick’s cup, then Syllea handed it to him. She did the same for her own tea, and took a sip. Erick sipped his, waiting for her to say something else.

Eventually, Syllea said, “I don’t know what’s going to happen, now that Ar’Kendrithyst has been purged. No one does. But the Cult has suddenly become active in Treehome.”

Erick recalled that Syllea’s brother was a member of Melemizargo’s Cult. He almost said something about that, but he chose not to. Instead, he asked, “Anything I should be aware of?”

“Probably.” Syllea frowned at nothing in particular. “They’re putting fliers on walls and openly recruiting. It’s… We’ve had three raids in the last three days. The Arbors are all agitated. Everyone is worried. I’m worried.” She went silent. After a moment, she said, “If the problem isn’t at my door, I’m not willing to get involved in the Quiet War.”

“I hope your troubles clear up soon.”

“Heh.” Syllea said, “You too.”

Erick changed the subject, asking, “Ever heard of the Worldly Path?”

Syllea blinked, startled for a moment, then laughed. “You’re going to do that? Now?”

“I’ve already started,” Erick said, not quite understanding the stress in Syllea’s voice. “Treehome was my first stop. I’ve got a few others lined up, but nothing too solid.”

Without sarcasm, Syllea said, “Good luck with that. I tried to walk the Worldly Path a decade ago.”

“You did?” Erick asked, amazed. He did not expect that when he brought up the topic, but in retrospect, it made perfect sense that another archmage already knew of the Worldly Path, and had tried to walk it.

Syllea asked, “What’s your overarching goal? Do you have one, yet?” With a bit more serious of a tone, she asked, “Is it to kill the Angel?”

“No. The Angel is just a part of it all. Probably, anyway. I’m not sure.” Erick said, “I don’t have a goal except to see the world. I’ll probably get a goal soon enough, somewhere down the path.”

She nodded. “That’s probably the best way to do it.”

“I take it you had a goal?”

“One that ended in failure.” Syllea glanced to the empty fireplace, saying, “I’m going to start the fire.” She pulled at her dress as she got up, adding, “And I’m going to change into something more comfortable.” She waved her hand at the fireplace, conjuring a flame upon the logs already there, as she walked away, saying, “Be right back.”

Erick refilled his tea while he waited, and wondered, his mind going to some rather interesting places as heat began to replace the chilly air of Syllea’s home. Not a minute later, Syllea reappeared wearing what might have been a sweater and sweatpants, both grey, with her long blond hair pulled into a pony-tail and her jewelry gone. All sexy thoughts happily vanished from Erick’s mind, as Syllea retook her spot on her couch, and started speaking.

She said, “The Worldly Path was something I tried much too soon in life. I had a goal before I set out, to gather every Elemental Body, to transform all of them into their Greater variants, and then to make a [Greater Prismatic Body]. There were a hundred other smaller goals, too, for this was back when I was still making new magic every other day, and a keeper at least once a week. But those smaller goals didn’t really matter. It was the larger ones that fucked over everything.

“The problem was [Shadowalk]. I left that one for last. That was my downfall, for the Worldly Path gets harder the further you go.

“I couldn’t get into Ar’Kendrithyst; that was out of the question. By the time I tried the Path, I was already at tier 7 spellwork, and I wasn’t willing to have my final test come at the hands of the Shades. So I tried for the Shadow Canyons of Nergal. I think I told you about them once before?”

“You did.” Erick recalled that conversation, then said, “You also spoke of the Fractured Citadels. You told me about how some of your people were soul-attacked.”

“Yup.” Syllea said, “That’s what ended the Path for me. I had a choice, near the end, of either going alone into the Darkness or pulling back, to keep my friends and family alive. They weren’t about to let me go alone, much to my anger, and I couldn’t… There were a lot of dangerous arguments there, right before the end. I cut my Path short. I ended it, rather than see people I love get hurt.” She offhandedly said, “I gained [Shadowalk] a year later after hiring people to gather shadow essence and craft a masterwork full-body armor. Had to do that twice, actually. I was so damned mad.” She chuckled. “I laugh about it now, but back then... That was maddening. Getting [Greater Shadowalk] was easy, comparatively, but by then The Worldly Path had already vanished for me.”

“Why not eat the shadow monsters for the Elemental Bodies?”

“I did. Mostly. But...” Syllea said, “You have to understand: The Worldly Path is a ritual of Fate and Space; a confluence of Elements that ensures that the Path gets harder and harder as you walk those steps. I wasn’t facing shadowolves by the end, Erick. If only I had been so lucky! But every shadowolf was gone. All that were left were Tyrant Whispers and Fallen Avatars; monsters that were more Ethereal Blood or Vile Darkness, than Shadow.”

Erick somehow felt the shadows of the room draw closer, but when he looked, they had not moved at all.

Syllea kept her eyes on Erick, saying, “I saw them move too, but that’s to be expected.”

“… Melemizargo is always nearby.”

Syllea snorted. “Yeah. But that’s not what I meant.”

“What did you mean?”

Syllea said, “Even now, you are on the path.” She sighed. “I should have known. The first time you came out of Spur to see the world, and it’s on the Worldly Path. Now I’m swept up in it, too.”

Erick almost panicked. “Did I do something to you?”

“Yes, but no. Don’t worry about me, especially since you’re this close to the start of your journey.” Syllea dispelled none of Erick’s worry by saying, “I met my own mentor when I started the Path. It’s a grand ritual, after all. Part of that ritual is the initial guidance. My own mentor told me some things, and hinted at others, but the Path I walked was my own, as your Path will be for you. If this ends well for you, one day, you might find yourself suddenly mentoring someone else who has chosen to walk the Worldly Path.” Syllea asked, “I know you said you have no plan, but do you have any idea at all about what your Path is about?”

Erick hung his head for a moment. Of course the Worldly Path wasn’t just a simple trip around the world, hitting the highlights and seeing the big sights the world over. Of course it was a ritual. Now that Syllea had said it, that made perfect sense.

Erick asked, “How much of the ritual is under Melemizargo’s control?”

“I’ve heard it’s just the bit at the end. The part after you succeed. A closing statement, if you will.”

