“She’s with Neyvern! They just asked me to get permission before they returned and moved in, so I could spend time with my friends and their child without waiting for sixteen years!” Okay, that absolutely came out far more scathingly than she had meant it to.

Still, it seemed to have worked. A short time later, she had permission to attempt the exam—which was just as easy as she expected.

Ranthia found herself facing a daunting task—something that she knew she needed to do, yet it filled her with extreme levels of dread.

She needed to purge [Image Recall]. A level 781 Skill.

No matter how many times she tested [Twisted Reflection], it was just as capable of using [Immortal Armaments] as a source. And her memory Skill was easier to work with, because she could directly apply her imagination to her memories, unlike [Image Recall]’s information storage. Her class upgrade had utterly destroyed any and all benefit her old Skill provided.

But losing a Skill that had reached a high level was awful. It invoked an extreme level of nausea that escalated with each and every level. Elves were immune to the effect, because of course they were, but she was no elf, no matter how they accepted her.

She was in for a terrible experience and she knew it.

But she liked Scaldos’ plan. If she had two General Skill slots, she could take a broad cooking Skill—[Home Cooking], as it turned out—and a specialized one, then merge them, and keep taking new specialized Skills until she ended up with an exceptional cooking Skill that could rival a lower tier dedicated class.

And the night was perfect for it. Clover was staying with Litil to read some of the animal [Healer]’s books (and, no doubt, play to her heart’s content), the moons were up which meant Ranthia would be able to clean up once she recovered, she hadn’t eaten anything especially taxing, and she had a thin, gentle soup waiting to help her recover the moisture she would lose.

“Xaoc, you might want to look away from me for a while.” Ranthia directed her words over her shoulder to her home altar.

He sent her a sense of warmth and a sentiment that felt like a gentle push at her back.

Right, standing there unwilling to act was hardly chaotic. Ranthia shucked her garments and stepped into her shower.

“Farewell, [Image Recall]. And thank you for your service.” With that, Ranthia knelt and willed her System to discard the Skill.

Kneeling turned out to be a mistake. The first jolt of discomfort was so severe that she tipped over backwards—a moment before the nausea turned her stomach inside out.

She really should have turned the shower on first.

Ranthia felt wrung out, but she was on her feet. And the warm shower slowly revitalized her. No matter how many times she rinsed her mouth out, her Skill-bolstered tongue still reported the overwhelming taste of bile. And she had a deep-seated ache that seemed to reach her bones themselves. But she had done it.

At least she could finally take back a Skill she had long regretted parting with—[Soups & Stews] was officially on her agenda!

But that was for some other time, not that night. Gods and goddesses, she just wanted to go to bed, but the shower was providing her sanity and comfort. She wasn’t sure how—

The sound of knocking reached her ears and Ranthia didn’t even try to hold in the curse that spilled out of her lips. It wasn’t quite as vile as what she’d expelled during the nausea, at least.

The knocking persisted, so she turned off her shower and formed a new image, activating [Manifest Chaos] even as it grabbed her mistweave tunic and wriggled its way into the clean garment. She might have been tempted to keep showering had [Divine Eyes in the Void] offered enough range to see the door, but it didn’t. Which meant she had to haul herself out of her source of comfort to deal with whoever was pounding increasingly forcefully on the damned thing.

“I’m coming!” Her image snapped at the door, a heartbeat before it became her new body. She pulled the door open with just a touch too much force—not that the elven hinges were challenged by her strength.

A very pregnant Anthelleon waited on the other side with a broad smile on her face and her arms spread expectantly. And Ranthia couldn’t possibly have needed any clearer of an invitation. Delicately, yet swiftly, she stepped past the threshold to her home and embraced her friend, careful not to press herself too firmly against the prominent baby bump.

“An!” A simple utterance, filled with enough relief, happiness, and excitement to satiate an entire book.

“I missed you too, my friend.” The pregnant elf’s tone suggested amusement, but there was an affectionate warmth too.

Solareon chose to interrupt and announce that she was back as well, by shoving her head in between the women from the side and staring at Ranthia until she freed an arm to scritch around the griffon’s beak.

“Yes, yes, I missed you too, Sols.” Ranthia giggled.

“I’m here too.” Neyvern quipped, with an exhausted grin.

“Of course you are, tagalong.” Ranthia sassed, though she offered him a broad grin as well.

Her party was back!

Neyvern and— after sanity checking the ingredients with her Bonded elf—Solareon settled in around Ranthia’s table to enjoy some of the soup she had prepared. Both of them were visibly exhausted, which made Ranthia’s post-nausea soup an ideal food all around.

Anthelleon, on the other hand, seemed to be well rested.

“Walk with me?” The elf asked, still holding her own serving of soup.

“Sure.” Ranthia agreed, once she finished ladling her own serving.

Bowls in hand, the women left Ranthia’s home and began to ascend the tree. Above the residential areas were a number of different viewing platforms that provided some privacy and a wonderful view—not that Ranthia went up there very often.

There was something… instinctively unnerving about being that high, supported by little more than wood and nails. Sure, falling wasn’t actually dangerous anymore—she was reasonably certain she would survive a fall, even if she somehow failed to either shift in time or dance her way down—but old instincts died hard. Still, she could suck it up to hear whatever Anthelleon wanted to get off her chest.

“Congratulations on your levels. Clover’s come a long way.” Not that the woman seemed to be in any hurry.

“Yeah, she has. I look forward to showing off some of my new tricks, after…” Nope, no uncertainty, bad thoughts stayed buried.

“Are you refusing to tell me the story of how you leveled so much in my absence?” Anthelleon sounded a bit hurt.

“Not right now, at least. Maybe in the morning.” Ranthia answered, allowing herself just enough edge to make it clear that the topic was done.

“You truly are a loathsome woman.” Anthelleon grumbled with a thin smile.

They both knew that they were waiting for her to open up, but she held her tongue until they finished their ascent. Fearless, Anthelleon leaned against the railing, choosing to stare into the oversized tree’s colorful canopy instead of the city below.

“My father is dead.” She finally spoke, her voice low and carefully directed toward Ranthia.

Given her tone, he hadn’t perished before she arrived. Ranthia simply nodded, sipping from her own soup. There was nothing to say to that—she knew that her friend was just trying to find her next words.

“Trying to challenge him, to bring to light the loathsome things that he did to me and my brother? The bulk of my family seemed to be disinterested, but he was furious. So, he challenged me to a duel to the death, using the code—our family code, I should clarify. Honestly, I have no idea what loathsome and petty expectations were going through his equally loathsome head. It could be that he assumed that I had been idle in the intervening centuries since I left. Or maybe he just thought his level with Skills focused on calculations and paperwork would somehow give him an edge over a dedicated combatant almost done with her second cycle. Perhaps he assumed his Bond, a venomous serpent, would somehow tip the scales in his favor. It doesn’t truly matter. He was convinced he had me. After all, the family’s rules did not allow for forfeiture or stand-ins, except in a few exceptionally narrow situations. Of course…” Anthelleon trailed off there, with a bittersweet smile.

“Being pregnant was one of them?” Ranthia guessed.

“Precisely. Honestly, it was his own fault. I was showing by then—not that the loathsome fool ever truly saw me any time he looked my way. Neyvern might not be as outright deadly as I am, but Solareon made the battle a gruesome spectacle. She was in something of a mood.” Was that pride or pain?

“I’ll bet, she’s pretty fond of you too.” Ranthia gently bumped her shoulder against Anthelleon’s, careful not to spill the woman’s untouched soup.

“We stayed for a time after that, to assist in getting things settled. My mother departed that very night without a word to anyone—I have no idea where she went. But when we were at last ready to depart, I was cornered by the newly risen head of the family—a great aunt I had assumed I was on decent terms with—and the loathsome woman asked me to never return. It seems that I have no family any longer, except the son sitting atop my bladder.” Anthelleon smiled brightly.

As if that could possibly mask the tears trickling down her cheeks.

“Blood doesn’t make family.” Ranthia shifted her bowl of soup to one hand and gently slipped her arm around her friend and comrade. “A damned wise woman once told me that, and Julia also had this to say: Family is what you choose. You have Neyvern and Solareon both. You aren’t alone in the world—you never needed the people that failed to appreciate you. That’s on them. Just like my mother was never my family—Tatius and Pupius were. And now I have Clover…”

There were other words she wanted to say, but they were a touch too shameless. Instead, the silence hung over the women for several minutes, while An chewed on the words and worked through her emotions.

“Wise indeed. In that case… May I call you my sister?” Anthelleon had enough shamelessness for them both.

“I’d be so damned honored.” Ranthia smiled, even as her true eyes became a bit blurry.

…She wasn’t wearing her blindfold, but for the moment, that really didn’t matter to her. Her family had grown once again.

Moving Anthelleon and Neyvern into the stone tower took some doing. Their new family unit was fully furnished—with outside furniture strictly forbidden due to safety concerns—but they still needed to move or store personal belongings. Unless something went horrifically wrong, they would spend the next thirty-two years in the stone tower with their son.

And Ranthia was there to help them move and settle in. Solareon wasn’t allowed in, which wasn’t terribly surprising. Neyvern would have to visit her daily, which provided him an exceptional excuse to get away from an increasingly irritable Anthelleon.

Unfortunately, her new sister had no means of escape. Ranthia wasn’t hunting without her armor and Anthelleon knew it. She found herself wishing someone would challenge her for her rank in dancing, just to get out for a while, but every single person in the city seemed to know that she was off-limits for several months.

Even worse, there was no alcohol allowed in the stone tower and anything that was brought in was checked—thoroughly—for contraband. There were critical governmental facilities in Remus that weren’t screened half as well.

Ranthia wasn’t allowed to get a room for herself in the stone tower. Each and every last one was reserved for families, with other caregivers living off-site. With Anthelleon’s insistence on keeping Ranthia accessible, she was forced to either sleep on the couple’s couch or claim an available bed in the barrack-styled dormitory that was attached to the floor. It was mostly used by parents with small children that refused to sleep through the night—a place of respite to let one parent rest while others tended to the infant. But Ranthia was welcome, so long as she never woke anyone.

Neyvern was a coward. The man waited outside, pacing, while Ranthia offered what comfort she could to Anthelleon while she did her best to avoid getting in the way of the [Healer] or any of the [Midwives] that were crammed into the room.

And she was pretty sure that her friend and sister would have crushed her hand if not for the added resilience she’d gained from the wyvern blood.

“You are doing well. Mahvel is nearly with us.” The man staring intensely at Anthelleon’s crotch announced.

Ranthia had ‘assisted’ in childbirth before. She was used to the brutality of it. For all that people loved to speak of childbirth as a miracle of life, it was also a battle—just as bloody as any other. Good [Midwives]—specialized [Healers] that lacked the respect their peers garnered, more truthfully—were essential for survival. Childbirth inflicted grievous harm on the mother and was equally unsafe for the too-fragile infant.

But Ranthia wasn’t in Remus. And Anthelleon was an elf that possessed a not-insignificant amount of vitality.

Her son arrived swiftly and easily, and he was remarkably clean by the standards that Ranthia expected.

And soon enough, Mahvel’s first cry filled the room.
