“I can’t believe he’s dead.” Victoria’s voice was subdued, far-off. “In the camps… well, people died, a lot. But I thought we were past that. Chingada madre, we were supposed to be home safe!”

We stood over Somsak’s grave. It was an ugly thing, half grave, half cairn, at the foot of a tall tree – the best we could do in the stony landscape of the half-petrified forest. We’d whittled his name into the trunk of the tree alongside his level and class and a few details… that was it. We’d barely known the man.

I nodded, scowling. “It feels like a kick in the teeth. We know this place is as far from safe as they come. But, as long as we can trust each other, we should be able to manage things.” I shook my head and changed what I was about to say. “I barely knew Somsak. He clearly didn’t like talking about himself or his past. I got the feeling he wasn’t doing too well. Yet, still, he decided that he wasn’t going back to Earth or rest in safety in the camp – he was still going to keep up being a healer, saving people. That is goddamn impressive.”

Steve made a sound at the back of his throat. “I’d like to think that, in time, he’d have opened up to us. That’s not important, though. What he did, is. When we get back to humanity, that’s what I’ll be telling everybody. That, even though he’d had a crappy go at life, he still stood up and kept swinging. That is an impressive man, eh?”

“Takes cojones.” Victoria agreed, stern-faced. “Let’s shut the fuck up for a while. Somsak seemed to like that.”

A short while later, we’d marched back to the battlefield and were looking over the torn-up soil of the gore-filled clearing where we’d been jumped. It really looked like a zombie flick. Bodies and gore lay everywhere. In one half, they bodies clustered around the place where I’d defended myself. In the other, they lay scattered, dropped by Steve’s spear, Samuel’s arrows or Victoria’s poisons.

I cleared my throat. “At least, we managed to kill all the beasts. No wonder that several teams went missing in here. Those Lurkers were bad enough in themselves – but they looked manageable. Then the Drop-Claws shut the fangs of the trap, leaping at people from above. Also, nobody should feel bad about missing them. They had some sort of invisibility effect going on.”

“Is your leg doing better?” Steve asked.

I stretched the leg, grunting at the non-responsiveness of my muscles. I was limping, hard, leg seized up almost as if I was wearing a cast. “Not really. Not yet. But I’m getting there. It’s a debuff from those Drop-Claws. Partial petrification. A couple of hours more, and I’m back to normal.”

“Oh, so they were the ones responsible for the trees turning to stone?” Steve looked up, eyes gleaming with interest.

“Looks like it.” I agreed. Then I grimaced, and did what I do best. Tackle my problems head on. “Listen. I’m no good at diplomacy. We just lost two members of our team in our very first battle. Most people would probably be likely to take that as a sign that we should go back, find some new team members. What do you think?”

I’d spent a while consideration the question for myself. This was, by any standards, a horrible start. Also, I felt horrible for not being able to protect Somsak. He’d put his life in my hands, and I’d let it slip. Did I believe that it was all my fault? Obviously not. Ademia was a horribly dangerous place, and he was a grown man. Also, Samuel, that ignorant wankstain, was the one who’d pulled us into an untenable position. That being said, I did have a responsibility – especially when it came to considering whether we’d be able to move on from here responsibly.

Steve frowned and, after a moment, shook his head. “No. I honestly don’t think so.” He opened his mouth a few times, as if looking for the right words. “We do not have the staying power or the fire power that we would have with both Somsak and Samuel on board. Without healing and those personal shields, we will not be able to take on the level of dangerous stand-up fights we would’ve otherwise. But… that’s not what we’re planning, is it?”

I shrugged. “No. We’re just going to check out those mages in the Hiscariat, whoever they are, and return. But then, historically, I haven’t really had to search for trouble. It’s found me regardless.”

Steve smiled. “Agreed. But we still have my invisibility. And on top of your defensive powers, and Victoria’s ability to slow down enemies, we should be capable of getting away from anything that’s too much for us to face head on.”

Victoria cracked her knuckles. “There is a saying where I come from. El muerto al pozo y el vivo al gozo. It’s… well, most gringos would likely call it insensitive when somebody’s just died. But the point is that life goes on, and you can’t waste your time. If I had to stop and break down every time some Tepito asshole got himself shot on my premises, I’d never have been able to afford rent.”

My eyes grew wider as she spoke. So did my grin. “Colour me impressed! Okay. If that’s the case, we’re not slowing down. We’ll spend a bit stripping those ugly beasts of anything that might be worth a penny.”

“Especially those claws. Imagine if that petrification effect still holds? A couple of swipes, and we’d be able to take down anything!” Steve grinned.

“Spot on. And then we’ll take a moment to introduce Vicky to the time-honoured tradition of leveling up as a group!”

She waggled a finger. “Nuh uh, güero. I don’t do nicknames. Vic is silly. Vicky is a Texan housewife. Victoria? Victoria means victory.”

I raised an eyebrow and an imaginary wine glass. “Is that so? Then, by all means – to victory… and the grisly dismantling of our foes!”

***

Once the gory work was over and done with, my Internal Universe was filled to the brim with claws, teeth, and a number of the protective shells from the Lurkers. We retraced our steps half an hour to a nearby stream to remove all the gore.

I stretched my leg, revelling in the sensation of being able to move freely again and grinned at the others. Then I splashed a handful of water over my face and stood up with a sigh of relief. “We good to go? We have a lot of ground to cover!”

Steve and Victoria donned their backpacks with the requisite grunts and adjustments, and then we slowly started walking. South and east, the horizon expanded toward an increasingly dry landscape. A pock-marked yellow and brown rocky plain with an increasing scarcity of vegetation was all there was to see, with one exception. A dozen spindly spires of different heights stretched into the air, some at least twenty meters high.

“All right, Victoria. The reason we talk about our choices before we make them, is exactly what eluded that Samuel prick. We work and survive as a team. That means we need to make sure our talents work well together. Also, since we’re trying to make the most of our buffs and my weird quirk, it’s for the best if we can stay grouped up throughout an entire fight.”

Steve patted the spear at his side. “That’s still one thing I’d love to fix for myself in the future. With my quirk, I’m stuck with only close combat attacks – but attacking something head-on gets me tossed from the group. Now, most of the time, I’ll be exploring and watching your backs anyway, but I would like an alternative.”

“On top of that, it does help having somebody else point out when you’re about to make a dumb-ass choice.” I smirked. “Nix did that for me twice at least already.”

“All right then.” Victoria nodded. “Quoting Molotov: Gimme tha power!” She laughed uproariously. “You guys go first. I’ve got so many levels, I’ll need some time.”

I grunted. “Mine’s easy, this time, I think. Lemme just check my notifications and I’ll line things up.”

I did just that, revelling in how much faster skills increased in combat, compared to outside of it. All of my defensive skills that I’d used during the battle had increased by one, and some, like Armor, Higher Shield and Athletics by two. The front runners, unsurprisingly, were Spot, from finding those damn Lurkers in the first place, and Frost Resistance, which had to be what the Lurkers’ slowing tendrils had been.

“Okay, there’s a bit more to take in here than I expected. I’ve got one entirely new skill and two skills that hit the Level 25 upgrade. But first: Quick question. You don’t look like a nerd.”

“That wasn’t a question.”

“I know. What I’m saying is – when we’re talking about this shit, there’s a lot of nerd stuff. Minmaxing, game theory, optimal builds, that sorta thing. I’ve never been into that, but I learned, before coming to Ademia. Nix would be better for this, but we can get you up to speed, if need be.”

“No need.” Victoria said sharply. “I’ve gamed. We had an old console at work, and I’ve spent way more time than I should on that banged-up thing.”

“Wonderful.” Steve beamed. “I love the classics. Which ones?”

For some reason, she didn’t respond. When she did, she didn’t meet our eyes. “Legend of Zelda. Might & Magic. That sort of games.”

“The original Zelda! That’s amazing.” Steve beamed. “I wished I could’ve played that back then. Anything else?”

For a few long seconds, she didn’t say anything. Then she mumbled. “Bubble Bobble.” And instantly went beet red.

For a moment, I froze at the image of the tough-looking, heavily tatted woman, who’d be an instant pick for Fast and the Furious 27, with her controller, heavily invested in the cute-as-hell dinosaurs. Then I saw her squirming and decided to be nice. Just this once. “That’s excellent. Then we can skip nerd class and jump straight into it.”

I read the text out loud.

You have earned a new defensive skill:

Earth Resistance

Passive skill

Earth magic is foundational and intrinsic to Ademia’s natural forces. It is powerful and overwhelming, but never subtle. You have survived what could have been a lethal encounter with it. Every level in Earth Resistance will marginally decrease the damage or effects received from earth magic.

“So, petrification falls under the umbrella of Earth Resistance. No surprise there, really. Feels like it won’t be a skill that’s easy to raise, though.” I rubbed my hands together. “Now for the fun stuff.”

Your skill Higher Running has reached the first evolution threshold at Level 25. This earns you a choice between two different evolution options.

Please note. Due to Higher Running reaching Rare, the evolution options are improved.

Option one:

Level 25 evolution:

Your run speed in combat situations is permanently improved by 30%

Option two:

Level 25 evolution:

Your run speed outside of combat situations is permanently improved by 30%

“Oh.” I mused. “That’s pretty… what’s the word?”

“Amazing?” Steve exhaled.

“Straightforward?” Victoria shrugged.

I chuckled. “Both are probably right. What I mean is, usually the options are a bit weirder, more random. Anyway, I can only see one proper choice here.”

Steve chuckled. “I might have gone with the out of combat choice myself, since that’s the one I’d be using most of the time for scouting and exploring… but the other one can save your life.”

“Right on. And thirty percent is a lot.” Victoria agreed.

I nodded and sealed the deal. Now, I would permanently be a lot faster in combat. Then I listed the other one, repeating the skill description for Victoria’s sake.

Improved Resilience

Uncommon Passive skill

Others may try to dodge what life throws at them. Meanwhile, you face it head on, and keep going. Every level in Resilience slightly improves the overall toughness of your body, reducing any damage done to you.

Your skill Improved Resilience has reached the first evolution threshold at Level 25. This earns you a choice between two different evolution options.

Please note. Due to Improved Resilience reaching Uncommon, the evolution options are improved.

Option one:

Level 25 evolution:

You may choose a single type of damage from among the following. From here on, Resilience will count double against that type of damage.

Option two:

Level 25 evolution:

The first ten damage of any single attack will be ignored.

Victoria choked. “Seriously? Just like that, ten damage off of any attack? That’s insane!”

I shrugged. “Efficient? No discussion. But honestly… a multitude of weak attacks isn’t likely to take me down. I am above a thousand health. On top of that, the skill, Resilience, is already helping a lot. You wouldn’t know it to look at the puncture and bite holes in my armor, but their claws and teeth barely did any damage to my skin underneath.” I showed off my greaves, including the nasty puncture wounds from the Lurker’s claws, and removed it to point out how the impact underneath had already stopped bleeding.

Steve mused. “You’re telling us you’re more likely to die to a few massively dangerous attacks than a hundred weak ones.”

“Dios, that’s ghastly talk. Are you guys always this dark? You want to be Batman?”

I laughed. “At this point, it’s just experience. Sure, if we’re going up against an entire army of Kadren again, the first choice would be better. But if I match up against something like that Higher Soil-Scourer again? Blunt damage would be the way to go.”

Steve wagged his finger back and forth. “I… think there’s a point there.” Rolling his eyes, he continued. “Not just the one you made. Point being: Slashing or piercing damage. The more we rise in levels, who is more likely to have slashing or piercing weapons that will be able to penetrate your defenses? Beasts or sentient beings?”

“Erm. Sentient beings, I guess? Forged weapons, enchantments, that sort of thing.”

“Exactly. And those are likely to have all sorts of other avenues of attack as well. Magic and the like.”

I slowly nodded. “So, you’re saying the type of physical damage I’m most likely to meet will be blunt damage?”

“Just so.”

“Victoria? Any comments?”

She snorted. “Apart from the fact that, the moment you pick that, the next hundred fights you get in will be monsters with magical piercing claws or some shit?” Her lip quirked up in wry amusement. “Nah. Sounds good.”

I made my choice of Blunt Damage and took a deep breath. “Great. Now. There’s only one thing left. My new level. I put my Attribute point into Strength because it felt like it was falling behind.” And also because my new backup shield, graciously provided by Nix and the others, was so goddamn heavy I’d barely be able to lift it without a few extra points there. “I’ve got four new available talents this Tier.”

Anticipatory Vision

Passive Talent. This grants you visual aids in battle, aiding you in anticipating and avoiding hostile spells and attacks.

2 points to unlock

“I could see that.” Victoria nodded. “Knowing where to step and not to step? That could save your life.”

“It might also be crazy confusing.” I added. “But yeah. Sounds useful.”

Untouchable Pillar

Passive Talent. If you stand entirely still for five seconds, your skin is transformed into a nigh-invincible material. For as long as you stand still, you will be nearly impossible to hurt or kill.

Cost: 10 stamina/second

5 points to unlock

“I can’t see myself picking that one.” I admitted. “I see the use. Of course I do. Taunt everybody onto me, then let them have a go at me while Victoria’s poisoning them or Steve stabs them in the back. But… gah. Picture standing still while a horde of Kadren is trying to eat you?”

Steve shuddered. “Yeah, I’d rather not.”

Damage Redirection

Passive Talent. You will never be the only one to hurt. For every point in the talent, 2% of damage done to you will automatically be reflected onto any enemy within 30 meters.

Cost: 5 stamina per redirection

0/5 points

“That sucks. Am I right? I mean, ten percent, if you max it?” Victoria frowned.

I rubbed my brow, murmuring to myself. “I fucking hate math.”

“That’s… not an answer?”

“What I mean is, this could be seriously powerful. I think. Especially with how my quirk works. Help me here, Steve.”

“Thirty percent.” He exclaimed. “Because of your quirk, thirty percent of all damage taken would be reflected. The ability is improved by fifty percent for being passive, then the damage is doubled on top of that.”

“And then we have my life steal on top of that. Basically, this could keep me perpetually alive and kicking against larger groups of enemies. The only downside here’s the limited distance.”

“Oooh. Okay. I see it.”

“Let’s see the final one before we make a decision.”

Passive Power.

Passive Talent. You literally transform knowledge into power. For every 5 passive skills you learn, you earn 1 permanent attribute point randomly divided.

3 points to unlock

“Just as I suspected!” I groaned. “They’re all amazing choices. And even if I want them all, I’m going to go with the boring choice.”

Natural Growth.

Passive Talent. This grants you a natural gift for learning and improving. Choose an attribute. Any skill primarily associated with said attribute will increase faster.

20% increase in learning speed per point.

1/5 points.

”Verga.” Victoria whispered, before speaking up louder. ”It might be boring, but it’ll keep you improving your skills long after everybody else has slowed down.”

“Also, on top of our Starved Growth trait and your Passive affinity, you’ll be able to specialize hard in anything that can keep you alive. Then, once you go back and pick that Passive Power talent, it’ll be an instant ten attributes or more!” Steve added.

I smiled and put the point in Natural Growth. “You up next, Steve?”

“Let me have a go at this.” Victoria practically bounced with excitement as she walked. It was a bit incongruous, like having a Doberman with the temper of a Golden Retriever. “I think I know what I’m going with – and this should be fun.”