I was level 3126. It felt like finding suitcase full of a million dollars on the side of the road. Killing the Old One’s followers rewarded so much experience that it blew my mind. So much so that I opened up my obelisk and did a quick search on the matter. There had to be a compelling reason to give so much exp for these guys. Turns out, there was.

These mind changers of the Old Ones weren’t that uncommon in the upper ranks of sentients. Once a sentient reached a certain level, they could be near impossible to kill using conventional methods. Yawm was a perfect example of being nigh unkillable. That’s where these little balls of goop came into play.

The Old Ones would send these things to crippled threats before they did too much damage. The downside was how slow they operated. The upside was that they dispatched someone without a fight. After doing a bit of research on the matter, it usually only took 20 to 30 years for someone to go insane.

If anything, that meant that Yawm’s tenacity was unbelievable. It also made me wonder how long I’d had mine on me and why. Even stranger was how Baldowah sent one to him and not Etorhma. Etorhma was the one that gave me the quest to kill Yawm. You’d think he’d be the one sending out octopus monsters to him.

It was a lot to chew on, but I saved it for later. Focusing on my status instead, I poured all my stat points into, that’s right, you guessed it, endurance. It would ramp up my production of extra stats using the cipher. The mana was always helpful, and it fed into other stats. Besides for that, it would allow me to fight better against Yawm during spars.

Perception and intelligence were solid too, and I considered them. The thing was, I needed immediate power. Perception and intelligence could help me produce better renditions of the cipher, but how long would take to see a meaningful difference from them?

there was no way to tell how long it would take. Endurance achieved the same goal of getting more out of the cipher, but it enhanced my fighting right now as well. Besides for that, endurance increased my intelligence anyway. In my eyes, endurance was a dependable middle ground. It gave me what I needed now and later all at the same time.

With that in mind, I poured all my points into endurance and selected finalize. At that moment, the flow of my mana became pure. I was an engine of power, a living incarnation of energy. From the skin on my knuckles to the depth of my bones, I was unmitigated vitality. I was an endless spring of mana, no, an ocean of mana.

The mana was a part of my flesh, making me whole. It molded into every cell and every fragment of my being. It held me together, just like the chemical bonds between atoms held steel together. It felt like I was a different material, if that made any sense. I was no longer made of anything that was human. I was something different altogether.

My mind sharpened at the same time, along with the might stored in my fists. The weight in each step was tremendous, and the will of my mind was undeniable. In ancient times, I’d have been some sort of god or demon. In Schema’s world, I meant to make myself an unmatched warrior.

After bathing in the euphoria of a huge boost in stats, I opened up my character screen. The numbers were insane.

Level 3,126

Strength – 2,677 | Constitution – 4,175 | Endurance – 15,771

Dexterity – 949.1 | Willpower – 7,673 | Intelligence – 2,614

Charisma – 233.3 | Luck – 808.2 | Perception – 354.7

Health: 1.38 Million/1.38 Million

Health Regen: 1.57 Million/min or 26,269/sec

Stamina: 802,172/802/172 | Stamina Regen: 7,361/sec

Living Dimension: 0.22 Trillion/4.30 Trillion

Mass: 106,315 pounds(48,323 kilos~)

Damage Res - 98.5% | Dimensional Res - 49.25%

Phys Dam Bonus – 32,955% | Damage Bonus – 40%

Event Horizon – 20,000 + (100% of your total health)/min

My health regen eclipsed my health. It was because of my Determinator tree and the perk Arcane Blood. The Determinator tree doubled my regenerative stats. Arcane blood made willpower perks affect my health regeneration. This resulted in vast amounts of the stat, a ridiculous amount by any measure.

All of the multipliers and perks I set up were coming together now. By coming up with a plan and sticking to it, I was gaining absurd results. It was a refreshing feeling. Riding on that high, I siphoned my new and improved stream of mana into my cipher. I couldn’t help but be giddy about it.

Instead of two augmentations a day, I would gain four. What a time to be alive. From how much I gained from those monsters, the Old Ones might have been trying to help me out after all. They could have done it differently though, so I didn’t change my mind about them. I assumed they were trying to ruin me.

Considering just how devastating those tentacled monsters were, I was being pretty damn reasonable. The only question left was actually how I gained so few level ups. Two level 5,000 monsters should have given me well over a thousand levels. A bit of thinking cleared that up.

I wasn’t actually in the quarantine zone when I killed them, so the exp wasn’t doubled. They also weren’t registered as unknowns, reducing their exp further. In fact, I’d been enjoying a streamlined growth for a while now. Leveling like this was probably much more in line with what an average day in Schema’s system was like.

With that handled, I closed my status and caught up to Yawm. He turned towards me,

“You seem taller.”

I shrugged, “It must be the lighting.”

Yawm shook his head before turning forward, “You’re several inches taller. It’s a hard thing not to notice.”

The dungeon core appeared in front of us, the crimson light leaking out from between two trees. Yawm reached it,

“That sense of progression must be exhilarating. I’ve worked on the cipher for so long, yet my progress feels so stagnant. I’ll achieve a breakthrough once every few years, but every other moment is dimmed by comparison. Maintaining motivation during those times is difficult.”

Yawm placed a hand over the core. As he did, clouds crossed over us above. The pleasant light shifted to shade. Yawm continued without worry,

“I won’t relent anytime soon, however. With that monstrosity taken off of me, I’ll be able to learn the cipher at full force. Thank you once more for helping me, Harbinger.”

An internal groan rippled through me. By buying time for my cipher, I ended up unshackling Yawm in the process. His own progress with the cipher would improve.

Mine would as well at least, so I shrugged, “If anything, I’m glad I found Baldowah’s minion on you because that’s how I found Etorhma’s minion on me. Don’t worry about it.”

Yawm nodded, “Let’s go back then. I have something to show you.”

Above us, a blot of water fell onto my shoulder. A second later, another drop landed on me. One piece of rain dripped down Yawm’s forehead as he and I stared upwards. The clouds collecting overhead turned gray, a storm brewing above us.

I murmured, “I thought you said the weather never changes here.”

Yawm murmured back, “I was talking to a tree. You have to take its advice with a grain of salt.”

Off in the distance, the ground shook. Yawm and I turned towards the sound.

“What do you think that was?”

Yawm walked away from the core, balling his hands up into fists,

“An eldritch. Hopefully a powerful one that might challenge us both.”

The ground quaked again. Trees in the distance cracked, the sound of breaking branches ebbing outward. As the sound of heavy footsteps echoed nearer, I leaned towards Yawm,

“What do you think it is?”

Yawm shrugged, “Perhaps an eldritch that controls the weather here. Wouldn’t that be fascinating?”

The rain turned from the size of pellets to bullets as it approached us.

I walked towards the source of the sound,

“Come on. I don’t want to leave this mystery undiscovered.”

Yawm sighed, pulling his hand off of the dungeon core,

“I wouldn’t mind a bit of discovery as well.”
