Roused by the piercing glare of the too-bright sun, Vithar kicked off the light silken sheets and rolled out of his too-soft bed with axe in hand, lamenting at how these southlander comforts were designed to breed weakness.

The sounds of battle and bloodshed did much to sharpen his mind and invigorate his spirits as he took stock of his surroundings, never taking his safety for granted not even in his private, guarded quarters, but he’d slept so deeply in his warm and comfortable bedding that any fool could have bumbled into his oversized tent and Vithar would not have noticed until the knife was already at his throat. Relaxing as the soft bed might be, a hard floor and sturdy quilt was all a true Chieftain needed, and any more was simply inviting calamity. Better to sleep light so the mind would stay active and just warm enough to feel the night’s chill, so that one’s skin would feel the barest movement of cold air. Were it up to Vithar, he would do away with these foolish trappings and live like a true Chieftain, but Gongsun Qi said these luxuries were ‘only befitting of this Prince’s Disciple’ and thus necessary for the sake of face.

A concept Vithar didn’t understand no matter how many times the southlanders tried to explain, mostly because they themselves didn’t seem to truly understand face either. There was no logical reasoning behind face, which was supposedly a measure of respect independent of strength and prosperity, yet was also somehow linked to them at the same time. Strength demanded one show face, but face itself must be maintained lest it be lost, which was possible even if one’s strength remained the same. Southern weakness at work is what it was, their lands so plentiful and lives so easy that they had to invent new reasons to go to war with one another, as if the mere desire to do battle was not enough.

Since accepting Gongsun Qi as his Mentor, Vithar felt that his worthless lessons in face took up far too much of his precious time, but despite those wasted efforts, he’d still progressed by leaps and bounds in every metric which mattered. The slender southerner was arrogant, but powerful and knowledgeable, and Vithar used the man even as he knew he himself was being used, though for what purposes, he could not say. Gongsun Qi’s motivations were a complete mystery to Vithar, but so long as the man didn’t demand too much from the tribes, then there were more benefits to be gained than losses incurred, which was really all that mattered in the end.

One weakness Vithar wholly embraced was the concept of cooking, but such ‘menial labour’ was beneath ‘Gongsun Qi’s Disciple’, so he could only rely on others to cook for him. This was one of the most valuable and most difficult lessons of all, to learn how to trust and rely on others to do what Vithar was accustomed to doing himself. Whether it be preparing his meals, repairing his armour, or even securing a place to sleep, it was crucial to delegate these vital tasks to others for the sake of personal growth. Back home in the frozen wastes, every minute of every hour was dedicated towards ensuring his own personal survival, a goal he could only rely on himself to accomplish. Even Asmani, fond of him as she was, would not sacrifice her own well-being to see him safe and fed, and might well have been the first to slit his throat if he should ever falter and show weakness, so Vithar had no choice but to remain vigilant and guarded at all times.

Here in the southlands however, they took their safety for granted, firmly believing in face, honour, laws, and other nonsensical, made-up concepts to keep their lives intact. “Do not trust them without suspicion,” Gongsun Qi had lectured. “Trust them to act in their own self-interest.” Which made sense, assuming one understood how a southerner might think, so while Vithar understood that the cook would be tortured and killed if he were to poison anyone eating his food, the only way to wholly ensure his food was safe for consumption was to force him to sample all of it. Only then did Vithar partake of his breakfast, a massive bowl of flavourful congee, four fried dough fritters each as large as his arm, a savoury rack of venison ribs, a plate of garlic stir-fried bok choi, and a pot of hot, fragrant tea. Delighting in each and every bite even as he pored over the morning reports, Vithar idly wondered how Asmani would react to such a meal, and wished she were here to share it with him.

Another concept he was unfamiliar with, this dining with comrades and companions. Back north, each tribesman ate alone so as not to reveal their hand, for much could be gleaned from knowing if a successful hunter was eating well in preparation for a challenge or saving it for harder times later down the line.

Those days were behind him now, behind all the tribes in fact, for there was plenty of food to be had here in the southlands. So much food that the southlanders could afford to give it all away, as they were doing so along the Western Wall so that their weak farmers could remain hidden behind their District walls at all times. Raiding was no longer as worthwhile as it’d once been, with many a tribe returning with spare garos and empty saddlebags after clashing with the formidable Death Corps and Royal Guardians defending the Districts. A costly expense considering the farmers no longer worked their fields, weaklings whose only purpose in life was to provide for their betters yet unable to do even this. A waste is what it was, protecting these feeble cowards who were too dumb and deaf to heed their Ancestors and draw strength from their wisdom, but such were the southlander ways. Not only did they waste effort feeding and protecting their weak, they did so at the expense of their Warriors, a conflict Vithar only understood in passing because Gongsun Qi required him to possess ‘passing knowledge of the enemy’s political situation’, information he deemed entirely useless but reviewed nonetheless as he headed out to report for duty.

There were tensions between North, South, and Central, tensions which resulted from a new Chieftain of Chieftains rising up to seize control from the previous one. The southlanders called their Chieftain of Chieftains by many different names, the first being the Legate, and this new one the Commander General, but there was no real difference as far as Vithar could see. Before, the Legate commanded the spears of the Empire, and now, the Commander General was in charge, and regardless of who held power, none of the Imperial tribes were happy. That was how Vithar saw it, and trying to understand more only resulted in more questions, like why didn’t anyone just kill the Legate or Commander General if they were displeased with his orders? This led to more useless lessons on the made up concepts of face, honour, and laws, so he soon stopped asking and simply accepted that all southlanders were mad.

Some of the information was useful however, like knowing the guarded Districts had lost the support of their Commander General. Shuai Jiao was displeased to have so many useful Warriors wasted on mere weaklings, but the Legate’s under-Chieftain, one Consort Zheng Luo, refused to obey any and all orders to station the Death Corps and Royal Guardians elsewhere. Utter foolishness on both sides, but more so on the Commander General’s part, for one should not give orders unless one meant to see them obeyed, and thus far, Consort Zheng Luo remained unharmed and her Warriors left in place. This weakened the Commander General’s authority, and were he a tribal Chieftain, he would have long since been challenged and killed, but the southlanders merely used his weakness as a reason to disobey with minimal consequence. Foolish to play these games of politics with hostile tribes upon their doorstep, but according to Gongsun Qi, ‘politics’ ran deep ‘in the blood of Central’, a fact which made Vithar wary of consuming them.

What Vithar took away from this all was that the enemy was fractured and divided, with the Districts unwilling to support the Citadels and the Citadels unwilling to support the Districts, a flaw he and Gongsun Qi immediately exploited. Once they learned military intervention would be at a minimum, they increased border raids to target ‘civilian’ convoys while leaving ‘military’ ones untouched, though how Gongsun Qi differentiated between them was difficult for Vithar to say. Something about papers and permits and other such nonsense, but it was enough to know that the Commander General paid only minimal attention to attacks on civilian convoys, which were far less defended than military ones. For a time, Vithars tribesmen reaped plenty of rewards by going on these raids, until Consort Zheng Luo did something to hide her convoys from Gongsun Qi’s eyes. As far as Vithar understood it, they weren’t finding these convoys through the eyes of scouts, but spies passing along information regarding these targets so Vithar’s under-chieftains could target them. Whatever the means, it was lost to them now, and without knowing where and when their targets would appear, finding a worthwhile target to strike was a matter of luck and timing, but his riders had been returning empty-handed for an entire week now.

It was Vithar’s opinion that sending raiding parties so deep behind enemy lines was no longer worth the risk, especially after more than one party never returned to report. Others spoke of trapped convoys manned by Warriors masquerading as weaklings, supported by Concealed groups of Royal Guardians mounted atop their ferocious, black-maned lions. Vithar had seen their work firsthand in the battle of JiangHu and respected their strength, as any Chieftain who brought home a lion’s mane pelt had instantly become a Chieftain of note. There was also the possibility that some of Vithar’s raiders had simply thrown off the shackles of duty and obligation to strike deeper into the southlands on their own, which was more probable than having each and every rider captured or killed before they could make it back to safety. Whatever the reason for their disappearance, losing so many riders reflected poorly on Vithar and the under-Chieftains had taken notice. Much like how the Commander General had lost the confidence of his underlings by issuing orders which were not obeyed, Vithar would lose the confidence of his under-Chieftains if he sent too many of them to their deaths. Many were already unsatisfied serving under a Warrior weaker than themselves, but the Uniter’s support kept Vithar’s head intact, as did his willingness to speak plainly of his motives. Neither the Uniter nor the Commander General had their tribes’ best interests in mind, so Vithar was there to ensure their plans did not bring all their tribes to ruin. A simple enough explanation to accept, especially considering how many of them had died to make it even this far.

Best of all, each Chieftain was still the voice of their tribe, and Vithar merely the one who coordinated all their collective efforts and passed along the Uniter’s demands. In short, even though he had the lofty title of Chieftain of Chieftains, Vithar was seen as a mere mouthpiece, no different from that fool Gen. Grating as this might be, Vithar saw it as an opportunity to learn his rivals' weaknesses while affording himself time to grow and surpass them in personal strength. There would come a day when he became strong enough to seize the title of Prime Champion of the outer lands through his own merits, and by that time, the tribes will have grown accustomed to heeding his commands. What’s more, according to Gongsun Qi, having Vithar to relay orders made many of the under-chieftains more receptive to following through, since they saw him as one of their own, more so than any southlander at least. An ‘unexpected benefit’, but one Vithar understood more than most, for no true Chieftain would allow those under their command to shed blood without benefit, not like these southlanders who had tribesmen aplenty to waste.

To this effect, Vithar approached Gongsun Qi’s command tent with the aim of calling off the day’s raids, but the southlander General would not hear of it. “Today’s raids be more important than any which have come before,” Gongsun Qi explained, his rugged features drawn in an expression of frustration as he pointed at his map. “Look carefully and tell me what you see.”

There was no need to look at the map, as Vithar had seen it briefly on his way in and knew where the riders were to be deployed. “You intend to strike at the districts themselves, sending blooded tribesmen to work in concert and overrun the defenders. This serves no purpose.”

“So you say, but does this be true?”

Gongsun Qi’s expression was unreadable, but Vithar knew this meant his answer bore more thought, so he turned to study the map in more detail. At first glance, his earlier answer appeared to be correct, but the longer he looked, the less sure he became. “Your deployment is not optimal,” he declared, the first time he’d felt that Gongsun Qi’s plan was truly lacking. “The numbers you have sent against each District are not enough to take them, not easily and without support, even for the blooded and true. If you mean to augment the attack with Chosen cavalry or Transcendents, then the military will not stand idly by, which would then trap my riders between the Citadel and the Districts, dooming them to inevitable death.”

“You be correct, Disciple,” Gongsun Qi replied, nodding in approval. “So then what do you think is my true intent?”

“That these movements are a falsehood.” Pointing at three Districts in particular, Vithar added, “And these be the true targets. The forces dispatched are more than enough to raze them and return safely.”

