As the time of reckoning drew near, Vithar’s lessons slowed as Gongsun Qi devoted more and more of his attention towards the battlefield, directing Chosen, tribesmen, and Transcendent alike in an all-out effort to take the walls. Such was his style, to never rely on a single plan but rather to have many plans in place, so if one should fail, there would still be other avenues to success. It took a sharp mind to keep all these plans in place, for merely memorizing them was of no use if one could not act accordingly. To do so, countless variables needed to be tracked and numerous scenarios accounted for, but even one as farseeing as Gongsun Qi could never have anticipated what happened next.

Arriving in a burst of wind and a cloud of dust, Monk Vyakhya landed heavily within the command tent, his bony shoulders heaving as he panted with exertion. Beside him was none other than Gen himself, or rather the Transcendent Gen had now become, a grotesque, unpleasant creature of twisted metal and contorted features whose mere presence set Vithar’s nerves to screaming in alarm as the Ancestors fell silent as one. This was a being of despair and dejection, a harbinger of hopeless desperation and inescapable tribulation, one he feared to stand too close to much less contend with on the battlefield. Even Gongsun Qi and his elite guards seemed affected by the Transcendent, one which radiated power like no other, a being whose sole authority over despair was so complete it threatened to overwhelm everyone in its presence.

So shocked by the Transcendent’s appearance, he failed to notice yet another Transcendent until it was close enough to attack him, a possibility that was never out of the question when it came to these unpredictable vessels. They were the Ancestors’ will given flesh, but even the youngest tribesmen knew that the Ancestors were not always united in harmony, which only made sense once you took into account just how very many Ancestors there were. This particular Transcendent however appeared utterly in control of its own faculties, a bloody, three-faced Demon whose stony expressions revealed nothing at all. Six eyes sat closed and three sets of lips pursed, while six nostrils flared as the Transcendent drew breath. Two bloody hands were pressed together in prayer, while four massive obsidian arms were folded behind its back, with two towering hooked swords nestled within their embrace. Where the metallic Transcendent radiated wretched misery without end, this crimson and black Transcendent lacked any presence at all, as if it were a thing of imagination rather than the avatar of death and destruction it clearly represented.

Add in the Wisdom’s dishevelled robes, and Vithar’s panicked mind was able to pierce together that something had gone horribly, horribly wrong.

“I must speak with the Uniter,” Monk Vyakhya began, his shaky tone clearly conveying his struggle to remain calm. “He must be informed of what has happened, for a calamity awaits us all if not soon addressed.”

Beside him, the metallic Transcendent stirred as its twisted expression took on a cast of even more despair and dejection, a feat Vithar had not thought possible until he saw it for himself. There were tears in Gen’s – no, the Transcendents eyes, as if he’d seen all the darkest horrors a mind could ever experience a thousand times over and somehow still retained his sanity despite opening his mouth wide to scream a keening wail of silent terror. There was too much life in his features to overlook with ease, too much similarity to the man he once was, and Vithar could not help but see the young, talented, arrogant boy standing before him rather than the vessel he’d become.

As for the other Transcendent, he too retained many of Goujian’s features, but in a set of three that made him just inhuman enough to overlook. Following the metallic Transcendent’s failure to speak, the Sanguine Transcendent opened its mouths and spoke with three voices, none of which were similar or synced together. “The Uniter,” it’s voice impossibly deep to start with before transition into a high-pitched squeal to complete its delivery, “Knows all.”

Clearly taken aback by the Uniter’s ability to speak out loud using the Transcendent’s voice, the Wisdom took a moment to gather his thoughts, a moment in which Vithar was unable to tear his thoughts away from the shockingly human textures of the Transcendent’s mouth. The teeth, tongue, and even the lips looked no different than they had in life, a disturbing resemblance which made the Confessor’s fate seem all the more terrifying. There were some tribes which venerated their Transcendents and worshipped them like the Ancestors given flesh, but Vithar’s tribe saw them for the failed gambit that they were, a broken attempt at creation which bore no true life at all.

Clearly, the Wisdom shared Vithar’s aversion to the Transcendents, but the old monk was much stronger than he appeared. Collecting himself with a single breath, Vyakhya launched himself into a tale which Vithar could hardly follow, much less believe, one which began with a monk Ascending to Divinity and ended with the Devourer bending the Energy of the Heavens to his whims. An impossible feat as far as Vithar understood things, but judging by his frantic accounting of events, one the Wisdom wholeheartedly believed the Devourer had accomplished. “Given time to learn and left unchecked,” Vyakhya concluded, his eyes wide and cheeks scarlet, “The Devourer will soon master his skills and wield the power of a True Divinity with none of the restrictions! Can you imagine what such a being could accomplish here in the mortal world? He could be rid of us all in a single thought, and this is the least of our worries. What if he seeks to do more than unmake us, but reshape us to his liking? We would not only be powerless to resist, but also unaware of the changes even as they take place.”

Thankfully, the Uniter finally stepped in to silence the Wisdom, raising the Transcendent’s bloody hand to place a finger over Vyakhya’s lips, the movement so fast Vithar didn’t even see it stir. “Calm yourself,” the deep voice said, offset by two more voices in the background that twisted the sounds in unpleasant ways. “Even if such a thing were possible, the secrets of Heaven are not so easily unlocked. The Devourer is formidable, but still no match for a failed Divinity, much less a true one. As he is, a Peak Expert could defeat him, given the right circumstances, hardly the calamity you so claim.”

“Yet here upon this battlefield sits everything he requires to hasten his progress towards the Dao,” Monk Vyakhya retorted, losing even the illusion of calm and composure. “What’s more, it took this monk three days to arrive here, even with the support of these two abominations beside me, and every minute was spent in fear that he was already too late. With both Rakshasa and Kukku at his beck and call, the boy could be here in a matter of hours, if not sooner, and who knows how far his insidious Talent will propel him along his Path.”

“There is nothing here for the Devourer to steal.” Calm neutrality resonated from the Transcendent’s whispered voice, but again, the underlying tones from the other two mouths warped his inflection to one of dissonant discomfort. “Not once this Sovereign’s troops take the field.”

“What troops?” Monk Vyakhya’s retort was delivered with a sneer, one so full of fear and contempt it seemed like the old bag of bones had lost it. “Your Transcendents? They are but lambs to the slaughter before the Devourer, or have you forgotten what he did in Sinuji?”

“Yes and no.” Grinning in shockingly human-like glee, the Sanguine Transcendent opened its eyes and Vithar saw nothing human within those dark, emotionless orbs. “Base Transcendents have no defence against them, but the Heavens are upon this Sovereign’s side. Even before discovering the Devourer’s bothersome Talent, this Sovereign’s preparations had already been made to counter it, a fortuitous twist of fate if there ever were one.” Turning to Gongsun Qi, the Transcendent declared, “Begin the attack. Show the Empire true despair and deliver unto them a devastating defeat, but leave one in ten alive to tell the tale.”

“By your command,” Gongsun Qi replied, cupping his hands in a salute before marching out of the tent, and Vithar followed him out soon after. Barking out orders as he went, Gongsun Qi led them north until they were firmly outside of the encampment, with a clear field before them and the Citadel walls to the east. Here, Vithar had a perfect view of the rubble upon which once sat the outer walls, as well as the backs of the attacking Chosen and tribesmen further down attempting to take the secondary walls. Turning to Vithar, Gongsun Qi smiled his contrasting smile once more and said, “Earlier, you asked what forces be encamped here, and now, this Prince shall show you.”

And so, with a wave of his hand, the field shimmered and disappeared, hidden beneath the boots and bodies of thousands upon thousands of dark-armoured soldiers, ones who were clearly different from the Chosen.

No, not armoured soldiers, but Transcendents, or so Vithar would have said if not for the all-too-human eyes staring out from behind their helmets. Upon further inspection, he saw there were bits of identifiable flesh protruding from expected places, fingers poking out from under gauntlets or flesh revealed beneath cleverly attached plates. Their armour was identical to the armoured Transcendents the Uniter used to protect his underlings, the same ones that accompanied Gen everywhere until recently, but these ones were being worn by living, breathing humans, ones with features unfamiliar to Vithar.

No, not worn, for upon further inspection, he realized these humans were fused with their Trancendents, flesh and armour connected and intertwined until one could not see where flesh ended and metal began. What’s more, there were identifiable features about them, with half-bristleboars, half-mammoths, and other half-breeds aplenty, judging from the distinct hairstyles, tusks, antlers, and other bestial characteristics present amidst the armoured soldiers. Many others wore cloth armbands bearing the characters Ma-Ta-Ram upon their biceps, indicating they heralded from the clan of the same name, all of whom were gathered behind another figure whose back bore a banner with the Clan name and crest, a spear piercing the heavens embroidered in black and gold. However, there was one figure who stood out without even trying, radiating a powerful presence unlike anything Vithar had ever seen before, not even from Gongsun Qi or the metallic Transcendent of despair.

Amber eyes stared out from behind the Transcendent armour as he made his way over to them, eyes that almost glowed with power when they met Vithar’s gaze. Only for an instant, but in that instant, it felt as if all his weaknesses had been exposed and laid bare, subjecting him to death a thousand times in the blink of an eye without needing to move a single muscle. Even the Ancestors were unable to stand before his attentions, falling silent as they hid within Vithar’s mortal frame and emanated fear and loathing like never before. Then the amber-eyed Warrior’s gaze moved on, leaving Vithar in a cold sweat while acknowledging Gongsun Qi with the slightest of nods and the barest show of respect. Contrary to his prideful nature, Gongsun Qi merely nodded in response, even inclining his back ever so slightly in an almost involuntary bow. “The time be nigh,” he said, lacking his customary airs and pretension. “The targets are worn and spent, so their death is all but certain, but it would be best if we joined hands together to kill them.”

“Very well.” The amber-eyed Warrior’s raspy voice was seldom used, as evidenced by how he turned towards his banner-bearing Mataram comrade. “Come, Mataram Clan Patriarch,” he said, and then without further preamble, they were off, Cloud-Stepping towards the Citadel to slaughter all in their path. Not just Amber Eyes and the Mataram Patriarch, but every single one of the thousands of armoured Warriors around them, each one darting off into the distance faster than Vithar could follow. Gongsun Qi left with them as well, leaving Vithar with a Sending to remind him of his duties, duties which seemed utterly frivolous considering the overwhelming strength those Transcendent Warriors just displayed.

No... one could not grow complacent just because victory seemed at hand, for nothing was certain until all your foes lay dead on the ground before you. There must be good reason for Gongsun Qi’s caution, else he would have long since revealed these Transcendent troops and overrun the Citadel in the first day. With this in mind, Vithar hurried away to do his part and command his army, his heart unsettled and mind a flutter. Perhaps it was the despairing presence of the Metallic Transcendent, or the unsettling timbre of the Sanguine Transcendent’s voice, or perhaps it was the Wisdom’s tale of Falling Rain’s prowess or the unsettling effect the half-Transcendent Warriors had upon the Ancestors, but whatever the reason, Vithar was less confident of victory than he should be, and so he would do everything in his power to stave off defeat.

For he would not have the heavy burden of defeat foisted upon his shoulders if the worst should come to pass. No, that burden would rest firmly with another, or Vithar might as well take his own life here and now.

“Surrender,” the Ancestors whispered, “And you need not fear anything ever again.”

Similar offers had been made many a time before, lies one and all, but for the first time in living memory, Vithar was sorely tempted to accept.

Chapter Meme
