“Good, good.” Beaming from ear to ear, Gongsun Qi’s pearly white teeth stood out against his rugged, sun-baked complexion. “You arrived at the conclusion this Prince hoped you would, but your answer still be incorrect.” Gesturing at the Districts outlined on the map, the smiling Warrior shook his head. “The Districts are tempting targets indeed, and our foes will move to protect them, but we face an enemy divided. Shuai Jiao will undoubtedly divine our target, but lacks the reasoning why. The Legate’s Imperial Consort be a crafty woman, more cunning than most, and has concealed the delivery of many a convoy to these three target Districts. Their warehouses should now hold enough grain and meat to feed Central’s ailing farmers for weeks, which is why your riders have returned empty handed for so many days in a row.”

“They found no convoys because there were none to find,” Vithar concluded, spitting to convey his displeasure. His tribesmen tracked false trails which lacked quarry to kill, cheated by Consort Zheng Luo’s duplicitous deceptions. In all likelihood, the convoys that had been raided were bait to draw the eye away, so that her fully-laden convoys could make it through unscathed.

“Indeed. The Imperial Consort will move Heaven and earth to defend these three Districts, for without them, her people will starve.” Moving the markers about in a quick and efficient manner, Gongsun Qi revealed the next step of his grand plan, with the tribes converging outside the intended targets and the Royal Guardians and Death Corps moving in to reinforce. “These movements will attract Shuai Jiao’s attention, and he will discern the reasoning behind them soon enough, assuming he is not already aware of the Imperial Consort’s deception. As such, he will have no reason to concern himself with our movements, as these forces are not enough to threaten the Citadel, nor are they large enough to be worth hunting down.”

Gongsun Qi was not a difficult man to understand, direct and straightforward as can be, but that did not mean the man was without guile. Seeing the trap for what it was, Vithar said, “And so you mean to do the unexpected, and send my tribesmen to attack the Citadel in full force. The eastern gates, yes? But as you yourself said, my riders are not enough to threaten the Citadel, not on their own.” Though there was nothing on the map to signify their presence, the absence of allied troops stationed to the north of their camp was telling indeed. “The Chosen cavalry, they are stationed here? Under Concealment and ready to ride out, likely.” Finding another gap in the lines, Vithar tried to calculate how many troops could fit into those empty spaces, but math and numbers still confounded him to no end. “What forces are encamped here? There are no units unaccounted for which would need so much room.”

“Truly a gem worth polishing.” Gazing at Vithar with pride and satisfaction, Gongsun Qi sank into his chair and sighed. “Some weeks ago, you were unable to even read the map, and now you see through my best laid plans with minimal direction.” Waving a hand in dismissal, he continued, “Worry not about who be stationed there. It be a surprise for ally and enemy alike, for they say the best kept secrets are those known only to one.”

The details didn’t matter all that much, but this meant Vithar had to trust the southlander’s judgment, something that still did not come easily to him. “These forces, they are enough to take the Citadel?”

“There be no such thing as certainty in matters of war.” Shrugging, Gongsun Qi added, “If victory was not possible, then this Prince would not have taken up arms against the Empire.”

A statement which rang false in Vithar’s ears. That was something these southlanders did, speak falsehoods without warning or reason, which made it even more difficult to trust them. Anyone who met him would know that Gongsun Qi sought out conflict and bloodshed like a garo drawn to carrion, and yet here he claimed otherwise, as if he’d been forced to acknowledge the Uniter’s strength and given the choice to serve or die. No, according to the tribe who first encountered Gongsun Qi here in the southlands, the strange and formidable Warrior had demanded to speak with the Uniter in person, and killed their Chieftain and two strongest Champions before giving up and moving on. The southern Colonel General came across three more tribes to similar results, until finally encountering a Chieftain with more sense than pride. Then and only then did Gongsung Qi secure a meeting with the Uniter, and only they knew the contents of their discussion.

No matter. Vithar cared not for Gongsun Qi’s motivations, only his competence, and thus far, the man had proved adequately brilliant and unwilling to act unless reasonably confident in his chances of success. During the planning phase of this assault, every one of Vithar’s suggestions had been analyzed and either discarded, accepted, or improved upon, including his idea to have the Transcendents consume corpses in the midst of battle, so as to make use of them before the southlanders could ruin them. Such a waste, rendering the bodies of their fallen into ashes and dust, but what else can you expect from those too foolish to heed the advice of their own Ancestors? In fact, this burning practice might well be the reason for their silent Spirits, for it was possible the fire did more than simply destroy the physical vessels of the departed, and was possibly destroying their Spirits as well.

Pointing at one group of tribesmen on the map, Vithar said, “I will lead this group personally, and command my riders from within.”

“An admirable request, but one this Prince will have to reject.” A Sending pulsed through the air, setting Vithar’s hairs to standing on end now that he knew what to look for, the answers provided not by his ‘Mentor’ but by the Ancestors themselves. Brought forth by his silent summons, five armoured Chosen strode into the command tent carrying an extra set of armour between them, one meant for Vithar, judging by the knowing look Gongsun Qi gave him. “You be this Prince’s Disciple now,” he began, as the Chosen strode forth to garb Vithar like one of their own. “And as such, there be more prominent roles upon the battlefield fit for a man of your station. You will command the entire army today, supported by my personal retinue of Warriors, each hand-picked and trained by this Prince himself, a force numbering ten-thousand strong and growing.”

Members of Gongsun Qi’s tribe, as Vithar saw it, and while he had borne witness to this retinue’s formidable strength, there were still questions to be answered before he could accept. “If I am to command the army, what will you do?”

“This Prince will be busy elsewhere,” the southlander replied, his smile widening even further in gleeful anticipation. “For my full focus be required if I am to take Shuai Jiao and Ryo Dae Jung’s heads. The Uniter’s undue haste has led us to incur excessive losses and accept an inordinate amount of risk, but he assures this Prince there is good reason for alarm. What those reasons might be, only the Uniter knows, but regardless, it is only a matter of time before victory is ours. If not today, then tomorrow, or next year, or the next, this Prince has set his mind to task, and he has never known failure, for failure is only possible when one stops trying.”

So Gongsun Qi was committed to taking the Citadel today, having worn his most dangerous foes down to near exhaustion in a series of gruelling engagements. The compiled reports spoke of how Shuai Jiao and Ryo Dae Jung had finally been forced to take part in the battle last night, and even now continued to come under attack from Chosen Chieftains, Transcendents, and Wraiths aplenty. There was no doubt in Vithar’s mind that Gongsun Qi would continue to hound his quarry until it was finally time to strike, at which point victory might well be assured. Few could match him in single combat, but at their best, Shuai Jiao and Ryo Dae Jung most certainly could, so there was no shame in wearing down a superior foe before moving to strike. This was the opportunity they’d all been waiting for, what the lives of so many tribesmen and Chosen had paid for in blood, an opening to take the Citadel in one fell swoop. Once their strongest Warriors were dead, the Imperial defenders would flee and the tribes would finally hold a position of strength to fall back to and rest in, one closer than the week-long march between the Western province and the border walls.

The Districts lay within an hour’s ride, and there were even more tempting targets a day’s ride out, the thought of which set Vithar to salivating with desire, but all this would have to wait until after the Citadel fell.

Adorned in his Chosen armour, Vithar carried the burden with ease, if not familiarity, but he had to admit that the cold, hard steel was mighty reassuring. In the past months, he’d borne witness to many a Chosen shrugging off blows that should have ended their lives with ease, the attacks bouncing off their armour like stones across ice. That being said, there was no way his garo could bear the extra weight on its back, so Vithar had no choice but to ride a gajashia instead, a vicious but pliable beast which was hardier than the garos he favoured, but far less versatile as well. At least now he understood why Gongsun Qi insisted he learn how to ride the beasts, having planned for this very occasion long in advance, which left Vithar feeling uncertain and confused. He had not earned this position through his own personal merits, but instead granted them through his association with others, first Gen and now Gongsun Qi. Nothing in life was ever given to you, or at least that’s how Vithar had lived until now, yet he’d come further and farther than ever with the help of two men. On the one hand, to hold so much power filled him with a heady rush of excitement, knowing that so much of the death and destruction to come would be attributed to his name, but then he wondered if he deserved this... this honour.

Another strange southlander concept, but Vithar understood honour most of all. It was the ability to defeat a weaker challenger without having to kill them, to take in an enemy tribe’s younglings and ensure the continuation of their ancestral line, to stay true to one’s word even in the presence of adversity, and to respect an enemy’s strength and covet the taste of their flesh. The southlanders held honour in high esteem yet few cared to uphold it, yet another curious contradiction Vithar had no intention to explore. That was simply their way, and there was no sense digging deeper into the matter, for soon, the southlander ways would be no more once the superior ways of the outlanders took root in these lands.

A day that drew closer with every breath, now that the Central Citadel’s fate had been all but sealed.

There was still some time before Vithar’s riders were in place to attack, time Gongsun Qi used wisely to prepare. A barrage of questions tested Vithar’s ability to react and adapt to changing circumstances as he demonstrated his understanding of the tactics at hand. Both sides had plans and counter plans already in place, but a plan was only useful under certain conditions, and once changed, it was no longer of any use. At this point one must adapt or die, and Vithar was adept at survival, if nothing else. Hidden ambushes, trapped structures, circuitous mazes and more, together they went over the myriad of defences the Imperials had in place and the most efficient ways to respond and counter them. Much of this had been discussed in planning, but as always, there was room for improvement, and Vithar answered all of Gongsun Qi’s questions to satisfaction. All the while, the garo riders were moving into place while the infantry continued to assault the walls without rest, grinding down the Imperial Defenders through sheer weight of numbers. There were no crossbows on the battlefield here in the Central Citadel, a welcome relief if there ever were one, and Vithar laughed at these foolish southlander ways, for even Gongsun Qi did not wholly respect the ranged weapons as he should.

There would come a day when every last one of Vithar’s tribesmen would carry one such crossbow, as would the other tribes if they were quick enough to adapt, but for now, they would have to make do with carrying throwing spears and axes. So simple a concept, to kill from afar, but even the Ancestors were displeased by this, though they refused to disclose why. Perhaps because of the reduced risk to the wielder, which brought to mind what Gongsun Qi once claimed, that the Ancestors cared not for the strength of Vithar’s tribesmen, only their suffering and survival. ‘Life is suffering’, as the monks did so love to say, droning on and on about life after death and such, but to Vithar, life was to be lived, and death avoided until it could no longer be denied, at which point he would join the Ancestors to help guide the next generation. That was all there was to it, nothing more, nothing less, and anything else was irrelevant.

