I realize this chapter is about 80% interpersonal drama. Trust me that it's to set up for all the stuff that's about to go down.

_____

There was a moment of stunned silence from Zach and Twitch. Thomas might have thought that something had gone wrong with the Elvin communicator and that they hadn't heard him at all, except he was watching them and saw Twitch stiffen at the warning, his head snapping around to look at Thomas.

Zach remained very much a cool customer, murmuring to Antonin, but Thomas could read him pretty well by now and saw him tense up.

Zach ended up speaking first, subvocalizing a flat, "For real, bro?"

Thomas heroically disregarded his first impulse, which was to reply, "For real, for real," because that would make him sound and feel like a teenage girl. So he chose option number two. "I'm like ninety-nine percent sure he's at least screwing with emotions. I've felt something like this before."

The realization crystallized in his mind even as he said it. Tiny's power felt like when the House of Healing created the aura of peace, and a little like the time Akilah tried to keep him under the healer's calm when they had first met. But Tiny's attempt at emotional manipulation was stronger, or maybe blunter and unpracticed. It was really hard to subvocalize more complex sentences, so he said, "It's a healer thing."

"That's super fucked up," Twitch said intelligently. "So you're going to kill this guy, right?"

That provoked another stunned silence in the communicator between the three because Thomas hadn't let his mind go there. What was the proportional response when somebody was trying to mind control you? Goddamn magic. He had never had to consider anything like this before.

Twitch continued. "Because I ain't doing it. I never signed up for that kind of dirty work with my old crew, and I'm not starting now unless this guy seriously moves on us first."

Unless he seriously moved on them first. Okay, that seemed to be a reasonable proportional response, and it had come from Twitch of all people.

Still, Thomas was a little annoyed. It was convenient for Twitch to just opt out, but then he checked his reaction because, realistically, he couldn't do it either with his Burden. That meant that the decision to kill or not would fall on Zach.

Shit, Thomas didn't feel good about that, either. The guy had enough on his shoulders.

Zach kept silent, clearly thinking it over. So Thomas's attention went back to Tiny, who was gathering the group together in order to push deeper into the dungeon. Now that Thomas was looking for it, it was easy to see the pattern. People visibly relaxed around Tiny or straightened up with renewed confidence when the man threw an encouraging word their way. The man easily defused strife or arguments before they could gain any momentum.

From the outside, it looked like he was just excellent with people. It was all positive reinforcement as far as Thomas could see, but it was still mind control.

Thomas's Eyes of Riches also showed that Tiny had just so happened to grab the A-Grade crystal that had dropped from the sub-boss. He'd picked it up, and no one had argued with him.

And the other big problem: Jo was at Tiny's side, laughing easily with him like they were old friends. Thomas's stomach dropped. He'd have to separate them somehow.

Finally, Zach spoke, and there was no laid-back surfer in his voice. "Okay, we don't move on him yet. Stay alert, keep looting. We might need some sort of weapon if we want to confront him directly. We might be able to just take him down, knock him out, or whatever, if all three of us hit him directly. But then we have to deal with his thralls. I think we want to avoid that, so let's play this out and see what happens. Thomas, if you spot a Goldie, flag it and get a hit on it. I'll cover you."

That was a lot to say in subvocal. Antonin was looking at him curiously.

"Goldie?" Twitch asked.

Zach started to explain, but Thomas's attention went elsewhere. He remembered that he still had the skill shard he had grabbed during the previous fight.

Mentally, he crossed his fingers. Please let it be something we can use.

True, he didn't have any open skill slots, but Zach certainly did.

After looking around to make sure that he wasn't noticed, Thomas grabbed it from his pocket and took a glance at it.

The bad news was it wasn't anything that Zach could use, not unless he wanted to add a new mana type, and that was kind of a big deal for him considering his Gift.

However, this might be just the thing for Twitch.

Thomas hesitated. Did he actually trust Twitch enough to give him a power boost? Twitch owed them for getting him out of indentured servitude, but would that be enough? He honestly didn't know.

Fuck, there was no right or wrong answer: Sometimes you had to extend a little trust to get a little trust back.

He headed over to Twitch, who was predictably hanging out near Courtney. This would be too much to communicate through sub-vocals, and the man was acting like her guard dog so he wasn't going to separate them. People would notice.

Thomas decided to be sly. "Hey, Twitch, have you absorbed any of that Nature mana yet?"

"Yeah," Twitch said, looking at Thomas oddly. Apparently, he didn't do sly that well, and Twitch wasn't buying it for a second. "It's okay, I guess."

Thomas hesitated. "Think you're compatible enough with it to use it? Or maybe electric mana? I've seen a few of those crystals around." Including the A-grade Tiny just picked up, that tool.

"You guys are about to mutiny against Tiny, aren't you?" Courtney asked.

They both whipped around to stare at her, which was probably dumb on Thomas' part because he was trying to not attract attention, but whatever.

She smirked and leaned back where she stood, crossing her arms. "You're not being subtle. You’ve figured out what he's about, then?"

"You know what he's about?" Twitch shot back.

"Why didn't you say anything?" Thomas asked in the same breath.

Ignoring Twitch, she gave Thomas a flat look. "Who would believe me if I said anything about your fearless leader? He already has half of you eating out of his hand." She reached into a side pocket and pulled out a C-grade electric mana. "Is this what you're looking for? You want to use it?"

Thomas didn't reach out and take it. This was too easy.

Twitch must have thought the same, because he asked, "Why are you helping?"

"Um, because I am a guard and know he was flagged for his Gift. It's not a secret to the family. Also, I can't absorb this." She wiggled the crystal back and forth. "I want out of here, and I don't want to be a mind slave to anyone, but especially not to a biker-gang-looking freak named Tiny. It's not that complicated."

Well, the cat was out of the bag. He opened and closed his hand real quick, showing a flash of the skill shard. "I picked this up, and I can't use that mana either," he said, instead of admitting that his skill slots were full. The less info Courtney had, the better.

He looked at the shard again. The System tagged it as: Lightning's Stunning Judgement.

Twitch knew a new power when he saw it. He snapped the shard out of Thomas's hand and the mana crystal out of Courtney's. "Let's see what I can do."

Thomas left him to it. The group was starting to move forward to the next part of the dungeon, anyway.

The next few minutes were pretty bad. They almost instantly ran into another whole new wave of wisps further in the dungeon. Apparently, that was how this dungeon worked: wave after wave, broken up by sub-bosses if people made too much of a racket. It was great for harvesting loot, but not-so-great if your goal was to stay alive.

Unfortunately, Antonin should never have been put in a dungeon. A serious chunk was taken out of his side from a rogue wisp that had gotten by everyone else, and he started freaking out, screaming and batting at the air in pure panic. Zach had to pull away from the fight to try to talk him down, which put more pressure on others to keep up the fight.

Thomas stepped in, using Living Architecture directly to fix the damage. Antonin was far too gone with panic to be able to concentrate enough to absorb a healing crystal. Even after he was fixed, he sobbed into the bottom of his shirt, mumbling, "Wanna go home, wanna go home..."

It was increasingly obvious he had the mind of a child, and a dungeon was no place for children. If they could possibly spare a good half hour, Thomas would have been tempted to induce the Purge to see if the clarity would help him cope. Unfortunately, they didn't have that time, and he wasn't certain it would help anyway.

The group had to move on quickly once those wisps were put down, scooping up the likeliest-looking mana crystals and running to the next part of the dungeon. Everyone feared Antonin's screaming might have alerted another sub-boss.

Once they reached a relatively clear area, Thomas filled Zach in on what Courtney had said about Tiny and the mana crystal she had offered.

Rather than look relieved, Zach's face went hard.

"What, you wanted the skill shard?" Thomas asked.

He shook his head. "I just know her. If she's found a way to hide a rare mana crystal, she has other things too. The Courtney I know is a loyalist to my family. She can't be trusted." Zach turned, squeezed his cousin's shoulder, and murmured to Antonin he would be right back. Then he marched up to Courtney directly. Thomas followed along, curious.

Zach didn't waste words and confronted her straight on. "I know about the mana. What else are you hiding?"

Courtney replied with instant defensive panic. "Nothing!"

"You pulled rare mana out of your pocket, which means you got a storage bag on you. Weapons too, right? Give it up, Courtney."

Thomas sort of wanted to stop this, but he trusted Zach's judgment enough to keep silent. Twitch's expression, however, was darkening.

Courtney looked panicked. "What are you talking about?" she said, her voice pitching high and loud. Too loud, as people were starting to look their way. "You already searched me. I got nothing except this crappy sword you gave me. I swear on my brother’s grave, Pres!"

Unfortunately, this was enough of a commotion to draw Tiny's attention. "What's going on?"

Now Thomas was expecting it; he felt Tiny's artificial calm and relief wash over him again. The big man was enforcing the belief that they should all be glad he was here to save the day.

Thomas shoved the manipulation away by using plain old anger. That emotion worked extremely well as an anchor. And he wasn't the only one; he noticed Twitch and Zach didn't look impressed, either.

Zach turned and caught Tiny up. "She's hiding more loot."

"She better not be," Tiny said, holding up the shock control menacingly.

Courtney quailed back. Thomas would have almost felt bad for her, except that he knew the ankle monitor was dead and this was a bluff.

Meanwhile, this new drama had given him an opportunity. Jo was standing off to the side, out of Tiny's hearing. Thomas wasn't going to get another easy chance like this. Touching her elbow, he pulled her aside.

"Jo," he said quietly. "Do you trust me?"

She looked at him as if he were an idiot. "Yeah? Why? You want a loan or something?" she joked.

How was he going to do this? "Tiny offered me a position with his crew back east," he started carefully.

Jo practically lit up. "He did that to you, too?"

"It's not a good thing," Thomas added quickly. So Tiny did have his hooks in Jo. Well, anyone who had seen her flying blades skill and her overall sheer competence would know that she was valuable, and Tiny was no idiot. He decided to be blunt; they didn't have a lot of time. He glanced over to see Courtney mutinously pulling a black bag out of a side pocket in her cargo pants. How had anybody missed that? How had he missed that with his Eyes of Riches? He didn't have time to figure that out.

He turned back to Jo. "Tiny has some kind of mind control Gift."

She looked at him as if she'd been slapped. "No, he doesn't. It's his strength-based Gift."

"Jo, I can tell."

"No, you're wrong," she insisted, eyes searching his face as if pleading for this to be a prank. "I've been working with him for all this time through all my dungeon runs here." Her voice cracked a little. "We've been a team."

"Do you really want to move to New York?" Thomas asked. Then he decided to play dirty. "What about Mariah? Is your daughter a part of this new team plan at all? Isn't her birthday coming up?"

She blinked, and Thomas got the feeling that she hadn't been thinking of her daughter at all, which was really weird for Jo.

"It's just a knife," he heard Courtney whine. So, she did have something after all. Their time was almost up.

Thomas said quietly to Jo, "Watch your emotions when Tiny's around. They're not natural, and they're not yours."

He left her to think about it. Pushing the issue too much would only drive her away, and that was the last thing he wanted. Jo was smart and could be introspective. He trusted she would catch the manipulation now she knew what to look for.

Meanwhile, he returned to the new Courtney drama and saw that the "knife" she claimed was more like a vicious dagger. The green-tinged blade was about half as long as her forearm and was able to retract into a handle that was too small and dainty for it, like it was made for a switchblade. But that was magic for you.

"I had to have some way to defend myself," she said mutinously.

"You have that sword, and you'll be grateful for it," Tiny said. "I'll be keeping this." He clicked a button and the vicious blade retracted into the dainty handle. With a smug smile, he put it in his pocket. "You will lead the next fight, Courtney. Maybe show what you're made of and you can earn the dagger back."

No one believed she ever would, least of all Courtney, who wiped a few angry tears away but strode to the front of the group as ordered. Twitch looked about ready to kill. Zach tried to say something to him, but Twitch shrugged the other man away.

The way Tiny handled the situation had the effect of making him look downright reasonable and protective of his team. Or maybe he was actually a decent leader, Courtney was hiding weapons, and Thomas was just too cynical. He really couldn't tell, except that he didn't trust either of them.

"Why'd you do that?" Twitch asked, subvocalizing to Zach.

"She doesn't have mind control," Zach said, "but don't trust her either. You'll regret it, man."

"Maybe she deserves a second chance," Twitch snapped aloud, making a couple of people glance his way. "Ever think of that?" Then he strode up to the front to walk alongside Courtney.

Zach pinched his lips together but said nothing.

The group continued on through the dungeon. This one seemed to be structured like a cave-type labyrinth. Jo, who hadn't really met Thomas's eyes since their talk, loudly said it was pattern three, which apparently meant something to the rest of the prisoners.

To Thomas, that meant fighting wave after wave of wisps as quietly as possible and picking up the loot afterward.

There was a lot of loot, even without Thomas's input. Most of it was in the lower grades, but the majority was Light mana, and it was all level 3.

He didn't see any Goldies, though he did catch a few of the silver-and-purple sparkling wisps with his Eyes of Riches. Those he tried to target directly, and they almost always dropped something good. No more skill shards, but usually high-level Light, Nature, or Electric mana.

Notably, Holton was able to absorb enough crystals to hit level two. He was using Light mana as his base, which Thomas didn't feel was the smartest move since that was pretty rare on Earth, but it definitely gave him a more immediate boost.

Finally, they came to the boss room. Jo signaled for absolute silence from the group as she crept up and peeked her head around the corner. She withdrew almost at once, her expression grim. "One full boss, no sub-bosses," she reported to the group. "But I'm pretty sure that full boss is a split."

"A split?" Thomas asked.

"Means that it will split into two full bosses if it's pressed too hard," Tiny explained. "One full boss is a tough fight. Two? Almost impossible, even for a full team. The exit room rewards are out of this world, though."

"That's what we've come all this way for, dude. How do you kill them?" Zach asked.

Tiny's smile was cold. "We don't. The guards pick who performed the least, or maybe whose face they don't like that day, and make them go in first. Then when the boss is having its meal, the rest sneak by to the exit room."

"What," Thomas said flatly, wondering if the man was joking.

The air seemed to grow heavy around Thomas. A weird mix of exhaustion and confidence in others to do the right thing fell on him like a physical weight. One part of him knew, knew, knew this was wrong. This was Tiny's bullshit again. He was trying to make him passive and grimly accepting, like he'd hit a wall and didn't want to go forward. It was as if someone was telling him to trust in the decision that was about to be made. It was too hard to do otherwise.

Screw that. He was easily able to dredge up anger to start burning it away.

Meanwhile, Tiny was already turning to Courtney. "You picked the short straw today, girly."