Isaac looked up from the testimony of the rescued labourer he was reading, an unread pile of them to his left, as the door to his cabin creaked open.

Angeline stepped in, her footsteps light enough that the groaning floorboards nearly overpowered the sound of them. She beamed him a smile and made her way to the armchair along the wall, sitting down with her usual feline grace.

She remained silent, only looking at him with a gentle smile. Squinting, he decided he wasn't going to play her game. He returned his attention to the testimony in his hand and kept reading.

Her presence nearby wouldn't leave his mind, however.

Not that he disliked her being nearby. He just wasn't interested in stepping into whatever trap she was laying for him.

He got through a second testimony before an annoying suspicion at the back of his mind began yelling for attention.

What if it's not a game? What if she didn't want to disturb you when you looked busy?

He scoffed. The mere idea that this woman would censure herself for someone else's sake...

But...

He filed the testimony away and looked up at her. She was still smiling and waiting.

He cleared his throat. “Angeline. Were you waiting for me to finish?” He asked dryly.

Her smile reached her cheeks. “Yes, I was.”

He froze. He felt bad now.

It must have shown on his face because she started giggling. “Oh, don't worry, Lord Isaac, I wouldn't have waited forever! I was just curious how long it would take before your kind heart won over your noble's ego!”

Her smile spilled into her eyes. “You truly have a noble heart. Barely ten minutes. I dare say most nobles would have had me wait at least a bell.”

He stared and blinked at her, then groaned and lowered his face into his hands. Even like this, he swore he could hear her grin. Genuine and calculating. Always.

That was Angeline. As he was finally beginning to realize, she was a woman without a single answer. In trying to understand her, you found yourself going in an infinite number of circles.

It was as maddening as it was attractive. That he even thought as such left him... conflicted. Did he enjoy being mentally strung by that woman?

He shoved all of that away and looked up at her. “How was your sister and my brother?”

She tilted her head. “Hmm, I think they will be alright. They were so engrossed in each other that they didn't even notice me cracking open the door to look inside.”

She'd peeked in just as her sister had called forth her wings.

She had stared for a good minute before closing the door back and making her way here.

Magical wings. Her sister would never cease to surprise her.

She clasped her hands over her knees. “It pained me to see David in such a state, but my sister seemed confident he would recover. I will have faith in her.”

Isaac sombrely nodded. “Seeing my brother in that state was infuriating, doubly so when Niala told us we couldn't properly help him.” He sighed. “Still, he is alive, most of the workers were rescued, and the threat has been eliminated. Although...”

He observed her more closely. “It was done at great cost to your family.”

A corner of her mouth pulled upward. “Do not worry about this, Lord Isaac. My father may have lamented his loss every chance he's had, but that was merely to cultivate public opinion.”

She chuckled. “No doubt he'll be releasing a statement in the newspaper back in Majestic about the great sacrifice he made for the sake of the kingdom, and organize a grand charity ball. In truth, we could afford to build another five Alchemical Stars with one year's worth of budget.”

Isaac stared at her, eyes unblinking as he ran the numbers in his head. “That... Angeline, just how rich is your family?”

She looked surprised. “Why, Lord Isaac, I didn't know you cared about such pedestrian matters as wealth.”

“What? No, I- I don't...” He trailed off when he spotted the smirk taking over her face. It should have infuriated him to be made a fool again.

But he also knew that she was showing him respect by being honest so quickly with her emotions. He had seen her hold a perfect mask over her features for bells on end, tricking her interlocutor into seeing exactly the kind of Angeline she had wanted them to.

Here, with him, she was merely toying with him.

He sighed. Small mercies, to matter enough to be a precious toy, instead of food. Looking at her once more, he unruffled his jacket and straightened his back. His serious expression made her smile fade away as she gave him her attention.

A few seconds passed before he found his first word. “Angeline, I wished to thank you. Again. You stopped me from charging along in one of the launches. I was making a mistake, and nobody around me was willing to call me out on it, because of my station.”

She blinked, eyes slightly wider than usual.

He continued. “I... have found your presence to be a boon. You are unafraid to contradict me, to force me to re-evaluate what is before me. It has made me realize that I have an urge to prove myself, and that it often takes hold within my mind.” His tone lowered to something soft and warm. “As such, thank you, Angeline, for your continued support.”

She stared at him, her face frozen. He thought he saw a small shiver run across her shoulders. She brought a finger up to an eye, wiping its underside, before offering him a wide smile.

“You are most welcome, Lord Isaac. Now, if you'll excuse me, I will go see if my sister is ready to receive visitors.” She said, and, before he could respond, got up and left.

He was left alone in his cabin, wondering if he had somehow displeased her.

Which was preposterous. If he had, she would have let him know somehow. Probably by trapping him within her words and having him make a fool of himself.

Most likely, she had just grown tired of toying with him. Yes.

He let out a breath and turned back to the testimonies on his desk, continuing to collate them into a report to be distributed to whoever ventured out into the Ruinlands. Hopefully, if another group encountered the strange white mausoleum and above-ground caskets, they would know to react.

The voyage back to Riverwall took another two days, now that Anaakendi wasn't helping them. David's condition remained stable, even while Niala gave him microdoses of healing potions.

Angeline limited her interaction with Isaac, to his great confusion.

Jordo remained close to his wounded master, acting as bodyguard and nurse both, keeping anyone untoward from seeing him, and seeing to his every need.

Niala stayed at his side most of the time, sharing his cabin, and only coming out for a few bells to get some fresh air or to take over the kitchens and cook David's favourite food.

Which, really, was anything that she cooked, but she kept insisting that he had favourites among favourites.

They ran the final tally of the rescued workers and guards. 22 workers and 3 guards were gone. The lack of bodies was tentatively explained by Niala's reports of the ascended fel mentioning the subsuming of prisoners.

They assumed this meant their essence had been consumed. They only hoped that the process had been painless.

Knowledge of the ascended fel was kept secret, only shared with the captains and commanding officers, under oaths of secrecy. A full report would be submitted to the Azure Guard's general staff, the Wardenfel's council, and the Crown.

They had only recently learned that the corrupted and the fel were only the first stages of mana corruption, which led to an evolved form. To learn that an ascended form existed on top was thought excessive, not to mention they had no idea if other, intermediate steps were possible.

Isaac could only guess at how the upper echelons of the martial organizations would react to this knowledge.

Hopefully, the ascended fel was unique.

Realistically, he was doubtful and hoped that the second encounter was far off into the future.

And then, early in the morning, they touched down and moored in Riverwall. The rescued workers were returned to their families to much rejoicing. The dead were announced to the ones left behind, to tears and wails.

The airship crews were given a day of shore leave. On the next morning, they left, carrying news and reports to the major military bases across the kingdom.

For the shipless group of mercenaries, their task was escorting one whining catkin bound for Majestic.

Marshalla sat next to David, taking readings and doing tests using the instrumentation she had carried over to his bedroom with Jordo's help and one of David's cargo-cloths.

Niala sat on the other side of the bed, observing everything the scholar was doing with rapt attention.

The Abassaran woman noted down some numbers, referenced a chart, and frowned. She looked up at David and Niala. “To reiterate, so that I have the proper understanding. David's current 'leakage' is due to... holes? Left in his pathways? From when a magivore was explosively removed from his system?”

Niala nodded. “That's what we think, but...” Her ears flicked. “We're not experts. We can only tell you what we saw happen.”

Marshalla hummed. “Right. To be quite frank, it's hard to know what I'm looking at. I can clearly detect and measure David's mana flowing out of his pathways, but I'm rather blind when it comes to how it's happening.”

She motioned at her instruments. “These are only telling me that David is releasing mana, not how he's doing it. There aren't any known processes where someone could be releasing mana without either willing it or having something to pull it out. Having permanent holes in your pathways is...”

She scrunched her mouth. “For anyone but David, it would probably be a death sentence. They would run into the soul-mana barrier limit, and it would keep going. Their soul would erode, and they'd be gone.”

Niala's ears went rigid. “Do- do you think... what if David has a barrier? And we just haven't met it yet?!”

Mashalla shook her head. “All my tests and measurements on David so far indicate that if he does have a barrier, it's high enough that we'll have at least a few weeks before anything happens. I'm of the mind that he doesn't. Or rather, he does, but it repairs itself faster than it can degrade.”

Niala's eyes flickered from David to Marshalla. “O-oh... but we should still fix this as soon as possible. It can't be good to be leaking mana like that, and we have to get David healed.”

The scholar nodded. “I agree. The problem is that I would need to run tests against a magivore to better understand the process. Since that's not possible, we'll need time to work backward and piece the mechanism, little by little.”

David quirked an eyebrow and glanced at his wife. She caught his eye and nodded with a slight blush. Turning her head toward Marshalla, she cleared her throat. “What if you had access to a magivore?”

It was Marshalla's turn to lift a brow.

For the tenth time today, since she was asked to come inspect a stricken David, Marshalla thought that these people were ridiculous.

Ridiculous and the opportunity of ten lifetimes. She gave her blessings to her past self for having had the foresight to remain close to these two individuals.

A magivore.

The girl was a saints' sworn magivore.

Marshalla thought it had been a joke. She had run the test four times. Then she'd accepted it was true.

Then she got heart palpitations. Or maybe it was just extreme excitation. Didn't matter. Magivore. In front of her.

She'd had Jordo help her relocate her laboratory in the Allwarden's residence, in one of their spare rooms. A bit cramped, but it would do.

Now, she wasn't a heartless maniac. All these tests and experiments she had planned for Niala were, obviously, in order to figure out David's ailment and find a way to cure him.

It's just that doing so would, fortuitously, also help her push back the frontier of manalogy. Her name would probably become synonymous with the practice.

She allowed herself to silently squeal and do tippy-tappy feet.

Then she seized herself and took a few calming breaths.

Becoming the face of an entire branch of study could come later. Right now, she had to assemble this puzzle.

Before her lay a few days' worth of test results. Some raw, some haphazardly collated into preliminary reports.

The Allwarden's secretary, Rinka, had helped. Marshalla had to admit that the woman had a great head on her shoulders. Very good with numbers, able to parse data rapidly, and provide a summary that didn't leave out important details.

She was also quirkily adorable and had a delightful, refined sense of humour.

She shook off the distracting thoughts and focused on the data, letting her eyes flit from one paper to the next, building a model in her mind's eye as she did.

A conceptual understanding of what magivoring was began to take form. Normally, one individual's mana could not transfer over to someone else. As soon as their mana touched another's pathways, there would be dissonance, and the pathways would begin breaking apart from the ever-increasing destructive reaction. Mana poisoning.

In Niala's case, whatever mana got into her never even got into contact with her pathways. Her own mana seemed to “stick” to everything it touched, forming a coating that grabbed onto foreign mana.

And then the magic happened; the foreign mana had its frequency overwritten. It stopped being foreign and became hers, gaining the same “sticky” property in the process.

As for her ability to connect to someone else's mana pathways, well, the process itself was not unique. Everyone had the ability to compress or contract their pathways to a certain degree. It was entirely possible for two regular people to connect their pathways, if requiring a bit of practice. It was an incredibly bad idea to do so, but it was possible.

What was unique in Niala's case was the much greater control that she had over her pathways. Marshalla had measured the catkin's fine, ethereal tendrils going past the boundaries of he skin by nearly a centimetre.

Between her mana's “sticky” or, in Niala's words, hungry disposition, she only had to extend these tendrils through physical contact, intersect the target's own pathways, and begin pulling her mana back. This created a suction effect, which pulled in the target's mana, which stuck to Niala's mana, became her mana, and perpetuated the cycle.

This meant that the holes in David's pathways were exactly that; holes. If she understood his explanation correctly, he had overloaded his pathways with an explosive form of mana. Powerful enough to rip apart the invading pathways, shearing at the infinitesimal gap between the skins, and leaving behind foreign pathway “needles”.

The process to remove them from David, then, was relatively simple; Niala simply had to go and “feed” from the same hole. Her mana would consume the fel's leftover pathway, and once she pulled out, there would be no foreign matter left behind, and David's pathways would naturally close by themselves.

The problem was how to have Niala hit the existing holes.

Well, that would be Marshalla's next step. Maybe some way to have Niala's pathways bend toward the existing hole? Or devise a technique for her to sense them?

It was another brand new puzzle, and resolving it would open another brand new branch of manalogy!

A shiver ran down her back.

Oh, that was getting too much.