The gloves themselves were rather thick, lobstered on the fingers which was nice, though didn’t fit her perfectly, but that was fine. What mattered was the available metal surface for engraving. It was decent enough without making her look like she had a cinder-block glued to each arm — some of the armor here could get bulky. Happy with her purchase, she thanked the man and left with her guard leading the way back.

Those two gloves would be her self-defense tool and also her improvised shields if things did hit the fan, but not bad enough that she had to betray her identity. As she walked, she considered what enchantment to put on each one except for shield and push. Maybe anchor because pushing without anchoring tended to get a swift answer from Newton’s third law.

Viv looked up when she felt something. A tinge. She looked around. The guard was now leading her through tall walls made of slabs of gray stones, with pine trees protecting the pavement from the merciless sun during the day. Now it was dark and unlit. The wind carried the scent of sap and the distant ashes of the ruined estate. Not much blood. So what? Viv grabbed the gloves. She didn’t have time to put them on. Her instincts screamed at her.

There, on the left wall, a shadow.

“Watch out!”

Viv pulled the guard back just as something whistled through the air. She was about to pull him more, but he put his shield up and his spear surged. Something clanged on his defenses but he caught something else in the shoulder. Viv dove behind him while another knife clattered on the ground.

“Get her! Her!” a sprinting man at her side yelled while two cloaked assailants engaged her guard. He was holding his own with ease but… shouldn’t they run? Her own opponent closed in.

[Kestrel of Sheem: one who follows the path of a scout. Not dangerous. Third step… Good melee combatant.]

Fuck it.

Viv threw one of the gloves in his face. The improvised weapon barely hit but it was enough to provoke an opening and a very rude word. Feet apart, waist swinging, cross. The punch floored the man with a ghastly crack.

“Hmmm!”

He was bleeding from a temple but still pointing a shaky finger at her while letting out a muffled yell.

“Go!” Her guard said, “Go!”

Viv did so. She sprinted away while another shadow crept from behind. She propelled herself into a dead sprint. Cardio time!

***

The would-be assassin missed his throw. The woman turned right into the next street by placing a foot on the wall and bouncing. He’d expected her to slow down. She had no traversal skill, clearly, so he ran after her. The captain was picking himself up, but Sol and Shan were wasting time trying to take down the guard. Idiots! He ran. Anyone who might be able to help the Sandsong with their dragon problem must be eliminated for the kingdom!

As he turned, he realized that the woman was already pretty far. He made after her, jumping over obstacles with all the grace of a bird of prey. She was ahead running her silly run in a straight line. He ran, and ran.

She was getting farther away.

She disappeared behind a house.

“What the fuck?”

***

Viv wasn’t exactly believed when she returned to the palace, but they did send a squad out while she remained in the main courtyard under strict guard. To her surprise, however, rescue came in the form of the guard himself returning with grim eyes but otherwise unharmed. His armor had protected him. He also got bonus points for bringing her back her glove. It just had a little bit of blood on it. Nice!

Viv wasn’t even properly interrogated this time. The guard mentioned they had a Sheem accent and they wanted to kill her and that was it. Unfortunately, they’d all managed to peel off before getting caught despite some wounds.

“Bloody spies and traitors! Curses!” Lord Dar vociferated later in the throne room. “They have the gall to come and kill our guests in our city! It is very fortunate that you would have the strength to fend them off, Lady Jaratalassi.”

He was placing her on a pedestal in public, Viv noticed. Calling her Lady Jaratalassi was a recognition of status that went beyond what she deserved. Nobody seemed to mind, however.

“She threw the glove at an assassin’s face, and then punched him,” her guard helpfully added.

Dar’s gaze traveled to Viv’s knuckles.

“How I wish I could have been here to witness it! But enough of this. The shameless assault only proves that time is of the essence. The danger is clear. You must depart post haste before more of them learn of what you plan to do. I shall provide horses and a cart for the convoy!”

Viv wanted to tell them she knew how to ride a horse but the skill was a rich people or military thing over here, so she refrained. She was already under enough suspicion.

“Sai,” Lord Dar continued, “I have requested that you be taken to the palace’s workshop to enchant whatever you can before departure, unless the accident was too taxing…”

“It was not, Lord Dar,” Viv replied.

She gave a short bow.

“Time is of the essence. I will work late to improve our chances.”

“Your courage does you credit!”

Viv grabbed her tools and left. It was going to be a busy evening.

***

“She was not afraid,” the guard said.

“What a woman!” Lord Dar exulted. “If only she’d been born noble!”

“Ahem.”

Captain Sil pretended to clear his throat. He leaned towards his lord.

“What the sentinel said is not that she was courageous, my lord. Courage is overcoming one’s fear. The woman was not afraid. The difference is significant.”

“So you believe she is some sort of warrior?”

“No my lord, not from the way she moved. And she’s no assassin either, but there is something she is hiding. No artisan could face an assassination attempt like that with this level of calm. It is as if it was a daily occurrence for her, barely an inconvenience and not an attack on her life! Maranor’s mercy, but I was scared out of my mind. I thought I was dead for sure! If she hadn’t pulled me back as they launched their blades, I would have been mortally wounded.”

“How did she know?” Captain Sin asked. “How did she pull you back?”

The guard frowned.

“I wouldn’t know, sir. I had my back to her. Those were not assassins by path, so perhaps she spotted something that gave them away.”

“That is indeed suspicious, however we have been witness to an enchanting session that proves she is what she claims,” Lord Dar commented.

“My lord, it is possible that she might have been targeted by assassins before,” Captain Sin offered.

“We will not know unless we interrogate her, something I am opposed to,” the city lord replied with finality. “One thing I know is that she is committed to this dragon business. As long as Sandsong’s and our interests align, she is on our side. Captain Sin, make sure she reaches Sandsong unharmed. We need allies against the Sheen.”

“Understood, my liege.”

***

Viv spent a good part of the night enchanting while the members of the expedition trickled in. A dozen guards came in wearing their mail and conical helmets though their faces were bared here. They stood around speechless while she turned their round shields into very basic runic gear, then she taught them how to charge it. By then it was long past midnight. Captain Sin already had all he needed, but he did bring the ambassador who inspected her with a very critical gaze. He didn’t return her respectful curtsy.

Two scouts asked if she could enchant their arrows. It was an unreasonable request, which she let them know, but she did enchant their swords with basic runes of penetration and durability. By that time she’d run out of steel twice to engrave the gear and had to request a runner to requisition ingots at the local smelter. By the time she was done with her own gauntlets, dawn was peeking behind the hills, and she had the beginnings of a headache. Fighting for hours was fine because her path encouraged it. Engraving was not. At least it wasn’t very mana-intensive, what with the others charging the spell with their own mana.

The gauntlets ended up ok. She had a minor anchor on the thumb and pinkie fingers that would lock in when she extended her fingers and the lobstered armor clicked just right. She had added one push on each palm, a shield on the back of one hand, and a minor explosion rune on the other. The explosion was colorless so it wouldn’t generate heat. It would also exhaust and require a long recharge. The final touches were a light enchantment on one wrist and a silence one on the other. The purpose of the glove was to give her defenses that were on par with her expected capabilities. For the rest, she would have to rely on her wits not to be caught in a situation where she’d lose her cover.

Yeah, that didn’t bode well.

Viv was invited to ride the supply cart which was already loaded. She climbed and did her best to build a nest with whatever cover and tarp she had around given the local lack of suspension. The expedition gathered soon after. There were the dozen guards who politely greeted her, Captain Sin who already had his own enchanted gear, the two scouts, and the ambassador who looked down to her alongside two attendants who did pretty much the same. Viv could stand back up to look down at them in return but she was feeling comfortable and it didn’t feel worth the effort. A screecher mage was the last one to arrive. He gave her gauntlets a look of consideration before leaving. She’d kept them on just in case.

It looked like the fake nobles who had landed with her would not be coming along.

“The expedition is assembled!” Captain Sin announced. “Milord, we are departing!”

“You carry our hopes with you, good Captain. Please protect your charges, and may the light gods smile upon you!” Lord Dar replied.

They went off. Viv was the only one who hadn’t been offered a horse, however as she was lying down after several hours of tiring enchantment and looking out at the city, she relaxed with her hand on a small bag of dry dates.

The convoy crossed the high city at a brisk pace. The tall white buildings and fragrant pines gave way to thick copses of trees hiding shanties and squat brick buildings from the sun. This reminded Viv to build herself a small head tent with the help of a tarp and two enchanted tent pickets.

It didn’t help with the smell.

The transition from covered shanty to fields was jarring. From wet and pungent, the expedition entered a world of sunlight and dry dust. Fields expanded to her left and right in thin strips nestled between rocks. Water gurgled over each field one by one. She sat up, looking at the mana snaking under the field.

“You are seeing the work of a water dancer,” the screecher mage explained.

His eyes twinkled under the turban. He seemed quite proud.

“The water dancer’s steps cross each field in turn, and the water follows. Reservoirs capture the rain so that we may do so even when the sky is blue.”

He looked up.

“It will not last. The season of rain is almost upon us.”

He turned his head aside. Now that Viv was looking more closely, there was a woman coming into view from a recess of the landscape. Blue clothes wrapped her shape so Viv could not tell more than the fact she was light of step and very graceful. As she progressed, little springs burst over the fields.

“It is said the earth laughs and weeps at their performance.”

The dancer disappeared from view in the middle as she launched herself into a new routine, which Viv missed. The pleasant diversion still allowed her to realize the place was dusty because she was swallowing the earth turned up by all the horses in front of her, dammit. There were quite a few fields, then orchards, villages, and even beehives once. The convoy picked up pace as the other travelers grew fewer in number. The workers were thin here, though it was more lean muscles than signs of starvation. Sun-baked limbs tended to the trees with slow care. Sometimes, curious gazes followed the convoy. A few of them bowed.

“We will stop at the border to pick up more supplies. A messenger left this morning to ask for hay and water barrels. We will need them to cross the salt mountains.”

Viv nodded. The land was turning arid and the temperature hot despite being late in the year, so she resolved herself to sleep if she could. It proved difficult despite the cushions. It appeared the life of an empress had made her soft. There was a time, back in the army, when all she would have needed would have been a horizontal surface and a distracted NCO. How things had changed. Dozing, she drifted on and off with every bump on the road.

It was warm and cozy and it didn’t smell bad. The sun was nice. As dawn turned to morning, the last of the orchards gave way to wilderness. The trees grew more wild, thornier, with leaves in reds and brown where there were leaves at all. Viv would have expected cacti or acacias or their local equivalents, but the plants here had grown thick limbs barded with defenses and sometimes, an outrageously spiky fruit dangling at the end of a long stem like a poisoned invitation.

“They are quite tasty,” the mage told her with amusement. “If you can be patient enough to remove the outer layer.”

Sadly they didn’t stop or Viv would have risked getting spikes in her fingers if it meant tasting mana rich prickly pears. Alas. The dragon. Maybe she’d get an opportunity to try some later.

