Soon after that, the mana started to fluctuate wildly. In some spots, the trees grew to vertiginous heights rivaling buildings. Other spots were barren and sand-blasted, showing only pitted rock like open wounds in the earth. There were still some muddy water points at the bottom of deep ravines. Viv remembered the rain season was about to begin. In those times, the riverbeds would flood, dragging anyone caught within to certain death. They crossed a bridge over one such riverbed soon after. It was made of wood and — while not rickety — it didn’t exactly inspire confidence.

“No stone bridges?” She asked the mage who seemed in a conversational mood.

“The Viziman earth is capricious, Lady Jaratalassi. It sees stone piles as a provocation. We do not answer such challenges. We build wood and, after the land has raged, we rebuild them. Sometimes, we can even salvage most of it!”

“Is the land that rebellious?”

A pulse of mana touched her then, subtle, yet noticeable because of how deep it felt. In the distance, a column of red dust sprouted with anemic speed, at least from here, but close up it had to be taking off at the speed of a plane.

“An elemental is displeased,” the mage laconically explained. “It is better if you are far when it happens.”

“I didn’t feel it until the wave came.”

“Ah yes. Brown elementals are difficult to distinguish from plain nature when they are quiescent, and when they are not, they move surprisingly quickly.”

Viv nodded.

“Is there a way to avoid them, then?”

“It is said that some deep tribes have secret paths that can listen to them, but as for us, we try to avoid the deep desert. If you have no choice, then ask Emeric to toss a coin for you! If it falls the wrong way, may the dust of your bones be carried by the wind to nourish the garden of your family.”

“Very poetic.”

“Sometimes, poetry is all we have. Water?”

The expedition took a short break. Captain Sin came to ask about her before being promptly dressed down by the ambassador who insisted protocol meant he should be inquired about first. Viv gave the poor blade master a short nod of sympathy while one of the soldiers distributed freshly made wraps. They had several barrels of water that could be drawn from, and Viv became instantly popular the moment she put a colorless cooling enchantment on one of them despite the ambassador’s protests. It was quite hot.

Cooling something without using blue mana required an understanding of molecular motion that made the screecher mage’s eyebrows rise in confusion, though he seemed to accept the explanation that her path made her favor colorless solutions. There were water dancers here after all.

“The people of Param have strange ideas,” he laconically commented.

After the short meal and a moment to refresh themselves, the convoy left again. One of the scouts galloped ahead, through winding paths that were going up and down narrow valleys. It didn’t take long before the road became little more than a trail, a path of eroded stone in an otherwise wild spot. She was therefore surprised when they came across a large drawbridge across a chasm. It was currently raised. A troglodyte tower stood at the other end, as misshapen as it was beautiful, all in shades of ochre. A rope strung between the top and a side carried two blue flags with yellow dots. This was the border Lord Dar had mentioned.

Without a word, the sound mage radiated gray mana in a pulse around him, making the air vibrate. The sound then changed from a buzz to a low hum, not like a person but maybe what she would expect from a futuristic electric generator. Harmonics changed the call in subtle ways that were halfway between music and signal.

It stopped when the drawbridge lowered.

The screecher mage frowned.

“No reply?”

Ahead, soldiers in incredibly dusty uniforms waved them forward. The soldiers started moving but Viv frowned. She knew the filthy uniform trick from handling bandits. It was a good way to hide the bloodstains on looted gear.

“Where is Nep?” the second scout asked.

Captain Sil slowed down.

“It’s a fucking trap,” Viv announced.

As soon as the soldiers stopped moving forward, it sprang shut. Or at least, it tried. Soldiers in the uniform of the Sheem swarmed behind cover on horses while her side galloped back and the cart made a fast turn, also incidentally making her the most vulnerable person of the group. Unfortunate. The ambassador was screaming. Arrows flew, but the gray mage waved his hand. A gust of wind made them veer of course. Still, two people with mana signatures were coming up the path, flaring their auras now that the gig was up.

“Away! Away!” Captain Sil screamed.

He, too, cut projectiles mid air. So far, everyone was still alive and it looked like they were going to make it.

Their pursuers stopped at the edge of the bridge, quite suddenly. Viv was surprised they had the basic intelligence not to follow a group with a mage and a blademaster onto a spot that was very vulnerable to being demolished. Common sense always seemed in short supply.

It would have been the end of it, but the enemy leader removed something from a saddlebag with religious care. He then carefully pointed it towards her.

It was a universal truth that some items are immediately recognizable, no matter the setting, no matter the culture, no matter the place. Bowls were bowls, always: small containers capable of holding liquids used in everyday life. Perhaps it was caused by a shared consciousness. Perhaps it was, quite simply, pattern recognition.

Anyway the thing now pointed at Viv’s exposed face was a gun. A futuristic gun painted black with rings near the muzzle. It was functional in its design, and scrappy in appearance. But it was a gun. Viv’s danger sense was screaming it.

She put her shield up and overloaded it, just in case. The surge turned the back of the cart an opaque white.

Something exploded against it. A wave of heat brushed against Viv’s face, pushing her hair back. Where the cart had been struck, there was a massive hole with flaming edges, the ropes burning in the noon sun.

The bridge collapsed just as they left it. Viv had a look at her gauntlet. The shield array was fully overloaded. It could have stopped a fucking rocket.

Viv was livid. Only she was allowed to smuggle advanced weaponry into Nyil. It was a situation that had to be remedied immediately.
