“Take it,” Stuart said, staring at Alden’s open palm while he flooded it with extra water from the jug. “As soon as I let the stream stop flowing, pick up the water, but pick it up a little bit slower than you usually do.”

“What?” What?

“Use your skill more slowly,” said Stuart. He was speaking calmly, but insistently. “Only the tiniest amount more slowly, so that you can choose an instant when the handle is good for you. Take this water from me like that.”

It doesn’t work like that. The preservation is instantaneous. Total. There is no slow. Only yes or no.

“Stuart, you know it doesn’t work like that, don’t—?”

“Now. Take it now. But slowly.”

The stream cut off.

A few things happened at almost exactly the same time, preventing Alden from separating them into single, easily digestible bites.

Alden thought he would try it Stuart’s way because Stuart was someone who—

Stuart, Stuart himself, was suddenly beside Alden’s self. He felt a very light touch against his place in the universe, like—

Slowly wasn’t how The Bearer of All Burdens preserved things, but in trying to follow Stuart’s instructions, he found something within himself that could be slower. There was a part of the process he hadn’t been aware of.

Oh. What is this?

The existential touch was just a touch. But it was also like when Stuart had grasped his hand to pull him up out of the mud after that practice fight with the hazard mimic a few days ago. That kind of a touch, but so very distilled. And it felt—

There can be a moment in between.

This is amazing.

My affixation allows for a moment here.

The last of the water was falling toward Alden’s hand.

Water would be carried now, no matter what, because he had already done it. Alden had fully accepted the burden from his entruster, and not bearing it was no longer an option available to him. He had decided he would hold and protect some amount of water, whether that protection lasted for a heartbeat or a day.

Always before, committing his authority to the use of his skill and the creation of the preservation bubble around whatever he would carry had been simultaneous. He had thought they were the same thing.

They didn’t have to be.

There could be this determination—this activation of his skill through commitment—and then the moment of preservation. And while Alden was in between the two, the water became…no, he became someone who had the authority to understand the water he had committed to carry in a new way.

It was important.

It was over too soon.

What Alden had planned for was a nice puddle-shaped shield with a handle of sorts, so that was what he got.

But after the first large kooba crashed into his shield and retreated with a shriek…

After about ten of the little ones burst like balloons from just one of Stuart’s spells…

After their knights saw what level of game this was and joined the fight, chasing down low-flying kooba and killing them with bare hands…

After all of that, while he used his water shield to herd a couple of little ones toward the children waiting at the back of Bithe’s hauler with pebbles in their hands and looks of determination on their faces, Alden’s thoughts returned to that moment.

That’s it. That’s the place where so much of the stuff I’ve imagined might be possible can happen. In between committing to bear what my entruster has asked me to and it actually being shielded, I’m able to comprehend the burden better.

Taking half of the water. Not approximately half, but half down to the molecule.

Plucking off a single thread of enchantment.

Catching with his eyes closed, even if the object was flying toward him as fast as a bullet.

Bearing the weight with only his authority and not his muscles. Something close to telekinesis.

Maybe all of that could be found there.

Eventually, what he’d been groping around in the dark for and occasionally stumbling upon during flashes of inspiration could be made into reliable abilities if he practiced doing those things in that in-between time.

He was concerned that creating that moment where his commitment to bear a burden could be separated from the actual act of preservation had required a few conditions to be met. All of them were inconvenient, and one of them was going to be hard to swallow if it turned out to be an absolute requirement instead of just the ideal scenario. But he wasn’t going to let that dim the possibilities swirling through his head just yet.

He was holding the coolest shield. Stuart had done something incredible for him—to him? with him?—like it was the most natural thing in the world. And children were throwing pebbles at him, which made him think of Kibby.

Their aim was awful.

******

******

“We’ve been <<marinated>>,” Emban noted.

The battle was over. She brushed some of the kooba stuffing off of her shoulders before reaching over to pluck a few dry blades of grass and something that looked like a beetle wing out of Bithe’s hair.

“What is this?” Alden asked. He’d been brushing himself off as well, and he’d just found what he thought was a very small bone fragment on his shirt. How many times did you have to find unwanted bone shards on your person before you qualified as an expert?

“Ritual ingredients.” Emban tipped her head toward Leeter-zis. “He filled the koobas with them and chanted over us all while we played with them.”

“I thought he was just celebrating. Loudly.”

“It’s the start of a process that will make us all ready to do some communal spell together. At the afterparty, I’m sure. This was a creative way to make everyone stay in one spot while we were being showered with ingredients.”

“He could have warned us,” Stuart said. He’d just returned from circling the caravan with Ryada, who’d insisted on checking all of the fallen koobas herself to make sure none of them were still twitching. It struck Alden as an odd thing for her to do, and it reminded him that he’d noticed her mood shifting from jovial to something sterner during the battle when she’d seen Olget-ovekondo, barely competent possessor of a bad diploma, firing weak force spells at one of the large koobas that had been downed but not quite finished.

Now she was carrying a stack of kooba hides. They were basically animated blankets; Alden’s first impression hadn’t been wrong. He offered to put them away somewhere for her, but she refused with a smile that seemed less real than her others and a joke that didn’t sound like a joke about how she took responsibility for her own kills even when the victims were just toys.

Bithe and Emban exchanged a single look.

Alden decided it wasn’t his place to ask.******
