Randidly considered himself sharp, but he needed a moment to press his tongue to his teeth and suck in a breath, barely able to follow the dense stream of information that the Patron was producing. You casually mentioned Pine, to test my knowledge? Or was the child of Yystrix more well known in the past? Also, artificial life? Elhume betrayed his Patrons? All of them, or-

One issue at a time, Randidly told himself, trying to keep his expression even. “You are implying that humans were- are originally created by Elhume? By design, he just shipped a bunch of worlds to essentially sow the seeds for images later? But how could he make sure that-”

“It is easier to think of the process as a grand nudge,” The Patron shrugged and leaned back on his stone. Wind whistled around them on the mountaintop, unphased by the import of his words. “Most of the targeted worlds already had some life forms present, in very low-tier shapes. Unintelligent vermin, generally. Only a few planets were seeded directly with Elhumes that were already grown. I’m not too familiar with the details, but I believe most of the grand finale was reaching out and simply pushing those small animals toward his vision for a more image-friendly lifeform.”

For several seconds, Randidly sat and tapped his fingers against his stone. Sulfur hummed along with the small impacts, enjoying the kinetic sensation. His thoughts spun, but the whirling snowglobe of his mind gradually began to settle. Was there any current danger if what the Patron of the Sun suggested was true? That all humans were engineered?

It was hard to say. Perhaps Elhume had some remnant influence over all humanoids? Were all the beings that appeared to have a humanoid shape truly nudged by an ancient ritual from the Second Cohort?

But that immediately felt wrong to his senses, based on what Randidly had seen of both Engravings and Nether Rituals. Perhaps on a small scale some influence could be retained, but from the short explanation of the Patron of the Sun and the wide implications if Elhume had a hand in every humanoid lifeform, the scope of the accomplishment was mind-boggling even before considering lingering ties. The act could have only been a massive donation to the universe.

Randidly’s attention then twisted inward, as though he could dig into his own flesh, blood, and DNA to find answers to his vague questions. Flaring the Grey Creature Glimpses Providence and Revelations of the Atramentous Threshold for several seconds earned him nothing but a mild headache and a mounting sense of anxiety. He flexed his hands as he turned his focus back outward.

The Patron of the Sun didn’t miss Randidly’s rapid thoughts. “It does not sit well with you, yes? I would feel the same, if I knew that bastard Elhume had such an influence on my existence- but heh, can I even talk? I was one of his Patrons. I believed in him. Perhaps more than anyone else, I can understand the emotions you are experiencing right now.”

The blatant attempt to build sympathy between them had Randidly rolling his eyes. It also served as a convenient point to refocus on his current task: turning away the Patron without directly refusing him. After all, no matter what, this figure obviously possessed a dangerous amount of power.

Unless he had no other choice, Randidly didn’t want to antagonize him. He had too many enemies already.

So he took a deep breath and allowed the warm certainty of his heartbeat to filter away all his anxiety. No matter how curious he was at the casual reveal of knowledge from the Patron of the Sun, including details regarding early fights against Nether, the history of the Second Cohort, and the existence of Pine, Randidly didn’t dare let himself get distracted.

But also, as he paused and truly examined the emotional fluctuations of the Patron, he felt reassured by how all over the place his emotions were. Fear, hatred, frustration, and worry wove together into a dense tapestry as silence sat between them.

Then again, Randidly supposed that if he had just been freed after two thousand years, he might be a bit unbalanced too. And feeling those emotional flaws made it easier to trust Lucretia’s plan would handle the situation.

“That’s a lot of information. I’ll have to consider what it all could mean,” Randidly said casually, even when he truly did need some time to unpack what the Patron had tossed out to attract his attention.

“Of course, of course. But we shouldn’t waste each other’s time; let’s move to the matter at hand. I hope I am not being bold by saying so, but I believe that Yn’ulk here would serve admirably as one of your Patrons,” The Patron blurted out the words, seemingly unable to stop himself. “He is resourceful, loyal, and a staunch defender of the Lizakh.”

Randidly almost felt bad for how desperate the figure seemed.

Getting him to suggest Yn’ulk is the hard part. The rest is simplicity itself, Lucretia had smirked.

He opened his mouth to answer and the Patron held up a hand. “I understand your misgivings, using this body after I have already descended unto it; what if I have affected his mind during my presence? But I assure you that I can prove no tampering was done. And I believe that there are no other Lizakh that are better suited to the task.”

“Actually, that’s exactly the problem,” Randidly said with as much sorrow as he could drag out of himself. “While Yn’ulk is exactly the sort of individual I would be lucky to include in the Pantheon, are not the Lizakh currently in a state of flux? They have been decimated by the Calamity and Yn’ulk is their most powerful warrior. I don’t think its appropriate for Yn’ulk to step away at this time. His people need him, and not as a distant presence.”

Yn’ulk’s face twitched; from the depths of that body, Randidly felt a surge of agreement, even while the Patron of the Sun was blindsided by the rejection. Randidly spoke again before the Patron could argue. “Meanwhile, I think D’min would make a more suitable candidate for the Pantheon.”

If he thinks Yn’ulk is his last chance, he will fight harder for him, Lucretia had said. So support the obvious other choice. Because I truly believe that this Patron of the Sun cares for his descendants. Not above himself, obviously, but to accept his second choice.

“I…” The Patron of the Sun considered. Then he nodded decisively. Randidly still couldn’t get past the blood on his lips. That lack of empathy for the body made following along with Lucretia’s manipulation palatable to him. “That is an acceptable compromise. Then it is agreed-”

“Assuming that D’min has no problems with it, yes,” Randidly replied. And immediately he sent a message to both Neveah and D’min. Then he opened a portal. Only a short time later, the Lizakh man stepped through the threshold onto the mountain top, blinking at the bright rays of the sun.

Randidly allowed the Patron of the Sun to do the explaining, not bothering to interject at all as the projection talked about his duty to the Lizakh people and their imminent, glorious rise back to prominence within the Alpha Cosmos. He watched D’min’s expression, made inscrutable by the scales and the narrowed eyes, and simply waited.

After listening to the whole spiel, D’min proved Lucretia right. He shook his head decisively in rejection. “It is a great honor… However, I… I am not worthy of becoming one of these… Patrons. I have betrayed you, Holy Patron of the Sun. My faith was lacking; I should not be trusted with this role. And I wish to explore the wider universe. Please, select someone else.”

The Patron of the Sun was furious, even if none of that fury was channeled through Yn’ulk’s features. His lips flapped sluggishly, as though the heightened emotional state of the possessor was loosening his grip on the possessee. Again, Randidly felt a bit of trepidation, wondering if Lucretia was wrong about what would happen next.

But no, the Patron sighed and shook Yn’ulk’s head. “Perhaps this meeting was too hasty. Some time passing before a Lizakh becomes one of your Patrons is a gamble, but a necessary one. Without trust, we have nothing. Please, contact me again when you are ready to continue these discussions.”

The bright specter behind the head Lizakh warrior slowly dimmed. He swayed and collapsed back. Randidly grimaced and waited a few seconds, but then approached when he sensed that the Patron had given up on the tenuous connection to the Alpha Cosmos. Randidly blinked several times. After all that chaotic emotional discharge, he had the self-control to just leave?

He didn’t lash out? Could this actually be a reasonable individual in the Nexus?

Randidly produced a washcloth from his interspatial ring and wetted it so he could wipe some of the blood from Yn’ulk’s sleeping face. He was thankful for the anticlimactic end to the meeting but suspicious.

When no trouble manifested even after several seconds, he nodded at D’min. “Take your fellow Lizakh back with you. I believe that he will need quite a bit of rest, after that experience. But perhaps meeting the Patron of the Sun will help him develop his image.”

D’min nodded and picked the other Lizakh up. But before he passed through the portal, he looked back at Randidly. “Excuse me… I understand that I have no standing to ask this of you, but I was hoping you could arrange for my training. I truly wish to proceed out into the wider universe, the one where she… ahem. But in my current state-”

“You’ll be eaten alive.” Randidly’s lips twitched. Then his expression softened, wondering what sort of connection now existed between D’min and Claudette. Had he planted the seeds of it when he incorporated the Lizakh into her image? “But I know a group of people who can help you train. Whether you will grow strong… that part is up to you.”

D’min left after giving his thanks, leaving Randidly alone on the mountain top. He shook himself and spoke to the air. “How did you know that D’min wouldn’t agree? And then that the Patron would choose to withdraw, rather than picking someone else.”

Lucretia condensed next to Randidly. She reached up and tied her long hair into a bun. “Former was more of a gamble than the latter.” She admitted. “But as part of the Pantheon, we have certain insights into the deepest desires of individuals. Honestly, the sensation is hard to explain; I suspect that we can give a bit more well-tailored Paths due to the prevalence of Nether. So I could see D’min’s desire to grow stronger and experience the universe for himself.

“As for the Patron leaving of his own accord, heh. It’s a matter of image fidelity. Whatever he wanted to pull with getting one of his people onto the Pantheon, he needed someone who had a basic capability with images so he could use them as a conduit. Other than D’min and Yn’ulk, the Lizakh don’t have anyone worth mentioning. Utilizing his image through someone weak would have aggravating amounts of static on his end. He could choose someone and hope to train them to competency, but if someone else started showing a lot of potential… better just to wait. Despite how restless he seemed, this is a being capable of patience.”

He probably had to be, to survive so long in isolation, Randidly reflected.

After conversing a bit more, Lucretia left to handle other matters of the Alpha Cosmos. Although they didn’t want it to be the Patron of the Sun, they were talking a lot about expanding the Pantheon; with the addition of Tellus and the Nemesai worlds, they needed to work near constantly to provide even basic Skills and Paths to all the developing individuals.

Randidly punched his fists together. Sulfur hummed in pleasure. It’s nice to know that even while I’m focusing on my own issues, the Pantheon is growing strong in its own way. Through with the growing significance of the Alpha Cosmos and the thoughts of the population here… Somewhat tempting to make myself a part of the Pantheon, but to do so would mean that I have a responsibility to help with the tasks. And I’m busy enough as it is.

He used the Philosopher's Key to open a portal back to Donnyton’s festival. By this point, night had fallen and the soup stand was humming with activity. Delilah had been forced to help with the biscuits with Randidly busy, but she now gratefully ceded that responsibility to him and scampered off into the night.

After the bustle died down in the early hours of the morning, only Neveah, D’min, Randidly, and Claudette were left in the soup stand. The rest of the visitors had other responsibilities. The group lounged in the back area of the kitchen, snacking on small hand pies that Katrina had brought over from their stand. They all were thoroughly seeped in the small of stewed meat.

Yet when they all finished eating, Randidly cocked an eyebrow at a yawning Claudette. “You certainly look more lively than you did before. Have fun?”

“Yes. I feel quite energized.” Claudette grinned at him. There was a growing intensity in her eyes that Randidly recognized. He mirrored the same anticipation back at her. Both of their smiles widened.

Neveah sighed. “Really? All you two want to do now is train more? I will never understand you fighting types…”
