Delta edged closer to the Great Mushy. It danced back and forth as if still unsure of its new shape and size.She was just going to touch it and walk away. Delta could do that much, just one little touch. Closer and closer, Delta neared the death plant. With trembling fingers, Delta reached out.This was silly, she was the Dungeon Core. She shouldn’t be afraid of over half the things she made. The Great Mushy gargled its acid and Delta turned and fled. Screw it, she’ll grow a spine later.Grumbling, she stalked down past the spider room and praying to whoever was listening, purchased the spider upgrade. She peeked around the corner as Mana rose.The Spiders shivered and a little white line appeared around their butt parts and that was it. Delta cheered and watched as the new web coming out of the spiders seemed to be more silvery than white. The little bead points where the webs connected was pretty. Like snowflakes caught on the web.Delta hoped that people would like the web if nothing else. The woman, Ruli, seemed pleased with the normal web so this should be good, right?Delta pondered what else she could do and floated down the hall. For the first time in forever, her DP was only at a lowly 31. Heading into the grove, she peered around and then opened the menu.

It was a nice touch, she could just have some unknown number of mushrooms she created spawn on their own over time.

Her previous purchases hadn’t unlocked more and Delta would be damned before helped the Gutrot evolve past their annoying existence into a true threat. The other Mushroom felt interesting in an I-really-shouldn’t kind of way.Scrolling, Delta wondered what she would have to do to unlock better mushrooms that didn’t make her want to scream?Just because she had a vendetta against the things didn’t mean she wanted the people outside to miss out on a potential life changer. Delta wasn’t that petty.Thinking, she looked around at the mulch and soil. Her finger hovered over the Wyin plant at 15 DP.That would leave her… 16 DP, which was more than enough to evolve one of her goblins. Delta pondered the options. The plant could potentially give antidotes and maybe by being near the poisonous mushrooms, it would produce better antidotes? Medicine was never a wrong choice when it came from non-harmful testing. Evolving one of her goblins?It would have to be one of the new pair she had made, possibly Francois. Hob and Gob were rares and seemed to work on another system entirely. Delta again, sticking to her code, asked why she wanted to evolve the goblins.First, as friendly as she wanted to be, she couldn’t put her safety in the hands of strangers. Having more power if she needed it was just being sensible. Delta didn’t know anything about this world. Who ruled it? What was the dungeon laws? How could Delta make sure she wasn’t invaded and used like a magical vending machine until she went insane?Evolve some firepower. She felt a little bit unsure about it however. What if evolving monsters made her dungeon appear as dangerous? There was no answer. When there was no answer to be had, Delta did what she always did and decided to play it by ear.One step at a time.She placed the plant in a small clearing, partially hidden by the large mushrooms in the grove.The plant appeared from the ground, growing in a sped-up fashion until three healthy green leafs flopped out from the stem.It was a pretty normal plant beside the odd yellow stem. Delta jumped as the Ornery Boar of the Grove walked past and sniffed at the new addition. The mushroom-loving pig dismissed it and it walked off., it quickly blended in between the fungi and vanished from sight.Delta knew where it was but it was still surprising to see how easily it disappeared from view. Delta opened the menu but no option to have the plant respawn appeared. She frowned as she moved on.The Mushroom Grove must be fine-tuned to the mushrooms only. She would have to figure out a way to keep the plant respawning. As a 12 mana summon, it wasn’t cheap. Delta was about to move over to Francois to begin his evolution.That was when the menus all vanished and that feeling returned. Delta spun and was at the entrance a moment later. Her heart fluttered with excitement as Ruli appeared whistling. Over one shoulder was a fishing rod. Her black hair looked tied up and her fur jacket seemed replaced by a simple shirt. In her other hand was a large burlap sack.“Hey, Dungeon! Sorry to be back so soon and stuff. Hope you weren’t busy. I came to fish and I bought a little gift for being here and not… ya know, adventuring,” Ruli said loudly and she dropped the sack down and left the dungeon for a moment.Delta was stunned. Tribute? Ruli knew her menus didn’t work?The sack melted as soon as Ruli was out of the dungeon.

