The four of them took seats around the campfire where four trays of food sat waiting for them, each one stacked with meat buns, fried dough fritters, a bowl of beef bone congee, and pickled turnips. Simple fare and far too much for Luo-Luo to finish, but the unfamiliar, fragrant smells had her watering at the mouth. With a snort of disdain, Alsantset took a meat bun off of Luo-Luo’s tray, took a bite, and said, “I see someone slept well last night. Had you stayed in a little longer, you would be right on time for lunch. Not feeling well?”

Sensing hostility, Luo-Luo forced herself not to back down and smiled, pretending not to have noticed the fearsome tigress’s scathing tone. “Not at all. Luo-Luo is in the best of health but thanks Sister-in-Law for her concern.” In six years of indolence, Luo-Luo had picked up a few bad habits like sleeping in, but it’s not as if Lord Husband had need of her. Either way, she marked it as something to improve upon, quietly roping Li-Li in while they ate and asking her to come wake Luo-Luo the next morning. Though possessed of a stern and dour demeanour, Li-Li seemed more than happy to help, her ears fluttering as she accepted Luo-Luo’s request.

Perhaps Luo-Luo was in better company than she thought...

Barely eating a quarter of the food offered, Luo-Luo’s actions earned Alsantset’s ire once more, but this time the tigress didn’t confront her over it, merely grimacing at the leftovers before tossing them to the bears. Luo-Luo complimented the taste and blamed her lack of appetite on her poor fitness, for although she was technically a Martial Warrior, she rarely practised the Forms, unlike the lovable twins giving it their all under Alsantset’s strict guidance. Little Tate wore a serious frown as he battled against imagined enemies while darling Tali danced about with a smile, her arms and legs almost fluttering in the wind. Both seemed very impressive for children their age, but Luo-Luo had little experience in this field.

Unlike Luo-Luo, Lin-Lin, Mila, and Li-Li finished everything on their trays, a formidable feat considering their slim, petite figures and taut, flat stomachs. Suddenly self-conscious of her soft belly and plump hips, Luo-Luo resolved to put a little more effort into her fitness routine. Perhaps she could even ask for help incorporating the Forms, so she would have something to discuss with the stern and militant Mila. One could never have too many allies, though from the looks of things, Mila shared Lord Husband’s misgivings and was far from pleased by Luo-Luo’s existence.

Their breakfast finished, Mila gathered up the bears and wildcats while Luo-Luo lent a hand in collecting the bicorn rabbits, but was more hindrance than help. The tiny, fluffy creatures were only too happy to leap into Lin-Lin’s or Li-Li’s arms to be placed in a pouch, but whenever Luo-Luo approached they screamed for dear life and scurried away. Turning to the largest rabbit, who was aptly named ‘Mama Bun’, Luo-Luo slowly approached with arms outstretched so as not to scare her. Thumping the ground in a spray of dirt, the large rabbit faced Luo-Luo but didn’t scream or flee, which seemed like an improvement, so Luo-Luo sidled closer at a slow and steady pace. She remembered seeing Mama Bun laid out across Lord Husband’s and Lin-Lin’s lap, a warm, friendly creature who -

In the blink of an eye, Mama Bun shot up from the ground with her chin tucked in, her two nubby horns aimed at Luo-Luo’s face. Only Li-Li’s timely interception saved her from a bloodied or broken nose, catching Mama Bun out of the air with one hand and uttering a stern ‘No’ before handing her off to Lin-Lin. Stricken with flashbacks of her encounter with the ferocious ‘Zabu’, Luo-Luo thanked Li-Li for her help and scurried out of the rabbit enclosure, standing off to one side and swearing never to approach any of Lord Husband's pets without someone to guard her nearby.

Even the rabbits were trained to defend themselves. What sort of monsters was her Lord Husband raising?

With this terrible start to her day, Luo-Luo followed her sister-wives to the beach, worried she’d never learn to fit in with these aggressive and war-like Bekhai. To make matters worse, breakfast sat poorly in Luo-Luo’s stomach and she had yet to use the facilities since waking. After minutes of silent struggle, she risked Mama Bun’s ire to approach Lin-Lin with a whisper. “Where might one find the facilities?”

Struggling to hold Mama Bun in place, Lin-Lin answered much too loudly. “Oh, you hafta go pee? The latrines are over that way.”

Blanching at the thought of relieving herself in public next to battle-hardened soldiers, Luo-Luo shook her head and whispered, “Is... Is there anywhere more private?”

Nodding sagely, Lin-Lin replied, “Oh, you hafta poop. Okay, mm... You can use hubby’s tent, that’s by the latrines too. Hehe... you’re like hubby, so shy. Come on, we can stop there on the way.”

Unsure if Lin-Lin was purposely teasing her, Luo-Luo soon couldn't spare the effort to wonder as the long trek to the latrines tested her intestinal fortitude and perseverance. When Lin-Lin pointed at the tent in question, Luo-Luo left the group behind and ran ahead, her dilemma made worse once she realized she had a wildcat bounding at her heels. Panic gripping her heart, she ran faster than ever before and burst into the tent, leaving the wildcat behind while she fumbled at the elegant knot in her sash in a desperate attempt not to soil herself in fear or urgency.

“Umm...Occupied?” Head snapping up at the sound of his voice, Luo-Luo was horrified to find Lord Husband squatting before her with a confused, timid look on his face and his pants around his ankles. Time froze as Luo-Luo gazed into his amber eyes, her mind screaming to leave but her bowels blackmailing her to stay. In the end, her bowels won out and with a frantic cry, she hiked her skirt as high as she could and ran behind Lord Husband to give in to her bodily needs.

The next thirty seconds were nothing short of mortifying, with blissful relief giving way to existential dread as she re-evaluated her choices.

All of a sudden, invoking her Privilege didn’t seem so bad after all.

Breaking the utter silence with a chortle, Lord Husband’s chuckles quickly devolved into hysterical laughter. Between pained gasps and raucous cackles, Lord Husband said, “You know... I’ve been told nobles have deviant tastes... but tandem shitting really isn’t my thing.”

The second day of Spring in the thirty-fifth year of His Imperial Majesty’s reign would forever be remembered as the most miserable day in Luo-Luo’s twenty-three years of life.

And it wasn’t even noon.

Chapter Meme
