Time stood still for two more moments, and then it resumed, but slowly. Redflame’s wide eyes ponderously shut all the way and then opened once again; a minute spent on a single blink.

And then he was present, in the moment. Broken space filled the world all around, while the tower itself almost fell apart, but grey light held it together, filling in the cracks left by the removal of Elemental Benevolence. Redflame did not seem to like the state of his estate, but instead of getting angry, he looked to Fairy Moon.

Fairy Moon’s left hand was charred black, exposing bone and blood. Lightning burns went all the way up to her elbow. Her blood was red as could be, dripping out of her flesh like an open tap. She should have been and possibly was in a great deal of pain, but she smiled despite it all. Warmth, love, and hope held in her deep, green and pink eyes, and in the curl of her lips. She sighed; a fond expression. And then she moved her burned hand away from Erick’s fully intact hand, curling the bone and burned flesh to hold it tight against her chest. Blood dripped upon her dress, and she flinched as she moved, betraying her physical pain, but what was the physical to one such as her? It was nothing. Fairy Moon took a moment to be thankful for what she had done, and what Erick had done, while she held her crispy flesh close.

Maid Maria remained far behind Erick, cowering behind the bar and behind a silver serving tray, but she poked her head out, now that time had resumed.

The three heads of the houses of Ar’Cosmos each hovered on the other side of separate windows to the tower. Illustrious’s foxtail-like aura extended out from behind her like the fanning flames of a violet fire. Inferno Maw held himself up via a grey density in the air; it was his grey magic that seemed to be holding up much of the crumbling tower. Bright Smile floated among harsh red light, with her smile full of fangs, and with a thin collar of white lightning circling her neck, with spikes pointing inward.

Erick had a similar crash of iridescent white lightning inside his mana veins, but his was a lot less violent looking.

Erick decided to speak first, “So it seems that was Elemental Benevolence.” He glanced to Fairy Moon. “It seems like it will work out, too.”

Expressions of concern, intrigue, hope, and worry, abounded.

Fairy Moon just giggled, then she tore the burned flesh from her left arm like she was taking off a long glove, revealing perfectly healthy flesh beneath. In that same movement she turned the removed glove into a small white ring that she then slipped upon that hand’s ring finger. That white ring sparkled like a tiny circle of Benevolence lightning, and she held it up for all to see. “A beautiful thing, this beatific creation! Benevolence is cause for celebration! Not concern!” She gestured with her newly beringed hand at the Eraser and Replacer [Renew] rings. “And [Renew] will solve both the half-dragon dilemma and the small shattering of our Ar’Cosmos. But since the shattering is rather serious, that is the rudeness we must rectify first.” She said to Illustrious, “Illustrious! Illuminate the in-flow nodes for Wizard Erick to begin repairing the mess he has made! It will be a grand first-use of his radical [Renew].” She said to Erick, “For you will be repairing the ravaging you have done, don’t you think?”

Illustrious instantly took up the option to control the conversation, saying, “But of course.” She began to float into the room, to land upon the floor near her window. “An inflow of proper mana will begin to repair the damage done, and what better way to test out the veracity of [Renew] than to heal this land, directly?”

Inferno Maw and Bright Smile followed Illustrious’s lead, and floated inside the tower, to land on the floor.

Inferno Maw said, “I would seek a proper accounting of whatever happened here, before anything too drastic should happen, such as revealing the nodes that dictate the stability of this land to an unallied Wizard.” He lightly glared at Erick, saying, “I am quite disappointed to know that Particle Magic isn’t real.”

Erick frowned at the man, his thoughts going sideways as he latched onto Inferno Maw’s little snipe. “Your world fell into my universe, Inferno Maw. This universe has particles. I did not invent those.”

Fairy Moon sighed, and sat back to wait out the drama.

“How can anyone be sure? You might have even invented ‘Earth’ as a concept of your own past.” Inferno Maw said, “You’ve changed so much, so fast, and unless I am mistaken, you have just now invented a new Element. I have no doubt this new mana has propagated backward into the past, and likely infected every single spell you have ever cast. Who is to say that you haven’t already done this once before? I believe you have.”

Erick would have been dumbfounded by Inferno Maw’s nonsense, but he saw a truth in the man. Inferno Maw was scared, and trying not to show it. He wasn’t the only one. Practically every single person in that tower room was least a little terrified, except for Fairy Moon. She seemed like she knew that everything would be okay.

Erick… Mostly felt that everything would be okay.

Except for the ring of lightning around Bright Smile’s neck; that was a major concern.

Erick was currently engaging with Inferno Maw, though, so he said, “Fairy Moon was the one that caused this to happen. I was going to get together a committee to talk about how to solve the problem of the Sundering, and then I was going to enact their will, creating a true Sundering solution that would last forever. But… I think this will work.”

Fairy Moon happily said, “You make a mistake, Erick! This was not me, my wonderful Wizard.”

Erick frowned, though he could not find it in himself to be mad like he thought he should be. Fairy Moon had tricked him, right? Or did he have that wrong? Did a trick even count if it wasn’t magically enforced? … What had happened in that moment when Fairy Moon had asked that question, anyway?

And why wasn’t Erick madder at her? A side effect of Benevolence? Maybe. Maybe not. He could run some experiments with getting angry another day; for now, though, anger would be counterproductive.

There were more things to be worried about than all that nuance, though.

At the mention of Sunderings, Inferno Maw forced his breathing and his heart rate to remain even. Illustrious let her heart beat fast and hard, for she did not care who knew her emotion— She wanted people to know what she wanted them to know. Not ‘she did not care’. Bright Smile just grinned wider.

Erick suspected that Bright Smile might have a screw loose.

Redflame spoke, though, because he had had enough, “I am entering into a formal alliance with Erick. I expect you all to fall in line. Sort out the details at another time, though.” He said to Erick, “Erick. Thank you for the [Renew] rings. I will begin testing on them today with some of our sorrier cases. Do you wish to be kept apprised of this development?”

Erick did not miss that the man had said ‘thank you’. No one had missed that. Erick still didn’t know if saying ‘thank you’ was bad to say around Fairy Moon, or around anyone inside Ar’Cosmos, but at this rate he was gathering ‘thank you’s and he had no idea how to cash them in, or if he even could. Whatever!

“Yes; I wish to be kept apprised.” Erick said, “These rings might not work, though. If they look to fail in some way then stop the procedure and let me make some new ones.” He stressed, “I am not comfortable with person-experimentation, but we’re at that level. I hope that there are no untoward effects.”

Redflame said, “The people who could benefit from these bloodline erasers or creators—”

Inferno Maw exclaimed, “Bloodline Magic!”

Illustrious laughed. “He did it!”

Bright Smile demanded, “Make one for Paradoxed Carnage.”

Redflame glared at Bright Smile, announcing, “We will talk later. All of you. Later.” He turned to Erick, “These people I plan to use these on are half-dead already. They are kept in stasis… Those who can afford it keep themselves or their loved ones in stasis, to come out of that stasis every so often to accrete to see if they can clear up their bloodline. We have a lot of death row cases like that. If this helps, then this helps. If not, then they will at least have gotten a chance that they did not have before now.”

Erick steeled himself. “I am glad to know your measure, Redflame, and I am very glad that this meeting… Has worked out, mostly. I can see through the Ophiel I left on the roof and I apologize for… Whatever happened when I made Elemental Benevolence.”

Elemental Benevolence had shattered all of Ar’Cosmos, apparently.

“I can see the various destruction as well,” Redflame said, “But I highly doubt that anyone except for the truly unlucky have been injured, and even those who have been injured are likely receiving help.”

Illustrious spoke up, “House Fae and House Carnage are seeing to the repair, as we speak.”

Bright Smile glanced to Illustrious, and decided to follow the woman’s lead, saying, “Carnage takes care of our people and this level of destruction is nothing to us dragons. We will make good allies going forward, Erick, for together, we shall carve lands out of this world that will accept us all, or they shall accept fire and death.”

Illustrious tried not to frown at the end of Bright Smile’s announcement, but she couldn’t help it. She frowned. Erick wasn’t too happy with the ‘fire and death part’, either, but they would undoubtedly talk about that before they got that far. Redflame glared lightly at Bright Smile, but then ignored her threats.

Inferno Maw said, “The Pathways are secure. Ar’Cosmos has not been breached. This level of destruction has come upon us before, and we have weathered these storms time and time again… Even if this time the circumstances are rather unique.”

Erick almost paled, but he caught himself.

He had almost caused a breach of Ar’Cosmos, eh? That would have been bad.

And at that thought, Erick discovered he could get mad. He was furious at Fairy Moon, but also at himself for what he had almost done, but he stuffed that emotion down, calmed, and moved on.

Erick said, “I hope we can work on many projects together, and on these [Renew] rings, too, in order to solve some of your problems this month, instead of next year when [Renew] enters the Open Script— Though it’s only… ten months from now. Not a full year. Perhaps you will have proper runic [Renew] rings before next year’s Water Season begins?”

Redflame nodded solemnly, then said, “That was to be the first of my deadlines for a working prototype, if I had managed to make [Renew] myself.. Now that you are here, though, and helping, I gratefully accept your help and look forward to working with you on this temporary and individual solution to the Dragon Curse.” Redflame said, “In time, when our people are… Perhaps living beside Candlepoint, or some such, we will have time to work on more projects together.”

Erick said, “There is lots of room around Candlepoint. I can only hope that when the wrought and Kirginatharp find out that I’m a Wizard— Okay. Well. I just made Elemental Benevolence. So. They likely already know. Therefore, I want to be sure this alliance is going to work.” He looked around, but mostly at Bright Smile. “I do not want a single war to happen because of the removal of the Curse.”

Bright Smile spoke, “We won’t go looking for war but we will not back down from a war if war should come, and war will come for us. If you enter into an alliance with us, that means that you will protect us, and we will protect you, and if someone should attack us, then you must attack them alongside our forces. That is the preliminary alliance agreement, but more words would be put down on paper later. If you cannot agree to that, then we will need to have different discussions about you leaving Ar’Cosmos intact, or not.”

Erick ignored the threat, and felt the lightning in his veins seem to focus.

His words came out calm, but inside, he had a feeling like butterflies in his stomach. “I am aware of what it means to be allies, Bright Smile.” Erick spoke with feeling, “I am also aware that with enough power, all sides might choose not to go to war, for the outcome of such a war would break Veird. I will not participate in such a conflict if it should escalate to that point, or if it looks to escalate anywhere near that point. I urge you to not do this, either. The release of dragons from Ar’Cosmos does not need to cause a war.”

Bright Smile brought the building storm to a point, “They will force a Forgotten Campaign against you. The entire world will come for you. The only thing you can do is decide if you want to lay down and die, or thrive in the violence. I know my choice. When the choice comes to you, I hope you make the right one, or else we cannot be allies.”

And here now was the turning of a world.

A knot in the tapestry.

A choice made before all other choices.

Bright Smile’s lightning necklace glittered in Erick’s eyes, and in his eyes only.

Erick felt himself speaking, guiding his words and his future toward somewhere better than before, “So if war is not inevitable... If they choose to let Benevolence stand? If they choose to let Ar’Cosmos enter the world without violence? What then? Will you go to war even when there’s so much land out there to occupy and populate, and war only diminishes yourself and your own resources? Soon, we’ll be opening up whole new worlds, Bright Smile. I will make that happen. There is absolutely no need for war. Why go to war, when you won’t even have the resources necessary to found a proper Empire? To occupy and control and cultivate all the infinite lands out there that you will eventually gain?” Erick said, “No; War is not the best possible answer. Posturing and promises of war, followed by surgical strikes against entrenched enemies are something that could happen, but believing and acting like open war is inevitable is the surest way to ruin.”

