He had tried to persuade the woman away from thinking that war was inevitable, but his attempt had not been enough. Luckily, Redflame seemed to be on Erick’s side. Also luckily, it seemed whatever problem or opportunity that Bright Smile represented was still a long ways away. Erick had no idea how he knew that, and he could be very wrong, but that’s what he felt.

It wasn’t a normal feeling, either.

It was like putting a finger on an electric stove to see if it was hot. Right now, Bright Smile was simply ‘warm’. She was also the only person within all of Erick’s senses that was ‘warm’, at all. Granted, he hadn’t spent too much time looking at many people; mostly just himself and the people nearest to him and… No one else, actually. Erick glanced through Ophiel, to see the dining room. The dining room was empty.

Maid Maria and Fairy Moon were elsewhere.

Erick was here alone? Or… Probably not. Maid Maria might be hiding; Erick had thought her over her fear of him, but after yesterday Maria’s fear seemed to be back, in full. So Erick was likely alone, unless circumstances dictated otherwise.

Whatever the case, it was time to do some investigating with regard to Benevolence.

Erick had Ophiel flit out of the shallows and go to the balcony. There, Erick gazed through his eyes and saw the various people of Ar’Cosmos going about their days like normal. He tried to focus on his own Benevolence, to see if he felt a ‘lightning rod effect’ drawing him to any of the people out there… But he got nothing. Maybe his senses didn’t work through Ophiel’s senses? Maybe so. It was time to get out of the water, anyway.

With a quick hop out of the waters and a toweling, Erick put on some nice clothes and went outside, onto the balcony. Ophiel twittered at him as he joined the little guy at the railing. After a little pat on Ophiel’s feathers, Erick turned his direct attention to the people far below, in the city outside Fairy Moon’s manor.

The people went about their business like normal. Mostly.

There were still a few cracks in the sky, but the city itself seemed mostly intact. Sure, there used to be a large tree in that one blank space there, and at least two houses were missing, entirely, but there was a sapling in that space where the tree used to be, and people were already carting large flats of brick and stone into place, to get ready to rebuild the houses. The gaggle of women with the big hats were out and about, talking up a storm and laughing loudly as they passed down the street, on to do whatever it was they normally did together. Further below, inside Fairy Moon Manor’s property, Maid Maria looked to be helping a farmhand harvest some crops, doing a completely normal task like she usually did.

Erick kept looking for something out of place.

… Twenty minutes later, Erick had found nothing.

He had expected to latch onto something, as he had with Bright Smile. And yet, there was nothing. After a moment Erick realized this was actually quite a relief. Most people were just normal people, after all, simply trying to do good for themselves and their immediate circle, which was perfectly fine…

And yet, it was not fine, because this made whatever had happened with Bright Smile even more important.

… Erick went to find breakfast. He would save experimenting with his ‘Elemental Benevolence Body’ for later, when his stomach was full.

- - - -

The hallways leading to the kitchen were intact, and so was the kitchen itself, though it was missing two stoves and a work table. The cold storage looked like it was half depleted, for instead of being full of racks of frozen meat and crates upon crates of supplies, half the room was empty and everything that had survived had been reorganized on the other side.

The pantry, which was once full of shelves upon shelves of bubbled food from centuries of maids, that had extended several floors upward and a kilometer deep, was now half that. Maybe a little less. Maybe only a third.

Erick felt a profound sense of loss at that destruction of comfort; at the loss of food made by hands that no longer existed. And then he considered what else Fairy Moon had lost over her many years, and that perhaps Erick was feeling something that was not actually present in the old fae. Fairy Moon had likely gained and lost way too much over her life for this temporary loss of the past to be anything but an old wound, already numb to most pain.

Other people in the city had experienced similar losses, and were likely a lot more broken up about it, but when Erick studied the world outside of his balcony he didn’t see a single sad person— Well. Having a breakdown on a street was likely something just not done, but still, Erick hadn’t seen any obviously unhappy people down there, on the streets outside of Fairy Moon Manor.

Had the creation of Benevolence not actually been that bad, at all?

… Erick picked out some spicy fried chicken tortilla wrap-like foods from one of Maid Maria’s bubbled options, along with a pitcher of tea and some cookies from the bakery table. Then he went back to his room.

- - - -

Empty plates and a full stomach! This was good. There were still three more sugar cookies to eat, but he was full, and it was time to try some magic.

Erick stood where he usually accreted, though the space was now clear of all pillows and otherwise. With a flick, he turned on his mana sense and found that sense to be exactly as it has always had been; like becoming part of the mana and thus able to sense all the world around him. His range was still rather low, at only five meters distant, but that was likely more due to the nature of Ar’Cosmos, and not any personal failing.

Next came aura control. This, then, was the first real test of what his aura had become in the wake of Benevolence.

Feeling out a familiar flow between thought and action to create a minor control over nearby Reality, Erick opened up his third eye and—

Lightning and light spilled from his body like he had opened up all of his mana veins and let the electricity out. He had become a tesla coil and all the world had become a ground; white lightning danced from the floor to his legs, while arcing off his outstretched hands to touch upon the air like it was reaching for something that was not there.

—Erick cut his aura off.

He paused.

He inspected himself for damage. He found none.

Then he braced himself and opened his aura again.

Not-lightning crackled and snapped all around him, arcing away like so many sparks, and then, it calmed. Oddly, the lightning sort of remained, and yet, not exactly.

Past the initial burst of personal Reality encroaching on nominal reality, Erick’s normal glowing aura filled out his normal amount of aura space, but instead of wisping away in any stray gust of wind, it now curled and turned to sharp lightning, to strike out at any nearby structure. The lightning made no sound. The small strikes made no actual burn marks on anything. It was still aura, and thus it was just Erick’s soul’s expression of itself upon the manasphere. Opening his aura did not automatically create magic. It didn’t really let out the lightning in his veins, either.

Over the course of ten seconds, and then twenty, and then a full minute, Erick’s natural lightning calmed down. Every bit of light that wisped away did automagically transform into lightning, to strike whatever was nearest, but it was still light when it was nearer to his body.

With a thought, Erick held his aura tight, forcing it to remain intact and in a bubble around him, like he would do when accreting.

Instantly, the lightning stopped. The storm calmed. His aura turned solid white and surrounded him like a bubble—

… No? No.

That wasn’t quite right, either.

Erick gazed upon his controlled aura and watched as tracers of lighting, like movement inside fog, zapped from his body to the edge of his aura, like he was the center of a plasma ball lamp. The effect was faint, but it was there.

… He wasn’t sure how he felt about that.

He moved on. The next experiment was bloodline suppression—

With barely a thought, his aura completely responded to his desire and his bloodline suppressed all the way back to his core, leaving his mana veins completely devoid of lightning. They were back to how they had been when Erick had first attained this Other Form; mere shadowed spaces inside his body. And, strangely enough, suppressing his bloodline had been easy. Easier than it had been when his bloodline had been Light Essence based, and by a lot.

That meant something, too, but as to what, Erick could only guess.

He moved on.

A twist of 5 mana made a [Force Bolt] out of his suppressed aura, which impacted the stone floor without damaging it at all. Completely normal. For Erick’s second Bolt, he used one mana and packed it with Elemental Mystical, but in a Clarity sort of way, attempting to make a normal [Force Bolt] for 1 mana.

That second bolt did not work. Instead of a spot of clearish-whitish light, Erick got an eyeball conjured out of the manasphere which struck the ground and splatted, exactly how an eye would have splattered.

Okay. So. That was a [Mystical Bolt], probably; a scraping of the manasphere for an effect, and having found a [Scry] effect —that looked a lot like Yggdrasil’s eye— it copied that effect and created a Bolt of that same shape. That was just a guess, anyway. Maybe there were a thousand invisible [Scry]s around him at all times! Wouldn’t that be completely different than normal!

Moving on.

With 2 mana, and through the use of Elemental Mystical tag-along ideas, Erick was able to make a normal [Force Bolt]. Theoretically he should have been able to get his Bolt costs down to 1 mana, for that’s what they had been back on Veird. Obviously, this was a skill issue, then.

… Erick relaxed his suppressed aura. Wispy, white lightning filled the air around him.

With a twist and a spark of intent, a little lightning bolt of Benevolence shot out of his aura and struck the floor, leaving a teeny tiny scorch mark upon the stone that sparked for five seconds, and then settled down. The spark barely made any sound at all.

Most of his Benevolence stuff was completely silent, which was quite at odds with how Erick usually expected electricity to act, but, of course, this wasn’t electricity now, was it?

Anyway. Erick cast again.

A tiny not-lightning bolt arced from his aura to strike a spot on the floor just to the left of his first strike. Again, the struck area sparked for a bit, and then settled down, leaving a tiny black spot when it was over.

… Erick suppressed his aura, manually Mana Altered for Elemental Lightning, and threw a proper Bolt—

The air crackled as a Bolt of white lightning, like a golfball of power, zapped out of Erick’s clear aura and struck the ground, smacking hard. And then it was over. There was no lingering lightning. There hadn’t been an actual bolt of lightning either, like how one would normally see lightning in the sky; there had certainly been a [Force Bolt]-shaped Bolt, though.

As for the stone floor, there was barely any indication that Erick had struck the ground at all… Perhaps a small discoloration? He really had to look to see that discoloration, though. It was definitely not a black mark like the Benevolence lightning had left, nor had the [Lightning Bolt] lingered at all. And what’s more, the [Benevolence Bolt] had been an actual lightning-shaped bolt, too—

Ahh.

Erick grimaced.

Terminology was going to be a problem. A Bolt was not a bolt was not a [Chain Lightning], while the word ‘lightning’ (lowercase) was usually used to indicate the normal lightning bolts that came out of clouds, and ‘Lightning’ (uppercase) was used to indicate Elemental Lightning.

Though some people still appended the word ‘bolt’ onto lightning to indicate the natural feature that came out of clouds.

Erick was almost tempted to invent a new word.

“Arrow, would work, for the lightning-bolt shape.” Erick glanced over to his enchanting workspace, where a few [Renew] rune drawings sat. “I suppose that rune does look like an arrow curled up from tip to tail.” But he was unsure. The word ‘arrow’ in Ecks was already used to denote pointers and directionality, and Erick had already firmly established that ‘arrow’ as the English ‘arrow’ in his mind, which was also the same word used to denote the arrows that went with bows and arrows. Veird didn't have bows and arrows, though, as far as Erick knew. He could use the english word for it? But... It would be even more confusing to try and untangle the idea of ‘lightning bolt’ out of ‘arrow’ every time he said the word ‘arrow’ and didn’t actually mean ‘arrow’—

“Wait!” Erick said, “There’s ‘jolt’. Yes. ‘Jolt’ is good.”

Erick shot out a ‘jolt’ of Elemental Benevolence, striking the stone ground, creating a tiny black mark and a temporary sparkle of lingering power.

He smiled a little. He hadn’t done much with Lightning Magic in a long time, except way back at the beginning, so he had somehow forgotten the term ‘jolt’. ‘Jolt’ was used all the time in Medium-sized Lightning Magic, which were usually made using a combination of Elemental Lightning and [Force Beam]. ‘Spark’ was the term used for Small-sized Lightning Magic, which were primarily derived from [Force Bolt] combinations. The term ‘Lightning’ itself was used for the Large to Super Large castings.

Erick’s first spell he ever made, himself, was [Call Lightning], and that spell was both Super Large and also used the term ‘Lightning’ in its name.

Lowercase words could refer to the simple shape of a spell, though, and for that ‘jolt’ would work fine.

Erick suppressed his aura again and tried to make a [Lightning Spark] through [Force Bolt] and Elemental Lightning.

A spark of white lightning zapped out of his clear aura, fizzling the air as it instantly struck the stone floor, and then it was over. Erick inspected the stone. No lingering sparks. Only the tiniest bit of a discoloration—

KNOCK KNOCK

Erick almost jolted off the ground. He tentatively asked, “Hello?”

Fairy Moon’s voice came through the door, “Please do not destroy my mansion! We have places to practice newfound power!”

Erick frowned at the door, and then looked down at his floor. Then he went to the door, opened it, and said, “It’s barely a mark on the stone.”

Fairy Moon did not look relieved. “No destruction in my domain! And wear that amulet to produce more high-powered Ophiel; the [Renew] of Ar’Cosmos is taking too much time.”

Erick paused. He asked, “Is there a problem with the current rate of repair?”

