Bright Smile kept her ruinous grin, as she said, “‘Believing’ and ‘acting’ have nothing to do with my stance that war is inevitable. I know war will happen, Archmage Flatt, because as soon as dragons are allowed to be strong, Rozeta and the wrought and Kirginatharp will come for us, as they have time and time again. Forgotten Campaigns. Genocidal Dragon Stalkers. Mind Mages, and most of all, Kirginatharp, who Cursed us all and who maintains that Curse within his own soul, ensuring that none shall ever challenge him again.” She adopted a bravado of relaxation, saying “But I understand your particular stance, even if I think it too hopeful by far. Dreamers like yourself make this world worth living. But when this turns into another Chelation War I expect you to hold up your end of this bargain made today. I expect you to bring extermination to those who want nothing more than to exterminate us.”

Erick blinked a little, as the depth of Bright Smile’s conviction threw him for a loop.

And just like that, possibility collapsed. Erick could not grasp at the tapestry again, for it was out of reach, for now. The lightning choker around Bright Smile’s neck remained.

Ah. Well. Bright Smile was rather willing to talk. So, perhaps she was not a disaster waiting to happen? At least not right now? They would need to have more discussions later, it seemed—

As soon as Erick had that thought he realized that Bright Smile did not become the head of a house of Ar’Cosmos through utter violence… Well maybe she had, but even Redflame has said that the woman had enacted some ‘good reforms’ in her tenure as the head of House Carnage, which has been for the last 150 or so years, if Erick recalled correctly, and he did.

Erick tried to put himself out there one more time, “I hope I am not allying with warmongers, because if you decide you need to war just because you can, then this alliance is dead in the water.”

Bright Smile said, “If—

“That’s all the talking for today,” Fairy Moon spoke over the dragon woman. She stood. “We will all return to our residences and Erick is to remit to us enough [Renew] to repair the ravaging he has done to this domain. Tomorrow or on tomorrow’s morrow, there will be more talking. Today, we are done.” She clapped.

An echo traveled outward.

And suddenly, Erick, Fairy Moon, and Maid Maria, were all in Fairy Moon Manor, in the dining room, standing around. Not a [Teleport], but a shift in space. Fairy Moon had ended the conversation then and there, and just because she could… Maybe see what Erick had seen?

Redflame’s tower and all of the dragons had been left behind, along with the [Renew] rings he had given the old dragon. Erick just blinked for a bit at the sudden movement, and then Ophiel twittered on his shoulder while Yggdrasil looked all around, excitedly.

It appeared that Fairy Moon Manor did not make it through Erick’s Benevolence unscathed.

The room was broken in half, with one half filled with farmland, and the other half filled with the dining room.

Fairy Moon announced, “Wonderful work, Erick. Maid Maria; it’s time for a repast, so get on that, while I make noticeable a node for this resident Wizard to [Renew].” She gestured to the side, and a torso-sized ball of pink/green/white depths appeared, like a sudden abyss opening in the air. “This is a node of Ar’Cosmos, Erick. [Renew] it, and repair my mansion, first.”

Maria scampered off toward the hallway that should have led to the kitchen, but Erick saw that the hallway ended in a library. Maria didn’t seem to care about the changed space, though, for she touched a bookshelf and that bookshelf turned back into the hall it should have been.

Erick ignored that, and turned back to the node. With barely a command, and more of an understanding, Ophiel flitted over and hovered next to the multicolored abyss. Light streamed out of the little guy, flowing into the abyss—

The broken edges of the dining room, the sculptures half there and the paintings hanging loosely on the walls, took on a pink/green/white shimmer. All too quickly, Ophiel bottomed out on mana, having rapidly pumped 2500 [Renew] into the hole in reality.

Erick glanced around the room.

Fairy Moon did, too. She frowned a little. Nothing had changed.

A sinking feeling dragged down Erick’s stomach as he—

“Oh!” Fairy Moon exclaimed, squinting her eyes into the far distance. “Ah. It’s realigning the river. That’s probably best purposes.” She clapped her hands again, and happily exclaimed, “Repair as you can, or suffer the shame of me doing this same destruction to you. An arm for a leg and a leg for a head—”

Okay. That was too much.

Erick interrupted her, “Your warning is unneeded, and entirely too violent. I am still mad that you slaved me to your will, again. Do not mark me as an enemy, Fairy Moon.” Erick easily found his anger, but it was background noise. He needed a nap, or maybe he was just hungry. He forced himself to relax. “The mana will come as it comes, and not a minute faster.”

Fairy Moon shook her head. “Mark you as enemy? Madness! I mark you as maker of worlds and wisdom! And slaved to my self? Senseless! All I did was ask; you were the one who answered. This Benevolence is all yours, Archmage. Your accomplishment, your actions! I did not do this; only you. This is your Benevolence.”

“… I wanted a committee. You tricked me?”

“I asked and you answered.” Fairy Moon said, “It’s not my fault that mana loves your locution, and that you attained the awareness necessary to nurture this Fairy Fate of beneficent Benevolence.”

Somehow, Erick had forgotten that Fairy Moon was fae.

… Whatever.

Erick held out a hand and mangled up some magic, using Elemental Mystical to make the mana help him cast Ophiel. Another little guy popped out of the air. He was up to four, now. He asked, “Is this the only Node where the magic needs to happen? Will [Renew] filter out to all the other ones?”

“Yes indeed.” Fairy Moon kept smiling. “We might not have runic webs here, but we have better magic than that.”

“Good.” Erick had Ophiel cast a [Prismatic Ward] next to the node while the first one conjured up a bird stand that could eventually hold nine Ophiel next to the node. He asked, “Will Maid Maria be back soon? I feel like taking a nap— after I summon all of my Ophiel and they get set up around the node, of course.”

Fairy Moon had looked like she was about to interject, but then she relaxed, and said, “Supper will surface when Maid Maria wills it to be. Go and get a snack if you’re starving.”

“… Then that is what I am going to do— Ah. When the letters from my current and past allies start coming in, calling for my release, let me know, if you will.”

Like an energetic teenager, Fairy Moon said, “You will not be released until Ar’Cosmos is intact, once again! So the sooner you—”

“Okay. Okay. Okay.”

Erick conjured another Ophiel and with that, he was tapped out, for now. That Ophiel took his place next to the other Ophiel on the bird stand, and Erick went toward the hallway and its unexpected library, to follow where Maria had already gone.

Fairy Moon remained in the dining room with a happy smile upon her face. As Erick passed out of normal sensory range, she started giggling. And dancing. And hopping around. Erick still saw her through Ophiel, though.

Erick ignored that, and continued to the kitchens, passing through rooms he had never seen before, and damaged architecture, everywhere. Some walls had toppled over. One tower had crashed across one room…

And Erick stopped.

He had no fucking clue where to go, at all. So he turned around and went back to the dining room.

Maid Maria was already back, and with two carts laden with all the best looking food that Erick had ever seen. Fairy Moon was getting drunk off a whole bottle of wine that was as large as an orcol’s forearm, and full of deeply purple drink. In that moment, some of Erick’s previous anxiety and worries began to erode. Nothing else was going to happen today, it seemed? Yes. That seemed correct. He was safe, for now.

Fairy Moon happily offered to share some of her purple wine with him, and since Maid Maria was already partaking, Erick decided to have some, too.

It was wonderful.

The food was fantastic, too.

In great, crashing chunks, Erick’s worries began to melt away. He was still safe, for now. Everything had changed. His entire life was gone, and replaced by what would come next. This then, was the turning of his Fate on this here Veird. He almost wanted to go up to his (prison) room and crawl into bed to sleep for a year—

And then Fairy Moon must have seen that Erick wasn’t having enough fun, so she performed the first of many small songs, and Erick started to feel embarrassed for his own heavy, unsaid emotions. Fairy Moon was beyond happy, and she wanted to share that joy with everyone.

“A celebration today, hooroo hooray! Benevolence comes and lights the way! So drink and eat and make merry and pray, for Erick the Wizard has come here to stay!” Fairy Moon affected a false frown, singing, “Not in Ar’Cosmos of course, he doesn’t like that!” She cheered, “But maybe as ally he’ll come up to spat, with us when we venture out into the world, to let our dragon wings come out unfurled! A celebration today, hooroo hooray! Benevolence comes and lights the way!”

The next verse was about city and civilization building, and that was much better.

Erick felt better, too.

Eventually, Fairy Moon even started clapping and music started playing from somewhere.

Maid Maria brought out more drinks.

Somehow, when Erick wasn’t looking, the sculptures around the room had taken up instruments, and moved around as they wished.

It was not long at all until Ophiel couldn’t hold himself back anymore and he joined in on the fun, dancing and twirling between channeling [Renew]s into the Node. Erick even got up and danced a jig with Maid Maria first, and then Fairy Moon second while Maria played a set of drums that had come out from somewhere; Erick had no idea where.

All the while, Erick summoned more Ophiel as he could, and those Ophiel continued to [Renew] the node sitting off to the side. Erick saw absolutely none of the repair work that his mana was apparently doing, but that was fine. Apparently other places had been hit harder by the creation of Elemental Benevolence, and those places would get repaired first.

Erick contented himself with the food, and the drink, and the small party. At Erick’s mention that he had no idea what he was repairing, Fairy Moon began explaining, and with lightward illustrations in the air. The coliseum was coming back together, and then the farm lands were being extracted from home lands, and then the arcanaeum was fixing itself. Maid Maria remained silent, mostly, for she listened right alongside Erick about all of Ar’Cosmos coming back together; she kept the food coming, though.

Erick had no idea where he was putting all the food, but it was good, and he kept eating.

Eventually, Fairy Moon was partied out, which happened when she gazed for the thirtieth time at a sculpture of a man that had yet to move the entire night.

It was a somber moment to end the night, though, so Maria brought out more good food and more good drink, and Erick continued to have no idea where he put it all, as he continued to eat right alongside Maria and Fairy Moon.

And then the party was over.

Erick went back to his room, feeling full, and relaxed, and a lot better about whatever might come next.

Looking out the windows, Erick had thought they had spent days feasting, but the city was still a shattered mess, and it would take days to fix it all. The party had only been several hours long.

Erick’s mind moved on to the tasks ahead.

The party had been a fantastic break, and Erick would sleep well tonight, but...

Ophiel continued to pump [Renew] into the node, as his Rested Regeneration would allow; he was good at doing small, repetitive tasks, too, so Erick barely had to adjust him when he got going. Apparently, though, Ophiel was used to having a lot more mana than he currently had. Twice, he poofed himself. But that was fine. He was learning. Erick resummoned him as necessary.

Erick almost wanted to get to learning about his new Elemental Body, too, but… He had obligations, right now. Politics and readiness for danger. He had no idea if Bright Smile, or anyone else, was going to strike in the middle of the night, or whenever, so now was not the time for Benevolence experiments, anyway.

As the full moon hung outside his window, bathing his room in gentle green/pink/white glows, Erick tried to go for a swim in the bathing pool, but it was broken. Completely dry and cracked right through the middle! So Erick just went to bed. Sleep came intermittently.

Eventually, though, Erick managed.

- - - -

The sun rose.

The city of Ar’Cosmos continued to heal, bit by little bit, for Ophiel continued to pump mana into the node down below, in the dining room. Fairy Moon and Maid Maria had a nice breakfast to themselves.

And Erick slept in.

- - - -

Bleary-eyed and needing to use the bathroom, Erick finally awoke, for good, and this time he did not feel like going back to bed. The clock read just after noon, which was pretty damned late. But, whatever! Erick shucked his clothes as he walked to the bathroom. Rushing through his morning routine, he soon jumped into the bathing pool, splashing water everywhere. Last night the bathing pool had been broken, but this afternoon it was fixed. Erick didn’t know whether that was due to his own [Renew] efforts, or more to do with Fairy Moon or Maid Maria working on the room while he slept. Or maybe House Fae was working overtime to fix everything, too, which was definitely a thing that was also happening. Whatever the case, warm, cleansing waters caressed his skin, and with a small towel, Erick began scrubbing away the sweat and the grime that seemed to happen due to sleeping in too much.

And then he just relaxed in the waters. Yggdrasil bobbed in the waves with him while one Ophiel splashed around in the shallows. Thoughts happened, but they were too much to think about. For an hour, Erick lost himself in thoughts about what would happen next, and what it meant to have Elemental Benevolence running through his veins.

The lightning was still there, of course. The inner Sight of it all vanished when he wasn’t looking, but if he turned even the least bit part of his senses inward, he could see that lightning inside his mana veins.

But more than that, there was the problem with Bright Smile.

