“The rate of repair would be respectable at any other time, but your [Renew] rings work too well and Ar’Cosmos’s response to your request for alliance is being hotly debated in City Hall due to this circumstance.” Fairy Moon said, “You’re not invited to that self-interrogation of intents, but the news of your invention has already gotten out and gained wings.”

Erick straightened up; stunned. Slowly, his voice started to work again. He asked, “The rings work?”

“The rate of that repair is slow and steady, too, but three people have been healed of their half-dragon heritage, as of this hour.” Fairy Moon said, “That is why I have returned to this residence: Redflame is reviewing your runes and wishing to talk with you, if you should choose to chance another meeting of dragons inside Ar’Cosmos.”

Erick rapidly picked apart that statement, and said, “So that means you’re not keeping me captive anymore?”

“Here now is the turning of an age.” Fairy Moon announced, “You may walk out that window and venture back to Veird, if you wish. Or, you can cement your bargained-for civilization here, and now, on your own terms, now that everyone of effect knows the measure of your making.” With her bright green and pink eyes lightly staring at Erick, Fairy Moon asked, “So shall we travel to Redflame? Or shall I show you the door?”

A thousand thoughts flitted through Erick’s mind.

He landed on the most important series of thoughts rather quickly.

If he left, then Bright Smile could continue to be a problem. If he stayed, and helped Redflame, and acted like an actual ally, then perhaps he could circumvent whatever was going on with Bright Smile. Or at least he could take the measure of her Fate a bit more. Perhaps she was destined to be a ruler of many people, and that was why she had such a strong pull to Erick’s Benevolence. Or perhaps all Erick was truly seeing were the criminals Bright Smile would kill due to her harsh-on-crime stance, which was… A thing Erick wasn’t comfortable with, but… He left that thread of thoughts alone, for now.

Perhaps, all Erick was seeing were the enemy warriors that she was going to kill in the future, when all of the world came to try and stop the birth of a dragon nation inside the Crystal Forest. Or maybe he saw how Bright Smile would save his life one day, when all the world came for him.

Both were highly likely.

… Or perhaps Bright Smile was a simple warmonger, and when the world came for her, her response would be overly harsh. Theoretically, responding to attempted murder with murders of one’s own was not a bad stance to take, but it was when innocents got involved that a line was crossed. And since Bright Smile was the leader of a house of Ar’Cosmos, she would not resort to counter assassinations.

She would go to war.

And war was rarely the correct solution to any problem.

Erick looked back to Fairy Moon, and said, “Let’s go to Redflame and see what’s going on with the rings.”

Fairy Moon calmed. “This is the correct choice.” She gestured to the amulet sitting on Erick’s enchanting board. “Conjure some more mighty children and then we will leave to join Redflame.”

Erick balked. “Children?” He looked to Ophiel on his shoulder. The little guy took a moment, and then mirrored the action, looking back at Erick with a rapidly increasing number of eyes. Erick patted him, and then he looked to Yggdrasil. Well… Yggdrasil; Erick could see Yggdrasil being a child, for sure. Ophiel seemed pretty far off, though.

“Children as I count them; likely not as you list them. Mostly Yggdrasil anyway.” Fairy Moon gestured again to Erick’s amulet on the enchanting table. “Conjure some stronger Ophiel! You might not be here much longer and I want this place to be perfect.”

“Fine fine fine,” Erick said, walking over to the table. He slipped on his amulet and felt a warm chill as the spiky crystal thing joined its power to his own. He dismissed one of his weaker-cast Ophiel and conjured a replacement, and sent that replacement racing past Fairy Moon, to the dining room where the node lay exposed. “If I could transform back then I could conjure some much stronger Ophiel.”

Fairy Moon waved a hand, saying, “You already can.”

Erick stood stunned, again.

And then he [Paradox Shift]ed back to his Normal Form.

The transition was seamless. One moment, Erick had a core, the next he had a soul that fully filled out his body—

Weakness struck near instantly, but not in a normal way. Erick did not collapse to the floor, for it was like he had always had this sort of body, but he certainly felt it when he lost about 65 in all his physical Stats. His spiritual Stats actually increased, or at least his Willpower and Focus did. Without his rings, Erick recalled his Normal Form was at 25 in every category except for Willpower and Focus, which were at 165.

He had a lot more mana in his Normal Form, even without his rings, but more than that, he had Scion of Focus, which quadrupled his Mana Regen. His amulet seemed to work in both forms, too, though he had no real way of telling exactly how much it worked without viewing his Status, which was still outside of his capabilities here in Ar’Cosmos. At a guess, he suspected he had 11,000 Mana, and something like 43,000 Mana Regen per hour while at Rest.

Erick happily said, “Then let’s conjure some Ophiel.” He lifted a hand and—

Light puffed out of his hand. No Ophiel.

He had failed to cast [Summon Ophiel]? Yes. He had. Why—

Before Erick could understand what happened, Fairy Moon answered, “Script restrictions; Clarity does not control the mana here, and the distance to the Script means you must remain under 500 mana per Script Second.”

Erick began ritually casting Ophiel, manually using Elemental Mystical to decrease the costs, while he said, “I will be glad to never have to worry about these ridiculous little nuances after I leave.”

And when Intelligence started automatically pulling its weight again, dropping his mana costs to pennies on the dollar.

Fairy Moon shrugged. “You’ll be a Wizard yet, which eventually means removal from the Script and careful casting of meticulous magic. Prepare more now, for less pain later.”

A new Ophiel popped out of the air. Erick canceled three more of his low-Mana Ophiel, and began working on the next summon, saying, “Are we walking or are you moving us, and will we wait till I am finished with these? I also have some more experiments to do before I’m ready to move on to Redflame.”

Fairy Moon turned around, waving behind her as she said, “We are walking, so I await your arrival in the dining room when you’re done! No more destroying my domain, though!”

“Yeah yeah yeah yeah,” Erick muttered as he continued to cast Ophiel.

While he was doing that, he ran through some other tests of his new aura, just to be sure that nothing had actually changed.

And it hadn’t.

His aura was still filled with Benevolence lightning on the fringe edges, and deeper if one knew what to look for, but there was no more solid lightning inside his body. Wherever that lightning had gone… Maybe it had vanished into the depths of his soul? Erick looked harder.

… And found nothing. The lightning was there, but it was also not.

Whatever! Suppressing his normal aura still felt as simple as pulling back an offered hand.

Casting a jolt of lightning at a conjured stone boulder —not the floor— came just as easy as before.

His soul and body and everything had undergone a massive shift, but tracking that shift, or using his new Elemental Benevolence, would have to remain mostly intuitive until after he left Ar’Cosmos. He would still do some experimenting, though, for sure. Just later, after this new crisis with the Renewal Rings, or whatever they ended up being called—

Well.

New magic saving people from certain death was not a crisis. It was a boon and a blessing.

… But, not having enough of the new magic?

Now that would be a crisis.

Ah. That’s what was happening out there, wasn’t it? Yeah.

To better prepare for such a crisis, Erick decided to spend some mana casting a spell he hadn’t been able to cast in what seemed like a very long time. [Unbreakable Form]. He missed his [Personal Ward], and though [Unbreakable Form] wasn’t ideal, [Personal Ward]s were even less ideal.

This was because Erick would need to ritually cast any and all [Personal Ward]s while inside Ar’Cosmos. Therefore, any [Personal Ward] would not have the massive multiplier that Erick usually had. [Unbreakable Form] was 7,500 mana, though, and when he cast it twice, the 500 points of absolute defense —that was permanent until dismissed— would likely do a lot more for him than any degrading [Personal Ward].

And so, through a combination of resonance and humming and channeling mana into his aura, Erick picked the part of his soul that was [Unbreakable Form] and began the ritual casting. He messed up the first time, going too fast, hitting the 500 mana-per-second limitation even while he was trying to use Mystical to reduce his spell costs. Hitting that limitation was like hitting a minor ERROR message in the Script; uncomfortable tingles filled his body, emanating from his soul.

His second time he succeeded in casting [Unbreakable Form]. An ethereal fog of bright white lightning light settled into his body and then vanished, like mists evaporating under the sun. The ‘lightning’ part of it was new, and a bit startling, but… Whatever? Yes. Whatever. Erick would deal with that oddity later. He had to wait a while for his mana to regenerate enough to cast the spell a second time, but that was fine. The second cast was much the same as the first.

Erick moved on to testing his [Greater Lightwalk], next, along with [Lodestar].

As he flicked on those spells and played around with their interactions for a few minutes, he was, perhaps, both surprised and not surprised at what he found. Both spells had some sort of Benevolence Lightning-like thing happening with them, but only barely, and at the very edges. [Greater Lightwalk] more so than [Lodestar], though, and by a lot. [Lodestar] seemed to solidify his [Greater Lightwalk] into something only barely sparky.

When Erick worked those spells how he usually worked them, though, they acted like they normally did.

He had done something to his [Greater Lightwalk] and to a much lesser extent to [Lodestar], but as to what? Exactly?

Erick had no idea.
