[If you kill me, then the barrier will never fall,] Westbridge said, his breathing ragged. [Save your empty threats.]

The Warden frowned. Let’s try this instead. “You have children, yes? Perhaps I shall visit them next.”

She wasn’t sure if she’d be willing to follow through on that threat, but Westbridge didn’t have to know that.

The Citizen wheezed, blood bubbling from his lips. The Warden realized he was laughing. “You…” he gasped, choking out the words. “You understand nothing. I am a Citizen. I would kill my children myself if it were necessary…for the survival of the DKE. They are…nothing to me.”

“Lies,” the Warden said, pressing the blade deeper into his neck. “Tell me how to lower the barrier.”

“You cannot lower it. I am the only one who can.”

“Then you will lower it for me,” the Warden said.

Westbridge laughed again. He tapped the bare skin of his chest through the burned and tattered remains of his clothes. “They saw all of this, you know. Through the…Link. They are coming.”

“FUCK!” the Warden swore, spinning away. She looked up at the stars in the night sky, panting with anger and frustration. I still have enough time… I could bring him… No. They’ll follow me.

“They will not…kill you…for this…” Westbridge choked, then stopped, consumed by a fit of coughing. He continued mentally. [They will make you wish that they had.]

The Warden whirled, seething with rage, not only at the Citizen, but also at herself. She knew that he was right. There was no way to get him to do what she wanted. She had been a fool, blinded by anger.

The Warden tightened her fists. The Citizen’s Link would lead the others straight to Westbridge, it was true, and even if he was lying about being the only one able to control the barrier, he’d never tell her the secret. He’d made his position clear. What was she going to do, rip off his other leg? She shook her head as the old man continued to laugh, bleeding his life out into the dirt.

There was still one thing that she could do. She could make herself feel better. Plus, who knew, the barrier might even be tied to his life. She’d have to test it and see.

Westbridge’s head fell to the ground, severed neatly by a blade of raw Force. His expression wasn’t one of surprise, or even pain or anger. It was one of satisfaction.

The Warden—the real Warden—frowned as the memory faded away. The worst part of interrogating a criminal was that she experienced everything as if she’d done it herself. She’d been murderers, thieves, rapists, and now, exterminated half of a city in an ill-planned act of vengeance.

[Happy now?] Lavarro said, her voice defiant. [See what you wanted to see?]

The Warden ignored her. She was in control, the silverplate Guilder no more able to resist than a fly could resist a spider. To use a mindcaster was to lower your defenses, not that they would have stopped the Warden for long anyway.

[I will kill you for this,] Lavarro said. [I don’t know how, but I will. The formation is failing. I can sense it, and I know you can too. You can’t hold me forever, and I know where you live.]

Taking the entirety of Lavarro’s memories for later perusal, the Warden sighed. People like the exGuilder were why the Watch had to exist. The insanity in the woman’s mind was plain. It had been building for years, her control eroded by her own power. The Warden would let it serve as a reminder to herself. As the head of the Watch, she was justice, but that did not mean she was above corruption. With what she could do, she could rule the entire world, if only she wished it. Even that bastard Kev wouldn’t have been able to stop her, once she got going.

One of the crystal pillars shattered as a rune failed, and the Warden felt the link tremble.

[Ha!] Lavarro shouted, struggling against the mental chains that bound her motionless.

The Warden smiled, amused. [I think not.]

Lavarro’s eyes rolled back in her head as the Warden shoved aside her consciousness, replacing it with an imprint of her own. The copy would only last for a few weeks before Lavarro managed to erode it, but that would be long enough.

[Shit. I’m the copy, aren’t I?] the Warden said, lifting her hand and staring at another woman’s fingers.

The original Warden smiled as the link collapsed, returning her to her own body in Jarro. She could understand the sentiment, as it was her own to begin with. Still, her copy knew her duty.

She got to her feet and stretched. It would be a long trip back to Vigilance, and travel was growing increasingly hard on her these days. Once more, she wished that she had a way to relay her mind through more than one connection, but without something like the DKE’s Link, that was impossible.

Unless…no. Not yet.

Short of starting a full war, there would be no getting one of their implants to study. They could track them, after all. It wasn’t like she could just steal one. No, the Watch and the DKE were allies, at least for now.

As angry as she was with the Citizens, she feared what would happen if Fecht won their little squabble. That man was dangerous. As it stood, his empire was only a thorn in her side, but if his power grew further, the steps she would need to take to stop him would bring the world to its knees. She didn’t want that, which meant working with the DKE. It didn’t mean she had to like it, though.

I am getting too old for this.

She shook her head wearily as she made her way out of the building, casually editing herself out of the minds of those that she passed. The city was mostly deserted at this point, abandoned by the DKE, though the evacuation was ongoing. The Shift had reached far, covering Jarro, Vestvall, and Southguard, though none of those cities had been hit nearly as hard as Fel Sadanis. The magnitude of the Shift was still being measured, and time would tell if it would be necessary to abandon the strongholds. For now, they were needed to facilitate the evacuations.

The Warden stepped up onto the teleportation platform, joining the group of refugees. They made space for her while remaining completely unaware of her presence. The entire group hushed as the platform began to charge, then there was a flash, and the Warden was gone.

Kettel was bored, and as his father had often told him, that meant trouble.

“Firebolt!” he shouted, pointing at the Stumper lumbering in the distance. A crimson ball of flame formed at his fingertips and flew through the air, striking the mushroom man in the back. Its roar of anger was matched by the officer standing beside him on the barricade.

“What the depths is wrong with you?!” Officer Grumpy yelled. “Fucking Guilders!”

The Stumper roared again, charging at the barricade.

“I been waitin’ all mornin’!” Kettel said, firing a second Firebolt after the first. This time, he didn’t shout out the name of the spell. As fun as that was, he had to concentrate. Why won’t these fuckin’ things shoot straight? Firebolt! Firebolt! Firebolt!

“Damn it!” Officer Grumpy shouted, jumping down from the barricade and raising his axe. He charged at the incensed Stumper, easily dodging its strike and leaving a long gash along its arm. He was less able to avoid Kettel’s next Firebolt, which struck him in the back of the head. Fortunately, he was wearing a metal skullcap, which greedily absorbed the magic.

“Shit, sorry!” Kettel shouted. “Kinda yer fault, though. Ye dodged right into it.”

“Fucking idiot!” the officer shouted, slashing at the Stumper. “If I live through this, I’m going to murder you!”

“Now tha’s no way ta talk ta’ yer ally!” Kettel hollered back. His next Firebolt struck the Stumper directly in the gills. “Yeah! Nailed em!”

“Move!” an angry woman’s voice shouted, and Kettel found himself shoved roughly out of the way. The female Watch officer jumped off the barricade, her spear leading. She flew through the air in an impressive leap, jamming the weapon deep into the mushroom man’s cap. The monster’s health dropped precipitously, visible from the decrease in the green bar hovering above it. The officer released her spear, leaving it buried in the monster as she flipped adroitly through the air. Right, her name’s Officer Badass from now on.

Before Kettel could bring his arm back to bear so he could help, he was shoved again, this time almost falling as the unsteady wooden palisade shifted beneath him. “Oi!”

“Firebolt,” said a deep voice calmly. Kettel groaned as the crimson projectile struck the monster and detonated with several times the force of his own. He’d recognized that voice.

The Fungiform caught fire, flailing its arms wildly, the spear still sticking out of its cap as Grumpy and Badass backed away. It fell to the ground with a heavy thud, the last of its health consumed by the flames.

Your group has defeated: [Fungiform Stumper]

Contribution: 2 in 100

Experience: 33

“Aww, come on!” Kettel whined, “I did more than tha’!”

“Clearly not,” Officer Vincke said derisively. Vincke was Kettel’s rival, a Fire Mage, just like him.

“Say tha’ again!” Kettel shouted, whirling on him and balling up his fists.

“Sir!” Officer Grumpy said, clambering back up the barricade. “I can’t work with this…child.”

Vincke nodded. “I hear you, Officer Cassel. I’ll deal with this.” He turned to Kettel. “You were told not to attack unless given a clear order.”

“I had a shot!” Kettel protested, pointing at the burning Stumper. “And we got the bastard, didn’t we?”

“You almost got a man killed,” Vincke said.

“We have the barricade,” Kettel replied. “They can’t get at us up ‘ere. I was jus’ gonna—”

“Silence!” Vincke roared, crimson flames coating his body and forcing Kettel to take a step back from the heat. I gotta’ figure out how he does tha’.

“Vincke, the barrier!” Officer Badass said, having retrieved her spear and climbed up to join them.

The flames vanished as if they had never been, though the wood where Vincke was standing was charred black. The man panted heavily, staring at Kettel. “You’re done,” he said, pointing back at the camp. “We don’t want your help.”

“Wha?!” Kettel shouted. “No, that’s no fair! Ye can’t tell me what ta do!”

“We do not need idiots,” Vincke snapped, pushing a finger into Kettel’s chest. Kettel angrily opened his mouth to reply, but the officer rode right over him. “A Fungiform Stumper is a level eleven monster. You’re what, level two? Your spells aren’t even strong enough to hurt it. You know this, and yet you attracted its attention anyway. Officer Cassel had no choice but to engage it, risking his own life to stop it from destroying the barrier and letting who knows what else inside!”

Kettel shook his head stubbornly, pointing at the Stumper. “It wouldn’t a been able to break through all this wood.”

“It would have,” said the female officer. “I’ve seen it. You don’t know what you’re talking about. You don’t have the training, let alone the experience.” She looked away dismissively. “Or the aim.”

Kettel’s cheeks burned as Cassel snorted out a bark of laughter. “That’s for sure, Adri, though I suppose he did manage to hit me instead of the fucking enormous mushroom monster. Good thing he’s got no power behind his magic.”

“Fuck ye!” Kettel shouted, fire coming to his fingertips. He didn’t intend to actually launch the spell, but to the Watch, the threat was enough. He found himself flying through the air, hurled from the barricade and back into the camp.

The impact with the ground stole his breath, and he had no time to recover before a pair of boots stomped down in front of his face.

“I could kill you for that,” Officer Grumpy—Cassel—said. “My orders are to keep the peace, and we don’t exactly have a dungeon to throw you in.”

“Fuck, man! I weren’t gonna fire it!” Kettel hissed, touching the shoulder he’d landed on. It hadn’t been that long of a fall, and while his shoulder hurt, his health hadn’t dropped more than a few points.

“Cassel, enough,” said Vincke, jumping down from the barricade as Kettel pushed himself back to his feet. “We don’t need your help. I’ve got better things to do than file a report on this, but if I see you on the barricade again, I will.”

“Vincke,” the female officer said, jumping down as well. “That’s not procedure. Want me to take him in?”

Vincke shook his head. “No.” He looked like he wanted to say more, but he glanced at Kettel, then shook his head and turned, walking back toward the barrier. “Cassel, back on the wall. I’ll send someone to join you. Adri, with me.” He turned on his heel and left. Cassel took one last angry look at Kettel, then shook his head and clambered back up the barrier.

Kettel was furious, but he knew better than to do anything about it, at least not directly.

I need ta get me bloody class. Then they’ll see.

On Rain’s advice, Kettel had decided to focus all of his skill points into a single tree, namely, Fire Evocation. He didn’t even have any metamagic, only the two foundation-tier spells Firebolt and Flamestrike. He needed to level at least one of those to five before he could get anything else. Training wasn’t easy when using too much magic gave you a crippling headache, not to mention burned fingers. Gloves helped with that, at least.

Still, it could have been worse. He could have been stuck with just Firebolt. Flamestrike had been hidden, only appearing once he met the requirement of having at least one other fire skill. It wasn’t that good of a skill, as it required him to get close to things he wanted to set on fire, but it was nice to have the option.

Kettel sighed. That’s it. I’m findin’ Rain. Fuck tha headache! I’m gonna’ have em pack me with mana till I puke. Maybe he’ll even let me hit em with Flamestrike.

He reached up to touch the bronze plate hanging from his neck and sighed. He’d joined the Guild once Velika had released him, but there hadn’t been much to do other than hunt slimes. Now, the only jobs available were well above his level, and nobody wanted to take him along in their party. It was a common plight for a lot of the lower-leveled bronzeplates, though unlike him, most were capped. Theoretically, as he was at level five, he could have picked a class at any point, but the options available to him sucked. He needed more skills.

Status. Skills. Fire Evocation. Class Selection.

