Where Rain saw blue boxes, Kettel simply saw words. No, ‘saw’ was wrong. The words were inside his skull, and he didn’t so much see them with his eyes, as read them in his mind. At first, they’d been plain, but now, they burned, written in fire and ash. Rain had said that the system would respond to desires, so Kettel had changed it. It was better this way.

Status

Kettel — Level 5

312/1100 Experience

Unclassed

398/400 Health

237/300 Stamina

438/800 Mana

20 Strength

15 Recovery

15 Endurance

15 Vigor

40 Focus

15 Clarity

No Available Stat Points

Skills

Firebolt

Rank 4

Exp: 125/700

Launch a small bolt of fire from your fingertips

Damage: 28-42 Heat

Range: 40 stride

Cost: 10 mp

Flamestrike

Rank 2

Exp: 50/200

Call upon fire to enhance your next strike with a melee weapon

Damage: 29-43 Heat

Cost: 10 mp

4 Available Skill Points

Fire Evocation

Foundation

-

Tier-1

Magma Catapult

Launch a viscous ball of magma in an arc

Damage: 36-54 Heat

Range: 20 stride

Cost: 25 mp

Cooldown: 10 s

Requires 5 ranks in Firebolt

Flamewave

Summon a curtain of fire that travels along the ground in a line

Damage: 5-8 Heat

Height: 3 stride

Width: 2 stride

Range: 2 stride

Cost: 10 mp

Requires 5 ranks in Flamestrike

Combustion

Snap your fingers to cause your target to spontaneously combust

Damage: 14-21 Heat

Range: 1 stride

Cost: 20 mp

Cooldown: 5 s

Requires 10 ranks in Fire Evocation skills

Tier-2

Locked

Class Selection

Worker

Common

Requirement: None

Effect: Boosts non-combat skills by 1 in 2

Warning: Experience may no longer be gained through combat

Mage

Common

Requirement: Focus greater than Strength and Endurance

Requirement: At least 10 kills by magical means

Effect: Boosts the effects of the Focus attribute by 1 in 2

Warrior

Common

Locked

Requirement: Strength greater than Endurance and Focus

Requirement: At least 10 kills by physical means

Effect: Boosts the effects of the Strength attribute by 1 in 2

Defender

Common

Locked

Requirement: Endurance greater than Strength and Focus

Requirement: Absorb at least 1000 total points of damage

Effect: Boosts the effects of the Endurance attribute by 1 in 2

Kettel wandered aimlessly, his anger cooling as he reviewed the words burning in his mind. The officers were right. He was weak. It had been almost two weeks since his awakening, and while his progress was fast, it wasn’t fast enough. His level had grown quickly, true, but his skills were taking much longer. Killing monsters didn’t help, only practice did, and his low mana regeneration was killing him. Hanging out near Rain helped immensely, but he was usually busy, and the Watch didn’t take kindly to magic use within the camp. Kettel needed to be on the walls for that, not wherever Rain happened to be. Being banned from them was going to be a problem.

Fuck Vincke. Flaming bastard.

Kettel sighed, headed for the southern Watch stronghold. Rain was usually around there somewhere.

I need ta convince em to bring me huntin’ or somethin’. Could get a lotta’ practice out there. Breggeh might come if I ask nice, an’ maybe Rina. The others… fuck em.

He shook his head. The other nobles from their delve had all vanished, returning to their families. Arlo, he could understand, given what had happened, but the others were just being pompous jerks. Rina was little better, in truth, but, well, she was hot, so…

“Hey, watch where you’re going!” an angry voice said.

Kettel stopped, letting his status fade from his mind as he stumbled, barely avoiding falling over. He looked at the woman he’d almost crashed into and grinned.

And speaking of hot… “Oh, hey. Mahria.”

She narrowed her eyes. “Do I know you?”

“Not yet,” Kettel said, “But ye will. I’m Kettel. Greatest Fire Mage in tha world!” He rubbed at his nose. “Workin’ on tha whole ‘greatest’ part.”

Mahria laughed, and Kettel felt his stomach do a somersault.

“Aren’t you adorable?” she said, pressing her hand to his chest for a second before sidestepping around him.

She touched me!

“Hey!” Kettel said, turning to follow her. “So, um. I was thinkin’ I were gonna’ go hunt monsters later. You, uh, wanna come?”

Mahria barely glanced back at him. “Not interested in dying, sorry.”

“Wha?” Kettel said, hurrying after her. “It wouldn’t be jus’ us.” Though that’d be nice. “I was gonna’ ask Rain ta’ come. An’ maybe Rina Ashworth. You know her, right? All ye women know each other.”

Mahria stopped, turning to face him, her expression suddenly icy. “You’re lucky I’m going to ignore that.”

“Ignore what?” Kettel said, blinking.

She sighed and shook her head. “You know Rain?”

Kettel nodded. “Yeah, o’course.”

“Hmm,” Mahria said, her frown softening. “Fine. If you can get him to come, I’m in. He’s been avoiding me.”

“Why?” Kettel asked.

“My mother,” Mahria said, turning away. She muttered something under her breath, then spoke clearly again. “Just find me once you have a whole group. I’m not going out there without numbers on our side, especially if Rain is coming. The mana’s nice, but he’s useless in a fight.”

“No he ain’t,” Kettel said. Though… Once I level up some, I might be able to take em…

Mahria shrugged, walking away. “See you later, Kettel.” It was a clear dismissal, but Kettel didn’t mind. She’d said his name.

The sudden tolling of a bell made him jump, and he realized that he was staring. He glanced over at the bell tower, one of the few remaining structures within the camp. He shook his head and resumed his course toward the stronghold. It wasn’t an attack; they were just sounding the hour. Sixth bell. Time for supper.

Where the hells is Rain, anyway? I ain’t seen em all day.
