Fortunately for him, once more it proved far easier than he’d first imagined it would be. All it took was some mental effort and Jake leaning into the research he had done on Soulflames in the past, and, alongside the unique properties of a Supreme Soulflame, which can assist its user, it truly felt effortless compared to what it could have been.

He smiled as the notification appeared, Jake seeing that he’d just gotten the biggest rarity upgrade to a skill ever in one go, with it even potentially being his easiest upgrade to date.

[Alchemical Flame (Common)] – The flame of an alchemist is one of the most critical aspects of the crafting process. The flame itself is affinity-less and not polluted by the impurities of burning a catalyst. You have just embarked on the path of refining your alchemical flame, and may your path towards the pinnacle be swift. Allows the alchemist to create a moderate alchemical flame, emitting heat. Adds a small increase to the effectiveness of Alchemical Flame based on Wisdom.

-->

[Alchemical Flame (Mythical)] – Any good alchemist has a capable Soulflame, and you? You aim to be among the best. Allows the alchemist to create an Alchemical Flame carrying the properties of a Supreme Arcane Soulflame. The Arcane Soulflame is a paradoxical flame, capable of displaying both pure destruction and absolute stability. Control and usage of the Arcane Soulflame are dependent on the abilities of the alchemist. Adds a significant increase to the effectiveness of Alchemical Flame based on Wisdom.

Looking at the new skill description, Jake couldn’t help but smile. Alchemical Flame was truly one of those core alchemy skills that never really changed much, and even after reaching mythical rarity, it still had a very basic description with lacking flavor text or details of any kind. It was a lot like Concoct Poison and Brew Potion in that regard.

Nothing else in the new skill’s description really stood out to him or was a surprise. In fact, the only surprise was that he actually got experience from assimilating the Soulflame.

You have successfully assimilated the Supreme Arcane Soulflame. Experience Earned

’DING!’ Profession: [Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper] has reached level 347 - Stat points allocated, +35 Free Points

’DING!’ Race: [Human (C)] has reached level 348 - Stat points allocated, +45 Free Points

It was just one level, sure, and one Jake had gotten after crafting for months without getting one, but a level was a level. Compared to upgrading a Malefic Viper Legacy skill, it definitely didn’t do much, but Jake hadn’t expected it to either.

Not that he had much intent to think about it, as Jake was too damn giddy to try out his new Arcane Soulflame.

Opening his eyes in the real world, the flames had long subsided as they were now part of him, and raising his hand, a purple-ish arcane flame quickly sparked, flickering and lighting up the room as a mad grin flashed across Jake’s face.

Man, did he have some ideas about how to use it already... he’d read so many damn books about different Soulflames and how they were all unique and all they could do, and all that stuff. Now that he finally had it, it was time to figure out what a Supreme Arcane Soulflame was truly capable of... and hopefully his alchemy lab would survive the experimentation.

No promises, though.
