Cale said nothing for a moment, then sighed. "Look, I've got a problem when it comes to tears, okay?" he said. "I know ages in magic academies are all over the place, but those three were basically kids. The elf was the oldest, and even then he was like, forty. He's basically a child to me. He's a child by elven standards!"

"I have a question about how old you are," Syphus said. Cale ignored it.

"If I let them explain, they were going to cry, and that was going to suck," he said. "I'm too nice to kids when they start crying."

Alina raised an eyebrow at him. "I dunno if I believe that's the full story, bug."

"I can't tell you all my secrets," Cale said. "You never know who's watching."

Alina narrowed her eyes slightly, then reached up and snapped her fingers; after a moment, Cale felt the resonant echo of infernal magic wrapping around them. He resisted the urge to pull it apart to examine it—he hadn't had much opportunity to examine wards of this level.

Infernal wards were several steps above regular obfuscation wards, as he understood it, and being inside one was more than enough for him to understand why. Unlike regular obfuscation wards, these seemed to shunt the people inside them partially into the infernal realms and use the planar boundary itself to deter anyone that might be watching them.

"That what you wanted?" Alina asked.

Cale grinned. "Close enough," he said. It was nice working with people like Alina, the ones that had enough experience to really get him. "But just in case..."

He turned to Syphus. "Are we being watched?" he asked. "I mean, other than—"

"We're not," Syphus interrupted quickly, its eye growing a little wide. Cale just nodded. This was one of the reasons he'd waited for Syphus to join them. It served as an additional layer of security. Any scrying nexus powerful enough, like the one Syphus used to see the world, naturally drew in other observational spells in the vicinity. The etherite shards that floated around its so-called eye amplified the effect like antennae, then subsumed the spells to make it part of its enchantment.

That meant the golem served as a sort of natural anti-scrying ward and grew greater analytical capabilities the more people tried to scry it. It really was very good spellwork. Cale wondered if he'd ever get an opportunity to speak to Syphus's maker, but that was beside the point for now.

"I feel like I should be offended," Alina remarked, although there was a smile tugging at her lips. "Reminds me of the old days of running around. You bugs get so paranoid."

"Keeps us alive." Cale shrugged. "I normally wouldn't worry much about it, but..."

He reached into his pocket and withdrew the second item he'd snagged from the catgirl—a heavy metallic emblem that clattered onto the table with a thunk. It bore a red, bloodstained spear embossed into a golden shield.

He'd expected a reaction, but not as strong as the ones he got. Alina drew a sharp breath, her fists clenching and her fire burning just a little brighter. Syphus's reaction was more controlled, but it still narrowed its eye, staring intently at the emblem.

"That thing is trapped," it said.

"I know." Cale flicked the emblem across the table toward the golem, and it took it carefully, turning it over a few times as its scrying eye began to expand. "I don't know the exact details, but I could sense some kind of conditional spell on it, masked by a communication spell. I'm assuming those three used this to communicate with whoever gave them the shimmerdust. It probably isn't the only one, and unless I miss my guess..."

He turned to raise an eyebrow at Syphus, who nodded.

"There's a conditional spell within this emblem that triggers the detonation of a linked bloodrot bomb," it said. "It looks like it's set to go off if the linked mage reveals anything about some kind of contract."

Cale stilled. So did Alina.

"I don't know what bloodrot is." Syphus's eye contracted slightly, puzzled. "My spells report the name, but not the function."

"It's..." Alina took a deep breath and clenched her fists; Cale remained silent. "It's an old war weapon," she said. "Invented a very, very long time ago, when I was still a youngling, and banned ever since. Bloodrot is a variant of the decay aspect that spreads through generational ties. If you hit a mage with it, it spreads to their immediate family, then one generation out, and it keeps going until it exhausts all its mana."

Syphus's eye went wide. "What?" it asked. "But that's..."

"It's monstrous," Alina growled. "We banned that shit for a reason. How the fuck did the Reds bring it back?"

"We don't know that it's them," Syphus said, staring at the emblem. It hesitated. "It's too obvious. Why would they use their own emblem?"

"Because they're narcissistic bastards, that's why!" Alina slammed her fists on the table hard enough to crack the wood, startling Syphus. "They shouldn't be able to use bloodrot. That thing should be erased. Gone. Archmages all over the Great Realms worked together to seal it. How the fuck is it back?"

Cale reached out to take the emblem back. "I let Akkau know about the emblem when he came to grab them," he said, his voice coming out strangely distant. "He's waiting for us to come talk to him once we're done with lunch."

The emblem belonging to the so-called Red Hunters wasn't that much of a surprise—there were only so many things a blood-tipped spear might represent. But bloodrot? That wasn't an aspect he'd expected to hear about again. Alina had the gist of it, but Cale... he'd been there, during the Planar Collapse.

It was a time he tried not to think about.

The Planar Collapse had been a prophesized event. It was the beginning of a sort of multiversal collapse that should have led to all the realms living together in harmony. Instead, it brought about a war that spanned a thousand realms and stole a trillion lives.

He'd lived it again and again. It hadn't mattered how many lives he spent—every reincarnation brought him right back into its depths. It spanned too many worlds to avoid, and the atrocities he'd seen committed were too terrible for him to ignore. He would never forget every time he woke, hoping it was over, only to find some new abomination waiting. Bloodrot was only the start of the weapons invented in that time.

Cale had fought, initially, to protect. To stem the flow of death. He protected towns and cities and kingdoms, sealing them in impenetrable barriers. But still, his opponents found a way through. They found ways to bring across death and sickness, to infect the people he wanted to save.

Eventually, he'd grown tired of protecting. Of holding back.

That was how he'd earned the first of his names, now whispered only in the oldest of archives.

Yggdrasil's End.

Of all the atrocities committed to further the cause of that war, Cale wondered sometimes if his hadn't been the worst of all, even if it had to be done to end it.

"...Bug? Are you alright?" Alina was staring at him. Cale blinked once and realized that his mana had begun to swirl and crackle around him; he shook his head and offered her a weak smile.

"I've heard about the Red Hunters," he said. He'd heard about them from Leo, specifically. The minotaur had claimed his parents had joined them and would be visiting the school, although they supposedly wanted nothing to do with him. Cale didn't believe that for a second. "Who are they, exactly? What do they want?"

Alina and Syphus exchanged glances.

"They're the elites of the Orstrahl Army," Alina said reluctantly, as if giving them any kind of praise physically hurt her. "Damn good fighters, the lot of them, but they're all twisted up inside. I think they started up as a mercenary band and then strongarmed their way into Orstrahl's forces."

"They call themselves the protectors of Utelia," Syphus volunteered. It sounded pretty unhappy about them, too, although its anger was more muted than Alina's. "Their official job is to cull monsters—"

"—except they think that everything that doesn't fit their idea of a mage is a monster," Alina burst out angrily. "They call us wild mages, can you believe that? They say we're dangerous because one wrong spell could wipe out hundreds. As if regular mages don't do that!"

"They conduct inspections on magic academies every so often to make sure none of their 'wild magic' students are getting out of control," Syphus said. It tried to keep its voice neutral, but there was a tinge of disgust there. "I think they used to have a lot less political power, but they got a lot more popular after a number of noteworthy disasters they claimed were caused by wild magic."

Alina scoffed. "Liars, the lot of them," she said. "They probably did it themselves. I'd kick them out of the school myself if I could."

"But even putting aside that they're some of the strongest mages on the continent, to the public, any opposition of the Red Hunters looks like an admission of guilt." Syphus's eye contracted slightly, and its etherite crystals folded back. "They claim that magic academies like ours harbor monsters and teach them to wield their power, so we're endangering the public. Their inspections are supposedly to keep everyone safe and make sure our wild mages are making progress in getting themselves under control. They set a lot of rules, too—that wild mages have to be kept separate from everyone else, for example."

"Hence the Astral Wing," Cale muttered, his mind racing. There weren't many mages in all the multiverse that could bring back even the weakest of weapons from the Collapse, and he highly doubted some Utelian mage had independently invented bloodrot, even with the Gift.

"More or less." Syphus rolled back from the table, its eye downcast. "We lose a few of our friends every time they come for an inspection. The next one's in less than a week."

"And it takes a few days for the symptoms of shimmerdust poisoning to fully manifest." Cale stood from the table, folding the blood obsidian box under his arm. "I think I'm done eating. I need to get a few things in order. Syphus, are you coming?"

The golem looked up, startled. "Sure," it said after a moment. "Are you... sure you're alright?"

"Me? I'm fine," Cale said. "But I want to see just how much Akkau knew about all this."

Damien stared nervously at the new door that had appeared in his room.

He had no idea what to make of it. Neither did Flia, nor Leo, nor even Nala Whiteleaf; in fact, Nala was the only one that didn't quite understand its significance. She kept insisting they show her how good they were at magic, instead. None of them were quite in the mood to play her games, however.

"He told me something like this might happen," Damien said nervously. "Something about a secret passage?"

"Except that isn't a secret passage," Leo said. He sounded angry, and with good reason. The door that sat at the back of Damien's room was made of a very familiar wood, with Sylnarian symbols carved onto its front. "Is this Professor Imrys's idea of a joke?"

"I think it's her idea of a reward." Flia shot Leo a sympathetic look, one hand clutching her satchel close. She still hadn't had a chance to properly get that shadeling bound to her, now that Damien thought about it. "I don't know why she thinks we'd want to go back into the labyrinth, but..."

"I think we should report this to Headmaster Akkau." It made him nervous to say it—conflict between any of the professors never ended well—but something like an entire dungeon manifesting in their room warranted a report, and besides, there was a chance Imrys had nothing to do with it. He couldn't imagine the type of power it would take to bind that labyrinth to one of the academy's manifestations, besides. "It might be important, right?"

Flia sighed. "Yeah, I think that might be for the best."

"I'm not coming with you," Nala said, sitting on a chair and glaring at them. "I've done enough walking today."

"Then go back to your room," Flia said, exasperated. Nala looked, if anything, even more put out.

"No. I paid you, remember?" she said imperially. "I'm going to stay right here until you get back."

"You can't just stay in Damien's room uninvited."

"I was invited. You invited me."

"You invited yourself!" Flia rubbed at her face with a hand, evidently already exhausted with this conversation. She glanced at Damien. "We don't have time for this. Damien, are you okay with this?"

Damien fidgeted. It was still his room. He wasn't sure he was comfortable letting the elf hang out here while a mysterious door sat there—he'd barely been comfortable with Flia and Leo coming here. Plus, he had personal belongings he didn't want her to see.

On the other hand, those Forest credits really would do a lot for them. And the fact of the matter was...

"The Headmaster warded my stuff personally," Damien said after a moment. He was a dreadshade, after all, and any student stupid enough to try to steal his belongings would likely absorb some of his decay mana by accident in the process. "She shouldn't be able to touch anything."

"The door is warded, too," Leo spoke up begrudgingly. "Imrys took some precautions, at least."

"See?" Nala sniffed. "I can wait here just fine. Go. Shoo."

Flia rolled her eyes. "You are the worst."

"I can take back my credits, if you don't want them."

The water elemental twitched. "Whatever," she said. "Damien, Leo, let's go and get this over with. Nala, stay here. Don't touch anything."

"Why would I want to touch any of your filthy Astral belongings?" Nala turned up her nose. "I'm just going to sit here and wait, thank you very much."

Flia rolled her eyes again, grabbed Damien and Leo by their wrists, and dragged them out of the room. Damien didn't resist. The sooner they got this over with, the better.

Once they were gone, a tendril slowly slithered its way out from underneath Damien's bed and spoke to Nala.

"So. You come. Here often?"

Nala stared at it for a moment, then shrieked.
