Ereska listened patiently, then complained with Viv about dishonest scholars, the worst! They whined together for a good twenty minutes and felt much better with themselves, then it was time to think about solutions. Ereska’s advice was to avoid the ethics committee.

“They will just add more roadblocks, and even if you deal with everything, you still have to go through a trial. The easier and faster way would be to discredit him with his sponsors.”

“Isn’t that the Academy?”

“You mentioned they had a private facility at the edge. It means that Sterek is paid by other interests. Does this spell have military applications?”

“Massive ones. It would revolutionize logistics.”

“Logistics? Transporting things?”

Viv sometimes forgot that most history books only talked about glorious charges and massive spells here. She knew better.

“Logistics is absolutely essential to any military actions, especially offensive ones. No food, no water, no shelter, and your elites will barely function.”

“Oh yes, fighting versus getting to the fight. I read about it. But I digress. If this has military application, it is possible that the Helockian army supports it. If it revolutionizes logistics, the merchant guilds might have an interest in it as well. They will drop Sterek the instant you demonstrate to them that you have a finished product. It will then be up to him to go through the administrative pain of challenging you. Not that he could prove you stole his research.”

“An elegant solution for Sidjin. Sterek has to demonstrate his progress, right?”

“Undoubtedly and regularly. No one trusts experimenting mages with money unless they are fine with losing all of it. And the building.”

“I think I have an idea,” Viv said.

There was still the matter of the contract, but she could do little about that for now. Nevertheless, she paid a messenger to send Solfis a quick request to place the mage under protection. The answer was prompt and derisive, the golem politely reminding her that he knew Sidjin was an ‘important asset’ and that he was slaughtering mages back when France was still a monarchy, and god that was fucking weird. She had never considered it that way.

The next day was the last before classes resumed. Viv ate a surprisingly good breakfast at the dormitory and donned street clothes before a quick visit at the library, which had its own building. She found a copy of the mage servitude contract and swore softly under her breath.

No matter how she looked at it, Elunath was shafting her good and he knew it. The agreement was non-binding on her end which means she was free to take it or not, but that was the only good thing to it. If she did not sign it then all of the favors she would be doing for Elunath would amount to absolutely nothing. They would be entirely wasted. If she did take it, the years shaved off would be determined by Elunath himself who was an interested party and, as far as she could tell, an arrogant asshole. It was literally bending to an overlord and hoping he would be merciful. She had no recourse. Finally, the servant contract meant all her magical research would belong to him, he could direct her to any project he saw fit including dangerous ones, and he could order her around at all times. She was only marginally protected against suicide missions, sexual advances and so on. Only the most basic of human decencies.

She had asked a few questions about Elunath to Eraska who had confirmed the man was stubborn and fundamentally attached to his word. It meant he would not cheat but also that he would not negotiate. He was rather known for that, in fact. Viv wondered if one’s element altered one’s mindset. If it were true, she would be eminently destructive and the harbinger of change, haha.

Hmmm.

A quick research on the other Elemental archmage still active revealed it was a blue-aligned woman who spent her life on a ship she propelled by herself off the coast of Halluria. She was notoriously removed from the affairs of this world. There were talks that the dean of the Academy was on his way to a red elemental alignment, but those were mostly rumors. It would still be profitable to ask him and so Viv sent a request for a talk.

As soon as she was done, Viv hired a buggy to the Five Fishes tavern, which happened to be close to river Shal’s estuary at the edge of the city. The Ocean went on forever to the north as they arrived through modest and dirty streets. Most of the folks around were fishermen and dock workers of various ethnic groups. The tension was palpable.

The Five Fishes smelled of straw, sweat, and predictably of fish soup. Viv ordered a bowl and was pleasantly surprised at the herbal and slightly citrusy flavor. The innkeeper invited her to a ‘private room’ where the golem waited in retracted form in the company of the woman who had guided Viv to Arthur. Her name was Lim the Fell-Handed if memory served, and her prim dress gave her the countenance of the head admin at a concentration camp. There was also a man who thought himself hidden behind a darkness concept. Compared to Irao, his work was extremely sloppy. Viv ignored him.

//Your Grace.

//It appears your Academy stay has begun in a beautiful fashion.

//I expected you might be dragged in an unsanctioned duel with a thin-skinned noble student first.

//On account of your abrasive personality.

“I do not have an abrasive personality.”

Lim’s eyes widened and her mouth puckered. A single accusatory finger silenced her.

“I have a short fuse; that’s not the same thing as being abrasive.”

//You have a problem with authority.

“I have a problem with idiots claiming authority over me. Anyway, I’m not here to discuss mandates and legitimacy. This place is such a wreck that deciding the rulers based on some farcical aquatic ceremony might improve the situation.”

//I hypothesize that you wish to keep Sidjin alive.

Viv remembered the slightly creepy fact that Solfis could monitor her health from afar and his comments could therefore be interpreted several ways. At least the answer was easy.

“Yes.”

//The bounty was left with a renowned assassin group.

//Renowned in the sense they have lasted almost three years.

//We must dispose of them, as the hit cannot be recalled.

“Fucking great. Ugh. Can you handle that part?”

//Naturally.

//There is also the issue of Sterek.

//I estimate the likelihood that he or one of his associates ordered the hit at 81%.

“That’s lower than I anticipated.”

//I expect the Glastians will want Sidjin dead at some point in the future.

//However, his identity so far has been protected.

//Therefore, it will take some time before the news of his survival reaches Glastia and its government comes to a decision.

//The 19% accounts for Glastian citizens with a personal grudge.

“Damn, Sidjin is more popular than I am.”

//For now, yes.

//We must decide how to proceed with Sterek.

“For this, I have an idea but I need someone to find out when his investors will come for a demonstration. I also need someone to map the wards around his workshop, if possible.”

//I will assist.

“Now, onto another matter. A private one. You two, scram.”

Lim the Fell-Handed left without protest, soon followed by a slightly miffed assassin.

“He is unfocused,” Viv remarked while they were out.

//Good help is hard to come by.

//You had a remark?

“I’d like your opinion on this contract Elunath selected.”

Solfis scanned the page for a second. Viv expected he had read and understood the content in a fraction of a moment and taken the rest of the time to formulate an answer,

//I want to state without exaggeration and without deception that I have made an example of entire mage families for less.

//This is an insult to you, as the Imperial Heir.

//I wish nothing more at this junction than to walk into his home in my old frame and tear his spine out with my bare hands.

//According to Harrakan law, his head would then be conserved and displayed above the ministry of justice for no less than a month.

“Yes yes it’s bad, I get it. What can I do?”

//Find an alternative.

//However, we already struggled to travel here and this is our best option at the moment.

//Considering this, I would advise three avenues of approach regarding Elunath.

//First, we can leverage Harrakan secrets to an extent.

//However, we must not reveal how much you have, or we will be wrung dry.

//Elunath might care about his reputation, but he cares about knowledge even more.

//This extends to your control over the Harrakan army and Harrakan facilities.

//If Elunath does not know the extent of your capabilities, all your contributions will be rated higher

//Second, we can use the underworld as well as expeditions to acquire new material of interest.

//I shall do so myself.

//Third, we might be able to leverage ourselves as deniable assets.

“You mean his request for someone who can get their hands dirty?”

//Yes.

//Although this presents a risk, I believe I can take measures so that our operations cannot be traced back to you.

//We should keep ourselves in his mind first.

//By providing obviously ‘liberated’ artifacts.

//I need to learn more about his interests and stake in the city.

//Understand how he operates.

Viv nodded slowly. She perfectly understood Solfis’ reasoning. Right now, she needed Elunath alive and well. After she was transformed, he would become a liability. It would be useful to get to know how he functioned and how he defended himself. Sometimes, the golem’s mindset could be predictable.

//I will have everything I can done on my end.

//I shall send you a message when any of my current tasks has made progress.

“Good, because classes start tomorrow and I need all the knowledge I can get.”

//Make connections.

“I will try.”

***

Viv left soon after to visit Sidjin because she had to make sure he was fine. The buggy she hired ran down to the edge of the Shal and over an impossibly long bridge clogged with wagons and travelers. They left the main road for a cleaner stone path that ran between large estates. Here, the terrace farms she had spotted on her arrival were prevalent. They bore orchards and vineyards as well as paddies, most of them either empty or in the process of being harvested. Men and women in simple clothes labored with songs, piling colorful bounties on large carts drawn by placid cornudons. The air here was still warm, yet a breeze coming from the sea made it bearable.

The buggy left her by an old open gate and asked for seven iron bits which was robbery, but Viv didn’t mind. The poor lad dragging her ass up the cliff was red and out of breath despite his enhanced stat so that was fine. She walked through the entrance to children racing across an inner court cluttered with half-filled crates. A harried woman asked her to wait while shirtless laborers loaded the late shipment. Soon, a shaved, fat man in a sweaty robe wobbled to her, a tall thug by his side.

[Estate ruler, not dangerous, one who follows the path of estate management and agriculture. Greedy, mind for business, gruff.]

[Farm fist: not dangerous, one who follows the path of laborer and enforcer. Decent melee combattant. Stupid. Pillar.]

“A lady caller not two fucking days into his stay? What is this place? A bordello?” the merchant roared in heavily-accented Baranese.

Viv was unimpressed, especially when a small wave of intimidation tried to roll over her.

“Where can I find him?” she replied.

“I’m of a mind to just kick your skank ass out of my property.”

“Careful, that sounded like a threat.”

The thug took a step forward and that was the perfect opportunity to test the new, non-lethal options she had been working on. Viv formed a palm and used colorless telekinesis to hit his ample frame in the solar plexus. He crashed backward with a pained ‘oof’.

In the silence that followed, the thug crawled to his knees and vomited his past three meals.

“You can’t use magic against civilians,” the merchant coldly stated.

“Looks to me like I can. Feel free to whine later. Now, show me where Sidjin lives or I’ll look for him myself, and your doors won’t like that.”

Viv finally released her grasp on draconic intimidation. She could tell her own brand of intimidation was different. It felt cold and reptilian, more a promise of consequences than a contest of will. At the same time, her coating spread quickly over her form to assume the semblance of spikier earth infantry gear.

It was a bit of a gamble. Academy rules were nominally strict on law enforcement against casters who harassed citizens, but she knew the real score. So long as she didn’t kill anybody, she would receive a slap on the wrist at worst. Maybe a fine. The rich didn’t care much about fines.

Viv expected two things to happen. Either the merchant would bend, or he would threaten. It should be clear force would not work against her.

To her surprise, the merchant picked a third option. He started to laugh.

“Hah! Thank Maranor someone’s wearing pants in this couple. That lad felt too soft by himself, all soft-spoken and polite and whatnot. No spine. No presence! I tried to screw him over and do you know what he said? I think not,” the merchant grumbles in a fairly good imitation of Sidjin’s northern accent.

“I think not! No insults, nothing. Not even a little threat! The man’s gotta grow a pair if he wants to survive around here. Talks like a Baranese countess.”

“I can only assume you’ve not seen him fight.”

“Pah! There are no good fights to be found around this city. He got to have more bite, you hear? Anyway, please excuse me for a second.”

