Viv was not sure what to say. She thought a man who could woodchip a navy patrol boat and dig a wormhole through the fabric of reality could afford to speak quietly but the merchant meant well in a weird, culturally different sort of way. Probably. She decided to let it go for now.

The merchant looked after the farm fist who was quickly recovering. He spoke a few words and the surrounding laborers rushed to bathe him in healing magic, led by a fussy woman who kept sending glares at Viv. The farm fist stood shortly after looking no worse for wear. He nodded towards Viv.

“Follow Lud, woman. He’ll guide you to your man. You can stay after dark, I don’t mind.”

“Why thank you,” she replied sarcastically.

Lud led her through a fairly basic and really cluttered stone complex. It was obviously an extremely busy period for the estate. She finally found Sidjin’s quarter on the side of large fields, separated from the terraces by a tiny vegetable garden. His house was a two-storied wood and stone edifice designed with sturdiness and function in mind. It was completely unadorned. She knew for sure it was his because it was bristling with a complex array of defensive enchantments. Compared to the rest of the estate, it practically shone in her mana senses. She approached the door and knocked. There was a rush of feet inside and she soon found herself nose to nose with a clearly relieved Sidjin.

“I knew it was you, you always knock the same way.”

“What can I say, I am a creature of habit.”

“And also a liar.”

“Apparently. Let me in?”

“Yes! Sorry, please give me a moment, it will be just a few seconds.”

Sidjin fiddled with runes he had apparently carved in a nearby support beam. The curtain of energy covering the entrance shimmered.

“Alright you can walk in, I attuned the ward to your presence.”

“How did you manage to fortify this place so well?”

“The fear of being murdered by a dockrat assassin paid by a two-bit research thief proved to be a powerful motivator. Your ally’s warning came just in time.”

He considered his next words.

“I will admit that it’s all terribly inefficient and mana-intensive but this is a rental and I am not spending a single iron bit making those wards permanent. Not for that insufferable scrooge. I bet he will see the glyphs and charge me for damage.”

“Wait, you said just in time? You were already attacked?”

Sidjin gestured Viv in. The main room had everything from a kitchen corner to a hearth and even a bathing space separated by a small curtain. Everything was either old or brand new, and Viv suspected Sidjin had bought some of it himself. The witch’s attention soon came to a strange assortment of burnt logs kept in a washbasin. It did not take her long to realize her mistake.

“Sidjin, why is there a carbonized corpse in your living room?”

“Oh! Oh, sorry. I was so busy finishing the defenses that I did not take the time to go out and dispose of it. Came yesterday through the roof just as I was finishing the charge. It was a surprise.”

He looked sheepish.

“Not very romantic for a first visit.”

“Not really, no.”

“Sorry, let me make some tea quickly. I have pastries as well, with mushrooms and grilled shellfish. Surprisingly tasty.”

Viv sighed and disintegrated the remains.

“You can’t just solve everything by offering tea and snacks, dear, but yes please do.”

They moved to a pair of wicker chairs. Sidjin mentioned a pair of killers, one of them intercepted by Solfis’ men. They were the lower ranks of the guild after him, however, those who had hoped to grab the prize on his head quickly, underestimating the risks. More serious people would come after him very soon. It made every trip through town a hazard, though even assassins preferred the night. They had enemies as well.

Sidjin was quite aggravated. Viv came to the rescue.

“I got an idea that might help us. Two in fact. One is about humiliating Sterek and the other is about slaughtering the assassin group to the last man. Or woman. I don’t discriminate.”

Sidjin paused and then added a small crab meat tart to Viv’s plate.

“Sometimes I feel that I exhausted all the misery and bad luck of my life to meet you. Sometimes I think I am still in that dark pit, dying and hallucinating a happier life. It scares me,” the man said.

Viv slowly grabbed his hand. His thin fingers closed over hers with slightly more strength than necessary.

“I’m real, Sidjin, never doubt it. If that comforts you, you’re not smart enough to imagine me.”

The fallen prince gawped, then chuckled.

“Perhaps you are right. Yes. Sorry, it appears I am still carrying this prison with me.”

“No need to apologize. Some of your scars are just more visible than others. But let’s change the subject! Show me around?”

“Yes!”

Viv aptly steered the conversation towards Sidjin’s newest linen which steered the couple towards the bed. The fallen prince had a short nap after their lovemaking. When he woke up, he was feeling refreshed and so was Viv. She related her newest exploit with magic.

“I smacked someone with a telekinesis spell. It worked well but was perhaps too localized. I would need something more spread out to push them away without, you know, breaking ribs.”

“Please consider that you would be hitting them with a wall rather than just with the spell then.”

“Non-lethal does not mean pleasant.”

“Hitting people with walls can be quite lethal on occasion, Viviane dear. Just keep it in mind. In any case, congratulations on your progress. It will help with more than just combat.”

“Is it possible to use telekinesis to throw weapons at people?” Viv asked, thinking of Gambit from the X-men who she had found darkly charismatic back when she was twelve.

“Yes, in fact some Viziman blademasters specialize in those techniques. However, it takes a lifetime of dedication to use it well.”

“Too bad.”

“Since you are here and settled, would you like to practice portal magic again?”

“I’d love to.”

At this stage, Viv could feel and visualize the space she had to twist. It really helped that she could think of space as something malleable. Visualizing a grid in the air was the most useful mind technique she had come up with, and she had been inspired by old school sci-fi for that. It was a wonder Sidjin had come up with the entire construct on his own. The next step was to pick a destination and that was hard because the mage solution was to use a very advanced set of coordinates. Instinctive casting did not like that. She would have to find a workaround. It was also entirely possible a witch like her would only be able to visit places she’d already been to.

In any case, she was still making progress and portal magic was arguably complex, so that was fine.

“You have a lot of projects, currently,” Sidjin remarked later.

“And classes haven’t even started,” Viv complained.

It was later time to head back. The witch used coating just in case but no threats materialized. The price was not on her head anyway, at least not yet, but she would be stupid to take too many risks. The trip back took a while because there were no buggies to be found around the estates. She made her way back by nightfall.

School started the next day.

The breakfast room was crammed with students in uniform that morning. Columns of grey and dark-blue clad casters made their way to the main building, the gates of which were opened for the first time since Viv had arrived.

So far, most of Viv’s business had taken place in the administrative building, a smaller structure nestled against the walls. The main building was rectangular, massive, and topped by a cupola. She was tempted to gasp when she entered.

Rather than a more traditional structure, the Academy’s main corridors were uncovered all the way up to the roof. A dome of impossible proportions displayed a blurred image of the sky in strange colors with outlines of stars and celestial bodies. It also let the outside light in, so much that Viv felt she was still in the garden. Bridges crossed the gap between various wings, allowing students to go from one faculty to another without the need to go back down. The general feeling was one of a village inside of a grotto, perhaps. It was rather unique and charming. All of the walls displayed formulae, painting, extracts and quotes from famous scholars and the occasional statue. The humdrum of conversations resonated through the vast open space. Viv just made sure to stay close to Eraska who had offered to accompany her and let the lazy tide carry them both to the main amphitheater.

It proved to be large enough to welcome all of the students. Viv and Ereska managed to find a pair of seats on the side and waited a while, surrounded by a riot of colorful mana. Soon, professors in crimson regalia walked to the overly decorated podium. The dean came in last. Viv was not really surprised when she recognized the ‘technician’ who had keyed her into the wards just after her admission. If she were to accept a known revolutionary in her place of learning she’d probably want to check them out as well.

“Welcome students both new and returning, welcome to the Academy. Welcome to your home away from home. Welcome to the greatest center of knowledge on Param!”

The students cheered good-naturedly, some of them beating their chests to produce a loud rumble. It was all Viv could do not to clap as a force of habit.

“I am Dean Tallit and it is my honor to welcome you here in these hallowed halls. Yes indeed, the honor is also mine. The Academy has endured through the achievements of generations of talented people and now it is your turn. The time has come for you to leave a mark in history. To surpass yourselves and your forefathers. You are not quite yet the elite of the continent’s spellcasting but work hard and you will be.

“For those of you who just joined us, I have a message. There are many people who have helped you reach the place you are here right now, your parents, elders, partners, mentors, friends, and relatives. You have worked hard to display the degree of commitment and mastery of the arcane arts we expect of those who would join us. You will be expected to continue upholding the standards of excellence you have shown so far, yet just as before, you are not alone. The staff and your seniors are also here to guide you on the path to greatness in a spirit of camaraderie and wholesome emulation. Do not hesitate to reach out rather than drown, and remember that your new community goes beyond previous allegiances. Do not stunt your progress through restrictive views. New friends might be only a seat away.

“Now to everyone, I would speak of the duties that come with the privilege of learning.”

Viv could see more than a few rolling eyeballs in the ranks, which was just as expected.

“Our Academy has not endured throughout the ages because we are powerful, though we are, rich, though we are…”

“Or handsome!” someone roared in the front row.

A low laugh spread across the room and the dean indulged it for a moment.

“Or because you are witty, though you clearly are,” he allowed.

More people laughed this time. The dean appeared pleased with himself before he continued.

“No, the reason why we have endured — not thrived, endured — is because we have always kept ourselves separate from the world’s troubles. We have always maintained a careful neutrality, acting as guardians of knowledge so that our civilization and its fruits might be preserved through the multiple crises. You will find many relics of the Old Empire around you. Let them serve as a reminder that the advancement you take as granted can disappear in a moment, without warning. It can happen to the Academy. Our current standing and continued existence depends on your behavior. Civilization and order can only prevail through consistent efforts. The staff and myself will do our utmost to safeguard our existence and the future of mankind on the continent.

“You will find that the coming months will challenge your focus as you apply yourself within your walls, yet find yourselves unable to ignore what happens beyond. I understand. You have come here to acquire the means to influence the world around you, one way or another, for what is magic if not binding reality to one’s will? The sense of powerlessness might feel unfamiliar and unpleasant. You will experience it. When it comes, take a step back and reflect. I will remind you that your efforts must be applied consistently and thoroughly, or you will be left behind by those who have chosen to complete their curriculum. The world never stops, and consequently there will always be another crisis, another issue to distract you. To stay committed to your studies is not just salutary for the future of our institution but for yours as well.”

Viv had expected empty chatter, but the dean’s choice of words warned politically-minded casters to stay the fuck away from the brewing problems. It was clear the dean expected conflict in the near future, a conflict significant enough to shake the Academy. Viv’s mind wandered to the current ethnic conflict Solfis had announced but she had so far seen little signs of. Probably because she lived in a sheltered environment. It was not enough to justify the dean’s words as she doubted many people cared. There had to be something else.

Fortunately, it was none of her business. At least for now.

Unfortunately, it meant there would be scrutiny. That would be a problem, especially in a world with paths and social skills. It made hiding things much harder.

