The rest of the speech centered on lesser topics and she filtered it out. Eraska was busy looking at people and Viv chose to emulate her. She didn’t learn anything except the fact that free candidates like her were scattered, displaying a complete lack of unity.

It took quite a while to go through several teachers’ greetings, then another ten minutes for everyone to trail out and towards their classrooms for their first lesson, in Viv’s case it would be on the fundamentals of magic. Ereska pointed her on the right path then left to find her own friends. Viv walked to an old classroom and took a random seat. The windows showed the wall on one side and the domed interior of the Academy on the other. Clumps of students arrived and spread across the long tables lining up the room. Most of them seemed to know a few others and all of them gave her a wide berth. In fact, there was a circle of social stigma around her two seats deep and counting. It appeared to be more shyness than scorn from the way people carefully avoided looking at her and the distinct lack of hissy whispers. Just like she expected, they were all much younger than her, but not as young as the young man now sitting by her side.

“Can I sit taken? I mean, sorry. Is this seat taken or can I sit here?”

He was quite nervous.

“Go ahead,” she invited.

“Thanks.”

Viv inspected her unexpected neighbor. He had short black hair and a thin face with a pointy chin. She noticed two tattoos trailing up from his brow and disappearing into his hairline. There was only one other person she knew with tattoos like that: Orkan the Halurian warborn turned inquisitor. This young man was definitely thinner and softer. The tattoos didn’t match as well. The most surprising feature was his aura, however. While most other casters mostly shone with two colors, one dominant and one less, he had four and they were each very powerful, rotating calmly around his person in a well-defined and harmonious circle. Ratty clothes under a brand new robe completed the image.

Between his age and his aura, Viv realized there was only one option. He was a magical genius.

“Hello, my name is Viv.”
