He walked over. Mrsha got to her feet, tried to walk around him. She still had her paws over her ears. He blocked her way, said something.
She couldn’t hear. She would not hear. Mrell bent down. Desperately, he made a gesture.
Listen?
No.
Mrsha tried to run left, but he was too quick and was blocking the way. He stopped her. The Gnoll man took her arms and tried to pry her paws from her ears. Mrsha began to kick at his groin, and he held her up.
“Stop it. Enough! I know you have every right to be angry. Let me explain.”
He had both her arms in his grip! So Mrsha twisted and kicked him in the chin. He dropped her with a cry of astonishment. [Relc Kick]! Relc—
He went to grab her again, and she tore a wand from its hiding place under her fur and aimed it at his face. Mrell’s eyes widened, and he ducked as a single arrow of stone shot past him. It hit the wall of the tent, but the thick fabric only tore a bit upon impact.
Chieftain Mrell dove sideways, wide-eyed.
“Magic? How—?”
He went to tear the wand from her paw but then yanked his paw back. Because Mrsha had just slashed at him with a huge, sharp thorn protruding from her paw. She snarled, slashing, and he took a step back.
They were frozen like that. With one paw, Mrsha menacingly waved the thorn she’d conjured. She dropped the wand to fumble at her side.
Mrell was unmoving, watching her. He saw the little girl fumble for her belt pouch. Her hands were trembling because she was so angry, but when he tried to move, just a bit, she slashed at the air.
She’d drawn blood. A slash across his shin was leaking red into his fur. Mrsha ignored it as she dropped something on the ground.
Mrell saw the little girl spilling an assortment of strange objects. Crumpled paper, a roll of parchment, a bottle of ink, a quill…she grabbed the quill and unstoppered the inkwell after two tries, all while holding her other paw out. She wrote as fast as she could, but so neatly. So…well.
In a cursive script. It was a laborious process that took nearly five minutes, handicapped as she was by one paw. But what she finally threw at him—or tried to—was a single slip of paper.
Paper didn’t fly. Mrsha had to blow on it, then crumple it up and toss the small wad at Mrell’s feet. She glared at him as the Gnoll hesitated. He bent down and unwrapped it as she edged sideways.
He read the beautiful calligraphy, albeit in smudged ink on crumpled paper.
 
I have no father. I have a mother, and her name is Lyonette. Leave me alone, stranger.
 
Mrell stared at the piece of paper, then the girl moving for the exit. Mrell spoke, and now it was without hesitation, desperate.
“We—didn’t know what to do. We thought you were dead at first because you never cried. You couldn’t. You howled—but the [Shaman] thought it was ill luck.”
She had been about to leap past him. Mrsha hesitated, every muscle tensed. She looked back at him, eyes wide.
What?
“Prha and I were young. I was successful. Rising in the tribe. We didn’t know what to do, and the [Shaman] suggested—there is a custom.”
What?
“I was a fool for even dreaming of it. But we did. Almost. Urksh found out right before it happened.”
The words spilled out of Mrell like a confession. Not one Mrsha wanted to hear, but she heard it, as if it were filling the air with poison. Faster and faster.
“He cast us out. Me. Your mother. The [Shaman]. A few other Gnolls who went with us—I never went back. Your m—Prha and I split up. We couldn’t stay together. Not after that. I only met her later. I was wracked with guilt. I was. But I didn’t deserve to go back. I became a wanderer, took up smithing. I founded this tribe.”
Mrell pointed at the ground, at the tent.
“It was luck. I thought of you—wondered—but Prha wanted nothing to do with me. Urksh wouldn’t acknowledge me, even when I sent him a [Message]. I never went back. I meant to, after the Meeting of Tribes. I planned on meeting Urksh here, maybe even…then I heard of the Goblin Lord.”
Mrell was panting now. Shaking.
“I was too late. I didn’t sleep or eat for nearly a month. It was my fault. I looked for the other survivors of the Stone Spears tribe, but they thought you were dead, and Urksh…they told stories about a City Runner who brought the Goblin Lord and a blizzard and…if I’d known you were in Liscor, I would have found you. Mrsha. I am so sorry. You’re…the white Gnoll, aren’t you? The one all the tribes are hunting?”
She stood there, across from him, at the entrance to the tent. Just staring as his words came out, until there was nothing left, until they stopped. Mrell looked at her, reaching a paw out, but afraid to draw near.
“Mrsha. Just wait. Prha will come, and then…I don’t know how you got here, but if one of the traditionalist tribes finds you—wait. I failed my tribe and you and Urksh. But wait. Please.”
He looked at her, straight in the eyes.
“I will protect you.”
The little Gnoll girl stood there, staring up at Chieftain Mrell. Neither one moved or spoke. Then, abruptly, there was a voice that broke the bubble of magical silence.
Mrell whirled, and a voice began speaking, higher-pitched, angry. It had an unusual cadence to it. Slower, then faster near the end of a sentence, especially when the speaker was angry. Which she was.
“Mrell! How dare you summon me here! I won’t answer to you. Leave Sofang out of it. You—”
A Gnoll came storming into the tent, a warrior of a tribe Mrsha didn’t know. She was leaner than other warriors Mrsha had known and had a bow on her back, a shield and short-spear too. She had eyes only for Mrell, so she missed the girl standing there.
If there was something familiar about her, it was probably her paws? No—her fur was the exact same color as—
Prha strode toward Mrell. She was snarling, furious. She saw Chieftain Mrell’s face and hesitated.
“What’s your problem? You look like you’ve seen a ghost. Did I ruin one of your precious deals?”
“Prha. I found her. Look over…”
“Found who? Don’t bring my tribe into this. You shouldn’t have flaunted your famous Demas Metal tribe if you didn’t want to see me. I hope your metal shatters in the forge. You…”
Prha glanced behind her and finally saw the girl with the gold-tipped ears standing there. She had been staring at Prha, face blank.
“Who’s this?”
She turned to Mrell, but he just stared at her. Like he’d seen a ghost. The female Gnoll lost some of her bluster. Prha looked back, focused on the girl, but it wasn’t as if she could suddenly figure it out.
Her mind focused on what was easiest to put together first. Her angry look turned to puzzlement. The little girl was doing something with her bag of holding, but what was that on her fur? The gold ears were one thing, but…
“Are those Stone Spears markings? How…is she another survivor? Did you bring me here to—”
“Prha.”
The word was so strained and so intense that it stopped her again. This time, she looked. And like Mrell, she went completely still.
She had the same look on her face. The one of sheer disbelief. It played across her features. Shock, disbelief, and guilt were all there, too, just as they were on Mrell’s face. But Prha displayed a simple emotion above all.
Fear.
“Her spirit haunts me.”
Prha whispered. Mrell jerked—because he had not expected that. So did the girl. But then Mrsha moved, made the thorn disappear, and rubbed at her left ear. Because it was itchy.
That broke Prha out of her trance. She looked at Mrell. Then she cried out.
“Mrsha—?”
The girl flinched. But she looked at the two adults. Two parents. Someone else’s parents. Slowly, she brought out the object she’d reached for. Looked at Mrell. That Gnoll woman.
“I can protect you.”
What audacity. What a terrible twist of fate. Mrsha was shaking. Her ears were filled with the sound of blood roaring, and she saw Prha saying someone’s name. She looked at Mrell, then lifted something.
Her wrist. Both Gnolls looked down and saw Mrsha pour a single drop of something onto her wrist, onto the fur there. From a little bottle Qwera had given her and told her not to use unless she needed to change something.
It sank into her brown fur, the fur she had had all her life, which she had inherited from those two. And, before all three’s eyes, the fur on her wrist changed color. The brown of the forest turned pale. Then white.
Pure white. Prha stared at the patch of white on Mrsha’s arm. Then she recoiled.
“Doomb—”
She stopped herself. Mrell himself stared at the white patch. Mrsha looked at them. She covered the spot with her paw.
“Mrsha, wait. We’re your—”
Mrell began. Mrsha whirled.
Too late. She ran. She ran, and a second later both her parents burst out of the tent after her. The Gnolls of the Demas Metal tribe saw a little girl running, racing into the Meeting of Tribes, as fast as she had ever run. Away, away from these impostors and this lie.
Away.
 
——
 
Revelation. Chaldion had spoken and put into motion an inevitable event. Nudged it in the direction he thought would be best.
The tribes were full of voices. People stood around, stunned, arguing, disbelieving. They barely noticed the little Gnoll girl racing through the midst of them—until a Chieftain and hundreds of Gnolls followed after her.
At first, she just ran. Away from that thing. Then she ran for someone she knew, anyone. But she didn’t know this place, and she was terribly afraid that she’d run into a hunter.
“Get her! Grab her!”
She heard Mrell’s voice. Desperate. Afraid. For her? She didn’t care. Even knowing the danger, she didn’t want to be anywhere near him.
But it seemed that more Gnolls had heard and seen the chase and were coming after her. She dodged left as someone whirled.
“There! That one!”
Someone dove for her. She saw an adult warrior. No. Mrsha leaped over him, and now she was fleeing for her life.
Another tribe had found her! She looked around for the one thing that would keep her safe. Silverfang. Or the Golden Gnoll. She had to find them.
“That girl. Grab her, on the Chieftain’s orders!”
And it was not a Demas Metal Gnoll who spoke, but another warrior from another tribe. A stranger. Mrsha ran left, wide-eyed. This was her end? She looked around for that glitter of gold. She saw something bright. Golden. Was that…?
No. Not Qwera. Mrsha desperately raced past Gnolls forming a wall and signaling others who joined in. She raced left, saw she was headed for another tribe’s camp, and saw more Gnolls running to block her in. She frantically spun around.
“There she is. Get—”
Mrsha leaped as someone raced toward her. She bounced, pushed off a chest, and vaulted over the Gnoll’s head. For a second, she did a flip through the air, just as Wer had taught her. The [Grasshopper’s Run]. She strained, though she had not the Skill. Fly. Back to her mother. Let me l—
A pair of paws caught her. Someone leaped and yanked Mrsha out of the sky. Paws dragged her to earth, and it was not Mrell—who stopped, suddenly afraid—or Prha, or any Gnoll Mrsha knew. A Chieftain calmly caught Mrsha and held her up.
“Is this the one?”
“It’s her.”
Mrsha went still. She looked for that golden glitter, but it was only fake gold on fur. No Qwera.
Why, then, is there still gold? She looked up and, through the clouds, saw something shining down.
A golden ray of light. And the Chieftain who held her was illuminated by it. It played over her dyed fur, and she smiled as she turned.
“Is this the girl, niece?”
Feshi Weatherfur exhaled. She looked at Mrsha and the little white patch, quickly blocked by Chieftain Torishi Weatherfur’s paw. She nodded toward their camp and all the Weatherfur, Ekhtouch, Longstalker’s Fang, and Silverfang Gnolls who had come searching for her.
“That’s her.”
“Demas Metal’s here. I recognize Chieftain Mrell. Signal our people. He cannot shout, or it will be dangerous.”
Torishi murmured. She lifted Mrsha up, into the ray of light.
“I found the troublemaker! All’s well!”
Mrsha stared around. Troublemaker? Me? She saw a figure starting toward her, face filled with relief.
“Mri!”
Vetn? And there was Qwera, pushing through the crowd, and Tkrn, and that Human girl, and…Mrsha looked at Torishi, and the Weatherfur’s Chieftain smiled.
“Hello. Don’t worry. You’re safe. Are those Gnolls after you?”
She looked past Mrsha at Mrell and Prha. Mrsha didn’t know what to say, so Torishi nodded in answer to her own question. She looked tired. Worn from her duties on the scrying orb council, though it was still ongoing. She jerked her head at Feshi.
“Let’s go, Feshi. Come, child. You’re safe now.”
Mrsha didn’t know if she was. But then Weatherfur Gnolls were around her, escorting their Chieftain to their camp and her private Chieftain’s tent, telling the others all was well. And…escorting Chieftain Mrell and Prha forward. They stood in her tent as Torishi spoke.
Feshi, standing behind her Chieftain, Mrsha, sitting just behind the impressive Chieftain of the Weatherfur tribe. Warriors standing outside, and an audience behind them, lined across the entrance and walls, her friends, Vetn, Qwera, Tkrn, strangers like Inkar, all of them listening, trying to understand what was playing out before their eyes. Torishi knew. She looked at the two Gnolls standing in front of her, almost as if they were on trial.
“Chieftain Mrell. I trust you will listen first. Speak after. I do not know what you may think—but this child is under Weatherfur’s protection. Weatherfur, Silverfang, Ekhtouch, Longstalker’s Fang, and Liscor’s.”
Chieftain Torishi had Mrsha right next to her. She did not know everything. She looked at Mrell warily, and he didn’t know what to say. So Torishi went on.
“Before you say anything—this is a time of great change. Everything is unrest. If you declare her…anathema, as some tribes might, I will not stand idly by. I would not have tribes do battle. So I ask you to listen.”
“No, Chieftain Torishi. That wasn’t…”
Feshi glanced at Mrell, who was lost for words. She was behind Torishi, eying the Weatherfur warriors who were far back…but would notice any slight gestures she made. Vetn had run off somewhere to tell Krshia, who was still with Akrisa, debating the issue worldwide.
Krshia didn’t know. Torishi didn’t know, because the sun shone down as radiantly as the intense smile on her face, ready for trouble, a warning glare. Such powerfully bright light. Her wariness was because she had no idea.
And what could Mrell say? He looked at Mrsha.
“It is not that, Chieftain Torishi.”
“Really? Then what?”
Qwera looked straight at Mrsha, bending down to whisper.
“Mrsha, are you all right? Did he do anything? Or are we gutting him?”
Mrsha shook her head, but she didn’t know…
