It is a terrible thing for a child to exceed their parents. It probably happens to most children, if only in terms of physical strength or something as vain as beauty—when the child eclipses the adult. However, sometimes it becomes even more painful than that. The child accomplishes something truly extraordinary, and then their parents reveal they are not the all-perfect, superior force, but flawed people.
Even if you love them. No, especially if you do. The worst thing is when they see it that way and treat you like…something else.
She had known that feeling for a while. It was stronger now than ever, and not deserved.
“I have not done anything amazing yet.”
Which was an arrogant statement in itself, because she hoped she would. She dreamed of it, longed for the chance, and feared she had missed it—feared it would never come again. That she was famous now? It felt…undeserved. Borrowed fame. Illusory.
She turned the weapon around in her paws, a killing edge on a beautiful handle. She was deathly afraid of it, but she had already cut herself once with it by accident and her flesh had not mortified; her body had not begun to rot. Perhaps, as the owner, she was immune to its effects.
Nevertheless, there it sat. A strange, eerie metal formed seamlessly into a translucent blade, so fine and deadly it could cut through every material she had tried it on. So thin, glittering like someone had stolen a shard out of midnight.
Diamond. An onyx-colored blade, but not onyx in nature. One of the world’s most valuable minerals, smelted or forged somehow into this dagger. It would be a weapon worthy of any [General]. Yet it was more than mere ornamentation.
If she put the little carved sigil to her ear, Feshi could swear she heard it whispering. She told herself it was nonsense. But the Diamond Dagger of Serept did contain…
Souls. If she called for them, they would come. Great warriors, long deceased, guardians of Khelt who would protect and serve anyone who bore the blade. More than that, the edge could corrupt any wound it caused. Those struck dead by it would rot away and rise as Ghouls in service to the master. She had not known that last part until she had been told, and it made her fur crawl.
Here was a dread blade. Here was a weapon worthy of a warlord leading a legion of darkness. Yet it was hers. Hers and not hers; it would return to Khelt after she died, as she had promised. But she owned it, and it was hers because of her adventure at sea. But it wasn’t hers—not really. It was Wil’s. She had tagged along on their grand adventure, following his map. She had won this dagger entirely by chance.
It’s just more proof you’re meant to be the greatest Weatherfur of our generation. So her parents had claimed. They were beyond proud of her. The [Strategist] who attended the Titan’s Academy on scholarship. The genius of their tribe.
Feshi Weatherfur turned the dagger over again, then put it back in the magical sheath custom-made to hold it. She rose from her tent, festooned with books, maps, gifts, possessions—a yurt just for her. An honor for someone so young.
Everything was an honor. Feshi shook her head unhappily as she emerged from her tent. She looked about and saw some of Weatherfur’s guards spot her.
Feshi wasn’t tall by her people’s standards. Humans remarked on it, as did Lizardfolk, who were quite short until they became a variant of Naga. Feshi had white stripes mixed with russet fur, and that normal pattern of Gnoll fur was changed again by colorful patterns of yellow, blue, and even hints of green or purple. Mostly the first two colors, patterned on her arms.
Weatherfur’s Gnolls were more colorful than most you’d find at the Meeting of Tribes because they had access to plentiful dyes and loved to apply them to their fur. They didn’t come out with water, so Feshi only had to reapply them once a week. Plus, she wore long earrings, two links of beads dangling from her right ear—none on her left. That had a meaning too, although it was only here, at the Meeting of Tribes, that she wore them.
Earrings could be torn out in battle, so she had wisely removed them in Baleros.
She missed the Titan’s Academy. There she was a student among peers. Here?
“Honored Feshi, the Chieftain is meeting with Gaarh Marsh’s Chieftain and Shaman regarding what should be done about the Drakes. Do you wish to join your Aunt? We shall escort you if so—the Meeting of Tribes is hectic.”
One of the [Guards] addressed her, with even a slight nod of the head. Honored Feshi. She grimaced.
“I do not wish it just yet, no. Thank you.”
He bowed his head to her. Feshi cast her eyes around. The Great Plains of Izril looked beautiful by dawn, as light changed the color of the grasslands. Golden dawn’s light dripped over the landscape, like an inkwell slowly spilling over a world of green. It was not monochrome like the steppes, but had a bounty in plants fighting with the grasses, medicinal herbs, magical seedlings, forests and lakes—all interspersed across thousands upon thousands of miles.
So few cities, and only on the border of this land. It smelled like cooking, all the busy scents of a camp, hung mints and other odorizers to eliminate the bad smells from outhouses and such, but if you walked just a little ways out there, you would inhale a hundred different things, from Corusdeer herds to little rodents–this was home and Feshi usually smiled.
But she caught the sour note in the air where people dwelt. A lingering memory of anger—and anger was a smell, unpleasant, harsh. Anger and…she turned and looked around.
“Has anything else interesting happened?”
One of the other [Guards] snorted.
“Beyond fights and arguments all night? Everyone is finding out whether they have any magic and waiting for the Chieftains to make a full decision. Tempers are tense—but I would say ask your friend Honored Yerranola. She is breaking her fast there, yes?”
He gestured toward one of the mess tents and Feshi gave him a nod of thanks. She went in that direction, but it was a sign of who she was that they asked her and would have even taken her orders. Her parents? They were a [Gatherer]-[Fletcher] couple. Her parents were completely enamored with Wil, Venaz, Peki, Merrik, and Yerranola.
The two had a lot of respect in the tribe thanks to her. But it meant…well. Sometimes it felt like she was the responsible one, for all they had jobs. She could give their Chieftain advice, though at least Chieftain Torishi would take it as merely advice.
Here was a stupid fact that none of her friends had understood but that explained everything about Feshi’s complicated position in her tribe: the [Guards] had referred to Chieftain Torishi Weatherfur as Feshi’s Aunt. Which was completely true, and Feshi did use that term, and they were indeed close.
But technically, Feshi was Torishi’s first cousin five times removed. Not exactly ‘close in the tribe’, given that Weatherfur’s Gnolls shared a common bloodline. Most Gnolls could probably boast something like that of all their Honored members. Why did it matter? It didn’t unless someone said it. Then Feshi was the niece of the Chieftain, [Strategist] of the Titan’s Academy, as if he didn’t graduate countless [Strategists]…
She was obsessing, Feshi knew. It was a bad habit of hers. And of her tribe, really. She moped over to the open tent and seats where a somewhat silent, isolated…Gnoll…was taking her breakfast. Her arm trembled a bit as she ate some kind of toasted baguette. Her features were very pale under her fur, to the point where it was noticeable. But Feshi took that as a good sign.
“Yerra, how are you feeling?”
The Selphid grinned with some of her former vitality.
“Better. Now that I can’t hear Venaz snoring from two tents over. Although Peki’s worse. You know, every Gnoll moved their tent two dozen paces away after the first night?”
Feshi put on an air of mock-solemnity as she shook her head.
“We want to give you space as Honored guests.”
“Hah! I like that. My people would probably be too polite to do anything. No—wait. We’d just turn our ears off at night.”
Yerranola cackled, and Feshi was glad to see it. She gave Yerranola a quick glance, but the Selphid seemed like she’d had a full meal.
…Which was to say exactly half of what Feshi would eat for breakfast. But that was a bursting meal for a Selphid, whose body mass was simply lower than any other species but a Fraerling. The only times Yerranola ate large was when she wanted to taste something—or if her body was so freshly dead she could make its digestive system work.
“Busy day, eh?”
Yerranola carefully poured herself a cup of something strange. It looked like off-white tea at first, but it had a dark blue glow underneath the creamy substance at the top. Her medicine.
“Yes, though I’m not sure what my part is in it, no.”
Feshi sighed. She hadn’t been there at the Meeting of Tribes when Krshia Silverfang revealed that Gnolls could use magic. Or when Ferkr broke in to prove the truth of it before the disbelieving Chieftains. She had heard, of course: every Gnoll in the Great Plains had heard, though it was only a day since.
Some were making stories of it, a grand production, and the name Krshia Silverfang was on every Gnoll’s lips—along with Chieftain Akrisa’s and Ferkr’s. They were famous.
And I met Krshia Silverfang. She seemed…nice. Intelligent.
How strange for Krshia to suddenly become so famous and important. But then—it had happened to Feshi after Daquin. Yerranola too. Even now, after nigh on a month of resting at the Weatherfur camp, the Selphid got looks from children and adults. The wounded [Strategist], the Selphid who’d been at Daquin.
She bore it well, drinking her special medicine from Oteslia—a powerful painkiller—the antidote for the poison still eating at her.
Two very important people, international celebrities, if minor, at the Meeting of Tribes. And, Feshi felt, about as useful as ticks on a Stelbore’s ass.
Yerranola glanced at Feshi.
“Fesh, you’re spiraling again, aren’t you?”
“No I’m not.”
Feshi jerked her paws away from her belt, where she was fiddling with the diamond dagger. Yerranola rolled her eyes.
“Oh, sure. You’re not sitting in your tent, brooding over your dagger and obsessing over bringing ‘worth to the tribe’. Sure. I believe that.”
“I’m needed here. I should obsess a bit.”
Feshi turned red under her fur and crossed her arms defensively.
But Yerranola was a devious attacker, even socially. Like her strategy, she loved tricks and feints.
“Absolutely. Which is why I know you’ll do your best work when you’ve spent three days straight trying to crack the Professor’s latest chess puzzle, or when we find you hunched in the library, red-eyed and snarling at everyone who comes close while you’re reading books.”
Feshi wished she could turn her ears off. She coughed, flushing under her fur.
“I’m just focused.”
“Obsessive.”
That was true. Feshi had a bad habit that was really a Weatherfur trait. It was that she…focused on something. A passion, a hobby, an idea. She never let it go until she succeeded or something else wrested her attention away. It was one of the reasons why she’d attracted the Titan’s attention; she’d learned chess by playing it to the point of obsession when it came out. Similarly, she could focus on homework or a problem to the point where even Venaz thought she was too dedicated.
It was a flaw, but it had led Weatherfur’s Gnolls to do great things. Garusa Weatherfur had been one of the few [Generals] ever to be employed by a Drake city, and Torishi was a [Shaman] turned [Chieftain] by dint of her amazing proficiency with weather magic.
Her friends took her out of such obsessive states when they saw her in them, but Feshi knew she’d been bad of late.
“I just feel like I’m not adding enough. Weatherfur can boast of our trade deal with Pheislant—or at least we can if Pheislant isn’t eaten by Ailendamus in that blasted war.”
“Don’t let Wil hear you say that. He’s already agonized enough. I’m glad they took him to find the Professor.”
“I wish I’d gone. Imagine if I brought him here? I should have. Why didn’t I go? You should have let me talk Chieftain Torishi into it. I’m just—”
“Hey. Relax, Feshi.”
Yerranola grabbed her friend’s shoulder. Feshi kept muttering.
“Hey! Relax, Feshi.”
Yerranola’s second admonition was accompanied by a friendly kick to the stomach. That snapped Feshi out of it. She curled up on the ground, holding her stomach for a second.
“…Thank you, Yerranola.”
“What are friends for? Want breakfast?”
“No, thanks. My stomach hurts.”
“Gee, I wonder why?”
The Selphid grinned. She was like that. Well, it was one of the reasons why they liked each other. Yerranola was friendly but could be blunt if she needed to, yet she always came from a good place. She was likable but adaptable.
Unlike Venaz. Even Kissilt was better since they could talk about Izril—but Venaz was a pain. Yerra pointed ahead.
“Let’s go for a walk. You can obsess and I can stretch my body. I’m feeling better.”
Feshi smiled a bit. Her friend couldn’t feel the agonizing pain anymore, but she still grew tired too fast. Too fast to go on an adventure with the mercenaries of the Wild Wastes tribe to find the Professor to the north. Still, Yerranola was chipper today.
“What shall we do? Enjoy more Gnollish festivities? Flirt with handsome or cute Gnolls? Demonstrate how much better at chess we are?”
Yerranola spread her arms wide, beaming, as the two left Weatherfur’s central camp. Feshi made a face.
“I’m not in the mood to eat or play games. My stomach hurts.”
“I wonder why?”
“There’s more to life than games and romance. Everyone else can do it, but I need—”
“Worth! So let’s find some rather than speculate!”
 
——
 
So they did. They made a good team that way. Yerranola directed Feshi’s focus, nudged it, then went ahead when Feshi found a good idea.
“Lots of fallout from yesterday. I couldn’t sleep, and I heard there were over a thousand fights.”
“Only a thousand?”
“Hyperbole, Feshi. Underbole, or whatever you call it.”
Yerranola pointed around the communal area, showing Feshi damaged stalls, denuded of goods and treats for sale, trash on the ground, torn fabric. Feshi could smell a bit of blood, alcohol, and the remnants of adrenaline—which was a smell, just as fear was.
