If there was anyone who could defend the Drakes, Feshi had to admit, it was Chaldion. She might have done the Walled Cities a favor. The Dragonspeaker of Manus might have tried diplomacy. The Serpentine Matriarch would have certainly lost her temper, and Fissival was too close. Salazsar, a [Senator] from Pallass…but Chaldion was a [Strategist]. Did he see a [Path to Victory] here?
But here it was. Feshi sat back, shaking, as Yerranola massaged her shoulders and gave her a hug.
“You did it. There we are.”
Gnolls. They were in the Meeting of Tribes. Akrisa’s frame was moving, showing the Meeting of Tribes, Gnolls who wanted to get a word in. Very clever, that. Had Krshia thought of it? Finally, the world was doing what it should. Focusing on the Meeting of Tribes, rulers debating what had been done. Laying it out. Passing judgment.
Was it real? Was it just glorified attention with no real effect? No—for once, Feshi believed that this would be drama colliding with reality. Consequence meeting news and artifice. She bared her teeth.
“The Professor had better give me a good grade for this one.”
She was sure that, if he could see this, if he was alive—somewhere—he was watching all this, swearing that he wasn’t part of it.
And…laughing.
 
——
 
There was a war going on across the television networks. A war, but no amount of [Soldiers] would save you, no relics. Countless Drakes and Gnolls and people around the world watched a brutal battle in which the enemy was gutted and left to rot.
But what an unfair war! [Messages] were storming Wistram—only a fraction of them read—complaining that people had no voice. Which was always how it worked. But the Drakes, as a species, were accused of having manipulated magic and having suppressed the Gnoll population for generations.
And it was an ugly battlefield for them because they looked incredibly guilty, and popular opinion was part of this war as much as fact was. Also, Feshi had chosen her battleground and set it to the Drakes’ disadvantage.
Of course she had. She had invited one member of their population, two Gnolls…and a bunch of species and nations across the world who had every intention of being fair. Which meant they were probably not going to take the Drakes’ side automatically.
One defender. One Drake had to take on everyone else, defend his species’ actions—the magical crystal that just so happened to be there, and then, when destroyed, let Ferkr cast magic. You could make a stupid argument—and the Drakes had—that it was coincidental, Gnolls casting magic. That it was correlation without proof of causation. Gnolls might have been able to cast magic before that shiny rock was destroyed. How can you prove it?
Well, that kind of argument played well in a sympathetic crowd, but it got the Drakes slaughtered here. Grand Magus Eldavin proved that in the opening salvo. He adjusted some reading spectacles, held a scribed [Message] out like it was a bug, and spoke.
“I see a ‘Sir Relz of Pallass’ has the courage to dignify this twaddle with his name. Regrettable, that. How can we ‘prove’ the two are linked? Perhaps with something as simple as our minds, you imbecile. I do not need to prove every single thing beyond a shadow of a doubt. If you breathe, you can infer there is air. Arguing for complete proof is a child’s gambit.”
He burned up the [Message] with a flick of his fingers.
“Furthermore, I, as Grand Magus of Wistram—and I will call upon no less than four Archmages to lend credence to my words if you like—declare that the magicore crystal located underground, as observed, was, to the best of my knowledge, generating a magical suppression field. That is my testimony as magus, bolstered by the historical fact that Fissival has long had a network of such stones buried across Izril.”
Earl Altestiel raised an eyebrow.
“You could make the argument that, er, someone else buried the stones to implicate Fissival, Grand Magus.”
“Under Az’muzarre’s nose?”
That sneering remark came from Chieftain Torishi. Eldavin—he was in charge of giving those who asked for it time to speak—looked at Altestiel. The Earl bowed slightly to Torishi.
“I wouldn’t hide a single [Archer] behind an excuse that foolish, Lady Chieftain. But I am speaking for all hypotheticals.”
Eldavin conceded the point.
“We will consider it. But I will say, in my opinion alone, that the rest of these ancillary arguments are idiotic and should be ignored.”
The half-Elf swept back toward Chaldion, who had been silent as those ancillary arguments, sent in by Drakes, were laid out. The lone Drake with a perspective had merely grimaced when some of the really stupid arguments were read.
“We’ve set the stage, debunked foolishness. What say you, Grand Strategist of Pallass? Will you deny this, as some of your people do?”
Yisame was in full sway, fan open, expressing her opinion by expression even when it wasn’t her turn to talk. The Grand Strategist sat there, his one good eye glinting as Izril held its breath.
How could he defend the Drakes? How could he explain this? When Chaldion spoke, he revealed why they called him the Cyclops. Like Tulm the Mithril, like the Titan.
The Drakes’ great monster.
“Proof is an onus that’s a pain to produce. A judiciary will struggle to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the Gnolls’ claims are true. I’d question that. But as a bit of propaganda, for public perception, why not?”
He waved that off, insolently. Yisame’s fan snapped open to cover her nose and mouth. Not to be outdone, Pheislant’s [King] snorted and sat back, arms folded. Which didn’t mean he wasn’t outdone, but he tried.
Chaldion ignored both of them. He looked quite deliberately at Torishi, then at Eldavin, then at the King of Minotaurs, eye steady. He took a sip from his glass, exhaled softly.
“Proof is such a tiresome thing. You will never get it fully, and even if you do, I assure you, the Walled Cities will deny it. Drakes will not believe you, and they will not be wrong. They didn’t have a claw in this. Drakes in cities far from Pallass, Fissival, Manus, and the rest will rightly say it wasn’t their doing. So let’s reframe the question. Why was it done? And now, ask yourselves this: By whom? Because let’s just say that one Walled City would not be enough.”
Dead silence. Yisame dropped her fan. Jecaina sat forward, and Fetohep waved away his goblet, looking as if even the immortal drink had soured on him. Torishi’s eyes widened. The Queen of Desonis gasped.
The sound was cut off a second later by thunder. The Seer of Steel had slammed his gauntlet down on the table. The babble of voices was so loud that Eldavin silenced it all.
And there sat Chaldion. If Feshi, watching, had ever doubted he was a monster like the other great [Strategists]—well. She had just watched him throw part of Izril to the wolves. And so brilliantly that she almost wanted to applaud him.
“Grand Strategist Chaldion! Are you implying that you know for a fact this was orchestrated by the Drakes?”
Chaldion raised his eyebrows as the King of Pheislant rose to his feet. He didn’t answer immediately—because someone was hammering on the door to the bar.
“Excuse me. It seems someone objects. That may be Fissival’s ambassador. Or a mob. Keep them out. Send for Magus Grimalkin and General Duln if they attempt to break in.”
He gave orders to an off-screen person, then focused back on the scrying orb.
“Excuse the noise. I am here as Grand Strategist of Pallass, Your Majesties. In the interest of Drakes, I must keep my people’s best interests at heart…”
He took another sip, from the second glass in front of him, water, and grimaced.
“But it occurs to me that saying nothing is worst of all. So—I am under truth spell. Skills, I have no doubt. Hypothetically, if I knew about any plot—”
Torishi roared.
“You knew?”
Chaldion waited, sipping his drink, and Eldavin silenced her section, though she began hurling things.
“Chieftain Torishi, you will have your moment, I promise you. Grand Strategist?”
“Thank you, Grand Magus. Let’s say I knew. Or uncovered it. Under truth spell…let’s say I knew of some foolishness. Something I would go as far as to say was the most idiotic plan—and I know idiotic plans. It is not in my interest to unveil it, even if I could do so without waking up with a dagger in my chest.”
Chaldion played with his drink.
“But if it came to light, and I sat before a grand jury, I might be able to admit I knew. Certainly that one Walled City maintained…something. And another Walled City, not Pallass…led the co-venture.”
Waxworks. The Minotaur King was leaning forward. Foliana actually picked up her orb to give everyone an unparalleled view of her ear.
“Which two cities?”
“Now, that would be a military secret, Chieftain Akrisa. But then I might tell you that every Walled City knew, or learned. After all, this is a grand enterprise. An undertaking, a plan that takes decades to set up. It would require the cooperation of local Drake cities—the Walled Cities with the means to do this and finance such a powerful network, as I’m sure Wistram could tell you.”
He glanced pointedly at Eldavin. The Grand Magus was just waiting. Chaldion sipped his drink one more time—the ice was melting, and its green melded with darker colors.
“And help from groups in starting the deception and keeping it going. Which, to be clear, under truth spell, wouldn’t be Walled Cities. Or Drake cities. Or Human.”
He waited.
Feshi suddenly felt like she’d been stabbed by her dagger. Her paws flew to her chest. She had just realized something, seconds before he said it.
“You clever old…”
Torishi stopped bellowing curses, and suddenly her head rose as if she were hunting.
“Did you just imply…”
“Excuse me, I’ll have a refill. I can’t say anything, Your Majesty of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I am Grand Strategist of Pallass. Excuse me while I cough and look away. If I point as I’m doing it, think nothing of it.”
A few heads followed the Drake’s claw, which was pointed at a very sweaty monarch of Pheislant, despite his having done nothing wrong. Until they realized that Chaldion wasn’t being literal.
Somehow, uncannily, Chaldion had gone from being put on his back foot and outnumbered to having everyone waiting on his words. He was on the offensive.
“If you are aware of who is to blame, speak, Grand Strategist. Or damn Pallass by omission. You have already indicated that the City of Inventions knew of this action, admitted what has been done. You prevaricate to throw blame askew. Well done. The House of Minos shall remember all that is said.”
The King of Minotaurs’ hand tightened on her throne’s stone armrest, and Chaldion’s eyes narrowed for a brief second.
“Well, then, Your Majesty, I will be as straightforward as I am able to be in my position. Injustice was done. A conspiracy, some might call it. Analogous to the Circle of Thorns in the north. Hah. Every powerful entity makes plans in secret.”
He waved a claw, but the Seer of Steel interrupted.
“YOU MAKE A TOPICAL COMPARISON LIGHTLY. BUT IT SUGGESTS SOMETHING. DOES THE NORTH HAVE ANY INVOLVEMENT? OR DO YOU MERELY PUT THE IDEAS TOGETHER? ANSWER DIRECTLY, CHALDION OF PALLASS.”
Again, the Drake grimaced.
“Merely comparative. Very well. What I am sure about is this: no Walled City could do this alone. As I said, holding the Walled Cities as a whole, or Drakes as a whole, responsible for any actions taken is impossible. Misguided, though understandable. They had no role to play in orchestrating or implementing anything that might have been done. In the same way…there were beneficiaries of even ostensibly hostile actions against the Gnollish people at large.”
Chieftain Torishi choked, barely able to speak.
“You are suggesting…tribes were culpable in this?”
Chaldion flicked a claw back and forth, as if swatting at a gnat.
“I am not suggesting anything. Merely illustrating, Chieftain Torishi. Let me rephrase my statement. There was a benefit. To whom? Drakes alone? I can say definitively—no.”
“You are muddying clear waters. When a crapfish stinks up the catch, I do not blame it on shrimp.”
Queen Geilouna narrowed her eyes at Chaldion. Some of the others winced at her metaphor, but Chieftain Akrisa was quick to agree.
“You must offer proof, Chaldion. You cannot simply…hint. Who benefits? Why?”
Her eyes flickered. Tulm the Mithril hadn’t said a word, but he was holding his head, and his eyes were distant. He was thinking. So was Perorn, who had gone uncannily still, especially given the way Centaurs usually move around.
“Sounds tricky. I think she knows.”
The voice was a mutter. Eyes snapped sideways. Foliana blinked. Chieftain Akrisa’s fur rose.
“I don’t know what you…er, Three-Color…”
She trailed off, unsure how to address Foliana. And, moreover, because she was caught.
The giant Squirrel Beastkin chewed on her raw clams, inspiring paranoia in every person who loved clams. She stared back at Akrisa as she replied, that disconcerting stare of three colors.
“Yes, you do. Suggesting. You have something in mind. There. I was clever. Can I go now?”
Akrisa paled, but another voice interrupted, for the first time since this had begun. Despite her name, the youngest member of this group had been still, listening, and she chose her moment to voice her opinions well.
“I do not know this Grand Strategist. Nor am I as gifted in diplomacy as some of my peers. But it seems to me this is quite cunningly accusing Gnolls of conspiring. It astonishes me, frankly, Grand Strategist, that you would dare.”
The Grand Strategist raised an eyebrow at Jecaina.
“Your Majesty of Jecrass. Is the truth limited to your personal feelings?”
She flushed slightly, and lifted her chin. Fetohep’s golden eyes flashed a moment, but he waited. Jecaina could take care of herself.
“I do not think it is my personal feelings that change the truth, Grand Strategist. We have seen Gnolls slaughtered on Chandrarian ground without mercy, and a nation burned for it. I do not even know if the King of Destruction was wrong in his wrath—only how far he took it. We have seen innocent tribes slaughtered, a people deprived of magic, and clear culprits. Only, you have the gall to turn the blame back on Gnolls? Without proof? Let us have some, or we should call every statement into doubt. As well as your feelings, if any, on the people you share this continent with.”
Chaldion’s expression was unreadable, but he didn’t look quite as sanguine as before. He danced like a striking viper, but the others had nets, and some were experts at this.
“Proof. If I said a name at this moment, it would be war.”
