Mrell looked at Mrsha. He looked at Prha, who was shocked, unable to process it all—the tense Gnolls, Tesy with his paintbrush held in a threatening manner, Torishi’s intense readiness…and then looked down at his paws.
He still held something. A crumpled bit of paper. He stared at it…then, without a word, held it out. His paw shook.
Torishi frowned. But she stepped forward, took the paper, and read it. The Chieftain of Weatherfur stared at the words.
“I hate cursive. What does this…?”
Her brows furrowed together. She looked up at Mrell, twisted her head to Mrsha. It was not a hard thing to put together, but the message needed to be understood. Then she got it. She nearly dropped the bit of paper.
“Oh.”
Qwera didn’t know what Torishi now knew.
Ysara was here, and she had none other than the Demas Metal blade aimed not so casually toward the very Chieftain who made it. What a funny coincidence. Ha. Ha.
Qwera addressed the child.
“Mrsha, tell me what happened. Why are you shaking? Ysara, get ready to stab him.”
Qwera was watching as the little Gnoll child wrote. Trying to explain. Trying to encapsulate all that had happened in such a short amount of time.
Mrsha looked up as Torishi sighed. Slowly. Painfully.
“Lower your sword, Merchant Ysara. This Gnoll is not…an enemy. I think.”
Mrell looked up as Ysara hesitated. The woman raised a brow, but for answer, Torishi passed her the bit of paper. Feshi walked over.
You couldn’t understand until you saw the clue that put it all together. But the paper was one of the fastest ways to get it. That, the message…Mrsha felt her shoulders shaking. She heard Feshi muttering, a gasp.
“Who are…? You mean…?”
Tkrn and Inkar walked over.
Gireulashia arrived, striding through the knot of guards like a giant. One drew their blade on her, and she flicked it out of the warrior’s grasp.
“Peace! Ekhtouch is here to help. Where is the girl? What’s happening?”
She stopped, spotted the paper, read it backward through the transparent paper in Torishi’s spotlight, and looked around.
“Hm. You and you.”
Gireulashia looked at Mrell and Prha. She seemed pleased with herself…then realized she was going to have to wait for everyone else to catch up. She tapped Inkar on the shoulder and whispered to explain.
“That’s this girl’s…”
Lehra Ruinstrider barreled into the tent a second later with Suxhel, who did the same trick, immobilizing a guard before they could block her with one huge eye. The rest of her team slowed, but Mrsha heard none of the explanations, the chatter.
She was trying to write something to Qwera, but she couldn’t. She saw Torishi walk back toward her and crouch.
“Mrsha Silverfang? Or is it…Mrsha of The Wandering Inn?”
Tkrn must have told her. She had it wrong. It was Mrsha du Marquin. That was all she wanted, though she could do without the ‘du’.
That was all she wanted. And now…Mrell was looking at her. Prha was beginning to reach out but was held back by a wall of Mrsha’s friends and protectors. Torishi glanced at them.
“I take it you two have never met.”
“Chieftain Torishi. The story is…”
Tkrn gasped loudly.
“He’s the father who got exiled? I thought he was dead!”
Mrsha flinched. Inkar looked at her, then instantly she and Lehra stomped on Tkrn’s feet. Gireulashia raised her foot as well but decided against it.
Now it came out: Mrell and Prha were in the center of another kind of spotlight. What else was there to do but explain?
Mrsha didn’t hear it. She heard him speaking, in a shaking voice, saying it less coherently than he had said it in his tent. She didn’t listen.
She had a quill in one paw and a bit of paper in the other. She was still trying to say something. She had dropped her activation rune. And that wasn’t her voice anyway, just some prerecorded messages. Only what should she say?
Her…parents—the Gnolls who had brought her into this world, rather, and then abandoned her—stood here, in Torishi’s tent.
Chieftain Mrell, who had saved her from being seen by Chieftain Xherw. Who looked guilty in his successful tribe. Prha, who had thought Mrsha was a spirit.
I will protect you. Words many people had said, that Chieftain Mrell had said. The thing he called himself. Which he had no right to say. Lyonette had earned the right.
Mrell was staring at Mrsha. Longingly. Desperately.
Mrsha refused to meet his gaze. Now. Now, only now…she began to write. Her paw began to shake. Her shoulders trembled.
Tears fell out of her eyes. Only here, only now, as Chieftain Torishi, basking in the sunlight coming through the top of her open tent, bent. She did not know Mrsha, but her face was kind.
“You have traveled a long way, Mrsha. Even here, much has happened. Too much in one moment. What is it you wish to say?”
Mrsha wrote, hand shaking. Tears rolled down her face, dripping from the fur around her chin. She held something out to Torishi. The Weatherfur Chieftain read it, slowly.
Now—at last, this was the only thing Mrsha could think to write.
 
I want to go home. To Liscor.
 
She was done. She wanted to go home, now. With her mother. She wanted to go home, go back in time, lie in her room, and erase this place from ever having happened. Even if it meant that she never would have met Qwera, Vetn, and Tesy.
Torishi sighed. She looked back, and the sunlight was not the harsh light of warning. Even so, Mrell and Prha flinched. Urksh had looked like that once.
It was the look of a Chieftain. But Torishi did not shout at them to leave. She looked at Mrsha. Then she walked around the tent, to the scrying orb that still broadcast the arbitration council, now engaged in arguments, debate about what should be done.
There was dissension in the Meeting of Tribes. Confusion. Anger. Could there truly be traitors among them? Torishi looked at the white patch on Mrsha’s wrist. And there lay an entire world of knowledge.
When Torishi spoke, she sounded very tired. She did not address her words to Feshi, or to Mrell, or even to Mrsha alone. Just to herself and the tent. The world and no one.
“We are a bitterly cruel people. We put tribe in front of person. We quarrel, and we diminish in our smallness, our shortsighted pride. We have descended into madness. And we are hated, hunted by other species. We hate and hunt each other. There is little good, on those dark days, that I can say about Gnolls.”
She looked up at the sun, which vanished behind a cloud, then turned her head. Mrsha saw the light vanish. Rain did not fall. Torishi shook her head.
“But that is what I can say of every people who has ever lived. We try. Sometimes, in the trying, we succeed. And we are glorious. Right now? I look at a brave girl who survived killers coming after her. Who traveled across Izril and survived, despite all odds. Who has a story that stretches before and after her and already makes her something of a legend.”
She looked at Mrsha, then pointed to Mrell and Prha.
“Over yonder, I see two very small, very petty Gnolls who did what the worst of us have always done.”
One of the two stirred. Prha opened her mouth.
“Hey…”
Torishi’s single glance made her fall silent. She walked back over to Mrsha. The girl did not want to look at either of her parents, and Torishi knelt.
“I know this is a painful moment for you, Mrsha. So listen to me. Close your eyes.”
Mrsha did. That was easy. Torishi murmured, very gently.
“There sits Chieftain Mrell of Demas Metal. And, I think, Prha of Sofang. You know what they are. What they claim? You know that too. I do not know all of what they said. But you sit in my tent, in my tribe. So I say this: as you close your eyes, you do not need to open them and see them again.”
“Chieftain Torishi—”
“Be silent, Mrell. Weatherfur is speaking.”
Chieftain Eska snapped.
Torishi waited.
“If you do not want to, Mrsha, when you open your eyes, you will not see them. If you do wish to—and I believe someday you should—Chieftain Mrell will be there. You will speak with him and he with you, if you so desire. But remember. No matter what you choose—you do not owe either one of them anything. You do not need to love them. You do not need to listen to them.”
Mrsha listened desperately as that kind voice went on. She squeezed her eyes shut.
“Neither of them can take you or force you to do anything. They can hurt you, by kindness or thoughtlessness or cruelty. What you take, and what you give, is your choice. I only ask that you think. You do not need an answer for all these troubles. Just tell me when you are ready. What do you want, right now?”
Mrsha trembled. Because that was exactly what she wanted to be asked. She reached out, and a big paw let her squeeze it. Mrsha cried. She wanted to go home. And she wanted her mother.
She knew what she wanted right now. Slowly, Mrsha wrote and gave Torishi a bit of paper.
 
——
 
Feshi Weatherfur saw the others talking in her camp. Such an unlikely alliance. Ekhtouch, famously reclusive; Silverfang; Longstalker’s Fang—and Demas Metal.
But not their Chieftain. He had left, as had Prha, to their own tribes, silent. Neither had the words yet to begin to comprehend this moment.
Only three Gnolls remained in the tent. One was Torishi, the other Feshi. The last was the Gnoll girl with white fur, albeit covered by her fake brown fur. Feshi couldn’t take her eyes off her.
Tkrn had only said a few things. But his remarks had been like the Professor’s stories—here was a girl who had survived Goblin Lord and Raskghar.
Doombringer…no. Feshi listened. That was what Torishi had done. Feshi had been afraid of what her Chieftain would do, but now Torishi sat with Mrsha, who had stopped crying and was blowing her nose. Torishi was speaking, softly.
“I was once told there was a time when Doombringer was not the name they called you. But we have forgotten…I know part of why we began hating your kind. Such terrible days—but it was not your kind’s fault, nor was it ours alone. It was a tragedy, and we must not let it repeat itself.”
Torishi had been a [Shaman]. Yet Feshi had known with every fiber of her being that Torishi would not kill a child, white fur or not. So she came over as Torishi stroked Mrsha’s head.
“But you shall not die. That is my promise. And it is written twice, because we were wrong about magic. Silverfang showed us the truth. So when Krshia Silverfang and Tkrn shout that we have been fools, I listen. Here is my niece, whom I trust. Do you know her?”
Mrsha looked up. Feshi bent over and smiled.
“My name is Feshi. You’re Mrsha, aren’t you?”
The Gnoll looked at the famous [Strategist]. Yet Feshi didn’t think Mrsha was the one most impressed by the meeting.
They had much to tell each other. But not now. Today was a day of great revelations. Great news. Things coming together.
Too much. So when Feshi took Mrsha’s paw and led her from the tent, the others blinked at the strange girl.
She had…brown fur. But someone had dabbed green and red on her and other colors besides. She had gold ears, courtesy of Qwera and Weatherfur.
Inkar clapped her hands together.
“Oh! How smart!”
Feshi had covered Mrsha’s white patch.
Torishi came out of the tent.
“We have much to do.”
“You have never said truer words, Torishi.”
Eska walked over. Torishi smiled.
“But not we as in, we here. You and I, Eska, we have much to do, yes? This child will go with Feshi. And I entrust her to her guardians, who will not let her out of their sight.”
Vetn and Tesy flushed, and Mrsha was amazed they still had their ears.
Qwera nodded.
“I won’t let her out of my sight.”
Tkrn promised too.
“Or mine.”
Torishi raised an eyebrow.
“All of you might be just enough. But I think we have less to fear now, yes?”
What? But Mrsha was right there, and she had her magic wand, her true nature hidden by paint, but…everyone looked at Mrsha, who rubbed one red eye. What did Torishi mean by that?
As if in reply, as the light faded over the Meeting of Tribes, Torishi led Mrsha and Feshi out of the Weatherfur camp. And there Mrsha saw a sight to take her breath away.
The Gnolls had stopped watching the council on the news. They had broken up, but they might reconvene tomorrow. Certainly Walled Cities and tribes would shake and tear apart over this. Something had begun.
But anger and rage could only last so long. Right now, there was a feeling in the air. Solemnity. A quiet. But not silence.
As light faded from the sky, and even as Torishi’s place in a permanent spotlight of her own weather turned quiet and still, darkness fell over the camp.
Yet no one lit torches or braziers. No one reached for a magical lantern or asked a [Shaman] to illuminate the darkness. Instead, Mrsha saw, in the crowd of gathered Gnolls, someone lift something up.
It was a wand. Bought at a markup from the Golden Gnoll or donated by Wistram, found, and held in an uncertain grip.
A Gnoll with a wand. Slowly, the tip began to glow with a faint green light. Not the green of any color Mrsha could name. Not the green of any artificial screen but a color mixed in a shade only produced by magic.
It filled the darkness, touched the silent figures. One light. Others held wands. But there was nothing.
Then…someone lifted a staff. They raised it high overhead, planted it, and a shimmering small fire of blue insects, beautiful little insects that flew and melted, rose upward. Mrsha saw another Gnoll, standing on a platform, lift a crystal ball that began to glow from no power but the one in its holder’s hand.
So few. So far between. Yet the light shone all the brighter because it was so dark.
Mrsha saw more lights appear, each one different. And she saw a Gnoll looking down at her.
Feshi smiled encouragingly. Mrsha hesitated—then plucked something from her side. A hidden object that no Gnoll could use.
Or—at least until a moment ago. She raised it, slowly, as in the center of the Meeting of Tribes, Ferkr of Pallass raised her paw skyward and conjured a vast globe of light.
Mrsha’s wand—well, the wand she’d stolen from Pisces, but technically he had given it to her later—rose into the air. It produced a green-yellow light, like blossoms in spring. Torishi looked up and smiled as the tendril of light grew upward, like a plant. She called out as she and Feshi lifted Mrsha to their shoulders.
“Look upon this child of Weatherfur! Look and know the truth of it forever! Let them never lie! Never shall we forget this injustice! Never!”
Some Gnolls took up the call. Others just looked at Mrsha, many with tears in their eyes.
In the distance, a Gnoll, a Chieftain, stood and saw the distant girl. Chieftain Mrell’s eyes fixed on her. Right there. So far away, yet so close.
A little Gnoll girl. With a shining light from the tip of a magic wand.
