“I was personally invited by Strategist Feshi, but Wistram shall simply host this august meeting; we are fairly culpable, as I shall admit readily. I believe at least two from Baleros…two from Terandria, and the rest of the seats will be given to Izril. Or perhaps to a few other parties? I cannot imagine the Blighted King has the time for such frivolities.”
“No, indeed. Well, then…ah.”
Incidentally, simultaneously with this discussion, the smart ones had begun answering Feshi’s calls. The really smart ones had begun calling her. But Feshi had a list, and it was first come, first served.
Everyone watching realized what this was when the fifth personage appeared. She did not fit. Or did she? If she fit, and if Feshi had asked for her specifically, it was because of recent deeds.
Jecaina of Jecrass sat on her throne and stood to greet the others. Fetohep was smiling, and the Chieftains saw it, as did Eldavin, who had sounded quite approving when he agreed to this.
The Arbiter Queen and her council of judgment ride again! Only this time, the crime was greater. The personages weightier.
You could not hold the excitement in the Meeting of Tribes in any container. Feshi was kicking people, telling them to shut up as she organized the rest. All she had to do was speak a name and Eldavin made it happen—or, rather, one of his aides did.
It was an intoxicating amount of power. And here they came.
What was noticeable, and what made an entire continent nearly flip, was who wasn’t part of this council. For instance…no Treespeaker. No Flos Reimarch.
Not even Femithain.
Flos, the King of Destruction, would have attended if he had not been a crisped piece of bacon incapable of speech. Feshi had called, and someone young and female had told her, over the sound of some furious, incomprehensible noises, that it was impossible.
She did bring Queen Yisame into it. Because Nerrhavia’s Fallen had been in the last one, they were hugely powerful, and Yisame was the most important of the other rulers. No Orjin—much to his relief—and that was all of Chandrar.
Three from Chandrar.
Two from Baleros. Feshi invited two, and two came. She had a hard time at first, but then—
“I see two of the Great Companies have elected to send representatives. Greetings. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has always heard of Baleros’ might. Might and wisdom personified, then.”
Queen Yisame spoke behind a fan, as two groups appeared. The first group Feshi knew well, and it was with a pang that she saw not Niers Astoragon, with his huge hat, striding into frame but…well.
A giant squirrel-woman with eyes to match Eldavin’s and a bushy tail. An aghast Centauress grabbed her.
“Foliana, this way!”
“Mm. Hello.”
The Three-Color Stalker, Foliana of the Forgotten Wing company, was the Orjin of this council. She was unapologetically chewing on a raw clam, dipping the meat in sauce. Queen Yisame faltered on the rest of her address, and Akrisa did a double take.
“The Three-Color Stalker herself. A [Rogue] of unsurpassed ability. From Khelt, hail.”
Fetohep had begun addressing people less formally, but there was a way to do that in style. Foliana stared into the camera blankly.
“Why am I here?”
“To discuss…”
Perorn whispered furiously as Yisame collected herself to finish her greeting; she had elected to make the next address after greeting the others and receiving the bottle of Khelt’s wine that was being passed around. But she never got the chance.
The figures in the other frames arranged side by side across the projection were two of the same species, unlike Perorn and Yisame. However, they were not alike in size. One was a gleaming figure that made Feshi feel a cold flash run up her back. One of the greatest [Strategists] to walk Baleros, including the Titan. His armor shone with a light beyond silver.
Tulm the Mithril. Yet he, who had his head in his hands, was nothing compared to the giant of metal whose head rested on a pedestal. The figure waved an armored hand.
“HELLO. CAN OUR VOICES BE HEARD? THE IRON VANGUARD COMETH.”
Everyone went temporarily deaf as Eldavin hastily lowered the volume. The Seer of Steel, the leader of the Iron Vanguard, spoke, but even turned down, his voice was a shout.
“APOLOGIES. I SPEAK WITH THE WEIGHT OF DULLAHANS, BUT THE LACK OF TACT IS MY OWN. TULM IS THE BETTER VOICE, YET I ATTEND FOR THE MOMENT AND OFFER MY RESPECT FOR THE GNOLLISH PEOPLE. THREE-COLOR STALKER, I GREET YOU.”
Foliana glanced up. She had wedged two fingers in her ears and was trying to eat the clam out of the sauce without the use of her hands. She unstuck one ear.
“It’s you again. Didn’t I stab you one time?”
“IT DID NOT WORK.”
That was for Baleros. Of course, Maelstrom’s Howling was not happy, but Tulm had beaten their representative and told Feshi they could get both in one room faster than anyone else. So…that left two places.
Izril and Terandria. For Izril had one last representative to field. That one was a while in coming, but Terandria got its showing.
By now, there were so many people that the screen had to flick between them, holding on a speaker before changing to another point of view.
Jecaina, Eldavin, the Iron Vanguard, the Forgotten Wing, Silverfang, Weatherfur, Fetohep, and Yisame.
Eight, and two more continents left to go. But while there were too many to speak at once, it was important that they each have a chance to speak. More important? Their being here added so much weight.
Every continent except Rhir represented in power. And for Terandria? Well, Feshi had to admit…she was a tiny bit spiteful.
None of the Terandrian monarchs save one had given her the time of day until this had begun. So she got a spot—although Krshia might have had something to do with it, since she had suggested the man who relayed the unusual request to her. As for the other—well, she thought Wil would thank her.
Pheislant’s [King] had done his best and was among the last to arrive, mainly because he had made the odd, and unfortunate, choice to array his royal court around him. They looked impressive, waiting upon his regal words. But so many people had to stay in frame, and you could see them fidgeting, coughing, or whispering every time the image changed to them.
Nevertheless, Pheislant spoke, whereas Ailendamus was too late to join in. And the last Terandrian was…
Queen Geilouna of Desonis, who arrived third to last. And after so many impressive entrances, it seemed she could not upstage any of them; even Pheislant looked good. However, she had some of Foliana’s genius. Or Orjin’s madness.
She appeared, legs folded, reclining horizontally on a royal couch, a slice of cake on a plate in one hand, a fork in the other. On top of the couch rested one of her cats, idly staring at the people. And there, by her feet, was a sweet little Sariant Lamb, who made adorable eyes at the camera.
Fetohep, Tulm, and Eldavin stared so balefully that the little lamb fled, shivering, behind the couch, mewling cutely. It kept poking its head out, stealing the focus, until Earl Altestiel nearly kicked it accidentally as he stood behind his Queen. Because he was naturally in the frame. Queen Geilouna lifted one hand, lazily.
“Hail. Desonis rests with me. I wonder, shouldn’t you all find a seat or somewhere delightful to rest? I cannot imagine this will be a short discussion. I would love some wine, if it’s being offered. Would anyone like cake?”
Geilouna waved her fork at Eldavin, who was standing, and at the Dullahans and others. That was almost as charming as watching the Earl of the Rains sweep a bow to Perorn and Foliana.
“May I trouble you with a compliment, Lady Foliana and Strategist Perorn? I am a deep admirer of your campaigns and of the Titan himself. I hope you will remember me to him?”
Foliana muttered.
“Mm. Sure.”
“A greeting to you as well, Earl of Desonis. I have heard of the war commander who strikes like a storm.”
Tulm inclined his head a touch frostily at the Earl, who begged his forgiveness for the slight. The others were chattering, sometimes together, sometimes apart.
“Yes. An invitation to any Chieftain and tribe! Nerrhavia welcomes thee!”
Yisame tried to raise her voice, speaking to the Chieftains. Meanwhile, Pheislant’s King had the misfortune of speaking to Fetohep and Jecaina, because Fetohep was in a nostalgic mood.
“…And while Pheislant’s spires of light no longer exist, murals still stand of that great edifice. So for war, victory. For wave, smoothest sailing. For sky, clarity.”
Fetohep was reminding Pheislant of their glorious past, and their [King] was trying to signal his court to find him a [Historian] who could remember the fallen lighthouses rather than the ones that had been around here forever.
What a magnificent disaster. What a triumph! But the audience members, who were already on board with this gaggle of personalities and places, were not to be disappointed by the last two to arrive.
After all, when the second-to-last frame was filled, it was no ordinary monarch who appeared. No ordinary monarch could lift the ax that sat next to her throne. She wore no crown. Nor was her throne made of anything but simple carved stone.
Yet when the King of the House of Minos stood, she silenced all.
“The House of Minos has been called to stand for judgment. I am the King of Minotaurs. These are not my people. Yet I shall stand witness and judge the alleged crimes against the Gnolls by the Drakes. I shall take no side but truth and law and hold every person present to that standard. What say you?”
The thunderous address had a gravity apart from its sheer volume. The other rulers and leaders fell silent. Then Fetohep rose slightly.
“King of Minotaurs. Your Majesty, Inreza of the House of Minos. I greet the Arbiter of Minos. Your house has made war on this world’s enemies. It has marched to every shore. Brought low kingdom and wall, battled Dragon and Giant, Archmage and Djinni. No more fitting ruler to judge and speak can I name. Strategist Feshi has chosen well.”
The King of Minotaurs, despite her gender—since it didn’t matter—did not seem uncomfortable for her first worldwide appearance. It was the first time Feshi had ever seen her, though she had known the King was female.
Even so, Inreza was striking. She was a warrior, just like Flos and Fetohep. But the difference was that she was a living one. She was old, for there was gray in her hair. But what you saw most were the scars.
A massive one ran across her chest and down her side. Even as she breathed, you heard a rasp. And yet the giant ax by her throne was a copy of the one Feshi had once seen. The one she had thrown from the House of Minos. The one her [General] had borne into battle and returned to her at his end.
The King nodded to Fetohep, her eyes unwavering.
“I thank you for your address, King Fetohep. Pardon me for insult caused. As to your words…there are other rulers more eloquent. Others with fairer minds. Deeper understandings of morality and law. Yet you have the heart of it. The House of Minos has made war on great aggressors as we deem them. We have battled Creler and Goblin King. We have gone to war against the King of Destruction and Khelt when its ambitions grew to conquest. We have stemmed Baleros’ armies and sieged Wistram. We have fought across Izril and doomed Terandrian kingdoms.”
Her eyes flicked across the frames, and the rulers went silent. Fetohep’s eyes shone in their sockets. He spoke, slowly.
“Yes. King His-xe of Khelt would…remember the House of Minos. As would Queen Akhta. Would you like to know the words of the dead, if they could but speak, Minotaur King?”
She looked at him.
“I will ask them when I see them, Your Majesty.”
“Well said.”
Fetohep sat back. The Minotaur King inclined her head, and now there was a sense of expectation. It was Eldavin who spoke into the silence.
“To those who do not yet discern the crux of this gathering, it is simple. As before, a Gnoll, Feshi Weatherfur, has petitioned those gathered to make a ruling upon a great crime. The details shall be laid out, evidence given, and debated, as the Arbiter Queen once did.”
He indicated Jecaina, who inclined her head slowly. Eldavin shifted his gaze to the last panel, hanging silent and dark.
“But every judgment, in fairness, requires both defense and prosecution. Two Gnolls speak for this crime. One from Izril will defend these actions and allegations.”
Everyone leaned forward. Who would it be? Who had the wherewithal, the courage, and the understanding to stand in front of this decidedly unfriendly audience and defend what seemed very clear? Feshi had debated the names in the brief time she had, then the clarity hit her.
She had seen only one fit name. Well, a few, but her first choice had obliged her. He appeared without fanfare, sitting in, of all places, an empty bar.
Tails and Scales, the beautiful bar that had seen grief and desolation, but rallied. Pallass’ most famous bar no longer looked empty. It had been cleaned top-to-bottom, re-varnished, and the perfectly-worn seating inviting you in hadn’t been touched, but the menu and bar had been reorganized. It looked like it was waiting. For new and old customers.
For a new start. Yet only one person had rented it today. The Drake sat amid style, yet had refused to let anyone light the place up. He looked like the last customer after midnight into dawn, hunched, a single [Bartender] in the background.
He had a curious drink in front of him—one named after him. A strong spirit with a floating ice cube of sour liquid. If anything, it was impressively calculated. But the most impressive thing was that Rufelt hadn’t spit in Chaldion’s drink.
Chaldion of Pallass, the oldest Drake Feshi had ever seen, raised his glass slightly. Akrisa stiffened. Torishi glared, and the other rulers murmured. Someone clearly whispered in Desonis’ frame.
“Who is the Cyclops of Pallass?”
Everyone was silent as Chaldion slowly lifted the cup to his lips. He took a sip; no wine bottle was passed around here; it was long empty, and two more had already been decanted and passed out anyways. He spoke in his low, gravelly voice without even the pretense of looking happy to meet everyone.
“Hail, salutations, and so forth. Need we stand on ceremony? Or shall we retread evidence? Let’s begin.”
His eye patch was off, and a bright cloudy white gemstone eye stared at the audience before he calmly lowered the bit of cloth back into place. He never flinched as he met every gaze—his peers’ gazes ranging from hostile, impartial, and curious to amused.
