Gnolls had been fighting. Of course they had—the news that magic had been suppressed by the Drakes for countless years tended to rile people up. But they had no concrete proof. Only the giant crystal that everyone knew was probably part of Fissival’s ancient teleportation network. The Drakes denied that it had any connection to the problems the Gnolls were having with magic or anything else.
Feshi, like every Gnoll at the Meeting of Tribes, wasn’t in the mood to have a nice discussion about it.
“It could be war, you know. Did you hear anything like that last night?”
Feshi had been up late, talking with Torishi about what it all meant. Yerranola shrugged.
“Hotheads howling about it—I’d be more worried about what your Chieftain thought.”
“She’s not pleased.”
“No. I thought she’d be high-fiving Drakes left and right.”
Feshi snorted at Yerranola’s dry look.
“She doesn’t want war. At least not all-out war. Weatherfur has too many ties to Drake cities. She’s all for putting it to Fissival, but if one Walled City fights—”
“The rest gang up and kick the Selphid out of you?”
“That’s how it goes. There are enough tribes here to fight every Walled City, but if other Drake cities get drawn in—”
“All-out war. Right. So what are we doing, stopping the war or getting ready?”
“I don’t know. I’m mad as a…as Venaz, Yerra. But I know what the Professor would say. Bide your time, wait for vengeance if it’s appropriate.”
“Mm. So why don’t you join your Chieftain and say that to everyone?”
“Because she can say it. She doesn’t need me. Anyone who listens to Weatherfur will listen to her.”
Yerranola skipped around a little Gnoll staring at a scrying orb with a group of others. They were watching as Drassi introduced two Gnolls on the orb—an Elirr of Liscor and a Gnoll of Pallass—to discuss the magic-suppression incident. Feshi wanted to listen, but Yerra kept them moving onward. She was glad they were getting magical coverage on the television, though.
“And we’re back to looking for worth again. All right, I see what you mean. You want to be special. Hit the Chieftains from the other side.”
“They’re not my enemy.”
Feshi snagged a stick of free goat’s meat since her stomach had stopped smarting. She gnawed on it, savoring the bite, and thanked the Gnoll minding the booth. Yerranola tapped her chin.
“Hit them politically. Where do we start?”
Feshi swallowed.
“Well, that’s easy. The most important Gnolls in the entire Meeting of Tribes would be the ones who can sway minds. And they would be…”
Ferkr of Pallass, Grimalkin’s apprentice; Krshia Silverfang, and Akrisa Silverfang. Yerranola knew the way to their tribe’s camp as well as Feshi.
When they got there, they found a sea of Gnolls all thinking the exact same thing as they were. The [Guards] at the Silverfangs’ camp were keeping a wave of them back, all of whom wanted to talk to the Gnolls in question. A Chieftain broke through the throng.
“Daemonbane’s tribe to see Silverfang’s Chieftain and Krshia Silverfang!”
The [Guards] let them through. Yerranola and Feshi watched as the Gnolls were admitted, the Chieftain and a small retinue. Yerranola shielded her eyes, smiling cheerfully.
“Well, there’s the Silverfang camp. Who’s Daemonbane? That’s not a Gnollish tribe name.”
“It was awarded to them. They went to Rhir.”
“What, all of them?”
Feshi twiddled her thumbs, trying to recall, before nodding.
“Yep. Went, fought for three generations, came back. They kept the name. They’re fairly important. Everyone wants to talk to Silverfang.”
“Hm. Well, unless you think we can rely on our names, how about marching up there? You go, ‘I’m Feshi from the Titan’s Academy! Let me in’!”
Some heads swung toward them even at Yerranola’s proclamation. Feshi groaned.
“No thanks, Yerra. Even if Krshia hears me first, we’re working at cross-purposes. Too many officers for a single battalion. Remember—hit them where you do the most good.”
“Professor’s words of wisdom, right. But he also says, ‘Kick them in the face sometimes just so you have their attention’.”
The Professor had a lot of funny sayings. Feshi and Yerranola circled the crowd, grinning and trading a few. Yerranola eyed the circular Silverfang camp and its hide walls.
“You know, if you really wanted to get in, we could cut a hole through the walls. It’s just hide and wood, right?”
“It’s probably enchanted, and it’s tough. Even with my dagger it would be a pain. And that’s destruction of property, Yerra.”
The Selphid stepped back and eyed the tops of the walls, far too high and steep to see over.
“Well, what if we jumped over?”
“It’s an eight-foot wall, Yerra. Who can jump over that?”
“I could. If I Rampaged, I think.”
“Well, I can’t.”
“That’s what ladders are for. I’m just saying, if you wanted a private word, we…”
The two were arguing, more for fun than anything else, as Feshi looked around for another way to meet someone important. They walked around the back of the Silverfang compound. Feshi heard some loud voices past the wall, pounding footsteps. Yerranola might not have heard, because she was inhabiting a dead Gnoll’s body with atrophied senses. But then Yerranola heard a shout.
“Gireulashia! Don’t you dare—”
A giant hurtled over the wall, from the inside, to land just past Yerranola and Feshi. In a single bound. Nine feet tall, her red-brown fur gleaming—the tallest Gnoll, save for one, that Feshi had ever seen. She leaped over the wall like a high jumper, arcing her body so it just cleared the top of the stakes hammered into the ground.
Feshi’s and Yerranola’s jaws dropped open. The giant Gnoll landed as light as a cat. She spotted the two on her way down and avoided Yerranola, who jerked back.
“Excuse me.”
Gire muttered apologetically at the two, then sprinted. She barely stopped as she landed, but transitioned into an athlete’s run. She was nearly a hundred paces away before Feshi and Yerranola had even turned.
“Dead gods. She just—”
“She jumped over the wall! How did she do that? Magic? A Skill?”
“I thought you said you could do that!”
The Selphid grabbed at her ears.
“Yeah, but I’m a Selphid! Look at that body!”
Feshi saw the distant Gire racing across the Great Plains and knew which tribe she was from. Even if she hadn’t known Gireulashia—and she was hard to forget—she’d know an Ekhtouch anywhere.
Sure enough, her pursuers looked much like Gire herself. One was ‘only’ seven and a half feet tall, and he clearly had to use a jumping Skill to clear the wall. The rest had to climb over; one was boosted up, and the others, no less than six of them, swarmed over it.
“There she is! Gire, come back! This is the Chieftain’s order! Come—”
They raced after her. The last ones over the wall completely ignored Feshi and Yerranola. They cursed as they pointed at Gire.
“She’s running! We’ll never catch her without Skills. Stubborn—[Marathon Run]! The rest of you, get some horses!”
One of the Gnolls accelerated but barely seemed to break even with Gire’s pace. The two [Strategists] watched as the others sprinted with commendable form, off to get horses. Yerra turned to Feshi.
“What’s that about?”
The Gnoll hesitated, but before she could answer, she heard a voice.
“What are they doing to her, Tkrn?”
“I don’t know. Here. Let me just get ov—let me—uh…”
Someone smacked into the hide wall, scrabbled at it, and then jumped a few times. Yerranola and Feshi heard a grunt.
“Maybe you can get up there. Here, I’ll boost you, Inkar.”
“Okay…argh! Don’t drop me!”
“Well, it’s hard! Do you have a handhold?”
“Yes…”
Someone pulled themselves up, red-faced. Feshi saw a Human face turn, nearly fall over the wall, and then try to haul someone else up.
“You’re too heavy! Let go, let go! You’ll pull me—”
Inkar disappeared back into the compound with a scream, and Feshi and Yerranola heard a crash as she fell on top of whoever was on the other side. Yerranola looked at Feshi.
“Hey! Anyone need a hand over there?”
“Yes, please!”
That was the female Human. Yerranola did a little hop, then a big jump, and nimbly hoisted herself up onto the wall. Feshi knew her friend had Rampaged—exceeded her body’s natural limits, tearing muscle, but giving herself amazing strength. There was a voice, male and mystified.
“Who’s that? That’s not one of the Ekhtouch—”
From her position on top of the wall, Yerra reached down, hauled up the two figures with ease, and Feshi was once again reacquainted with Inkar and Tkrn.
“Don’t I know you? From the brawl…”
“That’s right! Inkar, and this is Tkrn.”
“Hi.”
The Gnoll was a bit breathless from getting over the wall. He looked shamefaced as Yerranola helped Inkar down to the ground. He tried to jump down, but Feshi opened her mouth.
“I wouldn’t—”
She heard the click and saw his face as the Gnoll [Guardsman] landed from a nine-foot drop onto his haunches. But the force of the landing had turned his squat into more of a rapid sit-down, so fast that he kneed himself in the chin. And all the weight and force of his hitting the ground went right into—
Tkrn rolled over.
“Healing potion! Healing potion! I just broke my legs!”
Inkar landed with Yerra’s help and fished out a potion. Tkrn sat up after she helped him fix the torn muscle in his legs, not actual bone. Tkrn sat up, panting.
“Okay—how does Gire do that? Where did she go?”
The two were clearly after the same Gnoll. Feshi and Yerra pointed, but the other Gnolls were almost out of sight, mere dots on the horizon. Feshi shaded her eyes, frowning.
“What’s happening? That’s Honored Gireulashia, isn’t it?”
“It’s Gire. But I don’t know what’s happening. She was just playing with—and then the Ekhtouch Gnolls came and said she had to pass a Trial and she ran for it.”
Yerranola’s eyes lit up, as they did whenever she found something interesting.
“Ooh. Feshi, what’s a Trial?”
She turned to her friend. The Weatherfur Gnoll scratched at her head.
“I have no idea. It must be an Ekhtouch thing. I can’t imagine that it’s pleasant if she ran away. What was she doing in the Silverfang camp?”
She thought Gire might have been there on Ekhtouch business, but Inkar and this Tkrn had made it sound different. Indeed, Inkar was worried.
“We have to find her! She sounded terrified! She’s only fifteen!”
“What?”
Yerranola and Feshi started. But hadn’t Venaz said…? Feshi saw Tkrn look around.
“Let’s get some horses. Thanks for your help, um—”
“Yerranola. And this is Honored Feshi, of the Games of Daquin. Greatest Gnoll [Strategist] to ever—”
Feshi stomped on Yerranola’s foot. Since she knew the Selphid had no pain receptors, she also had to cover Yerranola’s mouth. Inkar and Tkrn recalled who their acquaintances were and did that staring thing, but only for a second.
Yerranola was beside herself.
“Can we come and see what’s happening? This sounds amazing.”
Inkar glanced about the area.
“Only if you can find horses.”
“I can do that!”
The Selphid dashed off with Tkrn. Which left Feshi and Inkar standing together. The Gnoll glanced at the Silverfang camp, then at Inkar.
Now, here was another interesting coincidence, like meeting that Lyonette at Oteslia. A Human who just happened to be a rather important guest of Longstalker’s Fang, in the Silverfang camp, and friends—or at least concerned—with Honored Gireulashia of Ekhtouch? There was an explanation for it, obviously, but the why of it made Feshi’s fur tingle.
“I’m Feshi of Weatherfur. Pleased to see you again, Inkar.”
She held out her paw, and Inkar took it.
“Thank you for your help again, Miss Feshi. We meet when people are fighting each other or running around, yes?”
There was a twinkle in her eye as she used the Gnollish inflections, and Feshi grinned despite herself.
“Hrr, yes. Let’s find Gire. It shouldn’t be too bad—and then maybe we can talk? I’m interested in Silverfang, as everyone is.”
Perhaps this was her moment?
Tkrn and Yerra came back with four horses, including Inkar’s own horse, and Feshi and Inkar mounted up. They sped off to find Gire and discover what was so bad about the Trials.
But Feshi was more concerned with what they’d do after that. She completely failed to understand what Ekhtouch Trials meant.
 
——
 
During the Meeting of Tribes, even though the participants were angry, wrathful, talking, and full of unrest after yesterday’s drama, there was always fascination. Always delight and chaos.
In fact, perhaps more now than ever. Because all the Gnolls were so upset, the tribes had pushed together some festivities planned for later that week. So here came a rarity—a Gnoll [Performer], no less than one of Weatherfur’s own. She did a flip into the air and threw three daggers.
They hit three targets tossed up by helpers. She landed, laughing, and in swept a Gnoll band playing merry music on flutes and drums.
“Let’s have some cheer! Who wants to learn how to throw knives? How to balance on the very tip of a pole, like so? Well, if you can hold your balance for ten seconds, I’ll give you a prize!”
The [Performer] shouted down at the adults and children. She stood on a narrow wooden pole with one foot, the other raised behind her, arms outstretched, grinning with the light of a challenge in her eyes. Then she winked.
“If you can do this, I’ll give you my class!”
And with a laugh, she did a front flip from her standing position and landed again, in the same pose.
Children pointed and oohed and gathered around, because there were also traditional Gnollish sweets being passed out in huge baskets, along with more food and nonalcoholic drinks. The sights and sounds were all a welcome distraction.
Some Gnolls didn’t even have to try to be exciting. Garsine Wallbreaker just walked past the others, but the eleven-foot-tall Gnoll was enough to dumbfound a little Gnoll cub clinging to an adult Gnoll’s paw.
Some people hurried to eat or let the children play; many only drifted about, still furious, still talking. The air was tense, and as a result, more than one child and adult pitched a fit.
One big child in particular threw up her hands, lay down on the ground, and wailed.
“I don’t want to! I don’t want to!”
It was…something. Feshi felt embarrassed, astonished, awed, at the sight of a nine-foot-tall Gnoll, whom she had taken to be fully grown, throwing a tantrum, pounding her paws and feet on the ground, wailing, her nose running as the Ekhtouch adults tried to get her to be quiet and others watched.
She was a girl, and the tantrum drew no less than Firrelle, Chieftain of the Ekhtouch, to her side.
