“Yes. This is a great secret, Iraz. But I tell you this because I hope you will buy many blades from me, and our tribes might work together. After all, Demas Metal can be made far more plentifully than Orichalcum, which we put into it, but it will not ever replace steel. Perhaps, though…steelcloth and Demas Metal together?”
The Steelfur traded their fur, which could be laboriously processed into metallic cloth, to other places. Iraz nodded.
“It is rare that we offer trade concessions to any tribe but the large ones, like Plain’s Eye. But you have my full attention. So you met a Dwarf? When?”
Mrell exhaled. He chose his words carefully, telling only what needed to be told, though his face grew somber.
“On my journeys. I left my tribe, you see. I became a wandering Gnoll. Not Plains. Or City. It was not pleasant, always—I shall spare you the details. But the crux of the story is only this: I met a Dwarf on my travels. I never expected to meet him, for we both were seeking Orichalcum—the very vein my tribe uses for Demas Metal. Well, I say ‘we,’ but he had found it. He lived alone, in a cave, in misery, a master beyond compare.”
Iraz murmured, placing his paws under his chin.
“I have heard of such reclusive masters. Although they are the stuff of legend.”
Mrell lifted a paw.
“This Dwarf was not there out of some great training journey or because the isolation suited him, Chieftain Iraz. He was in exile. And…dying. I forged under him for three years, until he passed, and that was when I made my discovery. He did not give it to me, you see. He told me I had surpassed every expectation in discovering the alloy. Shortly thereafter, he passed.”
“A strange story. What was he doing there?”
Mrell stared back, leaning to look upwards at a memory.
“He never said. Only that he had betrayed the heart of the craft he and I both pursued. I named the metal after him. Demas. Demastel was the only name he ever gave me, you see. Without his guidance, I would have never had the skill to create this.”
“Honorable of you. So your tribe will work the vein, make more Demas Metal—and make it better still. What do you intend?”
Mrell lifted the blade Iraz offered him and smiled.
“Simply to redefine the world, Chieftain Iraz. I do not know if Gnolls will take my metal and create great tribes or armies. I am a [Smith]. I do not know if this heralds some great new era—but I do know this. Demas Metal will sweep this world. In ten years, it will be sought after by every Gold-rank adventurer. We have the means to make more. We have the resources. Unlike Mithril, Adamantium, and Orichalcum—of which there is enough only to arm a small group, or one person—Demas Metal will arm armies. And I will sell it only to the tribes, or let them sell it to others. But I do ask a fair price.”
Iraz was agreeing as he listened to Mrell.
“That is fair, Chieftain Mrell. And Steelfur will be honored to support and bid on your items.”
Indeed, this was what many Chieftains said, although Iraz was refreshingly direct. Mrell smiled and offered Iraz more food, but the Chieftain had already eaten his fill. Iraz took some to be polite, and Mrell saw him eying the blade. Everyone, from Greenpaw and Orelign to Steelfur, wanted Demas Metal. If—and only if—it could do everything Mrell said it could.
There had to be a catch. A plentiful metal exceeding steel? It had to have some weakness or flaw. That’s what they thought in private, where they tested Mrell’s gifts. But here was his dirty, dark secret:
There wasn’t one. Not one flaw that he could find. It didn’t dissolve if you sneezed on it right. It didn’t have a crippling weakness. Krshia Silverfang had upset the Meeting of Tribes with her announcement, and rightly so; Mrell himself was shaken by the news. But the announcement of his metal would be just as grand. Demas Metal was simply a revolution.
The two Chieftains toasted the success of Demas Metal. Then Iraz asked a pointed question.
“If I were to ask for…twenty blades, each custom-made for my best warriors, could you produce them?”
“I have the ingots here, Chieftain Iraz. I can have my best [Smiths] work on them, and I would personally forge your blade myself. They cannot stand up to the greatest artifacts—so I can offer you nothing worthy of a Chieftain’s blade. But perhaps armor?”
You could wear Demas Metal without it affecting other magical gear, which was a huge plus, and he was talking Iraz into commissioning some chainmail. Which was damned annoying to make, but if Chieftain Iraz wore it and when people saw how it worked in battle…
The two Gnolls were about to seal the deal with a shake of the paws when Mrell sniffed something. He closed his eyes as an acrid odor assailed him.
Dead gods, not now.
Iraz sat up, smelling the exact same thing and hearing what Mrell did. A faint…pattering sound.
“What is that? Some smith or…?”
No, it was not that, and he realized what it was just as any Gnoll would. Both stood up, and Mrell strode out of his tent.
He didn’t post guards around his tent because his tribe was too small to need them, especially during the Meeting of Tribes. But it occurred to him he needed them now, not because of the threat of assassination, but to deter…
A pair of Gnolls stood to the side of the tent. Both female, and both with markings on their fur from a tribe neither Iraz nor Mrell belonged to. One Gnoll had just adjusted her loincloth.
She was currently peeing on the side of Mrell’s tent. She and her companion froze when they saw the two staring Chieftains. They hadn’t expected Iraz.
“Uh-oh. That’s the Chieftain of the—Prha, run!”
The other Gnoll yelped, redid her loincloth, whirled around, and took off. Chieftain Iraz stared at the stain on the side of Mrell’s tent. The Chieftain of the Demas Metal tribe had his face in his paws.
“Why are two Gnolls from the Sofang tribe peeing on your tent?” Iraz asked. He recognized the markings of a distant coastal tribe. Mrell didn’t have the heart to answer.
“Hey! You two!”
One of the camp [Guards] finally noticed the two intruders and chased after them. The two Gnolls, one of whom was exactly Mrell’s age, shook her fist back at Mrell.
“Take that, you worthless furball!”
She fled with her companion. Iraz peered at Mrell, trying to hide his amusement.
“I take it you two know each other?”
“She was my partner. We had a falling-out. I’ll…make a formal complaint to Sofang.”
“I shall as well. Disgracing a Chieftain’s tent…”
“It’s complicated, Chieftain Iraz. She has a right to be—upset. Perhaps she’ll stop.”
Hugely embarrassed, Mrell led Iraz to the blacksmith’s tents, where they could finish their talks. Yes, that was from his past. He cursed running into Prha here. He wanted to just move on. But here they were.
Mrell turned his mind back to Demas Metal. That was all he could focus on. His great gift to Gnolls and the world.
It was all he had left. If he could go back in time, he would have saved what mattered. But he couldn’t.
 
——
 
Feshi was beginning to happen upon an idea, but it wasn’t concrete. She passed by some of the [Merchants] trying to buy and sell goods. Especially some of that Demas Metal, although most pieces weren’t sold as such; they were gifts.
But it could damn well change the world.
It was how two tribes saw value. Demas Metal put its faith in a change in the market, metallurgy; a new metal. Ekhtouch? They believed in one over all.
Gireulashia, a [Paragon] of her kind, had bested a Manticore in under five minutes, and with less than three blows taken, just as her Chieftain demanded. What could she have done if she had been equipped with Demas Metal?
Despite both amazing achievements, Feshi noticed something. There were no scrying orbs here. Rather, they were all showing images of other places. Wistram News Network had broadcast a few views of the Meeting of Tribes once and left it at that.
And that was because Gnolls and Wistram had been feuding, and Gnolls were insular, and so on and so forth. Yes, yes.
It did not mean that there were no non-Gnolls here. Look at Yerranola. Look at the truly intelligent [Merchants], [Traders], and emissaries who came here. Just…no movers and shakers.
“I’m sorry, none of it is for sale. Chieftain Mrell of our tribe sells it—but no pieces for non-Gnolls.”
“Oh, come on, now. I’m a reputable [Arms Dealer] across Izril and Baleros! This is your chance for your tribe to break into a huge market!”
An upset [Merchant] was trying to badger a Gnoll [Smith] into selling some he’d been letting passersby try out on practice dummies, but the Gnoll didn’t move. Feshi sighed. Apart from Demas Metal’s politics, she was bothered by how the [Merchant] was speaking to the [Smith].
This is me, doing you a favor. No wonder the Gnoll wasn’t receptive.
“I tell you what. [Name Your Price]. Just do it. Name your—”
The [Merchant] resorted to another bad but understandable idea. Which was using a Skill. The Gnoll [Smith] stiffened, and his mouth opened as he held out the shortsword he had been holding back. Which meant he’d have to sell it if the [Merchant] met his price, probably at a high markup.
But it was a bad idea because every other Demas Metal Gnoll and others who’d heard the Skill being used were looking around very unhappily. Feshi wondered if she’d watch the [Merchant] and his nervous bodyguards being dumped out of the Meeting of Tribes in a wheelbarrow.
However, the [Merchant Armsdealer] was saved from being beaten senseless…by someone giving him a knee to the stomach. Feshi winced in sympathy. There seemed to be a lot of that going around.
“[Belay That], Merchant Equed. You know better than to force a sale. Especially when every Gnoll in the Great Plains will beat your caravan senseless and take the blades back. You’re tactless. Please excuse him.”
The [Merchant] doubled over as someone pushed him over, cancelling his Skill. Gratified, the Gnoll [Smith] bowed to the woman.
“Thank you. I’m afraid the Demas Metal isn’t for sale. Not to—”
“Non-Gnolls. Which I quite understand! Might I try holding the blade, though? I haven’t had a chance.”
“Of course.”
Merchant Equed was pulled back by his bodyguard as he spluttered in outrage, but Feshi saw someone pick up the blade and then—Feshi turned—execute a marvelous cross-cut technique. Even the [Smith] was impressed, having seen a number of [Warriors] with varying levels of expertise try the blade.
“You have a fair hand with it, Miss Human.”
A woman with colorful hair tossed it back and laughed.
“Thank you! It’s a bit heavier than I thought, but it feels wonderfully balanced. Can I try that trick with the oil?”
“Of course. Hey, bring the pot over!”
The strange female [Merchant] dipped the blade in the pot and admired the odd oil-coating on the Demas Metal blade.
“I know people who would buy this just for that effect. You could sell little toys to children! I want some.”
The Gnoll opened his mouth, but she raised a hand.
“Yes, I know. No non-Gnolls. Well…would your Chieftain consider selling to a Gnoll? Another [Merchant]?”
The [Smith] raised his brows.
“I don’t see why not. He has many meetings at this time, but surely so.”
“Would he entertain an offer for a thousand pieces? Because I will back that price. And that’s just my order. Hey, Qwery! Look at what I found! And I just got here!”
Ysara Byres raised her voice and raised the blade overhead. And in answer…
Feshi glanced over and went momentarily blind as the most glittery Gnoll in the world whirled and dazzled everyone in a display of light off her golden fur.
The Golden Gnoll of Izril herself descended into the Meeting of Tribes like a lightshow—not a performance, but her caravan had come in and was in the middle of unloading. She strode over, ignoring the looks from other Gnolls.
“Ysara, what’s that?”
“Demas Metal, Qwera. Apparently sold only to Gnolls. But I want some. I think it’s a marvelous metal. I’ll have to put it through its paces, but I have a good feeling about it.”
“If you have a good feeling, I’ll buy it. And sell it to you at, oh, a 5% markup. How could you get a better deal? You can’t.”
“What if I threaten to kill you?”
Ysara held the blade out across Qwera’s throat, a bit teasingly. The Golden Gnoll gave her a grin that showed every tooth.
“Then you can get 3% off the regular sale. This Demas Chieftain can sell to me, and I’ll sell to you. You can take your half to Chandrar and stay out of my business.”
Ysara narrowed her eyes.
“I hate you. Well, let’s find this Chieftain. Just as soon as I do a few more tests with this. Does it work on anything other than oil?”
The Golden Gnoll turned back to the [Smith], but she kept her attention on something out of the corner of her eye. Qwera saw that, at last, the little Gnoll cub who’d been staring at the giant Garsine Wallbreaker passing by finally broke out of her stupor.
She yanked urgently at the paw of the adult she was holding hands with. He groaned, massaging his back.
“What now? Over there? Fine…Tesy, you hold her hand. My everything hurts.”
“Hmm? What was that, Vetn?”
Nearby, Tesy, a Drake with brass scales, stopped doing a quick sketch with charcoal and a bit of parchment. He held out the rather fine image to a Gnoll, grinning and posing in place.
“Three coppers. Here you go. Thank you.”
The Drake stood up as Vetn hobbled over to Qwera, clutching at his back, then his legs. He was obviously in a considerable amount of muscular pain, despite having taken one healing potion already.
“I want another potion, Qwera.”
The Golden Gnoll had lost her patience.
“Well, go get one.”
Vetn whined.
“I want you to pay for it.”
“Hm…no. I already paid you. It’s one potion. Don’t be stingy—use one of yours.”
“My own money?”
Qwera raised the Paw of Slapping-idiots-on-the-head, and Vetn hobbled away quickly.
Then the little Gnoll cub, her fur a plain, ordinary brown, just as it had been on the day she was born, spotted the Demas Metal blade. She raced over to Ysara and began jumping up and down.
Give me! Give me! I want to hold it!
Her meaning couldn’t have been more plain if she were shouting. The [Smith] chuckled as Ysara held the blade high overhead.
“Oh, no. I’m not going to have someone sever a hand on my watch. Qwera—”
“That’s it! Move back, you. Vetn, I said don’t let go of her paw. One of you holds it at all times—you or Tesy—or I make both of you do all the unloading for my caravans.”
Tesy hurriedly grabbed the little Gnoll girl’s paw.
The cub looked reproachfully up at Ysara but remained oddly silent. Then she lowered one paw to her side, pressed something hidden on her belt, opened her mouth, and spoke.
“I want that. Please?”
