“Gireulashia! Calm yourself!”
“I don’t want to do a Trial! I won’t! You can’t make me!”
Gire had been hauled back by the time Inkar and the others caught up with her. Hauled back in a net, wailing. What was this Trial? Well, the other Ekhtouch Gnolls of their small tribe were already setting it up.
Firelle was furious.
“Gire, this is meant to be an exhibition. You are embarrassing all of Ekhtouch!”
To which Gire just sniveled.
“I don’t care! You do it! You can’t! It’s scary and I don’t want to!”
The Chieftain looked exasperated. Then a Gnoll couple came over. Well—a couple of Gnolls, as in ‘two’. They were not a married pair.
“Gireulashia, you are more than capable. Do not embarrass Ekhtouch. You must succeed—only then can you level. You know this.”
“Yes, do it for our tribe. Do it for us, Honored Daughter.”
A tall male and female Gnoll smiled down at Gire. She sat up, sullenly, and Feshi realized—they were her parents. But what an odd relationship. They coaxed Gire until she stopped crying, but not once did they give her true orders, only cajoled and pleaded. Even Feshi found it—disconcerting. Inkar pointed at the two.
“Those are her parents?”
Tkrn was watching, just as bemused. Gire bowed her head as the Ekhtouch tribe finished moving other Gnolls back, creating a kind of enclosure with what looked like a magical powder. One of them placed an odd-looking marker in the center…Feshi narrowed her eyes.
“Yerra, you see that? It looks familiar.”
Gire looked up when she saw the strange long strip of paper delicately laid out on the ground. She stood in one movement and ignored her parents. She looked around.
“Don’t I get anything?”
“One object.”
“Then I want a spear!”
An Ekhtouch warrior instantly went to arm her, but Firrelle didn’t offer Gire her own spear or any of the fine enchanted spears her warriors carried. Rather, someone hurried off and came back with the most plain iron-tipped spear that Feshi had ever seen. It wasn’t a training weapon…exactly…but that was all it was good for, in her eyes.
Yerranola was focused on the item Feshi had spotted. She frowned.
“Yeah. I’ve seen it before. What is that? I can’t remember where…”
Feshi had the exact same impression. Her eyes widened, and she clapped her paws together.
“Oh! I know! Venaz has some!”
The Selphid gave Feshi a look of comprehension and snapped her fingers.
“Yes! It’s one of those weird summoning things! He said they were from Drath, remember? The same things he used at the…games…of…”
Her voice trailed off. She and Feshi both slowly rotated and saw one of the Ekhtouch Gnolls make a gesture and speak.
“Ramish! Arise!”
The talisman glowed, and the magical paper unraveled. Something rose, glittering, taking shape as spectral energy moved to create a replica of the real thing. No less deadly, but made of magic. Conjured to create—
A Manticore.
Feshi leaped backward, the Diamond Dagger out of its sheath before she processed anything. Gnolls fled backward, shouting in alarm as the massive Manticore—with the face of a lion, a tail like a stinger, and wings like an eagle—roared into the enclosure. It was far, far larger than any normal lion. Gireulashia made a whimpering sound.
The Manticore, even without the stinger, had a mane slightly taller than she was, and it outweighed her. It paced left and right, snarling.
“What the—”
Tkrn had his sword drawn but was trying to shield Inkar. However, she, Feshi, and Yerranola were all looking at the Ekhtouch warrior who had summoned the beast. The Gnoll was looking at Firrelle, and the monster didn’t attack.
The Chieftain called out, frowning, at the lone Gnoll with an iron spear facing down what Feshi knew was considered a Gold-rank monster. As in—no Silver-rank adventurer was ever expected to be able to handle one alone. A Silver-rank team could, but Manticore packs required Gold-rank teams, multiple teams, to quell. Firrelle surely knew this, but she only shouted to Gireulashia.
“Five minutes, Gire! Three blows!”
“I don’t want to!”
The [Paragon] howled. But Firrelle ignored her and lifted a paw.
“Now.”
“Attack!”
The Manticore sprang forward at the Gnoll warrior’s command. It bit and struck with paw and stinger, all at once.
Feshi cried out. That was as vicious as the real monster! She had assumed—naively—that it would at least hold back or be a lesser copy. But it struck like a serpent, nearly as fast.
Gireulashia was too agile for it to tag her. She swung left, and her spear stabbed the Manticore along the shoulder, aiming for the place where the muscles were grouped. She swiped the spear left and backed up, circling. She was still sniffing, but she kept her eyes on the Manticore. And that stinger—
This was an Ekhtouch Trial, Feshi realized. She was not the only Gnoll to stride toward Firrelle, who was watching Gire do battle—striking from range, dodging back as the stinger shot forward again and again—with every sign of approval and calm scrutiny of Gire’s performance.
A panting Chieftain, Eska of Longstalker’s Fang, was the first Gnoll to appear, racing up with her bodyguards. She pointed at the contained battle within the circle the Ekhtouch had set up.
“Chieftain Firrelle! What is this madness?”
“A demonstration, Chieftain Eska. I told you we would keep training Gire and other warriors. They will go through the same, but she must be first, even if she throws tantrums.”
Firrelle replied calmly, nodding to acknowledge the other Chieftain. Eska looked appalled.
“Tantrums? She’s fighting a Manticore with an iron spear!”
“Yes. In the next Trial, she must climb a mountain in a day. Or, if we have time, swim up a river. If we find monsters of the correct type, perhaps she will battle them. Without weapons. She is doing too well, battling too easily.”
She turned to one of the Ekhtouch Gnolls analyzing Gire’s performance.
“You see, Gorekh? She does not try in sparring.”
“I see.”
Feshi glanced back and saw one of Ekhtouch’s veteran [Warriors] watching, arms folded. Gire had somehow kept out of range of the Manticore, baited two charges, and stabbed it repeatedly in the same place. The magical summoned monster was now limping on its right foreleg, and Gireulashia was keeping out of range, circling and striking.
“This…I would not ask the greatest warriors of Longstalker’s Fang to do this! And Gireulashia is a child, no?”
Firrelle looked overly patient as she replied, still in that maddeningly calm tone of voice.
“She is. But she is also a [Paragon], and her Trials must exceed any other. How else would she level?”
Eska stared at her, then at Gire.
“You put her in this kind of danger?”
“There is no leveling without some danger. Rest assured—we would step in if she looked truly in danger of losing life or limb, but there must be challenge. Please, Chieftain Eska. I understand that our ways seem difficult to you. But the greatest of Longstalker’s Fang’s warriors—skilled as they are—are not Honored Gireulashia.”
Now, there was a statement to take Feshi’s breath clean away. The worst part was that Firrelle didn’t even seem to think she’d given Eska an insult. Eska just stood there until her ears flattened. Then she moved toward Inkar. The young woman was watching with horror, looking for a way to stop the Trial, but Gire was winning. Even so—Feshi glanced at Gire’s parents, who were watching with eager approval. The [Strategist] noted Firrelle’s calm judgment and murmuring with her people about how to make the Trial more challenging.
And she had thought her tribe had terrible expectations of her. Feshi gripped the dagger at her belt.
So this was the Meeting of Tribes? She looked around at the Gnolls watching this exhibition of talent, arguing over the revelation from the Chieftain’s gathering—and watching the scrying orb, where Drassi was covering the news.
The news about them. In this great gathering, which came only every twenty years, somehow the news was all about them—and not about them. It was about Ailendamus, the [Knight] charging Ailendamus’ armies, and the Drake conspiracy—but not about here. As if the Gnolls, even at their peak, were a sideshow to the real events taking place.
That should not be. Feshi had to bring great worth and deed to Weatherfur. It occurred to her, in that moment, that it should also be Weatherfur, Krshia Silverfang, and even poor Gire whose names were called across the world. This was no less fascinating, for ill or good, than anything she saw on the scrying orb.
So why wasn’t it there?
 
——
 
While Gire’s Trial was going on, elsewhere in the Meeting of Tribes, Chieftain Mrell had an answer for Feshi’s question, though he didn’t know she’d asked it. They had simply come to the same conclusion.
“We are an insular people, Chieftain Iraz. We do not look like it, because we travel widely. But I tell you—Gnolls, in their way, are even more resistant to change and sharing than Drakes are.”
“Not a popular opinion, Chieftain Mrell. Especially given how sharing space has worked out for our people.”
Mrell had to own that was true. He sat in his small Chieftain’s tent. Small compared to some of the tents of the grand tribes. But it was his, and he was a new Chieftain. Not as famous for war as Woven Bladegrass, but the fact that his tribe was consorting with famous tribes showed everyone how far they’d come.
He was Chieftain of Demas Metal. The tribe that had risen by sheer dint of the new metal they had created. Mrell was young, in his late twenties. Yet he was Chieftain, having created this tribe by himself. For one reason alone. Because it would change this world.
Because it was the only thing he had left that mattered.
Demas Metal. It lay before them, a deeply blue alloy that had the magical luster that regular metals, even gold, lacked. Like Mithril, Adamantium—when processed and smelted—and other fantastical metals, it had a power to it.
But such metals were few and far between. Demas Metal? Iraz had the blade that Mrell had presented him with. He flicked it up and caught it, the light glinting off his own steel-gray fur.
Mrell admired Iraz. Here was a Chieftain that Mrell wanted to be like. Iraz too had created the Steelfur tribe by dint of his Skill, which gave them all fur like steel. In fact, Mrell felt a commonality, and Iraz clearly seemed to think there was some value in speaking with the new Chieftain, hence their breaking bread together—and dipping it in silkap—this early morning.
“I will admit, Chieftain Mrell, there is some weight to your words. But I assume you have a point?”
They were debating, as Gnolls did, although in private, without an audience. Mrell inclined his head eagerly.
“I would not say something so provocative without proof. And my proof is this: Demas Metal. It was not a creation I could have come up with alone. I did not, in fact; though the final creation I claim as a stroke of inspiration. But I learned my craft from another species.”
“Really.”
Iraz set the blade down. He admired the strange alloy.
“It is not purple, like Orichalcum. But it has the same qualities. Cloud blue to dark violet, depending on the weather. Hard. Strong—but that tells you nothing. Even steel can be sharp as can be with a great [Blacksmith] behind it. This, though?”
Iraz made a slashing motion, very quick.
Mrell was glad he didn’t jump. He stared at the fine line that followed the tip of the blade, then vanished a heartbeat later.
“Is it a magical effect?”
“Just the metal, Chieftain Iraz. If you strike a shield or piece of armor made of the stuff, it leaves the same…afterimage. It doesn’t harm, but Demas Metal has many qualities. It is superior to steel, heavier than Mithril, but just as strong. And as you know, it has another grand secret besides being beautiful when swung.”
Iraz grinned his warrior’s grin, and his eyes lit up. He put aside the blade and refilled his small bowl. They were eating from Mrell’s prepared snacks, and the Chieftain of the Steelfur Tribe did not eat silkap on bread or crackers—not when Mrell had treats out. Everything from pickled herring, cheeses, and even odd treats like roasted plums to fill voids in the conversation.
Yet it seemed Iraz had a fondness for Chandrarian dates; he had already eaten sixteen of the sweet fruits. Unlike regular dates, these were not a brown or purple, but remained yellow and even red or blue, despite being wizened. They also had a mix of drinks; in this case, Amentus wine, sweet and only a bit heady this early.
“Yes. I found out when testing it. I could have remained ignorant.”
Mrell smiled too, deeply pleased.
“I knew you’d discover it. And how else to show what a gift it could be in the hands of enough warriors?”
Chieftain Iraz agreed slowly, taking Mrell and his tent in. The younger Chieftain had a tent decorated with his research notes. Books, of all things; guides to blacksmithing; even what was akin to an [Alchemist]’s workbench devoted to metallurgy.
“It is not complete, though. You said there were improvements to be made.”
Mrell spread his paws helplessly.
“Steel has many alloys, many forms, Chieftain Iraz, and we have made and used it for countless ages. I cannot claim this is the perfect Demas Metal. But it is my alloy, and if it existed in times past? Well, the one who beheld it and helped me complete it told me that others—only the true ancients of our world—might know how to make it to perfection. That I discovered the making…he told me I would usher in a new era on the strength of it alone. And he was a Dwarf.”
Iraz was leaning forwards, hooked on the story, and caught himself, sitting back. He slowly lifted the sword he had been given and pondered it. Then, carefully, slowly, he took out a simple water flask and dribbled water onto the blade. Mrell watched, knowing what would happen.
Rather than simply dribble down the blade and onto his floor—carpeted with beautiful depictions of Gnolls in battle, tapestries of triumph and tradition, a careful nod to this Meeting of Tribes, which he’d paid for just this effect—the water pooled along the blade. Coating it. It formed a second edge, as fine as a razor. Iraz moved the blade, and the water rippled but did not fly away.
It would if he swung it hard enough, though.
“Fire does the same. Does lightning?”
“I haven’t dared hold it up in the middle of a storm, but a little shock spell—yes. Though it lasts for seconds at most.”
“Incredible. You said…a Dwarf helped you make it?”
Mrell sighed.
