“I see. I granted you the words of greater summoning, Strategist Feshi Weatherfur, to call forth the greatest souls contained within the dagger when your need is most dire. You could have summoned a lesser shade of Khelt, but you have chosen its greatest warrior. I take offense.”
“Your Majesty?”
Feshi had heard that tone before. The dagger flashed—and sand billowed up. A figure appeared, and Yerranola backed away.
A skeletal monarch made of sand stood next to Feshi and regarded Lehra slashing and parrying the Minotaur’s blows. He slowly twisted his head, and even though he was made of sand, his simulacrum conveyed the flashing of his deathly eyes, his displeasure.
“My displeasure is not that the tools of Serept are being used for frivolity. He would…enjoy their usage, I think. Rather, it is a disservice to the great soul of this warrior to pit him against such an amateurish foe, even if she’s armed with a relic of her own.”
Lehra kept fighting as the figure appeared, summoned by the power of the diamond blade. Feshi saw the last glittering piece of the puzzle slide into place in her head. But for a second, she was just standing there, wordless. The Gnolls were frozen by this casual display of great magic.
The Stargnoll kept fighting for a few seconds until she spotted Fetohep of Khelt in the sand. Her guard lowered, and she blinked.
“Hey, is that F—”
The halberd caught her on the side and threw her, spinning, fourteen feet, where she crashed into the crowd. She lay there for a second before springing to her feet.
“I’m okay!”
 
——
 
And there he was. Larger than life! Mrsha’s mouth was open so wide she could have eaten one of Erin’s cakes whole.
Fetohep of Khelt! He was speaking to Feshi, who was bowing, holding the diamond dagger out. And there, at her side but unharmed, thanks to her armor, was Lehra Ruinstrider! The Named Adventurer!
Mrsha’s heroes. Gnoll heroes. People she’d seen on the scrying orb! Feshi, Yerranola, Lehra—
Can we get closer? Please?
She had to hold up the card so Vetn would see her question. He eyed the undead with great apprehension.
“I think this is exactly the kind of thing Qwera wouldn’t want us to get near. Besides—that undead…”
“Yeah.”
Tesy shuddered. Mrsha stared blankly at the undead Minotaur, who had abandoned his duel to kneel to Fetohep. What? It was just one undead. Flesh Worms were a lot worse. Although she had to admit…it was a lot cooler than any of Pisces’ undead. Except the Frostmarrow Behemoth.
“Your Majesty, I apologize. I didn’t realize there was a distinction between the undead summoned by chant and…not. I will refrain from doing so again.”
Feshi was speaking humbly to the apparition of sand. Fetohep inclined his head.
“And I shall accept your apology. The blade is yours to use. Moreover, I shall not interfere with mortal concerns. This is but the last remnant of the enchantment upon the Diamond Dagger for protection. I took advantage of its activation to make certain inquiries of the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep produced a list as Mrsha dragged Vetn and Tesy forward, and they dragged her back.
“I would like to obtain a rare reagent lacking even within Khelt’s vaults. It is my understanding the Plain’s Eye tribe and Gaarh Marsh, or another tribe, may have instances of it. I shall reward whoever secures it for me with great wealth. It is a specific mushroom known to possess ghostly capabilities…”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. She had no idea what this was about, but on general principle, she approved of the idea of traveling across the world and appearing out of a magical dagger to get your shopping list taken care of. She wondered if she could get this guy’s autograph.
“She’s strong. Vetn, help me hold her back!”
Tesy was dragging Mrsha away. Which was funny, because despite the fact that this amazing moment was sure to become a piece of history or an adventure, no other Gnoll was running over and asking for an autograph.
By rights, they would after Fetohep was gone, but no one could quite find the audacity to insert themselves in this conversation. Who would dare? Who would just stroll over, go, ‘Hey, I’m Erin, whatcha talking about?’
Well…Mrsha had a different perspective on what you ‘were allowed to do.’ But Fetohep was already departing. Except that Feshi had interrupted.
“Your Majesty, if I may…I wonder whether you might do me a favor. One that may benefit glorious Khelt.”
He reformed himself out of the collapsing grains of sand, raising one eyebrow on his emaciated face.
“How intriguing, Feshi Weatherfur. It would have to be something desirable indeed, for my time is limited.”
Feshi was bowing, but she had a glint in her eyes.
“Yes, Your Majesty. But I hope you might agree it is of interest. It’s…”
She began to speak, but then the Gazer cast a spell and Mrsha couldn’t hear! She strained forward, kicking at Vetn and Tesy’s hands, but they were too—
“Hey, where’d that Minotaur go? I’m up for round two! I’m not dizzy at all. The world’s just tilted a bit.”
Lehra stumbled past them. She stopped as a little Gnoll froze and was yanked off her paws by two adults. Lehra glanced back as Mrsha waved her arms frantically.
“Oh, hey, what’s this?”
“I like this! I love this!”
Mrsha slapped her magical gemstone and held up a card.
Autograph, please!
Lehra looked at the card, then burst out laughing.
“Why not? Who am I writing it to?”
Mrsha nearly wrote her own name. She hesitated, had an agonized moment, then scribbled.
“Ekirra? Is that your friend? All right. To Ekirra…my biggest fan! There! Hope you like it! Now, where’s…?”
Lehra winked at Mrsha. At Mrsha. The Gnoll wanted to ask her how she found the Blade of Mershi, if she had ever considered an apprentice, if she—but Lehra was already heading back to her group. Mrsha clutched the autograph, tucking it into her bag of holding. Ekirra owed her huge for this. He was almost as big a fan as she was.
Fetohep of Khelt was already disappearing. Lehra hurried over.
“Hey, you’re Fetohep, right? Can I ask…?”
The undead monarch swiveled his head.
“No. I shall also add, Lehra Ruinstrider, that the halberd is a superior weapon. You may wish to improve your training.”
He paused. His features began to disintegrate as the sand fell back, dissolving. But he got one last word in.
“Train at all, that is.”
Then he was gone. Lehra stood, cut deeper than she’d been by the blows she’d sustained in the brief sparring match. Suxhel looked at Feshi with great respect, and Yerra hugged her friend.
“Feshi, you mad Gnollwoman! You genius! Do you think it’ll happen?”
“Let’s find a scrying orb.”
Feshi was grinning with delight. Mrsha stared at them as Vetn muttered to Tesy.
“If Qwera hears that Mri nearly…with Lehra, our ears are toast. Let’s get out of here.”
The Drake nodded nervously, and they scurried away, dragging Mrsha, who was trying to cling to the ground.
Not that it mattered. Countless Gnolls and onlookers took this moment to flood forward, to ask, to be part of the moment—after the moment had passed. Lehra was also the right person for Mrsha to ask for an autograph, because of all the keen-eyed, intelligent, sharp people here, she gave no thought to a little Gnoll who uttered suspiciously few words and wrote her requests down.
It didn’t matter. It was all fine, and Mrsha was being spirited away by Vetn and Tesy, kicking and struggling, as Feshi turned. There were more acquaintances coming their way. Just a morning’s incident during the Meeting of Tribes.
“You can play on my phone all day, Gire. I promise.”
“You promise? Did we miss the fight?”
Two voices entered the conversation, drawing nearer. Feshi’s ears perked up. She smiled, spotted the group, and beckoned over two friends.
“Inkar, Tkrn! You won’t believe what just happened!”
Lehra broke away from Suxhel’s berating her to frown at the group and grin.
“Hey, is that Tkrn and Inkar? Didn’t I sleep with one of you?”
Mrsha stopped as a giant Gnoll, nine feet tall, wiping tears from her eyes and holding Inkar’s hand with her other paw, passed right by her. They were both followed by a rather plain, ordinary Gnoll in [Guardsman]’s armor bearing a familiar crest. He scuttled over as heads tracked him, embarrassed.
What a scene. Tkrn looked straight past Mrsha, the brown Gnoll with golden ears, not at all her familiar white-furred self, toward Lehra, Feshi, and the others. Inkar hurried over, still fuming at the way Ekhtouch…Ekhtouched.
“Feshi, what happened? Gire is a bit upset. She was—ouch. Tkrn!”
The Gnoll started. He’d just stepped right on Inkar’s heel with his big guardsman’s boots. He blinked.
“Sorry.”
“Well, everyone’s here. Except for Venaz. Where is he? Wait…wait. Wasn’t there another Human? And that Gnoll made out of metal who kept staring at me? Remember him, Suxhel?”
“He was using a Skill on you, Lehra.”
The Stargnoll was rubbing at her chin, having fun, in the thick of it. Feshi was whispering to Inkar about what was going to happen next. Tkrn? He sniffed the air. He frowned. He looked back and saw a brown Gnoll with gold painted ears.
Completely different. Unusual. Unfamiliar. Except for her face and body, which he recognized. And her scent, which was returning even with de-odor tonics. And her eyes.
Just as you’d notice someone who looked the same as a friend, with the exact same features but a different hair color. Tkrn stared. Rubbed his eyes.
“Is he flirting with me?”
He was walking into Lehra, blankly. Tkrn looked at her. Then he looked back at the wide-eyed Gnoll girl. He slapped his face. Stared at his paw. Rubbed his cheek.
And then he went tearing toward Mrsha. He lunged and grabbed her. 
“What the—”
Vetn yelped. Tesy whirled, paintbrush in hand, and bonked Tkrn on the forehead.
“Let go! What’s happening! Mr—Mri!”
“You—you’re—”
Lehra, Inkar, and the others turned. The crowd was confused; they didn’t see who Tkrn was grabbing, and all three adults and Mrsha fell down. Vetn was instantly alarmed. He grabbed Mrsha, trying to tear her away. Tkrn was breathless. He was speechless!
“What happened?” 
“Where’d Tkrn go?” 
“Hey! Clear a path!” 
“Gire, help me—”
Voices from behind. Mrsha was lost for words herself, but that was how Tkrn knew who she was. He held on to her, squeezing her tight. Him? Silly, stupid Tkrn? Mrsha from the inn, stealing food?
Home?
Them? The cells with Calruz? The right thing? Two rats.
The Wandering Inn.
“You?”
His voice cracked. Mrsha reached out to him. Feshi spotted the little Gnoll girl that Tkrn was holding on to. Her brows snapped together as Gireulashia reached down to clear the knot of fallen Gnolls.
Then Vetn, understandably, lamentably, and with perfect aim, cursed, pulled a little pouch out of his bag of holding, and hit Tkrn in the face with a smoke bomb.
Tkrn let go with a shout of pain. Vetn lost hold of Mrsha too, and so did everyone else. She hit the ground as smoke billowed up.
That fool! The Thief of Clouds had thought someone had spotted Mrsha. Which Tkrn had, but Vetn thought it was someone bad. She moved left, dodging out of the press of feet trying to stomp her. Well, she’d explain everything. And Tkrn! He could take her to Krshia! He knew she was here! She hoped he wouldn’t say anything.
She heard a babble of voices.
“Mri! Where’s Mri—”
“Tkrn! What was that?”
Mrsha backed up from the stomping feet. She was in the press of Gnolls now, cursing silently, and it seemed like half the Meeting of Tribes was coming over here. Why not, after the Stargnoll, famous people, and Fetohep himself had been sighted?
“It was—I saw M—I s—Inkar, I have to find—my Aunt—”
Tkrn was babbling, unable to make the words come out fast enough. Everyone was focused on him, not the other voice lost in the babble.
“Hello. Hello. Hello. I’m Mri.”
Mrsha slapped her voice-necklace, trying to jump up and be seen. Damn you tall people! She was waving her arms as the smoke cleared when someone spoke and the ground shook.
“Stop. We shall have calm.”
A tremor, but then it was like the world grew still, and everyone stopped babbling, and it was all…peaceful.
Mrsha looked about. The crowd broke up, and she backed up. She peeked out of the tangle of legs and saw two Gnolls standing there. They must have heard the commotion, and like the multiple Chieftains and Shamans in the mix, had decided to restore order.
The Gnoll who had tapped his staff on the ground was a [Shaman] with a normal brown eye and a strange other eye. It had a depth to it, a winding maze of the kind Mrsha had only seen once before. That eye seemed to see all things.
Yet it missed her because it was aimed at Lehra, Feshi, and the others. The [Shaman] spoke, and Mrsha, who had been about to jump out into Tkrn’s arms, or find Vetn and Tesy, froze when she heard the name.
“Chieftain Xherw. Your words?”
Standing before her was Chieftain Xherw of the Plain’s Eye tribe, the same tribe that hunted white Gnolls, Doombringers, one of the most powerful [Chieftains] in the world.
“Thank you, Ulcreziek. Honored Feshi, Lehra, and the guests and friends of the Meeting of Tribes. Is all well? We saw the commotion.”
Lehra’s ears drooped.
“Chieftain Xherw. Sorry. It was my fault. Again. I just had to challenge Feshi’s dagger thing. And then Fetohep of Khelt appeared!”
“Did he really?”
The Chieftain raised an eyebrow. His fur was dark, with lines of silver—rather nice looking. He wore the Raiment of the Plains, a light artifact made with beautiful colors faded by time, despite the enchantment. It bore the Plain’s Eye’s motif, which included eyes, among other symbols.
None of this was bad. In fact, if she had not known him, Mrsha would have thought he was a bit ordinary, although she would have known he was a Chieftain. He was not super tall, but he did look like a warrior, or a former one.
However, as every Gnoll who had ever stood near him knew, something walked with Xherw. A presence.
It hung in the air, hundreds of feet wide, making you feel its weight, unseen. Not on your shoulders but somewhere else. It was not necessarily unpleasant, though it felt that way for some; for others it was inspiring. A shadow of something in the world; a mark of power.
It was not an aura, though. And, like Feshi’s undead, it had only a small effect on all those in attendance, reminding them that they stood in Xherw’s presence—all those in attendance, that is, except one.
Xherw’s eyes roamed the Gnolls, who looked variously abashed, impressed, amused by Lehra’s antics, annoyed by the incident, and everything in between. Of course, he looked around at head height.
