And like a [Magician], everyone was back to listening to Chaldion again. The Grand Strategist pursed his lips. It was on the tip of his tongue, but he refused to speak.
“Let’s say there was a plan. There were names. I remind you all that everyone who took part…initially…would be long dead by now. I advise you to think historically. Let me also be up-front. There have been times when the facade cracked. Actions were taken.”
He forestalled another furious outburst.
“Here is one such point in time. One moment.”
Chaldion had pulled something from his pocket. He slowly lit a cigar and blew out some smoke.
“Wistram.”
“We have no involvement in a Gnollish conspiracy. I will swear on behalf of every current Archmage and have each one attest to that. No faction in Wistram was aware of this, and I have conducted an internal purge and review.”
The words were out of Eldavin’s mouth in a second. So fast that most people failed to check his words fully. Chaldion gave him a slight nod.
“Yes. But Wistram was involved. Four decades ago. The Wistram-Gnoll rift.”
Queen Geilouna muttered darkly.
“Which hampered magical trade and made it harder for Gnolls to—”
Chaldion raised a brow again.
“There was groundwork before. The idea that Gnolls couldn’t become [Mages] was already quite prevalent. Rather, if you recall history, that was an attempt to send a Gnoll to become a [Mage]. It failed. Why? There is a secret here, isn’t there, Grand Magus Eldavin?”
“Yes. It seems so. And it seems that it behooves anyone curious to investigate this incident.”
Eldavin flicked his eyes to the side. Chaldion let the cigar heat up; it would not last as long as it was meant to. It didn’t matter. Now he spoke more quickly.
“So. A conspiracy long laid. Walled Cities…other parties. You don’t know how. And you don’t know why. Something was gained. There was a larger reason—well, I suspect the Walled Cities saw it as straightforward. But what would someone else gain?”
Queen Yisame could hardly contain herself, eyes flashing with what could be read as fury or excitement.
“Tell us already, and spare the secret! No mystery lasts forever! Skip to the end!”
Chaldion paused. He seemed to take umbrage with Yisame above all others; as if her lack of a concise verbal jab was more offensive than her pressing him.
“Your Majesty. I am protecting the interests of the Walled Cities. Should I be more direct, it would be dire for my people and cities.”
The Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen threw back her head. Her eyes opened, and behind her, six [Handmaidens] snapped open their fans like the wrath a small hurricane.
“Dire? More still than everything you have admitted? Do not presume, Grand Strategist. You are here before a council of judgement.”
“In what court? I see only arbitration. There is a difference between public opinion and law, Your Majesty. Nerrhavia’s Fallen does not command Izril.”
Chaldion was turning away when Yisame spoke.
“No secrets lie buried forever, [Strategist]. Tyrants die, even if immortal, even if we must claw and tear them from their thrones, and kill them a thousand times. This is the very truth my kingdom was founded on. So speak your truth. Or else Nerrhavia’s hordes will pry it out. Not as invaders, but because we were invited by the rulers of this land. Just so as we march shoulder to shoulder with the House of Minos, Dullahans, and Humans.”
The Grand Strategist of Pallass stopped, a claw on his cup. He looked back, and a light shone from under his eyepatch. Yisame looked straight past him, fanned idly by an attendant.
“…Forgive me. That overreaches. After all—I did not ask those with the authority, nay, the right. Chieftain Akrisa, Chieftain Torishi. What will you? May I offer you an armada?”
She smiled, as the other leaders looked at Yisame, and her vainglorious nation cheered their [Queen]. Yet of the two Gnolls…Torishi spoke.
“Your Majesty. Not yet.”
Chaldion saw Torishi rise. The Chieftain of the Weatherfur tribe looked at Chaldion.
“Grand Strategist. You play with words well.”
“Thank you, Chieftain Torishi.”
She gave him a bitter look.
“You hide dark truths well, until it becomes convenient for you to tell all. I wish I could say this was Pallass, and turn the wrath of empires on you. But it is not Pallass, as you so carefully say. You throw other Walled Cities on the pyre, and hint. I expect no great revelations—not in common words from you. Nor can I ask for armies and war, because my heart does not want these things. Not now. Not until great decisions have been made, and you will not guide us far, only hint.”
Chaldion frowned, because there was no direct opening there. Torishi just looked at him.
“Would that I could say this was Pallass’ way. Crafty and manipulative. But I know Pallass. My tribe will not forget this day, nor your part. You are not Pallass, though, because we have shed blood with Pallass. Our great daughter, Garusa Weatherfur, fought with Thrissiam Blackwing against the Goblin Lord and perished there. She did not run. Nor did her last letter to me ever say she found Pallass’ [General] wanting. We have known Walled Cities as enemies and friends. This day? I say the Cyclops of Pallass sullies its name in my eyes. Speak.”
It stuck. Everything else had slid away. Water on oil. Arrows bouncing off a magic shield. Save for this. Chieftain Torishi sat, cross-legged, and looked at the old Drake with the hope of exactly nothing in her gaze. He frowned. Choosing his words, displeased. Perhaps it changed nothing in what he said next. Perhaps…everything.
Across Izril, Drakes were waiting. The High Command of Manus, the Serpentine Matriarch, Wall Lords and Ladies of Salazsar, Oteslia’s First Gardener—and far more—appraising Chaldion. Was he selling them out? Or doing the only thing that could be done?
He hesitated, and it seemed to those watching that this was the moment when he was truly conflicted.
“The Walled Cities have known many things for a long time. They buried this secret. Quite literally. Other groups helped them. Something was lost. Something was gained. Even I’m not sure of the…exact price. So when you go digging, ask yourself what was traded. Gnollish magic for centuries. A suppression field can hold it back, but the energy still went somewhere. Where? Perhaps someone hid something. Perhaps it’s needed. Used. Every Walled City has a secret.”
His one eye swept across the camera. Someone quietly breathed an oath.
“Traitor’s scales. Does he know?”
Dragonspeaker Luciva rose slightly. She looked around the High Command of Manus.
“Does he…? Is he referring to Rafaema? Or…”
She swung her gaze around. Was it this? How far would Chaldion go? But even the other Drakes and Gnolls looked at her. What was he talking about? Manus? Or something else?
“Too many secrets.”
The Drake grinned like a devil in the dark bar as he spoke. Light shone from under his eye patch, and his scarred face twisted. He looked at Torishi and nodded once.
“Let’s have some come to light. We’ve known too much. Leaders. It’s coming out. We have always known of things like this. Now you see a buried crystal. But you already had the first hint. Or haven’t you looked into it? They were right there, too. Buried but never forgotten. One after another. You found them first. The greatest enemies of Gnolls. Greater than Dragons. Do you know what I’m talking about?”
Heads tilted. For once, no one did know. Akrisa and Torishi slowly blinked, then grew visibly uneasy. You could see their fur beginning to stand on end.
Geilouna whispered to Altestiel.
“What is he talking about?”
The Earl of the Rains glanced up and realized that if he spoke, it would be to the entire group.
Fetohep knew. He focused on the others, seeing who else did.
Tulm the Mithril was nodding, like someone watching a masterpiece being completed. Perorn got it with a quiet snap of her fingers. Outside of Izril, the only other person to put it together in a flash was Eldavin, who cursed. The rest didn’t know because it wasn’t yet a word spoken aloud. Chaldion drew it out, a single word, in an exhalation of smoke.
“Raskghar.”
Someone dropped a mug. The sound of shattering glass was the perfect note to fit that moment. Chaldion nodded.
“Ask yourselves who forgot they remained. Gnollish memory is a famous thing. Someone has taken a quill to it, which I quite applaud. I couldn’t have done so well myself. That is my testimony. Now, if you will excuse me, I believe I may soon be court-martialed or summoned before the Assembly of Crafts. Good day.”
He cut off the image of himself before anyone could speak a word. Then it was madness. Then everyone was speaking, demanding that Chaldion be brought back, demanding that other leaders of Drake cities, who were suddenly very reticent, be put on. It was done. Some people watching—even enemies, people who found the entire business as reprehensible as could be—still felt the urge to stand up and applaud.
Earl Visophecin of Ailendamus and the Blighted King even did. Applaud a craftsman on the stage, an artist of intention. That took all the momentum in the world and trained it…
Where? Drake plots. Lack of magic. Traitors?
Raskghar.
Somehow…he had thrown water into the air. And now they saw it. Like the Stitch Witch of Terandria, who decided she had an interesting project as well. Who smiled. They all saw it. Glittering drops of water on a tapestry of very different things.
All…somehow…connected. Now tug at one string and find out where it led.
If you dared.
 
——
 
Every Gnoll in the Great Plains was practically glued to the drama unfolding between Chaldion and the council Feshi had convened. It was about them. It was a clue to a greater story. Treachery and betrayal and mystery.
And why not? It was the most important thing that could happen today. For almost all of them. What could be more important than that? What could be…?
“Mrsha?”
It was just one word. A question. A name.
Her name.
Mri was her name. The little Gnoll girl wasn’t too attached to it, but no one had actually said her real name since they had come to the Meeting of Tribes. Her real name was dangerous. Who knew it?
Well, anyone who’d heard Drassi’s broadcast, maybe. But Mrsha wasn’t that spectacularly rare of a name for a Gnoll. Why apply it to her?
For that matter—who could recognize her? Tkrn had recognized her face because he had visited the inn where she stayed for a long time, saw her face every time she was there, up close. He was an exception. With her brown fur, the Stone Spears tribe markings, who else could…?
The strange Gnoll had picked Mrsha up. She’d been so terrified of Chieftain Xherw that she hadn’t moved, just grateful that he shielded her from Xherw’s gaze somehow.
Because…he was a Chieftain himself? The Gnoll had the appearance of one, though she didn’t recognize the blue dye and markings of his tribe. But he had a bodyguard, and he’d been right next to another Chieftain—the famous Chieftain of the Steelfur tribe, who’d gone off without giving Mrsha a second glance.
Yet this Gnoll had gone pale.
He had picked her up, spoken her name—and now he grabbed her and hurried her off. Mrsha didn’t know if she should fight back or not.
How did he know her name?
She began to squirm as she realized she was getting farther from her protectors, Vetn and Tesy, but the Gnoll had her firmly in his grip.
“Excuse me. I have to go. Please. Please.”
The Gnoll Chieftain started. He almost dropped Mrsha, then swiveled her around.
“That’s impossible. You can’t—”
He almost let go of Mrsha, but then his eyes focused on the speaking-crystal necklace. He stared at Mrsha’s fur.
“You can’t speak.”
Mrsha’s eyes widened. She definitely didn’t know this Gnoll…did she? He wasn’t from Liscor. But how did he know she couldn’t speak? She hesitated, but if she triggered her speaking crystal, her canned speech would be obvious.
Twice confused by her ‘voice’, Chieftain Mrell stared at Mrsha. And again, his eyes darted to her face, with faint recognition but no true certainty. He saw something, but he wasn’t certain.
What he looked at was…her fur. Her brown fur. And more than that, the gray markings on her shoulders and arms. Mrsha saw the look and went still.
Slashes of gray, arrows in stylized patterns across her fur. Any Gnoll of age could apply them, though most only did as a matter of rank or for special occasions. Mrsha had thought it would be an honor, a Good Thing. No one else knew what they meant exactly. Perhaps someone might recognize them, but the markings were those of her tribe. And her tribe was dead.
“Stone Spears. It’s Stone Spears’ markings. And you…”
Yet he knew it. Mrsha stared wide-eyed up at Chieftain Mrell. He looked at her, then recoiled.
“You’re the runaway child? You w—”
He recognized her at last as the kidnapped girl! Mrsha squirmed harder, kicking at his arms, but now Chieftain Mrell’s head snapped around. He whirled, largely unnoticed among the Gnolls chattering about seeing Fetohep of Khelt and the Stargnoll. Then he began to run.
“Chieftain Mrell? Something wrong? Who’s the child?”
One of his guards spotted him as the Gnoll hurried with Mrsha still struggling in his arms. The Gnoll was panting.
“I—nothing. I know this…send a messenger. I’m returning to my quarters. No meetings with other Chieftains.”
“A famous [Merchant]—”
“Later. This is important. I need you to send a runner to the Sofang tribe. Now. Tell them I demand that Prha come here now. To me.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
Mrell. Prha. Those were stupid names. Mrsha…thought they sounded familiar. But how?
Something was stirring in the back of her mind, but she was reaching for it and…not. At the same time. What a curious thing. It was almost as if she knew. But she didn’t want to.
Was that why she let him carry her out of danger into a foreign tribe’s camp? Gnolls greeted this Chieftain Mrell, and he answered with strained casualness. He was clearly well liked, and it was a fairly prosperous tribe, from what Mrsha saw. Smallish, but it looked pretty wealthy. She heard a lot of hammering, smelled smoke and metal—a crafting tribe?
“Seal the camp. No visitors. I’m—working on a change to Demas Metal. Tell everyone I will see them later. Tonight, if I can. This is a…guest.”
The Gnoll strode into his tent, issuing rapid orders. The guards stared at Mrsha, but they didn’t question the orders. Mrsha found herself in a Chieftain’s tent, carpeted by expensive tapestries depicting Gnolls in battle. There was a single rolled-up cot and samples of that strange Demas Metal stuff.
