Her companions had to save her from dying and get her to spit out the mouthful of popcorn that had been clogging her windpipe. Feshi saw that it was none other than the Stargnoll herself—Lehra Ruinstrider, who pointed as Wall Lord Dragial, her mortal pursuer and nemesis, began to defend Drakes for doing nothing to Gnolls.
“I nearly choked to death. Damn you, Dragial! You nearly killed me, but I survived!”
Lehra pounded the ground with her fist. Suxhel, her Gazer companion, stared at Lehra.
“You’re blaming him for the fact that you nearly choked on popcorn?”
“Well—yes?”
Lehra coughed out another kernel and saw Feshi watching.
“Hey—Feshi, right? It’s Lehra. Haven’t we met?”
“I think we have. It’s an honor, Lehra. And Suxhel?”
The Gazer [Wizard] bowed slightly. Feshi eyed the scrying orb with renewed interest.
“That must be Wall Lord Dragial. The one who claims the Blade of Mershi is his.”
“Yep. Look at that smug bastard. He’s attacked more Drake cities, Gnoll tribes—and he has supporters. He shouldn’t be allowed on Wistram News Network!”
“Not even to voice his opinion?”
“Well, he’s lying, Suxhel! You know he lies! Unless he uses the truth to lie harder!”
Lehra threw up her paws as her friend rolled all her eyes. The Gnoll stalked off to eat something in a huff, tail furiously wagging.
Feshi sort of understood what Lehra meant, but it was a complex situation. Technically—and she didn’t voice this aloud—Lehra had taken the item that Dragial had paid her to recover. So he had some claim to it, although it was true that it seemed like the Blade of Mershi had chosen its owner.
Anyway, it just went to show that this place had as much to fascinate as what was on the news. So why weren’t they recording the Meeting of Tribes?
The answer: Gnolls didn’t like Wistram. They had no Wistram [Mages] here. Ergo, there was little motivation for coverage.
“But we need attention. We deserve it.”
“What’s this about attention we deserve?”
Lehra popped over, full of nervous energy after eating six nali-sticks in quick succession. Feshi jumped.
“Er—I’m sorry. I was just thinking out loud, Lehra. I was thinking that we need the spotlight. Why is Wall Lord Dragial talking—”
“Exactly! Shut him up! Arrest him!”
“—when Drassi could be interviewing Chieftains here?”
Lehra grabbed Suxhel’s shoulder excitedly.
“That’s a great point. Why can’t we be on the news? I’ll tell everyone what Dragial is doing!”
Suxhel gave Feshi an appraising look. By now, Yerranola had edged over. She’d run off for a second and had come back…with an armful of autograph squares.
“Excuse me, Lehra. I’m a huge fan. And I have family, cousins, friends…could I ask you to autograph these for them?”
Lehra happily began signing as Suxhel addressed Feshi.
“I believe you are right, Strategist Feshi, but television strikes me as being like the Clock of Eyes. It swings the world’s attention to whatever is loudest, not to what is most pressing. To swing the gaze here requires great urgency, which we have—but perhaps also something else. Something more.”
“The Clock of Eyes?”
Suxhel raised her oddly segmented fingers.
“Pardon. It’s a Gazer creation. A trap that stops all it sees. It is a simple thing, albeit deadly. I only meant that if you wish to have Wistram News Network feature the Meeting of Tribes, it must have an interest in the meeting. And Wistram and Gnolls are historically divided.”
Feshi agreed.
“Yes, although one Grand Magus seems like he’s sympathetic toward us.”
An idea was taking shape in her head. She might not be Niers Astoragon’s most aggressive student, or fastest, but she was one of his best. And although she didn’t have a specific genius, like Wil’s in logistics, she had a talent that had bested Venaz more than once.
She remembered the lessons she’d learned and never made the same mistake twice. Now she thought she was internalizing a lesson he had begun to teach them, but in a type of war new even to him.
Yerranola gestured at Feshi as she overheard their conversation.
“You’re referring to Grand Magus Eldavin. If our group heads to Chandrar after this, we should try to stop by Wistram. I know it’s sort of an odd route, but it seems too good to miss, if they’ll let us in. I’ll sign autographs if it helps.”
Lehra nodded eagerly. She eyed Feshi, and leaned in to whisper, far too loudly.
“Oh, yeah! I forgot you were bound for Chandrar! Don’t you have the Diamond Swords of Serept?”
Heads swiveled, and people stared at Feshi and Yerranola, reminded of that bit of recent history. The Gnoll [Strategist] hesitated and put a hand on her belt.
“I only have one. The rest are securely locked away—aside from Wil’s and Venaz’s.”
The Named Adventurer looked excited; artifacts like these were what her kind lived for.
“They have the ones that make you move super fast and make copies, right? What was yours? The necromancy dagger?”
“Yes.”
Feshi winced. There was a reason she wasn’t proud of the dagger. Gnolls did not like necromancy. Something about, oh, a certain Necromancer killing one of their beloved Chieftains, a general dislike of the undead, and so on.
Yet Lehra was fascinated. She held up the glowing armguard with the gem, the Blade of Mershi.
“This is my artifact. I can make it turn into a dagger. Well…I have to transform, then it turns into a dagger. Want to see?”
“Er—maybe later, Honored Lehra.”
Feshi was conscious that they were attracting a crowd. But now Lehra was staring at the hilt of the Diamond Dagger of Serept.
“Can I see the dagger? Do you die if you touch it?”
“There is a curse. I don’t think it’s on anything but the chest…here it is.”
Feshi drew the Diamond Dagger, and Suxhel’s eyes focused on it. Lehra oohed at the beautiful blade, and Yerranola smiled, but painfully. She had sacrificed the most of all of them for that adventure—and yet not one of the blades had gone to her. Feshi gave her a guilty look, but Lehra was already asking for another favor.
“You can summon the undead with it, can’t you? Would you mind summoning one for me? I want to know how strong it is.”
“Lehra, you’re being rude.”
Suxhel’s voice was stern, but Lehra didn’t let go of things easily. And to be honest, Feshi was tempted.
How strong is one of the undead compared to a Named Adventurer of Lehra’s level? It was the kind of battle data you’d rarely get. And if it meant a favor or two? Slowly, Feshi raised the Diamond Dagger.
Gnolls broke off from watching the scrying orb and stepped back. Yerra stepped toward Feshi, supporting her friend.
“I will summon one. Everyone, stand back. Lehra, are you sure?”
“I’m sure.”
Feshi hesitated, then said the words Fetohep had taught her. Which one…?
“I call upon the defenders of old! From Khelt’s vaults, from the lands of the dead, a warrior to do battle in my name! Come forth, champion of forgotten fame!”
She felt silly, holding the dagger slightly up, reciting the ostentatious-sounding summoning oath.
Yerranola sniggered.
“You’re going to have to practice that, Feshi.”
The young Gnoll woman’s cheeks burned, but then a hole opened in the ground. Gnolls raced away and pointed as a perfect circle opened, a chasm of blackness ringed by a dark circle of black magic, like the Diamond Dagger itself. And out of it rose…
Glowing blue eyes. A face of bone—not a Human’s but, of all things, a Minotaur’s. Ancient armor but still burnished, glowing faintly white. A long halberd with a wicked edge.
The Skeletal Champion rose, ascending out of whatever place it had been summoned from. It looked like a creature from stories or nightmares, but it was not malevolent. Not to Feshi. If anything, as it looked at her, she felt guarded.
Here is something that will die before I do. Feshi sighed in relief. And she realized she was the only one to do so.
Every Gnoll in sight had frozen at the appearance of the Skeletal Champion. A dread had come over their faces, and Yerra grabbed Feshi’s arm.
“Dead gods, Feshi! It’s terrifying!”
It was just a skeleton in armor. But Feshi realized—seeing that even Suxhel had readied her staff, though she knew the skeleton was under Feshi’s control—they were not seeing what she was.
Terror ran around the gathering. Lehra had gone still; the young Named Adventurer had stopped her excited wavering about. Now her eyes locked on to the Skeletal Champion’s, and a smile played over her face. Confidence. A challenge. She took a breath, then lifted the arm with the armguard over her head.
“My turn. In the name of the City of Stars!”
Then there was light. A blinding flash, as the Blade of Mershi’s gemstone glowed. It covered Lehra—and transformed her. When Feshi stopped shielding her eyes, there Lehra stood.
A figure covered in the strange metal of the Blade of Mershi from helm to tail. A Drake’s tail armor—scaled, flexible, stronger than any other armor. And in Lehra’s hands were a longsword and shield.
She saluted the Skeletal Champion. Yerranola gasped, and her grip loosened on Feshi. The horror of the undead seemed to have been blasted to pieces by the Stargnoll’s artifact.
“Hey, Feshi.”
“Yeah, Yerra?”
“That’s how you use your artifact and look good.”
“Well, come on, you undead—uh—thing. Let’s see how good you are.”
The Skeletal Champion had not taken Lehra for granted. It had readied itself subtly as she used her artifact. Now its head turned, and Feshi got the sense it was waiting for her. She hesitated, then waved it forward.
Instantly, the halberd swung down, and Lehra tensed. But the long-dead champion of Khelt did not attack at once. Instead, the Minotaur champion saluted Lehra in return. The Stargnoll’s eyes widened, then she raised her sword and swung the longsword down, readying herself.
A second later, the skeleton leaped forward, and the Named Adventurer brought up her shield. The first impact sounded like a gong ringing through the Meeting of Tribes. Then they began to fight, and Gnolls spread out to watch a Named Adventurer doing battle with Khelt’s champion.
“Three gold on Lehra!”
Yerranola was the first to speak, as the Gnolls pushed out to create a very respectable semicircle around the amazing battle.
“Six on the skeleton.”
“Suxhel!”
Lehra yelped, then ducked a two-handed swing from the halberd. She dodged back, rolling to avoid another swing. The Minotaur whirled his halberd, and she blocked a swing.
“Uh—he’s strong.”
Indeed, the Skeletal Champion was swinging the halberd around, and despite Lehra’s magical shield and armor, the impacts were making her stagger. Still, she ignored a blow that Feshi thought would make Venaz fall over and lunged in with her longsword, stabbing. Against which the undead warrior spun his halberd, deflecting her sword with the shaft, then drew the blade back. Lehra spun left, swearing, as the tip of the halberd nearly struck her from behind. Then—the tip of the deadly shaft swung up in a precise chop under her right armpit.
“Chieftain’s fur!”
Lehra blocked it with her shield and moved back, trying to get out of range. The halberd began to stab in a flurry of thrusts as the pike on the end aimed at her.
“[Deflecting Slashes]—whoa!”
The first blow skated off her armor, even though her Skill knocked six previous strikes aside. Feshi blinked. Had she just seen the undead warrior…?
She had. He cut a dizzying zigzag in the air. So fast that Lehra threw up her shield, and a cascade of magical sparks or conflicting energies flew upwards. The Minotaur brought down a two-handed chop, then turned it into a horizontal cut halfway down, feinting so well that it caught Lehra by the side and tossed her several feet, though it never broke her armor.
“Lehra! Stop—”
“No, I’m fine! This guy’s sort of tough. I’ve got him.”
Lehra got to her feet, unharmed. She stared at the undead warrior. Suxhel and Yerra both saw what Feshi had.
The Minotaur skeleton was smiling. Of course, all skeletons grin. But this one was definitely…
Lehra’s eyes narrowed. She abandoned the longsword and shield. There was a flash, and Feshi saw in the next moment the Stargnoll holding a halberd.
“Let’s see how you like it.”
Suxhel shouted from the sidelines, exasperated.
“Lehra, you don’t know how to use a halberd!”
“It’s sort of like a spear! Let me see—aha!”
Yerranola watched as Lehra charged in and the skeleton blocked the blow, almost contemptuously. It seemed to know this was a spar, or else Feshi suspected it would have punished the huge overswing. Then the skeleton stopped smiling. Its one-armed block began to waver, and it grabbed the halberd with a second arm, forcing Lehra back. It seemed she was strong too.
Even so. The audience realized this was a closer match than they’d thought and began betting in earnest. Yerra anxiously turned to Suxhel.
“Uh…can I redo that bet on Lehra?”
“No.”
Yerra winced as Lehra yelped and dove out of the way of a return chop.
“Halberds aren’t my style! Mace! No, wait! Greatsword!”
The Selphid addressed the [Wizard].
“He’s a lot better than her. She. Whatever this champion is.”
Suxhel nodded slowly, her eyes flicking to track the fight—both combatants at once, look at Yerranola, and survey the crowd, all at once. It made some people nauseous even to see, but Yerranola had met Gazers before and conversed as naturally as could be.
“She trains with Emper and Elgrinna, but she’s not at their level yet. If it won’t kill her, please have your undead beat her bruised, Feshi. It will be a good lesson in overconfidence.”
“I think I can do that, Suxhel. I’m sorry about this.”
“No. It isn’t your fault. Lehra thinks she can beat anyone just because she has the Blade of Mershi. She’s done this before.”
“And why, pray, is a Named Adventurer sporting against one of Khelt’s greatest champions? Poorly?”
Yerranola turned her head. She looked at a bouncing little Gnoll with gold ears, pointing with open mouth as Tesy and Vetn held her paws and placed bets with a nearby Gnoll—against Lehra. The girl was gaping at Feshi. The [Strategist] combed her fur, embarrassed. Yerranola replied absently, still looking around.
“Well, Lehra wanted to see if she could win, and we’ve never tried to use the Diamond Dagger and—”
Her voice trailed off. Slowly, one of Suxhel’s many eyes rotated downward. So did Feshi’s and Yerranola’s. They all had a thought.
…Who was speaking to them?
They all looked down at the dagger Feshi held. From there had come the voice. Now came the icy reply.
