Was this the Chieftain behind the blades? She sat there, staring up at him. The Gnoll went to the tent flaps, closed them, fumbled with something, and hung it up.
A [Silence] charm. Mrsha thought she should be worried. It was likely he had realized who she was somehow and was now going to kill her.
Except that he knew her tribe. He knew her name. And she knew him. He looked back at her, at last, and she saw Mrell flinch.
He wore a band of Demas Metal around one bicep, a Chieftain’s loose garments over his top, and a loose kind of kilt open at both sides, made with cotton and richly dyed. He smelled like coal and fire, and he was young.
Older than Erin and definitely older than Lyonette, but younger than Relc. That was how Mrsha thought of it. A Gnoll man out of his true ‘young man’ years but as young as Chieftains got.
He had brown fur, like trees in a forest, and ears that were forward and a bit pointy. Mrsha thought they looked familiar too. His eyes were brown, like every Gnoll’s. No odd rings or quirks. But they were wide.
When he spoke, his voice was a growl, and sometimes he slurred his r’s a bit more than usual, but he enunciated with care.
“Are you…Mrsha of the Stone Spears tribe? Child? Girl? You—I know you.”
He hesitated. Mrsha had hold of her speaking charm. She raised one arm to cover her mouth, pretended to cough, and triggered it.
“No.”
He started. Oh, how he jumped! He did not expect that, but then he stared. He crouched, slowly, at the other end of the tent, near the flaps.
“No. Did you say that? Please, say it again. Are y—do you know me?”
His voice was so strained. Mrsha bit her tongue.
“No.”
Again, she hid her mouth. Chieftain Mrell squinted.
“You’re not saying that. You can’t be. Not unless…it’s not coming from your mouth. What is that?”
Mrsha bit her tongue. Darn! He was a Gnoll, and his hearing was too good. Even a Human could probably have understood where the voice was coming from with this much scrutiny. Yet…
“I’m Mri. Hi. I have to go. Excuse me.”
This time, he saw that her lips didn’t move in sync with the ‘voice’ coming from her speaking stone. He straightened, slowly.
“It is…”
Mrsha glanced around the tent. She could run. She could tunnel under the tent if she had to—and Qwera had given her an emergency wand. Heck, she could howl and probably receive help if he didn’t stab her within five seconds.
Why did he look even more afraid of her now? This Chieftain Mrell hesitated, took one step forward and two steps back. It seemed to Mrsha that if she could but speak, he might bolt for the hills.
There was a funny feeling in her stomach. Chieftain Mrell was speaking. He kept starting, stopping. Mrsha stared at his face. Was he handsome? Nah. She didn’t care, and that wasn’t it. His ears. Now, where had she seen ears like those?
“Please, listen to me. You’re from the Stone Spears tribe. You’re…Mrsha Stone Spears. Your name is Mrsha. Did you change it to Mri? When I heard there was a white Gnoll named…I’ve met Gnolls named Mrsha. I didn’t think of it. I didn’t want to think of it. Stone Spears is dead. They were wiped out.”
He knew her tribe. Mrsha’s eyes opened wide. She stared at him. This time, without opening her mouth, she touched one of the runes.
“Yes.”
Mrell jumped. He went on after a second, swallowing.
“Th—your Chieftain was Urksh. Chieftain Urksh, [Mining Chieftain]. He was in his sixties. A good Gnoll. He had a scar along his chin here. He was Chieftain of your tribe. He…raised you.”
Yes. Yes. Mrsha’s chest began to hurt. She remembered Urksh. Oh, it felt like it had been every day she cried and remembered him. When had she begun forgetting? When had she stopped thinking of him every second?
She was exactly who he said she was. It came back to her, living along the High Passes, being scolded by Urksh, going hunting, the tribe moving from place to place. And then had come winter, and out of her boredom had come the most interesting person ever. A young City Runner, rescued out of the snow, followed by Winter Sprites…
Then disaster. Goblins.
“Stone Spears died. A Goblin Lord’s army wiped them out. Almost all of them. Zel Shivertail fought the Goblin Lord, but they all died there. That’s…that’s what I heard. From the last survivors.”
Mrsha’s eyes widened. Survivors? Mrell hadn’t blinked. She stared at him. Survivors…?
But now he was speaking.
“I know this. I’m…from the Stone Spears tribe. I was. I’d know those markings anywhere. I thought the only survivors were a handful of children, and I met every single one. Believe me. I never thought—Liscor? I saw a white Gnoll and never looked close—they only had a sketch of you on that Drake’s report. Do you understand what I’m saying? Do you…know…?”
He was waiting for something. It was building behind Mrsha’s eyes. Something pounding in her head. She just held still. Sitting there in the center of his tent. Why did everything he say ring a bell? Ears?
There was something in his tent that made her look around. Since it included a workshop, he had a number of things. Tools for creating powders, tools for working on the Demas Metal stuff, even books. And because he was at the Meeting of Tribes, he had formal clothes laid out ready for use, and, of course, a mirror.
No vanity like one Lyonette would consider proper, or makeup—just something to remove bad scents, shampoo, a brush tangled with hair, and a mirror. A big mirror for a Chieftain. Mrsha looked into it.
There were those ears again. She stared at them, quite puzzled. Now, how could that be? Her ears were smaller than Mrell’s, but they had the same shape. Gnollish ears had more variance than silly Human ones. And these were tipped with gold paint. They twitched as she looked at them.
Her ears. Slowly, the little Gnoll in the mirror reached out. Mrsha felt her paws touch her ears. Then she looked up.
Chieftain Mrell stood there. Like he’d seen a ghost. Like he was incredibly afraid, incredibly…guilty. Mrsha looked at his face. His fur looked familiar. Normal for a Gnoll. She stared down at her dyed fur, a copy of the fur she’d had growing up. It was close.
His ears looked like hers. Now she listened to what he said. He was from her tribe. Stone Spears. He…wasn’t anymore? It was rare for a Gnoll to leave a tribe. But it happened.
If you wanted to go your own way. Or, sometimes, if you were exiled.
Stone Spears had always been good with stone. Mining. Mrsha looked at Mrell.
“Urksh cast me out. You were too young to even walk on all fours. Me and Prha.”
What stupid names. Mrell? Prha? Why did they sound odd together? Almost like…
Slowly, the [Last Survivor] of the Stone Spears tribe, or so she had always thought—the girl who had received white fur for doom deferred, who had lost her people, her home; who had gone to faraway Liscor and found her mother, another home, friends, magic—looked up.
Mrell stood there, pale under his fur, looking at her but unable to meet her eyes. She listened to what he was saying and finally, finally understood what he had not said.
Was too ashamed to say.
Slowly, Chieftain Mrell of the Demas Metal tribe, a new tribe started by a single Gnoll who had discovered a fantastical new metal, walked forward. Not directly at Mrsha. He sat down in a chair, legs collapsing under him. He was shaking.
He was an outcast. From the Stone Spears tribe.
Urksh never talked about it. He had only told Mrsha about it a few times, and the others, even the children, didn’t bother Mrsha about it. Urksh only told Mrsha, once, when she was very little, that her parents were gone.
She thought that meant they were dead. The second time, he told her they had done a bad thing and been exiled.
She thought that meant they were dead. Mrsha had never thought of them again. She had her tribe, Urksh. Later, she had Lyonette, the inn, Ryoka, Erin, Numbtongue, Bird, Apista. When Stone Spears died, so had every connection to the old Mrsha with brown fur, Mrsha of the Plains Gnolls.
That was that. Never once had she expected…never had she dreamed of finding someone like the strange Gnoll standing here. Yet. Here he was.
Her…
“You’re Mrsha. My—”
Mrell spoke at last, and she didn’t know how long it had been. He didn’t say it, either.
The little girl looked up at the Chieftain sitting in his chair. She stared at him. Then, at last, she moved. She stood up on two legs, and he flinched.
“I—”
Words failed him. Disbelieving, Mrsha took a step forward. She looked around.
Chieftain of the Demas Metal tribe. Chieftain of a tribe she hadn’t known, but a growing one. Come here to become famous. An important Gnoll. Here.
Urksh hadn’t known about him. She was almost certain. This…he was just here. Out of nowhere. No warning. No signs. And now?
She looked at him. Walked over to the chair. Stared up at him. Mrell looked down at her and didn’t smile.
He looked pale, shaky, like he was about to be sick or run. And as Mrsha looked at him, his head jerked to one side. He had stared at her so fiercely before. Now, up close, as he saw the light of comprehension in her face—suddenly Mrell turned into a statue.
“I—”
She waited. Saw a brown eye flick her way, then skitter away and stare right at the tent flaps. Mrsha waited. But he didn’t look at her.
Like Ekirra when he was being naughty. Mrsha reached for her speaking rune. Then she dropped it. She stood there, waiting.
He never moved. He was frozen. Outside, Gnolls were watching the scrying orb where Chaldion spoke. Neither Mrell nor Mrsha moved. It didn’t even matter.
Mrsha waited. She counted ten seconds. Then twenty. Then thirty. Then…she slowly spread her arms out.
It was not a hug. It was a gesture.
Here I am.
She waited.
Mrell didn’t move. Mrsha stomped her foot, and he jumped. He almost glanced at her. But he didn’t.
Now she was angry. The little Gnoll girl grabbed hold of another chair and yanked herself up. Now she stood there, right in front of him.
I’m right here.
She couldn’t say anything. But she knew he could see her. Yet those eyes didn’t swing her way.
“I—didn’t expect—”
Mrsha clapped her paws together as loudly as she could. Mrell started again. She pointed at her chest.
Look at me. Look at me when you speak!
“Your m—Prha is coming. I sh—”
He began to rise. Mrsha lunged forward. He jerked, and she grabbed his clothes. Now she was touching him. He looked down—jerked again, like he was being zapped by a spell. He stared right over her head. She twisted the clothing.
Look down.
And he did not. He tried, but it was like a magnetic force was dragging his head up. His gaze darted around. Mrsha punched his shoulder. And still, Chieftain Mrell never looked at her. He glanced at her face. He tried to say something.
He refused to meet her eyes.
He didn’t want to meet her eyes.
He was afraid to meet her eyes.
He couldn’t meet her eyes.
Which was it? Whichwasitwhichwasit? How dare you? Her mouth opened and closed, but the adult sat there, unable to hear a word. Only a frustrated half sound. A coughing growl. She clawed at her own throat, trying to make the words.
He saw that and almost reached for her. But when she looked up, he flinched away again.
Mrsha had never…not Tkrn in the prison. Not the worst Drake. Not Lism or anyone else.
She had never met such a coward. Him? He came here and just picked her up and—
Her head swung around. Now, now she saw it all clearly. She looked. Saw.
What a fancy tent. How rich it was. She knew rich. She stared at his clothing, letting go of it. The armband, a signal that this was what he was selling.
Demas Metal. Now, there was a name that screamed pride. Confidence that the name would one day equate to fame and fortune. Not ‘Stone Spears’. Her tribe had never been rich.
She had never really cared, but she had known what it was like to want a bit more in the food pot, to have Urksh worrying about where the tribe would go. They had lived along the High Passes with dignity and pride. They had laughed and life had been fun at times, hard at others.
This Gnoll? He was rich. He had a growing tribe and a special metal. He had come here, to the Meeting of Tribes, to be richer still. After he had left the Stone Spears tribe. Been exiled.
She sniffed the air. It smelled like metal and burning and soot. Even that was like home. Stone Spears had always had a knack for minerals and mining. These were talents he had learned from her people. But he had no right to them.
Urksh had cast him out. He had said Urksh’s name, and he had no right. This Gnoll had been cast out of his tribe. If other Plains Gnolls knew, would they want to join his tribe, buy his metal? He hadn’t even…he’d left…
Suddenly, Mrsha didn’t want to be here. She looked at Mrell and let go of his clothing. She backed up. She stared at him—then bolted for the exit.
“Wait—”
Mrell moved. He was out of his chair and after her in a flash. Mrsha was almost out of the tent flaps when he grabbed her by the sides. She whirled, punched, kicked.
Let go! Leave me!
She wanted out! Begone! She wanted to find Vetn and tell him to bring her to Oteslia. Now! Nownownownow!
“Wait. Don’t go. I’m sorry. Mrsha, I’m—”
Mrell was desperate all of a sudden. He picked her up, and she bit him. She sank her teeth into his arm, and he cursed. Then—stopped.
Mrsha looked up. Mrell had almost yanked his arm free, but he stopped. She felt his muscles tense—then relax, and his face took on a pained, reserved expression. As if it didn’t hurt. As if he was going to just take it…
She bit with all the strength in her jaws and saw his face contort. Mrsha sank her teeth deeper, gnawing, as if she were trying to tear his wrist in two—
“Stop!”
He tore his arm free. She tasted blood and spat a clump of fur out. Mrell stared at his bloody wrist.
She snapped again, and this time he jerked his arm away. Mrsha kicked and punched, and he held her back. He had to drop her or she’d have bitten his other hand. She landed hard, and Mrell moved toward the door. He already had a healing potion out.
“Please, listen to me. I don’t know what to say, but—”
Mrsha spat on his carpeted floors and watched the dribble of bloody saliva give the image of a Gnoll on the beautiful carpet a funny face. She snarled and looked for the entrance. She darted left, and he blocked the way. She could slip past him, but then the damned Gnoll spoke.
“Prha is coming. She’s your mother. Mrsha. My daughter…”
Her eyes widened with outrage. What did he just say?
My daughter. Someone else had said that. And she had every right. Lyonette, her mother, said that. What did he just…
“Mrsha, I’m your f—”
She stopped going for the door. Mrsha put her paws over her ears. She saw his lips move. Saw him looking at her.
