What a completely ordinary thing for a Gnoll to say. Ysara instantly refused.
“No, Mri. You cannot.”
“Pretty please?”
“Absolutely not. Vetn, would you mind giving me some room?”
“Pretty please?”
The [Smith] was too busy admiring Ysara’s excellent bladeswomanship to notice it, but something was off about the second time the girl said that. The little Gnoll girl said it…exactly the same way. Intonation, pitch, and volume.
Qwera noticed. She let Vetn drag the girl back, then bent down and grabbed an ear.
“Don’t be silly, Mri. And don’t think about touching one of those blades! I’m not explaining to your mother why you’re missing a digit.”
She added that for the benefit of the listeners, then went back to haranguing the workers who were unloading her caravans.
The little Gnoll girl with brown fur, a curious pattern on her arms and chest, and two gold-painted ears pouted. She was clearly in the company of the Golden Gnoll herself.
She took her paw away from the tiny activation runes she’d been given. No one would really think twice about the gaudy gemstone set into a fancy necklace hanging from her neck. It was still a risk to use, but if people didn’t look too closely, they wouldn’t notice that the ‘voice’ of the girl hadn’t come from her mouth but from a little bit farther down. Or that she could only say a few things.
“I want food, Vetn.”
The Thief of Clouds patted his stomach.
“I want food too. Qwery, can we have food money?”
Mri slapped her speaking rune.
“Pretty please?”
Qwera spun with the wrath of…Qwera…and both Gnolls hid behind Tesy. Qwera pointed at Tesy, also known as Sellme, the Magical Painter, who looked around for someone to hide behind.
“Tesy, take these two children around the Meeting of Tribes. Not far—and if you get into mischief, I will break your favorite paintbrushes with my own two paws. Get some food. Buy it if you have to.”
“Can I have an allowance?”
“Make Vetn pay. I’ll pay him back. Five gold pieces.”
Mri brightened up, as did Tesy. Vetn just sulked.
“No, you won’t.”
“Damn right I won’t. Get lost!”
Tesy, Vetn, and the little Gnoll scampered off despite that, and Qwera went back to unloading her caravan. It was odd—she had publicly declared that she wouldn’t bother attending the Meeting of Tribes, but one supposed she had learned of something worthy of changing her mind. Demas Metal already seemed promising.
Ysara wasn’t much of a surprise, either, given her status as another [Merchant] who sold both arms and ingredients depending on her location and inventory. Vetn, Tesy? Childhood friends, just one Gnoll and Drake out of many in the Meeting of Tribes.
So there they were. A small gang to join the great, wonderful, eye-catching Meeting of Tribes. Qwera, Tesy, Vetn, Ysara, and Mri, the little Gnoll girl.
Or rather…Mrsha. She clung to both Tesy and Vetn’s hands, making them swing her off the ground rather than walk as they groaned and held her up. Beaming, eyes popping with everything to see, the interesting sights, smells…she was here.
She’d made it.
 
——
 
It was all part of Qwera’s master plan. With Plain’s Eye Gnoll hunters stopping everyone on the roads, ready to pursue even one child close to Mrsha’s age, even in her caravan, she had decided there was only one place to hide Mrsha.
Among as many Gnolls as possible. Of course, everyone had said it was dangerous. But Qwera had pointed out that their options were slim. More important, Mrsha had allies here. Krshia Silverfang, even her mother, had intended to come here.
To get Mrsha out of the city and past the checkpoints, she’d made Vetn do it. The Thief of Clouds had been hired to steal Mrsha away from Ysara. Which he had done. It somehow let him use his Skills, and so he had run with Mrsha in his arms on one breathless night.
She thought Wanderer was fast, but he was like nothing compared to the Thief of Clouds. The Gnoll had raced up a wall, leaped past two [Guards] while they were distracted in response to a little noise spell he’d used, and landed on the other side in a moment. Then he had raced across the grasslands.
He’d avoided the Plain’s Eye hunters too. Invisible, soundless, he had sped Mrsha low through the grass, leaving no trail, leaped over a gorge, shadowed a galloping City Runner on horseback at night, and run and run to deliver Mrsha back to Qwera, who was waiting to take her to the Meeting of Gnolls…
…And he had been confined to bed for nearly two days straight with muscle pain. He refused to take a potion for it, claiming that it would build up his body. Despite Qwera having paid him five thousand gold pieces to steal Mrsha, he wouldn’t spend so much as a silver coin on a healing potion.
Mrsha thought he was funny. She liked Vetn, even though he was cheap and whined about spending five gold pieces out of his fortune on snacks.
“Don’t be stingy, Vetn. Mri’s never been here. Neither have I! Do it for us—come on. Pwease?”
“Tesy, I swear…”
The Drake rested his head on Vetn’s shoulder and gave him a fairly good Mrsha-eyes impression. Mrsha copied him, and Vetn scowled.
“Fine. We’ll take four.”
He paid for some delicious-looking dough-fried meatballs in a small container and got an extra-large one for himself. Tesy and Mrsha began to gobble theirs, using a little toothpick to pop them into their mouths.
“Hey. Why’d you get more than us?”
“Because I exercise and deserve more food.”
“I paint all the time!”
“That’s your arms.”
“And my brain! You know how much energy this thing takes?”
Tesy jabbed his head repeatedly. Vetn muttered under his breath.
“Not much.”
Tesy looked hurt as Mrsha nearly snorted meatball out of her nose. Vetn elbowed Tesy.
“I’m joking.”
“I know…so give me a meatball.”
“Hey! You have yours; I have mine!”
It was amazing how outraged the Thief of Clouds could be about someone stealing one of his meatballs. Tesy rolled his eyes.
“Fine. Have one of mine. He’s going to sulk all day if you even steal one.”
Mrsha, who had been eying the big basket of meatballs, had been contemplating the very same thing. She saw Vetn glowering, but Tesy poked a meatball from Vetn’s own basket and pushed it at him.
“Here.”
Vetn chomped it down. Tesy went for another of Vetn’s snacks, and the Thief of Clouds slapped his claw down. They were having a good time. Mrsha beamed. She tapped one of the runes she’d been given.
“This is fun!”
Vetn and Tesy glanced down at her. The prerecorded message was in fact a little Gnoll girl in the city they’d left who, in exchange for some coin, had happily recorded all the lines in a song crystal, the kind Qwera sold.
“It is. Vetn, I don’t understand why you uh…left.”
The Thief of Clouds gave Tesy an angry wide-eyed glare, and Mrsha recalled that he’d actually stolen something from this very place. Vetn gulped down more food.
“Is that Velrusk free? No? How much for o—two? A silver and…? All right, fine. Two, please.”
He sipped from his drink as Tesy took one with delight. Mrsha reached out for one and glared when it was clear that she was not going to be the benefactor of either. Tesy snagged a cup of goat’s milk for Mrsha, which mollified her.
“I left because I have better things to do than eat and stare at things all day. Which is what happens here.”
“I thought the most important Gnolls made big decisions.”
Vetn sniffed.
“Maybe the Chieftains do. I haven’t heard it changes that much. At least—until recently.”
Mrsha thought he was a fool. A damned fool! There was food and drink that was delicious, plus amazing Gnolls—she knew the legend of Garsine Wallbreaker, and she had been right there! And a [Performer]! And some Gnoll had been poking a Manticore with a spear! And she was huge! And there was Demas Metal, which she was going to buy. And, and…
And she was here. She had been so worried and afraid for a long time, ever since Wer had taken her from the inn. Ever since Belavierr. Mrsha was still nervous, so she made sure Tesy held her paw, even as they moved along. Vetn had to juggle two mugs and his own snack tray. She knew this was a dangerous place, but she had Wer’s fur dye and Qwera’s gold disguise on, and she had the speaking crystal so no one thought it was strange that she was silent.
She was very proud of her brown color. She’d asked specifically for it to be the same brown she used to be when she was growing up, but as an added bonus, she’d had Qwera and Tesy help her do a very Plains Gnoll thing, which was apply the markings of her tribe.
Stone Spears. The gray pattern on her arms and shoulders was technically for older Gnolls, but who else but Mrsha could wear it? It made her sad, but Qwera had approved. She was the last of the Stone Spears in this world. Stone Spears should be at this Meeting of Tribes. Even in secret. And it made her look like a real Plains Gnoll.
Mrsha was proud, and happy to be eating, but she was also…tired. She just wanted respite. She wanted Lyonette to come here and to see Krshia and for the adult to say that everything was going to be okay.
“Why don’t we find a place to sit, Vetn? Or should we look into, y’know, the Silverfang thing?”
Mrsha had been thinking the same thing. Vetn shrugged.
“We can try, but I saw a huge crowd around the Silverfang camp. You know, because of the news.”
Mrsha frowned darkly. Oh, yes, the news. Tesy and Vetn circled back with Mrsha—but only after they picked up some nali-sticks being sold by the Gaarh Marsh tribe. And the news was on every tongue.
“They stole our magic. Stole it. The [Shamans] are saying that’s why no Gnoll can cast magic.”
“Well, now that the crystal’s gone, surely we can all be [Mages]…?”
“No. It’s deeper than that. See?”
Mrsha idly looked around. Then she dropped her meatball snacks. Vetn cursed, and Tesy bent.
“Oh, no. What’s…”
But Mrsha was staring, open-mouthed, at…of all things…a Gnoll standing there. Holding a magic wand. Then she looked around and realized. It wasn’t just one Gnoll.
 
——
 
“Do you have a spark, Honored Qwera?”
The Golden Gnoll of Izril put her hands on her hips.
“I have plenty of sparks. Which one are you referring to?”
One of her fellow Gnoll [Merchants] who’d come to visit gave her a grin and held out a wand. It had been dead in his paw, but the instant Qwera took it with a frown, it lit up.
A faint glow, but faintly orange. She blinked at it, and he sighed.
“You do! Congratulations.”
“Thank you. Now, for what and why should I care?”
He laughed.
“It means you have magical aptitude! For [Mage]-magic, that is. All of us could be [Shamans]—well, all those in a tribe. But our magic was suppressed. Inhibited. Apparently, if we were born close to one of those magic–anti-magic things, we might have lost our mana wells entirely.”
“Damn. That’s…beyond heinous. So they took away your magical capability? Not just your ability to cast it?”
The Gnoll glared at the wand as he took it back, which turned blank when he held it. He shook his head, face bleak with loss.
“Look. It’s just a reaction, they tell me. The wand draws out mana—a Grand Magus from Wistram developed the spell to test whether we have a mana pool. Apparently, most of us will not. Honorable Qwera must be lucky.”
“I wasn’t a Plains Gnoll growing up. So yes.”
Qwera brushed at her paws, then looked around. She snapped her fingers.
“…And that’s why every third Gnoll has a wand.”
Indeed, it was a craze. Every third Gnoll had a wand, or was trying out this test, or trying to cast [Light], or [Spark], or another Tier 0 spell. It gave Qwera an idea and she whirled.
“Hey! Stop unloading the rest of the cargo! Get me every magical object we’ve got! Wands! Staves! Orbs!”
Her team rushed to the caravan, and Qwera smiled like a [Bandit]. Ysara rolled her eyes.
“Don’t you have better and more important things to do, Qwera? Like help Mri?”
“I can be an altruist and make a profit, Ysara.”
“I think that’s actually impossible.”
“Well, then, forget the altruism. Besides—we have to be subtle about this. We’ll get Mri to the people she needs to meet. We just have to keep her out of sight.”
The daughter of House Byres nodded. She glanced around.
“And you did that by entrusting her to Vetn and Tesy?”
Qwera laughed.
“You may think they’re idiots—and they are—but they haven’t stayed alive this long by being completely inept. Now…hello, my golden darlings! The Golden Gnoll is here, and I have wands to sell! Magic staves! Even spellbooks! Who wants to reclaim their magic?”
She began shouting, and Ysara rolled her eyes as a panoply of magical items spilled forth around her. Yet she had to admit—Qwera’s plan had made Mrsha one in a crowd of literally hundreds of thousands of children.
However, she couldn’t help but worry. Ysara set off to find the group, because she remembered the way Yvlon talked about The Wandering Inn in her few letters. Exasperating, wonderful, friendly…but it seemed like it drew events like a magnetic stone drew iron fragments. She had a bad feeling that Mrsha might have learned from the best.
Ysara was half right. She should have watched out for Mrsha, but she had forgotten that Mrsha wasn’t the only actor on this stage. And if Mrsha had learned from Erin Solstice, there was another student who had learned from this world’s finest grandmaster.
 
——
 
Feshi Weatherfur was striding around the communal grounds of the Meeting of Tribes, lost in thought. Obsessing—but only a little bit. She was on to something.
She hadn’t been at the center of the negotiations with Fetohep or the adventure at sea. She was not with Venaz, Wil, Peki, or Merrik, searching for the Titan. This was her hour, but she was not the leader of the Meeting of Tribes, far from it.
Nor was the Meeting of Tribes at the center of the world. Rather…
“And now, my next guest has an opinion about the Gnoll-Drake magic-suppression allegations. And I am saying ‘allegations’ because it’s not proved, and I’m letting people speak. Even if their opinions sound stupid. The Drakes did nothing wrong—is that what I’m understanding here? What—nothing ever? And we had no motivations for doing this, is this right, Wall Lord Dragial? Or should I say former Wall Lord of Fissival?”
A rather disgruntled Drake appeared on the scrying orb as Drassi gave her rather biased introduction to him. But that was why Feshi liked her.
Just then, a Gnoll standing next to Feshi and watching the orb began choking to death.
“Itgh hm! Ith hmm!”
