The practice was simple enough. I'd cut my finger lightly with a sharp knife then cast while going through the visualization. I placed the light into one of the bubbles that constantly came off of me and wrapping it around the wound, letting it seep in. He also taught me the song he used to focus while doing this, but I found it not much to my liking. So I used one of my own, a calming theme from an old tv show, very violiny and good to hum.

It took me a few times to get it to work, and when it did it wasn't all that fast. This got me approving nods from both men.

"Not bad kid. You'll need to practice that one a lot to speed it up a bit, and while I don't recommend live practice, for bigger wounds you may want to envelop the whole body. That'll be hard where you're at right now, but it's something you should try to pick up,"

We continued like this till lunch, which I ate with them. Jackson giving small comments here and there about pulling the mana in closer, and focusing it to be brighter and sharper. By the end of the day I could heal my cut finger in only a second or two.

I was given a few bits of advice on how to deal with poisons just before my dad came to pick me up, and told to think over them, but not practice. We'd do that tomorrow.

The next day I was greeted with a bundle of leaves which I was told to rub my hands in when I first came in.

"Alright kiddo, you remember what I told you about poisons yesterday?"

"Mmm, you have to focus on pulling out what doesn't belong, and add in a little healing on top of it to help with whatever damage the poison has done in the first place," my hands were beginning to itch terribly.

"Right you are. Now you're going to do that one finger at a time to fix the poison ivy you just used to rub down your hands." he smiled as he said that, the jerk.

That day proceeded much like the previous one, ending with some notes on diseases, and the methodology for their repair. In comparison to the training I recieved before, this was hard and fast cramming. Though I was told that each of these was groundwork on very minor injuries, anything more serious would be monumentally harder.

I dreaded going back on the final day my temporary tutor would be around. He'd been demonstrating each technique on me, and I hated feeling sick, but went I did, I just complained the whole time.

"Ready to give curing sickness a shot kiddo?" I was asked as I came in, I frowned.

"Well I got a surprise for ya, look here," he brought out a cage with some field mice in it. They were green, literally green.

"These here mice have a special disease in um, something some priest cooked up just for training. They'll stay green as long as they've got it in um, so it's easy to see when they're cured. Also won't jump to people and isn't even that bad for the mice. Wins all around, I brought these here from my own personal practice group." I looked on at his explanation a bit stunned.

"What, you didn't think I'd make you sick or something did you?" he asked with a mischievous grin.

"I-I kinda did actually." I replied honestly.

"Tut tut tut, after all I've done for ya." he shook his head.

I couldn't think of how to even respond to that, so I just mumbled some thanks.

"Alright then, let's get cracking!" and so it began.

Curing diseases was a bit odd as well. You have to focus on finding the bit that doesn't belong and then ripping it apart. Pulling it like poison doesn't work. You add a bit of healing to it too, because sickness can cause the body lots of damage.

I was ready to collapse by the end of the day, this was by far the hardest of my three new techniques, but I still had a few questions.

"What about summoning? If I wanted to make dirt or something Mr. Jackson?" I perked up a bit. This was one I really wanted to know about.

"Oh, creation magic? Well you have to visualize the mana coming together into the form you want it in. The more familiar the concept of something is, the easier that will be. Stuff like water is the easiest, everyone knows what water is like, but you can also do things like food. Bread creation got me through some bad times, and it's always useful on the road." he gave me the very basics of an explanation on it.

"But, and I mean this, you'll need to grow a lot before you can do much of that. You're still just a kid, and that's some mana intense magic, so don't rush it," he warned.

We bid Jackson goodbye the next morning, and were not an hour later interrupted by an irate villager from the main village. It would seem someone had spotted Jackson attempting to, and succeeding in, seducing his girlfriend, and he'd come by to give him a good beating.

The man left disappointed that he'd missed the interloping bard, cursing and venting as he tried to chase him down the road.

"I've never been able to figure out how he does that," said Mystien, "he always manages to skip town just before the heat hits."
