“Do you want to be an explorer?” asked Elise.

“Well, I was thinking it might be cool,” said Sophie evasively. “‘Cause, like, the Dungeon stuff is all pretty fun. And what other professions would I be able to use my magic at full power. I’m the goddaughter of a dragon, after all. I can’t just work somewhere I can’t use my magic properly. And exploring is always interesting, ‘cause it’s always new, so I don’t think I’d get bored. Even in the Dungeon when we already know what kinda monsters we’re gonna fight, it’s still pretty interesting.”

“So, yes, then,” said Elise.

“...Yeah.”

“There’s nothing wrong with that.”

“Yeah, I know, right?” said Sophie, suddenly animated. “But Nick keeps saying I’m too young.”

“You are too young.”

Sophie looked up at Elise with an expression of utter betrayal.

“Sophie, you’re thirteen.”

“Almost fourteen. And I’m stronger than most twenty year olds.”

“But you’re still thirteen.”

“So?”

“Okay, think about it this way. What if Skitter decided to run away and go into the Dungeon? Would you be worried?”

“Yeah, but what–?”

“But Skitter is a Tier 2 monster. And a rare variety too. The monsters on the upper layers of the Dungeon won’t be any stronger than him. So why would you be worried?”

“But he’s– he’s just a puppy!”

“Exactly,”

“I’m not a puppy!” said Sophie. “I’m thirteen. That’s basically an adult.”

“I dunno, you kinda look like a puppy to me,” said Elise, ruffling Sophie’s hair.

“Stop!” said Sophie, giggling while pushing Elise’s hand away.

“I bet if you had a tail, it’d be wagging right now,” said Elise, moving her other hand to attack from a different angle. “By the way, did you ask Nick and Bianca what you would have to do for them to approve of you going off to do some exploring?”

“...No.”

“Why don’t you start with that, then? Maybe it’ll be easy. I bet he’ll give you some kind of goal that you can hit before you even graduate from the Academy. He won’t even realize how easy it is.”

“Yeah, maybe…” said Sophie, pausing her fending off of Elise’s hands to think. “Yeah, that’s a good idea!”

Sorry, Sophie, thought Elise, already planning to inform Nick of this conversation.

It wasn’t that she didn’t approve of Sophie’s career choice. It was just that even if Sophie was almost fourteen, it was still way too early for her to be traveling across the world to fight monsters. Sophie could handle herself against just about anything at this point, but it felt like shipping a child off to war.

Elise and Sophie chatted for a few minutes longer until Elise glanced up at the clock again and grimaced.

“We should probably go to sleep,” she said. “We need to be up in less than four hours.”

“It’s fine,” said Sophie with a shrug. “Irylax made me pull three all-nighters last week and I still aced all my tests.”

“Three?!”

“She said she wanted to get me up to an acceptable level before the Dungeon Competition. But I think maybe it was just that she wanted to teach me as much as she could before… You know…”

“Ah, right. But still, we should at least try to sleep.”

“Maybe…”

“I hear that if you get bad sleep, you don’t grow as tall.”

“Really?”

“Yeah. Something about nourishment. It’s the same with foods.”

“Hmmm…” said Sophie. “Okay, fine.”

The two of them took a minute to settle in under the covers and say good night, but a few minutes later, Sophie spoke again.

“I still can’t sleep.”

“I can see that.”

“But I’m honestly pretty tired.”

“Have you tried holding still and staying quiet for more than two minutes?”

“Shut up,” said Sophie, lightly shoving Elise under the covers.

Elise smiled, but then an idea flashed across her mind. It was not something she would dare try while Irylax was still here, but now that the dragon was gone…

She’d probably approve of this, right?

Without another word, Elise activated {Suggest} at low power, sending Sophie peaceful, calming emotions. Sophie was still a bit restless, but as Elise slowly raised the power, she started to relax, and five minutes later, she was snoring. And the process made Elise herself sleepy, too.

I wonder if I can use {Suggest} on myself, she thought idly before drifting off to sleep.

The next morning, Elise felt strange. There was an odd, warm tension in her chest that just refused to go away. She chalked it up to stress and tried to ignore it as she and Sophie packed their things and ate breakfast, but the tension only seemed to grow as the day went on.

It was still there and going stronger when they met with the Dungeon Competition team on campus, and was distracting by the time the proctors led them to their Dungeon entrance. Elise continued to try to ignore it, but it was getting harder and harder with every minute that passed.

What’s going on? she wondered. Am I getting sick?

Once they actually got into the Dungeon, it seemed to lessen. Or perhaps it was just that her mind was occupied by other things. Their entrance wasn’t far outside the University, but it was possibly the worst entrance for their group. This section of the Dungeon was filled with slimes, and while slimes were simple creatures with glaring weaknesses, none of those weaknesses were things that nature magic could easily exploit. And on top of that, the only valuable loot that slimes could give were the cores of higher-tier slimes, but they were extremely tedious to harvest intact, especially with nature magic.

Luckily, Hannah’s studying paid off, and she knew the rough direction they had to go to get out of the slime area and into an area filled with worms and wyrms. The worms were not very useful, but the wyrms were similar to the crawlers in that their hides took on characteristics of various metals and rocks, making them valuable targets. They would be worth a lot of points in the competition.

Elise didn’t want to be stuck in the slime area any more than anyone else did, so she made liberal use of her aetheric abilities to keep the slimes from crossing their paths, making their journey swift and smooth. However, the tension in her chest continued to mount, and just as they were sneaking past a room full of Tier 6 acid slimes, it reached a breaking point. There was a sudden pulse that seemed to come from her very soul, and she stumbled.

“Eleanor?” asked Hannah. “Are you alright?”

“I’m–” started Elise.

She was cut off by another pulse that sent her down to one knee. This one was accompanied by a ripple in her aether, and the third pulse caused an even larger ripple. When the fourth hit, {Subtle Royalty} broke, and her aether was unleashed.

What’s–?

The fifth pulse sent a wave of heat through her whole body, and the sixth made her dizzy, and the seventh made her black out for a moment. The eighth brought her back to her senses, the ninth was much gentler than the previous ones, and the tenth and final pulse returned her mental clarity. Hannah was still kneeling beside her, frantically trying to figure out what was wrong, while the other three had formed a defensive semicircle to ward off the slimes that had been drawn by the aetheric pulses.

“I’m– I’m back,” she said, struggling back to her feet. “I’m alright.”

What the heck just–?

Her silent question was cut off when she checked her System notifications.

[ Error: {Subtle Royalty} has failed. The Skill has been damaged. Further use could damage the Skill further. Please wait 12 hours before using the Skill again. ]

[ {Rune of Fate} has become {Run3 of F4te (Un5h4ckl3d)} ]

…Oh.
