“Gym, Engaging with the Unexpected II, and the Artonan class. I’m getting a lot of practice in naturally, but I don’t think accelerating the language acquisition as much as possible is a bad idea. Communication is a survival skill. And maybe if I have a college credit to wave in an advisor’s face, they might agree to let me take some of the uni level culture classes instead of the high school ones when they come up.”

“Switch programs completely,” said Boe. “Forget the violent life, and become a professorial type in a tweed jacket who specializes in studying alien performance art.”

“Yeah, that sounds like me.”

On the wall beside him, a time-lapse video compilation was playing. He’d wanted the room to feel more alive, and something like the news channels weren’t conducive to his hopes of resting. At the moment, the video was of a giant gingerbread house being built.

“I wonder if I would,” he said, watching icicles made of sugar appear one by one.

“Become a tweedy xenoart professor?” Boe asked.

Alden refocused on him. “I meant switching majors. If I could still have the gym courses and just a few other Talent Dev classes, without the full hero program package, I wonder if I would switch. And what I’d switch to. That’s not how it works, but I have thought about it a couple of times lately.”

Boe set his bowl down.

“Keep eating, you animal,” said Alden. “Soggy cereal is a crime.”

“Are you seriously thinking about stuff like that?” Boe asked.

“Why do you look so surprised? I think about normal teenager matters occasionally.”

“You’re the one who just spoke the phrase ‘normal teenager matters’, so you already know why I’m surprised. Good job on the self-awareness.”

Alden let his head fall back onto the pillows that were mounded behind him. “Fair enough. It’s most likely because of the invite to come play publicity games with the hero team in Chicago. And I do see all of the clubs and career stuff every time I walk past the dorm bulletin board. And I’ve been around some Artonans who are thinking hard about their…careers.”

Boe frowned at that.

“I’m having a season of choosing,” said Alden.

“What are you choosing then?”

“So far, I’ve said ‘yes’ to mind healing and some clothes, and ‘no’ to cultivating a fanbase.”

He decided not to mention saying no to Natalie.

“The last one is one of those things that makes me worry about some of the hero program courses I’ll run into. I can put off the publicity and popularity stuff for a while, so it’s not like it’s an urgent problem. But eventually it’ll come for me. And if I survive through university, they are going to make me take so many classes on how to be a celebrity Avowed who says and does all the right things.”

They made you take those classes even if you were planning to do something less public.

“And now you’re casually mentioning not surviving through college,” said Boe. “Normal teenager time ruined. You can’t even keep up the charade for two minutes.”

“I could go to med school,” said Alden. “Or be an architect. I could decorate cakes for a living.”

The gingerbread house was definitely influencing his mental list of alternate career options.

“I would enthusiastically approve of all of those,” said Boe.

“What are you going to do?” Alden asked. Are you really going to stay unregistered forever? “There’s room in my apartment if you want to come join the CNH cake decorating medical architect program with me.”

“You’re just trying to get me there because you know I’ll never catch up to you if I’m on that island.”

“Catch up to me?”

“On the numbers of lives saved. Emergency teleports, wall-to-wall Avowed…how am I supposed to teach small children to fear solo camping expeditions in a place like that?”

So that’s a no. Alden made himself smile anyway. “We spent half of gym today learning to fall down,” he said. “From different heights, at different speeds, with other people in our arms. Apparently our injury numbers for that kind of thing were bad last week.”

“Can’t call yourself a superhero until you learn to shake off a hundred mile per hour safety roll?”

“Something like that.”

******

******

The nightmare woke Alden up half an hour before the alarm he’d set would have, and for the first time, he was glad about it.

This just doesn’t belong in my head anymore, he thought, spitting toothpaste into the sink. It’s pointless suffering. I’m saying no to it and no to the idea that I would be incapable of doing anything to make the situation better if Thegund happened again. I wouldn’t be helpless. I wasn’t even helpless back then.

And I didn’t end up there against my will.

That last part was a fact that he’d been reminding himself of over the past day. Because if he didn’t, it was too easy to rage at the unfairness of it all. He had been carefully misled and casually used, and if Stuart was right, then Ro-den’s team had been risking their lives, and his and Kibby’s, mostly for the sake of Ro-den’s power and status. And by extension, their own.

I wonder if he wanted the lab back. If they all hoped he was only a couple of years and a few schemes away from putting their futures back on track or something like that. I got him his people and a few pieces of equipment that had been hidden from Yiplack…for all I know that mixer thing and the bad impact juice were critical artificial demon ingredients. Or they were worth a billion dollars, and he was going to sell them to buy a politician.

But I knew he was sketchy. I knew they worked for a sketchy person. I just got so caught up in the idea that they needed me to protect them from a worse bunch of sketchy people.

Kibby and her sister needed someone.

His toothbrush handle clattered against the edge of the sink.

He told himself that it wouldn’t be fair to feel like anyone had been cruel to him. They wanted things. He had been a way to get them. It wasn’t supposed to go wrong. And when it went wrong, Thenn-ar had spent her last breaths trying to help him understand what was happening.

They weren’t trying to get me hurt or themselves killed. They thought the risk was growing, but obviously it was still small enough in their minds. And I was being paid by their wizard.

Paid with information about his skill that a wizard with proper discretion shouldn’t have given him. Telling Avowed to put off affixation until the last second was creating a potential disaster. Have fun playing chicken with the System until it gives you extra treats, everybody. And then enjoy having your affixation ripped apart if you’re ever without a System when your unbound authority is too high.

Alden had known enough about Ro-den that he should have asked everyone involved more questions. Insisted on fuller answers.

I’ll be smarter and stronger in the future. I’m glad I was there for Kibby. It’s over.

He hoped what he was doing with Yenu-pezth would eventually leave him with those three thoughts and set him free from the rest of Thegund.

He put on the softer pezyva tonight and the driftwood brooch. He had two jars of honey in his bag. When he left his room, the abandoned hallways of Matadero’s hospital were as quiet as ever.

I don’t suppose I could rent a room here after the Artonans leave and use the cube as a private getaway.

That would solve the problem of where a human wizard was supposed to practice his noisier or more dangerous spells.

He traveled down to the floors that would be flooded if something ever went very wrong and waited beside his suitcase for his teleport to arrive. A few minutes later, someone appeared in one of the alcoves across from him. For some reason, he didn’t feel surprised at who it was.

The bald, tattooed head. The height. Ro-den wore the remains of a jovial look that must have been directed at whoever he’d been with at this late hour, but it was in the middle of morphing into something realer.

Boredom, annoyance, exhaustion—Alden didn’t have the chance to find out what the look would have become. He was spotted too quickly, and instead, there was a flicker of observation and calculation.

He’d just checked himself in the mirror, so he knew what Ro-den saw, even if he couldn’t guess what the man made of it. Clothes tailored for a human who had business on the Triplanets. The brooch. The commendation. An abused and repaired suitcase with the messenger bag resting on top of it.

Alden wondered if there would be a flippant remark, but mostly, he expected to be ignored.

“Alden, your bags are packed, and you’re all dressed up,” Joe said in English.

The wizard’s face brightened, just the littlest bit, with a polite curiosity. It was an interest that was friendly enough to not be threatening, but not so friendly it would look fake after their supposedly clear estrangement from each other.

At least that was what Alden thought the expression was supposed to convey to him. It was failing. Not from any flaw he could have pointed to on Ro-den’s face, but on the gut feeling level. He looked like Joe. And he looked like a liar.

He looked like someone who really wanted to know where Alden was going.

“Off to somewhere exciting?” Joe asked, right as Alden reached that conclusion.

He wants to know why I’m so well dressed. Who will I be talking to in this outfit? Why have I bothered to change my style? Why do I have somewhere on the Artonas to be, when he knows I’m not supposed to be summoned for months? What could it possibly be about, and most importantly, is it all about him?

Options filled his mind. All of them were good.

Say you’re going to have the privacy contract removed by a professional you’ve found. Say you’re friends with the Primary’s whole family now. Say you’re going to testify before the Grand Senate that naughty wizards shouldn’t be let off easy with cushy teaching jobs.

Say it’s none of his business. Tell him to go bury himself in a fourth bowel.

His teleport notice appeared, and he accepted it. Only five seconds to wait this time.

Alden looked Joe in the eyes and smiled slightly.

He disappeared.

******

******
