As the God of Justice fell to the Challenger's influence, so too did his Avatar. Roland Arrow was a father utterly subsumed by grief and despair. That made him fight harder. That made his arrows become a sea of unending tides. Yet, despite his unique nature, despite his ability to shift his soulstuff at will, he remained a paltry thing—neutered by the weak god he'd devoted himself to, separated from his highest potential by a hive of grief that dwelt within.

At some point, his mind had snapped. He'd been shouting his son's name, and that was practically the only word he knew now, for everything else ceased to matter to Roland. His soul had already been worn from months of combat, and now he was overexerting, burning his being down to ashes.

What a troublesome family. The Challenger diverted a bit of his power there as well, for Roland, despite all his flaws, was a remarkable killer, and the Challenger wanted him to commit a few more atrocities before he fell.

It was always amusing when a good man brought such ruin to the world. The irony, tragedy, and self-loathing that followed always made for good entertainment.

As Adam was taken to a place beyond pain, the Challenger felt the Deathless try to exert his Unique Skill once more, but the insides of his soul had been bypassed. The Challenger held possession over the Deathless now. There was nothing he could do about it. His will was beneath the God of Strife—but still he refused to surrender. He struggled on, desperately, like the mad dog he had always been, even while he was an orphan on the streets.

The Challenger left the Paragon to his torment and turned his attention on his original prize, Udraal's finest creation—but perhaps the Challenger would usurp He Who Walks Beyond as Shiv's true and eventual master. Contrary to what the mortals believed, it was possible to tame a Tarrasque. The conditioning of an Endhound didn't come from pain, but pleasure. The Deathless was something that wouldn't stay broken, but he could be pleased. He could find himself twisted, and there was a greed inside him, a want, a lust for power, a desire to dominate, to destroy. And though the Deathless had a gift for the psychological and the social, he despised the Challenger. That loathing inside him made him ever so easy to tug and twist, indeed.

“It matters not how you struggle. It matters not what you want. I have given you what you asked for. Now you pay the price of your victory. Look upon your friend. Look upon the one you wish to protect, the one you cast into my jaws because you thought it was his desire, because you thought it was the wisest choice. Do you think it's the wisest choice still, Deathless? Can you live with what you have done? Can you accept this outcome?”

The Challenger used his divine presence to reel the Deathless in closer. He turned Shiv, made him stare at Adam, and his friend looked away, aghast and sickened by what the Challenger had sheathed into the Paragon’s skull. More of the Deathless cracked and broke; a constant stream of Vitae bled into the world, and brief flickers of gold presented the visage of Shiv's Harbinger, showing just how cracked it was from this trauma.

“And to think I started this day out offended and furious!” The Challenger all but giggled. “I might have lost a Legendary son, but such things can be replaced. This, however, this moment, this pleasure, this special instant in time, is simply sublime!”

The Challenger sighed as he reached deeper into Shiv. He considered connecting him with Adam. That was what the Deathless requested, after all. He wanted to take the torment in his friend's stead. Of course, the Challenger wouldn't let him do that, but if they could both suffer, it might elevate their mutual angst to new heights. The Harbinger was potent, but before its Delve, it truly was a most fragile skill.

A hum escaped the Challenger. His mind turned away from the tortures he was inflicting to consider Shiv's pre-Legendary skill. The God of Strife understood the Harbinger better than most. It had more than a few secrets that even seasoned Legends failed to fully grasp. It didn't just allow someone to perform feats of enduring Chronomancy; it was effectively a strider of timestreams, unrivaled, as well as a weapon against the heart, the mind, and the flesh. All things existed in time, after all, and so it was entirely possible to strike someone and see the wound you inflicted upon them delayed until the time of your choosing.

But there were also stranger phenomena. Certain Pathbearers, especially powerful ones, could receive retro-causal messages from their future self.

As a whole, traveling back in time was completely impossible; however, traveling back along your personal timeline to send a message from your future to a few seconds in the past, a few hours, or maybe even a few years was something the System’s laws allowed.

Curiosity guided the Challenger's hand as a room full of raging Legends and mighty Pathbearers tried to strike him down, but did little more than fuel the gluttonous flame inside. He sank his godly aura into it and started pre-Delving Shiv's Harbinger, seeking to steal a glance at what might be in store for the Deathless down the line.

And so the Challenger pried Shiv's vulnerable skill open without the slightest gentleness. Twin screams deafened the room. Shiv’s was louder; his friend’s was purer. Both teetered on the brink.

The Seeker was howling at Hymn for aid—and indeed, he, more than any other Legend present, could hope to resist the Challenger to a degree. But the elf was the clever and cowardly kind. He had his vendetta against the Stranger, and he also owed the Challenger a debt from one of their prior engagements. Hymn remained a non-factor.

Bit by bit, the Challenger extended his godly will inside Shiv, and he cast his Awareness forth, in a torrent that flooded the Deathless’s cracking skill. "Stop!" the Harbinger screamed, flickering, reaching out for the Challenger. "I'll break! Any more and I'll break!"

“If you do, I will put you back together. Don't you worry. I won't let you die so easily.”

With that, the Challenger slipped even further inside the skill, trying to find how deep it went. Trying to see if—

Something seized the Challenger.

Something had him in a grip so tight, the orc god winced in genuine pain. “What’s this?”

The Harbinger blinked faster, its frequency increasing to a point where it was near solid and fully transformed. As always, it presented Shiv as an older Pathbearer, one sporting a slight beard, dressed in long-flowing chef's attire, and armed with a blade in one hand and his frying pan in another. That Shiv was dignified, refined, and actualized to some extent, but still not the true apex of his potential. Of that, the Challenger was certain—after all, the Deathless belonged on the battlefield. His reluctance to surrender his cooking was more of a liability and an amusement, nothing more.

But something new took his place. The golden mana that constituted the Harbinger expanded—and was further laced with a hint of vitality. Worse yet was the cutting aura that detonated out from this new being. Its every rippling pulse glided over the Challenger's form and left gashes in his Divinity. Gashes that carved the Challenger to the quick. The attacks came so naturally, like flowing water, that it took the Challenger off guard. His hands were shredded. His face was split down to the bone and deeper, until even his Domains were taught to scar.

The Challenger had reached into Shiv's Harbinger’s Chronomancy on a whim, and something had reached back.

“Well, that was kind of a dumb mistake, wasn't it?” A voice that was unmistakably Shiv's, but also far older, also something more, hammered against the Challenger, filled the orc god with a strange sensation, a coldness that coursed through him.

Was this fear? The Challenger had forgotten the taste.

For the first time in eons, the Challenger took a step back, but the radiant presence he drew out from Shiv only grew more calamitous. The Challenger tried to withdraw his divine aura, but the adversary had him clasped tight, like a handshake that one party refused to surrender. To the Challenger's disbelief, he wasn't strong enough to free himself, at least not in an instant.

The vision delivered a casual backhand. The System was split asunder. Reality screamed. The Outside screamed. Everything that existed along a certain axis screamed.

And suddenly, the Challenger didn't possess his right arm anymore.

“You shouldn't have pulled me across, Challenger. I was happy making my dinner when I smelled your filth. You should have stayed in your lane. There's going to be a price to pay for this.” The voice scoffed. “What was that you told me around this time? Price to pay for victory or some drivel like that? Yeah. Real God of Strife you are, torturing children.”

A crack formed inside the Challenger, a fissure that spread as infectious glass took hold. And then it was like a second of time had been torn out of the Challenger. A blow had been struck against him. A blow that hit him so hard, part of his body simply atomized, turned to vaporous powder that glittered in the air. And then another followed, and the Challenger's head snapped back. His jaw shattered, his tusks were sent flying, trailing blood in the air, and his Domain of Strength nearly crumbled from the impact.

“What?” The Challenger coughed, trying to ward off the oncoming assault, but there was no reprieve, no way he could avoid it. Every blow that came felt destined. There was no axis of defense, no spell or skill the Challenger possessed that could counter this. “What are you?”

A disappointed laugh followed. “What do you think? I’m what waits beyond war. I am the one death will never get to keep. And I am very, very annoyed you interrupted me when I was about to add the chives.”

With a final surge of effort, the Challenger tore his own Divinity asunder, leaving a fragment of himself inside Shiv before he fled the Tutorial, shooting back up into the sky as a crimson thunderbolt, echoing not with thunder, but with raging laughter.

He couldn't believe it. He'd been surprised again—again by the Deathless. And what a surprise this was. What a humiliating retreat he was forced to make.

And seemingly out of nowhere.

How could he have predicted this? For a moment, he even considered if the Deathless had planned this, had deliberately provoked the Challenger into reaching inside him, but no. The boy had good intuition, but he still wasn't that clever. This was simply the Challenger's greed getting the better of him. He was the one who'd reached too far. He was the one who drew something out. Something wonderful. Something terrible. A proper enemy, one that still stood beyond the Challenger.

He'd missed it, hunting monsters beyond himself.

As he shot beyond the threshold of the Tutorial to lick his wounds and mend his brutalized Domains, the Challenger wondered how long it might take for Shiv to become the golden presence that just pummeled him—if it was inevitable to come to fruition at all.

Looking back, the overwhelming flood of Chronomancy was already going dim, and in its absence, Shiv and Adam crashed down on the ground, both spasming, both dormant, neither within the Challenger's grip. With the God of Strife's retreat, the madness he inflicted upon those within the Court Leviathan abated as well. Soon, others were upon the two, checking them, trying to get them to wake.

But far, far away, dimensions beyond, and separated by two whole thresholds of mana, the Challenger staggered up the steps to his grand throne, and found himself still trailing blood, the wounds he'd been dealt unhealing, marred by fissures of Vitae.

And time.

“Yeah,” Shiv’s voice vibrated softly from the Challenger’s injuries. The presence was growing fainter by the second, but he was still there, still all too close. “You don't just get to walk away that easily. I'm still here—if only for a few moments longer.”

The Challenger collapsed heavily into his throne and began drawing from his realms, ripping away at the soulstuff of his orcs to plug up the wounds he'd sustained. It didn’t work. The temporal wounds endured—and felt like they were meant to be eternal.

“This was…” the Challenger held up the bleeding stump that remained of his right hand, severed just beneath the elbow. “Quite refreshing, I must admit.” He laughed giddily. “How? What is this skill? And when do you become… this? When do I get to face you properly?”

The presence just scoffed as he drifted toward silence—and receded into the future. “Challenger. I don’t really care enough about you to tell you this, but if it makes you happy, we aren’t rivals in the future. You’re just one of many nuisances that I haven't gotten around to resolving yet. Suffer ignorance.”

And with that word, the Challenger felt one of his Domains vitrify completely, and start to break.

The orc god then did something utterly uncharacteristic.

He screamed in highest pain.

And all his children screamed with him.
