Look upon the world, O fellow upon the path. I see so many of you grief-stricken, horrified by the reality we live in. Many among you ask, "Why is the world this way? Why do such horrors dwell within the hearts of every individual? Why seek virtue if the world is a place of such depravity and weakness? Are we the ones who are aberrant? Are we the cancers instead of they?”

These are questions asked by children born to dark worlds and darker times. You have not seen the promise of glory. You know not what is possible and what you have been deprived of. If you did, your grief would be ever greater, but so too would be your determination.

—Legend-Philosopher Melaia Kelhaus

364

Price to Pay

The Challenger was delighted—even if his attempts to implant an Orcish Awareness Skill in the Paragon weren't going so well.

The words of the Deathless rang true. This was an actual struggle. Whatever the little Godling’s Domain was, it was certainly not merely Heroism, for the Challenger's power wouldn't take, was constantly being burned away by the flames that lingered within him. Though nascent and weak, they continued to lash at the Challenger's flesh in a most defiant manner. It was like suffering at a kitten's claws—a little predator that couldn't deliver anything worse than a few scratches, but the intent and the will mattered, especially to the Challenger.

He had truly misjudged Adam Arrow. He'd thought the boy was too soft, but inside him was such resonant purity, an overwhelming urge to do the right thing, no matter the consequences. The very thought of evil bothered him, burdened him, made him sick.

“Roland! You have raised a fine warrior, and a better man!” The Challenger barked a laugh of glee and withdrew his wrathful aura from the Town Lord and the Ascendant who empowered him. But he suspected his words were drowned out—mainly by Adam's screaming. And that was another thing the Challenger hadn't seen coming: Adam had quite the pair of lungs.

Yes, the Challenger could have been more gentle in his ministrations, but a little pleasure never hurt anyone. Well, it didn't hurt him. Adam Arrow was a different matter, and the emotional anguish he inflicted upon the Deathless came as a lesson, an important one. Though he admired the Bruiser for trying to broaden his horizons, the System and life had been too merciful with him recently—and so the Challenger sought to do him a kindness. All proper battles came with a price, and pain had wide varieties.

Said Deathless was tearing into the Challenger now, using Vitality Drain to his utmost, but still far from the skills’ true potential. The Challenger let him chip away; no reason to dishearten such a fine Insul further. Especially after his recent turn toward emotional intellectualism. On that note, he also decided to release his hold on the Seeker—amusing as making such a disciplined soul go rabid was, she was better left to flourish more before he decided anything.

There was potential with her in the future—if nothing else, she represented a gateway into a new theater of war. And besides, she would soon have a new patron to wrangle. One already festering with the Challenger’s touch. But while the Orcish Skill settled into the eldritch egg like it belonged, Adam continued to burn a stubborn little ember of defiance that refused to let any infection set in.

The Challenger was tempted to exert more pressure, but he knew how fragile a Godling this young was. Snuffing out a potential enemy before they could fully bloom was a horrific thought. What fights would he deprive himself of? What true wars of philosophy and concept?

Through it all, Adam screamed and screamed and screamed. By this point, he practically begged for the pain to end, however it might end.

But where the Paragon's flesh was soft and his will was frail, his true spirit was pristine, and it endured even as its vessel collapsed. If the Challenger wished to induce a sublime rage upon the Paragon, then he needed to get creative. A good thing his creativity was something he'd always prided himself on.

Cupped in his hands, Adam became malleable like clay, and he twisted. His mouth was allowed to remain; it would be a waste to silence his screaming already. His eyes were wide and bloodshot, but both in the wrong place. Biomancy was too feeble an art to encapsulate all the Challenger was performing. Yet Adam’s physical mutilation paled in comparison to his spiritual savaging; but such was due a change—no matter how the Challenger tried, he just couldn't get his Orcish Skill to take.

Thus, he went about an alternate way to enforce the terms of this contest.

The orc god held up a hand, and from the heavens came a piercing lash of lightning, one comprised of flames and raining leeches, blood carried in their wake. Mists of red filled the insides of the devastated Court Leviathan, painting all in a layer of slick, sickly crimson.

But while a monsoon of gore rained down, an edged ring of metal, an ancient technology, took shape in the Challenger's hand. It was a crown from a darker time, an ancient time, a mechanism for torment, designed by people who didn't need magic to achieve the most vaunted heights of cruelty.

Even before the System came to Earth, humanity had been a monster indeed, a monster even the Challenger could admire. For they created such mechanisms and weapons that left him awestruck in his younger years and gave him inspiration even now. But more than taking inspiration, he raided their vaults and harvested their legacy. What he held was an instrument of black genius.

The Crown of the Anti-Savior was shaped to resemble a set of interwoven thorns, but it wasn't made from plant mass, despite its coloration and texture. Its matter was complicated and intelligent, each part capable of shifting between gas, liquid, and solid, allowing the crown to integrate with someone's neurology and meld with their brain mass. The crown also remained one of the few pieces of ancient technology the System allowed to retain all its properties and further blessed it with a series of foul enchantments. For the Crown of the Anti-Savior had its own bleak story, one the System seemed to respect or think fondly of, despite or perhaps because of its depraved irony: it held religious significance, for it had been created as a replica of an earlier crown.

Something ancient humanity used to torture their own savior.

When the Challenger had learned of that, he'd realized humanity, more than all the other beings across Integration, would always hold a special place in his heart.

“And now this blessing falls upon you, Adam Arrow, from one savior to a hero to be. Relish in your triumphant strength, for your soul is a thing of purest flame, one beyond my power to affect. So I will spare your soul, and instead pierce what remains the weakest part of you. Your mind will be tested thoroughly. I gift upon you the Crown of the Anti-Savior. Enjoy this torment. Few are so rightfully christened.”

A sonic blast shook the room. The Deathless launched himself at the Challenger, driving his tides against the god’s festering aura. He actually managed to move a centimeter; the Challenger hesitated, if only for a moment. The boy’s Shapeless Tides carried a tinge of something, a layer that pushed against the incandescence of the Challenger’s Divinity. “Oh, Deathless. Surprise after surprise. You have the Practicing Atheist feat. Your creator must be truly proud—”

And then, for seemingly no reason at all, the Challenger forgot what he was doing. There was a sudden absence—someone was missing, but the God of Strife couldn’t recall whom. His power was congealed a few meters away; someone was trapped in a prison of buzzing flies and smoke. The Challenger frowned. The only person capable of slipping his Awareness was Valor, and the old Legend was an infested fragment of his former self. If not him—

A trail of pain flicked across the Challenger’s cheek. The edge of an unbreakable frying pan dragged a blurring streak of red mana along the orc god’s face. The slash was less than shallow—barely even scuffing the outer shell of the Challenger’s mana. But it still cut him. He still felt the sting, and that was testament enough of the power of the Deathless, returned to the Challenger’s memory. Yet, the boy’s might paled before that Unique Skill he'd just used—and it had to be a Unique Skill, as the Challenger existed across all known Integration. He did not forget a mortal—even when amnestics were deployed. Memory was one of his Domains as well.

He let Shiv hew into him three more times before he seized the Deathless again with his aura. This time, he breached the Bruiser’s under-invested Magical Resistance with a twinge of effort and anchored his soul in place. “No more diving out of reality this time—however you are doing it. Stay for a moment. Watch as I conclude our bargain.”

“This wasn't what you fucking promised!” Shiv roared. He strained as hard as he could, his arms cracking, flesh weaker than his strength. “You said you'd give him an orc skill! This isn't that!!”

“Quite right, but as I suspected before, I am indeed incapable of touching his soul for whatever reason. Despite how that excites me, I have other things to attend to, and I thought of an alternative: one that I will set to function for a month. One month of delicious depravity. One month of torment. He will wear the Crown of the Anti-Savior for that time, and in that month, he will experience the exact same suffering you endured when you had that orcish skill, or perhaps a bit worse than that. Unless, of course, he decides to take a life. When he does, it will give him a moment's relief, but if he thinks that he will be able to kill only the vile, he must think again. For every time he kills, the torment will return stronger and deeper. It will break him more, demand that he shed even more blood before he is given the same reprieve.”

The Challenger laughed gleefully. “Of course, if he proves himself strong enough and stays his hand from violence, if he masters himself and proves to be a champion of his own mind as he is of his soul, then I think I will offer my surrender to him. His heart and his mind are so frail. Poor little Adam Arrow. Poor little hero. I do not think this will be so easy for you.”

With a gentle caress, the Challenger restored Adam's flesh from a twisted parody. Sobs of purest misery escaped the Paragon, and it was such a sweet and enticing sound that it provoked the Challenger to fasten the crown around the young lord's brow before he had a moment of relief. “Time to see how true you are to the tenets of Heroism, Paragon, and, more importantly, let us discover what other Domain it is that lurks deep inside of you. For Heroism alone cannot burn War.”

But despite everything the Paragon suffered, despite the absolute dread that seized him, he still opened his eyes. Those eyes, bloodshot but pure like the horizon, like the sunrise. They blazed with defiance above all else. “I… I am so tired… of hearing you talk.” Adam spat a mouthful of bloody mucus at the Challenger, but after all he endured, the globule didn't go far. It landed on his chest, and he sagged, succumbing to near unconsciousness. “Just get on with it… you sick piece of… of…”

Then, with the gentleness of a father, the Challenger placed the Crown of the Anti-Savior over Adam's brow, and it bit down into him, tightening in an instant as it shredded through his flesh and sank its barbed teeth into his brain matter. The Paragon bucked and writhed as he experienced an agony few would ever know. But he wasn't the only one who suffered. As he broke mentally, Shiv shattered emotionally, physically, and psychologically. His flesh began to fissure. Vitae poured out from his compromised body as regret engulfed him and helplessness took hold.

“Ah, Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin, what an immense skill, but what a hefty one to bear. Everything you perform now is a burden of responsibility. Your soul has become a scale of three parts, and the slightest incongruity between your heart and mind has compromised you.”

“Take it out of him,” Shiv begged. "Take it out of him. If you have something like that, you can put it on me!"

A few stray Psychomancy threads struck the Challenger, but he ignored the girl altogether. She was a non-factor right now, even as her eldritch taint crept into him.

“No, as I have told you before, Bruiser, you are uniquely qualified to swallow my rage and find it a potion of benefit rather than a venom of decay. Besides, isn't this what you wanted? You and the Paragon both? Isn't this what you strained your Rhetoric and your Harbinger to achieve? Why not rejoice? You have convinced me! Now you reap your spoils.”

Adam's eyes rolled into the back of his head. His limbs went rigid. His muscles threatened to rip free from his bones. The Challenger didn't allow that. He wanted him to be robust in flesh and stay steady and stable, so he reinforced his musculature and further enhanced the state of his skeletal system. While he did this, the Starhawk now fell deeper into his madness of rage. His attacks were barely conveying their Divinity now. Everything he did caused ruptures in the world, but what flowed wasn't mana storms; rather, waves of carrion, vultures, and leeches. All things left over in the aftermath of a bloody battle.

