“It's quite the mess, and I don't want to embarrass myself.” Ren whispered. “I know this is a lot to ask, but... can I carry you to the kitchen so I can changes clothes? I don't want anyone to see.”

Jennifer didn't say anything as she nodded, and Ren held her close then stood up and walked to the kitchen with her arms and legs wrapped around him. Once they passed the door, he helped her stand up and quickly turned away from her.

“Thanks.” Ren said and equipped his Travelling Clothes, then equipped his armor bodysuit again. “You're a really good dancer.”

“What... what made you...” Jennifer asked as she equipped normal clothing.

“Everything.” Ren said, and she put her hand on his shoulder. He turned around and smiled at her. “Your metalwork, that you could do repairs while dancing, and that you could make something so erotic and functional at the same time.”

Jennifer moved the hand from his shoulder to his face. “You're so sweet.” She said and pinched his cheek hard. “But I didn't hear anything about my body.”

Ren laughed. “You're kidding, right?” He said. “When you turned around and showed me that finely sculpted metal underwear that highlighted your perfectly shaped ass, I almost went then!”

“That's better.” Jennifer said and let his cheek go. “But, how do I know that's the truth?”

Ren took out the modified Amulet of Truth called Amulet of Punishment. “If we lie, we get a Lightning bolt shock.”

“Wow.” Jennifer said. “Can I have it?”

Ren chuckled. “You just want to shock people with it.”

“Yeah.” Jennifer said and smiled. “Why else would I want it?”

Ren shook his head. “I'll be modifying it to emit Heat after this.”

“Okay.” Jennifer took a single breath and looked at Ren. “Tell me what you liked about my performance.”

Ren gave her a rundown of what he enjoyed, what made him excited, and then seeing her metal covered private part.

“I have to say, honestly, that was pretty damn hot.” Ren said. “Then you let me touch it.”

Jennifer smiled. “You only touched the metal, though.”

“I didn't want to cross that line.”

“Why not? I would have let you.” Jennifer said. “In fact, I...” She looked at the Amulet of Punishment. “I really wanted you to.”

“Why?”

“Because.” Jennifer said. “You were judging my talent. I could see that you were looking at what I was doing, and not trying to see if you could get a peek at my naughty parts.”

“I thought they were coming out anyway.” Ren said and smiled as he reached out to poke the tip of her breast and the metal cover that could still be seen under her blouse. “You don't know how surprised and delighted I was that I was mistaken.”

“I do now.” Jennifer said and glanced at the amulet again. “Of course, you could be lying about it and that thing is just a piece of metal.”

“I can't believe I'm doing this.” Ren said and chuckled as he held the amulet at arm's length. “Jennifer, I do not want to see what's under those metal covers you're wearing.”

A small Lightning bolt shot out of the amulet and struck Ren right in the face.

“OW! Goddammit!” Ren said and dropped the amulet to grab his face.

“Ren!” Jennifer said and moved his hands out of the way. She saw a scorch mark right under his right eye, and Ren felt her regret. She touched his face by it, then leaned down and kissed the wound.

“Thank you.” Ren said and picked up the amulet. “I told Issac using Lightning was a bad idea.” He said and absorbed the enchantment, then replaced the Lightning rune with a glyph of 10 Heat runes and put the enchantment back. “It almost hit me in the eye.”

Amulet of Interrogation (Compulsion - Truth)

Beings (creatures or persons) within the area of effect can't speak any deliberate or intentional lies. Anyone within the Aura cannot avoid speaking the truth when asked a direct question, or they will suffer through a blast of Heat that will make them sweat immediately for the first infraction. Each subsequent infraction will increase both the Heat and the amount of sweat produced.

Any creatures or persons with no will of their own are unaffected by any truth-based spell or enchantment.

Area of Effect: 50 foot radius

“That's better.” Ren said, and looked at Jennifer. “I'm really glad you didn't lie.”

Jennifer nodded. “I'm sorry you had to lie, just so I would know it worked.”

“That's okay.” Ren said. “I usually have to suffer for the truth to come out.”

Jennifer looked at the amulet and then at Ren. “That... that's true?”

Ren nodded. “It happens a lot.” He said. “We better get back out there before people think we're in here having sex.”

“Why?” Jennifer asked. “It's not like we haven't had sex with men before.” She giggled. “I meant the other girls and me, not you.”

“Um... I mean, we're in the middle of a competition. I don't want people to think that you're trying to get the upper hand.”

“What's wrong with that?” Jennifer asked and stepped close. “We're very competitive.”

“But...” Ren took a deep breath. “...don't you love Billy?”

“Of course I do.” Jennifer said and put her arms around Ren. “That doesn't mean I'm going to give up my life or change how I earn money.” She chuckled. “It's just sex.”

“But...”

“Although...” Jennifer leaned down and put her lips by his ear. “...I've never gotten excited by a client at work before.”

“You mean me, right?” Ren asked, so she wouldn't know that he knew that already.

“Yes, dummy.” Jennifer said and kissed his cheek where the scorch mark was.

“Hey, are you guys done?” The Manager said when she opened the kitchen door. “Candy's waiting to go on and do her dance for Ren.”

“We weren't having sex!” Ren blurted out.

“Jennifer, you're such a slacker.” Both the Manager and Jennifer laughed, and Ren shook his head and stored the amulet.

“I told you they wouldn't mind.” Jennifer said and let him out of the hug. “Go and enjoy the others, then you can tell me that I won.”

“You're pretty confident.” Ren said.

Jennifer took the same stance she had in the dressing room, with her feet a foot apart and her fists on her hips. “You saw my talent.” She said and grinned at him.

“Not all of it.” Ren said and grinned back, and she laughed.

“Go on! Git!” Jennifer said and shooed him away. “I want to give you the first dance before we open tonight.”

Ren left the kitchen and took his seat, and then a girl named Candy came out. She started her routine with a couple of moves, then the music changed and another girl came out. Her name was Apple, and she acted like a stripper pole for the other dancer. Candy did a lot of the moves one would expect a woman to do on a stripper pole, and Ren watched in awe as she slowly stripped Apple instead of herself.

Candy groped and played with Apple; but, not quite in a sexual way. It was like she was showing Ren that she could play with her as much as she wanted, and she wasn't going to because they were in public. When the music died down, Apple was naked from head to foot and Candy was out of breath from her dance.

“Now... it's... Apple's turn.” Candy said and stood up, and Apple equipped another outfit and put a chair in front of Candy to let her lean on it. The music picked up and Apple did her striptease dance, only she stripped Candy instead. It was quite the spectacle, and Ren wasn't sure what to think about it.

Apple had done the same thing; she groped and played as each part of Candy was exposed and it was only perfunctory. Ren didn't get any sexual vibes from it, because he would have felt it if there were; but, the potential was there and he figured that was the point they were trying to get across.

“Thank you, Candy and Apple.” The Manager said. “It's a little odd for two dancers to combine their routines, but...” She looked at Ren. “...I think it's going to be popular.”

“No doubt.” Ren said, and both dancers smiled warmly at him and left the stage. The other 7 dancers came out and did their routines while Ren watched attentively. Some tried to do what the first dancer did and use Ren in their acts, and had similar results. He knew what was coming when they tried to include him and he managed to avoid anyone getting physically hurt. He gave them tips on how to change their moves for clients of different heights, and they thanked him for helping them.

When the last dancer left the stage, Ren asked for several minutes to compose his answer. They agreed, and he went into the kitchen to check on the food. He used his Fire Manipulation skill and a Fire rune to reheat the cooling steaks and stirred the stew, then went back out to the main stage and sat down. The girls came out and stood in a line, in the same order they had performed in, and Ren started to clap. He did this for about 10 seconds, and then he smiled at all of them.

“I'd like to thank you all for a great show.” Ren said. “I can honestly say that I've never seen anything like it before.”

“Is that like saying you thought it was weird and odd?” Caramel asked.

Ren chuckled. “Actually, a couple of them were a little odd.” He said. “Candy Apple... ah, I mean Candy and Apple... had an interesting way to create sexual tension without actually creating sexual tension.”

The two girls high-fived each other, and Ren remembered them doing that when he had agreed to the competition.

“Sugar was the first contestant, so I have to give her extra points for braving being in my presence.”

That made a few of the dancers laugh.

“You all did tremendously well.” Ren said and looked at all of their faces. “But... there can only be one winner.” He said. “For the unique use of her skills, and for getting me excited despite my attempts not to be...”

“Just say it!” Jennifer said, and Ren laughed.

“All right, all right.” Ren said. “The winner is... Jennifer.”

“Yes!” Jennifer stepped out of the line, spiked an imaginary football on the stage, then did a funky little touchdown dance. She shuffled her feet and wiggled her elbows like she was pretending she was a bird, then clapped her hands and did a few tap dancing steps. When she was done she faced the other girls and laughed. “I told you it would be me!”

“Ren, you've got about an hour before the Pleasure Palace officially opens.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought. “It looks like we've got an hour before you open.” He said to the dancers. “I've got steak and potatoes ready for you, or you can have beef stew.”

“Definitely steak.” Candy said. “We can eat all we want in here and we don't get fat!”

The other dancers heartily agreed, and Ren told them to have a seat at the tables. He brought out the 12 plates of steak and potatoes, and he could see several of them drool over it.

“Porterhouse round 2 inches thick?” Caramel shook her head. “You're crazy to waste meat this good on us!”

“Hey, now.” Ren said and walked over to her. “It's never a waste to give a beautiful woman a good meal.”

Caramel chuckled. “You're just saying that because you've seen us naked.”

Ren took out the modified Amulet of Truth and put it on the table. A couple of the girls covered their mouths when they identified it.

“You could be wearing a potato sack and I would still find you beautiful.” Ren said. “I don't give out fake compliments.” He said. “I never have.”

She looked at the Amulet and looked back at Ren.

“Why did you pick Jennifer over us?”

“Caramel!” The Manager said. “Ren, don't answer that.”

“It's all right.” Ren said. “I told you the truth when I picked her. She really was the only one that made me excited.”

“Was it because she rubbed herself on you, or because she promised to have sex with you?”

“No to the rubbing, and she didn't promise me sex.” Ren said. “To be completely honest, I was already rock hard before she made it to the edge of the stage.” He said and looked at Jennifer. “It really was her talent that turned me on. A lot.”

Jennifer's face flushed slightly red.

“So, if we had done something like that, would we have had a better chance?”

“Caramel, shut up.” Sugar said.

“I said it's all right.” Ren said and held a hand up. “How often do you get to question someone that you can prove isn't lying?” He smiled. “If it had been a different skill, since doing another metal repair would have been repetitive, it would have brought your chances up.”

“Dammit, I knew once I saw her dig out that old breastplate we were done for.”

“Not really, because Sugar was a close second.” Ren said. “When she opened her top and revealed a basic white bra and started to dance around with it on...” He sighed. “...if Jennifer's talent hadn't been so overwhelming, you would have won.”

“Even after losing my balance?” Sugar asked.

“Did you?” Ren asked. “I thought that was part of the routine.”

Ren felt a burst of Heat; but, since he was immune to it he just funnelled it to recharge his Mana. He couldn't stop the immediate sweats the enchantment gave him, though.

“Hey, it worked!” Jennifer said. “You just lied!”

Ren nodded. “Just remember, my opinions only apply for me.” He said. “Other men will absolutely love all of your routines.”

“They will?” Caramel asked.

Ren nodded. “I've got particular things that can get me going, and even I didn't realize that seeing a beautiful woman working on metal was going to flip my switch.”

Jennifer raised her fist in the air. “My talent is a gift!”

“It is.” Ren said and chuckled. “It really is.”
