“Hm. What’s logical. For now, you have my word that keeping my secret earns my gratitude. I remember my friends. Believe me, I’m one of the best people to keep secrets. I’ve met more than one group that has secrets.”
She nodded, heart pounding. It was true, the Titan had knowledge of her. She had knowledge of him. One would decay, but in this moment?
He was helping her. What was that worth? The Titan looked back at the camp.
“Proof positive. You’re strong. You’re quick, and you’re tough. But what you have that Garia Strongheart lacks is this.”
He pointed at her.
“No potion. No need for it. You trashed her in sparring.”
“Well, yes. She was exhausted. You made me do it!”
Fierre felt bad. Niers just laughed at her. Guffawed in her face.
“So what? She’ll level up. And you…you just beat your friend. Because she cannot keep up with you. Whatever you are, you have the endurance a Selphid would turn green at. Keep them away from your body, incidentally.”
She nodded. Fierre’s heart was beating fast. The moon shone vividly out between the passing clouds. She felt…alive.
“But I am weaker. I cannot level. Not…not as easily. Is there a way for me to get stronger?”
The Titan’s eyes glowed.
“There is. I feel it. I am the Titan of Baleros. Go and join them, and follow my orders. I’ll whisper it in your ear.”
The Vampire looked at the group he had gathered. Niers had chosen them, out of seemingly nowhere. Because he had sensed something from them. He was no expert. Especially at this—but he knew how to train everything.
A Soldier. Gothica. Ulvama and Fierre stood together, looking confused. Snapjaw hurried over.
“Had to pee, sorry.”
“That’s fine. Um…we’re going to walk. Or run?”
“More training?”
The [Shaman] sneered at Fierre, but she had a curious look in her eyes. How much did she guess? She stared the Vampire girl up and down, but didn’t spot Niers’ hiding place in Fierre’s hair.
“Why are we walking?”
Gothica wobbled on her feet. Fierre replied as Niers had told her.
“Because we might discover something about ourselves. Do you want…power?”
The others looked at her. The Soldier tilted his head a few times. Why me? He didn’t even have paint. Fierre didn’t know either.
“Follow me.”
Under the moon, their shadows stretched long across the grass. Fierre looked at her shadow, many times taller than she was. She imagined the Vampire she had dreamed of being from those old stories.
Fear, yes. But awe, too. Awe at the stories of the night hunters, who were tall.
Graceful. Beautiful, undying. Masters of powerful magic. She had been cured by Ryoka. Yet Fierre didn’t feel like that.
The air was cold. Some of the others shivered; summer was passing. But the air felt…charged. The moon disappeared behind some clouds as they walked. Without purpose. Then…Ulvama looked back.
“Camp’s far away. What is happening? You using a Skill?”
She peered at Fierre. The Vampire girl started. She looked back and saw the camp was far away. How fast were they going?
Fast. They were striding along, exhaustion forgotten. Even Gothica and the Soldier. But something else was different. Was the camp…smaller?
The answer came as the moon appeared from beyond the clouds. Fierre turned. She gasped, as she saw the shadows stretching below them on the grass.
What vast shadows. The grass looked so tiny, that even with Fierre’s eyes, she could barely see the blades of grass. She looked at the others, confused. Nothing seemed wrong.
Then Gothica cried out. She pointed down.
“How…?”
Something looked up at them, wide-eyed. A fox, emerging from its den. It stared up at the group of five, then backed up, turned, and fled into the hole in a pure terror.
Not just because one was a Vampire, and there were Goblins and Antinium. The others realized what was happening and cried out. They looked down at the tiny fox.
It was smaller than they were, which it always had been. But Gothica, a Cave Goblin, was still short. In this moment? Now? She towered over it. She would have towered over Numbtongue.
“We’ve grown! I don’t want to be bigger Goblin!”
Ulvama shrieked. She felt at her body, but she saw no huge, rippling muscles like Tremborag’s war-form. She whirled, eyes wide, and saw Fierre’s pupils glowing red, like her own.
Niers. The Titan was laughing.
[Giants on the March]. The five swept around, bewildered. Then the Titan whispered, through Fierre.
“Can you feel it? Look at the moon. Can you sense it? Power. You have broken your limit. But there is more to power than a [Warrior]’s might. More to magic than [Mages] know. Do you sense it?”
He urged them to realize it. Could they feel it? It had come out of him, unguarded, as he inspired the others to run. Untrained, largely. But the Titan still had it. Not as powerful as a royal’s, or someone dedicated to the power like the Order of Seasons.
Yet no one could ever force him to kneel. No one could control his mind. The Titan unleashed what was essentially another manifestation of his ego. His will.
It was one of the reasons they had given him his name. A Fraerling with the aura of a Giant.
Titan of Baleros.
Did they feel it, as they stood above it all? By night? The Titan saw the Vampire girl’s eyes widen. Ulvama looked up, and realized she stood inside…
“What is…? Where?”
She was confused. She didn’t need to focus on him. Snapjaw’s eyes widened.
All of them.
[Chieftain]. [Shaman]. Snapjaw and Ulvama felt something rising in them, provoked by the Skill, the moment, the other aura weighing on them, forcing them to acknowledge what was in them.
Everyone had it, but some classes were drawn to it. But what of the other three?
Fierre and the Soldier—was it their nature, personality? Sometimes you couldn’t tell. Sheer potential. A force of will. Chance? No, there was always a reason. The Soldier stood there, the same one both the Titan and even a Drake [General] had identified. No one had ever asked for his story, but he belonged here. No, on a far greater stage. The Titan would uncover it, his hidden worth and valor.
It felt familiar to Fierre, like a part of herself she had never noticed. She reached for it, struggling. Niers studied the others. But his eyes were on the last.
What a strange class. Perhaps it was just chance. Uncertainty in what the word actually meant. Or maybe that was just how it was.
The little Cave Goblin, Gothica, opened her eyes wide. Under this moon. The darkness. As tall as a Giant. All it needed was some sombre music and it would be perfect. Her eyes gleamed and she smiled in ecstasy at this moment.
I look at nightmares and laugh. I would leap into the abyss to see what lay down there.
The world’s first Goblin [Goth] manifested her aura, and the moonlight turned to shade around her. She began to laugh.
Fierre swept around, eyes shining. Reaching for her aura, as the others manifested theirs. 
How the Titan laughed. How he roared.
Bird, silly Bird. Do you think I am incapable? What do you think happened when I levelled and got my newest class?
[Grandmaster Strategist]. We make excellent pacts, don’t we? You help me, and I’ll help you. It’s not like I have an army to return to. It will be a while before I can use it again, but I was saving it for now.
His finger rose as he stood in the grass, and the Vampire leapt into the air, unable to keep still. Screaming for her blood to awaken. The Titan’s finger wavered. From her, to Ulvama, to Snapjaw, to…Gothica…back towards the camp. He could sense them, if not see them.
At last, he used the greatest Skill he owned. Higher than his Level 60 Skill. The Skill of a [Strategist] who multiplied everything.
Niers Astoragon spoke.
“[Promote the Pawn: Class Ascension].”
 
——
 
It broke over them like a wave, as they slept, as the extra Goblins curled up, unnoticed, happily levelling themselves. Snapjaw tried blearily to count them, but fell asleep, too tired for some reason.
 
[Conditions Met: Goblin Chieftain → Chieftain of the Maw Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Big Eater removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Beast Tamer removed.]
 
[Chieftain of the Maw Level 31!]
 
[Skill Change – Huge Chomp → Yawning Bite!]
[Skill – Unit: Yawning Bite obtained!]
[Skill – I Grew With Every Bite obtained!]
[Ski—
 
Someone poked her. Someone poked her. Badarrow cuddled the Hobgoblin as he entered the blankets.
“Want to—”
“Ugraaaah!”
She kicked him.
 
——
 
Not just her.
 
[Conditions Met: Magic Paint Shaman → Shaman of the Old Ways Class!]
[Shaman of the Old Ways Level 31!]
[Skill Change – Memory of a Hundred Lifetimes → Memory of a Thousand Lifetimes!]
[Skill – Memory of a Thousand Lifetimes obtained!]
[Skill—]
 
Ulvama’s eyes opened wide. She looked around. Alright. That was not earned.
Who was doing this?
Who was watching her? Who was…?
 
——
 
The little man, counting, choosing. Elevate the best. Bring up the worst. He failed once.
 
[Class Consolidation Failed. Unable to Advance Assassin.]
 
Fierre’s eyes opened wide. She sat up bolt upright as a Goblin curled up happily. Another voice was stuttering in Gothica’s mind.
 
[Conditions Met: Goth → Dark Knight Clas—]
[Conditions Met: Goth → Soulsteal—]
[Conditions Met: Goth → Abyssal W—]
[Conditions Met: Goth → Midnight Goth Class!]
 
[Midnight Goth Level 8!]
[Skill Change – Dark Aura → Aura of Midnight!]
[Skill – Aura of Midnight obtained!]
[Spell – Shade Barrier obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Concentration obtained!]
[Skill – Magic of Will obtained!]
 
——
 
Nobody knew his name. He did not have a name.
A Soldier who hadn’t been lucky enough to be painted. A unit in the rest of the Hive. Someone who had seen it.
He had been there when Skinner died and torn pieces out of nightmare.
He had slain [Assassins] and moths and more.
He had crushed armor to pieces as others fell. Because he was better? Luckier?
Because he was he.
 
[Conditions Met: Veteran Warrior → Exemplar Warrior Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Survivor removed.]
 
[Exemplar Warrior Level 17!]
[Skill – Aura of Battle obtained!]
[Skill Change – Armored Blow → Full Armor Onslaught!]
[Skill – Full Armor Onslaught obtained!]
[Skill – Phantom Sword Slash obtained!]
 
The Antinium didn’t roll over or move as it woke up. Was that the same Skill as the [Assassin]? It lay there.
What a lovely birthday present. 
He was six years old.
 
——
 
Last of all. Six for six.
 
[Conditions Met: Tracking Sergeant → Goblinfriend Bug-Captain Class!]
[Goblinfriend Bug-Captain Level 25!]
[Skill – Squad: Minor Swarmblades obtained!]
[Skill – Squad: Hob’s Strength obtained!]
 
She jumped to her feet, screaming.
“No! It was just a game of cards! It was just a game of—”
Too late. Too…late. It wasn’t how she thought. It was how it looked. To a certain, slightly confused point of view.
 
——
 
The Fraerling chewed on a stale cookie. He chuckled. He listened to the shouting and sat back, smiling like he was thirty years younger.
Now they understood.
This was what it meant to be the Titan. This was how you should be alive. Shaking, until you could only sleep by exhaustion.
