Octavia craned her neck. She was actually helping Ulvama make more of her paints in exchange for lessons on how they were applied and trading information. The lazy Hobgoblin didn’t like doing it if she could get someone else to, and Octavia didn’t mind; there wasn’t much else to do, and mixing potions and bumpy wagons did not go together.
She stared as Ulvama dumped some water out of a flask into the pot. The rune was glowing, and Octavia put her hand out, felt the heat, and edged backwards in alarm!
“You’ll set the wagon on fire!”
Touma the Great, the aspiring [Martial Artist], watched as Garia began trying to practice jump kicks on the march. He glanced over as Ulvama calmly ignored Octavia’s panic.
“Hush. Only heat. Not fire…not unless silly cloth girl starts one. Hot enough to boil. Yum.”
The ‘yum’ was because she had waited for the water to boil—very quickly with a second spell to help the heating—and then she dunked four fat, lovely eggs in from the goose Bird had shot.
She was boiling the eggs. Octavia’s mouth opened and closed. Ulvama glanced at her.
“What? You want? Fine. Boiled eggs is good.”
She put another one in with a sigh, and then lay back, counting. Octavia glanced around. Everyone else was marching or riding.
“…You’re just making boiled eggs?”
“Yup.”
“Just like that?”
“Mhm. Boiled eggs is nice. You—get Sally-peppers.”
She meant Salamander Peppers. Octavia snatched them back as Ulvama went for the vial.
“That’s an alchemy ingredient!”
“Boo. Okay, just pepper and salt. Mm.”
Ulvama waited exactly four minutes, then pulled out the eggs fast, cursing as she peeled them with a minor heat charm, and ate them, sucking out the gooey insides. She gave one to Octavia, who juggled it and then guiltily ate.
She noticed one of the Redfang Goblins, her face painted with combat paint, staring accusatorily at her. Octavia pointed weakly at Ulvama.
“She was making them. I didn’t! It was…”
“Give.”
Octavia stared at the hand, but she had no more boiled egg; Ulvama slapped her hand when she tried to take one of the remaining three, but the Redfang didn’t care.
“Egg. Egg!”
She impatiently clapped her hands until Octavia tossed her a raw egg. To the [Alchemist]’s mild surprise—not horror—the female Hob instantly cracked the egg into her mouth, then jumped from her saddle. She had something in her claws, popped it into her mouth, and chewed.
“Yum.”
Sergeant Gna stared back at the female Hobgoblin.
“…Did she just crack a raw egg into her mouth then add a handful of dirt? Is she eating that eggshell?”
“…Yep.”
Salkis nodded slowly. The Hob smacked her lips with every sign of relish.
“Gothica, what was that?”
Fierre asked the [Goth] Goblin since the Cave Goblin was now chattier, and refused to leave. Gothica glanced at the Redfang dismissively.
“Dirtbite snack.”
“Dirtbite snack?”
“Yep. Add dirt. Find worm? Add dirt. Find egg? Add dirt. Find…is good. Makes belly fuller.”
“Why?”
“Not enough to eat? Dirt good salt. Peh. Makes forget about hungry until you die. But die with belly full. Bad poops, though.”
Gothica seemed uncertain if that merited another scoff; she was a low-level [Goth] so far. Fierre looked at the Hobgoblin who was nodding to herself, chewing the eggshell.
“Dead gods. Everything you Goblins do is depressing.”
Salkis announced after a second. It hadn’t taken her long to pick upon a commonality between a lot of Goblin habits. She peered at the Redfang Hob.
“And who is she? Or is she another Goblin who doesn’t have a name?”
The Hobgoblin glanced up. She grinned, and waved. Jabbed her chest. Then, without any warning at all, exhaled a cloud of dust at Salkis and Gna.
Both swerved their mounts to avoid the spray of dirt particles. Gna swore like a [Sailor]. Salkis had a hand on her dagger.
“That? That is Dirtmouth. Dirtmouth, do black soot trick!”
The other Goblins egged the Redfang on; she had once learned this trick from a certain Goldstone Tribe’s Chieftain. She took a bite of something she carried.
A…was that a bit of charcoal? Coal? Dirtmouth chewed it, swallowed a bit, then spat a cloud of black dust forwards.
“Nice combat trick. Goblins have all kinds of damned underhanded moves like that.”
Gna grudgingly admitted. She meant it as an insult. Salkis, though, just looked interested.
“…Could she do that with nails or glass? If I could spit that in someone’s face, I’d give it a shot.”
The [Sergeant] gave the apparently prim and proper Wall Lady of Pallass an odd look, but Salkis had ridden back to speak with Dirtmouth.
That was just one part of the ongoing conversation as the group travelled. They were moving at a good clip; they knew they were in danger if this hunting trail led them into contact with Drakes, Gnolls, or anyone. They were searching for Mrsha, because her life might be in danger.
But they still talked. Each one, in conversations that would never have happened if fate hadn’t thrown them together.
“I just do not understand. I am Pivr. I am clearly beloved; how else would I have the Prognugator/Revalantor designation of the Flying Antinium? The Flying Queen loves me. Therefore everyone else does. Is that not so, Xeu? You like me, do you not?”
Pivr fanned his wings. He looked unexpectedly hurt by the revelation of two days ago; he had been deadly silent for an entire day, and then hadn’t shut up yesterday or today.
He addressed the only other foreign Antinium, who had blended to look like the off-yellow stalks. Xeu rubbed her scythe-arms together to keep the blades sharp. She considered a deeply thoughtful and comprehensive remark, then spoke.
“No.”
That was already extraordinary enough, but in the realm of possibility. The weird part was where the young man tipped his hat, and Normen addressed Pivr, at the back of the caravan.
“It seems to me, sir, that you’re conflating the two, as it were. That one woman loves you doesn’t mean all do. A fellow has to appeal to all sorts of chaps and ladies. It’s hard work.”
“Really. I am important, though. Does that not confer instant likability?”
The two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings exchanged glances.
“As much as a fellow with a diamond or lots of gold, sir. It’s like, but only so long as you’re important to folks as might benefit. The instant you ain’t, you’re not, if you understand me.”
Pivr fanned his wings.
“Fascinating. Fascinating. I have no idea what you mean. Elaborate.”
A dozen conversations. A dozen meetings. Bird happily craned his neck back to stare for a bird. Inside his hat, a little figure cursed as the floor suddenly rotated under him.
Niers Astoragon was slowly going insane.
 
——
 
“We are moving too slow.”
Niers hissed at Bird. The Antinium reluctantly stopped staring up, looked around, and realized Niers was right.
Let’s talk about a mile. A mile, a unit of measurement as it pertained to distance. 5,280 feet. Often ridiculed as being highly unintuitive compared to a kilometer. After all, whose feet were you using?
Well, only Earthers had another unit of measurement to go by. In the void of Niers’ rapidly-deteriorating mental state, he thought about a mile.
There were countless miles between Liscor and Pallass. Between Liscor and Invrisil. Four hundred, to be exact.
Izril was thousands of miles long. That was a lot of miles. Even if you assumed only half the length of Izril—since Liscor was roughly in the middle, that was a lot of distance to cover to any port or harbor.
“I know Izril is big. Please stop shouting in my hat.”
Bird retorted. Niers just glared as he paced around the top of Bird’s head.
“I’m bored and I can’t even sit in the open without being noticed! Someone’s got to learn something or I’ll start eating this damn hat. So let’s have a logistics lecture. You can be my top student.”
“I would not like to be the top student. I will be the eighth most competent, please. For maximum lack of expectations.”
Niers stared at one of Bird’s antennae blankly.
“…Okay. Fine. How long would it take you, Bird, without Skills, to walk a mile.”
“…How fast am I walking? Please stop kicking my antennae. Twenty minutes?”
“Great! Thank you! Twenty minutes. So let’s do math.”
“Must we?”
“Assuming you walk for…hm. Eight hours? How many miles could you travel? Let me help you—do you know how to multiply? Divide? I can teach you that. That would be an hour broken down into segments of twenty. Three per hour. So—”
“I will walk 24 miles in eight hours. Yes. Why am I learning this?”
Niers blinked. Bird stared blankly at a tick trying to bite his arm. He was going to call this tick ‘Ineffectual Biter’. It would be his pet. He would become a [Pet Owner] and…
“Aha! Got you, you little pest!”
Fierre grabbed the tick, squished it, and triumphantly tossed it to the ground. Bird stared at the tick. Then he went back to listening.
“Twenty four miles isn’t much. It would take us…let’s see. Isn’t Pallass 380 miles south of Liscor? So at 24 miles per day—”
“—It would take me 15.83 days. Yes. This is indeed math.”
This time Niers had to stop. He sat, thoughtfully.
“Are all Antinium as good at math as you, Bird?”
“We do not use math. Math is boring. I was taught by Erin Solstice.”
Instantly, Niers was distracted.
“Really. Tell me more. Why did this happen?”
Bird tilted his head. Niers slid sideways, but didn’t remonstrate him this time.
“…Because she was teaching Mrsha? Mrsha did not want to learn. She taught me because ‘I am a child and should know basic math’. I did not want to learn either. Therefore, Erin told me she would cook me my favorite bird food ever if I solved her math questions.”
“What’s your favorite bird food ever?”
“Cookies in the shapes of birds. But it was only my favorite food that month. She made it for me four days in a row. Mrsha got none. Even when she tried to steal.”
Bird smacked his mandibles together a few times happily. Niers was fascinated.
“So you solved the problems four days in a row?”
“For bird cookies. They were hard at the last part. Erin made Pisces check the questions because she did not know the answer, proving that teaching is hypocrisy.”
The Titan of Baleros decided to go back to his lecture because there was nothing else to say.
“16 days, roughly, is terrible. For us to get to Pallass in that time? That Gnoll who grabbed Mrsha is moving far faster. Let’s say you ran. The average Human—not Fraerling—not Antinium—can run a mile in about…oh, twelve minutes? Not a trained one, obviously. Not including Skills. And not for many hours. But let’s say you can run a mile every ten minutes. That means…”
“I can run 48 miles in a day. Which would mean I get to Pallass in 7.92 days.”
“Correct. Bit better, eh?”
“If you are going to tell me about speed, what about horses? I am riding a horse.”
Bird patted the horse’s head. Said stallion gave Bird a mistrustful look; twice now Bird had tried to feed the animal bits of cooked bird. Niers settled back.
“Ah, well, now. If we want to talk averages…it used to be that a decent [Soldier]—one with all their gear, mind you, not bare as we’ve been talking, weighed down, could march twenty miles a day. Other standards are higher. Depends on terrain. But twenty miles in any situation without Skills, on foot, is a good benchmark. I hear some armies test their people’s fitness like that. How far do we go if we don’t activate a Skill? Now, on horse? You can go, oh…30 miles a day with cavalry? Armor, and so on?”
“That is a 50% increase in speed. Which would take you to Pallass in—”
“Yes, yes! No need for more comparative math, thank you. But isn’t that figure interesting? Bird, if you ran at the speed we discussed, you would beat a trained [Rider] on a horse—without Skills—if you could keep it up eight hours.”
“I am better than a horse. I knew it. Do you hear that? It is because you do not eat birds!”
“Bird. Stop taunting your horse and listen. Everyone’s got different standards. Some people are faster; with Skills you can break five minutes a mile with a lot of average City Runners. Or sustain that kind of speed. Rarely both. But…it’s still slow.”
Bird tilted his head.
“48 miles in a day is slow?”
“Yep.”
“We are not running at a pace of a mile every ten minutes. We are trotting. I believe we are too slow. Hello, everyone! We are too—”
Niers shushed Bird before he could shout.
“It’s fine, Bird! Do you know why I make my students do all that calculation when I introduce them to the logistics sections of their classes?”
“…Hm. To see if they are good at math or not?”
Niers smiled.
“Ah. Good answer. Yes. And to get them to a point where they can calculate speed on maps. But yes. We establish baselines of speed. Then—I have them take their hard-earned calculations—which they spent all day on, or all week if they were learning their multiplication and division, unlike you—and tear it up.”
“That is excessively cruel. Go on.”
“That’s because those numbers don’t matter. Not with high-level armies. Not with monsters. Certainly not with Couriers or anyone who’s…anyone. Anyone who’s rich, high-level, or powerful enough can get to Pallass faster than someone who runs eight hours, runs all day and all night. We’ve been beating all the numbers I tossed out.”
“Yes. We passed Pallass already.”
Niers nodded.
“Because of my Skill. We. Are. Faster. But it doesn’t just have to be me. Say you had to get to First Landing in a week. And you had an unlimited budget. You could definitely do it, right? Give me a way to do it, Bird.”
“Yes. I would buy a scroll of teleportation.”
“Even without one, you could still do it. Give me another example.”
“Will I get a cookie if I do?”
“No.”
“Hm. My motivation has decreased, but I would hire a carriage. Although if it is too slow and the horsies tire…”
“…You hire another one. Ever heard of a messenger line? Do it with horses. You ride them at full gallop, nonstop, until they’re tired, jump off, and get another one. Use stamina potions. Use healing potions! Anyone with enough money can do that. The clever ones combine things. Like hiring someone with movement Skills, riding nonstop wagons with enchanted wheels, a damn carpet—anyone can move. That’s our problem. We’re chasing after someone who can move with Skills and artifacts, and we’re boosted by my Skills. But we’re still going too slow. Do you know why?”
“Your Skills are inferior.”
Niers Astoragon sat there for a moment. He breathed in. He breathed out. He smiled. Calmly.
“Bird? I am over Level 60.”
“Yes.”
