The [Martial Artist] just blinked at Fierre. She lacked Skills, but she could make up for it with her natural abilities. She just needed…
Practice.
 
——
 
Niers didn’t see the hidden sparring, but he didn’t need to. Fierre was fairly bright; if she didn’t work anything out, he, and her friend, would get her to adapt to a more grounded style.
Just a kid. Never seen a real fight. He agreed with the others’ assessments.
However. Fierre wasn’t wrong. If the Goblins and seasoned warriors laughed at her desire to be ‘cool’, Niers laughed at them. It was amazing. Her desire to be…well, a Gold-rank? A superhuman individual? That was what you needed.
At any rate, Bird had more tasks that night. Like squatting next to Gothica.
She confused the hell out of Niers. The Cave Goblin, rather than join Fierre, was mixing more eye-shadow. Bird asked about it when Niers prompted him.
“Gothica. What is a [Goth]?”
“Psh. Don’t know. [Goth] is [Goth].”
The Cave Goblin sneered. Niers prompted Bird again.
“Was your class…new? In your mind? I am asking because I have never heard of a [Goth].”
“Not new. But good class.”
“Can you tell me anything about the nature of [Goth]?”
The Cave Goblin had the same problem as Niers; her class didn’t have a helpful tutorial. Rather, like new Skills, it was something you learned, or knew about.
And Niers, who knew more classes than almost anyone in the entire world, didn’t know her class.
Of course he was interested. He narrowed his eyes.
Bird, acting as his voice, talked to Gothica. She had some intuition.
“[Goth] is look good. [Goth] is…like that one.”
She pointed in the direction Fierre had gone, and gave a wickedly sharp smile.
“Good teeth. But also good dress. Like…this color.”
She gestured to her clothing. Dark, brooding. Gothica tilted her head.
“…Should get good music, too.”
“Numbtongue plays good music. He is in a band with Kevin.”
Bird pointed out. Gothica made her ‘puh’ sound and swept her bangs back.
“Not good enough. Too light. Too…”
She searched for a word.
“Happy. Pop. Bleh.”
There was a twang as Numbtongue’s music slowed down. He raised his head. Gothica stared at him defiantly. Yeah. You heard what I said.
Niers got the distinct impression that Gothica liked annoying the Hobs and Fierre.
“Interesting. Reminds me of an [Anarchist]. [Rebel]. But the dress being a requirement she can sense…that’s closer to a [Jester] or a class with distinct dress requirements. [Chevaliers] have to have a certain style of dress. Hmm. Hmmmm. [Nudists]?”
He was trying to recall other classes with dress-based requirements. Gothica remained helpfully unhelpful, and Niers eventually told Bird to let her keep making her unique dress and makeup. She’d even begun to add to her parasol, in a copy of Fierre’s. Although Gothica, a Cave Goblin, aware of their mission, had begun to try to alter it further.
As in, she was trying to add razors to the edges and had sharpened the tip into a miniature dagger’s point.
Some combat potential there. Her class must at least be intrinsically linked with violence. Or she was adapting it to that. Niers was fascinated for another reason, though.
It sounds like a weak class, but it must be something…well, maybe there’s only one benefit. But it’s a damn good one.
He was definitely going to look into that. But later. Niers was distracted from telling Gothica about the thing she might not have realized yet herself. Because at last, there was some action!
Infinitypear, the new [Adventurer], had disappeared with Rasktooth for a second. Touma the Great, who had been covertly watching Fierre and Garia spar, and wondering if he could learn to turn into mist, edged out of his hiding place and hurried over to the commotion.
“Adventure! Adventure!”
The Goblin was waving something about. He and Infinitypear had had an adventure! They’d gone for a little walk to find supplements for the food, and then it had happened!
“We found a key.”
Infinitypear stood proudly, and couldn’t have known how his words made every senior Goblin and Niers look at him.
“A…key?”
Numbtongue glanced at Badarrow. Snapjaw had come alive, recalling something Reiss had wanted. The others gathered around. They had found a key! Rasktooth told them all about it. Niers sat forwards…then scowled.
“A little racoon had key. Shiny key. We followed. Key! And racoon.”
Salkis glanced at the skinned, red pile of flesh Infinitypear was carrying. She grinned.
“What about the key?”
“Looked about. Was in little den. Had a box! See? Look!”
They’d found…a key. Which a racoon had hoarded, along with a little lockbox. When Bird trooped out with the others, they found an abandoned homestead.
The little lockbox held the owner’s fortune. Which was fifty six silver pieces, two gold, and a gold ring.
Niers Astoragon needed a drink. Rasktooth and Infinitypear were beaming over their find and ‘adventure’, which had involved a bit of quick tracking and exploring.
A Level 5 [Adventurer]’s…adventure. Something an Antinium, who had an income of exactly zero, and a Cave Goblin, who had a similar economic background, thought was amazing. The racoon was worth more than the gold to them, but Infinitypear shared the ‘loot’ with Rasktooth, and the Cave Goblin wore the unenchanted gold ring proudly while Infinitypear got the shiny coins—and an invitation to the gambling with Ulvama, Gna, Octavia, and the Brothers.
“Dead gods dammit.”
Niers groaned. Where was his real adventure? Where was his conflict? One monster! Just one! There had to be one Gold-rank…berserk Tebrebull or something around here, right? What about a nest of horrors, drawn to the unusual prey so far from usual civilization?
He had been a Named Adventurer! He was the Titan of Baleros! He was…
Hell’s Warden. Niers kicked around in a bored rage in Bird’s hat until the Antinium shook it.
 
——
 
Niers was right. There were actually multiple Gold-rank threats in the region, some of which had actually noticed the group’s passing.
Even the very same creatures which had a title attached to slaying them. A small nest.
…The Cetoire Hunter, an old, biological, artificial creation crossed paths with the Creler nest. Nearly two dozen tiny Crelers and one larger, Juvenile one scuttled past the Gold-ranked monster. Both of them were heading away from the presence they’d sensed.
At top speed, so fast they didn’t even bother to kill each other.
The problem Niers Astoragon didn’t realize he had was that he was leaking his true nature. And the very same monsters could sense it. They took one look at him and left.
Even the Crelers. If they had a thought-process at this stage in life, it was something like this: they sensed him. Hell’s Warden. Crelerbane. Someone who had killed their kin! And that drove them into a ravening fr—wait a second. How many had he…?
Oh god, oh god, oh no, oh no—
And then they ran. Every species tended to defecate before a situation that required fast movement; it was a flight-or-fight response and Crelers were no different. They expelled the waste—what little they could not digest—along with the food meant to keep them growing and fled as fast as they could to somewhere away from this bane of their kind.
It was a peaceful night.
 
——
 
The next day, the band of travellers in pursuit of Mrsha found one of the trade routes stretching across Izril.
Snapjaw came swooping out of the air around two hours to dawn. Everyone stopped, wondering if she’d lost the trail.
The trail for Mrsha was not easy to follow. Sergeant Gna’s nose and her tracking Skills literally kept them on track; without her [Regain Pursuit] Skill, and her ability to direct Snapjaw and Badarrow in the right directions, the Goblins would never spot the minute trail.
What they could spot was thanks to Ulvama, who had given Badarrow a magic stone to sense powerful magical residue. They essentially dowsed the trail that Wanderer had left; neither scent nor magic were strong enough to let either side follow without the other.
And both failed without Niers, incidentally, who had to give both Gna and Ulvama’s magic the extra oomph to track the Gnoll. But Snapjaw wasn’t here to say she needed Gna to ride ahead; she jumped off Icecube’s back as the Frost Wyvern stared at Xeu.
Xeu stared back. She scuttled forwards and poked Icecube in the talon. The Frost Wyvern huffed a bit of cold breath and Xeu scurried back. But not far.
Friendship had been established yesterday.
“Big road. Paved. Nice stones. Big, wide—not many travellers, but is road. Have to cross and hide, but is flat like this, and road goes next to huuuuuge lake over there. Too hard hide unless we run to forest…very far.”
Snapjaw gave the others her assessment of the problem. The problem also being that Mrsha’s trail was heading south-east, across the road.
“Well. Snapjaw can try to keep tracking if she flies really high, but the rest of us need to keep out of sight. We could have the others wait until night again and catch up? And send…?”
The issue was the Goblins and Antinium. Fals raked at his hair. Salkis, Gna, Garia, Fierre, Octavia, and even the Brothers could all travel without too much suspicion, unless Salkis’ family was after her as she thought, but what of the two species who were kill-on-sight for most of Izril?
Splitting up the group was inherently dangerous, as Bird’s Skills only affected the people with him. Then again, that might let them keep up…
Bird was not part of this discussion. He had taken a nap on the wagon because he was sleepy even with the promise of hunting night-birds.
“Niers. Niers.”
“What? Shut up, Bird. I’m listening. I think I can deal with this. I need you to tell them what I’m going to say. I’m going to coach you. One sec. Is that Goblin incapable of talking in actual geographical details? She’s a [Chieftain]!”
He was glowering at Snapjaw as Bird sleepily raised his head. The Antinium regarded Niers.
“Okay. Then I did not level and I will not tell you about my new fantabulous Skill.”
Niers glanced back at Bird.
“You just levelled up?”
“Yes.”
“Well—tell me. And fantabulous is not a word.”
“Yes it is. Erin uses it.”
Niers glared at Bird. The Antinium happily annoyed the little man.
“What’s your new Skill? Come on, Bird. We don’t have time! I need you to repeat my words exactly. No making up anything this time. We have to convince them…”
“There will be no need. Because I am a superior Bird. I am now a Level 7 [Liar] because my lies are so big even I cannot believe them. Would you like me to tell you?”
“Yes, Bird. Tell me.”
“Say ‘please’.”
Niers snapped.
“Just tell me already! Levelling up is not impressive, Bird! It’s Level 7.”
Bird looked hurt.
“But I am already a [Bird Hunter] over Level 30. I am also a [Singer] and [Tactician] and [Revalantor] Level 4. My quick levelling with so many classes is thus extraordinary and I deserve a pat on the head. Maybe an egg.”
“No, it’s not.”
“Yes it is.”
“No, it’s not, Bird. Because I’m Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros. You’re not levelling faster because you’re an amazing [Liar]. It’s because I have [Swift Levelling] and I’ve been using it on you all since we started travelling.”
Bird dropped the egg. He looked at Niers. Then he opened his mandibles to protest that Skill did not exist or everyone would try to get it. And then he looked at the greatest [Strategist] with all his Skills.
“…My accomplishments have been invalidated and I am now sad.”
“You still have to earn them. Just…what’s your Skill?”
Bird sulked for four seconds, then cheered up since he was levelling. Niers rubbed at his head. Everyone loved to tell him it was cheating. Cheating? At what? Erin Solstice clearly had the benefit of that Skill. No one hit Level 40…he wondered who’d boosted her. That Grand Magus?
“I am now able to use [Marionette’s Imitation]. Praise me.”
Niers’ head snapped up. He looked at Bird. Then he developed the most evil grin Apista had ever seen. The Ashfire Bee grabbed one of the eggs and flew off. Good for Bird.
 
——
 
Something was different about Bird when he strode into the meeting about the road and their problem. Oh, he was the same Bird, wearing his weird new hat. His voice was the same…but it had a sudden authority, a difference in cadence now and then.
Bird would say something without the correct body-language to convey it, at first, but he began to act more normally—for Bird—soon enough. Even so.
“We are going to go across the road. Now. Listen to me, because I am Bird and I have a superior plan.”
The Goblins, Antinium, and others looked at him incredulously. Bird happily moved his mandibles in time to Niers talking. This was quite fun. He waved all four arms, gesticulating in how he felt Niers would like.
The others listened. They argued. Badarrow did not like the idea, but Snapjaw had heard of it working before. Numbtongue eventually smiled, and that was that. Pivr and Xeu expressed concerns, but agreed to try it.
They could always run away.
 
——
 
The trade roads of Izril were safe*. And that asterisk applied for any trade road in the world. Safe, until it wasn’t.
It just meant you weren’t going through untamed wilds, or ill-used roads, which were more dangerous because there were less people there.
[Bandits] could still hit you. Rogue monsters could come out. And so on and so forth. But there were more people on the road, it was paved, closer to nearby settlements who had a vested interest in keeping them relatively secure…
Safe*. For the Drakes and Gnolls who frequented them, it was still a good idea to be cautious. If you had a caravan, you had [Guards]. If you were travelling, you were either doing it when you knew the roads had enough security, or you could defend yourself from a [Mugger] as you went from inn to inn along known safe areas.
A trade road could still be empty for an hour with no one in sight—or as crowded as hell. Entire armies might use them for war, ironically invalidating the name. The traffic you could expect, however, was generally sporadic until you neared a larger city.
Even so, if you had a bunch of Goblins or obvious [Bandits] riding down it, you’d see them pretty fast. It would be stupid for a group to travel down it comprised of the hated Antinium and Goblins. Of course, who would ever imagine that could happen?
“This is the stupidest thing we’ve ever done. Why are we trusting Bird?”
Sergeant Gna was sweating so hard her fur glistened in the morning light. So was Fals as he jogged down the road. He waved at a wagon passing by.
“Gna, shut up. They’ll hear us. Uh—hi.”
A Drake riding past gave the Human a long, askance look. He didn’t reply.
“Humans.”
