Selys sat up in her seat and stared at the two players.
“I don’t know much about chess, but I’ve seen Olesm play. You’re way better than he is, Erin. And you…um…Pawn.”
He bowed to her, and she flinched.
“I merely learn from Erin Solstice. She is an expert in this game.”
“And that’s another thing. How are you so good at that, Erin? Olesm says you’re the best player he’s ever seen or heard of. Are you a high-level [Tactician], then?”
“No.”
Erin was mildly insulted by the suggestion. She helped Pawn reset the board as Selys frowned.
“What about some other class? Or is it a rare Skill?”
“No, it’s just skill. Not the kind you get from leveling up. Just skill in the game. I don’t have any levels besides [Innkeeper].”
“But then how are you so good?”
Erin took her time before answering. She reset her pieces and switched the board around. Silently, Pawn moved a piece forwards, and she countered. Another game began, but she had the same feeling.
“I just played since I was a kid, that’s all. Every day. At first it was just a hobby, y’know? Something I saw an adult do, but then I found I liked it. When I won my first tournament, I was over the moon. And after that, I just kept playing.”
Selys glanced at Krshia.
“But wasn’t chess invented only a few years ago by the Titan of B—”
Again, she received an elbow in the side and glared at Krshia, but then she stared at Erin in sudden interest.
“Well, I guess maybe here it’s new. But chess has been around a lot longer where I come from.”
Erin smiled briefly.
“A lot longer. And lots of people love to play it where I come from. There’s strategy books, lessons online, tutors…I learned it all. Fun fact? I learned how to play chess blindfolded before I learned how to ride a bike.”
She moved another piece. After a second of staring, Pawn moved his queen and took it. She frowned and kept playing. Memory was overlapping with reality.
“I was never the best. But I was good. Really good. For my age? I was incredible. I played in tournaments, I stayed up late playing chess—my parents let me. They knew I had a gift. So I would study chess every moment I had free time, play adults, go to chess clubs and tournaments after school, and I kept winning. But then once you get to a high enough level, you start losing.”
Like now. Just like now, and then, Erin stared at the board and felt outclassed. She moved a rook and watched it die two moves in the future to protect her queen.
“It happens. And it’s not surprising. Even a genius kid can’t beat an adult who’s played thousands—tens of thousands more games. But every time I lost, it crushed me. So I quit.”
“You q—ow! Stop hitting me!”
Erin smiled, but it was fleeting. Her entire focus was devoted to the game before her and speaking. She had to admit, she’d thought she was too good to beat at one point. As if you could talent past experience.
…Much like Pawn was doing, actually. Erin glanced up at him. This was impossible for someone to do, play at this level without practice. It was more than intelligence or experience. She knew patterns and strategy. Yet he won. She went on, remembering.
“Somewhere…sometime I guess I lost interest in playing chess. Or maybe I stopped having fun. I don’t know how to explain it. I was just a kid, but I spent every waking moment playing the stupid game, going to tournaments, studying, winning, losing—I never really lived. I never played with my friends.”
She moved a pawn. The Workers paused, and then Pawn moved a piece.
“When I realized that, I quit. I just stopped playing, threw away my chess set…I did normal things. It took me years before I even looked at a chess board, and then it was fun to play. But I never wanted to be a Grandmaster again. The pressure, living just for that one game—it’s too much.”
Pawn took her queen, ironically, with a pawn. It couldn’t be avoided, but Erin knew how the game was going to end now.
“I guess I’m just a normal girl who’s better than 99% of the world at chess. But that last 1%. That’s a heck of a large gap.”
“If that is the case, Miss Erin, I shudder to imagine what kind of geniuses live in your home nation.”
At some point, Olesm had appeared, and Pisces, and even three of the four Goblins. Rags sat in the grass among the Workers, silently watching the game. The Antinium looked at the Goblins and then away, but Selys gripped a dagger at her belt as she glared at the Goblins, and Krshia sneezed. Yet there was peace, however tenuous. Perhaps it had to do with the pile of Goblin corpses buried in the unmarked grave a mile away.
“I’m sure you don’t think of it this way, but I cannot imagine a player better than you, Erin. I have Skills that allow me to play the game better than most, but I cannot beat you no matter how hard I try.”
Pisces nodded in agreement. Erin grinned mirthlessly. They hadn’t seen how the last few games had been played.
“Why don’t I level, then? I don’t have any levels in [Tactician], but Pawn tells me the other Workers have leveled up in it. Probably the Goblins as well.”
Erin moved another piece and watched Pawn hesitate. Well, good.
“We’ve got a ranking system in my world. People who play chess in tournaments get a score, which goes up and down when they win or lose. A Grandmaster’s got about 2600 or more points, and the really amazing chess players all have over 2200 points. If you have that many, you’re pretty much one of the best in the nation.”
He decided to lose a knight as opposed to his bishop. Erin frowned. The game was ending. How was he this good? It was impossible. She felt like she was playing…
A Grandmaster. But it couldn’t be.
“I got to just over 2000 when I was a kid. That’s insane but—it’s still a huge difference between that and being a Grandmaster. If I kept playing, maybe I’d be around 2400 right now. But either way, I’m one of the best in the place where I lived. In this world—I probably am the best. So why don’t I level?”
Olesm appeared distressed.
“…I could not say. It does not make sense.”
“I can.”
Pisces nodded self-importantly as everyone looked at him. He was still arrogant, but it was muted arrogance, subdued. Erin was grateful for that.
“Classes are based on what we pursue. Yet—by that same notion, what we consider unimportant or trivial fails to trigger the same classes in other people. It is a known phenomenon I studied during my time in Wistram Academy. I wrote a paper that—well, suffice it to say, if you do not consider chess to be anything other than a game, you would not level.”
Olesm and Selys looked incredulously at Pisces.
“A game? But it’s obviously a game.”
“Allow me to rephrase my statement.”
Pisces looked annoyed as he searched for a better explanation.
“What I mean to say is that if Mistress Solstice does not consider any of the tactical applications of learning to play chess—how moving pawns is similar to organizing warriors, for instance—she would not level in the [Tactician] class. To begin with, the amount of experience gained from playing chess is far lower than actual work as a strategist, so if she cared not at all about games of war as opposed to games of pieces…”
“I don’t level. Makes sense.”
Erin tipped over her king and sighed. She’d sped up the rate of her play, but somehow that had only made her game worse, not Pawn’s.
“I lose. Again.”
She sat back in the grass and looked up at the fading sky. Olesm and Pisces stared open-mouthed at Pawn as he carefully set the game back together.
“How are you doing it? No one gets this good overnight. Not even a genius can play like that on his first go.”
Pawn ducked his head in front of Erin’s stare, cowed.
“Apologies. But the Innkeeper Solstice makes a mistake. This one—I am sorry. You misunderstand, Erin. At this moment, you are not simply playing me, but all the Antinium gathered here.”
He gestured around at the grassy knoll where the countless workers, the two Drakes, two Humans, Goblins, and single Gnoll sat.
“The hundred play as one mind. We see a hundred moves and play them all in turn. We think together and play as one body.”
Erin stared at him.
“Hive mind.”
“Just so. We think as one. That is the nature of the Antinium. Even if—that nature has been compromised by the experiment. Though I am individual, that is still true of me. I do not know why, but I feel…”
Pawn gestured silently around at the other Workers. Something was happening, and not even the other Antinium seemed to understand that. Yet if they did feel each other’s thoughts—Erin looked at him.
“And Klbkch? And the Worker? Did you feel…?”
Pawn shook his head, slowly. 
“We felt their loss, Erin. But only when we knew it. The Queen remembers. She knows us all. But we—we are Antinium. This is new.”
He stared down at his hands as the [Innkeeper] lowered her eyes. Until Pawn spoke.
“At least, Klbkch will not be gone forever. So long as the Queen lives, she will remember him.”
Erin stopped placing chess pieces back on the board. She stared into Pawn’s fragmented eyes, urgently seeking the truth.
“But what about the other Worker? What about him?”
Her reply was a sad look. Pawn’s antennae stopped moving, and he replied quietly.
“Why would she remember him? He was no Prognugator. He had no name.”
“But he was brave. He—he died for me. Both of them should be remembered.”
Erin clenched a hand in the grass. Pawn looked at her, and then he bowed his head.
“He was the designated Worker who won 54.6% of all games he played. He had no name. If you wish it, I will remember him, Miss Solstice.”
Her head came up. Erin gave Pawn a pained look, but one filled with gratitude.
“So will I. And you won’t forget?”
He shook his head. Pawn peered at Erin’s shimmering eyes and tried to reassure her.
“Do not be sad, Miss Solstice. We are the Antinium. So long as the Hive exists, all will be well. So long as the Queen lives—nothing else matters.”
Erin paused. She looked down and wiped at her eyes.
“I wish that were true.”
The Antinium moved in shock, but some of them turned from Erin to Pawn and listened. Selys shifted in her seat. She bowed her head. Olesm cleared his throat.
“As much as it pains me to say it, Erin, I have to disagree with you. Klbkch was truly unique. He was the first—and only—Antinium ever to be accepted as a member of the Watch. Even among the Antinium’s Prognugators, and there are few, he was the only trusted Antinium to ever exist. Ever since the Antinium entered the city ten years ago, he’s been the one who acted as a liaison between their Queen and our city. He is—was the representative of their race. I, um, feel like I should say that about him now. I quite respected him, despite him being an—an Antinium.”
“I never knew he was so important.”
Krshia nodded.
“He was humble. It was why many liked him. And now he is gone.”
“Not so long as the Queens live. He will be remembered. It is more than any other Antinium has.”
Pawn stared around with something approaching defiance. Erin shook her head.
“But he can’t speak to us, Pawn. He’s gone for us.”
He hesitated.
“I—see. I feel there is much misunderstood, but I respect your grief.”
Awkwardly, he placed his king back in position.
“Will you play another game, Erin?”
“Would it do any good? I can’t win. You—you’re better than I am.”
Olesm and Pisces began to protest, but they were quickly drowned out. Every Worker clicked in denial of Erin’s statement. They made a low buzzing sound that was quiet individually, but sounded like an armageddon of bees together. Selys clutched at Krshia’s fur.
“There is much we learn from each game, Erin Solstice. Please do not stop teaching.”
Erin smiled hollowly.
“Teaching?”
It didn’t feel like that. It felt like running away from everything. But fine. She owed the Workers. She owed the Antinium. So fine.
Slowly, she drew the board away from Pawn, batting away his hands.
“Stop that. Let me show you something.”
She reversed the board and moved the white pawn forwards.
“This—is an Immortal Game.”
Instantly, Pawn stopped protesting. Pisces and Olesm exchanged a glance and moved up. Rags was already sitting next to the board. Erin slowly moved the black pawn up in front of the white one.
“In the history of chess, there are a lot of famous games that we study because of how brilliant they are. Some people call other games Immortal Games as well. And there are a few famous ones. But this. This is the Immortal Game. Some of the moves aren’t considered as good nowadays, but this is still considered one of the pinnacle moments of chess in my world.”
Krshia breathed in sharply, but Erin’s words passed over the audience as she moved the chess pieces slowly across the board. Slowly, the two sides played against each other. Erin pointed out each gambit, each strategy and attack and counter as the game played out.
“King’s Gambit Accepted to open with, and then the Bishop’s Gambit…see here, he tries the Byran-Counter Gambit with the pawn? And then the white side attacks the queen with a knight here…”
She played the game out from memory. She’d seen it so many times in her head it was second nature to her. The chess players watched, frowning, trying to keep up with the dizzying display before them. But the Workers stared at the board, and as Erin moved into the last phase of the game and took the white queen, Pawn spoke.
“We can see the ending.”
Erin looked up. Olesm and Pisces stared at Pawn in disbelief.
“Show me.”
Pawn hesitated, but then reached out and moved the white pawn up. Erin stared down at the board and played the next move, checking the white side’s king with a queen. Pawn moved the king diagonally, and the game continued.
A perfect game. He played the game exactly how Erin remembered it. In the silence, she toppled the black king and looked up. Olesm and Pisces were staring at Pawn as if he’d turned into a horrific monster.
“Good. Now play me. One last time.”
Silently, Pawn sat opposite Erin and set up the pieces once more. She stared at the board. She was white. Slowly, she moved a pawn forwards.
“I was always afraid of losing as a kid. Always. I studied so hard so I wouldn’t lose. Maybe that’s why I never improved. I thought losing was a terrible thing.”
Pawn waited and studied the board. He moved a knight forwards in response. Erin whispered.
“But chess? Chess isn’t scary. Not compared to other things.”
That was the last thing Erin said. She wiped at her blurry eyes and set aside her heart for a moment so she could play. It was a relief. It felt so good to lay everything aside and at the same time to let it all out. To let it hurt and play.
