Erick and Kiri stood on the sands, just outside of a dense air, while Poi sat on a chair Erick had conjured for the tired man, inside the dense air of a [Prismatic Ward]. Erick had had to juggle a few casts of [Prismatic Ward], through his Ophiels, when the densities he had set up around Candlepoint and under that lake flickered out, but he sorted that problem quick enough.

Teressa had been a late addition to the party, at Poi’s request. She stood beside the man providing a bit more vigilance than the sapphire-scaled man was capable of achieving right now.

Poi grumbled at Erick’s unsaid thoughts.

Erick just smiled, then said to Kiri, “So what’s your goal, here? Mine is a Variable cost Variable damage spell. Preferably with a large multiplier.”

Kiri almost said something, but she seemed to choose different words, saying, “I’ve been thinking about it since you mentioned it before, and I remembered a discussion about Variable Cost Variable Damage spells from my time in the Tower.” She continued, “Leaving off the various tactical mana problems of such a spell, because we can, mostly— Firstly: What spell are you thinking of for the base spell?”

“[Force Bolt].” Erick smiled. “I want perfect ‘unerring’, and a times ten multiplier, too.”

Kiri eyed him, saying, “That much mana into a [Force Bolt] is going to make it wickedly unwieldy. Besides that, if you’re throwing a 15,000 point Bolt at something, it’s going to go through the target. For some creatures, that won’t matter.” She said, “It’s like: I can stick a knife through a person, but to cleave them in half would be much more effective at the desired goal of killing. I think, if you were going for VCVD, then having some of that VD be in damage over time? This would be a good option. This is also why I like Fire spells so much. There is a lot of upfront damage, but the damage over time ensures that your mana is not wasted.”

Erick listened. He thought. He said, “Those are some good points.” He added, “I still want massive damage, massive— [Force Bolt], [Force Bomb]. Explodes on contact with target for— What’d you say? VCVD. I like that.” Erick decided, “A bolt that carries a VCVD charge that explodes on contact for massive damage.”

“Then...” Kiri said, “How about you also try a VCVD [Plasma Bolt] that imparts all of its energy to the target, instead of one that punches through?”

“… Oh!” Erick said, “That’s a good way to do it, too. How to impart energy, though? [Force Wave] is the usual way.”

“That was my thinking, too.” Kiri asked, “How much energy do you think Plasma can hold?”

Erick looked up to the sun, behind the clouds. “A lot.” He looked back down, saying, “Plasma is also capable of conducting a vast amount of electrical charge.” He decided, “So we’re making at least two spells, then. One to impart Heat to a target. The other to coat them with something that will greatly increase the damage of all Lightning spells.” He added, “And then, you know. [Lightning Beam], or something. I already have [Call Lightning], so I’ll try to make [Lightning Beam] the normal way.”

“That’s another thing to consider.” Kiri said, “Electrical charges attract quite easily. In this way, you can likely ignore the weighty problems of a VCVD [Lightning Force Bolt].”

“Oh!” Erick said, “I like that.” He said, “So a few spells to try out. VCVD punching [Plasma Bolt]. VCVD heating [Plasma Bolt]. [Lightning Gathering Bolt]. VCVD [Lightning Ball Bolt].”

Kiri stepped back, into the dense air behind them both, saying, “I’m not even sure how to make a VCVD spell. So. Good luck!”

Erick turned to face the orange desert, smiling. He had no idea how to make a VCVD spell, either, but he was going to try! ‘Esoteric Elements’ had given him some ideas, but only when it came to Blood. Blood magic had a lot of Variable options, it seemed. Erick had the Blood Magic Class Ability, too, so this should be a simple application of an already known phenomenon.

He had never really used his Blood Magic option, but there was no time to try like the present!

With his palm held up, he channeled pure Health through his hand. A fountain of white light appeared, as his body broke out in a sweat and his heart beat hard, like he was running for his life. Fear roiled through his body and he cut the channel short. He had channeled Health before, but it was always terrifying, for some reason. He channeled again. He got a feel for the sound of his pure Health, and the feeling of terror that came with it. He moved on.

Channeling his own Mana was something he had done long before today. That particular prominence of white sounded like possibility beyond the physical.

Going back to Health, he heard now the physicality of the white flare. The stability. The solidness.

Flaring Mana was like listening to the ethereal.

He pointed to a pillar he had already conjured, about thirty meters away. That pillar was the only thing sticking up from the ground, for several kilometers around. Aside from the mimics and agave, of course, but those monsters and plants were well away from this location.

A bolt of white light ripped from the edge of the aura that surrounded his pointed finger, pulling away his solidity, his Health, as he cast a [Force Bolt], sending away a part of his ethereal self. As the bolt left his control, it left numbness in its passing. As the bolt struck the pillar, Erick shook his arm, working his blood back into his hand. Pins and needles touched across his fingers like a hundred tiny bugs, as a blue box appeared.

Blood Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana + Variable

A bolt of your power unerringly strikes a target for Variable damage.

… It was okay. It was not great. It wasn’t anything like the [Pure Blood Bolt] Erick had seen in ‘Esoteric Elements’, but he had gotten the VCVD part correct. And, you know what? [Blood Bolt] was pretty good for his very first Blood spell, ever! Actually hitting the uncommon Elements in your magic was pretty hard to do.

Kiri spoke up, “What was that?”

Erick turned and said, “[Blood Bolt]. I got VCVD, too.” Erick handed her the blue box—

Kiri did not take the box, as she recoiled, saying, “What the fu—! Blood!? Really?”

Teressa laughed, and teased, “Oh? Is magic scary now, Kiri?”

Poi, still shading his eyes with his hand, spoke up, “Kiri. He’s an archmage, vetted and approved by the powers of Spur. Please keep that in mind when you speak of magics that are illegal in most cities of the world.”

Erick frowned at Poi’s obvious attempt to educate everyone around him. Poi returned the frown, with a knowing look in his eyes as if to say ‘Yes, that was a restricted spell.’

Kiri looked mollified, briefly, before turning subdued, saying, “You know what? You’re right. Sorry. That was immature of me.”

Erick was now hung up on everyone’s reaction, though, saying to them all, “It’s just spending Health in addition to Mana. It’s basically a [Strike], and—” He pinned Teressa with his eyes, saying, “You warriors do that all the time? What’s the big deal?”

Teressa just smiled, and shrugged. “It’s not that illegal in orcol lands. But we’re protected from unwanted Blood Magic because of Aloethag.”

“I overreacted.” Kiri said, “Sorry. Won’t happen again. I just… I just need to make clear, that…” She looked to Poi. “That we really will be experimenting with these sorts of magics. Legally experimenting.”

Poi grumbled out, “Erick can. You’re going to have to prove your worth to Spur, if you want the same dispensation.”

Erick sort of frowned at everyone, though.

Kiri said, “Okay. Then… Okay.” She looked to Erick, saying, “Sorry.”

It seemed, for not the first time, Erick simply did not have the same cultural background that would have caused him to fear things like Blood Magic. But besides all that: he just didn’t find any of this dangerous stuff all that fear inducing, at all. What was Blood Magic, but magic that attacked the body? Bah! So did a [Rock Bolt] to the brainpan. Shadow magic was similarly shunned, for what was the problem of Shadow Magic? That Shades used it? Bah! Shadow magic was his daughter’s magic, and the magic of the enemy. That was all it was.

The only actually fearful things, in Erick’s mind, were Soul Magic, and Mind Magic. But people like Poi had a good lid on Mind Magic, and if Poi was anything to go by, there was nothing to fear from that angle. And people like Silverite kept Soul Magic out of Spur, as best she could. Silverite’s murder of all necromancers and all angels and demons in the area was the main thing keeping the Quiet War at bay, in Spur, by dropping the Participation Percentage from humanoid kills to 1%, at the most.

So what was Blood Magic, but yet another one of the many ways to inflict pain upon a person?

Erick asked, “Can’t you just heal up most Blood Magic damage with a [Greater Treat Wounds], or such? Or is there some lasting effect that I just don’t know about.” He rapidly concluded, “There are lasting effects, aren’t there.”

Kiri paled a little.

To Erick’s surprise, it was not Poi or Kiri who spoke, but Teressa.

She said, “Almost all Blood Mage effects are long lasting. A proper Blood Mage can cut off your arm and prevent it from being regrown without special healing. There’s also tumors that suck up healing magic, and Blood Curses that are passed down through children. The more useful side of it is cosmetic surgery that lasts, or fixing congenital health issues. But the major issue that most people run into with hunting down errant Blood Mages, and what Aloethag does not protect against, is that Blood Magic can partially ignore all defenses. A shield that can negate a thousand damage can also turn a well made thousand point [Blood Bolt] aside, but the warrior would still feel the pinch of maybe half of that spell.”

… That actually sounded amazing. Maybe he should look into Blood Magic, more?

At that thought, Poi eyed Erick, and then Teressa. He sighed.

Teressa said, “When you’re fighting a Blood Mage, you either run away, or you get a temporary blessing from Aloethag. If you don’t, then you or your children could die later to some unforeseen problem.”

“Okay.” Erick said, “Now I understand why Blood Magic is scary.”

“The lasting effects is the part that scares me.” Kiri said, “Blood Mages can craft unique magical diseases that [Cleanse] cannot overcome. Decay-based afflictions that tear you up for increasing amounts of damage, from the smallest cuts.” She shivered. “Spells that turn you into abominations… ugh!”

Teressa teased Kiri, “Someone told you about Medicant, didn’t they?”

“Holy gods! Yes! They did.” Kiri exclaimed, “That story kept me up for days!”

“They killed him a hundred years ago, Kiri,” Poi said.

Kiri countered, “His magic is still around!”

“Oh yeah, it is.” Teressa said, “I saw one of them once—”

Kiri shivered, and recoiled, like she had touched the absolute nastiest thing in the world, saying, “Ew ew ew ew ew!”

“Who?” Erick asked, finally fed up with not knowing what anyone else was talking about.

Teressa explained, “Blood Mage Shade. He’s the creator of [Grand Aberration]. Killzone killed him after the Great Purge of Spur, when they were taking back Forward Base. But [Grand Aberration]s still pop up from time to time.”

Poi explained better, “Sometimes some adventurers will go poking where they really shouldn’t poke, and they end up joined together in an unholy mass of blood and viscera and themselves. This pile of people then crawls around, growing ever larger. It’s a city killer. We know [Grand Aberration] is not the actual name of the spell, and that it is likely a form of [Familiar] summoning. But that’s what we’ve called those Blood Magic monsters.”

Teressa said, “The Medicant probably left some artifact to transform the user somewhere down below. Doesn’t work on wrought. Killzone always goes out to kill every one that appears.”

“Oh.” Erick said, “That’s good and scary.”

Kiri shivered. Teressa smirked at her, but said nothing else, as Poi shaded his eyes with his hand.

Erick turned back to the pillar. Back to work! Back to playing with possibly unethical and dangerous magic. He conjured an Ophiel. He took a step back.

Teressa giggled, seeing what was about to happen.

Erick had that Ophiel expend his full self on a [Blood Bolt].

A dot of white exploded from Ophiel like a cannon fired from the broadside of a warship, ripping the air with a cacophonous blast, blowing Erick’s hair back, first, and then knocking him off his feet via the sheer proximity to the spell casting. The white dot plowed toward the stone pillar, throwing sand into the air as it traveled.

It missed.

It struck the ground, sending up a massive plume of sand and stone into the air. Erick laughed. Teressa laughed, too. As the dust settled and a crater twenty meters long appeared, Erick laughed louder from his seated position, covered in sand. The pillar still stood strong.

Almost clinically, Kiri said, “For a moment, it looked like you might have overcome the aiming limitation.”

“It curved a little.” Erick got up to his feet with a helping hand from Teressa. “Thank you.” He dusted himself off, then said, “Now to make something that curves better!” What he didn’t say, was that he was also interested in making a [Blood Bolt] that cut through all defenses, to deal real damage. That seemed rather useful.

Poi sighed, long and suffering.
