Aimus hadn't heard that strict of a voice come out of Ren before, but nodded and ran back to the homestead to get the horse and cart. Ren fed the potions to Lucy slowly and stored the empty bottles to fill later.

“How are you feeling?” Ren asked.

Lucy tried not to sob while the tears ran down her cheeks. “I can't believe how much this hurts!” Lucy exclaimed and lifted one arm. The other arm, where the dire wolf had stabbed the shoulder, stayed immobile.

“I'd tell you that you'll get used to it after a while and can block it out; but because of the state your in, I don't think you're going to believe me.” Ren said and smiled.

Lucy laughed a bit then kept crying. Ren's healing potions only managed to stop the bleeding, the wounds were still there and looked bad. Aimus passed by with the horse and cart at a full trot. Ren smiled and made a decision that Lucy may not like.

“This may hurt a little bit.” Ren said.

“What... what are you-whoa!” Lucy started to say and Ren picked her up in a 'princess' carry, across the front of his chest with one arm under Lucy's upper back and one under her knees.

“Ren!” Lucy said. Lucy's wounded arm fit easily around Ren's shoulders and Lucy held on. “How... how are you doing this?”

Ren winked at Lucy and she blushed. Ren walked slowly down the road. It seemed Ren had run quite a ways to get to Lucy. It took about 10 minutes for Ren to get back to the homestead and as he walked down the small road to the house, Abigail came out with Ana hot on her heels.

“The spare room.” Ren said and Abigail nodded.

“Ana, get the extra blankets and put them on the bed in the spare room.” Abigail said and turned to Ren and Lucy. “That arm needs to be propped up and cleaned.” Abigail said and then looked at Lucy's shoulder. “That's actually not too bad.”

Ren smiled. Ren could only imagine that this was how Abigail had acted when he'd been 'hurt' that time. Abigail helped Ren carry Lucy through the house and to the spare room. Lucy was propped up in the bed and Abigail got a good look at Lucy's leg.

“That ankle needs to be healed, too.” Abigail said. “Aimus should be back with the healer soon.”

Ren nodded and turned to Lucy. “Lucy... it's really great to see you, but... what are you doing here? It's dangerous to travel alone.”

Lucy ducked her head. “I saw where you were before... and I've been trying to get here for days. I didn't realize how far away from the main city it was, though.”

Ren raised his eyebrow and Lucy continued. “After our... ah... little talk... I didn't know what to do.” Lucy said and looked Ren in the eye. “But after I left, I thought about it... and I've been fighting how I felt for a while. Nothing can happen right now... but in two weeks... maybe... just maybe... we could do something together.”

Ren smiled. “Well... it'll be my birthday, so anything you want to do is fine by me.”

Lucy's eyes widened.

I meant she could come and see me, but I'm pretty sure that's not what she's thinking. Ren thought and grinned.

Aimus came in with Camilla a few minutes later. Abigail told her what was wrong and Camilla nodded.

“I'll need some space.” Camilla said to Ren, who was standing next to the bed.

“Not a problem.” Ren said and backed away to stand by the wall. “I'll be right here, Lucy.”

Camilla glanced his way and Ren smiled to her. Camilla shrugged and sat down in the chair that Ana had brought in for her. “This won't hurt, but it will probably tingle a lot... like your arm is asleep and when you move it, the blood rushes back into it.”

“Ugh. I hate that feeling.” Lucy said.

Camilla laughed. “Everybody does.”
