ls once more. I did indeed gain new powers recently, but enough of that! This is my young charge until Master Cois returns, Quee,” the talking mushroom-man introduced the boy-spider.The mushroom... was talking.Whatever, it only had two legs and two eyes. Nina bolted for the door.She slipped past, body pressed to the wall as the young spider-boy eyed her. It seemed curious about her, mostly staring at her legs with alarm.“Uncle Mush... someone stole her legs!” he pointed.“It’s rude to point. Humans only have two. Think of them as very large goblins but with a habit of bathing occasionally,” the mushroom explained.As he spoke tiny mushrooms set into the wall began to play small trumpets and horns as the mushroom bowed to Isanella and Seth again.“My apologies. I am now Lord Mushy. A special creature of the Dungeon. You might remember the charming fellow playing the music as my brother, hm?” Lord Mushy seemed to almost jest at Isanella who was holding her lute with an excited expression.The music died slightly to be replaced by a voice.“Oh ho! Charming, only maybe brother? Amazingly talented and a superstar, of course! But enough about me, is that ISANELLA? Mushy, keep the one that looks ready to cry and the one that is staring at the pond room like its a soulmate. The star of the show must have his co-singer!” the deeper booming voice announced.Nina gaped again. Were there any mushrooms in this place that didn’t make noise?“What’s a soulmate?” Quee demanded coolly of Seth. The man had his eyes locked on the room down the hall. The glowing moss aided by the glowing mushrooms on the ceiling illuminated an almost mystical sight.Nina could only see something black and small in the room. A duck maybe and that was actually much better than spiders.“Someone you love very much,” Lord Mushy said kindly.“Then Momma Delta is my soulmate!” the spider boy announced with a pleased expression. Isanella cooed at this but then she turned to Seth, pushed him towards Lord Mushy and bowed to the spiders.“I shall come and dance soon, I am terribly sorry about the webs,” the woman said. The spiders waved this off as they made a big show of dethroning the spider and crowning a new leader with a dance.Even the large spider of white colour danced.Quee gasped and rushed into the room to join the party. New webs were strung up showing the downfall of a giant demon that looked suspiciously like Nina…Lord Mushy closed the door and sighed.“Long may she reign. Queen Arana Blade-legged seven eyed mysterious beauty of the spider kingdom, second of her name,” he snorted, his odd moustache twitching.“I’ll explain the semantics of love and soulmates to the young lad when he grows a tad. No doubt he will fall in love with some lovely person who comes to the Dungeon,” he waved away the scene.Isanella bowed once again and actually took off running down the hall before making a sharp left turn and vanishing around the corner.“But not all relationships need to be of love. Some are just of shared passions and friendship,” Lord Mushy said, sounding content as Isanella’s giggling faded as a door shut.“Is she in potential of pain?” Seth asked with a calm tone. Lord Mushy turned to him and Nina’s jaw dropped for a third time.“Fuska nouta waferi Isanella estu Maestro hiopt,” the talking mushroom said flawlessly, and Seth’s own mouth dropped.Seth fired back an eager question and the mushroom easily responded.Soon, Nina felt lost as they began to laugh and talk about something. Quiss’ name was mentioned.She got a little bored and wandered to the pond as the two followed, still yammering on in Seth’s language.She couldn’t blame Seth... this was... the most he’d probably spoken without frustration or misunderstanding in ages.Nina didn’t take it personally.She did take it personally when one of her clones began to drink the beer instead of serve it. She sent it a mental slap and it quickly got back to work.She bent down and stared at the duck as the odd room made her feel relaxed. Like a faux starry night in the woods. She smiled and splashed the water with her fingers.“Here duckie... wanna be petted? Come to Big sis Nina,” she tutted and whistled.The duck opened one red eye and stood. It waddled into the water and began to float closer.Nina was pleased and reached for it.That was when air bubbles breached the surface, appearing between the golden fish and the silvery ones... A dark shadow appeared briefly then the water exploded as the duck was lifted up into the air as a giant demonic hellish freaking alien soul sucking monstrous worm shrieked into view.Nina screamed, the worm screamed and the duck flapped back to its nest to go back to sleep.Nina was frozen for a moment, ready to split into Fury and Hunter and leave Drama behind before the worm flopped onto the beach and went still.That confused Nina more than anything.“Bob also wants to be petted, my dear. Be a champ, it likes that spot under one of its’ mandibles,” Lord Mushy offered.Nina shakenly petted the wet glimmering skin and the shrieking became a long whine of pleasure.Nina sat there, staring as her hand moved over the skin as her mental faculties made the other two clones also stare in horror.“Drama is screwed.”“Was nice knowing her, I guess.”Nina was going to kill herself when she got home.
