That made two monsters with a huge weakness to fire! First the trolls and now Booky. Delta would honestly be upset at such a weakness on the floor but...She winced.Anyone who made it through the first floor after using fire would probably be too traumatised to ever risk setting anything else on fire again in her Dungeon.Booky broke apart suddenly and the shelves returned.Without an invader, she guessed even a golem-like Booky would get bored. At least if someone wanted to use her map, they would have to trade knowledge or burn Booky to ashes to even get at it.That made Delta feel better knowing that people she considered guests and friends would be safe.Still, she wanted the garden secure and the feast hall ready to be defended before she urged her monsters onwards.Delta floated to the kitchen, eager for the room converting to be done.---The Gazebo had evaded them well until now. All but this corner was now Deltian. Their hard work had beaten this monster's sheer tenacity to live. Foolish! When it fought hard, the Mana would go beyond hard! It would reach the pinnacle of Delta Mana and push on!No mere Gazebo could halt their advance!First the dirt... then the mushrooms, then the dead... then this Gazebo then... one day very soon, the gods themselves would be a feast!If Delta, the great mother... wanted a god, of course.The Gazebo reared back and they charged, aiming to nibble it atom by atom. Their hearts beat as one and they destroyed their foe!Victory! The thing writhed and just when they nearly had it down, it kicked hard off the wall, flipping like a table to a far door, crashing through it with great accuracy.The Mana went still.Then it bubbled like a furious foamy bath.COWARD!The Mana reared back and charged at the door but the Gazebo, scared and missing two arches, kicked the door shut. The clear cut between their space and Delta made them unable to move on. Monsters! Life in one form or another existed on the other side!They had been repelled!They carved that Gazebo’s image into the very core of themselves. Every atom of Delta would know that Gazebo.Know it and hate it...---“You know, gazebos are kind of tacky. I think there's one in the garden. I might get rid of it,” Delta told Jeb as he tried to stir black burned soup“Gazbos sound boring,” Jeb agreed happily as he sent his sample up the dumbwaiter for Fera to taste.The black sludge moved and Delta blinked as a lost Pygmy Mushroom seemed trapped in it like tar before the lift vanished.Jack whistled.“I saw those buggers sneaking down the stairs. They’re kinda aggressive,” he said. Delta glared at him.“They’re sweet things! Jeb, don’t cook anymore of the Pygmies!” she chided.Jeb eyed his hand, where about a dozen darts failed to pierce his skin.“Can’t help it... they took over a cupboard. Got Piggys in the kitchen now. Like bugs but no bugs here because Fera doesn’t allow it,” Jeb nodded. Delta stared owlishly at them.She stuck her head into the lonely cupboard at the back of the kitchen.A tiny... village was being made. The young leader of the group chittered and made shrill cries telling a story. Delta got the jist.They had declared this floor a sort of training ground where they sent their warriors to train and survive against the black cook. Delta guessed once they became lethargic enough... they returned to the second floor and sent a new batch to train.It was a holy pilgrimage... to a kitchen.The village consisted of a hole in a bucket and various pots and pans being turned upside down with wooden spoons used as bridges.Okay, maybe not as harmless as Delta liked to believe. She cleared her throat and the entire village went silent as they stared up at her.“Did you harm Jeb? Or try to?” she asked, voice sharp. The various tiny cute pygmies bowed and their cute beady eyes sparkled-Delta gathered her willpower and glared.“I will not accept you harming Jeb or ruining his cooking. If you are here... you help Jeb or I swear to every God I remember that I will make you write apology notes to him,” she warned.If you encounter this story on Amazon, note that it's taken without permission from the author. Report it.There was no movement before one by one, the Pygmies raised their hands to form a wonky triangle above their heads.Their version of ‘your word is law’.Delta felt a bit crummy about being strict but them’s the breaks when raising a Dungeon of monsters.One by one, they trotted out the cupboard and climbed until they were near Jeb. Jack hastily dove for cover.Jeb blinked but didn’t seem alarmed like Jack. One by one the Pygmies raised their hands and soft trilling noise began to emanate from the tiny forms until a full-blown hymn and choir filled the kitchen.The song of the people entranced Delta and Jeb. The pitch grew higher until it was a bird song of emotion.Then they bowed, the song ending.That was when chaos happened as all ten pygmies shot off to various parts of the kitchen to gather supplies, while the three wisest of them studied the recipe Fera had written in very basic diagrams for Jeb.They pointed for Jeb to start chopping as bowls and pots were rolled into position. The Pygmies rolled the bowls and pots from the insides like hamsters in a wheel.Delta had a feeling they might have... taken this help thing to heart. Oops?The kitchen was soon like a circus of jumping tiny mushrooms, with acts of plate tossing, knife catching, and Jeb’s off-key singing.“I’m on drugs... I’m still a prisoner... maybe they fished out that Mindskinner from the pit? Nope. don’t remember that place...” Jack rambled as he eyed the scene.Delta wanted to enjoy the scene but her senses snapped to something.Guests.She had guests!“Boys! We have guests!” Delta gasped. Jeb stopped singing for a moment.“They wanna be our guest?” he asked innocently as a knife flew past his face and was caught by another pygmy.Delta could only smile.---Nina could only stare.“It’s got a fancy door. Any idea what those symbols are?” she asked Isanella who stood back after putting in the symbols in the right order.The weird thick sided triangle glowed orange as the doors peeled apart and granted them access.“No idea. It must be important to Delta. Perhaps we can ask?” the woman mused as she held her lute with excitement. Nina noticed that Isanella was less interested in exploring or finding the bar than meeting her... new friend.“I before see the mighty Delta tube. We must ride on!” Seth said with excitement. He pointed to one of the symbols.“Be-tha. Beeeta!” he repeated and smiled. Nina merely smiled at Seth. Sometimes he made sense... sometimes he didn’t.“What is a Beeta, Seth?” Isanella asked as they climbed the stairs down into the cool air of the Dungeon.“Beta! Was a... how would one talk? Beta was like one thing then another. Beta grew like tree but changed like hunter,” he waved one hand.“Sounds like Dabberghast,” Nina grinned. Seth humored her before looking distant.“If Delta is strange Dungeon. Beta is...odd creature. Master knew more and Quiss not so much,” Seth looked around the room as he finally touched the Dungeon ground.Nina followed suit and, never having been in a dungeon before, had no idea if what she saw was normal or not.Isanella eyed a door and she wandered over.“This is new,” she said politely and opened the door with the sign ‘Memorial’ above it.Nina gasped as the white stone room beyond seemed to hold distilled melancholy in the air as they entered.The statue of a tall woman peering down at them sadly made Nina’s chest feel...tight.“It feels like a Dungeon having a memorial room would be mocking or bragging but this place is just depressing,” Nina said finally. Isanella held her hand up to briefly touch the statue’s hand.“Because it’s genuine. That sort of thing sticks out,” she commented. Seth stayed by the door as he eyed the room with a long look. Nina had no idea what he was thinking.Wizards didn’t quite see the world like other people did.Nina couldn’t explain it but after serving Quiss his beer for so many years, it was something she had picked up on. Even Haldi was the same.Two very different people but their ties to magic made them see things that others might not focus on. For better or worse. Quiss once ranted, rather drunkenly, how a stain on a wooden table was like a symbol of the eastern water kingdom and that it foretold an arrival of an envoy.Which Nina had laughed at and at that very second she clicked that the envoy had come... Seth had come.Nina also knew that Wizards were tricky and there was a good chance Quiss knew Seth would be coming.They departed the room and Nina dropped some of her tips and a bar napkin into the tribute bowl.“Us underpaid working girls have to stick together,” she said quietly as her form of prayer for a good trip. The things one picked up from listening to people complain about Dungeons and adventures was amazing when no one paid attention to you.Before Durence, Nina had picked up more gossip and juicy tidbits than the local spymaster. But that got to be its own trouble in the end so Nina ended up in a sleepy place where nothing she heard mattered and nothing she did could change that.It was liberating.But who knows how that was going to change now, with Durence’s Dungeon mixing things up.They set off down the tunnel as Isanella strummed some light notes. Just casual flicks on her lute but it made Nina’s skin prickle with pleasure. Then she hummed and Nina was a little ashamed that Seth had to hold out an arm to stop her from walking face first into a web.“Sorry,” she mumbled as she had a quick flash to one of her selves nearly dropping a glass that she was trying to balance. Another view saw herself doing dishes half-heartedly.Not too bad for now but Nina really had to get back before something went wrong.“We must pierce the fabric of Salrakias!” Seth grimaced. The word was said like a drop of water falling from a leaf. All purr of the tongue and Nina shared a look with Isanella.Exotic accents were just so fun. They smiled as Seth puzzled the web out. He poked one with a finger and Nina stared as the thing briskly froze over as if a winter chill had snapped over it. The frost was rapidly spreading before Isanella softly lowered Seth’s touch with a raised brow.“No need to get so direct. I am sure if I simply ask and dance, the way will part,” she promised. She neared the web and strummed more notes. Sure enough, to Nina’s surprise, the web parted like a veil to reveal the silvery spun maze of lines and patterns.More complex than any mere spider web should be.Isanella moved in first and held out a hand for a spider to land on. That was something Nina found less magical.“Good day, dear spider. May we pass if we do not destroy your lovely webs?” she asked and her voice had taken on an odd lilt as if speaking in a pitch Nina’s human ears couldn’t quite keep up with.The spider raised two legs, slowly waltzing to some unheard tune and Isanella giggled.More and more spiders appeared to climb on the woman and Nina took three large steps back so fast she nearly left another clone in her place. Seth looked impressed.“Like Lady Prince of beasts. Magical and delicious... beautiful?” he mumbled. Yeah, Isanella could be the lady prince of whatever as long she kept the spiders firmly away from Nina.The things vanished and a path was revealed as the spiders pulled webs to one side and one spider even pressed down on a thin trip wire hidden in all the web. How...innocent and harmless.Maybe there was a spiked pitfall connected to it?Nina would take spikes over the spiders. She could just clone enough of herselves to climb out and have traumatic nightmares about it later. Spiders... they stuck to you.They began to slowly traverse the web maze and Isanella plucked a few of the berries at the offering of the spiders. A single spider sat on a thickly webbed throne and applauded their passage through.Did it have... a tiny mushroom crown?No, Nina was seeing things. They were at the door and Nina was interested to see a small window appear.Challenged declined by asking for passage. Maybe next time?Nina had been so freaked out, she hadn’t even seen a challenge box appear. Ah well, no more spiders. Nina was free until she had to leave and should she feel a bit dramatic, she might just bash her head in and jump to another one of her bodies.She almost froze.Oh no... she was Dramatic-Nina! Damn it, this body was just annoying, like the end of the world bad!Shivering, she opened the door to freedom and froze again as a tiny form that barely came up to her chest stared up at her.Curly black hair, ruby lips, pale skin of someone who lived underground, bright orange eyes, a shirt made of more web covered his torso.All those things were fine.It was where the boy ended and the spider began was where Nina toppled backwards in shock, screeching slightly.“Oh hello, you are just as cute as my Deo,” Isanella said without batting an eyelid.Nina would have gaped at her but she was too busy being utterly snagged by every web they had avoided so far.“I’m taken! Tell my other me’s that I can see them slacking!” she whimpered. Seth blinked at her but something lowered from the ceiling. This spider... made Nina go very quiet.It eyed her with those pearl like eyes.It twitched a few legs and the web around Nina went slack.“My my, what a rambunctious crowd. Did someone say Deo? How is the lad?” a booming voice called from the hall. Nina fled from the web pile as best she could and latched on to Seth and his magical freezy hands.The being behind the Boy...spider....thing... loomed and it had to lean down slightly to see them all through the door.“Ah, Mister Mushy, you look... different,” Isanella said, voice alarmed but happy. “Ah yes, my dear lady Isanella. It is a treat to see you traverse these lovely hal