Not ten minutes later, she found the missing Captain Pu Tong, when he strode back in through the gates as bold as could be and demanded to speak with the officer in charge. Eager to give him plenty of rope to hang himself, Mila asked Tursinai to Conceal them both and followed Yorhu to meet the Captain, a man with no distinguishing characteristics whatsoever, right down to his standard issue uniform and basic ponytail hairstyle. “What took you so long?” Pu Tong snapped, his cheeks flushed with self-righteous rage. “The Defiled were upon us and you were nowhere to be found! Nowhere! Because of your dereliction, they almost burned the damned district to the ground! My superiors will hear of this, and there will be consequences! Serious. Consequences!”

“How were the Defiled able to break through the gates so quickly?” Knowing what Mila wanted to hear, Yorhu ignored the captain’s toothless threats and cut straight to the quick. “I see no signs of fighting on the outer walls, nor any indication the standard countermeasures were put into play.”

Mila had noticed this too, as well as the marked absence of crossbow bolts embedded in the fields outside. Rather than answer the questions, Captain Pu Tong bristled with indignation and got right up into Yorhu’s face. “I do not answer to you,” he growled, stopping just short of using whatever slur he had in mind. It was well known that Rain had served with the Sentinels, but some people would always see them as tribal savages little better than the Defiled, and it was clear Captain Pu Tong was one of them. “I am a captain of the Imperial Army and I will not be spoken down to by the likes of you.”

Perhaps Luo-Luo would have remained Concealed a little longer, and Yan might have as well, but Mila was in no mood for games any longer. “Answer the question,” she snapped, taking no delight in the Captain’s surprise as he registered her presence. Despite his obvious dismay over coming face to face with ‘The Legate’s Wife’, which was no doubt how he saw her, Mila found it aggravating to have to ride on Rain’s coattails instead of building up a reputation of her own, but there was no helping it any longer. The rice was cooked, so Mila had no choice but to do her best and hope that her actions and achievements would eventually speak for themselves.

For now, she would settle for Captain Pu Tong answering Yorhu’s question, a feat the unremarkable man seemed utterly incapable of accomplishing. “F-Forgiveness, Imperial Consort. T-The Defiled c-came out of nowhere,” he sputtered, stuck somewhere between a bow and a salute as he tried and failed to do both at the same time, “And r-reinforcements were n-nowhere in sight.”

“I gathered as much,” Mila retorted, sounding much calmer than she felt. “Seeing how the Defiled were already in the district when I arrived. What I want to know is how they got there so quickly.”

“The m-militia on the w-walls did nothing to slow their approach,” Pu Tong sputtered, wide-eyed and quivering from head to foot. “S-so I ordered them to hold to the last.”

“As they should.” Not really, but they should’ve at least put up a decent enough fight. “Then what happened?”

Pu Tong’s answer was a long time coming, and Mila could see the mental gymnastics the man’s mind was going through, as well as the exact instant he came up with a workable excuse. “I do not know,” he began, rushing through the admission as quickly as possible. “I placed a militia man in charge and set off with my soldiers to search for reinforcements. The district was doomed without your brave assistance, Imperial Consort Sumila, and this one offers his wholehearted thanks on behalf of the people here.”

The urge to throttle this fool here and now was almost overwhelming, but Mama would not be pleased by all the paperwork, even if she herself might’ve done the same. “What were your orders, Captain Pu Tong?”

“To lead the militia and hold District Twenty-Six in the event of a Defiled attack.” Again, the man rushed through this as if hoping she would hear him incorrectly. “But there was no way these walls would have held against the Enemy, not with less than twenty soldiers to guard them. There were at least five-hundred Defiled –”

First three hundred in the final report, and now their numbers swelled to five, all without Mila’s Sentinels finding hide nor hair of the rest. “Lie to me again and I’ll hang you from the walls myself.” A steady hand reached out to calm Mila’s ire, but she was not so easily pacified. “If there were five-hundred Defiled, then that means there are roughly three-hundred and fifty still at large. Before I officially make a report and call for assistance, would you care to amend your statement?”

“This one misspoke.” Falling to his knees, Captain Pu Tong slapped his face twice, once with each hand. Mila wasn’t sure if it was her threat to hang him that did the trick, or the fear of an official inquiry which would end in the same, but either way, the cowardly Captain stopped trying to lie his way out of this mess. He fled the district before the Enemy even appeared, bringing his soldiers out on a ‘scouting’ mission and leaving the militia to their own devices, which meant they were utterly defenceless against the Enemy Auras. The Defiled simply rode up to the gates unhindered while the militia all cowered in fear, helpless to do anything besides watch as their loved ones went up in flames. No wonder there were so many distraught faces in the crowd today, because despite all their training and the tales of other districts emerging victorious against the Defiled, these poor commoners learned just how weak they truly were.

Aura was not something one could prepare for, not without experiencing it for themselves. It wasn’t just fear, but more than that, an overwhelming horror that clawed its way deep into your body and stole control away from your conscious mind. Some likened it to standing before a fearsome beast or staring down from great heights, but it was this and so much more. It was the knowledge that you were utterly helpless before this Aura bearing individual, a babe upon the chopping block if someone cared enough to place you there, and there was nothing you could do to stop them. That sort of weakness was not easy for anyone to face, not even base commoners who were used to bowing and scraping for anyone of note, because even dogs had their pride, and humans considerably more. The people of this district had been shown true terror today, and in doing so, had been made that much more vulnerable to the Father’s foul whispers, and if even one of them turned because of today’s events, then the Enemy will have scored a victory here today.

They lost hundreds of Defiled tribesmen and their precious mounts, but might well have pushed thousands of souls away from the Mother’s warm embrace and into the Father’s maw. Life was fleeting, but the soul was eternal, meaning the world might have been better served if this district had been burned to the ground alongside everyone within it.

A dark and frankly absurd conclusion, Mila decided, one she only reached on account of her anger and fatigue. “Yorhu, take this fool into captivity and have him brought up on charges.” Ignoring Pu Tong’s pleas, Mila’s gaze dared him to resist so that she would have the excuse to beat him bloody, but the coward surrendered without a fight. “Dereliction of duty to start, and cowardice in the face of the Enemy as well, plus whatever else is you think of that fits.” The worst part was, Mila just knew Rain would blame himself for this tragedy even though it was clearly all Pu Tong’s fault. Had he stayed and fought, the militia would have been free to utilize spear and crossbow against their Defiled foes as opposed to stand and watch as they cut through the gates and set fire to their buildings. Men and women of the Empire still would have died, but they would have died defending their families and comrades instead of being served up like lambs for the slaughter.

Though all lives ended in death, how one died was almost as important as how one lived, and because of Pu Tong’s actions here today, these people had died for nothing.

“Better we kill him now,” Tursinai whispered, drawing Mila back into a hug, “Then let him have his trial.”

“Why would you say such a thing?” Though a Warrior through and through, Mila would’ve never taken Tursinai for a murderer, not even to bring justice to a man who deserved it. “Even if the Disciplinary Corps cannot wholly be trusted, even they will not let this coward go unpunished.” In fact, their judgment might be much worse than a quick drop and a sudden stop, because while there were several crimes punishable by death, the Justicars were very particular about what crimes deserved what sort of death. Hanging was generally reserved for deserters, quartering for cowards and dissidents, beheading for murderers, the list went on and on, and Mila was hoping the Disciplinary Corps would make an example of Pu Tong.

“He is not the only soldier who lacks faith in the militia,” Tursinai whispered, staring daggers into Pu Tong’s back as Yorhu brought him away. “If others seek to make an issue of this, they could twist his cowardice into prudence and say he was preserving the only fighting force available. One can hardly expect twenty soldiers to hold out against a hundred and fifty Defiled.”

“But the militias have proven to be effective against the Enemy,” Mila protested, not understanding the issue. “It wasn’t twenty against a hundred and fifty, but two-thousand twenty against one hundred fifty.”

“And therein lies the issue, sweet Mila.” Sighing as she tightened her embrace, Tursinai’s voice took on a tone Mila had never heard from the cheery woman: resignation. “Little Rain has shown the world how effective a mere commoner can be, armed only with a crossbow and a few weeks of training. You and I see this as a blessing, but those in power only see a threat, for the sheep they’ve lorded over for so long have finally grown fangs, and though wolves, tigers, and dragons are still more deadly, the sheep outnumber them all by an enormous margin.” Shaking her head, Tursinai switched to Sending and added, “Do you remember when Rain told us about his conversation with Dastan and BoShui? The one they had in the tunnels underneath Yo Ling’s island? He talked about restoring the Balance of power, but also mentioned that giving power to the common people was worthless.”

Mila remembered the conversation well, but only because she thought it was another one of Rain’s flights of fancy. “...He said ‘They have to rise up and take it for themselves’.” Covering her mouth in a mixture of fear and astonishment, she shook her head in denial and Sent, “But he also said bloody revolution wasn’t the right way to go about it, that slow, gradual change was required, change brought about by education and meritocracy.”

“That he did, because he knows the Enemy is an even greater threat to us all, but wise as he is, little Rain cannot control the hearts of all men.” Resting her temple against Mila’s, Tursinai stifled another sigh before breaking off their embrace. “He’s shown the common people how much power they wield, and whether he leads them or not, there will be those who seek to use it, and not always for the better. I fear your husband has given us the means to win one war and put us on the path towards another, but perhaps time will prove me wrong.”

Though she tried to sound hopeful, Tursinai utterly failed to convey even a shred of optimism and sent Mila spiralling into introspection. It wasn’t just rebellion and revolution she worried about, but also how much bloodier inter-faction strife would become once they started raising commoner armies of their own, soldiers who would most certainly not all be volunteers. Humans were warlike in nature, but the threat of the Enemy and the supremacy of Martial Warriors generally kept everyone in check. Now... now Mila was not so sure how things would turn out, but she certainly feared for the worst.

And Rain knew this would happen, or at least guessed as much, and he told everyone who would listen too, but for some reason, it seemed so far-fetched at the time no one paid him any mind. Perhaps Mila was the stupid one, and he the brilliant visionary, but she knew her husband well, and he would most certainly not sit idly by while the world devolved into bloodshed and chaos around him.

Especially not if he was the spark which set it all off, because then he would never forgive himself.

Fool. He might be the spark, but what of the nobles who carelessly threw oil and tinder all about? What of the Father and His foul minions whispering sweet lies in the ears of evil men and spurring them on to all manner of atrocities? What of those who saw the good Rain did and sought to twist it to their own advantage? How could Rain possibly hold himself responsible for factors outside his control? Arrogance is what it was, sheer conceit and ego driving him on, and Mila almost wished she could beat it out of her husband.

Alas, knowing him, Rain would just dig in his heels and refuse to change his ways out of sheer spite.

