After pursuing her foes for half a day, Mila’s blood burned hot as she closed in for the kill.

The Enemy cavalry had grown wily and cunning of late, adopting hit and run tactics that had the Imperial Army running around stomping out fires as they cropped up. No longer content with engaging Imperial soldiers along the Wall, the Defiled had taken to pushing further east and targeting the districts instead, no doubt hoping to get at the people and supplies within. Despite all of Rain’s costly and prudent preparations, the common people of the Empire were paying a hefty butcher’s bill, as this marked the beginning of a new chapter in the war. The new Western Wall was a marvel of human ingenuity, but the Imperial Army lacked the necessary manpower to station enough soldiers to guard every last metre along its two-thousand kilometre stretch. Instead, patrols marched up and down long empty stretches of the Wall, ready to respond should the Enemy appear nearby, but the Defiled had no stomach for a proper fight and behaved like scavengers out in the wild. Skulking in the tall grasses or under the cloak of Concealment, Defiled cavalry lay in wait along the Wall until they spotted an Imperial patrol stomp by. Once the way ahead was clear, they were then free to rush the battlements using their makeshift ramps and ride straight east until the Wall was long behind them. There was no sense staying to fight, for the districts were but an hour’s ride from the front lines, less if the Enemy was willing to push their mounts, and with the promise of easy pickings ahead, they most certainly were.

Though Mila set off after this particular group of Defiled the moment she received word of a breach in the lines, she couldn’t afford to run her quins at full speed for fear of an Enemy ambush, and she could only hope that the district walls would hold long enough for her to reach them. Alas, this seemed like too much to ask of the Mother above as the district gates came into view, or rather as the absence of said gates became clear. Thankfully, the Defiled broke off the attack as soon as her forces drew near and fled further east in hopes of avoiding a direct clash and bringing their ill-gotten gains back West. The downside was that this meant the merry chase was back on again, but it raised more questions about the Enemy tactics. Ordinarily, she would have expected the Defiled to be overcome with bloodlust in the midst of battle, but these tribal savages not only left scouts out to warn the main group of her approach, they also wasted no time retreating from the engagement before killing every living man, woman, child, and chicken that crossed their path. Not that she wasn’t grateful for the lives spared, but this sort of cat and mouse game was maddening to the extreme, especially since she only had a hundred riders with her compared to the estimated three-hundred Defiled riders. Ninety now since she left ten behind at the district to help the survivors, which was ten more than she wanted to spare, but as the distance closed between her and her quarry, she got a better count of the Enemy numbers and realized that either the initial estimates of this group were way off, or the district militia had given a damned good account of themselves.

Ninety Sentinels against maybe a hundred and fifty Defiled, it hardly even seemed sporting anymore.

The first volley from her bows winnowed the number down even further and ended the chase for good as the Enemy pivoted to meet them in battle. Again, Mila was surprised by how decisive their commander was, exhibiting tactical acuity she’d recently come to associate with the Chosen. A mistake, she knew this now, for the Enemy had long since possessed an animal-like cunning, and much like how the stag knew when to flee and when to fight, these tribal Defiled knew their only chance for survival was to fight their way out. Drawing her bow taut, she picked out her target and exhaled before loosing her arrow, favouring accuracy over speed while calculating the odds against her. Hit and run would be the safest tactic, but while her quins were built for stamina over speed, they were fast approaching their limits and she couldn’t afford to let even a single Defiled get away.

Mixed unit tactics would be best, with one-third engaging the Enemy while the rest moved to flank with bow and spear.

Snapping off orders as she put her bow away, she unshouldered her shield, drew her spear, and launched it all in a single motion. Despite her almost careless throw, she was more deadly and accurate with the spear than she could ever be with the bow and claimed yet another kill. Drawing Paragon from her belt, she flicked her wrist and deployed the first set of sectioned blades. Then there was no more time to think as Zabu lunged towards his foe, hurtling through the air in a low arc and slamming feet first in the closest garo. The lizard-beast’s neck snapped on impact, but even if it hadn’t, Zabu’s honed talons, claws, and fangs would have made short work of it, while Paragon pierced cleanly through the rider’s neck. Punching the rim of her shield into a charging garo, she dropped the creature with a single blow and bought enough time for Zabu to disengage from his first kill. The brazen quin even had the gall to tear off a chunk of garo flesh to eat, chewing greedily as Mila finished off the second rider with a slash from Paragon, the blades cleaving clean through his shoulder and chest. Urged on by the pressure of her knees, Zabu huffed in anger before slamming into another foe, killing both mount and rider before Mila even had time to act. The quin was strong and vicious indeed, but arrogant and overbearing to the extreme, so despite all the work Mila put into taming the fierce beast with treats and training, Zabu remained wild and unruly to the end.

Not to say this wasn’t without its advantages, since it meant she only had to keep him focused on the fight and he would handle the rest, engaging the Enemy as he saw fit in what was usually an optimal manner. There was no competing with a quin’s instincts when it came to chaotic pack engagements, these small cavalry skirmishes completely unlike the tidy, group charges on the battlefield. When gathered in tight formation, one relied on group momentum to run roughshod over the enemy, crashing mass into mass and hoping to come out on top, but when engaging in loose formation like she was now, it was easy for any individual rider to push too deep and find themselves surrounded on all sides.

Which was exactly where Mila and Paragon shined brightest as she unleashed her Elemental Blessing and she bombarded her foes with the power of the sun.

By any standard, Mila’s Esoteric Blessing was a strange one, for the sun was a mysterious Heavenly body that no one truly understood. Though most saw it as an unending source of heat and light, her Blessing gave her no talent for controlling either element. Instead, her Blessing made her stronger, tougher, denser, and more vigorous, not exactly things associated with the sun, but therein lay the trap. It wasn’t about what people associated the Sun with, but what the sun provided, of which heat and light were merely byproducts of the true effect, for the sun was a source of life itself. Without sunlight, plants would wilt and die, as would people according to accounts she’d read, but why that might be, no one could say. Mila didn’t know the answer either, but she knew that the heat and light were not what sustained life, but rather something else, something which fell down from the Heavens on beams of sunshine and rays of warmth, something she had yet to find a name for.

It was this nameless effect that Mila released, one others told her was like walking out from a dark room into a wall of stifling, oppressive light coupled with the heat of a fired steel forge, without the actual light or heat. That was the best description Mama and the others could come up with, and while it made little sense, it suited Mila’s purposes well enough, for while the Sun was capable of sustaining life, it was also more than capable of taking it away. Bombarded by her Radiant Chi, the surrounding Defiled wilted away before her intangible incandescence like a flower in the summer heat, the strength spilling from their bodies as tribesman and mount alike faltered in anticipation of a fiery conflagration that would not come. Instead, they were met with Paragon’s cold steel as she whipped her weapon about, avoiding friends and scything through debilitated foes with damned near impunity. Every time Zabu charged in for a kill, Mila adjusted her aim to clear the foes around them, and while she left many a target alive behind her, she had plenty of allies to take advantage of those wounded, distracted, or enervated foes.

Then her flanking Sentinels crashed into the sides and rear of the Defiled contingent and the battle was all but over. An hour-long chase ending in less than a minute of frenetic combat, hardly enough to quench the flames of Mila’s red-hot blood.

The clean up didn’t take long, as the quins were voracious after so much exercise, especially Zabu who recently developed a taste for tangy garo meat. There were gajashias here too, but not as many as she’d expected, which was good because even quins didn’t like to eat their tough and stringy meat. Even in death, the Defiled beasts served no real purpose, though she supposed calling them Defiled beasts wasn’t entirely accurate. Animals never turned Defiled, not in the traditional sense at least, it was just that the beasts outside the Empire’s borders seemed more willing to tolerate the Father’s foul taint stained into the souls of each and every Defiled. Likely because they’d never come into contact with any humans lacking that taint, though unlike Rain, Mila had no intentions of befriending every beast and creature that looked cute.

A good thing garos, gajashias, ursadons, and the other various beasts utilized by the Defiled were by and large an ugly bunch. Mila shuddered to think how conflicted her soft-hearted husband would be if the Enemy rode into battle atop cute and cuddly creatures with big doe eyes and soft, velvety fur...

After a battle, Mila should instead have focused on more pertinent details, like trying to recall how she unleashed that burst of Radiant Chi or what other ways it could be used. There were also other mysteries to mull over, like how she knew the arrangement of allies and enemies around her without having to look around, why was it possible to close her eyes and still hit a target with her thrown spear, or maybe even why animals never turned Defiled, but instead all she could focus on was her idiot husband and his stupid tendency to demand so much from himself, which was why he was off visiting the Brotherhood instead of here fighting at her side.

It was so infuriating... she wanted to tell him how much she loved and adored him not in spite of his flaws, but because they were nothing compared to how he made her feel, but every time she tried to say anything, he just gave her that same, puzzled stare, so she settled for cuddling in his embrace instead.

Now even this was denied her, and his absence was taking its toll. Bristling with anger and vexation, Mila led her sentinels back to the district and took stock of the carnage, her heart heavy for all these grieving commoners. Not all districts could be so lucky as to have Bulat in charge, and even he lost almost half his militia defending District Twenty-Three, albeit against a force three times the size of the one that struck here. Despite the Enemy’s smaller numbers, the paltry Defiled force somehow managed to break through District Twenty-Six’s gate and leave a trail of slaughter behind them as they made their way into the town proper, where they looted what they could before setting fire to multiple buildings filled with people and provisions. Thick clouds of ash hung heavy in the air as she followed the trail of destruction into town to seek out the officer in charge, a Captain by the name of Pu Tong according to the Sendings her scouts had received, but he was nowhere to be found. In fact, the entire district was suffering from a lack of leadership, as aside from putting out the fires, there was little to nothing else being done aside from plenty of weeping and wailing. While these unfortunate souls had plenty to cry about, they would have plenty of time for it later once the wounded were cared for and the district cleared of bodies.

After learning the district’s mayor left for the Northern Citadel nearly a week ago, Mila stepped in and took charge of the situation, organizing the militia and villagers to stack funeral pyres and salvage what they could of the broken cast-iron gates. Despite having been hacked apart by Defiled weapons, the iron could be melted and reused and the people living here needed a clear path in and out of the district, even if Luo-Luo decided to uproot everyone living here and find them new homes elsewhere along the border. She had yet to go to such great lengths, but the overworked woman mentioned the possibility the last time Mila saw her, and if there were ever a time or place to do so, it would be here and now. Regardless of what lay in store for the denizens of District Twenty-Six, there was little she could do for them besides help them move past this initial loss and focus on the future ahead.

