Her mood dark and thoughts darker, Mila stayed the night to help get the district in order and even left half of her Sentinels to help defend it. This was overstepping her bounds, and she was sure to be lectured by Mama, but Mila couldn’t leave those poor villagers undefended, nor could she count on the Imperial Army to send a competent replacement. Generally, the district postings were not by any stretch desirable and the sad truth of the matter was that most would see it as punishment. Either they spent their time guarding commoners with no chance of promotion and without the comforts of the Citadel, or they would find themselves in battle against the Defiled with only a pittance of soldiers and thousands of commoners to depend on. Idiots one and all. While hardly dependable, Bulat, Ravil, Sai Chou, and a number of other volunteers from Rain’s retinue had proven that with fair warning, good leadership, and the district defences, the militia could not only hold out against the Defiled, they could even emerge victorious without the need for reinforcements.

Granted, some were costly victories, like the defence of District fifty-five that saw four out of five defenders killed because some cavalry commander got spooked by the darkness of night and took his sweet time getting his forces to the district, but they were victories nonetheless.

In hindsight, that might’ve been the reason why Pu Tong tried to flee from his post, because he was worried reinforcements would not arrive in time and he would be left with a bloody fight on his hands, but District Twenty-Six came under attack shortly after noon and Mila arrived hot on the heels of the Enemy. Still, only the Mother knows why She saw fit to bless some cowards with Martial strength, as Mila knew many a commoner with the hearts of Warriors, yet could never find success at Core Formation. It wasn’t fair, but such is life, and Mila did not pretend to even try and understand why.

That was largely Rain’s problem at times. He could never accept a fact that was evident before his eyes at face value, and always wanted to delve deeper and understand the intricacies of everything. It was also a part of his charm, his boundless curiosity, and Mila wished they could go back to simpler days when she had the answers to most of his questions...

Rather than report to Mama upon returning to the Citadel, Mila brought Zabu to his pack where sweet Shana lay in wait. There were plenty of other quins and pups about, but the irritable quin headed straight to his mate and pups to snuggle and groom them. Never mind that his pups were already too large for him to lift, Zabu paid no mind to this minor detail and set to cuddling sweet Kishi, here for the week while Grandpa Du ‘secretly’ followed Yan and Kyung around in Concealment. It was stupid, but also adorable, especially how Yan and Kyung played along yet instructed their guards to leave extra food and tea for him because they worried he wouldn’t mind his diet and just gorge on travel rations or worse. Mila knew Mama and Papa used to do the same for her, but she was older and more capable now and didn’t need the supervision, plus they were busy managing their own endeavours. Not to say Yan needed the supervision either, but Mila just thought it was sweet, and she missed knowing that if she ever wanted a hug from her parents, she would only ever have to stretch her arms and speak.

Now, she was a woman grown, married out of her old family into a new one, and while things were mostly the same, it was the minor details that made everything seem completely different. For example, Mama, Papa, and Li-Li would often go out to have dinner with just the three of them, which was fine, but Mila couldn’t remember the last time she’d done anything with just the four of them. It wasn’t fair to expect the best of both worlds, but now, with Rain away visiting the Brotherhood alongside Lin-Lin and Li-Li, Yan off serving in Central to give Grandpa Du face, and Luo-Luo working day and night to fulfill Rain’s Office duties, Mila wanted to lean on Mama and Papa again, but didn’t know how to fall back into old patterns.

Honestly, Mila missed the pets more than she cared to admit. It was hard enough falling asleep without Rain’s shoulder to nuzzle, but she’d also gotten used to the weight of Aurie sprawled across her legs and sweet Guai-Guai tucked against her chin...

“What’s this I hear of you leaving half your retinue in District Twenty-Six?” Despite holding more amusement than reproach, Mama’s tone sent Mila into a tizzy as she leapt to attention like a good cadet. Smiling wryly as she patted her cheek, Mama settled in next to Zabu and gently swatted the quin’s head when he growled in her direction. Miracle of miracles, he actually quieted down and even moved so Kishi could rest in Mama’s lap while he lay atop his pup, making for an adorably cozy picture of woman and her quins. Technically, they were Yan’s, but Mama could’ve been a quin trainer in another life as she was accepted by each and every pack. “Well girl?” Mama asked, raising an eyebrow in question. “What of your retinue?”

“I had to, there was no other choice. See...” Unable to help herself, Mila sank into her Mama’s embrace and it felt so easy and natural she wondered why she was ever worried in the first place. When she was done speaking, she took a moment to mourn for the poor people of District Twenty-Six before asking, “So what will happen to them now? There is a concern that they might...” Turn Defiled themselves due to trauma or whatnot, and towns had been purged for far less. “Will they...?”

“If you are so concerned, you should have stayed with them longer. No half measures girl. You remember why?”

“Because half-measures only lead to full-failures.” The answer left her lips before Mila had time to even think about it, a lesson Mama had drilled into her time and time again. “Wait,” she asked, blinking in confusion. “You think I should have stayed?”

“Why not?” Stroking Mila’s hair and Kishi’s head with the same tender care, Mama said, “Another unit had already taken your place on the response line, so you and yours would have been free to help the district for the next week if needed. Those people were betrayed by the Warriors sent to defend them, and while your presence cannot bring the dead back to life, for the Legate’s Consort to personally assist in the repairs would speak volumes to everyone who heard of it.” Seeing Mila’s wide-eyed awe, Mama scoffed and said, “No need to go moon-eyed on me girl. I have no head for politics, but after spending so much time with Luo-Luo and Yuzhen, even a damn rock would pick up a lesson or three.”

“Should I go back?”

“Only if you wish to, but politically, the chance is already lost.” Shrugging, Mama added, “Do not forget, although more than a quarter of the district’s population died in the attack, you still saved a great many lives. Try not pick up your husband’s worst traits, sweet Mila; he is enough to handle as it is, and I fear my shoulders too weak to bear both your burdens of guilt.”

Giggling in spite of herself, Mila hugged Mama tight and sighed. “Sorry Mama. I just... I miss him.”

“Separation, even temporary, is difficult, so I suppose it is understandable for you to falter this first time.” Hugging her back, Mama added, “But know that your father and I will always be here for you, if you should ever need us.” Her eyes lighting up with warmth and affection, Mama asked, “Have you seen the new pups yet? Atir finally brought them out and all nine are present and accounted for.”

“Nine?!” Surprised and elated by this unexpected blessing, Mila leapt to her feet and helped Mama up as well. Though she knew Atir had laid nine eggs and all of them hatched, she also knew something the rest of them had kept hidden from Rain; usually less than half a clutch would survive past the first week, when the pups’ eyes were still closed and their movements feeble. After keeping her eggs warm for months, the mother quin would be weakened from lack of exercise and nourishment, and oftentimes the mother would eat one or more of her babies, starting with the weakest. Rain liked to go on about how animals were better than people, and while Mila didn’t want to disabuse him of the notion, she also knew that trials and tribulations were not reserved solely for humans.

Back at the manor, she greeted Atir with a squeal and hugged the sweet quin tight, only to melt as she and Mafu deposited their babies into Mila’s hands. Quins were notoriously overcautious with their pups, and this show of trust warmed Mila’s heart, to the point where she couldn’t even imagine giving away any of these pups. Nine babies, five females and four males, all bright-eyed and full of life despite their tiny little forms. They would grow quickly in the next few months, then slow until they reached full maturity at three, but alas, they would never be more adorable than they were now, with their soft baby fuzz still yet to give way to the harder, coarser fur of adulthood.

A shame Rain wasn’t here to share in this moment, but hopefully, he would be back before the pups were large enough to ride.

As if sensing her heartache, Mafu settled in around her, no doubt exhausted from supplying so many mouths with food. Not that he suffered any for it, as he was still bigger and fatter than most quins, but while size would’ve made Zabu look fearsome and intimidating, Mafu was just that much more cuddly and lovable, laid out on his back in plaintive demand for belly rubs while his pups climbed over his chest and neck.

Then the quin sat up and snarled, and this was all the warning Mila and Mama had, as Wraiths appeared out of the shadows to attack.

“Take cover!” Mama called, shouting over the din of battle, a cacophonous symphony of metal on metal that was only growing in speed and intensity. Even saying this much was more than she could spare as a Wraith blade cut across her forearm and carved flesh down to the bone. Choking back on her cry for fear of distracting Mama, Mila’s mind raced as she drew her spear and shield and sought refuge from the battle, but Atir and Mafu pressed in around her and trusted her to guard their pups, so she could hardly leave them here exposed all by their lonesome.

This was not the first Wraith attack, nor would it be the last, but it was Mila’s first and the descriptions could not do them justice. Mama’s movements were a blur and her opponents merely shifting shadows, to the point where Mila wasn’t even sure how many enemies there were. Not an overwhelming number at the very least, else Mama would’ve long since fallen, meaning four or five at the most, with others engaging the guards and protectors. Usually even ten Wraiths were nothing before Mama’s axe-lance, but these Wraiths had mastered a technique which made them particularly difficult to deal with. Some form of illusion that made it seem like there were four Wraiths instead of one, so despite Mama’s valiant efforts, she was fending off what appeared to be sixteen to twenty foes all by her lonesome. To make matters worse, Mila had no doubt the Wraiths were using her presence to threaten Mama, which meant she needed to get out of the way so Mama could fight freely and without concern.

Or...

The shifting shadows drank in the light, but not all of it, and Mila sensed that there was a limit to their strength. Working on Insight more than understanding, she unleashed her Radiant Chi once more and banished the darkness before her, stripping away the illusions and revealing the Wraiths for what they were. Mila barely had time to blink before the battle came to a standstill, with Mama looming over her while the Wraiths fell to the ground dead and defeated.

“Come with me,” Mama said, grabbing Mila’s arm and Cloud-Stepping into battle, and again, Mila revealed the Wraiths’ true positions and turned the tide against them. After their third quick victory, the Wraiths caught on and fled, but Mama continued to pursue them with Mila in hand, emanating Radiant Chi right up until she was almost ready to faint.

“Mama,” Mila called, and suddenly, the world stopped shifting. “I think...”

“Of course. You are almost out of Chi.” Patting her cheeks in apology, Mama’s warm eyes were full of radiant love and glowing approval. “Well done girl, well done. Quick thinking there, to recognize that the Wraiths’ abilities were some form of Blessing. Shadow perhaps, or something even more esoteric than that.” Mila wanted to say she hadn’t known, that Insight had guided her to the right answer, but she lacked the energy to even hold her head up as she sank into Mama's warm embrace. “Rest, oh daughter of mine,” Mama said, and Mila felt her feet lift off the ground. “Rest, and we will speak of this when you wake.”

It was nice being safe and sound in Mama’s arms, but hopefully, the day Mila rested like this in Rain’s arms would not be too far away. The man fought off some forty Wraiths, if not more, all by himself and without support, so surely he was strong enough to carry his cute and dainty wife, right?

Chapter Meme
