That was remarkably open of them. Then again, even if they weren’t at war with the Twelve Stars Confederation, they were still apparently having people poached, and she doubted there was no raiding going on.

“I’ve a question or two of my own,” Rostam said, turning to eye the workers finally settling the base of their runestone into place.

“Of course,” Ling Qi said graciously. She couldn’t be the only one getting answers here.

“What is the business with those masked fellows skulking about? They seem a bit like the crows, but they’re not that.”

“Agents of the throne. Bound and sworn to integrity and to observing the clans for treason, corruption, and ill conduct,” Xuan Shi said after glancing at her. She gave him a nod, giving him the go-ahead. “An emperor, ascended, sworn to his service, bound to his shades. This is the Ministry of Integrity.”

“That thing you all do with your spirits?” Rostam questioned. “Still a holy order then, just one with unfamiliar mysteries.”

Ling QI doubted the ministry would be content with that description, but it was close enough. “That is what your ‘crows’ are? I get the impression that they give up their names for this.”

“I can hardly tell you their secret rites, but aye. When a widower chooses to hang himself from a sacred ash in the name of the Crowfather to learn the secrets of runecraft, you get his crows,” Rostam said.

And that wasn’t the secret part. Ling Qi supposed there were more disturbing cultivation methods. She didn’t like it much, but it also wasn’t hers to judge.

“It is a bit frustrating that so many secrets of the true tongue are hidden in mysteries.” Inzha sighed. “But such is the way of the gods.”

“It is not the same for our ministry, but they do swear oaths on induction which supersede all other loyalties,” Ling Qi said. “And the shades of He who became Inexorable Justice live in their souls and hold those oaths.”

She didn’t know how perfect that system was, but despite her conflicts of interest, she didn’t doubt the power of spiritual oaths to an ascended cultivator, only the human ability to twist the, well, “spirit” of just about anything.

That was a little cynical.

“Inexorable Justice, eh? A stern sounding god.” Rostam rubbed his chin. “Inzha, do you think we are needed further here?”

The tall woman considered, observing the workers carefully moving dirt around the newly placed base and the singers arriving to call forth grass and flowers and moss to grow over stone. It made it seem as if the stone plinth had been there for years or decades. But she could sense the shifts in the natural qi. It wasn’t merely appearance. She felt flows shift and snap into place, accepting the craft as a part of the environment.

“No. The stone itself will not be ready for some hours,” Inzha said.

“Ha, very good then. Will you accept our invitation to our temporary lodge, young sir and miss? I’d rather continue these weighty conversations in comfort,” Rostam invited cheerfully.

She shared a look with Xuan Shi, who tilted his head to her.

“We’ll accept your kind invitation, Emissary Inzha and Rostam,” she said formally. “May we continue speaking as we walk?”

“Certainly, certainly.” Rostam laughed, waving for them to follow him and his wife out of the small clearing and onto the road.
