The monster twisted in on itself as Jane stepped to the left, again. She had traveled completely around slug amalgam twice now, and it was bent in half, like its spine couldn’t twist any further. But it had no spine according to her false rivergrieve’s Blood Sense; or at least not one that mattered. It certainly had a lot of blood, though.

So Jane tried Blood Weaver, trying to rip the red liquid right out of the slug amalgam to both use for her own spellwork, and to harm the amalgam. This failed for some reason. Perhaps the ‘blood’ inside the creature wasn’t real blood? Or perhaps the thing was just too naturally resistant to Blood Magic. Jane should have been able to get some sort of grip on the monster, but she couldn’t, for whatever reason.

Jane splashed it with a [Fireball], instead.

Dark blue flames struck near the twisted base of the amalgam and spread everywhere. The flames wouldn’t last long, but it would help to weaken—

Five arms rapidly grew from the side of the slug and reached for Jane, clipping her right forward legs as she desperately moved left, faster than she thought she needed to move. Suddenly, more arms reached for her again, extending a hundred meters and more trying to get to her. Jane retreated further still, pulling back into the air high, high above the ooze, away from the wall. The second set of arms had managed to clip her, though.

The bastard was moving faster. Much, much faster.

Jane started burning [Hunter’s Instincts]; she was at a 3 Health per second drain, in addition to the 7 Mana per second from [Greater Lightwalk]. Her sword glinted with deeper light, flickering blue down the edge, turning harder, if that was even possible.

The slug amalgam, all fifty meters of the beast, moved through the ooze like an ocean liner crashing through ice floes. Black, strangely solid waves crested left and right as arms came for Jane. She saw, for the first time, eyes and maws among the slug amalgam’s body, glaring, chomping. It wanted to eat her, to make her a part of it, and she could not let that happen.

Light slashed as Jane counter attacked, stepping through the light, aiming for the slug’s head, her sword and power cleaving apart hands and arms as she passed by—

‘Health,’ Poi demanded, before he took that information for himself, telling Jane her own numbers, ‘5400.’

Jane focused on the fight.

The slug’s upper three meters slipped away from the rest of the body as the body turned and attacked without rest. But that upper part still moved; still clambered like a many-armed beast that was wholly separate from the main body. Jane sent a [Fireball] at the separated piece as she moved again.

The next three meters of the top of the slug fell away from the rest.

Jane got a good look at the interior of the monster, then. It was full of mouths and teeth and fur and bone and blood, all mashed together like a tumor.

But then ooze rolled up across the creature’s wound, sealing the hole—

‘Step away now, Jane,’ Poi sent.

Jane complied, stepping high into the sky, far out of the reach of the slug amalgam because that was what you did when your CO told you to retreat.

‘Check yourself for ooze.’

Jane did a quick check. ‘I have none.’

‘And your Health doesn’t look to be going down...’ Poi relaxed a fraction. ‘I’m being told that traveling through an amalgam like that usually drenches people in ooze, killing them rather rapidly. Tell me the numbers on your Health for the next ten seconds, and I will corroborate your numbers at the same time.’

‘5297, 5299, 5300, 5302, 5303, 5305, 5306—‘

‘Enough. Seems like your Radiant Presence is adequate. Use some healing spells and get back in there. Use Blood Mana to split costs. Less experimenting; more killing. You have two more coming your way.’

‘Do these things have cores?’ Jane sent, ‘I don’t see any.’

‘Most do not.’

Jane had angled downward to watch the creature try to reach for her, but fail to come within 10 meters; it seemed to have a limit to arm length. She could have retreated further, but then the creature might have moved on to other targets. As it was, the slug was already relaxing back down into the black ocean, its eyes and mouths retreating back into its body. It was going to go after a different target, soon.

Well!

She couldn’t let that happen!

Time to try out the big guns.

Jane became more than light. She became shadows, and fire, alongside solid stone and freely moving wind and water. Her sword took on the same [Prismatic Body], flickering rainbows like all the rest of her.

She slammed right down through the center of the amalgam like the brilliant rainbow comet that she was, burning and slicing and burrowing through the creature, heedless of bone and sinew and blood, and of the screaming voices of the dead and dying all around. She carved like a butcher, spinning as she went down, her sword’s radiance poking out here and there among the amalgam’s skin before she exited the creature at black-ocean level, out the side, splattering gore everywhere.

She spun, severing every arm that reached for her and casting away all remnants of ooze that attempted to cling to her body. The fight wasn’t over yet, but it was about to be. The carved-up creature and all of its suddenly limp, wounded arms laid upon the black ooze like a garbage patch on an ocean. It could probably pull itself together if Jane left it alone for long enough, but that wasn’t going to happen. To end it, and to be sure that she was actually clean, she turned on her [Cleanse] aura, and stepped onto the air directly above the twitching body. Arms reached for her, but they were no match for her power. For not the first time, Jane witnessed an interaction between [Cleanse] and [Prismatic Body] that made everything seem a bit more magical today, than the world had been yesterday.

Erick had once spoken to her about how [Cleanse] was more than a simple cleaning spell. Back before the Sundering, every culture in the Old Cosmology had a [Cleanse] of their own to clean the environment, with the intent to harmonize the mana into a receptive state for easier magics. Here, on Veird, [Cleanse] cleaned everything, sure, but it also fulfilled that ancient role.

And boy did it ever.

The world in Jane’s immediate vicinity turned to vibrancy, as mana aligned under her [Cleanse], and her control. Rainbow light cascaded away from her eight-legged form, crashing into the reaching arms of the slug-amalgam and twenty meters of black ocean in every direction. Jane clipped off arms with her sword, while the ocean boiled. Severed arms did not fall to the waters; they vanished like so much mist, becoming thick air. The slug dried and crumbled to dust. The black ocean rapidly began to evaporate into a fountain of thick air that rocketed up and away; Jane had set off her own tsunami of thick air, just like her father.

But the rest of the black ocean remained, and liquids naturally tried to even themselves out...

So Jane became the center of a cleansing maelstrom that sucked in even more black ooze, destroying the remnants of the slug while the sudden vacuum drew in a dozen smaller amalgams that saw Jane, and diced into pieces with her ever-moving rainbow sword. The black ocean flowed toward Jane like flowing waste, only to vanish long before it could ever reach her. Smaller amalgams died by the dozens in half as many seconds.

And Jane was happy to let them come to her, pulled in by their own pestiferous nature. She was overjoyed to kill the slug amalgam, too, for it had to be level 89, or something close to that.

You have slain Dead Soul Amalgamation 394!

95% participation

+4.44 e19 experience

She was now level 83.

Plus 8 levels from one monster! If all the rest of the large amalgams were of the same level, then Jane was going to hit 90 rather soon. Maybe even tonight. Maybe she would out level her father! Wouldn’t that be a fun surprise to show him when he returned.

‘Jane. Focus.’ Poi sent, ‘Here comes large amalgam 2 and 3. Conserve mana. Turn off that killing technique until you’ve irreparably harmed the things and you won’t be wasting resources.’

Jane instantly did as Poi said, stepping up out of the black ocean. The returning surface crashed together, swallowing and hiding the smaller amalgams who had come along for the ride, that she hadn’t yet killed. Her [Cleanse] hadn’t actually harmed those ones at all. Ah.

Yes.

She needed to approach this less like a fight and more like a war of attrition.

Right—

Ah. Wow. She had spent about 540 mana to ensure the large amalgam was actually dead. That… That was way too much. She was down to 4900 mana; she had spent 3600 mana to kill that thing.

Okay then.

She had 20 points now. Might as well spend a few of them! She shoved 5 points into Willpower, and 5 into Focus. For the next amalgam, she would use Blood Mana and split her costs into Health as much as she could, like Poi suggested. In fact… After a moment, Jane reorganized her [Greater Lightwalk] into an uncomfortable but minor Health drain. She’d use a lot more Blood Mana going forward, so to that end, she cast a [Rejuvenation]. The spell started ticking for 147 Health gained every second.

And not a moment too soon.

The next major amalgam was almost here.

It was a creature of two massive legs and a body made of small arms and small hands, with an eye located in the center of those palms. A thousand eyes stared at Jane as she hovered in the light of Archmage Obsidian’s [Sunlight Orb].

And then suddenly the army amalgam was directly on top of her. No warning. No shifting of magic. It had [Blink]ed, and then every single eye-hand cast at once, sending a thousand [Force Bolt]s of screaming black magic directly at Jane.

Jane responded with a twisting spin of cutting light. The [Force Bolt]s tracked her, but they touched only reflective chitin and hairs and eyes, to scatter away in every direction like Jane was a disco spider and her dance partner was nothing more than a side piece, to showcase Jane’s own flashiness. With a twist and a rush, Jane’s adamantium-empowered blade cleaved through one leg as she dashed under the monster, switching to [Greater Shadowalk] when she was inside the amalgam’s shadow. She twisted backward as another barrage of a thousand Bolts crashed into her and reflected away, to spill across the black ocean like so much scattered darklight. With a blade of sudden shadows, Jane carved straight through the squishy amalgam’s chest, bursting out the other side, back into the light.

The amalgam began to falter as its severed leg finally twisted out from under the horrible creature. The amalgam fell backward—

Pure telekinetic power wrapped around the leg, shoving it back into place as more telekinesis sealed the hole in its body. Waves of power washed across the creature, as spellwork eerily similar to the [Rejuvenation] currently surrounding Jane also washed across the creature, like black oil stains on reality. Every single wound Jane had inflicted was gone in the matter of a single flashing second.

With so many amalgamated souls, working toward the same process, the dead thing was easily able to repair itself as fast as Jane could damage it.

‘Hurry. Kill it.’ Poi sent. ‘No playing around.’

‘I got it.’

Specialized Decay Venom poured from her fangs, and collected in the air around her sword of light and shadow. The Radiant Nacreous Weaver’s Venom Weaver had turned that venom into an edge along her weapon.

Jane went across the amalgam’s side, letting [Force Bolt]s splash against her, ineffective, while she cut wounds into the creature that would not easily heal—

The amalgam cast a [Cleanse] on Jane, evaporating all of her exterior venom at once, and erasing the venom upon her sword.

‘It’s locked on you, but it doesn’t look able to harm you overmuch.’ Poi sent, ‘Kill the other one, instead.’

Jane rapidly reoriented to the next target; a four-legged amalgam with stringy hair for a body that rose thirty meters tall out of the black ocean. Black, inky hair dragged all the way to the ocean below. The hair moved on its own. As Jane left the light, and switched fully over to [Greater Shadowalk], other people appeared in the sky near the caster amalgam.

The caster amalgam had been chasing her, but it switched fully over to the new, plentiful targets—

‘Ignore them. Focus on the hairy one,’ Poi sent.

Jane did so. The hairy beast reached for her with its hair, revealing—

It was nothing but long black hair and four legs. Jane cleaved with her swor—

The black sword bounced off of the stretching hair. The hair continued to reach for her. Jane barely had time to rip through the shadows, flowing down and around to get away. The thing had still managed to grab one of her legs, but as a shadow, she still managed to escape…

That leg started to tingle—

Fwoomph!

Long, stringy hairs had managed to wrap around her legs, around a joint, and come with her through her movement only to self-immolate when she returned to normal reality. Jane turned to fire herself, activating [Fire Body] alongside [Greater Shadowalk], taking control of the insolent flames and the tangled hair. With a twist and a rip, the tangled hair dislodged, falling to the black ocean below, where it quickly snuffed out under the inky waves.

Okay.

This was dangerous.

Jane stared at the hairy monster with hair that would not cut, and which traveled with her when she moved, only to catch her on fire causing her to waste more Mana and Health. Then she glanced to the self-healing monster of a million spells, fighting with the other team in the background. The other team was not doing any better than Jane had done; if anything, they were doing much worse. Only one of their five fliers seemed to have a reflective spell.

Okay.

So.

Shit.

Jane rushed the hairy monster with a [Strike] prepared. Hair reached for her, almost preternaturally, and she met that attack with a [Decay Strike] of her own. The black, shadow sword briefly lit with blue, cloying light, before the edge struck the hair and bounced away. The amalgam’s hair wrapped around two of her forward legs.

Jane frantically got away, ripped the flaming hair off of her, then switched her spells. [Cleanse] and [Prismatic Body] instead. [Cleanse] made the monsters weaker, so it might help with the inky hair.

