“Above all else,” Nanark drilled into them, “If you engage an amalgam or the ooze directly, or if you’re near the black shit at all, then you’re to remain outside of the city until dawn. Got it?”

“Sir yes, sir!” Jane said.

“Good.” Nanark said, “Then it’s time.”

The sun dipped low in the west.

Jane breathed easy.

She smiled.

Jane and Nanark took the shortcut to the frontline.

- - - -

Shadows lengthened all across Spur, and in the Crystal Forest. Mixed-height walls of stone, which were more like large, triangular hills, than actual walls, wound back and forth like open-air labyrinths between the living city and the Dead City. Among those labyrinths were three highly visible main walls.

These larger, circular walls with no openings at all, were the actual lines of defense between life and death, surrounding all of Spur like three concentric rings. The battle would start off coming from the Dead City, but by an hour past sundown, the black ooze would have settled out across all of the nearby Crystal Forest, completely surrounding Spur. It would soon rise up to a level that eclipsed that outer wall. Long before that, though, every defender would already be hunting and killing amalgams as they rushed over the outer wall, aiming for living targets.

The first ring wall was expected to fall, but in falling, it would condense the attack to manageable sizes and areas.

The second ring wall was expected to hold. It might break around midnight, though, as it had for the last five days in a row. The attacks were getting worse.

The last ring wall had to hold. All of the cleaning stations and otherwise were between that inner wall, and Spur’s city wall. That wall had fallen once, back in the night of 20 major amalgams, but Spur managed to beat back the horde and retake the wall before casualties started piling up. That night led to a worse day because some people had fucked off into the city, scared shitless, and they had brought dead soul ooze in with them. That ooze multiplied in the shadows.

“The stuff doesn’t break down in the deeper shadows of a house, or inside the Dead City itself,” sergeant Nanark explained to Jane, and to others nearby. “So don’t go fucking off into Spur if you get a little scared…”

Nanark was explaining everything to everyone, all over again, but Jane didn’t need to listen, for she had already heard all of this before.

The major forces, which included Jane and others of her power, had lined up on the second major wall, situated amid the second major labyrinth wall. They were a kilometer south from the support stations and the first wall nearer to Spur. On this land, this major wall was a solid ten meters wide and thirty meters tall. The labyrinth walls down below were half that. All of the walls were sloped toward the ground, rather than flat. Spur could have raised walls three times that height, but that wouldn't have done any good. Flat walls got pushed over too easily.

The sun began to set.

Nanark, and everyone else, gazed south as twilight took hold of the world. People whispered about this and that, with green soldiers discussing the known threats of the dead soul ooze, reminding themselves and each other about what they faced, and adjunct adventurers —mostly groups, though there were a few soloists like Jane— talking about how they were gonna get level 90 tonight.

Everyone was talking a lot.

And then the sun was gone, and everyone fell silent.

The walls of Ar’Kendrithyst loomed upon the southern horizon. They were so large and so even that they formed a false horizon, and above that new edge of the world, light glowed; red, purple, orange, and white. Seeing that half-hidden radiance was like catching a glimpse of hidden holiday lights, half-obscured by a blackout curtain.

Except these curtains covered a quarter of the horizon, and were a kilometer tall, or some shit.

Numbers didn’t really register to Jane at that particular moment.

A spiky ball of black whizzed overhead, moving quickly toward the first wall. It was Archmage Obsidian’s [Familiar]. Soon, the conjured thing went out of sight. Moments later, a minor sun appeared in the sky, directly over the first wall. Brilliant white and gold! Radiant and warm! Light shone down one orb, then two, then five, all in a string, bathing the first kilometer of the wall in false sunlight. More suns continued to appear atop that major, first wall, like a string of radiant pearls set in the sky, as Obsidian’s [Familiar]s flew east and west, planting the seeds of day atop the land. In less than a minute the entire first wall, all 100 encircling kilometers of it, was lit with false sunlight.

The real sunlight had vanished.

Jane almost missed seeing the black ooze crest the actual wall of Ar’Kendrithyst, but she didn’t miss the collective gasps of every nearby rookie as they witnessed a minor, nightly apocalypse begin to spread. Jane almost gasped herself.

The light behind Ar’Kendrithyst’s wall was suddenly lesser, with only a single, small stretch of white glows lingering beyond the edge. Everywhere else was crawling darkness. Black ooze rose up and poured down the massive walls of the Dead City like overflowing ink. Black death raced to the ground like clumpy, black blood. Dark waterfalls poured over every single available meter of wall, all across the entire Dead City.

Those clumps were the larger monsters. If Jane could see them from this distance of a few kilometers, and with the wall as tall as it was, that meant that those clumps were massive.

Jane remembered to breathe. She shivered in the sudden cold of the night. She had not yet transformed into a spider, so she should probably do that.

Soon.

Nanark spoke to his contingent, which included Jane, “Alright! If you follow the plans, and listen to the tacticians you’ve been assigned, we’ll make it out of this night alive and with a lot more levels! HOO RAH!”

For a startling moment, Jane found it ridiculous that ‘levels’ were the main attractor to the people here; this was a world-ending event that Spur was stemming. If this spread to elsewhere...

But then she realized that she had originally been happy for the promise of easy levels, too. Jane doubted she was the only one reorganizing her priorities in the face of the enemy.

And then Jane got her head in the game and joined her voice to the others’, “HOO RAAH!”

- - - -

Hurry up and wait.

Hurry up and wait.

Feel the world turn wet as the sky clouds over and light flashes behind the deepening heavens. Rain falls down, briefly, and that is not all. Watch as green lightning arcs across the sky in an ever-expanding web. That lightning then crashes into the black ooze on the other side of the forward wall, lighting up the world with green brilliance. Listen to monsters die by the hundreds. Smell the petrichor wind as lightning leaves behind streamers upon streamers of molecular wire, absolutely shredding everything that is remotely solid. But the ooze gets through, the amalgams can slip by or survive being cut in half, and Kiri can’t keep her offensive all night long; all she can do is stem the tide.

Taste the rain as a light mist collects upon your extended fangs.

And taste the fear of those who watch what you watch. Men and women stand upon the wall at your side, preparing against the oncoming horde, but they can’t bear to stand within 50 meters of your powerful form—

‘Jane,’ Poi’s voice came through, bringing Jane back to herself. ‘Forward right, 80 degrees off south. We expect a breach in less than two minutes and you’re up. Take it slow, but take it down. Killzone, Mog, and Merit are occupied. You will not be getting major reinforcements for at least 10 minutes. Orders are to hold out if you can’t kill it. Killing is preferred. Your reflective magics should fully protect you from ooze and most spells, but I’m going to bother you for Health totals every 20 seconds anyway, to be sure. Be prepared for that.’

Jane listened to Poi’s voice. The hair upon her eight legs shivered, flexing off water droplets. Jane gently angled her body toward the right, moving for the first time since she transformed and settled in to wait. A spike of fear radiated from her fellow defenders as she did so, but they said nothing.

Jane wasn’t quite sure which parts of her Familiar Form was letting her taste fear. Perhaps the lesser rivergrieve? But whatever. That was a query for another time.

At least waiting as a spider was better than waiting as a person. Spiders were made to sit still for long times. It actually felt quite relaxing. Better than the pacing and fidgeting Jane usually did when she was forced to wait for calls to action.

Jane was once again a tarantula of massive proportions, and also bright, bright iridescent blue that seemed to catch hold of every single light source and make a small part of it her own; this was both on purpose, so other people could see her, and a side effect of Perfected Body and Radiant Presence. She didn’t have Mutable Form, which would allow her to actually mute the color a bit, but this was fine. Jane felt good like this. She was big, and she was strong, and she was ready. If she wanted, she could have stretched from one side of the 10-meter-wide wall to the other, and a little bit beyond. As she was, she was simply comfortably placed, taking up half of the wall. She had been oddly content to watch for a while. With her large eyes taken from her Primal Frost Owl form, she was able to see every single battle happening all across the land before her.

But it was time to work.

Jane did a partial [Polymorph] and changed her main, forward eyes back to those of the shadow spider. The world moved further away, becoming slightly less precise, but gaining a whole new dimension. Magic flowed in the dark ooze, covering the land ahead, like an iridescent sheen inside the black.

She could almost make out faces inside the ooze.

She could definitely see all the teams and individuals down on the grounds between wall 2 and 1, fighting with countless spellwork against the amalgams that had made it over the first wall, and past the still-bright sun orbs. Those damned sun orbs didn’t seem to be doing much except decrease the ocean of ooze washing toward Spur by a factor of a half…

Which was objectively worthwhile.

Without those orbs, the black ocean would have surely rushed right over the outermost wall, just like it rushed over Ar’Kendrithyst’s wall.

Jane flicked her fangs, and flexed her legs. She had knocked together everything she could into this body, and it would have to be enough. From what she saw down there, it probably was. From what she saw trudging through the ooze outside of that first wall, walking toward Spur like towering masses of arms and legs and death… It might be enough.

Poi’s voice returned, ‘ETA in 5, 4, 3…’

Jane couldn’t lightstep like her father, for she had no Domain, but she could lightstep a bit, and so she did. With five tiny hops upon ethereal light, hopping across the myriad of floodlight orbs scattered across the land, Jane moved into proper position near the forward wall.

She reached the forward lines, looking like a blue firework made flesh, right as a massive monster rose from the ocean of black ooze beyond that first wall. It was a screaming thing, thirty meters tall and covered in countless arms, all of them long and stringy and dripping black ooze. The whole amalgam was slug-like, except for the arms. It had been fully submerged in the ocean of ooze and was still half under the black waves. It might have been 50 or 60 meters tall if it stood upright, but it could not stand tall.

Jane would need to take it apart piecemeal, for only by separating it into chunks could it actually be ‘killed’.

It wouldn’t actually die without extensive spell damage, though. The dead souls that made it up would just return to senescence; return to the black ocean. But the black ocean could dry up if exposed to enough light, or to enough [Cleanse]…

Jane had a plan. It was time to implement that plan. Testing came first, though.

The amalgam noticed Jane standing in front of it like the world’s shiniest blue beetle. It reached for her with a hundred oozy arms, but she dodged, stepping across the light to stand behind the beast, hovering midair. Half of the amalgam’s attack continued on to the wall, crashing into the stone, breaking it a bit and sloshing ooze over the edge, sending a minor flood across to the other side—

‘Don’t let it attack the wall,’ Poi sent.

Jane didn’t want to actually touch the monster, but fortunately, she didn’t have to. She had gotten a sword recently, and now it was time to test that sword out. The black length of adamantium soaked in power and pulled away from Jane’s second left foot, to hover like a glowing toothpick—

… A bit of [Greater Lightwalk] fixed the size issue.

The sword remained small, but the blade of light coming out of the sword extended to ten meters, becoming a solid edge of cutting force. [Greater Lightwalk] demanded a bit more mana to keep this shape running, going from five mana per second to seven, but it was well worth the mana.

Half of the amalgam twisted, its entire body moving toward the living soul hovering behind it. Arms reached, and Jane responded.

‘Snicker snack went the vorpal sword,’ Jane sent, as a good twenty hands and half-arms clipped off and fell away, like broken ooze.

‘Don’t get cocky.’ Poi sent, ‘Health?’

‘5750. Small cost due to [Strike].’ Jane dodged further left, repositioning upon the light cast by the sun orb in the sky.

Poi went silent.

Jane engaged the amalgam and she found that everything in the reports had been true. Amalgams (or at least this one) weren’t very smart creatures. Jane was able to dodge left, cut, dodge left, cut, and repeat. Limbs rained from the air. She had only been fighting for about 35 second so far, and in that time, she had spent nearly 350 mana, with 250 of that cost going toward normal upkeep. She was Meditating, though, so she had also regenerated almost 80 mana. She didn’t do much math beyond that, for fighting and mathing was rather difficult, and something shifted in the amalgam as Jane cut away limbs. The first shift came from the eruption of even longer arms out from the slug’s body. The second shift came more gradually, though. The amalgam was fucking fast, and it seemed to be getting faster.

The wind whistled as forty arms came for her, and half of them were swiped away in a flash of normal sword slashing; no [Strike]s were needed for this part of the conflict.

