The cavernous tunnel was quiet and dark. The only sounds and movements and lights came from the ethereal rush of thick air that flowed through the center of the tunnel, like a suspended, gently-glowing river that rushed through the cavern, ever onward, and down. The thick air was pink and green and yellow and blue, but it was also none of those things at all, for it was a mirage of dense mana. More than any true illumination, the river of possibility only served to make the shadows in this place deeper than they had any right to be.

And yet, if one were to look…

Nothing obvious lived here in this dark, rushing place, for everything that was obviously alive was either a predator, or a trap.

The river rushed as it was wont.

The monsters hid until they found something else living down here, and then they hid no more. Gnawing, mashing, crunching sounds came and went, along with screams and barks and roars. But soon enough, the monsters went back into hiding, to await the next fool stupid enough to disturb the peace—

A change came upon the cavern like the rising of a sun.

A white eddy of brilliance swirled in the edge of that empty river of thick nothing, showing the darkness what true light could be. The monsters were mesmerized. It had been an age since this place saw light that bright, and no one knew what to do with it.

But then the white light calmed, folding back into the river, vanishing into the flow—

Suddenly, the light flashed bright, coming to the surface of the river like a man rising out of the drowning ocean. A white hand reached out. A white face tried to take a breath. The land stood illuminated.

Eyes and maws and claws. Everywhere. The monsters had come out of hiding.

And then they all saw each other.

Eighteen smaller battles instantly started between thirty five smaller monsters as predators finally recognized each other as food. The light was ignored, for everything else was actually made out of delicious meat. Besides, other, bigger monsters were always waiting in the wings to investigate any large disturbance, and they didn’t always go after the first thing to show itself.

The light died again, falling back into the river. And then it came back, like a drowning man struggling to escape the waters, but the river didn’t care. It dragged the light with it, drowning it once again, pulling it under and along, traveling on the journey toward—

The light ripped itself from the river.

A bloody man and his backpack crashed out of the thick air, into the cavernous tunnel, spilling light everywhere.

And now, we get a scale; an idea of size.

The man was small and wounded. His clothes were torn and his left foot was gone. He was but a speck below the massive river, inside the kilometers-large cavern. But he was not too small to go unnoticed, for he was very, very bright.

Erick saw the monsters, and the monsters saw him.
