It was almost go time.

Kiri took Poi, Jane, and Teressa to the top floor, into the command room, where she walked to the file cabinets and scrounged around, saying, “Now I know they wrote up a primer for these soul beasts to hand out to every… one… Not sure where it is.” She opened and shut a few cabinets before turning to say, “I’ll get one from the Adventurer’s Guild.” Sunny vanished from around her neck and then reappeared almost as fast, clutching onto paperwork. Kiri handed out the papers, and began, “Okay. So. In case you didn’t notice, Spur has more people than ever. Current population is at 300,000 and climbing. We might not have Erick, but we have archmages and rain and we’re in the middle of a desert, so it’s an attractive proposition now that the Shades are almost all gone. But add to that the fact that the largest, most dangerous amalgams— The official names of the monsters are ‘Dead Soul Amalgamation’ according to their Kill Notification, but everyone calls them amalgams. Well. They’re high level. And that means a lot of experience.

“As you can read, we’ve got a lot of basic intel on them, for we’ve fought at least three to ten every night for the last three weeks. One time we had twenty. That was not a good night.” Kiri said, “The Kill Notifications for all of them are the same, no matter the size, but the level does vary considerably. The bigger they are, the more varied or powerful they are.

“Thing-to-know One: They go after living souls. That is their goal. So far we’ve found no correlation between level or Class or Mana pool or Health pool size, to whether or not the amalgam will chase you, or not. Number of clumped living souls does matter, though, as well as distance to the nearest clump. An amalgam will almost always chase a group of people running in one direction rather than a single person running in the other direction. If they get too close to Spur, then we’ll have to evacuate because then there will be no way to correct their trajectory away from large population centers.

“There are variations of this normal behavior, though, because of number Two: How odd they look correlates to crazy, and the larger they are, the more they have a chance to look truly odd. It is generally easier to fight the larger, messed up amalgams in groups of three or more, because they’ll be distracted with so many nearby living souls to chase.

“Beware the amalgams that look like normal monsters.

“There are variations of all of that, though, because of number Three: In almost all ways, and especially if you give them a single target, the amalgamated souls will work together. This usually means cooperative casting producing some very, very large, singular-direction spells. [Force Bolt]s the size of a person; or a thousand at once. [Force Beam]s the thickness of a tree, or a thousand beams at once. That sort of thing.” Kiri frowned. “Though since both Teressa and Jane have reflective spellwork, then that might not be a problem. You might be expected to kill the larger, magically inclined ones. Those are the dangerous ones.”

Teressa said, “Chances are I’ll either duo with Jane or hang back and prognosticate. Depends on Liquid and Killzone, but I’m guessing that a prognosticator is more important than a warrior.”

“You’re right,” Poi said, half listening, but mostly reading notes.

Teressa shrugged; she had known that this would happen.

“Well then! More for me! I’ll be ripping it up as the biggest, baddest spider you all have ever seen,” Jane said. “And I’ll do it while fully reflective and immune to most magics.”

Poi looked up from the notes, to look at Jane. “I am hesitant to sign off on you looking like a monster around people… But in this case it might be for the best, since you will be expected to go solo.”

“Ah!” Kiri spoke up, “That reminds me. Thing-to-know Four: the amalgams go after the bigger threats. Orcols, usually, but a giant spider would certainly make you a primary target. You might end up drawing too many of them, but if you have a good reflective magic, then that should be fine.” She asked, “What is your reflective ability, anyway? Spell? Skill?”

“Monster body Skill called Radiant Presence. I have to be a spider to use it, but it works well. It’s from a variant Nacreous Weaver known as a Radiant Nacreous Weaver.” Jane said, “Spells won’t touch me.”

“My current reflective spell breaks too easily,” Kiri said.

Teressa said, “I’ll work with you tomorrow if you want to try your hand at [Reflective Flying Shield].” She handed off a spell to Kiri, continuing, “Erick managed to make one that reflects everything—”

“Even [Strike]s!” Jane piped up.

“—even [Strike]s. [Animadversion], Erick called it. That spell is amazing, and he can hand it off to others, too.” Teressa said, “This one is not that, but it’s useful. I’ve found a directed reflection is better than an aura, full body reflection—” She paused, then asked everyone else, “Erick made [Animadversion] directly after Kiri left?”

“He did,” Poi said.

Kiri blinked a bit, both at Teressa, and at the spell she had been handed. Kiri dismissed the blue box and said, “I have a [Personal Ward] reflection, like Erick had at the beginning. I run it on Sunny when Sunny is out there, but a directed shield might be better, if only in a set-and-forget sort of manner.”

Teressa said, “My [Reflective Flying Shield] lasts basically forever when it’s attached to the shield, so that’s a plus.”

“… Yeah.” Kiri looked to the paperwork for the amalgams. “I think that’s everything— No wait. Uh. Yes. The most important part. The black goo uses [Soul Burn], which is a spell that—”

“We ran into that,” Jane said, smirking.

Poi frowned at Jane, saying, “This is a variant [Soul Burn].”

Jane scoffed—

“HA!” Kiri proclaimed proudly. Then she happily glared, and said, “I encountered something you didn’t so fuck you and listen.” She smiled as she said, “Don’t go below 500 Health out there, or else the goo will be able to begin to curse you…” She lost her smile, as though realizing what she was saying was in fact truly terrible. “If you drop to 0 Health while you’re cursed, you’ll be vulnerable to amalgamization with anyone else who is also cursed, which usually happens to be the amalgam you’re currently fighting. This is perhaps the most dangerous problem, so don’t ever get any goo on you, because several things will happen. Health will start to drain and you’ll begin to forget what your Health should look like. It’s a variant of the uncleanliness curse from curse slimes, and it’s present in every single drop of the black ocean. The dead soul flood might be related to the death of the Witch, but we’re not sure. There are a few theo— We’ll go over theories, tomorrow.”

Teressa had gone solid, all mirth flowing away as her focus crystallized into mentally preparing for the coming night.

Jane recalled that curse slimes had been the first domino to kick off a chain of events that ended up killing Teressa’s entire team, and her whole family up in the Forest of Glaquin. Of course, it was more accurate to say that the Witch killed all of those people, but if Teressa and her team hadn’t fallen into complacency due to the uncleanliness curse of the curse slimes, then the Witch never would have happened.

Or at least it would have gone down differently.

And that was the end of the mirth for everyone, apparently.

Jane went hard, too. She fucking hated mental threats, especially ones that lulled you into complacency.

Kiri waited. She probably expected Teressa, or someone, to say something, but that didn’t happen. So Kiri continued, “The teams will be checking up on you throughout the night, Jane— you and everyone else. They’ll ask for Health totals and such, and if you look like you’ve gone too low they’ll call you in, because you won’t come in on your own and you might think that your Health looks fine, even though you’re sitting at zero.” Kiri said, “As for how the drain actually works, it seems to be a minimum 10 Health per second drain, if you’ve got any ooze on you at all. This is important. Any ooze at all means you’re taking a drain. The good news is that if you’re fully covered, even if your size is increased due to skills, or whatever, the max rate of drain seems to be around 100-125 Health per second.

“Active skills which decrease damage taken also decrease the drain. [Defend] is good for a full minute of half-damage from the ooze. It costs a tenth of your capped Max Health, but it’s worth it if you’re unable to flee the ooze.

“Otherwise, there are [Cleanse] stations set up each night with people providing cleaning services. Sewermaster Al is out there every night providing a massive [Cleanse] retreat for everyone. Others, too.

“You are not allowed inside Spur if you’ve been out fighting for any length of time; not until the sunrise. This ooze can spread in the darkness, so it's very dangerous for anyone fighting it to go indoors.” Kiri said, “Sunlight evaporates it a lot better than [Cleanse], so we rely on that now for everyone who actually fights on the front lines or uses the cleaning stations. Quarantine breaks killed too many people too many nights in a row for us to take anymore chances with allowing people inside the city to rest between floods of monsters— Some asshole is always breaking quarantine, but you don’t have to be that asshole.” She paused. She said, “Other good news: [Cleanse] does rid you of the curse if you run it long enough, but we’re still not taking chances with more outbreaks. Other good news: Despite all the danger and unknowns, this is a winnable fight. Very rarely do any of the amalgams fly. More good news: [Cleanse Aura] will usually keep the threat of the ooze away, as it will actively prevent ooze from clinging to you, and it will usually weaken the monsters you’re fighting.”

“Question,” Jane asked, “Do you know what a [Sunlight Rift] is?”

Kiri perked up. “Yes. Archmage Obsidian deploys them everywhere across the forward wall. They help to destroy much of the ooze and reveal the amalgams underneath.”

“Related question: Are they made with real sunlight, like how dad taught you to make?”

Kiri lightly stared. “Do you know how to make a rift? Because I tried, and Archmage Obsidian will not help me. I’m not a ‘real archmage’, he says; I’m ‘playing at one’.”

Jane glanced to Teressa.

Teressa nodded. “Yeah. We know how to make rifts. I’m here anyway, so I’ll talk to you about all that stuff while Jane helps to kill the big ones.”

Jane was a bit surprised at her willingness to remain behind, but sure.

Kiri grinned. “I would like that very much.”

“I’m on coordination detail,” Poi announced, to no surprise at all.

Jane said, “And I’m getting level 90 tonight!”

Kiri laughed lightly, happily, saying, “Good luck dealing with the idiots.”

There was a bit more talk and a bit more elaboration of previous threats, but soon enough, people from the Army started blipping into the third floor room and setting up for the coming night. Poi took charge of that operation center while Kiri went to the next room over, to sit in a specially-made [Scry]ing chair that leaned back and supported her body.

Jane looked to the young girl, who was barely younger than herself.

And Kiri looked like she was shaking. She was probably deeply worried.

Jane went to Kiri and touched her shoulder.

Kiri flinched. “Yeah?”

Jane said, “I’m sorry I wasn’t there for you more, back when someone fucked with your memories in that museum.”

Kiri huffed a tiny laugh. Sunnys curled in the air around the room, and turned to light as they flew away. Kiri took a moment, then she said, “Thank you. I’m— I’m really glad you’re all back. Knock those amalgams dead, Jane, and—” Kiri suddenly stared at Jane. “When Poi —or anyone else! When Poi tells you to come in because you’re compromised, you listen. Understand me?”

“I understand.” Jane changed the subject, “What level are you now?”

“93.” Kiri’s eyes flickered green as she looked elsewhere. “You’ve got some catching up to do.”

“Ha! I guess I do—”

“Jane!” Poi called from the other room, “You’re moving out in five. Get ready! Whatever form you want. Transform near people, but not directly near them!”

“Sir, yes, sir!” Jane said.

Jane’s stomach was ready to lift out of her chest and exit through her mouth, but that feeling was quickly replaced with a sparking tension in her shoulders and a need to stand on her toes, to flex, to get ready for what was to come. Her breath came out faster as her heart beat hard.

She left Kiri to her station as she went back into the command center, across the hallway. The room was now full of soldiers and their Screens. They were there to keep Kiri on task, and they would do a good job of it, too. Sergeant Nanark, the large orcol who had been Jane’s commander for a while when she was inside Ar’Kendrithyst, was there and talking to Poi and Teressa. At Jane’s entrance the sergeant included her in the quick discussion, completing the transfer of Kiri’s support system over to Poi.

Poi would also be handling Teressa, who was on prognostication duty for all of Spur until situations demanded otherwise, though Teressa would remain stationed here for convenience. Jane was to move out to the frontlines immediately, alongside Nanark. The two of them would be meeting Killzone on the front lines, along with a few other Soloists and Team Leaders. While Nanark would oversee a few teams so he wouldn’t be working with Jane directly, Jane shouldn’t need it, anyway; Jane’s support system would be handled through Poi and Kiri, as their ‘team’, between Kiri and Jane, were expected to handle the massed threats and the larger threats. Almost all normal adventures and soldiers were on medium threats, the amalgams between three meters tall and ten.

Jane should only expect assistance with the larger threats if it seemed necessary.

Nanark explained that the bulk of the Army was organized along generalized defensive lines, manning several walls that might not stop the ooze, but they would funnel the ooze and the amalgams in certain ways, giving defenders precise areas to blow up, instead of everyone needing to defend everything, everywhere. No one thought that they would need Jane to handle the actual defensive line, but it was important that she knew where she could retreat, if needed, and where she would need to help out, if needed.

