The world turned to prismatic wonder and Jane’s sword clipped through hair like it should have in the first place. Cut hair tried to ensnare Jane, but she ignored it, for fire was hers to command and the hair unfurled from her even as it tried to latch on. She continued onward, slicing a storm to the legs of the monster, and then through. Spiral cuts, dancing slashes; one leg was cut, then two, then all four. All of the dragging, telekinetic hair of the beast folded in from all sides, trying to grab Jane directly, but the inky, oozy hair practically evaporated this close to her.

She let the body fall onto her, aiming upward like a piercing spear. She exited the monster in a shower of evaporating gore. Soon, another notification alerted her to another 3 gained levels, and another 6 awarded points, but at less than half resources, this was not a good way to fight.

Jane hit herself with another [Rejuvenation], giving herself more Health to spend through Blood Mana to keep up her major spellwork, but this was not good. This was not sustainable.

‘Health check.’ Poi sent, ‘You’re good. Kill the other one. Those people will pull back the second you approach.’

Jane moved back into the light, back toward the caster amalgam, coming in like a prismatic, [Cleanse]ing comet in the night. The people fighting the caster amalgam dashed away. They looked wounded, for they had been pelted by [Force Bolt]s from every single outstretched hand this entire time. But now Jane had the monster’s full attention.

Spellwork bounced off of her as she dove directly into the creature’s soft body and eviscerated it from the inside out, breaking jumbled bones and evaporating nonsensical, dead organs with every second—

The thing repositioned with a [Teleport] or something, moving itself south a hundred meters while Jane remained behind. Jane almost faltered, falling to the ocean below, but she was better than that. The amalgam didn’t look too great, though; it was half collapsed in on itse—

Black light flashed over the amalgam and it was suddenly, fully healed.

Just like that.

Instantly.

And then every single hand and central eye, thousands of them, lit with fire.

[Fireball]s in record number flowed from the caster amalgam, aimed at Jane. Most struck and bounced from her blue radiance, to then fall to the black ocean and set it alight, turning the night to a fiery day. Some exploded directly, but those weren’t a big deal, either, as that fire also curled and flowed away from Jane.

Jane entered the amalgam’s chest again, cutting and tearing and breaking and [Cleanse]ing, all at once, all around her, the adamantium sword carving a large swath through everything it touched, but Jane also used the claws of her monstrous form to inflict as much damage as she could.

She even managed to finally get [Blood Control] from her Queen Blood Weaver to ‘catch’ onto the blood of the caster amalgam, shredding it from the inside, ripping resources directly from its—

Jane was suddenly midair.

And the caster amalgam was completely gone.

‘Where is it!’ Jane sent, worriedly.

‘Already searching,’ Poi sent, calmly.

Hurry up and wait.

Hurry up and wait—

‘It’s gone.’ Poi sent, ‘Retreat back to the middle wall. Recuperate.’

Jane did so without question, rapidly moving through the sky like a firework to land exactly where she had been before. Nearby people were not truly nearby, but they did freak out that they were under attack, but cooler heads and louder commanding officers took control. Soon, everyone saw that the ‘monster’ in their space was not a monster.

Once she was sure she was safe again, Jane turned off her magics. She fired off a single [Rejuvenation] to speed along the restoration of her Health, which was nearing 1/3 full, but other than that, she relaxed. Soon, some rookie approached her, talking about him being there to [Cleanse], and if she was okay with him doing his job. The kid, who had to be 16, was scared shitless, but he was also there, doing what he needed to do, so that counted for a lot.

Jane told him to go ahead.

The kid opened up his own [Cleanse Aura], and moved most of it over Jane, but he was missing her furthest foot. She told him to come closer, and that she wouldn’t bite, trying to tease the kid. The kid, like a perfect little soldier, did as Jane asked, coming to stand right beside her forward foot. He was barely the size of her fangs.

Brave kid.

Jane waited.

The kid finished and moved on. When he went back to his little group they all rapidly asked him what it was like, and the kid started talking up a brave story. Jane would have smiled if she had a mouth capable of such.

- - - -

That night, Jane would fight eleven more amalgams. She didn’t experiment with any of them, anymore. She went in full powered, and ripped them apart from the inside, if she could, but from the outside, if she had to. She never allowed herself to get low in resources, like she had with those first three.

The caster amalgam never showed again.

Daybreak dawned, evaporating the black ocean. The Crystal Forest returned to how it was before.

Only now, after a night of siege and bit of understanding, did Jane notice the actual land around Spur, beyond the walls. There was a severe lack of crystal mimics anywhere within a hundred kilometers of Ar’Kendrithyst. There was a severe lack of any desert life at all anywhere near the Dead City.

When Jane went through official decontamination and was fully cleared, she finally transformed back into a person and felt exhausted. She wasn’t about to risk an infection by turning human during the night, and there wasn’t much food for a spider to eat during the night, so she was damned hungry, too. After conjuring some clothes and saying hello to Savral and Al, who were both on cleaning detail back at the innermost wall, Jane went back home.

As Jane went through the delicious process of devouring the wonderful, expansive meal set out by Teressa, Jane said to Kiri, “I didn’t meet many adventuring idiots today.”

Kiri was all smiles, and had been ever since Jane returned from the night’s work. “They stayed away from you! It was lovely, actually. Practically the entire south-east side was run exactly as it should be! No one taking any stupid chances! Not with the Blue Comet around absolutely shredding the larger amalgams.”

“… Oh? I guess that’s good.” Jane shrugged as she stuck her fork in a sausage. “I hit 91.”

Teressa smirked, saying, “You’ll have to power level me sometime, Jane.”

Jane nodded. “Sure.” She added, “These shits are really, really dangerous, though.” She stared a bit, to make sure her point was understood. “Really dangerous.”

Poi said, “Only four deaths tonight, and each of them transient adventurers not from Spur. The four were all part of the same team, who snuck out to take a big amalgam on the north side while Killzone was already fighting four at once, so he couldn’t save them. Everyone was busy.”

Kiri stabbed her omelette, briefly looking less-happy as she said, “Every night. Every night it’s the same fucking story.” After a moment of silence, Kiri resumed eating.

Jane had seconds, then thirds.

Teressa joked, “Maybe I should cook for two orcols and two smalls, instead of one and three.”

“Smalls?” Kiri asked, slightly offended.

Teressa smirked. “It’s a diminutive term of endearment.”

Jane laughed, saying, “We have that saying on Earth, too!”

Teressa chuckled, saying, “Ya know? I’m still concerned where you’re going to put all the food I’ll feed you. I still don’t understand how eating in human form gives enough energy to move around as a giant spider.”

“Oh. It won’t.” Jane said, “I’ll need to go hunting as a spider sometime, soon.”

“… Now you’re making even less sense,” Teressa said, frowning. “How does that work?”

The four of them talked for a little while about stuff that didn’t matter and about the nuances of magic, which probably did matter, but they were all exhausted. Apparently, Teressa had averted utter disaster five times, saving a hundred lives, at least. The attacks were getting very bad, and tonight could have gone horribly. There had been a total of 32 greater amalgams, making this night almost twice as bad as the night that almost killed Spur. But they didn’t fall. Teressa had a lot to do with that. She was even the one who told Poi to tell Jane to move away from the caster amalgam and focus on the other one.

All in all, it had been a very good night by all metrics. The first wall hadn’t fallen, at all, and the damage done was easy to repair in the morning.

As the sun rose in the sky, Jane laid down to sleep and wondered if her father was doing okay. It had been at least two days since they last saw him; Jane’s idea of time was a bit messed up, but it wasn’t that messed up. Yggdrasil was still okay— Well. Yggdrasil was alive, and that was the important part. He probably couldn’t survive if Erick was dead.

So that made Jane feel better.

Her father was fine.

… And if not ‘fine’, then he was at least alive. For sure.

- - - -

Another night of black ooze passed much like the first, but with only 5 greater amalgams the whole night. Jane did have someone try to kill-steal the single amalgam that came for her side, though. That was unexpected, but also, at the same time, expected. Jane wasn’t quite fast enough to save that idiot from himself, though, as the tentacle amalgam grabbed him tight in its death throes and ripped him apart, right before the amalgam died, too.

The third night saw 15 greater amalgams and four kill-steal attempts. Jane thwarted every kill-steal attempt that came for her. The third night also saw the greatest defensive addition to the walls, thanks to Kiri. Thanks to various clues shared by Teressa, Jane, and Poi, Kiri had successfully created a [True Sunlight Rift]. Where Archmage Obsidian’s [Sunlight Orb] did well to evaporate the black ocean and keep the attacks manageable, Kiri’s brilliant white rifts of light obliterated the black ocean almost like Jane’s [Prismatic Body] and [Cleanse Aura] combination did, but on a much, much larger scale. The only problem was that Kiri’s rifts only lasted an hour each, but thanks to her efforts, it seemed that they might have crossed a hump. Thanks to her [True Sunlight Rift]s, Kiri was able to almost completely evaporate the ooze that came directly at them from the Dead City.

It was still an ocean of black ooze, though. So… Kiri’s efforts were great, but not enough to solve the problem.

Jane sent a letter to Nirzir detailing the current problems of Spur, and wishing Nirzir success in her runework. As soon as this black ooze and level 92 monster threat was gone, then Jane was probably going to get into runework, too.

The fourth night saw a large increase in the number of large amalgams, with 39 appearing that night, and the arrival of the first of a new, much more dangerous breed: the dispelling amalgams. There were three breaches of large size that night and Jane ended up falling out of the sky a few times and taking heavy wounds for the first time since the start of the siege. Around midnight, Teressa demanded a full retreat to the second wall, and that probably saved hundreds of lives as the sudden appearance of five dispellers ripped apart every defense upon that frontline.

But they still needed to kill the dispelling amalgams. Which is exactly what the archmages and Kiri did. Lightning and crashing stone and black fire, sent from far away, ripped apart what no one else could touch. After those dispelling amalgams were killed, Jane and Killzone retook the first wall, and Archmage Wave was able to repair it. The front line moved back up to the front.

The fifth night was simple, at only 9 greater amalgams in total, except for the return of the many-armed caster amalgam. That monster showed up on Mog’s side of the wall and Mog would waste too many resources trying to kill it, so Jane was ordered to go in and take care of it. All Jane succeeded in doing was driving it away again, for it fled the second it experienced Jane’s first dive-in attack.

Also on that night, Jane helped Teressa to kill a good-for-her amalgam. It was one of the few amalgams that were simple brute fights, without too many tricks, and Teressa hit it rather hard with a massive mace while she ran a [Cleanse Aura] the entire time. With some outside assistance setting the stage for her, it was enough for Teressa to kill the thing. She grabbed almost all of the Participation of the fight and many levels.

As Jane went to bed that morning, she wondered when the dispelling amalgams would show up again…

But mainly, she wondered where her father was.

Was he eating well?

Was he safe?

Poi reported that none of their necromancers had captured his soul, so he probably wasn’t dead. Yggdrasil continued to rebuff all communication, but he was still alive, too.

Erick was probably fine.

- - - -

It had been a full ten days since Erick vanished on that Teleport Pad. Today was the date when Darabella’s husband’s soul responded to the summons of a necromancer, but Erick’s soul did not come to them when called. Jane had gone to the Church that morning, to speak to Phagar, but the priests would only tell her that Erick did not accept The End, and Phagar did not see fit to respond to her pleas for answers. And so, day ten came and went.

Nirzir’s response came. She was thinking of planning a trip to Spur, to help with the level 92 monster threats. Many of her people might want to come too, for it wasn’t that often that you found such monsters on the surface of Veird.

Jane smiled.

Day eleven had more dispelling amalgams and also the return of the caster amalgam. The archmages were quick to respond to the dispelling ones, while Jane went after the caster amalgam. The caster got away again.

And Erick remained missing.

- - - -

- - - -

- - - -

There is a land far below.

- - - -

- - - -

- - - -

A place of gentle, rainbow glows.

- - - -

- - - -

Further down,

- - - -

And further still,

- - - -

Where thick air drowns,

- - - -

And monsters kill,

- - - -

A land of death that lurks and dwells

in darks and lights; they are unseen.

So bring your best, your swords, your spells,

and Travelers ware the deeper queens.

- - - -

- - - -

