Now, for test number seven, the second to last test, before I go home and write down my findings.

The seventh test is a simple one, with only one rune carved into the wood, a tier 2 mana absorbing rune.

This test will tell me if higher-tier runes stress the material they're engraved on more or less than their weaker counterparts.

I actually feel a little sad to destroy this one; it took me forever to engrave it correctly.

Activating the rune, I eagerly watch what happens. The tier 2 rune absorbs my mana just like its tier 1 variant but at a much quicker speed. At the rate the rune is working, the board should disintegrate in a few moments. But while I'm waiting for the board to reach its mana limit, I feel it start to vibrate in my hands. That's new.

I quickly stop supplying magic to the rune to see what will happen, but the board doesn’t stop vibrating. Scanning the wood, I find the cause of the issue.

The rune isn't bonding correctly with the wood, and the engraving ink is acting as an acid; it's eating away at the board, all while absorbing the mana I've been channeling. I think the board isn't strong enough to support the power of the rune, so it's eating through it instead.

Soon the engraving ink cannibalizes the wood holding the rune’s shape. And once the engraving ink is free to move about, the engraving ink goes in every direction, and the board explodes in my hands.

Wooden shrapnel harmlessly bounces off Mana Skin as I stare blankly at my now empty hands. So, runes can explode.

That was a much more violent reaction than when I conducted my second test. When I tried activating my poorly drawn rune, the mana in the rune escaped through its flaws, disintegrating the board, but this time the rune couldn't hold its shape and collapsed all at once. I guess this means the more significant the flaw, the more violent the reaction. This test demonstrates that you can't just enchant anything with a higher-tier rune. I'll need to be careful with what enchantments I try to place on stuff in the future. I'm not worried about a tier 2 rune messing up my kaglese gear, but who knows if it could hold a tier 3 or higher rune.

But those are problems for a future me. Heck, I don't even know any tier 3 runes at the moment, so no need to worry about what I can't do.

"One more test to go," I tell myself as I grab my final board.

My eighth and final test is to see if my wooden boards can store mana. I engraved a basic tier 1 mana absorbing rune on the board and connected it to a mana storage rune.

I copied this rune from the charging base of my mom’s magic kitchen knife. The rune is meant to store the mana absorbed from the magicite placed within the container, but since I charge it most of the time to avoid wasting materials, I know it can also store my mana just fine.

If I can figure out a way to store my mana in a portable container, it would change how I use magic. I could store up my excess mana each day and save it for the days I practice magic or use it during my sparring sessions with Tabitha. And the best way to make this dream a reality is to see how well everyday items hold mana.

I don’t necessarily want this test to fail as soon as possible, so this time I inject my mana into the runes in small bursts and watch what happens.

The enchantment absorbs and stores my mana just fine. In fact, the storage rune holds in my mana much more efficiently than all my previous tests. When an enchantment is activated, a small amount of mana is lost every second it's running, not much, but more than this storage rune is losing. Why doesn't every enchantment have one of these? There has to be a drawback of some kind; that's the only reason enchanters wouldn't include a storage rune in every enchantment. I'll have to do further testing to find out the reason.

I channel my fourth burst of mana into the enchantment, and the board starts to disintegrate on me. It appears the wood couldn't contain the mana being held within the rune, which means the amount of mana a storage rune can hold is directly correlated to the material the rune is inscribed on.

Everything leads back to the materials you’re working with.

With my tests complete, I can't help but smile; this is what I needed. Whether I want to admit it or not, my crafting had started to feel stale. Sure, I have the arrows to make, but the last couple of weeks have been nothing but steel weapons for the village. I make sure to put my all into it when I’m making weapons for the village, but there’s a point where it becomes monotonous. Each spear I make is designed to channel mana as efficiently as possible, and yet I doubt all but a few people in the village would be able to tell the difference between my work and any old spear Kervin might be selling.

But now, my extra effort matters. If I want to work on my enchanting, I'll need to produce the best weapons and armor that I can. I feel excited just thinking about it!

Standing up, I brush the ash off my clothes. “What should I try next?” I ponder out loud with a smile on my face. Grabbing my hammer and swinging it onto my shoulder, I start walking back towards the village, excited for my next round of testing.
