“Isn’t this supposed to be our day to spend time together?” Mother looks up from stitching my armor and pouts. “It feels like you spend all your days off fiddling with your magic.”

“Fiddling?” I raise an eyebrow at Mom.

“You heard me,” Mom holds up my vest that still has most of the metal plates exposed. “And why did it take you so long to ask me to fix this?!”

“Because I didn’t want to bother you,” I playfully reply.

Mom narrows her eyes at me. "We'll don't. If you need me to stitch up your armor, I want you to tell me immediately. And don’t try patching it yourself like you did that mess,” Mom motions to a pile of torn-up leather sitting next to her workstation. That pile is the last remnants of my breastplate. After my last sparring session with Tabitha, I could no longer patch my armor up and was forced to make a new one.

“Are these different?” Mom holds up one of the plates she’s securing to my new vest.

I’m surprised she noticed. “Yeah, I reforged them one too many times and was forced to add more steel into the mixture.”

“There heavier; will they defend you better?” Mom gives me a concerned look.

"They're about the same," I inform Mom with a smile. And once again, I tell my Mom a white lie to make her feel better.

Truthfully, those new plates are weaker than the old ones. Regular steel can't match up to kaglese, and after testing the new mixture, I found it's actually 8% weaker, and that's only adding a bit more steel to the alloy.

Oh well, I can't worry about it now. We've already begun prepping the materials to start making the dellinium arrows, and I can't waste any more time on my armor. Especially if my armor is just going to get shredded again the next time I face Tabitha. She made it quite clear that if I can hit her, she can increase the difficulty of my training.

I reach up and massage my left shoulder; it's still stiff from the beating Tabitha gave me a couple of days ago. At least I now have two days off to finish my recovery, and I don’t feel nearly as bad as I did yesterday. Yesterday was the second time I had to craft sore, and I’d forgotten how much more difficult it made working.

At my level, it’s hard to feel tired with my physical stats as high as they are. If I have a rough day and go home sore, my stats almost all but guarantee that I’ll start feeling better by the time my head hits my pillow. Even during my previous sparring sessions with Tabitha, I was good by the next day. The fact that I still feel some slight pain around my body is a good indicator of how thoroughly Tabitha kicked my ass two days ago.

I'm happy I'm closer to making her take me seriously, but I'd be lying to myself if I said I wasn't worried about my next sparring session.

I wonder if I should warn Mother that she might be helping me fix my armor a lot more than she thinks she will be? Looking over at her, I watch as Mom sews my armor with her strongest thread. Mother always has this profound look on her face when she works, like her eyes are concentrating solely on what she’s doing, all while having a distant look on her face.

After Mother finishes the seam she's working on, she holds up my vest and inspects her work before she continues. I think I know where my desire for perfection came from. "As long as it protects you," Mom sends a quick glance at me.

What? Oh yeah, my armor. I got lost in my head for a moment there. "It should be fine," I reassure her with a smile, but that seems only to make Mom more suspicious.

"It will protect you, won't it?" Mother's eyes drill into me.

“As much as it can,” I answer in a slightly somber voice.

“What does that mean? What’s the point of wearing armor if it doesn’t protect you?”

“It protects me a little bit,” I awkwardly try to explain to Mom. “It’s another barrier protecting me from Tabitha.”

“Some barrier,” Mother scoffs. She reaches over and picks up a strip of leather from the remains of my previous armor. “I know you used your magic to wash away the blood before you brought this to me.”

I choose to remain silent, not feeling the need to dig my own grave.

"You looked nearly dead when you stumbled home two days ago. I'm just worried that lady is pushing you too hard," Mom's face softens into a look of concern.

And this is precisely why I tried so hard not to ask her for her help with my armor.

Taking a deep breath, I sit up straight to convey confidence. "I won't lie; sparring with Tabitha is tough. I get my butt handed to me more than anything else," I tell Mom, looking her in the eye. "But it's because she's so tough on me that I'm improving as fast as I am. My shredded armor and a few cuts are just the price of my training."

"She doesn't need to cut you to train you!" Mom admonishes me. I know Mom is concerned for my safety, but I can't help but smile. "Do you think this is funny?" She scowls at me.

“Not at all,” I shake my head while still smiling. “I was just thinking about how lucky I am to have such a caring mother.”

“Flattery won’t work, Missy.”

“I was just telling you the truth, Mom,” I smile wryly. “Even though Tabitha’s methods might be extreme, I’ve never felt like my life was in danger. Tabitha may be a battle crazy monster… on second thought, let me rephrase that. Though Tabitha may be weird… Uhm.”

Mom stares at me while I try to think of a better way to describe Tabitha. The awkward moment lasts until I finally decide to be blunt about it. "Tabitha is weird and crazy; anyone can see that, but she's utterly devoted to Pacore, and by extension, me. Plus, it's hard to argue with her results."

“So, you’re saying you need to get hurt to become stronger?” Mom gives me a look that says she isn’t buying it.

“Yeah, kind of,” I shrug. “You have to push yourself if you want to improve, and I’m at the point in my training I need to be tossed around if I want to see any significant growth.”

“Child, you’re killing me,” Mom lets out a long sigh. “I’m starting to think the gods sent you to challenge your Father and me.”

“The gods could care less about us,” I snort, immediately regretting my remark.

“Aaliyah!” Mom shouts. “Don’t test the gods like that.”

“Yes, Mom,” I hang my head so she can’t see me roll my eyes. The gods don’t care about people, certainly not the two I met. And that's probably a good thing. If all-powerful beings like them started to interfere with mortal life, I shudder to think what could happen.

“What am I going to do with you?” Mom shakes her head, “How did you end up like this?”

“You’re asking me,” I point at myself. “I wanted to be a blacksmith.”

“Funny,” Mom rolls her eyes before focusing back on my vest. If we had this conversation half a year ago, Mom would probably be demanding I stop practicing with Tabitha. Though she's worried about me, Mom knows I have to do this and wouldn't put me in a position where I have to choose between her and my training. Once again, I'm reminded of how supportive my family is.

Smiling, I turn back to my own project and the reason that started this whole conversation. Sitting in front of me on the kitchen table is a small stack of wooden boards, the largest only 2' by 4''. When I was doing all my prepping yesterday, I cut and planed these small planks for today.

Off to my right is the bottle of engraving ink, and next to it is my engraving pen. Mom wasn't wrong to call what I'm doing magic practice, but I’d like to think of it more as furthering my crafting skills. After all, if I can start enchanting my gear, then maybe the armor mom is working on will last longer this time. Though, my armor will probably be the last thing I enchant.

If Kervin makes it back to the village in a few weeks with more kaglese, I'll be able to make a brand-new chest piece rather than reforge the one I have now. But of course, I can't just start experimenting on my weapons and armor. If I screw up the enchantments, what then?

But I don’t want that happen, that’s why I’m starting off simple.

I already have most of the runes I've discovered memorized, but that's only when it comes to carving them into the wood. I've never had engraving ink to work with before, and It's impossible to know how my carving will work now that I have it.  That's why I'm going to do a series of tests to determine how my skills work now that I'll be enchanting for real.

First, I grab my engraving pen and the bottle of ink. I remove the small threaded cap on the end of my pen and uncork the ink. As carefully as possible, I slowly dip the engraving ink bottle until a bead of ink starts to pour into my pen. The engraving ink has the consistency of syrup, and it takes me four minutes to fill it up.

Setting the ink bottle back off to the side, I examine my engraving pen now that it's full. The pen feels different in my hands now that it's heavier, but fiddling with it for a little bit is all it takes for it to start to feel natural again. But as I twirl the pen in my hands, I notice there isn't any ink on its tip. I know there's a small hole for the ink to dip through, but Sense Mana lets me see that the ink appears to be clogged at the small threshold.

Did Master not make the hole big enough; do I need to see him to get it fixed? Let's try pouring my mana into the pen first before I go running to Master Del.

Using Inject Mana, I transfer a small amount of mana into my engraving pen, and I’m surprised by the results.

When I practiced without engraving ink inside my pen, my mana would naturally condense in the tip of the pen. The same thing is happening now, but as my mana flows through the pen, it's reacting with the ink inside it. As my mana is pulled to the tip of the pen, it drags a small bead of engraving ink along with it.

"That's so cool!" I can't help but exclaim. I can already guess how an engraving pen is supposed to be enchanted just by watching how my mana moves through the pen.

“Having success already?” Mom asks from her sewing corner, reminding me I’m not alone. I’m starting to think I might get sucked into my work too easily.

“I think so,” I happily tell her.

Knowing how the pen functions, I reach over and grab a piece of wood with my left hand. I hold the board steady and move to engrave a basic mana absorbing rune. Mana absorbing runes are the basis of all enchantments, so it only fits I start with them. I focus on the image in my head.

With Steady Hands activated, I carve out the whirlpool-looking rune, and I quickly realize the difference with using engraving ink.

Even with me channeling my magic into the engraving pen, the ink doesn't come out that fast. What would've taken me half a minute to carve out normally, the tier 1 mana absorbing rune takes me a full four minutes of slow carving to get just right. I'm all for slow and steady, but the longer it takes me to engrave the rune, the more mana I waste applying it. Plus, there’s the ink I need to worry about.

If I go too fast, the ink doesn't fill the channel properly. But on the other hand, if I focus on one spot too long, the ink bunches up and overflows. The former problem is more common than the latter, but both are issues I need to be aware of.

When I do finish my first rune, I’ll be the first to admit it’s a little rough around the edges, but the overall shape is there.

I pause, expecting to gain my long-awaited Engraving skill, but I never feel the tell-tail sign of my soul expanding. Which probably means…

I take my finger and carefully touch a part of the rune. The ink is still runny; it needs to dry… or harden. I actually don't know what it's supposed to do.

Oh, fuck me, there better not be something else complicated to get the engraving ink to dry!

Wait, Aaliyah, don’t panic, I tell myself. Work with what you have.

Today is all about testing, meaning there are no wrong answers. I should try channeling magic through the rune, as I did with my engraving pen, and see what that does.

I need to be creative with how I inject my mana. If I touch the ink, I might ruin it, and I don't want to mess up on my first test subject. Luckily, I have the skills to channel my magic through the air; I just need to keep my hand an inch away from the rune. I don't use much mana because not only is the rune engraved on regular wood, but it's also just a single rune, not a complete enchantment.

I have no problem directing my mana into the rune, and I can use my Mana Manipulation skill to make sure very little of it is wasted on the transfer.

The plank gobbles up my mana and quickly reaches its mana threshold, getting it close to disintegrating, but it's worth it. The rune is doing its job by absorbing my mana, and that's all that matters. What's really interesting, though, is what my mana is doing to the rune.

As the mana absorbing rune continues to eat my mana, the ink is fusing with the wood and taking on its properties. I always wondered how scratching a rune into something doesn't compromise it structurally, but here is my answer.

I don’t take my eyes off the rune for a single second as it slowly fuses entirely with the cheap wood. I'm surprised regular wood can support a rune.

And like that, I jinxed myself again.

The two triangles on either side of the rune accumulate too much magic, and without an accompanying rune to utilize said magic, the wooden plank disintegrates with the two triangles as the epicenter.

I stare down at the pile of dust that was my first attempt at enchanting. I know I told myself there were no wrong answers, but watching your work disintegrate in your hands isn’t the easiest thing to watch.

I give myself a minute to feel frustrated before I get back to work.

