I go over everything that just happened to see if I missed anything during my excitement. Even though my rune wasn't drawn as pristinely as I would've liked, it still worked; that's something to remember.

I try to remember the moments the engraving ink was fusing with the wood, filling in the previous material's surface. I can't be sure, I was distracted by the material disintegrating, but I think the rune wasn't able to mimic the wood's density fully. It makes sense; engraving ink would be way more valuable if it could perfectly take on the principles of whatever it was used on. That, or my engraving ink, isn't that good. I'm sure it's like the weapons I make; you would need the best materials to make something truly remarkable.

I’ll need to keep an eye on my next test to see if I’m right. I reach over and grab the next board.

This time I’ll try carving two runes, a mana gathering rune along with a one port mana regulating rune.

My previous test didn't necessarily disintegrate because of the rune I carved. The board disintegrated because the rune was absorbing my mana, and it didn't have anything to do with it; the same thing would've happened if I were to pour too much mana into anything.

If I can successfully carve two runes into an ordinary piece of wood, that would be great. But if the wood can't handle it, I'll just have to find something else to practice on. Blacksmithing logs have a lot of mana; I bet they could withstand a handful of runes.

I’m getting ahead of myself again; first, let’s see how much I can do with regular wood.

Channeling my mana, I start work on the two runes.

Again, it takes me a few minutes to engrave the mana absorbing rune, then it takes me almost seven minutes to carve out the more complicated mana regulator rune. Lastly, I connect the two runes much as I've seen in the various magic items I've learned them from.

My second attempt at a mana absorbing rune has cleaner lines than my first and is a lot closer to the examples I wrote down during my practicing. Sadly, the mana regulating rune is a failure. Examining the rune with Sense Mana shows that there were multiple points where the lines were overdrawn, and I can even spot an area where the lines look like they meet but have a small gap in between them.

Getting the ink to move like I want it is more complicated than I thought.

I let out a small sigh. Well, now is the best time to see what happens when a rune is drawn wrong.

I start pouring my mana into the second test board.

Almost instantly, the mana absorbing rune starts to work the same as last time, but now it has a place to send the mana it's drawing in. The mana absorbing rune funnels my mana into the regulating rune, and suddenly a noise pierces our quiet house. The board splinters in my hands, and it sounds like someone is crinkling aluminum foil into a microphone. After that, the split board pieces start to disintegrate like my last test subject.

So, that’s what happens when a rune is drawn wrong. I only caught sight of it for a second, but Sense Mana picked up a lot of violent mana around the spots I noticed earlier, especially the area where there was a break in the rune.

If I was practicing on a sword, would the same thing happen? I now see why enchanting is taken so seriously; one wrong move and you could lose whatever it is that you're working on. That’s a lot of risk considering I failed on the second rune. Each magic item I’ve seen has at least four runes, at least four chances to make a single mistake.

It’s no wonder a metal box enchanted to heat up goes from being worth a single silver coin to a few gold when enchanted correctly.

“Aaliyah! Are you ok?” Mom leaps up from her chair, dropping my half-sewn vest on the floor.

“I’m fine, Mom,” I quickly wave her back down.

"You sure?" Mom asks, not taking my advice and moving next to me. When she reaches me, she looks me over with a critical eye.

"All fingers accounted for," I jokingly hold up my hands, earning me a glare from Mother.

“What was that awful noise?” Seeing that I’m ok, Mom turns her focus to the table and the pile of ash on top of it.

“I think that’s what happens when you mess up a rune,” I tell her.

“Scared the crap out of me,” Mom frowns.

It must have because for the life of me; I can't remember the last time I've heard Mom swear. "Sorry," I apologize to my flustered mother.

“It’s ok, as long as you’re alight,” Mom lets out a relieved sigh. “But is it safe for you to continue?”

“What do you mean?”

"I mean, is it always going to make that noise when you mess up, or will something worse happen?" Mom questions me.

I never thought of that. I purposely activated the rune, knowing it would fail, but I never considered what might have happened when I did. It only takes a few mana points to activate a basic spell, and I easily channeled five times that amount into the plank. For all I knew, the rune could've exploded.

I didn't even activate Mana Skin because I haven't left the house today. I was careless, and I could've hurt Mom or myself because of my stupidity. “I don’t know,” I honestly answer Mom. “I’m sorry.”

“You don’t need to keep apologizing,” she tells me.

I hang my head in shame. "That second apology was because I was reckless. I knew that rune was bad, and I still activated it to see what would happen."

Mom will probably tell me to take my work outside. I need a place to work, so I guess I’ll have to impose on Master. I hope he isn’t too mad to see me on his day off.

“So, you knew it was bad,” Mom repeats in her parenting voice.

“Yes,” I groan.

“Ok, then you should draw your runes at the table and test them outside,” Mom suggests to me.

I raise my head and stare at Mom wide-eyed; even though she’s scolding me, she's oddly calm about this whole thing. I was sure she would tell me to take my work outside. Well, she did technically tell me to take it outside, but only the testing part. Which, I admit, is an excellent idea. “Uh, yeah,” I find myself agreeing.

“And make sure you clean up your mess when you’re done,” Mom gives me a friendly reminder before walking back to her sewing chair, picking my vest off the ground before she sits down.

After I watch Mom take her seat, I turn back to my work. Walking in and out of the house would be annoying, so I should engrave a handful of boards, test them, then come back and examine my results before deciding how to continue.

Let’s get working.

*********

Carrying a handful of wood and balancing my hammer on my shoulder, I close the front door to my house behind me.

"Now, where do I want to test these?" I mumble to myself.  When my earlier test failed, the noise wasn't exactly quiet, and I don't want to draw a crowd.

Going to Master's house would be the best bet, but I feel bad about bothering him on his day off. Each of my tests will push the runes and planks they're carved on to their limits, and I have no way of knowing how loud they might be. And knowing Master, he's probably relaxing on his bench at this very moment.

I could go to the quarry, but that still requires I pass through Del's clearing. Master pretends not to care about what I'm doing, but if he sees me going to the quarry to test out my enchantments, I’m sure he’ll feel obligated to go with me. Then there's the fact the quarry isn't exactly close by. Walking all the way to the quarry just to walk back ten minutes later isn't a good use of my time.

Plan B then, walk into the forest. That way, even if nearby villagers hear me working, I won't have to worry about any of them bothering me. The chameleon spiders may be gone, but most villagers still keep a healthy distance from the tree line. Someone might grab a nearby hunter to check on the noise, but asking one person to leave me alone is a lot easier than dispersing a curious crowd.

A quick five-minute stroll later, and I’m far enough away that no prying eyes will find me. I pick a spot with a fallen log for me to sit on and get comfortable. I set my hammer down next to me within arm’s reach, keeping it close by just in case a passing goblin decides to do something stupid.

Sense Mana tells me nothing is in the area, and I don't see any markings that a farkas pack or karhu has been through here recently. The giant monster bears are waking up from their hibernation, and those who survived the chameleon spiders and winter are definitely starving. I'm actually a little curious to see how I might stack up to a karhu, maybe put Tabitha's training to some use.

Gods, she’s rubbing off on me!

I chuckle to myself and turn my attention to the engraved planks I brought with me. Each plank is labeled in the order I made them. Fishing through the engravings, I grab the one labeled three.

Test three is just my second attempt at test two, a simple mana absorbing rune along with a regulating rune, only this time, I didn't mess up the regulating part. Now let's see how everything reacts when the two runes are carved right.

Pouring my mana into the runes, I watch as they start to solidify. Test number three was carved first and should've had the longest time to dry, but it appears the runes need to be activated for the ink to harden and merge with the wood. That at least answers one crucial question.

As the runes merge with the plank of wood, I note their structure with Sense Mana. I was right, the engraving ink is hardening and taking on the wood’s properties, but the structure isn’t as solid as the real thing, meaning my runes will be the weak point of my gear. When I get around to enchanting my armor, I’ll have to make sure I enchant the inside that way it will take more to damage it. I don’t know what I’ll do about my weapons, though. If I enchant a blade, it’s almost certainly going to get destroyed in a fight.

This is only my third test, and yet I've already learned so much. I know I’m only progressing this quickly because I’ve practice carving runes for months now, but it’s nice not stumbling over this after how long it took us to decipher the engraving ink.

While I’m enjoying my success and learning about enchanting, I continue to gently push my mana into test number three with exciting results. The mana absorbing rune takes in my mana and sends it to the mana regulator. The regulating rune converts my mana into what I can only call neutral magic. As my mana is altered, I lose my control over it.

This isn't like when I injected my mana into my old katana. When I pushed my mana into my old sword, it would fuel the fire mana already in the metal; that's why I could pull it out even though it was slightly altered. If I tried to absorb the mana coming out of the regulating rune, it would be the same as drawing in mana from my surroundings. My body would need to reconvert the mana back into what it was before I expelled it.

This is interesting, but like my first test, the regulated mana has nowhere to go. Part of the mana is lost to the surroundings, but most of it simply flows back into the wood, overflows into the absorbing rune, and repeats the cycle. Only this new mana isn’t reacting well with the wood.

With each passing second, the natural mana inside the wood is slowly replaced with the new mana, and the wood appears to wither and fade in color. Not decompose like wood is supposed to; instead, the wood becomes sickly white and starts to crumble in my hands. I don't even need to feed it any more of my magic; I only need to wait for it to destroy itself.

Within a few minutes, nothing remains of test number three.

Mana can be pretty damaging. If you add too much, it destroys. If you replace an object's natural mana with a different kind, it destroys the item. I've been practicing magic for over fifteen years now, and I'm still figuring out its subtilties.

Time for test number four; let's see how this one goes.

Picking up the next wooden plank, I grab the test I expect to fail immediately. Test number four is a continuation of tests one and three. It has a mana absorbing rune, a regulating rune, and this time, a water rune.

The water rune is one of the simpler runes to draw, which is a big bonus, but I picked it for this test because out of all of the runes I know, I’m pretty sure the water one is the least likely to explode if something goes wrong. Which I fully expect it to.

I'm only using three runes, and from what I have seen, this configuration shouldn't properly power the water rune, and that's the point. Test four is to determine how many runes a regular chunk of wood can support and what happens if an enchantment isn't sufficiently powered.

Three, two, one, I count down in my head and start applying my magic.

The fourth test doesn't even last two seconds. My magic is absorbed and converted just fine, but the board disintegrates on me as soon as the mana hits the water rune. At least there wasn't that annoying metal screeching sound.

It was hard to tell, but I think the wood disintegrated because the third rune activated, not because the water rune wasn't adequately powered.

If that's true, I might need to stop by Master's clearing and grab some blacksmithing logs sooner than I expected. Damn, and I was hoping to wait until tomorrow too.

I move on to test five and six to confirm my suspicions, and I'm quickly proven correct.

Test five was the same configuration, only with a light rune instead of a water rune.

I drew this in case the water rune didn't do anything, but I get the same results as test number four.

The sixth test has a complete four rune enchantment on it and was only expected to work if either test four or five was a success. But test six does have at least some benefit. The board disintegrates in the same way as the last two, but it happens as soon as the mana hits the third rune, confirming it's the wood that's failing, not the enchantment.

