Erick got out of the hot tub. He dripped water and steam as he cleaned up his meal and every bit of mess he had made while he sat there, eating scones and gazing across the mountains. It had been a good break, but it was time to move on, and even though the elder of the house wasn’t present, and likely only ever existed in the distant, distant past, if at all, Erick still wanted to be a good guest.

When he was once again dressed and ready to go, with his backpack on and his spellwork recast, Erick went out into the village and looked around one last time. He hadn’t been a guest for long, but it was a nice little place. Maybe he would be back later, but probably not.

He looked up and relaxed as he simply stood there, letting the cool white light of the blue Core soak into his face, and warm his body. And then Erick opened his eyes and lightstepped into the air above the village.

“Thanks for the hospitality,” Erick said one last time, before turning his gaze outward.

Where to next?

There were many choices. That mountain range with its cities. The dry lands over there in the center of that continent, with the little villages. The riverlands over there. The coast. The islands past the coast. The other continents. The giant cities on the other continent. Another small city nearby.

“Got a suggestion, Ophiel?” Erick glanced at the little guy on his shoulder.

Chirp chirp.

“Some place Yggdrasil would like.” Erick nodded. “Good idea.”

With that in mind… Where would Yggdrasil like to be?

“He’s already in two bodies of water. Perhaps something… less wet?”

Chirp Chirp.

“He likes the water so we’ll keep that the same. That rules out the mountains and the plains… Let’s fly around until we find something nice.” Erick looked up the bowl of the inner world, to where it vanished past the depth of air, and then completely disappeared beyond the blue curvature of the Core above. “The Core seems like an ocean of mana, but… Not there, either.”

Chirp chirp!

Erick said, “Ah! Right. I should test some basic spellwork, to understand if everything works the same down here before I explore.”

One of the nearby Ophiel got ready for testing, chirping as he hovered in front of Erick.

Erick smiled. Then he and Ophiel moved high into the sky to test out his magics.

After a few tests of basic spellwork, aiming at nothing in particular and canceling his spells before they reached very far at all, Erick quickly realized some important facts about the Outer Core to keep in mind going forward. Magic down here was the same as it was on the Surface. Even [Teleport] worked, which was a surprise. For some reason, Spatial Magic didn’t work in the Underworld, but it worked here, directly next to the Core.

But another test conducted on a cloudgate showed that there might be a problem leaving this place.

Ophiel blipped down, aiming for the tunnel Erick knew to exist beyond the cloudgate below. The ball of feathers and eyes ended up bouncing off of the cloudy surface, unable to pass through. Physically pushing didn’t seem to get Ophiel anywhere, either. Erick recalled Ophiel and frowned at the cloudgate.

He could certainly get through the cloudgate again, no problem, but the thought of fighting so many monsters so soon filled him with a small dread that sent him mentally recoiling. Either the thought of being trapped down here, or the thought of having to face an unexpectedly strong monster, or the idea of never seeing Jane again… He wasn’t certain which of his thousand and one thoughts sent him reeling, but he went reeling, for sure.

Several deep breaths later Erick calmed himself down, and he told himself that he could do what needed to be done, when it needed to be done. But not yet. Not so soon. There was still a lot to do down here.

And since Spatial Magic worked down here then maybe he could make [Gate] and get home that way, avoiding the monsters completely! Erick smiled as he had that thought. Well then. There was already a plan to work with Yggdrasil to make [Gate], so that plan moved to the front of his needs. He would conduct at least one of the tests he had in mind for [Gate] creation, and he might even succeed.

But there was a problem with that plan.

The Worldly Path ended with a visit from Melemizargo, and then the potential Walker got [Gate]. At least, this is how it was according to everything Erick had discovered so far. Because of that fact, Erick suspected that there might be a problem with completing this Quest in the Core. The mana down here felt different than the mana up there, but to be sure that his theory was correct, he ca—

He stopped.

Erick prepared to cast a spell in the same way that one prepares to touch a hot stove; hesitant, and then all at once. This time, he followed through. He cast a spell.

A cascading orb of white light flashed into existence overhead, spreading radio waves all over, and eliciting a white fog out of the air all around Erick. He had already input the searching target, and he was prepared to see the white fog turn deep blue the second [Cascade Imaging] started, but as moments turned to minutes and the foggy map turned more solid…

There was no blue.

Melemizargo was not in this land.

Erick… was not sure how to feel about that. He had touched the stove and found it cold.

But if Melemizargo wasn’t here… Were the other gods here?

To test this new theory, Erick thought up a good Particle Magic question about wormholes, so that he wouldn’t be in violation of Particular Insight’s requirement to ask about Particle Magic, specifically, and he called the god of The End and Time. A hundred mana vanished into the manasphere like so many scattered white glows.

The white glows were odd; that had never happened before. Usually it was a simple cast of mana that vanished into the manasphere, and then gold fire appeared. But...

Erick waited. He frowned. It never took this long before.

He eyed the inverted world.

“… Hello?” Erick asked, “Phagar?”

No response.

He checked the manasphere, casting his sight back in time, to see if Phagar was there like he usually was when Erick went looking.

No Phagar.

“Uh. Okay.” Erick said, “This is rather strange, Ophiel.”

Ophiel chirped; it was very strange!

Phagar could simply choose not to answer, as gods were wont to do, but that seemed incorrect.

Well.

Whatever.

Erick moved right along. He had the main plan already made; he just needed a place to plant Yggdrasil somewhere and then he could certainly talk to the people outside. Unless Yggdrasil couldn’t grow here? Or maybe Yggdrasil’s other bodies had popped when Erick went out of range? Ohh. That might be bad. Hopefully that hadn’t happened.

Erick picked a spot in the distance that looked good and headed that way.

- - - -

Upon seeing his chosen spot, which was a mountain, with a village and a freshwater lake at the base, Erick spotted a better location.

A city lay in the far distance, like a glittering patch of white buildings clinging to the space between a land of green, and the sparkling blue ocean. It didn’t take long to get there, and when Erick did, he knew this was the proper location for Yggdrasil. Something called to Erick as he eyed the place and judged it perfect—

Well. Not the city itself. More specifically, the patch of ocean next to the city. Erick would explore that later, but for now, he had a city to inspect.

… Purely to make sure this was an actually-good location. He’d get to Yggdrasil soon enough.

… He was gunshy about summoning his largest [Familiar], too, but he’d get to it soon enough. He just needed some time. Yes. That was all. A bit more time.

The city was a land of white towers and cathedrals and shorter, but no less well-made duplexes and single family homes, and apartment buildings. Almost every building had a picture window of some sort, made of rainbow stained glass, while some, like the cathedrals and governmental buildings had multiple windows of artful, crystal light. And it was crystal in the more expensive places, for sure; not glass. The streets were paved with white stone. Fountains bubbled everywhere. Bakeries were fully stocked with bread while beer halls and smokehouses and restaurants were all well provisioned, like the people who lived here had simply stepped out for a break.

Except there were no people at all. A [Cascade Imaging] helped to prove as much, and with some shifting of that Imaging, Erick found a few good places to look for answers. Searching for ‘books’ proved a great diversion, for the libraries had so very, very many books. Thankfully, they were not blank, or some shit like that. Erick had half expected that to happen. But, no. The books were real. But the books held a different problem. They were in languages that Erick had never seen before. There were passing similarities to Ancient Script in more than a few books, and once, Erick even managed to read half of a letter he found tucked into a desk by a window. Only half the letter, though. The rest made no sense at all.

And now, Erick stood in a dark wood library of some noble, for sure, for the room was three stories tall and about that wide, with walls made of shelves. Every shelf was packed full of non magical books, each bound in fine leather and organized in some arcane system that Erick had never encountered before. Parts of it seemed organized alphabetically, but only smaller parts, and Erick could only tell this much because of his massive Intelligence, for sure.

This library was organized oddly, but at least it wasn’t organized by color. He had found and dismissed four separate libraries of similar size to this one because they were organized by color. Massive wastes of space, for sure, but they were certainly pretty rooms to look at.

This library, in this massive house of white stone and towers and greenhouses, was probably the one Erick was going to study for a while, if he chose to stay here. This house didn’t have any active magic —there wasn’t any active magic anywhere, actually— but these books were clearly supposed to be of a magical nature. Erick recognized some formations on the shelves that should have been filled with magic, and almost every single book had smatterings of formation diagrams in them, too—

“Ah. I should check my Minor Entity of the Script access.” Erick almost slapped himself. “Maybe there are more people in this land with me.” And if not people, then Rozeta, for sure. He put the book back on the shelf and instigated—

A human woman of white everything, from hair to skin to eyes to her white pantsuit, stepped out of the air three meters away.

Rozeta semi-rapidly said, “Hello, Erick. Welcome to the Outer Core. I am exceedingly busy at the moment, otherwise I might have been here before now but since you’re forcing the issue: Is there some specific thing I can help you with?”

Erick nodded, then he rapidly asked, “Where are all the people? Can I plant Yggdrasil in the ocean in that direction?” He pointed toward the ocean. “Do you mind if I make some magic here? What’s going on with this place? What’s up with the [Luminous Beam] on the guardians? And can I get a cast of [Language Acquisition] to understand these books? But I don’t have any grand-rads on me at the moment.”

Rozeta nodded, then said, “Easy ones first, and not in the order you asked them: Make whatever magic you wish, but be respectful of this land. You were already respectful enough to solve the breach you caused, and you’re you, so though you have trespassed, I trust you enough not to force you out. Because I trust you, you may plant Yggdrasil wherever you wish.

“But know this:

“The Outer Core is a memorial to lost lands and a receptacle for replacement parts in case the worst should happen on Veird.” Rozeta said, “This land was not intended to become a holy land to my people, but it has, and the wrought feverishly protect it from all intruders. You are an intruder, but you are also a Minor Entity, which does hold a certain amount of sway. How much? I will not say, for that would be involving myself with mortal matters.

“As for the guardians possessing [Luminous Beam]: the Core is protected by the wrought, as previously explained. It’s complicated and I won’t go into all of the details of how, mostly because security is security, but those guardians and their cloudgates have been there for a very, very long time. They’re old, but they also get upgraded every so often. Recently, they’ve been upgraded with [Luminous Beam], and since [Luminous Beam] is a very good spell, they use it almost exclusively ever since it was added.

“I believe this is actually a bug in the formations which create the guardians, but it is only after your breakthrough that the caretakers of that magic are finally starting to agree with me that their system is bugged.

“Finally: Yes, you may have [Language Acquisition] cast upon you. Instead of the usual cost, I’ve already taken the liberty of removing the grand rads from the monsters you killed and left to rot. You now have a plus-395 grand rad balance. Use it as you wish.” She flickered with divine fire and magic settled over Erick. “This [Language Acquisition] is a good version that will last as long as you’re inside the Outer Core and a week past that. You probably won’t learn anything too interesting from these books since they’re all based upon reality that no longer exists, but I would never begrudge anyone their diversions.” She stood fractionally straighter, “And now that your questions are answered, I must tell you off.

“Normally, a breach is a lot more deadly for the breacher. Sometimes they get through, though, and they fail to stop the flood of monsters that come inside with them. Those monsters remove on average at least ten cloudgates, letting even more monsters flood into the Outer Core, before they’re stopped. If ever all the cloudgates should fall, which has happened before, then the Inner Core becomes vulnerable. With the Inner Core exposed, all life on this world is in danger of…

“Let’s simply call it ‘bad things’, because the failure states have looked different every time we’ve gotten close to them. But, on the plus side: The Core Defenses ramp up significantly if things look to be going that way.” Rozeta said, “Luckily, this time you prevented that entire series of problems from ever becoming a problem. So, with that, and everything else you’ve done taken into account, you get a pass, Erick.

