Erick laughed with joy and smiled wide, as he began explaining from the beginning, “Spells are cast with duration and other measures of strength, based on initial input of mana. Normally, spells end when those strengths break down. But with [Renew], I attune some of my mana with some ‘bounce’ and some ‘soak’ to survive the ‘translation’ process from my own mana to the mana of the spellwork, and in this way, my mana can repair existing spells by finding the broken parts and remaking them. It’s sort of like the opposite of [Dispel], but that comparison is a bit off, because…”

Erick spoke for hours upon hours. Sometimes, he stopped, and asked if Yggdrasil wanted him to continue. Every time, Yggdrasil said to keep going. Erick appreciated that. He hoped Yggdrasil got something out of all these lessons, but even if not, it was still nice to be near the big guy. Erick hadn’t done a lot of that, ever since he created Yggdrasil 5 months ago. He probably should have, but he had been busy with problems and [Gate].

A normal Arbor would have already turned real by now, too, which was its own set of issues that Erick didn’t feel like touching right now, either. In his own opinion, Erick was lucky that he could spend more time with Yggdrasil before Yggdrasil outgrew him. Erick really should have done this sooner, though.

It wasn’t long till Erick finished his talk on [Renew], but Yggdrasil asked for more words and more magic, so Erick continued, talking of gridwork. He eventually moved on to how he was going to make a [Renew] network that people could string through their houses, so entire cities could benefit from high-class spells inside their homes. The idea was that people could benefit from more than just the magics they could make themselves; they could hire out spell crafters and [Renew] those spells themselves, using the network.

“But you’re making [Gate] network, first?” Yggdrasil asked.

“A lot of magic is connected to a lot of other magic, Yggdrasil.” Erick said, “Exploring one side of magic can oftentimes help you to understand what’s on the other side, or what might be right next to your current explorations and you didn’t even know it.”

Eventually, though the sun never set, Erick got tired again and Yggdrasil was okay with more lessons later, because he was tired, too. Erick went to bed, and had some final thoughts for the day.

[Renew] would change everything, and more than how Erick had expected, too, because apparently his [Renew] strengthened existing spellwork. It didn’t just repair to full; it repaired beyond full.

And that had a lot of unknown implications.

That effect probably wouldn’t make it to the Open Script, though. Erick could already see this aspect of his magic being a major problem. You could turn [Fireball]s into [Perfected Fireball]s for damage, or strengthen [Ward]s far beyond full, or do any number of odd things that he hadn’t thought about right then. The range of 'touch' would preclude a lot of interaction if the spell to be [Renew]ed was dangerous to touch, but aura control could get around that restriction.

... Those were problems for tomorrow.

Erick went to sleep inside a [Prismatic Ward] cast by Yggdrasil, with Ophiel looking over them both, and it was good. He dreamed right alongside Yggdrasil, witnessing visions of big fishes, skies of light, and flowing land.
