“From me. I should clarify: You get a pass from me.” Rozeta stared a bit, saying, “But this shit here was dangerous. You have more than enough power to prevent the worst case scenario, and I’m truly glad you thought to do so, so you get a pass. But other people know what could have happened here, since they’ve lived through it multiple times before.

“Every time someone tries to reach the core, and succeeds, the world almost dies. The wrought understand this. Perhaps they’re too insular down here, in the Underworld. Perhaps some of them disregard fleshy life as frivolous and flighty, so they don’t treat with true mortals like they should. Perhaps they should have been kinder and asked you to meet with them inside their cities.

“But whatever.

“The wrought have a purpose, and that purpose is to protect the world from an unexpected End, and they do a very good job of that. Aside from that, they’re free to live their lives as they see fit, making their own governments and societies and decisions about those societies.” Rozeta breathed. Then she said, “I don’t control the wrought. I give guidance and support, and that’s it. So don’t expect me to get between them and you when they invariably come for you.”

Erick felt the weight of the moment upon his chest. “Okay. I get it.”

“I know you do.” Rozeta said, “And just so you know: Some of those wrought will arrive here in a few days to investigate everything that happened, but there are no easy ways to get here. There are no back doors to the Core. So they’ll have to wade through the monsters like you did, but since all the doors are closed and monsters fill the passageways, there’s not much of an actual emergency. A lot of the usual emergency response was not necessary.” Rozeta said, “The people that do show will want you to leave, but you’re free to do whatever you want, and they’re free to do whatever they want, too. I ask you not to kill them; I have already asked them not to kill you.”

A moment passed while Rozeta let that all sink in.

Erick said, “Heard and understood. Thanks for the warnings.”

Rozeta nodded. “Even with all that said, there is one more important thing to tell you, and then I must be going: I will not let you create a [Gate] in this land. You are a Wizard, so you could probably blow through a few of the protections against such a creation of magic, but I will not save you from the backlash when the defenses activate. There can be no back doors to the Core.” She paused. She continued, “But simultaneously, I wish you well on your creation of [Gate]. I can guide you on that, if you wish, but such guidance will not happen here, or now. Come to the Orrery in Nergal, instead.”

“Understood.” Erick said, “No back doors.”

“None.” Rozeta said, “Even the [Telepathy] you’ll get out of Yggdrasil isn’t something I would normally allow, but I’m planning for the far future, here, and I need to see what happens. So I will allow this, for a while. Yggdrasil will not be allowed to stay in the Outer Core, either.” Rozeta relaxed a fraction. “If you want a place for Yggdrasil, I can make a nice spot for him outside of the Core. I promise he’ll like it. I promise you will like it, too.”

“Okay. I understand.” Erick said, “I’ll replant him elsewhere. What sort of place were you thinking?”

Rozeta allowed herself a tiny smile, and a grateful sigh. “I’m not sure yet; I’ll probably ask some of my people to make a spot.” She said, “A final piece of advice: When you get out of here, don’t accept my father’s help creating a [Gate]. You don’t need him, Erick. You’re Wizard enough on your own, and I’m sure, with time, you will—” Her eyes flicked left with her head turning a moment later, but slower, and more methodical. She frowned at the empty space as she spoke to Erick, “You’ll come into your power soon eno— Bah.” She turned back to Erick. “I must go. Call me again in a few days when you have more questions.”

And then she vanished.

Erick looked at the space Rozeta had occupied for a moment longer, wondering if that had been a good interaction, or not. He leaned toward ‘good’, but he had apparently risked the world to break into this place, and Rozeta did not approve.

Erick wanted to rail against the injustice of not being let into a protected space, but that seemed childish. Security was security, for a reason, and the Core had a very good reason for being secured like it was.

Anyway. Next time Erick would ask Rozeta about what it meant to be a Wizard, and why the other gods weren’t able to answer him here in the Inner Core. There were a lot of questions that Erick would have to save till next time. And… yeah.

Rozeta was busy.

Erick was busy, too. He could talk to her again later, but in the meantime, he had no idea what was going on outside of the Core and he didn’t want to be separated from everyone else for too long. It was time to summon Yggdrasil. Even if [Gate] creation was blocked down here, there were many other reasons to plant the big guy down nearby. Erick wasn’t done with his exploration of the land down here, for there were certainly secrets laying in wait in thousands upon thousands of places, but he needed someone to talk to that wasn’t Ophiel just parroting him. It’d be nice to talk to everyone else on the surface, too. Just how long had Erick been gone, anyway? Hopefully not too long.

And besides that, Yggdrasil was probably worried about Erick, too. Erick knew he was certainly worried about Yggdrasil.

One final thing to do in this library, though. Erick scanned through the stacks, looking for a few books with lots of pictures to aid with learning the language. Such targets were easy enough to find; there was a whole shelf of little knickknacks for kids, including stuffed toys and leather balls and more than a few dolls, along with a whole row of colorful books on the second to lowest shelf. Knowing what he now knew, Erick suspected that this place was a copy of someone’s former home from the Old Cosmology, but translated to this New Cosmology.

Every single city down here was probably like that.

Erick copied every children’s book on that colorful children’s shelf, along with several dozen of the more expensive-looking probably-magic grimoires strung throughout the rest of the library. That would be enough reading material while he hung out with Yggdrasil for the next few days, or something.

Holding his new copies in his light, Erick and Ophiel took a lightstep to their next location, by the ocean.

- - - -

The white city had been built upon a jag of land extending out from the main continent. Past that jut of land, a string of smaller islands trailed off into the ocean to where they grew smaller and smaller until, after five islands, the bumpy land disappeared under the waves, and all that lay ahead was blue.

The city had developed onto the first three of those islands with a massive, arched, white bridge made of stone. For a brief moment Erick thought the bridge was an architectural marvel because stone couldn’t get that thin without magic, and he saw no magic, but then his second thought informed him that this was the Underworld, and gravity was only a suggestion down here.

The bridge was but one of three such bridges leading from the mainland to the nearest island. A similar bridge connected that first island to the second one, and then a third one connected the second island to the third.

The first of the islands held a massive, soaring white castle of several towers and a few curtain walls. Bright blue roofs and shining silver gates served almost as decorations, while private gardens and rooms upon rooms of plush bedding and couches and all the proper amenities of nobility served almost as showrooms, telling the story of the white city’s prosperity. Practically every room had a bit of rainbow stained ‘glass’, too, in the form of windows set above doors. There were a few masterwork sculptures of crystal in courtyards here and there, as well.

The second island had a wizard’s tower of some sort, with an orrery at the top and enough sculptures of wizards to give Erick pause. He didn’t spend too long there because that place was packed with secrets, and with the first sorts of traps that he had seen in this land. He could suss out all the little secrets of that place another day, though, for he had a mission.

But before he got to that mission, Erick checked on the third island. An obvious chapel stood in the center of that land, dedicated to gods Erick had never heard of, or seen before. He didn’t spend too long there, either, but mostly because it was one of the few places that seemed truly sacred.

And, he had other stuff to do. He had checked out those locations just to ensure that there would be no obvious problems with what he came here to do, for the ocean and Yggdrasil called to him.

Erick returned to the sky above it all. To the right of the islands lay a protected harbor. Boats bobbed in the gentle waves of that harbor, looking ready to unload their goods, or to accept loads of goods waiting for them on the docks. Those transfers would never happen though, for those boats had been sitting there like that for a very, very long time— Or? Ah. Maybe not?

They had likely only been there since the last time this land was ravaged by monsters and the Core almost fell. According to Rozeta’s implications, nothing here was actually 1,450 years old; dated to the time of the Sundering. Whatever the case, Erick wasn’t going to plant Yggdrasil in the harbor, anyway; that would be disrespectful.

To the left of the white castle and wizard’s tower and chapel and harbor, though, lay the open ocean. The ocean was freshwater, too, so saltwater wasn’t even a concern.

Erick set down on a small, sandy beach at the base of the white castle. Ophiel propped up a [Prismatic Ward] across the beach while another primed themselves with [Greater Treat Wounds]. A third Ophiel was already out in the deep blue, under the freshwater waves, looking for a good spot.

The beach dipped below the waves, sand becoming seafloor as the land gently sloped down a continental shelf that ended about a kilometer and a half from shore, where a steep drop gave way to the true ocean. The greater ocean was only half a kilometer deep, though. There were a few underwater hills that rose halfway to the surface, but mostly, and judging only from the small inspection Erick had made of it all, the Outer Core ocean was a uniform half kilometer deep.

Of all the artificial things of this ‘warehouse world’, the uniformity of the ocean depths was perhaps the strangest. Or, more likely, it was simply the strangest thing yet; there was still a lot of land and empty cities to explore.

That was all stuff to do later, though.

An Ophiel flooded the land with his [Physical Domain]; not to break anything, but to check to see how deep the dirt actually went, before it encountered the absolute barrier of the edge of the Outer Core—

Ah. Erick found the edge. With a bit of prodding to make sure… Yup! Beyond the flat bottom of the ocean, about 1500 meters beyond, a rather uniform pressure pushed back on Ophiel’s power. Erick didn’t press further. He relaxed Ophiel’s [Physical Domain] and picked one of the larger underwater hills, about seven kilometers out from the beach.

A few Ophiel went there in sunform. One of them cast a columnar [Prismatic Ward] straight up and down, from the base of where Yggdrasil would grow, to three hundred meters up, pushing that Restful density to as large as it could go. Erick hoped such a preparation would lessen the mana drain he was about to endure… It might!

It might not.

“Enough preparation, Erick,” Erick said to himself. “Just do it.”

Ophiels chirped in agreement; they were ready to support him with [Greater Treat Wounds] if he went down, and he probably would.

Erick cast through Ophiel, targeting the land below the waves—

- - - -

A broken dream of fragmented sight and constant missing time, with days feeling like minutes and moments passing without measure, suddenly changed. The world seemed smaller, and larger. Land was land, water was water, air was air again, unlike the jumble it had once been. As reality solidified, time solidified, too.

In a lake by a city of protective candles and biting dirt, and in another lake in a place filled with great big fish and not enough lightning, Yggdrasil realized that he was also somewhere else. A new place. Tracing the whole of himself, he found a curved, strange path that connected him to another set of senses deep, deep underground. In the other direction, Yggdrasil found his old bodies, up on the Surface.

He focused completely on the new space.

A land of endless stillness. A land with a familiar person, of warmth and love and light, calling to him.

The world began to make sense again.

Yggdrasil asked the ending dream, “Father?”

- - - -

Erick slumped to the beach as everything left him, drained like so much blood from a body. His breath stopped as his heart slowed and Mana and Health ripped away, forming a small life at the bottom of a fake ocean that needed more power. A hacking laugh and a spray of blood escaped Erick’s throat as blood spurted from his nose and turned his vision red and he struggled to stay awake. He managed, but it was a bare thing; he knew this was going to happen. He had been prepared. He was barely prepared enough. Ophiel hit him with a [Greater Treat Wounds], and that helped.

Erick’s vision drew him to the source of his pain, and his connection to the outside world.

Across the way, kilometers into the ocean, white surf burst the blue surface and kept on coming, lifting waves into the air and dumping millions of tons of water back into the ocean, only to form more fountains of white that rose further into the sky. As seconds passed the explosion parted, revealing what had surfaced from below.

White branches extended into the cloudy air of the Outer Core, and then stretched out, like rivers of white that rapidly spread into tributaries and streams of glowing brightness. Fiery green leaves burst into existence—

And the drain slowed.

Erick breathed deep, like someone had taken off a boulder from his chest. Ophiel hit him with another [Greater Treat Wounds], and that took the remaining edge off. Erick lifted himself from the sands—

