A brilliant gold fire rippled inside the landscape of his soul, like the gentle tearing of a net. Freezing chills followed as the net tore, but the net began to repair almost as fast, as though a million invisible spiders were stitching it back together, but in a different arrangement. As the golden net fell back into his soul, back to invisibility, it seemed thicker in some spots, but looser in others. A brief check on Yggdrasil’s blue box revealed Erick’s maximum summons was at 4; one more than before.

A blue box appeared as soon as the gold light settled.

Special Quest!

The Worldly Path.

Steps taken: 3 of ???

Reward: Gate

So he was still on the right Path. That was good. Erick dismissed the box and gazed across the waters. His breath hitched as his heart beat harder; it was a magnificent sight.

Yggdrasil was almost fully grown. Kilometers tall and just as wide, the white tree towered over the blue ocean, its kilometer long branches filled with leaves of green fire. As Erick watched, more Mana drained from him, and a bright, rainbow crown encircled all of Yggdrasil like a road of prismatic light rounding a mountain.

The drain from Yggdrasil slowed even more, down to a trickle, and then to something small enough that Erick’s regeneration overcame Yggdrasil’s demands. He relaxed as he waited for some Mana and Health to regenerate. His spellwork had shut off when Yggdrasil emptied him. A half minute later, Erick turned on [Greater Lightwalk], and then [Lodestar]. Yggdrasil was almost fully formed.

With warm, loving thoughts, Erick sent a telepathic, wordless greeting to Yggdrasil, speaking of home and hello and how’ve-you-been, all at once.

“FATHER!” Yggdrasil’s voice boomed across the sky of the Outer Core, filling the world with demanding, and longing, and hope, “WHERE—”

“Over here, Yggdrasil.” Erick tugged on Yggdrasil’s sight, directing him to the beach. “I’m right—”

A tendril of light erupted out from Yggdrasil, longer and thicker than all of his branches combined. He touched Erick, instantly. In a flashing moment, Erick found himself standing on the upper branches of Yggdrasil, upon a flattish section of the curving trunk. For a moment he was disoriented, but he recovered fast enough. Erick guessed he had been [Teleport Other]’d, and that was fine, because there was something else to worry about aside from his own safety. All around him, formerly-fiery green foliage dropped through the air in a minor downpour of crunchy, curled and browned leaves. The world seemed dimmer, and it probably was, for Yggdrasil’s bark flickered and faded with obvious sadness. He didn’t cry, though, because that was a human emotion, and Yggdrasil certainly was not human.

Erick instantly laid down on Yggdrasil, putting his arms wide and hugging the branch as he pressed his face against the dim white surface, saying, “It’s okay, Yggdrasil. Sorry for leaving you behind. Did you have trouble while I was gone?”

Yggdrasil’s dim bark brightened where Erick touched. After a shaking moment, emotions settled. Slowly, for kilometers all around, light began returning to the massive tree. New green leaves began to grow like a spreading green fire at the ends of every one of Yggdrasil’s branches.

A small, prismatic colored [Scry] eye appeared in front of Erick. Looking at him. Erick smiled at the eye and sat up as the eye rapidly moved around him, checking for truth. A spell flickered out of the bark underneath Erick’s feet and his wounds began to close. Another spell flickered much less than a Script Second later, and the blood from his most recent incident vanished from his face.

Erick smiled gently. “Hello, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil’s voice was a small thing. “Hello, Father.”

“I missed you.”

“I missed you, too.”

“Tell me all about it.” Erick laid his head sideways on the now-glowing bark. “How long has it been since I vanished?”

“I don’t know! Why did you vanish!”

Erick turned around and looked upward, watching the Core through Yggdrasil’s brightly shining green leaves. And he started talking, first about Enduring Forge, and then about the blipping incident, and how he thought he’d appear somewhere dangerous, yes, but not nearly as dangerous as it turned out to be. And then Erick moved on to talk of monsters and danger and all that. Ophiel showed up soon enough, depositing the books Erick had copied next to him on the trunk, while Erick rambled on about everything.

Yggdrasil listened, silently, intently, his prismatic [Scry] eye hovering around Erick.

Erick got up and moved some of his new stuff around, organizing it as he continued to talk, giving highlights and lowlights to the experience of the Underworld, talking of specific monsters and their abilities. He felt like he was disgorging his worries onto a child, but he asked if his words were too much more than once.

Yggdrasil went, “Not too much. Tell me more, please.”

And so Erick did. He got to the part where he crossed the barrier, into this land, and he named this place the Outer Core, as Rozeta had explained to him.

“I haven’t explored much, but I plan on doing more of that.” Erick added, “And now that you’re here, you can explore it with me.”

“No. You can’t leave me again. You stay right there.” Yggdrasil said, “This Underworld is too dangerous.”

“I love you too, Yggdrasil.” Erick said, “I’ll stay right here for a while because I’m tired and I missed you, too. How about you tell me what’s been happening on the Surface?”

“… I don’t know.” Yggdrasil said, “They hurt me, so I hurt them back. You left and they hurt me! I don’t know what’s happening out there. Lightning is happening. That is what they deserve.”

“I’m sorry that happened, Yggdrasil.” Erick asked, “Did you reach out to Poi, or Jane, or Teressa? Did you ask anyone for help?”

“… No… I should have?”

“You should have; yes. I might be your connection to this world, but you’ll be able to stand on your own eventually. You need to talk to other people, too.” Erick asked, “Want me to show you how? I’ve been lost down here for a bit, and I need to talk to some people, too. You can listen in while I talk to them.”

“Yes. Show me.”

Erick stepped into Yggdrasil’s existence—

The world turned indistinct, and dark, except for a world of light around Erick, and two ephemeral streams of linking intent that passed outward, through deep darkness and into the world beyond. Other, broader sensory suites spread out in every other direction of this Outer Core, but only those two links went through the protections of this space. And so… Erick followed those links. Behind him hovered a prismatic presence, helping him remain connected, preventing any straying from the path.

Another land of light lay in the sun and starlight far away—

Erick came back to himself, following the guiding presence of Yggdrasil back though the dark, back to the Outer Core. He opened his real eyes again and gave himself a moment to understand what had just happened. He checked himself and he was still alive, still sitting on a flat bend in Yggdrasil’s upper trunk. He had obviously journeyed through the manasphere to Yggdrasil’s other bodies, but it was an odd sort of journey… Whatever had happened, it was apparently fine.

He nodded.

He went back in, following and allowing Yggdrasil’s light to guide his mind to the Surface, oh so far away.

Both locations felt the same—

‘Erick!’ Poi’s voice came to him from the right-ish side of Yggdrasil’s Surface bodies. ‘You’re alive! Thank the gods.’

Erick almost laughed in joy to hear Poi’s voice, but Poi’s voice was desperate. ‘What’s wrong?’

‘Wh— Uh!’ Poi backpedaled, ‘Nothing is wrong. Are you enjoying yourself? While the rest of us worry ourselves near to death?’

Erick asked again, ‘What’s wrong, Poi?’

‘Nothing is wrong, Erick. Everything is fine. But, if you could give me a lesson to hand to Kiri regarding Permanency magic, then things might be a bit more fine.’

‘So you’re not willing to tell me. Okay.’ Erick paused. He asked, ‘How bad is it?’

‘Nothing is wrong, Erick. Do whatever you have to do to get [Gate], then come back to Spur.’ Poi added, ‘Ah. And help Yggdrasil with his defenses over at Holorulo. Candlepoint is working to protect Yggdrasil, but people keep trying to [Dispel] him over in Nelboor. He’s defenseless over there and the sky is a bit more full of lightning than it has to be.’

Yggdrasil spoke in their connection, ‘They hurt me. So I hurt them back.’

‘I’ll work with him, Poi.’ Erick asked, ‘How long have I been gone?’

‘33 days.’ Poi said, ‘It’s been a concern, but Silverite was right; she wasn’t going to start worrying until two months had passed. Jane will be happy to know that you’re okay. We’re all happy to know that you’re okay.’

‘Sorry I made you worry. I’m glad to hear you’re okay, too.’ Erick sent, ‘I’ll send a packet about what happened, first, and then another about Permanency tips.’ With a spark of concentration, Erick lined up his memories and sent them along in two bursts of magic. He didn’t edit many of the memories of his time after falling out of the mana stream, up until he reached the cloudgate and the guardians, but past that he left it as a blur of oddity in a safe land. The Permanency package was well crafted, though; everything Kiri would need to apply that spellwork to all of her magic was in there. After those messages flowed down the pipe, Erick sent, ‘I’ll try to get back as soon as I can, but it’s going to be rough returning.’

After a long moment, Poi sent, ‘Uh. Yeah. That will be rough. Uh. Do you want me to talk to Killzone— I’m going to talk to Killzone and Silverite about this. Maybe they know a way to call off whatever squad is going after you.’

‘They probably don’t have anything to do with Underworld politics anymore… But do gauge how they respond to me being in the Outer Core. I want to know that before I come back—’

‘You can’t come back while you’re still on the Worldly Path.’ Poi sent, ‘We’re handling the problems here, Erick. You should return with ancient magics at your beck and call, and not before.’

Erick frowned. ‘You call me if it gets bad. I can probably help, even though you refuse to tell me what is going on.’

‘… Do you want to tell Kiri how to get [Luminous Beam]? While we’re at this, anyway.’

‘Yes,’ Erick said, without reservation. ‘It’s like this…’ He sent along another packet. ‘That should be it.’

Relief flooded down the connection.

Poi sent, ‘This is more than enough help.’

Erick mentally nodded, then he sent, ‘So. Anyway. This is Yggdrasil. Yggdrasil, this is Poi, one of my best friends. You can talk to him if you have problems.’

Yggdrasil’s massive, world spanning power flickered away from Erick, and landed on Poi. ‘Hello, small blue man. I am Yggdrasil.’

With a proper mental bow and politeness, Poi sent, ‘Hello, large World Tree. I am Poi Fulisade.’

‘Now you two can talk for a while, or as long as you need.’ Erick sent, ‘I’ll talk to you later, Poi. Send everyone else my love!’

‘Yes, sir.’

Erick stepped back, flowing back to himself. As he departed the scene he felt, more than heard, Yggdrasil talk to Poi, like a mountain talking to an ant. He smiled at that feeling; talking to Yggdrasil was about the same for him, too.

Opening his eyes in the Outer Core, Erick sighed into the brightness all around. He watched the fiery green leaves dance upon the gentle winds of this quiet land. With a thought, he sent out Ophiels back into the white city to grab some necessities, like the copy of a bed, and a dresser with clothes fit for him, and a few other assorted items. In half an hour, Erick had a little space for himself set up on the flat-enough trunk of Yggdrasil, with some privacy dividers acting like walls to block the wind and make everything feel just a bit more secure.

When that was done Erick went to the stove and made himself a cup of tea, then he sat down on a nice couch to read some books, to learn at least one of the local languages. It was busywork, more than actual, productive work. He’d make a [Renew] when Yggdrasil came back from talking to Poi, and after a rest of—

“Ah. Shit. The kids with the mana sense problems.”

Erick set aside the book and dove back into Yggdrasil’s connections, to speak to—

Ah.

Found her.

‘Archmage Flatt!’ Caretaker Shani of the House of the Wandering Soul responded, ‘We heard you were dead!’

Erick smiled. ‘The rumors of my untimely demise have been greatly exaggerated. I was merely indisposed for a while. Anyway. You need some new mana sense blocking spells, do you not?’

‘We do!’ Shani softly said, ‘The kids thought you had abandoned them.’

‘Ah. Well. Sorry about that. Things happen.’ Erick glanced out through Yggdrasil at Holorulo, actually looking at the Surface world around him. It was a bit hard to understand, actually. The land was water. The water was air. The sky was fire and lightning. It was all quite surreal, but Erick could tell that Yggdrasil had torn up the place, too. Lightning shattered the water. Wind tore at the air. Storms broke the fire and washed away all who would attempt to attack.

Erick began to fix everything, one spellcast at a time, and gradually, things began to make sense again. The lightning rain stopped. The waters calmed. The stone shoreline repaired, but this time, there was a stone box sitting on the shore. Erick began filling that stone box with [Personal Delirium Charm]s, as he sent to Shani, ‘I can’t personally deliver them this time, but they’re right here beside Yggdrasil, so you don’t have too long of a trip in front of you. I calmed the sky. Can you please tell whomever you feel like telling: Stop attacking Yggdrasil.’ Without giving her time to respond, he showed Yggdrasil to Shani, saying, ‘Yggdrasil. This is Shani. She’ll be by to pick up those charms I just cast into that box. Okay?’

Shani mentally panicked as a presence the size of the sky focused on her.

Yggdrasil sent, ‘Okay, Father. I understand. This person may approach.’

‘Thank you, Yggdrasil.’ Erick sent, ‘Sorry about the interruption of service, Shani.’

‘Pe— Perfectly… Perfectly fine, Archmage Flatt. Thank you.’ Shani rapidly sent, ‘The kids appreciate this.’

Erick pulled back from that conversation, but he continued to fix a few more things around Yggdrasil at Holorulo, while telling Yggdrasil how to maintain proper defenses. Yggdrasil learned quickly, casting spells how Erick told him to cast.

