Then Erick dove across the world, to Candlepoint, to check on the surroundings. The lake at Candlepoint seemed fine. The sky could use some touching up, though, so Erick fixed the weather while Yggdrasil placed some defenses.

Erick pulled back.

Opening his real eyes one again, he saw Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye watching him.

Erick smiled, and said, “You did well when I was gone, Yggdrasil. I didn’t get any unexpected Kill Notifications from you. I’m very proud of you for not killing anyone.”

“I tried to be good, just like you said, Father.” Yggdrasil asked, “You won’t leave me again, will you?”

“I never meant to leave you in the first place. I’m very sorry for that. I hope it never happens again.” Erick picked up a children’s book, asking, “Want to learn a new language with me? Or would you like to watch me make some magic?”

“I don’t care about words on paper. I can’t read.”

Erick’s eyes went wide, but before he could say anything—

Yggdrasil said, “I want to do nothing. You sit there and do nothing, too. Okay?”

Erick nodded. “I’ll stay right here, Yggdrasil.”

“Good.”

Erick decided to read the book. He’d try teaching Yggdrasil how to read later, if Yggdrasil felt like it. Probably wouldn’t happen, though.

He sipped his tea, trying to understand the children’s book, and had a bit of bread and cheese while he was at it. Yggdrasil’s bright green foliage, kilometers away and waving like a dome of light and green fire, rustled a bit. A breeze flowed through.

This was relaxing.

… Erick wondered about Spur, though.

They were probably fine. Poi would have told him if he had to come home. Wouldn’t he? Yeah; he would. Honestly… Erick had spent too much time ‘vacationing’. It was likely past due for him to speed up this Worldly Path.

But if the end of this Path was Wizardry…

Erick had been hesitant about summoning another Yggdrasil, but he was absolutely against dealing with Wizards, because that would mean dealing with himself, and his true place in the world. People seemed to like him so far, but he was under no illusions about what would happen if people discovered he was a Wizard. Everything and everyone would turn on him in a flashing instant.

- - - -

Hours and hours later, Yggdrasil quietly said, “The light is always.”

Erick startled awake. He had fallen asleep while reading but he couldn’t have been unconscious for anymore than an hour or two. He plucked the open magic book off his chest and set it aside, next to the bed with all the others.

Learning the language hadn’t been that difficult and when the children’s books started making sense Erick had moved on to the grimoires, but reading those had been like reading Jabberwocky. Half the words were real, but the other half were arcane to him, both in sensibility and literally since they were about magical concepts that no longer existed. He barely recalled what he was reading, anyway, since he was barely awake at the moment. He eyed the fiery green sky of a canopy above, and the white lightning-like branches that held those flaming leaves far, far aloft.

He tried to make sense of what Yggdrasil had said.

He got nothing.

Groggily, Erick asked, “What?”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye appeared in the air next to him; a small ball of prismatic light. “The light is always. And my roots don’t go deep. And everything pulls oddly.”

Erick stretched, yawning a bit as he dissected Yggdrasil’s words. Apparently he was still exhausted from the trek down here, and nothing made sense at that moment, but Erick came to himself quick enough. He got up, saying, “There is no sun down here, Yggdrasil. That blue planet-sized sphere above is the Inner Core of Veird. We’re in the Outer Core right now; the warehouse of Veird, where they keep their spare parts of the trappings of life in case anything should happen to the rest of the world. And so, this is a protected space. There’s a lock on this space to prevent people from easily entering, or leaving, and you’re brushing up against it when you send your roots deep. Gravity is also odd, since down here gravity always points toward the largest mass of stone. You might be experiencing a self-gravity of a kind, so yes, that would feel odd.”

“It’s not a sun?”

“Correct. That blue thing is not a sun.” Erick walked over to the kitchen he had set up and started preparing dinner, since it might as well be dinner time. “I’m not sure how it works either, but the Inner Core gives off light like a sun. I know the world looks a bit weird to you, and feels even stranger… Does the light of the Inner Core feel good? Or are you mainly using your own [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] for light?”

Yggdrasil took a moment to respond. “I like the light. I’m always in light. Down here I’m always in the light? It’s okay. Feels odd. I like real sun better. This sun not sun. Missing something.”

“I like the real sun, too.” Erick said, “Rozeta has informed me that neither of us can stay down here, but if you want, she has offered a space outside the Core. Somewhere close and probably always full of light.” Erick said, “She promised that you would like it. Would you like to be replanted out there?”

“Yes.” Yggdrasil quickly added, “We can leave together. Then you come build house in my branches at candle land and stay there. Okay?”

“I might have to go traveling again, to another land that is separate from the Surface.” Erick asked, “Do you remember the place in the Forest where your [Scry] eye could not follow?”

“No. You come home and stay.”

Erick smiled as he tossed some onions and beef on the grill, saying, “And let you explore the cosmos while I can’t move at all?”

“… I can’t explore cosmos.” Yggdrasil said, “I like staying in one place.”

“That’s what you say today. But what about tomorrow? Staying home is nice, but your home is going to be everywhere in the universe, as far as you can go, but to get there takes a bit of exploring of your own. One day you’ll find yourself on completely alien planets, supporting the growth of light and life.” Erick asked, “Or do you not want to see the places I told you about?”

Yggdrasil’s leaves flickered with unsure brightness. “… I want to see other worlds, too.”

“And I’ll help you get there, but this means that I will have to leave sometimes, so that you may follow.” Erick added, “And sometimes you will go somewhere, so that I may follow. This is life.”

A gentle groan of accepted disappointment moved through Yggdrasil like a very large branch gently bending in the wind. It wasn’t exactly a human sound, for it wasn’t born of a human mind or physiological reaction, but it was an approximate emulation based on human emotional reactions. Erick wondered how, exactly, he was connected to Yggdrasil, and how that connection influenced Yggdrasil’s growth. From everything that Erick could tell, the big guy was basically a child, and while Erick gave ‘birth’ to him, Yggdrasil’s other major ‘biological’ donors were gods and magic—

Huh.

Actually, magic was just possibility based on interpretations of mana as seen through the lens of a sapient mind, so perhaps Yggdrasil’s other major contributors were also orcols, and incani, and dragons, and monsters, and everything else that made mana on this world. Erick had never thought about it that way, but Yggdrasil had some rather radical genetic influences, didn’t he? Actually, they’d be ‘soul influences’; nothing genetic about them.

Yggdrasil stopped groaning in thought, and said, “I want to see rest of universe, but not today.”

Erick nodded. “Not today.”

“You can show the way, but I need you here most time.”

“I will be here for you, Yggdrasil. Forever and always.” Erick said, “And when I’m not directly with you, you can follow, like Ophiel.” Ophiel chirped on Erick’s shoulder. “I can’t support your body on my other shoulder, but I can support your sight.”

Yggdrasil’s small [Scry] eye set down on Erick’s other shoulder. With a small voice, he said, “Okay.”

A gentle wind blew across the inner world, and it was good.

Erick grilled beef and onions high in the sky, while Yggdrasil and Ophiel watched. Eventually, he added cheese, then he grilled some bread. The resultant cheesesteak sandwich was a bit different from what he normally made, but it was delicious and nutritious, and so Erick copied the other half of his sandwich so that he could have more.

When eating time was over, he was rested, and feeling good…

It was time to make [Renew].

Erick strode out of his put-together room upon Yggdrasil’s branches, up the slope to an empty area, saying, “I’m going to make some magic now. Okay? Watch how Ophiel looks over me, and don’t interfere. You’ll probably see some blood, but I can handle it.”

“Okay.” Yggdrasil said, “I see you bleed before. I not worried.”

Erick smiled.

And then he focused. He walked a bit further, and then he was far enough. In another twenty meters, Yggdrasil’s main trunk turned upward again, breaking off into more and more branches the further up it went.

Erick looked around at the perfectly clean manasphere, and realized this land would either be great for spell creation, or absurdly difficult. He leaned toward the former, but expected the latter. Anyway, he needed some targets to [Renew], so he cast a few; [Force Wall], [Teleporting Platform], a small area of [Domain of Light], and finally, he summoned his rad-retrieving minion, Jewels. The quartz-shaped torso-sized summon of a hundred floating stone knives just stood there, waiting for instructions.

Erick told it, “Do nothing, Jewels.”

Jewels did exactly that.

And Erick organized his thoughts.

[Renew] was a complicated spell of a countless thousands of moving parts, but only because magic itself was as varied as imagination itself. Thus, [Renew] needed to be a key that could fit into any lock; to renew any spellwork it touched. But this was a failure state of the spell, for such a spell would require at least tier 4 Tricking Magic. Erick had considered going that route a few times, but… No.

Erick needed to make a basic tier spell that anyone could use, so that everyone could contribute to defense. Actual mages and archmages would provide the defense, but the common person could still dump their mana into those defenses, ensuring that their beacons of civilization remained strong against the dangers of the wilds and the monsters.

Erick had tried manually shoving Light Mana into Light spellwork, and that worked a little bit, but not nearly well enough to make a spell. It wasn’t until he reached Enduring Forge, until he discovered how runes worked, until he saw how the Slime Spawner and Arcane Attuner turned normal mana into slimes and spellwork through a grand series of translation runes that he understood all the missing pieces of [Renew].

He had those pieces now.

He held out a hand and put those pieces together, speaking in Ancient Script, except for the last word,

“A bit of spell to start the drain.

“A flexing swell! Our mana trained

“and does like rain in lakes accrue

“trans-forged through veins

“The goal: [Renew].”

Erick flexed his lightform toward the floating [Force Wall], and though he opened his mana and prepared for the drain, for the channeling of magic into the pane of Force, reinforcing what was already present, he felt something break inside of him, instead.

A bit of his soul crunched in response to his voice; to his request of the mana.

The crunch spread outward like a shockwave that traveled down his arms and legs and struck his extremities like an interior explosion. Capillaries burst. Red spurted from toes and fingertips, spreading in all directions like Erick had been the center of a popped balloon of blood—

Gentle white light fluoresced from the wounds of his outstretched hands, which in turn became a gentle glow inside of his palm.

Erick relaxed as Ophiel hit him with a [Greater Treat Wounds] and blue boxes appeared, but he ignored the boxes for a moment and pressed his newfound power into the [Force Wall]. There hadn’t been much degradation in the spellwork, since he had cast the Wall not a minute ago, but that didn’t matter. Erick’s new spell turned to raindrops of light that soaked into the Wall like water into a sponge. He upped the channel, fully showering the Wall, seeing what would happen.

[Force Wall] normally cost Erick 5 mana, but as he dumped more and more mana through his new spell, into the Wall, it was like seeing a stone wall transmute from rock, to steel, then to something even stronger. But at a hundred mana poured into the magic, it could take no more. Erick’s white rain merely bounced off of the spell. The [Force Wall] was at full saturation.

Erick released the [Renew] in his hands. Light died. He breathed, and then he looked at his new blue boxes.

Congratulations!

You have created a new Basic Spell. Your spell has been added to your skills for free!

The spell you have created will appear in the Script after a year and a day.

Your spell is the alpha version, and will shift with time and use.

The spell that appears in the Script might be different.

Here is your spell:

Renew 1, instant + channel, touch, 5 mana + Variable

<Recharge existing spellwork.>

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+3 ability points.

Congratulations, I suppose. I’ll be there to speak with you in person soon enough. We can talk more about this then, but know now that this spell will change how civilization functions the world over. But you already knew that.

You’re a Wizard, though, so this much is expected.

Here’s hoping for good changes.

Erick nodded, saying, “Here’s hoping for good changes.”

Yggdrasil asked, “Did you do it?”

“I did!” Erick happily cast his new spell and held his hand toward the [Teleporting Platform]. White magic guided bouncy mana through tiny raindrops until those drops struck the floating Platform. Magic guided mana inward, soaking into the spellwork, adding reinforcing bits here and there, strengthening the Platform. Conjured stone solidified into conjured steel. The Ancient Script symbol for [Teleport], brightly emblazoned in the center of the platform, glowed brighter, and deeper white. Erick moved on to the slightly degraded sphere of his [Domain of Light], asking Yggdrasil, “Want me to explain to you what I’m doing?”

“Yes. I want to hear you talk. What did you do?”

