Oh thank god. I thought he was going to say I wanted weapons to equalize the balance of power between commoners and Martial Warriors. The last thing I need is a group of wannabe rebels thinking I’m their commander-in-chief, and I would very much like it if they could hold off on bloody revolution until long after I’m dead and gone. “A rising tide lifts all ships,” I quote, and it’s gratifying to see how impressed Cao Cuo is. He’s a smart cookie, which kind of makes me nervous, because I spout off a lot of ‘smart’ things, but I don’t really understand the specifics behind them. I’ve gotten away with it thus far thanks to luck and a dearth of questions, but I’m less confident about keeping up the charade around big-brained Cao Cuo here. “The wealth is gathered amongst the top 1% of the population, with Martial Warriors and their affiliated partners, but it does no good sitting in their treasure rooms. Increase the buying power of the bottom 99%, and they’ll spend coin like water buying things they previously went without. Cast iron cookware, paper and ink for lessons, beet sugar for their tea, the occasional meal out, there is a vast fortune to be made from this, but I can’t do it alone, which is why the people need to unionize, so they can work together to raise the value of their labour. Even a pride of lions must tread carefully when a herd of cattle is on the stampede, and if the people work together to demand higher wages and better treatment, the nobility will have no choice but to listen, and once they do, they’ll see that even though they pay more upfront, their profits will soar higher than ever before.”

There’s more to it, but that’s the basic gist. Trickle up economics, because a million people spending one gold each does a hell of a lot more for the economy than one guy buying a piece of art for one million gold. Also, this assumes no new competitors rise up through the ranks, but healthy competition is the basis of a healthy economy, and we don’t need a class of ultra-rich. Just regular rich is good enough.

At least now I know why the Chun-Qiu consortium put their money together to invest in War Bonds. They wanted to make a direct connection with me, and have someone help direct them on what to do next. They’ve worked out most of it for themselves by banding together in certain business dealings to secure better group rates, but there’s still a lot more which could be done. With their contacts, I might be able to bypass all the wealthy, middle-man families who have their fingers in every piece of every pie in the Empire. Unfortunately, before we can even begin to get into the thick of things, Kuang Biao informs me I’ve been summoned by the Legate, so my capitalistic agendas will have to wait.

Though the Legate’s office is in the building directly behind the stage, I still have to call for my litter because I can’t do stairs. One of these days, I will become strong enough to make love to my wife without need for mechanical restraints, but until such a time, I will accept these bruises and fractures with pride. Well, actually, not really, because I am so deeply ashamed of these injuries I haven’t asked anyone to help Heal me. I’m terrified that Tokta, Jibari, or even Abjiya will laugh me out of the room, and I can’t go to Taduk. He’s like a second father to me, and will eventually be my father-in-law for real, so I can hardly ask him to Heal my sex-related traumas.

Still... totes worth...

Inside the Legate’s meeting room, I go through all the motions as per usual. First comes the greetings, then I pour his tea while we chat about rumours and gossip, until finally, it comes time to get down to business. “I must confess,” he begins, smiling as he leans back into his chair. A good sign, all things considered, because he tends to loom when he’s angry, even if he’s smiling. “I never expected the promising young hero turned sacrificial pawn would move on to do such great things as Minister of Finance. I suspected you were up to something with all the purchased property, though this loan program came as a pleasant surprise. It leaves me in something of a quandary however, as the return on your investment will be years in the making and I have made time-sensitive promises to certain parties which I can no longer keep.”

Meaning he needs the coin for bribes and stuff, so it’s time to make him an offer. “If it’s a matter of compensation, I’m willing to split the proceeds from the sale of land.”

“Excellent.” Favouring me with an appreciative nod for understanding how the game is played, he says, “Sale of land is a matter of record, so you cannot go overboard with the markup. Set the price at six times what you purchased it for, and we will split the profits in half.”

I’d only been planning to double the price, but I suppose we have different definitions of ‘overboard’. Then again, six times my buying price is still 30% of what it was worth one year ago, and that’s when all of this was stationed in the ass end of nowhere. Now that there’s a thousand kilometres of Western Wall to defend and several armies to supply, real estate prices have nowhere to go but up, barring any outright doom and destruction. This means good news for my soon-to-be debt-riddled farmers, so with luck, there’s still plenty of profit to be made, both at their expense and for their benefit.

However one thing I’ve learned in all my dealings with the Legate, and that there must always be a give and take. As I am now in the rare position of giving, it’s time I name my price. “I’ll need help. Clerks, mostly, but map-makers too, as well as planners and surveyors to divide the land into individual properties with room left over to build towns for centralized trading. I’ll also need someone you can trust to guard the coin. I’ve got a mix of Sentinels and loyal soldiers watching it for now, because I’m pretty sure the Death Corps would let any random Imperial Scion stroll past them and pocket all the gold.”

“I’ve some people in mind who are already in Central, and I’ll have a division of Royal Guardians assigned to the Ministry of Finance.” The Legate smiles and adds, “Infantry, of course. No lions for you to spoil, I’m afraid. Speaking of which, how do you intend to respond to Rang Min’s insult? A poisonous viper is hardly subtle, even without the added cultural differences.” Seeing my blank stare, he raises an eyebrow, then laughs. “Oh. I see. The rumours were not true, merely a clever ruse and necessary precaution. I’ll handle it then.” While I still have no idea what he’s going on about, the Legate smiles and says, “You have not disappointed me, my Minister of Finance. Before today, your Office was seen as an empty title, a pretty ribbon adorning a lame horse, but how you proved them wrong. Not only did you convincingly exhibit the vast extent of powers your Office presumably holds, you also made it all but impossible to remove you from Office, not without raising you to a higher one. The people will love you for saddling them with debt and packing them in close to the border as a distraction for invading Defiled, and the nobles of the outer provinces will work even harder to kiss your boots, because who knows what profits your next venture might bring?”

The Legate’s reasoning leaves a sour taste in my mouth, even though he’s not wrong. Yes, if invading Defiled tribesmen break through the wall, there’s a good chance they will stop to torture, pillage, rape, and kill if the population is large enough to keep them occupied. Technically, this would buy time for the Army to respond and deal with the threat before they scatter into the Empire at large, but... that’s not why I’m doing this.

It’s just... an added bonus, I guess?

Seeing his inquisitive stare, I inwardly sigh while outwardly smiling as if all is right in the world. That last bit wasn’t hypothetical, and the Legate wants in on my plans. “Well, this initial program is primarily aimed at bringing farmers and tradesmen closer to the Citadel. More food grown here means less food needs to be shipped, less shipping means less spoilage and lower costs, which means more food and coin for the Empire as a whole. The end goal is one and a half million working families, but to ensure they’re more efficient workers, they’ll require service industries to fill in the gaps. After we’ve settled in the first group of farmers and tradesmen, hopefully in time to plant and harvest a single crop before winter, our next step is to incentivize the creation of bars, schools, restaurants, inns, and more. This will also help with soldier morale as entertainment districts crop up to serve them, as well as move some population density out of the Citadels and forts to behind the lines of defence. I did some preliminary estimates, and another thirty million gold should be enough to allow the Western Border to enjoy a tolerable degree of self-sufficiency, which would be paid in full within...”

While selling the Legate on large-scale gentrification, I keep one small part of my plan to myself. One and a half million families means at least that many potential militia recruits, and I intend to put a crossbow into the arms of every person who can wield one. Yes, those commoners might be bait for now, but let’s see how long a Defiled army lasts with a million bolts flying towards them every six to twelve seconds. It’s not a perfect solution, since Demons and Defiled Experts might make it through, and it’s an expensive one I’ll be personally bearing the costs for, but it’s better than nothing.

Sadly, this is a world without perfect solutions. Coin spent on crossbows means less spent on charitable acts like schools and soup kitchen, and I’m not too pleased about that. Still, even though my plan to enrich the lower classes comes at the price of strenuous labour and back-breaking debt, I believe this will set the Empire on a course to improve things for the better.

Because if not, then what in the hell am I doing all this for anyways?

On the plus side, once our long and lengthy meeting is over, the Legate sends for a Healer without question. Somehow, I feel like he already knows why I’m walking with a limp, but it’s been... pleasant working alongside him these last three months, which more than anything, makes me worried for the future. Give and take once again, as I’ve given him a clear course of action and a profitable venture to benefit from, so he must play his part as my Patron and protector, but the Legate is a man driven by benefits alone. The more benefits I provide him, the more he will come to expect, so what happens if someday, I fail to live up to expectations?

...Something tells me I don’t want to find out.

Honestly, shit was so much easier when I was a Martial Warrior. To think, there was a time when I thought commanding a thousand soldiers was too complicated to handle. Oh what I wouldn’t give to return to simpler times, when I was but a humble Warrant Officer with sword in hand and a position to defend...

Chapter Meme
