His one eye twinkling in sheer delight, Healer ZhuShen fondly pats his Disciple’s head, despite the both of them being old enough to be grandfathers themselves. Sadly, if one were to guess, they would likely mistake TieGuai for the father and ZhuShen as the son. “Manners little Li,” ZhuShen says, flashing a grateful smile towards me. “Can’t you see you’re making our good friend uncomfortable? He honours you by calling you brother, and you thank him by calling him Minister?”

“Of course, of course, this Li is wrong.” Gently slapping his cheek in recrimination, TieGuai clasps my hand with a grin. “Thank you, brother Rain.”

A tragic thing, this failed experiment, for it ended the career of a phenomenally talented and young Peak Expert, a virtuous man with a kind heart who stood out from his peers despite being unable to stand without support, but if TieGuai doesn’t blame his Mentor, who am I to step in?

Gently stopping the chair-bound Warrior from slapping himself again, I squeeze his hands tight and smile. “There’s no need for thanks, I’m just glad I could help.” Unlike with TieGuai’s junior brothers, but hopefully, that changes today. Rummaging through my handy-dandy waist bag, I pull out a small chest filled with medicinal unguents Lin-Lin and I prepared yesterday and offer it to Healer ZhuShen with both hands. “I spoke with Teacher, and we came up with a new treatment plan for brothers Qiong and Guo.” Unlike with TieGuai, ZhuShen’s other two surviving Disciples are still healthy, but their bodies are covered in hardened, callused skin thanks to a series of medicinal baths they steeped themselves in some four decades ago. While able to turn aside sharpened steel with bare flesh alone, they’ve developed a plethora of issues with mobility and flexibility, and the coarse, dark skin also gives their features a rough, irregular, and almost Demonic cast. They aren’t ugly, but they are imperfect and somewhat terrifying, which is a grave sin for a Martial Warrior since physical abnormalities are generally construed as a sign of Defilement. They’re not Defiled, but rumours being what they are, they tend to stay home and never show their faces for fear of harming their Mentor’s status.

That’s why they aren’t here today, and why they didn’t come to the wedding, but I met them both around two months back, when Healer ZhuShen brought them to the bamboo grove to see Taduk. We tried our best to help, but it’s complicated. Their calluses didn’t grow over top of a healthy layer of skin, but rather their regular skin was turned into one giant callus, which makes moving rather painful and removing said calluses just short of impossible. Holding onto the box to make sure I have Healer ZhuShen’s attention, I catch his inquisitive eye and say, “Since previous treatments failed to make any headway, this will be a much more aggressive approach. Rather than medicines, it would be more appropriate to call these caustic agents, which will hopefully abrade the inflexible tissue and help them regain their full mobility. It will be painful, especially considering their unique circumstances, so given how they both are more or less in good health, this may not be... necessary.”

Most people his age would bristle at being instructed by a man seventy years junior, but Healer ZhuShen lacks pretension and understands age and wisdom do not always go hand in hand. Nodding as he considers my words, he says, “I see, I see. I will leave the decision to them. Thank you for your efforts, my friend.”

“Again, it was nothing.” And not without value. In return for my help, ZhuShen is not only exceedingly generous in our business dealings, he also shared all his research regarding body-strengthening methods with me. Although his efforts all ended in failure, his notes are still a treasure trove of detailed information from which I can draw. I’ve yet to come up with a body-strengthening method I’m willing to try, but I’m making headway and have eliminated a lot of ideas thanks to his research, which has saved me time, money, pain and heartache. What’s more, if I can come up with a way to perfect ZhuShen’s methods, I too could have a body which can block steel swords with bare skin and thick, sturdy bones able to withstand tremendous impacts, all without a working Core.

And maybe, just maybe, this would enable me to survive a night with my beloved wife without restraints or bruises. The former are for her, and the latter are all mine, as a painful twinge in my waist reminds me of last night’s unfortunate events. For two nights, Mila’s indomitable bondage device held firm and we made love like rabbits in heat, but I guess we overdid it and stressed the steel monstrosity to its breaking point. Only one restraint snapped, but Mila had the forethought to build several redundancies onto her device, else I’d be suffering from worse than a possibly fractured hip.

I gotta say though, I have never felt more alive than in that split second of impending death.

...I have a real problem, but who doesn’t?

After saying farewell to Taiyi ZhuShen and Li TieGuai, I continue glad-handing all the War Bond investors until I reach the last of the bunch. The three members of the merchant consortium stand out in the crowd, and not just because they’re the only people I don’t recognize. Having slid into last place at eighteen-thousand and one gold, they beat out multiple bids from more affluent groups thanks to what I can only assume was research and forethought, since they also had the gold on hand to pay for the War Bonds before someone could come along and bully them out of their purchase. Unlike the rest of the crowd, the middle-aged merchants are neither dressed like the uber-rich nor are they Martial Warriors, with both men and the singular woman bearing the tell-tale marks of commoners. Age spots, blackheads, pockmarks, and the like, again, I wouldn’t call them hideous, but they fail to meet the supermodel beauty standards I’ve grown accustomed to. Still, I only make a note of this because it’s surprising to see a group here who isn’t represented by Martial Warriors, since they tend to always be at the forefront of these events. “Hi there. Thank you for your generous support, but I’m afraid you have me at a disadvantage,” I say, smiling brightly as I extend my hand. “Might I have your esteemed names?”

Rather than shake my hand, the three flustered merchants almost bump heads trying to bow over it, like they wanted to kiss my ring or something. “This one is Cixi,” the woman begins, a grim, confident woman who has seen better years, but carries herself with dignity. Not only does she speak for the group, she also holds the envelope containing her group’s War Bonds, which means the others trust her. “And this is Gwangjong and Cao Cuo.” Not a single family name amongst them, which again points to humble origins, but they’re doing well enough if they have 180,010 gold to spare. “Together, we represent the Chun-Qiu consortium,” she continues, bowing again now that her comrades’ heads are out of the way, prompting her comrades to follow suit.

There’s something about Common naming conventions which really speaks to me. Chun-Qiu translates to the Spring and Autumn, but it’s not just a fancy name. It’s derived from the Spring and Autumn Annals, a little known collection of classical treatises that was once considered the ultimate primer on trade, but has since fallen out of the public eye. Whoever picked the name is educated, or trying to appear educated, and considering how modestly the three merchants are dressed, I’m going to assume it’s the former until proven otherwise. “A pleasure to make your acquaintances. You say you represent the consortium? How many more members are there?”

Trading sheepish glances amongst themselves, it’s Gwangjong who answers, speaking with the stilted and almost curt tone so commonly heard from the denizens of Central. “Three-hundred and seventeen. We have representatives from every facet of industry. Cixi works in construction, Cao Cuo in logistics and transportation, I do stonework, and our colleagues work in fishing, farming, mining, forestry, – ”

“The Minister has better things to do than listen to you yammer on,” Cixi interrupts, in a blunt, matter of fact tone which is neither angry nor rude. “That’s why only three of us are here, to not take up too much of the good Minister’s time.”

Well, at least I know how they came up with the coin for their War Bonds, though I have no idea how they intend to split them three-hundred and seventeen ways. Still... “Well, this won’t do.” For a brief second, the three merchants look horrified before I realize how that just sounded, and I hurriedly continue, “I would love to meet the patriots who pooled their money together in support of the Empire. Coin is easy enough to come by, but men and women of noble bearing and generous spirit? This morning, I would have said they were as rare as phoenix feathers and qilin horns, but now I hear there are three-hundred and fourteen more I have yet to meet? This cannot stand. Please, be sure to leave your contact information with my subordinate, Junior Yimu over there, so I will know where to send all the invitations.”

And who to investigate. I’m getting pretty damned good at this politicking thing, if I do say so myself. The small banquet I was planning just got a whole lot bigger, but it’s a small price to pay. These are exactly the kind of people the Empire needs, the kind of people I’ve been hoping to elevate, not the rich, established merchant families, but the small business owners of the Empire. Two-hundred thousand gold is nothing to people like Taiyi ZhuShen and Yuzhen, or groups like the Han Clan and the Yo Family, but Cixi and her companions probably had to scrape the bottom of the barrel to get the coin together. What’s more, even though I disparaged their clothes, they’re probably wearing their Sunday best, and I should feel proud to have them amongst my initial investors.

Unable to resist, I eye Kuang Biao and signal him to throw up a Sound Barrier before asking, “I’m curious to know, what does your consortium expect to achieve with this investment? You must know that even though I call it an investment, the guaranteed return is only ten-thousand gold, and you paid eighteen thousand per War Bond. You might be able to sell it for more, but not for enough of a profit to be worth risking the financial well-being of three-hundred and seventeen merchants.” Shrugging as I gesture around me, I explain, “They’re doing this to support me and for face, but what about you? Please, speak freely without fear of offending me, for no one besides us four will hear it.”

Again, the three of them trade glances, before Cixi explains, “Well... what we want is to speak with you, esteemed Minister sir. My Lord.” Oh god, is that what I used to sound like when I was floundering for the right title? Never again. “Cao Cuo figured it out first, and he told Gwangjong who came to me, and then we put the consortium together because it seemed like the right move.”

Maybe I should install a suggestion box or something. “What did he figure out?”

“Well, Lord Minister, Sir –”

“Don’t worry about honorifics.”

“Yes Mini – err. Yes.” Pulling out a well-worn copy of my book, full of dog-eared pages and scribbled notes, Cixi riffles through the pages as she explains. “See, most of us made good coin following your instructions and selling things we read in here, and for a time, that was all it was. But then Cao Cuo put the pieces together, and when the rest of us heard, we unionized to form the Chun-Qiu consortium, just like your people were saying we should.”

I am completely lost. Eyeing the thus-far silent Cao Cuo, a pasty, wide-eyed youth who couldn’t be much older than twenty, I ask, “And exactly what did you piece together?”

Urged on by my stare and Cixi’s prodding, Cao Cuo stammers, “What y-you m-mean to-to do. Sir Minister Lord Sir.”

“And what is that?”

Again, Cao Cuo needs ample encouragement before he’s able to speak up again, his ghostly complexion slick with sweat from nerves. “You t-talked about it, during the Grand Conference,” he whispers, eyes darting back and forth. “About improving the lives of commoners through literacy and education. I thought it was all lip service, but then I kept reading and rereading, and then I did the math, and it just made sense. You’re looking to raise the standard of living for the common people, and in doing so, increase their spending power and tap into a previously untouched source of exponential wealth, a scheme from which everyone benefits, noble and commoner alike, but we are unsure of how to proceed from here.”

