Rifts appeared across the ant queen’s shell, and green blood leaked through the cracks. Space groaned as she used four hands to force the Primordial’s maw open, her remaining two hands digging into flesh with serrated nails. Previously, the ant army had tried to breach the Primordial’s defenses without leaving a mark. But before Wrani’s swipes, the Primordial’s skin may as well have been paper.

Yet the worse the Primordial’s condition grew, the fiercer she fought back. There was no finesse to the struggle, no tactics or scheming. It was flesh against flesh, claw against teeth in a primal struggle for domination. Even thirty miles away, Rhubat had trouble standing upright from the shockwaves generated by the clashes. It was unbelievable that such force came from two Peak D-grade combatants.

Just as the battle reached its crescendo, Rhubat made their move. They were called the Chainbreaker back home, and Rhubat had remained fettered long enough. They rallied the conviction of their race and the suffering they’d endured over the past months into a spear aimed at their own heart. There was no hesitation as the sharp tip broke through the chitinous shell to dig into flesh.

Blood poured from Rhubat’s mouth, yet they kept pushing deeper until reaching their target. An almost unnoticeable mark was nestled between the valves of their heart, its tendrils burrowing deeper. With a firm push, the mark was erased without fully destroying the heart. The pain was nearly enough to make them pass out, yet Rhubat knew they were free.

It had taken Rhubat two months to find the bloodline seal and five months more to come up with a method of destroying it. Ample planning and Wrani being fully occupied allowed the exorcism to go off without a hitch. Rhubat used their newfound liberty to turn around and run for their life.

Wrani had never given up proselytizing about the superiority of eusocial societies and the divide between insect and man. Rhubat understood there was some truth to her warnings. There were critical differences between the societies of insectoid races and those of humans and similar species—differences that often resulted in annihilation or subjugation.

Nevertheless, Rhubat didn’t believe coexistence was an impossible task. Just as important, Wrani’s path was not for the Zhix. Rhubat had become increasingly clear on that as the months passed. Her view on societal order was no different from that of the Dominators. Her descendants were nothing but empty vehicles chained to her will. Their concept of the Hive was hollow, conflated with the desires of their queen.

Rhubat would rather see the Zhix fumble in the dark for generations, searching for an answer that might not exist, than pursue this simple yet poisonous path. There had to be a cultivation system that suited the Zhix without becoming what they’d spent millennia resisting.

And wasn’t the Limitless Empire a force worthy of study? While its citizens weren’t perfect, they perfectly understood the importance of community and sacrifice, that the needs of the Hive superseded the needs of the individual. Rhubat ran toward the closest memory domain, planning to search for the future within the past.

The whole world shook as the battle reached its crescendo. Then, an eerie silence settled in the forest. It only lasted a few seconds before a victorious roar almost brought Rhubat to their knees. Legs straining to the point of breaking, they turned fear into speed. Against their better judgment, Rhubat risked drawing attention by glancing over their shoulder.

The Primordial had gained another set of wounds, exposing both brain and bone. Yet she remained standing, emitting an unflinching viciousness that said she could keep going even if the Heavens collapsed. Meanwhile, Wrani’s engorged body was halfway inside the Primordial’s jaw. Head and torso had already been devoured, while her arms and legs twitched in a macabre death rattle.

A Flamebearer had fallen, their strength and providence becoming food for the victor. Wrani’s preparations had proved insufficient to bring down a ferocious tyrant from the Era’s turbulent beginning. The Primordial clearly held deadly abilities beyond those known in the present day. Those races had been exterminated by the Hive for nothing. And as Wrani’s blood dripped on the ground, so did the forest reap its reward. The sacrificed destiny made hundreds of spires reform at once, and the sky above lit up with another halo.

There was no joy in Rhubat’s eyes upon seeing the Taotie swallow Wrani’s corpse piece by piece, cementing their liberation. No matter which side won, everyone else would suffer. A small comfort was that the Left Imperial Palace was about to emerge. Soon enough, that crazy Primordial would become someone else’s problem.
