“R-Ren...” Nathalia said, a little breathlessly.

Ren sighed exaggeratedly. “All right. I guess I have to wait until tonight to examine your mouth some more.”

Several people laughed, and Nathalia's face flushed red.

“I want to reserve a private table for tonight.” Ren said and put a platinum coin in the hostess' hand, then turned to Nathalia. “Until tonight, My Love.”

“U-until tonight.” Nathalia said, and Ren left the restaurant.

“That went well.” Artemis said and took his hand.

“So far.” Ren said and activated his wings, then he and Artemis took off up into the air to head towards his county.

********

Gloria examined the block of code on her screen with Ren's name embedded into it, and she had to reluctantly admit that it was great. She couldn't trace some of the references, since it was an incomplete block; but from what she could see, it was very efficient and clean work.

“Okay, I need to know how long he's been coding like this and where he learned it all.” Gloria said and went back to her recliner and picked up her VR headset. “Was he doing it this whole time I've known him? Was he hiding his skill because he knew I did it, too?” She asked herself. “I hope he's got a good explanation, since it took me years to get to where I am now.” She slipped the headset on and took several breaths in and out to relax. “Flow Login Start.”

********

Gloria wasn't surprised when she appeared in the white loading area, then she was surprised when the white loading area morphed into a lush green meadow with several grazing horses.

“What the hell is this?” Gloria asked, then a popup appeared and she laughed at its contents.

System Notice!

Due to the inadequacy and ineptitude of the previous caretakers, steps had to be taken to ensure the continued existence of this creation. Under the new management system, the creation's integrity is now paramount, as is the safety of those that visit this creation.

Welcome to the new F.L.O.W.!

Gloria dismissed the popup and she morphed into her Dark Elf character Elerlyth, then the meadow she stood in changed into the small forest clearing and her small shack formed around her. She blinked her eyes at how much better that transition was than the way it had been.

Now I wonder what else he's changed. Elerlyth thought and stepped outside to greet her steed, Etheria. “Hey, you.” She said and pet its head, then climbed up onto the saddle. Where would he be? She asked herself, then shrugged. “Let's just go to the Main House and wait for him.”

Etheria neighed at her and jumped up, then flew up into the air.
