Evesor’s sneer had slipped slightly, but now it returned in full force. “You’ve connected to the core of the game of Questors, boy. We hold every edge here. Every person in that inn is a spy, and if you survive the first day, you’ll find poison in the food. Even your allies will betray you for the slightest gain, because you will die. Agreements with you are worth as much as your lifespan. Which is currently best tallied in hours.” He flicked his eyes towards Sarya and raised a mocking eyebrow. “Her silence suggests she agrees.”

Sarya shrugged nonchalantly. “They didn’t need help to win the war. I don’t see the need to aid them here.” She glanced at Nathan, indicating that he should finish his response.

Nathan tilted his head towards Evesor and let a crooked smile play across his face. “You’re scared of us, and what we might accomplish. But you’re not scared enough. You should be concerned about your personal safety. All of you should be,” he looked to each of the Questors opposite them. “Maybe you should ask Badud why he didn’t cast any big wizardry during the war. If you dare speak during the conclave, I’ll demonstrate, personally.”

Then he turned his back on the Aleph Questors and addressed his friends. “I’ve seen enough. Shall we go?”

Sarah waited until they were walking out of the arena to speak, her tone just short of accusatory. “They spoke to your anger. Was that the best path?”

“Mentioning Badud’s injury?” Nathan said. “I think it’ll cause a lot of rumors and concern among our enemies. I doubt he’ll be the most cooperative if they ask him, and the damage I did isn’t really permanent. But they don’t have time to get to the bottom of it, so I just expect it’ll distract them and make people wary about challenging us.”

Sarya’s expression was tight, and she spoke carefully in response. “You should not use that power freely. If you casually maim Questors, then it would cast you as a dangerous monster in need of destruction. Only inflict lasting harm on Questors with whom you have a history that you can leverage to justify such extremes."

“Yeah, that makes sense,” Nathan replied wearily. The conclave hadn’t even started, and he was already exhausted by all of the politics.

Maybe getting to kill some of them will help me feel better.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 7

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 6

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
