A bullet from Sarah ended that brief-lived escape attempt, and the other Heirs landed more leisurely. Khachi landed next to Vira’s smoking body and regarded it with a frown. Then he shrugged and knelt, placing one hand on her bloody head. “Your valor was true, and you met the foe without turning aside. Our triumph today bears your mark, written in blood and courage. By the blessing you bear and the judgment we passed, I return you to the ranks of the living.”

The prayer was not Khachi’s best, and he delivered it without much in the way of fervor or power. Aarl gave the wolfman a somewhat incredulous look, then glanced at Nathan as if seeking confirmation that it had been a real prayer.

Nathan was following the divinity and magic, which had indeed reacted to Khachi’s bidding. But it had only done so sluggishly, like there wasn’t any great hurry. Still, divine mana flowed into Vira’s body, and her eyes flicked open with a start before she gasped. Her wounds weren’t fully healed, and they looked like they hurt quite a bit.

“I - I died?” She gasped out, then winced from the pain.

“Be healed,” Khachi said offhandedly, holding up a hand in benediction. Light poured forth, and her wounds closed.

“Thank you,” she said, shivering and hugging herself. Then she looked around at all of the other Questors staring at her. “Ha! Nobody denies me the luxury of Ostren! We’re drinking deep tonight!"

The gathered Questors cheered, and Vira sprang to her feet to join them. “Nice res you got there, stick around, and we’ll show you a good time, mister wolfman.” They all rushed off in the direction of the Aleph Grid starting location, not even waiting for a response.

Khachi just blinked in response, then looked back at the rest of the Heirs. He did not look excited by the invitation. “Did she forget my name?"

Aarl snorted in amusement. "Likely. What now?"

A new voice responded to his question, a small translucent projection of Colborn floating in midair. “Join me in the starting area. The battle’s won, we can handle the cleanup. It’s time to discuss what comes after. And host one Ending of a party.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 7282/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 829/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
