A great shudder of dimensional pressure interrupted Roland’s thoughts as he turned his Awareness behind him, away from the Supplicant. He didn’t need to look over his shoulder to see the Tarrasque manifesting, for the pressure it displaced was so immense that he was forced to shape a series of emergency wards over Merrielmel before the poor man turned to paste.

Even with those protections, Errielmel gagged and gripped at his chest, struggling to breathe. He started muttering something about it having been a wise choice to bring the Tarrasque here instead of Gate Piety, but his nervous babbling came to an end as the Tarrasque fully took shape in an enveloping eruption of static mana. Shiv came along with it, and true to his claims, he had somehow charmed the colossal beast using his cooking, evident in how he was spinning slices of mana like they were pizza dough atop his frying pan, and the Tarrasque behaved like a well-entertained child, slamming its forehands together in massive explosions of force.

“A-gurn, a-garn, a-gran!” the Tarrasque roared.

“Is it saying again, again, again?” Merrielmel asked.

Roland turned an exhausted frown on him. “I am afraid I do not speak Tarrasque either, Master Merrielmel.”

“Ah, yes, I see…” Merrielmel swallowed awkwardly. “Master Arrow, if—if I suddenly die for some reason—”

“You won’t.”

“But if I do. C-can you please bring… oh, where is that damnable thing? Ah! This!” Merrielmel produced a hexagonal box of some kind from his tasseled coat. “This is the collection of diary entries I have accrued! My brother should find some catharsis from this in the case of my untimely death—as I found catharsis in his.”

“Deathless!” the Stranger suddenly bellowed, briefly shocking the Tarrasque.

“What?” Shiv replied, flinging his fried-mana pancakes into the town-sized mouth of the Tarrasque.

“In the future, I demand to speak to the god-holder instead of you! This one, not the other god-holder that stinks of you.”

“Yeah, sure!” Shiv replied, not really paying attention. “Merrielmel, time to adjust the gateway on this side! Hurry up—I only made enough food for another few minutes.”

“O-oh, yes, o-o-of…” Merrielmel gulped as he realized that meant he needed to approach the Tarrasque. “Oh, dear.”

“Oh, dear indeed,” Roland said dryly, realizing his attempt to uphold decorum had been a mistake—one that might have him on permanent Stranger diplomacy duty.

“You should put your scent on him,” the Stranger growled at Roland. “The other one isn’t good for his behavior. Give him your habits!”

“And his personality remains finer than Longinus’ as well,” the Starhawk whispered sardonically. “At least he asks things of you, instead of just forcing himself into you, and then forcing you on someone else.”

“Starhawk,” Roland almost whimpered. “I really, really do not need this right now.”

“I apologize, Roland.”

A horrible sound of proximal thunder shook the world—but it petered out as a fading whistle. Then came the foulness thereafter—the smell that choked the air. Merrielmel began to gag; some of the Stranger’s eyes nearby closed reflexively, as if faced by a harmful ambient acid. Shiv grew larger and stronger as his plagueflies exploded out of him. And the gateway was colored in a sort of… dappled brown that Roland didn’t want to think about.

“Felling fucking damn broken moon!” Shiv groaned.

“Feels better,” the Tarrasque grunted with glee. “More cooking!”

Roland felt his own eyes swelling and twitching as well.

This was the monster that had killed so many of Blackedge’s people—this was Sullain’s revenge, infused with Shiv’s unique soulstuff. This was a beast of the end; an eater of worlds. All that power, all that size, installed with a set of behaviors formed of Shiv's obsession and the intellect of a growing toddler.

“Holy fucking shit,” someone choked out between gags next to Roland. “I forgot how goddamn loud some of their shits are.”

Roland and the god within him froze. It took someone like Valor to surprise them—but the newcomer did, and before shock could turn to preemptive violence, they recognized the strange figure from his attire, once described by Shiv and Adam after their egress from the Fairwoods.

The man hovering beside him was fanning a hand in front of his face and pinching his nose shut with the other. His appearance was shrouded by a mirror-bright helmet with two gleaming blue optics where his eyes should have been. His body was shrouded by a flapping coat made out of canvas and something glittering—and with the way parts of it were sparking, Roland suspected it was damaged on some level.

“Myth Produveral?” Roland guessed.

“Legend Roland Arrow,” the man replied, miming two finger guns at Roland in a casual gesture. “Glad to finally have a run-in with you—also happy that the kid told you about me, saves me the need to explain a bunch of shit, but I will need you and that one there to take a pill in a moment.”

“A pill?” Roland asked, his right eye starting to twitch again.

“Yeah. For the soul-disease you might’ve just caught. Tarrasques don’t really shart for fun, you know? Spraying sickness everywhere is part of the strategy.”

“Oh, gods!” Merrielmel began to hyperventilate, and then he realized that doing so was less than ideal, which made him hyperventilate harder. “We’re breathing all those particulates in—all that plague-carrying fecal matter…”

Roland did everything he could not to visualize those words. “I… I… I don’t mean any offense, Myth Produveral, but—”

The man's cheeks were inflated, and he only managed to hold eye contact for two more seconds before a burst of laughter escaped him and he waved Roland.

The Town Lord blinked, and then his mouth fell open. “Wait, were you—”

“Fucking with you, yes.” Produveral sighed contentedly and wiped a tear out of the corner of his eye. “The massive farts and shits are normal—enough to choke a mundie to death or splatter them if they’re caught nearby, but since neither of you are mundies, and this weird little Undying Endhound doesn’t actually have any plague skills—yet—you’ll be fine. Just wanted to see if you were as decent a guy as the Deathless mentioned you being—and if you would take medicine from a stranger.”

Roland didn’t have the words.

“Agh, fuck! Agghh!” Shiv cried in the backdrop. “It’s just getting worse. Did something die inside—ah, shit, your stomach’s a mass grave, of course it smells bad.”

“Well,” the Starhawk began with a sigh, “between the unwilling scatological activities and the attempted drugging, it most certainly does feel like I’ve been invited to one of Longinus’ parties again.”

***

Shiv was starting to feel like Endhound was an all-around misleading term. Tarrasques were a bit more like Apocalyptic badgers or skunks than giant dogs, in actuality. Were skunks badgers? Shiv had no idea. He'd never actually seen either.

Regardless, being badgers, they wanted to fight and kill everything, and when they sprayed, the smell didn’t go away. This wasn’t a hard problem for Shiv to resolve since he just set his affected bodies on fire and bypassed matters via targeted suicide. For Roland and Merrielmel, however, a full suite of treatments were required. Not of the health variety, though Merrielmel briefly passed out from anxiety when the Tarrasque got distracted and tried to grab him, but of the “not smelling like a planetary mass grave” kind.

Good thing there’s an Outsider observation post nearby, Shiv thought to himself. And that they got some pretty cool means of scrubbing someone down on a nano-molecular level. But, hey, that’ll give Roland a chance to talk with the Farwalkers and figure things out—they wanna snatch Adam too, now, and I don’t see Arrow Senior any more happy about that than I am. That being said, it’s a thing that can be discussed, and a problem that can be solved. Just like you, huh, Terrence? Hm. Wonder if it likes to be called Terrence…

Shiv trekked across a mountain range within the wonderful winterlands of the Fairwoods. Behind, the Tarrasque sent avalanches crashing forward with each stomp, causing trees to jump up into the air over the horizon—and press down their furling branches like maidens might prevent a gust of wind from lifting their dresses. “Hey, you alright with me calling you Terrence?” He threw another piece of fried Biomancy at the Tarrasque, and it happily inhaled the nibble.

“Food-Terrence,” the Endhound answered, as if that made any sense whatsoever.

“Uh, maybe just Terrence?” Shiv asked. Its colossal red and white irises glowed, and the faintest of paternal instincts activated inside Shiv. Those reactive chemicals went dormant the moment the Tarrasque lifted its left hind leg to scratch the side of its head. “Yeah, okay, you’re Terrence.”

“What in the bloody hells is this?” a choked whisper of disbelief sounded nearby.

Shiv looked over his shoulder and sneered at a most unwelcome sight. A tall woman, dressed in a red fur cloak—still-blinking, somehow still alive—taken from a cartoonish lupine and painted, stood as the head of a group of wolves in similar garments. The literal head—for the wolves had stacked the dog-headed horses they rode upon in a rising ladder that denoted their hierarchy, with the legs of the bottom-most wolf-horse shaking like willows under the combined weight.

The snouts of the wolves sticking out from the pile of bodies howled to announce their arrival, but she refused—in fact, her face grew ever-redder with outrage as her eyes greeted Shiv's from atop her wolf totem pole.

“Oh, shit, Lady Harkness, in the flesh?” Shiv aimed a mocking grin at her. “Fancy running into you here—say, is Evanescia with you?”

Harkness began to groan, and then her expression completely changed in the following instant, turning into a defiant grin. “Deathless!” Evanescia intoned using Harkness as a conduit, and she waved to him briefly before making a clenched fist. “So. You finally return to face me, villain! And you bring a sidekick with you!”

“Uh, no, this one’s actually an apology to you and the Summer Court,” he answered honestly. “I messed a few things last time, and the System wants us to kill the Tarrasque. But at some point, I thought: You know what story Evanescia might not have experienced? A Tarrasque chef.”

“Chef! I AM THE CHEF!” The Tarrasque shouted to the heavens—so loud that one of the clouds fell out of the sky and impacted a distant mountain, and proceeded to scream about its leg.

“Hm. You’re right. That is indeed a story I haven’t enjoyed before.” Evanescia hummed and tapped a finger against Harkness’ chin. “But don’t think it will be enough to distract me from our struggle.”

Shiv expected this—and on some level he accepted it as the cost. If he had to play along with the Usurper-Narrator to stop her from yanking all of them back to the Fairwoods to be her playthings, that’s what he would do.

“Got it. But you know, since I was coming back in anyway, I thought to bring a gift as an apology and all that. You wanna bring this one to Princess Plum Blossom or can I have the honor?”

“You, of course,” Evanescia said. But then she sucked in a breath. “Actually! I have a wonderful idea!” Harkness regained control of her body, and Evanescia’s voice instead sounded from one of the wolves crushed under her horse. “Eileen!”

“No,” Harkness pleaded. “I’ve already been forced to pretend I’m a dog! No more of this!”

The snout made a pouting expression. “Oh, come on! It’ll be fun!”

“And it will,” the Faceless Queen briefly whispered behind Shiv before vanishing again, causing his insides to tighten and his teeth to clench.

“All I need is for you and the Tarrasque to become great friends!” Evanescia explained. “You can be a rival chef who served the Court of Winter but was captured by Summer and must now train their newest wonder: a Tarrasque with Social Skills! It can be a story about self-understanding! And since you have such good relations with dogs, well, it just seems thematic!”

“It really does,” Shiv said, nodding along. “But you know what? Let’s make it more tense. Give her a position of authority! Make her of the Summer Court, and me a newcomer trying to work my way into their graces through my, uh, disciple! I’m trying to start my own cooking school, and only the Tarrasque wanted to follow me. Or something.”

“Cooking!” Terence cheered.

“Shiv, Shiv,” Evanescia chided. “Leave the story details to me, alright? You’ve already brought me the Tarrasque, so let me come up with the rest. But first! This Cycle is still going, and it’s almost time for Plum Blossom’s first dessert. She’s been a bit glum this go around, and I think what might cheer her up is if a monster that almost reaches to her waist and dressed in a chef’s outfit was carried over to the Summer Court by someone who once hurt her feelings!”

Shiv paused and considered how many tides it would take to carry the Tarrasque. “I, uh… I think I get the vision.”

“Great, because Eileen here’s going to be chasing you the entire time to smash you over the head and steal the Tarrasque back in the name of the Winter Court because she wants it for herself.”

“Why would I want this thing?” Harkness pleaded.

