And it was not solid gold. It wasn’t silver, either. That iridescent white gem at the top was not a gem at all. It was surely the Staff of Divine Absolution that Erick had spoken about, but it was different. It had become different when ‘Clarice Icewind’ had spoken oddly about Erick being ‘The Summoner’. Before this transformation, it had been silver-like and the gem had been an odd sort of mana crystal. But now…

Teressa got a little closer and leaned over and to the side, to try and read the writing. And then she stood back up. “So all that writing looks the same as it did last time he showed us the staff. But the staff isn’t ironcrystal anymore. And it’s not gold or silver… That’s a reflection of golden wheatfields, isn’t it?”

“Yes, it is.”

“… This is Wizardry, then.”

“Yes.”

“Can you read the writing?”

“No.”

Teressa frowned at him.

Poi sighed. “I really can’t. But I can read the general imprint of what the words are supposed to mean with [Object Reading]. This thing has killed a lot of souls… I would almost call it a harvester.”

“Fake souls inside dungeons?”

“The conjured souls that form conjured people and conjured monsters are as real as any other souls out there, but they’re the souls of slimes; it takes time for them to become people.” Poi said, “But they’re still technically people. Also, it’s not actually a harvester, but the memory of one, made real.”

“I thought the problems with Anarchy and Blue were big time issues…” Teressa took a moment, and then she confided, “But he really did [Onward] into the next big problem, didn’t he.”

Poi wasn’t quite sure what to say to that, except, “It’s more complicated than that, Teressa. I think this started… With him, at the very beginning, when he fell to Veird... Or maybe even before that. Erick is a certain kind of person who developed power, and now we’re here, at the natural extension of Erick’s desire to make a better world. Every step along the way has been Erick purposefully doing good, even if he didn’t realize how he was doing good.”

Poi almost said something else, something more.

But Teressa’s eyes glowed white, as she stared at the not-gold staff floating in the living room.

Teressa frowned a little. “I don’t see anything.” She came back to the moment. “Nothing untoward.” She looked at the staff. “But that thing… Doesn’t exist to me. I see it, but I can’t sense it.” Teressa looked around for something— She conjured a stick, and then she poked the staff.

The staff rolled a little at Teressa’s poking, jostling out of its floating stance, until Teressa removed the stick. Then the staff floated back to where it had been, hovering above the center of the round carpet in the room, taking up the most prominent space in the middle of the space.

That was likely on purpose.

Teressa narrowed her eyes. “… You think it likes floating in the middle of the room because it's in the middle of the room? Or because it’s centered on the carpet?”

Poi sipped his tea, and said, “Maybe both. The carpet is in the center of the room because it’s the center. Erick wasn’t sure why it floated where it floated either, but he left it be.”

Teressa grunted in slight disapproval. “We should… I don’t know? Uh… I am inclined to send a prayer to Atunir, since this is clearly her sort of godly artifact, but. It’s actually Erick’s, isn’t it?”

“Correct. Let Erick deal with it.”

“… Right.”

“I made tea. Want some?”

Teressa sighed a little. “Well. Yeah. I guess I do.” She walked away, asking, “That Greendale trial thing is happening in a few days, yeah?”

Poi followed, leaving the not-exactly-golden staff to hover there, as he said, “They’ll put a pause on it, for sure, and then Odaali will force the issue. Maybe not a few days, like planned. Maybe several. When it happens I imagine it’s going to be the King asking Erick to back off, and then Erick saying no, and then the Viridian throne will likely offer a private testimonial… Not sure if they’ll take that, or not.”

“Probably not, right? Odaali wants Odaari’s reasons exposed to the world?”

Poi shrugged—

And then he whipped around, right as Teressa did the same.

Poi took a deep breath. Teressa sighed, her eyes going white again as she stared into Benevolence, again.

Poi simply said, “The staff moved.”

The not-gold staff was gone.
