“I died. I ascended. And Atunir descended onto Insten.

“The world of Insten was turned into a lush, fertile world, with the tower of my death becoming one grand tree amongst a multitude.

“And Riam was utterly consumed, for the Summoner had reversed the ritual, and done to Riam what they were about to do to us. Ten billion souls, consumed, and the land they lived on, to give back to Insten what had been taken from us.”

Clarice finished.

She sipped her tea. Her hands were shaking a little.

Erick was freaking out a little, too, so that was probably why—

Clarice looked to the left of Erick, her eyes going wide.

… Erick slowly looked to the left.

His staff was floating there. The Staff of Divine Absolution that he had gotten on floor two, and had left at home. It was here. It had followed him. And it was floating, untouched, the whole thing carved up with words of all kinds in unknown languages, while the prismatic white gem at the top seemed to glow faintly gold around the edges. The whole silver staff had a golden sheen to it, as though it was floating in a field of golden wheat, that gold reflecting on its silver surface.

Erick touched it, and his Benevolence sparked white as he touched his weapon. He wasn’t quite sure why he said it, but he said, “You can go back home. Thank you for coming.”

The staff dipped in the air, and then vanished in a flicker of gold.

Erick looked to Clarice, whose eyes were wide as they could be. Erick said, “I would speak on the Riamite situation here in the Glittering Depths now.”

“And I would like to speak of you being The Summoner!” Clarice jabbed a finger toward the air where the staff had been. “Because I did not do that! And I didn’t see you do that either!”

“Obviously the staff did it,” Erick concluded.

“You were the one who sacrificed me! And now we’re both back here, and we’re both dragons, with you tied to some new Benevolence and me tied to the old, and now we’re fighting the Riamites again!” Clarice said, “Time is an ever repeating loop, AND WE ARE IN A LOOP.”

Clarice realized she was yelling and halfway out of her chair. She pulled back. She sat down. Embarrassment briefly clouded her features. And then came stone solid resolve.

Meanwhile, Erick was freaking out for what were likely very different reasons.

A long time ago, or maybe just a few years or weeks ago, Quilatalap had said to Erick that Xoat was often spoken about in the Old Cosmology, as some unknown savior of people, who came in with the crisis, and who left when it was done, either through death or through disappearance. Quilatalap had never put much stock in those stories because he had never put much stock in the idea of Xoat existing at all, except in the way that Erick considered the Big Bang to have been a real thing that probably happened. And then Erick came into Quilatalap’s life. It was that Shadow’s Feast, twelve years ago, that really did it for Quilatalap. Back when Fairy Moon spoke of the creation of the Old Cosmology, where her Daughter plucked a spaceman from another world and dropped him into an Endless Dark, and created a universe filled with life.

That life sometimes spawned old memories.

Memories of being Xoat, and of changing everything.

That was the primary tenet of modern day Xoatism, and Erick had, of course, seen and heard all the ways in which people were tying him to that mythical figure of the Old Cosmology. It was ridiculous, to Erick. But then again, he had ‘invented’ [Reincarnation], and given that to this world of Veird.

Erick didn’t believe he was Xoat. He was just a guy, in the right place at the right time, with the right amount of power to help when he could.

Softly, in the still of the wake of Clarice’s eruption, Erick quietly said, “We’re not in a loop. We’re in a new time. A new place. With new opportunities able to be made, and taken. There is no such thing as a loop, Clarice. There are the memories we hold, and our ability to take those lessons and craft a new time, and a new place, in this present. Even if we might be seeing figments of the past, we are still who we are.”

Clarice’s eyes went wide. Her eyes teared. She whispered, “That’s what the Summoner said to me, too.”

Erick’s heart pounded. “Clarice. It is insane to think we’re the— what? The [Reincarnation]s of those dead people? We are not that.”

Clarice laughed a little as she wiped tears out of her eyes. “What’s a little insanity among dragons, eh?”

“Clarice.”

“Fine!” Clarice composed herself. “We’re not exactly that which came before. Maybe we’re just a nugget of mana that managed to survive from there to here, and get reborn because of our own minor Wizardries, made larger by the major Wizardry of Melemizargo and Atunir combined.” She laughed. “We’re just elementals! Manifested from Ar’Cosmos! Ha—” And then she stared at Erick. “I need you to do the fifth floor. Maybe if you do, then you can uncover my name. If you uncover my name then maybe I’ll regain those memories! The full ones. It’s happened before! Marii’s name is practically stuck in the dungeon core as ‘Marii’, and every new one that people drag out of the depths is a copy of Marii, with the same memories as the other ones.”

Erick instantly said, “Absolutely not. I am not doing that.”

And then Clarice got a twinkle of hatred in her eyes.

She had already picked out a way to take Erick down if she needed to, and she was thinking about doing it, because if Erick wasn’t going to do what she wanted, then she was going to make him.

Erick realized what he had done.

And Clarice suddenly laughed.

Erick slammed a fist on the table, sending a wild crack through the wood as he roared, “YOU WILL NOT TELL FYURI HER NAME!”

Clarice stilled, narrowing her eyes, and then she rethought something. She softened.

Erick repeated, softer now, “You will not tell Fyuri her name.”

“… It was only a passing thought— No. Stop. I see you disbelieving me, but I need you to believe me, because I believe you, implicitly. I don’t even care who you really are, Ashes. I know the kind of man you are instead. And I might have fucked up with…” Clarice said, “I fucking hate Rebecca and every single Riamite. But I’m not going to actually unleash a real Riamite on this world. Not after what I’ve already seen the Riamites capable of doing when they last got up to their shit.

“I want your help to oust them from power and to turn them over to Greendale for execution; however it happens I do not care. I just want them gone. And this means Rebecca, too.

“Because there is absolutely no way that they are not behind this newest string of demonic murders happening in Greendale right now. If I can prove it, then they all vanish from this slice of heaven here in Atunir’s Dark.” Clarice frowned. “But I can’t prove it, because Rebecca is too skilled at… everything. And her record of cooperation with Greensoil is impeccable and she controls the Iron Bandits and all the dungeon masters cover for her, all the time.”

Erick did not believe that Clarice wouldn’t tell Rebecca her real—

“Rebecca probably already knows her real name, Ashes.” Clarice said, “I was just having a passing moment of what I know to be unachievable joy. I would love to see her implode with her True Name, but… I know Rebecca, and I know the Riamites.” She stared at Erick, saying, “But since she for sure already knows her name, then she’s already exactly the horrible person you know her to be. You should have no problem killing her for real, a third time.”

“… You don’t know that. You’re guessing.”

“In my experience it is better to err on the side of caution against Rebecca, because she is practically a fairy when it comes to knowing shit she should not know.”

Erick frowned… Then he realized something important. He looked up at the air. “Can the dungeon see you in here?”

“Theoretically, yes, but actually no. I am very good at making illusions, Ashes, and at seeing through them.” Clarice’s bright amber eyes briefly shifted to Springtime swirls of pastel color, with slits instead of pupils; dragon eyes. And then her eyes shifted back to normal amber. “Your illusions could be a lot better, but I doubt that really matters at this point. Everyone who knows anything down here knows you’re a dragon, and they know I’m a dragon, too.”

Erick frowned. “I’m not interested in making better illusions, but I am interested in whatever [True Sight] shenanigans you have figured out here inside the empty manaspheres.”

“I’m not trading magic tips with you….” Clarice leaned back in her chair. “… But I suppose that one is quite crucial to know going forward, and you went and sucked the Wizard for power, becoming Benevolence yourself. So you won’t be as much of a bitch to work with as a normal Free Dragon.”

Erick leveled a disappointed glare at Clarice.

And Clarice smirked, giggling. “Oh fine! I want to oust the Riamites from power. I want you to help me. I will grant you this [True Sight] knowledge now, and you will officially become my ally in the overthrowing of all current Riamite interests from the Glittering Depths. In doing so, I imagine we’d solve the demonic murders happening in Greendale, and the Inquisitors will stop bothering me, and you.” She added, “You weren’t the only one they bothered that day, when they were camped outside the dungeon entrance.”

Erick stared. “This is not my life down here, Clarice. I am not getting overly involved. So state all your concerns now, so I can know the true measure of your desires. I will decide my involvement past that; not you.”

Clarice instantly said, “I want you to go to the fifth floor and [Witness] all of that to see if you can discover my Old Cosmology name.”

Erick thought for a moment, then he said, “Perhaps all the bad Riamites were purged that last time when they ran afoul of Greendale, and all we have left are normal people—”

“This is not a redemption scenario, you soft-scaled Benevolence bastard.” Clarice said, “Rebecca only pretended to spearhead the anti-Riamite collection teams down here after their whole operation was compromised. She was cutting her losses, for sure. After the story you told me there is no way you believe she isn’t capable of doing that exact thing! Fyuri, the Head Adjudicator, is Rebecca Fellhorn, and they are both beyond redemption.”

“… I am very furious right now, and I am trying to remain calm. Everything is happening too much right now. So here’s what is going to happen. You are going to tell me this [True Sight] magic. And then I’m going to go away, and I’ll come back to you some other day.”

“Fair. I agree to that.” Clarice said, “If you don’t return in a week I am telling Fyuri her name in public.”

“… Ten days, then.”

Clarice nodded. “The secret to [True Sight] in a manaless atmosphere is Wizardry. You have to change your core to make it so that you can see magical effects all the time, through whatever medium you can sense. Instead of needing to open yourself to the mana to meditate and mana sense, you open yourself to Particle Magic, too, and all the myriad other ways that the world and magic creates all sorts of illusions and lies.” Clarice said, “That’s not something that is achievable except through brute Wizardly strength, and the ability to take reality and substitute your own Reality.”

“… Of course it’s Wizardry,” Erick sighed. And then Erick stood, and said, “It was a pleasure to meet you. I need to be elsewhere now—”

Clarice rapidly said, “Look. Ashes. I’m sorry I’m a bitch. You don’t have to run… This stuff is scaring me, too. I’m not usually this deep into Wizardry or any of that crap. It’s not healthy for one’s lifespan.”

Erick nodded. “I’m not vanishing, but I do need to go away… See you in a few days, I think. I don’t know. Several days. Don’t… Don’t confront Rebecca. Please. Just leave her alone for now.”

Clarice stood. She nodded. “I’ll do that. See you when I see you.”

Erick left. He did not run, but he did rush away.

And then he started running.

- - - -

Rebecca watched as one rookie battled another rookie in the arena of the Iron Bandits compound.

She was judging them for competency, here in this public space, where on the other side of the arena four other people fought with each other to hone their own skills. Those guys on the other side of the field? Garoi, Bairu, Harvy, and Nicchole; two practiced, longstanding veterans in the Iron Bandits, and two new people. If Rebecca didn’t already know who was who it would have been hard for anyone else to guess which ones were the veterans and which were the rookies; they were rather all skilled.

These two people displaying their skills for Rebecca were less than skilled.

She told herself that these two people were fine for their level of expertise, but that was just it. ‘Their level of expertise’ was rather lacking—

One of the kids faltered his spear as the other came in for a strike—

“Stop,” Rebecca said, and the two ‘combatants’ stopped. Though the one with the faltered spear had almost wanted to strike at the other guy, due to being shown up almost completely and not liking it. “You’re both not qualified to create a team under the Iron Bandits. You will die, repeatedly out there, and we won’t have your deaths on our heads. You may return for another trial at your request, but not until a month has passed.”

Both men wanted to fight Rebecca on that, and she almost wanted them to try it.

But they both realized the almost-error of their ways, and bowed, saying, “We thank you for your time, Miss Fellhorn!”

Rebecca said, “Good luck growing, gentlemen.”

And then she turned and went back to the rest of her work, which was mostly paperwork—

Or she would have, but a runner came up to her and handed her a note.

She read the note, sighed, and then went to go find Tom, who was two streets over at a local bar.

Apparently their #1 delver center was attempting to warm his bed with fellow delvers. This was not usually a problem. But this time it was. Rebecca headed off to crush that trouble before it could begin.

