Clarice rapidly said, “Rebecca is the shadowcat from the first floor.”

Erick felt unmoored, suddenly lost. Fyuri was here, in Utopia? Or at least her shadow was? A lot of little facts suddenly lined up for Erick, and the truth of Clarice’s declaration became easy to verify in retrospect. Or maybe that was Erick’s sudden rage clouding and cloying to his thoughts.

All Erick could really say was, “Oh.”

Clarice looked at Erick through her slitted helmet, her eyes wide and reverential, as she said, “And you’re the Summoner.”

“… What?”

Clarice rapidly released the power in her hand, the displaced-reality-shards evaporating, as the tool in her hands slipped into the cuff of her armor. And then her full silver platemail turned semi-liquid and she stepped to the side, leaving the armor and its cape behind. The armor walked over to the corner of the room, and Erick could not mana sense it anymore, nor could he mana sense Clarice. Too many things were almost happening too fast, but Erick kept up—

As Clarice rapidly said, “Sorry for threatening you with murder because this changes everything. You need to leave the Iron Bandits right now.” She repeated, “You have to leave them. You can’t be near them. They’re already trying to control you—”

“Stop. Stop.” Erick softly said, “Stop with the ultimatums. Did you actually make tea? We could drink it while we talked. Or did you just plan on murdering me even after you invited me into your home?”

“… It’s not murder. It’s violent displacement and ejection.”

“Would a [True Resurrection] be involved?”

“Well yes. I would have churned through whatever Saves you had and then the dungeon would have—”

Erick sighed deeply, and that was enough for Clarice to stop talking. Erick said, “Please make the tea, and let us talk.” He gave a disapproving look, as he added, “I know you know about Elemental Mystical and probably Fae, too. Fae, especially, follows rather strict rules that are outside of any user’s ability to control, least of all little ‘humans’.”

Erick was goading Clarice now, because he was too furious to be the only one left angry.

His goad hit its mark.

Clarice, as a master of illusions, would have easily been able to see through Erick’s illusions. From there it would be a few small leaps of logic to conclude what Erick could see that Clarice could see. And since she had concluded that Erick was a dragon, it was easy for Erick to conclude that Clarice was a dragon, too.

Clarice fully dropped the act. “Oh fuck you, too. You benevolence dragons think you’re so much better than the rest of us. I know perfectly well how to use Elemental Fae! I’ve been using the damned element for the last 200 years!”

Now that seemed more like the Clarice who had first appeared to Erick.

The quiet one was the lie.

The loud one was closer to the truth.

Erick narrowed his eyes. “Not even going to try to lie even more to me? To pretend to be a human even longer?”

“... You didn’t fully know, did you.”

“I guessed correctly, and you confirmed, yes.”

Clarice frowned. Then she went to the kitchen. “I’ll make the tea.”

Erick saw a teapot fill with water from the sink, and a bunch of tea leaves float through the air. Maybe this time that’s what was actually happening. He asked, “Where are you from?”

“I’m not a normal dragon, if that’s what you’re worried about. No chance of the Curse activating here.”

Erick breathed out. “Okay. Good. No worries there, then.”

“I’m a Fae Dragon. What were you before you got changed?”

“A Free Dragon.”

A grunt of disapproval. “Well. I can work with you if you can work with me. I imagine you can, since you went and got yourself turned into a Wizard’s pet. What happened? Finally lost your willingness to be yourself?”

“Oh now that is too much. Are you always like this? No wonder you’re a hermit, and that I passed you on the Decoration board.”

A teapot clunked hard onto the stone counter. “If you knew anything about anything, then you would have witnessed that I hit a block on delve depth, not personal power. I got to 149 all by myself!”

“Please no alliteration, miss Fae Dragon.”

“Fuck you, Ashes.”

“No thank you; I have a boyfriend.”

Clarice came out of the kitchen holding two mugs, a big pot of tea, and a deep frown. “I wouldn’t want to make eggs with you anyway.”

“Let’s move on, please. So what the fuck do you mean Rebecca is the shadowcat?” Erick almost shouted the last words, but he pulled himself back at the last moment. He breathed deep. He calmly said, “That is very disturbing news to hear.”

Clarice’s frown softened as she set down the tea onto the table, and then she sat down herself into the chair across from Erick. “I’m surprised you still want tea from me, knowing I’m a Fae Dragon.”

“I’m surprised you think that matters to me, or that I would be powerless before you. How about this: You don’t try anything on me, and I won’t try anything on you, and we can work together to figure out these memories of the Old Cosmology we have both deeply experienced… I have no idea what to do about Rebecca and I’m way too agitated to think too deeply about what to do, so I will not act outside of full information. Let us proceed with the full information, please.”

“… That is a fair bargain.” Clarice poured tea for both of them. Steam swirled into the air as the scent of oranges and flowers filled the air. It was a relaxing and yet energetic scent. “Since you have told me your tale, I will tell you mine, but first… Do you know all about all five historical levels?”

“No. I skipped 3, 4, and 5.”

“You didn’t spy on people talking about them, too?”

“I know the general shape of those floors. I want to hear about your experience.”

Clarice grunted. “The third floor is ‘Destroy the Siphon’. The fourth floor is ‘The Mountain Under Siege’— Do I need to explain those?”

“How about you take down the hostility about 4 levels.”

Clarice frowned. “You’re the one that came after me, Ashes, with your self and then with your revelations.”

“I came at you peacefully, and you resorted to threats of murder as fast as you could.”

“That’s what a human would normally do when confronted by a dragon!” Clarice paused, then said, “But… Okay. Look. I’m… Sorry about the threats.”

“I appreciate it.”

“… So floor 3 is about 40 years after floor 2. On floor 3, there’s a Siphon that you have to attack and disable. The main threat to overcome is the complete loss of atmospheric mana near the Siphon, which drains you dry, and you’re running on dreams while you attempt to take it down, and kill the Siphoner. I didn’t have any experiences there.

“Floor 4 is The Mountain Under Siege, and it’s a cooperative effort by the Mountain… Which gets mentioned as a part of floor 2, which you probably heard?”

“I did hear of that, but I wasn’t about to go traipsing through the forest when there were enemies around. So I killed the Riamite army instead, and then cleared the Plains base.”

Clarice’s eyes widened a little. “Yeah. That’d be tough to do, especially with how few resources you can attain down there on your own. But I suppose you made your resources, so there’s no trouble there.” Clarice added, “As a note, though. I could have made better weapons, too, but I didn’t want to get too noticed by everyone… I have not made a whole lot of true friends down here and Rebecca… is a terrible person. She’s a Riamite who—”

“Please, Clarice.” Erick said, “We will get to that later.”

“… Sorry. Distracted.

“Back to the floors.

“The Mountain Under Siege is a city that needs to be rescued. It’s a week-long floor on average, and you have to kill wave after wave of monsters and monsterized Riamite forces. That whole mess occurs about 20 years after floor 2. It’s also the first major appearance of the Summoner… The Summoner is an NPC who calls down obliterating light to kill most of the red army. A lot of people complete the floor by standing back and saving the Summoner from assassins, until he has enough time to wipe out the enemy all by himself.” Clarice breathed deep. “I had my first experience of the Old Cosmology on that fourth floor, with the Summoner. I was with my team at the time, so that first viewing wasn’t that powerful, but it was what prompted me to begin solo delving.

“Tom and the others already know this but not many others do. So I would ask you to keep this to yourself.”

Erick nodded, mentally tucking away the fact that Clarice probably originally delved with Tom and his team, or at least that’s what she was implying.

Clarice said, “In the dungeon, at the end of the siege, the Summoner raises a staff and calls down Light upon the enemy. In the memory, I was a child, maybe 15, who watched as the Summoner who was just a man, stood on the tallest tower of the Mountain, shooting endless streams of Bolts at the enemy, each death sending up a streamer of golden light into the air, each streamer fueling more Bolts from the staff until it looked like he was shooting pure obliterating light.” She paused. “I went to the fifth floor by myself because by that time… It doesn’t matter.

“The fifth floor is the Calling of the Goddess.

“In the dungeon, I raced around to various ritual sites, ensuring they were able to function by clearing out the occupying Riamite forces, and guiding Atunir’s priests to make those sites into strongholds, all while Riam prepared its own ritual sites…” Clarice paused. “Do you know what the goal of the Riamites was, all throughout that period of time in Insten’s history?”

Erick said, “I have some guesses. I know that in the first floor, Riam might have been contacting evil gods in order to rise to further power. I did not get the full brush of history… But I had memories of a decade spent between Riam and Insten, moving with Fyuri, and Fyuri was a High Adjudicator. And they were all into some rather terrible things. Human sacrifice...” Erick looked up and away, as he tried to remember. And then he realized he didn’t want to. Not fully. He turned back toward Clarice. “They threw the people from Insten into Siphons in order to turn them into mana which then became land and other resources over on Riam. They didn’t start with people, though. They started with taxes. Then they moved on to rules in the cities of Insten.

“The taxes became food and goods and other material things... And monsters, when they could get them. Riam hunted all of Insten’s monsters all the time; all of our Sacred Beasts and otherwise. They took everything they could from Insten, constricting what the people were allowed to know and how the people were allowed to fight back, and the people constricted. Society changed.

“And when Riam started reaping people, which of course they did, Insten barely fought back.” Erick said, “But as for their ultimate goal… it was the ultimate goal of all tyrants, right? To have control, and since other people were by definition of being ‘other people’ not under their control, they tried to control them anyway through death.

“Even Riam summoning an Evil God was just about Riam being in control.”

Clarice listened, her eyes focused hard. When Erick was done, she said, “They wanted to make a god, and with that god, they would control their section of the universe.”

Erick nodded, as Clarice confirmed the worst possible theory Erick had had.

“Could have been a Wizard, actually.” Clarice said, “I’ve talked to others and… Well. The trajectory is that Riam wanted to make an ultimate power. The exact nature of that power is up for debate.”

Erick slowly nodded. “… Please continue.”

Clarice breathed, then said, “In the dungeon of the fifth floor, I cleared out land and raised towers and made ritual spots in order to connect with other ritual spots already made by others. I cleared out Riam’s forces from some. I cleared monsters from others. I made holy places by picking up a toppled stone epitaph and righting it against the wall.

“Eventually I killed the final boss of the final tower and completed the floor.

“In the memory, I only assaulted one tower, with the direct help of the Summoner, and I was but one girl of a hundred he was ferrying around to… Many different places.

“Atunir was not yet present on Insten, or Riam, because the Riamites were actually preventing her from descending, because they were trying to create their own god, and that required space; a displacement of godly power, to allow for something else to fill that void.

“Then came the ritual.

“I was there, at one of those ritual sites. It was a lonely thing, out in the middle of the Emptying, rising a kilometer into a mana-void sky. It was also absolutely filled with Riamites. These days we would name those people as Blood Mages, and Desecration Priests, and Destruction Mages. That land was filled with horror and sacrifice and death, and it was one of the foundation towers that blocked Atunir, and nurtured the development of an Evil God.

“I don’t think the Evil God ever got a name… If it did, I do not desire to know it.”

Erick felt his heart ache as Clarice spoke, as he imagined what she had [Witness]ed. His core flickered with white lightning inside. A tiny white spark escaped from his fingers as he touched his mug, leaving a little black mark on the otherwise white ceramic.

Clarice continued, “I was a priestess of Atunir, guided by the Summoner to that bleak tower in the middle of the Emptying, where nothing survived except for hope and well-laid ritual materials. The Summoner killed absolutely everyone, and then re-consecrated the land with a tap of his golden staff. Blood carvings in the walls and floors turned into brown dirt. Cages that were filled with monsters for sacrifice suddenly transformed into mana and vanished into that staff. And then the Summoner had me kneel at the top of the tower, where everything untoward had been transformed into loam, and nothing evil remained.

“He asked if I gave myself willingly.

“I said yes.

“He tapped me on the head with his staff. Divine golden light flowed into me, and I went into a trance.

“I remained there, on my knees in brown dirt, there at the top of that tower, praying.

“I do not know how long I prayed, for time did not seem to matter. This was part of the plan. The Summoner was setting up a hundred volunteers in various parts of Insten and Riam, whereupon he would layer us with divine power. It was a plan a decade in the making, that would already take advantage of the horrors Riam had already built. It would turn their machine against them. That plan worked.

