It wasn’t hard to find the giant muscular man. He was in the bar, exactly where the note had said he was (bless those people Rebecca assigned to keep watch over him), getting on with some guys and gals, and trying to bed at least two of them, but he’d take all of them if they let him. The black-haired man and the blond woman were the only really receptive ones, though, unless Rebecca’s eyes were deceiving her, and they likely weren’t. Rebecca would have made a note to keep an eye on the situation and find out their names later, but that was unnecessary, since Rebecca recognized them through their disguises, just as the observers had noticed, too.

She couldn’t let this one slide.

Tom was oblivious to the danger he was in, as usual.

Rebecca pulled her shadows back from the walls, her sight returning to her, and then stepped into the bar and made herself known.

Tom instantly saw her. He smiled brightly and shouted, “Come drink with us, Rebecca!”

The man was slightly drunk, or else he would have been more scared of her, as he had unfortunately been these last years. Honestly, she loved it when he wasn’t scared; she wished he was like this all the time. Some people didn’t like the idea of her being a boss monster from the first floor, for whatever reason, and though Rebecca was far away from those old roots of being born in this dungeon, some people, once they found out, were forever afraid of her. Tom was one of those people. He had gotten better for a while, and then the Riamite situation happened, and now he was afraid for other reasons.

He didn’t like people who went for political power, which was understandable given his background.

But Rebecca wanted to be the power behind Utopia, and she would not be denied. If only those fucking Riamites hadn’t set her plans back so fucking far! If only she wasn’t painted with the same brush as them! She had been happy to hand the offenders off to Greendale, though, for that was the right thing to do, and it created a very valuable power vacuum in the city, and Rebecca had taken over that vacuum.

Of course, now Rebecca was ousted from the Riamite community here in Utopia, which was less than ideal, since they still had a lot of power, and they organized like sailors trying to engineer their way off of a sinking ship… Which she supposed they would always be, since they were the ‘enemy’ down here, according to the narrative of the Glittering Depths.

But Rebecca still kept tabs on all the Riamites. Which was why she knew about the black-haired man and the blonde woman currently trying to get into Tom’s pants, while Tom didn’t know them at all.

Rebecca smiled, flashing fangs, as she advanced on Tom and his little drinking party.

Tom gulped.

Rebecca almost laughed at that. Tom was scared of her, but he was just as turned on. Fear got him going rather well. Rebecca didn’t look at him, though, as she sidled up to his table, and stared at the two people she came to interrupt. “Hello, Cuuri and Parizi.”

Black-hair and blonde both raised eyebrows at her. Cuuri smiled a little, acting joyful to see Rebecca, while Parizi scowled, and could not help but scowl even more when Rebecca noticed that reaction.

Rebecca told the Riamites, and Tom, “Sorry to break up this small part of your party, Tom, but Cuuri and Parizi need to come with me.”

Tom went, “Oh— Okay! Have fun you three!”

Cuuri and Parizi came along without complaint, all the way back to the company house. Rebecca got them in a room, alone. The walls were secure. No one could see them, not even the dungeon masters.

Rebecca kept her tone light, “You were moving in on my main man.”

Cuuri tried to defend himself, “We just wanted to talk about some of the bosses he cleared.”

“If we thought we could have come to you, we would have,” Parizi stated. “But you made it very clear what you would do to us all if you could have your way.”

There were lots Rebecca could say about that. From how the Riamites had dug their own graves. To how Rebecca had cleaned house and then simply profited from that space, as anyone would. To how Parizi was obviously embarrassed that she hadn’t done what Rebecca had done, herself.

So Rebecca simply said, “Ask away. What do you want to know? I can answer every question you have.”

Parizi narrowed her eyes. “You would lie to us, and get us killed.”

“I would not lie about floor bosses, because there would be no point. If I told you untruthful battle tactics, it might cost you a few Saves, but you’d be reborn in the golden wheat fields just like everyone else from down here. And then you would know me as a liar. But I am anything but a liar, Parizi.” Rebecca said, “Lies are for the weak and deceptive, and I am neither of those things.” Rebecca added, “And since we all know this, I will venture a guess as to what this is really about.

“You want access to Ashes.”

Parizi froze, her eyes filling with hate, for Rebecca had hit their real motive exactly.

Cuuri frowned a little. “We want him to make certain items for us.”

Parizi went wide eyed and almost roared at Cuuri—

“Okay,” Rebecca said, surprising both of the Riamites. “What exactly do you want?”

“We want a Name Finder,” Cuuri said.

Rebecca stilled. “No. Your request is denied—”

Parizi said, “If he doesn’t know about Names, then we’ll tell him, and he’ll make the Name Finder because he’s a Benevolent dragon, and because we want it more than anything else. We’ll even submit to a [Reincarnation] if it turns out we’re actually as evil as they all think we are.”

Rebecca countered, “Or else he could be sent here to directly stop that from happening.”

“Either way,” Parizi said, “Either way we find out who we are. Don’t you want to know who you are, ‘Rebecca’?”

“I know who I am. You would do well to remain who you are right now, too, and to stay away from memories that got Riam erased by the divine.”

Cuuri softly said, “Riam is still there, in our cloudy, imperfect memories. I can almost see my kids' faces, Rebecca. I can almost hear my wife’s laughter. The sunstar setting on the horizon. The floating islands over the Great Rift. The markets. The Wizards who granted us everything we ever asked for. The paradise of Riam still exists, Rebecca. We only need to grab it, and realize it again.”

Parizi was a cynical woman, but even she melted a little as Cuuri spoke of Home.

Something deep inside of Rebecca melted, too.

And then Rebecca controlled herself, and said, “If a Name Finder is possible, then it will take a dragon to make it, but I urge you to forget this foolishness of trying to get Ashes to make this for you. He could bring Xoat Reborn down on us, and I would not have myself face that sort of scrutiny now, or ever.”

Parizi softly said, “Well maybe it’s time we ask for Xoat Reborn to come to us, and help us get out of this place. Greendale is poised against us. The entire city treats us as second class— We were all royalty back on Riam, Rebecca. All of us lived like kings compared to this shit down here! ‘Utopia’! Bah! This is Hell by any other name!” She spat. “And not that pathetic incani-Hell; the real one, where they torture you forever for things you never did.”

Rebecca shook her head. “I’m not going to repeat myself. Don’t approach Ashes. Don’t pursue Xoat Reborn. Should he appear, and should we be found wanting, no dungeon magic or Wizard power will be able to save you from a True Death at my hands, first.”

Cuuri implored, “I believe in him! I thought you did, too! The Wizards were always good people, and good to us and… Xoat Reborn would be the same.”

Parizi did not share Cuuri’s enthusiasm, but she couldn’t speak against the utter hope in the man’s voice, for even though she knew it was stupid to believe that monsters could be redeemed, she still had hope in her heart that it was possible.

Rebecca couldn’t speak against that hope, either, because she held the same in her own heart, and core. “No, Cuuri. No. Leave it. Don’t pursue this.”

Cuuri stood tall. “I won’t actively pursue this, Rebecca, but if Xoat Reborn should appear on the tail of this Benevolence Dragon, then I will ask him for my real Name, and I hope you wouldn’t stand in the way of that.”

“It will not make you happy to know your Name, Cuuri. Everyone who learned their Name went… They had to be purged.” Rebecca said, “Don’t pursue this.”

Cuuri fell silent.

Parizi said, “They handled it poorly. I would not.”

Cuuri nodded. He felt he could handle the truth, too.

Rebecca did not have the energy to convince them otherwise, even though all evidence pointed to monsters becoming monsters once they were shown to be monsters. That’s how the dungeon had made them, after all. That’s how the people of Riam truly were.

For no matter how many good memories of Riam that Cuuri thought he had…

Rebecca had memories, too, and they painted horrible truths that no one should ever know.

- - - -

Erick stood as himself upon the bare ground of the Pit at Storm’s Edge.

The place looked a lot different than it usually did. Instead of being a kilometers-wide flat-bottomed canyon, with holes to Darkness floating among the stone, now it was a land of solid defense. The walls were one continuous castle, complete with defensive battlements that pointed outward, and layers of spellwork attached to a node network that would ensure the land remained intact, no matter what might come this way. That spellwork extended down, into the ground, and all across the canyon.

There was only one structure inside the canyon itself; A large granite stone fort sat in front of Erick, guarding the entrance to the dungeons. That black-rimmed hole loomed within shadows, and within those shadows lay undead soldiers, ready to act against any threats.

Mana streamed into that hole in the world, steady and sure.

Erick cast his sight up into the sky, to Ophiel floating over the monster roads leading to this location. Everbless hung in those skies here and there, as his Gold Taker avatar, hidden from almost all sights except for Erick’s, as he invisibly moved mana in streamers toward the dungeon entrance. A few monsters followed that thick air. When they got closer to the dungeon itself, the undead would take over guiding the monsters into the dungeon. But right now, the undead were quiet, and waiting.

Erick was waiting, too—

A skeleton stepped out of the shadows. It bowed toward Erick, then rose, and said, “Vanya Silver and Soltic Cross welcome you to the dungeons at Storm’s Edge. We are prepared to receive you.” The summoned construct raised a bony arm and gestured toward the hole in the world. “Right this way, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick had quite a lot of questions to talk to Quilatalap about, but mainly he wanted to be with Quilatalap again. Everything had been very stressful today. With his crown of black horns on display, and wearing his normal white and black robes, Erick stepped into the shadows, past the bowing undead, into the Darkness.

- - - -

A lot of things had changed in the dungeon.

For one, Erick did not land upon a floating stone barge, that wound back and forth across a floor full of water. He didn’t even land in an entrance zone.

Erick stood upon a white stone, in a small field of flowers. To the left was a familiar garden, looking like it was ready for harvesting soon. Ophiel leapt off of Erick’s shoulder and squealed in delight as he fluttered over to the purpleberry bush while Erick felt a weirdness inside, as he looked upon the cottage that he and Quilatalap had called home for the last ten years, and upon the surrounding forest. The forest was dark; so dark that Erick felt that nothing existed past that depth of shadow, for he could not sense anything out there, nor could he see anything past the dense green and shadows therein. The forest of the Grand Dungeon of Benevolence held monsters in abundance, and this one probably did too, so Erick didn’t care to explore all of that.

Besides, a curl of smoke rose from the chimney of the cottage, and the air smelled of roasting meat.

Erick had been prepared to pretend that Vanya was Vanya for a while, and not Quilatalap in disguise, but not anymore. Only a few people knew of this house, and it was always the most well-guarded location inside Quilatalap’s dungeons.

And Erick had all his spellwork, so that made him feel even more secure. With a casual twist of intent, Erick flowed his invisible aura into the air, and fired off a good twenty small spells, and then caught them in that same aura, countering them with a thought. Aside from the casual display of fireworks in most colors and flavors, it proved that there were no restrictions here. Or at least none that Erick was subject to.

Erick stepped off of the white stone, onto the grass, feeling like he was coming home, as he called out, “Hello, in there!”

“Hello!” came Quilatalap’s voice. And Erick saw him in the window, briefly, before he opened the door, and stepped out into the open. Erick loved those lower fangs of his, and his great big arms, and smile, and everything about him. Quilatalap stepped forward—

And Erick stepped into his arms, mostly matching him for size, letting the dragon out a little. He breathed in Quilatalap’s scent, and smiled. “Hello. You were busy for a while.”

“I was,” Quilatalap said, against Erick’s shoulder. “I got a lot of it sorted.”

“I can tell.”

“Dinner is ready.” Quilatalap pulled away a little, waggling an eyebrow. “Or we could celebrate our reunion in other ways, first.”

Erick chuckled. He had so much to talk about, but Quilatalap’s idea was a whole lot better. So Erick discarded his clothes. Quilatalap’s clothes vanished in the next heartbeat.

- - - -

Poi sipped his tea, frowning a little, as he stood in Erick’s house, in the main living room. He stared at the newest addition to the cloud castle, and wondered what the fuck was going to happen now.

Teressa frowned as she stood beside him, also staring at the newest addition to the cloud castle. She asked, “So. I suppose vacation is over, then.”

Poi said, “Just a matter of time.”

“Erick already came by and saw it, yes?” Teressa asked, “How did that go, exactly?”

Poi sipped his tea. “Here I was, doing business in my own offices, and then Erick came racing home, talking about a lot… I’ll tell you the full story eventually. But the main issue is that he went into a dungeon and came out with that. Or rather, more accurately, the dungeon made that for him.”

There, in the middle of Erick’s living room, floating straight up and down and centered on the nice rug in the middle of the hardwood floor…

Well. It was a staff. That much was obvious.

