Waking to the fragrant smell of roasted meat, Song gingerly extracted herself from the pile of slumbering animals and Lin’s tangled embrace. Frowning in her sleep, Lin grumbled and rolled over to claim another victim, clinging tightly to the comatose Mila with a contented murmur. Gazing upon their peaceful and contented expressions, Song imagined herself looking the same, lying there beside them with the same serene smile and slack expression, her hair in disarray and limbs akimbo. Even in her mind it looked bizarre and unusual, her familiar features twisted in a foreign look of serenity and comfort, but she held the image anyways, a slow smile spreading across her face.

Perhaps someday.

Reluctant to wake them, Song left Mila and Lin to slumber while she let the animals out, the three wildcats and two bears already waiting by the door. Bounding away with a leap, Jimjam bolted towards the aromatic cooking fire like a streak of lightning, only to come to a skidding halt as Rain interposed himself between the wildcat and his prey. “No,” Rain said, freezing Jimjam with a ferocious scowl. “Bad Jimjam. No stealing.”

Likely spooked by Rain’s insidious Aura, Jimjam pressed his belly to the dirt and let out a pitiable mewl, half in challenge and half in surrender. Still scowling, Rain gave the frightened wildcat a cursory pat before shooing him away, turning back to his cooking without an apology or greeting for Song and the other animals. How strange. Usually, Rain had nothing but smiles and hugs for his precious ‘fur-babies’, not to mention how he always looked the other way when Jimjam was on the prowl, but today, he all but ignored them except to keep them away from the food. Why? Besides, it wasn’t right to treat Jimjam like that, stealing food was a bad habit Rain encouraged through neglect, so how could he terrorize the poor sweetling for it?

Hugging the unnerved wildcat to her chest, Song brushed her hair out of the way to glare at Rain’s back, struggling to compose a scathing condemnation. Unfortunately, eloquence was not her strong suit and all she could come up with was, “You shouldn’t scare Jimjam.”

Rain answered without looking back, fending Sarankho’s claws away from the roast with a wooden ladle. “Jimjam will be fine, he could use a little discipline. They all could. I’ve been too lenient. It’s cute now, but what happens when Jimjam grows to the size of a pony? Or Banjo and Baloo become full-sized?” Annoyed by Rain’s lack of attention, Aurie flopped to his side to chew on Rain’s boot, but this too failed to elicit a smile from the taciturn man. Banjo’s efforts to climb onto his back were thwarted with a hip bump and Baloo’s adorable chortling did nothing to sway him, nor did Sarankho’s grasping paws batting at the air as she laid on her back, exposing her belly for a scratch that would never come.

Something wasn’t right. Any of those behaviours were usually enough to set Rain to cooing, but today, he hardly spared the animals a glance. No smiles either, though his frown slowly dissipated as the animals played out their best tricks, his expression reverting to a surly but neutral demeanour. Nor did he bother to ogle Song, focused only on his cooking and nothing else. All this after hiding in his yurt and out in the bay for three consecutive days and largely ignoring his pets, Mila, and Lin.

Not that Song minded his absence, but Mila and Lin grew grouchier by the day, constantly grumbling about his lack of affection and discussing solutions to win him back. First they tried giving him space and waiting him out, then they tried assaulting him with affection, and when that didn’t work, they took all his pets away in a fit of pique, but still nothing changed. It was almost like they were dealing with a new Rain, a grouchy, dour, sullen Rain who cared about nothing besides his Awakening.

Glancing around, she spotted an unfamiliar Spiritual Weapon laying at Rain’s side, an ominous, jet-black glaive. Mila’s work no doubt and soon to be Rain’s third weapon. Drawing closer for a better look, she reached out to grab it but stopped well short of it, scolding herself for overstepping her bounds. No warrior would feel safe letting another touch an unbound Spiritual Weapon and who knew how this temperamental new Rain would react?

“Beautiful right?” he asked, barely looking away from the pot as he slid it towards her. “Give it a couple swings, but be careful. It’s heavy and already bound.”

Already bound? Just last night, Mila was complaining about Rain’s lack of interest and appreciation for her hard work, which meant he bound the weapon in a single night. “How did you bind it so quickly?”

The question slipped out but Rain answered without pause. “Having a Natal Palace helps. I imagined the weapon in there with me and bam, weapon bound. Still took the better part of four hours, but it’s an improvement. The sword took more than a week and the shield almost half a day and the entire night. I was worried I wouldn’t finish in time for the Conference, but I had plenty of time to spare, so I decided to cook everyone breakfast.”

‘More than a week’, as if that were an unacceptable amount of time. How would he react if he knew Song had taken months to bind her saber? His advice wasn’t even useful since she lacked a Natal Palace. Mother above, how can You favour one man so? Dispirited by Rain’s overabundance of talent, Song gave the glaive a perfunctory examination before handing it back. “Sister’s work is sublime.”

“Sure is.” Glancing at her for the first time as he took the weapon, Rain’s eyes lingered on Song’s face and he raised an eyebrow. “Your hair isn’t braided.” The aimless statement threw Song for a loop and she raised her eyebrow back, waiting to see where he was going with this line of conversation. Shrugging, he added, “I’ve never seen you with your hair down. It’s new.” Still unsure, Song slowly drew back, worried he had ulterior motives, but Rain merely rolled his eyes and went back to cooking. “Relax, I’m just making small talk. Sorry, I’m terrible at it. Whatever, let’s forget about it and move on. Breakfast is almost ready, so could you please wake Mila and Lin?”

Refusing mostly because she wanted to, Song shook her head. “Let them sleep in. I’m going to see Mama.” It had become her new morning ritual now, Mama braiding Song’s hair into a neat little bun while Papa snored softly beside them. Where she used to love mornings for the solitude they provided, Song now loved mornings because it was a time for family and companionship.

“I sent someone to fetch them. Made enough food for everyone.” Gesturing at the roast and simmering pot of congee, he gave a wry smile and added, “Figured we might as well enjoy a hot meal while we can. If I screw things up with the Legate later, it’ll be awhile before anyone has time to cook again.”

How true. Snickering beneath her breath, Song turned to do as he said before changing her mind. Although Mila and Lin were unhappy with Rain, Song felt like they were overreacting to his recent change in behaviour. In truth, she preferred this new attitude and found it a major improvement, more in line with how a proper young hero should behave, dignified and disciplined instead of the odd, foolish little man who liked to roll around in the grass with his rabbits. While tempted to stand by and let his cold attitude push Mila, Lin, and his pets away, it wouldn’t be right to punish Rain’s self improvement like that.

Turning back, she stated, “I am going to meet Mama and Papa. You go wake Sister and Lin.” Summoning the pets to her side with a clap of her hands, she herded them off towards Mama and Papa’s yurt, hoping to make it there before they left. This was the perfect solution, Rain could make amends for his rude behaviour, Mila and Lin would both be happier for his attention, and Song wouldn’t have to suffer through Mila’s angry scowls or Lin’s piteous groans.

Never let it be said Song wasn’t kind to her future brother-in-law.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Mila my love, time to wake up.”

Groaning at the intrusion, Mila buried her face deeper into her pillow. “No... five more minutes.”

“That’s what you said five minutes ago. C’mon, breakfast is getting overcooked.” Grabbing her shoulder, the intruder shook her lightly and Mila groaned in response. Fully awake now, Mila opened her eyes and stilled her fist when she found Rain sitting beside her, his pretty amber eyes almost glowing in the dim interior of Song’s yurt. “There we go,” he said, tapping her nose. “I thought you’d never open your eyes. At least you’re better than Lin, I don’t know how she’s still asleep.”

“Mm... what time is it?”

“The sun just rose before I came in.”

“Too early.” Why didn’t he lie down beside her? Or wake her with a kiss or a nibble of her ear, like he did while they were in Sanshu? Was Rain truly so fickle, his passion cooled so much after a single month apart? Rubbing her eyes with a pout, she shook her head and said, “Don’t wanna wake up. Nap with me?”

“I can’t.”

“Why not?” Did her breath smell? Or something worse?

“Well, for starters, your parents will be here soon and I’d rather not upset them.” Pinching her cheek, he continued, “Since I like having all my parts attached, I asked Tursinai to come in and vouch for my good behaviour-”

“Oh don’t mind me,” Tursinai interrupted, grinning from ear to ear as she stood by the door. “You lovebirds just pretend I’m not here. I won’t say a word to the Lieutenant General, long as I get to watch.”

“...Which I now realize was a mistake.” Rain glowered at the leering Sentinel, but Mila brushed it aside. Tursinai was always making lewd jokes but lately, it seemed like Rain had lost his sense of humour and was always in a foul mood. He didn’t even smile when Mila listened to Lin and threw herself at him like a depraved harlot. So embarrassing to be told her behaviour was ‘improper’, like Rain ever behaved properly a day in his life. Turning her back to the infuriating man, Mila cuddled with the still sleeping Lin and huffed in displeasure, hoping to go back to sleep and perhaps dream of a sweeter, more attentive betrothed. With a long sigh, Rain sat silently beside her for several minutes, before finally laying down on top of the blanket, lounging on his side with his head propped up and plenty of space between them. “Happy now?”

No, she wasn’t. She didn’t want him to feel obligated to show affection, but how was she supposed to tell him that with Tursinai lurking about? Expressing her displeasure with a wordless snarl earned her another sigh and a pat on the shoulder from Rain. “Thank you for the weapon,” he said, voice hushed and subdued like he was thanking her for a cabbage. “It’s a beautiful work of art and I’m sure it’ll be the envy of nobles and warriors from all around the Empire.”

Chest filling with pride, Mila squashed down her satisfaction and snorted in reply, her eyes clenched shut and arms wrapped around Lin. Ignorant to their dispute, Lin slept soundly in Mila’s embrace, her soft, steady breathing never wavering once despite the noise and delicious aroma wafting into the yurt. Pressing his cheek against Mila’s shoulder, Rain continued chatting. “I bound the weapon this morning and I’m awed by how smooth the transitions are. Honestly, I’m still shocked you even made it work.”

“It wasn’t easy.” And if it weren’t for the excitement in his eyes, she wouldn’t have bothered spending so much time trying to come up with a suitable solution, but she wanted to make him happy. It was rare to see such childish enthusiasm from him, so passionate about something as simple as a transforming weapon, she couldn’t bear to disappoint him. That’s why she’d been so upset when he said it slipped his mind, especially after all the suffering she went through without him.

Smiling, he nuzzled her shoulder. “Well I knew you could do it. Thank you. You’re so incredible, I don’t deserve someone like you.”

Swallowing her smug retort about settling for him, she opened her eyes to study his expression. He’d joked about things like this before, but today, he actually sounded like he meant it. Scowling as she leaned back into him, she settled into his shoulder with a grunt. “Don’t be stupid,” she said, stifling a yawn. “You’re plenty incredible yourself. You’re the youngest Second Grade Warrant Officer in history, and didn’t you just learn how to bind water last night? Even if you weren’t incredible, I’d still want to marry you. I don’t care about your achievements or titles, I love who you are, my kind, caring, silly, hard-working Rain.”

“Yea? You mean it?”

“Of course.” Looking into his eyes, she snuggled deeper into his shoulder and asked, “Tell me beloved, what’s wrong? You’ve been so distant lately.” Was it because of Yan? Or maybe he’d met a lovely young lady, a human one who could bear his children...

“It’s nothing,” he lied, his sad eyes giving it away. “I’m sorry, I’ve been distracted with my Awakening, the meeting with the Legate, wondering who’s trying to kill me, and all this business with the Canston Trading Group... but it’s no excuse. I’m sorry I haven’t been more attentive.” Kissing her shoulder, he closed his eyes and sighed. “I love you too. You’re so strong, confident, and courageous, you’re always there to support me and you put up with all my flaws and quirks. I don’t know what I’d do without you.”

“Really?”

“Yea.” Stroking her cheek, he gave her a tired half-smile. “Now come eat breakfast? You can go back to sleep afterwards.”

Shaking her head, Mila grinned and said, “A few more minutes.” Pressed between Rain and Lin, Mila wanted to stretch this out for as long as possible, bundled between her beloved betrothed and future sister-wife. “Tell me about your binding ceremony. Did you stab yourself again?”

“Ha, no. It was me using the weapon to fight imaginary foes... fairly standard stuff.” Then why did he sound so distraught? Before she could ask, he kissed her temple and continued. “Gave me a lot to think about though, about life in general. I named it Unity, but I’m not entirely sold on the decision.” After a short pause, he changed the subject. “You made yourself a weapon too right? Where is it?”

“Hmph. And here I thought you forgot all about me.” Elbowing him gently in the ribs, she turned away to hide her smile. “It’s a secret. If you want to find out more, then challenge me to a spar and be strong enough to make me use it.” Her new weapon, Paragon, was far more impressive than Rain’s, especially since she didn’t have to build it around a spring-powered rifle. A proper bow was far easier to use and had a faster rate of fire too, though she had to admit, the guns were much easier to learn.

“Oh, I wouldn’t dare.” Nuzzling against her shoulder, Rain finally wrapped his arm around her in a proper embrace, though he ruined it by yawning. “My beloved betrothed is far too powerful to subdue. Woe is me, destined to be a battered husband for all my years, a most... unfortunate... fate.” Sagging in place, Rain finally fell asleep and Mila almost couldn’t believe it. Oh no, did he stay up to bind his new weapon because of how they’d left things last night? Her poor, sweet Rain, he barely got enough sleep as it was and now he had to face the Legate like this?

No matter. Let him sleep now and they could all wake at a more appropriate hour. Closing her eyes, she drifted off to sleep.

Only to be rudely awakened by Tursinai. “This was all very heartwarming, but the Lieutenant General should be arriving soon.”

Cringing in shame, Mila buried her face in Lin’s hair and elbowed Rain in the ribs again, blaming him for inviting Tursinai in the first place. “Go away now. Wake me at a more reasonable hour.”

“Mhm,” Rain replied, sitting up with a groan. “Come have breakfast with everyone. Please? With the Conference starting up, who knows when we’ll have time to sit down together?”

“But why so early? The conference isn’t scheduled to begin until mid-morning, and even then we might not be the first ones called...” Flashing him a sullen glare, Mila silently cursed all morning people everywhere. Who gets up at sunrise? Those were the best hours to sleep through...

“Unlike you, some of us have things to do and preparations to make.” Taking her hand, he shrugged and Sent, “Much as I’d like to sleep in with you and Lin, I need to go back out into the bay and find Blobby before the conference starts.”

“What?” Remembering herself, Mila stilled her tongue and Sent, “You lost it?” Mother above, only Rain could misplace a Tear of the Mother. Twice now, at that.

“Yea, but in my defence, I have no control over what Blobby does.” Despite the gravity of the situation, Rain didn’t seem all too concerned, sitting on his ass while rubbing his eyes with a silly smile. “Don’t worry, I have a decent guess about what happened. At first, I thought Ping Ping ate Blobby, but if that’s what she was after, I’m pretty sure she would’ve just eaten me whole the first day we met. Then it hit me: Blobby is a complete glutton. Remember Yo Ling’s island? I told you about Blobby leaving to soak... something up, and how I didn’t think it was Heavenly Energy. Blobby itself is a font of Heavenly Energy, so why would it eat Heavenly Energy? Anyways, then there’s the Spiritual Plant Mama Bun sniffed out that we haven’t been able to find. I’m pretty sure Mama Bun can’t smell things that are underwater, so we should be looking for a rootless plant floating on the bay’s surface.”

Resisting the urge to smack him upside the head for changing the subject, Mila sat up and glared at her betrothed. “What does that have to do with the missing Tear of the Mother?” Stupid, insufferable man, it probably left because of Rain’s disrespectful attitude, calling a droplet of Heavenly Water ‘Blobby’ and ‘gluttonous’.

“Well, Spiritual Plants gather Heavenly Energy right? If it’s like a normal plant, it absorbs Heavenly Energy, uses it, then probably releases a byproduct, which may or may not be similar to whatever it is Blobby loves so much. During my Awakening, a whole bunch of Heavenly Energy was flying about, so the Spiritual Plant was probably drawn over and Blobby sensed it. I figure Blobby stepped out to grab a bite or whatever, and is still there feeding away. We find the plant, we probably find Blobby, easy as pie.”

Sometimes, Mila felt like she was betrothed to an idiot. Easy as pie? “You’ve been looking for days without success already... and how can a plant be ‘drawn over’? Plants don’t swim.”

Rain shrugged. “I’ve seen weirder things than mobile plants and if I’m wrong, then I’ll just keep looking. I’m sure Blobby will turn up eventually. It came back once before, so it must like me, and I even have some bait that might draw its attention. See, last night, Jorani....”

It’s like he didn’t understand how special a drop of Heavenly Water could be. What if someone else found it first? Or if it never came back? Her sweet, silly, infuriating betrothed, choosing the worst times to be optimistic. Sighing, Mila patted Rain on the cheek and hoped everything would work out as he said.

If not, then the Bekhai lost their chance to nurture a new Ancestral Beast, or perhaps even the first ever Ancestral Human...

Chapter Meme
