Ren scrutinized her as well. She was well dressed and wore an iron ring on the same finger as that healer in the brig did. It marked her as married; whether she actually was or not, is another story. Her hair was short and as red as red can be.

“Can I ask why Influence is used as a gauge for the order size?”

She smiled. “When you have enough Influence, your lands and titles reflect it. Then we know you actually need a lot of paving stones.”

Ren crossed his arms. “How many stones does my Influence tell you I need?”

“Only about 200.” She squeaked. “We don't do orders that small.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow at her, and she giggled.

“That's cute!” She said, then clapped a hand over her mouth.

Ren smiled. “What if I told you that I needed a thousand paving stones?”

“That's the minimum order we have, but I can tell your lying.”

Ren grinned. “That's because what I actually need is about 3,000.”

She started to talk, Ren assumed to tell him he was lying again, and then her mouth dropped open. “You... you really need...”

“It's 2,800, but I'm allowing for breakage, worn corners, and divots.”

“Just... just a moment.” She said and walked down a small set of stairs to the floor and crossed the floor to knock on an office door to the right of the desk. Ren looked away, so he wouldn't see inside.

Teepo, did you check the office on the right?

“Yes.” Teepo said. “There's a female dwarf inside. I'm checking the others down the hall, just in case.”

Thanks, Teepo.

“Excuse me, sir.” The tiny dwarf said.

Ren turned to look at her and smiled.

“Right this way.”

Ren had to walk really slow to follow her to the office. Once inside, Ren saw a beautiful blonde dwarf sitting behind a large ornate desk. The tiny dwarf bowed slightly to the woman, then had a hard time when she dragged the door shut behind her as she left.

“Please be seated.”

“Thank you, Ma'am.” Ren said and sat.

The blonde dwarf smiled. “Ms. Longore is fine.”

Ren's eyes widened. “You're...”

“Yes, I'm that Longore.”

Ren stood, and then bowed slightly. “My apologies for not greeting you properly.”

She chuckled. “It's quite all right.” She said. “I've had to relax the strict protocol when I took this office.”

“Then... why did you take the office?” Ren asked as he sat again.

“Most men don't even think about it.” She said. “Why do you ask?”

“A woman of your stature should always be shown the proper respect.” Ren said. “You're... pardon my frankness... intentionally losing Honor.”

Her eyes widened. “What makes you say that?”

“I've spent some time with a Lady of a House that has lost nearly all of her Honor, because over the years, men have simply been ignoring her. If you're sitting here, and letting it wear yours away, then you must have a reason.”

She smiled. “You're nothing like the normal clients we get.”

“And you're trying to change the subject.” Ren said, and she grinned. “But that's understandable, and I respect your decision to not let a perfect stranger know one of your secrets.” He smiled. “Ms. Longore, I'd like to order 3,000 paving stones, please.”

She took out a form from her desk. “This is the standard structured payment form.”

Ren shook his head. “Sorry. I've been through something like this before. I'll pay right now, immediately, in coins.”

Ms. Longore had a shocked look on her face. “You're definitely not like any of our other clients.” She put the form away and took out another. She filled it out and handed it to Ren, who took his time in reading it. When he was done, he looked at her and saw she had a huge smile on her face. Ren signed it and passed it back.

“50 gold, please.”

Ren handed the money over. “When can they be delivered?”

“We have nearly twice that many in stock. When would you like it?”

“Tomorrow would be great, Ms. Longore.”

“Please, call me Syudora.”

Ren shook his head. “I'd never call you by your first name in public, Ms. Longore... even with your relaxed protocol.” Ren said. “Plus, I'm already engaged.”

“Another one escapes my fiendish trap!” Syudora laughed and stood as she reached out a hand. “It was nice meeting you, Mister...?”

Ren stood and took her hand, and smiled as he bent over it. “Please make the delivery to House Neram, Ms. Longore.”

“I can't even get your name?” She said, with laughter in her voice. “For the delivery?”

Ren stood up. “I'll be there to receive it.”

“You're good.” She said. “You know how to play 'the game'.”

“I've had a lot of practice.” Ren said, walked over to the door, and opened it. “Goodbye, Ms. Longore.” Ren stepped out of the office and walked over to the desk. Teepo stood on it's edge, and Ren reached out to rest a hand on the shiny wood.

“Thank you for your help.” Ren said, as Teepo crawled up his arm.

“You're welcome, sir.” The tiny dwarf squeaked. “Come back anytime.”

Ren left the building and the guard held the door for him. Ren walked down the stairs and then down the street.

I wonder where the mines are?

“Why?”

They've got tons of what I need.

“Iron ore?”

Some of that, sure... and something much, much better.

“Gold?” Teepo asked. “Because we have lots of gold ore, and access to more in the Keep.”

You'll see what I mean. Ren thought as he walked. I need to ask Barnar where he gets his limestone and sand, though.

“You mean...”

I'm going to need a lot of mortar for the above ground part of the Keep.

“You could just hire Barnar and his crew.”

Ren stopped walking and grinned. Teepo, that's a brilliant idea! Ren thought and ran the rest of the way back to Barnar's shop. With his whole crew working, they could have the above ground walls repaired in no time! Ren entered the shop and was greeted again. He waved more energetically and made his way over to Barnar and the workbench.

“Hi, Barnar.”

“Hi, Ren. Long time, no see.” Barnar said and snickered.

Ren grinned. “What are you doing tomorrow?”

“Delivering your stone bricks.”

“Yes, and if you're interested... I have a job for you and your crew.”
