Ren watched that show and 2 commercials, before yawning.

“Okay, mister. Sleepy-time.” Barbara said.

Ren smiled. “I think I better log in, that way I can get another 8 hours, instead of the 2 I'd get staying here.”

“You could skip the next game day...” Barbara said, then frowned. “...no, you'd still only have 5 hours here if you did that.”

“The time difference is a little weird, I know.” Ren chuckled. “I do get more sleep in the game than here, though. It's really funny how that works.”

Barbara smiled. “As long as you get your rest, that's all that matters.”

“I'll do my best.” Ren said.

“You always do.” Barbara smiled.

“Pull over the rollaway table for me.” Ren said. “I need to use the laptop for a minute.” Barbara positioned the table over the bed and Ren checked his email. “Bah. Nothing but spam.” He opened a new message window and typed one for Lucy. It took about 10 minutes, and considering he only had one hand, that was fast. He sent it and moved the table aside. Barbara helped him put on the VR headset and Ren got as comfortable as he could.

“See you in the morning.” Ren said.

“Nathalia may be cute as a button...” Barbara said and tickled him a little. “...but you need to sleep!”

“Okay, okay!” Ren said and laughed. “I promise.”

“Flow Login Start.”

The television changed to the VR input immediately, and the laptop started recording.

“Sleep well, Little Prince.” Barbara said.

********

Ren woke up and found that he wasn't alone in the bed. How did she know? Ren thought.

“How did who know what?” Teepo asked from the ceiling, then chittered in laughter. “That sounded weird.”

Ren smiled. Somehow, Barbara knew Nathalia would be in the bed with me.

“So she takes care of you, and she's smart.” Teepo said.

Is she ever! Ren thought with amusement. How long has Nathalia been here?

“Almost right after you left.”

Nathalia was on her side, with her head on the pillow next to him, her arms crossed in front of her chest, and her knees were bent slightly towards him.

She got as close as she could without actually touching me. Ren thought. He shifted his weight a little bit, and Nathalia's eyes opened.

“You're back.”

Ren nodded. “I still need to sleep, though.” He said and lifted an arm over her head. Nathalia's eyes widened and Ren motioned for her to scoot closer. She didn't need a second invitation and slid over to cuddle on his chest. He draped his arm around her and his hand ended up near her hip. They both took a deep breath and exhaled together.

“Goodnight, Nathalia.” Ren said.

She tilted her head up to look at him, and Ren gave her a quick kiss on the lips. Nathalia's eyes widened slightly, and then she smiled.

“Goodnight, Ren.” Nathalia said, and ducked her head back onto his chest.

*

Elerlyth had passed by this inn several times during her previous visits, but this was the first time she'd noticed a picture of Ren by the front door. She went inside and saw the innkeeper was having a hard time keeping up with the orders of ale. When he came back to the desk to deal with her, he saw her dark skin and shook slightly.

Elerlyth smiled. Mmm. There's the fear.

“What can I do for you?”

“I saw the picture of the Hero of Aurora, saying that he was here.”

The innkeeper's eyes widened. “Yes. Yes! He's stayed here twice! Said it was the best inn he'd ever stayed in.”

More likely the only inn he'd ever stayed in. Elerlyth thought. “I'd like a room, then.”

The innkeeper reached for a key.

“His room.”

The innkeeper nodded and changed the key he reached for. Elerlyth followed him all the way up the stairs and to the last door. “The best room in the house.” He said and opened the door. “That'll be 5 silver, but you can pay in the morning.”

Elerlyth stepped by the innkeeper and grazed his neck with one of her nails.

“Ow!” The innkeeper said and grabbed his neck. Fear flooded the room and Elerlyth drank it in. “I'm sure a... better arrangement... can be made in my case.” She said and smiled.

The innkeeper nodded several times and put the key on the desk. He left the room and shut the door behind him. Elerlyth walked around and smelled a few things. The bed, the desk, and even the floor; but she couldn't get a trace of him.

It's been too long, I guess. She thought and walked over to the picture hanging on the wall. What's a unicorn picture doing in here? She lifted it off the wall, but there wasn't anything behind it. She shrugged and put it back, then hopped onto the bed. I'm sure I'll find the little elfling tomorrow. She thought, and drifted off to sleep.

*

Ren woke up to the smell of cooking bacon. He took in a deep breath through his nose and sighed. Nathalia chuckled and Ren smiled down at her.

“I'm sorry. I didn't mean to wake you.” Ren said and she looked up at him. “I smelled something really good, and took a deep breath. I couldn't help myself.”

“I hope you mean me, and not some strips of frying fat.” Nathalia said, indignantly... then let a grin spread across her face. Ren laughed and his chest shook her a little. He let her out of the half-hug he'd held her in all night, and slid part way off the bed, then leaned back over it to put his face right next to hers.

“Nope, frying fat.” He said, gave her a quick kiss on her nose to distract her, then leaned away so her swat at his head would miss. Ren stood up and Teepo chittered in laughter as Nathalia tried to climb over the bed to get Ren, then slipped. She almost slid off the side of the bed, but caught herself on the edge. Unfortunately, her dress didn't stop sliding, made it partway up her legs, and kept going. Ren's eyes widened as Nathalia tried to catch the dress with one hand, and still hold herself steady with the other. She rolled upside down and nearly fell to the floor, but Ren caught her as she slid off the bed. He had one arm behind her back and one under her knees. Nathalia's arm was draped across his shoulders, and Ren cupped her to his chest as he lifted her.

“That was a close one.” Ren said and smiled at her. “Are you all right?”

Nathalia nodded and smiled. “I guess... I guess I don't have to be jealous of my mother anymore.”

Ren looked at her in surprise. “You were jealous of her?”

Nathalia nodded. “When she fell that time, and you thought she was fainting and picked her up.” She said. “I... I wanted it to be me.” She said and blushed a little.

“Nathalia.” Ren said and she looked at him in the eyes. “You don't have to be jealous.” He bent down slightly and put her legs down, stood Nathalia on her feet, and stood up himself. “I won't be doing this with your mother.” He leaned down and kissed her. Nathalia ran her hands up Ren's chest while they kissed, and hugged him around the neck. Ren ran his hands down her back and hugged her waist. They broke apart a minute later, both slightly out of breath.

“That was...” Nathalia said. “...wow.”

“Okay, I have to admit... that was a little better than bacon.” Ren said and grinned.

Nathalia snorted a laugh and swatted his arm. He didn't dodge this time, though. He caught her hand after she hit him and bent over it.

“My Lady, will you join me for breakfast?”

Nathalia reached her other hand up and lightly stroked his face. “Yes, I will.”

Ren turned and stuck out his elbow for Nathalia to take, and they went out to the kitchen to have breakfast. Teepo dropped into Ren's hood as they passed.

*

“What do you mean, he's not here?!?” Elerlyth nearly shouted.

“It's just like I said. He's not here.” Donan said and smiled. “Been gone for weeks, actually.”

“Where is he now?” She asked.

“No idea.”

Elerlyth scowled. She knew that was almost a lie. “You know where he went, though. Don't you?”

Donan's smile slipped and he nodded.

“Then where?”

“He went to the dwarf lands.” Donan said, and smiled at Elerlyth's surprised face.

“H-h-how?”

“He got on a boat. It left.”

“I meant...” Elerlyth huffed. “...how was he allowed to go to the dwarf lands?”

“He was invited, of course.” Donan said. “There's no other way.”

That sneaky little bugger! Elerlyth thought in admiration. Gaining access to the most lucrative area of the game! She paced back and forth. There's rumors all over the net about entire fields of emeralds, overflowing rivers of gold, and even creatures that are unheard of anywhere else in the game. She stopped pacing and faced Donan.

“Who invited him?”

“A dwarf, obviously.”

Elerlyth scowled. “A name.”

Donan shook his head. “You don't need to know that.”

She took a step towards him and he shook his head again.

“You know the rules.” Donan said. “Break them and you'll be Barred.”

Elerlyth sighed. “When will he be back?”

“No idea.” He said and smiled.

Dammit, that's the truth. Elerlyth thought. “Thanks for your help.”

“Anytime.” Donan said. “Any 'friend' of Ren's... only gets so many free passes.”

Elerlyth nodded her understanding, and left the shop. She walked down the street and around the corner, and went to Mitchell's old shop. It was all boarded up and the popup said that it was only temporarily closed, even though it had been closed since the last time she was there. Elerlyth checked around, but there was no sign that the fake Mitchell had been back there at all. She sighed and started her search of every nook and cranny that she could find in the city.

I really wish Ren had been here. Elerlyth thought, with a little sorrow. I'm feeding more than normal, but it still feels like I'm starving!

*

Ren had an enjoyable breakfast with Nathalia and her mother, Narhilda. One of the highlights was when they told him about using the Sending Stone and the Sending Ring together.

“Hold on, they work together?!?” Ren asked.

Nathalia nodded. “I don't know if you need someone to touch both at the same time, or if they just have to be touching each other.”

“We can play with them later.” Ren waved her concerns away. “What matters is that they can work like that!” Ren said happily. The two women glanced at each other and grinned. They all finished eating and Ren spoke.

“I need to go and get some more stone bricks.” Ren said. “I've got some plans that I need a lot of bricks for.”

Nathalia nodded. “Do you need any of the smaller diamond crystals?”

Ren smiled. “Yeah, actually. That's a good idea.” He said. “Just a couple should do.” Nathalia gave him a couple small ones and he put them in inventory. “I was going to stop in the market as well. There's something there that might lead me to a Gemcutter.” Ren explained and turned to Nathalia. “Do you want to come along?”

She shook her head. “I've got a few things I need to take care of.”

“Okay.” Ren said, made 3 egg, bacon and toast sandwiches, and stored them. He stood up and walked around the table. Ren took out 2 platinum coins and placed them in Nathalia's hand. “Here.” He said to her shocked face. “Just in case you need to buy anything.” Ren gave her a kiss on the cheek, waved to her mother, and left the house.

*

“Did he just...?” Nathalia asked, and stared at the two platinum coins.

Narhilda grinned and nodded.

“I can't believe it.” Nathalia said. “He just gave me...”

“Spending money!” Her mother laughed with joy. “Enough to put a down payment on your own house, and he gave it to you... for spending money! Ha ha ha!” Narhilda said, and her chest started to get sore from laughing so hard.

*

Ren went to the stable, gave a sandwich to Princess, and she gobbled it down. “I'd tell you to take it easy, but I'd be wasting my breath.” Ren smiled. “You're just going to do what you want anyways.” He gave her another sandwich. “I'm heading into the city, and might not be back for a while.”

Princess ate the second sandwich a little slower, but it didn't make any difference. It was gone before Ren had finished speaking.

“See you later.” He said then turned to the cabinet. “Bye, Ruck.”

Ruck knocked and Ren left the stable. He went out the gate, making sure it was locked behind him, and started to run. He was in the main city about 5 minutes later and slowed to a walk.

“Where was that vendor?” Ren asked Teepo.

“Two streets over, towards the docks.”

Ren went that way, and after he walked down the street once, Teepo spotted the vendor.

“There he is.” Teepo said. “It's the third stall on the left.”

Ah, I see him. Ren thought and walked over to that side of the street. He didn't walk right up to the vendor, though. That wasn't how the game was played. Ren walked at a leisurely pace and passed the stall, and the vendor called out to him.

“You! You there!” The dwarf said. Ren turned to him. “You look like a man with a discerning eye.”

Ren looked around at the other dwarfs passing by, and then pointed to himself.

“Yes, you!” The dwarf nearly shouted, and Ren smiled.

He's going to try and milk me for all of my money, isn't he?

“Does a monocerus only have one horn?” Teepo said and chittered in laughter. “Of course he is!”

Ren avoided the other dwarfs walking by and made his way to the stall. He looked at the... well, knick-knacks was what they were... and then looked at the vendor.

“What have you got?” Ren asked, and the dwarf's eyes lit up.

I finally got one! Yuncith thought. A genuine customer! He went through the whole speech he'd prepared for just such and occasion, and Ren stood there, absorbing it all. Yuncith described everything he had on the table, pointing to each thing as he mentioned it. Ren followed along, and noticed there were a couple of innovative things that he actually would be interested in buying. Yuncith saw Ren's interest and poured on the salesmanship charm.

“So, which one would you like?” Yuncith asked.

Ren looked them over, appraised everything at about 5 gold coins (total), and then looked at some of the things the vendor had hanging up. Right behind his head, was the large piece of silver with the emerald in the center. Teepo was right, the thing was cut well and glinted in the sunlight.

“What about that?” Ren asked.

Yuncith's mouth dropped open. You've got to be kidding me! He thought. I've been stuck with that thing for ages, and this guy shows up out of the blue and asks me about it?!? He closed his mouth and turned to the piece.

“This, my friend, is a genuine silver brocade serving tray, used by the King himself!” Yuncith said. “Only the richest foods have ever touched it's surface.”

“Really?” Ren said. “What's with the rock in the center? It'd be hard to put food on that, I think.”

Yuncith's eyes widened at that. “How would you know? Are you a cook?”

