Ren smiled. “I can cook, but I don't have that title, yet.”

The food tray tactic won't work then. Yuncith thought. Plan B. “Now, I was told that's what it was; but you're right. I don't think it was for food, either. It was probably used as a serving tray for the Queen's hairbrushes.”

“Ooo, good one!” Teepo said and Ren smiled.

“May I see it?” Ren asked.

The vendor squinted his eyes in suspicion.

“If you're worried I'll run off with it, I'll buy everything on your table first.” Ren said.

Yuncith's mouth fell open again. “Are you serious?”

“That depends...” Ren said as his Haggle skill kicked in. “...on how much you're going to fleece me.”

“Ha... hahaha!” Yuncith guffawed. “I like you.” He said, then stopped laughing. “10 gold.”

“10! That's highway robbery.” Ren said. “2.”

“2! That's an insult to peddlers everywhere.” Yuncith said. “8.”

“Geez, do you want my first born? 4.”

Stat Change!

Haggle Level 3 (Beginner 0%)

“Bah! Keep your first born. 7.”

Ren looked down at the wares, then back at the dwarf. “Alright, alright! I know when I've been beaten. You've convinced me.” Ren reached out a hand to shake. “6 gold.”

Yuncith grinned. “Done!” He said and pulled out a box and used a hand to slide all of the things into it, clanking everything together. Ren didn't hear anything break, however. He handed over 6 gold, got the box in return, and stored it.

“The tray, please.” Ren said.

Yuncith handed it over with a smile, and Ren examined it.

Basic Silver Serving Tray (Modified)

This tray has been modified to hold a gem of considerable size.

Ren ran his fingers over it, and his Vision of Impurity picked out several flaws where the silver wasn't quite mixed with the iron. It weaken the tray only slightly. He used Appraisal on it, and saw that the 'gem' was only a piece of colored glass, and the tray itself was only worth a few silver.

Ren sighed and handed it back. “No thanks.” He said and turned away.

“Wait!” The vendor said, and Ren turned back. “Don't you want it?”

Ren shook his head and leaned in to whisper. “It's fake.”

“W-what?” Yuncith said in surprise.

“It's barely worth 3 silver, and that's just for the tray.” Ren said. “The gem is just colored glass.”

“How do you know that?” The vendor asked.

“It's cut really well, but it's not polished.” Ren smiled. “I assume because glass won't hold the same shine as a real gem.” He looked at the vendor. “Did you cut it?”

Yuncith scowled. “What if I did?”

Ren looked around and kept whispering. “I'm looking for a good Gemcutter.”

“Why?”

“I found something, and I want it cut properly.” Ren said. “Only a highly skilled Gemcutter can do it.”

“You're... not with the military, are you?” Yuncith asked.

“I was.” Ren said, honestly. “It was 99% 'this is boring' and 1% 'Holy Crap!'.”

The vendor clapped Ren on the shoulder. “That it was.” He said. “That it was.” Yuncith looked around and asked Ren to step back. He came around himself and pulled a lever beside the stall, and it folded down on itself and then up into the wall.

“That was neat!” Ren said. “You gotta show me how that worked.” He said to the vendor and Yuncith laughed.

“Later.” He said and started walking. “Come with me.”

Ren followed the vendor down the street and behind the stalls to a row of housing. They walked down the row about halfway, and the dwarf stopped at a door.

Teepo. Ren thought.

“On it!” Teepo said and hopped out of the hood and skittered into the house.

Yuncith unlocked the door and stepped inside. Ren looked at all the houses up and down the street, and then back to the one the dwarf was going into.

“How do you tell them apart? They're all identical.” Ren said, stalling for time.

Yuncith laughed again. “You count them at first, then you just know.”

“That makes sense.” Ren said.

“All Clear!” Teepo said. “4 rooms. A workshop, kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”

Thanks, Teepo.

The vendor waved him in and Ren went inside. Yuncith shut the door and walked down the hallway to a door. He unlocked it with 3 different keys in 3 different locks, and then opened it. Ren followed the vendor inside, and discovered that the room was covered in shelves, filled with the same knick-knacks he'd just bought a box of.

This is the workshop. Ren thought as Teepo crawled back into the hood.

Yuncith went over to his workbench and sat down. Ren couldn't resist trying to look and walked over to see what he was doing. The vendor opened a tiny little vise and took out what he was working on. Ren caught a glimpse of red before the dwarf dropped it into a drawer.

“What's this 'something' you've found?” Yuncith asked.

Ren pulled out the smallest diamond crystal that he had, about 2 inches in diameter, and handed it over. The dwarf snatched it and slipped a goggle over one eye. It looked like a monocular lens (mo-nock-you-lar, or tiny telescope), and he examined the diamond crystal.

“Nice.” Yuncith said. “Very nice.” He looked at Ren and the eye behind the goggle was 3 times the size of his normal one. “Good clarity, no impurities.” The vendor said. “Where did you say you got it?”

Ren smiled. “I didn't.”

“Ha!” Yuncith said. “I knew I liked you.” He turned to his workbench and melted something that looked like wax. He set the crystal in it, then blew on it to let it set. He picked up a tiny chisel and hammer, and looked at the crystal. After a few taps, the sides of the crystal fell away onto the workbench, making a point. He picked up something like a file, and used it on the tips of the cuts, grinding down the ends and making facets. The wax-like substance was heated again and the crystal was flipped over to the top. Yuncith filed the edges down to make facets there, and then he was done. He heated the thing again and the finished diamond popped right out.

“There you go.” He said and handed the diamond to Ren, who examined it.

Diamond - Round Cut (Poor Quality)

This diamond was treated roughly and it's quality has suffered for it.

Ren appraised the diamond and it was only worth 10 gold. He sighed, and reached for the other pieces that had been cut off.

“Hey, what are you doing?” The dwarf said and hid the pieces under his hand.

“I was taking my property back.” Ren said.

“I don't think so.”

“Are you going to steal from me, after ruining a gem like this?” Ren said.

“I wasn't stealing it. It's garbage.” He said.

Ren stared at him and switched his Camaraderie Aura to Command. “Return my property, sir.”

“I cut it off, it's mine.” Yuncith said, defiantly.

Ren sighed, and switched to his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak's Fear ability instead. “You don't want to do this.”

The dwarf started to shake from fear, but wouldn't lift his hand. Ren activated his Screaming Terror ring and the dwarf jumped off his stool and yelled. He scampered into a corner and cowered there. Ren picked up the pieces the dwarf had cut off, and swept the diamond dust into a piece of scrap cloth, added the pieces and tied it. Ren deactivated the ring and the dwarf stopped cowering.

“You can't to that!” The dwarf yelled.

“Where can I get tools like these?” Ren asked.

“I'm not telling you anything, you thief!”

Ren scowled at the dwarf. “Let's let the military decide which of us is the thief.”

Yuncith's face showed shock. “W-w-what?”

“I have no problem with telling the military all about this.” Ren said, and motioned to the setup the dwarf had.

“You... you...”

“I'd think twice about challenging me.” Ren said calmly and switched his Aura back to Command. “I've beaten House Faldihr's Champion.”

“That... that was you?” The dwarf said in shock.

Ren grinned, baring his teeth.

“Well... ah... I guess we don't have to... tell anyone about this.” The dwarf said.

“That would be best for you, yes.” Ren said, and switched to his Camaraderie Aura.

“Since our... business is done... I'll... I'll show you out.” Yuncith said.

“Just a minute.” Ren said. “Like I asked before, where can I get tools like these?”

The dwarf scowled at him. “You wouldn't know how to use them.”

“That doesn't matter.” Ren shrugged. “I like tools.” He said and stepped away from the desk as the dwarf approached it. Yuncith opened a drawer and it held a small case.

“100 gold.” He said, and Ren saw he wasn't going to barter with a gold cost that high.

Ren untied the scrap cloth and took out one of the pieces. “What about this instead?” He asked, and waved it back and forth. The dwarf's eyes followed it, and then nodded. Ren put the piece on the workbench, and the dwarf handed him the small case. Yuncith led him out of the room and then to the front door. Ren stepped outside and turned his head to look at the vendor.

“It seems I've already forgotten which house you live in.” Ren said, stored the tool case, and stepped into the street. “They all look the same, you see.”

The dwarf smiled slightly and then shut the door. Ren walked down the street to get back to the main road. He had to get back there to follow the directions he knew to Barnar's place. Ren didn't run, however.

“That was intense.” Teepo said.

Yeah. I think he really would have challenged me.

“Nice work with the Auras. You're getting good at using them.”

I still had to use the ring, though.

“Better that than your fists.”

Yeah.

They arrived at Barnar's and as soon as Ren opened the door and stepped inside, he was greeted by several people. Ren waved to them, as they wouldn't hear him grunt like he should, and made his way around the various work stations to the main workbench. Barnar saw him approach and jumped up.

“Ren!” He said and took Ren into a hug. “Come to give me more crazy ideas?”

Ren chuckled. “Actually, I need some stone bricks. A lot of them, actually.”

“Good! I always like more business.” Barnar said. “By the way, here's your cut.” He said and dug a sack of coins out of his workbench drawer and handed it to Ren.

“My what?”

“Your cut.” Barnar said and grinned. “I sold 4 fireplaces just today!”

“But...”

“I used your idea to make mortar figures for all of them.” He said. “I wasn't kidding when I told you that you'd saved me a ton of money and time.”

Ren looked at him in surprise, and Barnar laughed.

“My friend, once we carve one figure, we never have to carve that figure again. We had several clients put a rush order in, and they paid a huge bonus.” Barnar pointed to the sack. “That's your cut from each figure's use.”

Ren opened the coin bag he held, and it was full of gold. “Barnar! There's like 30 gold in here!”

“35, actually.”

“You... you didn't have to...”

“It was your idea!” Barnar exclaimed and clapped Ren on the shoulder. “I might have run with it, but it's all you, my friend.”

Ren clapped him back on the shoulder. “Thank you.”

Barnar waved the thanks away. “It used to take a week to make a fireplace, now we can do it in a day!”

“I hope you don't run out of customers.” Ren smiled and dumped the 35 gold into his coin pouch.

Barnar grinned. “Not possible. Even if I put one in every home in the city, they'd all want a second one.”

Ren laughed and handed the empty coin sack back. “That's good.”

“Now, you say you want some stone bricks?” Barnar asked.

Ren nodded slightly. “Paving stones, too... if you have them.”

Barnar shook his head. “I don't do industrial. You'll need to go to House Longore for those. They should sell you some.”

“Where is it?” Ren asked.

“Down the street about 3 blocks.” Barnar said.

“What do you mean, 'should' sell me some?”

“It's industrial. You'll need to order a lot for them to even look at you.”

Ren grinned. “I got that covered.”

“Okay.” Barnar said, looked at Ren like he was crazy, then smiled. “How many stone bricks do you need? They're 8 copper each.”

“I think 200 should do it.”

Barnar's eyes widened. “Are you covering a floor the hard way?”

Ren chuckled. “No, but I do use them to build stuff.”

“Gotcha.” He said. “16 silver.”

Ren took out the money and handed it over.

“Do you want to take them now, or have them delivered?”

“Delivered, please.” Ren said. “I can't carry anything else at the moment.”

“You... you were going to carry them?” Barnar asked.

“I'm an Adventurer. I can carry a lot.” Ren said and smiled.

Barnar nodded. “Where's the delivery to?”

“House Neram.”

Barnar wrote it down. “Is tomorrow okay? I've got fireplaces to finish today.”

“Tomorrow's great, Barnar. Thanks.”

“No problem.” Barnar said. “Anything else?”

“Actually, yeah. You wouldn't happen to know a good Gemcutter, would you?”

“No, sorry.” Barnar said. “Actually, I don't know if there's still one around or not.”

“Is there one working for the King and Queen?”

Barnar opened his mouth, then frowned. “I'll find out.”

“Thanks, Barnar.” Ren said, started to walk away and turned back. “Say, do I need an appointment to see House Longore?”

“Nope. You can knock if the guard isn't standing outside, too.”

“Thanks.” Ren said. “See you later.”

Barnar waved and Ren waved at the workers as he left. He walked down the street 3 blocks and there was a big sign for House Longore.

Teepo.

“This might take a while.” Teepo said as he saw the size of the place.

For now, just check the rooms that can be seen when you go through the door. We can check the other rooms later.

“Gotcha.” Teepo said and hopped out of the hood and skittered up the steps and under the door. There was a guard there, and he noticed Ren.

“Can I help you?”

“I need some paving stones, and I heard that House Longore was the best place to get them.” Ren said.

“It is.” The guard said.

“Then yes, you can help me.”

The guard stepped over to the door and unlocked it. Ren waited for Teepo's 'All Clear' before stepping forward. The guard opened the door and Ren went up the steps to enter the main lobby. A desk was there and Ren walked over to it. A female dwarf was behind the desk, and she looked like she was just under 3 feet tall. She was actually short for a dwarf, which Ren didn't think was possible, and most of her height was from her torso.

“Can I help you?” She asked in a squeaky voice.

“I'm sure you can, Ma'am.” Ren said. “I need some paving stones and was told this was where I should go to get them.”

She looked Ren up and down, and tilted her head to the side. “I'm sorry, but we don't do driveways or courtyards.” She said. “You've got some Influence, but not enough to justify a big order.”

