' the Silence… it had never been in Delta at all.It had always been in Nu.Luck or fate? Mharia honestly didn't know.Mharia was honestly glad now that she got her royal behind handed to her by Delta. Nu was…Unbalanced as she was. If Nu had been a person or perhaps even whatever the hell Delta was? Then Mharia would have had some confidence in manipulating the Menu if she had known.But Nu? Nu was a cold and desolate moon to Delta's radiant sun. Almost a shadow, but the term wasn't correct. No, Nu had become something else.Instead of a shadow cast by light, Nu was a cold ringing echo to the song that was Delta.Mharia couldn't wait to see what would happen next.---Yattina bent down and picked up a frayed piece of fabric, the stuff slightly stained with a dry ichor that still glimmered a little silver in the light. The woods around Durence still had a sort of stillness to them that she found unsettling.Like the land was holding its breath to surprise her. The fabrics led Yattina and a squad of Blades to a clearing where something akin to animal attack had taken place. Pieces of silver fleck and cloth seem scattered about, but there was a figure propped up against a nearby tree near the center of the carnage.It looked like a normal average man that had raw skin barely healed over and bloody patches of his scalp exposed as if something had ripped his hair out violently.The fabrics they found seemed to have come from this man.Estal had given an image of one of the Silver-people. A human messed with tumors of silver and monster parts.This man was normal, if badly wounded."Sil?" Yattina called and the man fluttered his eyes at her, not seeing well."Esta..l?" he groaned and nearly fell over. Yattina caught him, fearing no 'infection' as most did. Silver-taint was not infectious, and anyone who did a modicum of research would know this."Who did this to you?" she asked, and Sil frowned in pain as she tried to speak with a tongue that must have felt too smooth, too normal."Animal… Old master. He came… called… me? Not me anymore. Silver, ever shifting. Wolf, then a bear, then a nightmare," Sil heaved. Yattina frowned, trying to get water to his lips."Silver…like the old Dungeon?" Yattina asked, and he drank the water with a moan that sounded like he hadn't tasted properly for years."Yes. Core that walked… it passed through, and it sensed me. It took the silver from me. Drained. Left, said the area was too… dead. It didn't like this area," Sil heaved and wheezed around the water.Yattina's blood froze in her veins."It spoke?" she whispered."Yes. It said this area was teeming with old memories. Old parts. It wanted them back for… the rematch? Old match…" Sil said, his eyes closing as exhaustion took him.Yattina stared at him.Old parts? This was a dead town until a few months ago. Any parts should have withered away long before Delta arrived.What the hell was going on?---Gentle shivered as he felt the wind blow on the back of his neck. He felt spooked as if someone was watching him from the trees or the shadows, but that might just be Durence itself. Ever since the Dungeon exploded and Miss Yattina was made to be in-charge, Gentle hadn't had much time to visit Deo or explore much. Still, he had the eerie feeling someone was watching him.No matter where he went unless it was on patrol around the Dungeon entrance, he felt watched.His skin itched, his joints felt stiff, and he was constantly anxious."What's wrong?" the older teen called Lim asked, and Gentle showed him an apologetic look as they stood guard in front of Miss Yattina's room. They didn't make for a very intimidating set of guards, but Yattina seemed to trust them over others."Don't know. I just feel like something in me is wanting to go somewhere. Never felt it before," he admitted. Lim smiled."Adventure is calling, but do it after your shift," he teased. Gentle nodded seriously.This urge… he could tamper it down. Gentle had to do it a few times in his life when he went out of the safety of Fairplay HQ.But it had never been this strong.It had never been this emotional.He jumped as Yattina rushed past to the infirmary located nearby the blades carrying a deeply scarred man who looked delirious as he rambled aloud in some hysteria. His eyes locked on to Gentle's startled ones and he pointed."You! Danger!" he warned, the whites of his eyes giving him a mad expression as he locked on to Gentle."Wha-" he began, but the man nearly grabbed Gentle by the hem of his uniform."Called! Run! Called! Must run! You are me!" he said, spittle flying before he collapsed into a sagging heap, being carried away quickly.A pretty woman in high heels walked by, pointing."He's confused! Nobody sue him for anything! I know a form of fireball from Wizard Weekly that ensures you all get a bad tan!" she growled, defensive of her 'friend.'"She's beautiful," Lim mumbled.Gentle was more aware of her heels leaving cracks in the cheap wood floor.'Scary' was more apt.Still, the man's words were disarming.Argus Gentle was nothing like a stark raving madman.At least, he hoped not.It was hard to tell these days."You wanna be part of the Dungeon groups?" Lim finally asked as he stopped ogling after the weird mage woman. Gentle shook his head."Dungeon air makes me ill. Prefer being outside," he admitted with a wince.This Dungeon was especially bad. It was stomach churning, the potency of the mana and more. Plus, happy Dungeons were just… weird.Not 'murder happy,' Gentle understood that, but to see a Dungeon supposedly so fluent in an emotional range beyond 'eat' and 'outsider' was really weird.Feeling the air a little thick, even this far back in the camp, he covered his mouth to cover a belch of stomach acid and pulled his hand away to see a mix of saliva and flecks of a dark gray metal.It was getting worse…
