Flia, in her barrier of silence, banged her head against it in exasperation. Cale glanced at her, slightly surprised; most of the water elementals he'd met before had always been... calm. Serene. Their culture preferred going with the flow over raging against it, and displays of strong emotion were so rare they bordered on taboo.

Then he turned back to Professor Imrys and jumped. In the time he'd looked away, her grin had turned into something outright demented. "I'm going to have so many questions when you get back!" Imrys said happily. "I see why Akkau sent you here now. What a delight to have you in my class!"

"I don't actually remember that much—" Cale started, and then he stopped. "Wait, what do you mean, when I get back?"

Even before he'd finished asking the question, though, he figured out the answer. Cale groaned as the professor reached out with her cane to tap one corner of the containment cube, unleashing a torrent of magical power straight into one of the weak points of the enchantment.

It shattered. Space flooded out of the broken artifact, twisting around itself until it formed into a veritable maze. Towering walls of ancient stone sprang into existence all around them.

Professor Imrys was already gone. He'd sensed her activating a teleportation spell the exact moment she shattered the cube. The simultaneous cast was pretty impressive, Cale had to admit—especially given she'd managed to fold in a voice recording into the mana echo'd she left behind.

"The second reason Artifact Analysis is so important is because any mage worth their salt must know what to do when things go wrong." Her voice echoed around them, far too bright and cheerful for the moody labyrinth the four students suddenly found themselves in. "Good luck with the labyrinth! And Cale? This is still part of your test."

Damien and Flia both looked terrified by the monstrous structure that had so quickly formed around them. It was probably a good thing they were cautious, though, because the labyrinth was definitely occupied—like he'd said, the Labyrinth Plague had produced a lot of unique monsters.

On the other hand, any containment cube from the Age of Distortion was going to have vast quantities of valuable loot, so there was that.

Cale was mostly concerned with the Gift, though, because it had pinged him with a new spell as soon as the artifact shattered.

You have learned [Identify Artifact]!

[Identify Artifact, Level 1] [First Tier, Active] [500 Mana]

Gain basic information about a target artifact. Does not work on artifacts more than 500 years old. Does not work on artifacts with enchantments more complex than first tier.

"Well," Cale said happily. "At least I got a new spell out of all this!"

Though he wouldn't be able to use it in its basic form—he'd have to find an artifact to analyze so he could see what the Gift would turn it into. This one wasn't likely to evolve into anything that would explode, at least, so there was that.

Behind Cale, the minotaur slumped. "Aw, man," Leo said. "I hate labyrinths."
