Finding Shuai Jiao inside the manor is easy enough, as he’s holding his discussion in the courtyard gazebo. Looming in his seat on the raised structure and looking down on me from above, Shuai Jiao’s displeasure is clear to all, which means it’s a carefully crafted facade meant for our audience. Aside from the Commander General, there’s Yong Jin sitting beside him, while Aunty Jeong, Da’in, and Seoyoon sit across from them, with a few empty seats separating the two parties on both sides. Geom-Chi is conspicuously absent, probably because he dotes on his younger sister and would’ve objected to this political marriage, but otherwise, there are less than thirty guards and servants present, including my Death Corps escort. The audience I was talking about however is not present in the flesh, but rather enjoying the show from a careful distance through Scrying or other mundane means.

That being said, I would like to note that the gazebo looks pretty new, and it conveniently blocks direct line of sight from elevated positions outside the manor. Smart man, this Commander General, and adaptable too, but unfortunately for him, I’m streets ahead.

...Is that a saying? Streets ahead? That sounds way too stupid to be a real thing, from this life or the last, so where did it come from?

“Legate Rain,” Shuai Jiao begins, all too familiar and without offering a salute or even getting out of his chair. “This one was not expecting you to grace us with your presence.” Eyeing my Death Corps Guards standing over his subdued soldiers, he adds, “If you had sent word ahead, I would have gladly left instructions for my gate guards.”

“Sure.” Not even caring to play along, I wave Kuang Biao aside and approach the gazebo, stopping mid-way to turn back and gesture for Jorani to come along. “Hello Aunty Jeong,” I begin, stepping up to the table to stand between the two parties but refusing to take a seat. A power move, to loom over the seated guests, or it would be if I wasn’t still shorter than most of them. At least Da’in and Seoyoon aren’t freakishly tall, and Yong-Jin is below eye level too, but things only get worse from there. “You don’t mind if I keep calling you Aunty, do you? Da’in, you’re looking well as always, and Seoyoon, I suppose congratulations are in order?” Tilting my head to study her icy expression, I ask, “They are right? If not, then you only need to say the word and...”

Betrayal or not, Fung loves this woman, so for him, I must make this offer.

“You –”

Angered by the implication, Yong-Jin surges to his feet only for his Mentor to push him back down into his chair. Unperturbed, Seoyoon clenches her fists and meets my eyes with what can only be described as apologetic resignation. “Thank you, Rain,” she says, using my name rather than title for the first time. “I am... regretful for the circumstances, but wholly in agreement with this marriage moving forward.”

Hardly the most enthusiastic of brides, but a willing one it seems. Turning to Aunty Jeong, the formidable woman shows no shame or contrition, only the determination to do what is best for her family. “As a young girl, I ran away from home to marry the man of my dreams, and I have never regretted a moment since.” Softening as she turns her gaze upon her youngest daughter, Aunty Jeong adds, “I would not force my daughters to do something even I would not. She had the final say, and only then did we move forward with this marriage.”

“I see.” Disappointed though I might be, the Ryo family owes me nothing, so I take their betrayal in stride and turn to Shuai Jiao instead. “Well congratulations.” Gesturing at Jorani, I continue, “This is Jorani, the commander of my retinue. He’s here as a distraction. Anyways, sorry to interrupt the planning process, but I’ve come on urgent business to ask about my armies, the ones which have yet to arrive in SuiHua.” Fingers clenching so hard the wooden chair groans beneath the pressure, I narrow my eyes at Shuai Jiao and ask, “Where are my soldiers, Commander General?”

...You know, now that I’ve heard what I just said and how I said it, I can understand why Grandpa Du was so worried about my agitation, because he knew exactly how I was going to react. Hell, I knew too, but I just let it all loose, and men in power generally don’t like being talked down to.

Then again, insolence and all-out aggression has worked out for me so far, so if it ain’t broke...

Chapter Meme
