That being said, we all make sure not to get too carried away, which means we’re all standing ready and presentable on deck as our ship pulls into the Central Citadel docks. Mila’s hair is a little mussed and Lin-Lin’s dress could use a bit of ironing, but Yan looks as neat and tidy as ever thanks to her love of tight shirts and trousers. With us are Ping Ping, Pong Pong, Blackjack, and Mama Bun, as well as Dad, Akanai, Nian Zu, and all the other important folk, but two people stick out like a sore thumb. Jorani, the recently promoted commander of my retinue, looking nervous and awkward as hell, as well as Siyar, leaning casually against the mast and just out of sight of the workers down on the docks. He’d almost look at ease if he wasn’t in full Sentinel leathers complete with a fearsome metal mask depicting an angry expression, one to hide his features and strike fear in the hearts of friend and foe alike. Gesturing for Jorani to come stand closer, I give him a reassuring smile before looking away so he doesn’t catch the glint of guilt in my eyes or Aura. Focusing on the plan, I Send a burst of vigilant Aura towards Pong Pong to ensure he’s Concealed and ready, before Sending him a command to direct him to where I need him for the next few hours. The little guy is crazy smart, but it wasn’t until Lin-Lin started working to teach him tricks that I understood just how smart he really is. Not only has he learned to do a bunch of tricks on command (when he’s in a listening mood), the little guy can also differentiate between colours, shapes, and even familiar people to the point where I can say, “Go find Mom,” and he’ll amble right over to perch in her hands, even if she’s halfway across the Citadel. Not sure if he knows how to find her here in Central though, as she stayed behind to keep an eye on Luo-Luo again, but I’m sure Pong Pong is just as eager to see her as she is to see us.

After sending my commands to the tiny Divine Turtle, I fight the urge to look back and check if he got it right, but being the clever turtle he is, Pong Pong pulses an Aura of confidence and assurance my way to let me know everything is going great. That being said, he’s still a turtle, so I’m not entirely sure his judgment can be trusted, as he could’ve easily messed up and just not noticed. No, I should trust the little guy, because we all worked very hard to teach him how to do this on command, and double checking could give the game away. Best to face forward and proceed as planned, so as soon as the ship is anchored and the ramp lowered, I disembark with my wives at my side and Jorani hot on my heels.

Mom and Luo-Luo are waiting down below to receive us, and we get the traditional welcome out of the way so as to dispense with formalities. As Mom and Dad reunite with a chaste touch of their fingers, I warmly clasp Luo-Luo’s hand and offer her my free arm, since Mila and Yan are both sticklers for formality and therefore are standing on either side of me, but a full step back. Lin-Lin doesn’t care much, so she’s clinging gamely to my arm, even though it took some convincing to keep her from riding in piggyback behind me. I love carrying her around, but it would not do for the Legate’s image, which is just stupid.

Cutting through my inner protests, Luo-Luo quietly Sends, “Mind your expression, Lord Husband, but there is bad news afoot. Not two hours ago, the Ryo Family announced a marriage between Ryo Seoyoon and Yong-Jin, citing that the once rivals fell in love after facing one another upon the sparring fields so often.”

Well shit. Fighting the urge to scowl and storm off, I smile for the crowd while considering all the terrible implications of this news. First off, poor Fung. He’s probably devastated and drinking himself into a stupor right now, so I Send word to Dastan to go and console our friend. Secondly, this means I can no longer count on the Ryos as my closest allies in Central, as they’ve clearly thrown in with Shuai Jiao. Why? What did he offer them to agree to this marriage? Or maybe it’s not Shuai Jiao pulling the strings. Maybe it’s his backer, who is probably the same person backing the Ryos, namely one Shen ZhenWu. Why even bother at this point? The Ryos aren’t exactly in free-fall, but they’re also not in the best place as they fight to hold onto face, reputation, wealth, and other holdings. The other families of Central sense weakness and have been circling the wagons, but surely matters could not have gotten so bad as to require an alliance with Shuai Jiao? I could have helped them secure their holdings myself, and in fact lent them a considerable amount of aid in the form of contracts and loans, a clear sign of my support which should have been enough to send most of those vultures packing. So why this marriage?

Since neither I nor Luo-Luo are able to come up with a definitive answer, there’s nothing left for it then to ask the Ryo Family Matriarch herself. Luckily, Grandpa Du thought ahead and stayed at the Ryo Manor, giving me the perfect excuse to pay them a visit before going on about my business. Had he greeted us on the docks alongside Mom and Luo-Luo, it could have been perceived as an insult to visit the Ryos before the Commander General, though their absence here could similarly be perceived as the same. Both sides sent representatives to convey their apologies of course, and they even had believable excuses prepared, namely that they’re in the midst of discussions regarding the upcoming nuptials.

Which means I can’t speak with the Ryos outside of Shuai Jiao’s presence and try to convince them to think twice about this alliance. Well, fuck it. I wasn’t coming here to play nice to begin with, so there’s no point caring too much about appearances any longer. I’ll talk shit about man-bun in front of his face then, and if he has issues with it, I have two boots just begging to stomp all over his stupid face. Still, I don’t want things to devolve into bloodshed just yet, so after a brief discussion with Luo-Luo via Sending, I decide it’s best to send most of my party home to freshen up, while I bring Yan and Kishi to see Grandpa Du, alongside the smallest complement of guards possible, all to show goodwill. Making sure Jorani is still with me, I signal for him to stay close and inwardly apologize for using him as a distraction, because so long as everyone is focused on him, the monks, and his Divinity of a father lurking somewhere nearby, my ace in the hole will hopefully go entirely unnoticed.

The journey over to the Ryo family manor is uneventful, and the servants receive us with polite apologies informing us that the Lady of the manor is away visiting Shuai Jiao, which is different from what Luo-Luo had heard. It seems the Ryos are actively avoiding me, so after liaising with Luo-Luo once more, we decide that it’s best to go visit Shuai Jiao myself, rather than call him over to me on some pretext or the other.

I don’t love being given the runaround. It makes me feel like they have something to hide, or worse, want me rushing about without time to think, keeping me on the back foot and constantly reacting so that I don’t spot their daggers hidden in the dark. If things have gone this far, then I will show no mercy. I came here hoping to leave without bloodshed after arriving at terms with Shuai Jiao that we could both agree to, but if the man refuses to even sit down for a civil discussion, then my conscience will be clear when the blood starts flowing.

“You seem agitated.” Indicating towards his empty cup, Grandpa Du politely asks me to refill it, and I do so without reservation. Some might see it as a power play, but I know Grandpa Du just wants me to get out of my head, even if only for a bit. “This is not like you.” Sipping his tea, he holds my gaze before continuing, “You are one of the most level-headed young men I have met, so I find it concerning that this bare modicum of manoeuvring has had such an effect.”

Since I came here on the pretext of visiting Grandpa Du, I could hardly just leave right away, and truth be told, I missed the old man’s company. “I’m... stressed is all,” I reply, though I’m not sure that’s the whole truth. “There’s a lot on my plate right now, and the last thing I need is to coddle another man’s ego.”

“Is that why you think Shuai Jiao refuses to heed your orders?” Raising a bushy white eyebrow, Grandpa Du gestures at my cup of tea and encourages me to take a sip. “If so, then you are gravely mistaken. Say what you will about his methods and ambitions, but Shuai Jiao is an honourable man who always moves with what he believes are the best interests of the Empire in mind.”

Taking a deep drink from my cup, I barely taste what is probably an expensive tea before putting the cup back down. “And I suppose I’m the rabble-rouser making a stink of his beloved Empire, which works perfectly as is and couldn’t possibly be improved in any way, shape, or form.”

“Do not put words in my mouth, boy.” Flashing a smile which is both friendly and challenging, he adds, “You are not so strong or dignified yet that I cannot put you over my knee. What I mean to say is that Shuai Jiao has his own reasons for opposing you, and they are not entirely wrong. Your plan to retake the Western Province is an ambitious one, full of risks and with little reward for him or the Empire as seen from his perspective. Keep this in mind when you meet with him, and do try not to incite him to violence in order to appease your conscience. I have long since come to terms with Jin Kai’s death and accepted that you are not to blame, but it would be a lie to claim the grievances between you were wholly unjustified, even if he was the one to instigate the conflict to begin with.”

“...Fair enough.” I suppose I did go a little far in publicly demanding my kow-tows and calling him a bitch, which I now realize could only have ended in violence. I am a mean drunk sometimes, so I’ve been sticking to tea more and more lately, especially now that I don’t have to pack it chock full of butter. “However,” I continue, holding Grandpa Du’s gaze to show him the depths of my conviction, “I will brook no further delays in the campaign to retake the West. The people there have suffered long enough, and it’s high time the Enemy paid for what they’ve done.”

Stifling a sigh as I refill his cup, Grandpa Du nods along in reluctant agreement. “Such is the fire of youth,” he murmurs, adding, “Though I cannot say I disagree. Just tread lightly, child. You won’t save any Westerners at all if matters devolve into civil war.”

“Don’t worry.” Reaching out to pat Grandpa Du’s hand and assure him nothing will go wrong, I say, “I won’t let things get that far.” Because there won’t be a civil war without a rebel leader.

Leaving Yan and Kishi to bring Kyung and Grandpa Du back to my manor, I leave with an even smaller contingent of Death Corps guards and Jorani still at my heels. The man looks positively parched despite sucking back an entire pot of tea by himself during my brief exchange with Grandpa Du, his brow glistening with sweat from uncontrolled anxiety. Poor guy, but to be fair, I’m not feeling all that much better. The only reason I’m not even more nervous than he is is because I’ve had five days to consider my options and come to terms with what needs to be done. If we can’t work together, then I must seize power for myself, which means getting rid of Shuai Jiao and his most influential allies in one fell swoop. Marshal Yo and Marshal Quyen both made the short list, as did eight General Officers from Central and South both, but I pray Jeong Hyo Lynn is willing to listen to reason, because I’d hate to have to kill her as well.

No, no, don’t think about bloodshed. Not now, not later, not until it comes time to draw blades. Your Aura gives it away too easily, so rein your emotions in and get a handle on yourself.

Shuai Jiao’s manor is large, but unembellished, a massive estate that is frankly an eyesore to look at. There’s humility, and then there’s just plain ugly, and the manor clearly falls into the latter category, with its ugly steel-reinforced wood walls lacking any and all decoration. While the gate guards have the gall to ask that I wait outside while they seek orders from within, I’ve no desire to be left standing outside like a lowly messenger waiting for my tip. With little more than a nod of my head, Kuang Biao leads my strongest Death Corps Guards to open the gates, without causing too much harm to the manor guards. Alas, a few bruises are needed to subdue the loyal soldiers watching Shuai Jiao’s gates, as they would need to be considering they’re willing to ignore the orders of their Legate, but I’ve no beef with them, and make an effort not to remember their faces.

Because I am petty, so I would probably be none too pleased if I ever recognized one of Shuai Jiao’s former supporters. No, stop talking like he’s already dead and gone. There’s still a chance we can come to an agreement. A snowflake’s chance in hell, but still a chance.

