When in doubt, always ask Dad.

It’s really the most effective solution for any given problem, because even though he’d rarely ever solve my problems outright, he always knows what direction to point me in so that I can solve them with my own strength. There was a time when I thought Dad was kinda a terrible Mentor, what with leaving me to my own devices all the time and letting me stumble along by myself, but having come so far along the Martial Path, I now realize he’s done a phenomenal job of guiding me towards the right answers. While I have my grievances regarding the Martial Path and the way the Empire in general approaches it, Dad has always been there to help me find the answers I needed and support me whenever I stumbled or faltered. The answers I had were rarely ever directed towards questions I’d asked, and it always took me a while to figure out how they applied to any given situation, but that’s really more of a me problem and my lacking comprehension. In the end, we all must walk our own Path, and Dad did more than just tell me this truth; he gave me all the tools I would ever need to not only make my way forward, but also to find my way back should I ever make a misstep or twelve. Akanai spent many mornings teaching me how to fight, while Grandpa Du, the Abbot, and the monks have wasted countless hours debating the Dao and helping me understand Chi in general, but Dad showed me how to learn, live, love, on top of helping me become the man I am today, not just through words and lessons, but by exemplifying the type of man I aspire to be.

My Dad is more than my father and Mentor. He’s my hero, and I rely on him all too much, but he never complains and in fact is all too happy to help, so after a simple meal of cold noodles and beef soaked in chili oil, I carry my beloved Mila back out onto deck to ask Dad about her condition. As per usual, he doesn’t answer right away and instead takes a long moment to think things through, which is one skill I’ve never really picked up for myself. I’m great at planning and scheming when there’s room to breathe, but once the pressure is on, I feel compelled to act first and think later, probably because I’m not great at thinking on my feet. I always get bogged down in my thoughts and distracted by inner ramblings, which is not ideal when staring down the pointy end of a Defiled spear, so I have a tendency to overcompensate by turning my brain off and going with balls to the walls aggression. It’s worked out for me so far, but only because I put so much effort into learning how to Heal and was blessed enough to have Taddy and other talented Healers waiting around to patch me up after the fact.

Not to mention a plethora of Peak Experts watching over me most of the time, even though they weren’t always paying attention. I’m still a little miffed at Jochi and Argat for losing track of me during the whole Sanshu kerfuffle, but then again, if they had been paying attention, I would’ve never found Blobby, learned how to Devour, or come across Banjo and Baloo, so there’s that. On the other hand, Qing Qing would still be alive, Gen might not have turned Defiled, and BoLao could’ve eventually been saved from the Confessor’s clutches or maybe kept him from spiralling out of control to eventually become the three-headed, six-armed, eye-laser blasting Demon he is today, so it’s difficult to call it a net positive. On another note, I should head back to Qing Qing’s village to fix up the ruins and maybe put up a grave marker for her and her village. I told Nian Zu that funerals are for the living, so perhaps it’s high time I listened to my own advice and let myself truly grieve.

I didn’t know her all that well, but she had this way of seeing the best in everything that I envied and desired, a boundless optimism and grounded fortitude that would have brought her far in life if she never stumbled across a half-dead fool...

Sensing my melancholy, Mila overcomes her embarrassment long enough to remove her face from my chest to check on me, which is where she was hiding from her Mama and Father-in-Law. Even though we’ve been married for so long, she’s still ashamed to show more than a scrap of physical affection in public, which means being carried around in my arms or sat on my lap is almost as bad as canoodling in plain view. Personally, I think we have a perfectly valid excuse for snuggling in plain view, but even though we’re all Concealed from the soldiers and sailors bustling around us, my beloved wife’s cheeks are still fiery red to match her ruby red ringlets.

Just knowing I have this wonderful woman looking out for me is enough to lift my spirits, not to mention two more who are currently running about the rigging and masts above. Then there’s Luo-Luo who straight up declared her love for me in the days before Lin-Lin’s wedding, just because I treat her like a person. The low bar makes me feel like I don’t really deserve her affection, and that she really needs to work on her self-confidence and self-worth, but that’s neither here nor there. I also have Li-Li, who is like my celibate floof wife, working hard to look after our floofy children back home and give me grief for never doing enough for them, while I’m just glad she’s happy to be here. Add in my wonderful family and supportive friends and it’s clear that I have been blessed in love, but the heart is not so easily convinced. Qing Qing’s death might well haunt me until the end of my days, for there is no cure for regret, and I failed her in so many ways I can barely even keep track. A kind, clever girl took in a wounded boy and nursed him back to good health, only to be rewarded with death and suffering before ever realizing her simple dream, to see more of the world beyond her isolated home village.

Gazing into Mila’s beautifully concerned eyes, I pray she does not meet a similar fate, and the same goes for everyone else in my life. Were it up to me, we would all live long, happy, and peaceful lives only for me to die in my sleep at a ripe old age before anyone else can kick the bucket. Hardly realistic considering Mom and Grandpa Du are both much older than I am, but if I’m going to wish for something, I might as well wish big. A large part of my trepidation is due to the upcoming offensive, a move I am convinced is the best option available for a plethora of sound reasons, but at the end of the day, battle is always a risk. No one is safe, not out on the field or hiding behind the Citadel walls, which means that no matter how carefully I prepare or how many weapons of mass destruction I pull out, there’s no chance everyone will make it back home alive.

I only hope I have the strength to remain strong in the face of adversity, but I fear losing even one of my beloved family members would leave me gutted and worthless to the cause.

As Mila hugs me tight and soothes away my dour mood beneath Akanai’s disapproving grimace, Dad scratches the stubble that’s grown since this morning and finally weighs in on my beloved wife’s disappearing and reappearing nausea. “Your... Mother-in-Law and I,” he begins, clearly intending to say grandmother until said grandmother elbowed him in the ribs, “Both agree that there are two possible explanations for little Mila’s fluctuating condition. The first is that you have somehow discovered a means to Heal seasickness, which is... possible, but unlikely as far as we understand it. Your Grandfather suffers from a similar condition, and your Gr – Mother-in-Law searched high and low for a cure, but even your Teacher was unable to help.”

“Yea, I don’t think I stumbled across a cure exactly,” I reply, having already thought this through with Lin-Lin. As she so rightly pointed out, motion sickness in general is caused by the brain, as it is unable to properly process the information being delivered by the body. Even though you know that you’re on a boat that is moving beneath you, your brain cannot understand the conflicting information, such as your body remaining stationary while the scenery moves about or your inability to remain ‘upright’, or at least upright as the brain understands it. Humans were not designed with vehicular movement in mind, so some brains interpret the conflicting information to mean that their host has been poisoned, and the nausea is merely the cure for said sickness. Thus, there shouldn’t really be a way to Heal seasickness since it is a self-inflicted symptom, as I can’t Heal the brain into understanding that Mila is standing on a moving boat.

There’s no need to explain all of this to Dad or Grandma, as they both understand it well enough. “Which brings us to the other explanation,” Dad says, smiling wryly at the need to tell me answers I should already know. “That rather than treating the symptoms, you have instead treated the root cause.”

“...The moving boat?”

“In a way, yes.” Leaning into the sway of the ship to better emphasize his point, Dad asks, “You likely know the answer better than we do, but how does the human body retain balance?”

“Umm... it has a lot to do with the ears? We have these err... sacs of fluid deep in our ear canals that are sensitive to gravity, and our brain uses them to help determine which way is up and down. That’s why people tend to have trouble standing upright after an injury to the inner ear. Grandpa Du uses this concept by driving compressed Air deep into his opponent’s ears to set himself up for an easy kill.” Which honestly, is one of the most efficient uses of Chi I’ve ever seen, though it’s fairly easy to defend against so long as you have a Domain. All you need to do is cover your ears with Domain, though Grandpa Du can still force his way through with enough effort, and anyone lacking a Domain would die to his blade even with their eardrums intact.

“Yes, something like that.” Shooting a sidelong glance towards our destination, Dad bristles with equal parts respect and jealousy, no doubt wishing he himself had a Blessing to work with too. They don’t necessarily make a Martial Warrior stronger, but it’s always nice to have more options to work with, and I wholeheartedly believe that ‘Awakenings’ are not what we believe them to be. As the name implies, the world at large sees them as a ‘Blessing’ bestowed upon a Martial Warrior by some higher being, similar to how Domain is a metaphysical expression of limited authority over Chi and the Energy of the Heavens, but I see things differently. Since I was able to ‘seize’ authority and even grant it to Rustram, there must be a similar method to induce an Awakening in a Martial Warrior. Then again, why is an Awakening even needed? Much like how Talents are simply complex Chi techniques that are difficult to teach and master, I believe controlling the Elements should be similarly difficult to understand, but ultimately something anyone can pick up so long as it is taught in the right manner. If the Primal Blessings simply represent the unique forces of the universe broken down into four fundamental units, and we manipulate said forces through the use of Chi, why is there an extra step needed to utilize elemental Chi, as opposed to neutral Chi?

The fact that the Tyrant can make Runic items which utilize Elemental Chi supports my theory, though she still needs a source of said Elemental Chi, namely Lei Gong. A shame none of the Stormguards I raised from commoners to Martial Warriors ended up receiving a Blessing, though there’s still plenty of time for that yet. Who knows? Since my Natal Souls played a part in their Core Formation, maybe the Stormguard will eventually all Awaken to the Blessing of Water as well, or maybe it doesn’t work like that. Either way, I’m almost certain there’s a way to ‘induce’ or work towards an Awakening in a logical and methodical manner. I just don’t know what that method might be.

Alas, Dad’s unexpressed desire to possess a Blessing will have to wait, as I stumble along my Path with both eyes closed and somehow fail my way to success. “You touched upon the physical mechanisms behind mechanical balance,” Dad continues, bringing us back on topic, “But for Martial Warriors, there is more at work than just that.”

Under his expectant gaze, it takes longer than I care to admit to catch on to his gist, and the answer only arrives when Mila so helpfully supplies it through Sending. “Stability?” I ask, the word failing to click until I remember that most mysterious of Chi skills which I never use. “Oh, Stability. With Chi.”

Though Akanai purses her lips at her daughter for helping me cheat, Dad merely chuckles and shakes his head at our antics. “Yes, Stability, one of the most widely used Chi skills, yet least understood.”

“Widely used?”

“Indeed. Think on it son, and I believe you will soon understand.” Grinning at my doubtful expression, Dad leans on the ship’s banister and crosses his arms to wait while Akanai continues to loom over us, not out of any desire to intimidate, but because that’s her natural state.

Putting my gorgeous yet intimidating Mother-in-Law slash Grandmother out of mind, I hug Mila close and ponder Dad’s statement. Stability being the least understood Chi skill makes sense considering I barely know anything about it, but most used? I can count on my fingers the number of times I’ve used Stability, mostly while running obstacle courses. Even then, I soon discovered that I didn’t really need Stability to walk across a balance beam or hop from column to column, as my natural grace, agility, and reflexes were good enough to get by. In fact, I can’t remember the last time I saw a Martial Warrior fall off of a balance beam, or even really slow down all that much while crossing, and even Tali and Tate don’t have too much trouble with them now. The animals took some training to get it right, but eventually, even my derpiest of bears figured out how to walk across a balance beam, though to be fair, it was more a matter of building confidence than lacking grace when it came to Baloo.

As for other uses... I know roosequins use Stability to help them run up the steepest of cliffs, and I’ve seen BoShui improve by leaps and bounds through proper use of Stability, as it enabled him to use better footwork while closing the distance to get himself into punching range, but otherwise, I don’t think I’ve ever seen anyone really using the Chi skill in any real, meaningful manner. I mean, how would you? Stability mostly just helps you with your balance, but the regular human body is perfectly capable of standing upright without any need for magical assistance. Then again... how true is that? I mean, I seem to recall most people in my past life having issues running through tires laid flat, and there were whole game shows where idiots tried and failed at running obstacle courses to comedic effect. Can martial training really account for a Martial Warrior’s improved sense of Balance, or are we all using Stability without meaning to? It makes sense right? Especially when you take into account how so many Martial Warriors were able to stand on floating logs with relative ease for the water lacrosse game during my wedding.

“So you’re saying,” I begin, trying to make sense of this whole situation, “That I might have used Stability to treat Mila’s motion sickness? External Stability? Is that a thing?”

“Why would it not be?” Shrugging, Dad explains, “You understand the difficulty though? I have seen commoners struggle to find their footing on a slightly bumpy path or slip and slide across the ice without control, but when have you seen a Martial Warrior falter under similar such circumstances? However, I’ve also seen commoners navigate up the steepest of cliffs while carrying heavy loads upon their backs and cross tightropes as easily as any Martial Warrior, so who is to say where natural talent or practice skill ends and an innate use of Stability begins? Take your efforts with aerial combat for example. You leap and spin about in the midst of combat while retaining awareness of your surroundings at all times, tracking up from down, left from right, forward from back, all without much effort or thought involved. Is this due to practised familiarity or supernatural Stability? Six of one and half dozen of the other, with no discernible method to tell between the two, hence why Stability is both widely used and poorly understood.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Rudely eavesdropping on what was clearly a private conversation, Monk Happy makes his presence known with a bow, as if that makes up for all his snooping. Shooting a glare at the smiling monk, I focus on the big chicken hiding behind him and cannot help but grin at Kukky’s adorable delight at having hidden away from my senses for so long. The cowardly rooster has been keeping his distance of late, too scared of Rakky’s presence to come out and play, but the murderous tiger has really chilled out since our first meeting, so I’m sure I can keep him from eating Kukky for lunch. Thankfully, Tai-Tai doesn’t care too much about Rakky hanging about, so they get along just fine, but I would really love it if Kukky would come out to play more often.

Especially before the Abbot comes back and tries to reclaim his floofs. I refuse to let them go without a fight. He was neglecting them anyways, not of food or shelter, but of love and scritches. I mean, poor Rakky just melts when you scritch his chin just right, especially if he’s soaking in a hot tub. I hope he’s doing okay with Li-Li. He still hasn’t made too many friends, though stupid George is absolutely in love with the big cat and always wants to be with him, so there’s that.

“The process through which Stability works,” Monk Happy begins, interjecting himself into the conversation without so much as a how you do, “Is difficult to describe, but the effects are easily seen. On your wedding day, for example, you utilized Internal and External Stability against young Yong-Jin multiple times. During your first exchange, you threw him over your shoulder then moved with the momentum to leap over his airborne torso, a move which no commoner could replicate through sheer effort alone. Then, you oriented yourself perfectly to stand over him in mid-air so that you could stomp him into the water below, again not a feat which can be accomplished without Chi.”

“And I used it again in my second exchange,” I continue, catching on to what Monk Happy is getting at. “When he almost threw me into the water. I Stabilized and recovered to turn things around on him. Momentum and flexibility played a large part in things, but I was bent over backwards on one foot, and should not have been able to stand up again in such a position.”

“Indeed.” Bowing his head with a smile, Monk Happy continues, “If Junior Brother cares to listen, this monk can attempt to explain the mechanics behind Stability to help broaden his perspective, and perhaps even help you understand your current efforts. Fascinating how you are able to negate not only lady Mila’s perception of the swaying boat beneath her, but also her perception of forward movement and the passing horizon in the distance.”

Glancing at my beloved Mila, whose rosy pink cheeks signify far more than mere embarrassment, but good health and comfort as well, I shake my head and say, “Thank you, but another time perhaps. Much as I’d love to explore the possibilities of Stability, I’d hate to get so mixed up that I forget how to do what I’m doing, and I can’t bear to see my beloved wife in such distress again.”

“As you wish, Junior Brother.” Oddly enough, not a single monk of the Brotherhood has said anything about my wives or marriages, other than to congratulate and offer well wishes to the both of us. They even came bearing gifts and partook in the festivities, though they refrained from eating or drinking anything provided. No idea what I’ll do with so many hand-made fish drums, tea pots, or quilted blankets, but it’s the thought that counts, and I could tell the monks were genuinely happy for me. I honestly thought they’d be all disapproving and judgmental, but quite the opposite, especially the castration fanatic Monk Bones.

“Love is one of the most precious things life has to offer,” the spindly old Divinity monk had said, clasping my hand and Lin-Lin’s both with a goofy smile. “And this monk can see that you two are deeply in love like few others. Though all life is fleeting and impermanent, that is not to say all life is meaningless, for only one who has seen the dark will understand how to properly cherish the light. This love that you both share is your light, so cherish it well and let it illuminate upon all to become a beacon of the joy we should all be so lucky to strive for.”

A strange sentiment coming from a celibate monk, which leads me to understand that there is more to the Brotherhood’s views than the evils of sex, drugs, and fame. They’re not exactly against it, but they see it as a distraction from the ultimate goal, and thus abstain so as to better focus on their Right Effort. Lust is the poison they reject, not love, which I will accept as more proof that sex and making love are two separate things.

Before we part ways so Mila won’t die of embarrassment, Akanai pulls us both aside after shooing Dad and Monk Happy away. “If you are ever able to explain what you are doing.” she Sends, looking this way and that to make sure no one is listening even though there’s nothing to overhear, “Be sure to share it with myself and your Father-in-Law. It would be much appreciated if you found some way to counteract his nausea, preferably before we set sail for the Western Province.”

Fighting the urge to smile at the mental image of Akanai cradling her girthy husband atop her lap, I promise to tell her first if I ever make sense of what I’m doing here. This is the first I’m hearing of Husolt coming along for the crusade, but considering his wife and two daughters will be riding to war at my side, I’d probably be more surprised if he stayed back. Though most only know him as the foremost Divine Blacksmith of the People, Papa Bear Husolt is a Warrior to be reckoned with, one with a short temper and fiercely protective nature, so I pity the fool who crosses him on the battlefield.

But he’s not invulnerable, which means yet another life for me to worry about, not to mention the millions of soldiers, Irregulars, and supporting workers I should be concerned for as well. Heavy lies the head indeed, so I suppose I should cherish what little free time I have left.

It doesn’t take much to convince Mila that we should head back down to the privacy of our spacious cabin, which I picked not only because it’s separated from where Dad and my in-laws are resting, but also because it’s private and easily guarded. There’s only one entrance in and out, but I could easily smash my way through the walls to escape either to the adjoining cabin or out to the water, where the safety of the Western Walls lies within spitting distance. That being said, my beloved wife is more than eager to reward me for my efforts, and we spend the rest of the trip enjoying one another’s company, alongside Yan and Lin-Lin once they grow bored of playing on deck.

So maybe I’ve succumbed to lust just a bit and become obsessed with sex. Making love is amazing, but it’s not as simple as flipping a switch. The mood, location, and mindset all gotta be right to make love, but sex is so much more simple and plenty fun with the right partner. Or partners, as it were. Honestly, married life has been smooth sailing this past month, with none of the growing pains I’d expected from having to appease three wonderful women and ensure they are all loved and cared for as they should be, and I have no one to thank for it besides Lin-Lin. While Mila and Yan are great friends who get along swimmingly, there’d always been an underlying sense of competition between them. Mila goes without saying, as she is accustomed to standing high above her peers in both status and strength, which means she’s not used to being on equal grounds with anyone. She feels the need to be number one no matter what, which is a great drive for a Martial Warrior, but not so advantageous as one of two wives. While Yan is the more easygoing of the two, she’s still a fiercely competitive woman who fought tooth and nail to get where she is today, so she wasn’t ever going to just roll over and play second fiddle to Mila’s first.

My extended coma helped iron out the bumps in their relationship as they learned to work together to care for me, but their friendly rivalry never really went away, not until Lin-Lin entered the equation. My sweet wifey is the social lubricant that keeps this whole multi-partner relationship running smoothly, in ways I could never emulate. Not only are Mila and Yan no longer competing with one another, they haven’t banded together against Lin-Lin either, and instead we’ve all turned our focus to one another as we strive to find happiness together. It’s not perfect by any means, as there’s only one of me and three of them, but it’s working better than I expected. Considering I’ve yet to collapse with exhaustion, and not for lack of trying, I’d say things couldn’t be better, except that my in-laws refuse to move into their new houses so I can carry out my plan to have sex in every room and on every surface of our marital home.

I refuse to let my dreams be dreams...

That being said, we all make sure not to get too carried away, which means we’re all standing ready and presentable on deck as our ship pulls into the Central Citadel docks. Mila’s hair is a little mussed and Lin-Lin’s dress could use a bit of ironing, but Yan looks as neat and tidy as ever thanks to her love of tight shirts and trousers. With us are Ping Ping, Pong Pong, Blackjack, and Mama Bun, as well as Dad, Akanai, Nian Zu, and all the other important folk, but two people stick out like a sore thumb. Jorani, the recently promoted commander of my retinue, looking nervous and awkward as hell, as well as Siyar, leaning casually against the mast and just out of sight of the workers down on the docks. He’d almost look at ease if he wasn’t in full Sentinel leathers complete with a fearsome metal mask depicting an angry expression, one to hide his features and strike fear in the hearts of friend and foe alike. Gesturing for Jorani to come stand closer, I give him a reassuring smile before looking away so he doesn’t catch the glint of guilt in my eyes or Aura. Focusing on the plan, I Send a burst of vigilant Aura towards Pong Pong to ensure he’s Concealed and ready, before Sending him a command to direct him to where I need him for the next few hours. The little guy is crazy smart, but it wasn’t until Lin-Lin started working to teach him tricks that I understood just how smart he really is. Not only has he learned to do a bunch of tricks on command (when he’s in a listening mood), the little guy can also differentiate between colours, shapes, and even familiar people to the point where I can say, “Go find Mom,” and he’ll amble right over to perch in her hands, even if she’s halfway across the Citadel. Not sure if he knows how to find her here in Central though, as she stayed behind to keep an eye on Luo-Luo again, but I’m sure Pong Pong is just as eager to see her as she is to see us.

After sending my commands to the tiny Divine Turtle, I fight the urge to look back and check if he got it right, but being the clever turtle he is, Pong Pong pulses an Aura of confidence and assurance my way to let me know everything is going great. That being said, he’s still a turtle, so I’m not entirely sure his judgment can be trusted, as he could’ve easily messed up and just not noticed. No, I should trust the little guy, because we all worked very hard to teach him how to do this on command, and double checking could give the game away. Best to face forward and proceed as planned, so as soon as the ship is anchored and the ramp lowered, I disembark with my wives at my side and Jorani hot on my heels.

Mom and Luo-Luo are waiting down below to receive us, and we get the traditional welcome out of the way so as to dispense with formalities. As Mom and Dad reunite with a chaste touch of their fingers, I warmly clasp Luo-Luo’s hand and offer her my free arm, since Mila and Yan are both sticklers for formality and therefore are standing on either side of me, but a full step back. Lin-Lin doesn’t care much, so she’s clinging gamely to my arm, even though it took some convincing to keep her from riding in piggyback behind me. I love carrying her around, but it would not do for the Legate’s image, which is just stupid.

Cutting through my inner protests, Luo-Luo quietly Sends, “Mind your expression, Lord Husband, but there is bad news afoot. Not two hours ago, the Ryo Family announced a marriage between Ryo Seoyoon and Yong-Jin, citing that the once rivals fell in love after facing one another upon the sparring fields so often.”

Well shit. Fighting the urge to scowl and storm off, I smile for the crowd while considering all the terrible implications of this news. First off, poor Fung. He’s probably devastated and drinking himself into a stupor right now, so I Send word to Dastan to go and console our friend. Secondly, this means I can no longer count on the Ryos as my closest allies in Central, as they’ve clearly thrown in with Shuai Jiao. Why? What did he offer them to agree to this marriage? Or maybe it’s not Shuai Jiao pulling the strings. Maybe it’s his backer, who is probably the same person backing the Ryos, namely one Shen ZhenWu. Why even bother at this point? The Ryos aren’t exactly in free-fall, but they’re also not in the best place as they fight to hold onto face, reputation, wealth, and other holdings. The other families of Central sense weakness and have been circling the wagons, but surely matters could not have gotten so bad as to require an alliance with Shuai Jiao? I could have helped them secure their holdings myself, and in fact lent them a considerable amount of aid in the form of contracts and loans, a clear sign of my support which should have been enough to send most of those vultures packing. So why this marriage?

Since neither I nor Luo-Luo are able to come up with a definitive answer, there’s nothing left for it then to ask the Ryo Family Matriarch herself. Luckily, Grandpa Du thought ahead and stayed at the Ryo Manor, giving me the perfect excuse to pay them a visit before going on about my business. Had he greeted us on the docks alongside Mom and Luo-Luo, it could have been perceived as an insult to visit the Ryos before the Commander General, though their absence here could similarly be perceived as the same. Both sides sent representatives to convey their apologies of course, and they even had believable excuses prepared, namely that they’re in the midst of discussions regarding the upcoming nuptials.

Which means I can’t speak with the Ryos outside of Shuai Jiao’s presence and try to convince them to think twice about this alliance. Well, fuck it. I wasn’t coming here to play nice to begin with, so there’s no point caring too much about appearances any longer. I’ll talk shit about man-bun in front of his face then, and if he has issues with it, I have two boots just begging to stomp all over his stupid face. Still, I don’t want things to devolve into bloodshed just yet, so after a brief discussion with Luo-Luo via Sending, I decide it’s best to send most of my party home to freshen up, while I bring Yan and Kishi to see Grandpa Du, alongside the smallest complement of guards possible, all to show goodwill. Making sure Jorani is still with me, I signal for him to stay close and inwardly apologize for using him as a distraction, because so long as everyone is focused on him, the monks, and his Divinity of a father lurking somewhere nearby, my ace in the hole will hopefully go entirely unnoticed.

The journey over to the Ryo family manor is uneventful, and the servants receive us with polite apologies informing us that the Lady of the manor is away visiting Shuai Jiao, which is different from what Luo-Luo had heard. It seems the Ryos are actively avoiding me, so after liaising with Luo-Luo once more, we decide that it’s best to go visit Shuai Jiao myself, rather than call him over to me on some pretext or the other.

I don’t love being given the runaround. It makes me feel like they have something to hide, or worse, want me rushing about without time to think, keeping me on the back foot and constantly reacting so that I don’t spot their daggers hidden in the dark. If things have gone this far, then I will show no mercy. I came here hoping to leave without bloodshed after arriving at terms with Shuai Jiao that we could both agree to, but if the man refuses to even sit down for a civil discussion, then my conscience will be clear when the blood starts flowing.

“You seem agitated.” Indicating towards his empty cup, Grandpa Du politely asks me to refill it, and I do so without reservation. Some might see it as a power play, but I know Grandpa Du just wants me to get out of my head, even if only for a bit. “This is not like you.” Sipping his tea, he holds my gaze before continuing, “You are one of the most level-headed young men I have met, so I find it concerning that this bare modicum of manoeuvring has had such an effect.”

Since I came here on the pretext of visiting Grandpa Du, I could hardly just leave right away, and truth be told, I missed the old man’s company. “I’m... stressed is all,” I reply, though I’m not sure that’s the whole truth. “There’s a lot on my plate right now, and the last thing I need is to coddle another man’s ego.”

“Is that why you think Shuai Jiao refuses to heed your orders?” Raising a bushy white eyebrow, Grandpa Du gestures at my cup of tea and encourages me to take a sip. “If so, then you are gravely mistaken. Say what you will about his methods and ambitions, but Shuai Jiao is an honourable man who always moves with what he believes are the best interests of the Empire in mind.”

Taking a deep drink from my cup, I barely taste what is probably an expensive tea before putting the cup back down. “And I suppose I’m the rabble-rouser making a stink of his beloved Empire, which works perfectly as is and couldn’t possibly be improved in any way, shape, or form.”

“Do not put words in my mouth, boy.” Flashing a smile which is both friendly and challenging, he adds, “You are not so strong or dignified yet that I cannot put you over my knee. What I mean to say is that Shuai Jiao has his own reasons for opposing you, and they are not entirely wrong. Your plan to retake the Western Province is an ambitious one, full of risks and with little reward for him or the Empire as seen from his perspective. Keep this in mind when you meet with him, and do try not to incite him to violence in order to appease your conscience. I have long since come to terms with Jin Kai’s death and accepted that you are not to blame, but it would be a lie to claim the grievances between you were wholly unjustified, even if he was the one to instigate the conflict to begin with.”

“...Fair enough.” I suppose I did go a little far in publicly demanding my kow-tows and calling him a bitch, which I now realize could only have ended in violence. I am a mean drunk sometimes, so I’ve been sticking to tea more and more lately, especially now that I don’t have to pack it chock full of butter. “However,” I continue, holding Grandpa Du’s gaze to show him the depths of my conviction, “I will brook no further delays in the campaign to retake the West. The people there have suffered long enough, and it’s high time the Enemy paid for what they’ve done.”

Stifling a sigh as I refill his cup, Grandpa Du nods along in reluctant agreement. “Such is the fire of youth,” he murmurs, adding, “Though I cannot say I disagree. Just tread lightly, child. You won’t save any Westerners at all if matters devolve into civil war.”

“Don’t worry.” Reaching out to pat Grandpa Du’s hand and assure him nothing will go wrong, I say, “I won’t let things get that far.” Because there won’t be a civil war without a rebel leader.

Leaving Yan and Kishi to bring Kyung and Grandpa Du back to my manor, I leave with an even smaller contingent of Death Corps guards and Jorani still at my heels. The man looks positively parched despite sucking back an entire pot of tea by himself during my brief exchange with Grandpa Du, his brow glistening with sweat from uncontrolled anxiety. Poor guy, but to be fair, I’m not feeling all that much better. The only reason I’m not even more nervous than he is is because I’ve had five days to consider my options and come to terms with what needs to be done. If we can’t work together, then I must seize power for myself, which means getting rid of Shuai Jiao and his most influential allies in one fell swoop. Marshal Yo and Marshal Quyen both made the short list, as did eight General Officers from Central and South both, but I pray Jeong Hyo Lynn is willing to listen to reason, because I’d hate to have to kill her as well.

No, no, don’t think about bloodshed. Not now, not later, not until it comes time to draw blades. Your Aura gives it away too easily, so rein your emotions in and get a handle on yourself.

Shuai Jiao’s manor is large, but unembellished, a massive estate that is frankly an eyesore to look at. There’s humility, and then there’s just plain ugly, and the manor clearly falls into the latter category, with its ugly steel-reinforced wood walls lacking any and all decoration. While the gate guards have the gall to ask that I wait outside while they seek orders from within, I’ve no desire to be left standing outside like a lowly messenger waiting for my tip. With little more than a nod of my head, Kuang Biao leads my strongest Death Corps Guards to open the gates, without causing too much harm to the manor guards. Alas, a few bruises are needed to subdue the loyal soldiers watching Shuai Jiao’s gates, as they would need to be considering they’re willing to ignore the orders of their Legate, but I’ve no beef with them, and make an effort not to remember their faces.

Because I am petty, so I would probably be none too pleased if I ever recognized one of Shuai Jiao’s former supporters. No, stop talking like he’s already dead and gone. There’s still a chance we can come to an agreement. A snowflake’s chance in hell, but still a chance.

Finding Shuai Jiao inside the manor is easy enough, as he’s holding his discussion in the courtyard gazebo. Looming in his seat on the raised structure and looking down on me from above, Shuai Jiao’s displeasure is clear to all, which means it’s a carefully crafted facade meant for our audience. Aside from the Commander General, there’s Yong Jin sitting beside him, while Aunty Jeong, Da’in, and Seoyoon sit across from them, with a few empty seats separating the two parties on both sides. Geom-Chi is conspicuously absent, probably because he dotes on his younger sister and would’ve objected to this political marriage, but otherwise, there are less than thirty guards and servants present, including my Death Corps escort. The audience I was talking about however is not present in the flesh, but rather enjoying the show from a careful distance through Scrying or other mundane means.

That being said, I would like to note that the gazebo looks pretty new, and it conveniently blocks direct line of sight from elevated positions outside the manor. Smart man, this Commander General, and adaptable too, but unfortunately for him, I’m streets ahead.

...Is that a saying? Streets ahead? That sounds way too stupid to be a real thing, from this life or the last, so where did it come from?

“Legate Rain,” Shuai Jiao begins, all too familiar and without offering a salute or even getting out of his chair. “This one was not expecting you to grace us with your presence.” Eyeing my Death Corps Guards standing over his subdued soldiers, he adds, “If you had sent word ahead, I would have gladly left instructions for my gate guards.”

“Sure.” Not even caring to play along, I wave Kuang Biao aside and approach the gazebo, stopping mid-way to turn back and gesture for Jorani to come along. “Hello Aunty Jeong,” I begin, stepping up to the table to stand between the two parties but refusing to take a seat. A power move, to loom over the seated guests, or it would be if I wasn’t still shorter than most of them. At least Da’in and Seoyoon aren’t freakishly tall, and Yong-Jin is below eye level too, but things only get worse from there. “You don’t mind if I keep calling you Aunty, do you? Da’in, you’re looking well as always, and Seoyoon, I suppose congratulations are in order?” Tilting my head to study her icy expression, I ask, “They are right? If not, then you only need to say the word and...”

Betrayal or not, Fung loves this woman, so for him, I must make this offer.

“You –”

Angered by the implication, Yong-Jin surges to his feet only for his Mentor to push him back down into his chair. Unperturbed, Seoyoon clenches her fists and meets my eyes with what can only be described as apologetic resignation. “Thank you, Rain,” she says, using my name rather than title for the first time. “I am... regretful for the circumstances, but wholly in agreement with this marriage moving forward.”

Hardly the most enthusiastic of brides, but a willing one it seems. Turning to Aunty Jeong, the formidable woman shows no shame or contrition, only the determination to do what is best for her family. “As a young girl, I ran away from home to marry the man of my dreams, and I have never regretted a moment since.” Softening as she turns her gaze upon her youngest daughter, Aunty Jeong adds, “I would not force my daughters to do something even I would not. She had the final say, and only then did we move forward with this marriage.”

“I see.” Disappointed though I might be, the Ryo family owes me nothing, so I take their betrayal in stride and turn to Shuai Jiao instead. “Well congratulations.” Gesturing at Jorani, I continue, “This is Jorani, the commander of my retinue. He’s here as a distraction. Anyways, sorry to interrupt the planning process, but I’ve come on urgent business to ask about my armies, the ones which have yet to arrive in SuiHua.” Fingers clenching so hard the wooden chair groans beneath the pressure, I narrow my eyes at Shuai Jiao and ask, “Where are my soldiers, Commander General?”

...You know, now that I’ve heard what I just said and how I said it, I can understand why Grandpa Du was so worried about my agitation, because he knew exactly how I was going to react. Hell, I knew too, but I just let it all loose, and men in power generally don’t like being talked down to.

Then again, insolence and all-out aggression has worked out for me so far, so if it ain’t broke...

Chapter Meme
