Putting my gorgeous yet intimidating Mother-in-Law slash Grandmother out of mind, I hug Mila close and ponder Dad’s statement. Stability being the least understood Chi skill makes sense considering I barely know anything about it, but most used? I can count on my fingers the number of times I’ve used Stability, mostly while running obstacle courses. Even then, I soon discovered that I didn’t really need Stability to walk across a balance beam or hop from column to column, as my natural grace, agility, and reflexes were good enough to get by. In fact, I can’t remember the last time I saw a Martial Warrior fall off of a balance beam, or even really slow down all that much while crossing, and even Tali and Tate don’t have too much trouble with them now. The animals took some training to get it right, but eventually, even my derpiest of bears figured out how to walk across a balance beam, though to be fair, it was more a matter of building confidence than lacking grace when it came to Baloo.

As for other uses... I know roosequins use Stability to help them run up the steepest of cliffs, and I’ve seen BoShui improve by leaps and bounds through proper use of Stability, as it enabled him to use better footwork while closing the distance to get himself into punching range, but otherwise, I don’t think I’ve ever seen anyone really using the Chi skill in any real, meaningful manner. I mean, how would you? Stability mostly just helps you with your balance, but the regular human body is perfectly capable of standing upright without any need for magical assistance. Then again... how true is that? I mean, I seem to recall most people in my past life having issues running through tires laid flat, and there were whole game shows where idiots tried and failed at running obstacle courses to comedic effect. Can martial training really account for a Martial Warrior’s improved sense of Balance, or are we all using Stability without meaning to? It makes sense right? Especially when you take into account how so many Martial Warriors were able to stand on floating logs with relative ease for the water lacrosse game during my wedding.

“So you’re saying,” I begin, trying to make sense of this whole situation, “That I might have used Stability to treat Mila’s motion sickness? External Stability? Is that a thing?”

“Why would it not be?” Shrugging, Dad explains, “You understand the difficulty though? I have seen commoners struggle to find their footing on a slightly bumpy path or slip and slide across the ice without control, but when have you seen a Martial Warrior falter under similar such circumstances? However, I’ve also seen commoners navigate up the steepest of cliffs while carrying heavy loads upon their backs and cross tightropes as easily as any Martial Warrior, so who is to say where natural talent or practice skill ends and an innate use of Stability begins? Take your efforts with aerial combat for example. You leap and spin about in the midst of combat while retaining awareness of your surroundings at all times, tracking up from down, left from right, forward from back, all without much effort or thought involved. Is this due to practised familiarity or supernatural Stability? Six of one and half dozen of the other, with no discernible method to tell between the two, hence why Stability is both widely used and poorly understood.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Rudely eavesdropping on what was clearly a private conversation, Monk Happy makes his presence known with a bow, as if that makes up for all his snooping. Shooting a glare at the smiling monk, I focus on the big chicken hiding behind him and cannot help but grin at Kukky’s adorable delight at having hidden away from my senses for so long. The cowardly rooster has been keeping his distance of late, too scared of Rakky’s presence to come out and play, but the murderous tiger has really chilled out since our first meeting, so I’m sure I can keep him from eating Kukky for lunch. Thankfully, Tai-Tai doesn’t care too much about Rakky hanging about, so they get along just fine, but I would really love it if Kukky would come out to play more often.

Especially before the Abbot comes back and tries to reclaim his floofs. I refuse to let them go without a fight. He was neglecting them anyways, not of food or shelter, but of love and scritches. I mean, poor Rakky just melts when you scritch his chin just right, especially if he’s soaking in a hot tub. I hope he’s doing okay with Li-Li. He still hasn’t made too many friends, though stupid George is absolutely in love with the big cat and always wants to be with him, so there’s that.

“The process through which Stability works,” Monk Happy begins, interjecting himself into the conversation without so much as a how you do, “Is difficult to describe, but the effects are easily seen. On your wedding day, for example, you utilized Internal and External Stability against young Yong-Jin multiple times. During your first exchange, you threw him over your shoulder then moved with the momentum to leap over his airborne torso, a move which no commoner could replicate through sheer effort alone. Then, you oriented yourself perfectly to stand over him in mid-air so that you could stomp him into the water below, again not a feat which can be accomplished without Chi.”

“And I used it again in my second exchange,” I continue, catching on to what Monk Happy is getting at. “When he almost threw me into the water. I Stabilized and recovered to turn things around on him. Momentum and flexibility played a large part in things, but I was bent over backwards on one foot, and should not have been able to stand up again in such a position.”

“Indeed.” Bowing his head with a smile, Monk Happy continues, “If Junior Brother cares to listen, this monk can attempt to explain the mechanics behind Stability to help broaden his perspective, and perhaps even help you understand your current efforts. Fascinating how you are able to negate not only lady Mila’s perception of the swaying boat beneath her, but also her perception of forward movement and the passing horizon in the distance.”

Glancing at my beloved Mila, whose rosy pink cheeks signify far more than mere embarrassment, but good health and comfort as well, I shake my head and say, “Thank you, but another time perhaps. Much as I’d love to explore the possibilities of Stability, I’d hate to get so mixed up that I forget how to do what I’m doing, and I can’t bear to see my beloved wife in such distress again.”

“As you wish, Junior Brother.” Oddly enough, not a single monk of the Brotherhood has said anything about my wives or marriages, other than to congratulate and offer well wishes to the both of us. They even came bearing gifts and partook in the festivities, though they refrained from eating or drinking anything provided. No idea what I’ll do with so many hand-made fish drums, tea pots, or quilted blankets, but it’s the thought that counts, and I could tell the monks were genuinely happy for me. I honestly thought they’d be all disapproving and judgmental, but quite the opposite, especially the castration fanatic Monk Bones.

“Love is one of the most precious things life has to offer,” the spindly old Divinity monk had said, clasping my hand and Lin-Lin’s both with a goofy smile. “And this monk can see that you two are deeply in love like few others. Though all life is fleeting and impermanent, that is not to say all life is meaningless, for only one who has seen the dark will understand how to properly cherish the light. This love that you both share is your light, so cherish it well and let it illuminate upon all to become a beacon of the joy we should all be so lucky to strive for.”

A strange sentiment coming from a celibate monk, which leads me to understand that there is more to the Brotherhood’s views than the evils of sex, drugs, and fame. They’re not exactly against it, but they see it as a distraction from the ultimate goal, and thus abstain so as to better focus on their Right Effort. Lust is the poison they reject, not love, which I will accept as more proof that sex and making love are two separate things.

Before we part ways so Mila won’t die of embarrassment, Akanai pulls us both aside after shooing Dad and Monk Happy away. “If you are ever able to explain what you are doing.” she Sends, looking this way and that to make sure no one is listening even though there’s nothing to overhear, “Be sure to share it with myself and your Father-in-Law. It would be much appreciated if you found some way to counteract his nausea, preferably before we set sail for the Western Province.”

Fighting the urge to smile at the mental image of Akanai cradling her girthy husband atop her lap, I promise to tell her first if I ever make sense of what I’m doing here. This is the first I’m hearing of Husolt coming along for the crusade, but considering his wife and two daughters will be riding to war at my side, I’d probably be more surprised if he stayed back. Though most only know him as the foremost Divine Blacksmith of the People, Papa Bear Husolt is a Warrior to be reckoned with, one with a short temper and fiercely protective nature, so I pity the fool who crosses him on the battlefield.

But he’s not invulnerable, which means yet another life for me to worry about, not to mention the millions of soldiers, Irregulars, and supporting workers I should be concerned for as well. Heavy lies the head indeed, so I suppose I should cherish what little free time I have left.

It doesn’t take much to convince Mila that we should head back down to the privacy of our spacious cabin, which I picked not only because it’s separated from where Dad and my in-laws are resting, but also because it’s private and easily guarded. There’s only one entrance in and out, but I could easily smash my way through the walls to escape either to the adjoining cabin or out to the water, where the safety of the Western Walls lies within spitting distance. That being said, my beloved wife is more than eager to reward me for my efforts, and we spend the rest of the trip enjoying one another’s company, alongside Yan and Lin-Lin once they grow bored of playing on deck.

So maybe I’ve succumbed to lust just a bit and become obsessed with sex. Making love is amazing, but it’s not as simple as flipping a switch. The mood, location, and mindset all gotta be right to make love, but sex is so much more simple and plenty fun with the right partner. Or partners, as it were. Honestly, married life has been smooth sailing this past month, with none of the growing pains I’d expected from having to appease three wonderful women and ensure they are all loved and cared for as they should be, and I have no one to thank for it besides Lin-Lin. While Mila and Yan are great friends who get along swimmingly, there’d always been an underlying sense of competition between them. Mila goes without saying, as she is accustomed to standing high above her peers in both status and strength, which means she’s not used to being on equal grounds with anyone. She feels the need to be number one no matter what, which is a great drive for a Martial Warrior, but not so advantageous as one of two wives. While Yan is the more easygoing of the two, she’s still a fiercely competitive woman who fought tooth and nail to get where she is today, so she wasn’t ever going to just roll over and play second fiddle to Mila’s first.

My extended coma helped iron out the bumps in their relationship as they learned to work together to care for me, but their friendly rivalry never really went away, not until Lin-Lin entered the equation. My sweet wifey is the social lubricant that keeps this whole multi-partner relationship running smoothly, in ways I could never emulate. Not only are Mila and Yan no longer competing with one another, they haven’t banded together against Lin-Lin either, and instead we’ve all turned our focus to one another as we strive to find happiness together. It’s not perfect by any means, as there’s only one of me and three of them, but it’s working better than I expected. Considering I’ve yet to collapse with exhaustion, and not for lack of trying, I’d say things couldn’t be better, except that my in-laws refuse to move into their new houses so I can carry out my plan to have sex in every room and on every surface of our marital home.

I refuse to let my dreams be dreams...

