And they have an attack available. Heloísa made it over. Will it be the Shapers who do it? Or are they waiting for Tuyet to arrive to make it a sure thing?

Only one of them was allowed to take a shot. Kon wanted to run up into the bleachers and listen to whatever Vandy was saying to them.

Alden, Ignacio, and Lexi knew what the situation was, but what could they do other than hope that whichever girl came after them missed?

They must be so tense.

“Throw me over,” Lexi grunted. “We’re close enough for you to make it.”

“Yeah?” Alden said.

They both sound all right, thought Kon. Good. Apex. Out of this universe. That’s so impressive of them.

“Ignacio,” said Kon, surprised to find he could sound all right, too, “take out whoever you want to take out the second Lexi is over.”

“Yes,” said Ignacio.

“Here you go,” said Alden.

Kon’s brother flew toward the finish.

As if that had been the signal everyone was waiting for, the course burst into frenzied motion.

******

******

So many people acting at once. Alden could only focus on some of it.

“I entrust you with your jacket!” Lexi shouted as he crossed the finish.

“Go,” said Ignacio. “If you fall, switch to me. I’ll entrust you with something different. Hold on very tight to it.”

He whipped one of his Meister blades down toward the floating island.

At the same time, a wedge of sand rammed into the bars between them and Everly.

Alden moved forward a rung. Sand wasn’t an attack. Just a shield for Everly because they thought he’d throw the knife at her.

He moved forward another. But he threw it at someone else.

People were yelling things. Not Alden’s name. Not words he needed to hear.

A column of greenery shot up behind him. It was just a whooshing feeling at his back, and then he was swinging to the next bar under a leafy canopy. They might get two attacks now.

There would be one as an award for Heloísa’s crossing. One for retaliation if Ignacio hadn’t instantly killed whoever he’d just attacked.

“JACKET!” the call came from every member of his team except Ignacio.

As if I needed telling with all these leaves above me.

Alden held on tight, tucked his chin, preserved his jacket, and waited for Jupiter to bring her ivy down on him.

It might hit my fingers, drag at my legs. But the jacket and its hood should take a lot of the force. Enough. Maybe it will be enough.

The greenery came down, but most of it came down behind him. He heard it crashing around Ignacio. Ripping. Shaking the bars.

She went for Ignacio instead?

That’s one attack.

“Everly!” Kon called. “Alden, Ignacio, look out for Everly!”

Alden heard the warning. He couldn’t turn without dropping his protection, but he pictured Everly Kim throwing herself physically at him or at an unbalanced Ignacio. He pictured himself fighting to kick her off because she could really only do damage to his lower half when he was so well shielded by the jacket. She’d be going for his legs.

So when the bar swelled under his palms, thickened by a layer of ice that crept under his fingers, stinging and forcing his grip apart, his thoughts stalled for a beat. Ice? That’s the attack? Modification of shared obstacles doesn’t count as an attack in this class, though. Crap, it’s going to get slick.

They were so close to the finish line. A couple of swings, and he’d be there.

“Go!” Kon and Jeffy and Lexi and Mehdi and Haoyu shouted.

“Ignacio, you’re fine! Shake it off!” said Kon. “Both of you, go, go, go!”

Alden unpreserved his jacket so that he could swing himself toward the next rung. His hands landed firmly on the still-thickening layer of ice.

Then, something small whizzed past him and struck the bar beside his left hand. The ice shattered all along the bar, and suddenly he wasn’t gripping anything at all.

******

“If you fall, switch to me.”

Alden had heard that request. He’d scribbled it onto the mental, “Yes, I’ll do that,” list he had in his head during the run.

And complying with it wasn’t something he had to think about at all. As he fell, the rest of the options on the list blew apart like the shards of ice that glittered around him.

He switched to his new entruster. “Ignacio!”

Alden’s face was turned up. He could see the Meister above him, clinging to the bars with his legs and one arm. He could see his own hands, reaching for nothing as he rushed toward the ground.

Wind in his ears. Body tensed.

“Catch this!” He saw one of Ignacio’s arms whip forward, and suddenly he knew what was coming, even though his eyes couldn’t track its flight properly.

“Hold on very tight to it.”

Dangerous.

There should have been a longer discussion about this. Something beyond Alden explaining at the last minute that he wanted them to take on more active roles as entrusters and Ignacio deciding that meant Alden ought to be trusted a lot.

To prepare for someday.

Alden decided he shouldn’t preserve a friendly Meister’s bound weapon without explaining about the bowl he’d once held in Ro-den’s laboratory and how it was connected to a tree and how him grabbing onto it without the tree’s permission had potentially threatened that connection, and he didn’t want to risk damaging…

Of course, he failed to worry about all of that until after he’d already caught his entruster’s knife.

From its owner’s hand to him, like a laser beam. Ignacio had thrown it as hard as Big Snake had thrown any of those tennis balls. It would have gone through Alden’s hands and then his body if he’d failed to stop it.

There’s no way I can stop something that fast!

But he had that panicked thought too late, too, after his fingers and skill had already closed around the knife. The part of him that was turned attentively toward Ignacio had just known the moment and the point in space where blade and hand would meet.

Now what?

Ignacio must have imagined something unlikely. As a team, they’d talked so much about what crazy stunts they could do, flying around the gym attached to Kon and whatever object he was moving around with his spell impression. Alden could turn the knife and point it at Tuyet for revenge, but Ignacio had said hold on very tight. He must have meant for Alden to use preservation to enable the catch, then stop his skill immediately but still hold onto the knife physically, so Ignacio could recall his weapon.

And hopefully bring the Rabbit attached to it back up to the monkey bars.

This wild solution to the problem of his fall came to Alden all at once, shockingly fast, but not quite as fast as magic came at him from Ignacio.

Something tried to interact with Alden’s spot in reality without quite making it. Not weak, but ineffective.

It made him think of a hand shooting out toward him so hard that he could feel the movement of its passage in the air even though it had missed him.

Ignacio was attempting something just then.

Alden squeezed the knife in both hands. Further injuries to his fingers seemed inevitable. “Now!” he shouted as he unpreserved it.

Ignacio did the recall.

The blade did yank Alden upwards by his arms. Pain less than what he would have felt if this were real flared all through his upper body, from fingertips to shoulders and down farther into his torso. And then the blade just kept going, jerking itself out of his grip and zinging back to its master without Alden.

He slammed into the floor.

******

******

“Ooohhh! Too bad.”

“That was Apex, though. Good run.”

“The ice! I didn’t expect them to attack by breaking the ice. We could try something like that with…”

“Were they seriously trying to save the Rabbit with a weapon recall? Idiots.”

“It almost worked.”

“Did that really look like it worked to you?”

“I mean, if it’s all they had left to try…”

“Wham! Alien gods, I bet that guy’s glad Ash keeps the pain setting low. I bet his femurs are up in his chest cavity on the injury readout.”

“Since he’s a dead Rabbit does that make him roadkill?”

“He didn’t get killed on the road.”

“A Brute could’ve held onto the knife during the recall.”

“The girls have got the win now. No way the two left on the first year dude team pull back from this.”

“What they did with the floating island…!”

“Hey, how did he catch that in the first place? He must have way faster reflexes than I realized.”

The comments from the people in the gym around Kon washed through him, stinging more than they should have against the rawness of his own disappointment as he watched Alden lay sprawled on the floor.

It had been a good run. Stellar.

He’d greedily wanted a little more.

The other guys on his team must have felt the same. They were quiet again, all of them staring down at their fallen member.

Ignacio had managed to injure both Maricel and Jupiter with one attack toward the island. They weren’t going to die, but they weren’t moving easily. Their suits were stiffening more and more as they tried to use their elements to bring Tuyet up to join them. Blood loss and multiple wounds for each of them. Ignacio had done well thinking of how his skill could pull all those ordinary knives their team had left embedded in the obstacle back up to punish the two Shapers standing there.

It was good work from him. He should have been proud.

But now he was looking down at Alden like he’d accidentally killed him for real, instead of their plan just…not quite being enough.

“All right,” said Kon, talking to them all through the shared voice call. “It’s not looking like a win anymore, but let’s finish out the run as well as we can, and show everyone that we don’t give—”

“You’re going to send the knife back to me and try again right, Ignacio?” said Alden.

“What? You’re alive! And conscious!” Kon exclaimed. Alden wasn’t moving at all. “You’ve got to be barely alive and conscious. Can you hold onto a knife for real?”

“I’m less mobile than the average department store mannequin,” said Alden. “Ignacio…you can do it the other way.”

Other way?

Kon was drawing a blank on what that would be. Maybe Ignacio could go back down for some of their supplies, and with a rope and way more luck than they were going to have something could happen?

<<But…>> said Ignacio.

“I thought you might have tried something out just now,” said Alden. “Was I wrong?”

“No,” Ignacio said after a pause. Everly was about to pass him on the bars. Nobody was allowed to attack anybody anymore until she crossed. <<But…you noticed? Really. I thought it didn’t work.>>

What are they talking about?

Alden had fallen. He’d caught the Meister weapon mid-fall. Absolutely shockingly super of him…but then Ignacio’s recall had been too strong and yanked it back out of his hands.

Did I miss something?

“Sure,” Alden was saying. “Drop the knife on me. Don’t throw so hard. I can’t believe I stopped that last one, and I’m definitely not catching this one with a hand at all. Just drop it accurately.”

“Yes,” said Ignacio, energy returning to his voice. “I entrust you with this.”

The throwing knife glinted in the gym lights as it fell.

******

******

The knife dropped onto Alden’s stomach, and he stopped it with his skill before it could stab him or bounce off.

“Got it,” he said. “Try now.”

He felt someone else’s magic reach for him and miss.

Then reach for him and miss again.

He stared up because he’d landed with his face pointed in that direction. A piece of ice was melting on the floor next to one of his hands. He could feel the cold water.

Ignacio’s jaw was clenched.

He’s trying to call his weapon to him while my skill’s still holding it. So he must not feel totally separated from his knife when I’m bearing it? Is he trying to call both of us at the same time? Hmm…I’m not sure he knows. Is it just an idea he had?

Alden paid attention with his authority sense more than his eyes.

That feeling of something reaching for him came once more. And missed once more.

That was a worse miss than the first few times.

Alden knew because it felt fainter, like it had less to do with him.

Ignacio was getting stressed. Or doubtful.

Whatever he feels probably isn’t as clear as what I feel. He might not even understand that something is really happening.

Another miss. Even farther off.

He’s flailing.

Everly had just reached Ignacio. She was passing him.

Ignacio had a hand stuck out toward Alden, almost desperately. His next attempt to activate the recall was even harder to sense.

“Hey,” said Alden, closing his eyes so he could focus. “It’s fine if we lose.”

<<I’ll come down!>>

“No,” said Alden. “If you’re close to learning something, keep trying. It’s practice, right? For someday.”

******

******

Ignacio felt stupid.

Like he was making mistakes and wasting their last little amount of time.

Like he still had some ivy in his hair and his teeth, and like he didn’t know what he was doing as he stretched out an arm toward his teammate and used his recall.

For a split second after Alden first fell and caught his knife, he’d thought, I can just call them both!

It had seemed true, so he’d tried it. But nothing had happened.

Even if he did have a strange, muffled version of his usual sense for his knife’s location, the assumption that he could do something like this fell apart now that they were outside of that moment that had already passed.

Logic and doubt ate away at it swiftly.

He did not call people. He called two specific throwing knives. And Alden’s skill made it impossible to affect things he held, so Ignacio couldn’t be sensing his knife. Maybe it was all in his head.

