"This is where the dreadnought will be."

Krog narrowed his eyes, "It's a ship. It can move. How do you know it will be there?"

I waved my hand in a circle of the spires, "The spires are to stop gialgathens from escaping. They want them in this dreadnought. A central location lets them do that quickly."

Krog nodded, "A workable assumption."

I drew another circle with my hand around the city, "This, this is where we'll put the illusions and crystals. Our goal is to bait the spires into attacking the illusions. We'll cripple the spires from the resulting detonation of mana."

Krog's eyes widened, "Ah, that's clever."

I nodded, "We still want the distraction element, however. We want to hide the illusions where they aren't too obvious, but at the same time, still findable. That will buy me a few minutes and let them gather their forces around these illusions. During that time, I'll send an artillery strike at the dreadnought."

Kaios glanced between the map and me, "Where would this 'artillery' come from exactly?"

I raised a hand, "It's in my blood." I turned to my guildsmen, "Are you all ready to go back in?"

They gave a roar of approval, the jitters from battle fading as I expanded The Rise of Eden over them. I formulated my best commander's voice. Confident. Decisive. Driven. Come on, Daniel, you can do this. I pointed at the gialgathens,

"You all will be tasked with defending these illusions from oncoming ground forces. If a Hybrid triggers one of these things, that's one more spire you guys have to deal with. Understood?"

They spoke out in a telepathic wave, "Yes, sir."

Another chill ran down my spine from the sir. I shook it off. After all, sometimes I had to fake it till I made it. I turned to Krog,

"We'll be leaving in fifteen minutes."

"Yes, commander."

I walked off to the steps around the room. I created a few more mana crystals during the short downtime. As I did, Kessiah walked up and sat down beside me. She gasped while leaning back against the stairs,

"I've never worked this hard in my life. Fuck."

I scoffed, "Yeah, you're definitely right about that one."

She turned to me, frowning, "Ok, thanks for that. Real supportive."

"I do my best."

She stared forward, glancing at the gialgathens, "Man, shitty one-liners do make me feel better. Makes me forget about what we're doing for a bit."

I shoved another quintessence crystal into my pocket dimension,

"Yeah, same here. It breaks the ice before the battle. It makes it less...terrifying, I suppose."

Kessiah rolled her eyes, "You? Terrified? Yeah, ok."

I turned to her, "What, you think I don't feel fear anymore?"

"Why would you? You can't die."

"I'm hard to kill. There's a difference."

Kessiah shrugged, "If you ask me, you crossed the line between mortal and immortal a while back. Now you don't even seem real sometimes. Like, at all." She stared off in the distance,

"Shit, I remember when we first met. You were just some edgelord brat who thought he had it hard. I could've snapped you between two of my fingers. Well, turns out you did have it hard. I, er, was part of that. I kind of threw all that on your shoulders. Sorry again for that."

She shook her head, "Now, well, you wouldn't even need to look at me to kill me. Watching you change, it's been humbling and inspiring both. That's for sure."

I thought about Delilath dying, the gialgathens I couldn't save, and Springfield being destroyed by Yawm. I frowned,

"Even if I can't die, I'm no god. I still fail all the time." I turned and gave Kessiah a pat on the back,

"This healing thing you got going...I'm, uh, proud of you for it..."

Kessiah bust out laughing, "What was that supposed to be? Inspirational?"

"Just trying to, er, communicate, I guess."

She laughed, "Heh. You're doing a pretty shit job."

I shrugged while lowering my hand, "Eh, doing my best here. That's all I got."

Kessiah stretched, "For real though, you're doing a great job. After that fight with Dahkma, I broke down. You stood up and took the brunt of what I didn't want to deal with.  Now look at you. You're doing pretty ok at this whole commander thing." She pointed at the gialgathens, "These suckers are eating it up."

I narrowed my eyes, "For now. We'll see how long I can keep the act up."

Kessiah pushed herself up, "Don't worry about it. They've seen you fight. If they aren't willing to follow you, then they wouldn't follow anyone. That's when you're at your best - tearing shit up."

I stared at my hands, "Yeah, that's the easy part. It's the silences between the battles that get me. The echoes reverberate in my ears and mind. Doubts pile up. Blagh." I looked up at the gialgathens as Krog rallied them,

"It's a loud kind of quiet. It keeps getting louder if I ever sit still. Eventually, it turns into a deafening boom in my ears."

Images of the dreadnought's underbelly flashed in my eyes. Memories of the spored people resurfaced in my mind. Before the memories consumed me, Kessiah kicked my side,

"Cheer up. You're doing better than you think. "

I gave her a slow nod, "Yeah." I stood up, "I hope so."

Kessiah stepped forward with a wave of her hand,

"Do what you can, even if it isn't much. I remember some armored guy telling me that a while back. Helped me. Might help you."

I rolled my fingers in my hand, making and loosening my fists in waves,

"Yeah. I'll do that."

I stepped forward, "Thanks for the pep talk. Needed it."

Kessiah grinned, "Aye, aye, captain."

She took a few steps before wobbling. I reached out a hand, catching her with a well of gravity. I narrowed my eyes, "You alright?"

Kessiah shook her head, "Yeah, just a little woozy. It's anemia from all the blood loss. I'll be fine."

I opened my dimensional storage, a 2-dimensional portal that mirrored liquid space. I pulled out molten metal I stored earlier. Using this melted dimensional fabric, I split it apart with my finger tips into five molten blobs. I spun them in circles with five gravitational vortexes. Once dispersed into flat circles, I worked on my first three pieces.

With a few adjustments, I thinned out three of the orbs into rings. I turned to Kessiah, "What's your ring size?"

"Uh, eight."'

I glanced back at the rings, changing their sizes. Once made, shifted to The Rise of Eden. I solidified the rings with an injection of icy energy before remelting their surfaces with a thermal jolts. Taking a deep breath, I created raw, telekinetic energy for precise contact points. Wielding them with care, I carved out the runes needed.

It was anything but easy. I struggled through the process, wielding Star Forger with quintessence instead of ascendant mana. It was worth it, however. The Rise of Eden made anything I created far better. Even with a cruder set of tools, the raw materials were so superior it didn't matter.

Knowing that, I finished off the ring after a minute. The next two rings didn't require the same amount of time as I got into a rhythm with it. After finishing off the three rings, I channeled the next blob of molten metal into a bracelet of sorts. It was basically just a big ring. I eyeballed its size for Kessiah's wrist before etching in similar runic work.

All the wording involved regeneration and hemonic generation enchantments. This was all supposed to ease Kessiah's burden for healing. After finishing up the bracelet, I generated another one that mirrored it for her other hand. All of ten minutes passed, the enchantments rather basic yet effective for what she needed.

I clustered the objects into a gravity well before tossing them to Kessiah. She caught two of them before the other jewelry clattered onto the floor. I walked over, picking them up with her,

"Ah fuck, I don't why I threw five things at you to catch. That was dumb."

Kessiah frowned, "Eh, I just suck at catching stuff."

I watched her pick up the jewelry. Her hands shook as she dropped one of the rings. She bit her lip before grabbing it again, this time her grip firm. I raised an eyebrow at her, meeting her eye,

"Is shaking like a leaf a symptom of anemia too?"

She grabbed her wrist, staring away, "I'm fine."

I frowned, staring at her. She was terrified. I picked up the jewelry an handed it to her. As I did, I waved The Rise of Eden over her. She took a sigh of relief,

"Thanks. Whatever that is it feels great."

I waved at the metal rings and things,

"Put those on. You'll feel better."

She did, and they boosted Kessiah's regeneration as all my items did. Kessiah rolled her shoulders,

"Damn. I'm already feeling way better. Thank you. I should've asked for this stuff forever ago."

I waved a hand in circle, "All my armors boost a person's regeneration, endurance, and constitution. I'll be honest here, if I knew you were this effective at healing, I would've already made them for you."

She rolled her eyes, "Yeah, sure."

I met her eye, "Hey, I'm serious. Give yourself some credit. You've changed. Stop pretending you haven't and own it."

She blinked, stunned for a moment,

"You really think so?"

There was a hint of desperation in her voice. She wanted to believe my words even if she didn't believe them herself. I shook my head,

"Think? No, I know so. You capped your level. You healed my sponsor. Hell you're even fighting in a war. You are not the same Kessiah that ran away when we faced Yawm."

I raised a fist, my voice firm, "You've become a warrior in your own way, working around your own limits. Take pride in that."

She nodded, feeling the gray metal on her wrists, "Thanks...Heh, looks like you're not the only one that needed a pep talk."

I scoffed, "Eh, you gave it first." I turned to the gialgathens, "Let's go. We need to get back out there."

Kessiah nodded, her eyes steeled and her hands clasped to fists as we rejoined the group. Krog finished up his tactical orders, our guildsmen split into ten groups. A few healed and willing gialgathens joined them, bolstering our forces. Behind them, ten illusions of me stood with the mana crystals beneath them.

I turned to the group,

"Are you ready?"

"Sir, yes, sir."

I walked towards Solis's exit, the roar of battle growing in my ears,

"Then let's go tear them apart."
