The bat swooped away and flew off into the darkness, perhaps just as terrified of them as she was of it.

“Just a low-level bat,” Calen said.

A few weeks ago, that would have killed me. Likely, more than half of Myrin’s Keep would have been defenseless against a level six monster, but here, it fled from them.

The exploration continued with Calen at the front beside Mato checking for tracks. Malika brought up the rear, leaving Ali and Basil safer in the middle with her Acolyte and Shaman. The rogues were off somewhere enjoying the wealth of shadows and hiding spots. They passed through endless winding passages and tiny caverns, some dry, and others covered in damp rock or trickling pools. Much to Ali’s dismay, the deeper they ventured, the more bats there were. They seldom attacked, but the bats would almost always spring up out of the darkness and startle her, at least once making her scream embarrassingly loudly.

She was hopelessly lost after the many twists and turns, forks and caves, but she trusted Calen and his maps to get them out safely. While the first encounter at the entrance remained the largest, they regularly ran into smaller groups of Kobolds. Many were of the same varieties she had already recorded in her imprint, lending weight to the theory that these were all discarded from the Ruins of Dal’mohra dungeon somehow.

After what must have been several hours of clambering through tiny passages and scrambling over boulders, they entered a slightly larger cave with a small pool of water at the back and three tunnel exits at the far end. Dispatching the four Kobolds that wandered in was a matter of just a few moments, but the noise of the Lightning Bolt startled a large cloud of bats that had been roosting amid the stalactites. Fortunately, the bats fled.

Calen glanced at the exit tunnels in turn, clearly trying to determine the right way to go, but Mato shifted, transforming back to his Beastkin form. “I smell the mushrooms,” he announced. “That way.” His large finger picked out the left passage.

“Ok,” Calen said, stepping into the opening.

The short tunnel opened into an enormous cave, vast enough that their lights could not pick out the far side. As Ali stepped into the dark space, two balls of flame suddenly materialized in the darkness, shooting across empty space toward them with an angry hissing and sizzling. With reflexes honed and perfected against the Skeletal Wyvern, Ali threw up two barriers simultaneously, blocking both fireballs and causing them to detonate harmlessly in midair, sending showers of flame raining down on them.

Basil squawked, diving for cover behind a rock.

“Up there!” Calen indicated a tunnel entrance, about halfway up the far wall by the simple expedient of shooting an intensely brilliant arrow of light at the Kobold mages standing on the ledge. The two mages vanished, withdrawing into their tunnel.

A sudden dark cloud of screeching bats, disturbed from their slumber by the deafening detonations of fireballs, burst forth from the stalactites high up above. A cloud far larger than anything Ali had ever seen circled in a frenzy and began streaming out of all exits, cracks, and crannies in their mad scramble to evacuate.

From a completely new direction, the red of fire kindled again in the darkness. Preemptively, Ali summoned a barrier between their group and the imminent fire, while Calen shot arrows that tore into the dark tunnel entrance and snuffed the flame. Silence reigned for several moments before a different tunnel entrance lit with the red of an instant firebolt. Ali blocked it, but by the time Calen’s arrows reached the tunnel, the perpetrator had vanished once more.

“Ridiculous,” Mato grunted, flexing his fingers as if imagining wrapping them around those scaly necks.

“Why don’t you draw them out, Malika?” Calen suggested. “I’ll keep them out of the higher passages.” He raised his bow and began to unleash a withering volley of suppressive fire.

The deadly game of cat and mouse continued for several rounds before Malika, picking her moment, charged with an uncanny burst of speed, making for one of the tunnels. Taking a one-legged leap off a stalagmite, a graceful step on the vertical side of the cavern wall, and catching the lip of the tunnel, she flipped herself up and over the ledge before the Kobolds could even react. There was a brief struggle and suddenly, one of the Kobold mages flew out of the tunnel, cartwheeling in the air, and falling into the main cavern, hitting the ground with a thump. The second Kobold followed shortly after. By the time Malika leapt back down, Ali’s golden Arcane Bolts had joined the thump of fire and crack of lightning.

Without their tunnels to hide in, the two wily Kobold mages succumbed to their attacks quickly, and soon enough, Ali was deconstructing their corpses and gear.

As silence returned to the cave, Ali glanced around, taking in the pungent earthy smell, the regular plinking of water dripping from the stalactites, high overhead, and the strangely bulbous, ball-like rock formations scattered among the stalagmites on the floor.

“There we go,” Basil commented, getting up and walking with uncharacteristic confidence to the strange-looking rocks.

That’s them? Surprised, Ali used her Identify on the rocks.

Brown Stonecap – Mushroom – level 15 (Earth)

The dome shape of the mushroom cap extended to the ground, hiding the stem from view, and combined with the hard, rough brown and gray exterior, contrived to create a highly effective form of camouflage, allowing the mushroom to masquerade in plain sight as if it were nothing more than a rock. Examining it closer, Ali could now see the dark brown tendrils of mana swirling and flowing sedately through the surface of the mushroom and extending out a short way into the air around it – a color and texture that was almost identical to the rocky ground on which it grew.

She rapped her knuckles on one, hearing a solid-sounding crack, as if she had just hit an actual rock. Ow, it’s hard.

Basil already had one mushroom uprooted, using a few obscure tools. He carefully wrapped it in a moist cloth that he had produced from his small pack.

“Do you need all of these?” Ali asked him, gently running her fingers over the earthen mushroom.

“No, I’ll just take what I can carry,” he responded. “They tend to go a long way.”

“Do you mind if I take a few?”

“No, go ahead.”

Ali deconstructed several mushrooms in quick succession, deliberately picking the highest and lowest level ones she could find, and a few in-between, just to give her Grimoire the biggest variety she could manage.

Variant: Brown Stonecap added to Imprint: Mushroom.

Just to make sure, she deconstructed a couple more, until her Grimoire stopped recording new runes.

“What does that do?” Basil asked curiously, clearly noticing the bright glowing Grimoire.

“It lets me grow things if I learn enough of them,” Ali answered.

“Oh,” he said, pausing in thought. “It would be super helpful if you figured out how to grow these. I know Eliyen would love to have a regular supply, and the garrison would be extremely happy. They’re difficult to cultivate normally and we usually have to hunt for them. There are always adventurers willing to buy the essences and potions, so they are quite good for business. The bigger ones fetch almost a gold each, and you can just stop by and sell them to us at Eliyen’s shop.”

Malika whistled softly, “That’s quite valuable for a mushroom.”

“Yes,” Basil answered. “They’re uncommon, but each mushroom is good for a lot of potions, so they’re always profitable.”

Ali smiled. This quest was a great idea, she thought. She was excited to take this one home and try Mato’s experiment, planting it near the water to see if it could help clear the muck. And if that didn’t work, she had just increased her repertoire of useful and potentially profitable things she could make to buy books or supplies.

“I think that’s all the Kobolds,” Calen said, returning from one of the side tunnels. “Maybe we can camp here and go talk to Sigurd in the morning?”

“I can take the first watch,” Malika replied.

***

The morning was bright and clear, and birdsong filled the forest as Ali floated along the trail munching on a delicious, crisp green apple. Their Kobold extermination job had gone remarkably well, and nothing had disturbed them after they had set up camp. Not even the bats. Sigurd and his wife had been so happy with their prompt resolution of the problem, that they had insisted on sending them home with a basket of freshly picked apples as a bonus.

Personally, Ali felt a lot better having taken care of the problem she had created. It was infinitely better to have dealt with the Kobolds quickly than to let them become entrenched in the mountains, raiding the farmers night after night.

“I found a clearing up ahead with some suitable grasses for you, Ali.” Mato had been ranging around in his Wolf Form, ‘scouting’, even though there was little to no chance of danger now. Ali was certain he just wanted to run through the forest, enjoying the natural environment to the fullest.

“What do you need grasses for?” Basil asked, perking up at the prospect of a conversation involving plants.

“I want some more variety for my plants,” Ali answered. “Eliyen’s garden is a big inspiration. I have my own garden but I’m just getting started. I told you my skill lets me learn to grow stuff, but I don’t have many categories at the moment, and Mato suggested I try grasses next.”

“What categories do you have?” Basil asked, now totally hooked on the conversation. “Um… if you don’t mind sharing?”

“Right now, I can make trees, mushrooms, moss, and ivy.”

“Ivy is a category? That seems odd.”

“I haven’t figured out how it does the categories yet, and sometimes it seems quite arbitrary.” Ali considered her unusual skill and the arrangement of imprints in her Grimoire. “For instance, I can make black oaks and white oaks, but it grouped them with maple trees instead of by type or species. And sometimes the category updates to something more general if I learn a new variant.”

“I think grasses are a great choice, I like them a lot,” Basil said. “There are an enormous variety and many of them are magical, useful for potions and other crafting. I can keep an eye out for some interesting ones in the future if you like.”

“That would be great,” Ali smiled at him.

The clearing Mato had found was a little on the smaller side, with a trail passing through the middle. Their arrival spooked a doe that was grazing on the light green grass that carpeted the entire clearing, waving softly in the morning breeze.

“What do you think?”

“Broad Leaf Grass – it’s a common spreading grass,” Basil said, identifying it. “Robust, grows almost everywhere.”

“What do you mean spreading?”

“Some grasses grow low to the ground and spread over a wide area.” He pointed to the edge of the clearing. “That clump of reddish-brown plants over there is a type of ornamental grass called Orange Bell Reed. Grasses like reeds tend to clump together and other grasses tend to spread out and grow low to the ground.”

“You really know your plants,” Ali said, squinting at the reeds.

Orange Bell Reed – Grass – level 3

Not very orange, are they? To her eye they were more of a dark umber color.

He blushed a little at the compliment. “Eliyen is a good teacher, and I like to study. I’m really hoping for a good herbalist class,” he said a little wistfully. “I’ll take my class trial with Eliyen soon – right after the mayor lets me use the shrine.”

“Good luck!” she told him. Basil seemed quite earnest and genuinely helpful – Ali hoped he would get a class he was happy with.

She hopped off her floating barrier and spent some time deconstructing patches of the ‘Broad Leaf’ green grass. Following Basil’s helpful information, she also added several select clumps of the Orange Bell Reeds.

Imprint: Grass completed.

As soon as it was complete, she committed it to her Grimoire.
