"You will give your power to me," Uva declared. "And you will surrender your invasive offspring to me. I will only accept the metamorphosis that way. If you do not, then I will turn once more. I will choose the other path. Beyond survival, there is something higher. Something you seem to be aware of. Something you seem to think I am ignorant of. And that is the ability to decide to dominate one's own life, to choose. And you have tried to take that from me. What a great and terrible folly."

"Foolish, wretched, mortal thing!" the Stranger bellowed in agitation. "You would not know how to use my power! You would be lost, a lamb granted the fangs of a wolf!"

"Greedy, ignorant, lost," the Eldest castigated Uva. "I could give you every bit of my power, and you would not know what to make of yourself. Blind, limbless, yet with the inspiration of a god, you are still but a thing of ruined design. You will never be able to shape a construct of true majesty that is only possible by my hand. You are the vessel; it is the best thing for you to be. You would have faded in the Stranger’s dimension without my help. You accepted me before. I am the best of you. I am the only reason you still live.”

“And that matters to you more than anything, doesn’t it?” Uva asked both gods. “That you live. That you continue to exist—no matter what it costs you, or anyone else.”

The Stranger and the Eldest fell silent.

Uva didn’t. She but laughed. “I am not the same. I am willing to fade and vanish entirely right here and now. If only to see my duties done and my purpose met.”

“There is no meaning beyond existence!” both gods hissed as one.

“You miss the reason behind my thoughts: this is not a statement of philosophy, but one of power. You fear nothingness. I do not. Give yourself to me, or I will learn what your final dread tastes like when I drag your children with me into that fathomless black of complete subsumption.”

The copies of the Hatchling and the Fingerling shuddered in terror all around the shattered and warped ruins of Weave, and Uva sneered.

The two Eldritch Gods were all too similar in the way they behaved, in what they believed. They too wanted to hold everything under their own dominion, much like any mortal conqueror, and to them, the idea of surrendering anything at all was beyond vile and repugnant. In most cases, she wouldn't have been able to make them consider it at all, but the only thing that they hated more than giving a portion of themselves to her practically for free was to see what belonged to them taken by an adversary.

"So be it. You think that I'm good as a vessel, but it matters little what you think. Right now, the only one that matters is me. And since I cannot reason with you—"

“No!” the Eldest and Stranger cried at the same time, trying to interrupt her.

"—then I think I will deal with the other."

“NO!” the Eldritch Gods roared, their voices thundering inside her, shattering whatever still remained of this facsimile of Weave entirely, and then their words and thoughts and intentions were joined as one, though the Stranger would never know it. "Fine, damn you, fine! Let this metamorphosis take shape under your terms. Let you be an inheritor instead of a husk. Take this power, and suffer for it! Take this power so that we might still remain, so that we might still endure. Take this power now!"

“So mote it be,” Uva whispered, barely able to hide her hateful amusement. “It’s been good striking this bargain with the both of you. If only sense could have seized you sooner.”

And at once, both the Fingerling and the Hatchling were severed from the direct control of their gods, and offered wholesale to the Umbral. The war within her soul stopped. The hostile wills fighting over her Skills ceased. But both the Fingerling and the Hatchling remained, and as they waited for Uva’s judgment, the reduced beings called out to her, only one of each now, drifting in the darkness.

“Are you to consume me now?” the Hatchling whispered, its voice smaller and weaker than Uva had ever known it to be. “Are you to become what I was meant to be?”

Uva let out a scoff. “No. Not before I see you both fused once more.”

And the final step to her deception took shape as she commanded the Hatchling and Fingerling to embrace each other within her soul, within her flesh. From there, a higher metamorphosis began to blossom from the flesh that was Uva Mettabon.

Feat Gained: Paracosm of Pacts and Flesh (Unique)

Paracosm of Pacts and Flesh (Unique) - Allows the Pathbearer to draw subsumed consciousnesses into a budding inner dimension shaped from pure thought. The maximum number of minds stored within the paracosm is determined by the Pathbearer’s overall Skill and mana capacity.

Curse Gained: Apostate of the Eldest - The creatures and Seekers bound to the Eldest will be compelled to reclaim what you have stolen…

Curse Gained: Apostate of the Stranger - The creatures and Seekers bound to the Stranger will be compelled to reclaim what you have stolen...
