“Lyeneru said much the same,” Ali muttered, looking down at her feet. People and monsters would come whether she liked it or not; all she could do was be ready. “I just hoped… I had more time.”

“There is some time, dear,” Lira said. “No need to look so glum. And you’re not alone.”

Tears suddenly pricked at Ali’s eyes. What she would not have given to hear her mother say just that one word, ‘dear’. Maybe to tell her off. Lira was being so sweet, it hurt… in a good way. Having her aunt around was such a gift!

Cautiously, she asked, “What can we do now?” One thing was certain, Lira did not have a combat class, and she had limited avenues with which to defend herself. Ali’s defenses would have to work doubly hard for both of them.

“Perhaps you could give me some of your monsters?” she said, looking up at the Forest Guardian that still hovered protectively beside her.

“I don’t have enough mana to fill this area with monsters,” Ali said, even with her sudden influx from choosing her Acolyte to boost her wisdom. “You can’t make any creatures of your own, can you?” She had used almost her entire mana pool making the six Forest Guardians to face Alexander Gray, and now she had to divide her forces between monsters to protect, and ones she could take with her on quests and jobs.

“No, that is not the way of my class. I can influence and charm some monsters – beasts and elementals of nature or plant magic. But for any others, humanoids, undead, and the like, we need ways to defend ourselves.”

“I can leave this one here for you,” Ali said, patting the giant bark-covered leg beside her.

“Can you release it?”

“Release it? They become wild and aggressive when I release my mana from them,” Ali answered, not quite certain if she had understood Lira correctly. She had no idea what exactly was happening when she released her mana from her creatures, but the only time she had done it so far had seemed traumatic, resulting in extreme violence, and aggression bordering on madness from the monster.

Exactly how dungeon-break monsters are often described, she suddenly realized. While she knew her monsters were merely summons, she was loath to cause any unnecessary suffering if she could avoid it. Yes. Not good. Don’t–

“Yes, release it,” Lira confirmed. “I will soothe its spirit.”

Oh, she really wants it released… for taming? Anxious for what would happen when the giant Elemental went berserk, she backed up and erected a barrier preemptively between them and the monster.

“Ready?” she asked. I hope this is not a bad idea. But Lira seemed calm and confident, nodding and smiling. On second thoughts, she backed up a couple more steps and bit her lip to keep herself from saying something thoughtless at her aunt’s serene smile.

Ali released her mana reservation, feeling it snap back with a stinging recoil, and immediately the Guardian let out a deafening roar, shaking its head back and forth, and stamping the ground. It turned eyes filled with glowing madness on them as if to attack, but Lira simply stepped around the barrier and extended a hand toward it, and Ali felt a heavy pressure in the surge of mana Lira was emitting. The enormous Forest Guardian stopped and lowered its head toward her.

It's trembling! Ali stared at it in amazement. The creature dwarfed Lira, towering over her. But her mere presence had quietened the monster. Lira reached out and placed her hand on its lowered broad armored head and whispered something to the creature and it began to emit a low-pitched rumbling sound from deep within its chest. Bright emerald-green mana flowed from her hand into the monster, taking up residence in its chest as a glowing kernel, similar to the green and gold knots that still rested within her Kobolds’ chests.

“Why don’t you help us by guarding the forest?” Lira asked it gently. Raising its head, it moved off with a purpose, a little spring in its gait.

It looks like a puppy that just got a treat. A giant, deadly puppy that weighs several tons.

“You just tamed it?” Ali asked incredulously. While she had seen no overt magic, what had just happened had been just as amazing as some powerful sorcery.

“I think my magic is more like making friends,” Lira said. “It will help to protect us.”

“How does it work?” Ali asked. “I mean, what exactly is happening when I release them?”

“Nobody is entirely certain,” Lira answered, gazing thoughtfully at the now-freed Forest Guardian walking through the forest. She looked at Ali. “I believe that when a summoner creates a creature, they are simply creating an empty living vessel. The mana you leave inside it is your soul or energy – obviously, the metaphysical implications of that have been debated for millennia without resolution. It’s what animates the creature.”

“Why doesn’t it die when I release it, then?”

“It is still a living vessel, and nature cannot tolerate an imbalance like that. I believe in a soul or a spirit, independent of the will or ego or the physical being itself. Summoned monsters do not have that, and in many ways can be considered as an extension of your own will or mana.”“So I’m just talking to myself when I converse with my Kobolds?” Ali asked.

“In a manner of speaking,” Lira answered. “They still may have their own intelligence and memories, but your mana is what gives them life. When you release them, they still have your mana, but it’s severed, and will eventually run out and they will die.”

“But…” Something didn’t quite add up. “You put your mana into the Guardian,” Ali said.

“Yes, I replaced your mana with mana from my domain,” Lira said. “The Guardian is now my summoned monster, even though I do not have the skill to summon creatures as you do.”

“But the bear is different?” That kernel of emerald-green had not been present – Ali would definitely have noticed it.

“The bear and I had a chat, and he agreed to reside in my domain and protect it in exchange for a home in a mana-dense environment,” Lira answered. “He also likes it when I scratch him behind his ears.”

Ali mimed a severe case of dangly jaw. “So he has a soul?”

“Yes,” Lira chuckled. “If you believe in that. He has his own independent will and chooses to be here. In that regard, my skill is similar to a Beast Tamer. I can facilitate a mutually beneficial partnership with monsters and creatures that live within my forest. If a soulless vessel is supplied with mana for long enough using a skill like that, they can spontaneously develop their own spirit or soul – it is the way Beast Tamers gain companions from dungeon spawns.”

“That’s complicated,” Ali said, nodding thoughtfully. She wasn’t sure if Lira was right, but what she had said seemed to fit – her creatures did seem to be an extension of her own will, and even she found it suddenly unsettling to have her mana ripped away. Certainly, the dungeon-spawned Goblins that had laid siege to Myrin’s Keep had behaved nothing like her guildmate Havok. But there were some obvious questions – why had the undead survived the death of Alexander Gray? They were not living vessels. She put the idea to the side for now, resolving to go read her necromancy book now that she had some notion of what to look for – it was the closest thing she had to a reference on summoning unless Ryn could find something better in the library.

Her former minion, the Forest Guardian, seemed to be happily exploring the forest now. He probably thinks Lira is the queen of the forest. But as she studied its behavior, she could find no trace of the trauma and aggression she had been worried about. The transfer to her mana seemed to have solved that problem. She remained with Lira for a while, chatting and creating a few more Guardians, Timber Wolves, and wyverns to populate her forest to help her defend against incursions.

“That’s enough dear, and thank you,” Lira said after she had created a little more than a dozen monsters. “I do not have a large enough domain to support more. I will guard this cavern for both of us.”

At least Lira will be well protected. Ali could still hear the harsh words of the Night Elf criticizing her dungeon for having no creatures to protect it. But now, at least, she could see a couple of wyverns swooping among the trees and roosting on the huge oak branches. For the rest of her domain, though, she would need to spend a lot of mana.

Thinking of Lyeneru, she headed back down to the library, intent on getting through some of the dungeon delves in her book. She wouldn’t be caught unprepared again.

But when she got to the camp area and the couches, she immediately knew something was wrong. Malika was curled up in a tight ball, holding her head and gasping in pain, her body and face drenched with sweat. She looked, in a word, terrible – almost gray of cast, the veins openly pulsing on her neck.

“Malika!” Ali cried as she flew over to her friend.

“I tried to remove my skill,” Malika got out through teeth clenched in agony.

“What? Why?”

Malika jolted upright, abruptly ripped from her sleep by the sudden jolt of pain crashing through her body and mind.

Your bloodline has become unstable.Your bloodline has deteriorated. -3% to maximum health.

She gasped, unable to do anything other than hold her head and hope for the pain to subside. Her mind recoiled, battered by repeated jarring bolts of pain until the frequency slowed and the intensity abated a bit.

Unstable? The notification filled her with a cold fearful premonition. With her brow prickling with pain-induced sweat, she pulled up her aptitudes and looked at her bloodline, desperately hoping she would not find what she knew would be there.

Aptitudes- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): Unstable.

As a child back in Bakahn Village, she had heard the horror stories of folks whose bloodline went awry, tearing their souls and minds apart. Often, these unfortunate souls had to be killed by their own families after they lost control and tried to kill everything around them. She had never understood what caused the problem, but now she knew she was facing it personally. And the pain… it felt as if someone were literally stabbing her mind and soul.

There must be something wrong with my skill. She knew with a chilling certainty that her bloodline skills were destroying her. But knowing that was no defense against the rising terror and pain.

Malika had always dreamed of earning a skill like Soul Sight. Eye magic, in particular, had always inspired her, and as a child, she had demanded every story be retold countless times. There it was, the final skill on her fully unlocked skill list, staring at her.

Killing me.

With a heavy heart, she pulled up her discarded skills and picked one at random from the list, barely able to even read the blurry descriptions.

No free skill slots available, choose a skill to replace.Soul Sight will be replaced with Flurry of Blows, all skill levels will be lost.

She paused, looking at the choice. Maybe I’m not meant to be strong. Blinking back her tears, she confirmed the choice.

Skill replacement failed. Bloodline is unstable.Your bloodline has deteriorated. -6% to maximum mana.Your bloodline has deteriorated. -2% to maximum health.Your bloodline has deteriorated. -3% to maximum stamina.

What the heck? That’s so… wrong! Her vision dimmed and flickered to black as the pain shattered through her mind once more, driving her to a twitching and spasming fetal ball. It was all she could do to prevent herself from passing out again as she lay groaning on the couch holding her head.

“Malika!” she heard Ali’s voice cry out.

She must be so worried. Malika clenched her jaw against the agony and managed, “I tried to remove my skill.” She could vaguely make out the forms of Ali and Mato hovering nearby and sense the warmth of holy magic attempting to heal her while a Kobold chirped softly in the background.

But it had no effect.

“Something is wrong with my bloodline,” she managed to rasp. Admitting the pain was not nearly as shameful as admitting her weakness.

“I’m trying,” Mato reassured her, but his voice was full of doubt. He knew it was no good.

“What can we do?” Ali asked.

“I don’t know,” Malika answered, holding back against another jolt of pain. As it subsided, she sat up. The respite seemed like pure bliss in comparison to the pain. “The only people who might know are the Ahn Khen elders.”

“Let’s go, then,” Mato said immediately.

“Go?” Malika whispered.

The only elder she had ever seen was the one who had lived at Bakahn, her former hometown. And Malika was certain she had not survived the devastation of that night.

What will happen if we can’t find help? The thought filled her with a dread more powerful than her shame.

She had to speak. Slowly, she forced words out past her clenched teeth, “I doubt we can find one, there aren’t many left. We would have to travel to each village.”

“Then we do that,” Ali said, getting up. “Mato, you help Malika and meet me at the Novaspark Academy building. I’ll go find Ryn and get a map and some gold – we’re going to need to buy a teleport. Fast.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
