He continued to count the seconds while running, and when it was close to a minute, he dodged out from the thicket early. Right on cue, the boar charged, diverted from the thicket by Calen’s fake. He ducked back towards the thicket and fired an arrow trailing his chains of light, pinning the boar out in the open. He retrieved a mana potion and downed it and activated Righteous Fury, a burning rush within him. His chains binding the boar wouldn’t give him a whole lot more than several seconds – even with the increased spell power gained from his ignited mana. In the small window of time he had created, he unleashed his arrows, burning through his mana at a precipitous rate to fuel the most potent assault he could muster, aiming for the upper left flank and shoulder. The monster was too big for his arrows to reach the heart, but piercing the lung or wounding the leg would slow it down for a safer kill. A stream of glowing arrows smashed into the struggling boar until it broke the bindings using sheer brute strength. Calen fired three more shots, judging the distance and the speed of the boar using the remaining duration of Righteous Fury to boost his running speed. Behind him, he heard a thunderous crash, and a soft chime, and then silence descended on the forest.

Breathing hard, Calen watched as Lyeneru descended, landing beside the corpse. I’m glad I practiced this strategy with Ali in the jungle.

“Good,” Lyeneru said, producing a slender, gleaming blade and rapidly skinning and butchering the pig, storing everything. She straightened up and rolled her shoulders. “Alright, let’s go.” And she took off.

Calen scrambled to follow her, and they repeated the pattern again and again. Whenever he ran low on mana, they would land and, with a woefully inadequate amount of time to rest and recover mana, she would make him fight again.

For the remainder of the daylight hours, she pushed him harder than he had ever been pushed before. Exhaustion and continuous fighting burned through his supply of mana potions at a precipitous rate, but at long last, his notification chime sounded. Anxious for something she would approve of, he checked.

Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 29.Eclipse has reached level 20.Righteous Fury has reached level 13 (+2).Azrael’s Wings has reached 10 (+4)Requirements met for skill advancement.Eclipse has reached level 20.Mentor: Lyeneru Silverleaf.Got the drop on more than 50 monsters, striking first unseen.Delivered critical damage undetected from the cover of stealth more than 5 times.Eclipse gains Ambush.Eclipse – level 20Mana: You have stealth in shadowy or dark places. (This effect ends when you take an action that draws attention to yourself.)Stamina: Ambush your enemies from stealth, your first undetected attack gains + [40 + skill / 2] % critical strike chance and + [80 + skill] % critical damage. Light, Stealth, Illusion, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

Ambush! His heart skipped a beat as he saw the advancement he had been trying to unlock for so long. But it was not the survivability advancement she wanted. Still breathing heavily from the fight, he shared the details with her anyway.

“Take it,” she said immediately.

“But…”

“You don’t want it?” she asked, raising an eyebrow in surprise.

“I do… I really do,” he said. “But you said I need something to help with survivability against the Death Knight?”

“You can’t pass up Ambush without hamstringing your build permanently,” she said. “Even if it doesn’t help us for this hunt, you must take it.”

Relieved, he nodded and accepted the advancement and then summoned his wings and followed her as she led the way onward, her eyes constantly scanning the brush for his next test.

She’s right, just because it’s not what I need right now doesn’t mean it’s not great. He had wanted Ambush for a long time, and finally, he had it. Critical strikes were devastating attacks, and the version he had unlocked would apply to his magic enhancements, too. If I could just find a way to use it with Righteous Fury…

“Where did you learn that trick?” Lyeneru asked him, suddenly.

“I read the chapter in your book about kiting, and I had a fight with Ali where I was forced to practice it because Mato and Malika were knocked unconscious by Dreamcloud spores,” Calen answered.

“No, not the kiting. You delayed your skill till the point of impact.”

Oh, that. “Ali told me it was possible, and then it was simply a matter of practicing a whole lot,” Calen answered. “Why?” He shut his mouth quickly, anxious that she would be upset with his presumption.

“We teach it in one of the Pathfinder training classes at the guild,” she answered. “Typically, it’s only mastered by advanced trainees who have been working with us for some time.”

His heart soared as he realized she had offered him a great compliment.

Suddenly, his notification chime sounded again. Eh, what’s this? I’m not even doing anything? Eagerly, he scanned the text.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Azrael’s Wings has reached level 10.Patron deity: The Wanderer.Mentor: Lyeneru Silverleaf.Used flight to save your life in combat.Used more than 20 times maximum mana for flight in one day.Scouted the Lirasian Forest from the air. Azrael’s Wings gains Sustained Flight.Azrael’s Wings – level 10Stamina: Create ethereal wings made of light magic. You can fly. Reserve: 20%Mana: Boost your flight speed. Channeled.Light, Movement, DexterityAccept this advancement?

Oh! Quickly, he shared his second advancement with Lyeneru, but he knew she would make him take it before she even saw it. The change didn’t simply add to his previous ability, but it seemed to modify it.

“Double influence advancement, very nice,” she said. “That’s probably why you got such a good flight advancement at such a low skill level. Now we should be able to make some ground on that Death Knight.”

“I should take it, then?”

“I would recommend it.”

Was that actual humor from the dour Pathfinder?

At once, he accepted the advancement and found his old method of channeling his mana still allowed him the same freedom of flight. Calen turned it off and instead activated his skill with stamina. His familiar ethereal light wings appeared from his back, and he found himself flying without using mana.

So much better! And, according to the skill description… He pulsed mana into the second part of the skill to boost his flight speed. Immediately, a second set of wings appeared, and his speed accelerated dramatically. Obviously, it wasn’t sustainable, but he now could move in bursts of high speed, returning to his normal speed to recover mana while flying indefinitely.

“There’s still light,” Lyeneru said. “Let’s put your new wings to good use.”

Ali’s eyes fluttered open and she rolled over to check on Malika, but her friend was still sleeping restlessly on the couch. A twitch and a low groan made her heart plummet, but double-checking only showed her friend was not awake.

Dreaming? Or pain? I should let her sleep. It was odd to wake and not find Malika meditating, but presumably, she needed to sleep off whatever had caused her pain. Ali got up and crept past her sleeping friends, seating herself at the table with the small pile of books Ryn had left for her, and threw herself wholeheartedly into the task of duplicating them.

While Malika tossed and turned fitfully on the couch, Ali recalled how painful and disorienting her Arcane Insight had been when she had first used it. Her new skill is also a passive perception skill. She probably just needs time to adjust.

Leaving Malika to rest and recover, Ali flew herself up through the atrium and out into Lira’s Forest. There were several things she had been putting off, and now that Lyeneru had so clearly highlighted her shortcomings she was motivated to end her procrastination. It wasn’t like she was being lazy – there just always seemed to be more important things to take care of. The Town Council, for instance. Or evil necromancers targeting her specifically. She sighed.

Why can’t I just live here in peace?

First things first, she thought, glancing at the Forest Guardian she had to roam among the trees up here. It had not provided the wisdom attribute she wanted for her Empowered Summoner skill, but if she needed strength, it was certainly the right choice. And her skill’s hour-long recharge had long since expired.

“What are your highest attributes?” she asked, turning to study the two Kobolds that had followed her up into the forest.

“Intelligence, Ancient Mistress,” answered the gruff Kobold mage. No surprises here, the highest attribute of the Fire Mage was obvious, given that she was currently using him to boost her intelligence.

“Wisdom, Mistress.” The soft voice of her Acolyte of Azryet confirmed what she had suspected. Healing magic users seemed to typically favor wisdom over intelligence for their magic, and although her healers were monsters, they seemed to follow similar rules to the clergy.

“Perfect,” she replied, triggering a delighted smile on the face of her Kobold. It’s handy that the Kobolds can just tell me. It wasn’t nearly so easy for her other monster types. She selected the golden-scaled Acolyte for her second Empowered Summoner target, and her wisdom instantly jumped by eighty-six points.

Wow! Immediately, she realized two important things. Her mana had just jumped by two thousand five hundred and eighty due to the wisdom increase, and the stacked effects of her Magical and Domain aptitudes. It was a dramatic increase and something she really couldn’t afford to ignore. But that brought her to the second realization; the increase in strength she had gained from choosing the Forest Guardian had been way more than double, likely due to its significantly higher level.

If I can find a higher-level wisdom-based monster… She decided to start a list in her notebook, channeling Calen’s obsession with his notes. ‘Find higher-level monsters with wisdom,’ she wrote. Perhaps I can ask Lira for suggestions?

Now for the defenses. She had little experience in making a cavern defensible, but she flew over and checked the tunnel entrance that led to the mountains anyway. No lack of motivation! Ali told herself, looking it over with a doubly critical eye. She made a few minor adjustments to the rock formations to make it a little less obvious, but it was already quite well concealed.

Next, she checked every stream or trickle of water entering the cavern through the rocky walls. She was pretty sure they must be overflows from the myriad Myrin River tributaries that trickled down from high up in the mountains. For each channel she carefully reinforced the rock, making sure that although the water could flow in freely, there wasn’t any excess space or weakness. When she was done, the water flow had increased substantially. Oh, hmm, this must be where the fish are getting in, she thought, observing several fleeting flashes of sleek silvery shapes darting past.

She considered the problem for a moment before she flexed her domain mastery again, this time shaping a substantial hollow in the center of the cavern. She filled the depression with her aquatic mushrooms, sprouting them in large patches, pausing only to replenish her mana with Inspiration. And then finally, she rerouted all the streams into the hollow and sent the outflow of her newly created lake into the larger stream that flowed into her other cavern.

That looks much better, she thought, inspecting her work. But although the pristine clear water was pretty, it wasn’t going to help defend her dungeon. Especially not if a water-type monster snuck in, but she had ensured the inlets were at least limited in size. For all that Lira was enormously powerful, she had no combat skills with which to defend herself and Ali was loath to leave her to defend herself against whatever new assassins might show up. Hmm, maybe I should check the outlets can also handle the extra flow I just–

“Monster!”

The warning shout of her Kobold Fire Mage snapped her gaze around, and she found herself staring up at the largest bear she had ever seen, deep-set red eyes glowing as it voiced a thunderous growl. It towered over her menacingly, easily half again as big as Mato, and it had heavy ridges of hide or bone sticking out from its fur, protecting its head and shoulders.

Dire Bear – Beast – level 57

Her golden shield snapped into place around her instantaneously. “Come!” she said, calling for her Forest Guardian, and the bear instantly looked up at the sound of the ground shaking from her enormous elemental’s charge.

With a surge of emerald-green mana, the tree beside her rippled and warped, and Lira stepped out from the trunk.

“She is family,” Lira said, resting a hand on the giant monster’s shoulder.

To Ali’s amazement, the bear stopped growling and simply sniffed at her before lowering its head again and turning to amble off into the forest.

“What…” How did I miss that?

“I’m sorry about that,” Lira said. “He is a good bear, but he didn’t know who you were.”

“You have a bear?” When did she get a bear? I didn’t think she could summon monsters…

“Aliandra, we need to talk. I fear, in my selfishness, I have put you in grave danger.”

“What do you mean?” Ali had no idea what Lira was getting at. The necromancer was dead, and the danger was a thing of the past. Then she glanced at the retreating bear as her own Forest Guardian hovered protectively over her and got an inkling of what Lira might mean.

“When I made the Elder Tree, I did not anticipate it would boost your mana density to such a degree. Dungeon mana, in particular – but really, any domain mana when it is dense enough – is notorious for drawing in monsters from great distances. That Dire Bear showed up yesterday. I was fortunate to be able to charm it, but there will be more, and so we will need to be better prepared.”

“Aah, hmm… What can we do?” Ali glanced back toward the library and the towering pillar of dense mana that was visible like a corona around the immense tree. One approach was to deconstruct it, but she couldn’t do that to Lira. She didn’t even want to voice that suggestion aloud; it would be traumatic for her aunt – especially after all she had been through already. She had always read that dungeons attracted not only adventurers and delvers, but monsters too. She had simply not connected that to the fact that she was a dungeon herself. She glanced worriedly again at the level fifty-seven Dire Bear.

“Long term, you must simply become stronger.”

