“Of course not. That’s where they started. These days? No one with half a brain tries to set up a bar there. It’s a world apart. The Watch is too good, and Walled Cities…no, you can’t just go in and out. I’m told there are places there, but it’s a nightmare. If here’s got a bit of danger, a bar over there is like dancing naked in front of Crelers. In Rhir.”
Mrsha and the inductees nodded. The two tutors conferred. What else was there to say?
“Just enjoy yourselves. Citizens get to relax. However, if you have a problem, come talk to us. Sentries or Masons will sort it out. If it’s a huge problem? An Architect will resolve it.”
“Are there…there’s dancing. Is the Golden Gnoll going to perform?”
The [Bartender] laughed.
“Perform? You mean like her speeches? No, she doesn’t do that. What would we do? This is just an underground tavern. It’s not organized enough for anything more than the odd play.”
Play? Mrsha’s ears pricked up. The incense-Drake pointed out the Mason who’d agreed to help the Drake in trouble.
“We have a few [Actors]. They’re all clamoring to hear about those Players of Pallass, but I keep telling them—it’s not the same. I think? Anyways, if it ever comes to our city, I hope they don’t make anyone suspicious…ah, I think the Architects have sorted their work out.”
Mrsha saw the last piece fall into place as Qwera finished her talks. She took a portion of Vetn’s gold as the Thief of Clouds, so stingy in every other regard, gave a small fortune over to the Drake at the door.
“That will sort you out for four months. Resolve the burnt house with that. I’ll put you in touch with a [Merchant] who has connections among the Builder’s Guild.”
The Architect, Qwera, had been talking with some of the people here. Not about being found out, but about more mundane issues. A bad fire that had left some of them homeless. They’d doubled-up with generous individuals, but her arrival had heralded a change.
“Thank you.”
“Just invest in decent fire-wards. Alright. Is that Ysara? Vetn, keep the rest. My work here is done. Onto Mrsha.”
Qwera was headed towards a Human woman who’d stopped just inside. Mrsha peered at her. Wow. Blue hair! She looked…not at all familiar. Must have been Mrsha’s imagination. No one whose name started with a ‘Y’ that Mrsha knew had a tattoo or hair like that.
She turned back to scribbling on a pad of parchment she’d been given. The [Bartender] frowned as Mrsha did her best and copied what she remembered.
 
“Two species, both alike in dignity,
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny…hold on. Sheiklessa! Come over here and look at this!”
 
As a crowd gathered around the girl who had heard the ‘famous plays’ so many times she could remember most of the lines, Vetn sidled up to Tesy.
“Hey. Enjoying yourself?”
The white-scale Drake jumped and sipped hurriedly at his drink.
“What? Oh—it’s fine. I’m just not uh, among my p—the crew.”
“To overthrow the walls.”
“Right. Right.”
The two stopped. Mrsha glanced up and saw how Vetn sat back, and Tesy fiddled with his own charcoal pencil. For that matter, Qwera, who’d pointed Mrsha out to Ysara, was watching her two younger friends as well.
“…I told them that you were Sellme.”
Tesy jumped, but Vetn had his paws in his pockets.
“I um. Told them what you did last time. Would you be willing to do it again?”
“…Sure.”
Vetn’s grateful smile made Tesy answer, but it turned a bit apprehensive as the Thief of Clouds beckoned the door-Drake over. The Drake was as anxious as Tesy, and they began to confer in hushed voices. Mrsha missed what was happening. She was scribbling as fast as she could, but there was no way she was going to transcribe all of Juliet and Romeo in one go.
She did her best, and the crowd, already wanting to recite it on stage, was delighted, but Qwera grabbed Mrsha despite the protests and towed her over to Ysara.
“Hello, Mrsha. Are you…Mrsha from The Wandering Inn? Of Liscor? My younger sister wrote to me about you.”
Mrsha’s tiny jaw opened wide as Ysara introduced herself. She backed up and the merchant of arms and alchemy snorted.
“That’s someone who’s met Yvlon and Ylawes, alright.”
She told me you were an arms merchant in the north!
“She is. A respectable member of House Byres in the north, an upstanding armor merchant. A filthy degenerate in the south.”
The two women laughed at the joke. Then Ysara turned back to Mrsha.
“You had better explain what happened. I understand some of it—but if you’re the reason armed Gnolls are waylaying people on the roads, this is serious.”
“I know of a safe place to take her, Ysara. We have to lose the trackers on her. Even if we use a lesser teleport scroll…we have four stashed, but they’ll pick up her scent. Unless we either get her so far away there’s no chance of them tracking her, like over sea. Or…”
Mrsha’s eyes went round as Qwera laid out a brilliant, and brilliantly dangerous plan. Ysara’s brows rose ever higher.
“That’s incredibly dangerous, Qwera.”
“Which is why it will save her. I won’t have Plain’s Eye tearing down this place or putting this city into chaos. We move out tonight. But it depends on you helping us. I need someone to be a ‘client’, and someone I can trust.”
The woman sighed, but looked at Mrsha and nodded.
“Yvlon knows her too. I can hardly refuse. Alright. What’s…”
All three broke off from the planning as a great cry ensued, and the attention around the plays, plans to spirit Mrsha out of danger, and the general hum of the bar ended. For there stood Vetn, smiling wider than Mrsha had ever…
No—smiling. Which she didn’t know if she had seen since he’d rescued her. The Thief of Clouds looked proud, too. Immensely, deeply proud. Because it wasn’t himself he was proud of.
It was the Drake with the magic brush, who shyly lowered it. He backed up. Mrsha didn’t understand, for a second, as a tall female Drake gasped and looked into a mirror that Vetn held up.
It was only when she saw the same dress that she did a double-take. Yet every line of the Sentry had changed. Even her face was different. Mrsha stared at Sellme and realized.
He had painted her. The Drake stood back, and tears sprang to her eyes.
“Careful. You’ll get it wet.”
Sellme muttered, awkwardly. He was taken aback by the hug, and kiss on his cheek. Then, the Drake stepped back.
A second person begged for the [Magical Painter]’s help. This time, Mrsha watched. Even Qwera and Ysara watched.
“Is that…Sellme?”
“Yes.”
“Did you know he could…?”
Qwera half-rose. She looked to Vetn, who was hovering, then clearly invited the Drake to a dance as someone produced an actual instrument, a violin, and began to play a song different from the peppy beat from the song crystal. The Golden Gnoll looked at Tesy as he began to work, swiftly, conferring with a female Gnoll in her sixties.
“No. But Vetn did.”
This time, Mrsha heard a song suited to a ballroom. It suited the magnificent Drake dancing with the charming Thief of Clouds, holding back tears, which would spoil the moment. Someone else joined her. A handsome Gnoll, his fur gleaming like silver, dressed in an old suit that fit him as only an artist could envision it.
More people turned, and suddenly they were out of place. For a moment. For it seemed like two figures had emerged from a painting of a royal court.
For a little bit they were like characters in the wrong world of the real. Then Tesy swept across the floor, creating a pattern, then copying it. The wood turned, becoming marble tiles. He swept across the plain furniture, adding gloss and gilding. For a second, the female Drake turned. Then the Gnoll gave her a bow, awkwardly, and gestured. She laughed and took his arm and they tried to dance like they were on that ballroom floor.
Sellme. Mrsha’s eyes were wide. The [Magical Painter] worked so fast. Not perfectly. If you looked closely, you could see imperfection. But only if you looked. He painted two more people, listening to their whispers, as people walked onto the dance floor.
“Ah.”
Ysara herself rose and walked forwards, like she was dreaming. To show them the dances she remembered. Not for her enjoyment, but to complete the scene. Qwera hesitated, half-rising herself, all plans forgotten for a moment. Then her eyes followed two figures.
Vetn and Tesy. The Thief of Clouds had been propositioned and he was swinging a partner around in a dance on the illusory floor, laughing with delight. The tune was picking up; no somber, boring waltz, this. Almost everyone was dancing and Mrsha felt like doing some herself.
Then she saw Vetn turn, and the panting [Magical Painter] looked up. Vetn strode over, paw outstretched, beaming with pride and admiration. He offered a hand to Sellme.
The Drake froze. Tesy stared at Vetn, and the Thief of Clouds hesitated. It was something only Qwera and Mrsha saw, amid the great cheer. After all—it was only three seconds. Then Vetn stepped back, was seized by another partner, and Tesy sat, fiddling with his brush.
Oh. So that’s how it is.
Qwera looked down at Mrsha. She nodded, sadly.
“That’s how it is.”
Even so, she rose, and carried Tesy herself into a dance, and applause from the rest for his work. Sellme did smile, then. A tentative…ally.
Mrsha took Ysara’s hand and they did a simple waltz to show the others how it was done in Terandria and Izril’s Human courts. She looked around the grand ballroom, the bar that existed across Izril that she had never known about. She smiled, for a while, until the paint began to flake away.
Then to reality she returned. But she never forgot.
Nor did Qwera. She approached Tesy as he helped remove paint, told the tearful Drakes and Gnolls he couldn’t make it permanent. That he was sorry. Qwera turned to Vetn, as Ysara waited.
“We have a plan to escape this net of hunters, Vetn.”
“A teleport scroll? They can track it.”
“I am sure they can.”
The Golden Gnoll replied. She swung her eyes to Ysara. Then she calmly, carefully, picked up Mrsha, and handed her to Ysara. The little Gnoll wiggled, but only a little bit.
“I have now enslaved and captured this Gnoll girl. I will sell her to you for two coppers, Ysara.”
“Hm. I’m not in the business of taking [Slaves], but I’ll make an exception if you take the rest of my products, Qwera. Dead gods, this is going to be a problem if I head north and they ask me about cargo in the last six months.”
“Sometimes you have to sell people.”
Qwera turned back to Vetn. The young Gnoll was blinking. Tesy looked outraged as he whirled around…then saw Mrsha waving. Mrsha the Helpless wiggled her ears at him.
“Vetn. Ysara is going to stay here for two days. I’m riding south at best speed; I’ve decided to amend my travel plans. In two days, I would like to hire the Thief of Clouds to steal something. To steal something, and to bring it to me, in secret, past all security and watchers.”
“Hm. And what would that be?”
The Thief grinned at the smart Gnoll friend. Qwera looked at Mrsha. The object of extreme value waved.
“Oh, I have an idea. I’ll pay you five thousand gold.”
The Thief of Clouds considered it. His eyes sparkled at the challenge. He looked at the object he had to steal.
“I think I can use my Skills on that. Make it fifteen thousand?”
Qwera grabbed for his ear and he ducked away. Mrsha held up a bit of parchment.
Make it twenty thousand!
Now that was how you cheated with Skills and meaning. The Golden Gnoll winked at her. Mrsha liked Qwera already. Vetn, Tesy, they were alright.
And she…she was going to beat those stinky Plain’s Eye Gnolls. Mrsha wiggled in delight at her plan. No one was going to expect this.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Chieftains had to be led. By custom, the hosting tribe, Az’muzarre, along with the eldest [Shaman], that of Gaarh Marsh, convened the event. The vast tent that the chattering Chieftains and [Shamans], introducing themselves, settling in clear groups or deliberately apart, gathered in, had been fashioned into a round bowl, so that someone could stand in the center and talk, or speak and be seen and heard across the vast place.
There were over two thousand representatives, from tribes big and small. A vast gathering. Dangerous?
Well, if all the Chieftains and [Shamans] and greatest members of their tribes were to perish in this one moment, certainly. But apart from Adetr’s paranoia, there was little to fear.
From Named Adventurers—although Lehra wasn’t among those actually attending because she presumed it was going to be boring—to the many warriors outside, there was no way anyone was getting inside.
Of course, Gnolls could be invited and they often were, to give testimonial, put forth ideas…Krshia heard a murmur.
“The Raskghar.”
Her ears pricked up. A growling Chieftain sat, bright-eyed, muttering down to Demas Metal’s Chieftain.
“Are they going to appear before us today? I’d rather get it over with. I can still smell them.”
“Today, unless a tribe brings up something of more importance still. I cannot imagine what that might be.”
The first Chieftain, that of Heshfur’s tribe, one Krshia didn’t know, far to the east, grinned and sat back.
“Then you’ve never been to one of these events before. Tomorrow, then.”
Krshia was vibrating with nerves. She was about to bring up something greater than even the Raskghar. Which would it be first? Akrisa noticed her younger sister’s nerves and leaned over to whisper, so quietly only they could hear.
“Gift first. Show them magic. Then tell them a key to it should not be slain. Leave Inkar for Eska and her tribe. First our gift, then Mrsha. Then Earth.”
Cetrule nodded imperceptibly. Krshia nodded. That was a logical way to do it. She had seen some of the other gifts of the tribes. Some were fine, others mediocre.
Silverfang’s? She didn’t know if even a great tribe could beat it. Mind you, not all had tried as hard. Krshia and Akrisa had planned and labored for two decades to make their debut here, and impress the others. She was almost positive the spellbook would be beyond others.
Even so, she waited as Az’muzarre’s Chieftain spoke. She was an old Gnoll, a [Warrior] to her core. The Gaarh Marsh Tribe’s [Shaman] was even more old still, and when she died, it would probably be Plain’s Eye’s Ulcreziek who convened future meetings—if he didn’t pass away as well.
Theirs was a huge gathering in the center, surrounded by Steelfur and other traditional tribes. Woven Bladegrass sat far opposite with the ‘young’ tribes, progressives, newly-formed. Some, like Demas Metal, were carefully neutral.
