“Magus Grimalkin. You once lectured an [Innkeeper] about the value of perspective. Pallass is a Walled City. She is one young Gnoll. Now. My business here is concluded.”
He walked to the door. Grimalkin watched as the Drake walked outside, murmured to Duln, and vanished. He had seldom been without words to say. He strode to the door, to—
To do what? Grimalkin had a fist clenched. Magic-Captain Grimalkin, in his beloved city, stood there. He looked around, at a recently-commissioned anatomical diagram. He spun, fist raised—
He didn’t put his claw through it, or the wall. He didn’t kick anything. What was the point? No logic to breaking something.
Logic. Grimalkin saw it. He needed a book, no, an encyclopedia of tribes, a history book, a timeline…he could do that.
But what was the point? The Sinew Magus sat there. Head blank. He did not leave for the Meeting of Tribes.
He had orders. It only occurred to Grimalkin later, as he was unpacking, that Chaldion had pulled rank as Grand Strategist of Pallass. A rank almost without equal. However…it begged a question.
Was it just Pallass?
How high did the orders go?
 
——
 
He had not lied to her. That was what she found terrifying, now. Mrsha held onto the scaled claw, eyes wide. The Drake loosely holding her paw hadn’t moved. His eyes were wide, his painted, red scales shining.
Not by daylight. Not by evening’s light, or moonlight. By [Light] spells. Mrsha heard a familiar alarm, in this city, so much like Liscor.
“Tesy! Mrsha! Get on!”
A figure ran towards them, with three stolen horses in tow. Mrsha saw Vetn riding towards them. She saw him realize she wasn’t fit to ride one, and grabbed her. Tesy had to be shaken until he climbed into a saddle. They raced out the gates amid a terrified crowd, shouting [Guards]. Behind them, the city was chaos.
Another city fell, thanks to Sellme being there. But it was wrong to blame the [Magical Painter]. Mrsha looked back and heard howling. She felt her fur stand up. Yet those weren’t Raskghar. They were Gnolls.
Gnolls.
It had been so quick. First, it had been happy. A huge relief! They saved her, right when she was about to die.
The Drake with white scales and a brush that could paint fake doorways in walls, create a pit by artfully painting it on the street. Tesy, or Sellme, as he was known.
And the other Gnoll, the long-legged, fast sprinter. Vetn, or as they called him, the Thief of Clouds. Two famous individuals who actually knew each other. Who, unbeknownst to the rest of the world, were actually friends. It was thanks to Sellme that the Thief of Clouds had his iconic name.
By chance and luck, Vetn and Tesy had seen when Wer and Mrsha were cornered. He stole her right out of the clutches of the Doomslayers, the Plain’s Eye hunters. At first, Mrsha just shook with relief, as they hid with his Skill and saw the Gnolls fleeing Marwsh, having lost her trail.
“Vetn, Vetn, you mad Gnoll!”
Tesy squeaked as the young Gnoll collapsed, covered in sweat. He’d outrun horses, he was so fast! Mrsha saw Tesy peek up at the Gnolls—right until the [Thief] yanked his friend down by the tail.
“Don’t be stupid, Tesy! My Skill’s not perfect—those are Doomslayers!”
“Doom-what? They were about to kill this kid! In cold blood! They stabbed a [Guard]…just like that.”
The [Painter] was shaken. Vetn just gulped air.
“I thought you hated Boots.”
“Well, yes, but—that was attempted murder! And killing children? What was that? Hey, are you alright?”
Mrsha was frantically searching for her notepad and quill, but she’d dropped the notepad. She tried to sign, and saw Tesy blankly staring at her.
I am Mrsha!
“What’s she waving her arms around for? Are you okay, kid?”
Vetn raised his head. He saw Tesy looking blankly at Mrsha opening and closing her mouth and doing an ‘X’ with her arms. She hopefully made a basic sign with her paws.
“Looks like [Rogue]-talk, Tesy.”
“What’s that?”
“Hand-signs. Can you say something?”
“Apparently not. Hey! What’s that? You want this?”
Tesy blinked as Mrsha reached for his brush. He recoiled, but then handed it to her and let her draw on the grass. It was a beautiful paintbrush and felt magical to Mrsha.
 
I Mrsha. I cnnot tlk! Thnk u fr sving me.
 
She had to abbreviate because drawing on grass was hard. But Tesy and Vetn got the message. Vetn pulled out a spare roll of parchment and saved Mrsha the trouble of communicating via grass-paint and pantomimes.
“Mrsha? She is the girl who was kidnapped! That didn’t look like a rescue, though.”
“Tesy. She’s a white Gnoll. They weren’t rescuing her! I knew that Drake had no idea what she was doing.”
“Why? She’s a white Gnoll. I’m a white Drake. Until I color my scales. So what?”
Albinism didn’t mean the same thing across species, clearly. Mrsha had never seen Tesy, with his white scales with just the faintest hint of color, but it was just natural. White Gnolls on the other hand…
“It means she’s lost her tribe or was outcast. It’s a death-sentence among the tribes. Once they find you, you’re dead. They’ll attack you even if you flee continents. I grew up in the tribes, Tesy. They’re serious.”
“That’s crazy. Why?”
“They bring doom. That’s the rumor. Doombringers. One of them hangs around and Crelers attack, or a volcano erupts or a sinkhole swallows your entire tribe. Apparently it’s happened before. I don’t know. I’m not an expert. Listen, little girl. Was that your friend back there?”
He meant Wer. Mrsha nodded. Tesy inhaled.
“That Gnoll? Is he alive?”
“I don’t know. We can’t go back into the city. It’s on high-alert, see?”
Marwsh was indeed going insane with noise and activity. Their army was marching out the gates, following the Gnolls. Vetn shook his head.
“If he’s alive, I hope he’ll run. We can’t get back in. Well, I could, but what would I do? Maybe I could check—but we have to move.”
Tesy spoke with experience.
“Don’t bother. If they’ve got him, he’s safer. If not—they’ve locked down the streets. Martial law. You’ll just stand out. Let’s make tracks, Vetn. Hey, Mrsha, right? Don’t worry. You’re safe with us! This is Vetn, and I’m Tesy. I suppose we should tell her who we are, Vetn.”
“What? Why?”
The Gnoll [Thief] recoiled, but Tesy looked askance.
“She’s already seen your abilities! And they even shouted your name. Besides, she can’t talk.”
“She can write.”
“Don’t worry. She’s on the run, so she’s one of us. Use logic, Vetn.”
“I don’t think you know what logic is.”
However, they introduced themselves as Vetn pointed and led the way through the grasslands. It was only then that Mrsha realized she was in the company of two seasoned criminals. The Thief of Clouds, and Sellme.
Since she knew Wilovan and Ratici, Mrsha considered herself safe as thieves…literally. Tesy was shorter than most Drakes she knew who were adults, and he was chatty. Vetn was more reserved, but he was always shifting his weight, even when standing still. They were both young males, but high-level!
“Vetn and I are famous for defying the order of Walled Cities. I paint truth on the walls and he steals from the powerful.”
And gives to the poor?
Mrsha was excited because she knew all about Robin Hood from Erin’s stories. Tesy hesitated and Vetn coughed.
“Uh. No. Tesy’s the one with a big plan to end the Watch and change everything. I just steal things.”
“From power. You shake the foundations of those rich, greedy, corrupt people with all the power who make terrible laws.”
“…Sure? Wait, does this shake the foundations of power?”
Vetn offered Mrsha something. She sniffed it and realized it was a Prelon. She took the fruit he’d snatched. Tesy hesitated.
“Why are you stealing from fruit stands?”
“I’m hungry.”
“But you can pay for it. Vetn—”
“Don’t ‘Vetn’ me. This is why we don’t collaborate anymore, Tesy. One of the reasons.”
The two gave each other long looks and Tesy’s tail thrashed in the grass. Vetn turned back to Mrsha.
“What are we going to do about her, anyways? First you nearly get caught at Cellidel, next this.”
“We could take her back home? Arrange for transport back to Liscor? I have friends.”
“Maybe. But I want a Thief’s Oath she doesn’t tell anyone.”
“You’re the one who saved her. Come on, Vetn. We’re heroes! Explain to me about the tribes. Mrsha, can you walk?”
She proudly strode along after them, and lifted up a message for them to read.
I can, thank you! Can you take me to Liscor? Or my mother? Wer the Gnoll who saved me wanted to take me to Salazsar, but I just don’t want to be caught! And killed.
Vetn rubbed at his fur, muttering.
“Where’s your mother? Oteslia? Maybe? Oteslia, Salazsar, and Liscor. They’re all far away. Although Oteslia and Salazsar are closer…ish. I’m not heading through the Bloodfields. Let’s think on it once we get somewhere safe.”
“It’s just horrendous. No one told me white Gnolls were killed on sight! Do they think white-scaled Drakes are evil, too? I should raise awareness. But how would I convey that? There aren’t any walls in the tribes!”
Sellme was already thinking of a way to combat this new injustice. The Thief of Clouds was more concerned with the immediate. He made them stop, and went racing across the grasslands, up a hill, and back, so fast that even Wanderer would have been stunned.
So fast!
Mrsha admiringly pointed to him. Tesy gave her the smile of someone who was uniquely proud on behalf of someone else. He swept his neck spines back with one claw and fiddled with his paintbrush and his own artbook.
“He is, isn’t he? He can outrun Couriers, and he’s stolen Relic-class artifacts. Mind you, he spends it like water. Not much on himself, either! He and I sort of met when I was painting and he was running from the Watch. He’s one of the few good people in Izril, you know. Someone who sees the corruption in the cities.”
Mrsha eyed Tesy. She caught onto his motif within the first ten minutes of meeting him. However, he wasn’t bad. He talked constantly about the corrupt Watch, which Mrsha had little experience with, but she did know about bad, power-hungry people.
Like Lism. And Agnes! And uh…uh…Pawn. That mother-stealing, cookie-thrifty Antinium. But of course, what stood out about Tesy was his amazing, just superlative ability to do two things:
Draw fast. And draw accurately.
There was a difference in art that Mrsha realized in meeting Tesy. Speed and accuracy-to-life were qualities that were good! But not always necessary. Tesy was amazing at those two things, but he wasn’t much for outrageous, incredible style.
His wall-drawings could be caricatures, but when he drew a door, it looked exactly like a door. In a sense, his art was valuable as much for its performative and utility aspects as the art itself, if not more so.
He could still draw good art that wasn’t just copied-life, but it took him a lot more work to translate what was imaginary, not replicable. For instance, he had a page open in his artbook and he was sketching with a stick of charcoal instead of painting right away.
It was Vetn. Much like he was as he ran back, angled in a sprinter’s run, fur blowing back, eyes alight, his beautiful dark fur alight with the patches of color, his muscular physique still contriving towards lean athleticism rather than Relc’s muscles. His handsome face—
Mrsha stared at Tesy as the Drake sat, then peeked over the artbook at Vetn. Ah. Now this was what you called artistic license. Not that Vetn wasn’t any of these things, but Tesy was contriving to make his friend look even better than reality.
“Do you like it?”
Tesy grinned, a bit abashed, as he saw Mrsha watching. He flipped through the artbook.
“This is my secret weapon. I can recreate some of the drawings. The painted ones. See? Here’s the brick wall. And here’s a pond…I’d show you more, but I’m almost out of paint for the day. Magical pigments, that is. I can only do it so often.”
Mrsha nodded. She saw quite a number of Vetn’s sketches. Children, friends, places from other cities that Tesy liked…Relc…
She slapped Tesy’s knee so hard the Drake yelped.
“Ow! What?”
Mrsha frantically pointed. Go back! Go back! She stared. There was no mistaking the [Spearmaster] caught practicing via the light of the day, sweat running off his scales, spear whirling around. Tesy had made it almost like a photograph, and Mrsha stared at Relc. Relc! How had Tesy met him?
“Oh, this one? This is of a Senior Guardsman. I thought he was a friend, an ally, even, but…he’s still against us. Bastard ran me out of that city. I hope he trips on his stupid spear, the—”
Mrsha’s eyes narrowed. She gave Tesy a flying kick to the crotch, a move she had learned stopped even bigger Gnoll kids dead on the playground.
“Looks clear. The Gnolls are heading off. Tesy, what are you doing?”
Vetn trotted back as Tesy lay, eyes streaming, on the ground. He picked Mrsha up as she furiously kicked at his shins.
 
——
 
There was a lot to talk about. On the way to another city, Tesy and Mrsha learned about each other’s pasts. They were astounded by the shared connection.
“So he’s actually decent? From Liscor? But he—”
Mrsha raised her [Relc Punch] and Tesy backed behind Vetn. The Gnoll [Thief] grumbled as they rode down the trade road. He’d had to pay for the horses, but it kept the other two moving at his pace.
“Looks like this is your fault after all, Tesy. You can pay me back.”
“Vetn, you’re too stingy. I don’t have much money…”
“Then help me on a heist.”
“Only if you uh…okay. That’s actually fine. Where are we headed?”
“Just some Drake city. I thought Ustel…”
“Not Ustel. How about Lellwickee? Since Marwsh is up in flames, I can talk to some of my friends.”
“Oh, great. Your [Anarchist] buddies? Let’s not.”
“Come on, Vetn! Maybe they can help us get Mrsha back to Liscor? They’re loyal to the cause, fearless, and good people.”
“No they’re not.”
The two argued with old familiarity. Not like an old couple, though. Old couples were still couples and stayed together despite pet peeves. Vetn and Tesy clearly had differences, even though they were friends.
It was like Klbkch and Relc, to Mrsha’s eyes, but with an added layer of complications she couldn’t parse.
Anyways, they got into Lellwickee with no real issue. For several reasons: firstly, Mrsha was not a lone Gnoll kidnapped by someone of Wer’s vague description. Tesy did the talking and the gate guards didn’t even look twice at the blonde Gnoll girl. Or the Grade-1 passport both she and Vetn carried.
