Tesy and Vetn knew interesting people. Mrsha watched the angry Gnoll smack the younger two Drake and Gnoll for a good eight minutes. She hugged them once, then began to buffet them every time they did or said something she found stupid.
Which was a lot. Surprisingly, Tesy and Vetn just ran away or ducked or dodged. They all knew each other, the Golden Gnoll, Sellme, and the Thief of Clouds. They weren’t just friends. It was like a big sister taking two younger brothers to task.
But they clearly weren’t related. Childhood friends? Mrsha listened as Tesy spoke rapidly.
“And then they attacked a city! Like, literally sacked it, Qwery! They’re insane!”
“You mean, you, Sellme, the famous [Anarchist], are upset because some people attacked a Drake city?”
Qwera scowled at him. Tesy looked offended.
“We fight the corrupt Watch! We don’t slaughter people! They were insane!”
“Plain’s Eye. They’re completely out for blood, Qwera. You should have seen it.”
Vetn agreed. Qwera looked from one to the other, then at Mrsha.
“So you decided the best thing to do was bring this child and an armed force of high-level Gnolls to me.”
Tesy and Vetn exchanged a glance.
“We thought you could help. You’re connected, and you have guarded caravans…”
“I have [Guards]. I don’t fight armies! Dead gods. And I heard about Cellidel. You idiot.”
She raised the golden fist of justice to smite Tesy, and the [Magical Painter] threw up his claws.
“It wasn’t my fault! There was a Senior Guardsman—I wasn’t going to leave, but he found out who I was!”
“You idiot! Drakes’ Ancestors, I need another drink and a Calming Tonic or I am going to kill both of you. Give me one second, and don’t you dare cause trouble in the minute I’m gone!”
She stormed out of the room. Tesy and Vetn exchanged glances.
“She’s mad.”
“Yeah, but she didn’t throw us out so she’ll probably help. See? I told you she could help. Mrsha, that’s Qwera. Don’t worry, she’s n—she’s n—”
Tesy hesitated. Vetn interrupted.
“She’s nice to everyone but us. Children. Probably.”
“Yeah, definitely. Just don’t make her mad.”
Mrsha nodded respectfully. She was quite impressed; she’d met few [Merchants] before, and all gold? Plus, she didn’t wear clothes, which Mrsha respected. She knew Lyonette was lying about having to wear them!
Why does she know you two? Is she an [Anarchist]?
Tesy laughed so hard he spat water onto the floor. Vetn and he stared at it in horror, then moved the chairs so they covered the carpet stain. Sellme leaned forwards confidentially.
“No, she’s not. Actually, she told me never to paint in a city she’s in. She’s a childhood friend. Well, Vetn knew her and he introduced me. She was a [Trader] and he used to work with her.”
By selling stolen stuff? Or Sellme’s paintings?
“No! She’d kill us if we tried…”
The two instantly chorused. Vetn shook his head.
“She’s too smart. She used to make me tell her about things I saw so she got trading information. Break into the Merchant’s Guild and read ledgers. Tesy sometimes paints a Sellme piece and she ‘finds’ it fast. But only now and then.”
The [Magical Painter] looked aggrieved.
“I only do it because she’s an ally. She sort of funds us now and then. Even though she’s rich and she could be distributing…”
Vetn rolled his eyes. Mrsha glanced up as the doors flew back open and the Gnoll woman returned.
“I’m back. I am not calm. But here we are. Since you two can’t decide how you’re going to fix this, I will. And you two will pay for it later.”
The [Thief] and [Painter] cringed, but Qwera wasn’t interested in them. She sat down on her bed. Mrsha, sitting upright, saw two keen eyes fix her with a searching stare.
“So you’re Mrsha. You can’t speak, is that right? But you can write?”
Yes! I am Mrsha. It is nice to meet you!
Mrsha saw Qwera’s eyes study the neat handwriting.
“That’s interesting. And you have…white fur. Child. You poor child. You’re in trouble now, and no mistake. Ancestors.”
She sighed. Mrsha saw her glance at Tesy and Vetn. The two looked…well, much like Kevin and Rose and the others did when they first came to Erin’s inn.
Shocked. Still horrified by what they’d seen. Both were high-level, but the attacks had been something they weren’t used to, that they stayed away from, even Tesy and his anti-governmental stance.
Out of their depth. Qwera? She began to ask Mrsha questions.
“You had better explain all of it. Where did you come from? The Stone Spears tribe? Vetn, do you know about that? Liscor? Liscor? That backwater? And…The Wandering Inn? Wait a second. Didn’t Ysara say…?”
The story came out in scritching writings, questions, ‘are you lying?’, ‘really, that actually happened?’, lots of ‘whats?’, and so on. Vetn and Tesy actually forgot their worries long enough to stare.
It was a tale and a half. At one point Qwera made Mrsha actually swear on a little truth stone that she wasn’t lying. And then she had the gall to make Vetn double-check with a Skill! She sat back.
“This is bigger than I could have guessed. Your Human mother’s in Oteslia, your [Innkeeper] who’s also your guardian is frozen, you know the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, a Courier, and you were en-route to Salazsar. Why? Because that other Gnoll knew someone there?”
Mrsha hesitated.
He has a contact and a place to hide near there.
She lied about Wer, to keep the secret Gnolls safe. Qwera accepted that; the thing about truth stones was that they didn’t work as well on writing and she’d already asked if Mrsha was telling the truth about the inn.
“So you need to get to one or the other without a bunch of insane Plains Gnolls killing you for having white fur.”
“I still don’t understand that. Can you believe this, Qwera? It’s crazy.”
“It’s tribe-logic. Don’t argue about it, Tesy. They won’t listen. And they would attack Liscor again. Any city. They’ll come after you until you die because it’s more than pride. More than doom.”
There was something about the way Qwera said it. Mrsha shuddered. It was exactly like Wer, but the Gnoll had some reddish fur right there. Did she know a white-furred Gnoll? Did Vetn?
If so, it sounded like it was past-tense. Qwera rubbed at her ears; her golden fur didn’t lose its shiny coating, unlike even Sellme’s paint.
“It’s simple, then. We get you to either this Courier and have her pick you up and take you somewhere very safe, like House Veltras, or we get you into Oteslia. Gnolls can’t break through a siege. Or Salazsar if this Wanderer turns up. I’ll figure out exactly how, but it’s easy to hide little girls in chests and trunks for a [Merchant]. It’s not the riskiest thing I’ve smuggled.”
Vetn and Tesy brightened up.
“You’re a lifesaver, Qwera. And you can help Mrsha! Even with the checkpoints—”
Vetn kicked Tesy, but the white-scaled Drake’s mouth ran too fast. Qwera looked up.
“Checkpoints?‘
“There are armed Gnolls checking everyone on the roads. They uh…they’ve been following us. There are lots of them. There’s even been some fighting, but they’re so high-level…”
Vetn and Tesy saw the Golden Gnoll’s face go slack. Somehow, they’d followed Mrsha. They had Skills or a scent or something. She looked at Mrsha. Less confident. Sellme and the Thief of Clouds exchanged a glance.
“Yes. They would do that.”
That was all Qwera said. Mrsha’s ears drooped.
I’m sorry.
The Golden Gnoll looked at Mrsha. She brushed the piece of paper aside. She looked at Mrsha, and her eyes moved to Vetn. Then, she exhaled.
“You didn’t do anything but exist, child. Come here.”
The Gnoll woman picked Mrsha up and began to pat her head. Instantly, the little girl began to wriggle because she hated petting. However, Qwera didn’t do it like Rose or someone else. She just gently placed a paw on Mrsha’s head and enveloped her in a warm embrace. When next she spoke, her voice was sad. Sad, but oh, so determined.
“White fur. You did nothing wrong. Believe me, you didn’t. It was always what they brought. Their hatred. Their reasons why you had to die. They hunted you and you’re so young. But you never let them break you. You never will.”
Mrsha looked up at Qwera’s face. How did she know…? But the paw kept patting her hair, combing knots and tangles and a bit of dirt out of her fur.
“Well done. Just rest easy. I’m here, and they’ll never get to you with me in their way. That’s a promise.”
Many people had made Mrsha that promise. Or had they? She looked up, and realized Qwera was one of the few people to ever say it aloud. Her family had always implied it in everything they did. Wer had said he’d try.
This was somehow more comforting, in a moment. A promise. Mrsha knew adults couldn’t always keep them. But she liked to believe they could. She nodded at that knowing face, then she closed her eyes. She leaned into Qwera, trembling a bit, but relaxed.
It was like magic. But it wasn’t a Skill or magic the Golden Gnoll needed to be given. Just words. She whispered to Mrsha.
“Never let them trick you into thinking it was your fault. Understand?”
Tesy and Vetn looked at her solemnly as the little girl nodded, tearing up a bit. They looked awkward, unable to handle this moment. Unable to find anything to say that wouldn’t detract. At last, Tesy murmured.
“Thanks, Qwery. Really.”
Above Mrsha, the Golden Gnoll sighed.
“Just find a room. I’ll tell the [Innkeeper]. Mrsha can sleep here or in her own room. We’ll talk on it tomorrow.”
They nodded. Mrsha told Qwera she was fine and could have her own room. The Golden Gnoll nodded, and made sure she was fed, had a toothbrush, and told her to call if anything happened. Mrsha lay down.
This inn was called Sotosilt for some reason, but it catered to rich travellers. It had a big room, huge, fluffy sheets, and lovely beds. Mrsha wished she were back in The Wandering Inn.
She was tired. Scared by the relentless pursuit. Tesy and Vetn hadn’t even told Qwera how close it had been. The Thief of Clouds was high-level, but even he’d barely kept ahead of Gnolls that would stop any group, that feared no one.
She was scared. But also very tired. She just wanted to find Lyonette. If she found Lyonette…
Would she bring danger to her, too? Mrsha imagined a bunch of Gnolls with crossbows. She saw them aiming at Erin.
Doom.
She had fallen asleep at some point, because she jerked up with a wordless howl on her lips. However, it didn’t come out. Panting, Mrsha realized it was long past midnight and into dawn.
She woke up because of the bad dream, but she stayed up because she heard the creak of floorboards, a door opening, a whisper…
Mrsha ignored it at first, but then she padded to her door and opened it. Just in time to see Vetn and Tesy, clothed and packed, sneaking out the third-floor window. They whirled as Mrsha stared at them.
“Mrsha! We were—”
Tesy’s voice rose over the whisper. He was the one she’d been hearing; Vetn was as quiet as a cat. The Thief of Clouds was already scaling out the window. Mrsha stared at him. He avoided her look.
They were leaving her! Leaving her with…Tesy backed up.
“Look, Qwera’s really responsible. She’ll…we’re not cut out to fight Gnolls. Sorry. We’ll see you later, maybe. Don’t tell anyone who we are, okay? So…”
He was at the window. Mrsha just watched him go as the white-scaled Drake turned guiltily and put one foot over the window ledge. He was halfway out when a furious Gnoll charged out of her rooms, seized his tail, and yanked him back in.
“Oh no you don’t. You’re not dumping this problem in my lap and running! Vetn! Get back here or I’ll post a ten thousand gold bounty on your worthless hide!”
Her shout woke up the entire inn. Mrsha saw Tesy scramble for the window.
“Qwery! Don’t—”
She picked him up, and began to shake him as Vetn froze outside. Then she put him in a headlock as he frantically tried to get his paints. The Golden Gnoll took no prisoners.
 
——
 
Tesy and Vetn did not flee, mainly because Qwera promised them that if they did, she would personally make them suffer. They couldn’t meet Mrsha’s eyes either.
Cowards. Mrsha was hurt beyond words they’d just tried to run. She’d never, ever had anyone run away from her when she needed help.
Except Ryoka. But even Ryoka left after the monsters. These two?
They weren’t Wilovan and Ratici after all. They were just…in over their heads. They were like kids. Numbtongue would have stayed even if an army was attacking. And died.
Maybe there was something to it, after all, but Qwera wasn’t impressed either. She had a sumptuous breakfast that neither one got to eat and let Mrsha nibble at sea food canapes after a big, juicy meat brisket.
“They never grew up, neither of them. I was always the big sister—I’m not that much older than either! A bit. Vetn and I grew up outcasts and he…bah. He and Tesy get along right until they don’t. Little children. Unable to even face an ounce of responsibility.”
Mrsha glanced at Qwera as she ranted—then the two hunched figures of Tesy and Vetn, having to literally watch them eat and have Qwera insult them. The Golden Gnoll eyed them, then sighed.
“Vetn. You stole something from the Meeting of Tribes, didn’t you? Did you fence it?”
He glanced up.
“Sure did.”
“…Then I’ll let you go. I’ll catch up in…two hours. I need to meet a [Merchant] friend who might be able to help.”
“I’ll go—”
Qwera pointed a butter-knife at Tesy and he froze.
“You’ll go with Vetn, and if you so much as paint a drop on a single wall, I’ll tell the [Chef] to prepare me Drake balls for lunch and have you eat them. We’ll catch up. If there are Gnoll Doomslayers in this city, it will probably be the safest place.”
“So there is one in the city?”
“Yes. Here’s the address.”
She whispered in Vetn’s ear and he nodded. Mrsha perked her ears up. What was this, now? Tesy looked a bit uncomfortable, but the Golden Gnoll was adamant. She finished breakfast, told Mrsha they were going to meet a ‘Ysara’, which sounded a bit like two people with stupid names that Mrsha both sort of liked, and then meet them at a bar. She took Mrsha by the paw, and marched on.
 
——
 
Mrsha never saw Ysara. Qwera was warier than both Tesy and Vetn, and thus didn’t want to say she had the famous kidnapping victim in her company, even if she trusted her friend. There was trust, then there was being associated with that.
Rather, she engineered a clever disguise for Mrsha before even leaving the inn. The little Gnoll girl admired her new ‘look’.
