Gaarh Marsh’s Chieftain was on her feet. Now, two Gnolls stirred slightly. The Chieftains sat forwards as one of the greatest Gnoll [Shamans] living approached Ferkr. Cetrule backed away, but she gestured for him to join her. Both [Shamans] placed their paws on Ferkr’s shoulders.
In the Meeting of Tribes, every Gaarh Marsh Gnoll stopped for a second, as something tugged on them. They turned, lending their energies towards one cause. Krshia felt the air suddenly change, and her own fur stood up on end.
Nevertheless…
Nothing happened. No spell was cast, but Theikha was frowning.
“Something strange is happening. You are right, young Ferkr.”
Nothing was happening. But that did not mean nothing was there to see.
 
——
 
“…What is that?”
Archmage Chandler walked through Kerash’s body. As one, servant and master turned. They looked at the power gathering across the skies, into a single locus. Any fool could see that a [Shaman] was casting magic of great power. Or…trying to.
Shamanic magic. He didn’t even sense the weak arcane magic’s glow next to that burning sun. Yet—it wasn’t moving, not unleashed. It was strange. Was someone preparing to use it? But if so—it would be flowing out in some way.
It was like a cork in a bottle. But why that analogy? Then the [Archmage of Death] saw it. He was the greatest [Mage] of his era. And he saw it. The Stitch Witch, in the castle, looked at him.
“What do you see, Necromancer?”
Kerash and Az’kerash’s lips moved as one.
“Something. A counterforce. But it is…why there? What have they done? Zelkyr. Did you know about this?”
He walked forwards, in a dream. Finding pieces to connect.
All things faded. The Gnolls called this era the Waning World. Great magics of old had begun to end, like the Gnoll [Archmages], a distant memory. The Walled Cities’ power, like the Gnolls, had reduced.
There. There…the Gnoll came to a stop in the middle of the Meeting of Tribes. Almost directly down.
 
——
 
Inside the tent with the Chieftains, [Shaman] Theikha’s teeth were grinding.
“Shaman, do not hurt yourself.”
“There is something there. But what? I do not know. I call upon Gaarh Marsh’s wisdom! Let there be truth, one way or another! Let the will of Izril decide! Khoteizetrough! Khoteizetrough!”
It was searching, too. A vague…vague sense. A head turned, and Gnolls glanced up. It looked around. But for another [Mage]’s genius, it might not have found it until it was too late. But there stood a helpful figure, right there.
 
——
 
Az’kerash, puzzled, unable to throw even his insight down so far, was so absorbed he didn’t see the mountain until it moved. A hill lurched. He stared up. Kerash, the mighty Draugr, Chosen of the Necromancer, undef—he backed up.
He feared no mortal. But Khoteizetrough? The Earth Elemental, guardian of Gaarh Marsh Tribe, legend of old?
That was no mortal. With a roar like the earth quaking, it moved from its resting place. Gnolls fled, screaming. The Earth Elemental had gone berserk!
No. He came to a stop in front of the Necromancer. One arm rose. The Necromancer was ordering Kerash to back up fast. Because he knew Earth Elementals and this—
The crude ‘fist’ touched the ground almost lightly. A feather’s touch. Yet the ground reacted. With the tremor that shook the Gnoll Plains, a fissure opened in the ground. The kind of thing that could suck an army screaming into the deeps.
Or uncover something. Az’kerash stood, staring down.
You know, Fissival always had a hunger for magicore. It was a reliable trade good.
A hand reached down. Grasping.
The Stitch Witch laughed as she saw the web unravelling.
 
——
 
He never moved. He was, in fact, sitting. A rare drink in his hand. Alcohol did the body no good, and he needed less of it, since fat and Grimalkin of Pallass weren’t friends.
Sometimes, though. One had to drink. The pieces spun into place as the Sinew Magus watched the scrying orb.
Fissival’s teleportation network used to span all of Izril. But it began failing in recent times. No one transported people anymore. Things could go wrong. It could have been flaws in old spells decaying.
Or…
He didn’t look up as someone compromised his mansion. The Eyes of Pallass, the spies that each Walled City had in some form or another, were very good. However, Grimalkin had trained them and learned their methods. And he was very good too.
He had only one way they could sneak in through his home, and that was the front door. He glanced up.
“I know you’re there. You may be wondering if I somehow, covertly, sent a [Message] to my apprentice. I did not. As I’m sure you’re aware, I have sent no [Messages] other than to inform others that I will not be making a trip.”
An invisible figure said nothing. Magus Grimalkin’s huge claw tightened on his cup. He went on, tersely. Watching as the Earth Elemental dug something up and began to lift it.
“I have done nothing. Absolutely nothing, as ordered. I simply…”
He looked at the scrying orb. In the background, the huge tent with the Meeting of Chieftains rose. Grimalkin whispered.
“…I simply chose my apprentices well. I tried to uncover in them the same qualities I find best. Logic, discipline, reasoning…”
Testicles? The Sinew Magus considered it. Then he shook his head. His voice rose.
“Grit. My master told me how melancholy it would be, how extraordinary, but I never observed it myself. He told me to wait. For surely, one day they would astonish me, the day I saw my apprentices rise.”
The cup shattered as he gripped it. Grimalkin didn’t pay any attention. He was on his feet. There it was. For all to see.
A gigantic, glowing crystal. Formed out of nearly pure magicore, shaped. Connected. Probably to others. A gigantic network. The kind that had once spanned all of Izril.
Repurposed. It was shining with so much magic that Grimalkin thought he might have seen it. Trying to contain—
The enraged Elemental knew too. It raised a huge fist, roaring, with the sound of all old plans breaking.
Deeply laid plans. They were contained in the single crystal as the fist swung down. It struck, and the explosion turned off the scrying orb as the backblast of magic obliterated every low-grade magical artifact in ten miles.
It was genius, really. The Sinew Magus had never considered that you could repurpose a teleportation network to…counter natural attempts at magic. A blanket across southern Izril, maybe even parts of the north. How much magic had Fissival poured into it?
He’d studied in Fissival. But he would ask more later. And now everyone would ask. It was done, and no one would be able to hide what had been done. The scrying orb winked out.
Yet not before Grimalkin saw the jet of fire blast straight up, from a Gnoll’s finger. A [Flame Swathe] spell, shooting into the skies of the Meeting of Tribes, fuelled by the magic of two Gnollish tribes. His greatest apprentice’s triumph, burning in his eyes.
Magic.
 
——
 
It was broken. The crystal that had been suppressing all natural magic but Ferkr’s unique training, the magic of Gnolls apart shattered. And magic returned to the places where it had been exiled.
For Gnolls. They all felt it. Even Krshia, who had been so far from southern Izril proper she’d been on the edges of the effect.
Like a bit of your soul you had never realized was missing. A door in your head that had been artificially closed every second since you were born.
Ferkr of Pallass lay on her back, grinning at the flaming hole in the roof of the tent. Shaman Theikha lay in Cetrule’s arms, a smile on her face. Bitter, but triumphant.
Truth. Chieftain Xherw and Shaman Ulcre stared, as did all the Chieftains, at the shattered crystal lying before the great guardian of Gaarh Marsh. There was nothing to identify it. No helpful sigil.
But it was there. And because it was there…Chieftain Xherw was first to speak.
“It seems there is much to answer for. Plain’s Eye will lead this hunt for facts. This—this is indeed worthy of taking precedence over the Raskghar.”
“Indeed.”
Ulcre managed. Krshia didn’t see that. She was just weeping, looking at the spellbook. It was done. Let truth come to light.
The Spider laughed at someone else’s web coming unravelled. Somewhere, the Archmage of Death sat back. For he had changed and fallen and hated the living. But once upon a time, he had been [Archmage] of Wistram. Not one people. So he smiled.
Drake cities prepared to answer the Gnollish aggression displayed of late. The aggressive Gnolls looked down at the broken link in a conspiracy under their very feet.
They decided the Drakes might be right. They had a reason to be aggressive after all.
