Case in point. Lehra dragged her friend over for food and the first activity she saw. She bought a pie, rather than find a free food stand, gobbled it down, and was licking her paws when she saw and remembered her friends in the Silverfang tribe.
“Suxhel! Look! Let’s visit, uh, uh…Inkar! Hey, is that Ekhtouch over there? I thought they were somewhere else.”
She pointed at a gathering near the Silverfang’s area. Children and adults were gathered up, in a placid activity of some kind. Suxhel’s eyes spotted what was going on at once, but Lehra had to come closer to see they were fiddling with beads, string, various carved symbols or even shells.
“Oh! They’re making jewelry?”
“It’s free! Honored Lehra, will you make something? If you have anything, we can help you make something. A clasp for a jewel or stone? Earrings?”
Lehra brightened up. Suxhel, who was a [Wizard] and thus loved magical accoutrements of all kinds, peered at the Gnolls helping children make necklaces. Some were on the level of children’s handicrafts, but some looked like bracelets or necklaces you’d actually keep.
“I have one last [Fit to Form] Skill for the hour! Who’d like it? You?”
A [Jeweler] walked over to a frantically waving young Gnoll woman. The necklace adjusted to fit her perfectly. In another area, a patient [Goldsmith] was working with actual gold, making earrings for a reduced fee.
“Suxhel, do you want something? I could make an earring, maybe? Maybe a dangling one like that Drake has?”
“It will get torn out in your next fight. Like the last one. Get a pin.”
“Fine. Do you see Inkar? That other one?”
“Tkrn? No. They seem to be absent today.”
Suxhel’s eyes scanned the crowd, but she didn’t see the acquaintances they’d met earlier on. Nor even the new visitors. They were all scattered across the Meeting of Tribes.
 
——
 
Not everyone was having such a great time, despite the fun and fare. Children were allowed a lot of free roam in the Meeting of Tribes, and they met Gnolls they hadn’t seen and never would outside this one event.
Sometimes friendships emerged. Odd meetings. Sometimes it changed your life. Adetr had been told of this, but he hadn’t expected how it would happen to him.
The Gnoll seemingly made of metal sat, head lowered, waiting for his guest just outside the Steelfur Tribe’s tents. Some children were playing in the background.
“We’re going to win! Plain’s Eye or not!”
“Yeah? There are lots more of us!”
It was a children’s war. It could be vicious, ugly, or silly. In this case it wasn’t going to go to blood unless there was an accident. It was just the Steelfur cubs ‘fighting’ with the Plain’s Eye tribe. There were nearly a thousand Plain’s Eye children, and a tenth of Steelfur, although more children were gathering in expectation of something interesting.
They could have gone to an activity, but sometimes you just had to ‘fight’. Adetr knew that. But he didn’t so much as glance at them as he saw a young woman slow, apprehensively. He rose, and heard a call in the background.
“Rawr! We’re a bear! Get them!”
“That’s cheating! That’s cheating! How are they—”
“Rose.”
Adetr strode over to her, but the young woman had lost focus on him. She was staring at something. Adetr turned, and saw a sight that made even the other visitors turn and laugh or point.
The Steelfur children had formed a kind of living pyramid of bodies. They all had the famous grey, hard fur of their tribe, given to them by their Chieftain. The ones on the bottom were biggest, and carried the Gnolls on top forward in a living mimicry of a bear. The Plain’s Eye children, faced with a goliath, realized they’d lost their tactical advantage and fled, shouting.
Multiple child-formations began rising as other children copied them and began to have fights as multiple levels of children grappled with each other, trying to push the others off-balance so the entire structure collapsed.
Adetr had done the same thing when he was a cub. He had no time for that. The [Battle Seeker] had seen actual creations of steel, which rolled or even flew. He looked at a harbinger of nightmares.
Rose. She waved weakly at him and wished she didn’t have to talk to the intense Gnoll warrior. Inkar had met Tkrn and she was friends with Gireulashia, Feshi, and all the other interesting and famous Gnolls. Some people had all the luck.
Speaking of Feshi, the Gnoll [Strategist] was gloomy because her friends had gone north on another huge adventure, but she was stuck at the Meeting of Tribes. She consoled herself that she’d see them, especially if they were successful, and this was an important time. She had interesting people to meet here as well, and Yerranola had stayed because she needed the Oteslian medicine.
On this fairly ordinary extraordinary day, in the Meeting of Tribes that came once every twenty years, Lehra was trying to make a circlet with a few gems she had in her bag of holding. Rose was greeting Adetr for their discussions. Tkrn and Inkar were having a more enjoyable time watching Gire puzzle out the iPhone that Inkar owned.
As the sun rose to early morning, someone walked over to one of the innermost tribes present. Az’muzarre. The famous defenders of the Great Plains, small, but wielders of weapons of old. Ancient weapons made from the bones of Dragons or armor of scales and such.
Yet that was not what this Gnoll sought. Rather, their greatest warrior strode over to something hanging there. A lesser artifact; ‘merely’ the gigantic, hollowed, crafted horn of a Horned Wyvern, a great beast from back in the day slain by warriors of old.
It hung on a vast stand, so huge it was her size again. Yet angled such that the tip now faced the Gnoll at head-height. She took a breath, and adjusted the converted horn into its new purpose. Then she blew through the cut opening.
It was no wail. The bass blast from the horn filled the air and every Gnoll present looked up, some clapping paws to their ears. A Gnoll on the cliff-diving scaffold turned, the magical rope around his foot. His buddy pushed him off and down he went, screaming. But then the other Gnoll stared.
Not in fear. If there was an attack, everyone would be piping their individual alarm calls and there would be howling. By the same token, there were few ‘universal’ events. This, though—he began to grin and pointed, the first to see it.
“It’s happening! It’s time!”
He was actually the second to see it, but the first person. For across from the Gnoll, the only other being of comparable height moved. A hill that had already begun to sprout with grass and flora native to the Great Plains, sitting in the center of its tribe, moved.
The Earth Elemental of the Gaarh Marsh Tribe raised its head as the thunderous call went out. It looked up, once.
Time.
Everyone had gone silent. Lehra, frozen in the midst of trying to hang a bracelet from one of Suxhel’s eye-stalks, turned her head. She saw a figure move, amidst stillness.
A gigantic figure. Reserved. So tall she put even Gire to shame. A ragged cloak of fur, like a second body, hung from her frame. Her eyes had a second luminescence, or so it seemed.
There she was. The [Racdelbear Shapechanger], the legend of her tribe. Garsine Wallbreaker, striding next to the much smaller Chieftain who walked almost deferentially with her. Neither one was alone; flanking them were five of their best warriors, and their tribe’s [Shaman].
They were walking, with Garsine herself bearing something, a huge Chest of Holding in her long arms. Lehra’s mouth opened in delight, awe, and comprehension. She turned to Suxhel.
“What’s happening, Lehra?”
“It’s time. Suxhel! It’s time! We have to get to my tribe!”
That was what Gnolls all around her were saying. Lehra leapt up, tugging the Gazer, activities forgotten. She wouldn’t go with her Chieftain, Nesiee, but she wanted to see, to be there. She saw Silverfang’s tribe stir, and from their tents emerged another group.
Lehra knew them. Chieftain Akrisa of the Silverfang Tribe did not look any more surprised than Garsine or the others. She had adorned herself in silver, as was most fitting; a band of silver fangs from various monsters was her chief decoration, and her [Shaman] and partner, Cetrule, stood tall, fur groomed, garb immaculate.
They had no Garsine, but their company of Silverfang’s warriors was no less dignified. Yet it was Krshia, and Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, who carried something wrapped in heavy, magic-concealing cloth between them. With ease, for it was light, but with immense pride and nerves. Lehra’s eyes fixed on it as Garsine Wallbreaker slowed.
“Chieftain Akrisa. Will you walk with us? The Chieftains gather.”
“It would be our honor, Chieftain Terrough. However, we await…”
Akrisa looked to the side. She let the words linger as more figures strode forth.
Here came Chieftain Orelighn, of the Greenpaw tribe. Longstalker’s Fang, on the other side, parted the sea of Gnolls as Chieftain Eska, Shaman Pulsg, and Honored Deskie walked forth, bearing their gift—the part that was obvious, at least—openly.
Magic cloth. And a strange device that the [Spinners] knew quite well. Yet the bolts of shimmering cloth, some of Waisrabbit fur, others made with the Shockwoolie wool, or other magical creature’s cloth, was something Deskie had labored over. It would be her last gift to the Meeting of Tribes, and the old [Magical Weaver] walked proudly.
From their tents came the Chieftain of Ekhtouch, Firrelle, and another escort. Four tribes met, coordinating their purpose and arrival.
Garsine and Chieftain Terrough noticed the way the four gathered. All Terrough did was nod, though, eyes keen, appraising.
“We would be honored to walk with you.”
Akrisa bowed her head to both, and so they did. Five tribes, each bearing a gift, great or small, towards the Meeting of Tribes.
Towards the huge tent that had been prepared for this enclave. Only the Chieftains, [Shamans], and Honored Gnolls would be let in. Three Gnolls per tribe at most. Even then, it would be a sea of them, because every tribe present had sent their Chieftain and a gift.
This was the day the Meeting of Chieftains began, and the great deliberations of Gnollkind began. Krshia’s blood was humming in her veins.
At last. At last. Gnolls stared at her, trying to sniff or see or guess what they carried. She kept her head high, noticing some tribes kept their gifts plain to see.
There was strategy in both. Some tribes plainly didn’t have a great gift, so had tried to curry favor in other ways, or simply resigned themselves to a poorer showing. Some tried to camouflage this by hiding their gifts.
Others considered a show of it. Like Demas Metal, who had weapons and armor and ingots of their new Demas-alloy borne proudly behind their young Chieftain, an armory’s worth.
Some tribes had enough for all. Others had one thing; a single magical blade, acquired at great cost from Hendall Fur’s group. Enough to arm a chosen Gnoll, perhaps. Some had already given their gifts and so made shows or reminded people of it, like the [Hunter]’s tribe of Yth Rethang, who had provided a lot of the food that fed every Gnoll for free for the last two months; they had a procession of food on display, cured meats or preserved foodstuffs.
Time. Krshia walked slowly, praying she didn’t trip. She didn’t know if they’d present their gift right away. This was the first Meeting of Chieftains she had ever been privy to, and Akrisa herself had taken the mantle before the last Meeting of Tribes. She knew from second-hand knowledge that the most powerful tribes spoke first, and the gifts would be shown with each Tribe’s pleas or suggestions over the coming days and maybe even weeks. It would be discussion. Great deeds.
She had to succeed. Success for Silverfangs, decisions on Earth—and Mrsha. Krshia’s heart pricked with worry, but if there were any way to curtail the hunt…she would have talked to each Chieftain individually, had this not been in the works. They had to present their case first. So she walked, carrying the great tome of magic. As the Chieftains gathered.
Krshia told herself she had little to fear. There would be disagreements, arguments, but they were all Gnolls. She brought them tidings of magic, a view that challenged tradition on white Gnolls. Yet they were Gnolls. She had no enemies here.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Tribes’ procession of Chieftains was all about reputation. The weight of fame. From Garsine to Lehra, the most famous Gnolls in the world were there. So they did not show off in the sense of engineering a spectacle. They had the kind of ponderous weight of authority. We do not need to remind people who we are.
Confidence. A commendable amount of self-assurance and even its own kind of panache, as such subtlety worked well in some cases.
Yet oh dear, was it dull. Not all Gnolls went to the Meeting of Tribes, once every twenty years yadda yadda, whatever. Not all Gnolls cared.
When she walked past the vast, shimmering curtains that had been set up, the audience screamed.
Mainly because of the fireball and howling gale of flames that hit the stage. Yet it did not touch the Gnoll that strode out of the fire. Or was it a Gnoll?
She had wings. Huge, flaming wings—no, an illusion! A dress? They turned with her as she strode down the stage, strutting, waving at the cheering Drakes and Gnolls, a riotous accompaniment with her.
This was an entrance. This was style. The Dragon-motif was not lost on the audience. Those who knew her cheered louder, but more than a few Drakes were outraged by someone invoking their Ancestors like that!
They were drowned out by the roaring of voices around her, the screams. And she herself had spells to amplify her voice.
She did not sing; she wasn’t the up-and-coming Singer of Terandria. There was music because you had to have music, and she performed to that. But she wasn’t a [Dancer] either, not exactly.
Like the motif of the flaming Dragon, her dress was some kind of bright, fiery fabric. It reflected fragments of light into the crowd.
“People of Beithstrel! It. Is. Me!”
They cheered even louder, her fans. The Gnoll woman laughed hugely. Then, and this was what made her different from a [Dancer], as the dress whirled around her, it abruptly vanished in a cascade of magical sparkles. Leaving behind all Gnoll, and only Gnoll.
Scandalous! Eyes popped, and the screaming grew louder. ‘Naked’, the Gnoll woman strutted down the stage, blowing kisses at outraged Drakes, and making a gesture that gave one a near heart-attack.
