She was about as naked as your average Gnoll; which was to say, covered in fur. Even so, the morals of decency and such! This was not your average Gnoll, though. Nor was her fur brown, or spotted, or black, or russet red, or…white. No. It was what gave her the iconic name behind the famous [Merchant] and personality, so much so that her arrival in cities was performance and spectacle unto itself.
She shone in the spotlights trained on her, glittering so bright she reflected more than her dress. After all—
Her fur was golden. The Golden Gnoll herself, harbinger of good fortune, good business, and good love, was a celebrity who hadn’t attended the Meeting of Tribes. She was a City Gnoll, and she spread her arms wide to the horrified and adoring crowd.
“My beautiful darlings! Life is rich! Who wants to make money? Or—”
And here she tossed her head, dipping a paw into a basket another performer and assistant on stage had brought out.
“—make love? It’s one and the same to me. And I have enough to share!”
So saying, she drew a pawful of coins out and flung them into the crowd. Gold coins bounced off cheering faces, or in one case, into an open mouth, as a mad scramble broke out.
There were a few reasons you paid attention to the Golden Gnoll. Because you could actually get the gold coins she was known to throw out as signs of largesse, because she performed her business, because you were a fan of…various things, including her unique style of ‘dress’.
Or because you actually had business with her. The Golden Gnoll let the tension ride higher, then got down to work. First she hyped up the crowd. Then she gave her universal speech.
“I came here to do business. And do you know what that business is? Making money. Not making silver, or making a few pieces of gold. Children, I give away gold. And so should you! If you needed to pick up a gold coin, if that was something that would change your life—you are doing it wrong. You should be making enough money that if someone drops a gold coin on the ground in front of you, you pay someone else to pick it up. People like to say ‘money isn’t everything’. They talk about levels, family, love…in my experience, you can buy all of that. So. Let’s talk about how to make money.”
She practiced what she preached, and had followers. Oh yes. But the Golden Gnoll raised a paw and amended the time-honored speech she’d given for over a decade.
“—And before you shout at me, don’t talk nonsense about this Golden Triangle. I never invested a coin into it. I told everyone it was a scam, and guess who was laughed at? Well, guess who was right, you idiots! I have the names of every brainless ‘[Merchant]’ and ‘[Strategist]’ who told me I was a fool. Some of them are Merchant’s Guild guildmasters…or were. Because I’m going to shout them out. Money isn’t an idea. It’s something you have in your paws.”
To demonstrate, she seized another handful of coins and tossed them. The crowd was fixed on her every word. The Golden Gnoll paused for breath.
“Everything is a trade. Everything is a deal. People tell you there are rules. Like, ‘don’t sell yourself’. Well, I’ve sealed a deal any way I please, but always a deal I want to take. No one has ever made me take a bad offer. Because I don’t bet all my gold on dreams like the Golden Triangle. I diversify, I invest, and here’s how you’re going to start.”
Welcome to her finance-talk.
 
——
 
The thing about the Golden Gnoll, or Qwera, if you actually knew her name, was that she did give good advice. Yes, a lot of it was hype and showwomanship. However, her actual advice to the part-time entrepreneur or business person was frank.
Invest what you can, in appreciable commodities and don’t panic. Sell when high, buy when low.
What did that look like? Well, she did her research on local commodities, but healing potions were a good example. Quality ones that didn’t go bad were fairly easy to store as long as you kept them from spoiling due to temperature, breakage, etc. When a war broke out, everyone wanted good healing potions and you could literally double your investment with ease.
However! There were bad commodities to get into. The one her audience and fellow [Merchants] and [Traders] always winced at was the ‘purified water’ scam, wherein [Merchants] sold the highly valuable, yet extremely hard-to-keep stuff to some young fool and they stored it in a keg or glass jars and it lost its purity.
So she had good advice. But it was true that the Golden Gnoll was a personality. As in, her fans ranged from aspiring [Traders] to people who wanted to live her dream. Also, to members of both species that would worship her bare feet.
‘Fans’ of something other than her business acumen. Of course, Qwera took it as a sign of success. She played it up, as they tried to touch her on stage, making fun of them, or teasing.
When it was over, and the travelling conclave of [Merchants] got to actually sell and buy with the eager crowds, and after they had all retired and she was talking to fellow business people, she was more retiring, not performative.
But still her.
“If you don’t like me hogging the attention, find a way to attract interest yourself, Totosell. What’s that? Oh, you can’t.”
The angry Drake from a competing caravan who’d had the misfortune to stop at the same city as Qwera, glowered. Her group had outsold his by a large margin.
“All you do is cover yourself in gold paint, you—you shameless [Nudist]!”
Qwera rolled her eyes as the [Merchants] relaxing in the back rooms of the Merchant’s Guild all watched the impending fight.
“For the cost of a bit of gold paint, I multiply my income because people love the Golden Gnoll. It’s not all gold, anyways, see? I have a patch right here.”
She pointed down. Totosell stared down at—he jerked his eyes up, turning crimson under his scales. Qwera laughed.
“I get away with it. You? You couldn’t sell diamonds even if you covered yourself in gold paint.”
“You’re just a fraud, Qwera. You bring down the reputation of all [Merchants] and I don’t see how anyone allows you to keep doing this shameless act!”
He made a mistake. Which was getting into a war of insults with Qwera in the first place. She narrowed her eyes. The Golden Gnoll, who had been sipping some wine and drinking a soothing tonic for her throat, stood up, as some of her friends, knowing what was going to happen, backed up. One of her friends moved forwards, to stop her.
Qwera took two steps over to Totosell—who had chosen his business name much like her persona—and deliberately tossed her drink in his face. Then she growled in the gasping silence.
“You’re just a pathetic Drake who’s jealous I have what you don’t. So let me give you some advice, Totosell. Quit your job because you’re no good at your class and you’ll never even scrape Level 30. You have no style, no personality, and even toads can see you’re jealous of my assets.”
Here she made a gesture to indicate which ones she was talking about. Totosell was growing increasingly red, but Qwera wasn’t done and no one talked over her.
“So I’m going to give you some advice for free, since I doubt you’d find customers, even on Rhir. Go take your tail, find a hole that’s somehow dirtier than your shit-crusted scales and complete lack of hygiene, and then ram it—”
The horrified look on the local Guildmistress’ face grew over the next minute, and Totosell’s wine-dripping expression of similar stupefaction grew. He was just lucky he hadn’t pushed or taken a swing at her, because she wasn’t someone who held back there either.
His bodyguard made the mistake. A burly Drake went for his sword and Qwera’s friend stopped the Golden Gnoll from escalating, because she did not deescalate anything. The Drake had his sword half-out when someone kissed his throat.
Metaphorically. With a point of steel of her own. Totosell froze and Qwera turned and grinned.
“I’d keep the blades off the table, friend. Or Qwera will do exactly what she just said with your severed tail.”
The [Bodyguard] gulped and let go of his sword, slowly. Totosell backed up. He pointed a claw at both of them.
“You two are the reason why Izril’s gone to the Antinium! People like you. Foreigners and…”
He backed up more as Qwera’s eyes narrowed. Even so, he wasn’t fast enough. She threw a chair at him and at this point the local Guildmistress pulled the [Merchants] apart before Totosell got hurt any more.
In one of the private rooms, Qwera rolled her eyes, completely ignoring the scandals about assaulting fellow [Merchants]. She shut the door on the aggrieved [Secretary]’s face, turned, and, delighted, embraced her fellow [Merchant].
“Look who it is! You filthy fleshbag.”
“I’m here, you wet dog. And just in time to stop you from getting hurt.”
“Me? Hah!”
Qwera threw her head back. The Human woman had to smile. Qwera was not in danger of Totosell, who was far smaller and thinner, causing her harm. Dead gods, even the bodyguard had better watch out. Qwera wasn’t an expert with a sword, but her friend had once seen her use a bottle of wine to take out five people.
“I haven’t seen you since the last time I went north. Sit down. Have a drink. What brings you this far south, Ysara?”
The Golden Gnoll threw herself back into a seat. Ysara of House Byres, the Silver Trader, a delightful counterpoint to the Golden Gnoll, settled back in her seat.
“Multiple reasons. The north wasn’t exactly fun with the Goblin Lord marching about. I was caught in the south on a little run and decided to tour down this way. I would have gone north, but I’m actually pondering a cross-continental trip.”
“Really. Is there profit in that?”
“Not so much. It’s personal business. I’m sure my younger brother has it covered, but—let’s not get into that yet. I have a proposal for you.”
Ysara grimaced as she sipped her wine. Qwera’s eyes were sharp, but she shrugged. The Silver Trader didn’t actually sell just in her motif, it was just her nickname. You had to be known if you were more than a local, small-time person and the ‘Golden Gnoll’ was hard to forget.
Same for the former [Lady] of House Byres, who was so good with a sword she didn’t need a personal bodyguard outside her caravan’s usual security. She actually tended to invest in rare alchemical ingredients. Silver was one of those things, but it made good money if you knew what was in stock and were the provider for a number of good [Alchemists].
By contrast, Qwera did as she advised; she diversified. This was one of six caravans she had running, and while the central one made more money just because of her presence, she was a business magnate. Bigger than Ysara.
“So, what’s new? Anything happen on your trip? I’ve been heading back from Fissival. [Mages] and magicore. Name me a more profitable duo.”
Qwera prompted after a second. Ysara sighed.
“Have you ever heard of a Wailant Strongheart? I’ve been thinking about killing him because he’s devaluing Sage’s Grass across the south.”
“Hm. Not familiar. That’s a Human name. Is he a new [Merchant]?”
“Nope. Northern. But his Sage’s Grass is hitting Pallass’ markets, so I have bushels of the stuff I just got from Plain’s Eye losing money every second I don’t offload it.”
“How’d he get it there?”
“That damn magic door.”
“Ah.”
Qwera’s eyes lit up. She’d heard about the effect it was having on the economy, and had been thinking of ways to exploit it, but hadn’t had the golden idea yet. And without one, she wasn’t about to make a move. Ysara shrugged, rubbing at her mess of indigo hair.
Indigo, incidentally, was not blonde. Nor might her sister have recognized her older sister’s long earrings on one ear, or a tattoo on an arm. It was all Qwera knew of Ysara, though. Only the sword would be recognizable to both. A silversteel sword with House Byres’ crest, wielded by someone they had called a genius when she was growing up, but who had never become a [Knight].
“I also had to change directions and skip my Prelon run. For the [Alchemists]. Cellidel is up in flames and prices are skyrocketing.”
“Cellidel? Why?”
“Sellme.”
A one-word answer was all that was required. Instantly, Qwera threw her head back.
“Dead gods, don’t talk to me about Sellme. If that [Painter] gets anywhere within a hundred miles of me, I swear, I’ll nail his balls to the next mural he puts up. Such a pain.”
She grumbled, filling her cup. Ysara just shook her head.
“I’d watch out. Between Sellme and these ‘Gnoll attacks’, the cities are getting jumpy.”
“For everyone but the Golden Gnoll, darling. I’m just a [Merchant]. It helps being me. So, what did you want to talk about?”
“Hm. Buy out my stock so I can take a ship? All that I can’t transport without needing a wagon, at least.”
Qwera threw back her head and laughed, long and loud. Then she looked at Ysara.
“Wait, you’re serious, aren’t you? Oh, Ysara. What have you done this time? Don’t tell me someone else has captured your heart? Say if it’s so, so I can beat some sense into you.”
She raised a paw, but Ysara shook her head.
“Worse, it’s family.”
Instantly, the Golden Gnoll put a paw on Ysara’s arm, giving her a sympathetic look of understanding.
“My dear…we’ll talk numbers.”
They were, of course, friends, for a given value of friends. Not very close, but a bit more than acquaintances with a mutual respect for each other. However, business was business. And for Qwera, business was good. The Meeting of Tribes could kiss her shiny tail if she thought about it at all.
She agreed to look at Ysara’s wares and give her an answer by the next day, and retired to her rented inn, meeting with some starstruck fans, promising nothing, and making sure they left and she had her inn to herself to relax afterwards. Qwera pushed the door open to her luxury room, and stopped.
Vetn was slapping Tesy’s claws away from rummaging through Qwera’s possessions and most valuable items. A little Gnoll girl was jumping on her bed. Sellme and the Thief of Clouds took one look at the Golden Gnoll’s expression.
“Um, hi, Qwera. We were just—”
Tesy got no further before she seized him, and, holding him by both of his legs, began to shake him as he screamed, dangling out of the window, head-first over a three-story drop.
Here came trouble. Just like every time these two idiots brought it to her. She was just about to fetch a pair of clippers and make good on her threat when Vetn began to explain and she saw the telltale patch of white on the little Gnoll girl’s ears where Tesy’s paint had begun to disappear.
Then Qwera knew they were in even more trouble than usual.
 
——
 
