“I say—I say we do not need to go to Chandrar! Or go north! I know there are Chieftains who wish to live among Humans! I know there are Chieftains who wish to join the King of Destruction—perhaps even his messengers stand among us! But there is land here. I hold in my paws an agreement. An agreement that would give us, by contract, witnessed by magic, four hundred thousand acres of land. As a gift, offered freely! With more to come if we accept what is offered.”
Four hundred th—? Krshia’s gasp filled the room along with voices of sheer incredulity. That was…she tried to estimate. A square of over six hundred miles!
Multiple tribes could roam around freely in that space! Given? To Woven Bladegrass?
“This cannot be true, Chieftain Werri. Not even a Walled City would give that much as a gift.”
Chieftain Xherw snapped. Many Chieftains barked agreement. Yet Werri’s smile was confident.
“I do not lie, Chieftain Xherw. The free land is a place, and this contract is true. It extends from Recles’ Ridge, all the way down to the mouth of the River Illel.”
She named Izrilian landmarks. The names were certainly that, but—Krshia’s brow furrowed. She thought she knew the names, but who had that much land? No Wall Lord, even. Not even Ilvriss could just…but where had she heard the names?
Cetrule’s mouth had opened wide. He knew where that was. Xherw turned to Ulcre—then the [Shaman] barked a hoarse laugh.
“…Chieftain Werri. That is a poor joke. Those lands are already…not occupied, but claimed. That? That is—no one’s land. Land that used to belong to Manus. It extends from their borders right up to…the Hivelands.”
Iraz’s neck whirled around. Then he leapt to his feet. Chieftain Werri grinned. Theikha had to actually bar the way of the Steelfur’s Chieftain as he descended, pointing a finger at her.
“Chieftain Iraz! Let Chieftain Werri speak!”
“Are you consorting with the Antinium, Werri?”
“I consort with no one, Chieftain Iraz! Listen to me!”
The shouting died down as everyone listened. Krshia was on the edge of her seat. Werri, turned, eyes alight.
“This is a gift. From no less than the Grand Queen of the Antinium. Before you shout—it is a gift unfettered. She contacted me, via the one known as the Small Queen, nearly a year ago. This is a gift—though we need not take it. I know it is near danger, but she assured me that we would never conflict with the Antinium. And this is the offer she asked me to present.”
Now, everyone hung on her words. Even Xherw, who had been prepared for revelations about another world. Even Iraz, Krshia, Akrisa…Werri spoke. To the tribes who had no love for Drakes, to their…
Allies. Who began to realize this Meeting of Tribes might be concerning indeed.
“She asks nothing of us. Antinium are not Gnolls, and we have shed blood with each other. We do not know each other. However—the Antinium and Drakes are bitter enemies, yet they left us largely alone in two wars. Drakes made war on our people for aeons. Should we come to the aid of these cities for lip service and a dagger in the back when they have no need of us? The Grand Queen asks nothing of us. Exactly nothing.”
“Meaning?”
Chieftain Perale’s whisper was quiet. Feshi’s head was raised, like someone hearing distant war drums. Or her Professor’s laughter. Werri’s eyes shone.
“If the Antinium should go to war with the Drakes—we will not take arms against them. A pact of non-aggression. Either way, an enemy weakens. We take not the Antinium’s side. We take not the Drakes’. Neither has love of us. So why should we die for the other? That is what I put before you, first.”
Dead silence. Krshia’s mind spun with the implications. Xherw was on his feet. Werri waited, as even Theikha’s head turned with a look of consternation. Right before the roar of voices, even bodies surging down to argue with her in the center.
The Meeting of Chieftains had truly begun.
 
——
 
News about the first offer of the Antinium to Gnoll tribes was out and in circulation within the hour. From Grand Magus Eldavin and Wistram, to Drake cities, certain people heard the contents through various means and flipped.
Sometimes literally. But while Grand Magus Eldavin cursed again that Wistram should have taken more interest in the Meeting of Tribes, it was not to say that there weren’t representatives at that gathering.
Just not Wistram. Because Gnolls had ‘no magic’, or at least, none that included Wistram and there was a mutual grudge over some misunderstanding.
Which was an interesting thing, when you really got down to it. As for the news with the Antinium? Well, it was interesting, but it had no way of passing. Even the most radical tribes would hesitate before thinking about that kind of deal, which would make the Drakes hostile.
Whether they took the land was interesting. Still concerning, because it meant the Antinium were showing a level of radical cunning beyond what anyone had expected of them.
He only wished he could see, and have a voice in that gathering. Not for the first time, the Necromancer, Az’kerash, bane of the living and so on and so forth, regretted that Regrika Blackpaw had been exposed, right before this Meeting of Tribes when her identity had been neatly set up.
Then again, if she were revealed by the highest-level [Shamans], it might be just as concerning. It was not impossible. He had agents in the Meeting of Tribes, both direct and indirect, but he didn’t have anyone inside the tent with the Chieftains. It was inherently dangerous.
That was why Kerash posed as a travelling warrior, albeit one who had spoken with Chieftains. It was the logical move to influence events without putting him in any danger of being seen by someone who could break through the veils. Again—Az’kerash was beyond almost all living mortals, but specialists could match him in one area, especially if talents combined.
Of course that went the other way as well. He was privy to the frantic [Message] spells shooting out of the Meeting of Tribes, despite their poor attempts at concealment.
“Peace with the Antinium. I did not consider that. However, even if I thought it had the remotest chance of passing—which it does not—I am not sure which would benefit me. Her vote will, of course, fail. Even Chieftain Werri understands that. This is a sign there is a growing rift between Drakes and Gnolls once more. Perhaps an opportunity to truly sow discord here.”
He mused. Kerash, who was roaming the outside of the Meeting of Chieftains, the very outskirts lest Chieftain Ulcre or someone else look at him, listened to his master’s voice.
“Should I attempt to find the Chieftains if they leave the tent?”
Perril Chandler paused but a moment, thinking.
“No, Kerash. Continue to circle. You will attend another Chieftain you have met tonight, and discuss with them the issue then.”
“Yes, Master.”
Some things were very curious. Az’kerash frowned. No—Archmage Chandler frowned, because this reminded him of his past.
“Gnolls were never the most populous species at Wistram. Did I perceive a—a decline in their number? Yes…I did. I mentioned it to Zelkyr, but only once. This narrative that Gnolls know no magic, however? Do you know what this is, Belavierr?”
He turned. Speaking of specialists beating the great legends of old…the Stitch Witch sat, her eyes locked on the representation of the world as through Kerash’s eyes on the scrying orb. She was furious.
She had come back, missing an eye, from her errand abroad, down on magic, time, and dignity. She had refused to talk about it. Now, she sat, hunched over. She did not speak to Az’kerash, but to his servant.
“There is a child there. Stare at her. Left.”
Kerash hesitated, but turned his head. He peered at a Gnoll boy, running along, laughing.
“Cers! Stop that!”
Kerash stared, but Belavierr had lost interest. She kept telling him to stare at random Gnoll children. Az’kerash did not know why, but someone had incurred her wrath. A dangerous thing.
Only then did the Spider address Az’kerash.
“Gnolls have become [Mage]-less?”
She was as oblivious as he was. Which wasn’t surprising, but the Necromancer had found that Belavierr either knew nothing of even obvious events, like Ailendamus’ rise—or she was hyper specialized and knew some knowledge about the secrets of the world that even he lacked.
“A strange belief, yes. Wistram Academy has no Gnoll [Mages]. Which is odd because their narrative is that ‘Gnolls cannot learn magic’.”
“…Odd.”
Even the Stitch Witch looked interested at that. Az’kerash continued.
“I have encountered Gnolls capable of performing arcane magic as opposed to spiritual magic.”
“I have as well.”
“Do you recall any in recent history?”
The two immortals thought. ‘Recent history’ was a loaded term for them. Belavierr twisted her neck left. Right. Az’kerash himself frowned. Then he had it.
“The [Druid] child. There was a Gnoll child with white fur.”
Belavierr twitched. Her ringed gaze slowly, slowly crept over to him. Az’kerash met it.
“Do you have something to add, Stitch Witch?”
“No. Proceed.”
Az’kerash continued, speaking more to Kerash because he could tell Belavierr nothing she did not already know. Organizing his thoughts on a verbal level.
“She was capable of arcane magic. I sensed a reservoir within her. Or rather…her fur. She had white fur.”
“This matters?”
Belavierr tilted her head again. Az’kerash’s gaze flicked to her.
“Fur is a storage device, or can be. For power.”
“More than power with their kind.”
Belavierr’s comment made Az’kerash raise his brows. That was intriguing. He had no idea about white fur’s significance.
“I shall discuss it with you later, Belavierr. Perhaps in the context of an undead creation?”
“Yes. One made of fur.”
Her smile was deeply malicious. Again, the Necromancer felt like he was missing a piece of the puzzle, but he nodded slowly.
“Fur. I merely mention it as proof that she was capable of arcane magic. Gnolls are, of course, experts in the spiritual, collective magic of their people…I do not recall seeing many arcane vessels or mana wells. But they are hardly ‘magic-less’.”
“True. They have been [Witches], and [Shamans], and [Archmages]. Why would anyone doubt it?”
“Perhaps they’ve forgotten?”
“So soon?”
It was a fault of their kind that both saw a hundred years, or even forty, as a small amount of time. Az’kerash was ‘only’ two hundred years old, but the narrative had amazed him. Belavierr hadn’t even heard of the change.
“I distinctly recall Gnolls who were [Mages]. Now though…Kerash, I will overlay your sight. Inspect the Gnolls passing by.”
The undead Draug had been patiently listening to the discussion as he pretended to eat food, socialize, and whatnot. Now he obediently turned his head. Az’kerash and Belavierr peered through his eyes.
“Odd.”
That was what the Stitch Witch said at last. Az’kerash murmured.
“…That is odd. Perhaps there is some credence. What could have caused it, though? No—wait! I see some arcane magic. There. Kerash, that Gnoll.”
The impressive Gnoll warrior’s head turned. Az’kerash relaxed.
“You see? There are Gnolls with innate magical power. At least one. The others…I didn’t even sense a mana well. Did you?”
The Spider made no answer. She had produced a thread and was slowly knitting it into a shape. Her eyes were suddenly…interested. Not just wrathful.
“A strange Meeting of Tribes. I remember when they were only every hundred years. Why so soon together?”
“Were they grand affairs?”
Archmage Chandler asked, his interest piqued as a student of history. Belavierr considered the question.
“Monarchs came to beg favors. I went to trade. I saved my best works for that time. Yes. Yes, they were.”
Kerash approached the Gnoll they had identified as the two talked. Even moving casually, it wasn’t hard; she was stumbling around, eyes vacant. Az’kerash frowned…he sensed something, but he went on, like a professor to his students. He couldn’t help but explain.
“There, you see? She lacks for a distinct mana pool…but she too has an arcane reservoir. In her muscles, of all things. Physical magic. Have you ever seen it?”
“Mmm. I don’t recall.”
Belavierr stared blankly at Grimalkin’s apprentice. Az’kerash nodded.
“It is an esoteric school. But this Gnoll has converted her muscles into a distinct, separate mana environment, you see? Even lacking a mana pool…they all lack one. But she can clearly cast magic. See? [Mage]. Level 8.”
“Interesting.”
Belavierr peered at the Gnoll. Az’kerash was about to tell Kerash to continue looking around, object lesson done, but the Stitch Witch’s eyes were glittering.
“She is enchanted.”
The Necromancer’s head turned. He had missed it—only vaguely sensed it. Belavierr could somehow see it, even through his spells. But a [Necromancer] had to…
“[True Sight]. [Eye of Revelations].”
Kerash’s sight changed. The two undead saw what Belavierr had already sensed. Az’kerash frowned.
“Hexes. This…this is interesting.”
“I sense a pattern here.”
Belavierr smiled. Az’kerash nodded slowly. He began to decipher the spells. Not arcane magic, his purview, that of [Mages], but he could see what they did. Mind, confidence…someone fairly high-level had cast them on her. He glanced at Belavierr as Ferkr stumbled along, fur ragged, eyes blank.
Then he heard the second great gift of the Meeting of Tribes and his eyes opened wide. Interesting? He decided exciting was more appropriate.
“…Is that a spellbook of the Rihal era? A teaching spellbook in first-class condition? I think it is. A genuine Tome of the Rihal Imperium. It has to be three hundred years old! The market worth alone must have been—how did they find…?”
Belavierr glanced at Az’kerash. She was trying to pull the first thread of a very interesting web out, untangle it. She was distracted by the Necromancer as he suddenly sat forwards with a collector’s avid fascination and edged away so she could concentrate.
[Mages].
 
——
 
The vote was fast and simple. It still took nearly two hours, mainly to calm down the angry Chieftains. The debate had mostly been one of hot blood, but as Theikha patiently reminded the others, they could revisit the issue of new lands given to them by the Antinium.
“Who will accept supporting non-aggression with the Antinium?”
No one stood. A few Chieftains half-rose, looked around to make sure they were seen, and sat. But not even Werri supported it. She just returned to her seat, her smile self-evident, of a job well done.
“Next, Silverfang. Please, Chieftain Akrisa, present your gift.”
