That was all Tesy. He’d also given himself rosy red scales, a very flattering look, all with the power of paint. Mrsha had been worried it would be annoying, but like Wer’s dye, Tesy had too many Skills.
“I’m going to lie down. I’m tired. Where are we staying?”
“The Outrageous Hairpin. That’s our meeting place. Just don’t steal anything while I’m gone. Are you going to meet with…your friends?”
“Just don’t paint anything while I’m asleep. And I don’t know. I’d have to see if they’re in this city.”
Curious. Curious. Mrsha turned from Tesy to Vetn, but neither elaborated. They were tired from being on the road, so once they got to the inn, Tesy greeted a gang of young Drakes and Gnolls with delight and Vetn grumbled before heading upstairs. He rented three whole rooms; he might be upset about the cost, but there was no way he was sharing a bed.
It was a mark of the two’s age that they did the thing neither Wer nor any of Mrsha’s travelling companions had done. They completely forgot to ‘mind’ Mrsha. Neither asked if she brushed her teeth, or had a bath, or if she was hungry.
That suited Mrsha just fine. She jumped on her bed a bit, then wandered downstairs.
“Something to eat? Of course. Say, Tesy, this isn’t that missing Gnoll, is she? She writes and everything!”
Tesy jumped as a friendly Gnoll [Barmaid] shouted. Mrsha was worried, but Tesy turned and gave her an easy laugh.
“Her? She’s just a cousin of Vetn’s. Her throat’s all sore. Anyways, look at her fur!”
So Mrsha got a piping hot bowl of very lovely noodles with a meaty sauce and listened in as Tesy introduced her to his friends. This was an inn of allies. Or at least, the [Barmaid] was ‘one of them’.
Who ‘they’ were, and what an ally was, was apparently anyone who believed the Drake cities were rife with corruption. Who saw that Gnolls were discriminated against! Who believed in exposing it.
[Rebels]. [Anarchists]. [Dissidents]. It was a second, hidden class. Sometimes they organized; their best knew Tesy as his real identity and went with him to help overturn cities. Others just gave shelter, information, a bit of coin if they could.
It was amazing to Mrsha because she had never heard of this movement! But Sellme had never gone to Liscor; it was literally off his radar. He was concerned with the Drake Izril, and Liscor was the back end of nowhere, being so far north.
That made Mrsha a bit indignant, but the [Anarchists] were friendly. They ruffled her fur, gave her some of their food, and played cards and drank.
“So, is Sellme going to stay long? I heard there’s a Drake keeping [Slaves], Tesy.”
“What?”
The rosy-scaled Drake looked up from his hand of cards. Mrsha stared at them, then folded. The others did likewise. Tesy’s expression instantly turned thunderous.
“I’m sort of busy, Vaugh. But tell me! I don’t want to cause a fuss, but…”
“It’s all over the place where I work. The Cleaner’s Guild. [Slaves]. From Chandrar. Even a Drake!”
“And the city’s leadership lets him do it?”
“She’s a corrupt [Mayor]. They all are. He’s rich. Come on, Tesy. One painting? I even have a wall for you. We can cause a diversion.”
The Drake bit his lip.
“I don’t know. Mr—Mri’s here, and so Vetn and I promised I’d lay low. I’ve got heat on me after Cellidel.”
The others egged him on, drunk on literal wine and excitement now this famous rebel was among them. Some were Tesy’s friends, others had the high honor of meeting him and knowing who he was.
“Come on, Tesy! You-know-who doesn’t fear the Watch! We’re with you!”
“Are you really going to turn a blind eye to the [Slaves]? We’re ready to go, Tesy. We’ve been training. We can hit the Watch and get them liberated within the week! Within three days!”
They had slings, knives, and alchemical weapons. Tricks to fight the ‘boots’. Tesy squirmed, but in the face of all the eagerness…he turned to ‘Mri’.
“I won’t be long. You stay here. Just tell Vetn I’m out for a bit if he wakes up.”
Mrsha watched him go, vaguely feeling like this might be a mistake, but she was high on the feeling of being among the company of high-level professionals. Wer had been good and all, but he’d been on the lam. Tesy and Vetn felt free!
…A bit too free? When Vetn woke up, past midnight, and slouched down to bother the [Barmaid] on night-shift for food, he stared at Mrsha as if he had no idea why she was here. Then he groaned.
“Oh yeah. You’re here. Maybe one of Tesy’s friends can help you get home?”
Not he himself? Mrsha was hurt. But then Tesy came back, laughing, and word of Sellme’s latest painting began to spread and Vetn was upset.
“You’re making my job harder! And uh, Mri’s here!”
“Come on, Vetn. I’ll go with you to your event.”
The [Anarchists] didn’t know Vetn, and regarded him with a bit of wariness. He looked at them with clear disinterest.
“Pass if it’s your friends. I’ll check. So are we staying? How’s she getting to Salazsar, or Oteslia or Liscor?”
“Dunno. I’ll think on it tomorrow. I’m out for bed!”
Mrsha sat there as Vetn rubbed at his face, then turned to her.
“I’m going out to check on something. Be back in a bit.”
And they left her there. The [Barmaid] was the one to show Mrsha to her room, give her a glass of milk. Mrsha realized no one had told her to brush her teeth, so she did it herself. Then she went to sleep.
 
——
 
No one woke her up, either. Tesy was out, and Vetn had gone back to bed. Mrsha had breakfast, then sat, wondering if they had a plan.
They did not. Vetn and Tesy met over late breakfast, as Sellme’s painting was all over the city. Vetn was annoyed, Tesy clearly proud of his work, which featured the objectionable [Slave Owner] with a Drake with a collar—and trying to put one on a passerby.
It was already causing waves of discontent. And neither had even thought about Mrsha.
“Uh…uh…we’ll think about it tonight. Vetn, is there…?”
“Can’t tell. I’m going to scope out the city and see if there’s anything worth looking at.”
“Well, I’ll find out if there’s more to do. Some of the others are going to see if they can force that monster out of their home and free those poor people. You want to come, Mri?”
Mrsha looked at them. She had a thought. But she wasn’t sure if she should voice it. So she wrote, and held up a message.
I would like to tell my Mother I am safe. Can you help me?
Tesy and Vetn exchanged looks.
“Sure! She doesn’t know? Do you know where she is? I guess I can do it. Do you want to, Vetn?”
“Sure. The Mage’s Guild is on my list.”
That was how Mrsha found herself going to the Mage’s Guild as Vetn posed as her older brother. The [Scribe] didn’t bat an eyelid. He just took down a simple message for Lyonette.
Mrsha was a bit worried. Vetn had given her the blankest of looks when she asked if she should disguise where she was or something. He didn’t know, so she sent the following to Lyonette of Oteslia:
 
Salutations to Lionette du Solstice,
By the Eternal Throne, greetings! Or should I not swear by that? It is I, your humble little friend, by blood deferred, of Calanfer. Me! Mri! I know you have inquired after my health, and posthaste too, given the dire straits left to our friend of mutual acquaintance. However, I must inform you I am well.
Some complications have emerged, but I assure you I was not abducted and fully plan to rendezvous with you in time. Yet a pressing suitor is after me, and I must decline his invitations. I am simply well, and I hope to see you soon. Much love,
—Mri
 
She was super-proud of that. Vetn had no idea what it meant, and he grumbled over the cost.
“What does blood-deferred mean?”
Mrsha gave him an indignant look. It was obvious if you knew Terandrian expressions among the aristocracy and royal class. It meant she wasn’t technically of the bloodline, but since she was Lyonette’s daughter, she might qualify as a [Princess] of Calanfer! If the crown accepted her. Otherwise she was an [Illegitimate Heir] at best, but Mrsha wouldn’t mind that class.
Vetn gave her the look of someone who wished he’d had his morning tea.
“You actually know Terandrian lineages and whatnot? You’re something. You remind me of me when I was a kid…no, wait. You don’t. You remind me of someone else when they were young. Smart. Say, maybe she can help us with you needing to get places.”
All was going well, in short. Mrsha wanted to wait for a reply, but Vetn wanted to go off and he was at least conscious enough to drop her at the inn. Mrsha debated slipping outside, but before she could do so, or he could leave on his mysterious business, it happened.
“Hey. There’s a riot already at the gates.”
Tesy looked up from a lunch, frowning. Mrsha even heard the first horn blaring.
“Already? Why the gates? We’ve been stirring up trouble at the mansion, but the gates?”
“Maybe it’s relatives. Come see!”
Everyone went, even Vetn, frowning. He muttered to Tesy.
“My [Advanced Dangersense] is going off.”
“Really? Well, let’s stay back, then. Don’t worry. We’ve got a good group of fighters. Even if the Boots come out in force, it won’t b—”
And then they saw it. Mrsha, holding Tesy’s claw, saw the [Anarchists], ready to join in on behalf of the citizens, stop. They looked ahead as a Gnoll came through the gates, joining a throng of fighting Gnolls. Some were on the battlements.
They were armed, had glowing paint on their fur, and they were killing the Watch.
Not fighting. Not brawling. Not throwing things. They had weapons, and they were tearing through the unprepared City Watch. More were advancing into the city, sniffing, shouting.
“Doom! Somewhere! I don’t have her scent, but I have the Drake’s. Spread out! Chief Warrior, go!”
A familiar Gnoll and the biggest group yet advanced past the fighting, ignoring the screaming civilians. Tesy saw Vetn and Mrsha looking at him. Wer had already shown Mrsha how to hide her scent and Vetn was the Thief of Clouds.
“But I just drew…”
Sellme. They had come for Sellme. Not because they cared about his drawings, but because he was where she was.
Doom. Mrsha saw Vetn move first, again, breaking out of the horror. He pointed.
“The south gates. Move! I’ll find horses!”
 
——
 
And then they were here. Wer hadn’t lied. Mrsha fled with Tesy and Vetn as another city burned. Not literally, but the Gnolls had been tracking them through the streets. They missed catching Tesy only because Vetn had doused him in scent-killer. But they were right on their heels, and from this spot, they’d be tracking any city nearby, searching for new arrivals, prevailing on Gnolls in the city who believed in their ways, allying with local tribes…
It sunk in to Vetn and Tesy as they rode. They looked back at Mrsha, and really looked at her. A little Gnoll girl, hunted across Izril. Vetn had known, but this?
“Two Drake cities. They just walked in and…why do they hate her so much? One Gnoll?”
“It’s the Plain’s Eye tribe. They hate them more than anything in the world. Trust me. Other tribes wouldn’t go this far. But Plain’s Eye? I think there’s a reason. I don’t know. I left when I was young.”
Vetn stared back at the city. Tesy was looking back. The [Anarchists] had fled, to protect their homes. He turned to Vetn.
“My friends don’t fight warriors. Not like that. We can hide out with them, maybe. But—do you know where to go?”
“A Thieves’ Guild might give her up.”
“No. Come on.”
Vetn shrugged, matter-of-factly.
“Depends on the price. Listen. Tesy. This is…too big. I don’t know where to take her. Oteslia, Salazsar? We might not make it to either. But I do know who might help out. She’s nearby. Maybe…”
Tesy ran a claw, trembling, Mrsha noticed, down his neck spines. He looked at Vetn, and some composure returned.
“Her? She’s not always an ally…”
“Tesy—just shut up. She’s never turned you in, not once. She gives you money, and she’d know a safe place if there’s one in a local city. If you don’t want to—”
“Okay, okay. Yes! Let’s go. Come on, Mrsha. We’re going to a friend.”
A friend of Tesy and Vetn? And also a safe place, apparently. Vetn sped ahead. He needed to check where she was, but any Mage’s Guild or Merchant’s Guild or local gossiper could tell him. That was how Mrsha found herself heading along a route no one could predict.
Not her worried mother. Not her pursuers. Not even Plain’s Eye.
 
——
 
They were the best of times, and the worst—no, wait. They were just the best of times.
The Meeting of Tribes had gotten off to a big start, with festivities, games, activities, reunions, and spectacle. Now, nearly two months in…
It was pretty much still going strong. Lehra woke up one day, dangling foot-first from a rope, still drunk, and had no idea what had happened.
“Cliff jumping. You kept insisting it was ‘your turn’ because you forgot you did it last time.”
Suxhel, the Gazer [Wizard], patiently informed Lehra when she found one of her companions at their tents. Lehra rubbed at her face.
“Didn’t anyone stop me?”
“No. Everyone eventually left because you threw up on the way down. You fell asleep there.”
“Oh. But how’d there get to be a cliff, anyw—”
Lehra turned, saw the giant wooden scaffolding and tower set up to let Gnolls and brave visitors leap from the top with the enchanted rope and stop a dizzying ten feet from the ground, and frowned.
“…Was that always there?”
Suxhel rolled all her eyes, which, coming from a Gazer, was a sign of extreme annoyance. However, she still watched some Gnolls trying the new, and newly cleaned, activity.
“It does surprise me. Even Lizardfolk don’t do this.”
“Well, we’re an adventurous species.”
“Yes. Adventurous is exactly the word I’d use.”
Lehra grinned. The Star Gnoll was actually the one member of her species in Stargazer’s Promise, and while Suxhel had met many of her people, Lehra was something, even among Gnolls. She pointed.
“The Meeting of Tribes is a time to have fun, Suxhel. New experiences!”
“I thought it was a time to give the great gifts and make deliberations on the future of Gnolls.”
The Named Adventurer thought about it.
“Well, yes. But those’re the Chieftains’ jobs. Do you think we’re here to sit about and be stuffy? It’s super entertaining, every single day.”
That was true. The biggest tribes worked hard to make sure there wasn’t ever a lack of activities. Multiple events, per day, hosted by different tribes, meant that this gigantic fair never stopped being both economically and socially rewarding.
