Replacing it was an oily patina of corruption. Confused and leery, Zac looked around, realizing he was back in the crevasse—or at least a version of it. He felt as though he was standing in a furnace from all the trapped heat. He couldn’t figure out if it was real or an illusion, but the heat was so unbearable Zac was forced to climb to the surface. There, a completely different scene awaited.

The twin peaks were gone, replaced by a resplendent castle. It was covered in runes that made Zac’s head spin, and powerful magic circles slowly rotated above. Looking around, the whole mountain range had been terraformed, turned into a vast array that supported the central castle. And that was only the beginning.

The further Zac looked, the more alarmed he became. There was no rain or illusory haze to block his vision in this reality. From his vantage point halfway up a mountain range, Zac saw a completely terraformed island. Save for a few reservoirs of carefully stored illusory rain, the whole island was a large desert. There were two more castles far in the distance, most likely even more blocked from his view.

All of them were drawing in the Lost Era’s Dead Dao, which was everywhere. It had become entwined with the world’s Cosmic Energy, giving it a sinister tint. Had the whole world fused with the Lost Plane? Zac couldn’t explain such complete infiltration otherwise. Even the Ra’Lashar Goblins didn’t see their kingdom so tainted until they lost their war.

Seeing corruption permeate everything made the solemn atmosphere seem out of place. The castles didn’t emit a foul, sinister air. They looked no different than any other structures of the Limitless Empire. Zac could even sense the Imperial Faith gathered in the magic circles. They had bent the Lost Plane’s corruption to their will, just as they did with the Foreign Gods.

Or was that just what they believed?

Zac glanced toward the island’s center, itching to catch a glimpse of what waited there. He could feel a vast presence from that direction, like a towering giant sealed in place. Another mountain blocked his view, but if he flew up and—Zac caught himself before disaster struck. After warning Idiche, he’d almost fallen for the Lost Plane’s urgings.

It was as though a spell had broken after he resisted the impulse. A tremendous rejection pushed Zac back toward the crevasse, which now looked like a black swirl. Zac urgently went with the flow despite the ominous scene. He wasn’t sure if he’d truly gone to the other side or just caught a glimpse through the illusion, but he knew that staying was incredibly dangerous.

Zac dove into the impenetrable darkness and immediately found himself back on the damp mountain he recognized. Idiche was still there, still attached to him. Not wasting time on questions, Zac resumed his rush through the barrier, which seemed somewhat weakened after his experience. Still, Zac couldn’t tell whether seconds or minutes passed before the commotion around him stopped.

They had passed the barrier and reached the end of the crack, yet Zac briefly wondered if it was all a trick as he looked up. The slick stones and lingering moisture indicated it had rained until recently, yet the sky was clear. Above, the churning clouds had been replaced by a powerful magic circle emanating Imperial Faith.
