“It is not here. There is little worth recovering. Do not open the doors. Leave the Folk of Deep and Song to their homes. The answers to what we are, to Goblin Kings…they lie somewhere else. Somewhere even deeper. These are not the ‘fortresses of stone’ that Trolls held; those sank off Izril’s coast. What we search for predates their kingdom, even the Kingdom of Gnolls.”
His eyes burned, and he approached the mirror.
“I will find it. If I do not, you must. Older than Harpies. Older than Dragons. Look for the Elves. And the Gnomes. If it is not here…”
He stopped, as if struck by a sudden thought, and Rags had the same one.
I wonder if Niers knows?
Velan turned abruptly and covered the lantern, dousing the flames with his fingers.
“It is still there. Beware the older Goblin Lords. I am one of the new ones. The old ones are testing us. If you’ve come this far, don’t give up. But beware. There are too many damned things that should have died with time…”
 
——
 
“Chieftain? Chieftain?”
Someone was shaking Rags. She opened her eyes and realized she was lying on a litter. Rags sat up fast and nearly headbutted one of her [Witches].
“Wh—Velan?”
Everyone around her jumped, except Somo and the two Trolls. Rags glanced around. She was in a circular, domed room. Some kind of…
Waystation? She couldn’t have said how she knew it, only that she recognized the circular domed room with little openings you could stare through. Trolls used them as places to rest while navigating the darkness.
“What that, Chieftain? You okay?”
A pointed hat and a hand on her head; it was a [Witch]. A Goblin [Witch] from Anazurhe’s tribe. Rags batted away the hand.
“I’m fine. I…I saw a memory. From Velan. He left it for me.”
“What?”
The other Goblins stirred. They looked at Rags as if she were crazy, but she swung herself out of the litter.
She felt better—a bit. The claustrophobia had died down, and she realized part of the anxiety attack had come from Velan. The memory had been so overpowering it had caused a physical response.
How had he done that? She had never imagined you could speak to the future, but of course, he’d known about their power. So intelligent. And yet…
“Chieftain, Taganchiel passed out too. He woke up before you. He said he saw Tallis Stormbreaker. You saw Velan?”
Rags looked about and saw Taganchiel, visibly disoriented, sitting and gulping water. She nodded at him, and he croaked.
“Tallis the Stormbreaker. [Shaman] for [Shaman]. Velan for a [Chieftain]. Strongest vision I ever had, Chieftain Rags. What was Velan like?”
Every Goblin looked at Rags, and she rubbed at her face.
“…Strange. Very powerful, but not like a [Warrior]. He was searching for answers. He and a bunch of Goblins fought their way down here, searching for the truth. Didn’t find it. What was Tallis like?”
“Scary, Chieftain. He could speak and turn you to ash. Very angry. But he loved Velan. Thought Velan was the best.”
Taganchiel shuddered, feeling at his chest. Rags reorientated herself.
“The truth does not lie below. He warned us not to open the gates. This place…is the Kingdom of Trolls. It lies in ruins. The High Passes are the Empire of Harpies’ graves? And he said something about the City of Graves…”
The other Goblins were getting weirded out by all this. Shineshield grinned nervously.
“You okay, Chieftain? Maybe we go back if you feeling bad?”
Rags gazed at Shineshield, then shook her head.
“No. This has nothing to do with Trolls’ problems. We’ll go down. Somo, tell our guides…(we were delayed by Goblin matters. We will visit the Stone that Sings Loudest soon.)”
She heard the words coming out of her mouth, but she didn’t understand them until the two Trolls jerked upright. Somo blinked at Rags, then her eyes lit up.
“Chieftain learned Trollish? So fast!”
The two Trolls were open-mouthed at Rags. She felt at her own tongue.
What the hell was that? Somehow, she’d picked up Trolls’ language in a second. No…not picked up. Remembered.
Velan the Kind. Another gift from the canny Goblin King. Rags shook her head and got up.
“(Take me to your Dulat, please. This is the Kingdom of Deep and Song, isn’t it?)”
“(It is. You…remember? Then you are a great Goblin. The People of Kings come to help with their Skills.)”
The Trolls looked hopeful, and the female one who’d offered Rags the horn spoke. People of Kings? That was their name for Goblins. Rags realized that Trolls used ‘folk’ for species without levels. ‘People’ for Humans, Goblins, Gnolls…
So many things to unravel, but her [Dangersense] was still in her head. And the drums had picked up intensity. They were thunderous now, like a march to war.
“(Tell me, now we can talk. What is the foe? Where did it come from and why do you need our help?)”
The female Troll answered briefly, and Rags’ heart skipped a beat.
“(Five. Or one. Five wanting to become one. They came from beyond the Old Doors.)”
Don’t open the doors. Rags swallowed hard and raised a finger to her brows.
“[Memo]. Rags to Poisonbite. I need reinforcements. We’ll send a guide up. The Trolls might be fighting something very old and deadly.”
She waited, but something felt—off. Rags frowned. Touched her head again and tried to use her Skill.
“Poisonbite?”
 
——
 
Poisonbite wasn’t dead. Rags confirmed that after Shineshield had marched for thirty minutes back the way she’d come and then sprinted back.
“Chieftain! Poisonbite memoed me! She thinks you died!”
“Neither of us is dead, Shineshield. Send a runner back. The mountain is blocking the [Memo] Skill. Or something else is. [Messages] are also not working.”
Rags had never heard of that happening. She knew you could block [Messages], but could you suppress a [Memo] as well? Then again…if you used an entire damn mountain, she bet that would stop magic or Skills if anything could.
Just another complication down here. Rags had to play telephone with Poisonbite as she gave swift orders.
“I am going to keep heading down. I’ve come too far to turn back, and I can communicate with the Trolls. I will be back or send a messenger within a day’s time. Redscar is in command when he arrives.”
Poisonbite really didn’t like that, but she couldn’t bug Rags, and the Goblin had already wasted enough time with her fainting episode. The Trolls’ lair was deep inside the mountain, and even marching fast, they had a long way to go.
 
——
 
Now that she understood where she was, the entire passage through the collapsed highways and side-tunnels took on another look to Rags. Yes, places had completely been buried and left only small passages to move through, but several chunks of the old highways were completely intact and eerily wide and empty.
Not that this place was deserted, oh no. Rags’ tribe ran into combat twice on their descent, both times swiftly dispatched.
“Dropbats.”
Shineshield caught one on her glowing shield, and it flashed, blinding the creature before she had it on the ground and skewered it with her sword. Rags’ Hobgoblins opened up on their Thunderbows, cursing as the darkness made them miss the swooping targets. But every time they winged a bat, it died.
The two Trolls were surprised by the Dropbats and the Armored Crawler, which came surging out of the darkness. The two of them and Somo beat it back, roaring, as the monstrosity recoiled from a [Fireball] Rags hurled at it and a jolt of Taganchiel’s lightning.
Apparently, those two monsters didn’t attack Trolls, who were too tough. Rags’ Goblins easily repelled both offensives, but Rags was highly aware of other creatures moving through the dark.
Most were smaller; rockmites, the insects that ate holes in the mountain, Stone Slimes, various bug types, even sentient mushrooms. Magic allowed for a good deal of life, even in pitch-blackness.
…Once, the Trolls flattened themselves against a wall and made signals for the Goblins to crouch and go quiet. Rags had gazed up and heard a crunching sound as something walked over an entire stream of rockmites. Something big enough to make the ground tremble as it moved.
Yet none of these threats made Rags think it was beyond the capacity of Trolls to fight. They avoided big threats, fought back against predators, and, as Rags neared what seemed to be their primary camp, she saw more and more of them.
Trolls could look like stone itself if they held still. Rags, with her [See Heat] Skill, picked them out of the darkness.
They lived in stone camps. That was the only way to describe them. The Trolls had stone in plenty and so everything was made of it; it was just the grade and quality of it that differed.
A huge stone ‘fence’ barricaded off a series of caves in the first Troll settlement that Rags’ group passed. Trolls called down at their guides from the ledges, and Rags noted their equipment.
They had steel! But it was all rusted, clearly plundered from adventurers or [Soldiers] who’d come down here. Some Trolls had resized plate armor and enchanted weapons; the lowest-grade of warrior had stone-age weapons.
To make up for this, Trolls had a defensive weapon that made Rags think they could have fought any Goblin tribe: slings. Slings and stones they could literally hurl with their incredible strength.
Cloth and hide were precious here. So was oil, hence the disrepair of the metal, if the Trolls even understood how to keep the blades. The only thing down here that they had was stone; no fire for forging, no agriculture. They did have mushroom and lichen farms, and they loved potatoes for some reason.
Thus, Rags saw caves of Trolls with mats of bare lichen or old hide for living spaces—and for light, they had magical quartz that they had cut, polished, and placed high up, like streetlights.
Some Trolls had made houses out of beautiful strata of stone infused with glittering minerals or created patterns of stones or even statues out of gemstones. They had few cutting tools, but they had a wealth that would have had Gold-rank adventurers coming after them nonstop.
Their protection was the sheer depth at which they lived, the tunnels, and of course—the drums.
The drums that Kevin and the other Goblins had heard were the ultimate weapon and defense of the Trolls. How it worked had been a mystery to Rags until the Trolls had shown her a very cunning system embedded along the highways and other passages.
There were stone tubes dug through the rock, which let the sound echo through the entire mountain range. Close one, and the drumming would be far less audible. Open a bunch or put your ear to the sound tube and you’d be deaf. It let the drummer disorientate enemies, marshal her people, and, it seemed, distract her foes.
Despite their proximity to the central Troll camp, Rags heard the drumbeats from far away, as if it were miles and miles to the west. She realized it was either a call to arms in that location or a distraction. You’d never find where the playing was coming from as long as the Trolls didn’t want you to.
The central camp was one Rags was more familiar with: it was a war camp. The moment Rags passed into the huge space, she recognized fortifications. Walls of stone that had been rebuilt, Trolls wandering about, but most of all…
The smell.
It was sour sweat, the odd, loamy scent of the deep mountain, but also fear and something else. Something rotten. Not the Trolls; they smelled like mushrooms if anything. Rags saw lines of Trolls lying on the ground as others tended to them. Plucking at small, writhing objects or pouring water over…
She stopped as something scuttled towards her, then stomped. Rags heard a crunch, and her boot revealed an insect with way too much black fuzz and legs growing all over its body. Higgledy-piggledy. Legs sprouting out of the back, from the sides—
It made no sense. Some of the legs wouldn’t even touch the ground, and they were all flailing as Rags scraped her boot on the ground with a grimace. The Troll warriors were groaning; they made little sound, but their pain was apparent.
They were wounded, and it looked like they were infested with bugs. Covered in them. Trolls were peeling them off fast as they could, smashing them, as grossed out as the wounded warriors.
The hairs on the back of Rags’ neck rose. Then—without warning, she came to an opening in the stone, a towering, tall room filled with openings and that a single figure sat in. There were no guards, no introduction. Yet when the drums fell silent a moment, Rags looked up, stepped forwards, and bowed slightly.
The Troll Queen was waiting for Rags.
 
——
 
When she reached the Troll Queen, Rags realized her prepared speech was useless. The Troll Queen sat there playing on her drums. A faint light illuminated her that Rags was curious about until she realized it was luminescent mold of various colors smeared on the inside of the drum chamber. It gave the Troll Queen a faint, multicolored glow as she sat there.
She wasn’t the largest of the Trolls; she was more of middling height. But she sat in front of the ancient, metal drums in that central chamber and did not stop playing, even when Rags stood before her.
“Dulat.”
She nodded at Rags, and the timbre of the drumming changed. The marching, busy sound lowered until it was like someone breathing and trying to keep it hidden. Breathless; Rags had never heard a drummer play that sound so well.
Respectfully, the Trolls stepped back, and Rags nodded back to the Troll Queen, and entered the chamber for her audience.
“(Your people are mighty and well-guarded, Stone That Sings Loudest of the Folk of Deep and Song.)”
If she was surprised that Rags could speak her language so fluently, the female Troll gave no sign of it. Instead, the Troll Queen’s grave face broke into a smile, and she played dolcissimo, a patter of high, playful notes, then switched, the drumbeats going lower, straining, until they sounded rasping.
Affannato; anguish running through the sound. She said—nothing.
The reply was clear. Rags had seen the encampments of other Trolls, and she understood their organization and technology, such as it was, set them above other creatures down here.
Trolls were exceptionally tough. They seemed to subsist on mushrooms, prey, like the giant Dropbats that Rags was all-too-familiar with, and underground streams. They were the apex group around here.
If there were monsters, they had better be immune to the power of the drums, as well as the might of thick-skinned Troll warriors, who could swing a club hard enough to crush any ordinary man’s skull in a single blow, helmet or not—
And be more numerous than the Trolls, who could fill the tunnels in battle. And yet…Rags knew this was the Kingdom of Trolls. Or had been.
