Five body parts. Head, torso, arms, and one leg. For whatever reason, there was only one leg. They were squirming through the tunnels…trying to link up.
The entire battle of the Trolls wasn’t to destroy any one body part; if they could do that, they would have done it already. They were trying to keep them from uniting.
Rags, as a [Strategist] approved by Niers Astoragon, was convinced the strategy here was sound. What left her shaken, what made her ill to the point where she could barely stand in front of the Troll Queen, was simple:
She did not think she could kill it. This looked like a foe from an age Teriarch belonged to. It looked like a foe he should fight. The head had nearly lured her into an ambush, and it was way out of the grade of the Flooded Waters tribe to handle.
A Dragonlord’s concern. Not Rags. And she had to tell the Troll Queen that. Yet again, Rags had run into something that her tribe had no reasonable hope of killing.
Pride, that little Goblin crouching in the grass, sympathy for the Trolls, said one thing. Instinct, her rational mind, all said it was impossible.
Nor did Rags think that Teriarch would exactly rush to confront…whatever the hell this was. The tunnels were deep. His Dragon body had not a chance of getting down there, and if Rags was confident in any one thing, it was that the old ‘Tyrant’, as the Troll Queen referred to him, was a coward.
“(It is the enemy. You see it. We fight.)”
Rags shook her head.
“(You must run.)”
“(Where? Up? Death’s Lands? No. Blood’s Lands? No. North? Human’s Lands? No. High? No.)”
The Troll Queen dismissed all the options, and Rags sat with the Troll Queen in the unearthly silence. Rags knew she had every right to defend her home. She felt the need to join the Troll Queen. But that message from Mrsha…
It was either a guess, some aspect of the [World’s Eye Theatre], or something far more important. Rags turned to the Troll Queen and pointed down.
“(You can’t kill that thing. Escape it and buy time.)”
“(It will follow.)”
“(Let someone else take it on. Believe me, there’s at least two armies above.)”
Could the 7th Hive or Magnolia take it on? They had to. Was this the attack on Goblinhome? It seemed likely…yet Rags kept thinking of Mrsha’s message. She felt like if that thing were coming for Goblinhome, her [Dangersense] would have been going off even worse than it had been.
The Troll Queen refused to budge. She sat there, chewing on some potatoes from above.
“(This is home. We fight, we die. You remember?)”
“The Dwarf, Gnoll, and Troll Kings fighting the Drakes? Yes. They won that war. You won’t…the odds are against you.”
The Troll Dulat nodded. She rested a hand on her drums.
“(This is our home. We go, we lose it. Forever?)”
“(You’ll live.)”
“(How long, without a home? How long as many, not scattered few? You have no home.)”
The Great Chieftain recoiled, but it wasn’t an insult. Just a fact. The Troll Queen reached down, and Rags saw that her ‘drumsticks’ were actually maces. Rust-red, worn by ages of playing…tiny enough to be swung as musical instruments in her hands.
She held one out to Rags, a pleading look in her eyes.
“(Go. Come back. Then, we go down. Together. Into the halls of the Folk of Deep and Song. One last time, to put old dreams to sleep. Then we will go up, some of us, and follow you wherever you go, until you have a home. Show Goblins a new memory.)”
She spoke well for someone who communicated mostly with drum beats. Rags recognized the desperation behind the calm rhetoric. She glanced over her shoulder and swore she could hear the pieces of that body moving towards each other, inexorably, in the darkness.
Descend and slay an Old One to win great allies or stay above, alone, waiting for her enemies?
Death.
Death.
Death.
Rags got up slowly without taking the mace from the Troll Queen’s hands. She walked up wearily, higher and higher, not knowing where she went.
It was automatic. She went to the place she always travelled to, the only spot that had ever given her hope or a vision for the future other than bleakness. It had taken her parents from her, her Chieftain. She had seen her friends and tribes die there. And the only kindness she’d ever received.
 
——
 
A Goblin walked into an inn and found a Gnoll girl waiting for her. She expected a trick or something silly or anything to betray the great expectations she always had of this place and the [Innkeeper]. Always.
She would not have begrudged them if she found nothing. But when she sat down at a table, she learned she did like cabbage beef rolls. With spicy mustard.
“Why, Chieftain Rags, what brings you back? You’re looking, uh, dirty.”
Rags glanced at Lyonette and muttered something about caves, but her eyes were drawn to only one person in the inn. A little Gnoll girl, who’d frozen as Rags had walked in, half an hour late to dinner.
Thank goodness for [Fast Travelling] Skills. If only she could win battles that easily. Rags was tired, beaten down, and afraid. She gazed at Mrsha, searching for a child or a prank, but she saw someone familiar looking back at her.
A desperate, young expression. Young, yes, but so urgent, someone who wanted to help her. Save her…
For a moment, Rags thought she saw a little girl crouching in the grass. She blinked—and she realized it was a girl who’d been there. Who knew what it was like.
Only, Mrsha hadn’t had to grow up as fast as Rags. The Goblin had always resented that a bit. Today, though, Mrsha pushed her plate back and stood up. She handed Rags a little card.
I’m glad you’re alive.
Rags blinked at the card, then smiled at Mrsha. Tiredly, she put a cabbage beef roll in her mouth and began to chew.
“So am I.”
It wasn’t much. Not with what she knew was coming. But again, to her surprise, Mrsha put out her paw. It was, Rags realized, trembling. Rags hesitated, then gently laid her claw in Mrsha’s paw, and the little girl squeezed. She refused to let go.
 
——
 
After dinner, the Gnoll girl pretended to want to brag about all the gold, and the Goblin followed her into a garden. They walked up a hill, past flowers that winked innocently at her, and into a hill covered in mists.
There, the girl looked around and then opened a second door. Rags stared down, past twining roots, and then at Mrsha du Marquin. Her eyes opened wide. Her breath caught, and her weary mind suddenly came aflame. She turned to Mrsha.
“W-what is this?”
The girl just pointed: down. Rags paused and looked at Mrsha, looked around at the [Garden of Sanctuary].
She took a deep breath, fresh, hopeful in her chest, as if she were truly alive again. Then she leapt.
 
 
[Gearhead Cyclist Level 25!]
[Skill – Bike: Smooth Roll (Rough Terrain) obtained!]
[Skill – Summon Jump Ramp obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Toughness obtained!]
