To her surprise, someone knew; it was one of the Molten Stone tribe. The same terrified young [Witch], who hugged her hat over her head.
“We have to go, Chieftain! It—it using [Drain Life] on us!”
“The heart?”
One nod and Rags ordered an immediate retreat. The torso flopped over, again, and Rags realized it was headed in a specific direction, somehow. Where was unclear until the guide took her to the next ‘monster’. Then it became obvious.
 
——
 
A hand was scuttling across the ground, each finger—and it had seven—pulling itself forwards at an alarming rate. Trolls were running across a bridge as Rags caught up. Six miles away from the rib cage, the hand was fighting the Trolls. Only, the hand was far faster and more active than the rib cage.
A finger disengaged with a slurp of sound, then wriggled and leapt at a Troll like a worm, trailing sinews behind it. It knocked the Troll down; screaming, the young warrior swung at it, and Rags saw the fingernail, filthy and huge, lever up and something peek out and try to stick red lines of sinew into his brain.
She brought her sword down, and the lightning discharged. The tendons yanked back into the finger, which wriggled at her until Somo kicked it away. The Troll got up, and Rags shouted.
“[Rapid Retreat]! Back, back—”
The hand locked onto the new targets as her entire group ran for it. They crossed over a long bridge of stone; stone and huge ropes. It spanned a vast chasm where a vast, stone highway had been; now, a network of Troll-made rope-bridges crisscrossed the broken pieces.
The hand scuttled after them, and Rags knew she and her group were running towards the torso in the distance. Even with [Rapid Retreat], the hand was so damn fast—it only slowed down where Taganchiel threw five Tripvine bags.
“[Wild Overgrowth]! Keep running!”
The vines tangled the hand for a few seconds until it tore free. Then it got up, balancing on all seven fingertips, and ran at the Goblins.
It was halfway across the stone bridge when Rags’ guide, panting, shouted an order.
“(Now! Drop!)”
A Troll warrior next to Rags brought down a battleaxe on one side of the bridge as a Troll burst out of cover and sliced the same rope on the other side. The thick ropes had been pre-frayed for this purpose; the effect was instantaneous.
The bridge jerked, then tilted sideways as one side of it dropped. The hand jerked as it sensed the change in gravity and made a wild grab for the piece of the bridge still staying upright. Rags saw Shineshield raise her sword, ready to cut the other side, but a Troll stopped her; the hand missed the grab and went plummeting into the darkness.
Rags listened.
One, two, three, four, five…after ‘fourteen’, she heard a faint thud from below. The Trolls let out a breath with the Goblins, and her old guide spoke.
“Bridge needs repairs. Or Trolls stuck.”
Indeed, Trolls were already trying to wrestle it back up so they could reconnect the broken ropes. It was an excellent, if simplistic trap. Rags doubted she would have fallen for it, but falling…fourteen hundred feet or something would probably work on most threats.
That was why she was really, really unhappy when she turned to her guide and asked the obvious.
“Is it dead?”
“No. Maybe stopped a bit. Soon, it will be climbing. Other parts try to follow it. Other traps down below. Those two…too close. Can’t let join up.”
A thousand-foot fall only slowed it down? Rags thought she knew what the damn thing was now. Thought she knew—but she turned to the guide.
“Hand. Torso. You said ‘five’. That should be six. Is there no head?”
She was hopeful…right up until the Troll with white hair smiled mirthlessly.
“No. Head that way. You want to see? It only has one leg.”
Rags took a deep breath.
“Can we kill the head?”
Her Goblins were looking at each other, checking their weapons, their usual bravado gone. The Trolls just watched her, expectant. Someone with Skills.
“Can try.”
Rags steeled herself. If it had a head, it probably had a brain. If it had a brain…it might heal from that too. But the head was the weakest part of the body, in her opinion, aside from maybe male groins. She had to try. She had to kill it.
She had to do something before Goblinhome was attacked. This might not even be the principal attack. Part of her said it was time to go and find Redscar or Teriarch or something. But the rest of her was thinking of her level.
Level 39. The rest of her was seeing a little Goblin in the grass. Let the Dragonlord of Flames handle it? Rags gripped her sword tighter in her hand.
“How long?”
“Hour?”
“Show me.”
She had to try.
 
——
 
He realized he was dead when the first Dropbat landed on his handlebars from above. Everything had gone, up to that point, if not well, fast.
It turned out Trolls liked picking their way up jagged, uneven rock faces as much as Humans or Goblins. The tunnels they had used that led down from the surface were by and large smooth. And wide enough for a Troll, which meant the only things keeping Rianchi from plunging straight down were his brakes and desire not to crash and die.
He went fast, even so. He had a bicycle light on the front that shone ahead of him, and his bicycle had magical suspension and Skills. Rianchi blew past the foremost Goblin [Scouts] heading down in less than a minute; he saw them running, turning, and staring as he rolled past them on a one-way ride into his death.
He knew it was crazy, but that warning…if it was fake, Rianchi was going to get really mad at Mrsha, if he ever lived to meet her.
He believed it. Gothica and Asgra believed it. So Rianchi went.
He should have said something to Dyeda, but it had happened so fast…
Down Rianchi went until he hit the ruined highway. He saw the luminescent dots that the Goblins had left and followed them, and when he saw the highway, his heart fell. But after scrambling over a few broken spots with his bicycle, swearing, Rianchi saw the broken ground was still more or less contiguous. Which meant he could still ride, even if it was in ways Kevin had never dreamed.
“[Phantom Gears (-10)]!”
Even on a huge, uphill ascent, Rianchi could pedal with low resistance and move up at a faster-than-walking pace. His [Double Pedaling] and the [Phantom Gears] meant he wasn’t straining for each rotation and sped up a rocky hill.
Hedault’s enchantments on the tires meant he had good traction, and Pelt’s gears made his bicycle the most economical device in any world. Rianchi was the highest-level [Cycler] in the world, or so he assumed. He had just begun to get confident he’d actually make it when he remembered:
Monsters.
The Dropbats came down fast and hard, and Rianchi felt one tear at his shoulder, but his clothing tangled the claws. He flung his arm out, shouting wildly and flailing with his fists. The Dropbats landed as he did the only thing he could do: he pedaled faster.
Down he went, and one flew off his bicycle, and the other finally let go, taking some blood with it. Rianchi saw a wall coming up, and braked. He tried to catch his breath—then saw the Armored Crawler come around the corner and spot him and his bike. Rianchi began pedaling as it crawled forwards, roaring—
He saw a ledge up ahead and screamed.
“[Bike Hop]!”
He got up one ledge, and as it was climbing, accelerated away. Only after Rianchi had gotten ten minutes away from the monster and he had caught his breath did he realize…
…There were no luminescent paint strips anywhere around him.
He was lost. Rianchi went pedaling forwards a few dozen feet, then turned, realizing he had to go back. The tunnel was sloping upwards ahead and behind—
The Armored Crawler’s green flesh and metal-covered body was six feet behind him. It had crept up on him. Rianchi began to pedal. It lunged.
He burst out the cave’s mouth, pedaling, saw the drop, and tried to brake. He stopped, going up on his front wheel, and the Armored Crawler smashed into his bike. He, the monster, and his bicycle went over the edge, and Rianchi shouted.
“Kevin—”
It occurred to him he really should have said ‘Dyeda’.
 
——
 
Rags stared at her foe and felt sick. She knew two things:
This was insanity, but she had to try to fight it.
And—
She was pretty sure this thing had once been a Drake.
It was the voice. The words that echoed down the tunnel. Rags had never heard the Drake script pronounced, but the sibilant noise sounded too…it was not just the noise.
It was the decayed neck spines, which snapped against the ground, protruding from the head like swollen tubules. Nothing else was recognizable from the rotted head; even zombies looked better. A bloated mouth opened, releasing a cloud of flies. A tongue waggled as it spoke.
“Silence.”
Rags lost the ability to hear for a second. A ripple of power spread outwards, and the shouting of the Trolls and drumbeats all went silent. It made the struggling grey figures falter, and in that moment, the rotted head acted.
A ball of rotted flesh rolled forwards. It opened, and a lolling strip of plague-ridden meat snatched out and grabbed a Troll by the leg. It tried to drag the warrior towards the opening as the others hacked at the tendril—they severed it in a gout of black blood, but the sphere of flesh still made sound.
“Pain.”
The second word made Rags feel like her skin was on fire. Goblins screamed as Trolls staggered, fleeing backwards as agony bloomed across everything that heard—Rags saw the cut flesh of the tongue wriggling back into the mouth. The empty-eye sockets released twining maggot-strings, reaching for more victims. The remains of the eyeballs.
The head.
Each time it spoke, something happened. It rolled forwards again and said a third word.
“Magicless.”
Her vision dimmed. Rags had to take off her mask; she tossed it down and cursed as one of the Redfangs grabbed at a bunch of arrows exploding out of a sack at her side.
“Chieftain! Bag of holding broke!”
“I know.”
Every enchanted weapon the Goblins had carried had just deactivated—save one. Rags unsheathed her lightning shortsword gifted to her by Erin and saw the enchantment glowing. The masks? Their bags of holding? Spell scrolls?
Dead. Rags saw the head roll again, then swivel. It was headed down a tunnel, and the Troll warriors regrouped, throwing crude spears, pushing boulders forwards. Trying to stop it—
“Prepare to attack. Shineshield, Somo, hit the head from the side. There. Get into the brain and cut it apart.”
Rags’ plan involved a flanking attack while the head didn’t know they were there. Her concept was simple. The head had to need the brain. It seemed to be conscious; it might even be directing the others. They had to crack into the brainpan, destroy the brain—and it might regenerate, but if they could keep destroying it, they might be able to restrain it or pull it apart and contain it that way.
She had to do this. She had to. Retreating after all this travel and effort was foolish. Rags saw the Troll warriors on the ground, still in agony, and saw the two Goblins running from the Drake.
Kill it. She had her magic shortsword at the ready. Shineshield was hesitating, and Taganchiel was whispering.
“Chieftain. What about Redscar? Our magic just—”
Ask Teriarch. Ask for his help. Ask for aid from someone. Ask and ask, and someday they won’t be there. Level up. Do it. Attack. Attackattackattackattack—
Rags couldn’t breathe. She knew what she had to do. The head rolled forwards again, biting now, rotten teeth gnashing for a Troll carrying his friend away. It paused—
Then spun like a snake. It opened its mouth and laughed, though it had no lungs. It smiled, through rotting lips, and said:
“Trap!”
Gleefully, it faced the intruders it had pretended not to see, the little one and her too-loud mind who didn’t realize it could hear her think. The mouth opened and—
Closed.
The head stared with its empty sockets, then rolled forwards. Confused. It cast around and sensed the other minds fleeing, following the rapid drumbeat signaling a retreat.
They were running away?
 
——
 
Rags’ mind cleared up the further she got from the head. And she realized her own thoughts might have been in jeopardy.
Idiot. She hadn’t saved herself; she should have known better than to commit after seeing what the enemy could do. But it had honestly, genuinely, terrified her, and she’d been afraid that she would have lost her nerve if she hadn’t fought it.
She was afraid of…no, personal regrets aside, she didn’t owe her safety to any of her actions or even the Troll Queen. She raised a finger to her brow and replied to the hero of the hour.
“[Memo]. Rags. We’ve evacuated from the area. Full report. Where are you, Rianchi?”
“In a cave? Very nice Trolls with me, Chieftain.”
Rags bared her teeth. She couldn’t help it. Shineshield and the other Goblins were looking at her, barely able to credit it. Rianchi had come all this way after them? Rianchi, the worst of Redfangs?
“What are you doing here, you idiot?”
“Eh, you know, Chieftain. Sending a warning. Someone had to.”
He was trying to be casual. Rags just snorted. She headed back up through the tunnels fast, using her [Fast Travelling] Skill to make it to the Troll Queen. When she did, the leader of Trolls herself was inspecting Rianchi, who looked…well, terrible.
He was cut all over and badly bruised; falling two hundred feet did that to you. But he was alive, which was more than could be said for the Armored Crawler that had gone with him, and he’d even found Trolls who’d been so amazed by the sight of a Goblin on a bicycle they’d brought him here.
A few were prodding the bicycle, and the lighter ones were even trying to get on it. Rags shook her head.
“How did you survive that fall?”
He grinned at her and tapped his helmet and pointed a shaking finger at the bicycle.
“Enchanted by Hedault, Chieftain. Falling safety spell, like on the skateboard. Sort of worked.”
Rianchi owed Hedault a huge basket of whatever the [Enchanter] liked. And once they got back to Goblinhome, Rags decided he could have whatever he wanted. Especially since she thought she was looking at a new auxiliary [Scout].
She clapped him on the shoulder and nodded.
“We’ll get you back up. Now tell me what the message said?”
She squatted down and listened. The Troll Queen sat there as Rags’ eyes flickered.
“Mrsha said that?”
“Yah, Chieftain.”
“Mrsha?”
How the hell did she know what Rags had just found? The hairs on the back of Rags’ neck stirred. And with it—that pernicious, annoying, wonderful feeling she had to stop trusting.
Hope.
 
——
 
In the clarity of the Trolls’ camp, as they made ready to leave, Rags assessed the threat completely. It was clear they were fighting something old, but weakened. A being…dismembered.
