The drumbeats were still playing hours later as Rags’ party kept going down. She had been marching fast for several hours after the Troll Queen had met them.
Foolishly, Rags had thought the threat was on the Trolls’ doorstep and underestimated the size of this place. She’d set out the moment they had met with the Trolls. Which meant they were…
How deep? How far?
She had to trust her guides. The Troll Queen, whose name still escaped Rags, had assigned her new ones. These were Trolls who spoke both Ogre and the common tongue far better. Not scouts, though; they had a ponderousness to their movement, especially the most talkative one. But then, he was very, very old.
“Closest one…is not much further. Cannot die. Came from Old Gates.”
“Where are the Old Gates? What are they?”
The Troll guide had white hair and the thickest hide of any Troll that Rags had ever seen. He rumbled at her as he clutched a spear with a jade-green tip.
“Remember.”
They seemed somewhat dismayed by Rags’ people, as if they had expected her to know everything. Rags hadn’t had time to delve further into her memories, and frankly, after Velan, she was a bit apprehensive about it.
Rags changed subjects as they marched.
“How do you know this language? Do Trolls have books? Study?”
“No. Most Trolls not speak. Ogres sometimes trade.”
Somo nodded, and Rags could see that. These two humanoid tribes might fight or rely on each other for things the other could not grant. It would be difficult, but it wasn’t like Humans or Drakes would help them.
“Then you speak to Goblins and learn how to speak?”
“No. Speak Goblin to Goblins.”
The rumble from the Troll made Rags start. He turned his head and elaborated as the drumbeats grew faster. Fighting had begun. Rags’ [Dangersense] was pulsing louder with each minute, an echo to the drums.
Something bad is down here. She would rather have had Redscar here, but he still wasn’t back. Besides, Rags had to see the threat herself. They’d told her it was safe…enough. The Trolls were losing a war, not in immediate danger of collapse.
The Troll spoke.
“[Lady].”
“Hm?”
“We know this language for [Lady]. For Baron.”
“…A Baron trades with Trolls? Which lady?”
Rags expected some kind of apocryphal tale or a name she’d have to research or to be told to shut up and ‘remember’, but to her surprise, the Troll just rumbled after a moment.
“Lady Wuvren. Her Baron. Us.”
“What?”
Taganchiel tripped as he heard that. Rags’ mind went blank for a moment.
“Her Baron is a Troll?”
“Yes.”
The Troll seemed quite pleased by the revelation his words had caused. Rags opened her mouth to ask a bunch of questions, then remembered Lady Wuvren and the limited information she’d heard about the [Lady]. She connected two dots…and made a face.
“Why am I not surprised?”
 
——
 
They came to a waystation of a kind, a circular area of stone that the Trolls could roll a boulder in front of and peek out from. It was a resting spot, and Rags took a nap.
Not because she had to; she told Taganchiel to put a slumbering spell on her and closed her eyes.
Remember.
This time, she delved back as Velan had told her, trying to see what he had clearly uncovered. It was hard; Rags had never gone back this far in time, yet she was a Great Chieftain now. With Taganchiel’s aid, she sank deeper and deeper as the lives of Goblins flashed around her.
Show me what this place was. Show me what I’m missing. Who were Trolls?
When the memory came, it was blurrier than she wanted, like someone had rubbed grease over everything, and Rags put it down to the light napping and her lack of direct connection with this aspect of Goblin history. But she still saw it in flashes.
—Giant caverns of stone. Tunnels lit by glowing rocks, and Trolls warily standing with armor and weapons, facing Dwarves who just as warily exchanged gold for precious stones. Trolls living in bright caverns with underground fauna, in settlements—no, a nation underground. 
A Kingdom of Trolls?
The memory led to another one, sparking through Rags’ mind and setting off a chain reaction. She saw something else, vaguely.
A meeting of three Kings in the deep. So old it was straining the limits of her class and status as Great Chieftain.
The King of Trolls wearing some kind of armor of molded stone, a huge hammer in hand.
The King of Dwarves on a pilgrimage, sitting in full Adamantium plate, a throng of warriors set for war around him.
The King of Gnolls, a people in exile in the deeps, armored in Dragonscale, surrounded by [Shamans].
Flicker—and Rags’ bones thrummed with the memory of something Goblins had been privy to, albeit on the outskirts. Hiding, staring, even fighting as mercenaries deep underground as the world above shook and roared—but impotently.
As three species met hordes of invaders pouring into the caverns from above and routed them. Armies of Drakes, led by Dragons and even Wyrms and other dragonoid species, crawling down into the deep after their enemies.
Routed, bested, before Gnolls had taken the surface. That ancient battle had spanned a continent underground. But here, at least—yes, here—one people had remained right where they had been at their greatest.
The old, crumbling Kingdom of Trolls.
 
——
 
The last part of the dark descent into the Kingdom of Trolls was simple; if it had been a dream of another strange, underground world thus far, now it became a nightmare.
The closer they got to the ‘Old Gates’, the less rubble they found. Something about what had been made down here indicated this was the most structurally sound part of the kingdom. But also, contradictorily, the most abandoned.
It was probably because Trolls knew what the Old Gates were and stayed away on purpose. Rags found herself tracing a passage down walls of stone that were smooth, carved with ancient precision by Trolls of old…then which took on a residue that clung to her fingers. The air grew putrid; she felt an unpleasant pressure in the air.
Then Rags put her hand into a soft wall that moved, and she realized an entire wall of insects was skittering out of the way. She jerked aside, and even her Goblins, who’d eat anything, just stomped and kicked at the insects.
Then…they began finding the rotten flesh.
It was everywhere, globs of rotting flesh so foul it was black or green, which refused to burn, even when Rags tried to blast a patch of it infested with bugs. It was also where said insects clearly came from; they ran in and out of the flesh, and Rags made a command decision the instant the smell grew overpowering.
“Masks on.”
Every Goblin donned a mask from the Molten Stone tribe, and Rags spoke.
“[Darkvision].”
The tunnel lit up a bit, and she wondered why the hell she hadn’t done this before. Oh, right—she had to breathe through the mask’s filters, and it got hot and uncomfortable. The old Troll had to just cover his face since they didn’t have a mask for him, but he didn’t seem to mind the odors. His grip on his spear was tense.
“Almost there. Get ready.”
Rags still didn’t know what they were up against. The Troll Queen had been very close-lipped, but even her guide couldn’t explain it, not really.
Something had come from the Old Gates, which she now understood to be sealed parts of their Kingdom of Deep and Song.
“How did the gates open?”
“Don’t know. Something bad. Earth shook. Gates broke.”
“Earthquake?”
Rags didn’t recall any strong enough for that. The Troll gave her an arch look.
“Earthquakes don’t move Old Gates. Something else. A…”
He drew a line across his chest.
“Thing.”
“A…cut?”
Rags began to get an ominous feeling. She asked when this had been, and the Trolls’ sense of time was different underground, but it lined up very neatly with…
The Winter Solstice. Something had cut straight through part of the mountain, it seemed, and damaged one of the Old Gates. From inside…
Five things had come crawling. Or one thing? The Trolls were unclear, and Rags had marched down through the tunnels, as the drumming continued, to find the answer to her question. She came to a huge highway of stone filled with gigantic boulders turning it into a maze unto itself, and climbed onto the tallest boulder she could find.
They were almost upon it—or rather, one of ‘it’—as her guide motioned them to slow. Rags could hear the drums again, beating hard and fast, a battle rhythm, and now there was the sound of Trolls fighting ahead, grunting and roaring—but no sounds of the enemy. Just a thumping and the buzzing of wings.
“Get ready for battle. You, you, take that rock. Taganchiel, wards up. We’re scouting, so get ready to fall back. Shineshield, there.”
Rags deployed her Goblins as the guide waited. Now, Rags could see something moving ahead of her, but it was so dark that even with [Darkvision]…
Rags had to see, so she threw a single [Light] spell into the darkness, and it illuminated dozens of Troll warriors fighting in synchronized battle, aided by the drumbeats, against the only enemy that could withstand them. No—force them back. Rags took one look, and her [Dangersense] began to blare without end. She spoke down to Taganchiel and the other Goblins.
“Old One.”
 
——
 
‘Old One’. A term for something you didn’t understand that had been buried in the ground so long that, when it came up, everything died. It was imprecise, broad, but when you heard one was around, you ran for your life.
No exceptions. Rags wasn’t sure what she was looking at at first. It was a huge…mound of flesh. Flesh and bone, rotted so badly that when the light exposed it, Rags saw that the green ‘skin’ was the freshest. Most of it had mouldered until it was black, and yet however many aeons it had lain here, it had refused to rot completely.
Parts of it were regrowing, even as Trolls tried to hack it to pieces. Each blow from the brave warriors—and they were brave as Redfangs—released huge clouds of scuttling and flying filth. Insects, living on the thing’s body, assailed the Trolls until they had to retreat, clawing at the stuff in their lungs and wounds.
The thing leaked ichor as well, so foul that Taganchiel identified it as poisonous even from here.
“Keep away from that! No blood on skin!”
It wasn’t a square. It wasn’t a circle. It was some kind of structure; the Trolls had managed to hit bones in places. Rags was transfixed—then, as she saw the Trolls stumbling back from the bugs swirling around the rolling shape, she realized it was attacking!
Or rather, the insects were? The Trolls seemed weak and sluggish for reasons not immediately apparent, but Rags had not come this far to watch them fight alone.
“Open fire! Shineshield, keep back! Thunderbows, there. [Mark Target]! [Fast Fireball]!”
“[Big Spell]!”
Taganchiel shouted, and Rags’ [Fireball] tripled in size. A roaring flame turned the darkness into dawn as the Trolls cried out and Rags’ spell exploded, immolating bugs and coating the thing’s skin in fire and smoke.
Her Hobgoblins on Thunderbows opened up at once, firing in a synchronized volley and reloading swiftly. Rags hurled another [Fireball] and shouted.
“Fire! [Instantaneous Reload]! Fire!”
Three volleys within a minute could have killed most threats, even a Passmaw. But as Somo raised her head, whispering a spell to whirl the dust and smoke out of her eyes, the Ogre grunted.
“That bad.”
Rags saw no damage to the gigantic mass of flesh. She saw huge crossbow bolts studding its side, but some had deflected entirely, and the rest left no blood. The thing just rolled over lazily, towards them. Its skin wasn’t even scorched.
All Rags’ [Fireballs] had done were destroy the insects, and more were emerging even as Rags watched. She heard a thum and frowned. It was coming from the flesh structure.
“No good. Doesn’t work.”
Rags’ guide pointed out the obvious. Rags gritted her teeth. Well then, they did it the hard way.
“(You there! Advance while we attack!) Shineshield, go! Attack and fall back!”
The Troll warriors lurched into motion as Rags shouted at them. If they were surprised, the drumbeats drove them onwards, but the Chieftain had a real shock for them with her next shout.
“[Ogre’s Charge]! Somo—[Graceful Engagement]!”
The Trolls sped up, and a roar ripped out of their mouths as they hit the mound of flesh hard enough for it to ripple. Suddenly, their swings were tearing off gobs of flesh, and on the other side, Somo lifted a greatsword and swung it in an elegant arc, slashing into the putrid flesh then spinning out of the way as the flesh erupted with black blood.
“Skills.”
The Troll below her grunted approvingly, and then hurled his spear. The jade spear streaked into the air, and Rags saw it grow larger—hit the giant mound of flesh, and sink in deep. The Troll raised his hand, and it tore loose, coming back towards him.
All this damage—and the charge stalled out. Rags heard another thum from the construct, then another, and Shineshield backed away, sword bloodless, cursing. She fell back as the Trolls kept hacking, then disengaged as well.
Something was wrong. Rags should have seen a lot of gouges in the thing’s flesh. It was huge; Trolls and Goblins looked like tiny figurines around the huge mass, yet they had still cut and hacked pieces of it off. But it looked rotten as ever. Why?
Rags saw a chunk Somo had torn off regrowing. The flesh the Ogre had cut was on the ground, but the thing was regrowing from its injury so fast it was almost healed as Somo backed away, eyes wide.
Uh oh. The Thunderbows kept firing, but the Hobgoblins were uncertain now, seeing the bolts just slowly being pushed out by the regenerating flesh. And Rags still had no idea what it was she was looking at.
Only when Rags saw a Troll unearth another row of yellowed bone did she realize what it was.
“A rib cage?”
The monstrosity rolled over, forcing Trolls to back off or be crushed. They were retreating now, running from the rolling…yes, it had to be a rib cage! Rags heard the drums sound a retreat, frantic, but she heard another noise under the titanic beat of the Troll Queen.
Thum. Thum. Thum.
A heartbeat. The sound was so foul that Rags, unguarded, missed the warning shout from her guide. She didn’t understand until the nausea built up, and she pulled the mask off to spew the contents of her lunch down the side of the boulder. Then she leapt off of it.
The heartbeat was dangerous. Each time it pulsed, Rags felt unwell; if they stayed in cover, the Goblins were safer.
“What is that, Chieftain? Dead Giant?”
One of her Redfangs was unnerved. Rags peered back at whatever it was.
“Smaller than the Giant at the Solstice. What is that heartbeat doing?”
