For a Goblin, Rags realized that she possessed a fatal flaw: she was afraid of running away. Ever since she had become the leader of the Flooded Waters tribe, she could count the number of times she and her Goblins had quit a fight.
Oh, escaped, survived overwhelming odds like Tyrion Veltras’ forced march to Liscor, liberated Tremborag’s captives, or delayed Naumel and left—sure. That was strategy. That was a victory where killing the other side was never the goal.
But Rags did not personally run from her foes, despite her lack of size and relative weakness, even as a [Great Chieftain].
It was trauma. It was always, probably, trauma. Whenever Rags felt the instinct to back out of a fight, be it Naumel or Garen or anything…she had a vision.
It was always the same. A frightened little Goblin crouching in the tall grass watching as two older Goblins went running in opposite directions, trying to lure the Drake [Spearmaster] away.
They knew they’d never outrun him, but maybe, if they ran fast enough, he’d not find the little Goblin hiding there, seeing it all. Rags could feel the breath in her lungs was constrained; she could never gulp enough air, and she would see it again and again.
If the little Goblin had stood up, she would have died there. Rags knew it. She knew it, but that’s what it felt like.
It left her sick, taking huge, deep breaths that strained her lungs until they hurt, but were never enough, a Goblin straining her lungs breathing the anxiety she exhaled until it was a suffocating cloud around her.
The moment she saw the home of the Trolls, Rags felt like fleeing and going back to Goblinhome. But she couldn’t. She’d promised. It was just—very unpleasant for Rags to realize that she was a bit claustrophobic.
It hadn’t been that bad in Liscor’s dungeon, but the dungeon was constructed, for all it was underground. This?
Rags stood at the first entrance to the caves that the two Trolls had taken her to, looking back up the sloping tunnel. At first, it had been just a cave that stretched down unnaturally far. Then the passageway had narrowed until the Trolls had to sidle sideways to get through, holding their breaths. Rags had still been able to walk more or less normally, but now, she had come to what they called the ‘highways’.
Once, perhaps, the wide tunnel had been a highway, vast enough to let multiple lanes of traffic flow through. It was hundreds of feet across and had been just as high.
Once. Right now, Rags was staring at a mountain of rubble; the Trolls were beckoning her forwards, ducking to squeeze into a smaller passage. The Goblins, led by Taganchiel and Shineshield, her top [Shaman] and [Shield Maid] in the party, looked back as they warily stepped forwards.
Roof of stone. Rags could see two blocks of granite or stone holding up a vaguely flat ‘roof’ that the Trolls were moving under. They travelled casually, but the Goblins around the paralyzed Rags saw what the ‘roof’ was supporting.
A hundred thousand tons of rocks overhead. They had crashed downwards until the tall, beautiful tunnels collapsed. Burying this entire highway until the sheer weight of rubble and gigantic boulders had held up a second roof. Then everything had collapsed again, forming layers of compacted rubble with just enough space for Trolls and Goblins to squeeze through.
That was the ‘highway’, a honeycomb of debris that the Troll guides were beckoning Rags to enter. She could see where stones had collapsed repeatedly, and she didn’t want to calculate how much weight the rocks at the bottom were supporting.
This is insane. Rags was frozen, but she knew she had to see what was down there plaguing the Trolls.
She had promised—but the sight of that mountain of rubble transfixed her with horror. And that was before she sensed the earth shift.
“Watch out!”
Somo, the Ogre, shouted, and everyone froze. The two Trolls, picking their way further across the highway, raised their hands, ears flicking, and they looked nervous.
The Goblins were terrified; Shineshield ran back as rubble cascaded down from the mountain, and Rags waited for the entire thing to shift and bury them all…
It didn’t. After a moment, one of the Trolls called to Somo, and she pointed.
“Chieftain, they want us to follow.”
“Is it safe?”
Rags’ voice cracked, and Somo rumbled a question. One of the two shadowed Trolls raised two arms in a very common gesture.
“No one died this year, Chieftain.”
I should go. This is madness.
Rags blinked, and her breathing grew worse—but she forced herself to take a step forwards. The air was dead down here, suffocating. She could not panic. She gritted her teeth.
“Shineshield. Light the way.”
The [Shield Maid] nodded. Her armor and shield were bright and pristine as she lit up her shield. The Redfang warrior was very grumpy; the warriors under her command moved ahead as Rags walked under the roof, panting, Taganchiel helping her walk. Shineshield had been mad ever since someone had changed her class. She was still a vicious fighter, though, so Rags had taken her.
She would have given anything for Redscar to be here, but Fightipilota was still flying back. And Rags had no idea when the attack on Goblinhome was coming. For all she knew, this was what was coming.
“[Memo]. Rags to Poisonbite. We’re passing through their highway. All clear in Goblinhome?”
Rags distracted herself as best she could. She heard a reply, oddly imprecise, in her mind.
“Poisonbite…all clear here. Good luck, Chieftain.”
Rags didn’t respond back. As she and her tribe marched into the heart of the mountain, the rising panic in her chest grew worse. So did the sounds in her head.
[Dangersense] had gone beyond bells. It was a thrum, like the beating of blood in her veins, so huge it nearly overwhelmed her with terror.
This is a mistake. Go back, go back—she felt unwell, and Taganchiel sensed the same thing.
“Chieftain. Something’s wrong. My [Shaman] class says something strange is ahead.”
“I know. Keep…an eye out.”
Sweat ran down Rags’ body, making her armor uncomfortable, and yet she continued onwards. Because she had to. The only thing that cut the darkness was the sound that the two Trolls guided her to, the one sign of anything worth finding down here.
The drumbeats.
It came from below. Rhythmic, cutting through Rags’ panic, giving her something to think about. It was a song played by the Queen of the Trolls.
“Dulat.”
That was her name or title. Rags listened. It echoed through the highways, past collapsed stone, through this ruin of a mountain. For once, Rags was sure, there had been more here. A civilization; she could not have said how she knew, only that she knew it had been, just as she sensed something terrible in the depths below her.
Yet the Troll played on.
Her rhythm did not waver. Her dignity was the song, and her voice was a thunder that could run through the High Passes. Her people, the Folk of Deep and Song, waited for the will of Goblins.
Allies? Enemies?
The Trolls waited in the darkness, locked in battle with a foe they had not chosen.
The gates were breached.
The old Tyrants were moving.
Time, sang the drums. Time to open the ways above and flee or to sing one last time in the great deeps.
The Goblin Chieftain listened to the Troll Queen’s song and wished that proud dignity were never needed for her tribe.
She didn’t know what to do. So down she went.
Seeking answers.
She found too many. And always, always more damn questions.
 
——
 
Descending into the realm of the Trolls was like an entry into a truly foreign world. Rags had thought she knew the underground. But the moment Rags had entered one of the hidden tunnel mouths and gone down for twenty straight minutes in pitch-black darkness, she had realized the disorientation of the Trolls’ habitat was on another level.
Goblins could live in the darkness. Cave Goblins were proof of that. However, even the Cave Goblins in her retinue were visibly out of their depth.
Trolls didn’t need light. Even Goblins needed some illumination, but her two guides, Eike and Rorodousen—at least, that was what she thought they were named—navigated by means obscure to Rags.
They clearly saw just as well when Rags lit a flame spell, but one rumbled something, and Somo, the female Ogre, made Rags douse it.
“Bad, Chieftain. They no like.”
“Why? Monsters?”
Somo rumbled a question to the Trolls. Their reply was long and had no hand gestures. It sounded like stones grinding together.
“Bad…something, Chieftain. Bad air. Fire grows?”
Rags thought about it as the Goblins continued, following the Trolls and linking hands or holding onto each other so they wouldn’t get lost.
“Flammable air?”
She’d heard that was something that could occur from Pyrite. Strike a flint and the very air would explode. He’d said you could usually smell it, but that there were odorless toxic gases in the mountains as well.
Frankly, the mountains and underground seemed like one of the most dangerous places in the world. Not only was Rags now blind, but her nose was no longer working. The world smelled like lichen, stone, and stale air that had forgotten the world above existed.
It was hard to breathe. She found herself taking deeper gulps of air; perhaps it was the oppressive stone ceiling, which became literal collapsed parts of the tunnel now and then. The Trolls knew most of them; they just picked their way over the rocks, shifting some out of the way, but that was another sense down. It was all just stone. Wet stone, at times; there was water down here, but sight vanished. Smell became indistinguishable.
When Rags heard the first drumbeats echoing through the tunnels, the sound that had routed the pursuers from Tenbault, the drumming of the Trolls in the deeps—she truly lost touch with the world.
It rolled over the Goblins, hypnotizing them, filling the air with the sound of someone playing. 
Thum. Thum.
Overwhelming. It only grew louder as Rags pressed downwards, even with the earplugs she’d ordered her entire group to equip. Earplugs? Hah! Even a [Silence] spell would be torn to ribbons; this was a vibration in your blood. Your entire body responded to each drumbeat.
No wonder it was normally impossible to fight the Trolls in their terrain. That sound would deafen communication, throw warriors off their rhythms. It empowered the Trolls and Rags’ team; they found themselves marching to the beat, drinking water, breathing, moving to that rhythm guiding their lives.
And it drove Rags’ neat mind of analytical reason and rational thinking—
—to
—pieces
—as
—they
—went
—down.
Something was waiting for her down here. Rags was stumbling down the highway as Goblins watched her, concerned for her visibly deteriorating state. The Trolls were glancing back and asking Somo if she was sick when Rags’ eyes rolled up in her head, and she collapsed.
Someone was waiting for her down here, in her head.
 
——
 
Rags couldn’t breathe. She awoke in the darkness, lit only by a single, glowing lantern held by a Goblin’s claw. The packs and picks and shovels of the Goblins around her clinked terribly; they were out of their depth on this expedition.
However, they’d come from six dozen tribes, and they were prepared to die for the truth. Fighting and negotiating their way through the darkness for the last six months had left them near-blinded by the lantern light. They were thin, tired—pushed to their limits, despite being the best of each tribe.
They had fought horrors down here and come up empty-handed. They clustered around the too-bright lantern. They did not need the light, but Rags…no…he had insisted on lighting it.
Her? Him?
Rags realized what was going on as the lantern and the hand holding it—her clawed hand—shifted.
A memory. She was looking through a Goblin’s eyes. She was another Goblin. Only, unlike other dreams, this one was all-encompassing. Her body felt oddly vigorous. Not strong in the way of a [Warrior]; rather, empowered. Deep down, she was the same frail Goblin who’d eaten roots and made medicines to make himself stronger.
He was no warrior, but an [Alchemist], a [Healer] who had learned to fight. So many had called him the weakest of Chieftains until he had bested companies of Lizardfolk, Dullahan legions, and Centaur herds in battle. The Goblin stared into a bright steel buckler, polished into a mirror, and Rags saw who she/he was.
Velan the Kind. Goblin King.
No—not yet.
Velan, the Goblin Lord of the Goblin’s Lament company of Baleros. Not a Goblin King. Not yet, not for over a decade. He had scabbed-over wounds on his arms and legs, the marks of fighting on him, and he was covered in sweat and dust, wearing light mithril mail.
Rags, the real Rags, was frozen as Velan, who was piloting his own body and taking her with him, peered closer into the mirror shield a Goblin held up.
“Like that. See through my eyes. [Shaman]?”
There was a haze of incense in the air; a Goblin [Shaman] with tattoos running down his arms was striking his staff to the ground in a hypnotic pattern, echoed by great drums in the distance. They were in synchronization; the Troll King had been gracious.
Tallis the Stormbreaker, one of the Great Chieftains of Izril, was panting with the effort of fixing this memory in place for future generations.
Rags…knew that. She was Velan. She was also herself.
She had never felt like this before. When Velan looked up, she saw his crimson gaze as he stared into the mirror and realized he was looking at her. Through his own reflection. He knew she would see this and spoke to her…to the future.
“I am Goblin Lord Velan. You, who follow my footsteps in search of the truth, I warn you. To all Goblins who come after: it is not here.”
What? What was going on? Velan pointed down to where the drumbeats were sounding.
“Go back further to see their old kingdom and know where we are buried. This is the Kingdom of Deep and Song. It is built in the High Passes, which are the grave of the Empire of Harpies. If you look back far enough, you will understand all of this. We have gone down, deep, to the very gates. But they were sealed; the old foes from Death’s Lands were trapped down there. The wretched ones who tried to slaughter the Trolls and their allies during the last great war for the underground. The Walled City of Graves, Liskaldreth.”
He knew it all and delivered the last name with bitter disgust. The Goblins around him shivered, and Velan stared unblinkingly into the mirror. He was so…tired. Rags felt it, but there was a hunger in his chest. A desperation she understood.
