Hence the Troll Queen’s amusement. She raised a hand as she kept up a simple beat with one hand, like a Mountain Giant tapping one finger.
Enter my domain, honored guest. Be welcome. But do not mock me. Does this look like glory to you? We have crumbled away.
Her gaze was pointed.
Just like you.
Rags wondered if her [Aura of the Emissary] was doing some of the translating or if her reading was off. She spoke.
“(I did not mean to offend. Your tribe is mighty. You fought Humans pursuing my people and routed them with ease. Your people seem safe and plentiful enough. I salute that, as a Chieftain.)”
She had noticed warriors tending to their wounds, but the fact there were enough to replace those wounded and rotated out was proof they were numerous. Was the tribe above a thousand, spread out as it was?
A flicker in the drumming. Then a booming as a hand slapped the instrument, colossale, spontaneous and huge.
The Troll Queen was laughing, slapping her drum with one hand as her entire body rippled with mirth. Then she gave the Goblin Chieftain a pitying look.
This? 
Her playing grew quick and brisk, triumphant, an omaggio, but twisted with irony, as if she were celebrating some grand event. Again, she pointed down.
Bare stone. Trolls standing and surviving in the darkness, not a palace. Rags kept her cool.
“(It is something. It is safety.)”
Rags didn’t understand her counterpart, but she learned more with each exchange. The Goblin Chieftain hadn’t realized how badly she was offending her host until the drumbeats stopped.
The Goblins warily offering gifts and poking around the Troll camp whirled; every Troll got to their feet. Children woke up; they had been sleeping and began to wail in an unsettlingly high pitched way.
The Troll Queen, Dulat of the Folk of Deep and Song, leaned over her drums. And she spoke.
“No.”
It was the common tongue! So some of them could speak it! Rags blinked—but as the eerie silence pressed in where she had grown so used to sound, rushing against her eardrums like suffocating cotton, the Troll Queen raised one hand.
“You are the People of Kings. You remember. Do not insult us. Once, we were like this.”
Then she brought down her hand, and Rags didn’t hear the note she played; it rang and reverberated through the entire mountain range as she stumbled, clutching her head. When she could move and the world had stopped rocking, the Troll Queen sat there.
“Now, see death. It came from the old gates. Go. Then come back and tell us if we fight together, Goblin and Troll. Or we die alone.”
 
——
 
In Goblinhome, high, high above where Rags was uncovering the foe of Trolls, the fortress home was tense.
Goblins were on the lookout for anything coming their way, be it the Kraken Eaters, monsters from above, below, or anything else. To say they were not having a good time would be putting it lightly.
When war came, ‘regular’ Goblins tended to make way for grumpy, important warriors who had no time for manners or normal occupations. In these moments, you did what you could, tried to cheer people up, and generally kept out of the way.
That was Dyeda’s understanding, and Rianchi concurred with an addendum of ‘try and be helpful’. If a Hob had a busted shoe? See if yours fit. If someone needed oil polish? Go and get it.
Redfangs were very utilitarian in that regard. So Rianchi had been trying to be useful around Goblinhome, tightening bolts on devices, re-checking traps—and getting a sense for what was going on.
Dyeda and everyone else wanted to know. Rags knew everything, of course, but no one told regular Goblins anything, so Rianchi kept reporting back.
“So Chieftain is down below, fighting alongside Trolls. Poisonbite’s very unhappy. Fighti and Redscar not back yet. Apparently, they have some nice things.”
“Not nice enough if we get attacked before they get here.”
One of Dyeda’s friends groused, and several Mountain City Goblins nodded. Rianchi bared his teeth at them. He didn’t like all of Dyeda’s Mountain City Goblin friends, but they got along okay most of the time.
“No one’s seen anything.”
That was the conclusion, so the Goblins sitting together and assembling arrows muttered and groaned and waited. They weren’t [Cooks] working overtime for the warriors to eat and making preserved food—just in case. They weren’t making armor or providing an essential service. They were just…
Civilians. Rianchi was restless. He was a Redfang, but he’d sort of been kicked out of the tribe. As a [Tinkerer], he had a decent job, but everyone had double-checked all the devices five times, and at this point, you’d do more harm than good by taking something apart to re-certify it.
“Maybe I’ll go around one more time. See if anyone needs something.”
Dyeda waved a claw at him. She had work; Redfangs loved getting tattoos before a fight. She went back to inking a young Redfang’s arm, and Rianchi kicked around Goblinhome.
He wished he could ride his bike. He loved his bicycle. But it was dangerous around Goblinhome at the best of times, and if he took it out now, a scout would curse him out. He tried riding down the corridors of Goblinhome, but that got him a tongue-lashing from the first Hob he saw for the potential to run over someone.
Rianchi was apologizing as he heard someone else getting cursed out in much the same fashion. The surly female Hob manning a Thunderbow pointed, and Rianchi got out of the way as another Goblin appeared—well, two Goblins being held up by the scruffs of the neck.
The Goblin holding them was Venasteel. She was a newer Hob, but a really good fighter who was pretty high up in terms of leadership. She was one of Poisonbite’s warriors; Rianchi recognized her because he had it on good authority from Dyeda that Venasteel was Poisonbite’s newest lover.
Poisonbite had flings with Goblins all the time. She, like Redscar and Rags, had moved up to being a Hob, but that hadn’t given her the ability to hold a relationship for more than three months. Shineshield was one of Poisonbite’s former lovers who’d entered Redfang society, so Rianchi had heard all the gossip.
There hadn’t been a Goblin that was good for Poisonbite yet…or rather, the reverse. The only lasting relationship she had was with her skateboard and, arguably, with Kevin, though they’d never been in bed.
Anyways, Venasteel was overly keen as Poisonbite’s newest second-in-command, and she had both Goblins scruffs of their necks; Rianchi winced. They were both regular-sized and were kicking and shouting.
“Poisonbite busy. Chieftain busy. Don’t bother with stupid things.”
The Hob rumbled ominously as she dropped the two. Rianchi recognized Gothica instantly; the black-and-white Goblin glared, but the other Goblin he didn’t know until she spoke.
“Not stupid! I was told to bring this to Rags now! From the inn!”
“Inn doesn’t matter. You are not Hob or lieutenant.”
Venasteel was impassive as Asgra waved a mangled letter in her face. Asgra stomped up to her, unafraid despite the difference between them.
“I am staff of The Wandering Inn! Mrsha said this was important.”
“The Wandering Inn is always important, dumbass. Tell Poisonbite to get off her high horse and listen or Rags kicks her butt when she gets back!”
Gothica and Asgra were perhaps the two least-diplomatic Goblins ever, but were equally matched with Venasteel, who was not being very open-minded. She grabbed for the two’s ears and got both, eliciting a shriek of pain from Asgra, but Gothica didn’t flinch.
“Shut up and behave.”
“Make me, bitch.”
Venasteel’s eyes narrowed. She lifted Gothica off the ground by her ear, and Rianchi winced in horror. But nothing tore, and Gothica didn’t even move; she folded her arms, and he realized the shadows were wrapping around her like a shield.
In disgust, Venasteel dropped Gothica, then turned. She saw Rianchi and pointed.
“You. Get rid of this.”
She shoved Asgra at him, and Rianchi caught the Goblin. Asgra hid behind him as she shouted insults, but Rianchi dragged them back and ended the fighting.
“You shouldn’t try to talk to Venasteel. She doesn’t listen. What do you have, Asgra? Chieftain Rags is below.”
The Cave Goblin was uncertain when she calmed down. She held out a letter, and Rianchi saw it was stamped and addressed to ‘Chieftain Rags’.
“Mrsha told me to deliver it. Fast. She said it was important.”
Mrsha? Rianchi knew a bit of the inn from gossip, and Kevin, and wrinkled his nose. That was the little Gnoll girl, right? He couldn’t imagine it was that important, but he took the letter from Asgra.
“Maybe it is? How important are things from Mrsha?”
Gothica and Asgra hesitated. Gothica rubbed at her dyed black hair.
“Eh. Not that important usually?”
Asgra added hurriedly.
“But she looked serious this time!”
Rianchi frowned. Then he shrugged and opened the letter. Asgra gasped and grabbed for it, but he was taller and ignored her jumping and kicking his shin.
Goblins had a lax attitude towards private possessions anyways. Plus, Rianchi had a good idea of the chances of Asgra making it to Poisonbite. He read the letter, frowning at some of the words since he wasn’t a good reader, even after Kevin had taught him. Gears were so much easier. But Gothica was staring over his shoulder, and then she stiffened. Rianchi’s eyes went wide.
“What? What it say? I thought it was just an invitation to cabbage beef dinner. Which is in four hours. Rags should visit.”
Asgra looked from face to face. She hesitated. Hazarded a guess.
“…Is it not cabbage beef rolls for dinner?”
 
——
 
Poisonbite was nervous, so she was mad. She got mad when nervous, and she was not in the mood for visitors. She sat in Rags’ war room, demanding updates from various scouts and outposts. When she heard a scuffle at the entrance, she snapped.
“Venasteel. No visitors.”
She went back to staring at an icon where Fightipilota was, debating asking for an update on her position and whether it was worth the risk of Redscar telling her to ‘shut up’. Poisonbite looked up as the arguing grew louder, then heard a crash.
Venasteel went flying head-over-heels backwards and landed on the ground. Poisonbite drew her daggers in a second, and her fighters looked up—and saw someone standing in the doorway.
“I said move.”
Gothica lowered her hand, eyes flashing triumphantly as a wall of shadows whirled around her. Poisonbite’s mouth stayed open when she saw Rianchi hurrying forwards.
“Poisonbite, Poisonbite, we need to send a message to Rags!”
“What are you doing here? Get out! Being married doesn’t make you special!”
She began to shout, then saw Asgra running forwards. All three looked frantic. Rianchi shoved something at Poisonbite, heedless of the angry female Goblins ready to drub him. Poisonbite snatched the letter, took one look at it, and stopped.
“What the—who sent this?”
“Mrsha. We think it’s real.”
Poisonbite read, re-read, then put a finger to her head and tried a [Memo]. Then she leapt up, swearing.
“Get me every [Rogue], [Scout], and fast Goblin you can! Head to the Troll tunnels now!”
The message was simple and written by Mrsha. It read:
 
TO CHIEFTAIN RAGS:
DO NOT GO WITH THE TROLLS. DO NOT FIGHT THE THING DOWN IN THE TUNNELS. YOU WILL DIE.
2ND ARMY OF PALLASS IS COMING FOR GOBLINHOME. SO IS A TRIBE OF GIANT GOBLINS. SPIES IN THE INN. 
COME TO DINNER AND ACT CASUAL.
—Mrsha du Marquin. This is not a joke, I swear on Erin’s life.
 
——
 
Rianchi was pacing back and forth as Poisonbite stood at the entrance to the Trolls’ caves. It was dark in there.
Very dark. Poisonbite was shouting expletives.
“What do you mean slow?”
A visibly annoyed and dirty [Rogue] was snapping back at her. The Mountain City Goblin sounded exasperated as she enunciated a reply; she’d used to report to Tremborag himself and had more trappings of civilization about her; she was geared like an adventurer.
“We can only run as fast as our legs, Poisonbite! It’s dark, there are damn rocks everywhere, and following the Trolls’ trails—well, it’s mostly just far.”
No one had any idea how far down Rags had gone, but it was deep. They’d left a trail; there was a bit of luminescent gel that Rags had told her Goblins to leave in secret in case the Trolls had laid a trap.
It didn’t sound like the Trolls were the trap, though, and Poisonbite was trying to get a Goblin within range of Rags to send Mrsha’s warning, but it was so far that they’d have to run for hours to get down there.
The deep, dark tunnels that Trolls used. Mind you, they weren’t that bad for a Goblin. Given how big Trolls could be, if they could squeeze through anywhere, you could get through as a Goblin no problem. Even a Hob.
Rianchi gulped as he stared into the mountain. Poisonbite just hissed.
“Move as fast as you can, then. Send a warrior team if there are monsters! Who’s the fastest Goblin?”
“Chickenruler on Coldcream? Leapwolf on a Carn Wolf.”
“Leapwolf is with Redscar. Carn Wolves can’t see in there and won’t go in! I mean on foot!”
The Goblins shrugged. Poisonbite was drawing breath to scream again when Rianchi raised a hand.
“I am, Poisonbite. I can do it.”
His voice was all shaky, and he felt like he did before Redfangs fought. He was no warrior; Rianchi didn’t even have more than a dagger on him, and he turned.
“Anyone got a sword? And a stamina potion, maybe? Scroll?”
He was too afraid to ask for a healing potion. Poisonbite just stared at Rianchi along with Asgra and Gothica.
“You? You’re the worst Redfang. How are you the fastest?”
Rianchi pulled his beloved treasure out of his bag of holding.
“I have a bike.”
Gothica’s eyes lit up, but Poisonbite just snorted.
“And I have my skateboard. The tunnels are all rocks. Don’t be stupid and stop getting in my way.”
She turned, and Rianchi rolled his bike forwards.
“If Trolls can get through the tunnel, so can I. Even if I have to carry it, I’m a hundred times faster than anyone else.”
Kevin had said you could go down stairs on a bike…rocks might be more than that, but if there were flats and if there wasn’t a squeeze or uphills, or even if there were…Poisonbite turned back.
“You have wheels, Rianchi. That’s a mountain.”
“I know. This is a mountain bike.”
Poisonbite halted, mouth open, and Rianchi took the letter from Asgra’s hands. He was shaking now, but he gave the other Goblins a grin.
“Plus, my bike is enchanted. Kevin made it for me.”
He looked around, hoping someone would say something with common sense that would mean he wasn’t needed. But after a moment, Poisonbite just sighed.
 
——
 
