Orodan agreed. Doughty and brave as the frontline ranks of Alastaian infantry were, they were but Masters and Elites led by Grandmasters. The Transcendents of Alastaia too, while strong, would be facing far too many infected Transcendents, and more importantly… enemy Gods who had now begun sending out Blessed troops.

And while Orodan could have solved the entire matter by himself, it would have gone against his wishes to see Alastaia stand on its own two feet. Better his world and its peoples be strong, independent and capable of defending themselves than being weak puppets resting under the shade of his strength. It was necessary for what he intended to do.

However not all was lost. Even as the Eldritch sent scores of troops Blessed by infected Gods, Alastaia had its own answer.

Orodan felt the world crown on his arm flare hot, the telltale sign that the world core was pouring a large amount of energy into something.

That something became apparent as the dimensional boundary parted, and a young boy emerged. Glowing with grayish/white power, the faith of millions empowering each of his steps.

Clan Iron-Bear and Yarostov froze, their gazes that of utter reverence and worship as they beheld the holy form of their prime deity.

“By the snowy peaks of Xilirdus’s Ascent… our lord has descended to aid us! Men and women of Clan Iron-Bear! We cannot lose! Lord Ozgaric himself has come to fight with us!”

The northerners were whipped into a mad battle frenzy at the sight of their God physically entering the material plane. Yet, the Guzuharan God of Trickery and Illusions wasn’t the only divine to enter the field.

“The God-Queen has come!”

“All glory to the God of Death!”

“My wounds knit together! Halor’s divine presence eases my pains!”

“I feel the power of Truth and Justice flowing through me! Glory to Faraine!”

That last bit of praise was silenced as Cithrel, the God-Queen of elvenkind, glared at the declarer. She then turned her icy gaze towards the formerly imprisoned Goddess.

Said Goddess turned her glare right back, and Orodan could swear he felt the winds of danger pick up around the two, the battle momentarily stilling.

And then…

…Faraine turned to Eldarion and gave the elf a most playful wink.

“You dare?! You foul harlot, long have I known your affections for my husband were no figment of my imagination!”

“Perhaps if you were not such a controlling tyrant, Eldarion’s hand might rest more securely in your grasp.”

As for the unfortunate elven lord of friendship? He could only cower and lower his head in shame.

But that was fine, for the pillars were finally finished.

[Laboring 67 → Laboring 68]

Orodan helped right the final piece of metal on the pillar as per Clyburn’s specifications and then hefted the tower-sized pillar onto his shoulder.

“If you three might cease your lovers’ spat?” Orodan asked while walking in-between them, pillar on his shoulder and obscuring their view of one another. “We have plague worlds to cleanse and they’ve started to realize that preventing us from building the pillars is a futile task. I believe they’ll try to retreat and close the rifts soon.”

“But she-”

“This traitor-”

“All of that is irrelevant. Yes, he’s a pretty elf, likely prettier than the both of you, but that does not excuse bickering like orphans over the last scrap of bread,” Orodan said, causing them both to have looks of outrage on their faces. “Eldarion, if you might deal with your wife, and Vespidia, if you might deal with your Goddess. We have a world to liberate and our own planet to defend at the end of all this.”

With that said, Orodan hurled the pillar right through one of the remaining five rifts.

A peak-Transcendent infected knight tried to get in the way, but his current Physical Fitness, Body Tempering and Absolute Body Composition combined to make him ridiculously strong. The corrupted knight was speared with the pillar all the way to the plague world’s core, where the purification process began.

“They’re trying to close the rifts! Space mages! Keep those pathways forced open!” Destartes ordered, working on keeping a rift open by himself while the Alastaian army’s spatiomancers worked on another.

Unfortunately that still left two more rifts which were unattended, and it was Orodan who held them ajar with the raw power of his Grandmaster-level Space Mastery and the limitless power of his soul.

Alastaia’s divines in the meanwhile surged forward to meet the enemy in combat. Kept in the material plane through the continual supplication of power by Alastaia’s world core. Their planet was a small one, the world core not very large, but one advantage it had over larger worlds was its purity of energy as a result of Orodan purging all the corruption from it.

As a result, the world energy flowed from it at a far quicker pace, allowing it to match the feats of even large world cores in certain situations. Such as now where a dozen of the planet’s Gods were kept in the material plane through force of power, battling against the Eldritch.

Ozgaric, Halor, Malzim, Cithrel, Faraine and Athandelu were half of that. The other half were minor Guzuharan Gods and Goddesses under Ozgaric’s leadership. Their direct presence not only added combat power to the Alastaian army, but also caused the Blessings of their faithful among the army to become more powerful since they were closer to the source of them.

The Alastaian divines clashed with Eldritch battle lines just as the corrupted warriors met the Alastaian infantry. Immediately the elven divines were standouts in direct combat. Cithrel, Faraine and Athandelu were old, far older than the other Gods of Alastaia. And it showed in how powerful they were. Orodan projected they were in the upper 140s in whatever skill they were divine in.

Halor and Malzim fought well together, but they were perhaps in the 110s. Ozgaric though, was a different matter, displaying combat power close to the level of a peak-Transcendent. It was the first time the God of Illusions and Trickery was getting a chance to unleash the full extent of his power. And although it looked utterly comical, seeing a glowing young boy weave illusions, conjure tricks and misdirect foes, it was no jest once those illusions turned very much alive, or the minds of several Transcendent plague forms began descending into further madness and they hit the ground babbling about tea and snakes.

For the past five loops, Orodan had not only been training his students and Alastaia’s Transcendents, but had also been honing the abilities of the one divine whose memories he ferried along for the loops.

The northern God’s story was a tragic one. A hundred-thousand years ago the young boy, incredibly talented in the arts of mind magic, illusion and trickery, was forced into ascending to divinity by his own people, who were desperate to shift the balance of an ongoing ancient war against Agorhiku by having a divine of their own who had great power.

It meant that Ozgaric was possibly the youngest Grandmaster Orodan had ever heard of in his life. And his potential had been sabotaged as a result of circumstance. But beneath that, the potential still remained. And it was this potential that Orodan had ruthlessly targeted and drawn out via extreme training regimens over the past five loops. The northern God was already near the 140s at the start of the loops. So Orodan had no problem continually pushing him harder and harder until that power was raised.

Putting himself aside, between Ozgaric descending directly and Destartes at full power, he wasn’t sure which of them were Alastaia’s mightiest combatant.

The addition of a dozen allied Gods to their side helped slow the tide of the Eldritch infantry’s advance. Still, the press of shield-to-shield and infantry against infantry was an ugly thing. Alastaian soldiers fell in droves under the pressure of such intense combat, but a powerful combat corps of chronomancers and soul mages bearing Orodan’s Blessing were on full-time duty performing combat resurrections. The main limitation when it came to that was power, and with his Blessing the frontline quickly replaced its losses.

Furthermore, repeated deaths and the chance to return for another go were a great driver for growth. Throughout the fighting, handfuls of peak-Masters reached Grandmastery, slowly increasing the battle power of his home world’s forces. And although the allied infantry were dying and rising again, so too were Eldritch falling in droves. The enemy’s chronomancers were unable to keep up the pace of combat resurrections at the same pace as their side could.

It was a desperate push from the Eldritch, to reach not Fenton or the pillars, but the Alastaian corps of space mages and Destartes who were holding two of the rifts forcibly open. The plague worlds refused to go quietly. They tried firing more beams of corrupted energy out the openings, they tried sending all their reserves of Transcendents and Gods out to pressure the allied forces, and they even tried physically blocking the rift entrances with dense and thick plague matter and multiple defensive specialist Transcendents.

These were all for naught once Orodan hurled another pillar through one of the rifts, smashing it right through with brutal force and raw might.

Destartes also managed to teleport another one of the pillars directly through a rift and begin the process of purging that plague world. Three down, three more to go.

The remaining plague worlds were in full-blown panic mode as they realized how dire the situation looked for them. Half of their lot had been purged, and some of the converted and purified warriors and creatures of the swarms even began joining the allied forces in taking revenge against the remaining corrupted foes.

Even King Alstatyn’s army now drew close enough that heavy bombardments began pounding the Eldritch ranks and creating further openings.

Adeltaj struck another pillar with his halberd, sending it through a rift, beginning the process of purging that world as well. Two left.

Things were going well, and Orodan knew exactly what would come next.

A set of eight-legs appeared and landed upon his shoulder.

“It’s moving, and so is she,” Talricto warned.

“Good. Edrosic, are you ready?” Orodan asked, pulling the militia man from the midst of combat. “Let’s hope this works. If not, this loop might just end here and now.”

For even if Orodan used the insights he’d been meticulously developing to win here, the fact remained that Lonvoron and a good portion of the Collective and its star systems wouldn’t survive the clash between him and the Prophet. And from there, things would escalate to involving more than just the Prophet, which would almost certainly end the loop.

And when he had something important to do, he couldn’t afford to let himself get swallowed by the thrill of mindless battle. People were counting on him to succeed.

The din of battle continued on, but his senses were keen and carefully monitored the dimensional boundary. He would not miss its arrival this time.

Then, a brief flicker, very subtle. But Orodan had been training with Talricto all this time. The spider’s control over Dimensionalism was better, and he knew what to expect as that wretched thing wearing the guise of an old man wielding a scepter came through. The dimensional forces surrounded it too, making it difficult to even notice for anyone without keen sight or knowledge of the art themselves.

The Prophet’s eyes surveyed the battlefield. It focused on Fenton, on Ozgaric, but more importantly… on Orodan.

And he looked right back…

[Incipience of Infinity 149 → Incipience of Infinity 150]

…and let the vile Administrator taste Infinity.

The Prophet’s mind wasn’t strong. He had fought and killed it once before; perhaps not fairly, but he had done it. Thus it was no surprise when a shriek reverberated across the battlefield and the Administrator fell to a knee as its mind was overwhelmed. The additional level and insight he gained in his second Celestial skill also added to the damage.

“Now Balastion! It stands where my gaze falls!” Orodan instructed. “Edrosic, we’re counting on you.”

The first emperor looked towards the almost imperceptible location where the Prophet was, and although the man couldn’t see his target, he did feel it via the presence of Eldritch. And Balastion Novar took a deep breath and threw his all into weakening the Eldritch present within the Prophet.

The Prophet’s hands now came up to cover its face. Its body language and demeanor screamed that it was desperate and in surprise at an attack that had managed to so directly strike at its mind, followed by one which weakened its power source. Yet, these were not the blows which were meant to best it.

No, they were instead mere delays, meant to buy time for one particular person to get a good look at the Administrator.

Talricto’s forelegs were touching the head of Parthus Edrosic, allowing the militia man to clearly see the kneeling and weakened Administrator despite the dimensional obscuration. In the artist’s hands was a parchment and ink. And in Parthus’s eyes was determination as he cut through all the surface-level emotions and the context of the situation to see who the Prophet really was underneath.

And with that knowledge, Edrosic drew. The militia man’s face was utterly pale, and Orodan could sense the sheer strain upon his soul as he sketched this drawing, but he pressed on despite that.

Whatever the Drawing Elite was doing, it was a level of the skill that the man had never delved into before.

