“So let me get this right ser… you spent how long on your home world before comin’ to get me?”

“Almost a year. A decent amount of time, but necessary if we’re going to win.”

“And you… you couldn’t have just swung on by and picked me up any of those times?”

“No? Why would I have done that? My world faced cosmic invasion at the end of a two week period. If not from the Embodiers angry at me taking the reins of their concept, then by Administrators unhappy with the fact that I’m within the bounds of a galaxy,” Orodan replied. “I was not about to drag you into a losing battle over and over again until I was ready.”

Fenton’s annoyed glare didn’t lessen in the slightest.

Thankfully, the familiar intrusion of a welcome eight-legged sort saved the day.

“I see you’ve reunited with the boy and haven’t caused any other messes. Cause to celebrate,” Talricto spoke as he suddenly appeared in the room via Dimensional Step. Orodan used to be able to sense the spider showing up, but since the wanderer had been getting its memories transferred across loops it had surpassed him in skill and had learned how to perform truly silent dimensional travel.

“Mister Talricto!” Fenton exclaimed and lunged in, only to be rebuffed by a gentle pulse of force. “Hey…”

The lad’s whine of sadness was pitiful, but such was the reality when the wanderer didn’t remember anything which had occurred during the prior long loop upon Lonvoron. At that time, only Fenton’s memories had been ferried along with the orb.

“I shall have to request that you limit the touchiness. My hairs are quite sensitive and easily damaged,” the spider lectured with an imperious tone. “Although… hmm… you do seem as though you have a bit more sense in your head than this barbarian next to me. Well met, Fenton Penny. I have heard about you and our time together upon this rainy planet. I’ve been here once or twice before, but nothing extensive.”

“Of course you have. Now can you tell Mister Orodan here that he’s a bloody idiot?”

“But that is a mere fact of life which goes without saying, young one,” Talricto agreed all too easily, causing Orodan to sigh at the team up. “What has he done now to earn such derision from you? Has he broken something? Drawn the attention of something far too powerful? Casually performed feats which shatter the bounds of logic and convention? Trained with such mad zeal that it has you questioning your own efforts and purpose of life?”

“Er… well, yes to all of those but not in this loop,” Fenton replied with a hum before returning his glare to him. “He spent thirteen loops gallivantin’ around on his home world without ever coming to get me.”

“And perhaps I did so because the memory of you asking to die to avoid seeing all your work undone was still fresh in my mind,” Orodan replied, shutting him up. “That feeling you get when Talricto doesn’t remember, but you do? I have spent the entirety of my loops with that. And sometimes, that involves keeping a promise or adhering by someone’s last words even if they themselves do not remember.”

The boy was quite for a while before speaking again.

“I’m sorry… yer’ right Mister Orodan. I was bein’ insensitive,” Fenton replied. “But if you’re sayin’ you waited until ready, then does that mean…”

“Aye. We’re going to win this time and you and your mother shall have a proper home upon Alastaia alongside your father once I bring him back. But in order to do that, we have to first liberate your world and get Almyra on-board.”

“And that means dealin’ with that wretched zealot again…” Fenton muttered, looking distinctly pale at the thought. Unlike Orodan, death, and the vivid memory of such a painful one, would leave scars on normal folk.

“You’ve done enough, Fenton. This time, allow me to deal with that thing how I should have in the first place. The Prophet was always meant to be my battle.”

“We’ll cross that bridge when we get to it ser,” the lad replied. “So… how are we doin’ things this time? Build the pillar o’ purification and head to the dead zone? Watch you get into a brawl with Miss Almyra again?”

Talricto scoffed.

“Absolutely not. Not only have we come prepared, you’ll find that this fool here is not nearly as alone as it seems.”

“Right, while we’re on Port Bellgrave, let’s focus on getting Clyburn and his engineers on our side. Lonvoron isn’t as alone as it thinks this time.”

After all, that grand array hadn’t been built for show. Just as he was upon Lonvoron, the other Transcendents of Alastaia had their own missions on nearby worlds.

#

Clyburn Anderthorn and Luetta Treadway were a lot easier to convince than he’d thought. Fenton had a youthful innocence and earnestness to him which made both individuals tentatively buy the story and agree to help. And with their word and a bit of ability displayed, the chief engineer was more than happy to accept Orodan and Fenton’s help with his project.

All in all, he resumed training Fenton, helped build the pillars of purification and continually monitored the situation upon Lonvoron alongside Talricto.

It took them three days to finish building one of the pillars. It wouldn’t be enough to purge all seven plague worlds assailing the Blackworth Collective altogether, but that was fine. There were plans in place for making more.

Now, within the south tower of Port Bellgave’s fort, they were all gathered around the completed pillar.

“I still cannot believe I am rid of Lord Morvale’s constant hounding of my steps…” Clyburn muttered. “With this device, I can finally show my worth to Storven. I can make up for all the debts I’ve accrued and the shame surrounding my name.”

“His castle and enchanting workshop were rather easy to sabotage,” Orodan remarked. “With all the problems he now has, I doubt he shall have the time to bother you.”

“And even that infected inquisitor was dealt with, correct? The Inquisition will be looking to swiftly purge ranks soon…” Luetta Treadway muttered. “I have a difficult time believing it, but everything you’ve said so far has been true. Are we really in a time loop?.”

“Rather evident with how we’ve gotten done in three days a large portion of which took two months in the last attempt, ain’t it? Not that you remember any o’ that Miss Treadway,” Fenton added.

“The alarms and wards are quiet too, but I have no doubt that this previous looper noticed the swarm of dimensional horrors going afrenzy near the boundaries of her galaxy. Anyone, even unschooled in Dimensionalism, would. And although your reversal of that insidious alarm system was quite skillful, it may not mean much if she flees or tips her hand too early,” Talricto warned.

“We’ll need that Mantle Mister Orodan, can’t make what I’m thinkin’ of without it,” Fenton added.

Which meant that moving swiftly was the right course of action lest Almyra decide to flee in paranoia or enact any of the countless countermeasures she had. Last time, it was curiosity regarding Fenton and to an extent, himself, which had stayed her hand. But without those things, they needed to be careful with how they moved.

“You have her in your sights Talricto?” Orodan asked.

Almyra’s Dimensionalism was good, but not enough to prevent getting tracked by the dimensional phase spider. Over the past five loops Talricto had only gotten better, and it helped that Orodan could abuse the knowledge of prior loops and simply tell him where to look for the location of her true body and a number of the tricks he had seen her use.

“She won’t start running without me noticing. Have some faith in your master, won’t you?”

Good. Which meant they were as ready as could be. He looked to Luetta, a questioning gaze.

“It wasn’t exactly easy with how guarded the dead zone is, but I’ve secured a contact who’s able to get your group inside. You are fortunate that you’re going in and not attempting to get out. The dead zone is monitored extremely closely, although with how lacking they are in volunteers, getting you lot onto a recruitment vessel wasn’t too hard,” Luetta explained. “Of course… I expect you shall maintain your end of the agreement?”

Orodan nodded.

“I shall. Once you are ready, find me. Transcendence is but a matter of repetitive effort, even for the untalented, given enough tries.”

The group discussed matters for a few moments more until a loud horn could be heard.

Their transportation had arrived.

#

The journey via sea had gone smoothly. No titanic Eldritch monster attacked them in the water. No saboteurs or pirates had come by to try and threaten them either. It made sense too, given how quickly they’d built the one pillar with Orodan and Fenton’s foreknowledge. Hells, they weren’t even setting out for the competition that Clyburn was to originally make the pillar for, they’d swiftly and secretly chartered a boat and just set off for the front lines on a military ship. With all that added together, any potential enemies of Clyburn had no time to even realize they’d set out let alone send anyone after them.

The front lines in the dead zone needed more bodies. Consequently, a ship full of volunteers, recruits and criminal conscripts was a valuable thing and was flanked by two swift moving gunships of the Collective. Even if they had been attacked, the ship’s security was decent enough to thwart most attempts.

“I could make some improvements to that ring.”

“By all means, here-’

“No! No mid-voyage improvements or tinkering with any enchantments of an unknown nature!” Clyburn shut down. “Not while we’re at sea!”

“If things somehow went wrong I could just reverse time Clyburn,” Orodan reassured. “Not that it would, given the durability of this ring.”

“I still do not know how you managed to make a ring capable of housing an entire multi-storeyed tower within it. The metal should be a ruined mess and the space within exploded.”

“Ordinary metal would obviously not suffice,” Orodan clarified. “But dothril sources from the deepest part of the abyssal depths? A different matter. I wasn’t the one who laid the enchantment either, it was a Grandmaster enchanter from Eldiron using my techniques.”

And hadn’t that been a revelatory experience? Orodan seemed quite talented when utilizing esoteric techniques sourced from a variety of places across the loops, but skill level to skill level, many enchanters were better than him. He worked harder, had access to more knowledge and could enchant tens of thousands of items in a day with his endless energy, unyielding focus and lack of a need for rest. But that didn’t mean that he could execute a better enchantment when someone else of greater talent, skill level or insight had access to the same techniques he did.

Orodan was no prodigy of Enchanting who could strike inscriptions well above his level in quality. His levels in Enchanting came from proximity to the real talent, Fenton Penny. And via necessity of having had to create his own System. The elven Grandmaster who had enchanted the dothril ring he wore did it far better than he currently could. It was a far more potent version of the dimensional storage rings Orodan provided for Esgarius, but executed better.

At least he was good at fighting and cleaning though.

“I still think he did a… well, not dodgy job, but not a great one either,” Fenton remarked. “Not sayin’ you would have done any better yourself ser, but that’s to be expected when yer’ not even a Grandmaster. Don’t know how folk get to call themselves Grandmasters when they can’t even…”

“I think you underestimate your talent, Fenton,” Orodan replied. “But we should avoid any mid-voyage experimentation lest Clyburn go mad. I don’t think he’s entirely trusting of this ring.”

“I can appreciate something enchanted used in tandem with Engineering. Why, I can even appreciate Artificing. But a plain ring enchanted to hold an entire tower in a separate dimension?” Clyburn emphasized. “A dangerous thing to play with. But then again… I suppose I have ever been mistrustful of magic compared to the engineering we can see and build with our own hands.”

“I wasn’t too dissimilar to you in my younger days; relying upon only the might of my sword arm and the sturdiness of my shield. But such things will fall to the wayside as you witness more magic,” he said. “Besides, there is a machine I’d like to request your assistance with. It involves a heavy amount of Dimensionalism too.”

“Hmm… I suppose if all goes well and we truly do push the plague back and prove the merit of my designs… I would be indebted to you.”

“Even just lending us your expertise in consulting on what errors we make would go a long way,” Orodan added with a smile. “Thank you. I shall ensure you are recognized for your work here.”

The ship carried on and eventually reached land, and from there the convoy of reinforcements for the front lines disembarked and began making their way towards the borders of the hot zone.

Fenton and Clyburn looked normal, but Orodan, even wearing the slick dark raincoat he was, drew attention with how he stood a full head taller than even the biggest man he’d seen on Lonvoron.

“Built like a bloody barn door he is…” one sergeant muttered, though made sure to avoid looking at him as he said it.

