Still, there were three groups within the convoy aside from the soldiers guarding and leading it. Recruits for the military, volunteer specialists not in military service but willing to lend their expertise in some way or another, and criminal conscripts pressed into service. Orodan, Fenton and Clyburn were part of the volunteer group; a gathering of mercenaries, specialists or people whose skills were valuable enough to warrant an invitation to help without needing to join the military’s ranks. Which meant that he wasn’t questioned if he looked big, or carried himself in a manner different to the rest of the people.

Orodan had been tempered by the experiences of the last long loop he had on Lonvoron. Fenton too. The lad was looking to the treeline or to the back of the formation waiting for an attack that never came. Instead, the journey went peacefully and they arrived at the border of the dead zone with no issue.

“Convoy, you are approaching the checkpoint of section alpha-eight. Identify yourselves,” the on-duty captain called out.

“We’re convoy seven, identification pass: sparrow. Got a bunch of fresh faces for the front,” the convoy sergeant called out.

“Gods help them…” the captain muttered. “Open the barrier, let them through.”

The barrier mages opened a pathway through the colossal wall of energy, and despite how on-edge Fenton looked, no sudden and planned attack from the Eldritch came from the other side. Soon enough the convoy was moving forward and into the dead zone without incident.

“It’s too quiet… I don’t like this…” Fenton muttered.

“Don’t use that bloody word you runt!” a nearby mercenary grunted, softening his tone at the sight of Orodan nearby. “Are you trying to curse us?”

Fenton looked at least somewhat apologetic and moved away from the man.

“Sometimes, Fenton, the knowledge we bring back doesn’t always hold up,” Orodan explained. “There was many a time where I expected things would go one way due to the time loops, and they instead went another. We were entirely silent, allowed no time for anyone to even glimpse the completed device and simply traveled to the front lines via a regular ship and no ceremony. Do you think the Eldritch omniscient perhaps?”

“I won’t lie to you ser… sometimes it feels that way with how the Prophet seemed to be on our tail near the end. I… I still can’t fully believe I’m back here, and… and…”

“Alive?” Orodan asked and the lad nodded. “It’s certainly an intriguing sensation is it not? Admittedly, you were going about your day as an indentured servant when I flooded your mind and soul with memories, but the concept is not too far off. I still remember wondering if it was all a dream when I woke up back in bed for the first time after my head came off my shoulders.”

“Did… did it hurt?”

“Not really… the wounds I took during the preceding fight hurt worse. If anything, being headless felt as though I was taking a ride through the air. Few too many spins for my liking though,” Orodan morbidly joked.

The lad rolled his eyes at the dark humor.

“What then? Did you spend any time wondering if it was real?”

“For a little while. I then marched to the nearest temple, declared I had a vision of the future and was promptly shot and killed by an archer the moment I stepped out,” he answered with a smile. “Maybe if I’d had half a brain and thought about things like you do, that problem would’ve been handled another way.”

“But you eventually worked things out, right? Joined an academy? Found a mentor? Got strong?”

“Things worked out, certainly. If dying against an archer dozens of times just to get strong enough to beat him can be considered working out,” he said. “I returned over and over until I finally was capable of fighting Adepts. And yes, I suppose I did then find a mentor and join an academy. Although the strong part came before either of those.”

A very odd and haphazard way of going about things. Especially when Orodan had joined Bluefire not primarily to get strong, but to broaden his horizons, get an education and act in a more efficient manner which allowed him access to greater parts of society. The standard reason most youth attended an academy for was to learn combat, gain strength and hone their resolve for careers in the military, guard or mercenary and adventurer work. But for the hardened warrior he had been when entering Bluefire, the combat drills and lessons were pointless when he was capable of beating even the headmasters of the various martial schools.

“…so you were always mad then?” Fenton asked. “Time loop’s perfect for a nutter like you ser.”

“That, I shall take as a compliment. Come, I sense fighting a few miles ahead. Looks like a rift, which means that will be our opening to get the pillar of purification into,” Orodan said.

“I still reckon it’s a tight timeframe for Mister Clyburn and I to finish the other pillars… but we’ll make do,” Fenton replied gathering whatever gear he could remake within the span of three days when not working on the pillar. “Let’s get that pillar into the rift.”

The soldiers of the convoy noticed the conflict a few miles ahead after Orodan did.

“Sarge… I’m gettin’ Eldritch readings a few miles up! Where the fourth company should be,” a soldier trained to operate a detector device informed.

“Those are our escorts… bloody hell. Alright recruits, you signed on to fight for King and Collective, now’s your chance to do it. March! Double time! And keep those rifles loaded and ready.”

The convoy moved forward, and soon enough the view of a Blackworth Collective military company fighting a stream of Eldritch came into sight. Fenton looked quite tense until he saw that the fight wasn’t the one-sided desperate stand against unfathomable odds that it had been on the last long loop.

With no reason to target this convoy in particular, the Eldritch simply diverted the standard amount of plague forms to try and disrupt Collective operations in the dead zone. A standard tactic, and the Collective’s troops often did the same whenever plague forms attempted to move to other parts of the zone.

The company’s troops and war machines were fighting a good battle against the plague and even pushing them back. Being out in an open plain was to the soldiers’ advantage, with clear lines of sight which allowed them to put the plague forms under fire for a longer time before they reached the battle lines.

The recruits and mercenary volunteers of the convoy opened fire, although it was plain to see that despite the fact that a coddled scholar could be given a gun and use it to great effect, there were clear differences in outcome between the recruits and some of the more experienced mercenaries and soldiers of the convoy.

The recruits often missed their shots, needed more time to line them up and reloaded far slower. Some of the mercenaries even had skills for imbuing their bullets with mana, elements or even multiplying bullets mid-flight or adding other special attributes to them. But the battle between these troops and a frankly pitiful force of Eldritch wasn’t what he was here for.

The rift leading to the surface of a plague world was. The Eldritch weren’t stupid, and they wouldn’t pointlessly waste infected creatures for nothing. Not only did this hostile plague world have plenty of infected life forms to spare, but the rift was also a window through which they could survey the dead zone.

Every second it was open, even if plague forms were dying by the dozen, was a moment longer the core of the plague world had to peer into the dead zone of Lonvoron, get a read upon the Collective’s unit composition, the arriving reinforcements and the like.

But that was just fine by Orodan, and from the look he shared with the lad, Fenton liked that state of affairs too.

For an open rift went both ways.

“Well ser… you’re certainly goin’ to draw the bastards’ attention once you javelin that thing through the gate,” Fenton remarked.

“I know,” Orodan said and then focused on the connection between him and the crown upon his arm. “Alastaia… are you ready?”

“We stand prepared to render aid against the wicked corruption of the Eldritch taint.”

Which meant that there was only one thing left to do.

“You lot might want to clear some space,” Orodan said as he opened a gigantic dimensional rift tied to the ring upon his finger.

The ring, made of enhanced dothril and forged by a Grandmaster jewelsmith of Novarria, glowed hot with power, but held. And the enchantments fashioned by a Grandmaster enchanter of Eldiron, did not burn out despite the heavy load it bore.

“By the Gods… it’s the size of a bleedin’ tower!”

“Get clear or be flattened like a crushed grape!”

The pillar balanced upon the palm of his raises hand, not at all straining him with his might. He felt and saw the rift leading to the plague world pulse for a singular moment, surprised and unprepared for the sight of a man lifting a gigantic tower-like structure in one hand.

And then…

[Halberd Throw 53 → Halberd Throw 55]

The pillar flew right for the open rift, shooting through with such power that an ear-piercing shockwave emanated from his position. It was as hard of a throw as he could manage without causing mass collateral damage to Lonvoron and the soldiers of the Collective surrounding him.

It was spatiomancy, so Orodan forced the mouth of the rift to open further via his own Space Mastery.

He could practically feel the surprise and unreadiness of the infected world core on the other side. Before it could even react the giant pillar was through the rift and slammed onto the surface of the Eldritch-corrupted world with extreme force.

One moment things were quiet, and the next… chaos erupted.

“Plague-tainted gits…” Fenton muttered as he activated the pillar remotely.

The plague forms suddenly began writhing in pain as a wave of purifications spread throughout the enemy world. Simultaneously, the core of the plague world reacted immediately and began sending champions towards the pillar in the hopes of destroying it, but these only served to add reinforcements to their side as the Transcendents and Gods who were tainted were immediately untainted.

A guttural roar came through the rift.

“Cease! Cease immediately! Siblings! I require your aid! This wicked device purges the truth; strips the embrace of provenance from us!”

The call resounded through not only the material plane, but through the dimensional boundary as well. It seems the plague worlds did not like being purified, and just like last time they were more than happy to call reinforcements.

The target infected world was halfway purged when three more rifts tore open next to it, each one leading directly to the very bosom of a planet consumed by the rot.

“Bloody hell… the blasted fiends are sendin’ almost all they’ve got at us,” Fenton muttered, preparing his gear. “You goin’ to step in on this one Mister Orodan? That’s a lot of plague forms.”

“No, I don’t think I’ll need to,” Orodan said, causing the lad some confusion as he simply looked to the sky. “Be ready to do your part Fenton. It’ll be good training for you and Clyburn both.”

“Our part? I’m happy to fight, but this many plague-”

“Who said anything about fighting?” Orodan interrupted.

He saw it. He felt it. The telltale signs of space being pried open on a massive scale across grand distances. He also felt the thread of connection between the world crown on his arm and its designated world glow hot. He could feel how Alastaia was utilizing a scale of power it hadn’t in a very, very long time, if at all. Like a giant stretching its muscles after a many millennia-long slumber.

And before his very eyes, before the eyes of all the soldiers of the Blackworth Collective who had been on the backfoot since three more plague rifts opened up…

…salvation arrived.

“My spear shall pierce the enemy ranks first! For Alastaia!”

Orodan shouldn’t have been surprised to see the very first person through the grand portal being Zukelmux. The goblin charged down, landing upon the ground and spearing a plague form through the head before gallantly facing down a thousand-strong horde. His first student was the very personification of a spearhead, always insisting on joining the battle first like a rue vanguard; a characteristic in which he took after Orodan.

“No! Wait! You’ll get… you’ll get… infected?” Fenton muttered in confusion as the goblin began tearing through an utter swarm of chaff plague forms that tried mobbing him. “How the hell’s that little green man still alive?”

“Goblin. My very first student actually,” Orodan corrected. “And I did mention how my Celestial skill works, did I not?”

Zukelmux wasn’t the only one. More began coming through the portal.

Orodan felt the threads of connection form between every soldier of the Collective, Fenton, Clyburn and even himself as soul energy began slowly gathering towards the recipient of all these threads. That recipient being a halberdier who descended like a holy comet.

Adeltaj blazed with soul energy. The old halberdier’s training over the past five loops had paid off. Every sort of intense physical regimen via rare items, exorbitant treasures and exotic training environments had been focused onto him. The goal was a simple one; to make the old man’s body tougher and stronger so that he could utilize even more soul energy and for longer periods of time. And it had worked.

