“Ozgaric? Eldiron must lead by example and show the peak of Alastaian military might to these otherworlders, we shall not be outdone,” Virion declared.

“Elves…” Demosthenos muttered. “We cannot let Novarria be outshone today. Come Vespidia, let us take to the field.”

Tegin could only sigh at the competitive nature of the other nations’ military leaders. But the halfling wasn’t intent on being outdone either.

“And of course, we must remind everyone why the Republic has remained an independent nation for a hundred-and-twenty years. Captain Argon, shall we?”

Fenton’s eyes widened as hundreds and thousands of troops began filing out through the grand portal and onto Lonvoron. Elves clad in gleaming, enchanted armor with rows of spirit mages assisting. Novarrians, Republicans and Easterners clad in thick plate with battlemages alongside, and Guzuharans with their warriors, spirit mages and monster cavalry.

Vespidia was present as well on the side of Novarria, and on the side of the Republic… a man who he had forced into adopting a new identity at the very beginning of the loop. No longer a Baron, but a battlemage of the Republic army bereft of a first name, but still known merely as Captain Argon.

The man looked happier and full of more resolve than he ever had in all the times Orodan had fought him in the past. And he was also the recipient of Orodan’s Elemental Living Enchantment, his Argon pyromancy Bloodline making him a prime candidate.

He wasn’t the only one either.

Rows upon rows of battlemages and talented spellblades with Resistance skills or particular elemental masteries had Orodan’s elemental enchantments upon them, their combat power amplified. Some of these even had elementals from their corresponding elemental planes accompanying them.

And just when it seemed as though that was it, the rainy skies of Lonvoron turned even darker, as a glowing cloud of lightning emerged through the grand portal. This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons was looking powerful, and following the elemental lord was a procession of smaller lightning elementals, ready to reinforce Alastaia.

The dragon flights of Novarria, the Republic and the East came forth as well, led by their patriarchs and Cyvrosdyr. Accompanying them, an exceptionally old dragon from Eldiron who carried the power of a quadruple-Grandmaster.

And behind those, the spider dragons of the Dokuhan Mountains.

All of Alastaia’s might was arrayed here, ready to fight. Ready to showcase the planet’s might to the cosmos and liberate Lonvoron from the Eldritch threat in the process.

“So many rows of sword, shields and spears… I ain’t ever seen anything like it…” Fenton muttered. “And what the hell are those? Flying lizards?”

“You dare?!” Cyvrosdyr roared. “A hairless ape such as you would not know even a thousandth of the splendor of us-”

The World Guardian’s rant was interrupted by the other dragon flight patriarchs who were more understanding of the fact that this was a boy who had never seen their kind before.

“Orodan Wainwright… it is done. The gathered forces of our world are now upon Lonvoron, it is now in your hands,” the world spirit of Alastaia spoke.

“No… now it’s in the hands of Fenton,” Orodan said, looking at the lad.

“M-me? Ain’t this a bit much for me to deal with ser?” the lad stuttered out.

“It would be if I expected you to run headlong into the enemy army while leading everyone,” Orodan said. Although that did sound like good training for the lad. “No. It’s time for you to build the remaining pillars. You and Clyburn both.”

The chief engineer who had been rendered entirely speechless all this time finally spoke up.

“With what materials? With what time? How can we build the pillars of purifications in the middle of a blasted battlefield?”

“Worry not. He’ll help you,” Orodan said, gesturing to the portal.

For a moment, nobody came out… but then…

“Careful with moving that pillar! You, you and you! Move to the foremost one! And tell your group leader to rotate ninety degrees so we can pass that bottleneck!” a familiar voice barked from behind the portal as a gigantic tower-sized pillar came through. “Speed it up! We have an active battle going on out here and the soldiers need help!”

“As you can see, we have large portions of the pillar pre-built already. Perhaps not to the standards of you two, but that’s why you’re here. Come Fenton, let’s get these pillars up to standard. It’s the chance for-”

“For good training, yes, yes,” Fenton cut off, looking excited now at the prospect of the challenge.

Even with Orodan and Clyburn helping, the expectation was that they would be tuning up and bringing up to standard five more pillars of purification pre-built on Alastaia.

“You, boy, get to work on enchanting this section of the first pillar before any others!” Old Man Hannegan barked. “Orodan, I need you over here!”

And so the work began, even as both Fenton and Clyburn were utterly confused about why and more importantly how the old foreman was ordering them about. Their doubts and complaints swiftly stopped the moment they realized the old man’s instructions were producing tangible effects.

“Why… slap me silly… I ain’t ever enchanted it this good before,” Fenton muttered even as he was absorbed in the work.

Orodan too, held faith in Alastaia’s forces, his students and the Transcendents he’d trained to hold the line. So he too worked in an assistive capacity, helping Fenton and Clyburn out by functioning as a reliable laborer even as the battle raged around them.

[Laboring 66 → Laboring 67]

Under the power of his Celestial skill—specifically the Incorruptible Being aspect—the Alastaian army was immune to Eldritch corruption by touch. Sure, if someone was thrown directly before the Eldritch Boundless One or touched it, that protection would end. But it was no weakness on the part of his skill if it took the very source of Eldritch within System space to overpower the immunity he granted.

These regular Eldritch though, were swiftly torn apart by the melee-proficient men and women of his home world’s militaries. The Alastaians were more than proving their worth, even on a soldier-to-soldier level, against the ferocious swarms of Eldritch.

“Good Gods… they’re like the shinin’ knights out of the old stories me nan used to tell!” one sergeant exclaimed.

“Ain’t never seen people swing swords about that quick… and is that a halberd? Seen those on ceremonial suits of armor in a blue-blood’s manor once…” another muttered.

Where the men and women of the Blackworth Collective were more focused on their war machines guncraft, the forces of Alastaia were experts with armor, melee weaponry, cavalry and spells. Orodan’s world was one of swords and sorcery, and the difference made itself known as formations of heavy infantry from Novarria and the Republic held the line fearlessly against the forces of the Eldritch. Elites, Masters and a Grandmaster leading the formation. Perhaps not as strong soldier-to-soldier compared to the premier factions of the cosmos, but more than enough to withstand the swarm tactics of the plague worlds.

For a soldier of the Collective, their rifle was their lifeline. Even half the fresh-faced recruits looked as though they’d fired a rifle before and were decent shots. But in melee? They were prey. A weakness now covered by the troops of Alastaia.

Yarostov Iron-Bear atop a house-sized white-maned ursine beast charged right through a group of tough-shelled turtle-like beasts who had their shells interlocked and were slowly advancing towards the gunlines. The bullets were having a difficult time truly penetrating the shells, but the armored bear cavalry the Guzuharan led in a charge made short work of them.

“Fear the bite of the Iron-Bear cavalry!” the Master-level northerner roared, inspiring the Collective’s troops into having greater morale.

Of course, the Collective proved their worth too, with their sharpshooters, war machines and artillery far outperforming any ranged troops of Alastaia. Furthermore, the few steam knights that the company had valiantly fought alongside the frontline troops of Orodan’s world, earning their respect.

The plague worlds must have realized by now how large an army they were facing. A peak-Transcendent commander stepped out of one of the rifts, one of the mightiest Eldritch plague forms yet. And it was intelligent too.

“Where have these interlopers come from? The master shall not be pleased with this development…” the infected commander spoke. “Open the rifts wider. Let them have a full taste of the truth.”

Orodan knew what was coming next, but that was fine, because so did Tegin Carrotfoot and all the Alastaian commanders who had been thoroughly briefed on exactly what the plague worlds and their infected cores were capable of.

“Redirect formation! Aid elder Destartes!” an Alastaian Grandmaster space mage ordered, directing the entirety of his home world’s spatiomancers towards stopping the attack.

Destartes himself immediately redirected his efforts towards disrupting the titanic beam of Eldritch energy spewing out one of the rifts. The old wizard had several spatial rifts open, and although they were on the verge of tearing, the spatiomancer battle groups of Alastaia assisted their Transcendent.

Eldarion used his social skill to continually utter phrases urging the spatiomancers and Destartes to keep focused and maintain peak performance, while Balastion stepped forward and did his best to weaken the beam of Eldritch power even as it continued pressing against the spatial rifts and threatening to shatter them.

Finally, Adeltaj gathered a large amount of soul energy via his Mythical skill, considering the entire Alastaian army and the soldiers of Lonvoron to be his charges, and focused it into the tip of his halberd.

With a mighty hurl, the halberd was thrown right at the peak-Transcendent plague form.

A roar of pain tore free from its foul mouth as it was grievously wounded. Adeltaj was down on a knee, the burden of bearing that much power within himself even momentarily having proven strenuous, but the Eldritch commander looked worse off, bearing a wound that didn’t look like it would heal easily.

The beam fizzled out and died and the space mages of Alastaia managed to forcibly narrow down the mouth of that particular plague rift.

In response even more plague forms now began pouring out, the force of three entire plague worlds. Terrestrial monsters were the majority, but many of the infected monstrosities were aerial too. Furthermore, infected trees were coming forth. And while the Alastaians were immune to Eldritch corruption, the soldiers of the Collective’s military company were not.

“Infected tree! Burn it now! Burn it or we all turn!” the company lieutenant yelled, fear in his voice. The sighting of one of these was a big deal.

Orodan was on the verge of pausing his work upon the pillars to render aid, but that wasn’t necessary.

Not when two gigantic branches flew out the grand portal leading to Alastaia and proceeded to spear into the ground next to the hardy infantry formations of Novarrians and Republicans. From these branches, saplings sprung forth. And within seconds, at the cost of extreme amounts of world energy which Orodan sensed via the crown he wore, the saplings grew into trees the size of houses.

“It’s the wisdom tree of Aldenil!” an elf cheered. “The ancient one has come to aid us!”

“Your world has walking trees too?!” Fenton asked, continually surprised by one turn of events after the other.

The two newly matured trees which sprouted from the ground where the branches had entered, now began letting their leaves and pollen loose into the air. This substance, magical in nature, began combating the corrupted spores in the air which would have otherwise begun infecting the Collective’s soldiers. Furthermore, the two elven trees were winning the particulate duel against the corrupted trees the enemy plague worlds sent forth. The elven leaves and pollen began landing upon and brutally burning and melting many of the plague forms.

The flying monsters which threatened to swoop down from the skies were also countered by companies of pegasus knights from the Eastern Kingdoms and the dragon flights and elementals. Furthermore, Ashganruk the Safeguard of Xan’Coran now charged through the Alastaian side of the portal and began rampaging amidst the ranks of the Eldritch. Atop the spider dragon’s back were massed ranks of drow raining down arrows onto the enemy swarms.

“Enough.”

The whispering, shrieking voice of the eldest of the world cores carried across the air. Accompanying that command came a new tide of Eldritch foes. The swarm tactics which had been ineffectual against the Alastaian infantry line were called off, and instead out came ranks upon ranks of Eldritch infantry. Corrupted warriors wielding shields, clad in heavy armor and wielding ferocious weapons.

Unlike the chaff of before, these were the real troops of the plague worlds. Held in reserve until truly needed. Two more plague rifts opened up as well, increasing the number of enemies swarming them. At this point, all of the Eldritch presence across the Collective’s various planets was focused upon them. In moments, this patch of ground within the dead zone had become the single most intense and important battle of the conflict.

The plague forms clearly saw and noticed that Fenton, Clyburn and Orodan were building more pillars, and thus began a mad dash to get to them and interrupt the process at all costs.

“Quick Fenton! We must hurry!” Clyburn rushed.

