Eventually, the Prophet rose again, enraged beyond belief. Without Fenton drawing attention to himself this time, Almyra wasn’t here to buffer the Administrator’s wrath. In fact, it might even be to her advantage if the vile zealot blew his chance and interfered here, for that would cause the Warrior to chase after it and grant her a reprieve. And by the looks of it, the Prophet didn’t seem to care if it reduced this entire star system to rubble in recompense.

But that was fine, for as power entered the corrupted preacher’s scepter… Edrosic turned his completed drawing towards its face. And naturally, its gaze landed upon the perfectly lifelike sketching.

It froze.

Everything did besides the Prophet and Orodan. It had stopped time using the Mantle, but then time resumed again, only to stop after.

It was after the sixth such occurrence that he realized the Prophet wasn’t doing that intentionally. Something in what it had seen… had rattled it. Badly.

It wasn’t a human, he knew this. But the way its crafted face held an expression of genuine revelation wasn’t false.

Orodan’s sword and shield were in hand. He was ready to do battle and even began walking towards his foe.

Only for the Prophet to tremble once and then step back into the dimensional boundary, its eyes wide with deep introspection and revelation the entire time.

It had fled.

“Did… did we win Orodan?” Edrosic asked, barely able to remain standing after his feat.

“I… think we did… for now,” he replied, taking the drawing from the man’s hands and looking upon it.

Even he froze as he stared. The drawing wasn’t meant for him, so it didn’t have the same effect, but the sheer quality and lifelike nature of it was unfathomable.

It was as though someone had taken a perfect snapshot of reality and pasted it unto the parchment. Nay… even Orodan’s very eyes could not see the real world so… vividly. Looking at the drawing it felt as though his eyes were false and he should carve them out for daring to imply that he saw the real world while this portrait existed. The very canvas itself told a picture with but a glance.

And although it wasn’t a picture meant for him, he could see why the Prophet had been so shaken.

It was a portrait of the Administrator, but not entirely.

On one half was the Fallen Void Archon it truly was, on the other was its crafted human guise. Both fighting for dominance, both struggling. But beyond that struggle, somehow, the painting evoked the primal desire to be free of this conflicting duality, to find a place of belonging and safety for itself and perhaps its exiled people.

It was such an impossible drawing too. If Orodan looked at the Fallen Void Archon half, it was as though the entire painting was of it. But if he looked at the human half it was as though he was looking at the drawing of a human. And if he looked at the center only then would he see the duality and the struggle. But even behind that, he could sense there was a message not quite hitting him since it was not meant for him to see.

In a singular drawing, Edrosic had managed to show the Prophet what it truly desired.

And by the looks of how the fight near them was going, the battle had been won.

#

“You’re as paranoid as I am bullheaded.”

“And you are as brutish as I am cautious. Paranoia is not a bad thing.”

“Neither is being straightforward,” Orodan replied.

“If not for the numerous wards I have surrounding my galaxy, your straightforward idiocy would have us fighting multiple Administrators and Embodiers by now,” Almyra replied, nursing the lump on her head; the woman’s skin was no longer pale either. He also noted that she had shifted her language to saying ‘us’, which was a welcome change. “And I still take issue with your atrocious diplomatic method of hitting me over the head.”

“Can you blame me? Adeltaj and Eldarion were failing to get you to reveal yourself with their silver tongues, so I had to step in. Besides, I feel people understand one another best after a friendly brawl,” Orodan replied with a smile. “Although, perhaps you aren’t wrong about me having nearly upended our entire mission.”

Indeed, there was a reason Embodiers weren’t found within galaxies. Administrators came after them for it. And if not those, then other Embodiers with the same concept did. Orodan had forgotten said critical detail when entering Lonvoron, but thankfully Almyra—being an Embodier too—had planned for this.

She was one of two Embodiers he knew who lived within the confines of a galaxy. The other one being an Embodiment-level dwarf who supposedly laid claim upon an entire black hole and even the Administrators couldn’t directly assail him. Almyra was the other one, but living in a far more secretive manner. And even then, the Prophet was on her tail, or had been until recently.

“You are an idiot, Orodan Wainwright…” she muttered.

“That’s what everyone says. I shall take that as a compliment,” he replied with a happy grin.

The door to the meeting room opened and in walked King Alstatyn. The man’s steps were regal, and they were purposeful as he walked right up to Orodan. He knew what was about to occur too, so before the man could kneel he was instead caught and held upright.

“No. I do not need your service, your fealty or your gratitude,” Orodan said without allowing the man to get a word in.

The King’s face flushed, his crown and fanciful tophat practically sliding down in embarrassment.

“Erm… was I that obvious?”

“No, but I have been through a few too many of these to not see them coming,” Orodan explained and looked to Adeltaj and Eldarion walking up behind the Collective’s ruler. “I assume you’ve been told about the time loops and what we are planning?”

“Quite so. Anyone else might balk at it, but when Almyra here is, or was, a time looper herself… I caught on immediately,” King Alstatyn replied. “Whatever you need in this endeavor, troops, war materiel, funds, the Blackworth Collective shall do its best to support you. With the Eldritch purged from our territories altogether we are safer and more free than we have ever been to provide aid beyond our borders.”

“Although the matter of the Prophet still concerns me… I do not know what your protege did to him, but none of my sensors for Administrator presence near our galaxy are active. And they would usually always be on signifying his constant eye,” Almyra explained. “I do not think he will leave us alone.”

“Edrosic, bedridden as the boy was, did not think so either,” Adeltaj added. “He and Balastion are doing better, you should know. Some minor soul damage, major in the case of Balastion, but nothing they will not recover from.”

“I’ll personally set about healing them before we return. The both of them did fantastically, far better than I could have ever imagined,” Orodan praised. Actually forcing an Administrator to retreat was just ridiculous. Edrosic was clearly an anomaly, but it wouldn’t have been possible without Balastion either.

“Your people have done well in defending us. And that ability of yours which makes your soldiers immune to the corruptive powers of the plague…”

“Shall be granted unto your forces as well,” Orodan reassured. “I have no doubt the Prophet will return in time. That being said, that wicked zealot is only after one thing…”

And his gaze fell to the item in Almyra’s hands.

“The Reject’s Mantle,” Almyra finished. “You are not incorrect, Orodan Wainwright. With this item gone, that corrupt spreader of the plague has no reason to return here. But if we do as you suggest… will that not place your world at great risk?”

“It shall. But it is something we will have to bear if the plan I have in mind is to come to fruition. Alastaia must stand on its own two feet against the forces of the cosmos. And I must be capable of besting the coming foes before we can truly be safe.”

“Which will also involve rebuilding the ancient machine properly,” Eldarion added. “The device upon our world, when rebuilt to proper specification, will allow us access to the very depths of the System itself.”

“Madness… I still think it the height of insanity to attempt to breach the very bowels of it all and make contact with this Boundless One. Why is it necessary?” Almyra questioned, looking quite afraid of the prospect.

“Because… I intend to access the time loop mechanism itself.”

Silence greeted his answer. Only now did he truly reveal what he intended to do.

“You intend to enact a permanent change? Bring more people into the loops directly?” Adeltaj asked.

“Something along those lines.”

“But why require direct access to that device? What if things go awry and you permanently damage it? You mentioned that you changed the timeline in the past even without directly touching it,” the old halberdier argued.

“You are right on all those counts old man. But what I intend to do isn’t something small. I’ll need closer access to the time loop mechanism for it lest I enact some… undesirable changes.”

“Hmm… I wouldn’t want to be erased from existence again,” Adeltaj joked.

“You… what?” Almyra asked, her face paling in horror. “You permanently affected the loops? How?!”

“You’re an Embodier. Have you not touched upon concepts?” he asked her in turn.

“I… have, but the concept of Replication is still new to me… I have much to learn and it feels as though so much of it is blocked off from me.”

Replication? That was the first time he had learned of her concept. Little wonder she fought with clones and had written so meticulously on the prospect of Action Increases herself. It was a concept which lent well to her natural paranoia too.

“It’s blocked off because other, stronger Embodiers are monopolizing the concept itself. Either beating them through insights or killing them is the only way forward,” Orodan answered. “I do not know how or why it is this way… but I suspect it’s one of the few things that holds true even outside of System space. Even the Boundless I met seemed to know of concepts.”

“A daunting prospect… but perhaps with time, we can increase my control over this nebulous thing,” Almyra said.

The conversation soon turned to matters of planning, logistics and the timing on what they would do and how they would approach the problems facing them.

“It is agreed then. I and the Mantle will venture to Alastaia… though we shall have to set up secure wards to prevent your and my pursuers from finding us immediately,” Almyra said. “And from there, assault this Hegemony.”

“Yes, if they are as antagonistic towards your world as you say, then striking first is our only option,” King Alstatyn spoke. “Although bombarding worlds from the void might not achieve as much as we would like.”

“No… bombarding their worlds would only cause senseless deaths among the innocent and uninvolved,” Orodan denied. “I think we need to hit them where it hurts. Someplace not in the material plane, and something I’ll need access to anyhow.”

“Not in the material plane?” Adeltaj asked, but Eldarion next to him caught on quickly.

“The soul nexus of our world…”

Which led directly to the afterlife.

#

“I would say we really need to stop meeting like this, but at this point the war room is becoming our preferred haunt, is it not?”

“Though, the Lieutenant-General does not seem too pleased about that,” Orodan said, trying to hold back a laugh.

“That would be because- excuse me, could you get off of my foot?”

“Oh! Sorry!”

“That would be because- pardon, I know I am vertically challenged but could you get your rear out of my face?”

“Why I’m terribly sorry darling.”

“Because- alright, that’s it! One more person rests their elbow upon my head and I’m calling for an artillery strike upon this tower!” Tegin Carrotfoot yelled, having reached the limits of his patience.

Orodan felt bad for putting all this upon the poor halfling. In a sense, perhaps it was a good thing that Anthus’s commanding officer did not have his memories transferred over, otherwise he could see Tegin Carrotfoot going mad within a few loops.

The problem was that the war room of Anthus was incredibly cramped. It simply hadn’t been designed to accommodate this many people.

Not only were the Guzuharans’ tribal and clan leaders present, so too were ranking Republican military, Novarrian army and the top soldiers of Eldiron. The Eastern Kingdoms and drow also sent representatives and military advisors. And on top of all that… were the Blackworth Collective’s officers, King Alstatyn, Almyra, Fenton, Clyburn and Luetta Treadway. And finally, every one of Alastaia’s Gods and Goddesses who had agreed to join the planet’s defense were now physically in the material plane in the war room.

And if the room itself wasn’t crowded enough, outside the windows were the spider dragons, dragon flights and elementals.

He stepped forth and cleared a bit of space around the frustrated halfling using his brawn.

“Apologies general, please go on.”

“Thank you Mister Wainwright… though you’re the one responsible for half this mob being here…” the halfling muttered under his breath with a frown. “Ahem! Now then, we’ve gathered here to discuss our plan of action. Mister Edrosic, map please. Lord Malzim, if you would.”

Parthus Edrosic, now recovered after some rest and healing, threw a beautifully and vividly sketched map across the war table. The details were crystal clear enough that it almost felt as though Orodan was physically there. The map detailed a small vortex connected to both the material plane and the divine dimension. Specifically, it connected to the domains of Malzim and

