Like a salvation itself, the old man stood stoically between the soldiers of the Collective and the charging Eldritch horrors. The Simarji’s Halberd Mastery, now Transcendent-level, when amplified by his Mythical-rarity Burden of the Hero, was terrifyingly powerful.

Two early Transcendent-level plague commanders sallied forth from a rift to engage him, but both were shocked as Adeltaj’s melee prowess outstripped theirs. Certainly, sparring against Orodan Wainwright made anyone else seem inadequate in melee, and the old man was now showing these tainted Transcendents that there were levels to the art of combat.

But there were two more unpurified plague rifts with more enemy Gods and Transcendents now pouring out to exact revenge. In particular they seemed adamant on targeting Fenton who they mistakenly believed was the key to stopping the pillar’s operation.

Yet, before the swarms could converge, a heavenly array of elemental assaults rained down upon them. Fire, water, ice, wind, lightning, earth, light, dark… and even an element or two which Orodan didn’t normally see such as metal and lava, descended upon the tainted horde. Furthermore, numerous portals opened up across the battlefield, diverting Eldritch which were mid-charge and about to reach soldiers, into one another’s attacks or into Destartes’s own spells.

It was an awe-inspiring sight to see such spatiomantic control over the battlefield. Orodan had raw power, but not the finesse to do such fine acts and multi-task at the same time. It really did illustrate that while he was a hard worker, others when exposed to the same advantages of the time loops could surpass him in certain areas due to greater talent.

“A fine mess of things we’ve walked into, Mister Wainwright,” Destartes spoke, flinging more and more elemental spells while diverting a charging Transcendent war beast into Adeltaj’s Phoenix Strike via a portal. The man’s form was shimmering with power, dozens upon dozens of passive magics surrounding his form. “An excellent spot to conduct research on the limits of this Eternal Soul Reactor, though I’ve no interest in pushing it as far as you have.”

What need was their for a Blessing when Orodan could simply put the old mage through a most brutal regimen of pushing the soul over and over until he acquired the skill? Destartes demanded it, citing that reliance upon Orodan’s Blessing was a handicap in the long-term. And under such a demand, he was more than happy to use Time Reversal every time the old mage failed and blew up his own soul. The result was Eternal Soul Reactor, Mythical-rarity, and it really did allow the generation of a constant but perpetual stream of power… though not the ever-escalating upward intensity of it that Orodan could produce. Plus, the old man could only keep it going for so long before mental exhaustion took effect, but that was a timeframe measured in days and not minutes like his prior energy reserve limits were.

It had been the most brutal training regimen he had put anyone through to date, but the now Space Transcendent had not only acquired Eternal Soul Reactor but had also merged his separate magic masteries into the Mythical-rarity Elemental Mastery skill. Orodan had underestimated just how good Destartes really was. Everyone else he trained had grown and the older figureheads had reached Transcendence, yes, but none of them had achieved such rapid and substantial gains as the wizard had.

If Alastaia had a true talent upon it, someone who was likely to reach the very heights of magic, it would be Destartes.

“Indeed. Quite the blood-soaked hell you’ve brought us unto. I suppose it is only fitting that Alastaia make its debut on the cosmic stage upon such a field,” Balastion spoke, Eldarion alongside him. “Now then, hopefully this goes better than it did during that one unfortunate long loop of yours, Orodan.”

Before Orodan could even frown at the joke about the man’s fall to corruption, Balastion acted. There was no crown upon the first emperor’s brow, but his hand began emanating faint traces of purple-gray corruption anyways.

And with it…

…the entirety of the horde began moving at a far more sluggish pace. The very Eldritch within them losing power and efficacy, neutered in potency. Even if the plague forms were still mad and under their masters’ bidding, the very fuel coursing through them had lost over half its power.

“Grk! This is…!”

Orodan put a hand upon the first emperor’s shoulder and bid him stop.

“You’ve made admirable progress Balastion, but do not push yourself overmuch. Even with the incorruptible aspect of my Celestial skill your own willful descent into that taint will cause mental harm.”

Adeltaj and Eldarion had made normal gains; Destartes had surpassed everyone in the sheer amount of power he had accrued, but Balastion? The first emperor had flummoxed even Orodan by acquiring the Eldritch Mastery skill while still retaining his mind.

The man had worked closely alongside Edrosic and the eccentric Alovardo Balmento over the past five loops. Even Orodan, for all his battles against the purple-gray taint, only knew of how it corrupted people and how to best purge and fight it. He did not know it as intimately as someone like Alovardo Balmento, who was corrupted with it but retained his mind, did. And simply based off of time, nobody on Alastaia had as much experience and exposure to the Eldritch as Balastion Novar did with his crown.

Orodan would freely admit that the first emperor knew more about the minute and particulate properties of the Eldritch than he did simply based off of the fact that he’d been wielding the crown for twenty-thousand years. Over the past five loops the man had trained with Edrosic and Alovardo, but he’d also spent much time with Eldarion in getting his mind strengthened and his resolve fortified.

“Do not mind me, Mister Wainwright. I have nothing dramatic to display like everyone else does,” Eldarion added with a chuckle when he noticed Orodan looking at him. “Calm.”

The elf’s voice soothed a wave of charging corrupt beasts, removing their aggression and confusing them about what they were meant to be doing, allowing the Collective’s guns to hammer them.

It was true. The elven lord of friendship had been Alastaia’s first Transcendent, but the humans who were part of the loops had quickly surpassed him. And though it seemed as though it should have bothered the elven social Transcendent, it did not. If anything, Eldarion seemed relieved and happy every time Destartes, Adeltaj or Balastion gained in strength. As though a weight was being lifted off of his shoulders.

Of course, the irony was that without the elf, neither of the other three would have made it as far as they did. Every time Balastion was shaken after a grueling session of pushing himself deeper into the Eldritch, the Eldarion was there to have a gentle talk and soothe his spirit. Whenever Destartes grew tired of having his soul blown up in the repeated attempts to acquire Eternal Soul Reactor, Eldarion would be hovering with a kind word of pride and motivation. And whenever Adeltaj complained about the harsh physical training Orodan put the old man through, Eldarion would gently ask him to bear with it.

Frankly, even his own students and Talricto had begun going to the elf to let out the worries on their chest. Thus, Orodan felt that Eldarion’s self-assessment was unfair. Without him, none of the others would have had the strength to push past their limits.

“Damn… who are all these characters ser?” Fenton asked, and then, the lad stared. “Oy… this one’s got pointy ears… what the hell?”

“He is an elf, Fenton. Not human like you and I,” Orodan explained. “His people are in fact the most powerful civilization upon my world and Eldarion has done much to get us where we are today.”

“Greetings, young Fenton Penny. Orodan Wainwright has spoken at length about you. Once we are done here there are plenty of sights upon Alastaia for you to see,” Eldarion returned with an understanding smile for someone who had likely never seen an elf before. “Any student of Orodan’s is a friend of Aldenil.”

And speaking of students, the remaining three finally came through the portal as well.

Aliya, a spear in her hands, lunged forward like a deadly lancer. Her battle-power was at the peak of the Elite-level; unfathomable for an eight-year-old child. The mana exercises she’d been put through had also paid dividends and she had taken a liking to the element of wind. Like a lancing wasp hunting prey, her spearmanship and combat style had been refined to where she flitted in and out of range, using the spear’s reach to drill holes in weaker plague forms and retreat with the very wind aiding her steps.

And Wainroach, a living terror of fire, was now a true monster with the aid of Fire Mastery, Fire Resistance and the Elemental Living Enchantments Orodan had inscribed unto her body. She flitted from plague form to plague form, burning entire swathes while remaining untouched by virtue of how small and difficult to spot she was. Certainly, the fact that most of the Eldritch battle forms were mindless and frenzied didn’t help when it came to spotting her.

Aliya and Wainroach had grown quite close and enjoyed working alongside each other. Periodically, whenever Aliya was getting boxed in, the cockroach would clear a route out for her to continue her mobile hit-and-remain-out-of-reach style of fighting. In return the girl was more than happy to help Wainroach’s flames burn even hotter during particularly large attacks by using the wind element to amplify the heat and explosion.

They worked well together.

Which was more than could be said for Edrosic who came through the portal…

…and yelled as he fell from the air to the ground.

“I was never taught any flight magic! Orodan!”

“You have Apprentice-level Physical Fitness you lazy fool, you can survive even a fall from the cloud layer in tandem with Iron Body,” Orodan lectured with a sigh as Edrosic hit the ground, kicking up dirt.

“Ow…” the militia man whined and then noticed Fenton, extending a friendly hand. “Oh, hello. You must be Fenton Penny, good to meet you! You seem like you’ve lived a rough life, no wonder Orodan picked you up.”

Trust Edrosic to see right through a person and who they really were within moments of meeting. An uncanny ability which only amplified the man’s ability to draw life-like and profound sketches.

Fenton took the hand, looking more confused and befuddled by the moment.

“Yer’ an… artist?”

“I like to draw things, yes,” Edrosic said with a cheery smile and then took on a defensive look. “H-hey! Don’t look at me like that! I have a day job too!”

“I… I didn’t even say nothin’!” Fenton retorted, although the look one might give an unemployed layabout was still present on his face.

“This isn’t exactly the hour for socializing Edrosic, go on and help Aliya and Wainroach. Steer clear of the Masters and above… or don’t. It’ll be good training,” Orodan said with a grin.

The militia man grumbled but dashed off to join the battle. He certainly wasn’t a bad fighter, being capable of fighting weaker Elites now, but his combat power lagged behind everyone’s by a decent margin.

That was… if one didn’t take his drawings and calligraphy into account.

Edrosic’s sword was held in his left hand, but he concurrently held stacks of paper and empty scrolls too, and in his right hand, a brush and quill. The man dipped the brush in magical ink and quickly dragged the implement upon a scroll, turning it into a spell scroll in less than a second. A moment later a powerful chain lightning storm electrocuted a swarm of five-hundred beasts. From there it jumped to another, and then another.

The scroll in Edrosic’s hands burned to ash, but the spell kept going despite the moderate amount of mana he put into it, stopping only after killing three-thousand Apprentice and Adept-level plague forms.

“As you can see, despite being a bit of a conflict-averse individual, he has his own talents,” Orodan remarked, noticing how Fenton’s expression had changed to one of shock at the sight.

“Soldiers of the Collective! Work with the otherworlders! Provide covering fire!” the company lieutenant barked, ordering her troops into a swift and organized formation which complemented the Alastaians fighting the Eldritch up front. “The King’s banner approaches! King Alstatyn’s joining the field! Have hope!”

Still, the King’s army, although approaching and visible, was a good five miles out and would take at least ten to fifteen minutes to arrive even at maximal pace. The crack of gunfire could be heard in the distance and dangerous high-level plague forms died as the Transcendent sharpshooters under the King’s banner began contributing already even from that range, but it was still little assistance for what was three plague worlds’ worth of Eldritch swarming out.

“Ser these are some fine folk and all, but they ain’t an army. We’re lookin’ to be overwhelmed soon if we don’t-”

And as if on cue, a singular diminutive individual stepped through the portal. A halfling. Next to him was Virion Ethweni of Eldiron, Yarostov Iron-Bear of Guzuhar and Demosthenos Albathrax of Novarria.

“What a mess indeed… it seems Master Destartes did not lie about this being a field of blood and war. Our combined forces could barely match the army of a singular one of these plague worlds,” Tegin Carrotfoot said, a frown on the halfling’s face. “But what we lack in numbers I believe we make up in quality.”

“Hahah! Indeed! We of Clan Iron-Bear and the other kingdoms and tribes of the north shall prove our mettle today! For Ozgaric!”

