“This, is the soul nexus of Alastaia. For us divinities of death it is something we come to learn about as we ferry souls from here and towards the afterlife.”

“I see the nexus leads to another dimension besides just the material plane and the divine domain…” Orodan muttered.

“And that would be the afterlife. A realm controlled by the ruling faction of our territory, the Hegemony. In truth, even I and the other northern Goddess of Death did not know about who our overlords were, but for long have we been aware that the actual afterlife itself was out of our reach,” Malzim explained. “While we did our duties as divines of death in helping ease the burdens of the fallen and delivering them unto the afterlife, we did not have direct control over it.”

“Something we intend to change,” Tegin spoke up, fixating on the objective. “The afterlife is important to us. But as are divines of death and having enough of them to manage the influx of deceased and beings who flow through soul nexii on a regular basis.”

“That part is particularly important,” Almyra spoke up. “Without an adequate number of divines to manage the flow of souls, a world can quickly become full of lost spirits, wraiths and other forms of undead. Lovely haunts for a lich or necromancer, not so much for the living.”

Like Narictus. No wonder the forests and wilds of the world of three moons had been so full of the supernatural. And no wonder the elves in particular had more haunted forests and spirits in the wilds of Eldiron than any other nation. They had no death divinity.

It wasn’t unsalvageable, and the world core of a planet did work to move these spirits along eventually, but it could only do so much by itself. And worse, if a world core was under the control of a ruler who didn’t care, Narictus was the end result. Full of necromancers and bloodsuckers.

“However one large problem remains. We only have two divinities of death upon Alastaia,” Tegin said, glancing towards Malzim and the Guzuharan death Goddess who was noticeably weaker than the Inuanan God of Death. “However, we need not be alone. Mister Edrosic, the globe please.”

“Damn… what am I the page?” the militia man grumbled good-naturedly even as he brought a beautiful globe out.

It was of just as fine a quality as all of Edrosic’s other works. Painted upon the wooden grains with immaculate detail which made one feel as though they were physically present. It was man-sized and even the smallest of roads were depicted at an almost particulate scale upon the wooden grain.

“As always you outdo yourself Edrosic… it feels as though I’m truly standing upon this foreign world,” Orodan spoke. “Where is this? I do not recognize it at all.”

“You would not, Mister Wainwright. Despite your interstellar travels taking you to many worlds of significance across our galaxy and beyond, you have encountered only the truly mighty. But the cosmos is large and even near to us are smaller worlds,” Eldarion spoke. “This, is a beauteous rendition of Thazrivin. It is the nearest world to us which bears an advanced civilization akin to our own. They are a single star system away in fact. A world of mage-lords, ruled by the Orastian Magocracy who have managed to secure near-total control over their world.”

“I’ve never heard of this place nor this magocracy,” Orodan said. The younger him would have detested the thought of a world ruled entirely by mages, but he had grown past such silly prejudices since. “That being said, I do hope they are not tyrants who lord their magic over others.”

“Far from it. They are a wise people whose mage-lords come from all walks of life and seek to better their world,” Destartes spoke. “It was I who made contact with them. The High-Orast is a woman of great wisdom and magical skill.”

Although as the old wizard spoke, there was no hiding the light reddening of the old man’s face.

Hmm, good for him.

“And they have divines of death enough to aid us? We all live with the System so their way of life cannot be too different,” Adeltaj remarked.

“Exactly so. In fact, Alastaia’s prior… difficulties in securing the aid of powerful elementals are due to the Magocracy monopolizing them first. Not intentionally, but by virtue of having mages whose mana pools and command over the elements are superior to ours,” Destartes replied. “But they are not unfriendly. They showed me great respect and even empathized with our cause and have agreed to an alliance if it means mutual benefit. They have agreed to join us on the assault of the Hegemony’s soul nexii.”

The Hegemony, like any other faction of cosmic significance, had consolidated control over the flow of souls entering and leaving the afterlife within its territories. Unlike the Ascendent Sword Cluster of the cultivators who had a singular soul nexus which they entirely controlled and an associated afterlife, the Hegemony instead had it set up so that the flow of souls from all the soul nexii of its subservient territories would enter an afterlife controlled by them.

According to the briefing notes scattered upon the war table, this tributary system allowed for souls to flow from subservient worlds and towards the Hegemony, but choice ones would be kept and offered generous benefits for remaining within the prime worlds of theirs as reincarnators. This not only made it easier for them to pick out promising souls from the nexii of other worlds, but also let them grow their power as they picked out the most talented individuals among the deceased and had them reincarnate on their terms.

Personally, Orodan didn’t see anything overly nefarious about this. It seemed a bit opportunistic and business-like, to the point that Esgarius of Trumbetton would certainly approve, but nothing wicked. Of course, the fact that he hated the Hegemony and wanted all of its leaders dead for what they’d done to Zaessythra was a different matter. They were his enemies for different reasons entirely.

“Then are we to meet with this Magocracy before we commit to an assault?” King Alstatyn asked. “Our fleets of the Collective can certainly lend aid in helping your forces appear stronger. Magically inclined as these mages might be, I doubt they hold a candle to the might of the Blackworth’s fleets.”

“In truth, your Majesty… the Orastians do not wish to meet us first at all. They want us to directly assail the local soul nexus alongside them before we engage in any further diplomatic talks,” Destartes spoke. The old wizard had been the main point of contact between this magocracy and Alastaia.

“What manner of diplomacy is this? It’s ugh… of course…” Adeltaj said as he saw the excited grin upon Orodan’s face.

“Amazing… and here I thought diplomacy would be boring. You mean to tell me that these mages wish to fight alongside us to get our measure?” he asked, elated. “I believe we’ll get along splendidly!”

“Of course you would say that…” Tegin muttered. “In any case, as master Destartes has said, the Orastians are waiting for us to launch an assault upon the nexus before they commit to any alliance. They mean to test our strength and evaluate the story of the time loops we have told them.”

“And what better way to see that then seeing for themselves where Alastaia and its allies stand.”

Though, Orodan felt that it would be a little overkill for his world, another nearby planet, and the forces of the Blackworth Collective to gang up on the Hegemony. But really, it would be a good bonding exercise and would get one potential troublemaking faction out of the way.

After all, in a week, the Embodiers and Administrator on his tail would be coming for Alastaia.

And before that he needed to finalize his plans for the resurrection of Zaessythra, bring together his understanding of soul weave in the hopes of replicating his old Action Increases and iron out the details of something he, Ozgaric and Talricto had been working on over the past five loops in the hopes of making Alastaia’s loyal divinities a force to be reckoned with.

The defense of Alastaia was fast approaching, and with it…

…a mad goal to change the very nature of the loops themselves.
