Luke walked proudly beside Themiel through the fortress halls.

He was still getting used to his longer legs and had to remind himself not to walk too quickly. Each step carried him further than it did before his Great Strengthening.

This Great Strengthening was something he was still unsure if he was happy about or not. It felt like it was making things more complicated than before, and he could tell Themiel seemed concerned about something. Luke bet it had to do with the High Council. After all, Themiel had avoided taking Luke there, as he normally would after a Great Strengthening, but Luke was glad for this as he did not like that place.

But it wasn’t just that Themiel seemed concerned that made Luke unhappy with his Great Strengthening.

Last night, when it was time to sleep, Luke climbed up onto the bed as normal, but Themiel told him to get down. Luke’s ears had folded back, and he whined, but ultimately he obeyed when Themiel softly grabbed his scruff and guided him down. Themiel laid out a smaller soft thing for Luke to lie on. It was disappointing. He liked sleeping on the bed with Themiel, but it seemed Themiel wouldn’t let him do that anymore.

Luke understood why, it’s because he was too big and they wouldn’t both fit. But that still made Luke sad. He wished there was a bigger bed to sleep on.

But now it was the next day, and another unusual change was happening. They were going down the same halls as the day before, when Themiel had met with that female Umarii—Serithe.

Luke was not sure if he liked her or not yet, but he definitely liked her better than the council. But did he like her particularly better than all the other Umarii? Luke wasn’t sure. He didn’t think much of the other Umarii who mostly just avoided him.

He looked up at Themiel, trying to gauge his master’s mood. Did Themiel like Serithe? He acted strangely around her the day before, and now that they seemed to be heading there again, Themiel once again seemed strange.His hand kept drifting up to his hair and pushing it back, even when it was already out of his face. Then he would straighten his clothes and let out deep, nervous breaths.

Luke had seen him face monsters, multiple skeletons, and the High Council without seeming this nervous.

Wait… Luke thought it over. Does that mean Serithe is dangerous!?

She didn’t seem dangerous to Luke. No, Luke had a good sense of things that were dangerous and not dangerous, and she did not seem dangerous at all. She was much closer to prey than something that should be feared. But why would Themiel act so strangely? Perhaps Themiel knew something that Luke didn’t understand…

But if she is dangerous, why would we go back? Luke pondered. Maybe Themiel only thinks she is dangerous but he is wrong? No, that can’t be right, my master always knows what’s dangerous and not dangerous! He always knows it even before me.

As they turned a hall, Luke sniffed the air, and he could already smell her. The strange fire stuff that was very present inside her room was noticeable even from the end of the hall now that Luke knew the scent.

Soon, Themiel was standing before the door. He hesitated once again but finally knocked.

Luke could hear Serithe moving around on the other side until she called, “Who is it?”

“It’s Themiel and Luke.”

Luke watched Themiel, still trying to understand if his master was truly afraid of Serithe or not, but he wasn’t sure. All he knew is that Themiel surely was acting strangely.

This time, when Serithe opened the door, she didn’t hide behind it. And…

Luke sniffed.

She smelled a little different. There was something else other than the fire smells on her now. It was something sweet attached closely to her that made Luke’s head turn.

“Themiel, hello,” she said. “And Luke.” She began to move her hand closer toward him, but looked at Themiel as if asking if it was all right. Themiel nodded, and she crouched down to pat Luke’s head. He let her do it, his tail wagging as he was pretty sure now that Themiel didn’t plan to fight her.

“May we… come in?” Themiel asked.

“Ah, yes, please, of course,” Serithe answered, moving her hand around the side of Luke’s muzzle and letting him lick her once.

She led them in and shut the door behind herself. This place seemed less cluttered now. There were fewer things thrown about; the tables and counters were clearer. Serithe played with the ribbon of the sash around her chest.

Themiel cleared his throat. He still seemed nervous, but she did too.

Wait… maybe they were planning to fight someone together? Luke thought. That has to be it! Otherwise none of this makes any sense!

Well, if they were planning to fight someone, Luke would help. He was much stronger now, and maybe because he was stronger, that was why they decided to fight whoever this was now.

Luke let out a low growl as he looked up at Themiel.

Themiel coughed and kneeled down to pat Luke’s head. “Luke? What’s the matter, boy?”

Luke’s tail wagged, thinking, Don’t worry, Master. I’ll be ready.

Themiel cleared his throat again. “I see you’ve cleaned. You didn’t have to do that.”

“No, this place was getting far too messy anyway,” Serithe laughed. “You coming over yesterday just made me finally realize I needed to put an evening into straightening up a little. It’s so rare to have visitors down here, after all. Would you like something to drink and… is there anything I could maybe get for Luke?”

“If you have an old bone or something, he’ll be your best friend,” Themiel laughed.

Serithe thought it over, then smiled. “I’ll be right back. Please, take a seat.”

She turned and disappeared through a narrow doorway at the back of the room. If this entire place belonged to Serithe, Luke realized it was much bigger than Themiel’s place. Themiel’s place was just a room for sleeping and another room called a bathroom. This place seemed to have many rooms in it. Luke wondered if Serithe’s place had a bed too and if it would be bigger than Themiel’s?

Luke followed his master over to the table, where Themiel sat on one of the chairs. He looked alert, and he cleared his throat again.

Wait… is Master getting sick? He never clears his throat so often.

Themiel then straightened his hair again.

Whatever we’re fighting, I won’t let Master do too much if he does not feel well. I’ll be sure to take it on first! I just hope this Serithe is a good fighter. She doesn’t look like it, but I could be wrong, and Themiel would definitely know better than I do!

Before he could think on it further, Serithe returned carrying two cups in one hand and a large pale bone in the other. Luke forgot everything else as his eyes set on that bone, and he subconsciously licked his chops. It wasn’t like skeleton bones. Those were not nice to chew on. That one was much thicker and still had dried bits of meat clinging to it and—

Luke sniffed.

And fresh marrow on the inside!

“I hope this is okay,” Serithe said.

“Of course, go ahead and give it to him.”

Luke looked back and forth between Serithe and Themiel, hoping it was for him. Themiel never chewed bones, and as far as Luke could tell, other Umarii didn’t like chewing bones either.

And finally, as Serithe lowered it to him, Luke knew it was for him.

Yes! Mine! he thought excitedly, almost jumping up to snatch it from her until he felt Themiel grab his scruff.

“Luke, easy,” Themiel warned.

Even though Luke had been scolded, his tail didn’t stop wagging. He just looked back at Themiel with ears folded back, and as Serithe lowered the bone to him, he took it much more carefully, then instantly sank to the floor with it.

He balanced it between his two paws and started gnawing with his back teeth, testing its strength and already seeing he’d have to work on it for a little while.

But he was sure of one thing right away, just from the taste, it was a very good and fresh bone! He wondered what Serithe hunted to manage to get it? One thing Luke was sure of is that Serithe had to have been a better hunter than she appeared to be.

Serithe spoke to Luke, set something on the table, then went to get another thing to pour drinks into the two cups, but Luke was hardly paying attention to them anymore.

He just focused on his bone as they talked to each other, occasionally laughing. Frankly, Luke completely forgot that they would all have to be fighting something soon.

After a while, he managed to crack through the thick outer part and reach the soft marrow inside. He worked his tongue at it, getting a quick taste of the tastiness that would soon be all his, then got back to gnawing, getting the weakened part with his back teeth and biting down with all his might until he heard a sharp crack. Then he twisted with leverage from his paws and finally snapped off the end.

Finally, he was able to scrape out nice marrow chunks and lap his tongue at the goodness inside, his tail wagging feverishly behind him all the while.

“That’s a good boy,” Themiel said, scratching the top of his head as Serithe laughed. The head scratches only made Luke’s tail wag harder.

They continued to talk for a while, but eventually, Luke felt the mood shift as Themiel asked, “So… you had a chance to speak with the Oracle?”

Luke’s ears perked up. Oracle… they had said that word a number of times yesterday, and he was sure that it was said amongst the council many times. Luke just wasn’t entirely sure what that particular word meant yet. Words that had something clearly attached to them were so much easier for Luke to remember.

Serithe cleared her throat. “Yes, I did, and I… mentioned you.” Serithe paused. “She wants to meet with you. She told me to bring you tonight.”

“Tonight?” Themiel asked.

“Yes. She said she had hoped I would arrange for you to meet her in such a way. She said she had visions of this happening. Of me entering her chamber with you and Luke behind me.”

“I see. Well, that’s good. I’m glad the request alone didn’t get either of us in trouble.”

“She didn’t have to say it, but…” Serithe let out a breath. “She said to wait until dark and to be sure nobody sees us heading toward her. But if we are seen, we should still come anyway. Her personal guard will see us regardless, but they don’t answer to the council, so don’t worry about them. She’ll be sure to inform them that you’ll be accompanying me.”

Luke was still thinking about the word oracle. When had he first heard that word?

He thought back.

Oracle…

Oh right!

When he had seen that strange Umarii who had horns and hooves like prey. But of course, she was anything but prey. She had killed a man as easily as Luke kills a rabbit, but she did it from a distance and maybe with even less effort. Could she be this “Oracle”?

Wait, Master doesn’t want to fight her, does he?

Luke let out a whine. Great Strengthening or no, Luke was not confident that they could beat her.

He abandoned his bone long enough to push against Themiel’s leg and look up at him with a low whine.

“Huh? What’s the matter, boy?” Themiel asked, reaching down and patting his head.

Do not fight the horned female, Master. She will kill us both, Luke thought.

“Do you… think he understands us?” Serithe asked.

“He understands more than you would expect,” Themiel explained, scratching behind Luke’s ear.

“He does seem anxious,” Serithe said, leaning around the table to get a better look at Luke, and Luke noticed how Themiel straightened slightly as she came closer to him.

“Well, breaking from our usual routines always puts him on edge a little. Normally we would be heading to bed around now,” Themiel explained. “Anyway, should we go now?”

“Yes, I think it is time,” Serithe got up from her seat and collected Themiel’s cup along with her own, which were both now empty.

“Okay, come on Luke,” Themiel said as he stood up.

Luke delayed for a moment, then began to pick up his bone.

“Leave it, we’ll come back for it,” Themiel said, pulling it from his mouth. Luke tried to go for it again, but when Themiel said a little more assertively, “Leave it, come on, boy,” Luke obeyed.

Serithe led the way down a hall, took a turn, and then another. Then they were going up a flight of stairs that spiraled in a circle in a narrow passage, which made Luke a little nervous. There wasn’t much light here, and he couldn’t see around the curve in the passage to know if something dangerous might be coming the other way.

But Luke felt the tension in the air. He really hoped that Themiel did not plan to fight the Oracle. Luke was very afraid that she might hurt Themiel as she had hurt that other Umarii, but Luke knew he had to trust his master knew what he was doing. Themiel was always right about everything before. He always knew where to hunt, when to fight the skeletons, and when they should just run. And if there were ever too many skeletons, Themiel always got involved in the fight and took them out first until it was Luke’s time to go after them.

When Luke was much smaller, before his Great Strengthenings, Themiel had done most of the fighting and taught Luke how to defeat them.

Yes, Luke trusted Themiel. He was the one who saved him from the Red Faces, after all, and Luke knew that without Themiel’s guidance he never would have had so many Great Strengthenings already.

At the top of the staircase, they came to a door that led them outside, and Luke instantly wanted to run back inside. Because they were very high up! There was a long straight part like a hallway, but it had no walls; it just had a railing that looked far down over the lands below.

“It’s okay, Luke,” Themiel said, leading the way and clapping his leg. “Come. Now.”

Luke whined and followed, head down and tail drooping as he walked as close to Themiel as possible. Not only were they high up, it was windy here! Luke didn’t like it.

“Aw, he seems afraid,” Serithe said.

“It’s okay, he’ll get used to it. It’s just something he’s not familiar with.”

When they made it to the other side of the wall-less high hall, they entered another room, and Luke was very happy to be surrounded by walls again. He normally preferred outside to inside because walls meant he wasn’t allowed to run or sniff at things as freely, and there wasn’t prey to hunt or skeletons to fight, but he preferred inside to that last outside because that last outside didn’t have any of the good things about outside.

The room they entered was empty apart from two tall Umarii standing beside another door. They were unlike any Luke had seen before.

They had longer horns than most other Umarii that rose into sharp points, but not quite like the ones the Oracle had, which were thick and curved back around her head. They wore dark silver armor that covered nearly all of their bodies, and long cloths hung from their helmets, hiding their faces, yet there were eyes painted onto the cloth as if that were supposed to be their faces.

Were they male or female?

Luke sniffed but couldn’t tell. He normally could tell by the round things, or lack thereof, on an Umarii’s chest, or from their voices, but the thick armor and how silently they stood there made it impossible to tell. However, there was one more way Luke had of telling the difference if he could get a little closer.

Themiel made a gesture that told Luke to stay back as Serithe approached them. She folded her hands and bowed her head. “I have brought Themiel and the Hell Hound, as requested by the Oracle. I was told you would know of our visit.”

Everything seemed tense for a moment, until, without a word, the two guards stepped to the side.

Serithe looked back at Themiel and nodded, and then they came forward to follow her.

As they passed the guards, Luke couldn’t help sniffing toward one of their crotches. He huffed out. It was a male. Females had better smells there than males.

“Luke, no,” Themiel chastised and grabbed his scruff to make him come through the door before he had a chance to sniff the other one.

They entered a short hall that immediately opened into a much larger chamber. Unlike Serithe’s room, there was nothing scattered across the floor or piled up on tables. Everything looked quite orderly, and unlike anywhere else in the fortress, the ceiling was very high.

Along the walls, this room had things of fire as well, but they were very different. They were thick stone bowls with purple flames inside of them, giving the room an unnatural glow.

A single low table stood at the center of the room, surrounded by cushions. Several strange objects had been arranged upon it. At the table’s center rested a flat square board divided into many smaller squares. Tiny figures stood in two orderly rows along either side, each army mirroring the other as though they were waiting to charge across the board at each other.

Then, Luke’s gaze lifted to the far side of the room, past a bed that was much bigger than Themiel’s and had purple curtains draped around it, and out to the rear wall that opened onto a large balcony. There, the Oracle stood with her back turned to them, perfectly still.

She was dressed differently this time. Her clothes, while a little thicker than the last time Luke had seen her, draped around her more loosely, tied high near her chest with a black sash as Serithe’s was, but it was a thinner thing holding up her clothes and only loosely knotted together.

Her hands spread wide over the balcony railings, and as Luke examined her strange legs that looked more like prey’s, he noticed a thin tail poking out from a hole in her clothes, which was just as black as her skin.

“Oracle, it is Serithe. I have brought Themiel and the Hell Hound as request—”

The Oracle’s head suddenly whipped around to look over her shoulder, and Luke instantly thought she looked like a predator. Purple glowing eyes peered through black hair messily draping between her horns and over her face. And she just stared at them. But that purple of her eyes, it was so bright, and it even illuminated the white vertical lines across her face.

Themiel and Serithe both flinched, freezing in place, and Luke’s hackles began to rise, thinking they really were going to fight her after all.

“Oracle—” Themiel began.

“Ssshh,” Serithe hushed him. “She’s in her visions.”

Themiel remained tense, but crouched enough to hug Luke’s side and whispered over Luke’s growl. “Luke, quiet. Stop it.” The Oracle just continued to stare at them, completely motionless, those haunting purple eyes set on them. Themiel whispered up to Serithe, “Does she see us?”

“I’m not sure.”

“I’ve seen her have visions before,” Themiel whispered. “It wasn’t like this.”

“It’s a different kind. She gets like this when searching ends. Just wait.”

Themiel continued to rub Luke’s side softly, reminding him not to start growling again.

But Luke was nervous. She didn’t move, and that made her scarier, because he couldn’t tell what she might do. If she suddenly lunged at them, he felt he wouldn’t be ready for it, and he had seen how she was capable of killing from a distance.

But he realized she didn’t actually seem to be looking at them, more like looking past them.

Themiel whispered, “How long does this last?”

“Quiet, Themiel,” Serithe chastised in a louder whisper.

Then, finally, the Oracle blinked, and then blinked again. The purple light of her eyes slowly dimmed, and her shoulders sagged. She turned towards them, partially collapsing against the railing as her eyes became somewhat normal again, though still glowing.

“Oracle?” Serithe asked carefully as she approached. “Please, let me help you.”

“I’m fine,” the Oracle said, pushing herself off of the railing, her hooves clopping against the ground on nearly staggering steps, and despite what she had said, when Serithe offered her an arm, she took it.

Serithe guided her over to the table and helped her down against the pillows. “I will grab your potions,” Serithe said, and hurried to the other end of the room.

The Oracle remained seated but let herself lie back, her chest rising and falling with her heavy breaths. Her black hair still hung messily across her face, but her eyes moved over to Themiel and Luke. “So you came.”

“Yes, Oracle,” Themiel responded dutifully, and Luke noticed how he kept his gaze lowered, deferring to her.

“Sit.” She gestured her hand across the table.

Themiel did as she asked, obeying her just as Luke would obey him. Luke wasn’t sure he liked to see that. Luke never saw Themiel obey anyone, not even the High Council, not really. If Themiel ever did something they asked, it still was with the air that it was what Themiel was choosing, and it just happened to align. This was different.

The Oracle didn’t say anything, so Themiel cleared his throat. “As you see, Luke has had an evolution. I know it is outside of procedure, but I’d preferred to have shown you directly, without the ears of the High Council. My apologies if I’ve overstepped by taking this action, but—”

“Ssshhhh…” The Oracle raised her hand, and Themiel stopped speaking. Her lips quirked into a smile. “I’d seen this path, and had hoped it would come to pass. You going to Serithe, Serithe bringing you here, and with Luke.”

Her eyes then settled on Luke; there was a slight pulse of purple as she seemed to be looking into him. It was the same way Themiel would look at him, particularly after a strengthening, but this was different. Luke got the uncomfortable feeling that the Oracle was seeing far more.

“In any case,” she finally said, lifting her gaze from him. “I’m glad you are here. This may very well be the last time we ever get a chance to speak.”

As she was saying that, Serithe came over and placed a vial with purple liquid on the table in front of her. Serithe’s smooth motions slowed, her hands setting it down uncertainly upon hearing the Oracle’s words.

“The last time? Why is that, Oracle?” Themiel asked.

“In many of the paths before us…” Her lips rose into a faint smile. “One of us is soon to die.”
