But while Roland’s words held a promise of iron and wrath, Hymn was a free man. Free of worry. Free of fear. He didn’t bother facing Roland; his eyes remained locked with Shiv’s, and shared understanding began to build between the two.

“You’re planning to build up a new district around the Tutorial bunker, aren’t you?” Hymn asked. “Let the people and scum of the Neath mingle with your orcs.”

Shiv almost sneered. “They’re my orcs in the same way the Dragon Brokers own you. But yeah. Containment’s the idea. Can you blame me?”

“I would be annoyed if you placed us near easy prey,” Hymn answered. “But do understand that people seek to deliver themselves unto destruction. And there will be many that ruin themselves despite your attempts to preserve and protect them. People betray themselves, learn the wrong lessons, and fail to gain the strength necessary to spare themselves from the System’s will. No matter how powerful you get, Deathless, you cannot rule over fate.”

Now Shiv did sneer. “Give me a little time and a few more deaths. See what Skill Evolution might pop up down the line.”

“Ignorance and arrogance look good on a man who won’t suffer their consequences,” Hymn muttered. “But I won’t lie: I look forward to what might come of you as well. Now. Since the entire Arrow family might try to kill me if I conduct my lecture in this dimension, I think we should head over to where we have ample subjects—ones we’re not afraid to kill or harm. And while we’re at that, we should get Enchanter Merrielmel to set up the Slipgate again. If nothing else, I do need to be back on campus before something truly wrong occurs in my academy. And that would be bad for your education as well, wouldn’t it, Marcus?”

Shiv knew Hymn’s game. The Headmaster wanted someone to cross back over into the Stranger's Garden for a personal reason. Merrielmel’s brother was just an excuse, as was the academy.

Somehow, I can’t quite shake the feeling that I’m getting pulled into a grudge between a man and an Eldritch God he despises—and wishes to break free from. But Hymn also wasn’t wrong. The Outsiders were going to remain a problem until they were resolved for good. And Shiv had a reference for what that looked like: Valor. The Stranger feared Valor Thann, had refused to trespass into Integrated Earth because of him for a long time. That was the endpoint Shiv wanted to reach—at least. And so Valor was the person Shiv wanted by his side before—

“Legend Hymn,” Valor said, appearing right beside him. The Headmaster actually flinched slightly. Everyone else practically jumped out of their own skin. “It is extremely inappropriate and insulting for one Legend to impress their will upon another’s disciples without formal consultation.”

Think of the lich, and he will appear, Shiv’s mind churned with disbelief.

“I’m really disturbed by how easily you can do that,” Hymn whispered. “Sneaking up on that poor, blind girl, Hawgrave, is one thing.”

“You are a poor, blind boy to me.” Valor chuckled. “Also, deaf, lacking a nose, unable to feel, and delayed of understanding. I’ve been standing next to you all this entire time.”

“Well, now I understand why the Culturist wore your torso,” Hymn said.

“Do not make excuses, Legend-Headmaster. I was not actively using my skill. You simply didn’t bother looking in the right place. In fact, only one person did.”

Roland, Shiv realized. I can’t believe this. He wasn’t having eye problems earlier. He noticed Valor. Few things revealed a Pathbearer’s true capabilities more than when they clashed skills with another. For Roland to be aware of Valor—even in the Legend’s passive state—was staggering. Master-Tier my ass.

“I apologize,” Hymn said, with no hint of meaning the words. “I sought out Roland—”

“You sought out Roland because he is wounded and weak at present. He also has people to care for. Ones who have suffered immensely already. You were trying to press him and his wife into helping you convince Sister Uva to cross over again for your own desires.”

Hymn pressed his lips together. “How long were you standing next to me?”

“Since last night.”

“Well, that’s absolutely horrifying,” Hymn muttered flatly. Mute though his words were, Shiv saw a faint trail distort the air, sliding from the Headmaster into Valor. “I guess some of us truly do live up to our Legend.”

“I am nowhere close to living up to my Legend,” Valor replied calmly. “The man I was would not have engaged you in casual conversation for this slight. Understand that.” Valor finished with Hymn as a lord might conclude a meeting with a peasant. His eyes went from dim pinpricks of Necromancy to glowing pools of warmth as he turned to the trio. “Shiv. Are you truly interested in understanding the Eldritch Skill you have gained, or were you simply playing along earlier to see her guarded?”

“Both,” Shiv replied.

“I thought so,” Valor said. “Hymn. With us. You will apologize for your impropriety through education. If an excursion into the Outside follows, it will be at his choice, and at my allowance. Is that understood?”

And though Hades Hymn was a Legend as well, he made no attempt to defy Valor’s will. “I think I find your terms most agreeable.”

“Good. Because I do not think I have the capacity to truly harm you. The Culturist, on the other hand…”

The owl-cowled orc appeared to Hymn’s left, and the Headmaster deflated fully. “Were you at least using your Stealth Skill to actively hide him?”

The Culturist smiled joyfully. “Yes.”

And at that, he vibrated.

Gardener of Doubt 71 > 72
