She woke in the dark because the compass was pulling.

Not the gentle lean she had felt yesterday at the fen -- the directed suggestion, the polite nudge toward the Warden's Eye. This was insistent. A pressure in the coat pocket where the compass sat, in the brass case itself, as if the needle had decided it was no longer content to point and had begun to drag. She could feel the direction without opening her eyes: south-southwest, the same bearing as yesterday, the same pull toward the pool she had promised herself she would return to.

She lay in her bedroll and felt it.

The Warden's Shelf was there too -- the cool, quiet presence behind her breastbone that had not wavered since she'd bonded it on the escarpment. Fainter than the first day, attenuated by distance and the intervening mass of the basin, but steady. She could feel the stone's temperature against her chest: cold now, the small-hours cold of exposed limestone, and the rowan's roots gripping the cliff face with the patience of a tree that had been holding on for a century and saw no reason to stop.

*Day 3,* she thought.

The insect chorus was still going. Still dry, then -- the weather hadn't broken. She could hear it the way Theron had taught her: duration meant dry, and the birds hadn't started yet, which meant it was earlier than she had woken yesterday. Earlier than the basin thrush's three-note call. Earlier than light.

The compass pulled.

She sat up slowly, carefully, so the tarp didn't rustle. Hadley's tent was a dark shape ten meters to her left. Theron's lean-tos were against the ridge, silent. The fire pit held its last heat in a faint amber glow at the coal bed, barely visible, the kind of warmth that would be gone by the time anyone stirred.

She laced her boots in the dark. She did not pack her bedroll. She did not take her full kit. She took the compass, her journal, the tin cup that had become her universal tool, and the small pouch of dried thornwild sage Theron had given her without explanation -- just handed it to her after dinner, the way he handed her everything, as a fact rather than a gift.

She did not wake Theron.

The thought arrived as she stood at the camp's edge, and she held it in her hands and looked at it. She should wake him. He knew the five miles. He would want to know where she was going. He would -- and this was the part that mattered -- he would ask if it was wise, and she would hear the question in his compressed, field-note voice, and she would listen, because Theron asked questions that deserved listening to, and she was afraid she would obey.

She didn't want to obey. The compass pulled and something inside her pulled with it, and the two pulls were the same pull, and the pull said *go*. Not recklessly. Not blindly. She knew the route from yesterday -- Ashbrook channel, mirewillow stand, fen margin. She had sketched it. She had landmarks.

She went.

---

The Thornwild at night was a different forest.

Not different in kind -- the trees were the same trees, the paths were the same paths. Different in register. The sounds had shifted from the bird-and-wind polyphony of daylight to the insect chorus's layered drone, and beneath the drone, something else -- a deeper register, sub-audible, that she felt in her sternum rather than heard. The ghost-elm hum. She hadn't been able to feel it yesterday through the noise of daytime movement and discovery. In the predawn stillness, with no competing signal, the hum was everywhere. Not one tree. All of them, simultaneously, a sustained chord that the whole upper basin was holding.

She walked south by the compass and by the landmarks she had noted: the ghost-elm with the knothole at head height, the boulder with the moss that grew only on its south face, the point where the fern-bed ended and the firmer soil of the transition zone began. Her boots found the lighter ground -- the root-firm patches Hadley had taught her to read by color -- and she moved through the fen's margin in the dark with a sureness that surprised her.

The compass pulled harder.

She was close. She could feel the Warden's Eye before she could see it -- not through the compass, not through [Wayfinder's Eye], but through the Shelf. The bond in her chest brightened as she approached the pool, a subtle intensification, as if the Shelf could sense the Eye's proximity and was reacting to it. She filed that. *The bond responds to bond-potential locations.*

The mirewillow stand ended.

The pool was there.

---

At night, the Warden's Eye was a mirror.

Not the dark green-black surface she had seen yesterday -- or not only that. The canopy gap above the pool let through what light there was, and the water held it the way a lens holds light: concentrated, focused, redistributed. The surface was absolutely still. No ripples. No insect dimples. The tall reed-ferns at the margin stood motionless, and in the water, the sky was reflected in such detail that she could see individual stars she could not see by looking up.

She crouched at the edge. The reflection showed her the canopy in impossible resolution -- every branch, every leaf, every gap between leaves -- as if the water had better vision than she did. The pool was seeing the sky more clearly than she could see it with her own eyes.

[Wayfinder's Eye] was not shimmering. It was focused, the way it had been yesterday -- that sustained, high-intensity attention that felt like standing in a room long enough for it to become familiar. But today the focus was deeper. Sharper. As if the pool had been waiting for her to come back, and the waiting had accumulated into something denser than a bond-potential usually felt.

She sat on the stones at the pool's edge. She unlaced her boots, pulled off her socks, and put her bare feet in the water.

It wasn't cold. It wasn't warm. It was *present* -- the water registered against her skin not as temperature but as attention. As if the pool had turned to look at her.

She'd bonded the Shelf by reaching out. An act of will -- she'd pressed her hands to the stone and something inside her had extended, thinned, stretched toward the rock until it caught. Like throwing a rope across a gap and feeling it snag. The Shelf had accepted the connection passively. Patiently. It was stone. It had nowhere to be.

This was different.

She put her hands in the water, palms down, fingers spread. The star-reflections scattered around her wrists and reformed. She reached -- the internal reaching, the Sympathetic extension that she still didn't have words for -- and felt the bond-potential flare.

And the pool reached back.

Wren gasped. Not pain -- surprise. A pressure met her pressure. A shape inside the water that was not physical, not magical in the way she understood magic, but *intentional*. The pool was extending something toward her -- a tendril of attention, a thread of awareness -- and where it met her Sympathetic extension, the two threads wound together like fingers interlacing.

She was shaking. She could feel that distantly. Her hands in the water were steady but her shoulders were trembling, and her breath had gone shallow, and the sensation was --

It was like pressing your palm against someone else's palm through glass. Two surfaces, perfectly matched, and between them the vibration of two living things recognizing each other.

The bond sealed.

Light pulsed through the water -- not the reflected starlight but something from below, from the pool's opaque depths, a warm luminescence that rose and fell three times like a heartbeat finding its rhythm. Then it settled into a steady glow that wasn't coming from the water or the sky but from the bond itself -- from the relationship between Wren and this place. She pulled her hands out of the pool and water ran down her forearms, warmer now, and the warmth stayed.

She could feel the pool. Not just beside her -- *in* her. A second presence alongside the Shelf. Where the Shelf felt like cool stone and patience and the smell of mineral-wet rock, the Eye felt like clarity and depth and the particular silence of water that has been still for a long, long time.

She sat at the pool's edge while the notification composed itself in her peripheral vision, layering over the predawn dark the way system text always did -- not blocking her sight but threading through it, like reading words on a window.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  SYMPATHETIC BOND FORMED
  Location: Warden's Eye
  Bond Depth: Glimpsed
  Trait Active: [Reflective] — Ecological family
  Signature: [???]
  Bond Type: Reciprocal

  Note: Reciprocal bonds form when a location
  actively participates in the bonding process.
  Reciprocal bonds have increased sensitivity
  and may develop additional properties.

  Discoveries at bond: 1
  Active Bonds: 2/? [Warden's Shelf, Warden's Eye]

  +50 XP (Imprint Deepened)
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Reciprocal. She read the word three times. She had never seen it in a system notification before. But then, she'd only bonded one other location, and the system had a way of revealing its categories only when you stumbled into a new one.

[Reflective]. A perceptual trait, not a spatial one like the Shelf's [Sheltered]. She could feel the difference already -- where the Shelf grounded her, the Eye sharpened her. The pool's attention was not the stone's patience. It was something active, alert, an awareness that watched and gathered and held.

*Hadley's grandmother,* she thought. *The Rimfolk gathered at the pool on the seventeenth day. The pool was where the forest was most itself.*

She understood now, or understood the edge of understanding. The pool was not passive geography. It was a place that had been paying attention for a very long time, and when Wren had reached toward it, it had recognized the reaching and responded. Not with the stone's acceptance. With a handshake. Two parties agreeing.

She sat at the pool's edge while the sky lightened and the stars faded from the water's surface, replaced by the first green-gold filtering of dawn through the canopy. The pool's surface changed -- the mirror quality softening as light arrived from above, the impossible resolution of the night reflection giving way to something warmer, more diffuse. She could feel the pool's mood shift with the light. Not a word she would have used yesterday. But with the bond seated in her chest beside the Shelf, she could feel the Eye's register change: night-watchfulness easing into dawn-patience, the way a person who has been standing guard relaxes when the sun comes up.

*Places have rhythms,* she filed. *Like people have moods.*

---

She walked back to camp in the early light, her boots still damp, carrying two places in her chest.

The Shelf: cool, steady, low. The Eye: bright, attentive, curious. They sat side by side like two notes in a chord, and she could feel the space between them -- not empty space, but a space with potential, the way the space between two magnets is not nothing but a field.

She arrived to find Theron at the fire.

He had rebuilt it from last night's coals. The clay pot sat above it, steam just beginning to rise. He was holding his cup and looking south-east -- that same flicker she had caught yesterday, the half-turn of his head toward a point past the tree line, held for two breaths, then released.

He looked at her boots.

"The fen," he said.

"The pool."

His expression did not change. But something moved behind his eyes -- a flicker of the same thing she had seen yesterday in his south-east glance, that compressed grief that was less an emotion than a weather pattern, always present, sometimes visible. He looked at her face and whatever he found there told him what she had done.

"You bonded it," he said.

"It bonded me back."

Theron's hands went still around his cup. A beat. Two beats. The fire crackled. Somewhere in the canopy, the basin thrush started its three-note descent.

"My grandmother spoke of that," he said. "The Eye choosing. She said the pool waited for the Rimfolk on the seventeenth day, and some years it -- acknowledged them. Turned warm. Held their reflections longer than it should." He drank from his cup. "She said it had not done that in her lifetime."

Wren stood at the fire's edge and looked at Theron's face. Her Empathy stat -- her EMP 10, the highest number on her sheet -- was not a skill she could switch off. It was the membrane, tissue-thin, and through it she could feel the shape of what Theron was not saying. Not the words. The weight. The Rimfolk had gathered at the pool, and the pool had stopped acknowledging them, and the gathering had stopped, and the Rimfolk had --

Had scattered. Had gone up-slope to Millhaven, like Hadley's grandmother. Had reduced to one man in a camp at the basin's edge, building fires from coals and looking south-east at whatever he had lost.

She didn't say what she saw. She never said what she saw. She filled the kettle from the water skin and set it on the fire's edge and said, "I left before dawn. I should have told you."

"You should have." He did not look angry. He looked like a man recalculating, the way her father recalculated a route when a switchback proved worse than expected -- not frustrated, just adjusting. "Did you follow the landmarks?"

"Every one."

"And the pool -- you felt it was safe."

"I felt it was waiting."

Theron looked at his hands. Old scars, silver-white. The left wrist with its hidden stiffness. He turned the cup.

"My grandmother would have liked you," he said.

He got up to tend the fire. The conversation was over, and it had said more than either of them had spoken.

---

Hadley emerged from his tent at the smell of flatcakes, boots already on, carrying a root that was not the same root as yesterday -- or possibly it was, she had no way to be certain, but the soil pattern on his hands was different, which meant he had been up and digging before the flatcakes had reached him.

"You look different," he said, dropping onto the log across from her and accepting a flatcake from Theron's pan without breaking stride. "Something happened. Your face is doing a thing."

"I bonded the Warden's Eye."

His flatcake stopped halfway to his mouth. "The -- this morning? You went to the pool *this morning*? Before dawn? Without --" He looked at Theron. Theron gave him nothing. He looked back at Wren. "How? You said yesterday you weren't ready. You said 'not today.' I was *there*."

"The compass woke me," she said. "It pulled. I followed it."

"It *woke* you?"

"It pulled hard enough that I felt it in my sleep."

