Yea, like this was ever a real option. The Legate can gaslight all he wants, but he never intended to let me go free. Not just because his opponents would benefit, but also because there’s nothing to be gained from my freedom.

Seemingly aware of his weak argument, the Legate moves on to his next point after a sip of his tea. “Another option is to exert my influence to ensure you are treated as a proper Imperial Consort, with all the respect and dignity the title deserves. Not much, inside the Clan, but out here? You would stand first above all others, for the Imperial Clan stands behind you.” I’m not tempted in the least, but again, I think the Legate knows this, which raises the question of why he’s bothering with the narration. “My third choice is to do nothing and leave you to be trampled by the imminent arrival of your soon-to-be raised peers, which is not much of an option at all, since doing so would be the same as admitting defeat. The Imperial Clan loses face, the outer provinces lose faith, and I will be seen as the man who rewarded a promising young talent with a target painted on his back.”

Which is exactly what he did, but that’s not the problem. The problem is he got caught doing it, and he has the gall to sound annoyed because he has to justify his actions. Jerk.

Perhaps sensing my hostility despite my averted eyes and submissive posture, he moves on from explanations to thinly veiled threats. “My best option would be to permanently remove you from play, a move you’ve made abundantly clear would not be without repercussion.” Letting his displeasure be known with a vexed scowl and suspenseful pause, he flashes his smooth smile once again as he leans back in his chair. “A heavy price, but one I can afford, though it seems like such a waste of a valuable young talent who is in the midst of what appears to be a miraculous recovery. Wouldn’t you agree, Honoured Uncle?”

An older, dapper gentleman with a clean-shaven chin and piercing brown eyes emerges from Concealment and takes me by complete surprise, lounging in his chair beside the Legate and proving that my anti-Concealment detection methods are not without fail. “I would not,” he begins, his tone dripping with condescension. “Thus far, I’ve found your pet ‘Imperial’ savage...” Raising a porcelain teacup to his lips with a hand laden with enough rings and bracelets to buy a country, he sips his tea, smacks his lips, and sighs. “Frankly disappointing.”

Rude, but it’ll take more than that to ruffle my feathers. Knowing better than to speak without permission, I keep my eyes fixed on their knees and study both men in silence. It’s telling how the Legate leans towards his uncle, rather than away, which shows he’s seeking comfort from the older man, or at least comfortable enough to lower his guard. How curious. Even more curious is how the Legate speaks in my defence, and I don’t really know what to make of it. “Appearances can be deceiving, Honoured Uncle,” the Legate says, “And I believe you will find this one full of surprises.”

“Hmph.” Neither agreeing nor disagreeing, Honoured Uncle puts his tea cup down and the Legate moves to fill it. “Tell me,” he begins, picking up a copy of my book from the tea table which until now, went completely unnoticed. Was this because I wasn’t paying attention, or was the book also Concealed? Dammit, and here I thought I’d found a way to spot all the sneaky spies... “Who devised this idea of paper money?”

...Not the question I expected, but not as bad as the ones I imagined. “I did, Great One.”

Honoured Uncle grimaces in displeasure, but thankfully, not because I used the wrong honorific. “I do not believe you,” he says, opening the book up to the relevant sections at the back. “But if you are the architect behind this, then I’m sure you have a proposal to convince the wealthy people of the Empire to hand over all their hard earned gold in exchange for worthless scraps of paper?”

“With all due respect Great One, gold in and of itself is inherently worthless, aside from the value we place upon it. Coins are merely a representation of value, so why gold, silver, and copper instead of jade, tin, or paper?”

“Because precious metals are rare, and therefore not easily attainable.” Waving a hand as if he can’t be bothered to go in depth, Honoured Uncle scoffs and says, “But you would have us use paper instead, which is so cheaply made it can take years to recoup the initial investment.”

Ha. Sounds like someone tried to start a paper-making business without thinking things through. “There are countermeasures against forgeries, which I’ve listed in the book, like using silk paper, rare inks, ciphered messages, or hidden drawings. I didn’t spend too much time on the matter, because the details are best kept secret, but I am confident the theory is sound, Great One.” Seeing Honoured Uncle isn’t quite convinced, I toy with the idea of letting things drop, but this could be my chance to get out of this alive. “What’s more, paper currency won’t have to completely replace coinage, as they can both be used in tandem. Limit the notes to excessively large values and nobles and merchants alike will rush to adopt the new system, since it’s easier to secure a stack of papers than a treasure room full of gold. From there, it is only a matter of time before the practice moves down to the less affluent.”

“So you say, but they would be fools to trade their rooms full of gold for a promise written on paper.”

“Then don’t give them a choice.” Having finally caught his interest, I try not to smile and say, “The Eastern Province is paying for all construction costs along the front lines, so it would be simple enough issue a promise of repayment in lieu of coin, but instead of writing ‘So and so is owed one thousand gold’, you write ‘the bearer of this Treasure Note is owed one thousand gold’, claimable at some place in the Eastern Province which they aren’t allowed to visit. This way, the people of the outer province can freely exchange the notes once they’re in circulation, because a debt from the Imperial Clan is sure to be paid in full. It’s good as gold.”

“‘Treasure Notes’ and ‘Good as gold’, hmph. A clever idea, but the Imperial Clan does not owe debts, not on paper at least.”

Honoured Uncle flashes a hint of a smile, which tells me all I need to know. I bet the Imperial Clan owes money to everyone, but people give face and quietly wait until they’re paid. Stupid way to run a business but I can work with this. “Then instead of directly issuing debt, call it a fund-raising effort. Say that shipments of coin are coming in too slowly, and issue uhh... War Bonds. ‘Pay nine-thousand, nine-hundred gold today, and the bearer of this note can collect ten-thousand gold in one year or anytime thereafter’. Something like that, but with properly calculated numbers. Do this in addition to Treasure Notes without calling them debt so it becomes more palatable, especially if you let them buy bonds with notes, but make sure you have both because this lets you limit the number of war bonds you sell. Dress them up as a fixed-rate investment tool and emphasize that this is to help support the Empire in this time of difficulty and save costs on moving gold around, rather than for the coin itself. Done right, and the wealthy will trip over themselves emptying their treasure rooms to become the Empire’s greatest financial supporter.”

Thereby allowing them to brag about having done something without actually fighting. Ha! Take that, face. I finally found a way to use you against my enemies.

Making a big show of flipping through the only two pages on the subject, Honoured Uncle raises a bushy, salt-and-peppered eyebrow. “I see no mention of these bonds or investment tools in your book here.”

“As I said earlier, I didn’t put much thought into it, so I came up with War Bonds just now.” I assumed the Imperial Clan bean counters would have someone capable enough to figure things out, but apparently not. Still, if this works, it’ll open up a pandora’s box full of financial dynamics, and maybe in a generation or two, once everyone is used to paper currency, someone will try something disastrous and there’ll be a crash to incite widespread revolt, one backed by Spiritual Guns and Runic Cannons.

Maybe that’s asking for too much, but a man can dream...

Continuing his laid-back interrogation with deceptive nonchalance, Honoured Uncle gives no sign of approval even after moving on from paper money. The questions range from the wide-spread uses of cast-iron to what I hope to achieve with non-flammable explosives, and even goes in depth about compound interest and futures trading, with plenty of suspicion cast upon the origins of these ideas. I answer to the best of my abilities until my voice goes hoarse from overuse, at which point, the Legate predictably steps in as good cop and suggests a short break. It’s obvious it was planned because the Seneschal immediately arrives with a piping hot pot of tea, and once I’ve wet my throat, we pick up right where we left off.

Almost two hours later, I stand with sore feet, aching back, and parched throat, but Honoured Uncle has finally run out of questions to ask. “You weren’t wrong,” he says, offering the Legate a wry smile and a shake of his head. “The savage is full of surprises, but I am still not convinced he is worth the trouble.” Speaking as if I wasn’t standing two meters away, he waves a hand as if shooing a fly and adds, “Broken as he is, and a Penitent Brother to boot, it is too much risk to take on.” Why does that second part matter? “Best to be rid of him and start over.”

“Broken, but recovering quickly. I’ll admit his ties to the Brotherhood are troublesome, and I might have acted differently if I’d known beforehand, but the arrow was loosed before I learned the Destroyer stood at his side.”

Mahakala was the Destroyer? Awesome title, but not exactly monk-like, but then again, he wasn’t exactly the best monk. Neither is the Abbot really, but who am I to point fingers?

“Then correct your error and wipe the slate clean whilst you still can.” Patting the Legate’s arm in a familiar manner, Honoured Uncle sighs in heartfelt regret, which I’d feel bad about if he wasn’t talking about having me killed out of convenience. “We all make mistakes. You over-reached bestowing the girl and title upon this savage, and our foes caught you out, so best to cut ties cleanly before they use him against you.” Affecting a fake shudder, Honoured Uncle adds, “Or worse, they go through with their threats and force everyone to acknowledge dozens of new Scions into the Clan. With only one outsider for an Imperial Consort, it was a simple matter to keep closed-lipped about the benefits and leave everyone guessing, but if their numbers grow, we must ensure they are afforded the respect and dignity the title deserves, lest the Clan lose face.” Yes, because that would be so terrible. “Remove the savage, and the title appears worthless, leaving our enemies with no pawns to play with once we reset the board.”

“Doing so would also forfeit our current advantage and give rise to unnecessary friction in the outer provinces. No, the crux of the issue lies in the title itself, which we can work with.” Obviously unconvinced, the Legate presses on as if I’m not there, but I know this whole conversation is being staged for my benefit. Otherwise, they’d throw up a Sound Barrier or converse in Sending to keep me from overhearing, unless of course they think so little of me that they don’t care if I hear them while holding a spear, sword, shield, and more knives than I can remember. “Imperial Consort is the lowest title available in the Clan, so anyone raised to this station will not be worthy of note. What harm is there in letting a select few have this title?”

“Well, your clever savage loses his worth, the Clan is lessened by an influx of undeserving fools, and our enemies gain strength in the outer provinces, all for no benefit.”

“Not if we raise his status and set him above lowly Imperial Consorts. Then we can continue ignoring the existence of these new pretenders and reward our deserving young ally.”

Eyes widening in muted shock, Honoured Uncle snorts. “Give rank to a savage cripple? You’d be the laughing stock of the family for years to come.”

“No, not rank.” Eyeing me with disappointment, the Legate sighs as if I’d failed to live up to expectations. “It would have been so much simpler if he’d been less exceptional, because then we could simply cow the outer provinces by demanding face. If I say Falling Rain is recovered, who would dare argue the fact?” Shaking his head, the Legate continues, “To think, our plans would fall through because the lie would ring too true, but there are other methods to raise his standing.”

I’m not sure if I pick up on the Legate’s meaning first, or Honoured Uncle does, but we both frown and shake our heads at the same time. Raising an eyebrow in question, the Legate almost looks amused as he asks, “Oh? I expected Honoured Uncle to balk, but what reasons do you have to refuse?”

“Sorry, Imperial Legate, but there are some things I simply will not do, and abandoning my family to join yours is one of them.” Saluting and bowing for good measure, I straighten up, shrug, and wait for death. “I already have an older brother and I’ve no interest in a new one.”

Still smiling, the Legate tilts his head and drawls, “Brother? Would Father not make more sense?”

Ah right, I’m only twenty, and not the Legate’s peer. “Er, same thing. I love my family and will not break ties with them. End of story.”

