Given how the banquet hall is attached to the Central Citadel’s central command centre, which is located at the centre of Central’s Citadel, I figured it wouldn’t take too long to mosey on over to the Legate’s meeting room situated in the eastern wing.

I was sorely mistaken.

Since I knew I’d be travelling indoors with the Death Corps at my side, I didn’t think it’d be necessary to ride Zabu, but after twenty minutes of speed-walking through decorated hallways, elaborate gardens, reinforced gates, and more, I’m beginning to understand why the Legate prefers to be carried around on a palanquin. It’s hardly imposing to show up at meetings all sweaty and out of breath, though unlike me, the Legate has a fully functioning Core and could probably run a marathon in twenty minutes or less, so I doubt he’d run into the same issues I have.

What I’m trying to say is, I should’ve asked for a horse, quin, or palanquin. Now if I die, I’ll leave a pit-stained carcass reeking of gas and body odour. Also, I ate too much and have to go pee, but can’t keep the Legate waiting...

The long march offers an insightful view into the heart of Central’s Citadel, which is essentially a mid-sized fortress that doubles as the central command centre. From the outside, it looks like one giant, fortified courtyard manor, but inside, it’s not quite as comfy. Behind the banquet hall is a giant kitchen and mess hall, which is ordinarily meant for soldiers staying in the attached guardhouses. After peeking behind the curtains, so to speak, it becomes clear to me that the banquet hall is not a banquet hall at all, but rather a massive gatehouse-slash-foyer to the fortress proper. Those side doors which the servants came in through? They open into a wide stone hallway which leads back to the mess hall and nowhere else, meaning their sole purpose is to allow troops to sally into the foyer from multiple directions instead of funnelling in from one or two choke-points at the back. It’s an indoor killing ground, plain and simple, because steel gates and barricaded doors are a poor defence against Demons and Defiled Champions.

And behind the guardhouses? Another open killing ground and inner wall, and then another one, and another one. The outer walls aren’t built to indefinitely keep the Defiled out, but rather to contain, corral, and direct them into multiple arranged killboxes which work no matter what direction the Defiled are approaching from.

It looks fairly effective, and is probably large enough to house most of the soldiers stationed here, but it also speaks to the lack of confidence Central’s Colonel Generals have in holding the outer wall proper. Plus, it makes me wonder why the Defiled don’t just use their Spiritual Weapons to tunnel through the walls, not just here, but also at the Wall walls. I suppose because climbing is faster, and the Imperial soldiers guarding the walls don’t just stand around doing nothing, but still. Something to keep in mind, I suppose, in case I ever need to assault a fortress, though I can’t imagine a scenario in which that would be relevant. Defiled don’t defend, they attack, and if I ever come across any Imperial rebels, I’d be more likely to join them than take up arms to put them down. The Azure Empire sucks donkey dick, with most, if not all, of its problems stemming from the top, what with the despotic nobility, unmitigated cronyism, appalling social policies, and complete lack of progress and innovation.

Then again, how much of that is intentional? Given the ever present threat of insidious Spectres, raising the standard quality of life might prove disastrous. It’s human nature to never be satisfied and always want more, so if you stick your peasants in dirt hovels and with barely enough to survive, it doesn’t take much to keep them happy. Take Qing-Qing for example. Her life was... well, it was pretty terrible. She made Cinderella’s life look pleasant because at least that girl had a family. In contrast, Qing-Qing only had her fellow villagers, who, in my opinion, only looked after her out of a sense of guilt, rather than belonging. She worked her fingers to the bone to make it through each and every day, and held fast to her dream of escaping from the village to see the world at large. She didn’t want anything fancy, just a happy, safe life somewhere away from where she grew up.

In contrast, entitled nobles throwing shit-fits over verbal snubs is a daily occurrence, which is just plain embarrassing for the human race in general.

But that’s humanity in a nutshell, so full of hope and promise, but only under the right circumstances. Hard lives make for hard people, because when your existence depends on toiling away at every waking hour of the day, you don’t really have the time to care about much else. While it might seem counter-intuitive, I doubt a modern, technological society would be better equipped to handle Spectres and Defilement than the Empire’s people. I don’t have all my memories from my past life, or even most of them, but the ones I do have are neither rose-coloured nor optimistic. I had to create a second personality just to handle my Spectres, and it’s no accident I envisioned Baledagh as a native, because... well, let’s face it. I’m weak and doughy on the inside. I bitch, moan, mope, and cry all the time, because when I first arrived, I was not equipped to deal with hardships. Hell, I pretty much shut down for two years after arriving in the village and barely talked to anyone besides Lin-Lin. I looked after the twins and spent time with my family, but to this day, I’ve never really opened up to them about my problems, not entirely.

Part of that is because I’ll never convince myself that I’m anything besides a body-snatching outsider who doesn’t belong here, but let’s be real. Even if I wasn’t, I’d find some other excuse to hold back, because that’s just who I am. I’m socially retarded and I like it that way.

My unflattering introspection comes to an end as I finally arrive at my destination, a luxurious walled-off palace situated inside this fortress inside a citadel. Maybe there’s a manor inside the palace and we can keep this joke going, but standing outside the palace gates, I find myself in no mood for jokes anymore. This is it. This is the end of the line. Once through these ornate steel doors, up the paved path lined by immaculate shrubbery, through the marble manor doors, and up a series of posh stairs and decorated hallways, there’s no turning back. Then again, it’s not like I could’ve turned back before this, because one does not stand up the Legate, but at least I could entertain the option.

As if on cue, my Death Corps guards fall into formation just outside the gate, save for Kuang Biao who moves up to my side and follows along. He doesn’t keep a half step back like he normally does when escorting me around, but marches along right beside me with hand on sword and eyes facing forward. He’s not guarding against assassins, not here in the heart of the Legate’s power. No, he’s no longer my protector, but my warden, escorting me to what might well be my final meeting with the Legate. There is no regret in his eyes, nor is there a warning or threat, and in fact, it feels like he’s going out of his way to ignore my inquisitive stare, which as things stand, is probably answer enough.

I stand alone here, without family, friend, or floof to draw strength from, and this terrifies me more than the prospect of death.

Since it appears Kuang Biao knows where we’re going, I let him lead the way up to a stately room situated on the fifth floor of the palace. Instead of barging in through the ornate double doors, he brings me aside and makes me stand at attention with my back to the wall, which is fine by me since it gives me time to catch my breath and mop the sweat from my brow. Though burning with questions, I keep silent and ignore Kuang Biao because the alternative would hurt too much. We never really got along, but I thought I was growing on him, so I’m kind of shocked he didn’t try to warn me or anything. I suppose this explains what he’s been doing with all the free time I’ve recently given him, sneaking off to report to the Legate, because how else would he know his way around the building? They’re not even trying to hide it anymore, because I never would have even considered this if the Seneschal had been waiting outside to receive me like he normally does.

Okay, yea, an argument could be made that Kuang Biao would be right to hate me, since I am kinda, sorta the reason he went from free Royal Guardian to Oath-Bound Death Corps, but in my defence, I didn’t know that would happen when I outed him during new years. Besides, if anything, he should blame the asshole who sent him out to fight Gerel in the first place. Royal Guardians have no place taking part in an outer-province feud...

The double doors swing open without warning and I straighten up to full attention, fixating my eyes on the wall across from me so they won’t wander or stare. Eight elaborately dressed individuals make their way out of the room in pairs, some young, some old, and all but one unfamiliar. Oozing smug disdain in his golden, dragon-motif robes, Yang Jixing smirks as he saunters by while pretending he doesn’t see me standing there, but I can tell he’s watching for my reaction. No idea what he expects to see, but it doesn’t take much to look bored, because I actually kinda am.

I’m sleepy, stuffed, and floof deprived, so death is looking more enticing with each passing minute, because at least then I get to rest.

Unable to see Jixing’s reaction, I continue to stand there until their footsteps fade into nothingness, at which point Kuang Biao grabs me by the arm and pushes me inside. As he shuts the door behind me, I salute and bow while gathering my bearings, but there’s not much to see. The room is as grand and opulent as expected of the Legate’s private meeting room, decorated with several pieces of artwork gifted by yours truly, including the painting Luo-Luo forged to entrap Jixing. I have no idea if anything ever came of it, but then again, I wouldn’t, since the Legate never tells me anything except what I need to know.

The most important thing to note, however, is the complete and utter lack of Concealed Divinities. This is good... we’re alone, so it’s just crippled me against a man whose title literally translates to ‘Divine True Warrior’. I’ve faced worse odds, I suppose...

Once again, the Legate poses for my entrance, but this time, instead of cool and aloof, he’s gone for ‘concerned contemplation’. Back straight and legs crossed, he leans on one elbow with his chin ever so slightly being propped up by his hand, because Mother forbid he actually look nervous or brooding. No, he is quietly considering his options, tapping one finger against his armrest at a slow and sedate pace, to put me in mind of a steady hand and steady heart-beat so as to be sure I understand how calm he is. The only thing that’s missing is a chess table with a game in progress, so I can look at the pieces and see just how complex his conundrum is and emphasize that matters are far beyond my meagre comprehension.

Everything the Legate does, he does with a purpose. Meeting me for the first time in front of all of Central’s bigwigs, feigning fascination with Ping Ping, setting me up as the turtle attendant, gifting me Luo-Luo, they were all moves on a chessboard made after considering his options. I might not understand why he does what he does or what he intends to do next, but after a year of dancing to his tune, I know he never does anything without reason. He wants me to see that he hasn’t made his decision yet, and I’ll bet my fortune it’s because he’s not done with me yet.

I still have something he wants, but I have no idea what it might be. Could be anything really, but this is good. Or at least, it’s not the worst outcome, because it means I still have value. Truth be told, I was half expecting the Seneschal to knife me the second I walked in, though the night is still young...

“At ease.” No offer to take a seat, not this time, so I stand with spear held behind me and hands away from my sword as the Legate puts on a show of consternation. “You present me with something of a conundrum,” he says, still tap, tap, tapping away at a slow and steady pace. “I had planned to have you lie about a recovery to make that the issue of focus, but alas, you exceeded expectations. Between your performance at the opera theatre, survival at the tea house, and your analysis tonight, any claim of good health would actually be believable and you’d find challengers lining up in the streets, but you and I both know you are far from recovered.” Narrowing his eyes, he asks, “How did you survive the tea house, by the way? The poison we picked out was rather unique, and I hardly can believe someone besides the Medical Saint could have treated it.”

Ha. You wanna know? Too bad. “...I was poisoned at the tea house?”

“Fine. I am not an ungenerous man. Keep your secrets.” Not a bad move, letting me be defiant, because it reinforces the impression that he’s on my side. Still leaning on his hand, he offers a small smile and says, “Now, with the outer provinces working together to force my hand, I am left with precious few options. The most obvious move would be to remove your Imperial status and let you live out your life in peace and solitude, but doing so plays directly into my opponents hands. I appear ungracious and lose potential allies, while my foes are free to dictate what benefits an outer-provincial Imperial Consort might enjoy, while their own chosen pawns benefit.”

