“How filial.” Seeing me bristle at his sarcastic tone, the Legate rolls his eyes and laughs. “You’re mistaken. I’ve no intention of adopting you, however exceptional you might be. No, I was thinking more along the lines of appointing you to Imperial Office.”

Oh, a job offer. Okay, yea that makes more sense, what with the whole twenty questions on finance and stuff. Well now I feel real dumb. “...And this would raise my status?”

“It would, especially with the proper title, one with no basis in combat.” A gold coin appears in the Legate’s hand and he rolls it back and forth across his knuckles with a pleased smile. “What say you, Honoured Uncle? ‘Minister of Finance’ perhaps, so as not to infringe upon the Master of Coin’s authority? A minor title with minimal benefits, but a title nonetheless. We raise his status and ensure he receives the respect he so deserves for his ingenious contributions, which makes the title of Imperial Consort look like more trouble than it’s worth so all those would-be pawns remove themselves from the fray. The provincial Marshals will back him, and as an added bonus, we can even have him implement his Treasure Notes and War Bonds, so the Clan is well-insulated against failure and only stands to benefit.”

No, no, no, this isn’t happening. I don’t wanna become a financial advisor. I’m utterly unqualified for this position. Also, this sounds like it would draw me deeper into Clan politics, which is the exact opposite of what I want. Plus, I don’t want a fucking bank job! Wait. If I’m in charge of this financial stuff, then that means I have to put in safeguards against all the shady things I was planning to do, because it’ll be my ass on the line if something goes wrong. Fuck!

Thankfully, the Mother is smiling down on me and Honoured Uncle doesn’t seem convinced. “You always were a clever boy,” he sighs, making it sound like a bad thing. “Too clever for your own good. Better if you never learned...”

“But I did, Uncle, and I will not go quietly without a fight.” Eyes burning with intensity, the Legate clenches his fist and the coin disappears into his grasp, no doubt flattened into an unrecognizable blob. “This will work. Giving Falling Rain a title seals him to our side, and leaves his allies poised to take over their respective factions or in commanding position over their rivals. Through him, we unite North and Central and bind them to our cause, which in turn puts an end to the political infighting and reassures the Southern Marshal enough to stop threatening to withdraw. With three provinces united behind us, he will have no choice but to agree, or...”

I think someone forgot I was listening, because the Legate’s jaw snaps shut and his eyes widen ever so slightly in alarm before covering his bases and going on about the Prime Minister kowtowing before them. Thankfully, I’m really good at playing dumb, though it’s hardly playing since I have no idea what he’s going on about, besides the fact that he obviously wasn’t talking about the Prime Minister. Whatever. This job though... I have my reservations, but it sounds like this will put an end to all the infighting and let us get on with fighting the Defiled, so... I hate to say it, but I don’t see any way out. “Um, Imperial Legate? Are there any other options?”

“Yes. I could do as Honoured Uncle suggests and spike your heart before cremating your corpse.” Though he tries to keep his tone light and breezy, the Legate is obviously infuriated I’m not beside myself with gratitude. “Refuse, and nothing will save you. Not your mother and her Mentor lurking outside, not Nian Zu and his Famed Fifty posturing for the crowds, not the Marshals and their endless appeals, not the Peak Experts preparing to fight to the bitter end, and not even your soldiers standing ready with oil and flame to cover your escape. You will die, and even if all the outer provinces unite to protest my actions, I will scour this city clean of you, your family, your allies, and anyone else you hold dear. Your father and Grand Mentor will die next, their throats cut and heads displayed alongside all ten-thousand of their remaining tribesmen before word of your death arrives, and all this will merely be the beginning.”

Sinking back into his seat after the heated delivery, the Legate spreads his hands and says, “But I prefer the carrot to the stick. Accept, and I will ensure you are afforded the respect your new Office deserves, which will be on par with the Marshals, if not exceed it. I will endorse Colonel General Nian Zu’s proposal which you have been working so hard to support, and I will even pay for one quarter of the estimated costs out of my own purse. Your enemies will no longer trouble you, your detractors will no longer dare speak ill, and Broken Blade Pichai will no longer ignore your missives at the behest of his Marshal. These are but a few of the boons I offer, and a clever young man such as yourself will no doubt find a plethora of more benefits to be had.”

Intense, but I like that he failed to comment on Siyar, who already slipped into his kitchens once, and spent the last few days disguised as a servant on the Legate’s staff in order to do so again. If shit goes down and fighting breaks out, then he has orders to deliver a fatal dose of poison into the Legate’s tea, the same undetectable, indefensible stuff that almost killed me in Nan Ping, generously provided by MuYang. If I die, the Legate dies with me, but that seems like a terrible trade overall, especially since he’s implying I can use my Office to my advantage in ways I’m not sure he anticipates. “Message received,” I say, doing my best to appear cowed, but I think we both know it’s all an act. “So... Minister of Finance. What exactly would my responsibilities be?”

Not that I expect it to matter much, but maybe this time, I can at least learn about what I’m diving into before jumping in head-first. I don’t want a desk job, but if it’ll unify the outer provinces, then I don’t see how I have any other choice. Make no mistake, this is a band-aid at best, and the Legate will be rid of me the second I’m no longer of value, but as far as band-aid’s go, it’s not... terrible.

Falling Rain, Minister of Finance.

Wow, never mind. I was wrong. That’s just... god awful...

Ugh. This sucks. I thought being a cripple was bad, but being a banker somehow seems so much worse...

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 31 -
