The Wistram team paused. They lowered their weapons. Montressa stared at Pisces. Her face was pale. Pisces looked at her, and then turned. He addressed her and the room.
“I made a terrible mistake once. And because of it, people died. I never intended it. I just wanted to prove there was a place for me at Wistram. I loved it there. Before people knew who I was. I wish they had not adored my mask so much.”
“What? Is that—”
Isceil’s voice was muffled as Palt pointed a finger at him. Pisces went on. Now he was only looking at Montressa, at her eyes. Hate and fear and hurt. All mixed into one.
“I’ve done many things. I’ve hurt people. Stolen. I’ve lied. To myself most of all. And I will pay for those crimes.”
She blinked. The Wistram [Mages] stared at Pisces. Beza spoke slowly.
“Does that mean you’re surrendering?”
Ceria shot to her feet. Yvlon caught her. Pisces shook his head.
“No. I will not submit to Wistram. Nor will I go back. I was judged, by one who knew the follies of [Mages] more than any other. Rightly or wrongly—I do not wish to rot in a cell or die.”
“You deserve it.”
Montressa whispered. She shook as she stared at Pisces. He hesitated. Then he bowed his head.
“I’m sorry, Montressa. I never meant it. Never forgive me. But know that I never meant it.”
He looked at her. Then he turned and walked away. Still as a statue, the Wistram [Mages] watched him go. Erin exhaled. Montressa’s expression had changed not one bit. But around Pisces, in him, she thought she saw something disappear. Something heavy. He still had guilt on him, but it wasn’t an anchor anymore.
“You did the right thing, Pisces. Thanks for telling us who you were. Someday, I’ll have to tell you about my life in return.”
Yvlon raised her cup as Pisces sat down. He smiled shakily.
“Are they still staring at me?”
“Like daggers.”
“Let them. Or kick them out. They might be Wistram, but this is Liscor. And The Wandering Inn! They can’t do anything here!-”
Selys looked savagely at the [Mages]. She turned as Erin zipped past her. The young woman was conferring with Lyonette. Then Erin looked up.
“Found it!”
She threw open a trap door and hurried into the basement. The Horns, bemused, but sensing something, heard Erin shouting.
“Hey Numbtongue! What are you doing down there? Practicing your guitar? Help me find that soap Lyonette bought! And come upstairs!”
Erin raced back up, a bunch of powder in one bucket. Lyonette was already dragging a copper tub they used for washing out. Bemused, the crowd in the inn watched.
“Here it comes. Here it comes…”
Relc rubbed his claws at one table. Klbkch drank agreeably.
“I have missed this.”
Erin was mixing up water and the powder. She put a hand in.
“Wow, that’s soapy! No wonder—okay, get a mop! Ishkr!”
The Horns turned back to each other for a moment as Ishkr grabbed a mop and Erin hurried across the floor with it, shouting. It was a familiar scene. But this time Pisces knew it was engineered. That didn’t change what it meant.
“I’m sorry for what I said.”
“I’m sorry for doubting you. I know you’ve changed. And I…should have been a better friend in Wistram. Have I ever said that to you?”
Ceria looked at Pisces. He exhaled. Yvlon looked between them.
“Well, I’m sorry I didn’t talk about my arms. But this team means everything to me. I can’t give it up. I can’t quit.”
She reached out. Ceria put her hand on top of Yvlon’s gauntlet. Pisces reached out and placed it on top of hers. Ksmvr looked around.
“I am sorry I have no significant secrets I have withheld from you all. I am sorry for being substandard.”
“Ksmvr! You’re the best of us.”
The Antinium put two hands on the pile. The Horns looked at each other. Pisces tried to pretend his eyes were only itchy.
“You realize Wistram will keep hunting me. Montressa and her team will not let this rest. I could go.”
All four hands tightened on his. His team looked at him and Yvlon shook her head.
“The Horns of Hammerad don’t abandon their own so easily.”
“You’re not getting away that easily.”
“This is the only place where I belong. Where would I be if you left, Comrade Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] stared around. He bowed slightly.
“It’s an honor.”
They smiled and his heart leapt. And then—here it came. Pisces heard a shout. A strum of music from a guitar. He looked up and saw Erin. She was running down the center of her long common room. Then she leapt, flailing her arms. The momentum carried her forwards, across the slick, soaped floor.
She slid past them on her socks. The Horns stared at Erin.
“Wheeee—ohgodIcan’tstop!”
Laughing, Erin slid past them. Pisces inhaled, recalling. Ceria started laughing. The inn’s patrons stared. Then they saw a Gnoll cub sliding forwards on her belly, like a penguin. An Ashfire Bee clung to her head, fanning her wings for speed desperately.
“It’s like an ice rink! Or something! Watch out, Mrsha! Don’t smack your head!”
Erin laughed as she spun backwards. She tried to spin on one foot like a ballerina, but wiped out. The guests of her inn looked at each other. One of the Drakes nudged his companion.
“What do you think? I think four out of ten. I expected food.”
“I’m not sliding. I could break a hip!”
The older Gnoll protested. But some of the guests were getting up. Relc was already on his feet.
“Alright! Let me try! Here I go!”
He flung himself across the floor, so fast that he was a blur as he shot past the Horns. He crashed into a wall, but rolled over, laughing. More people were getting on their feet and Erin began warning them not to copy Relc. Mrsha went spinning around on her rear, giggling silently.
Pisces chanced a glance towards the magic door. The Wistram team was still standing there. Staring. He sat back, but then saw someone rising out of the corner of his eye.
“Well, it was fun one time.”
Yvlon rose to her feet. Pisces stared at her. So did Ceria.
“Wait. Here? In front of—whoa! Tree rot!”
Yvlon spun Ceria’s chair out. The floor was so slick that the chair’s legs slid across the smooth floor. Ceria went screaming across the floor, clutching to the chair as people leapt aside. Yvlon looked at Pisces. He stared at her.
“Well? Are you with your team, Pisces?”
He looked at her. Serious Yvlon. Then Pisces shook his head and abandoned what he used to think of as his dignity. He stood up.
“Observe. Ksmvr? A push.”
He balanced on his chair with one leg. The Antinium looked at Pisces, and then heaved.
“Hey! No chairs! Whoa!”
Erin saw Pisces flash past her, balanced on one leg on the chair. Mrsha shot after him. Yvlon and Ksmvr slid past them.
“This inn is full of children!”
Beza stared at the people in the inn. She looked at the Horns, seeing Ceria point and turn the area of the inn even slicker with ice. She slid forwards, followed by Pisces, Ksmvr, Yvlon, Mrsha, Moore—
It was a moment in the inn. Just a single one, late at night. It was stupid, dangerous—and childish. The Horns knew it, but they took part anyways. They slid across the floor, chuckling. And then laughing. Not because they’d forgotten about what had happened or what the future held. But because you had to laugh. Or you’d die.
And the [Mages] from Wistram watched. It wasn’t that the Horns had forgotten them. But they refused to let them dictate their night. Montressa’s hand was tight on her staff. She watched. Isceil looked uncertainly at her, at Relc throwing Klbkch across the floor.
“They’re insane. All of them.”
Ulinde looked at the Halfseekers, heartbroken. At last, Beza turned.
“Come on. Let’s go.”
She turned. The team moved back through the door in silence. They stood outside as Beza closed the door. The laughter from the inn behind them was replaced by silence. The night. Montressa shivered. She looked at the others. Palt, glancing over his shoulder, Isceil, his tail lashing. Beza’s folded arms. Ulinde’s miserable face.
“This isn’t over. We’re capturing both Erin and him. We’ll get them. We’ll—”
Her voice broke. She turned. She looked back at the door. In the distance, past Liscor’s walls, an inn was lit up on a hilltop. And if you listened, you might still hear the laughter. For a moment Montressa remembered a laughing half-Elf and a young man. And her heart hurt. Then she shook her head.
She wiped at her eyes and walked away.
 
——
 
Bird sat on a little tower on top of the inn. The roof was still not completed and the inn’s projected expansions were unfinished. As was his tower. Erin had promised him a new one. But since it wasn’t there yet, he’d built his own.
The Worker happily sat in the small circle of nailed-up boards and stared up at the night sky. The dark-birds were out. They had forgotten he was here. He could hear them squeaking. Erin called them bats. He called them dark-birds. The Worker watched them flit about.
Below, in the inn, he could hear laughter. Partying. Twice now, Erin had come up to ask if he wanted to come down. But he had refused. He sat up in his tower and hummed.
“La, la. I am back. I am home. And home is where I roam. Home. Not alone. I am back and I am happy. For I am Bird and Bird is me.”
He raised his bow and an arrow. With a twang he released and a bat landed on the roof, skewered. The bats above him fled as Bird began loosing arrows.
And lo, the age of peace upon those with wings ended, and the time of great death returned. The hunter of the skies had returned and all who flew trembled at his presence. Bird raised his mandibles.
“It is good to be home.”
