“I was going to say, a string of beads. Or maybe a cobweb? We need a central guild to coordinate [Message] spells and so forth, is my point. And that’s Wistram. I’m not from Wistram, but my Guild does have to distribute information from the academy. Including this.”
Alonna tapped the bounty sheet. Krshia growled under her breath.
“But this is pure vengeance! And it is a bounty after the fact, yes? Necrophilia? Is this true?”
“Bounties generally have to be verified before they’re put up.”
Jeiss muttered uneasily. Olesm cleared his throat.
“Yes. However, Councilmember Jeiss, the group that usually does the verification is…”
“Wistram.”
Lism finished the sentence flatly. He was catching on. The Council looked at each other. After a moment, Elirr growled.
“This is disgusting, no? I do not know this Pisces’ past, but he fought with Ceria Springwalker against the Raskghar. And against Skinner and the moths!”
“Their team was responsible for the dungeon—”
“That wasn’t their fault! Don’t you dare, Lism.”
To Olesm’s surprise, it wasn’t Krshia who interrupted, but Alonna. She glared at Lism and he subsided. He looked at Zevara.
“This is intimidation, Watch Captain. Intimidation, bypassing Liscor’s laws—and I’ll give you besmirching this Pisces’ name. Even if it’s with the truth. This is unacceptable. Why are we allowing it?”
He looked from Alonna to Zevara. The [Mage] shook her head, looking frustrated.
“Aside from the fact that they have High Command’s earholes, Lism? Let me put it to you this way. I could refuse to distribute the bounty, just like Watch Captain Zevara could refuse to release the Wistram [Mages]. And if we do, one of the things Wistram can do is direct other Mage’s Guilds to ignore Liscor’s guild.”
A pause. Raekea blinked.
“By ignore…”
“I mean, we can’t communicate with a Mage’s Guild anywhere else. Or our [Messages] get shoved to the bottom of the piles, delivered last.”
“They can’t do that! Can they?”
“Let’s just say that there are nations in which the Mage’s Guild works well and places where they don’t. Wistram’s autonomous, but they have their demands.”
Everyone digested this. Lism’s tail was smacking his chair legs. He stood up, glaring around the conference room.
“First Tiqr, now this. Does anyone else feel like Wistram’s got too much influence? I never thought of it before, but—”
He slapped the table, glaring.
“This is exactly what I’m talking about when I talk about non-Liscorian interference! Liscor has to bow to these jumped-up [Mages]? After they assaulted one of our citizens in our city and started a fight in city limits?”
“Generally, Wistram’s been seen as a positive force worldwide, Uncle. Stabilizing. And just.”
Olesm murmured. Lism gave him an incredulous look. Olesm shrugged.
“I’m not trying to defend them. But I’d like to point out that aside from the threat—which wasn’t communicated to you directly, was it, Watch Captain Zevara?”
“No. High Command didn’t mince words, however.”
Zevara folded her arms. Olesm nodded.
“Then, Wistram can justify itself by claiming that Pisces is a criminal. A murderer, or at least, responsible for a number of crimes. Where they erred was in attacking Liscor’s citizens and going after the rest of his team. But again, they’re using Liscor’s laws against us. They did pay our fines. Instantly. That’s three thousand gold pieces.”
Elirr was sipping from a cup. He choked on his drink. Lism’s head snapped around.
“Say what? You fined them how much, Watch Captain?”
“Captain, misuse of magic and assault plus attack spells and assault on a team would still only be—”
Jeiss was counting up the fine in his own head. Zevara looked a bit embarrassed.
“I levied an appropriate fine for emotional distress and the use of Watch assets, like an attack spell from the walls. They…paid it. Instantly.”
“Three thousand gold pieces?”
“It’s nothing to them. They could have paid ten times that and never blinked.”
Alonna muttered. Krshia saw Lism’s eyes focus.
“Well, in that case—”
He paused and gritted his teeth.
“—Do we have a choice here, Watch Captain Zevara?”
“No sir. I’m simply reporting my actions to the Council.”
Zevara gave Lism an unhappy look. Krshia broke in, looking around.
“Watch Captain Zevara levied a heavy fine, Councilmembers. Wistram paid it without blinking, yes? And all this pressure—does it not bother all of us that they are so willing to manipulate the law for their ends?”
“But what do we do? If there was even a hint they’d refuse to maintain the spells on our walls—damn. Damn, damn, damn—”
Lism began shredding the parchment in front of him. Raekea growled nervously.
“So what is to be done? If this team is free, will they not continue attacking this team?”
“Not in my city. They’ll be under watch, I promise you that, Councilmembers. But I can’t extend my jurisdiction outside of Liscor. Also, none of these adventurers are Liscor’s citizens. And two—at least one of them have committed crimes in other cities, albeit Human ones.”
Watch Captain Zevara looked around. Jeiss looked sick.
“So we get to watch them strut around, Captain Zevara?”
“I don’t like it either, Jeiss. But it seems like that’s what we’re being told.”
Lism’s eyes flashed. He looked around at the Council. Krshia, Elirr, Raekea, Alonna, Jeiss, Olesm, all met his eyes. Zevara was staring down at the floor. Lism’s tail lashed—and then grew still.
“Okay. We let the Wistram [Mages] do what they want. If they keep to our laws, we’ll let this team, the Horns of Hammerad, deal with this mess themselves. We don’t interfere. And maybe we hope that crazy Human makes their heads explode. But Liscor will take Wistram’s money and tuck our tails.”
Everyone stared at him. Krshia opened her mouth and Lism glared at her.
“We’ve been got, Silverfang. I know when to walk away. This is like a Level 50 [Merchant] holding us over a barrel with a bunch of [Thugs] at his back. You want to try another deal?”
She closed her mouth and shook her head after a moment.
“No. No, I agree with that.”
“Good.”
Lism looked around steadily. He raised a claw.
“In that case, I motion to allow Watch Captain Zevara to go back and make whatever preparations she needs. By all means, impress upon Wistram’s team the severity of the laws, Watch Captain. And put them under watch.”
Zevara nodded. She blinked at Lism, and then saluted.
“Councilmembers, thank you for your time.”
Olesm held open the door as she strode out, back towards the Watch House. He stared at Lism. Everyone did. The Drake [Shopkeeper] was too calm. Lism nodded as he carefully arranged the bits of parchment. Then he looked up.
“Well, onto new business. We can put the gold to good use. The Bloodfields project is underway, and I understand the Adventurer’s Guild is already preparing for renovations. I do hope Miss Selys will be well after her incident. And that her grandmother doesn’t try to kill the Wistram team. That would be a crime. Perhaps we should send someone to inform her tactfully of what’s happened?”
“Dead gods, that’s a good point. She’ll murder them. We should stop that.”
Jeiss looked wistful. Lism nodded impatiently.
“But that would be a crime, Jeiss. How shall we do it?”
Krshia was studying Lism. She smiled.
“Send…yes, send our [Negotiator]. Teliv.”
Olesm winced. He felt bad for his friend. Elirr thoughtfully stroked his chin.
“With wine. Or something stronger, yes? Wistram’s fine can pay for that. And give her a cat. She cannot run with a cat. Or dogs. She likes dogs more. Teliv, he can stop at my shop for a puppy or a few for the telling. I have a litter.”
He glanced around at everyone’s expression.
“What? She does.”
Lism nodded. He looked at Olesm, still cool as a [Cryomancer].
“See to it, nephew? Now, onto new business. I motion to send a [Message]—damn. No. Send a City Runner—no, send Hawk to Fissival. With a direct message for the Draconae Scholarium.”
The Councilmembers glanced at him. Olesm looked up as he jotted down notes. Raekea frowned.
“What for?”
Lism’s eyes glinted.
“To ask about having their college replace Wistram’s services, of course. And while we’re at it, Alonna, can we send a covert [Message]—damn, or do we have to use City Runners for all this? Can we ask about if anyone else has had issues with Wistram? I’d put forwards a motion to cosign Watch Captain Zevara’s complaint and make it public. Send it around. In fact, is any other nation or city having our issues? We should open a discussion.”
 
——
 
Zevara left the politics of the Council behind. She stalked through the streets of Liscor, furious. So angry she couldn’t bear it. But she moved quickly, to give vent to her emotions, but also because she knew Wistram’s team would be in the same building as Erin Solstice and the team they’d tried to kidnap.
In retrospect, that had been a stupid decision, but Zevara needed to explain herself. And she felt as embarrassed, as wrong as she ever had been. But that was politics. It overruled what was right and decent. It wasn’t something Zevara thought should be part of the Watch. So she strode back to the Watch barracks.
As it happened, Wistram’s team had already been released from jail. And Erin Solstice, her friends, and the Horns of Hammerad had likewise been summoned. Someone was already screaming as Zevara pushed into the Watch barracks.
It wasn’t Erin or the Horns. They were being kept in Zevara’s office. The Wistram team was on the ground floor. And it was Selys Shivertail who’d found them.
“You filthy eggsucking Creler sacks! You monstrous, disgusting—let go of me! I’ll kill them!”
The Drake was fighting the Gnoll [Guardsman] holding her. Montressa, Palt, Isceil, Ulinde, and Beza were all watching the Drake warily as she fought to swing at them. Selys was shouting, her voice raw, furious. But she was crying too. Zevara stopped for a moment.
“How dare you. How dare—why are they free? I want them executed! I want them tossed in the cells! You—”
She went for something at her side. An expensive bag of holding. Zevara saw Selys draw something out.
“Wand!”
The Wistram team reacted with instant alarm as Selys tried to aim it at Palt. Montressa raised her staff and the City Watch instantly aimed their bows at her. She froze and the Gnoll holding Selys grabbed at her arm.
“Don’t, Miss Selys—”
“Gotcha!”
Relc yanked Selys’ arm up. She struggled, but the Drake held her—surprisingly gently. He pulled Selys back.
“Hey, Selys. No casting spells.”
“Let go of me, Relc—let go—”
“Come on. Let’s go upstairs. Erin’s there. Oh, hey, Captain Z.”
Relc paused as he saw Zevara. The Watch Captain saw Selys whirl.
“Zevara? Why are—”
“Miss Selys.”
Zevara nodded at her awkwardly. She studied the Wistram [Mages]. They were standing still, surrounded by a bunch of hostile [Guards]. But they didn’t look…nervous. Zevara eyed all five. The Drake looked like simmering fury, as did the Minotaur.
The Human—Montressa du Valeross? A [Lady], then. She looked caught between shock and fear and anger. The Selphid was shivering. She was wearing—Zevara recoiled slightly—a rather decayed Human body. A bad one, too. Whoever the Human had been, he’d been on the south side of unfit and rather unpleasant to look at. Cheap Selphid body. But the Selphid was still shaking.
As for the Centaur, he was smoking something. Zevara stared at it and inhaled the distinctive smell of a narcotic, which Liscor generally defined as anything you could smoke. The Centaur noticed Zevara’s stare and hurriedly snatched the spliff from his lips.
“Zevara?”
Selys was staring at Watch Captain Zevara. The Drake turned to her.
“Miss Selys. I apologize for the distress you’ve suffered. I want you to know that I am personally keeping an eye on these…[Mages], and they will be arrested and dealt with should they commit another misstep in Liscor. They have been fined and some of that money will go to you.”
“What? But they’re here—”
Zevara couldn’t meet Selys’ eyes. She saw the Drake smirk out of the corner of her vision. She felt the urge to turn her head and cough a fireball. She spoke slowly.
“This team is being…released.”
“What? You can’t do that! That’s not right! They cast a spell on me! I had to watch them beat Pisces! And I couldn’t do a thing! I didn’t even care! How dare you! That’s not right! Zevara! You can’t—”
Selys began to struggle and Relc and the Gnoll gently grabbed her. The Watch Captain looked at Relc. For once, he did all she could ask of him.
“Alright, Selys. Let’s go upstairs. Come on. I know—I know, I wanna blast them too, but—come on. Geils, help me get her up—”
They practically carried Selys upstairs. She was still screaming curses. At Zevara now. The Watch Captain watched her go, and then she turned.
The [Mages] were watching her. The Drake was still smirking. The Centaur kicked him and he stopped, but the entire team—yes, not nervous at all. They were angry or upset, but not at her. They knew they were going free. Zevara gritted her teeth. She strode forwards.
“You. Wistram [Mages]. Your fines have been paid. You’ll be…free to go. But mark my words. If you break even the smallest rule in Liscor, I will arrest you and put you straight back in prison!”
The [Guards] stirred uneasily and looked at Zevara. She glared at the [Mages]. They didn’t look surprised. Montressa bowed slightly. She nearly smiled, but she didn’t quite manage to complete the expression.
“Watch Captain, allow us to apologize profusely for the—the misunderstanding that took place earlier today. I’m deeply pleased that Wistram was able to smooth over this incident—”
“Incident? We were attacked! We should be pressing charges—”
Isceil began, incensed, but the others shushed him. Zevara was twitching. Montressa smiled, insincerely. Her grip was tight on the staff.
“—We will be pressing no charges, of course. But—has Wistram spoken with your High Command regarding the situation around Pisces Jealnet? He is a fugitive. With a bounty at this moment.”
Zevara just stared at the young woman.
“How do you know that?”
“We are in communication with Wistram—”
“You put the bounty on his head?”
Montressa hesitated.
“Wistram monitors its teams closely. We are able to correspond regarding issues. Pisces Jealnet is a wanted criminal—”
She shut up as Zevara raised a claw. The Watch Captain spoke slowly.
