Zevara glanced at Yvlon.
“By right, Miss Byres, you’re entitled to part of the fine. It will go to you, and to Mister…to Ksmvr. As well as Miss Selys. But I cannot allow you to seek vengeance.”
Ksmvr tilted his head.
“So, Wistram is able to pay to subvert the law? This is an intriguing piece of information. I did not know Drake cities had such a loophole in their legal system.”
“We don’t—”
One of the [Guards] began, outraged, as Zevara’s face flushed. Klbkch held up a hand.
“Ksmvr. Silence.”
The Antinium quivered and Yvlon gave Klbkch a dark look. Zevara shot Klbkch a mixed glance and turned.
“I have been ordered to drop the Wistram case. I will enforce the law as I see fit, which does not allow for bloody feuds! Miss Selys, your part of the fine—”
“I don’t want it. And I don’t want them in Liscor.”
Selys pointed a trembling claw at the Wistram team. A few of them had the grace to look ashamed. Too few by half. One of them was Palt, ironically. Erin narrowed her eyes as Zevara…fidgeted. She looked like she hated everything about her life right now.
“Unfortunately, Miss Selys, I must give them a second chance. Which means Lady du Valeross and her companions are allowed to reside in Liscor. However, if they cast another illicit spell or threaten one of Liscor’s citizens, they will be instantly expelled from Liscor. I’m sorry. That’s all I can do.”
“I get it.”
Selys looked at Zevara with disgust and turned away. She looked at Pisces and then around. She met Erin’s eyes.
“I—I need to go. I can’t stay here. They’re disgusting. I have to go. I have to—”
She was out the door, stumbling. Zevara glanced around.
“You two. Escort Miss Shivertail wherever she needs to go.”
Two [Guards] left. Zevara looked around.
“If that’s all—”
“Just like that? What about our teams? What about Erin’s inn?”
Jelaqua broke into the conversation, furious. She was wearing a Drake body rather than her Raskghar one, but a big one. Zevara turned to face her.
“A portion of the bounty—”
“You can’t just pay this away! Those little punks attacked my team! They’re not walking off when I’m through with them!”
“You will contain yourself, Miss Ivirith. No one is above the law—”
“Except for Wistram, apparently! This isn’t right! I want—”
“I challenge you to a duel.”
The voice came from behind Zevara. She turned. Jelaqua looked past her. Pisces had moved at last. He was still pale. But as he raised his head, Erin saw the same look in his eyes. Montressa moved back a step. Pisces stared past her. He was shaking as he pointed a finger at Isceil.
“I challenge you to a duel. Isceil, is it?”
The Drake blinked. Zevara spun.
“Pisces—”
She stopped as he looked up. The [Necromancer] stood alone in the Watch barracks. His team was with him, but the way Pisces held himself was aloof. His face was pale. He spoke through bloodless lips, addressing Zevara, the [Mages].
“I have been attacked. Kidnapped. In Liscor, unprovoked. False allegations have been laid against me. And those who committed the crimes walk free because Wistram Academy demands it be so. There is no justice in that. I demand satisfaction. A legal duel.”
Zevara hesitated and stepped back.
“False? We only told the world what you really are. And why should I accept a duel from a filthy [Necromancer]? You’re not worth scraping my boots on.”
Isceil sneered at Pisces, but his actions betrayed his words. He reached for the wand at his side. Palt glanced at Isceil. Montressa was hesitating, but Pisces looked right past her. And Pisces smiled with that terrible look in his eyes.
“A coward who bested you when I was fighting all of your pathetic team. Come, Drake. Let us have a proper duel. One to the death. Seen and witnessed by all present. Come, coward. Or is the ‘best duelist in all of Fissival’ too afraid to battle an exile?”
Isceil’s scales flushed. He drew his wand.
“You fleshbag bastard. I’ll—”
“Don’t!”
The word came from Ulinde. She—no, he grabbed Isceil’s arm. The older man wrestled with the Drake—his body was an incongruous sight among the younger [Mages].
“Let go of me! I’ll kill him! I’ll settle this now—”
Isceil fought her, cursing, but Montressa whirled as well.
“Don’t be an idiot, Isceil! He has that [Shatterbolt] ring and he’s too quick!”
“I’ll take off my magical items. Come and fight me, you coward. Or you, Minotaur. Or are you only able to do battle when you outnumber me five-to-one?”
Pisces’ voice was taunting. Beza stiffened and hesitated. Palt muttered something to her and her eyes flashed. She looked towards Zevara.
“Are duels legal in Liscor?”
“They’re old, but traditional. I’d allow it.”
Zevara was breathing hard. She looked at Pisces. He was coiled up. Erin saw another figure move.
“In that case, me too. A duel to the death. I challenge any one of you.”
Seborn stepped forwards. The Drowned Man looked ready to kill. Jelaqua and Moore stirred, but the half-Giant didn’t move as Jelaqua shook her head at him. They didn’t stop their friend.
Ironically, Seborn’s words made Isceil pause and Beza check herself. They stared at him, and then at Pisces. The Wistram [Mages] hesitated. Erin had to admit, they weren’t complete idiots. Just almost.
“I can take him—”
Isceil looked between Seborn and Pisces. Beza gritted her teeth. Montressa was whispering and Erin clearly heard one bit from Palt, who was doing the same.
“—Gold-rank [Rogue]. Risking your life on a duel—”
The [Mages] conferred, but Erin saw the answer before Isceil looked up. He tried to scoff as he turned away from Pisces.
“I don’t need to sully myself by dueling a worthless [Necromancer].”
“Nor do you deserve a fair duel. I refuse. I have no quarrel with you either, Drowned Man. Our skirmish was accidental.”
Beza addressed Seborn, her cheeks flushed. The [Rogue]’s eyes narrowed.
“Coward.”
Beza’s head jerked and Isceil flushed. But they turned away. Pisces stared at their backs. He was shaking. Yvlon tried to put a hand on his shoulder, but he knocked her arm away. Ksmvr looked at Ceria. She was silent. No one had seen Pisces this furious. His voice was low, piercing.
“I’ve known Lizardpeople with more courage. No wonder Fissival let you leave. And no wonder the House of Minos let such a coward flee their isles!”
Relc whistled. Some of the [Guards] murmured. The Minotaur and Drake whirled as they walked towards the door. They went for Pisces.
“No! I said stop!”
Montressa held up a hand and a barrier shimmered forth, blocking Beza’s charge. She and Isceil hit the barrier that appeared in the air. Not a [Force Wall], all shimmering air, but something amethyst, but thinner. Erin stared at it. It was strong, though; Beza slammed a fist, creating ripples and shouted.
“Let me take him, Montressa!”
“Don’t let him provoke you! Walk away, Beza! That is an order!”
From the side, Relc was nudging Klbkch. The Antinium calmly nodded as he stomped on Relc’s foot.
“Stop poking me, Relc. I see. Ah, ward spells. Your difficulty in apprehending them makes sense.”
“Right? Could you take her out, Klb? I’m definitely going for her first next time.”
The Senior Guardsman shrugged.
“Perhaps. I have some experience in the matter. Tactically…”
Their conversation went unheard amidst the shouting from the [Mages]. Montressa pushed Beza back, and Ulinde had Isceil’s arms as Palt blocked the others. Pisces was watching them. Montressa shoved at Beza and the Minotauress grudgingly stepped back. At last she looked up and met Pisces’ eyes.
She stopped. Her face paled. If she had blazed at Ceria, suddenly she was cold. She stared at Pisces and stepped through her own barrier. He looked at her. There was no nostalgia there. Just hate. And Erin saw that flicker of fear on Montressa’s face again before she pushed it down.
“Montressa du Valeross. It has been a long time.”
Pisces’ voice still quivered. Montressa looked at him.
“You monster. I can’t believe you have the nerve to walk around after what you did. Let alone call yourself an adventurer.”
“Me? As opposed to Wistram, high and mighty and beyond contempt? There is more blood on the Academy’s hands than I could ever spill.”
Pisces’ eyes narrowed. Montressa hesitated. He was better than Ceria.
“Wistram never murdered my friends. You killed Calvaron. With your petty jealousy. By defiling the bodies of the others! You—you disgusting worm. Wistram never should have taken you in. We should have never believed your lies. But that’s what you and all your kind are. Monsters. If you had any decency, you’d surrender rather than drag everyone down with you. But that’s what you always do, isn’t it?”
The young man’s face went pale. Montressa was good at using words like weapons too. He stared at her. And Erin saw him snap.
“Calvaron? That pathetic fool? I barely noticed when he died. And if he perished, it only proves what a worthless mage he was!”
“Pisces!”
Ceria shouted. Montressa stumbled back. She’d gone dead white. Erin had thought she couldn’t hate Pisces any more. But he wasn’t done.
“You call me a monster. You want to see a monster? I will show you one.”
He advanced. And his voice was growing deeper. He was growing taller. His features were distorting, his face rotting. Erin saw the [Guards] react, raising their weapons, but Palt held up a hand.
“Illusion spell!”
“Stop that! That’s illegal under Liscor’s laws! Isn’t it?”
Beza barked. Pisces was looming, and shadows were filling the barracks. Erin remembered this spell. A noxious, rotting scent wafted through the air. Montressa backed up until her back was to the barrier, eyes wide. The Wistram [Mages] lifted their wands, but hesitated, looking towards Zevara. The Watch Captain folded her arms.
“Illusory spells are permitted in public areas of Liscor as well as private ones if the individual owns or has acquired permissions to cast such magics. Public-area illusions are sanctioned if they are not unduly disruptive or provocative. I see no issue, do you, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark?”
She glanced over her shoulder at the Gnoll. Beilmark rubbed at her nose, but then grinned savagely.
“Everyone needs a few undead now and then, Watch Captain.”
“You can’t do that! You—”
Whatever Isceil was shouting was cut off by a sound. It was bestial, no, unearthly. Foreign. Erin saw the looming shape bending over Montressa. It wasn’t Pisces any more. It was a corpse. Some monster, bloated and stretched in death. Rotting flesh. Gaping jaws, flashing through the shadows. Burning eyes. It loomed over Montressa and the smell—she heard several people gagging.
“Really good illusion.”
Relc whispered to Klbkch, covering his face. The Antinium nodded.
“Is this what you want to see?”
Pisces’ voice thundered in the barracks. He reached for Montressa with dripping claws. Blood ran from his sockets. Erin expected Montressa to raise her staff, cast a spell—but the young woman was frozen. She stumbled backwards, through her barrier.
“Stop it. Go away! Stop it!”
“Montressa, it’s only an illusion. Stop this!”
Beza grabbed her friend. Montressa flailed wildly and the Minotauress had to let go. Beza spun and barked at Zevara; the Watch Captain was looking away. Pisces advanced. His claws went through Montressa’s barrier, reaching for her.
“Stop it!”
She shrieked at him, screaming as loudly as she could. Beza and the others were shouting as well, holding Montressa and Palt was waving a hand, trying to dispel the illusion. Relc jumped forwards and jabbed the Centaur in the flank. Palt jerked back and Relc shouted cheerfully.
“You’re not sanctioned! No spells!”
“Enough!”
Beza reached for a scroll. She swung through the illusion, but it was centered on Montressa. She was trying to flee, turning, screaming. Running for the door. The [Guards], and most of the others watching looked satisfied. But Ceria was watching Montressa and Pisces with a horrified look. Erin saw the look on Montressa’s face.
Terror. The young woman stumbled for the door. But clawing hands erupted from the earth. She backed away from the spectral zombies as they reached for her. She turned and Pisces howled at her.
“I will drag you down, Montressa du Valeross. I will show you what a monster I can be.”
“Stop! Please!”
Montressa backed up. She’d forgotten the staff in her hands. She stared at Pisces. The thing opened its maw and bent towards her. And Montressa screamed.
It was a real scream, the kind that wasn’t forced. It was raw, pure, terrified—Erin saw Montressa drop the staff. She raised her hands and a barrier appeared. It knocked back her friends, trying to shield her. Three walls of shining light, gold and white appeared as Montressa sank to the floor.
It enveloped her, a pyramid of magic. She curled up in the center of it. Montressa buried her face in her legs as she drew them to her. And Erin heard her begin to cry.
She began to sob, sitting on the ground, curled up in the center of the pyramid-shaped barrier spell. Pisces paused. The illusion stopped and the wailing, snarling sounds halted. Montressa’s friends pounded on the barrier. But the young woman heard nothing. She was crying. Tears ran down her face and she curled up in the middle of the spell, oblivious.
Crying. Like a small child, rocking back and forth, closing her eyes so as not to see. It was no act. Erin looked at Montressa sobbing. And whatever she had been feeling turned suddenly to guilt. She had hurt Pisces. But he was—
She looked at the thing he’d conjured. A nightmare, the undead. It scared her too. For a second the thing hovered there.
Then the illusion spell vanished. Pisces stood in the same place he had been. He stared at Montressa. She didn’t even realize the spell had gone. She was still crying as her friends pressed their hands against the barrier, unable to touch her. Calling out to her.
“Montressa, it’s an illusion. You’re safe!”
Isceil was banging on the barrier. Ulinde was jabbing his wand.
“It’s a spell! We’ll protect you!”
“[Dispel Magic]. [Dispel]—it’s no good. It’s her personal emergency spell.”
Palt looked at Beza. She hammered on the barrier.
“Montressa! Mon—”
She looked up. Slowly, she turned around the room. The Watch, the adventurers—some looked vindictive. Others, like Erin, couldn’t revel. But Pisces was still staring. And he met Beza’s eyes. The Minotauress stared at him and her gaze went past him to his team. Beza looked at Pisces again and spat.
“You monster.”
He didn’t reply. His hands were clenched. Montressa never moved. She just sat there, rocking and crying. Zevara looked at Beilmark, and then at Pisces. And Erin heard the word unspoken.
[Necromancer].
