Still, Caleb knew that victory wasn’t inevitable. Doing this much burned through his resources like there was no tomorrow, as keeping the Dark Heavens present wasn’t an easy endeavour, and the longer he kept it active, the more mana it would drain. Alright, the skill description also included that the longer he kept it active, the more he would be affected by the pressure, but again, Caleb didn’t really care about that part.

The mana drain alone was a tight timer, though, and he had already consumed a mana potion to keep himself going. With every passing second, his own boosting skill also damaged his body more and more, as while he was quite resistant to his own dark lightning, he wasn’t entirely immune.

Caleb had made estimations before his attack, and luckily for him, he’d been on the mark. After the B-grade unleashed its last gambit and promptly failed because Caleb retreated farther away with his version of Shadow Vault, his target finally fell to the ground.

Right as it did, Caleb dispelled everything as quickly as he could. The Shadow Realm dispersed around them alongside the Dark Heavens, and his boosting skill also deactivated as extreme weakness flooded his body, making Caleb fall down on one knee in front of his slain foe.

He started coughing as his body convulsed, his muscles rippling from how overexerted they were. The pressure from the Dark Heavens was also stronger than usual as his own Path punished him for having dared to summon it... but most important was that he’d won.

Less than a minute later, the four assassins he’d brought with him to this mission arrived and helped him retreat to somewhere safer.

In total, it had taken three minutes and thirty-nine seconds to kill his first B-grade solo. If the fight had surpassed four minutes, Caleb would have had to retreat or risk dying or permanent injury from his own skills.

Caleb truly did walk an extreme Path... but alas, he didn’t really have much of a choice if he wanted to keep up with the absolute monsters he was surrounded by. Especially not when he considered his big brother, who was the biggest monster of them all.
