“Hm? Right, food.” Lisa said and slipped a silk bookmark into the book to save her spot. Ren let her go and she stood up. “Oh! Hi.” She said when she saw Elise sitting behind Ren. “It's nice to meet you.”

“It's nice to meet you, too.” Elise said and let Ren go, and they both stood up. Lisa had to look up at Elise, and blinked her eyes at her.

“Now I know what statuesque means.” Lisa said, and Elise laughed.

“You're so cute.” Elise said. “Almost as cute as Ren.”

Lisa's face flushed a little red, and Ren sat down in the wheelchair.

“Elise? Can you...”

“Of course.” Elise said and pushed the wheelchair, and the three of them went into the large dining room.

“It looks like a food bomb went off in here.” Ren said when he saw nearly half of the table was covered in food dishes, and Stella chuckled.

“That's what happens when you have several people that like to eat different things when given a choice.”

“That's so true.” Gloria said. “I always get something different every time I go out to eat.”

“Not me.” Ren said as Stella put a serving of french fries smothered in gravy in front of him. “I am so gonna pay for this tomorrow.”

“You mean all week.” Stella said. “The salt content alone...”

“Can you get me a supplement drink? I'll start flushing my system right away.”

“Anyone want plates or real silverware?”

“Right here.” Lisa said. “I know pizza is supposed to be finger food, but it's too hot to do that right now.”

“Same here.” Elise said and picked through the Chinese food containers. “They forgot the chopsticks.”

Stella chuckled. “The poor guard.”

“What?”

“He has Chinese food, too.” Stella said. “Moo shu pork.”

“Oh... ha... hahaha!” Elise laughed. “I hope he has lots of napkins!”

*

The guard sat in the guard shack after the food trucks had left, and was both happy and sad. It really was nice of the lady in House 6 to order his favorite food for him, but he stared at the containers and didn't know what to do. Without the chopsticks, he was going to have to use his fingers when the food cooled off, and he didn't have anything like a napkin if he did use his fingers.

Someone knocked on his door and he looked out the little window. Gloria stood there with a knife, spoon and fork wrapped in a bundle of napkins, and he opened the window for her.

“Stella from House 6 will pick these up in the morning.” Gloria said and handed the silverware to the guard.

“Thank you so much.” The guard said. “You don't know...”

“Hot moo shu pork and fingers don't mix.” Gloria said and started to walk away. “Enjoy.”

“I will!” The guard almost yelled and sat back. “Well, it's official. The people in House 6 are really nice.” He said and chose the fork to start and took a huge bite.

*

“What did he say?” Ren asked when Gloria came back into the dining room.

“Just thank you.” Gloria said. “But, if he wasn't in the guard shack, I'd swear he would have tried to hug me or something because he looked so happy.”

Ren chuckled and picked up another gravy-covered french fry from a huge plate of them and sucked it in.

“Are you going to eat that whole thing?” Gloria asked, and everyone else laughed.

“Of course he's going to eat it all.” Elise said and rubbed Ren's belly. “Endless Stomach hasn't lost a fight against fries yet!”

Ren laughed. “It was a draw once, but I slaughtered Endless Fries the next time.” He said. “Only this much? I'll barely feel it.”

The whole group of them, Ren, Stella, Elise, Lisa, and Gloria, enjoyed a good meal that consisted of all different dishes; they also shared good company with each other as well.
