I continued to see more of the same types of skeletons as I continued to jump from roof to roof through the ruined city. I occasionally stopped to look below for victims, but each one looked like all the other guys (or gals) I kept fighting. Using Analyze, most of them seemed in the same level range, until finally, I found one that was level 21.

I stopped and stared at him for a moment. He didn’t look particularly different than any of the others. So he was just an unusually high level? I also had to wonder how exactly these skeletons leveled up in the first place. Were they just going around killing each other every so often? Like, how did this whole leveling ecosystem work?

Maybe they spawned in from time to time? Lisha’s memories would agree that’s how a video game, particularly an MMORPG, would work, and this world was rather game-like.

But still, that didn’t make sense either. Like, no matter how many red masks I killed, it’s not like more would just spawn out of nothing. There wasn’t a new Hell Hound family living in the vale right now. But wasn’t that different?

Could there be a new Earth Tyrant stalking the lower parts of the caves right this moment? Identical to the one I had killed? Maybe it actually was possible.

Whatever the case, I continued trekking through the city, my routes getting a little more difficult as the buildings became larger, and with the larger-sized buildings also came more structural uncertainty. I stopped at a wall that was half collapsed, and looking at possible footholds, I wasn’t sure trying to scale it wouldn’t just cause it to crumble more.

I looked down to the street below, thinking I’d just walk around this structure and find a different spot to get high up again, but then that's when scraping caught my ear.

Just another low level skeleton that wasn’t going to be worth my time, I assumed, but as it turned a corner I instantly realized this one was different.

It didn’t drag a sword, but an axe, and it was notably bigger than most of the others.

Okay, now we’re talking, I thought, and used Analyze.

Skeleton Brute - Level 21

Level 21, just as the last one, but clearly it looks stronger and is a different class. Okay, yeah. This might be just what I needed.

I crept along the building tops, looking around at the surrounding streets while keeping him in my range so I wouldn’t lose him. There were a few lower-level skeletons hanging around and I definitely wanted to make this one a one-on-one fight. Well, I could dispatch the lower-level guys pretty easily, so if worst came to worst, I could technically just target them first and then take care of business.

I jumped to another rooftop, and this time as I landed, a rock kicked out from under my skeletal foot and went clattering to the streets below.

Ooops!

I activated {Veil of Shadows} and crouched low, just barely peeking over the roof to keep my eye on him. He had stopped dragging his axe and looked down at the rock. He just stared for a moment, but then something significant happened.

He looked up. He started scanning the rooftops, the glow inside the hollows of his eye sockets passing right over me, but there was no doubt that he was actually looking for whatever had caused that.

I held my breath, not daring to move as his hollows actually seemed to set on me. Could he see me? Veil of Shadows should work perfectly in this darkened area.

Skeleton Lady had a Pulse Sense, or so I assumed anyway, but that made sense for the class she seemed to have. This guy didn’t seem like the type that might have one.

Sure enough, his gaze moved on, and finally he continued on his way. He didn’t see me.

I followed stealthily, carefully jumping to my next rooftop to avoid alerting him, and worked on finding a good vantage point to descend on him from. Looking ahead, I saw a collapsed balcony that connected two buildings. Rubble lay in the road, but enough of the balcony was still intact that it seemed like the perfect place.

I ran ahead of him, my steps very silent, and then I crouched as I took position. He continued walking, dragging his axe behind him.

Closer. Closer.

I reached down to my hips and slowly slid my daggers free. Then, when he was under me, I jumped without hesitation.

I landed on his back, hugging him as I fell, jamming a dagger into his ribs, but surprisingly, he didn’t go down so easily. He screamed in that all-too-familiar skeleton screech as I wrapped my legs around him and started jabbing my other dagger at his face.

But he started spinning around, thrashing, trying to buck me off, and though I scraped his skull, I missed the killing blow.

He then launched himself backwards at a wall, and I realized just a little too late. I jumped away, avoiding getting crushed between him, but my back still hit the wall hard.

I scrambled as I went to the ground, looking back for only a moment to see the axe descending on me, and I jumped to the side.

It hit the ground, exploding sparks off of its dented, rusted metal, but the brute hefted it up again easily.

I’d have to be careful about actually getting hit. That thing seemed fully capable of hacking a limb off, and I doubted a healing potion or a good night’s rest could deal with that kind of injury!

I jumped back as it swung at me again, then after the arc of its swing, I surged forward again while his axe was out of position. The brute, however, met me head-on—literally. It pivoted right toward me and thrust its head, smacking his skull against mine.

I saw stars, and as I hit the ground, instantly I felt something was wrong. My head was spinning, and my ears rung like a bell.

What the hell is this? Get up! I screamed internally, scrambling to my feet, but my movements were so slow.

But as the ringing in my ears wobbled out, control of my limbs came back. I spun away from the axe and then hopped back another step.

That headbutt was a skill, I realized. It had to be. It staggered me and made it hard for me to move for a few seconds if it landed.

I retreated a little more, just to get distance on him as I reconsidered my attack strategy, realizing this guy wasn’t a joke. He came forward a slow step at a time, glowing eyes locked on me, axe dragging until he hefted it back into his hands.

He was strong, but I was fast and agile. He seemed smarter than the lower-level skeletons around here, but not smart like Skeleton Lady. At least I didn’t think so.

“Hey, you can’t talk, can you?” I asked.

“WRRAAAAAAA!!!” it screeched and started running at me.

“Okay, forget I asked!”

I ran toward him, but instead ducked to the side and ran along the wall for a moment to get behind him. It worked perfectly, and as I spun around, his back was exposed.

{Twin Fang Strike}!

I spun left and right, jabbing one dagger under his armor and up into his ribs, then the other. He let out a screech of pain, then spun around. I ducked under the axe as it whizzed over my head, and I dove onto one of his legs.

{Crippling Bite}!

I got him right under the knee, but as expected, he was too strong to get a broken limb so easily. Still, it was enough to make him stumble, and his size made a counterattack awkward while I was so low. I let go with my teeth, grabbed with my arms and lifted, yanking his leg out from under him and sending him to the ground.

His axe was impossible to wield from that position, so I jumped right back on him and straddled him, then plunged one dagger down at his face and then the other.

“WRRAAaaaaggggg—”

His scream cut short as the second dagger found a home in his eye socket. I ripped my blades free at angles, using leverage to shatter the bone around his sockets, and then his body fell apart beneath me, my butt hitting the ground amongst his scattering bones.

Great Foe Eliminated! Level 21 Skeleton Brute

Experience Gained!

Nice!

But wait. No wolf among the flock bonus this time? Hm, I suppose that’s because he had enough brains to understand I wasn’t one of him, while all those other skeletons thought differently.

Still, was he really a great foe? Last time I saw that was against the Earth Tyrant. He was definitely pretty strong, but not crazy strong. I suppose great foes were just a cut above the rest in an area?

I got up and dusted myself off.

Whatever the case, it was unfortunate I didn’t get a level, but it made sense. I haven’t killed very much since my last level-up, but I bet that would bring me clo—

A shadow descended on me, and it was all too familiar.

I yelped and tried to jump back, but I was tackled to the ground just as I had done to so many others.

For a moment, I thought I was seeing an old friend. This skeleton wore the same wrappings around their chest, the same cloak and trousers, and had the same dagger jammed into my side.

I fell with her, and we rolled together until I managed to kick her off and jump back.

I took my stance, and so did she. We were almost twins, but for my skeletal wolfy ears and skeletal tail and the fact that I was a little shorter. But who she was a perfect twin with was Skeleton Lady!

“You can’t talk, can you?” I asked her.

“SKKKKAAAAAAAAAA!” she screeched in reply.

Yeah, she seems like a normal skeleton, not a former human like Skeleton Lady was.

I used {Analyze}.

Skeleton Night Sentry - level 20

Way weaker than Skeleton Lady too. I think she had been level 25.

“Sorry, but you’ll never be Skeleton Lady!” I mocked, then ran to meet her head on. “She was a true assassin!”

She dodged my first swing, and I retreated from her counterattack. She spun around and tried a combo slash. I pivoted my head and body left and right, then came forward with an uppercut slash that raked vertically up her ribs. She screamed and jumped back, but then jumped forward again.

Another exchange of slashes and dodges; this time, she managed to slice under my collarbone, creating a spray of blood off of my not-bones.

I dipped back as she tried to slash again, then I tried to come forward, only for her to dodge. But as she tried a counterattack, I sidestepped it and used {Twin Fang Strike}!

The natural motion had me dodging her next attack, then planting two good hits into her.

She jumped back, but then jumped right into it again with a furious combo. I tried to dodge and counter as one strike after another came, but she was too fast, and she cut me several times in the exchange.

I turned tail and ran, using Cat-Footed to launch me over some rubble and create some distance as I turned and stared her down once again.

She was being way more trouble than she should be. It wasn’t that she was stronger than me, and it wasn’t that she was faster than me. It was just her movements, her decisions on when to strike, dodge, and counterattack were far more fluid than I was used to. This would be a war of attrition, and since I’d need to keep fighting after this, I couldn’t accept taking so much damage.

It was obvious that she was simply more skilled with daggers. Whether that was thanks to a dagger skill being at a high level or just natural talent, I didn’t know.

But it didn’t matter. I realized I just couldn’t make this a straight knife fight. She wasn’t a mirror of my fighting style, and I had plenty of other tricks up my sleeve. Chief among them was good ol’ intelligence and strategy!

This time when I ran at her, I feinted forward, then pivoted over to the wall. I ran a couple of steps and then jumped up onto a windowsill.

Some kind of projectile weapon would be great, I thought, perched in the window and looking down at her. She looked confused, but then ran up the wall after me! Right, I was still technically mimicking Skeleton Lady with this parkouring stuff; of course her weaker kin could do it too.

But still…

I have the high ground!

I jumped down at her, leading with my foot, and cracked her right in the skull, sending her tumbling back to the streets below. Before she could reorient herself, I grabbed an arm and pulled it to my mouth.

{Crippling Bite}!

I instantly got the snapping of bone I was looking for, and she wailed as the dagger slipped from her hand. But she still had one more, and as she tried to spin in my grip, I grabbed her remaining wrist and hugged her with my other arm, still holding my own dagger, wrestling her into submission until finally I saw my chance to go for the eye!

I stabbed my dagger into her skull, and her wailing stopped as she dissolved into a scatter of bone and loose clothes.

Great Foe Eliminated - Skeleton Night Sentry

Experience Gained!

“Woo!” I let out a breath of relief and fell down to my bony butt, letting myself take a breath. Though, even as I took my moment of reprieve, I scanned the rooftops overhead, making sure I wasn’t about to get ambushed by another Skeleton Night Sentry. It seemed I was in the clear.

Picking myself up and dusting off, I collected my lost dagger then jumped up to the rooftops again. I spotted a larger building nearby that I jumped up and got a good vantage point, looking around this denser area of the city.

This, I supposed, was still a decent hunting ground after all. There were stronger enemies to fight, and I had a sneaking feeling just a couple more would mean another level-up.

I wanted to finish my quest and get back to Lily as soon as possible, but I had to remind myself she had Grick with her. I had to trust that they would be fine.

Rushing things would do me no good when the entire point of coming out here was to get stronger! As strong as I possibly could become. Because that was the only way I’d ever have my family back, and the only way we could ever be safe.

I spotted another brute below, dropped to a lower roof, then stealthily worked my way to a good ambush point. I slowly drew my daggers, envisioning leaping down and aiming for a quick fatal blow.

But before I could make my move, something else caught the skeleton’s attention. It turned to look down another street.

I heard footsteps that were followed by a blur of motion running in from around the corner of a building. It was a human, or humanoid, not a skeleton.

By the time the Skeleton Brute raised his axe, the person thrust an open palm forward that emitted a blast of energy that sent the skeleton falling to its back. The person then followed up by jumping on top and unsheathing a sword that he then plunged down into its eye, causing the creature to collapse in a scatter of bones near instantly.

The blade then whistled as the person spun it and returned it to its sheath.

He looked almost human, but different. Very dark skin, not even just being a dark-skinned person but an unnatural shade, like total blackness, and poking through his hair were two small, equally black horns.

I made myself as inconspicuous as possible and activated {Veil of Shadows}, clutching the corner of the building, then used {Analyze}.

Umarii - Level 36

An Umarii! These are the people I’ve been warned about. And he seemed to be high level.

I gripped one of my daggers.

Fox said it’s possible to kill higher levels if they aren’t prepared to defend themselves, so is it possible I could succeed at assassinating him? I bet the rewards for pulling that off would be crazy. But if I failed, I’d probably pretty much be dead. I’ve overcome bad odds before, but someone ten levels over me?

Then he whistled and motioned with his arm, as if calling someone.

Crap, it seems he isn’t even alone either. I might really have to retrea—

My eyes widened as another figure prowled down the street and came to the Umarii’s side. It was four-legged, with thick, messy black fur, giant paws, and green eyes.

It… it can’t be.

{Analyze}.

Hell Hound - Level 16

It was. It was a Hell Hound! And he had green eyes! Could it be…? No, that wouldn’t make any sense whatsoever! How could Luke be here?! Besides that, the last time I saw Luke he was so small! I mean, we all were, but that Hell Hound is huge! How could Luke have grown so big in such a short time?!

Despite myself, I leaned forward over the edge of the roof, nose sniffing, but I wasn’t close enough to pick up his scent. It had been so long, I wasn’t sure I would even recognize my brother’s scent or not at this point.

No, of course I would. Of course I would! I remembered the smell of my home.

The Hell Hound was sniffing at the ground, tail wagging. His head turned toward my recent kills, and suddenly he started to run towards.

“No! Stay,” the Umarii shouted, and the Hell Hound froze. Then the Umarii, in a loud whisper, authoritatively said, “To me. Now.”

The Hell Hound’s tail drooped as he doubled back to the Umarii and let out a soft whine.

My fists clenched on the edge of the building as I watched.

The Umarii knelt down and patted the Hell Hound’s head as he whined an apology. But the next words sent my heart soaring with a range of conflicting emotions.

“It’s okay, Luke. But stay close, boy.”

He said Luke! It was Luke! It really was!

I wanted to jump down right that second and tackle the big lug and roll around with him, transform into a Hell Hound myself and lick each other’s faces. But… I couldn’t. Not yet.

My eyes narrowed with hatred as the Umarii stood, and Luke followed obediently.

“Good boy, Luke,” the Umarii whispered as they went to investigate my last kills.

I slunk back into the shadows and followed silently. I wasn’t sure what to do, but until I figured that out, for the time being I wasn’t letting my brother out of my sight.