I ran as fast as I could, crashing through the undergrowth with my heart hammering in my chest.

The forest was a blur of shadows and whipping branches. Every stride jarred my backside where the arrow had stabbed me, but I ignored it and pushed harder. Lily’s cry still rang in my mind.

I shouldn’t have left them alone!

The thought tried to claw at me, but I shoved it down. I’d let them off alone because I trusted them, because I knew they were capable of handling themselves!

There were no continued alarming cries or evidence that anything truly awful had happened; Lily had merely called me for backup, and that is what I was coming to do.

I fired off a {Pulse Sense}.

Four humans, but no Drakewolves and no Lily or Grick. They were likely too far ahead.

I skidded around a tree, claws tearing grooves into the earth as I forced myself to keep moving, then sent out another pulse. The humans were ahead and spread enough to be searching, combing the woods, but also making themselves more vulnerable by separating.

The Drakewolves were my greater concern at the moment, as they were nowhere in my sense.

“Lily!” I called through Pack Bond. “Are you okay!?”

For one horrible second, my imagination raced ahead of me—fangs in her leg, Grick thrown from her back, both of them dragged down in the dark—and I nearly lost the rhythm of my stride.

Then, at last—

“Running!” Lily called back.

“Nasty dog things!” Grick chimed.

Running was better than hurt. But Lily and Grick might struggle to beat even one Drakewolf, let alone three.

I changed direction, arcing wide around the humans.

Another {Pulse Sense}.

There, three pulses, low to the ground, and moving fast. I knew Lily and Grick were just ahead of the chase, but the fact that I couldn’t pick up their pulses yet meant they still had some good distance.

Putting the humans behind me, I focused on attacking the Drakewolves. I had many levels' worth of extra stats, and we’d have to take them out before focusing on the humans again.

“Lily! Wait for my command, then turn back and fight! I’m right behind!”

A little more distance from the humans is all we needed. We’d be outnumbered 7-to-3 if we had to fight them along with their Drakewolves.

The twigs and branches of the undergrowth continued to slap at me in the dark, and it occurred to me the Drakewolves must have had night vision as well. I was sure at least some of those humans had night vision, but how many was the question. Was it a common skill for humans? My instinct was to say no, but I couldn’t say for sure.

Either way, once I was satisfied we had plenty of space between ourselves and the humans, I gave the command. “NOW!”

The Drakewolves scrambled in confusion, and soon I saw Lily burst back at them, splitting into three, but only one Lily was currently sporting a goblin who clung tight to her fur.

I tackled a Drakewolf and drove it sideways into a tree hard enough to rattle my teeth, but I didn’t let up. My jaws snapped forward immediately, clamping down on its shoulder, just below the spiked collar, before it could recover. Hot blood flooded my mouth as it snarled and twisted beneath me, claws raking at my chest.

It was strong. As I shook and twisted to try to injure and subdue it further, a second Drakewolf lunged.

I abandoned my current target, popping away, but its friend had come at me faster than I expected. My paws never even touched the ground again before I felt myself spinning through the air and then hitting the forest floor hard and tumbling. I kicked with my claws, snapped with my jaws, but I quickly found myself with an unfamiliar sense of panic as I was now being thrown around in a battle I wasn’t in control of!

As soon as I felt myself getting my bearings down against one of the Drakewolves, the other barreled into me. As much as I twisted my body and slashed my claws, I couldn’t get out of this chaotic wrestling match, and the worst part was their teeth.

I got chomped on my side, on my neck, and nearly one of my legs, but I pulled it free, knowing better than anyone how bad a broken bone could be!

Finally, I managed to snap my jaws low on a leg of my own and quickly used {Crippling Bite}. The feel of the bone crunching between my jaws was more satisfying than ever, but that satisfaction was short-lived as I was thrown away once again. This time, I felt jaws latch onto the front of my neck, and though the other whimpered in agony, I felt the horror of my vulnerable position.

I tensed as it tried to shake me, not letting my body go limp, not letting myself move as my enemy willed. That was something else I knew all too well. The moment I’d grab prey, I always knew the moment it was truly over, and that moment wasn’t when their neck snapped, it’s when their bodies loosened, almost as if knowing and accepting the inevitable, almost as if it was the realization that they were done for that weakened them right before the final snap.

That wouldn't be me! That would never be me!

I had too much to fight for! I had my pack to protect! My FAMILY!

I was an apex predator, and I would never lose!

The Drakewolf’s teeth sank in deeper. I felt its fangs piercing deep into my throat, my blood coming out thick and soaking my fur. But I kept strong, I kept my neck muscles tight, and I kept pushing and swiping with my claws as I tried to wiggle away.

Let go!

My internal scream rose to a vicious growl that escaped my muzzle as I continued to fight.

Let go! You worthless beast! Do you have any idea what I am!? I’m a real predator! You’re a tool, owned by humans! Even the System knows what you are! You’re nothing! I’m going to kill you! And when I’m done with you, your masters are next!

The words tore out of my soul as I felt my flesh rip into a massive open wound along my neck, but the beast had lost hold of me. I sprinted away, ignoring the pain, ignoring the woozy feeling that threatened to sink into my core, that wanted to sap the strength from my body and spirit.

Screw that! It’s just a wound! I’ve been wounded worse, and we have potions! This was nothing to even think about!

I turned, claws digging into the earth as I pivoted around to face my enemy.

I’ll kill you! I’m going to kill you! I snarled.

Through the dark, I could see it in the monster’s eyes. It didn’t understand how I was still charging at it, how I was still coming!

Not cautious. Not measured. No hesitation left in me at all—just raw, violent intent. My body screamed in protest, blood still pouring from my neck, but I shoved it all aside and crashed into the Drakewolf like I meant to tear the world apart—and that is exactly what I intended.

Its head jerked back, instincts screaming at it now, trying to read something it didn’t understand. Prey didn’t come back. Prey ran. Prey broke. And that is something I’d agree with. But I was not prey. I would never be prey! Never again!

I chomped down and tackled it, bringing it to the ground. It let out a loud whimper, calling for its pack to help. One had a broken leg, and the other must have been busy with Lily and Grick, and its masters were not near enough to help—though I had to keep them in mind and end this quickly.

But this thing was weak! Now that it didn’t have me in such a vulnerable position, I realized it had no right to have wounded me like that in the first place! It tried to fight, but I powered through, soon finding a leg—

{Crippling Bite}!

It yelped, pulled away, turned, and stumbled as it tried to run. I lunged down at its hind leg.

{Crippling Bite}!

Now it was over. Now it was all over!

It could only attempt to fight me off by flailing its body now. If it weren’t for that stupid spiked collar, I could have ended this much easier already, but instead, it was forced to suffer the slow, painful way. I chomped at its chest, tasted warm blood as I pulled a chunk of flesh. It tried to turn away, I chomped its flank and threw it on its back again, and barreled down to its stomach. My fangs were like knives as they sank into the soft flesh there, and now, sure I had done enough damage, I only allowed it one more moment of attempting to flee as I raised a paw.

{Soul Rend}!

My paw sank right through its back as it gave its few last desperate limping paces to escape me, then it crashed to the forest floor as my claws raked through its heart, then pulled out of its back again.

Foe Eliminated! Level 18 Domesticated Drakewolf

Experience Gained!

Essence extracted!

160 health restored

120 mana restored

100 Stamina restored

+5 to all attributes

Only +5 to all stats this time? Was that because I restored more of my vitals than when I killed the other level 18 Drakewolves?

Whatever, no time to think about that, and an extra 5 to all stats was still like another level worth of value.

I searched out the other Drakewolf I’d injured, not seeing it anywhere. I quickly used {Pulse Sense}, also thinking of my human adversaries and my own Pack.

The injured Drakewolf was limping back to its masters, and as for the other, I heard a loud agonized whine, crying for help.

But it wasn’t Lily—I knew my own sister’s voice, of course!

It sounded like Lily and Grick were holding their own just fine, but I quickly started moving towards them to help finish things. Besides, I’d need a healing potion and to direct them away from the humans, because I still didn’t like the idea of fighting them head-on.

I did a quick check of my vitals and realized that the last fight was a closer call than I had imagined!

Name: ???

Vitals

Health: 287 / 660 +160*

Mana: 720 / 850 +160*

Stamina: 560 / 608 +128*

Considering I’d just healed 160—no, 185 with the 5 extra vigor—I really had gotten quite low! Lower than I ever should have against these wannabes!

Lily and Grick were soon to put me to shame, for when I came over another hill, I skidded to a stop, watching the end of their fight through the rays of moonlight that broke through the canopy.

The Drakewolf was already panting and looking like it wanted to simply run away, but likely knew that’d be an even quicker death.

Lily ran at it and pounced, knocking the larger monster sideways and staggering it. But that wasn’t all, she also bounced away after colliding! Pounce and Bounce!

As she bounced away, Grick flew off her back, landing on the Drakewolf, slashing with his dagger and then running away from it as the Drakewolf tried to turn its attention on the little guy. But Lily was there so quickly, Grick jumping onto her back as she zipped by, the Drakewolf barely having time to do anything. And then she quickly circled back, and they did it all again!

Pounce and Bounce, Vault Strike, Quick Mount. The three skills comboed together seamlessly, probably also aided by Bonded Mount.

I almost felt sorry for the Drakewolf; it was clear how hopeless and helpless it was against them. I almost hated to interrupt them, but we still had some strong adversaries on our tails, and I wanted the extra stats.

“Let me finish it!” I called to them as I ran down the hill.

I thought Lily almost looked disappointed, but she listened. I jumped onto the Drakewolf, pinning it down, chomping at its face as I subdued it and lifted a paw.

{Soul Rend}!

Foe Eliminated! Level 18 Domesticated Drakewolf

Experience Gained!

Essence extracted!

150 health restored

110 mana restored

80 Stamina restored

+5 to all attributes

Let’s see, how many bonus stats did I have again?

I lost track, so I checked my attributes to quickly confirm it was +37, and 37 multiplied 5 different attributes was 185 bonus stat points, divided by about 30 per level meant I was packing roughly 6 extra levels of stats at the moment, making me effectively level 23, maybe even higher, considering my Night Hunter trait.

Still, I was rather lower on health than was comfortable, and this wasn’t an easy fight we were about to take.

“Grick, quickly, get me a—”

As I turned to the goblin, I saw he was already digging into his pack. When he produced a healing potion, he stomped towards me, holding it out with a scolding expression that made my ears fold down.

“Puppy get hurt! Puppy should be more careful!”

I gave him a wolfy grin. “Hey, I won didn’t I?”

“Don’t take chances, puppy!” he chided. Lily barked in agreement.

I winced. “Okay, okay, scold me later. We still have a tough fight ahead of us, you know.”

I opened my mouth and let him pour the liquid under my tongue. As it slid down my throat, I felt that warmth spreading through my body like a wave, washing away every terrible ache and pain that were so much more obvious now that I was feeling such a quick comparison to what it was like to not feel them.

I looked over my shoulder.

{Pulse Sense}.

“They’re coming right over that hill… let’s end this.”
