They surely were beginning to understand their vulnerability and that this was not a simple monster attack. At least, I chose to give our prey more credit than to underestimate them as hapless fools.

But truly, the night was ours, and even though they were here first, this was our domain.

Why?

Because I’m claiming it! That’s why!

Just as I was the apex predator of the caves of the vale, it could be the same for this forest.

Their Boss was likely technically stronger than me—but so what? I’ve beaten things stronger than me before. He would be no different, and I had a clear path to victory. His greatest strength was the numbers that surrounded him, both human and Drakewolf, and his second greatest strength was his own. But I would thin the numbers, all the while Soul Rend making me stronger.

I smiled internally at the long night of hunting that was ahead of me.

But I wasn’t alone, of course. I would involve my pack and lead them to victory.

“I’m scouting,” I told them. “Wait for now.”

Lily sat on her haunches as Grick patted her side. “Puppy, Grick has…” He tilted his head, thinking something over. “These are nasty humans?”

I looked at him. “Very nasty.” Then, as he seemed conflicted, I turned my head in question. “What’s wrong, Grick?”

“Nasty humans hurt puppy, hurt nice humans. Mean to Grick. But these humans… Why nasty humans?”

“These humans would hurt us too,” I said, sitting on my haunches, tail flicking behind me.

“But puppies and Grick hurt humans first.”

“Believe me, these humans are nasty, Grick. They’ve hurt nice humans before, even if we didn’t see them. They’d hurt us first, too. We just happened to strike first this time.”

Grick thought it over again. He started scratching his head. “Are all empire humans nice humans?”

Grick really did have a kind heart. I thought of how to explain it to him. “I don’t know if the empire humans will always be nice, but they are now. And we need them. These bandits survive by hurting other humans and stealing from them, though. I’m pretty sure of that. Look around, they don’t have any farms. How are they eating? Trust me. They are very nasty.”

Grick’s front toe dug into the ground in a slow circle as he thought. Then he finally nodded. “Grick understands. Grick trusts puppy.”

“Okay, I’m going to scout now. Wait until you hear from me, and stay alert.”

With that, I padded off into the darkness once again.

Though, as I went, I reconsidered my old dilemma, and one Grick seemed to be facing as well now.

The bandits didn’t have farms, but neither did we. We lived by killing and eating things weaker than ourselves. The bandits did the same, minus the eating part. But remembering the merchant family we helped, and how Mai or Saku-something had been treated. It was the cruelty of humans that let me draw a line between myself and them.

But what of this group we were now attacking? I had no evidence of senseless cruelty. Surely they robbed, stole, and murdered, but I hadn’t directly witnessed cruelty for cruelty's sake. It was just an assumption, though it was arguably an even more wild assumption to humor that they might be a gang of jolly cutthroats with hearts of gold.

I huffed and shook off the thought. It’s not what I needed to be thinking about right now. Even if I couldn’t draw the line at disallowing cruelty, there was another framework of necessity. We’d have to kill something to get stronger ourselves. And tonight, they were that something, whether they deserved it or not.

I moved around the outskirts of their base, firing off a {Pulse Sense} every so often as I tried to get a picture together. They were not as spread out anymore; they were sticking closer together, closer to their base. Their heartbeats were agitated.

They were surely feeling it—the slow erosion of numbers. The creeping understanding that something out here was picking them apart.

I checked the archer in my mind’s eye. Earlier in the night, the fear effect of Death Mark hadn’t noticeably impacted him, but now it certainly did. But that’s because the tickle of unease he may have been able to disregard now had proven itself a valid horror.

Deep down, I couldn’t deny that I was enjoying the hunt.

I paced a full circle around their compound, keeping my distance, examining their heartbeats, searching for an opening, searching for their boss.

I spotted his pulse—the Drakewolves at his sides gave him away. He was on the move, patrolling.

I steered myself further away from him as I continued to watch their heartbeats. Then something obvious happened. Something obvious that I hadn’t considered earlier.

The Boss whistled, and heartbeats moved. A group of his men gathered around him, and they started heading out into the woods—in the direction of Lily and Grick.

Of course, those Drakewolves could track a scent trail just like we could, and right now they were on to us. That was a problem. But it also created an opportunity.

The opportunity was not to attack the boss’s entourage directly. I counted four humans and three Drakewolves in that group now—far too many for us to handle. But, they were moving away.

I called out to my pack.

“A big group is tracking you. Three Drakewolves and four humans. Do not fight them, but keep luring them away. Run if they get too close.”

“Okay!” Lily called back through Pack Bond.

I had to trust that she understood. Without me, they didn’t have Pulse Sense precisely tracking their enemies, so I also had to trust her caution, and that with Grick on her back, she could still outrun the Drakewolves.

I believed that she could. After all, she was faster than me normally, and the Drakewolves couldn’t quite catch me in a straight chase.

In the meantime, their main base had lost the strongest portion of their force, and the real threat was prowling around just beyond their sight.

As I tried to pick out the next group to strike, I realized they were now gathered in groups of three and much closer to their base.

This indicated something to me. Their defensive measures also hinted at what they knew. If somebody had gotten an Analyze off on me at some point, what would they have seen? They would have seen a level 17 Hell Hound. If they had analyzed Lily as well, they would have seen level 13.

We were just strong enough to be a threat they couldn’t ignore, but still, after everything, they considered us a threat they could handle. They considered us weak enough to simply laugh at the archer who tried to explain how wrong they were.

But here’s the thing.

At the moment, I wasn’t really level 17.

With the three Soul Rends, I had 25 extra points in every stat—125 total.

My last level up gave me around 30 stat points in total, so 125 divided by 30 was about 4—

Meaning!

I was basically level 21 right now.

And with Night Hunter improving my Dexterity and Strength scaling, maybe I was even more like a level 22 or 23.

Pretty good at math for a pup—arn’t I?

Achievement! Puppy Math

Congratulations! You can count.

+1 sense

+1 attunement

Oh sweet! I even got a—

Hey—wait! Why does that feel like it’s making fun of me? Stupid System!

Anyway.

A level 15 against a level 17 was still a tough fight, but level 15 against level 22 was a joke. I could snap off their middling fighters as easily as a weak Mossgrazer with a spread like that! And as I went along, I’d only get more powerful.

Soul Rend truly was an exciting ability, and for the first time, I was finally getting to utilize its full potential!

But even with that, I couldn’t afford to get ahead of myself. This still wouldn’t be easy. There were a lot of them, and things could go south very quickly if one of us got cornered!

After careful consideration, I opted for the archer’s group. Since I had my mind’s eye on one of them, it only made sense. But how would I go about getting a Soul Rend off? It actually wasn’t very compatible with quick kills since it required beating down my targets first.

I suppose I’d just have to consider it a bonus.

Plan A is to move in and out quickly, but more importantly, safely. A Soul Rend would be a bonus.

With that decided on, I got on the move, watching their pulses: archer in the trees, two others on the ground close to base, where plenty of reinforcements could come spilling out once I made myself known.

I cast {Veil of Shadows}, Night Hunter, and Camouflage aiding it, but I knew someone amongst them had detection that wasn’t purely visual. So I continued to move quickly, before I could be spotted and before they could get their bearings down.

Soon, I saw my first victims and used {Analyze}.

Human - level 14

Human - level 16

My archer friend was in the trees, clearly none the wiser and looking in the wrong direction as I arced my path to keep me out of his line of sight. No matter how good his own night vision, he surely didn’t imagine I had eyes on him and could exploit his point of view so easily.

I decided to take out the level 16 human first, and by the time I leaped free from the shadows, his fate was already sealed.

“Ssshhhh—Loook OUT!” his ally barely had time to scream as he drew his sword. I was already tackling his friend to the ground and chomping at his face. This, I realized, was almost as effective as snapping an arm to stop offense, because when a Hell Hound is attempting to eat you head first, your first instinct is simply to survive and defend as much damage as possible. But his strength wasn’t enough to keep my jaws away. My teeth sliced right down to his skull and cheekbones, gouged his eyes, split his lips. Chomp, chomp, chomp—too fast for him to stop me, and within a second, he was already disfigured for life.

Well, he would be disfigured without healing potions, anyway.

But either way, vanity wouldn’t matter to him much in a matter of seconds, and healing potions would do nothing once he was dead.

I grabbed his shoulder as I saw the archer shift. My victim simultaneously tried to pull away, screaming in blind horror, so I used his momentum against him and spun with him, jaws locked tight, focused on keeping him with me and positioning his body to block me from the archer.

I successfully avoided the arrow like this, as my mind’s eye saw the archer loose one that I never felt, but my victim gathered his wits enough to reach for a dagger.

I felt the blade plunge into my side as he fell on top of me. I turned my jaws from his shoulder to his throat, getting the side of his neck and ripping and pulling. I scrambled away just in time to pop backward away from his ally's sword, the blade swishing through the air so close it might have taken some fur with it—but no flesh.

But as soon as my feet were stable, I spun around again, diving low towards the severely wounded man—face an unrecognizable mess, and neck spurting blood.

With a raised paw, I collided—

{Soul Rend}!

Prey Eliminated! level 16 Human Bandit

Experience gained!

Essence extracted!

155 health restored

80 mana restored

50 Stamina restored

+7 to all attributes

I felt the knife wound heal and power surge through my body. In my mind’s eye, the archer loosed another arrow, and I popped away just a little slow, getting grazed, but it could have been worse. I saw him curse as he reached into his quiver for another arrow and prepare it, but now he wasn’t my only problem as shouts erupted all around me and the level 14 human swung his sword once again.

I didn’t have time to consider every single pulse, and that was such a clumsy, overextended swing, I made a quick decision to press my advantage.

I leaped at the human, not worrying about breaking his sword arm—if he stabs me, then so be it—and I went right for his throat.

He fell with me, tried to wrestle me away and protect himself, but I snarled and gnashed my way through his arms until I got my muzzle under his chin and on the sweet spot where I ripped and tore.

Blood burst through my mouth as I turned to run. Another arrow was nocked in my mind’s eye, and I hoped that I did enough to bleed out the second human.

I turned tail, not needing Pulse Sense to know more humans were closing in on me already. As I disappeared into the undergrowth—or tried to—I heard a whistle and pain exploded through my backside! A second archer had gotten me!

I bobbed and weaved through the darkness, ducking behind trees as I went. Once, another arrow slammed into a tree with a solid thunk just behind me. But not long later, the humans had lost track of me, and I used {Veil of Shadows} to further aid my disappearance, and another {Pulse Sense} to check my pursuers.

Things were a little too chaotic and a little too far away to pick out another easy target, but I at least knew I was in the clear for the time being. I flopped down on my side and inspected the arrow sticking out of my butt. I reached for it, clenching my jaws as close to where it disappeared into my flesh as possible.

I wouldn’t be able to do this as cleanly as Grick, but I had no choice. I couldn’t fight with this thing stuck in my rear!

Closing my eyes, letting out a deep breath, and then bracing myself, I gave it a hard yank. The arrow came out alright—but damn did it hurt!

I whined and spat the thing onto the ground and then growled at it reflexively.

Stupid Arrow!

But then, Lily’s voice came into my mind.

“Sister! Help!” she cried in a panic.

No!

I scrambled back to my feet and called back, “I’m coming!” then bolted after them!
