Draven led them to a camping spot that required a bit of climbing to reach. It was a small plateau tucked beneath an overhang of shelfrock, looking down over the basin between the towering canyon walls.

As Jessica climbed the last stretch and pulled herself onto flat ground, she looked around, thinking it was a pretty smart place to camp since it would be difficult for anything large to reach them without making a lot of noise first. Besides that, it gave Iris plenty of room to spread her wings and assist aerially.

The location also provided a bit of cover from rain, it seemed, and would even hide their firelight from most angles.

It wasn’t exactly comfortable, but it was defensible… although there was the issue of privacy, which had been far less of a problem in the woods when she was only camping with a Hell Hound.

Saelin dropped her pack and stretched her arms over her head. “So this is the place, huh?”

Draven set the wrapped meat near the back wall of their little campsite. “One of them. There are a few others further out, but this is one of the safer areas for our Direwings.”

“Safe for the Direwings?” Jessica asked, brushing her knees off.

Draven nodded. “These canyons are tight enough for them to evade airborne predators.”

“Nothing would be worse than losing your Direwings on a hunt,” Korrin agreed. “Be stuck out here until someone comes to get us.”

Iris landed beside Jessica a moment later, having simply flown up rather than bothered with the climb. Her white eyes swept along what would be their home base for the next week or so.

“What do you think, Iris?” Jessica asked, crouching down enough to pat the top of her head.

“This is acceptable. Plenty of warning and room to fight,” she said, scanning the dried basin below.

Jessica kneeled beside her and quietly whispered, “They said something about airborne predators.”

“If it is something stronger, then I can blind it with Halo Flare and flee.”

Jessica flinched as movement from above caught the corner of her eye, but she realized it was just one of the Direwings. She blinked as she watched it disappear behind a canyon wall, but then another dipped down into view a moment later. She realized all four had managed to stick with them and were taking turns flying back and forth along the canyons until one tucked itself into a shadowed crevice with only its head peeking out, visible between its folded wings. It was clearly looking down and watching them.

“They know they’ll get some meat.”

Jessica gave a small start as Korrin came up to her side, looking up at the Direwings as well. “Oh! I was just thinking they really do stick around us pretty well, huh?”

“Especially this location,” Draven called over as he sat cross-legged at the old fire pit and started taking things out of his bag. “Even if one of them hasn’t been here before, they’d smell other Direwings in the area, as this spot gets used for hunting parties so often.”

“I see…” Jessica said.

“Just make sure you watch out for Direwing shit,” Saelin said as she paced along the cliff of the plateau, scanning the basin below.

Jessica instinctively started searching around her feet for the dark, tarry splatters that were always present around the Direwing caves in the Bloody Peaks.

“That’s not where you want to worry about it,” Saelin said.

Jessica looked over at her and saw the girl pointing up, prompting Jessica to look back up at the Direwings finding purchase on the overhang that sheltered them. Jessica bristled at the thought and then scanned the ground again, this time trying to decide where the best spot to sleep would be. She did not want to suffer a rude awakening via raining hell-world bat-lion guano.

As it turned out, the guano threat wasn’t quite as terrible as Jessica feared. Draven pointed out the safest places to place their sleeping rolls, noting old stains on the stone and which parts of the overhang the Direwings favored. It was apparently common knowledge to the others, which only made Jessica feel more like she had wandered into a game halfway through the tutorial.

The rest of the evening passed without much excitement. They cooked strips of Grubboar meat over a small fire Draven had started, and the smell brought the Direwings down one by one. They landed along the edge of the plateau and waited with more discipline than Jessica would have expected, though their focus was indeed on the meat with such intensity that it was clear their politeness was very conditional.

Draven tossed some raw chunks their way, and they instantly swarmed the ground, bashing into and screeching at each other. Whenever one managed to snag a chunk, it instantly took flight and hid up on the overhang, the whole process taking maybe a minute before the Direwings were happily chomping overhead.

Jessica stared upward as the chewing sounds echoed.

“Jessica…” she heard Iris inside her head.

“Um… hungry, girl?” Jessica asked. She had her own slab of meat in her hands, but it was cooked, and she knew Iris preferred raw meat.

“Go ahead,” Draven said through bites of his own food. “There’s plenty. You can give her as much as needed.”

“This is… unacceptable,” Iris said coolly as Jessica moved over to the sack of meat. Jessica gave her a glance but couldn’t think of a natural way to respond to a dog that she wasn’t supposed to be able to hear, so she kept quiet.

What’s her problem? Jessica thought as she brought the meat over.

Iris’s white eyes continued to bore into her. “They fed their Direwings before me,” Iris said, not taking the meat yet, even as Jessica held it out. “I was in the hunt. I should eat first. This is unacceptable.”

“Oh…” Jessica said in a low voice. Then, “Here Iris, this is yours,” as she placed the food between the Hell Hound’s jaws. “That’s a good girl,” Jessica said, rubbing Iris’s neck as she leaned in and whispered, “I’m sorry. I’ll make sure it doesn’t happen again.”

Iris seemed to accept the apology. She lowered herself to the stone with the meat between her paws and began to eat. Jessica remained sitting beside her, on the edge of the firelight and some distance from the others, because Iris’s company was far more comfortable than the other three.

The others had taken off their masks as they ate, but Jessica pushed hers up just enough to uncover the bottom of her face while she ate her dinner. She felt more comfortable being able to hide behind it.

Saelin was lying on her side near the fire, stuffing her face with one hand while propping her head up on the other palm. Without her mask, she looked a little less severe than Jessica had expected. Her face was narrow, with sharp cheekbones and dark eyes, and even her natural expression had a judgmental edge to it that was not exactly surprising. Still, Jessica couldn’t help thinking she looked like a mostly-normal teenage girl. A tough one, sure, but was she really all that different from girls Jessica had known at school back on Earth?

Korrin sat cross-legged near the fire. She remembered being surprised at seeing how young he actually was after their duel.

As for Draven, he was probably seventeen or eighteen, but he looked far more than a year older than the other two. It was the shadow of what would be a thick beard that did it, and she realized he actually reminded her of her older brother back on Earth, who was one of those rare teenage boys who could shave and still have a shadow by the end of the day.

Not that she felt some brotherly attachment to Draven or anything like that. He just had that way of standing there like he knew what he was doing, like he was confident being older made him wiser. Her brother had been like that.

He had been three years older than her back on Earth, and at the time, that had felt like a huge difference. After their mom died, he had taken up a lot of slack around the house, especially with their dad working long shifts at the oil refinery. By the time he left for basic training in the army, not long before Jessica had been hit by the meteor, she had felt he’d grown far, far beyond the three years that separated them. Now she was in a body that was even younger than that.

Jessica bit off another tough mouthful of meat and chewed slowly. She wondered what her brother and Dad would think if they could see her now. Even Mom, for that matter. She hadn’t thought about Mom in years.

“So tomorrow,” Korrin began once he finished the last of his meat, “lower basin first?”

“Yes, we’ll scout the area, see if we can get on the trail of a pack. If not, we’ll make our way down to the greater valley and cut through to another basin,” Draven said.

When Saelin was done with her meat, she rolled onto her back with her hands behind her head. “The greater valley, huh? Good. I want to see if that place is everything it’s cracked up to be.”

“We won’t be hunting it,” Draven said. “Merely cutting through.”

“Oh? No fun,” Saelin said, smirking towards him.

Draven shook his head as he leaned back on his hands. “The greater valley isn’t really the kind of place you wander into for fun.”

“But you’ve hunted it, right?” she asked.

Draven nodded. “Yes, but there were multiple level 20s in my party.”

“I passed along the edge of it once. It’s a brutal climb,” Korrin said.

“Then you likely know the route I plan,” Draven said. He turned his attention back to Saelin. “This is your first time hunting the Redmaw Peaks, correct?”

“First time hunting this far in,” Saelin answered. “And the times I have come, my hunt, unfortunately, was not Drakewolves.”

The three of them continued to talk amongst themselves, and Jessica didn’t really feel able to fit herself in. She remained at the edge of the firelight, eating with Iris, and when her meal was done, she pushed her mask back down to cover her face completely.

It was hard to believe this life she’d found herself in was real sometimes.

She had been sixteen when she died. Now she was in a thirteen-year-old body that didn’t belong to her, listening to people close to her real age talk about hunting monsters like they were discussing math class.

Saelin laughed at something Draven said, Korrin tossed in a dry comment Jessica didn’t quite catch, and their conversation drifted from one topic to the next. Somehow, they still seemed like teenagers, but at the same time, it was obvious how being a teenager from Earth was not the same as being a teenager from the Bloody Peaks.

Eventually, she grabbed her spear and wandered over to one of the guano-safe zones of the plateau and lay down, Iris coming to her side. Iris wouldn’t exactly cuddle next to her—she’d never do that—but she always slept close.
