Ben lay with a bone—the leg of the human he’d eaten the other day. Jerry had a human on his side of the wall too, one he’d just killed. Ben felt a little jealous that Jerry got fresh meat today while he didn’t.

Still, he guessed he was glad Jerry got something. He just would have preferred more for himself.

But he truly was growing bored of chewing on these bones. All the good parts were gone, and if it were not for the utter lack of anything else to do, he wouldn't still be gnawing away as he was.

He huffed and got up, walking over to the wall.

Hey Jerry. You enjoying your food?

Yup!

I'm bored, Jerry!

Jerry didn’t respond, and Ben huffed in annoyance. He stared at the solid wall, considered digging under it, then glanced up at the balcony. He didn’t want to be sprayed with the cold, stinging water. The humans always did that when he tried digging.

I hate this place... Ben thought.

Jerry would have thought the same thing, but he was too focused on his meal to care at that particular moment.

Not knowing what else to do with himself, Ben started pacing around the enclosures, walking along the outer wall, stopping at the gate and staring down the dark space beyond, then continuing his pacing.

A bubble of agitation swelled up as he barked at the sky. "I'M BORED!"

A burst of flame shot from his mouth into the air. He saw it go up and up and up and then arc back down, disappearing somewhere far beyond the wall. A moment later, he heard a human yell somewhere.

Ben's ears perked as he listened.

Humans were talking somewhere on the other side of the wall, opposite the much larger wall that held the balcony and gate. Ben hadn't noticed humans over the smaller wall before, and his tail wagged as he heard their unhappy voices.

He looked upward and shot another fireball, then another and another.

As he watched the three fireballs descend, he heard lots more human shouting, and his tail wagged more and more. It was so entertaining, he just couldn’t help himself! He looked up and started shooting as many fireballs as he possibly could manage!

One after another, they just kept bursting from his mouth, and he didn't take a break until he depleted his mana and there were dozens raining down on the other side of the wall all at once! Humans were screaming like crazy now, and he heard things crashing and cries of panic.

Hey Jerry! Hey Jerry! Guess what I'm doing! Ben excitedly tried to get his brother's attention as he ran over to the wall that divided them. But before he got there, he heard a familiar hissing sound that made his tail tuck under his legs.

The stinging water!

Ben instantly reversed his direction and started trying to run as far away from the balcony as possible. But he was too slow! The stinging water sprayed his butt in a powerful jet, and he pivoted to the side, managing to twist away from it momentarily, but it kept following him and kept finding him!

Jerry! Jerry! he cried.

Ben!? Hide Ben! Jerry cried back, finally torn away from his meal when he heard his brother's distressed cry.

There’s nowhere to hide! Ben cried in a panic, darting this way and that.

He could briefly escape the stinging water, but it always caught up with him again. He eventually tried going to the back corner of the enclosure, as far from the balcony as he could get. But the water reached him there too! Even when he tried huddling in a corner, waiting for it to stop, it just kept stinging him! Usually, when he lay down like this and gave up, they would stop the stinging after a brief time. But they didn’t stop this time!

“STOP IT!” He barked into the air as he attempted running from it again. He accidentally used all his mana, so he couldn’t even shoot a fireball towards the balcony! “STOP IT! IT HURTS!” he cried out again.

Then, finally, it did stop. Or at least, it stopped stinging him, but he still heard the hissing sound.

Soaked and panting, Ben looked towards the balcony. A few fireballs shot towards the balcony from Jerry’s side of the wall, but more importantly, the stinging water was shooting towards Jerry instead now.

Jerry! Don’t do it! They’re just going to sting you too! Ben warned him, but it was already too late.

Jerry shot those fireballs to get the stinging to leave Ben alone, but now Jerry was on the other side getting assaulted just as brutally!

Jerry! Jerry! Are you okay!? Ben asked as he ran to the wall that divided them and started pawing at it.

Don’t worry! I’ll be okay! Jerry assured him.

Ben stood on his hind legs, front paws against the wall, tail drooping with guilt. This was his fault! He’d been the one to make the humans mad, and now they were going after Jerry because he tried to defend him.

Ben turned his gaze to the balcony and barked, “Stop hurting my brother!”

But they didn’t stop. The spraying water kept shooting at Jerry until Ben got the sense that Jerry gave up on running. He just curled against the back corner, paws over his head, and allowed the stinging water to pelt him with a steady stream.

It hurrrrrts! Jerry whined. Why arn’t they stopping! They never do it this long!

It’s my fault Jerrry! I’m sorry! I just wanted to have fun! I was bored, and I sent fireballs over the wall to make the humans cry, and now they’re mad! And now they’re not stopping!

I hate these humans! Jerry cried as he continued to take the stinging water. I hate them, I hate them, I hate them!

I hate them too!

Eventually, it did stop.

The hissing cut off, and Jerry’s cries vanished. But the two Hell Hound brothers were left soaked, fur clinging to their cold bodies as the burn of their stinging skin lingered underneath.

Jerry padded over to the divider wall and collapsed, and Ben collapsed as well. Each lay there, sides heaving, trembling, teeth chattering from the cold.

I hate it here, Ben, Jerry thought.

I hate it here too, Jerry, Ben agreed.

They both wanted to leave, but neither had any idea how to do that. Running through the gate next time it opened might lead to something, but then again, it was dark, and the walls were tight, and they wouldn’t have anywhere to hide. Worst of all, they would be separated even more if one went through their gate without the other. The walls were too high to climb, and the humans hurt them with the stinging water if they tried to dig.

There was nothing they could do. For all the time they had spent trapped here, neither Ben nor Jerry had come up with a real idea for escaping.

Then Ben’s ears perked as he heard the scraping sound of the gate rising.

I-I think they’re giving me something to eat, Ben said, forcing himself up despite the discomfort of his soaked body and the exhaustion he felt. For once, he hoped that it was something easy to kill. He wasn’t in the mood for chasing anything around the enclosure right now.

But, he remained by the wall, watching the rising gate cautiously.

A human came through, but this one had the hard extra skin things all over it. The stuff that Ben couldn’t get his teeth through.

Then a second human followed that one, and a third. They each carried those sticks with the lightning that hurt very badly if they touched you.

Ben’s tail folded between his legs, and he cowered against the wall.

J-Jerry! Bad humans are here! He didn’t want to scare Jerry, but he was too scared himself, and he didn’t know what they wanted!

The three humans fanned out, creating a wide circle, and he realized the center one had a different kind of stick. It was the kind that had the thing on the end that would get tight around Ben’s neck. Ben hated that thing! It made it so he couldn’t walk freely and had to go wherever he was forced to.

Ben hunkered down, letting his lips curl as he growled.

Jerry, on the other side of the wall, began panicking. What are they doing, Ben?

I don’t know! Maybe they’re still mad! Ben replied.

That’s not fair! They already used the stinging water!

Then Jerry barked, forgetting how tired he was as he snarled from the other side of the wall. “Leave my brother alone!”

Ben couldn’t fight them. Not these humans. The humans that came here to be his food were easy, but these humans were so much different.

The one with the rope stick inched closer, bringing it to Ben’s head. Ben flinched away from it and snapped his jaws at it. As he did so, the ones with the electric sticks moved in closer, and the sticks hummed as denser electricity danced on their ends.

The rope stick came at him suddenly, trying to ensnare him, but he dove under it then ran, trying to dart between the human’s legs and get away! But he was too slow!

The electric stick jabbed into his side. The pain was immediate and overwhelming. It was so much worse than the stinging water! It coursed through his entire body, locked up his limbs, and sent him flopping to his side. The worst part is, they just held it there, kept the thing on him, kept his body in excruciating pain!

“STOP IT! YOU’RE HURTING HIM!” Jerry cried from the other side of the wall with vicious snarls. He’d slam his body uselessly against the wall, scrape it with his claws, but there was nothing he could do.

He wished he could plead with them properly. He wished there was some way to communicate that Ben had simply made a mistake, and he wouldn’t use fireballs to make the humans on the other side of the wall scream anymore!

When they finally took the shock pole away, Ben was ensnared with the thing around his neck. They didn’t even give him time to recover as they yanked him up and forced him to follow them. His sore and exhausted body could barely keep up, and the thing got tighter around his neck whenever he lagged behind. He willed his paws to keep moving until they led him through the gate, but every once in a while he’d miss a step and the thing would choke him as he was dragged until he got his paws under himself again.

They’re taking me somewhere! I’m scared, Jerry!

He could still hear Jerry in his head, trying to reassure him, tell him that it’ll be okay, and one day they’ll definitely make the humans pay. But as Ben was forced further and further down the dark place, Jerry’s voice got harder to hear, and soon it was gone.
