As promised, we were freed from duty for the rest of the day. We had another absolutely delicious meal of Puffstork legs and… well, there were a lot of things on the table, but Lily and I focused on the Puffstork!

I worked on picking clean a bone. My human-ish wolfy teeth were quite effective at stripping free every little scrap. I think Lisha would have had more trouble not letting anything go to waste. I also doubted Lisha would like the cartilage around the joints. Personally, I found they had quite a satisfying texture that was both crunchy and chewy! If I were bored later, I wouldn’t even be opposed to simply gnawing on the bones for a while.

“You know, you really ought to try to widen your palate, kid,” Fox said, pointing her chopsticks, which held some noodles, at me.

“You’re a monster too. Why don’t you just like meat?”

“Because I’m willing to give things a try,” Fox said.

“All the other human food I’ve tried so far has been pretty bad, though,” I insisted, ripping free the cartilage and crunching it into little bits with my back teeth.

“Well, they got other kinds of meat than just Puffstork, you know,” she said, pointing her chopsticks at one of the other options.

I stared at it. It looked closer to pork, I guess. There was a whole plate of the stuff with quarter-inch-thick slabs laid one atop the other. I leaned closer and gave it a sniff. I suppose it smelled fine, though it had a lot of spices and such around the end.

I snatched one up with my bare hand, vaguely aware that it was bad etiquette, as that was something that was meant to be cut, but I didn’t care as I stripped away a little of the skin and then stuffed the middle of the meaty treat into my mouth.

It was—

Gooood… But not as good as Puffstork. Maybe if it were raw, I would have liked it better. Actually, I’d bet Puffstork would taste even better raw as well.

“Well, what do you think?” Fox asked.

“It’s fine.” I then looked around and spotted a serving maid coming over to top off Fox’s drink. “Hey, what is this one?” I asked her, lifting the pork-like meat.

“Oh, that’s Tusker meat,” she answered. “They are prevalent to the north, Lady Hell Hound.”

I nodded, giving it another bite. I wish they’d stop calling me Lady-anything. I didn’t see myself as much of a “lady,” so it felt a little weird.

As the girl poured Fox’s drink, I noticed a look pass between the two of them, and as she began to pull away, Fox reached after her.

She caught her sleeve lightly between her claws, not tugging so much as asking her to pause. The maid froze, eyes dipping to Fox’s hand before rising back to her face. Fox smiled up at her, the tips of her fangs just barely visible.

“You’re quick with that pitcher.”

The maid blinked, clearly caught off guard. A faint pink spread across her cheeks. “I… th-thank you?”

Fox tilted her head, smile sharpening. “Oh, my apologies. I didn’t mean to startle you.”

The maid’s grip tightened on the pitcher. “N-No, Lady Fox. I wasn’t startled.”

Fox chuckled calmly, tail giving a wag. “Then you’re simply very dedicated to not spilling on me.”

The girl laughed in return, cheeks reddening further as she seemed to ease. “I only try to serve honored guests properly.”

“Mmm. I must be very honored,” Fox said, finally releasing her sleeve. She leaned back in her chair, lifting her cup slightly. “What’s your name?”

The serving girl glanced to one of the others, almost as if checking whether she was allowed to answer. “Hana.”

“Hana,” Fox repeated, swirling the glass after taking a sip. “Pretty name.”

I let out an annoyed huff and did my best to just zone them out and focus on my meal. I didn’t really bother with drinking the tea they provided for us, and I was too young for wine, so the serving girls didn’t have much reason to tend to me other than to spirit away a plate of clean bones.

As I grabbed another Puffstork leg, my thoughts drifted back to Sakura. I wondered what was happening to her now and if she would really be okay. I also couldn’t help wondering just what her deal was, and was curious to know as well why she’d use her power to infiltrate the Palace of all places.

After a few giggles across the table, and a few more what I could only assume were more teasing remarks from Fox, Hana bowed deeply and said, “I should return to my duties now, Lady Fox.”

“Of course.” Fox smirked, a single fang peeking into view. “But if my cup happens to empty again, I hope you’re the one to notice.”

Hana bowed, suppressing another shy giggle, then hurried away red-faced with her pitcher held against her chest.

I couldn’t help staring at Fox with annoyance. She had quite a satisfied curve to her lips as her chopsticks scooped up some noodles, but as she lifted them, she noticed my stare and froze.

“Do you just flirt with everyone who passes by?” I admonished dryly.

She flashed a fang. “Only the pretty ones.”

“You’re not even human!”

“Remember what I said earlier about trying different things out? Uhhh… hmm…” Fox set down her chopsticks, still full of noodles, and closed her eyes as she thought something over. “Actually, I probably should stop there. You’re not old enough for this conversation.”

I clicked my teeth. “Yeah, please don’t. And I’m just saying, isn’t it a little weird to harass people who are trying to work?”

“Harass!? Who am I harassing?” Fox said defensively.

“That girl you just trapped! She’s in the middle of doing a job, and she can’t be rude to you since we’re palace guests. Don’t you think that’s putting her in an awkward situation?”

Fox’s tail batted. “Not true! She was free to walk away. All I did was thank her and throw a few compliments in her direction. What’s so bad about that?”

“Because you’re taking advantage of your position. They have to do whatever you want because we’re guests.”

Fox blinked. “Um… no they don’t?” she said, confusion seeping into her voice.

I gritted my teeth in irritation. Not because she was playing dumb, but because I was pretty sure she legitimately didn’t understand what I was saying. “Fox, think about it. You think every woman you had in your bedroom this morning was there just because you’ve swooned them? Isn’t the entire point of their jobs to do whatever you want? You know, you don’t have to take advantage of it and—”

Then Fox burst out laughing. “Aahaha, oh, okay, I get it.” She waved a hand as if my complaints were just silly. The way she was being so dismissive of it was actually making me mad now, where before I was just a little annoyed.

“It’s not funny, Fox. It’s one thing to be treated like royalty when you did nothing to deserve it, it’s another to put people in that kind of a position!”

“No, look, you just don’t get it.”

“I was old enough in my last life to get it just fine,” I shot back.

“Listen kid, I’m telling you, you’re wrong. Look, I might be a monster, but I’m not a monster, okay? I wouldn’t make anyone do something they were not interested in doing themselves.”

Was she really just this dense? I wasn’t even convinced she was trying to justify herself at this point. It seemed that she really didn’t understand the social dynamics at play here. “Then how do you explain all those women that were in your room this morning? You think all of them just thought you were that great?”

“I’m a Vulpyr,” Fox said as if what she was getting at was obvious. “My species have a naturally high Charm stat.”

“Charm… stat...?” I repeated, raising an eyebrow. My status screen sure didn’t have a Charm stat listed. But then again, on Grick’s status screen, he has Guile instead of Sense.

“Yeah, I guess you wouldn’t really know. You’d probably figure it out yourself if you had a higher level in Analyze, but pretty much it works like this. Everybody, human and monster alike, has the same four main stats: Strength, Dexterity, Vigor, and Attunement, but each species has an additional racial attribute. For you Hell Hounds, it seems to be Sense, for goblins, it’s Guile or something else, depending on the exact species of goblin, and we Vulpyr usually have Charm. Basically it, uh… it makes us better at making friends.” She flashed her fangs once again.

“I know what Charm means…” I muttered, thinking it over. “But that doesn’t make any sense. Are you saying everyone without the Charm attribute is, like, uh… essentially Charm 0? Wouldn’t that make everyone other than Vulpyr completely socially inept?”

“Hmm, so, not necessarily. Like, there’s the attribute Charm, and then there’s just having charm. Like, maybe we all have some of the unique racial stats as a base, but it’s invisible, and you can’t increase them simply by leveling up or getting achievements. It’s like, uh… I think Intelligence is one some humans have. You can make yourself smarter even if you don’t have that attribute just by learning stuff, you know? Otherwise, everyone other than humans would be as dumb as rocks, and that’s not the case. And Sense, like, everybody has some kind of sense of smell and hearing, and all that, but not everyone like you Hell Hounds can make it better just by leveling it up. At best, they would need to gain some particular skills or something if they wanted to smell better.”

I nodded. I hadn’t really thought of this before. I guess I saw what she was getting at, though. “Still…” I continued. “That’s not much better. You have some basically magical power to force people to like you. You’re still manipulating people and taking advantage of it.”

“No, no, no! Come on, is that really how you see me?” Fox pouted. "Charm doesn’t mean people just automatically like me! It means I’m better at knowing how to make people like me. Like that last girl, I didn’t magically enthrall her or something. I just knew she was interested in me, so I made a move.”

My tail flicked. “How could you possibly know that?”

Fox let out a heavy sigh as she sipped her drink and rested her cheek on her palm. “I swear… this kid…” she muttered to herself. “I noticed her before. She keeps taking glances at me while she’s working. When she came over, she tensed when I looked her way, her pupils widened, her scent changed a little, and then she lingered after filling my cup even though she didn’t need to. So I took it as a cue.”

“Her… scent changed?”

Fox waved a hand dismissively. “You’re a Hell Hound, you could probably notice too, but uh… yeah, you wouldn’t care about that, so you don’t. Anyway! I’m not using magical mind manipulation or anything like that, and nobody is being coerced by the palace into doing whatever I want outside of their usual duties, and even if they were, I wouldn’t take advantage of it in that way. Okay? I’m just having some fun with the locals, and if they’re having fun too, it’s a win-win all around, right?” She then got the pouty expression as she buried her face in her cup once again, muttering, “Now can you please apologize? I knew you didn’t think very highly of me in the first place, but do you really see me that way? That just hurts…”

My ears folded down. “I… I didn’t mean it like that.”

Fox peeked over the rim of her cup, still pouting. “You kind of did.”

Ah! Why am I the one who feels like the bad guy now!?

I let out a breath to gather myself, unable to believe I was actually about to apologize to Fox of all people. “Okay… Maybe I misunderstood a couple of things a little. And uh…” I folded into my shoulders and put my attention on my half-eaten Puffstork leg. I snatched it back up and, before taking a bite, I quickly muttered, “I’m sorry. Okay?”

Then Grick, who I’d completely forgotten was overhearing this entire conversation, asked, “What flirt mean?” And I nearly choked on my bite of Puffstork.
