I stared at the achievement. The system was known for being a bit ominous at times, but this seemed a little more so.

Then, I stared at the reward for this achievement.

A@234!$AF!d Awarded!

Did the system just malfunction? Did I actually get a reward or not?

But… hadn’t I seen it do something like this before?

There was something vaguely familiar about that glitched text. When I closed my eyes and tried to remember, I recalled the sensation of being engulfed in flames. The time I had fought Kenshaw.

I shuddered at the memory of being burned alive. Of nearly dying in such a horrible way. I may have really died if Grick didn’t force me to drink that potion just in time. I flicked away the achievement, not wanting to think about it again.

I looked down at the pile of bones that had been hunting me all night. Her clothing was now loosely sitting atop everything. I looked down at my own garb and figured this really wasn’t ideal. My chest armor was shabby and didn’t really fit my stealthy style because it was also bulky and really quite loose on me due to my size.

I carefully picked her clothes free from her bones and got changed. The chest part really was just a long bandage that I unwrapped and then rewrapped around myself. Then I put on the pants, which luckily fit pretty well, except for one problem. I pulled them down a little and cut an opening for my tail, which I then fed through, and then I picked up the cloak and looked at it. I had torn off strips of it to tie her up with, but it was still in fine condition and made of relatively thick cloth. I had to retie the part around the neck that I had cut off of her, but once it was on and my hood was up, I felt like a proper assassin.

Lastly, I looked at the torn strips; the ones I’d tied her legs with were just a knotted loop, but the other was still around two limp arm bones.

I untied the knots and then started wrapping them around my forearms. It was cloth, but it was a thick cloth. It might be able to protect me from a blade should something graze the lower part of my arms. Though, it wouldn’t defend against anything more direct than that.

I then pulled the daggers from my sheaths. They were shiny, and even visually you could see the gleam of silver that made it visibly sharp. I did a testing poke on the back of a hand and winced. It drew a bead of blood with barely any pressure applied. Even the hilt felt way more comfortable in my hand than the rusty dagger I had picked off of a weaker skeleton.

Lastly, I pulled up my vitals, so I could plan the rest of my night accordingly.

Vitals

Health: 256 / 940

Mana: 850 / 1170

Stamina: 187 / 798

I was a bit low on both health and stamina, but as long as I stayed in the more familiar areas and was careful about not getting ambushed by anything stronger, I should be fine, I decided.

I didn’t think I would sleep well in this creepy place one way or another, and I still wanted to take full advantage of how much experience I could gain. Slacking when easy experience was available was how I’d end up too weak to face my future challenges.

As I stepped out of the crumbling building, I activated {Veilform} and turned skeletal again, my flesh peeling away but leaving my new clothes secure right where they had been. I looked a lot like Skeleton Lady now, whose name I realized I hadn’t caught. Probably better that I didn’t know her name, honestly. All said and done, she was just another enemy, after all. Whether she shared my roots from Earth or not.

***

If farming these skeletons was easy before, my new daggers made it all the better. I lured another two into an alley and ambushed them, sticking daggers in their eyes in quick succession.

I then went back to the streets and thought about luring another, but decided why go through all the effort? Granted, I’d have to be careful about getting too overconfident with my HP so low, but it defeated the purpose of training for quick gains if it wasn’t exactly… quick.

I spotted a group of four, then walked into the middle of them. They hardly paid me any mind, even as I drew my daggers from their sheaths, holding them in a reverse grip as that is what I found most comfortable.

I eyed up my targets, then quickly sprang into motion. My cloak flowed behind me as I spun this way and that, coming to sudden stops as I’d stick a dagger through one eye, then turn and do the same to another.

One skeleton almost got me with his sword, but I ducked under the swing and shot my foot out, sweeping his legs out from under him, then pouncing on top, landing in a straddle with both daggers plunging into his eyes.

I got the kill message for all four of them, flicking them away as quickly as they came and rose to a stand.

Another two skeletons down the street saw the carnage unfold as I’d quickly dispatched four of their brethren, and they started running at me.

I took a battle stance, the daggers held in a backward grip, one in each hand. The stance gave me this strange feeling that I was supposed to be fighting enormous blond men on boats.

“I have no enemies,” I whispered, right before charging directly at my enemies.

I sidestepped one sword, drove a dagger into his eye, and kicked him away. Then I hopped backward, my cloak flowing into the space I’d just vacated as the other one’s attack sliced through it. I instantly surged forward again, my dagger finding its home in a skull just as easily. The skeleton collapsed into a pile of detached bones just like the others.

I swiped the kill messages away while turning in a slow circle, eyes darting around every shadow and alleyway for anyone else who might be coming at me, but it seemed I had cleared the street.

Then, two more System notifications of a different variety popped up.

[New Active Skill Acquired]

Twin Fang Slash LvL 1

Perform a precise spinning slash with each of your daggers in turn. Requires that you are dual-wielding daggers.

[New Passive Skill Acquired]

Dagger Dual Wielding LvL 1

You can dual wield two daggers with more efficiency.

Wow, look at that, all kinds of new things are happening for me. I guess on top of the extra experience I’m gaining, I’m also going about hunting in a much different way than normal. The System has seemed to reward trying out new things in the past as well as—

Another system notification popped up that sent my skeletal tail wagging.

[New Evolution Hint Acquired]

I took another quick look around, resisting the urge to instantly pull up my evolution tab and see what I’d just gotten. I didn’t want to get ambushed while I was distracted.

I saw nothing around, but activated {Veil of Shadows} and picked a dark alleyway to go hide out in anyway, then opened the menu and selected the Evolution section.

I scanned down, searching for anything new. It wasn’t a new Path altogether that was hinted at but rather…

A skeletal-wolfy grin spread across my face. It was for Aberrant Triune.

Legendary - Aberrant Triune

Path hinted, further details currently unknown.

Hint 1: The form is not wrong because it is many. It is wrong because it is not yet one.

Hint 2: Three must stand where one once walked.

Hint 3: The fangs were born ready. The hands must be made so.

Hint 4: Locked

Requirements

Stage 12 development

Attribute Requirements: Unknown

Required Achievements: 5

Branching Destiny: You have unlocked paths in a total of 3 separate evolution trees and have stepped beyond linear evolution!

Hands like Fangs: Unknown

A Pack of One: Unknown

(2 unknown)

Okay! So that hint showed me two more required achievements.

Hands like Fangs and A Pack of One, huh? Well, both seemed pretty obvious what they entailed, and both were things I was currently doing. They also tied into the hints pretty well. But the Pack of One thing? Why would fighting alone be a requirement for this Aberrant Triune path? That really both confused and bothered me.

But as always, the hints unlocking achievement titles really just acted as new hints on their own since it won’t tell me what I actually have to do to unlock said achievements! My only indication was the title of the achievement, which really left a lot up to guesswork.

In any case, it was reassuring to know I now only needed one more hint. Based on past experience with evolution hints, once I find all the hints, it will unlock the Path description along with all the rest of the requirements. Therefore, I’ll have a much better idea what this Path actually is at that point. Seeing the attributes, for example, would give a strong indication if it was a magic or physical combat Path.

But for the time being…

I looked up to the sky to see the barest hint of the night giving way to dawn. There wasn’t much color up there yet, but the sky was subtly lightening, and the stars were disappearing.

I didn’t want to sleep in this city, and I’d need some food soon, so I decided to head out of town and hopefully find somewhere decent to lie down for a while. That rocky area I’d passed probably had some crevice that I could curl up into, and that was also my most likely place to find a meal.

I passed through the town square, where that creepy broken statue of the lady with the hooves stood, down the street I’d entered from at the start of this crazy night and then made my way out of town.

Once I was out of town, I still didn’t go back to doggy form because leaving these clothes behind and putting them on again when I was ready would be a pain in the tail.

I need to find a bag like Fox has, I thought.

I walked, the sun rising ahead of me, but far in the distance I saw no traces of greenery on the horizon anymore. I really was in it now. Surrounded by these wastelands as far as my eyes could see. I truly felt that there was no giving up and going back at this point.

I looked back to the ruined city and the mountains beyond, to those two peaks that would be twins if not for one of them looking like it had broken off. The broken fangs. That would be the next stop on my journey, but first I needed to get some food!

I found that rocky area I had passed on the way into town, then found a boulder to climb on top of and sat cross-legged, then let myself turn human again as there was no reason to remain a creepy skeleton dog at this point.

{Veilform}, human.

Skin reverse-peeled back into place as I sat there on that boulder like some meditating martial arts master, but my eyes remained open as I watched the ground below. Watched the burrows that my next meal may be heading in or out of soon.

Sure enough, it didn’t take long before I saw a very familiar plump mousy thing, and my tongue licked across my fangs as I slowly rose to a stand. It was sniffling along the dirt, vaguely heading toward one of the burrows, but I wouldn’t give it a chance.

I positioned myself, and then pounced, jumping down from the rock, my cloak flapping behind me. I descended like a shadow, and by the time it realized I was upon it, it was too late. It tried to make a dash for the hole, but my dagger speared into its back as I landed in a crouch overtop of it. It squealed in pain, so I twisted the dagger and grabbed it with my other hand as I ripped longways across its body, trying to turn the wound fatal as quickly as possible.

Prey Eliminated - Wasteland Mouse level 6

No experience gained.

I wiped the dagger off on its fur and returned it to its sheath at my side, then grabbed the plump mouse with both hands. It was about the size of a soccer ball. These things looked so much bigger back in the caves of the Vale, and maybe they were considering an easier food supply than in the wastes. But I was also so much smaller back then myself.

I lifted the bleeding corpse to my nose and sniffed. It was a little muskier than the ones I remembered, but not exactly rot-smelling either, so I figured it would be safe to eat.

I ripped my claws into its wound to expose some more flesh and took a testing nibble that I played with in my mouth, running my tongue over the bloody meat. It wasn’t great, but it was acceptable.

I peeled its wound open further and sank my face into the cavity, chomping down into the innards, eating the thing inside-out, blood dripping through my clawed fingers and down my wrists and chin as I had my first meal in what felt like ages.

When I was done, and all the good bits were picked clean, I tossed the corpse to the side and let out a satisfied breath, my eyes darting around and my nose sniffing, already searching out my next prey.
