I killed a few more skeletons by the time night settled in fully, and I have to say, I regretted writing off this Path. It definitely had some major advantages, though I imagine it wouldn’t be as useful until I leveled up Veilform more. In my human form, I would never pass for actually being human unless I took care to hide my wolfy features. I’d need some kind of face mask and gloves, for one, but even then, hiding my ears and tail under clothing would be quite uncomfortable to do for a long period of time.

Well, to be fair, that cloak Rin had given me wasn’t so bad, but it had a nice loose hood to hide my ears and merely draped over my tail, though that was far from a foolproof disguise against anyone who was looking closely.

In any case, let’s just be glad skeletons were dumb!

It seemed they could see in the dark fairly well themselves, while I, of course, had no problem thanks to my Night Vision passive. I’d just wander around, sword over my shoulder, and pick out a victim that didn’t have too many other skeletons around it.

Like this guy, for example. He went wandering off down a side street with nobody accompanying him. Doesn’t he know it’s dangerous to do that at night? Then again, he’s probably familiar with the area and wouldn’t think some maniac was on the loose, taking out all of his neighbors.

I snuck up behind him and swung my sword at his back, cracking the back of some ribs. He stumbled forward and tried to turn and raise his weapon, but by the time he looked at me, I was already jabbing my sword forward.

Undead Vanquished! Level 16 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

This really was too easy.

I shifted my sword to my other hand and cracked my neck. Even though this form didn’t technically have muscles, for some reason, it still kind of felt like I did. My arm was getting tired. This sword was kind of heavy.

That’s when I stepped free from the side street and saw something that instantly caught my attention.

A lady skeleton!

Well, it could be a cross-dressing male skeleton, since I was only basing that off of her clothes.

She wore a dark hood over her skull, along with some loose cloth around her chest and waist. It was the way the chest cloth was fashioned that gave it away. It was wrapped tightly around where breasts would have been, despite the fact that there was absolutely nothing there to support. Her midriff… uh, well, the empty space where a tummy should be, anyway, was bare, and I could see through her to her spine and the inside of the cloak that hung from her shoulders.

But that wasn’t the only thing that caught my attention. She held a dagger in each hand. She was dual-wielding daggers and… come to think of it… she wasn’t exactly shuffling around in that same zombie-like fashion as all of the other skeletons.

I decided all of this was worthy of hitting her with an {Analyze}, and what I saw instantly told me to be careful.

Skeleton Shadow Sentinel – Level 24

Five whole levels above me, huh? Apparently, she wasn’t just an ordinary skeleton either, if the fancy daggers and unique clothes didn’t give that away.

Still, I’ve certainly taken worse odds than this before, but I’d have to be sure to keep this to a one-on-one battle. I didn’t have as many tricks up my sleeve with this Path, so at the very least I’d have to have the element of surprise on my side.

Only problem was, she was meandering around the town square, and if I tried to attack her, dozens of skeletons would be on me in moments.

Hmmm… but those daggers had my attention for more than one reason. First of all, they were not rusty and dented like the sword I currently wielded, nor the single daggers I saw in the hands of any of the other skeletons. And since I was a stealthy ninja puppy who liked to assassinate my prey, daggers seemed like they would be a way better weapon of choice. Like, this sword was fine, but it was a bit cumbersome. Imagine trying to climb something while holding this thing? And I didn’t have a sheath to put it in either, but those daggers I could fit easily along my waistcloth with just a little engineering effort.

Yup, it was decided. That lady right there would be my next victim.

I remained back on the other side of the town square, stalking her from a distance as she made her way down another street. I carefully followed her there and then realized I’d have to be extra careful when she suddenly stopped.

She looked down at a pile of bones—one of her slain skeletal comrades—and then she just stood there… as if she were thinking about something.

She turned suddenly back in my direction, and I instantly lowered my sword from my shoulder and started dragging it on the ground behind me as I shuffled along.

Yup, just an ordinary skeleton here! Don’t look at me!

Though the ears and tail were a dead giveaway.

Is she focusing on me? Is she?

I carefully looked through the corner of my eye.

Yeah! She was staring right at me! And she started walking my way, though unhurriedly.

I semi-quickly shuffled my way around the corner of a building, and then as soon as I was out of her line of sight, I made a run for it.

My bones clinked and rattled as I sprinted, none of the other shuffling skeletons paying me any mind, until I spotted a collapsed stone building that looked like it might make a decent shelter, and I quickly climbed some rubble and slipped in through a collapsed window.

Once I was safely on the other side of the wall, I took a moment to catch my breath, then cautiously peeked outside.

The lady skeleton was slowing down from a fast walk, her head pitching left and right, definitely looking for something, and that something was probably me.

Yup, I’d definitely have to be very careful about this, and frankly, not killing her wasn’t an option now. I’d have to sleep at some point, and with the knowledge that an at least somewhat intelligent skeleton might be on the hunt for an intruder, I would never manage to get to sleep at night. It doesn’t help that this place was so creepy in the first place.

When her skull turned my way once again, I let myself slink deeper into hiding and sat with my back against the ruined wall, and noticed something else was inside the room with me.

I stared at a group of four very familiar-looking pots.

Glancing over one shoulder and the next to check how much cover I had, I carefully crawled over to them and peeked inside.

There was that same black bubbling sludge inside each one of them as with the ones from the watch tower.

Now, that was very strange.

What is this stuff?

It couldn’t have been some kind of food, right? Like, that was my last best theory, that maybe it was some very old and very rotted food that finally degenerated into sludge, but what were the chances of finding identical pots here in the ruined city that I saw in the isolated watchtower?

Very suspicious.

But I couldn’t even begin to think what this might mean, so I decided to just put it out of my mind for now. I had some creepy skeleton-assassin lady to worry about right now!

I peeked out the window once more, seeing the lady skeleton had finally decided on another road to go down, and she was wandering out of my sight.

I climbed over the rubble and back out the window and followed after her.

Once I made it to the corner that she disappeared behind, I carefully peeked my skeletal head out just enough to see her walking, cloak flowing behind her. She seemed to be walking with purpose now, and that worried me.

What if there were more skeletons like her, and she was going to tell the others that she saw something weird? What if that meant they would then start hunting me down?

I was stuck in this city for the night, I felt. There was nothing surrounding us but miles and miles of wasteland, and I was not going to risk traveling through without any kind of shelter.

Well, I guess if things got too hairy here in this ruined city, I would have no choice but to do just that.

Still, I wasn’t ready to give up on the city just because one skeleton had more going on inside her skull than the others.

Besides, I wanted those daggers and that cloak.

I waited until she disappeared around another corner further down before slipping out of hiding and quickly walking after her.

After following her to another corner, I once again carefully peeked around the side until I spotted her, then continued to follow, keeping a good distance and casting {Veil of Shadows}.

A few times, she stopped and glanced back, and each time I was quick to copy the other mindless skeletons and start shuffling along like I didn’t have a single thought between my ears, just in case she did happen to spot me despite my stealthy skills. I figured it was better to play it safe than sorry.

It only took ten seconds or so of shuffling around before she decided there was nothing to see and continued on her way. Was she just naturally paranoid, or was she on to me? It was hard to say. It’s also possible she had some skill that let her take notice of me despite my stealth skills, so I couldn’t take for granted that I was hidden in the darkness.

I continued to follow the lady skeleton through several more narrow streets until the buildings around us became taller and more tightly packed together. I couldn’t keep quite as much distance as before because I would quickly lose her in this maze. I thought about just making a run at her and getting this fight on, but I didn’t know enough about my surroundings to take such a risk, nor did I have Pulse Sense to help with that.

Then again, I kind of doubted Pulse Sense would work on these guys (and gals) one way or another.

Eventually, she slipped through the remains of a large wooden door hanging from its hinges, and another wooden sign hanging from a chain was lopsided on the wall above it. It looked like it was once some kind of shop, or maybe just a restaurant or a bar? Whatever image was once painted on the sign had long since peeled away, unfortunately, as all that really remained of it was some slight traces of paint stubbornly clinging to the dry, rotted, splintery wood.

The upper floor had mostly collapsed, but the bottom still appeared intact.

I waited, and waited, considering my options. She didn’t come back out. Was she meeting with someone in there?

Maybe she had a whole group of intelligent skeleton friends waiting inside, and she would tell them, “Guys, you won’t believe what I just saw.”

Or maybe she’d be like, “I need a night off, I’m pretty sure I’m seeing things.”

Nah, that seemed unlikely.

But then again, I was a Hell Hound who shapeshifted into a skeleton while planning to murder a lady skeleton for her daggers and clothes, so I probably shouldn’t judge anything as unlikely anymore.

I carefully crept closer to the building and pressed myself against the wall beside the entrance. I just listened for a moment but didn’t hear anything. Not even the sound of bone scraping against stone or anything!

Finally, I carefully peeked inside.

The room beyond was dark and mostly empty. Broken shelves lined the walls, and shattered glass covered part of the floor in front of a broken counter that seemed to have once doubled as a display case. This was definitely some kind of shop, but whatever had once been sold here had apparently been completely looted clean.

I stepped inside and carefully avoided stepping on any glass. I didn’t know if stepping on it would hurt, but it would definitely make noise.

She wasn’t behind the counter, nor hiding under any of the collapsed shelves.

There was a room behind the counter, but there was so much debris in the way, it seemed it would be hard to get to. But there wasn’t anywhere else she could have gone, so I figured that had to be where she went. As I carefully stepped over some scraps of wood and reached forward to get a hand on something to help keep my balance, I heard a sound.

It sounded like… a low exhale of breath?

My skeletal wolfy-ears twitched.

The sound was so low that if I didn’t have such a high Sense stat, I probably wouldn’t have noticed at all. But where was it coming from?

Not behind me, not anywhere in this room. It’s…

A much more obvious scrape sound came from above.

I looked up to see the lady skeleton dropping on me from the ceiling! Her jaw snapping open with a scraping hiss!

She slammed into me and tackled me right into the rotten remains of the counter, the thing shattering apart as we fell through it. One of her daggers scraped across my rib as the other lifted and plunged down at me.

I got a hand up just in time to catch her wrist, but the other dagger found its way between my ribs and stabbed deep—

And it hurt!

It didn’t just slide through empty space—I literally felt like I was solid flesh and I had just been stabbed!

I kicked my knees up against her pelvis, rocked back and kicked her away, and as I scrambled over the shattered debris we had wrestled atop, I found myself in front of the lone spooky doorway at the back of the shop.

I got back to my feet and ran into that room. It was dark inside, but once again, I was met with a very creepy sight.

Who knew pots and sludge could be so unnerving? Especially when there were dozens of them, except these pots were actually audibly bubbling.

I turned towards the doorway and pressed a hand against my wounded chest. When I pulled it away, I found blood sticking to my bony fingers.

Okay, so this body of mine definitely wasn’t as it appeared to be. I was still somehow flesh and blood between these, uh… bones.

But more importantly, I was cornered! Could I throw one of these pots at her and use it as a weapon? I’d even dropped my sword in our little struggle a moment ago, and I had to worry about not getting stabbed repeatedly.

“Auuuuuggghh…”

I heard that same exhale of breath as her footsteps crunched on the other side of the door, and then one hand set high in the doorway, skeletal fingers still gripped around a dagger as her hooded skull slowly leaned into view.

She almost seemed to be smiling at me as her eye sockets pulsed with light, and I realized, she really had been onto me this whole time! I had only thought I was fooling her, and the entire time, she had been waiting for her chance to ambush me and get me cornered.

“Uh… h-hey, can’t we talk about this?” I asked her.

Her skull canted slightly, her jaw parting as she let out another throaty moan and stepped through the doorway, both daggers at the ready. “Uuuuuhhhhg…”

“I-I’ll take that as a no.”
