We’d killed seven bandits so far—just under the halfway mark of the fifteen-kill quest the emperor had put us on.

Through my mind’s eye, I tracked the sentry as he ran deeper into the woods. Then he started ascending something—it didn’t look like climbing, more like stairs. He stopped shortly after, talking and gesturing to someone out of the range of my mind’s eye.

“Go hide. I’ll check it out,” I told Lily and Grick.

I prowled forward, activating a fresh {Pulse Sense} to make sure I didn't accidentally put myself on the radar of any other scouts.

At the same time, I considered Genzo's ability to block Pulse Sense and reminded myself to stay vigilant despite it. If anyone had such a skill, then some kind of scout or sentry would be likely to.

I wasn’t sure how common Pulse Sense was in this world, but remembering the Black Prowler that had nearly killed me when I was just a pup, I suspected it wasn’t rare among stronger creatures. I couldn’t blindly assume I was the only one using it.

Thus, I put my sniffer to work and used my eyes and ears to make sure anything immediately around me was accounted for.

As I got closer to the now-stationary sentry, I used one last {Pulse Sense} and my belly instantly hit the ground as I hid amongst the undergrowth of the forest.

The good news—I’d found plenty of bandits to finish the quest.

The bad news—we were outnumbered at least ten to one.

There had to be at least thirty of them, a large group huddled around the silhouette of my Death Marked victim! The pulses were mostly human heartbeats, but not all. A few were lower to the ground—four-legged. Once I noticed them, I picked out several more.

Then the pulses around the sentry shifted. They were coming back my way, but I needed more information.

Keeping low, I moved closer—careful not to overcommit.

Through a break in the brush, I saw the terrain slope upward. At the top of the hill sat a structure—shoddily built, half-swallowed by vines and brush in an obvious attempt at concealment. No torches. No lights. It was clear this place had been built to be inconspicuous.

A moment later, the bandit I’d Death Marked emerged, followed by five others in quick succession.

I sank lower into the undergrowth and activated {Veil of Shadows} as they began scanning the forest.

There were six of them—we could possibly take them depending on their levels, I thought. Hmmm, well, maybe not in broad daylight, and if they went back inside their base at night, we might have to get lucky with picking off some late-night sentries.

Though one thing I was sure is that this group was far too organized to be ordinary bandits.

Although, the last two we’d killed had counted toward the quest, and these still didn’t look like a proper military, just something more structured than scattered deserters. Maybe Takashi’s group who we’d saved Mei from had been fragments of something like this?

Then, another human left the fort, and I abandoned any idea of taking this group out without a solid plan first.

He was huge—not quite as big as Valrok, but close enough. He was thick with muscle, but but stood in a calm, unhurried way, like nothing here could threaten him. But there was one other way he reminded me of Valrok, and that’s that two monsters flanked either side of him.

They resemble wolves, but at the same time, there was something vaguely reptilian about them. It was in the slanted yellow of their eyes, and as they panted, I thought their muzzles looked more lizard-like with similarly pointed teeth lining their gums rather than fangs like a proper wolf.

Most notably, however, was what was around their necks. Collars with inch-long steel spikes protruding out, latched tightly around their necks in a way that couldn’t possibly be comfortable. At first I thought it was meant to control them, but a dual purpose was clear as I thought about how I’d go about defeating one. I’d end most of my fights by getting at the throat or the back of the neck, but that would be absolutely impossible with those spiked collars in the way.

"Wait!" the big man said, putting up a hand when the group was only partially down the slope in front of their fort.

The other bandits turned towards him. "What is it, Boss?"

The big man—Boss—drifted his gaze through the forest, and I suddenly worried about the sound of my own heartbeat.

Boss's gaze stopped, and I felt like he was looking right at me. But he couldn't be. It wasn't quite nighttime, but I had plenty of shadow around me to know I was basically impossible to see between Camouflage and Veil of Shad—

"Get em'!" he spat in a loud whisper, and suddenly the two dogs were charging right for me!

Not thinking twice, I turned tail and fled into a full sprint, not risking taking any time to assess whether they saw more or not.

These dogs were bigger than me, which didn't necessarily mean stronger than me, but those collars would certainly complicate things. And it was two on one. That alone made this bad, and it would only get worse if the bandits got involved.

But luckily, humans were slow. I could just kite the wolf-things away.

I glanced back, confirming that while I wasn't gaining any distance on them, they weren’t exactly managing to close the gap either.

I did a quick vital check to view my stamina—

Vitals - ???

Health: 630 / 630

Mana: 680 / 820

Stamina: 505 / 576

Yeah, I could keep this pace up for hours if I had to.

But still, this was a dangerous situation! I don't think those bandits would just forget about the fact that we took out two of their guys, and that Boss guy looked scary!

I darted under a cluster of thick bushes, and my smaller frame broke through easily, though branches snapped back, scratching my nose, but I ignored the sting. It seemed my small size was to my advantage because my pursuers didn’t clear the obstacle quite so easily.

I glanced back to see them struggling through the spot I had easily blown through, their collars snagging slightly as the beasts snarled in agitation, but ultimately they forced their way through successfully.

It was still enough to gain some distance on them, and I felt safe enough to use Analyze and see just what I was dealing with.

Domesticated Drakewolf - Level 18

Domesticated Drakewolf - Level 18

Damn, they both had me by one level. Not that levels alone meant everything—I’d killed plenty of higher-level things before—but it made me a lot less eager to take them on two at once.

"Grick, Lily," I called out through Pack Bond.

"Sister?" Lily responded immediately.

"Enemies! Fast ones! I'm running to get them away from slower ones!"

Already, the bandits' fort was far behind us. I'd rather just lose these things entirely rather than take a fight, but they were showing no signs of giving up any time soon, and I couldn't just run from them all day! No, we needed to beat them, and I needed my pack's help.

But those collars were still a problem. I'd have to use Soul Rend to finish them, or create an opening for Grick to stab one in the heart, but neither of those were very clean solutions! I’d have to cripple them and beat them down badly enough for Soul Rend to work, and I’d likely take significant injuries myself in what would surely be a war of attrition.

At least Grick had some healing potions.

Then the canopy ahead began to thin.

At first, I thought I’d looped back toward the path we’d seen earlier—but as the ground sloped downward and the scent of moisture hit my nose, realization struck.

My paws skidded as the forest opened up—

…and a massive river stretched out in front of me.

Crap!

One of the Drakewolves immediately adjusted, arcing its path to intercept me. The other stayed on my tail, the two working together to box me towards the river! They were coordinated, hunting just like I do with my pack—they were smarter than I realized!

“Sister!? Where are you?” Lily called to me through Pack Bond.

“River—keep distance! Watch out for humans! They might trap us!” I called back to her.

That was my other concern. We weren’t in endless forest anymore. If the bandits knew this terrain, they could already be moving to cut me off upstream.

I noticed the river curved towards me ahead, and as it did so, the Drakewolf running at my side angled closer towards me, using its proximity to force me closer to the riverbank.

I considered the water. I didn’t know how to swim, or at least, I don’t think I did. I’d never really tried swimming in my new puppy life before! Plus, it was far from a calm stream, the river currents roaring with white foam, which is not where I planned to test my swimming capabilities!

But if things continued as they were currently going, they’d eventually herd me into the water or worse.

No, I wouldn’t escape this predicament simply by running all day. There is no choice—I’d have to fight!

With that realization, I began to consider the optimal way to begin the violence. If these things were smart enough to herd me as they were, then they may be prepared for their prey suddenly shifting to aggression as well.

But I was at a clear disadvantage—two on one. One way or another, I needed to tilt the odds.

That’s when an idea struck me—a risky one.

I spotted some loose stone, the kind I would normally avoid or leap over, but instead I let myself slip over it on purpose.

I pitched forward, let out a surprised yelp, and slid along the damp earth, making it look just messy enough to be convincing.

The Drakewolves instantly took the bait, abandoning their uniform herding tactics and both making a beeline right for me!

Perfect!

Just as they pounced, I twisted sharply and dove to the side of one, slipping past its snapping jaws while using its body to shield me from its ally. They ran into each other with surprised snarls, but I spun faster than they could reorient themselves and dove low, aiming for the first leg I could get my teeth on!

I used {Cripple Bite}, and despite the Drakewolve’s high level, its leg snapped instantly! Those legs were built for speed, not defense, and the Drakewolf let out a piercing cry as it collapsed to the ground.

Time to retreat, I thought, inwardly cheering that my plan had worked so well.

Even the system seemed to appreciate my tactics as an achievement popped up.

Achievement! Stridebreaker

You employed deceptive tactics to break their coordinated assault. Funny how a single mistake can cost a leg. Literally.

Minor Bonus to All Stats!

I dismissed it with a glance and checked behind me.

The injured Drakewolf stumbled and dragged its shattered leg, already falling far behind, while the other continued to chase me. If it was dumb enough to keep pursuing me, then I could take it far away from its injured ally and lead it into a trap of my own!

For now, I continued to let myself act like prey. I’d glance back and continue to run while trying not to look too confident. I even let myself slow slightly, letting it think I was tiring out. I wanted to kill it, and the best way was to make it think I was prey—prey that had just gotten lucky after a bad slip!

The game would not need to last long. Ahead, I saw movement, a black blur with green atop.

“Here!” I called to them, “Let's kill!”

I then gave up the prey act and turned immediately.

The Drakewolf shuffled, its eyes visibly widening as my sister broke forward and came to my side, and now we were the ones chasing it.

It turned around quickly—I could give it credit for that—but as soon as our roles were reversed, I felt a surge of power through my legs as Give Chase took hold!

The Drakewolf looked back in panic. I could see the questions in its eyes. It had chased me so far, slowly gaining on me, slowly corralling me in with its victory all but assured in time. But now I was somehow faster than it. It probably made no sense to the monster. It was probably wondering if I had been faking this whole time just to lead it into a trap.

Well, whatever the case, it didn’t really matter. As soon as I got close enough, I took my shot and lunged forward with snapping jaws!

My teeth clinked together just short of its hind leg; it had anticipated my movement and pivoted away just in time. A growl of frustration rumbled within me as I dug my claws in and continued the chase.

I knew I couldn’t miss again! Next time, I had to put it down. It could have been leading me back to its masters now because I was sure it wasn’t simply running back the way it had come. No, it may have been hard to maintain a sense of direction while being chased through the woods, but I was quite sure it was indeed heading back towards the fort.

I surged forward, not going right for a bite this time. I pushed and pushed, letting Give Chase close the gap until I was running alongside the Drakewolf. It side-eyed me, and I could see the fear as it tried to angle itself away.

This time, I didn’t go for a bite — I tackled! I slammed my side into it, and as soon as it lost its footing, I snapped my jaws at its flank. It wasn’t a clean bite, but I got my teeth in enough to keep the beast with me as we tumbled across the forest floor together. We were in a wild wrestling match of tossing limbs and furious snarling.

Claws raked across my shoulder as the Drakewolf twisted beneath me, its jaws snapping for my throat with feral desperation that I barely rolled away from. Up close, it was stronger than it looked—muscle solid under its hide, breath hot and rank as it tried to overpower me.

But it was panicking—that much was obvious to me. This thing hadn’t been through what I’d been through. It may have known what it was like to hunt, but it hadn’t known the desperation of being the one hunted—hunted by a force many times greater than yourself. It wouldn’t know of hunting such a force and somehow overcoming it!

The beasts of the vale, the Earth Tyrant, and even the red masks. Ironically, I almost had to thank all of them. It was because of those early adversaries that such a strong foundation had been set for me, and that I learned to overcome impossible odds!

The Drakewolf’s teeth managed to catch my side, but I quickly returned the favor. It flailed and bashed into me, the spikes of its collar stabbing slightly, but they were clearly more for defense than for a weapon.

At least they did their job in one way, because as the Drakewolf managed to slip away and try to make a run for it, I instinctively almost went for its neck. But no, it wouldn’t be that easy. I instead dove low, and this time I did not fail to find a leg.

{Crippling Bite}!

The Drakewolf screamed in pain—so loudly, I was sure that those humans would have heard it if they were anywhere even remotely nearby. We had to end this, but luckily, I had help.

Lily slid into the chaotic bestial wrestling match a moment later. It seemed Grick had jumped off of her, and he was either looking for his own opening or keeping lookout.

Lily and I snapped and tore, hurting the Drakewolf more and more with each bite as it snarled and thrashed and whined for mercy.

But when I was finally satisfied that we had done enough damage, I lifted my paw.

{Soul Rend!}

My paw turned ghostly, and I raked it through the Drakewolf’s chest!

It fell limp instantly.

Foe Eliminated! Level 18 Domesticated Drakewolf

Essence extracted!

55 health restored

120 mana restored

150 Stamina restored

+10 to all attributes

Lily let out a victorious yip as her tail wagged, and Grick walked over, sheathing his dagger, which he hadn’t gotten a chance to use in this particular fight. He patted Lily’s side and shook his head as he looked down at our kill. “That’s not good puppy. That nasty puppy,” he said of the Drakewolf.

Then, a different kind of shout broke through the forest.

“They’re over here!”

“Let’s run,” I said to my pack, and instantly began leading the way. But a thought crossed my mind. “I injured another one. Let’s kill it and then wait until night to come back.”

My thinking was that if we were going to take out this camp then we needed as many advantages as we could get, and I think Soul Rending as many weakened and isolated foes as possible would be just the way to do it.
