I spent another day training with Fox and gained a few more things. I managed to level up Elemental Deflection, Elemental Absorption, and Elemental Slash, and got another achievement for my “daily grind,” which came with some cheeky text about needing a theme song for my training montage. But it also rewarded me with a minor bonus to all stats, which was nice.

Then the next morning, I awoke to another nice surprise.

[You have reached 100% development and have advanced to stage 6!]

I blinked and then looked down at myself.

Does that mean I’m going to get bigger?

I sat up, Lily waking as well, as she was cuddled alongside me. I began sniffing myself, trying to investigate if I had changed at all. This was the first time I advanced a development stage without taking a new Path, so I wasn’t sure if anything was supposed to happen or not.

Well, thinking about it, technically, I’m always growing a little bit between evolutions. Like when I was a little pup, it was most obvious how I had grown before finally hitting 100% and taking my first Path. But the new Path evolutions typically showed more noticeable size growth… other than the Vieledfang Stalker Path, which is the only time evolving to a new path (or switching to a different one) actually made me smaller.

Well, that was rather lackluster and anticlimactic, I guess. Though I did not look forward to going on this new quest and leaving my sister behind, I did hope to get a more impressive evolution while I was off doing that. Hopefully that would be this Hellborne Firewitch Path. I have to admit I miss having those incredible gains that were available to me while in the caves of the vale.

Lily watched me curiously, probably wondering why I was sniffing myself like that. Eventually, she let out a questioning “Yip!”

That stirred Grick awake. He sat up and let out a long goblin yawn as he patted a hand over his mouth. He then looked over to me, ears folded along his temples and one groggy eye barely open while the other refused to do anything but remain closed. “Puppy looks for something?”

“It’s nothing, Grick,” I said through Pack Bond. But then the system finally pinged me with something else, and I said, “On second thought! It looks like I got something after all!”

[New evolution Path upgrades available!]

You may select an upgrade to one of the following Paths!

Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker [Rare]

Juvenile Veiledfang Stalker [Rare]

Oh! This is different!

Okay! So it looks like I can just advance one of those two paths. I mean, I had been training the Arcane Nightstalker this entire time, so that was the obvious one I should choose. I didn’t much care for Veiledfang Stalker. It had its conveniences, but overall it was far too limited in just about every other way that didn’t have social applications. Since I hadn’t used it to hunt yet, even its sneaky abilities like Play Dead had been pretty useless to me. I had no reason to actually deceive anyone here in the palace; the only use I had for it here was my ability to speak.

Thinking about it no more, I went ahead and selected Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker.

[Are you sure you want to evolve to the Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker Path?]

[Yes] > [No]

As soon as I selected yes, that familiar golden glow surrounded me. I just hoped I’d be getting something good out of this!

[Congratulations! You have evolved into the Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker Path!]

[New trait: Deep Attunement!]

Your connection to elemental forces has strengthened, increasing your elemental reserve capacity!

[New active skill: Elemental Overdrive!]

You may use additional resources from your elemental reserves to power applicable skills, such as Elemental Slash and Elemental Cocktail.

Current Elemental Overdrive tiers:

Overdrive level 1: Double the base elemental consumption to fuel an attack.

“Puppy evolves!?” Grick asked excitedly as he was stirred out of his groggy half-awake state. He popped up to his feet, and Lily’s tail wagged as she yipped.

When the glow stopped, I was notably a little bigger than I had been a moment ago, and Lily began sniffing me all over. But I ignored her as I was still reading through my new abilities.

Okay, so Deep Attunement would increase my reserves—which is already a big deal. I went ahead and checked, finding I only had a few left over from my last training session with Fox, but what I was more interested in taking note of was the fact that the maximums had increased all the way to 30!

Elemental Reserves

Earth: 5/30

Fire: 7/30

Wind: 4/30

Water: 4/30

Electricity: 0/30

As for Elemental Overdrive, that sounded pretty cool. It seemed I could only double the elements I poured in right now. But as I leveled it up more and more, did that mean I additional overdrive levels would come with it? Could I eventually dump a full stock of 30 of each element into one massive pentaclysm? Actually, I bet as Deep Attunment leveled up I could have even deeper wells of reserves. Imagine a pentaclysm with 100 of each element! I bet that would be like a nuclear bomb!

I was so excited by that idea that my fur bristled, thinking about just how devastating such an attack would be!

HEEHEHEHEEYYAHAHA!

“Puppy scary…” Grick muttered, and I realized there was a big-bad wolfy smile spread just a little too far over my muzzle. Lily whined softly and nodded at him in agreement.

I let my big-bad wolfy smile dissolve into an awkward grin as I said, “Sorry! I just, uh… got a pretty powerful skill, I think.”

Lily’s tail wagged at that.

But Grick didn’t seem as concerned about that as he yawned and said, “Grick hungry.” Then he got up and started putting on his nicer day clothes, as he had just slept in a simple linen shirt and shorts.

We went to sit at the breakfast table. Sadly, there was no Puffstork available, and Lily let out a sorrowful wail with Cry for Help, collapsing her head onto a free spot of the table.

“Oh, this cruel fate. I don’t want to die here! Someone! Anyone! Please… H-Help me!”

I couldn’t take a human form since I was still Arcane Nightstalker—ah, JUVENILE Arcane Nightstalker now!—so I told her through Pack Bond. “Stop it. If they got a new shipment of Puffstork, I’m sure they would have put some out for us. Complaining won’t change anything if they don’t have it.”

Lily practically rolled onto her back, her head still on the table but now upside down and mouth wide open as that distress voice continued to play from her throat. “Please… please no! Not like this! I don’t want to die like this!”

I let out a wolfy sigh and then examined our other options for food.

Fox came out of her room next, hair a tousled mess and clothes as disheveled as usual. Maybe if she used her serving girls to actually help her with such basic things, she could manage to look a little more presentable in the morning.

“So, no Puffstork yet, I take it?” Fox asked as she took her seat and started making a plate. At least her eye had been completely healed by now after the Pentaclysm she had taken to the face. Even yesterday, she was still quite badly bruised, but now, just a couple of days later, she was perfectly fine again.

I couldn’t exactly respond since I couldn’t take a human form, so I just ignored her and started looking over the table for something to eat.

“Hey, Lily, try this stuff,” I said as I snagged the Tusker meat

She was still upside down as she glared at me from behind her eyebrows and said, through Pack Bond, “I want Puffstork!”

“Me too, but there is none.”

“Ooooh, pooor me!” Lily whined out loud with Cry for Help. “Why won’t anyone help me? I’m so hungry… I’m going to die here…”

I barked at her. “Enough of that!”

She pouted, but finally flipped herself back around and started sniffing over the table. She had to put her front paws up to reach the Tusker and delicately took a piece with her front teeth, then sauntered over to a back corner of the room with it.

As I ate my own I said, “See? It’s not bad, right?”

She did eat it, but still complained. “I want Puffstork…”

At least the guards and serving girls had learned not to acknowledge her when she gets like this. I didn’t want my little sister becoming spoiled!

“Hey, I just realized you look different…” Fox said, eyeing me. “Yup, you’re bigger, claws look a bit sharper…” She stared, and I could tell she was reading a system screen. She had probably just used Analyze on me. “Yup, you evolved, huh? Well, if we can get another day of training in, I’ll help you with your new abilities.”

“Actually,” Aiko said, coming up to the table and bowing half of her face beneath horizontal sleeves. “High Regent Rin Zaoh wishes to see you, Lady Hell Hound. In your human form.”

I huffed and looked down at myself, then checked the cooldown on my path change ability. I still needed a few hours since it was nearly afternoon when I had last changed the other day. And even once it came back, I didn’t want to waste the change now. Not when I had a brand-new Arcane Nightstalker upgrade and a brand-new elemental skill to play with.

More importantly, if I changed into my human form before training, I would have to wait out the forty-eight-hour cooldown again before I could properly test any of it.

“The High Regent informed me the matter was not of great urgency,” Aiko said. “She said you may feel free to meet with her after your training.”

“Good, no problems then,” Fox said with a smirk and lifted her glass as Hana came over to fill it. “And how are you this morning, Hana? Well rested, I hope.” Her fluffy fox tail batted behind her, brushing Hana’s leg.

Hana blushed and giggled, and I couldn't help but wonder if she had snuck out of Fox's room earlier in the morning. “V-Very much so, Lady Fox.”

Then, as she noticed a look from Aiko, she cleared her throat and finished pouring the drink with far more composure. She bowed her head and addressed the whole table. “If there is anything else I can do, please don’t hesitate to ask.”

****

I took another secretive carriage ride with Fox to our private training ground, which, at this point, the area that was once pristine and orderly, was now a mess of raked earth, scorch marks, and toppled trees. Fox would only fight me in earnest in her human form, she said, because it was easier for her to hold back enough, but I was glad that I had at least one ability that could truly injure her. It made me feel far less inferior to her, knowing I wouldn’t be completely helpless against her in a real fight, even though she was a far higher level than me.

After charging up my elemental reserves at the statue, then happily checking to see that each element was indeed at 30, I went to meet her in the flat area in the middle of the training ground.

She gave me an assessing stare, perhaps checking my screen again, then asked, “Okay, so what kind of new abilities did you get?”

I was glad to know she at least didn’t know about my skills and that at least something was private from her Analyze. Unfortunately, it didn’t seem to be the same for Rin Zaoh, because as far as I could tell, the High Regent could see basically everything on someone’s screen, just like Genzo could.

I decided to test out Elemental Overdrive first. I wasn’t sure how it worked exactly, but I decided to test if it was just a matter of thinking of using it along with a swipe or cocktail would do the trick. I started off simple, testing a base fire claw.

{elemental swipe}! Fire Claw!

Red mana coursed along my fur and up to my nails as they became hot like molten metal, and I slashed a training dummy, leaving a rake of scorched claw marks.

“That it?” Fox asked, canting her head. “Wait… pretty sure I’ve seen you use that one before. Do a new ability. A new one.”

I growled at her. “Just hold your damn horses!”

I pulled back my claw then slashed forward once again.

{Elemental Swipe}! {Overdrive level 1}! Fire Claw!

The attack was nearly identical, except this time I felt my claw burn hotter, and the red mana particles that moved along my fur were denser. Then, when I finally slashed it across the training dummy, aiming for a spot to the side of my last claw mark, I could clearly see the difference.

The claw marks were not just scorched, they were still left smoking, and I imagined if it was made of a different, slightly more flammable material, there would be flames.

Fox let out a low whistle as she crouched beside me and examined the second claw mark.

“Nice, so it looks like you can power up that attack now. That’s pretty handy.” She then turned toward me, clearly using Analyze. “Uses four times the mana, though. I guess it’s taking more elemental reserves as well.”

I checked my mana and my fire reserves to confirm what she was talking about and my wagging tail instantly fell limp.

Vitals

Health: 720 / 720

Mana: 780 / 930

Stamina: 610 / 638

Elemental Reserves

Earth: 30/30

Fire: 15/30

Wind: 30/30

Water: 30/30

Electricity: 30/30

I was missing 150 mana already. A normal Elemental Swipe would cost five elemental reserves and 30 mana. Therefore, the overdrive version costs four times the mana and double the reserves!

That… would be seriously limiting! With my high mana pool I thought worrying about running out of mana was a problem of the past!

The reserves were not much of a problem while I had the statue nearby to recharge on whenever I wanted. But while I was out in the wilderness and on my mission, I doubted I’d have such easy access to essences.

Even if I had a reliable way to recharge my reserves, mana would be an issue. I’ve found the only reliable way I knew of to recharge mana was to eat something else that had decent Attunement.

But, man! 120 mana to use that attack is devastating! I’ll become a pretty pudgy puppy if I have to eat my way to Spam City for that attack!

I let out another disappointed huff, but then looked at the damage to the dummy. That overdrive’d fire claw might have cost a lot of mana, but it was at least more than double the effect as far as I could tell. I could only imagine how devastating level 4 or 5 might be if I managed to get it that high. Uuuh… but what if level 2 cost eight times the mana? What if level five cost, uh…

Let me do some puppy math…

I don’t know! Over 500, I guess.

I’d barely ever get to use it!

But then again, dumping that much into a single attack would likely be unbelievably devastating.

Fox echoed some of my thoughts as she mused, “I bet level two or three version of Pentaclysm would be a sure way to bail you out of trouble.” She nodded at what I assume was my screen. “Tell you what. We probably can’t get it to level 3 today no matter how hard we try, but I bet we can pull off level 2. You stay here and just keep training with it on these dummies until you drain your mana. I’ll be right back. I’m going to go and see if I can get you a mana potion or two.” She flashed her fangs. “Sound good?”
