They walked back to the fortress and passed through the main gate, disappearing into the strange flat mountain that served as the Umarii’s home. Two guards who had remained hidden by the entrance stirred as they entered. Luke had known they were there, of course. Besides the fact that there is always someone there, Luke could smell them long before crossing the threshold.

He felt their eyes on him, but that only made him swell with pride. Their slack-jawed expressions were clearly because of his new evolution.

Themiel paid them no mind and continued to lead Luke through the halls.

These halls definitely started to feel smaller the more Luke grew. When he was first brought here, he was only big enough to fit inside a cage that Themiel could easily carry one-handed at his side, and these halls felt so very big. Now Luke walked proudly beside his master, who, if Luke were to stand on his hind legs, he was actually taller than. But walking at his side, he still had to look up to see Themiel’s face, and truthfully, Themiel was one of the shorter of the Umarii males. There were some females that were Themiel’s height or smaller, but most males were a little bigger.

They crossed paths with two older Umarii men who froze in the hallway. Themiel whistled and patted his leg. “Luke, to me,” he said.

That meant move closer to the wall along with Themiel so that others could pass. Luke obeyed the command, getting as close to Themiel and the wall as he could.

The two men looked nervous as they practically hugged the opposite wall as they passed Luke, their eyes remaining on him. Luke thought it best to do as Themiel did and not acknowledge them. Luke didn’t want to accidentally do something he wasn’t supposed to do and get in trouble, after all.

Usually, there were only a few different places that Themiel would lead him to. Either they would go back to Themiel’s room where Luke could lounge on his bed and take a nap. Or, they would go to the food place, where sometimes Luke would get fed tasty food that he didn’t even have to hunt for. And the third place, of course, was the one Luke disliked very much. That was the council chamber, and Luke could always sense it on Themiel as well that Themiel didn’t like going there. Luke could easily see how his master’s posture would stiffen despite his voice coming out loose and confident. But behind it, Luke could tell that’s not quite how Themiel felt. He seemed restrained, holding himself back while wanting to scream.

Luke didn’t know why he and Themiel had to defer to those Umarii of the council, who were so much weaker. Luke knew he himself was becoming powerful, and Themiel was even stronger. Was it simply because there were so many of them? Was it because they were such a large pack and would beat them through sheer numbers if they tried to fight them?

Luke truly did not understand the dynamics of these Umarii people. When he was with his pack, everything was so much clearer.

Mom and Dad were in charge, and as for his siblings, whoever was strongest got to eat a little more unless Mom stepped in and forced them to be fair. Luke missed fighting with his strange sister, as she was the one that he could always test himself against. He was stronger than her sometimes, but other times he wasn’t, because they were growing alongside each other at similar strength. Sometimes she would get a little ahead of him, and sometimes he would get a little ahead of her, and it was always the perfect test to see how he was growing.

Luke’s ears folded down from thinking about his family. He realized he hadn’t thought of them in several days. He used to think about them every single day. Actually, it used to be that almost every single minute they were in the back of his mind.

But as he hunted, ate, and slept with Themiel more and more, he found himself thinking about them less. And that scared him.

Would he continue thinking about his family less? Would one day he just forget about them entirely?

Luke didn’t want that. He didn’t want to forget his family! And he truly did hope he would get to see them again one day.

He wondered if his strange sister had grown as strong as he had. Luke bet that she didn’t. After all, she didn’t have Themiel to train and hunt with. Luke knew it was thanks to his master that he was becoming so strong!

Luke couldn’t help feeling warm at the fantasy of Themiel meeting his family. He would be so happy to introduce his master to them! Would Themiel help make them strong too? Luke just hoped his brothers and sisters liked Themiel and didn’t try to hunt him, because if they did, Luke would have to bite them!

“Here, Luke,” Themiel said, as Luke almost continued straight down the hall as Themiel turned.

Luke stopped and turned his head. This definitely was a different part of the fortress Themiel was leading him to.

“Luke, to me!” Themiel said, a little more assertively.

Oh, right! Luke quickly came back to Themiel’s side, ears folded down, wondering if he was bad.

But he wasn’t bad, because Themiel reached down and patted his head, saying, “Good boy, Luke.”

That made Luke’s tail wag.

I’m a good boy!

Finally, Themiel came to a door Luke had never been to before. He stopped, fist raised as if he were about to knock, but he hesitated.

Luke’s head turned, watching his master, ears folded down.

Themiel took a breath and finally knocked three times.

Luke lowered his nose toward the crack beneath the door and sniffed.

There were strange smells in there. It was almost like the smoke from the little things of fire that hung on the walls. It had that scent that sat underneath it, which was the stuff Luke thought let the things of fire burn without actually burning anything. Not like the ones in the food place that would be kept burning and used to heat up food, because those were kept going by burning wood or little black rocks that would turn red.

But this fire smell was a little different. It was softer, sweeter. It didn’t smell like cooking meat or wood or the other stuff. It was much, much more pleasant.

Luke couldn’t help putting his nose right to the bottom of the door, snuffling at it, trying to understand the smell.

“Luke, no,” Themiel said, grabbing his scruff and pulling him back to his side. “Sit.”

Luke sat and looked up at Themiel, who just stared at the door, until…

“Who’s there?” came the voice of a female Umarii. It was one Luke had never heard before.

“It’s Themiel. And Luke.”

“Themiel!?”

There was the sound of sliding metal, and finally the door creaked open.

An Umarii girl stood on the other side. Unlike most Umarii Luke had seen, she wore mostly white. The clothes covered nearly all of her, draping from her shoulders down to her feet, with only a black sash tied high on her body, just beneath her round things.

Themiel was still in his hunting clothes, which left his arms bare while a thick part protected his chest, and he wore pants tied to his waist with a thing he could draw through loops holding them up.

“Serithe, long time no see,” Themiel chuckled.

She stared at Themiel a moment, then her eyes drifted down to Luke, and she recoiled slightly. “You… brought the beast.”

Themiel reached his hand down and patted Luke’s head, which made Luke’s tail wag. “His name is Luke. May we come in?”

“Come in here?” Serithe asked, suddenly clutching the side of the door as if to hide behind it and once again glancing down to Luke.

“Don’t worry, Luke is well trained. I have to keep him at my side, though. I don’t want to just leave him out in the hall.”

“Well… it’s just…”

“Look.” Themiel reached his hand down to Luke’s muzzle. Luke sniffed at his fingers, thinking there might be a chance Themiel had a treat for him. But no, no treat. Themiel then looked to the girl. “Go on, you try.”

“I-I think I’m okay.”

“Come on, Serithe,” Themiel said, crouching beside Luke so he could put his arm around Luke’s side. “Trust me. He’s nice, and he listens well.”

Serithe stared at them for a moment, half hidden behind the door, until slowly she came out and reached a shaky hand toward Luke.

Luke extended his neck toward her to get a better smell. He could smell the strange fire smells on her fingers, and she was being so slow he wanted to get a better sniff of them. But Themiel held him back from just suddenly lunging and sniffing her fingers as aggressively as he wanted.

But finally, she came close enough, and Luke instinctively gave her fingers a lick.

She chuckled, and turned her hand over and patted Luke’s muzzle. “Wow… so this truly is a Hell Hound…” she muttered under her breath.

Luke leaned into her touch, moving his head to guide her fingers over to behind his ears where he’d love to get scratched by Themiel. Luke decided he liked this Umarii girl. Much more than other Umarii, anyway. When she started scratching behind his ears, he liked her even more.

“So can we come in?” Themiel asked.

Serithe poked her head further out and looked up and down the hall as if checking for someone. Then she said, “Okay, come in.”

Themiel got up and walked in with Luke. Serithe went over to a table and started moving things around, then reached up and put some through a small high door into a wooden box thing.

Luke looked around. There were so many strange smells in this room. He wanted to wander around and investigate them, but when he looked up at Themiel, he was pretty sure he would stop him from exploring freely.

“I’m sorry, this place is a mess. I just… wasn’t expecting any company,” Serithe said. She looked around, grabbed some other things, and moved them to shelves.

“Don’t worry about it, I have shown up unannounced. I imagine you don’t get too many visitors here.”

“Only if emergency healing is needed,” Serithe said. “But both you and Luke’s statuses are fine. So…” She finally stopped moving around and turned to face Themiel. Standing under a thing of fire, Luke got a better look at her face.

She had the same white markings across her dark cheeks and the same purple eyes as every Umarii. Her black hair was tied back, though a few loose strands had fallen across her face. Two horns rose from her forehead where Themiel and the others had only small nubs. Hers were still short, but longer and sharper than most, almost proper horns, but still nothing like the Oracle's.

She let out a quiet breath. “I heard about Corath. I’m very sorry, Themiel.”

“Yes… well, we knew the mission was dangerous. Corath knew it too. The Oracle warned us we might not both make it back.”

“Still… warnings do not make grief any cleaner.”

“No, they just make you feel like a fool for being surprised,” Themiel answered.

“Themiel.”

“Sorry.” He raised his hand, waving it off. “It’s a bad joke.” He then looked down to Luke and said, “But his sacrifice was not meaningless. We have Luke now, and the Oracle says our actions that night may have opened a brighter future. I only hope that is true.”

Luke watched Serithe’s mouth open as if she wanted to say something. Her hand lifted slightly toward Themiel, like she might move to touch his arm, but she stopped herself before he noticed. Instead, she turned back to her table and moved one of the strange things there.

“If you ever need anything, Themiel, I am always here.”

“I know. And the same to you,” Themiel said.

“I mean it. Not just as a healer.”

Themiel looked at her for a moment, then cleared his throat. “Actually… I did have a favor to ask.”

“What favor?” she asked, turning back to him.

Themiel cleared his throat. “I actually wished to speak with the Oracle, but I wanted to not have to go through the council. Do you think you can help me with that?”

For a moment, the room was quiet except for the faint crackle of the little flames on the walls.

“You came here to ask me to help you go behind the council’s back?” she asked.

Themiel’s smile tightened. “I wouldn’t put it quite like that.”

“Then how else would you put it?”

“I just wish to speak to the Oracle privately.”

“And would the council get in your way of doing so? She listens in on all council meetings and only makes her presence known when she wishes to. Or if they call on her wisdom to help answer a dispute.”

“Those fools do not respect the Oracle’s wisdom,” Themiel countered. “Especially when it comes to Luke. They would rather sooner see him killed and tossed away. This is clear to me by how they speak. Every time Luke grows stronger, they don’t see it as a step toward our salvation but another curse.”

Luke’s tail stopped wagging. He recognized his name and something about the council, but not much else. They’d begun arguing for some reason, and Luke didn’t know why. He just wondered if he would have to bite someone.

Serithe let out a breath and shook her head, trying to speak more calmly. “The council is rarely of a single opinion. That is the entire point, Themiel. Our customs exist for a reason. The Oracle doesn’t rule us; she merely guides us, and she does so with the council between her and the rest of the Umarii as a filter. This is how things have been done for centuries. The Oracle speaks and the council considers her words. That is how we remain steady and avoid throwing ourselves into every vision as if it were a command from the gods.”

“They are clearly against her.”

“It only feels that way because she is a new Oracle, and somewhat more brash than the previous."

"Brash?" Themiel muttered. "That's one way to put it..."

"Themiel, believe me, it is fine. It is just the way of things that there is an… adjustment period.”

“An adjustment period?”

“Yes. Remember, she is also much younger than the previous Oracle. Perhaps it is pride that gets in their way, as not all of the council have learned to accept her yet. But they will. Have faith in the process.”

Themiel paused as if he were thinking over what to say, or rather, trying to convince himself that he shouldn’t say something. But in the end, it came out anyway. “Several weeks ago, she made one of their heads explode.”

That stopped Serithe in her tracks. She just stared at him, as if watching his expression, waiting for him to crack a smile.

“That is not funny.”

“No. It wasn’t funny at all. He challenged her, not just on her vision, but also implied she was foolish and called her by a name. Astrid.”

“Themiel!”

“Then she pointed at him and flicked her fingers, and his eyes sprayed blood, as if the insides of his head exploded. They sealed off the chamber door while they cleaned it up and forbade anyone from speaking of it. Particularly me.”

She shook her head. “Y-Yet, you are speaking of it now?”

“Yes. Oh, and before she left, she gave a speech about how killing him opened some brighter paths, then she mused about maybe killing the rest of them to see what may change.”

“Themiel! Enough! Y-You cannot tell me of a council meeting! Especially not if they specifically forbade it! Y-You cannot say these things to me!”

“Well, I just did. I don’t trust the process right now. However our people have typically done things, something has changed. Perhaps because the Oracle’s visions have turned so dark and fools wish not to believe the truth, but I don’t trust the council. So, Serithe, just help me speak to her privately. I think it’s important I establish a better line of contact with her.”

Again Serithe just stared at him, and he stared back. She lifted a shaking finger to the door and said, “Get out, Themiel.”

“So that’s your answer?” he asked.

“Leave this moment, or I will report what you did here to the council myself.”

Luke’s ears folded down as he looked back and forth between them. Then, finally, Themiel said, “Here, boy,” and turned around.

Once they were back in the hall and the door was shut behind them, Themiel muttered under his breath. “Well, that could have gone better.” Luke let out a soft whine, not really understanding what that was all about, but he could see it had upset Themiel.

But as they reached the end of the hall, a door opening echoed behind them. Themiel turned, and beneath the periodic torchlight, Serithe ran after them. She had one hand gripping her clothes low to pull them up past her feet, and her other arm over her chest as she jogged.

She stopped in front of Themiel, but wouldn’t look at him. “When I heard of Corath, I thought I would see you. After the council questioned you on the mission, after whispers of your new Hell Hound spread through the halls, I kept thinking that you would soon come. I thought that maybe you were just waiting until things quieted down. But you never did.”

“I… I have just been busy.”

“Yes. Hunting, training. Avoiding anyone who might actually care you are still breathing. Corath was a brother to you, I know, but he was a dear friend to me as well. I would have… I would have at least liked to have seen you.”

“Serithe,” Themiel began to speak, but she cut him off again.

“And now you appear at my door, with your Hell Hound, and you ask me to betray my oaths as if I am some hidden passage you just remembered existed!”

“That is not true,” Themiel said. “I do care for you, Serithe.”

She let out a breath, looking away from him once again. Her hand raised up to the black sash around her chest, fingers playing with the bow momentarily. “I will be seeing the Oracle tonight,” she finally said. “I will… attempt to bring you up and try to gauge if she would be willing to have a private meeting with you.” She looked up at him. “Come back to my door tomorrow, and if she has agreed, I will take you to her.”

“Thank you, Serithe.”

“I don’t want to hear a thank-you,” she said sternly. Then she turned and stomped back down the hall, once again holding up her clothes enough so they stayed out from under her feet.

Once her door shut again, Themiel looked down at Luke and sighed. “I’ve… never been very good with women,” he admitted to the Hell Hound.

Luke let out a soft whine.
