Fox sat cross-legged in the center of the once-pristine training field, now dug up in clawed patches from my Terra Claws and Terra Bullets, and scorch marks from our lightning. She was back in her human form, with a single eye still swollen shut and burn marks covering half of her face.

I sat on my haunches in front of her, tail drooped flat behind me, feeling a little guilty. She just sat there staring at me, maintaining her calm with her hands folded in her lap.

I cautiously looked up, but I couldn’t quite meet her golden eyes… uh… eye.

I whined, trying to say, “Sorry about that.”

Her head tilted. “Was that an apology?” She sounded pretty pissed off.

I nodded.

She let out a breath. “Well… don’t,” she said. “It’s fine, it’ll heal in a couple days. You know, it looks bad because it's on my face, but my HP is actually completely fine.” She let out another breath, but she couldn’t quite mask the irritation seeping through her voice. “So don’t worry about it. I told you not to hold back, remember?”

I gave a small wolfy grin, trying to communicate that I really hadn’t meant to hurt her… But to be honest, I might have been just a little pleased with myself.

Then her lips curled as her posture straightened, and suddenly that golden eye seemed a lot more sinister. “Well then, there is plenty of time still in the day. I think we ought to begin with phase two of my training…” She flashed a fang as she began to stand up.

Whatever guilt I still felt was replaced by fear a little faster than my Hell Hound pride would’ve liked to admit, and I scooted back.

Her fangs twinkled as she stepped forward, pointing a single finger up in the air as little bits of static danced on top of it. “As you can see, I’ve transformed out of my lovely fox fur. But that’s because I’m quite weaker in this human form, and I don’t want to hurt you.”

She took another step forward.

I scooted back.

Her smile deepened, becoming all the more sinister as she spoke through clenched fangs. “I would never want to end up going too far and accidentally end up hurting you.”

I waved a paw at her and gave an awkward wolfy smile. “Actually! Maybe we should call it a day now! Head back to the palace?”

“Remember how I used my lightning to block yours? Well, as it turns out, most elements can cancel themselves out. Since you’ve got all of them at your disposal, that allows you some unique defensive capabilities against anything else you fight that uses elemental attacks. Unfortunately… I only have electricity, so I can only help you practice with this one.” Her lips curled back somehow even further as her head tilted and her golden eye bore into me with more intensity than I had ever felt before. “I guess we’ll just have to make do.”

A lightning bolt blasted off her fingertip, and I popped away from it just in time for it to strike the ground where I was sitting.

Now, I’m a very, very proud Hell Hound, and I absolutely believe myself worthy of the title of an apex predator who is second to none.

Buuut…

I’m still a pup! So don’t judge me for running, please!

I turned tail and ran as another lightning bolt hit the ground just behind my tail. And then another, and then another.

I headed for the trees where I’d be safe. After all, my wolfy legs could easily out-run her human ones!

Or so I thought.

I looked back to see Fox barreling between the trees at incredible speed, lightning crackling beneath her heels with each step, moving faster than any human legs had a right to go!

I yelped as she pointed and blasted a lightning bolt towards me, paws skidding against the ground as I scrambled behind a tree, bark exploding off of it just shy of my tail!

I then just continued running, weaving between trees, trying my best to lose her, and while she still wasn’t as fast as she was in her fox form, she was plenty fast enough to keep pace with me as she kept sending lightning bolts shooting towards me, always exploding the ground or nearby trees as I just barely managed to dodge.

“Come on! This is supposed to be defense practice!” she called after me. “You won’t learn anything if you just keep on running, pup!”

There is no way I was going to meet her head-on right now! She was a truly ferocious fox, and she was gaining on me more and more!

I leapt over the stream, hoping that would open some distance between us, but her human legs carried her just as easily over it, and when I looked back to gauge my distance, she was right there, another lightning bolt charging up on her fingertip, and her foxy smile growing with manic intensity as she knew she had me this time.

Lightning struck my butt, motivating me to run just a little faster as I let out a yelp.

“Oh! Looks like I got you that time!” she taunted. “You’re going to have to be a little faster than that!”

“ISN’T THIS A BIT EXCESSIVE!” I barked back, but didn’t want to waste too much energy complaining!

I came near the entrance of the training yard, and my pride was just a little too deep to try escaping out of the area where she was less likely to continue hunting me down, so I circled back, but before making it to the wooden bridge, another bolt struck my butt, and I yelped in surprise.

“HAHA! Got you again!” she taunted, her voice taking on an even more dangerous edge.

“I’m sorry! Okay!” I whined as a third bolt struck my butt.

Electricity Resist leveled up! 2 > 3

+3 strength

+3 vigor

***

This, shamefully, went on for a couple more laps around the training yard. Finally, we were both out of breath, gasping for air, and sitting back in the flatter central part of the area.

Fox was propped back on two hands, her single golden eye looking to the side with a bit of shame.

I sat on my haunches, but at this point, whatever guilt I had for causing that injury to her face was gone. I stared daggers at her. I get that she wanted a little revenge, but she took things way too far!

And it seemed she knew it too.

Fox coughed into a hand, still not meeting my gaze. “So uh… Anyway… good um… dodging.” She smiled awkwardly and put a thumb up. “Good job!”

I growled. “Don’t try to pass that off as training! You stupid fox!”

She winced and then carefully glanced back to me. She closed her eye and grinned. “Okay, okay. I guess I got a little carried away there.”

My growl rose to a bark. “A little!?”

“In any case…” She let out a sigh. “You’re okay, right?”

I just held my glare.

She pushed herself back up to her feet.

“Well,” she said, brushing off her hands a little too quickly, “I think it’s time to admit that we are both in the wrong and just agree to let bygones be bygones.”

“As if!” I growled.

She winced again, then coughed into her hand. “So, I really did want to teach you elemental deflection. If we practice it enough, it’s possible you’ll even get the skill.”

My head tilted and ears perked. “Skill?”

“As you may or may not have noticed by now, sometimes you can just learn skills given the right set of circumstances. Skills most often come from evolutions, but practicing a technique even without the system’s direction can sometimes teach it to you. But there is often a chicken-and-egg problem with it. Because skills that can’t be replicated without already having access to the ability, like, I don’t know, your Death Mark thing, are basically impossible to get without receiving them through a Path. You can practice baking without having a baking skill, but you can’t practice magic if you don’t have any magic. See what I mean?

“Anyway, whenever you do acquire a skill through practicing a related technique, you can then start to level it up and get bonuses from the system, as with any other skill. Elemental Deflection should be an easy one to acquire since it’s such a straightforward ability and you can technically practice it right now, so long as you have some elemental attacks at your disposal.”

She nodded and placed her hands on her hips as she smiled in a way that said she completely is ignoring the fact that she ever did anything wrong. “So! Ready to get started?”

I narrowed my eyes.

She smiled innocently.

I let my ears fold down as I huffed. “Fine. Let’s do it, then.”

She clapped her hands. “Great! So just stay right there, and I’ll send out some low-powered attacks towards you. Deal?”

I kept my eyes narrowed on her.

“Oh come on, how long are you going to stay mad about that?”

I barked, “It literally just happened!”

She stepped away from me until there was some good distance between us. “It’ll be easier from a range, and once you get better, we can try doing it from closer together. Okay, ready?”

I stood up and tensed my paws against the ground in front of me. Preparing myself.

“I’ll give you a warning on the first few. On the count of three! Three… Two…”

I felt my mana channeling through my fur and up to my claw as I prepared to use an Elemental Slash.

“One!” Fox snapped a finger forward and a bolt of lightning—smaller than the ones she had been chasing me with—shot out.

I lifted my paw and swiped down, but her attack was coming so fast, I thought there’s no way I’d get it off.

{Elemental Swipe}! Lightning Claw!

A bolt of lightning shot from my claw just in time, colliding with hers right in front of my face, and just like when she had blocked my lightning attack earlier, the opposing bolts caused smaller ones to shoot out randomly, one of them I had to duck under, though I could see its power was severely drained as they ultimately canceled each other out.

“Did you get the skill?” Fox asked. “No? Okay, let’s keep going until you get it. Ready? Three… Two… One…”

I slashed my claw down with another {Elemental Swipe}, and again the bolts collided, canceling each other out. I managed to get it off a little faster, with the collision happening not so close to my nose this time! But still, this was seeming like a rather useless trick, at least as far as lightning was concerned.

Lightning moved too fast, and she was giving me every advantage to block it in time. In the heat of a real battle with no warning of what the next attack would be, there is no way I’d be able to successfully deflect lightning attacks as I was now.

“Again!” Fox said immediately.

We repeated the process seven times, with me running back to the statue to recharge once in the middle of it. And then, finally, on the eighth attempt…

{Elemental Swipe}! Lightning Claw!

The bolts collided, and as the spark sprayed and fizzled out, a system screen popped up in front of my face.

[New Active Skill Obtained: Elemental Deflection]

Neutralize incoming elemental attacks by releasing a matching elemental force of your own at the moment of impact. Successful deflections reduce or completely negate the incoming attack.

My tail wagged as I read through my new skill. There was nothing quite like getting some new abilities! That’s what always made evolutions so much fun, am I right?

“Well, with that reaction, I guess our little training session has borne some fruit, huh?” Fox said, her own tail waving in a slow wag behind her as she walked towards me.

I looked up to her with a wolfy smile and almost barked a thank you—almost—before I remembered what she did to me today. Instead, I willed my tail to stop wagging and let out a low growl.

She smirked and said, “You should be able to block my attacks even easier with that skill now. It should also eat up less of your essence than your offensive ability. Go recharge, and we’ll practice, see if we can get it to a quick level 2.”

I turned and trotted across the bridge, trying my best not to look too pleased, and made my way to the statue.

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

I then returned to Fox and gave her a challenging stare.

She showed her fangs in a smile. “Alright, let’s go again. But this time…” My head tilted as her words trailed off into—

“NO WARNING!”

She snapped her fingers at me, and I yelped, popping backward and instinctively activating my new skill.

{Elemental Deflection}!

A burst of lightning exploded from my paw without even having to swipe it like I was attacking! I just thought to use the skill and it just… did!

Not only that, I had fired it off slightly off target because of the surprise attack, but regardless, my bolt curved in the air and struck Fox’s in a way that a normal Elemental Swipe wouldn’t! It all happened in the blink of an eye, and this time, the bolts collided way farther away than they had during the first tests.

I blinked as my nose subconsciously sniffled forward, impressed by how easy that was. And considering I just topped off my elemental reserves I did another check to see how much it cost me.

Elemental Reserves

Fire: 20/20

Electricity: 19/20

Water: 20/20

Wind: 20/20

Earth: 20/20

It only cost one electricity to do that! That’s amazing! Using an Elemental Swipe costs 5, and Elemental Cocktail costs 2 of each element I use. So I didn’t even have to worry about wasting my reserves on deflections too quickly.

“See? Told you this would work,” Fox said smugly. “Honestly, when will you learn to just trust in me. I always know what I’m talking about.”

I gave her a dry look that said, “Don’t get too full of yourself.”

She smirked. “In any case, let’s keep practicing. Once you leave on your quest, you won't get another chance to practice in a safe environment with infinite essence available. So let’s get as much out of it while we still can.”

I barked my agreement, and this time, I didn’t mind letting my tail give a little wag.
