It was mid-afternoon the following day, when the shadows of the ruined city began to reverse their direction and finally—

You have leveled up!

You are now level 22!

+9 Vigor

+8 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+11 Attunement

+10 Sense

“Wooo!” I wiped sweat off my skull and stared at the notification in satisfaction, the bones of my latest victim still rolling at my feet.

I had lost track of just how many skeletons I had killed to get this far, but it was a LOT. So many that as I moved around the ruined city, it was hard to find somewhere that didn’t have a scattered pile of bones I had taken out.

Speaking of moving around the city, Cat Footed had also gone up to level 2, and the difference it made compared to before I had even gotten the skill was like night and day.

I got a running start, ran across a wall, resheathed my daggers mid-step, then jumped to an opposite wall, where I ran a couple more steps before a final jump that had me smoothly swinging onto a roof.

I’d bet this skill would also aid me in fighting a Furthrum Wastewalker. Without it, there was no way I’d be able to swing up onto one of their backs and take them out the easy way, but now I felt like I had near total control over my humanoid body.

I started running along the rooftops once again, jumping from one to the next, just practicing my parkour. And to be honest, aside from the practical conveniences of being able to move like this—it was a lot of fun!

I was done hunting skeletons for the day, though, so mid-jump I switched back to a human.

{Veilform!} Human!

My flesh reverse peeled up my arms and fingers as I ran across the next rooftop and spotted a high church steeple I was interested in climbing.

I came to the wall straight-on, ran up it until I felt my momentum losing, and jumped the last bit to grab a ledge. I swung myself up to the sheer slant of the steeple, then ran circles up it until I grabbed the pointy part on top and then just let myself hang off of it one-handed as I looked out over the city.

The wind blew my cloak and hair as I looked down over my new domain. And yes, this city belonged to me. Just as the caves of the vale did, and just as the forests outside the empire did. When I claimed a hunting ground and got to the point that I knew I was the strongest thing around, I truly felt like I owned the world.

I wondered if this was how Mom and Dad felt all the time…?

Now wasn’t the time to think of such things, though. I had to keep getting stronger. I had to save Mom, my brothers, and my sister, and make Dad proud. Then we’d all get so strong together that even if an army came after us, nobody could ever hurt us again.

We could all go back to the vale and live peacefully as a pack again. Well, as peacefully as a pack of Hell Hounds could be, in any case.

My free hand tensed as I stared out over the ruined buildings below me. The town square was to my left, where many skeletons were still lingering around, but as my eyes traced further and further back into the city, I realized the buildings got denser and taller. Actually, the city was way bigger than I had realized before seeing it from this vantage point. Though anywhere I looked, everything was still crumbling.

I let go of the steeple, my feet sliding down the slope until I jumped at the very bottom. It was quite a long drop to the next roof, but I landed smoothly, the Cat Footed ability making landings so much easier. I smirked, thinking of how just yesterday I was scared to even jump down from two stories. Now, double or even triple that kind of drop hardly fazed me, and I’d land as easily as hopping down from a curb.

But it was dinner time. I planned to get a good night’s rest and then explore those deeper, denser parts of the city in the morning. If I were to find suitable prey there, I may stay and train a little longer. If not, then it would be time to move on to the Broken Fangs.

I casually hopped from rooftop to rooftop until I reached a building on the very outskirts of the city, which had a crumbled third story. But the back wall had held up enough that I swung myself to the top of it then perched in a crouch as I looked over the wastes. I reached back and pulled my hood over my head, wind blowing my hair across my collarbones.

The corpse of my last Furthrum Wanderer was still out there in the distance, and I saw other shapes moving around it. Some kind of scavengers. Would they be a good dinner? It was hard to tell from this distance.

Looking down at the building I was currently perched on, I thought this might be a good place to come back to and sleep for the night after dinner. It was high up, a nice sturdy wall to keep my back against, and I’d already cleared out the surrounding area of skeletons.

I hopped down into the third floor, then ducked into a shadowy corner where I undressed and folded all my human-body belongings neatly in a corner, then—

{Veilform}. Hell Hound!

Once I was on doggy legs again, I hopped down into the wastes and activated {Veil of Shadows}. It seemed Cat Footed worked for my regular form as well, as the hop down from two stories was just as easy. Though I did feel that I had much more use for this particular skill as a human. Human limbs and opposable thumbs were simply far more suited to the kind of urban building hopping that Cat Footed assisted with.

I prowled through the dying light of the wastes, keeping my eyes on those scavengers. There were four of them, and one was much larger than the other three.

As they came within range, I kept hidden in the shadow of a boulder and used {Analyze} four times.

Skarrik Bonepicker - Level 14

Skarrik Bonepicker - Level 14

Skarrik Bonepicker - Level 17

Skarrik Waste Stalker - Level 19

A level 19, huh? I’d have to take him seriously since he was not alone.

They all looked hound-like. Hmmm, well, jackal-like. They were skinny and mangy. The Bone Pickers in particular had their spines clearly poking under their flesh along their backs. Their fur was patchy at best, with most of their grey skin underneath exposed. They certainly didn’t look appetizing. That larger one, however…

It was basically the same kind of creature, but it was bigger and far meatier. Its fur also wasn’t so patchy and diseased-looking. But, at the same time, it was clearly a threat. As it tore into the belly of my previous kill, I took note of its fangs, which were comparable to my own, at least in this form.

Might it be time to switch Paths?

This is the perfect kind of fight for Whisperfang Juvenile; I could Death Mark the biggest threat while taking out the smaller ones first with Soul Rend to buff myself up for the main event.

However, if I was going to change Paths, I’d be stuck with it for two days, and since the entire point of coming out here was to work on my magic, it’d be better to go Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker. Likewise, the range and versatility of that Path would make this an easy fight.

But would those Skarrik things accept me just because I changed into them? I’m not so sure I’d just accept any random other Hell Hound into my pack with no questions asked. But then again… I might. I mean, I definitely wouldn’t just automatically consider another Hell Hound an enemy or prey, just for the simple fact of being my kind.

Anyway, using Veilform to become a Sharrik shouldn’t be too hard. They were basically the same shape as Hell-Hound me. Using Veilform to become a mouse, a bird, or something large would be a different story. I could only take a human form thanks to my past life, or at least that was my theory.

I huffed, hunkering lower, watching them continue to scavenge off my earlier kill. I didn’t mind that they were taking my leftovers. I had no interest in eating day-old meat anyway unless it was an emergency. Actually, I was glad whenever something finished eating my kills when I could not. I didn’t believe in letting food go to waste, after all.

But these things were unwise. Clearly a powerful predator was out and about to have taken out something as big as that Furthrum Wastewalker. They should have been more cautious. Or perhaps they thought their numbers would keep them safe?

I prowled forward, watching them closely.

{Veilform}. Sharrik Bonepicker.

My body shifted only slightly. This sort of transformation was far less dramatic compared to taking a human form. My back simply arched, and my fur became patchier.

I chose to mimic a Bonepicker instead of the Waste Stalker for the fact that the increased size wouldn’t necessarily make me any stronger, and I’d be less likely to be viewed as an immediate threat.

I let Veil of Shadows slip away as I came closer, not getting too close, waiting for them to notice me first.

One of the level 14’s did, lifting its head, stringy innards hanging from its muzzle. Once the others noticed it noticing me, they all turned their heads my way.

Crap, what kind of sounds do these things make?

The level 14 who noticed me let out a low whine that sounded like a, “Are you okay?”

I whined in distress, looking towards the meat in a way that asked if I could have some. Ironic, since this was technically mine in the first place.

The big guy stared at me a little more suspiciously, but then turned away, stuffing his face back into the monster’s guts and eating. Clearly, he didn’t see me as a problem.

The level 14 let out a “yip!” that sounded rather Hell-Hound-like, and it was clear that I was invited.

I came forward and started working on the Wastewalker’s untouched leg while the scavengers mainly focused on its belly. They all gorged themselves like a happy pack, and I almost felt bad about what I was doing.

But that was a quiet part of me, in truth. I knew better. I had claimed this as my hunting ground, and just because these things were kinda dog-like as I was, that meant nothing. They were interlopers in my domain, and I had every right to take them out.

They could be levels and maybe an achievement for me, as well as practice with Veilform. Not to mention the boss looked kind of tasty now that I was looking at him up close. I licked my chops and luckily there was this other dead animal in front of me or that might have been taken the wrong way.

I began chewing on the cold, day-old leg, watching the four Skarrik.

The one who had invited me over, I couldn’t help but notice how it was watching me through the corner of its eye. Picking off the little ones first might be the way to go, I thought.

But then, it looked me in the eye, noticed me watching it… and its tail wagged.

I stopped mid-chomp, and suddenly I didn’t feel good about this at all.

Right… that’s the whole point of this Path, though. Isn’t it?

And besides, if I were in my Hell Hound form, would they invite me to come join their meal? No, probably not. They would probably instead fight me to defend their resources.

Right?

Right…

Really, I only needed to kill the big one because he was my dinner. But, I probably couldn’t get away with just dealing with him alone unless the other three were to run… Or, there was also another certain skill that might help with that scenario…

I let out a huff and turned away. The level 14 lifted his dripping muzzle and stared after me, its wagging tail slowing. I paced a good twenty or so yards away from them and looked back. His wagging tail had completely stopped and it let out a low whine, almost as if asking me what was wrong.

He seemed young. Not as young as Lily and technically myself, but young.

There may be a time in my life I have to be so cruel as to kill something that invited me to share a meal. That was the entire point of this Path, after all. But today was not that day.

{Veilform}. Hell Hound!

I could see the shock sink into his expression as my body shifted, as my scrappy patches of fur filled into my naturally glorious dark coat, and my eyes returned to their haunting blue.

The concerned whines then turned to growls as it lowered, and its friends took notice immediately. The other level 14 jumped back to give itself some distance, while the level 19 and 17 came forward, letting out low snarls and tensing to strike.

They weren’t charging right in; they could already tell the threat I posed, perhaps by my confident, unconcerned posture, even if none of them had Analyze. But despite that, they seemed like they believed they could win because of the numbers they had on me.

But they were wrong.

{Intimidate}!

I let out a loud roar that washed across the wastes, my adversaries all freezing immediately, and I took full advantage of the skill, charging right in.

The level 19 was the quickest to begin to shake it off, but it was too late. I was already on him. I leapt at his neck, tackling him to the ground. I could already taste the blood as he writhed under me, snarling and snapping his jaws, but I had him by the neck and he could only snap empty air. His claws dug at me, but I didn’t even care. I just kept twisting and ripping.

I had 3 levels on him, and I was stronger than any typical level 22, even with my weaker Path. One last rip and twist, and it was already over.

Prey Eliminated! Skarrik Waste Stalker - Level 19

Experience Gained!

But as I released his limp body, the level 17 was already barreling into me. He managed to knock me back, but I kept my footing and reared up on my hind legs as we batted claws at each other. However, I overpowered him easily, got on top, and grabbed him by the back of his neck.

But I didn’t clench down this time. I didn’t twist and shake. Instead, I pulled back, lifting him off his paws, and tossed him, sending him rolling through the dirt.

When he got his bearings, he was standing side by side with the other two lower-level ones. They all looked ready to fight, but at the same time, they seemed unsure of themselves.

I let my lips curl back, and I showed them my fangs as I prowled forward, stepping between them and their fallen ally.

Then I let out a growl that rose into a threatening bark, warning them to back off! They retreated a little, but turned again, still poised to fight, but their confidence steadily wavering.

I jolted forward a few steps and snarled. “You want to die too? Huh!? Do you!?”

That was enough, they all turned and ran, retreating into the wastes, tails between their legs. I barked after them. “This is my territory! You understand?! If I catch you hunting in my domain again—YOU’RE DEAD!”

I watched them go, and as they disappeared into the fading daylight, I turned toward my next meal. I nuzzled it under the arm to roll it over, then began tearing into the belly.

Achievement! Claiming Dominion!

You defeated a rival predator and drove away the survivors from the territory you are claiming as your own!

Moderate Bonus to All Stats!