Upon entering the gate, we were first met with scaffolding and military structures—training yards, supply tents, and weapon racks—but we were not marched through any barracks as Kenji and Shun had first intended. I hoped Kenji would be okay. Before we were taken deeper into the gate, I glanced back and saw he had hidden himself among the crops while a few people came to check on him.

Soon, the street opened up into a more residential area, and we passed by normal citizens, many of them with tanned skin from working in the fields.

Almost everyone we saw stopped whatever they were doing, but unlike the curious gazes from the farmers in the fields earlier, we seemed like an afterthought. People were bowing with their attention clearly more on Rin.

I let my gaze drift around. People would rush out of their houses and onto balconies. I saw a mother crouch down with her daughter and point at Rin. Everyone's expressions were alight with excitement. I even heard murmurs of her name, and someone shouted, "Thank you, High Regent Rin Zoah!" which was followed by a brief round of clapping.

My ears perked. She was like a celebrity around here! I wonder why everyone seemed to idolize her like this?

She, however, kept her stoic disposition, metal fingers resting loosely on the hilt of her Katana as she led us. A small group of soldiers were behind us, but keeping a polite distance, though their presence still kind of commanded our direction.

"So this is the Verdant Empire, huh?" Fox said, looking around. "Pretty nice place."

"Big human place..." Grick muttered, his eyes practically sparkling as he tilted his head up and down and all around to see everything.

Lily, however, seemed quite nervous as she kept her tail low and walked as close to my side as she could get. I reached down and scratched behind her ears, finding that was her favorite spot to get at with my new human diggers. "Don't worry, Lily. Everything's going to be good here."

She still let out a soft whine, looking up at me through her brow. Of course, basically every human she'd ever come in contact with had tried to kill us before today. Other than those merchants we saved, that is... Oh, and the ones before that, who we crippled after making sure Grick got properly paid back.

Focusing on the High Regent's fingers, I played with the idea that her hand might actually be metal. Those gauntlets, if you could even call them that, were not like anything I've ever seen in any kind of realistic medieval portrayal. They could have just as easily been highly advanced prosthetics or something, but I hadn't seen much evidence of great technological advancement in this world, so it was hard to say.

Then again, would prosthetics really need to be all that advanced to work like a normal hand? Magic or a particular skill could easily negate the need for advanced medical science and wiring nerves to artificial limbs, or however that worked.

Finally, as we turned up another street that was absolutely crowded, two of our soldier escorts advanced in front of Rin, waving their arms and calling, "Clear way! Clear way!"

Everybody meandering through the wide street did as ordered, quickly shuffling to the street sides where vendors lined the roadways. Many bowed and folded their hands. I even heard a whistle or two as a murmur rose like an audience anticipating the beginning of a show. It was almost comical how little Rin Zoah seemed to care about all the attention.

"You really seem to have an impression around here," Fox said, increasing her pace to walk closer to Rin's side, though the High Regent did not respond. It was not lost on me how Fox raised her head and paced a bit more majestically, as if trying to suck in some of Rin's residual aura.

That sly Fox... she's probably already thinking about how she can turn all this positive attention to her advantage.

I sighed.

I was much happier slinking behind with my two pack mates and remaining as small as possible. Personally, the fewer who knew about me, the better.

I decided to take a moment to check on my new Evolution Hint

Epic - Hellborne Fire Witch

Path hinted, further details currently unknown.

Hint 1: Locked (Seek the Serpent of the Black Pyre to reveal this hint)

Hint 2: Great Power is bestowed to those who carry the breath of the underworld.

Hint 3: Locked

Requirements

Stage 7 development

Attribute Requirements: Unknown

Required Achievements: 2 (Unknown)

Great Power is bestowed to those who carry the breath of the underworld.

Underworld, huh? Unfortunately, this hint didn’t reveal any other requirements, but it gave me something to think about. Hell “borne” and the phrase “carry the breath” was certainly indicating something… perhaps… something external? Whatever it could be may explain why Rin is so strong. If this Path was hinted to me, was it something I too could attain?

Then, after a curve in our path, I saw what must have been our destination.

As the road sloped upwards, I saw a massive gold structure in the middle of the city, but still far in the distance, and the cobblestones were replaced with something green... Jade? No, that'd be impossible, that roadway would be way too expensive! Would jade even make good bricks?

Then again, maybe it wasn't such a rare mineral in this world...

As we continued up the slope, the crowd thinned and was replaced by guards wearing more elegant golden armor than the random foot soldiers. Rin slowed as we reached a checkpoint and nodded at our escorts, who bowed and then returned the way we had come. I blinked at the green stones at our feet and looked around in wonder at a beautiful yard with fountains shooting crystal-blue water from statues of frogs wearing crowns.

This place did seem to have an affinity for frogs, I supposed.

"Welcome to the Verdant Palace," Rin said calmly as she led us past more golden guards.

With fewer eyes on us now, I had the confidence to increase my pace to come up to her. "Are we going to meet with the Emperor?”

"Perhaps. I plan to speak with you all first, and I'll have rooms arranged if you are to wait."

"I have a slight favor," the fox said. "Would it be possible to have a change of clothes? I actually have a human form as well." She gave a foxy smile. "I'm about your size."

Rin looked down at me and Grick, assessing us for a brief moment. "Servants will be by to tend to your needs."

Finally, she led us up to a staircase, and through another huge set of doors with a half dozen guards on either side whose armor clinked as they straightened their postures and placed a fist over their armored chests in a salute.

Through the door, five servants, all women wearing illustrious kimonos, scampered forward, folded their arms horizontally in front of themselves, and lowered their eyes behind the sleeves.

"Prepare food for our guests," Rin said. "Clothes as well, for the goblin, the girl, and another set about my size for the fox."

The servants betrayed their disciplined demeanor for only a moment as they glanced at the huge fox. Then they nodded, lifting their gazes from behind their sleeves as they relaxed their postures and poked each other, pointing at us and whispering. One seemed to be measuring me from a distance with her thumb. This only lasted a short while before they all dispersed, their flowing kimonos whispering against the ground as they each glided off in a different direction.

We followed Rin across a wide hall whose polished floor reflected the sunlight pouring through tall windows. The room smelled faintly of incense and something sweet, perhaps some kind of flowering plant I couldn’t see. Every step echoed softly beneath the high ceiling.

Fox whistled quietly. “Not bad.”

Grick spun slowly in place as he walked, trying to look everywhere at once. “Big frog house…”

Sure enough, the frog theme continued inside. Painted screens showed frogs sitting on lily pads like tiny nobles holding court. One tapestry even depicted the crowned frog standing triumphantly on a battlefield while soldiers raised banners behind it.

Yeah… frogs must be some kind of royal symbol here…

Down another short hall, Rin finally brought us to a sliding screen door that opened into a smaller chamber.

Compared to the grand halls we had just passed through, the room was simple. A wooden table sat in the center, polished so smooth it reflected the light spilling in through the windows. There were four golden guards sitting near each other, a map between them as they quietly discussed something, one pointing things out on the map.

As we entered, the guards all looked up, then stood and saluted Rin with a fist to their chests.

“Please clear out. I need to speak to these four in private for a moment,” she said calmly.

“Yes, High Regent Rin Zaoh,” they chimed together with a quick bow of their heads. One of them rolled up the map, then they uniformly walked along the walls and out the door we had just come through, the last to leave bowing before sliding the screen shut behind himself.

"Sit," Rin Zaoh commanded us as she walked around to the far end of the table and took a seat.

I climbed up onto a chair, but the table was a bit high, so I folded a leg under myself. Grick pulled out a chair, which he climbed up, then had to stand on to see over, while Lily simply sat beside my chair, and the Fox sat on her haunches, easily towering over all of us.

Rin rested her elbows on the table, interlocking her metal fingers at her chin as her red eyes seemed to take in each of us in turn—except for Lily, who was under the table. Finally, Rin set her gaze on me. "I want to know everything that led to what transpired today. Begin with where you met Genzo."

"Um well..." I thought back. Starting with Genzo left a lot of important context out, I felt. I also had to consider how much to divulge to her, and in front of Fox.

I sighed as I looked over to Fox, who returned a reassuring grin. The gold in her eyes seemed to sparkle with a slight mischief. I had a feeling she was calculating the situation in a certain way, wondering how it all might benefit her.

But... I couldn't think of a good reason to hide the full truth from her about what I was, and Rin already surely knew about transmigrators because of Genzo.

"Well... first of all..." I looked down at Lily and then at Grick. "Genzo recognized me as a transmigrator, and he helped me at a time when I really needed someone's aid." I swallowed. "See, I um... Have a past life, or at least memories of another world. But in this life, I was born as a Hell Hound, along with my brothers and sisters. In a vale that the red masks apparently used as their hunting grounds..."

I proceeded to tell her about the day we were attacked. About how that black bird, the Nightharrier, snatched me up right from the middle of my pack. How my father tried to shoot it down, but I was eventually dropped into the trees, where I watched as the dragon rider arrived and the red masks flew down from over the mountain ridge...

"Your father. What manner of monster was he?" Rin asked, interrupting softly.

"Oh, he was very big!" I explained. "He had three heads. Like Cerberus." She raised a brow, apparently not knowing the story of Cerberus. "Um, anyway, he was a powerful Hell Hound. But that man... Valrok..." My gaze lowered down to the table, my fists clenching slightly. "He… he killed him. Dad was fighting so hard to protect us. He killed a lot of them first. But there were just too many, and..." My words trailed off as that day ran so vividly through my mind.

Grick reached over, balancing precariously on the armrest, and patted my shoulder. "Puppy Daddy brave..." he said consolingly.

I took a breath to gather myself before continuing. I told of how I climbed down from the trees, just a low-level pup with much stronger monsters all around me. I told of how the Black Prowler chased me into a tree, but then ended up attacking some red masks who tracked me there.

I told of the woman in that group, the first human I'd ever killed, and how I finished her off after she barely had survived the Black Prowler’s attack, and how I gained so many levels and probably never would have made it much further otherwise.

"...So the next day, when I made it to the lake, Genzo was there. He told me of his old world, and I couldn’t speak, so I couldn't say much about mine in return, but I wrote its name in the dirt. Earth.” I looked up at Rin, trying to get an impression of whether she had heard of Earth before. But those red eyes were impossible to read.

“Anyway, when he helped me get nearer my den, he left. I found Lily; she has illusion magic, so she was able to escape the red masks. But we were eventually chased into a cave, and that’s where we met Grick.”

“Valrok mentioned you killing his warriors. How many?”

My eyes shifted. I felt a bit odd about answering that. Rin, noticing my hesitation, sat back. A metal finger tapped on the table as she seemed to consider something. “This detail is one I’m very interested in. So tell it true.”

I nodded and said, “Twenty. I got a quest to kill them… so… that’s what I did. But Lily and Grick helped as well.”

Rin’s stoic composure parted for the briefest of moments as she raised a brow at Grick.

“Grick powerful,” the goblin said, flexing one very scrawny arm.

“I see…” she said skeptically.

“Genzo showed up again when we were down to the last one,” I explained. “Then we camped with him, he told us of the empire and suggested we come here. He said the Emperor could help me. We met Fox along our way.”

Fox nodded in acknowledgment. “Other worlds, huh? You’ve been holding out on me, pup.”

“And you, Fox,” Rin said. “It seems you’ve come late into this story, but what is your part in it?”

“A quest told me to watch out for the kiddos until they get here. That's about it.”

“Yet, you were separate from them before Valrok’s attack began.”

“Yeah… quest completed when I got them to the border wall, so I was going to leave.” She flashed a fang. “But another quest brought me back.”

Her golden eyes held Rin’s red ones for a long moment. I looked between them, wondering what the stare-down was all about. Then, Rin muttered, “How foolish.”

My ears perked. Was Fox speaking to her privately just now? What were they saying?

“So, what form of help do you seek, Hell Hound?” Rin asked, returning her gaze to me.

“My family…” I said. “I know my sister Iris is with the Bloody Peaks Tribe.” My fists clenched in my lap, the mere thought of it infuriating me. “Valrok gave her to his daughter… to tame. And Fox heard a rumor that two of my brothers are at a place called the Burning Steeps. My mother… the fighting pits… and I don’t know what happened to Luke.” I lifted my gaze back to her. “Please. I’d do anything to rescue all of them! I-I want them back! I want my pack to be whole again!”

The room went quiet after my words.

Even the soft trickle of water from the palace courtyard suddenly seemed loud in the silence.

Rin did not answer immediately.

Her metal finger remained still on the table as her red eyes studied me. Not unkindly. Not coldly either. Calculating.

I swallowed in anticipation. Feeling my future, and the future of my family, weighed on her next words.

“Your pack was scattered across at least three different territories,” she said calmly. “Bloody Peaks. The Burning Steeps. And the fighting pits you speak of are on this continent, but belong to a foreign power. These are all hostile factions. And, you have a fourth sibling whose whereabouts are unknown.”

“Yes…” I said quietly, knowing the enormity of what I asked.

“This is no small favor. You are asking the Verdant Empire to interfere with multiple external powers. And as I’m sure Genzo would have at least mentioned, we are in the middle of a war of our own, with the Iron March to the north. They are an even greater enemy than any of those I just listed.”

My fists tensed. “Please. As I said, I’ll do anything. I’ll help with your war. Whatever you want me to do, I’ll do it.” Then I eased as I felt Lily lick my hand. She looked up from between my legs and whined before resting her muzzle on my thigh.

Rin’s eyes shifted away, something close to sympathy sinking into her expression. “The answer to your request is not one that I alone could give, here at this table. However, I will at least ground your expectations. It is unlikely we will be able to do as you ask.”

My heart sank at that. “But Genzo said… because I’m a transmigrator…”

“Yes, but you are a child, and no matter how powerful, one person alone cannot win a war. Yet, your request may bring even more enemies to our gates at a time when we can ill afford additional adversaries. It is ultimately up to the emperor to what extent we may help, if any. Though I can say with certainty that, for the foreseeable future, it is impossible.” She let a pause sit before adding, “However, what cannot be done today may become possible in time, though it may take years.”

Years… I already knew as much, but I didn’t want to accept it. “What about the Bloody Peaks? They are not really that powerful, are they? There’s Valrok, but you seem stronger. And I killed a bunch of them myself! And I’m only a pup!”

“A campaign against the Bloody Peaks is no simple thing,” Rin said. “They are far to the south, and the mountains where they reside are difficult for an army to scale. With their airborne superiority, the difficulty only becomes greater. They don't have the greatest army, but when faced with an attack at their heart, they can hold back a force many times greater than their own. This is a lesson the Umarii learned twenty years ago.”

I clenched my teeth, unable to help the growl in my throat. “Well, we don’t have to wipe them out! I just want my sister back!”

“Enough.” Rin said the word with such authority that it did its job of silencing me. “I’m not going to sit here and explain every geopolitical angle involved in going after any one of these forces. Even an extraction mission could create conflicts the Verdant Empire is stretched too thin to risk dealing with.”

“Then why did I even come here?” I hissed between my teeth.

Her head tilted. “You came here to offer us something. And perhaps to seek safety. But not to make demands of your own.”

My eyes shot up to her, fury filling me at those words.

“She’s got a point, kid,” the Fox said. “Now wipe that look off your face. You’re in no position to dictate them on what they will or won’t do.”

I knew she was right, but didn't want to accept it. I kept my lips from curling back and baring my fangs, though my teeth clenched behind them.

“Now then… as for what you can offer us…” Rin’s lip twitched in a feint smirk. “I’ll grant you an audience with the Emperor, and if you wish to join us, he may be willing to lay out a path towards what you desire.”

“Join you… What does that mean?”

“It means that you may be offered a place amongst our ranks.”

“A place?” I repeated, ears giving an involuntary twitch.

“Service,” she clarified. “Training. Opportunity.” A metal finger tapped against the table. “The Verdant Empire does not involve itself in the affairs of others without reason. But it does invest in those who may one day become an asset. And your potential is great.”

“So you get me as a future weapon. And what do I get?” I asked. “I get a vague promise that maybe one day you’ll help me save my family?”

“I wouldn’t call it a promise, even if it were mine to give. But I’ll say this. If you fight for us, you will grow strong. To hunt in the wilds is one thing, but with us, you will receive training, leverage, and opportunity. In this world, power bends to everything, and if you attain enough of it yourself, you can get anything you want. And should we later be in a position to aid you in your mission, we will do so. We don't forget our allies or leave debts unpaid.”

A heavy silence followed. It was more or less as Genzo had said, but now with the offer sitting before me, it felt more real, heavier, and totally unfair. No promises, no guarantees. Just a recruitment pitch.

The silence stretched until. “Empire train Grick too?” He nodded. “If Puppy fight. Grick fight too!”

Rin’s eyes shifted over to him. “There is room for all who wish to pledge themselves to our cause. Now then, as I said, I will grant your audience with the Emperor. He will decide what your future may look like under our banners. If you do indeed decide to join us. But for tonight, you may rest.”

With those words, the doors at the front of the room slid open. The five serving girls from before practically floated in, took a uniform distance from one another, and bowed their faces below their sleeves. Some of them carried linens, and others changes of clothes.

Rin stood and began walking around the table, taking her leave. “Bring our guests to their rooms. And explain to them the rules of the palace.”

“Yes! High Regent!" they all chimed together. Then one at the center of their group came forward and addressed us directly. “Please, right this way.”

But before Rin disappeared through the doors, there was one other thing I wanted to know that I didn’t quite get the chance to ask yet. “Wait. What does Hellborne mean?”

Rin stopped, turning enough to show me a soft smirk. “I wondered if you would ask.”

“You… knew I knew?”

“Detecting when a skill is used on you is no high-level skill of its own,” Rin said simply. Then she nodded to the girl who seemed to be the head servant. “Aiko, feel free to gossip openly with our guests. She might find the rumors of my origins… enlightening.”

Aiko dipped into another bow, sleeves draping like curtains. “As you command, Mistress.”

With that, the High Regent took her leave, her boots echoing down the hall.

The servants straightened in perfect unison, and Aiko turned to us with a practiced, gentle smile. “Please, honored guests. This way.” She gestured toward the hallway, and the others flowed ahead like a little river of silk and linens.

I hesitated a heartbeat, Lily sticking close to my legs, and Grick carefully climbing down from his chair. Fox opened her muzzle in a loud yawn. She still held that calculating glint in her golden eyes.

Read Next Chapter Now!
