“No way! I’m not going anywhere without my sister,” I protested.

They were out of their minds if they thought I’d go along with that!

“This is the quest that the emperor has given you,” Rin said. “If you want to-"

"Ribbit."

Rin cleared her throat. "The emperor would like to assure you that he did not decide on this on a whim, and he believes it is the ideal quest to aid in your growth and your goals of rescuing your family."

I couldn’t help my lips curling back as my teeth clenched, though admittedly, I’m sure baring my 10-year-old human chops wasn’t nearly as intimidating as with my wolfy mouth. Even the growl that bubbled in my human throat was lacking. But screw these people! What do they think they are doing, giving me a quest like that?

“Perhaps if you could explain your reasoning more fully, Your Majesty," Fox interrupted me, and I felt her press down on my shoulder a little harder as a reminder to let her do the talking and not stick my foot in my mouth. “You know, these kids had already gone through a lot to try to stay together. The whole point of them coming before Your Majesty in the first place is for the sake of getting aid in getting reunited with the rest of their family, not to be separated further.”

“Ribbit,” the emperor responded.

Rin cleared her throat. “As you know, I have a high-level Analyze, so I can see what most others cannot. I’ve informed the emperor of your stat pages in great detail. One thing that is clear, and that you should keep in mind, is that you are 4 levels higher than your sister and 7 levels higher than Grick currently, but your stats are even further beyond that compared to theirs.”

“That just means I can protect them better!” I argued.

“Ribbit.”

“His majesty says that is precisely the point.” Rin’s crimson gaze moved between the three of us. “It is obvious which of the three of you has been pulling the weight. And while on the surface this can allow for more levels for Grick and Lily, they are ultimately becoming weaker in the long run. They are not getting as many achievements and bonuses with the way you are currently operating. Not to mention losing their independence by relying on you. And that goes both ways.

“It’s my understanding you gained many levels when you were fighting the Bloody Peaks Tribe in the Caves of the Veil, but how much have you grown since then? Merely a few levels? How many achievements have you received? Would you say your growth since then has been steady, or has it declined?”

I clenched a fist, clawed fingers digging into my palm. “So what?” I whispered. “That’s my problem, isn’t it?”

My heart was pounding. I felt tears threatening my eyes, but held them back. How could I possibly leave Grick and Lily behind?

“You came to us for two reasons, did you not?” Rin asked. “To help you reunite with your family, and to help you grow stronger. After considering your situation and thinking over the best possible path forward for you, this is what the emperor, with my council, has decided on.”

“But… I don’t want to separate from them. We can grow together,” I continued to plead.

Rin's gaze became unusually soft, but she didn’t answer me; instead, she looked to the emperor.

“Ribbit,” the emperor said. And then, “Ribbit. Ribbit. Ribbit…” He gave out steady, calm croaks until he was silent, and Rin cleared her throat.“His majesty says that your feelings are understandable, that loyalty towards one’s pack is admirable, and that the bonds between you three are indeed a great strength. But His Majesty says that there is a difference between protecting someone and sheltering them.”

I stiffened and argued, “I-I don’t do that!”

“His Majesty says it is clear in your stat pages. When you were level 14, you were likely far stronger than your sister in now. You might fight alongside them when it feels safe, but when true challenges face your group, you do the fighting for them. Your protective instincts compel you to throw yourself at the problem first. Any true risk you decide is yours to bear alone. And because of that, the others have begun adapting around you. And yet, they have Paths that will give them even greater strength as a duo that relies on each other instead of you.”

Rin’s gaze shifted toward Lily. “Your sister follows your orders, because she trusts in your judgment. And Grick relies on your strength to create openings he otherwise would have learned to make himself.”

Grick looked down at the floor.

“And you,” Rin said, looking back at me, “view yourself as solely responsible for everyone’s survival. His Majesty says that path may feel noble, but it is ultimately a destructive one. Growth does not occur equally within safety. Pressure shapes evolution. Desperation shapes instinct. Isolation shapes the strength of your spirit. You three are a powerful force together, but it is currently limiting your ability to grow.”

“But… Pack Bond lets us share experience. Won’t we level faster like that?” I spoke in a lower voice, trying to think of a way to convince her… or maybe… convince myself.

“Yes, and thanks to Pack Bond the divide isn’t worse than it already it. But another way to level faster is to face things that are a higher level than you,” Rin said. “In fact, that is the best way to level, because that often comes with extra achievements as well. Your level is not the only factor that indicates strength, and if you are honest, I think you will know His Majesty’s assessment is true. There were times when you didn’t allow your pack to fight for themselves or take risks. Isn’t there?”

I wanted to deny it, but it was true. I thought back to when I took down the Earth Tyrant. I had already been much stronger than Lily at the time, but what if she were involved in that fight as well? I didn’t intend to fight something so powerful on my own, but that’s the way things worked out, because I went off leveling on my own while I left her where I knew she’d be safe.

Lily whined beside me, and when I looked over at her, I saw her ears folding down.

She was just a tiny little pup back in the caves, though. Can I be blamed for just wanting to keep her safe? But… she has grown a lot since then. She’s not nearly as helpless as she once was.

“There is one more thing to consider,” Rin said. “And that is that these forests are below you. On your last hunting trip, Lily and Grick grew more than you had, didn’t they?”

“That’s… true…” I didn’t want to admit.

“On your quest to the Black Pyre, you will find opportunities to challenge yourself once again. You are nearly to stage 6, and by the time your quest is complete and you’ve unlocked the rest of the hints you need for Hellborne Fire Witch, I believe you will be ready to evolve to that new path, or even further,” Rin explained. “And there is one additional reason unlocking this path is essential. You may need it in order to save your brothers from the Scorched Steeps Tribe.”

My eyes locked onto her upon mention of my brothers.

“The Burning Steeps, as the name might indicate, are rich with fire essence,” Rin explained. “Fire Witch indicates a fire-based magic Path. This is another reason the forests around the capital are beneath you. Because they do not provide a hunting ground rich with mana where you can develop your magic abilities further. Which leads me to His Majesty’s next line of reasoning for putting you on this quest alone.”

“Ribbit.”

Rin cleared her throat. “His Majesty suggests you use your Arcane Nightstalker Path going forward. The Black Pyre likewise has enough different essences around that you will be able to utilize it. It lacks the sustainability and physical strength of the Whisperfang Juvenile Path, but it has greater potential and a greater likelihood of bringing you closer to unlocking the Hellborne Fire Witch Path hints, since it will keep you using magic, which will be of great advantage to you if we are to send you to the Scorched Steeps.”

Rin extended a metal hand, turning it, proffering a palm towards me. “We don’t know that we will simply be able to buy your brothers back. Even if we can, the likelihood is that they will only be willing to part with one. In that case, the emperor will consider a quest that allows you to go get them back yourself.”

My ears perked at that. “I thought you were against attacking them? Or doing an extraction mission?” I said. “You said it would create too much political difficulty for you.”

“Ribbit,” the emperor responded.

Rin nodded. “This is true. However, that leads us to the final line of reasoning for why we want you to hunt elsewhere. Going forward, we plan to keep you as a hidden asset. As Lily and Grick continue to complete tasks for us close to home, it cannot be helped that word will get out about them. You, however, if you complete tasks for us from afar, and we keep your identity and presence here more secret, then you will prove to be even more valuable to us. His Majesty wouldn’t be against you going to the Scorched Steeps yourself, provided on three condition. First, you are strong enough, and there is a low possibility of you simply be captured yourself. Second, your alignment with us is not known. And three, we have uncovered a good enough opportunity for you to succeed in your mission. We have agents inside the Scorched Steeps now, who may be viable assets on this future mission.”

“So that’s it, huh?” I asked. I still felt my heart sinking, and Fox still held firmly to my shoulder. I didn’t want to leave Grick and Lily behind but… was I finally getting a promise for how to get at least two of my brothers back?

I looked to Lily and Grick. They both understood perfectly well what was going on, and they didn’t like the idea of us separating either.

The goblin pouted. “Grick don’t want to fight without Puppy.”

Lily whined in agreement.

I let out a breath. What if something happened to them while I was away? I’d be so scared of them fighting while I wasn’t there to protect them!

…And… I suppose that was exactly the emperor’s point.

Fox eased her grip on my shoulder. Perhaps trusting me not to bark at the emperor now.

Lily let out another stressed whine, and I reached over to scratch behind her ears. She leaned in closer to me, and I continued scratching down to her neck as my other fist clenched and I asked, “How long?”

Rin’s eyes softened slightly, as if the fact that I was asking that instead of outright refusing was already an answer. And I guess, in a way… it kind of was.

“This quest will keep you away for several months,” Rin explained. “Taking into account your return journey from the Black Pyre as well.”

My gaze shot up. “S-Several months!?”

“Indeed,” she confirmed.

“Months!?” Grick said. “Months too long!” Then he asked. “How long is months?”

“A month is 30 sleeps, Grick,” I answered.

I think thirty was a hard number for the goblin to get his head around, but he understood it was a long time.

I felt the same way.

Months of sleeping without Lily curled up beside me.

Months without Grick’s snoring or hearing his fun and innocent comments on things.

Months of constantly wondering if they would be okay.

The thought made my chest ache in a way fighting monsters never had.

Honestly… I would miss Fox as well…

But I had to trust that they would be safe here. That what they would learn while fighting for the empire and protecting its borders would let them grow and become even more powerful. I had to trust that this really was the best path forward.

“So… when are we expected to leave?” I asked.

“You may rest tonight, and if you want a few more days, then that is up to you.”

A few days… I’m not even sure what I would do with a few days just lazing around the palace.

But it seemed Fox did. “Take the few days, kid. I have an idea,” she said.

I looked at her. “What idea?”

Fox looked up to Rin and asked, “You mentioned a statue that can recharge elemental essences, right? Would you be willing to let the kid use it freely?”

“Yes, I don’t see why not,” Rin said.

“Any limit to how much she can use it?”

“No, it would be a small cost no matter how many times she uses one of our statues.”

Fox nodded. “And how close are you to your next development stage, kid?” she asked me.

“Um…”

I checked.

“92%.”

Fox nodded.

“Alright, even without killing anything, we should easily be able to get you to stage six before you leave. I’ll also help you train with your magic so you’re more used to it in that time. Kill two birds with one stone, you know?” She cleared her throat and asked Rin, “And is there somewhere that I can use as a training ground with her?”

Rin nodded. “There are plenty of fields near the barracks near the edges of the capital that can be used for that purpose. I’ll have one isolated for your sole use for a few days. Try to be discreet while coming and going, however, because as mentioned before, I’d like to take better care to keep her as a hidden asset for us. Too many eyes on her, and word of her association to us may reach our foes, and therefore we will be less able to utilize her in the future.”

Fox nodded. “Right, that makes sense.” Then she looked at me and flashed a foxy smile. “So what do you say, kid? Ready for a training arc?”
