The serving girls brought a new change of clothes the following morning. They seemed surprised to see me lying there as a puppy, but I let out a soft, explanatory growl and nudged my nose toward a place for them to set the clothes down. They looked at each other awkwardly before gathering my kimono from the previous night off the floor and leaving the new outfit behind.

I picked it up with my teeth and slipped behind a folding screen to transform and change. When I stepped out again, I was dressed in layered robes of dark green and cream. The outer garment was embroidered with twisting vine patterns, and a stiff sash held everything tight at the waist. Someone had even thoughtfully cut a slit in the back for my tail.

Grick looked like quite the distinguished gentleman in his own robes when I joined him, and Lily padded alongside us as we went to the next room to find Fox. She was still lounging around in the same kimono from the previous night, and still wearing it a little too loosely for anyone who cared for modesty.

Breakfast was just as luxurious as dinner had been. Fox sniffed at a hot drink that had been served and wrinkled her nose before setting it down. Curious, I took a sip and realized it was some kind of coffee, though a little different from what I remembered, although that could just be thanks to my wolfy taste buds. Either way, I found it to be extremely bitter, so I set it aside as well.

“So when is this meeting with the Emperor taking place anyway?” Fox asked.

My ears perked up. I was curious too.

“We are waiting for orders to bring you to the throne room,” Aiko explained. “Apologies for the wait, but the Emperor is a very busy man.”

“So what’s he like?” I asked, sniffing at a fried strip of meat that looked a bit like thick-cut bacon with some sort of glaze dripped over it. I took a careful bite off the end. It was good—though I thought it would be better without the glaze. Still, it was no Puffstork. Puffstork had easily taken the top spot on my favorite foods list, with Direwing legs coming in right behind it.

“The Emperor…” Aiko’s eyes softened as she looked up, a dreamy expression crossing her face. “He is our hero and our savior. He saved my village from the oppressive rule of the Iron March.”

“That’s who you’re at war with?” I asked.

She nodded. “They come from far to the north, in the northern mountains where snow falls through most of the year. They’ve been expanding their territory further and further south for a long time now—at least until the Verdant Empire intervened. The Iron March has taken some of the valley lands, and that’s where most of the war is fought now. The Empire has established strongholds there to keep them from pushing farther south, but there is still a lot of fighting.”

Aiko looked down and tightened her hands around the edge of the table. I recognized the look in her eyes immediately. I knew exactly the kind of trauma behind it.

“My home village was in the northern valleys,” she continued quietly. “One day when I was little, long ago, the Iron March came through and killed most of the people there. Most of the boys, men, and elderly were slaughtered. A few were taken as slaves, and some were given the chance to join their armies.”

“Join their armies?” I asked.

She nodded. “Given the choice, I think some young men thought it was a better option than slavery. But those who did were always given the most dangerous jobs. Why risk their own soldiers when they could send desperate farm boys to fight for them? Though some of them turned to becoming bandits along with deserters of the Iron March, who are still a problem for us.”

I nodded, remembering the bandits we had killed. I had a feeling those guys were most likely Iron March deserters.

“Anyway,” Aiko continued, “when the Verdant Empire pushed back, they reclaimed some of the land where I had been put to work as a slave. They invited anyone who wished to come south to the capital, promising it would be a safe place to live. One thing led to another, and over time, I ended up serving the court, then the palace, then under Rin Zaoh directly. And here I am now.”

“Did you lose your family?” I asked.

“Yes, I did,” she answered with a solemn nod.

I stared at the bacon stuff, not feeling too hungry for it now. Her story, of course, hit close to home on my own trauma, but besides that, I was just thinking I'd really like to go on a hunt now. It feels like it has been a while since I had a good hunt, even though it's actually only been a few days.

Finally, the door at the end of the breakfast room slid open, and Rin Zaoh stepped inside, looking much the same as she had the previous day. Her metal hand rested on the hilt of her katana as her red eyes swept across the room, taking us each in turn.

“High Regent!” Aiko said, standing and bowing with her eyes dipping below her sleeves.

Rin’s gaze settled on Fox, who returned it with a sly smile.

“What are your plans, Fox?” Rin asked.

Fox tilted her head. “I can’t say I have any specific ones.”

“I know these three have reason to meet with the Emperor,” Rin said, “but if you do not plan to join the Empire or have anything you wish to say to him, there is no reason for you to come along.”

My ears folded down as I glanced over at Fox. The same sinking feeling I’d had at the border wall crept back in at the thought of being separated from her. But why was I feeling that? I tried to shake it away.

“I’m going to at least act as an advisor to these kids,” Fox answered.

That made my ears perk up.

“An advisor?” Rin asked.

Fox nodded. “You all seem great and all, but they’re still just kids, and you’re talking about drafting them into the military.”

“It’s their choice whether to join or not,” Rin answered.

“Right. And I want to make sure it’s actually their choice and not simple coercion.”

Rin tensed at that. “You believe the Empire is so low as to coerce children?”

“I don’t know,” Fox said with a shrug. “But you seem oddly interested in them. The High Regent personally taking time out of her day to see to their business here in the palace? That strikes me as a little unusual. Last night, it made sense—your walls had just been attacked by a psychotic dragon rider, and they were involved. But at this point, you seem a little too interested. And when people get overly interested in something, they start behaving sneakily. I’m just a little concerned about what that might mean for three vulnerable kids. Monster kids in a human city, at that.”

Rin’s voice cooled. “I would advise you to be more careful with what you are implying. However, if all you wish is to act as their advisor, then that is all you needed to say.”

“That is all I said,” she flashed her foxy fangs, "until you questioned me about it.”

Rin smirked faintly. “In any case, I will grant your request.” She nodded to Aiko. “Ten minutes.”

With that, she turned and left.

I picked at some more of the food on the table and made sure Lily had gotten her fill as well. Grick, there were no concerns about, as he absolutely gorged himself on fish once again. I’d have to think about moderating him, or we would end up with a very round goblin after a few more days in the palace. Not that I planned to stick around for that long!

“Miss Fox,” Aiko began once it was nearly time, bowing to her. “Would you please change into the clothes we provided this morning?”

Fox licked a bit of grease from her clawed finger and smiled. “Sure—if you help me with it.”

Aiko seemed unperturbed as she simply bowed her head once again, though the super-formal below-the-sleeve bows seemed to be reserved for their betters. "I'm sure you can manage. If you are late, the emperor won't see you."

“Just hurry it up,” I said to Fox.

“Fine, fine.”

She disappeared into her private room and emerged a moment later in an outfit similar to mine—a little more formal and suited for daytime wear rather than the ultra-comfortable kimono we had been dressed in the night before.

With that, Aiko led us out of the guest room and into the hall. We passed through the large chamber at the front of the palace and continued down a much wider corridor beyond it, accompanied by a few silent attendants. Eventually, the hallway opened into a broad chamber filled with people, with a massive set of doors on the far end where golden guards were stationed on either side.

I looked around at the regular people. Most were dressed nicely, but they didn’t give the impression of being nobles or anything. Well… maybe some of them were close, but overall it felt more like a random sampling of the local population. Kind of like attending a courtroom back on Earth.

“Please stand off to the side here until everyone is let in,” Aiko instructed us.

It seemed that it was more than just us who were coming to see the emperor.

I searched through Lisha’s memories and landed on something from Game of Thrones—how rulers would sit on their thrones while people approached to present requests or grievances. Maybe this was something like that?

I felt a little disappointed. I had been under the impression my meeting with the Emperor would be something special. Then again, maybe it still was. Rin had been personally involved, and I doubted she had made contact with every single person here beforehand.

Though… that did conflict with what Genzo had said—that no one saw the Emperor without being cleared by Rin first.

Nobody sees the emperor, not no nobody, not no how!

I suppressed a chuckle as that crossed my mind. I guess already referencing Lisha’s memories related to movies caused it to bubble up.

We waited where Aiko had instructed. After a while, Fox let out a loud yawn and complained, “Ten minutes, huh?”

I couldn’t help noticing a few glances coming our way from the others in the room. That was something I supposed we’d have to get used to. We were a pretty odd group, after all. A goblin, two human-looking girls with animal ears and tails, and a puppy who would have been absolutely adorable if not for the black miasma leaking from her eyes.

Well, in my opinion, Lily was adorable with or without the miasma! But I’m sure it came off just a little bit creepy to anyone who didn’t know how sweet she was! Speaking of, I noticed Lily’s tail wagging as she looked around the room curiously. It seemed she had gotten more comfortable around humans since yesterday. Perhaps the serving girls giving us such amazing meals had turned Lily’s opinion a bit.

Personally, I knew better and reminded myself to stay wary. Just in case.

I noticed two people across the room whispering to each other while trying not to stare at us too obviously. One nodded, and then the other did. Did they just use Analyze on us? It felt like that were probably the case.

One of the golden guards suddenly struck the butt of his spear against the polished stone floor.

CLACK.

The sound echoed through the chamber, cutting through the low murmur of conversation. People immediately straightened up, and the whispering died down.

“Well,” Fox muttered under her breath, stretching her arms over her head, “I guess that’s our cue.”

The golden guard who had struck his spear stepped forward a pace. “Those who have come to present themselves before His Majesty,” he announced, his voice carrying easily through the chamber, “listen well.”

The room went quiet.

“The Emperor will hear petitions today in the order that they have been recorded. When your name or matter is called, you will approach the throne and stop where instructed.”

He rested the butt of his spear lightly against the stone floor.

“You will bow once. Speak clearly and briefly. Do not approach the throne unless commanded. Do not raise your voice. Do not interrupt His Majesty while he speaks. Any who violate the dignity of the court will be removed immediately.”

Grick shifted beside me, and I noticed him subtly wipe fish grease off his hands onto the inside of his sleeves.

The guard continued.

“Advisors or companions may stand beside the petitioner, but only the one called may address the throne unless permission is given.”

Fox leaned slightly toward me and whispered, “Guess that means you’re doing the talking.”

My ears twitched. Great.

The guard struck his spear against the floor again.

CLACK.

“The Emperor will enter shortly. When the doors open, you will remain where you are until instructed otherwise.”

A low tension settled over the room as people adjusted their clothes and straightened their posture.

I took a better look at the massive doors at the far end of the chamber.

They were enormous—easily three times the height of a person—and carved with twisting vines, beasts, and warriors that looked like they had been frozen mid-battle, and at the top, centered and above it all, was a crowned frog.

For some reason, my tail gave a small, nervous flick behind me. Fox noticed and smirked slightly.

“Relax,” she murmured. “It’s just an emperor.”

Easy for her to say. But I knew this meeting had a good chance of defining what the next several years of my life would look like and the possibility of saving my family. Despite Rin tempering my expectations so much, I still held out hope that I would be able to convince the emperor to help me somehow.

The golden guard raised his spear once more.

CLACK.

Then the massive doors moved, creaking open to reveal an enormous hall, far larger than the waiting chamber we had just come from. Tall columns rose up toward a ceiling that disappeared into shadow, each one carved with the same twisting vine patterns that seemed to decorate half the palace. Sunlight streamed in through high windows, catching on polished floors that reflected the movement of everyone entering.

At the far end of the hall stood the throne, though nobody was sitting on it.

It sat atop a raised platform of dark stone, reached by a short flight of wide steps. The chair itself was massive, carved from what looked like a single piece of pale wood that had been shaped into curling branches that formed the back and arms. It almost looked like a tree that had grown into the shape of a throne.

Standing beside it, however, was Rin Zaoh. Her red eyes scanned the hall with the same sharp focus as usual, her metal hand resting calmly on the hilt of her katana.

“Inside,” one of the guards near the doors instructed, and the gathered crowd began to move forward.

As we entered the hall, another guard farther in gestured toward an open area off to the side.

“Petitioners will wait there until called.”

My ears twitched slightly as I looked around at all of the guards, though considering how I had seen Rin Zaoh move before, I couldn’t imagine all of them were really needed.

Lily padded along beside me, tail wagging as she took in the massive room with wide-eyed curiosity, and our group finally found a good spot to wait.

But we didn’t have to wait long before another set of doors on the far side of the throne room opened.

A hush rippled through the hall as two more guards stepped through first, armored in even more elegant armor, their helms crested with green plumes that trailed down their backs. They moved to either side of the walkway and planted their spears against the floor in perfect unison.

There was a slight murmuring around us, though everyone was careful not to be too loud. It seemed the emperor was finally arriving. I moved left and right to try to see better, thankful for my human legs giving me a little more height, even in this child’s body, but Lily and Grick couldn’t see a thing. The Fox just stood there with folded arms and a raised brow, then she muttered, “What the hell?”

I raised a brow at her. What exactly was she reacting to?

I leaned a little to the side, then took a few steps to peek between some of the legs in front of me. Then I saw it.

A turtle.

Not a small one, either. I’d have as much trouble climbing on top of it as I had with the chairs in Rin’s office. Its shell was painted deep green and gold, and tiny charms and strips of embroidered cloth had been fastened along the edges that swayed with each of its slow steps.

Was it the emperor's pet? Is this just how he makes an entrance? But then I noticed something else on top of the turtle that sent my head spinning.

There was a frog, about big enough to sit inside two open palms, with a tiny golden crown on top of its head. I leaned, trying to see through the door the turtle and frog duo had come from, expecting to see someone else… Where the hell was the emperor?

It wasn’t until the turtle made it to Rin Zaoh that I understood.

“Your Majesty,” she said, bowing before the frog.

“Ribbit,” the frog answered.

She then held out her hands, and the frog jumped onto them. She carried him to the throne and set him down, then stood at attention alongside the throne. Her red eyes were as stoic as ever.

My mouth fell open. Was this a joke? Were all of these people in on it?

I looked around and saw a few people scratching their heads, but others only smirked knowingly. The Fox seemed as surprised as me, though she held a hand over her mouth to suppress a chuckle.

One of the guards cleared his throat as he unraveled a scroll and read. “On the matter of the irrigation dispute between the eastern rice terraces, Farmer Taro, please approach the throne.”

Part of me still didn’t believe what I was seeing until a dark-skinned man stepped free from the crowd and walked up to the throne, dropping to a knee just shy of the platform. “Your Majesty, the eastern terraces have been taking more than their share of the river, and our paddies are drying. I beg you to intervene.”

“Ribbit.”

There was no denying it… My future was in the hands of a freaking frog…
