It didn’t take long before I felt restless again. The palace was comfortable… maybe too comfortable.

Though it was nice to be able to spend time with Lily and Grick without having to be on alert, it almost felt unnatural. Fox would hang around us for meals, but then usually disappear into her private room. Aiko showed us out to the palace garden, which looked kind of nice, but I guess I’m just not a stop and smell the roses kinda pup.

At night, I slept curled up with my pack in our room in my doggy form, Lily pressed against me and Grick using her as a pillow. Yet I found myself struggling to really feel comfortable. I could pick up faint sounds outside our room and down the hallways of servants or guards patrolling, but the absence of the natural sounds of the outdoors felt odd.

I couldn’t deny that my soul was already yearning for the wilderness, and for our next hunt.

The following day, it seemed Lily had been thinking about how to communicate with humans better. Unfortunately, she only had one method of doing so, which ended up causing a small panic amongst the guest wing of the palace.

The morning began with a wide array laid out for breakfast. Grick ate his fish happily, but I was somewhat distracted myself. As good as Puffstork was, the fact it came so easily and I didn’t kill it myself, I was beginning to realize, meant that the meal simply lost something. Even so, there were notably fewer than normal—maybe because we had cleaned them out the night before—but once Lily had finished picking the last clean she opened her mouth.

A female human voice came from her throat, crying out in horror and agony. “Help me! HEEELP! I’m going to die!”

I jolted in surprise, looking across the table and blinking. Lily did not look as distressed as she sounded. She was lying down, clean bone between two paws where the black miasma pooled around it, and her tongue lolling out the side of her mouth happily as more black miasma leaked from her eyes.

I blinked.

“Lily… are you… okay?” I asked awkwardly.

Grick didn’t seem to have even noticed, as he was still happily digging into his fishes.

However, several serving maids flew into the room along with three armored guards, each with their swords drawn. “What’s going on in here?” one guard demanded.

Lily looked towards the group of humans, and with tongue still lolling, that agonized pleading voice came from her once more.

“I haven’t eaten in weeks! Soon I’ll be naught but skin and bone. Please! Save me before it’s too late!”

“Lily want more tasties,” Grick explained between bites of his own meal.

Lily continued to whimper as she stared back at the humans. “P-Please. D-Don’t turn away. You’ll help me, won’t you?”

The fact that there was a freshly cleaned bone between her paws, an entire table full of food nearby, and not the slightest hint of actual distress on her body made the whole thing rather amusing.

The humans seemed at a loss, however, so I did my best to explain.

“She has a skill called Cry For Help. It’s uuhh… not really meant for communication, but I think she’s trying to utilize it that way.” I looked over to Lily, who looked like the happiest nightmare pup in the world as she continued to pant with her tongue lolling. “I um… think she wants more Puffstork.”

The guards’ weapons lowered as they looked at each other, completely perplexed. One of the maids stepped forward and bowed, saying, “My apologies, Lady Lily. But that was the last of the Puffstork we have available. It will be a few more days before our next shipment.”

Lily’s ears drooped dramatically.

“No…” Lily’s horrified human voice gasped. “I-is this truly the end for me? Please, have a heart! D-Do not just leave me to suffer…”

I winced and waved a hand at the humans. “We’re okay. Don’t worry about her.”

Lily turned a pout towards me and, through Pack Bond, complained in a much more normal voice, “I want more Puffstork Meat.”

I sat back and folded my arms, talking back with Pack Bond. “There’s none left. If you’re still hungry, you’ll have to eat something else on the table.”

“Try fishy,” Grick said, setting his half-consumed plate on the floor and sliding it towards Lily. “Be careful of nasty fishy bone. It stabby Lily’s throat.”

“See, everything’s okay here,” I awkwardly explained to the humans. “I’ll talk to her about not doing that again, okay?”

They all seemed to accept my explanation as the guards sheathed their swords and left the room, and the maids all got back to work. And they were not the only ones.

Across the room, Fox’s door finally opened, and a blushing maid scurried out, straightening her clothes. It wasn’t the one from yesterday, though. Shortly after her, Fox made her appearance. Her clothes also looked like they could use some straightening, but she didn’t bother as she plopped down at the table with us and let out a dramatic yawn, clawed fingers splayed wide over her mouth. “Hey, what was all the screaming about a minute ago?”

“Just Lily trying to communicate with humans through Cry For Help.”

“Hm, yeah, that’s what I figured,” Fox said and sleepily reached over the table as she started making herself a plate.

When the meal was done, Aiko came in and grabbed our attention with a bow at the end of the table. “Honored guests, I’d like to inform you that His Majesty the Emperor has requested your audience in one hour.”

I nodded my understanding, then asked, “Excuse me. Can I ask if you know what happened to Sakura?”

“Ah—” Aiko held her arms horizontally before her and bowed her eyes under her sleeves. “My apologies. I am not at liberty to discuss other guests.”

“Guests?” My ears folded down. “I don’t think she’s exactly a guest.”

“All the same, I’m not at liberty to comment one way or the other.” She peeked above her sleeves. “I’ll return a little later to collect you all when the time has come.” She then straightened herself as she more pointedly looked at Fox. “Please make sure you’re all dressed appropriately for the occasion.”

Fox glanced down at herself, then lazily gave Aiko a smug wink. “We are monsters, you know. And so is the emperor. Monsters don’t typically wear clothes at all. Just be glad I’m meeting you halfway.”

Aiko’s brow furrowed in disapproval, but it seemed she wasn’t permitted to press an argument with us “honored guests” any further, so she rolled her eyes and then turned away.

At least someone in this damn palace was immune to Fox’s “charm.”

As promised, Aiko returned for us a short time later. Fox did change out of her nightclothes into something a little more formal, and I had already dressed in the most formal wear they provided for me, even before breakfast.

So we four monsters were led through the busy palace halls. Servants who were familiar with us bowed politely as we passed; those who I’d not seen before couldn’t help but look up in surprise before also giving an appropriately respectful bow.

“It’s a little weird to be treated like this,” I muttered. “I thought we were supposed to be more akin to soldiers.”

Well, except for Fox, I thought.

Fox walked toward the back of the group, hands folded behind her head. “Yeah, we’re soldiers, but we’re also honored guests.”

“I meant, we’re soldiers,” I shot back, gesturing between myself, Lily, and Grick.

“What, I’m not included in you guys’ ‘we’ yet?”

Her asking that led me to attempt to check her status screen to see if the System recognized her as a member of my pack.

[Invalid Target for that ability]

“Nope, not yet,” I shot back.

She cocked an eyebrow, clearly a little confused. I never totally explained Pack Bond to her, or what I was thinking about how it might work. And I especially didn’t explain what her role in it could be.

Come to think of it, other than when we had saved those merchants and when she attacked that Night Harrier that didn’t even end up dying, Fox hasn’t exactly done much fighting with us. Even in the case of the single bandit she had killed when we helped the merchants, it was after most of the fighting was already done. Maybe that’s why the System hadn’t recognized her as a packmate yet?

N-Not that I would actually want her to be! Why would I want a selfish, opportunistic fox in my pack anyway!?

Fox tilted her head as she watched me. “What’s with you?”

I bristled. “Nothing!”

She continued to look confused, but then receded with a sigh. “Whatever. You’re a mystery, kid.”

This time, when the throne room door came into view, there was nobody else waiting around for an audience. The massive doors remained shut, with four golden-armored guards standing watch beside them just as before. A few other palace guards in green armor lingered further down the hall, occasionally speaking quietly amongst themselves before straightening as we approached.

Aiko stepped forward and exchanged a few words with one of the golden guards. After a respectful nod, she turned back to us with a bow. “His Majesty will be with your party shortly.”

We waited for all of five seconds before Fox smoothly peeled herself away from our group. I raised a brow as I saw her approach one of the green-armored guards near the wall. The man straightened slightly as she came before him, clearly unsure if he was supposed to direct her back towards us or not.

Fox stopped in front of him and tilted her head innocently. “So, are you allowed to talk while on duty, or are you all just supposed to stand around and look intimidating?”

The guard blinked, caught off guard by the question. “I think talking’s allowed. As long as it doesn’t interfere with our duty.”

“Mmm. Good. I’d hate to be responsible for getting someone in trouble.”

“Ah—well no worries. Is there something you needed?”

Fox folded her hands behind her back, tail swaying lazily. “I just never really talked with one of you before. And it looks like we have a few minutes, sooo…”

The guard blinked, blush creeping onto his cheeks. I had to resist palming my face.

Fox tilted her head and showed the tips of her fangs. “Does standing around outside the throne room ever get interesting, or is it mostly just hours of trying not to fall asleep?”

The guard let out a short laugh before catching himself. “Depends on the day, I suppose.”

“And what kind of day is today?”

“Well…” His eyes briefly flicked back and forth, caught by Fox’s tail as it swayed behind her. “More interesting than usual, I’d say.”

Fox grinned at that and leaned in just slightly. “Oh? Well, I do try to leave an impression.”

“Ah— I didn’t mean—”

Fox smiled, showing her fangs more fully. “It’s alright. To tell the truth, I’ve been quite bored myself, you know.”

“I-Is that so?” he asked.

I couldn’t watch anymore. I buried my face in one hand and looked away.

Yeah, she really will just flirt with literally anyone.

I turned to Aiko and asked, “So is it just us meeting with the emperor today?”

She gave a small nod. “His Majesty requested a more private audience this time.”

How is he actually able to request anything? I wondered.

He couldn’t talk… So, whenever he wanted something, would he just communicate by giving small quests for mundane things to people? I smirked at the thought, imagining the serving girls getting quests for things like “bring me some water” or “bring me dinner.” What kind of quest rewards would something like that give anyway? And on that note, what did he eat? Would he be brought a plate of flies or something else?

The guards stationed furthest from the center stepped back in unison but maintained their rigid postures as the other two grasped the doors and pulled them open.

“It seems the emperor will see you now,” Aiko said.

I looked over to Fox to see her disengaging from the blushing guard. “Thanks for the chat. I hope I see you around again sometime,” she said, finger-waving him goodbye.

“You as well, Lady Fox,” he answered.

Once again, we were greeted by a dimly lit throne room. This time, the Emperor was already in his place, tiny golden crown atop his head. The turtle he had ridden in on last time remained beside the throne like a loyal pet. On the other side stood Rin, metal fingers resting calmly on her sword, red eyes watching us.

Aiko bowed, disappearing her eyes fully below her sleeves and lowering herself much further than when she had bowed to us earlier. “The Hell Hound party, as requested, Your Majesty.”

“Ribbit,” the emperor said, and with that, Aiko turned and left the throne room. The heavy doors slid shut behind her as soon as she left.

The emperor’s wide, glazed eyes remained fixed on us as he sat atop the massive throne, his throat sac slowly inflating and deflating with his breathing.

Fox moved ahead of our group, approaching the stairs before the throne and then dropping to a knee. I looked at Grick and Lily, and the three of us padded forward after her, me and Grick kneeling as well, and Lily simply sitting on her haunches. She looked from me to the emperor, and I could tell even she thought this was all quite strange….

For a few moments, nobody spoke. The throne room felt strangely still compared to last time. Rin just stood there, the turtle just sat there, and we just remained kneeling while the frog with the little golden crown on its head just stared at us.

Should I say something first? I wondered.

I peeked over to Fox, who kept her eyes fixed on the ground before her.

This is sooo stupid! I thought. I can’t be the only one who realizes how frickin’ ridiculous this is.

But then—

“Ribbit.”

I looked up, and Rin inclined her head smoothly. “His Majesty compliments your performance thus far. From the onset, he was confident you would succeed in your quest, but thus far you’ve exceeded expectations.”

“Ribbit.”

“His Majesty would like to inform you that your efforts are not taken for granted, and he’d like to reiterate that your desire to be reunited with the rest of your family is being taken seriously.”

“Ribbit.”

“Progress is being made regarding the situation with the Scorched Steeps Tribe. However, not being a necessarily friendly nation, negotiations are delicate, and His Majesty appreciates your continued patience.”

“Ribbit.”

“For the time being, he would like to see your party's growth continue. The dangers ahead of you are considerable, and while your recent accomplishments have been impressive, His Majesty believes all three of you have only begun to realize your potential.”

Then there was silence.

I lifted my head and blinked. I couldn’t help asking, “So… are you actually translating for him or just… giving us the gist of it?”

Rin’s metal fingers suddenly tightened on the hilt of her katana. “You dare insult the emperor?”

“N-No! I wasn’t! I just…”

“Ribbit.”

Rin’s posture eased as she turned to the Emperor and inclined her head. “My apologies, Your Majesty.”

“Ribbit.”

Rin closed her eyes for a moment to compose herself. When they opened again, her crimson gaze fixed on me. “The emperor has a new quest for each of you. And he would like to assure you that it had been carefully considered and tailored toward maximizing your growth.”

I stiffened.

Why did that sound so ominous?

Then, there was one more “Ribbit” and a quest screen popped up in front of my face.

[Quest Offered!]Seek the Serpent!The crown has recognized the extraordinary growth and potential of the Nameless Hell Hound. Yet while your current strength is impressive for one so young, greater dangers loom, and you must be prepared to rise and meet them. To continue your evolution, you must step beyond prey fit for ordinary monsters and begin hunting those that stand at the threshold of true calamity.

Goal: Locate and overcome the Serpent of the Black Pyre.

Progress: Incomplete

Rewards:Major Experience BonusMajor Development Bonus

Epic Evolution Hint

My tail wagged when I read it.

The Serpent of the Black Pyre! That’s what I needed to get the Hellbourne Firewitch evolution. This is great! I was worried I’d be stuck killing bandits for months or years and struggling to get the kind of growth I was hoping for.

But then, I heard Grick say, “Grick kills more bandits?” He tilted his head in confusion.

I grinned. “No, Grick. We’re going to be doing something else now.”

Grick looked over to me, ears folding flat along his temples. Lily looked between us, sensing some tension, and she let out a low whine.

I raised a brow.

“What’s wrong?” I asked.

Then, it began to hit me. I used Pack Bond to check their stat screens and found that I could pull up their active quests as well. I had no reason to try to do this before, as we’ve always had the same quests thus far…

But not this time.

My eyes widened as I read through Grick’s quest first.

[Quest Offered!]Prove Your Worth Tier 2The crown recognizes the potential of the Bonded Rider Grick and the Shadow-linked Deceiver Lily. Yet potential alone is not enough to rise to the challenges that loom ahead. The forests remain plagued by disorder, and many threats still linger within the lands surrounding the Empire’s borders. Strength is forged through hardship, battle, and bloodshed. Continue the hunt and temper yourselves further beneath the shadow of the Verdant Empire.

Goal: Hunt and eliminate hostile threats operating within the forests surrounding the Verdant Empire.

Eliminate 15 more bandits.

Progress: 0/15

Eliminate 10 monsters level 15 or higher.

Progress: 0/10

Rewards:Major Experience BonusMajor Development Bonus

A low growl rumbled up my throat.

No.

No no no!

I immediately opened Lily’s quest, and found it said the exact same thing as Grick’s.

I raised my head toward the throne, fangs already bared.

Toward Rin.

Toward the frog wearing the tiny golden crown.

How dare they try to separate us like this!?

But then I felt a hand on my shoulder push me back down and force me to take a knee.

Fox talked over me before I could get a single word out. “Your Majesty. If I may interject. I don’t wish to question the wisdom of the throne. But… These three are a pack. A family. They’ve been through hell together so far and have pulled through. I urge you to reconsider and keep them fighting as one.”

“Ribbit.”

Rin looked back to the emperor, and for the first time, her expression actually softened.

Just slightly.

“The quests were not assigned by mistake,” she said.

My stomach sank.

“Ribbit.”

Rin’s gaze returned to me.

“His Majesty says the separation is the point.”
