It seemed the sentries all returned to their posts. Were they always this secure, or did our earlier engagement today put them on edge? Perhaps they wanted revenge on the monsters who had killed some of their people. Either way, they were still treating us like a problem they could handle.

It was hard to imagine how they might consider us. Rationally, they should just consider us mindless, instinctive monsters who happened to cross some of their men and decided to attack. They shouldn't expect that we were so dead set on killing more of them, and they certainly couldn't know that we were actually working for the empire and were on a quest. Surely, that was far too bizarre and unlikely an idea.

Their boss concerned me the most. I wish I had thought to use Analyze on him earlier, so I knew just how big a threat he was. However, he’d suffer the same weakness that they all did against us hell hounds. Humans were slow, and with plenty of surrounding woodland and our proficiency at hunting in the dark, we had so many advantages over them. Only those Drakewolves might be a problem, but those beasts seemed more like proper monsters in their intelligence.

I crept forward with Lily at my side, and Grick crouched low alongside her as the three of us moved towards the bandit's compound once again. I kept my mind's eye on the archer, and once we were close, I told Lily and Grick to stop and just wait.

I decided to check my vitals and attributes as I thought over the attack.

Name: ???

Vitals

Health: 760 / 660 +100*

Mana: 720 / 850 +100*

Stamina: 560 / 608 +80*

Attributes

Strength: 127 +20*

Dexterity: 152 +20*

Vigor: 132 +20*

Attunement: 170 +20*

Sense: 189 +20*

Soul Rend was certainly showing its potential tonight. Those two Drakewolf kills gave me +20 to all my stats, which had my health sitting comfortably above its unbuffed maximum, and I technically had 950 total mana at the moment as well!

If I could keep finishing off bandits with Soul Rend, I'd grow stronger and stronger as we thinned down their numbers. But sadly, those extra gains were only temporary, which is why I really wanted to finish this quest in one go tonight.

While I planned to use Lily as bait, I didn’t want her to do too much direct fighting. Even though she was now level 14, which was comparable to most of the bandits, her fighting style wasn't as quick and clean as mine. She specialized in slowly breaking down her opponents and leading them into traps, while my jaws could go in for quick kills.

In a situation where dozens more bandits could come swarming at any moment, she didn’t have the luxury of fighting the way she preferred.

The archer was my first concern. If we wanted to take him out, we’d have to lure him down from that tree.

"Ready, Lily?" I asked through Pack Bond.

"Kill humans!" she responded.

"This is a dangerous hunt," I warned her. "You lure them; let me handle killing." I nodded over to Grick. "Escape if you are in danger. Don't take chances!"

Grick nodded in understanding, but Lily let out a discontented huff that made me raise a brow. Was she unhappy about me bossing her around? Or was it that she thought I was being overprotective? I wasn't sure, but Lily had never really complained about anything before.

Oh well, I didn't need to think much of it for the time being.

"Go ahead, Lily," I encouraged. "Do your thing..." Then, as an afterthought, I added, "Once some are dead, you can use Cry for Help to trick more!"

Her tail wagged at that idea.

There were a lot of things that made hunting fun. Sometimes it felt almost like a game, and for a more strategic, manipulative hunt where you didn't just charge in with your fangs gnashing and relying on overpowering strength, there was a certain satisfaction that came with being able to outsmart or trick your prey. Lily seemed to be coming to enjoy that kind of hunting more and more.

"Grick, stay behind," I told him. "We want to seem like normal monsters."

Lily whined as she turned her head to look at Grick.

"It's okay, Lily," Grick said. "Grick helps in sneaky ways! Grick uses Grick and Lily skills later!"

I gave her a nod. "He won't be able to do much from on top of your back in this instance, so he'll be in unnecessary danger." Then I gave her a wolfy grin. "We'll help train his new skills tomorrow."

Lily's tail gave a single wag at that.

I wondered what her future might look like and whether her development would be affected by how she fights with Grick? She had already clearly affected his evolution Path in a big way herself.

I watched as Lily moved forward, cutting through the shadows, and I activated a new Pulse Sense, keeping the positions of as many of the humans as possible in my mind, but also finding another use for Pulse Sense that I hadn't truly utilized or even recognized the potential of before. It wasn't just for knowing a target's location, but it also hinted at their thoughts based on how their hearts beat.

Pulse Sense Level Up! 3 > 4

+4 Sense

+3 Attunement

Woah! Did utilizing it in a different way cause that to happen? I’d have to keep this in mind for my other skills. Maybe Fox was wrong, and it wasn’t just a matter of how often you used something that improved your skill level with it.

Anyway, I’d have to think about that more later.

Those bandits had somehow spotted me when I came scouting earlier. Either it was thanks to one of them having a similar skill of their own, or something else, I had no idea, but it was vital to understand how well they could pick out our locations.

Lily moved closer and closer. I watched the archer through my mind's eye, ready to send her a warning if he prepared to fire.

Then, as she came just a little closer, I saw him move. Actually, it was more that an unnatural stillness came to his body as he listened closely. Then his eyes began to scan.

A subtle whistle cut through the forest. It wasn’t the archer, but somebody else. All at once, the nearby pulses started to move towards Lily.

"Lily! They see you! Use your shadow clones like we talked about!" Then I thought at Grick, "head that way, wait for a chance to help her."

With that, I moved quickly and activated {Veil of Shadows} as I moved in a wide arc to get myself behind the archer. He lifted his bow in my mind's eye, then cursed and lowered it again.

Good—now I just needed him to jump down from—

He jumped alright, but he didn't jump down as I had hoped. His body was airborne in my mind's eye, then I saw his feet land on a branch. He jumped to another tree!

Damn it!

I suppressed a frustrated growl.

"Lily! Be careful!"

"I know!" she shot back.

Seriously? What's with my little sister's attitude tonight!? Whatever, as long as she stayed safe.

The bandits gave up on stealth as shouts rang through the trees.

"There it is!"

"There's more!"

"After them!"

It seemed Lily's clones were doing their work.

If she did as I had told her earlier, she was currently dipping her shadow clones closer to their base, letting them see her, stirring them up, and creating confusion. My main goal, however, of getting that archer didn't seem like it was going to pan out as he jumped from tree to tree in my mind’s eye, far outside my reach.

However, a consolation prize soon revealed itself as I set my focus on a bandit who had let himself drift too far from the others. The nearest pulse to him was the archer, who was far more focused on getting a position on Lily.

As the others chased her, shouting through the forest, I slipped in low, using the chaos to mask my approach. Branches brushed against my fur as I weaved through the undergrowth, careful, silent. He was moving—trying to get a position on Lily—but he had no idea his attention was on the wrong Hell Hound.

I lunged.

I hit him from behind, my weight slamming into his back and driving him face-first into the dirt. My claws dug in as I pinned him, jaws snapping forward without hesitation. He managed half a scream—cut short as my teeth closed around the side of his neck.

But I wasn’t going for a quick snap of the neck this time; I had other plans as I pierced my fangs into the soft flesh, forcing his attempted screams to become desperate gurgles.

When I felt like I had done enough, I lifted my paw and cast {Soul Rend}!

Prey Eliminated! level 13 Human Bandit

Experience gained!

Essence extracted!

0 health restored

40 mana restored

30 Stamina restored

+5 to all attributes

One down, six more to go! Or rather, nine down, six to go!

I just wish that Soul Rend gave me a little more, but I suppose it's to be expected from lower-level kills.

But that partial scream he got off was enough to reveal my position. The archer turned around, bow raised, and with an arrow smoothly sliding up to its string. I turned and dove for cover, managing to get behind a tree just as an arrow slammed into it just behind my tail!

Damn, he must have good night vision!

I made a run for it, zipping my path sharply left and right as I went from cover to cover to avoid the arrows.

In my mind's eye, I saw his mouth drop open in shock, but then his entire face tensed with determination.

What did those expressions mean? I wondered.

Well, perhaps he was starting to get an inkling that I knew more than I should. I couldn't imagine that he was aware that I could currently see him at all times, but he certainly was starting to realize that something was up.

Then, another message popped up just as I heard a scream echo through the trees.

Prey Eliminated! level 14 Human Bandit

Experience gained!

Oh! Lily must have gotten another one! Good going, Lily!

Five to go!

In my mind's eye, I saw the archer put his fingers to his mouth and let out three sharp whistles. It was different than the more subtle whistle we'd heard before. I used Pulse Sense, trying to get a read on their positions and...

They were retreating! They were heading back to the compound!

"Enemy is leaving," I sent through Pack Bond. "Meet with me."

I did another quick scan to try to determine if I could pick off one more before they all regrouped. As tempting as it was to try, there were no clearly safe targets, especially not from my angle, where I'd be putting myself under that skilled archer.

So I gave it up for the time being and slinked back through the shadows until finding Lily and Grick far from any of the human pulses.

"Is anyone hurt?" I asked as soon as we met up.

Grick walked alongside Lily and shook his head. "Not hurt. We get nasty human."

I huffed as I sat on my haunches and thought things over.

"They seem to now understand we are not ordinary monsters. I hoped they would continue to pursue us so we could take more out, but they’ve now realized the danger we pose."

"Quest?" Lily asked, looking at me.

Yes, she seemed to understand our purpose. I wasn’t always sure, but I figured I should have known better. Just like with a map, she might not have understood it at first, but I'd bet if she were to be shown maps more, she'd eventually completely understand their purpose, and the same would go for anything else.

"Let's watch for now," I said. "We cannot fight if we are too outnumbered. They may not keep making the same mistakes."

I checked on my archer friend.

He had jumped down from the trees, but it seemed to me he was getting closer to their compound. They'd probably have a meeting, report what they saw, and perhaps their boss would give them orders on how to proceed.

"Stay here," I told Grick and Lily. "I'm going to get closer to try to watch."

Leaving my pack behind, I moved closer to the bandit's base. Unlike when I used Pulse Sense before, I didn't see any sentries hiding out around its outskirts.

I continued to follow, watched as the archer moved up a slope and into the base, and eventually, I could see the hidden structure with my normal eyes.

Pulse Sense showed me just about everybody was inside now…

Actually, no. There were a few directly outside the base. They were sticking so close that I mistook their pulses for being inside with all the others at first, but that wasn’t the case.

I heard a slight muffle of a yell, somebody giving an order, and soon every pulse in the place were moving until they formed a circle. Their hearts were beating faster—agitated. Scared.

In my mind’s eye, I watched the archer as he spoke. His movements were sharp and restless—hands cutting through the air as he pointed, gestured, insisted. He’d stop just long enough for someone else to respond, then jump right back in, more animated than before.

Something was off.

I hadn’t noticed it earlier, but now that I was looking for it… his heartbeat was fast. Uneven. There was an edge to it that didn’t match the others.

Fear.

It seemed Death Mark’s passive effect was getting to him.

He looked like he was defending himself, trying to convince them of what he had seen.

I imagined the argument.

Some of them probably thought this was nothing—just a couple of monsters stirring trouble. Others might be questioning that whistle he’d let out, the way he’d pulled them back instead of pressing the attack. Possibly accusing him of his cowardice prompting an unnecessary retreat.

Good.

If they were divided, that worked in our favor. Because as long as they stayed grouped up like this, killing them would be impossible.

I shifted my focus lower, scanning for pulses near the ground. Three of them moved differently—low, steady, not quite human. The Drakewolves.

With everyone clustered together, it was a little hard to tell them each individually apart, but I was fairly certain there were only three of the Drakewolves.

Those monsters were a problem because, unlike the humans, they could actually give us a good chase and corral us into a trap of their own.

Then there was one more muffled shout.

I noticed every pulse became more agitated. It seemed that with my recent level up I was able to tell things like this a little easier.

Everyone shuffled, and soon, the front door swung open and out stepped the big Boss guy. His Drakewolves slinked out after him, staying by his feet as he began to scan the darkness, and I knew now was the time to make my retreat.

But before that, There was one more piece of information I needed.

{Analyze}!

Human - Level 24

With that, I disappeared into the night.

I wasn’t done with them yet, however. I had three good Soul Rends improving my stats, and I wanted to keep riding this wave until the quest was complete.
