The deaths of the first husks seem to alert the rest in the vicinity. I keep an eye on the more distant parts of the wall, but their guards seem to be dutybound to their sections. That is good, because if they all crashed in around us, we would have to take some more drastic measures.

For now, we’re conserving energy. My sword is building up charge. We’re efficient. But as we draw closer to the walls, it gets harder to move quickly. The husks not only get stronger, but also more numerous. I’m forced to drop a few of my stored Fireballs on them to clear large sections, and those explosions draw the ire of the husks from further away. It’s like a miniature zombie apocalypse, except all the zombies are sprouting angry roots.

We draw even closer to the wall, and our progress slows even further. It makes me wonder how Folsa ever made it out of here in the first place. He must have just walked out using his disguise. I guess he wouldn’t have had to bring five undisguised people out with him way back then. But maybe he did have a group of warriors that he somehow managed to keep safe, and they sacrificed themselves for him?

It doesn’t really matter. We keep cutting through the former Maligari people until I get annoyed at how slow we’re going. We’ll eventually make it at this pace, but it’ll be tedious and leave us all drained. Instead, I start summoning some of the mana constructs I’ve stored, and while the others battle, I shape them into an enormous mana hand. It’s bigger than anything I’ve ever made before, but I’ve never really pushed my limits on size, and this doesn’t feel that strenuous.

“Everyone in!” I shout once it’s done.

The twins notice first, but I sense them send telepathic messages, and a moment later, Chad picks up Folsa and flings him into the hand. Folsa isn’t totally weak, but he’s definitely a bit of dead weight in this situation.

The twins enter next, followed by Lauren, as Chad holds back the horde before jumping in himself. As soon as everyone is inside, I float it up and out of reach of the husks. Some of them leap after it, or fire roots at it, but B conjures shields all around to keep them from getting through, we are able to pilot safely to the top of the wall.

The most powerful husks seem to be stationed here, based on the amount of mana they have, and how quickly their roots fly, but it doesn’t matter. As soon as they attack, I simply take the whole construct and Blink us past the wall. We quickly descend back to the ground, and as soon as we land, Lauren, the fastest of us, picks up Folsa, and we all start running. Only the strongest husks can even kind of keep up with us, but a few well placed Spatial Slices and explosive projectiles from A and they all fall behind. After a quarter hour of running, when all the husks have fallen far enough behind that we can’t even see them anymore, we finally get the notification.

[ You have successfully escaped Maligar with the Diligent Watcher! Reward: Potion of Diligence ]

[ Waiting for Party Leader to select course of action… ]

“That was kind of anticlimactic,” I comment. “After how complicated the other Floors were, that felt too simple.”

“Maybe the challenge was our discussion earlier?” suggests A.

“If we had acted based on the lesson we learned from the plague of Patience, the Floor would have been much harder,” says B.

“And you have to keep in mind that we cleared the previous Floors unusually quickly. The third Floor should have taken at least a week, based on the timeline for the city lord’s announcement.

“And I doubt the second was supposed to be so fast either. As you said, your abilities countered the challenges quite effectively.”

“What in the world are you talking about?” says Folsa. “And why have we stopped? We need to keep moving!”

“You go on your own, Folsa,” says Lauren. “We have some unfinished business to take care of.”

“What? Why? We can all–”

“Just go,” says Lauren.

“No! I’m not leaving you!”

“Folsa…” I say. “I’m sorry to tell you this… but we’ve been infected.”

“What?”

“We’ve been fighting it off, but we won’t last another hour.”

“I– You–”

“If we’re with you once we’re taken over, it will all be for nothing. So we’ll use our last moments to fight off the horde.”

Folsa seems lost for words for a few seconds, and his eyes well with tears. However, rather than protesting further, he sets his jaw and nods, wiping his eyes.

“I won’t forget you,” he says. “I’ll make sure you get the recognition you deserve.”

“Thank you,” I say. “Now go.”

“Right,” he says, before turning to run.

“Anyway,” says A once he’s gone. “As we were saying, we were likely supposed to come away from the previous Floors with the lessons a lot more deeply-ingrained in us.”

“Also, without you, would we have been able to tell we could trust Folsa?”

“Oh, good point,” I say. “It still feels a little too straightforward, but whatever. It’s not really important. What is important is that we have a Named monster to kill.”

“What?” says Lauren. “Why?”

“Because unlike on the last Floor, this one is real. Plus, it’s evolving. When else will we get an opportunity to kill a Named monster this powerful? Besides, if it gets dangerous, you can always just accept the prompt to go to the next Floor, and we’ll be fine.”

“…I guess,” she says.

“And I know you want to try those fruits too.”

“...Yeah.”

“Alright, then let’s go!”

Time to see why the Dungeon Core was being such a drama queen.
