When the lizard finally breathed its last, the warrior shouted gleefully, and the party came together to congratulate themselves on a job well done. When Lauren hopped down from her perch and approached them, they all turned to face her with expressions ranging from relief to confidence, and all of them were smiling.

“How’d we do?” asked the warrior. “Good enough for that mid-Silver promotion?”

The cocky look on his face almost made Lauren start going off on him right there, but instead, she took a deep breath to calm herself before she spoke.”

“That was the worst performance I’ve ever had the displeasure of witnessing. It made me want to gouge my eyes out with a spoon.”

Well, so much for not going off, she thought. Too late to take it back though. Oh well.

“I would demote all of you back to Copper if I could. And yes, I mean all of you. I honestly don’t even know where to start. You did almost everything wrong…”

What followed was a rant that lasted an entire quarter of an hour, and grew gradually more unhinged and less censored as it went on. By the end, the priestess and mage had been reduced to tears, and the rogue and ranger were on the verge of tears, and the warrior looked like he wanted to punch her. Lauren didn’t feel the least bit bad about it. If they wanted a good evaluation, they should have performed better.

The rant had the benefit of improving her mood, so when she emerged from the Dungeon, she yawned, stretched, and smiled. It was actually a very pleasant night. A little chilly, but with her Resilience, it didn’t bother her. The sky was clear and full of stars, and the city was alive with sounds.

As someone at the peak of Gold, Lauren had all but outgrown the city of Riverfork. The final floors of a couple of the Dungeons could still provide her with a challenge, but it wouldn’t be long before she cleared those too. If she wanted to advance to Platinum, she would need to go to a bigger city, which was why she was saving up money. Still, there were things about Riverfork that she would miss. Mostly the food.

Riverfork was not a large city, but it was home to the Calloway Culinary School, meaning that there was no shortage of restaurants owned by Tier 3 or higher chefs. Lauren was actually considering trying to apprentice under one of them to upgrade her own chef Profession instead of heading immediately for a bigger city to improve her Class.

She wandered through the streets for a few minutes until she arrived at one of her favorite restaurants, the Sea Lemon. As far as she was aware, they had the best seafood in the city, and as a Gold-ranked Adventurer, her status afforded a few privileges that she gladly exploited to get a table at the restaurant instantly. She ordered her five favorite entrees, then fiddled with her knives until the busboy brought them all out on a platter.

Right as she was about to start digging in, a small commotion behind made her pause. When she turned around, she saw Luca, the Guild’s errand boy-in-chief running toward her with a nervous expression.

This can’t be good.

“What is it?” she said grumpily. “Can it wait.”

“No,” said Luca, bowing. “I’m sorry. It’s an emergency summons.”

He held out a letter that Lauren grabbed and tore open angrily.

“A Named monster?” she asked as she read.

“A Leader type,” said Luca. “It’s wiped out an entire village. Oakville sent a scouting party to gather information, but none of them returned, and the town is currently being evacuated because most of their Adventurers were in the scouting party, and they can’t defend themselves from monsters anymore. Current estimates put it as a mid to high Silver threat, but it could go as high as mid Gold within the next week.”

“Shit,” said Lauren. “Why me? Where’s Aaron?”

“One week into a two week dive,” said Luca. “You’re the only Gold-ranked Rogue archetype available right now.”

Lauren skimmed the rest of the more-detailed notes, then sighed.

“I’ll go after I eat.”

“We have a horse waiting-”

“After. I. Eat.”

“Y-yes, ma’am.”

Ten minutes later, Lauren tossed a couple coins onto the table that now held only clean plates and empty glasses. Luca waited patiently for her to finish to escort her out, but before the coins even hit the table, she had vanished. Luca looked around frantically for a few seconds until he heard a horse whinny from outside. He rushed to the window and looked out to see Lauren riding away.

“Good luck,” he said under his breath.
