Which meant Bi De was before him as soon as he got the message. Bi De was a little nervous about this meeting. The man had left him alone for months at this point before this sudden summons.

“The world of cultivation is different than this disciple imagined, Elder,” Bi De replied. “This one is grateful to the Shrouded Mountain Sect for teaching him.”

And Bi De was. Quite frankly, he found the sect utterly repulsive. The waste of it all was disgusting. The lack of oversight and blind eyes turned to battle amongst its members abhorrent. Not everyone was bad, of course. Yushang and Han, and even some of the other disciples for example. What galled him though is that they claimed to be above 'mortal things' and yet… they were just people. Petty, arrogant, kind, prideful and everything else he would expect a person to be. Fa Bi De needed no lessons in this. Whatever grace or wisdom they laid claim to, he had yet to see it. Had he not been given a mission here he would have been long gone.

He now understood exactly why his Master had left this life if the Cloudy Sword Sect was anything like this place.

Elder Chongyun smiled. “Excellent. I also heard you are taking well to the lessons of our Shrouded Mountain. You suppressed another of our Inner Disciples, but also did it properly. His drive to improve will surely take his cultivation to new heights.”

“As you say, Elder.”

“I am also told you are selling a lot of your spiritual herbs,” Elder Chongyun continued as he reached out to the side and picked up one of Bi De’s herbs. He examined it with a critical eye, his power swirling around it. “It is of excellent quality—and its properties are quite interesting. The subtle purification you’ve woven into it is quite interesting… especially since it seems that near enough the entire Sect has partaken of them.”

It took all of Bi De’s composure not to freeze at the statement as Chongyun’s eyes turned from the herb to Bi De, intent  boring into Bi De’s own.

There was a subtle static charge in the air.

Bi De smiled guilessly.

“I heard rumors of some sort of demon attacking a disciple—thus I thought to give my fellows an edge. A little boost to help resist demonic influence. It is harmless unless one is tainted or a demon.”

Elder Chongyun’s stare bore down on him.

Then the elder ripped the Qi out of the plant and before Bi De’s eyes refined it, taking the Lunar Qi into himself.

He smiled. There was no pulse from his body fighting the Qi off. No burning of his cultivation as the holy Qi harmed anything demonic.

“That is an excellent idea, Disciple. Here, this is a writ of provision. I shall need extra for our agents in the field. The reward for fulfilling this is five Spiritual Bone Refining Pills, and I shall allow you to take a look into my library,” the elder stated simply as he picked up a scroll and handed it to Bi De. “Serve your Sect well, Disciple. I will ensure that everyone has a measure of your fine work.”

“Yes, Elder,” Bi De replied, bowing deeply.

======================

He left the Elder’s mansion feeling a little bit confused.

Elder Chongyun wanted more of the herbs. He had noticed Bi De’s Lunar Qi… and intended to help him spread it.

Bi De cast his senses out, searching. And again, nothing. No Demonic Qi or taint.

Not inside the wards of the mansion, not on any of the servants. Everywhere he had been so far, from the lower rings of the mountain, to the heights of it near the Elders' Pavilion, had been free from demonic taint.

There was one conclusion that Bi De was coming to, that there were no demonic infiltrators anymore. Zang Li had been the last, or the only one who had come into the Shrouded Mountain Sect.

But Bi De supposed that to investigate and find nothing was better than to have an entire sect infested by demons, was it not?

Even with this slowly dawning revelation he still felt… uneasy. Everything had gone too smoothly. Then too there were still over a thousand disciples out on missions around the province, though they would soon be receiving provisions of Lunar Qi, he could not go out and confirm that they were untainted. He would have to wait until Ri Zu and Yun Ren came back with more answers. For now, he felt he had done as much as he could. The only thing left was to keep acting like a cultivator.

Bi De groaned.
