“I didn’t wish to imply that. I’m just—wary of losing what remains of my flesh.”
“As I stated, wise.”
Yvlon eyed Cognita and backed up a step.
“I see. Then why does that make you angry?”
Cognita realized her perfect posture had shifted forwards. She righted herself, and her face smoothed.
“Merely reflections of the last Truestone Golem. Inconsequential, I am sure, Adventurer Byres. Someday, you will also face the agony of a woman of metal: you will outlive and outlast your team, if they even survive their journeys. It is no exaggeration to claim this: your class is a [Warrior]. All other members of your team present are hybrid or dedicated spellcasters. With rare exception, your lifespan will exceed theirs.”
Then you will have cause to regret the strength of your body, when you are alone. It was a conclusion Cognita had come to the moment she perceived her master, Zelkyr, was aging. The terror of that he himself had grappled with until the last day she’d seen him…
It was not that she desired to see Yvlon Byres in distress. Merely an acceptable outcome. However, it disconcerted Cognita to see Yvlon Byres smile. She put her hands in her pockets and breathed in and out.
“I believe I’ve offended you, Cognita Truestone. I apologize; I am not my brother. I…appreciate you speaking frankly to me. Though I don’t think you’re correct. I’m lucky. It’s true my teammates might perish. But if old age should take us, well. I’ll consider it a blessing to make it that far.”
Cognita whispered and felt an emotion she had once labelled ‘horror’ rising in her chest. Directed at Yvlon. A kind of…observed horror.
“You state this without understanding. The potential to become a full woman of metal is all but guaranteed given your class. Should you pass Level 60, you may well become a being unto a Golem in every regard. You will live for centuries with ease.”
She didn’t know. Cognita saw Yvlon’s eyes widen and however remote the possibility was, Cognita hoped she died before she came to that point.
It would be a mercy.
She expected the woman to say something mortal, with bravado and lack of understanding. But Yvlon Byres just stared at her metal foot, then up at Cognita. And her tonality and body language did not speak of bravado. But still, incomprehensibly, relief. And happiness. And pain. And…
Cognita’s senses focused more on Yvlon Byres than any individual in the last six months as the woman spoke.
“Well…I can’t say I’d enjoy being a true woman of metal. But even then, I think—I have good chances.”
“Explain.”
Yvlon nodded over her shoulder. No one had dared follow them into the gardens, not the [Queen], not the spies. Not after Cognita Truestone.
“One of my teammates is Pisces. He’s a [Necromancer]. I imagine they could defy death if anyone could. Colth? I don’t know about Colth, but he’s close to a warrior. But one of my new teammates is strange. She might live a long time or a short one, I don’t know. Mostly, though? I know Ceria’s a half-Elf. She’ll live longer than metal itself! What a thought.”
She grinned ruefully, as if the notion of having someone to pass the aeons with were displeasing. Alone. Alone. 
Cognita felt enraged. Desolate. Two hundred years of life was a mere fragment for a Golem such as she, and it was too long. Alone…
Spitefully, she pointed out.
“There is a probability that you will outlive even a half-Elf. They fall to disease, even in timeless villages. What then?”
Then? The [Armsmistress]’ eyes clouded as Cognita wished. As she longed for no being to have to face. Then they brightened with a faraway light, as if she were staring at something else.
A quality beyond memory. That which mortals called imagination. Or…a dream. She replied to Cognita with a laugh.
“I imagine I’d be a terribly grumpy old woman. I don’t think I’d ever find another team like this. And I’d get too old to make more friends.”
“Yes. That would be a ridiculous statement to utter. It is so difficult to find those who are unique. Only a few, like Barelle the Bard, would qualify. And they have their own lives.”
Cognita whispered. Yvlon’s eyes remained fixed on that distant horizon.
“Then, I suppose, I’m the luckiest woman in the world, Cognita. Because my last teammate is an Antinium. Ksmvr. He can come back from the dead if the circumstances are right. But more importantly? He’s Antinium. I know another Antinium named Klbkch…and he was there from the start of his species. I don’t know if they can die from old age, some of them. Klbkch can’t, I don’t think, and if he can’t, maybe the Queens could do the same for Ksmvr. I imagine he might get tired of me, but it wouldn’t be the worst, then. To be a woman of metal dancing the years away with that silly fellow wearing his greying mustache.”
What was she gazing at? Cognita realized her structure was trembling. She tried to control herself, but she could not. Envy surged through her. An envy she had felt that exceeded that of her sisters when they won Zelkyr’s praise, or Perril Chandler’s, who could be Zelkyr’s friend and equal.
“So long as I do things right, I won’t have to face that problem. And if I do it right, then I won’t lose any members of my team first. I suppose that’s an arrogant answer, but it’s the only one I have. Cognita? Miss Cognita?”
The Golem woman didn’t reply. She merely drew herself up and gazed down at the fledgling woman of metal.
“Concluding our conversation, a part of me now wishes for your team’s demise, Yvlon Byres.”
The [Armsmistress] started, and her arms reflexively morphed to combat shapes, but Cognita continued, her voice level.
“However, that emotion I have catalogued and identified as jealousy. An emotion which has no use in any being. Any being, Master. How can you be jealous of your creations?”
“Cognita?”
The Truestone Golem went on, gazing at Yvlon.
“We shall then consider it a bet between you and I. The consequences of failure are immeasurable. I shall monitor your career with interest. Now, I request this conversation come to a close.”
She turned away, swiftly, and the startled [Armsmistress] bowed.
“T-thank you, Miss Truestone.”
Miss Truestone. Not Lady, just Truestone. As if it was her name. As if she were a person. Cognita did not smile; she could repress those mere expressions.
“It is evident your time is as limited as mine. Your conclusions are correct, Yvlon Byres. Your intelligence, in some tangible way, does not fall behind that of your teammates and exceeds them in this instance.”
She stole a glance as Yvlon jumped and then bowed again and stepped back. She didn’t quite get what Cognita meant at first; that was fine. It was Cognita’s observations to herself.
What a curious woman. She was gambling with eternity on the promise of the merest, most hypothetical outcome. Ridiculous…if she were in Yvlon’s place, Cognita would have done the same thing.
Tell me, Yvlon Byres. What would you do if you lost your team and you stood alone, facing eternity with no one to share it with?
Cognita Truestone did not ask that question because it was revealing. Because she did not wish to, perhaps fearing a lack of an answer or the one she had come to. But mostly…because she still wasn’t sure herself whether the situation she imagined had arisen.
For her.
Cognita only knew that love had faded—or twisted—and she was unhappy.
Besides, this woman wasn’t truly of metal. She could not comprehend the question, not fully. But maybe…
“Cognita?”
Barelle the Bard found her in the gardens after Yvlon Byres had walked off. He turned to her, then glanced at the Horns still present.
“I have never heard you entertain a conversation with someone else for so long in all the time you have been in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Did she upset you or impress you?”
“…I do not know. I felt sorry for her. Then envious. Emotions I rarely experience. I agreed with your assessment, Barelle. They are not worthy of the [Bard]’s songs. When she reaches Level 50, you may reappraise that claim.”
“When?”
He was startled. Cognita turned on her heels. She had somewhere to be. Her calculations were seldom incorrect. She took a few coins from his bag of holding.
“I will make arrangements and greet you when next we meet.”
“Which is…?”
The Truestone Golem strode away without a word. She could not see the future. Just predict courses of action with such certainty it had been confused for such at times. But she wondered, suddenly, how the story of Yvlon Byres would end. It was a mystery in a world that held so few for Cognita. Unexpected.
She had not expected it there.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres didn’t really sleep that night. She tossed and turned and lay in her bedroll as the rest of her team came in for the night. They wanted to know what she’d said to Cognita, of course. They were under the impression she’d really Yvlon’d—to use Ceria’s expression—the situation up.
Cognita had left the Court of Silks thereafter, but Yvlon didn’t think it had been a bad conversation. It had been veering that way, but…then the Golem woman had sounded so desolate. Ceria had laughed at Yvlon.
“Cognita sad? Do you hear that, Pisces? Ha! Hahahahahaha—”
Yvlon had thrown her pillows at Ceria until the Ice Squirrel left. Colth had brought other news.
“That Prince Esceit’s all over his feud with Zenol. All kinds of pettiness. Economic and social pressure. You beating down his [Doomguard] just made him angrier.”
“I didn’t see…Beton. He was strong, but he let me win that fight.”
“Oh, he was fired. Apparently, he took sick, and the [Prince] has no room in his staff for anyone with frailties.”
It sounded like him. Yvlon had said they should meet Zirre and Beton, and Colth had told her they’d come up with a plan about the Traitorous Three tomorrow. Yisame might have to just buy them off the [Manager], Bnirm, but it would cost her favors.
That she was going to wasn’t apparently discussed beyond Pisces giving Yvlon strange looks. Nawal came in all sooty and announced that she was going to be forging and no one should get them all assassinated, and then the Heromakers returned and it was all quiet.
But she didn’t sleep. That image, that dream she’d had stayed in Yvlon’s mind. Cognita’s haunting words…
If I do it just right—I’ll watch them all die. But at least Ksmvr would be there. I couldn’t leave him alone.
Yvlon punched her pillows. There was no guarantee they’d make it a year, let alone thousands of years! Cognita just thought in different ways from mortals. This was a stupid train of thought; she might get killed tomorrow if she kept Yvlonning.
But am I afraid of becoming a woman of metal? Yes. Terribly. Can I quit?
…
She had a daydream about Berr. A memory.
Berr, her one and only master. He taught a lot of theory, which had surprised her. For being a [Berserker]-[Barbarian] helping her control her temper, he had been more sage wisdom.
Albeit delivered in his usual manner. After one particularly tough bout of sparring where he taught her hand-to-hand tricks, he flopped down onto the grass next to her and lay side-by-side as they panted and stared at the stars.
She had been conscious of his presence next to her. Yvlon Byres, as a chaste [Lady] and then adventurer, had been intimate with other men. But she had never been in the proximity of someone of the opposite gender in a non-intimate sense like this. Hugging Pisces or ruffling his hair for good luck or helping pick detritus out of Ksmvr’s shell was as close as it got.
Berr noticed, of course. He always did. He’d sat up and asked about it in his direct manner.
“Hrr. I have been thinking, Yvlon, yes? Tell me about your father. Did he ever do this?”
“What, teach me combat? No.”
Berr shook his head.
“No, I meant—this kind of thing. Teach you numbers. Read a book with you on his lap. Or spar, one supposes.”
Yvlon thought. And she’d shaken her head.
“No…I suppose once or twice he tested my swordplay, and he praised me for doing well. But my mother would read to us, and he’d listen, maybe. We were close. I used to jump in our hot springs with the family. That’s the last memory I have of us being together, Ysara, Ylawes, and I.”
“When was that?”
“…When I was eight?”
Berr hmmed.
“What about your brother, then? Did they ever fight?”
“What? Spar? With swords—”
“No, I mean, with fists. They never got drunk and fought? Or argued and swung at each other?”
Yvlon was mildly horrified at the notion. She shook her head.
“Ylawes would never! I can’t imagine him ever arguing with father. Mother once said he does, but not a—a real argument.”
“Hrr, what’s a real argument?”
“Swinging at each other—they’d never do that. Or even argue like Pisces and I can, or me and Ceria. Or me and Colth. Like, like—”
Real people? She bit back the word and talked around it.
“If they disagree, they’d talk it out civilly. And if it was a huge rift…well, father’s the [Lord] of House Byres. I know Ylawes argued with him over the siege of Liscor, but it was assuredly not physical.”
The old Gnoll nodded and stretched out his back.
“Hm. I see where your anger comes from. And his. I wonder if he’ll have to come here too.”
That irked her, and Yvlon turned.
“It’s culturally different, Berr. I think you’d respect that Humans can do things differently.”
“Oh, I can respect it. I just don’t in this case. Parents should be seen to be drunk and silly. Someone you can never touch is like…an idea. A perfect thing, and we aren’t. You should punch him the next time you two meet.”
She’d rolled her eyes at that. But then he’d insisted on treating her like a little girl.
“You need a childhood. Here. So high, so high!”
And he’d tossed her thirty feet straight up. Caught her on the way down. Did it again. Until she was laughing despite herself. Then came the theory. He sat, having a smoke from some herbal grass he’d rolled into a primitive cigarette. Mostly to try to blow smokerings like a child.
“This is not something you should share, Yvlon Byres. But it is a good lesson…eh, here it is. Did you know, before the Meeting of Tribes turned to war, that the Wild Wastes tribe was not sure what it would do? Chieftain Perale, he was split on heeding Shaman Theikha and Torishi Weatherfur or Chieftain Xherw.”
Yvlon sat up slightly.
“I’m glad he chose the right side.”
“Mm. Me as well. But he did not see which was the right side at the time. The Plain’s Eye tribe was respected. Xherw was trusted, and Doombringers were in our hearts as a thing to fear and mistrust. All for one child? All for an if that might divide Gnolls and bring the Doom of Albez upon us?”
“What changed his mind?”
