He’d been a boy when Mars the Illusionist fought the half-Giant in her final match. She’d hit the walls of the arena with her best Skill, meant to end the fight and him. The [Magus] wondered just how strong the Silver Killer was. Perhaps…what Skill gave her that force?
He hoped, in the selfish way a fan of the Coliseum of Monarchs could be, that he’d get a chance to see. The Silver Killer had graced this place only a few times. What might she do if a real match featured her once more? But then, Bnirm would never risk Lenxiol, and Lenxiol would never risk Lenxiol. Even so…
The barrier was still rippling slightly.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker waited until they were out of the coliseum and running for the palace to hiss at the others.
“Don’t let anyone see her arm. Yvlon—tree rot, I thought you’d actually have a chance there.”
“Sorry.”
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] was keeping her arm very still, not protesting as they ran her along. That was bad. Very bad.
Her bones are okay. Pisces mouthed uncertainly at Ceria, which just confirmed the half-Elf’s impressions. She smiled desperately as [Servants] swarmed down from the palace steps.
“Hey, we’re back! Private rooms! Outta the way. [Ice Floor]! And slide—”
Tripping up the colorful procession of servants and using [Ice Wall] to keep the swarms of people from them was easy. Ceria had no doubt Yisame would be here in moments, but she shoved Yvlon into their suite of rooms, then spoke.
“Colth, get rid of observers. Elena, only let the Heromakers in. Alright, Yvlon. Let’s see it. How much metal did you vaporize with that punch?”
Pisces drew in a breath in a hiss of understanding. It was the only thing Ceria’s mind had presented to her. A barrier spell that advanced…
Yvlon’s left arm appeared fine, but she pulled the right arm out slowly, flexing the fingers. Her hand was visibly deformed into a stump of metal; mashed flat from the impact. It looked wrong, but Ceria didn’t see that much metal missing.
“Not much. I don’t think I damaged my shoulders that badly. I was just—angry.”
“Well, you definitely bought into their plans. Now they know we’re concerned—I’m not gonna lecture you. Yisame’s going to come running. Don’t let her see your arm. Can you bulk it up?”
“Yep.”
Yvlon made her arm normal again to Ceria’s relief. If it was lighter than before—Ceria pointed at Yvlon as she strode for the door.
“You have an appointment with Nawalishifra right now. Pisces? Go [Invisible] and figure out where she is. Let her know covertly we need to get Yvlon…can she even absorb more metal?”
“Well, it’s either that or she has to eat enough. Iron, probably.”
Elena piped up, and Ceria scratched at her head. She had an image of Yvlon gnawing on a bar of iron. Well, it might work.
“Okay, do that. Hey, Yisame! So, the coliseum is tons of fun. One thing…”
She yanked the door open and was smiling as the [Queen] nearly ran at her. Inside the room, Yvlon Byres saw Pisces hesitate, eye her, and vanish. Elena guarded the door, visibly worried. After a moment, Yvlon’s fist seemed to melt a bit. It ‘spat’ a pair of rings out into the palm of her hand, and she checked them.
Undamaged. Yvlon nodded to herself and sighed as she sat back in her chair.
“That was close.”
Someone slapped the back of her head, and Yvlon jerked and whirled.
It was Elena.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres had decided she’d learned at least one important lesson after that debacle at the Coliseum of Monarchs. Which Ceria had to admit was one above par.
If there was a silver lining, it was that Yisame, the Horns, and everyone else were too worried about Yvlon’s arm to lecture her about blowing their cover.
Yvlon felt bad about that; her arm was fine. Okay, it hurt a bit, and the left one had arguably strained more with the force of the impact against the barriers. But she accepted the concern because, well, she had to.
She was thinking introspective, deep thoughts that evening when she was informed Nawalishifra had cleared a space for a private forge in the royal wing and was ready for her. Yvlon walked down the corridors, flexing her right hand open and closed.
The Champion of Monarchs is strong. Even if he was unwilling to face Mectail and Thexca and Vitte together, he still got her in a moment. And the Coliseum of Monarchs is huge. That man, Bnirm…he’s against Yisame. That’s what the body-double was about.
Would Lenxiol face me in a duel? Could I beat him? I think so. I don’t know. I can’t put my team or Yisame in further danger. So I have to have a plan. A good plan. And it’s the Coliseum of Monarchs. That [Manager] will rig everything against me if he has the chance.
I’ve got to be smart about this. Berr. What would Berr say…?
She was considering her next moves when the door opened. Nawalishifra stood in the doorway, appearing less nervous and more imposing with an apron on and her veil covered in soot.
“Eh, there you are. Took you long enough, Killer. Let’s see that arm. I told you it wasn’t even as strong as regular steel with a basic hardening enchantment. But then, maybe as well you didn’t kill someone today.”
“Hello, Nawalishifra. I didn’t kill anyone.”
Yvlon protested mildly, and Nawal dragged her into the room.
“Not for lack of trying, so I’m told. First you strangle the [Queen] at breakfast, then you try to kill the Champion of Monarchs by leaping into the arena?”
“I didn’t try to strangle Yisame.”
“Of course, of course. Me, I only know rumors. I don’t see anything. That’s how one survives in a place like this. A thousand curses on you and the Horns for dragging me here! I could be safe in Reim…well, safer. I hope a plague-ridden camel shits in your pillows each night.”
Nawal was herding Yvlon towards her forge, which she’d set up along with a lot of bars of metal. But she’d added a chair that she forced Yvlon into, almost like she was combining the art of dentistry with smithing. Yvlon felt sweat on her skin already from the heat of the forge.
“You have a colorful way of talking, Nawal. Has anyone told you that?”
“Any more than you do? Shush. Hm. Your captain, she told me your arms had lost a lot of metal. I don’t think it’s too bad.”
Ting, ting. Her hammer struck Yvlon’s right arm and then the left, and the [Armsmistress] shivered. Of all the people in the world, Nawalishifra was one of the most intimidating to Yvlon. It was her class; Yvlon felt like she was naturally disadvantaged against the girl.
Certainly, Nawal could leave visible imprints in Yvlon’s arm with the slightest touch of a hammer.
“I’m fine, really. Ceria just wants me to replace the metal or…she said something about upgrading it.”
Nawal tapped her chest.
“I suggested it the moment I saw your arms. Did I not say it when we were in camp? You could do far, far better than this. And though I am without Clan Tannousin, may the deserts swallow my traitorous kinfolk—”
She paused and swallowed hard.
“—and I am without a proper forge and setup, this is Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I have everything I need for simpler smithing. No Naq-Alrama steel, then.”
“Oh, that’s too bad. Magekiller arms would be an improvement.”
“Indeed, though every child would try to cut your arms off for the fortune in metal, if it could even move as an arm…you’ll have to settle for mere Adamantium. As so!”
Nawalishifra produced a small ingot of brown, heavy metal and placed it on Yvlon’s arm. Then she smacked the ingot and buried it halfway into Yvlon’s arm.
Neither woman expected that. Yvlon knew Nawalishifra could move her arms because she had some kind of [Smith] Skill. But Nawal had forgotten that Yvlon ran blood through her arms for circulation, purification, and to keep them warm.
The blow had accidentally struck an ‘artery’. The spray of blood coated Nawalishifra’s face and chest before Yvlon sealed the blood flow off. The blood dripped down the far wall in the sudden silence.
After a moment, a [Servant] opened the door with an armful of tools and magical ingots.
“Smith Nawalishifra, if you need any other tools, Great Sage Etrikah has—”
She took one look at the bloody [Smith] and [Armsmistress], dropped her supplies, and ran screaming. Yvlon wished they’d stop doing that. She was just about to make a joke about her reputation when Nawalishifra fainted backwards.
 
——
 
When she woke up in Yvlon’s arms, the [Smith] leapt up and apologized.
“It is not the sight of blood that disturbs me. Just…the memory of it. I forged a cursed blade out of blood, and I felt as though my sins…”
“I’m sorry too, Nawal. We dragged you all the way from Hraace to here, and we haven’t apologized or been that kind.”
The [Smith] wiped blood off her face and veil and shot Yvlon a sideways glance, then a small smile.
“Then we have both been jackasses braying at each other, and we can forgive and start anew, yes?”
“Absolutely. And I’ll take the blood out of my arms. Upgrade away.”
Yvlon sat back down in the chair, and Nawal rose after taking a swig of water. This time, she was far more careful and hmmed as she made Yvlon show her what was in the arms.
“Interesting. They are mostly solid, and I see how you put blood in them…but not what lies in a regular arm. Not that I am an expert. If I had to forge your arm like a [Tailor] makes a cloth arm, it would be far, far harder without the knowing. So if you, say, lost your hand…”
“It becomes a pool of silversteel metal. See?”
Yvlon cut her hand off, and Nawal jumped back, then peered at the pool of metal.
“Interesting. It’s…liquid. It should be solid.”
That was true, now that Yvlon thought about it. Her arms were room temperature, but she shrugged.
“Magical metal.”
“Have you lost any before today?”
“Now and then. Chunks of it—I somehow regrow it. I noticed I eat a bit more, and I sometimes get weird cravings. As if I were pregnant. I once found myself picking pieces of rust off a wagonwheel and eating it.”
Yvlon laughed, embarrassed, and clarified.
“Don’t worry, I washed it.”
“Er…that is very interesting. Yes, interesting is the word I shall use because I am being friendly. Well, this will be far, far less likely to chip or be destroyed.”
Nawal tapped the Adamantium ingot. It made a surprisingly deep sound, and Yvlon eyed it.
“Is that real Adamantium? Nerrhavia’s Fallen just has it lying around?”
“Psh. It is Nerrhavia’s Fallen. If they did not have some of this, it would not be Nerrhavia’s Fallen. You are lucky I can bring a forge to the temperature to melt it. Although, perhaps I did not err entirely. What if we just embedded it in your arm? Could you…take it over?”
Yvlon had a metal foot too, and that actually turned out to be the best spot to fit the ingot into, given its relative size. Nawal tapped the ingot into Yvlon’s foot like someone shoeing a horse and had just as much trouble.
“Stop wiggling, you!”
“I can’t! It tickles! I’ve never felt anything tickle like—stop, it’s not working!”
Yvlon giggled as the foreign piece of matter was swiftly ejected from her foot. Nawal scratched at her head, then shrugged.
“This makes sense. This is more of welding metal to metal. Cold welding would require forces of which I do not have on me. Hm. But the heat to melt Adamantium and your arm…if I forged the two, it might burn your entire body up. What if we tried, uh, something cooler instead?”
She grabbed a bar of mithril, which was, by temperatures, a magnitude lower than Adamantium. She still had to crank the forge so hot that even with cooling spells Yvlon flinched away from the heat of the magical blaze.
“What if it doesn’t work, Nawal?”
“That is why I will try a finger! Since you can regrow them! The work is simple, and as so—”
Nawal hammered out a tiny bit of mithril from the bar and then seized Yvlon’s arm and put it in the forge, barehanded. She was fine, but Yvlon instantly yanked it out.
“Too hot!”
She felt that! Even her metal arms reacted to the flames. Nawal shoved the veil down on her face and cursed.
“Where? Where it meets flesh?”
“Everywhere! I can tell that’s too hot for me!”
“Damn. But I need to heat your metal to bring it to temperature…hm. Hmmmm. Let me think of my teachings. What about…aha!”
The first thing Nawal tried was an Amulet of Flame Resistance, a staple of [Smiths]. But that just meant that it was then impossible to get Yvlon’s arm up to forging temperature. Exasperated, Nawal tried another tactic.
“Alright. Alright, what if you cut your hand off for me again? Then I will forge said metal to the mithril and the result you take back!”
Yvlon brightened up.
“That sounds very practical. My idea was to just activate [Ignore Pain] and let you hammer away.”
Nawal gave Yvlon a long look.
“Yes…it is a bad thing, I think, when I am accused of being the most practical one in the room. Ech, it’s gloopy, your metal.”
She prodded the puddle of silversteel dripping off her anvil, and Yvlon worried she’d have trouble with that, but Nawal just shrugged.
“[Harden Metal]. There, now I can hit it. One and two and…aha.”
She fused the bit of silversteel to the mithril, checked the welds, and declared her work was ‘all but perfect’ when she showed Yvlon the thumb-like chunk of mithril attached to the silversteel. Then she developed a wicked smile.
“And if I can do it so simply—your silversteel has almost no hammerscale, and it is exceedingly pure—then Adamantium is not much harder! Give me thirty minutes while I heat it up.”
She went back to the forge, and Yvlon edged away from the sudden blaze of heat. Nawal could tolerate it, but Yvlon shouted as the [Smith] inserted the ingot into the forge.
“I heard Smith Maughin of Pallass was learning to forge Adamantium! How can you do it at your age, Nawalishifra?”
“Hah! Adamantium is just heat. There are places in the Glass Straits where the heat collects to such a degree you can find a ray of light that will melt a man’s arm off should he swing it through the light. Naq-Alrama steel has so many more steps, so much harder…it is harder than Adamantium itself, if not stronger. Adamantium will bend. Naq-Alrama breaks, but still, few beings aside from the King of Destruction, that monstrous man, could do either.”
Yvlon had heard from Pisces that Nawal was actually pleasant to talk to, but Yvlon had never heard the [Smith] say as many words in so pleasant a tone. She sat cross-legged, watching the Adamantium glow, and Nawal begin to tap it.
“That doesn’t change the fact that you’re an amazing [Smith], Nawal. Does the King of Destruction use you to make his best weapons?”
