Today’s entertainment would be Lenxiol and the ‘loyalists’ of the arena versus the traitors and criminals and a host of monsters. Whoever slew the most of Chandrar’s varied threats won. Of course, both sides could snipe at each other.
From the way Vitte limped, she hadn’t had a healing potion. But Yvlon Byres’ face was a study in calm.
“There you are. I knew it. Colth’s going insane. What’re you doing?”
Pisces jerked a thumb at them.
“Ah, complications.”
“It’s fine. Elena, go and get Colth and Ceria.”
“Not if you’re going to do something crazy! I need to either be part of it or helping! Otherwise, what’s the point of me?”
Yvlon scowled at Pisces.
“This is what happens when we get followers. You make her go away.”
Pisces gingerly motioned at Elena.
“Shoo. Shoo, it’s dangerous.”
Delitandra imposed herself in front of him, and he backed up before he struck her bosom. She beamed at him and Yvlon, trying not to appear annoyed.
“As your sworn trainers and guides, our input would be invaluable in moments like these, Pisces, Yvlon. You are faced with a classic predicament: an ally held hostage. The Heromakers of Hraace train our charges for this!”
Pisces and Yvlon exchanged helpless glances. Yvlon gazed down at the floor. She could hear the [Announcer]’s voice shouting.
“The morning looks ripe for blood! The very skies are red, but the Silver Killer doesn’t seem to fear her beloved comrades facing the Champion of Monarchs himself! Perhaps she knows something we don’t? Oh, I see that Champion Lenxiol wishes for a word!”
The Stitch-man strode forwards, arms spread wide. There were sixty [Gladiators] present; there had been only twelve, but the moment he’d seen her, the [Manager] had ordered the entire stable of [Gladiators] to show themselves. Sixty versus twenty criminals and three wounded [Gladiators].
“Silver Killer. It pains me, all these little tricks. We are warriors. I only wish we had met in earnest, but alas, Manager Bnirm doesn’t wish either of us to be wounded in true combat.”
There were boos as he threw the [Manager] under the wagon and a warning scowl from the Stitch-man, but Lenxiol was basking in the attention.
“I hope not to do great damage to your friends, but with such odds, how can one such as I hold back? Do you have an appeal or counteroffer to the morning’s tragedy, Silver Killer?”
This time, they were ready for her, so a speaking stone on a little satin pillow came for her. Yvlon Byres seized it and saw Vitte, Thexca, and Mectail gazing up at her.
Was Vitte trying to mouth at her to ‘get lost’? Thexca was tilting her head back and forth, confused, and Mectail? He just bowed to her, saluting her with that clasped pair of fists. She bowed to him, then spoke.
Yvlon rested her foot on the edge of the balcony she stood on, and then it came back to her. The [Gladiator]’s refrain. Her hair blew in the wind; she glared at Delitandra, who was fanning a breeze up with her cohort.
“Champion of Monarchs. Good morning. My name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my start in the Arena of Rust in Nerrhavia’s Fallen…”
His face went slack, then annoyed as laughter and cheering sprang up around the coliseum. Pisces covered a smile, and Yvlon went on, the hint of a smile on her own face.
“…and you saw what I did to the Champion of Rust. The last time I was here, you and I never crossed because I had my team to find. This time, you have threatened my friends, who did nothing wrong but stand by my side. Except for Vitte—she wasn’t even at Pomle!”
She pointed down at the Fox Beastkin dramatically, and the [Gladiator] spread her hands.
“What the hell.”
Yvlon continued, her eyes locked on the Champion of Monarchs.
“I do not respect Manager Bnirm’s ploys, Champion Lenxiol. But nor do I respect you. If you had any courage, you would have challenged me yesterday. Instead, you need sixty [Gladiators] for backup against a bunch of captive [Gladiators] and three wounded veterans. You are a coward. Once again, I challenge you.”
Then there was an oooh—and silence. Lenxiol’s eyes were narrow slits of murder now. Slowly, he glanced up at Bnirm; the [Manager] stuck his thumb down expressively.
“I’m afraid you do not decide matters, Silver Killer. Not even Queen Yisame can dictate the will of the Coliseum of Monarchs.”
Yvlon Byres nodded. She clenched the speaking stone tight in her grip. This had better work…she had practiced, she had made plans. Now? She searched for Pisces, but he had vanished. Yvlon smiled. Then she pointed dramatically.
“In that case, so be it. If you are too cowardly to fight me alone, then I don’t challenge you, Lenxiol. I challenge you.”
She was pointing at Manager Bnirm. To his credit, he played off the shock with an exaggerated gasp. Like this was part of the script.
She noticed the number of guards around him had sextupled in the last few minutes. They were all armed, ready. In case someone should try to charge at him—no fools, these. She grinned.
“I challenge the Coliseum of Monarchs. Flee me or die.”
She didn’t have any good line prepared, so she just ended with that. Her metal hands crushed the speaking stone to dust, and then she tensed.
“Wait, she’s not going to—Yvlon, no, no!”
Elena realized what she was doing, and Delitandra leapt, but too late. Yvlon launched herself through the air a second time, straight into the center of the coliseum.
Over upturned heads, open mouths. Even the Champion of Monarchs was open-mouthed in that moment of the air rushing around her, time crawling by. Then she saw his mouth close, and he covered his eyes and shook his head.
The barriers. Yvlon saw them very faintly glowing in the morning air. Her heart was in her chest as she fell, a silver meteor. Past the Truestone Golem sitting next to the empty seat she’d reserved. Yvlon’s head turned, and she grinned as she fell.
Then she said—
“[Aspect of Silver].”
Her body changed to that beautiful, reflective metal, and for a moment, the Truestone Golem saw a vision of the future. The woman of metal was laughing as she fell, hair streaming behind her.
She hit the barriers of the Coliseum of Monarchs—
—and plunged straight through. Every ancient shield vanished without a sound, the reinforced, layered magic blinking out of existence.
Sirens began to scream alarms. Directing the audience to flee, but it was too late. She landed in a plume of dust, and when she stood, the Silver Killer charged. Screaming at the gladiators of the Coliseum of Monarchs and the frozen Champion of Monarchs.
One versus everyone. The Silver Killer of Izril versus everything.
She was laughing.
