He pointed his blade upwards into the stands where the [Manager] rose to his feet, applauding. They were waiting for a gesture from him to indicate whether Vitte lived or died.
This Yvlon remembered too. She was on her feet with the Horns and Stitch-folk, and, below, Mectail and Thexca had halted as Lenxiol held the blade above Vitte.
“Champion, fight us, you coward! I challenge you!”
Thexca was screaming, raising her daggers, but he ignored her. The pleased Stitch-man, Bnirm, was turning to the Silkfolk around him, gesturing up and down with his thumbs. Which should I choose?
“Vitte! Don’t! Please!”
That came from nearby. Yvlon jerked and whirled as Zirre, Vitte’s sister, leapt to her feet amidst a host of Fox Beastkin and shouted upwards. She was gazing down at her sister.
 
——
 
“Fox Beastkin. Look at them, agitating for the King of Destruction and Tiqr. One wonders why they’re even allowed in the coliseum.”
Manager Bnirm was quite enjoying the attention on him. In his hand, he held his [Gladiator]’s life and death. All eyes in the Coliseum of Monarchs were on him; he was as important as Lenxiol was. Plus, the Silk-caste nobility with him were also attentive to his words. He smiled at the outraged woman behind him.
“Their coin feeds the coliseum, Marquisa. However, I do think an example could be made. We cannot let the masses think they can have their way, popular as the Traitorous Three are. A limb will do.”
Bnirm glanced downwards, dismissively, and turned to Lenxiol. He paused, lifted his hand—and pointed a finger.
 
——
 
The Champion of Monarchs blinked and shaded his eyes. He—he had no idea what that meant.
What kind of hand-gesture was…? Then he traced the line the [Manager] was pointing and saw Bnirm was gesturing across into the stands.
At a figure who’d stood and ripped the jacket off her arms. There was a gasp, and there she was. Under his foot, Vitte groaned.
“That idiot—!”
The Silver Killer.
 
——
 
As promised, as she would ever do, the Silver Killer arose in a burst of silver light. It showered down around her, like metal confetti, as she exposed her silvery arms to the audience, revealing herself in the crowd.
Her chin was shapely, her nose pert, and her mane of hair was golden like flax wheat from Izril as she posed. Her voice was magnified to be as loud as the [Announcers] as she declaimed, pointing one wrathful finger down at the Champion of Monarchs.
“Not so fast, villainous rogue! As I am pure of heart and bloody of hand, I, the Silver Killer of Izril, shall not let my friends be hurt in my name! In the name of Izril, the Five Families, and the Horns of Hammerad, I, Yvlon Byres, challenge you!”
Whereupon she threw back her head, and the cheering from the stands was only slightly diminished by the fact that all the savvy members of the audience had realized the same thing as the Champion of Monarchs himself.
Lenxiol had stiffened with genuine shock for a moment before rolling his eyes and leaning on the tip of his sword. The flashy woman posed again, letting the light play off of her incredible abdominal muscles she was showcasing to the world and the silver paint on her arms.
“—That is, I would have the courage to do so if it were not for my great friend, the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen itself! You may win today, Champion of Monarchs, but I shall return—after advising Queen Yisame to raise the taxes on all and sundry to win this war! Victory at any cost is my motto, after all!”
That prompted more confusion, but mostly boos about the ‘taxes’ part. Lenxiol just sighed.
This wasn’t the best writing he’d had to work with. Bnirm kept insisting on writing dialogue himself, and it came across too obvious. He wanted to poke at the [Queen], but one did not do that directly and live. Hence this.
This was the third time the ‘Silver Killer’ had emerged to defend her friends, and the bit was so old that booing began before the [Announcer] began to commentate over the audience.
“It seems the, uh, Silver Killer herself has leapt to the defense of her former teammates! The treacherous Mectail, the scorpion who stung the hand that fed her, Thexca, the cunning Vitte who failed to choose the right side—”
“I wasn’t even there! It was Relladen, you bastards!”
Vitte hollered up at the sky, but no one except Lenxiol could hear her. He stomped on her stomach, lightly, to make her shut up.
“You should have volunteered to fight for Nerrhavia’s Fallen like he did. You chose the wrong friends, Vitte. It’s a shame. My offer still stands.”
She bared her teeth at him, panting.
“I’ll jump into your bed with a Potion of Blast, Champion. Either stab me or cut my ears off so I don’t have to listen to that.”
She gestured at the ‘Silver Killer’. The woman was still shouting about her personal cowardice masked by bravado. Lenxiol thought about it. He glanced at Bnirm, but the [Manager] seemed to be satisfied by this charade. He’d be less happy once he could hear the booing. Lenxiol turned to engage the Silver Killer in a bit of dialogue, sighing. He activated his own speaking stone tied into the coliseum’s sound systems, then paused. He stood straighter, and then a real smile graced his handsome features.
“Why, Silver Killer. Do you think this was wise? I regret that we never clashed blades the first time you graced my home, but even Mectail was enough for you. This time, you look more the name. You’re no wiser than before though, I fear.”
He peered up into the stands, and the ‘Silver Killer’ stopped flexing her biceps and hesitated.
Now what the hell was she supposed to say to that?
 
——
 
The [Actress] playing the Silver Killer was already hot in the silver paint and costume she wore, even with her midriff bared. She had memorized a lot of lines with only fifteen minutes before the match started, and Manager Bnirm had kept sending her more he’d thought of during the matches.
Now she got the weirdest statement from the Champion of Monarchs to work with. He was talking like she was actually challenging him. She tried to think of something to say.
“Ha-ha! Ill-thought out and reckless are my middle names! Though I don’t have time to face you today, Champion, you may rest assured that when you and I meet, we’ll higpl—”
That last part was the sound of her ribs compressing and the air leaving her lungs. It was also accompanied by a real hand of metal shoving the ‘Silver Killer’. She, the [Actress], experienced a novelty.
Flight. Followed by her hitting one of the bleachers lower down, five members of the audience, bouncing off them, and further flight—until she hit some of the stairs. All of which was captured on the speaking stones, accompanied by a long, drawn-out moan that began to become a scream until someone cut the feed.
The audience froze, hands half-covering their ears. The shock, the real violence, the flying woman—that had frozen Bnirm’s self-satisfied smile. The cause of it was a Stitch-woman…with a gleaming, silver hand protruding from her own jacket.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres hadn’t even pushed the woman that hard. She stared at her hand, flexed it a few times, then glanced over her shoulder.
“Sorry, Colth. Back me up.”
“Yvlon—”
He’d tried, he really had. The evidence was the ripped cloth from her jacket still in his hands. But he was a [Supporter] for all he was higher-level than she was. She was a [Warrior], not skilled in politics or intrigue. Okay, she just didn’t care for it.
The two Stitch-teens were staring at her. Ceria was half-risen, groaning, mouthing a ‘no’ at Yvlon and knowing it was too late. Elena was crossing her arms, and Pisces? He was just staring at her. Reaching for his rapier. Yvlon Byres turned. Below her, Stitch-folk were gazing up at her, and she saw the camera and screens reflecting her.
“Is—is that the real—?”
The [Announcer] began, and Yvlon Byres crouched down. Then she leapt.
She cleared a lot more air than she expected given that she was heavier with her metal arms than she’d ever been. Her legs seemed to explode as Yvlon soared down towards the center of the Coliseum of Monarchs.
She’d miscalculated. It was a far further jump than she thought and a long way down. Probably a hundred feet. It was going to hurt like h—
The barrier. She saw it shimmering and drew back her left hand, conscious of the rings on her right hand.
“[Sword Art: Curve of the Moon]!”
Her arm morphed, sweeping into a blade that traced a crescent through the air. A slash that met the magical barrier in a clash of ringing metal that deafened the ears, like a strange bell being struck. Then a grunt—and a faint thud as Yvlon hit the magical shields and bounced off.
Much like a bug hitting a piece of glass. She slid down the barrier, unable to get a grasp, and landed in a clatter of armor on the bleachers just above the coliseum floor. Yvlon heard shrieks from around her, gasps, and lay on her back.
Ow. Well, that was one of the dumbest things I’ve ever done.
She swore, in the ringing silence, she could hear the first person to start laughing, and it was Ceria. Yvlon Byres got up as the silence became laughter and raised a fist.
“Champion of Monarchs! I’m the one you want. Face me.”
She shouted, but she had no loudness spells to amplify her voice, and the Coliseum of Monarchs was in hilarity. Even the man himself had covered his face to hide a smile as he saluted her with a sword. He replied.
“Silver Killer, no one just leaps into a match in the Coliseum of Monarchs, though I respect the attempt! You are as wild as I remember. Oh, the bloodlust has left me. I don’t think I’ll get the crowd roaring for death now. Though your friends might not appreciate your return.”
So saying, he planted the sword with a sigh—in Vitte’s leg. Yvlon heard the faint scream, and the laughter died down. Her eyes locked on him.
“Face me, Champion.”
He bowed to her.
“And risk the wrath of the Queen? I think not, Silver Killer. Please, relax, and calm yourself. We cannot be enemies today, and I think we’ve all enjoyed the show.”
He smiled as the laughter returned. Yvlon Byres remembered Prince Zenol jumping to her defense in one of the lesser coliseums during her honor-match against Beton. He must have had a trick, or key, or they just hadn’t raised the barriers then.
The Silver Killer gazed down into the arena. She remembered Thexca, Mectail, and Relladen attacking Thelican’s [Bodyguard] to let her get to Pisces. Vitte…
Well, she mostly remembered the Fox Beastkin tricking her sister into taking her place in the coliseum once. Which had been cruel.
Even so, they had been kind to her when no one else had. Yvlon gazed down at the figures of Thexca and Mectail. She slowly drew her right hand back and concentrated. Her arm bulged, and the people around her scrambled back as Yvlon threw one punch at the barrier preventing her from going below.
It—rippled—and the laughter stopped. Like a droplet of water, the barrier wobbled from the point Yvlon had punched it, and the movement bounced across the dome-shield. Lenxiol blinked, and Yvlon Byres stared at her right fist. Then she grabbed her hand, covered it, and sank to one knee.
A grimace of pain crossed her face, and then someone shouted.
“Yvlon!”
The rest of the Horns leapt down the stairs. Colth threw what remained of Yvlon’s coat around her, and there were more gasps as they tore off their disguises. The Champion of Monarchs gave the Horns a mocking bow, and they helped Yvlon to her feet. She hesitated, but let them pull her back. They swaddled her right arm in the coat. Then, before she could object, the Horns dragged her out of the coliseum, Pisces and Colth clearing the way with their swords as they ran Yvlon back towards the palace.
 
——
 
Manager Bnirm hadn’t expected the real Silver Killer to appear. But as he watched her go, he thought it had been the best outcome for him that he could have hoped for.
Not only had she proven the three [Gladiators] mattered to her, she’d rather embarrassed herself. So much for Yisame’s beloved adventurer.
He wondered if she was bleeding. Did she have metal bones…? Well, in any case, he smiled crookedly. For a famed team, the Horns of Hammerad were rather weak in the areas that mattered. Politics in Nerrhavia’s Fallen was more than the ability to clear a dungeon. From the gaze Lenxiol gave him from the below, the [Champion] saw how openly they’d played their hand too.
It was going to be a very interesting time in the Court of Silks soon.
“Well, with this little event over and done with, I must excuse myself, friends.”
Bnirm stood, and the Silks were all over him, demanding to know if he’d arranged this, whether he’d known she was in the stands. He gave them a mysterious smile and let them think he knew more than they.
One of the lesser handlers of the coliseum, the ones who did all the actual work, hurried over to Bnirm as he gave swift orders; he needed a palanquin to the palace now to speak with his allies. He brushed the man aside twice before snapping.
“What could possibly be more important than using this windfall against my enemies?”
Against the [Queen] herself? If she truly did support the Horns and some of the rumors regarding her infatuation about the Horns were true—let alone what she allowed them to do—this was a critical weak spot in her defenses. He had the Traitorous Three; he had cards to employ in no small measure. Plus, the Silver Killer clearly had no ability to hold her temper.
“Manager, when the Silver Killer hit the protection spells on the Coliseum of Monarchs the second time—we felt the impact.”
“Not nearly hard enough to break the shields, surely?”
Bnirm stopped the man and drew them into an alcove by the entrances to hiss back. The [Magus] shook his head rapidly.
“No, Manager. But to cause a visible ripple—she hit it harder than Mars the Illusionist did when she fought Omalt the Half-Giant in her final match!”
That surprised Bnirm. He frowned, then snapped back, irritated by the seed of unease that knowledge planted.
“And injured herself! So what if she’s strong? Torreb himself couldn’t break the barriers when he threw a tantrum after losing a match! It was not even a tenth of the energy required to shatter the barrier, was it?”
That was before he’d been known as Torreb the Undefeated, but still. The [Magi] assured Bnirm there had never been a concern of the barriers falling. Even so, the Stitch-man wavered.
“It was not a tenth.”
“Then restore the energy and clear the sands! I have work to do! Important work!”
The [Manager] stormed off. The [Barrier Magi] glanced back and added under their breath.
“But it was more than a twentieth of the power required. More than a twelfth!”
