“And if she had lost her temper?”
“It would have been an important lesson for the both of us.”
Yvlon kept her gaze fixed on Etrikah’s own, and she saw a faint ripple run up the grey fur of Etrikah’s body. It was the [Sage] who averted her gaze.
“Perhaps it would have, then. I would say you are too young, too inexperienced to speak thusly. Wisdom is knowing when you are wrong.”
“I’m often wrong.”
Yvlon volunteered. Etrikah snorted as she eyed the two rings that Yvlon had taken off her hand. She saw Yvlon putting the Ring of Waterbreathing back in her bag of holding. Not her hand; it caused magical interference, but more importantly, it could be damaged or interfere with Yvlon’s shifting hands. The two Relic-class rings were worth the risk.
“Enough. You and Yisame will make your choices without me speaking needless words. At least it was in private, if that word has any meaning in the palace. To business. I have no doubt I will exchange magical secrets and cunning knowledge with your teammates and that girl. She is a flatterer. You need one like that, but what does the swinging mace of House Byres’ tact have to report? Have you learned more of these rings?”
She was referring to the rings that she had once helped Yvlon appraise. The very ones that Yvlon had, ah, smuggled with her along with the scrolls in a very painful—and gross—way. Yvlon still remembered having to pass them out the hard way after swallowing them.
Still, the effort had been worth it. One of the two rings was scaled, like that of a Wyvern or Drake’s scales, and crowned with a little scale-shield at the tip. The other? It was a strange, multi-colored stone like some precious jade, but the ring changed forms around the edges.
First tiny, sharp, quill-like edges, then what might have been the rushing of waves or perhaps feathers? Before becoming scales or lines upon the earth and then other features.
Both were so finely detailed and made of magical materials that at a glance Yvlon would have picked them out of false imitations. Etrikah had been the one who had told Yvlon they were unlikely to be cursed or dangerous.
Etrikah hadn’t worn them, since the [Sage] could be wrong, but Yvlon had taken them on her adventures and used them, however sparingly. Yvlon raised her brows.
“Not that much. You were correct, Sage Etrikah. The Ring of Barriers has saved my life more than once. From the Crossroads of Izril to the Battle at Sea. I imagine I would have been crushed to death had it not activated in the deep sea. A powerful artifact. Especially for someone like me. Do you want to know about the Crossroads of Izril? I cannot give you the Passphrase so easily, but I can describe what I saw.”
Etrikah glanced up at Yvlon.
“Adventurer, sometimes I enjoy the interplay of words and meaning instead of having everything spelled out in front of me. And the other ring?”
Yvlon shrugged.
“It works well enough to supplement my healing potions. I wrote to Yisame about it, didn’t I? I used it to survive trapped corridors in the maze I was stuck in.”
The second ring had an effect she had uncovered that ran contrary to Etrikah’s assumptions. It was no attack-spell, but rather, a Ring of Healing. Possibly a Ring of Minor Healing; if Yvlon concentrated, it would close a gash or make bruises vanish. It didn’t work like a Healing Potion, and it was a bit disconcerting how it activated, but…that was old power. Yvlon didn’t advertise she had it, and so far, her team had relied on healing potions and not gotten hurt that bad; in these times, it would be an invaluable ring.
As was a Ring of Barriers that could literally absorb a deathblow before she took damage. These two rings really made Yvlon feel like a Gold-rank adventurer or better; they were perfect items for a [Warrior] like her.
Etrikah raised her brows.
“I have indeed read Yisame’s letters once her squealing like a Goldbelly Pig ceased. That was not my question. My question was whether you found the actual powers of the rings out and had not written to Yisame of them.”
“Excuse me? What powers?”
The Great Sage opened her mouth, saw Yvlon’s brows crossed in genuine puzzlement, and lifted one ring up to the magnifying glass she was using.
“Correct me if I am wrong, Yvlon Byres, but these are no mere rings looted from the armory, but the rings carried by the adventurers who slew the Putrid One.”
“That’s correct. The scrolls came from the table, but I found an adventurer wearing both these rings.”
Etrikah nodded.
“Then, the adventurers who slew a [Necromancer] who could animate over two dozen giant-class undead, a [Sword Legend], and an undying hulking beast and had Scrolls of Greater Teleportation—Named-Rank adventurers of that era—used a Ring of Barriers and a Ring of Minor Healing as their personal equipment?”
The second ring bounced off Yvlon’s head. She was getting annoyed by people doing that, but she felt Etrikah had raised solid points. She picked the ring up and carefully put it back on her finger.
“Well, I admit, I haven’t been experimenting. How would I uncover their true power?”
“A passphrase or the right conditions. Much like the Heartflame Breastplate, Relics are puzzles. It amazes me you don’t question them.”
Etrikah rubbed at her forehead, and Yvlon opened her mouth, then nodded silently.
“So…testing?”
“Yes. Stand over there, please. Let me activate a dozen barrier spells. I prefer not to die.”
“What about me?”
“As I believe you indicated to Queen Yisame and all her [Bodyguards]…you’ll live.”
 
——
 
They didn’t figure out either ring’s effects after a mere two hours of testing, but Yvlon had been put back onto this potential opportunity, so she thanked Etrikah for the help as Elena came by for her eleven o’clock.
“Hey, Yvlon, what’re you doing?”
“Going out into the city. Not to the Coliseum of Monarchs.”
At least not right away. Elena opened her mouth to object and then hesitated.
“You know what? Peachy! Great! One thing, can you hold me like you held Queen Yisame at breakfast?”
Yvlon hesitated. Then she awkwardly did as Elena asked, adjusting her hands until she had the grip right. Elena glanced down.
“And you held her up off the ground?”
“I…might have not been tactful.”
“Oh, no, it’s fine. You didn’t murder the [Bodyguards], so I guess it worked out. Plus, you either scared her so bad she’s going to never get close to you again or she was into it. Because, frankly, the only reason I’m not in prison and you’re not hanging up with me are those two things.”
“Into what?”
Elena opened her mouth. She stared at Yvlon, then spun.
“Etrikah! I have a headache!”
“I have tea. Make the Silver Killer leave, please.”
The door closed. Yvlon regarded it and after a moment drew her metal foot back, thinking to give it one good kick out of pique. She saw a [Servant] eying her in the hallway. Yvlon lowered her foot, gave them a thumbs-up and a smile, and hurried off.
 
——
 
Yvlon could be a reasonable person. A normal person. She…
…Was having real problems walking down a street. Half the people were begging for her autograph, shouting, ‘Silver Killer’, and asking her to introduce herself.
The other half took one look at Yvlon and ran, even [Shopkeepers], packing up shop like she was about to turn into a slavering monster.
She’d forgotten she was a famous adventurer. Yvlon Byres did her best, smiling, autographing a few things clumsily, then lost patience. She picked up a few people and put them down out of the way and then realized that was just encouraging them.
Her rescuer was, sadly, Ceria. The Ice Squirrel solved the crowd around Yvlon by turning the air sub-zero in seconds. People leapt away, and she skated towards Yvlon.
“Hey, Yv, let’s go!”
They shot down the street, and even if people followed, skating on the thin ice Ceria produced was a trick you had to learn. Plus, the ice turned into water in moments.
“Did you raid a well to get this water?”
“Nope! Learned [Create Water] since I had the [Tidal Wave] spell. You’ve gotta be a jerk to these people, Yvlon. I know it goes against your Ylawes-instincts, but they’re gonna overwhelm you.”
“Don’t worry, I had tons of practice this morning.”
“What?”
“Nothing!”
It said something that when Ceria Springwalker saw Yvlon’s innocent smile, even wearing the circlet, she got a bit nervous.
“You aren’t running from the palace, are you? We’re not under arrest if we walk back in?”
“Nope! Probably not. We’ll see. So what’s good in Tyrant’s Rest?”
“Oh, tons of cool bazaar stuff. Stitch-folk are too damn beautiful, but you can see a bunch of weird streets where they’ve changed their cloth so they’re like Drakes or even Gnolls. It’s uh…it doesn’t look quite right, but it’s funny. Food—I doubt we’ll beat Yisame’s hospitality. And the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes is great! They have a branch here absolutely filled with magical spellbooks you can read if you’re rich and famous. I scribed spells for two hours and then took a break.”
“That’s a good system, having so many spellbooks for anyone who can learn them. Why doesn’t Wistram do that?”
“Because we’re awful. Plus, [Thieves] apparently are horrendous; those were mostly Tier 1-4 spells. I need to get to the main branch to find what I want. Or broker peace with Flos, but that feels unlikely.”
Ceria adjusted her circlet, and Yvlon remembered she had been given a lead on finding more about the circlet if she helped the Treespeaker.
“You’re looking for information on the circlet…?”
Ceria eyed Yvlon cautiously and shrugged.
“It’s a famous library. Anything of what it does or its effects would be good to know, right?”
“Of course.”
Yvlon kept her face straight, and the two glanced at each other, but they were aligned on this. After a moment, Yvlon cleared her throat.
“Well, I was thinking of visiting the Coliseum of Monarchs covertly. Want to tag along?”
“I mean…given that you can’t stop causing problems here, sure? I’d better at least be there to bail you out. You okay, Yvlon? You mad about the [Slavers]?”
They were walking now. Still attracting stares, but the crowd had not re-gathered. Yvlon frowned.
“The what? Oh, no. I’m just trying to make things happen. We’re on a time limit, remember? We all agreed. Plus, I know Yisame. I did survive here before. They think I’m the Silver Killer. They named me. I’m just answering their expectations.”
The half-Elf thoughtfully opened her mouth, then scratched at her head. She patted Yvlon on the shoulder.
“You know what? I respect it. We got out of Medain, and I was right with you. I was actually upset Mars stopped us. We’ve gotta level—so long as you’re calculating the odds, go for it. Take it to Yisame next time she gives us lip.”
“Done.”
“Hah! Good on—oh, tree rot. What did you do?”
Yvlon was spared having the same conversation a third time by a sudden advent of, if not normality, than mundanity. Because a group of thirteen ran at the two Gold-rank adventurers.
Ceria whirled her wand up, and Yvlon turned her arm into a sword. The thirteen Stitch-folk, mostly young, raised their hands and halted.
“Street Runners! Don’t kill us, please, Horns of Hammerad!”
“Oh. Well—how do I know you’re not [Assassins]?”
Yvlon had already lowered her hands, but Ceria snapped her wand up and played into the moment. They almost chucked their Runner’s Seals at her. It was funny they were still more scared of Yvlon as Ceria lowered the wand and let them approach.
“Delivery for us? We’ve got no Runner’s Seals. Darn, we should buy some custom ones, Yvlon.”
“Those take time to make, and we’re not here long. Who’s it from? The Wandering Inn?”
No, they’d just use the [World’s Eye Theatre], right? Ceria and Yvlon were interested—and then the Street Runners opened their bags of holding and began dumping letters on the ground.
As in, the first pile was up to Yvlon’s knees, and it was from one bag of holding. And they kept coming! Ceria’s mouth opened, and Yvlon recoiled as a veritable mountain of letters and packages piled up.
“Dead gods, what—”
“Letters for you, oh mighty Horns of Hammerad!”
A pleased-looking woman strode out from behind the Street Runners. She was fit and tall, the Runner’s Guild [Guildmistress]. She offered the two Gold-ranks a little bow.
“That you had not been in a city capable of receiving the mail, and travelling so often, it is small wonder you had not experienced this before. This is all that we have addressed to you, and many, many more letters in Izril await you there. Your careers have kept you rising too fast, for the Runner’s Guild has never had time to offer you its services! Namely, sorting this…mess.”
She flicked her hands as the Street Runner stood there, shifting from foot to foot as the letters rustled in the wind. Yvlon stretched out her arm to grab one that nearly flew away; the Street Runner nearest to it squeaked and covered his head as if afraid her arm would lacerate him.
Even the Guildmistress took a step back at that, but she smiled, though she’d gone pale for a moment.
“Ah, and how easy it is to miss a letter! Gather this up, you all. This is but half the letters addressed to you.”
“Half?”
Ceria and Yvlon began, but the [Cryomancer] held up a hand. She closed her eyes, and her features composed to calmness eerily fast.
“No, wait, we should have anticipated this, Yvlon. Of course it’s mostly spam. Requests for aid, marriage proposals—the Runner’s Guild would take a cut from us monthly and sort our mail. The Halfseekers and Griffon Hunt paid for it, and they weren’t even that famous, remember?”
Now that Yvlon remembered it, she did recall the Runner’s Guild handling messages a bit differently when Jelaqua or Halrac went to pick them up. She supposed the Horns’ relatively fast rise—plus the fact that their reputation had really only increased notably after the Village of the Dead and Chandrar—had kept them from this moment.
“If it’s a Courier-message, I bet it’s not in this stuff.”
Ceria kicked the pile of letters the Runner’s Guild was collecting. The Guildmistress smiled.
“Then, if you will follow me to the Runner’s Guild, it will be the work of a moment to set up the system.”
And a small fee they could eminently afford. Ceria and Yvlon glanced at each other. Both nodded to the other. Ceria spun and beamed at the Guildmistress.
“No need! Run them to the palace, and we’ll open them there, there’s a good woman. Here. For your trouble.”
She handed the Guildmistress a copper coin. The Stitch-woman blinked.
“But the imposition, not to mention the effort—”
Yvlon was nodding.
