“We’ll sort through them then see if we want to opt into the service. Thank you. I like reading.”
Both she and Ceria had had the exact same thought.
Like Rhir’s Hells we’re getting strongarmed into giving out money.
They marched back to the palace as the [Guildmistress] protested. In that way, Yvlon and Ceria did get along quite well at times.
 
——
 
Yvlon did tip the Street Runners well, but by the time Pisces and Colth came back from their own explorations of the city, the two were still sorting through the mail addressed to them.
Yvlon was slightly regretting her choices, but the sight of Pisces’ face and Colth’s exasperated sigh was worth it. The [Supporter] threw himself into a chair.
“I know what you’re doing. Believe me, I did it too, but this gets real old fast.”
Ceria grinned as she fanned out the letters in her hands like a deck of cards.
“Well, let us soak up the fame. Pisces, you have to read these letters. Some are hilarious. Others? Highly tragic appeals.”
Pisces sat down in a chair and stared at the letters, then took one Ceria handed him. He rubbed at his nose.
“We are famous then?”
Yvlon felt that strange, bubbly sensation in her chest at so many letters. It was indulging fame, and Colth might have been used to it, but it was a treat for the Horns and ample distraction. Despite his attempts at world-weariness, soon Colth was opening letters and gifts.
It was a fun team-exercise, and Elena came racing by to join in.
“Etrikah’s tons of fun, and she gave me lots of ideas and tried to recruit me three times. Anyways, what’s this?”
Ceria had a bottle in one hand and was reading the accompanying letter.
“Looks like a love potion. Gross, I think I can see the guy’s hair floating in it. It says it’s a custom-made healing potion, but yuck. Colth?”
He took one look at it and tossed it into a pile.
“Yep. You can see the hexes on some letters. Hex, hex, oh, tracking spell! Nice, it’s made to stick to you. Normally, the Runner’s Guild doesn’t even accept this kind of stuff, but the [Guildmistress] was trying to be cute, I bet. Annoyed you?”
“Yep!”
Most of the letters were indeed trash. What weren’t appeals to go on a treasure hunt (while giving a portion of the proceeds to the person who’d had the ‘idea’ for it) or slay a monster on the cheap were offers to be personal bodyguards, invitations to meet romantically, or, as Ceria said, heartwrenching appeals from people who couldn’t afford to pay regular prices.
Well, the best letters were the fanmail. Though it made Yvlon uncomfortable after the third one to realize…people genuinely looked up to her.
 
Dear Adventurer Yvlon, I was inspired by you to start training with a sword myself. I know I might never become an adventurer, let alone a Gold-rank one such as you, but I lost my hand when I was a girl, and I thought it made me both useless and incapable of doing anything well. To see your arms and know your story…
 
Yvlon saved that letter, feeling she should write back—but she didn’t know what to say. How did she say how much of a fluke it was that she’d gotten her class? Or how close she’d come to losing her arms? Could a [Necromancer] like Pisces help…?
“They admire too much about us that’s wrong.”
Ceria herself seemed to lose interest in the fanmail and tossed a few letters aside. She put her feet up on the desk, and Colth gave her that twisted smile he reserved for friends.
“Hard to read even with your Circlet of I’m Above This All?”
“Shut it, Colth. Pisces has the actually nice letters. See?”
“Hey!”
Everyone began reading the Pisces-letters, and they were indeed the best. Probably because while some were tragic or wrong, they were, well…
From [Necromancers]. Or people who aspired to be like Pisces, renegades. Yvlon touched her heart as she read one letter.
“Pisces, this is a young [Goth]-[Lady] from the north who never felt like she was a proper [Lady]. You inspired her. Somehow.”
“And here’s a [Necromancer] who wants to be just like you! Aww, that’s sw—wait a second, is he digging up graves? Um, good job.”
Ceria and Yvlon patted Pisces on the shoulder as he turned red; Colth ruffled his hair. Elena hid a smile as Pisces swatted at them and turned to her.
“Er, as you can see, Elena, we aren’t always the most decorous adventurers. Are you regretting your choice so far?”
“I’m having a blast. You guys are real. I mean, really…well, you’re not stuck-up celebrities yet. Please, keep it that way. Yvlon’s the realest of all. Actually, too real. She nearly punched out Yisame after breakfast.”
Colth and Pisces turned to Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] found another letter.
“Oh, look at this. A custom dagger. Maybe I could use this? I think we do need to pay for that Runner’s Guild service after all.”
Elena nodded happily, but then flicked out a few letters from a pile she’d been sorting.
“You might as well check the letters you do have, though, Yvlon. My bet is the Runner’s Guild gets rid of letters that matter now and then, even with their sorting system. These are [Messages] from the Mage’s Guild. Not many matter, but I’ve got two that maaaybe matter? Here.”
To Yvlon’s surprise, she found that Elena had indeed found a [Message] of actual substance. It was from none other than Lord Yitton Byres of House Byres!
“Father! Thank you, Elena! I wonder what…”
She began reading, wondering if it was about Ylawes or the fire from the north. He’d asked her for more gold, but she hadn’t sent any. She’d already given a sizable sum! Still, House Byres had burned…Yvlon felt guilty about it, remembering how much she h—
Any guilt or homesickness Yvlon felt drained out of her in seconds as she read. Ceria took another letter from Elena, read the name on the front, and froze up. Slowly, she cracked the seal and read a few lines. Her face went still. Cold frost formed over the paper she was holding.
“Well, it looks real, but that’s spam. Thanks, Elena. Yv? You look like you want to murder Yisame twice.”
She ripped up her letter without a word. Yvlon lowered hers and realized her fingers were scrunching the parchment a bit. She felt the anger surge…and let it go.
“That’s a joke about Yisame, right? What does the letter say, Yvlon?”
Pisces murmured. She passed it to him, and he read.
“It’s quite lovely. ‘Dear Daughter…worried for your condition, oh no, they didn’t know you were alive for…actions against Terandrian nations may jeopardize your reputation in Izril, but I am assured you acted honorably in the situation…’ er, less salutary, but—oh.”
Yvlon nodded. Pisces hesitated.
“Er, can I read aloud—?”
“Go ahead.”
She stared as Pisces read out the actual request. Colth was already wincing before Pisces began.
“‘…in light of House Byres’ continued financial troubles which you have not involved yourself with, I am given to understand you will be hosted in Nerrhavia’s Fallen as friends of the local monarch. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is a nation of wealth and numerous armies in a state of war, I am given to understand. It would benefit House Byres greatly if you were to advertise our Silversteel armaments, which have been bought and used the breadth of Izril of late. A scrying orb or Courier to deliver a sample could be arranged if—’. Oh. I, ah, we could do that, Yvlon. I could probably use a sword to—”
“Why would we?”
She didn’t look at him or at anything. She was trying to picture her father making that many arms deals. House Byres normally just sold its silver; the Silversteel armaments? Those were old stories of their smithing acumen. Ylawes had his plate armor and weapons, but those were refurbished family heirlooms, just like the armor she’d had.
Could we even make Silversteel of a quality I’d recommend to Yisame’s…
The first part stung. But the rest just made her tired. She knew House Byres needed coin. But she’d already given more money than she’d ever made as a Silver-rank adventurer! It was her coin, wasn’t it? Ylawes had said he’d asked Ysara for money too. Why would Ysara give money to House Byres?
Yvlon needed the coin herself, and surely she wasn’t to support all of House Byres’ ventures, was she? She’d paid to help reconstruct their home. Her father had written about some conflict with the Unseen Empire. Weren’t they friends? Then again, it wouldn’t be that hard…
Colth took the letter from Pisces. Instead of reading it, he crumpled it up and tossed it into the junk pile. When Yvlon started, he shrugged.
“Welcome to high-level adventuring. Everyone you know and love suddenly remembers you’re worth coin or influence. You can do it if you want. It won’t make you feel better unless he really needs the benefit. And he’ll ask again.”
“…I’ll think on it.”
To distract herself, Yvlon turned to Ceria. The half-Elf had gone back to reading as well.
“Ceria? What was your letter?”
The half-Elf smiled.
“Get this. This is from Erin. ‘Dear Horns, I’m trapped in Baleros! I need your help to hire [Bodyguards]—’.”
She cackled, and Pisces, who’d sat up in alarm, rolled his eyes. Yvlon frowned.
“I mean, what got you?”
“Oh, that. It’s nothing as painful as yours, Yvlon—don’t you like your parents? I just thought, ‘wow, they’re good’. Someone found a name related to my past.”
Yvlon hesitated.
“I—you met my parents. They were cordial to everyone, even Pisces. I just don’t feel like I should be spending my share of the gold on home. I was asked for a lot and I gave my father a sizable amount already. I owe them…something more, I suppose. I’ll go to the Merchant’s Guild and send money tonight. Just not whatever my father wants.”
Talking to Ysara made home feel different. That letter didn’t help. Ceria nodded.
“Well, mine’s just—a name.”
“Your mother? I swear I saw my mother in one of those letters. Though my father would never send me anything.”
Pisces scowled, and Ceria shook her head.
“Nah, cleverer. It was just some half-Elf in the Village of the Spring who knew my grandmother. That’s pretty good investigation work, you know? The Village of the Spring is hard to get into; there’s a town, but you can’t just waltz in. Still, what’s a few hours of work asking questions and figuring out who might be alive if it means I send you a thousand gold coins?”
Everyone nodded. Yvlon glanced at the pieces.
“Could it have been them, though? Maybe they heard about you—”
Ceria laughed, and there was a sharp edge to her voice suddenly.
“From the Village of the Spring? C’mon, Yvlon. They probably think I’m still in the forest! Decades pass like months for them! And I’m not even convinced this particular half-Elf is even alive. I haven’t seen her since I was a girl. She never checked on me or my grandmother once. If she’s even alive, she’d never send me a letter. Her name’s Tserre and…”
The [Cryomancer]’s face twisted, then she cooled down, freezing herself. She shrugged.
“It was a good damn letter too. They said it was on behalf of Tserre and the King of Myths.”
“I forget you were a member of Erribathe. The Kingdom of Myths itself. That has no small prestige.”
Pisces muttered. Ceria shot back.
“And I forgot you were part of Ailendamus.”
She hesitated as he appeared hurt.
“Sorry, Pisces. I just don’t trade on home, you know?”
“There’s no chance it was from her?”
Elena was searching for the scraps. Ceria turned.
“Nope. Don’t even bother. She and my grandmother were friends, but Leila just said she was a grumpy old woman she partnered with. She was supposed to teach me magic, but she never comes out of her hut. She’s one of the real half-Elves. She might be over a thousand years old, who knows? C’mon, I’m tired of this. Let’s go.”
She leapt up and clapped her hands.
“What say you we all go to the Coliseum of Monarchs and see what the problem is? And before you shout, Colth, in disguise. Elena? You keep saying how useful you are. Wanna prove it?”
Elena perked up as Yvlon brushed aside her own troubling letter. She saw Elena whip out a makeup kit and protested.
“But Ceria, we’re still four people leaving the palace. Even if we use Elena, any idiot with eyes will see four Humans and a half-Elf in a mostly Stitch-folk crowd—”
 
——
 
“This area is for Silk only, hempsack. Lesser castes there.”
The backhanded slap Yvlon received made her sort of angry, but the speaker wasn’t that strong. Mostly, she was impressed as she backed out of the section of glaring Silk Stitch-folk. She found Colth waving at her and Ceria, holding back Pisces from coming after her. Yvlon rubbed at her cheeks.
“Wow. The disguises really work, Elena. It didn’t even come off.”
“Are you okay, Yvlon?”
“Hm? Oh, yes. I barely felt it.”
Indeed, the Silk Stitch-man was wringing his hand out and cursing the ‘hemp’, though Yvlon was actually more of a Cotton Stitch-woman. The stitchmarks on her neck, around her ears, and on the conspicuous parts of her body proved it.
She alone had a jacket because her arms didn’t take the makeup well, but she was amazed every time she glanced at Pisces to see a bronze-skinned Stitch-man blinking at her with a rounded nose instead of pointed.
Colth was a more burly Stitch-man with curled locks; the [Supporter] used his Skills to combo off of Elena’s, but even without that, she’d transformed Yvlon and Ceria into convincing Stitch-women.
She couldn’t change things like Yvlon’s arms or Ceria’s ears, because disguise weren’t Elena’s forte, but she’d just leaned into their attributes.
Ceria had massive ears that were shaped like a Fox’s. They waggled every now and then, and odd as it appeared, it was in the ‘Alterkind’ trend where Stitch-folk gave themselves non-Human features. Ceria winked at Yvlon.
“Froze that piece of floor over there for you. Hope he breaks both legs.”
Yvlon sighed at the crash and scream. But she smiled at Elena as they filed into the Coliseum of Monarchs’ seats.
“Amazing work, Elena. This is invaluable.”
She wondered why the [Beautician] didn’t look entirely happy. Elena had given herself stitches and not much else, but she shook her head.
“Thanks, Yvlon. I’m glad it’s convincing. It’s just…well, I didn’t think making convincing blackface was something I’d be using my talents for.”
“Whatface?”
Elena had to launch into an explanation about racial dynamics in her Human-only world as Pisces sneezed again; his fake nose was tickling his real one. No one paid them any mind.
They were in.
