The young woman flinched and glanced at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] didn’t know why until she remembered the shields Nawal had been unhappily making.
“No. And he is right not to trust me. I was a fool twice. Once for not speaking honesty when the truth was in the metal. I lost my clan for that. Second…when I thought redemption was just a bloody, messy blade forged of death. I did not pay the price for that. I should have. But it was Bandit Lord Maresar who did. So I swore never to make a blade. This, by the way, is no blade. Just an arm that turns into one.”
That was how she was getting around her vow? She seemed happier, regardless, not to make a shield. Yvlon ventured a comment after listening to the tapping.
“I know a thing or two about mistakes myself. My arms were because I was too stubborn to stop and heal them. I lost my first team out of arrogance.”
“Ah. Then you at least respect what a strange miracle they are. As much as I make fun…it is something to see metal move like your arms. And they will be stronger.”
Nawal held up a glowing bar of Adamantium so hot it raised the temperature in the room immensely, then stuck it in the forge again. Yvlon surreptitiously got the Amulet of Flame Resistance and sighed as it cooled her down.
“I, uh, know some famous [Smiths] of Izril.”
The [Smith] stopped humming and tapping on the bar and turned from the forge. She stared at Yvlon, then adopted a sing-song voice.
“Oh, and I know some adventurers of Chandrar! I bet you would know all their ilk! Since you are an adventurer and so are they!”
She spat on the ground, and Yvlon flushed.
“…Fair enough. I only meant—”
Nawal went back to smithing.
“I don’t know this ‘Maughin’ of Pallass. His is not a great name. Many of the old [Smiths] are retired or gone. New ones have not yet emerged worthy of remembering. Not even Mrell of Demas Metal, as fine as it is. Your Master Pelt—yes. But he dishonored his craft as bad as—no, worse than I.”
“He returned to smithing though.”
Nawal inspected the bar again, then began to carefully heat up the metal of silversteel to forging temperature.
“Ah, well, it would be an honor to speak with him and learn his wisdom. Exile and outcast to exile and outcast. Still! Clan Tannousin taught me their ways, and while I cannot equal his mastery, I will not fall behind any [Smith] of Chandrar save Djinn. I do not lack for technique, merely a path.”
Well, she wasn’t arrogant at all. Yvlon crossed her arms, then hesitated. She glanced around, lowered her voice. Everyone was at the Court of Silks, and she had been told Nawal’s forge would be warded. Besides, this heat would kill anyone without an amulet of flame resistance on.
“Nawal, he never said what he did. Do you, um, know?”
Nawal spun.
“Are you asking me to betray another [Smith]’s greatest shame?”
“Um. Yes?”
The [Smith] held the burning bar of Adamantium in tongs that Yvlon realized had to be made of Adamantium themselves. She paused.
“Ah, well. I heard he forged a batch of metals that had flaws. The most pathetic, junior mistake of a [Smith] to not test their metal. Any child of Clan Tannousin is beaten if they let such things pass, but they were filled up on their own greed and pride. The metal broke.”
“Oh. And it ruined their reputations? Pelt talks like it was a mortal sin…”
Nawal was gazing at the Adamantium, which was now so white-hot it was burning Yvlon’s eyes. She spoke in a sad voice.
“Yvlon Byres, who does not pretend to know so much…if it were arms for the King of Destruction, that would be one thing. There are far more things to which [Smiths] make metal. I have only made blades. This was for architecture, or so I was told. It killed far, far more than any one blade, any hundred faulty blades could.”
“Oh. Oh no.”
Then Yvlon understood how tragedy could occur and not be seen until…Nawal nodded. She paused a moment, hammer resting on the anvil.
“…It is good we speak of such things. If I were to make metal for homes, I should not disparage the work. Lest a roof fall on a baby and I be thrice-damned. But this?”
She held up her work, and Yvlon saw a weird, lopsided piece of silver metal fused into two ‘thumbs’ of ingots, mithril and Adamantium. Nawal eyed her creation.
“I would call it art, but I fear the class might find me. Here.”
She blew on the Adamantium block and shoved it to Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] eyed the block of metal, and her arm gingerly crept towards the silversteel that she knew was hers.
This couldn’t actually work, right? Nawal’s eyes locked on Yvlon’s arm as the metal flowed, rejoining the arm. Then Yvlon flexed her hand, and the mithril and Adamantium trembled…and began to deform.
“It works.”
Yvlon gasped. Nawal nearly leapt into the forge.
“It does? I thought it had no chance! But then—that’s a Tannousin weld for you!”
She puffed out her chest, then muttered under her breath—
“I can’t believe that worked.”
 
——
 
A problem arose after about three minutes. Yvlon was sweating, and her arms were hot. The Adamantium had rapidly cooled, but it was still burningly hot even with the amulet on; that didn’t matter.
She had an Adamantium hand! Okay, an Adamantium finger. The ingot was slowly moving as she forced her will upon it. It was still ‘foreign’, but she felt like she could exert control over it thanks to the connection Nawalishifra had established. The problem was…
“Is that for me?”
Nawalishifra stared at the giant Adamantium middle finger that Yvlon was waving in her direction. The [Armsmistress] grunted; the mithril was a smaller index finger.
“No! I’m trying to get it to form…a plating over my hand.”
Nawal eyed the tiny bit of Adamantium slowly creeping over the back of Yvlon’s hand. She coughed.
“Yes, I can see it working quite well. Do you want me to come back in an hour?”
She poured herself some water as Yvlon’s brow kneaded with sweat. After a moment, Nawal poured some water on Yvlon’s head to cool her down. Which made things worse.
“Wait, it’s even harder now! I—I can’t move it!”
Yvlon had been moving the mithril and Adamantium slowly, slowly across her arm, but when the water splashed onto the metal, she realized what was wrong.
“It’s too hard! I can’t—shift it!”
The [Smith]’s brows bounced up, and she squatted down swiftly.
“You cannot? Ah, it’s cool now. But you can sense it?”
“Yes, vaguely, but it’s like trying to move…a rock!”
The metal was solid, totally unwilling to move without heat. Nawal pursed her lips.
“Ah. I’m beginning to think that I was too hasty in judging your arms, Yvlon Byres the Silver Killer. Let’s try something. I’ll heat the mithril up—damn, no, with the amulet on—here, I’ll snip it off, reforge, and we’ll try when it’s hot.”
When Yvlon tried to reabsorb the glowing yellow bar of mithril, she nearly screamed. It was too hot! But she managed to form the mithril into a pair of fingers until they cooled—then she couldn’t move them.
“Fascinating. You can control metal like one controls water, but…hm. Try this?”
She handed Yvlon some iron, and the two expected Yvlon might bend it around with ease given she could do Adamantium, but she was unable to get it to so much as twitch while cold.
“Odd. So you can only move metal when metal wishes to be moved.”
“Except for my silversteel.”
Nawal tapped Yvlon’s arms with her hammer, frowning as she hammered it into a lump on the anvil. Yvlon glowered; Nawal apologetically snipped the Adamantium off and trimmed the silversteel.
“I understand, I think. This…isn’t silver and steel.”
She pointed at Yvlon’s arms. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] opened her mouth as if she’d been shot by a bunch of Erin-killing bolts.
“Impossible. It’s in my class!”
“No, no. I know metal. This is neither silver nor steel. I grant you, it may be an alloy of both, but it is not plain silver and plain steel conjoined. It’s something else. Something far, far more complex.”
Yvlon recalled what Pelt had once said about her arms. Elegant, he’d said. Would he say that if it was really just House Byres’ alloy? Nawal was thinking down the same track.
“Perhaps I am the fool. For here I think this must be some ‘new’ metal when, perhaps…no, it is silver and steel, I am sure of it! It is mere shit steel and silver conjoined; elsewise, how could my hammer mash it so flat even when you make it strong as could be? I must think of it differently.”
She peered at Yvlon’s arms, again being offensive about the makeup. Yet Nawal pointed.
“You can make a puddle out of your arms. Do it. Then make the other arm hard as, well, it can be.”
Yvlon did, and one arm drooped and nearly dripped as Nawal felt at it, and the other scored the iron ingot with ease.
“Yes…yes.”
“Yes what?”
“It can be both! Solid as solid can be, malleable as molten metal! Your arms are some kind of metal like this! And that is why regular metals won’t work! It must be treated like your arms! Turned into this puddle-solid!”
Yvlon didn’t think Nawal knew the right term for the metal quality, but the idea struck a chord with her. Maybe that was what her arms were! Rather than just giving her control over metal, her class had created this metal.
“So you’re saying it’s not some fancy new metal. But something else. Something elegant, Master Pelt said.”
Nawal twisted around.
“He said that? And you didn’t tell me?”
“Well, it’s just a word—”
Now, the girl was all over the place, inspecting Yvlon’s arms, trying to take a sample, thinking out loud.
“Elegant from a master who has hammered every shape to metal—beyond, yes, beyond even Clan Tannousin? Elegant does not make me think new metal at all. I think my theory is right. This is some treatment, some process that makes metal capable of being both solid and liquid at once. At the same temperature!”
At first blush, it might not have sounded like much. But to Yvlon, who came from a family who had smiths, and to Nawal, the idea was just…ludicrous.
Insane even for women who knew metal could be worked like magic. Yvlon hesitated.
“That’s my idea too, but I can’t even imagine an enchantment that could do this. Perhaps some alchemy.”
“Perhaps, but if so, it is permanent. Extraordinary. Is it alchemy, I wonder? Many great works of smithing are unto alchemy themselves…”
Nawal was now searching her brain for any equivalent metal she had ever known like this, but Yvlon had to ask the big question.
“Well, can you make more? Or figure out the process and treat Adamantium or another metal like this?”
Nawalishifra stopped. She peered at Yvlon’s arms, and a note of true uncertainty entered her voice.
“I…don’t know. I do not know this technique. It is no metal that Clan Tannousin uses or would ever use. A droopy metal like that? A flaccid alloy?”
“Please don’t call it that.”
“It has no use I know, but then, I have never heard of such a metal. What could be made of it?”
Her eyes lit up as she stared at Yvlon’s arms. Then Nawal took in the smith’s room around her and laughed softly. She picked up her hammer again, and pointed it at Yvlon.
“Well. Perhaps I have a project worth spending Nerrhavia Fallen’s gold and knowledge upon.”
She turned to Yvlon, and the light of the challenge filled her face. Nawal gestured excitedly at Yvlon’s arms.
“Yes. I must study to see how this may be done. Perform alchemy or other experiments myself—with great caution, of course—and see if the Great Sage knows of what I am talking of. And find more samples like your arms to study. Those Oresect beetles everyone warns me about…”
“Oh, those were made from my arms, I think.”
Nawal nearly tossed the bar of Adamantium out the window as she went to put it away. She whirled, stared at Yvlon, then began laughing. She leaned against her forge, laughing until she nearly sucked her veil into her throat, and wiped at her eyes.
“You Horns, you, eh, you’re worse than the King of Destruction for madness. Argh. But you don’t damn nations when you rage, yet. I give, I give. This is better than meaningless shields. Give me a finger’s worth, nay, two fingers’ worth of metal and I shall do my best. And a list of the things you eat when you are hungry—and House Byres’ ‘secret alloy’, yes?”
She wrote all of it down except for House Byres’ secret alloy, which she spat on and tossed the recipe out the window. She was still rude, but Yvlon went away smiling as Nawal grumbled about having to find these Oresect beetles for more tests.
“Well, how’d it go?”
Ceria asked Yvlon over a private dinner, and Yvlon frowned.
“Well, I lost two fingers’ worth of metal, but I have high hopes Nawal can make more.”
She studied her teammates’ expressions and tried to clarify.
“No, the two fingers’ worth I gave her—I was mostly fine.”
“What about the [Servant] who came into the banquet hall screaming you were covered in blood and about to murder Nawalishifra?”
Pisces wanted to know, and Yvlon sighed. Reputations were such an annoying thing.
 
——
 
Reputations. One day everyone looks at you like you were some kind of rabid dog ready to murder everything if they sneezed wrong, the next, you were a tamed animal, a foreign metal mutt with more bark than bite who reflected badly on her owner, Yisame, and peed on the rugs.
Yvlon was tempted to pee on the rugs in the Court of Silks the next day. Berr would do it. The titters and comments about her embarrassing display in the Coliseum of Monarchs were all about the vast chambers, and it was hurting Yisame.
Colth had framed it as a knock-on effect. If Yisame was seen to humor Yvlon, whom she was known to admire and respect, and even to give way to Yvlon, then she tied her own reputation and power to Yvlon’s danger and reputation as the Silver Killer.
But if Lenxiol and Bnirm proved she was merely a Gold-ranker with an overly-inflated sense of ego, then what was the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen doing? She had either poor judgement or the Horns became her weakness. Moreover, if they wanted the Traitorous Three back, Yisame had to give something Bnirm’s faction wanted. And Yvlon had made it obvious how much Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte meant to her.
At least Relladen was “alright”. He was serving in the army, having apparently traded his crimes against Nerrhavia’s Fallen for service. But Yisame was now in a bind, even if she was acting like all was well, and it was Yvlon’s fault.
