“You should have followed me up. What are you lot doing? That was slightly uncomfortable.”
Good thing she’d saved it. Yvlon smiled. Then, as the entire Court of Silks stared at this Gold-rank adventurer so unimpressed by their display she had approached the [Queen] herself and dared her [Bodyguards] to stop her—the Silver Killer who spoke to a [Queen] like an equal—
Yvlon Byres closed her eyes again.
 
——
 
Buler had to go; he had work, and his job was done. But he paused long enough to knock on the door to the suite the Horns of Hammerad had been accorded in the royal wing.
It took some doing to get there. Only the fact that he’d been with the Horns at their welcoming ceremony let him get past the surly [Guards] and annoying Master of Rooms or Mistresses of Ceremony and countless flunkies that the palace had.
And his status as a [Carpet Rider], of course, but that was a strange thing. The carpet, the Reizue’s Dream, mattered far more than Buler. That was why, as Yvlon had noticed, he wore patched pants and a jacket that had only a small [Warmth] spell sewn into it by a kindly [Seamstress] he had once met.
The Guild took most of what he made; the rest Buler either sent to the [Cook] on Burlap Street in Merreid who’d raised him or spent on Reizue’s Dream. The Guild, damn them, never gave enough coin back to properly upkeep such a vast carpet, and there was always work to be done, if one was skilled enough. It was old. Even maintaining the magic cost a river’s worth of gold, and Buler could not make it flow, despite his work.
He figured maybe he’d buy some pants and some meals for himself with Yvlon’s coin. Since it was a gift and not a tip; the tip had come from Pisces, and it would go into the Guild’s coffers as well.
This told the Stitch-boy that Yvlon Byres knew something of Nerrhavia’s Fallen already. That there was a method to her madness, and the palace was abuzz with her madness. Yet surely, he felt, she knew enough to understand what an interesting reception that had been. Delitandra and the Heromakers, the boy knew, would understand the rest.
He did not play the ‘great’ game of politics, but a [Carpet Rider] had to understand such things lest he lose his head. It was…interesting to say the least.
New adventuring teams were beloved in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but to have one so celebrated, with the [Queen] in attendance no less, befit only a Named-rank team of legends. Thusly, it showed the [Queen]’s favor in spades! At the same time, the Horns had stepped off the carpet and into such a demonstration which was quite calculated to make them appear less impressive and, certainly, gave them no warning.
Were it not for the Silver Killer’s actions distracting all and sundry, they might have well appeared like bumpkin provincials, even if they had some graces about them. Thus, Buler thought the Horns were already part of Nerrhavia Fallen’s powerplays. Only Yvlon Byres had made the games of the high and mighty go astray, and…he shivered as he finally came to the hallway where they were staying.
If that was how the Silver Killer played politics, he wished to know what came next—from a very safe distance. The boy rapped on the door and waited, hearing muffled, raised voices from within. When Ceria Springwalker opened the door, he bowed even as the voices became shouts of fury. He looked up, and the half-Elf blinked in the doorway.
“Oh, hey Buler. Anything wrong?”
“No, no. I must leave, Captain Ceria, and I have bade my farewells. I wished only to apologize, once, before I depart.”
“Oh? For what?”
He met her eyes as someone threw a pot in the background. The crash made him wince. Buler glanced at Ceria.
“Calling you stupid. I was a fool, and I see it now.”
She paused. Then she solemnly stuck out a hand, and they shook.
“Glad you understand. We don’t raise the bar, we lower it around here.”
Solemnly, he shook her hand again, then bowed. Ceria closed the door, but as Buler hurried, well, practically ran away from this mad team, he could still hear Colthei shouting at Yvlon.
Pisces was helping.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres could admit when mistakes were made. Unlike Pisces or Ceria, for instance. Clearly, she’d messed up.
“It was about the timing.”
“—What?”
Colth stopped ranting as she apologized. Yvlon nodded.
“I should have waited until the celebrations were done. I just thought I could expedite it if I joined the Court of Silks. That’s where you’re supposed to stand. I took the wrong cues, and if I’d waited, properly, I wouldn’t have embarrassed us in front of everyone. I’m wrong, Colth. I’m quite sorry.”
The [Ultimate Supporter] was actually at a loss for words. Genuinely. He watched Buler running for his life, and he hadn’t seen Delitandra and her people—Elena was hiccuping from laughing too hard in the corner of their guest rooms. Nawal had shut herself in her rooms and locked the doors and windows. For fear of [Assassins].
After a minute, Colth turned to Pisces and Ceria.
“When did this happen? When did she get like this? I swear, all my notes about her were that she was normal.”
Yvlon frowned, but Pisces had calmed down a bit, even if he was still white-faced.
“I think it was when she picked up her own arm and charged an Adult Creler with it. She held it together quite well afterwards, but I would say that is more of the mask which slipped.”
“And she never bothered putting it back on? Ah, right. That makes sense. I knew Deni and Eld had their moments that made them a bit cracked, but even they never did that…”
Colth calmed down. He poured himself a drink of water from a pitcher as Ceria came back and sat down.
“I think it’s great Yvlon’s apologizing. But you can see she doesn’t even really know why. My theory is the Adult Creler blew part of her brain out and we didn’t realize it was replaced by metal as well as her arms.”
Yvlon swiped at Ceria.
“I was doing what Berr would have done! I think.”
“You were copying—oh, this makes so much more sense. He probably would be laughing his tail off if he could see that. Yvlon, when we arranged for Berr to help you master your anger, you were supposed to learn fighting and emotional control from him. Nothing else. He’s a [Barbarian].”
“So? Don’t be rude, Colthei. He’s over Level 50; he’s figured out more of life than you.”
“R—it’s in his class, you iron-headed idiot! You would be dead if Queen Yisame didn’t seem to like you! I’ve never seen an adventurer with less tact, and I grew up around Named-ranks! How is someone who was raised to be a [Lady] this bad at reading a room? I would rather eat a handful of tacks than live for another second in that room with you walking through everything like a loon—and then you closed your eyes.”
Colth pointed at Yvlon, face purpling, and whirled to Pisces.
“She’s insane.”
The [Necromancer] was steepling his fingers together and giving Yvlon a sympathetic expression. He smiled.
“Yes, but she has done so well. It’s our fault for not noticing, Colth. Ylawes is her brother.”
“Ooh, that’s true. This is on us.”
Ceria nodded as she snacked on some grapes they’d left in a huge pile of fruits for the Horns. Colth opened his mouth. Closed it.
“You know what? That’s a very valid point. Having met the Silver Swords—Yvlon, you do understand why you silenced the entire Court of Silks, right?”
She nodded now the shouting had stopped.
“I do. But my reasoning was that I was getting overwhelmed, and I didn’t realize you were intimidated, Colth. It really did help.”
“Right, yes. I imagine it did. And it wasn’t the kind of thing any normal person would think of. It looked to them as if you were bored or just….ignoring it all. You didn’t flinch when the [Bodyguard] surrounded you.”
“I thought it was some Chandrarian ritual.”
Elena choked and began cough-hiccuping again. Ceria passed her some water, and Colth turned to Pisces. The [Necromancer] tapped his fingers together.
“She may, ah, also be culturally insensitive.”
Yvlon reddened.
“Well, you hear stories, Pisces! You know? [Bellydancers] or people flipping fiery swords? Swallowing them?”
“See? House Byres. Mwah. It’s like they made a work of art. You’ve gotta admire that, Colth.”
“And here I thought Yazdil created unique oddities of people.”
That was a distasteful joke, but Colth just sat, running his hands through his hair. Yvlon glanced at the door.
“I understand my mistakes. Truly, I do. Shall we get to work? I know where the Coliseum of Monarchs is.”
She stood; they had a tiny bit of light left before true nightfall. Colth snapped. He tackled her and put her in a headlock, or tried to—Ceria and Pisces leapt up.
“I’m going to kill her! I’m going to kill—”
The doors swung open, and a [Bodyguard] who’d been having a really bad day lifted his sword only to come face-to-face with Yvlon Byres and Colth, who had an arm around her neck. Yvlon blinked—he recoiled, and Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen herself, along with Great Sage Etrikah, stared at the Horns of Hammerad.
Elena began dying in her corner of the room. Colth let go of Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] smiled. Queen Yisame motioned her [Bodyguard] back, then swept into the room.
“Your Majesty!”
Pisces, Ceria, and Colth all bowed. Yvlon held out a hand. Colth kicked her so hard her eyes watered. She could have used [Immunity: Pain] of course, but she didn’t keep it on anymore. It was far too dangerous, in Berr’s opinion, and Yvlon agreed.
And in fairness to Colth…
Yvlon had done that one on purpose.
 
——
 
Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen seemed like she was having the time of her life, but it was also undeniable that the stresses upon her had increased noticeably since Yvlon had last met the woman.
Despite her meticulous makeup and beautiful cloth, she had a few traces of strain: heavier darkening under her eyes than even makeup might warrant, a fidget at times, and just an air of pensive indecision that spoke of pressure.
However, in that context she was still the happiest woman alive. Rather like someone with a terrible ailment who’d just dug up a fortune. She wore the mosaic-veil of fabrics that shifted to hide her features and rich, royal blue robes decorated with each region of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, a map of the vast kingdom.
Great Sage Etrikah, by contrast, wore a nightgown. Rich and violet silk, but the Fox Beastkin woman was clearly ready for bed and hadn’t expected to meet the Horns today. Obviously, Yvlon’s actions had changed things.
Introductions had to be made, of course. Not by Yvlon. It was rather tedious with all the bowing and titles, and Yvlon was secretly pleased; she’d cut down on what might have been a two-hour gathering to hear Colth ranting for half that and expedited this meeting by at least a day given Yisame was not a woman you just approached.
She was more interested in how her team met Yisame and the [Queen]’s own reactions, which were less guarded in front of the Horns. She knew a lot; when she saw Ceria’s circlet, her eyes darted to Etrikah, and the [Sage] refused to shake Ceria’s hand. Yisame had to touch Ceria’s bone hand, though, which Ceria claimed was ‘ticklish’. Colth—she treated with a wary remove, almost dismissing the only actual Named-rank adventurer in favor of Pisces.
He did not present himself well. Oh, he bowed ostentatiously, pretending to be a [Courtier], but as his eyes rose, they found Yisame’s bosom was far more exposed than, say, another royal ruler’s might have been. Part of that was because of Stitch-folk’s ability to remain perfect and have no objectionable flaws in their rulers, another part just the more free approach to skin in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
He turned red and began to fumble his words as Ceria rolled her eyes, and Colth appeared ready to drown himself in the pitcher of water. But Yisame quite liked the attention. Indeed, she promptly let Pisces kiss her hand and seemed delighted by his awkwardness.
However—when Elena was introduced as the [Beautician] and follower of the Horns, Yisame’s eyes flicked once to Etrikah, and then she wore that smile Yvlon couldn’t read as she allowed the young woman to bow to her.
She knew something. But then they were sitting and conversing as the [Bodyguards] secured the room and stood outside—Yvlon saw two shadows flit to the windows and climb out of them. Counter-[Assassins]?
Tea was to be had. Etrikah provided the tea, and Colth poured for everyone; it seemed this was a private meeting since not even servants were trusted to be here. The Horns, Elena, and Nawalishifra.
The [Smith] opened her doors to see what all the commotion was about. She took one glance at Queen Yisame, prostrated herself on the floor, and then fled back into her rooms.
So, just the Horns, Elena, Etrikah, and Yisame.
“A smith of Clan Tannousin, even a former one, is a credit to your name as much as the Heromakers of Hraace. Though they did not proclaim you as a [Hero], their company speaks much to anyone of Chandrar. You come at an ill time for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and you are not well-loved by all, Horns of Hammerad.”
Yisame was far more politically adept than her demeanor let on. Naïve in some ways; she couldn’t tie a pair of shoelaces, having never had to do so in her life, but was knowledgeable in this. She also spoke, well, conspiratorially, as if they were on the same side.
Told you. Colth ignored Yvlon’s gaze as he bowed to Yisame.
“I must imagine the resentments have only doubled after our entrance to the Kingdom of Tyrant’s End, Your Majesty. We await your guidance and will, of course. For our teammates’ actions, and the inconvenience we have caused your kingdom, we can do no less.”
“Amazing, he actually sounds like he understands where he is and what’s going on. Here I was trying to find my notes on how to brew a Potion of Wisdom.”
Etrikah grunted. Yvlon recalled she had a sharp tongue. It was Queen Yisame who flicked her fingers out in an elegant motion; both Ceria and Yvlon tried to copy it surreptitiously.
“It may in fact serve all ends well that Yvlon Byres acted thusly. That I have made no secret of my favor to the Horns of Hammerad has galvanized detractors who lay much blame for the Pomle war at your feet. Much less the Oresect plague. Another, ordinary Gold-rank team would be seen to be troublesome. But the Silver Killer of Chandrar, those who act without thought and dare even the King of Destruction and might be Named-ranks, that is more excusable.”
“If you lot act in the crown’s interests. If not, we’ll have to make an example of you, however much bravado you’ve got.”
