Yisame was caught between amusement and delight as she finally took a bite of her now-cool breakfast. She clapped her hands, and it was whisked away to be replaced by heated food. Then, and only then, did she turn.
“Ah, I must have the rest of your tale, such as your departure from the dungeon and how you came to ride across the sky of Izril—but later. I did not offend Pisces, did I, Yvlon? He seems so much meeker than the image I had of him!”
Yvlon had been eating slower than the rest of her team, trying to have some decorum, plus she’d wanted to talk to Yisame.
Now, she shrugged as she poked at some delicate pieces of a shard-like dish. It broke away and was shaped like glass, but melted on the tongue and was soft as butter when you ate it. It tasted wonderful and was some fruit product apparently—Yisame ate well.
“Pisces isn’t upset. He’ll just be embarrassed. He’s been needled by Colth all the way south for being poor with women. Uh, what did you expect of him?”
She wondered if she shouldn’t tell that to Yisame, but they had sent letters, and Yisame begged for gossip like this. This wasn’t anything personal like scars or anything, and the [Reader]-[Queen]’s face lit up even more if possible.
“Poor with women? I had this image of a surly [Necromancer] who sniffed quite a lot, but had a [Champion]’s heart. Quick of wit and sharp with his tongue, but whom I could win over, hopefully. Then…did he not sleep with Queen Jecaina? I heard rumors they were dueling by night.”
Yvlon kept her face straight.
“They were…but literally.”
“Oh. Not in any romantic sense?”
“If there was, I think Pisces blew it. You know I am not married to King Perric either, correct?”
Yisame’s good mood turned to vexation for a moment, and her lilac eyes flashed.
“I wouldn’t dream of believing that! I knew the moment I heard that little toad of a king speak that he was lying to save face. Did you really steal his crown? May I see it?”
Embarrassed, Yvlon had to recount the events from her perspective. She saw Yisame actually taking notes.
“It was just an impulse, and when Mars arrived…you’re not going to write of this, are you?”
Yisame jumped.
“Me? Of course—would it offend you if the stories were told delicately and truthfully?”
“I…I don’t think they’re worth telling, even if they are true. And not anything about Pisces’ love life! He doesn’t deserve gossip about him.”
Yisame crossed something off.
“Of course not! And I know a team makes fun of its own. Lighthearted gossip and jabs.”
She spoke without any firsthand experience of that, Yvlon could tell. The [Armsmistress]’ lips quirked. It was funny talking to someone as strange as Yisame.
“Less lighthearted in Colth’s case. I think it’s actually annoying Pisces. Even if it is sadly accurate.”
Yisame lowered her voice as servants took away some plates.
“Surely not! For a Human, he is handsome enough! And a [Duelist] with a silver bell—that is a silver bell, isn’t it? Let alone a Gold-ranked adventurer, he would not want for company any more than you, Yvlon. Unless it is a matter of taste?”
The [Armsmistress] grew uncomfortable at the line of topic she’d inadvertently entered into. She hadn’t…it wasn’t the sort of thing she’d want her parents to hear about…and after her arms—she coughed.
“Pisces? I don’t think he’s looking very hard, Queen Yisame. Queen Jecaina might have been—but he’s not one to chase, I don’t think. Certainly, he’s interested if how he stares at performers and you is any indication.”
He was a funny fellow, Pisces. She didn’t mean it when she called him a pervert, but he certainly had an appreciation for the female form she wasn’t used to in a teammate. Whenever a woman so much as bared her chest, he’d stare.
Then again, Ylawes was the only other boy that Yvlon had really known for most of her life, and the few times nudity had been present, he’d instantly looked the other way. By her metrics, Pisces was a mildly perverse man with a heart of gold.
Queen Yisame’s mouth hung slightly open until she adjusted the strings slightly, as if Yvlon had given her an unexpected revelation of her own. She coughed a few times and took a sip of purified water.
“Then…truly, given the stories about the Ice Squirrel, I thought…I would not go as far as to say that’s perverse of Necromancer Pisces. Then again, we Stitch-folk know what we shape ourselves to be. I found it quite a compliment.”
A thought struck her suddenly, and she tapped her lips as her eyes lit up.
“If he was so enamored by Queen Jecaina and, perhaps, travelweary and even injured of spirit as I believe him to be from his travails here once already, would a companion not be appropriate? For a few nights or a single one?”
Now she sounded like Colth on their way to Hraace. Yvlon shifted.
“I’m—not making that decision for Pisces. Why? I don’t think throwing a member of court into his bed would work, even if one was willing. As for a [Servant] or [Slave], that would not do.”
“Of course not them! Not for him! How would he feel about spending the night with a [Queen], Yvlon?”
Yisame drew herself up, and Yvlon stared out one window.
“It’s a long way from Jecrass to h—”
She stopped cold and stared at Yisame. The Stitch-woman was preening in the light.
“I—ah—there’s no need to do that, Queen Yisame. Certainly not in the name of helping Pisces.”
“Helping? I would consider it a fine, memorable night regardless of what occurred. I am taken with the idea, so why not? I could well invite him tonight.”
Now, the [Queen] seemed more like a panther ready to pounce. She was in an even better mood than minutes previously and rang a bell; a [Servant] appeared, and she whispered into an ear.
“Prepare the second bedroom for—”
“Wait, Yisame. Pisces isn’t necessarily ready for—”
Yvlon stood up, alarmed. However, the [Queen] waved Yvlon’s concerns off.
“This is something I quite desire myself, Yvlon. And it is an honor few dream of, believe me.”
“Pisces is—hurt. I don’t think it’s appropriate. I’m sorry I suggested it.”
Yvlon shook her head, and Yisame gave her a rarely annoyed expression.
“Then you needn’t worry, because I have thought of it, and I have made my choice. Do not fret, Yvlon, and we needn’t speak of this again!”
“But I am fretting. I don’t want you to—bother Pisces.”
The [Servant] half-turned, amazed, and Yisame’s brows snapped together. She adjusted her clothing today and gestured at her form, each stitch sewn to perfection with cloth far more magical than Silk.
“Bother him? It will be, as you say, his choice, Adventurer Yvlon. And no finer company there is in this entire world in any continent or land. Now, I believe Great Sage Etrikah wished to speak with you?”
She whirled, sweeping away from Yvlon, and then smiling as the bliss of the day overtook her once more. The [Queen] only halted as an unfamiliar sensation placed itself around the back of her neck.
“Excuse me, Yisame. I didn’t make myself clear. I am asking you, please, to not bother Pisces. I regret ever placing him in this situation.”
Yvlon Byres’ hand was on Yisame’s neck and shoulder. The [Queen] stopped.
“Yvlon Byres, one does not touch a [Queen].”
She had [Bodyguards], of course, and had told them already, twice, not to harm or injure her friend. So maybe they’d been lax at breakfast. But right now, a Gold-rank adventurer had her hands on—
They were around Yvlon and Yisame, and the [Queen] expected the hand to let go. When, instead, the metallic grip tightened, she yelped. Yvlon dragged Yisame back, and the [Queen]’s eyes were suddenly round.
Because the face of the [Armsmistress] was no longer even that polite, unsettling smile. She wore…a frown. Her blue eyes locked with Yisame’s.
“Yisame, very respectfully, I would like you not to bother Pisces. I apologize entirely for my indiscretion. I’m not a very cautious woman. Please drop the matter for our friendship.”
“Let go of—”
One of the [Bodyguards] shut up as Yvlon’s other hand closed over their head. She wasn’t looking at the swords poking her. Her hand was getting tighter on Yisame’s shoulder.
“You’re hurting me, Yvlon.”
Yisame was shivering. Yvlon Byres dragged her forward another foot, effortlessly, until they were inches away.
“Pisces has been hurt far worse. I have your word, Yisame?”
“Let go of me. You do not touch me.”
Then the [Queen] got angry. Truly furious because she had been so lenient despite how any other monarch would rage! She hissed at Yvlon and gazed at—
The Silver Killer let go of the other [Bodyguard] and placed both hands on Yisame’s shoulders. She lifted the [Queen] up off the ground. Just an inch or two.
“Do we understand each other, Yisame? I like and respect you. But if you hurt him, even by trying to be nice, I will lose my temper. I’m afraid of losing my temper.”
The [Queen] was having trouble breathing. More and more [Bodyguards] were appearing like a stage act out the doors, but they were all staring at the very close, very high-level [Warrior] holding the [Queen] up.
“I—I understand, Yvlon. I recant my words. I won’t bother Pisces.”
Yisame got the words out, and Yvlon’s expression changed into a huge smile. She put Yisame down into a chair.
“Thank you, Yisame. I’m glad you understand. Oh no. I’ve bruised your skin.”
She glanced around, then seemed to see the army of…the army staring at her. Yisame made a few hand-signs, and they hesitated. Yvlon lifted her hands cautiously and stepped away from Yisame.
“We were just talking.”
The [Queen] waited until the [Bodyguards] had dispersed. Then she spoke.
“I quite understand, Yvlon. Why don’t you visit Sage Etrikah…?”
She waited as Yvlon turned to her, apologizing for her outburst and wavering until Yisame assured her she was fine; cloth could be replaced. Only when Yvlon was gone did Yisame get out of her chair. She practically dashed back into her royal chambers.
“Your Majesty? We might triple—quadruple the guard. And keep that one—”
“Silence! Begone!”
She shouted at the [Royal Captain of the Guard] and lay on the bed. Sprawled out until the hammering in her heart had subsided. The stare Yvlon had given her—was that the look the Adult Creler had seen before it died?
All thoughts of Pisces were utterly out of the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s head. After a moment of rolling around in bed, she rose. And then…she grabbed a quill and ink and began to write like a storm. Though her hand was shaking so badly she could barely read her own words.
 
——
 
Berr had warned Yvlon about this. She thought she had a handle on her emotions, but he’d told her that even with his training, she’d have leaks.
Slow leaks that she’d try to write off. The key was facing your emotions. So what did Yvlon feel?
Well, alarmed when Yisame had plotted to seduce Pisces. Angry…on his behalf. Worried it would hurt him, that it would be her fault.
But mostly? She was impatient to leave Chandrar, as welcoming as Yisame was. Worried about Ksmvr, so worried it hurt.
Angry that Mectail and her friends were in jeopardy because of her and that the prudent thing to do wasn’t what felt right.
Fear could be anger. Sadness could be anger. Actually, according to Berr, everything could become anger. Yvlon tried to absorb the fury in her as he’d shown her. Store it. Not compress it. But store it behind the vault she knew had to be there, to contain it.
When you need it, that is when you draw it out. When you open the door. But you must have it, more than you can dream of.
She’d let it out only once since his lessons. Not against Bograms, nor even Admiral Rosech. Just when she’d gone below one of the [Slave] ships hunting Erin and seen what they did. Yvlon had been about to unleash it on King Perric.
She feared what she’d do, and that was better than before when her [Berserker’s Rage] had overpowered her. Berr had said this was wise.
“I fear my actions when I am angry. If you do not fear your own rage, do you respect it? Or do you just not know any true fury?”
Yvlon did fear. The problem that occurred to the [Silversteel Armsmistress] was this: she might feel fear for herself.
She felt little fear for other people. Not Queen Yisame’s bodyguards. Not the dignity of the Court of Silks or the approval or anger of other people.
She had seen an Adult Creler killing good men and women. She had watched Skinner kill her team and fled it. Yvlon had stood in the Crossroads of Izril and the Bloodfields.
She had…sunk. Defeated and drowning deeper. Holding a single breath in as she knew she’d never pull herself up. Waiting to die this time, but hoping for a miracle. Knowing it was her final moment.
—Only to have those gentle hands take hers. And to feel Ksmvr putting the Ring of Waterbreathing on her finger. The one thing that could save him from death in a world of water.
He who feared drowning more than anything but losing his team. His shaking fingers.
She hadn’t even seen his face. Just felt that touch and the ring giving her life—before she was falling into the cold waters. Not knowing if he was alive or dead, or Ceria or Pisces or Colth…
Sinking past a dying Kraken and landing in the depths where the water tried to crush her. Walking for weeks in the silence, past the Witch of Webs, until she could see light.
So yes, maybe Yvlon was still a bit broken. Maybe Berr had not fixed her, just given her a new way to channel the terrible emotions in her chest.
She still had the ring she had to give Ksmvr back. A plain ring you could buy on the market. No relic.
The Ring of Waterbreathing.
It rested in the palm of her hands as she sat in Great Sage Etrikah’s workshop. The Fox Beastkin woman was inspecting Yvlon. She knew much, being Yisame’s confidant. When she did speak, it was in a low voice.
“You are no fool, Yvlon Byres. Were it not Queen Yisame—any other ruler in the world would see you dead or imprisoned for that. That you are no fool, I assume Queen Yisame said something so offensive it provoked that response. Or you would be an imbecile the likes of which I have scarcely ever met, and I knew General Thelican.”
Yvlon Byres glanced up, and she met the [Sage]’s eyes. She spoke with that…certainty in her chest.
“I know. But it was Queen Yisame.”
“And you think her patience is endless? You think she can, in this moment, when her reign is in jeopardy, afford to be humbled in any way?”
Etrikah’s voice took on heat. Yvlon replied again calmly.
“I know her a bit, Sage Etrikah, as I do you. I do not think her patience is endless. I am aware I made her angry. My cause was important. I believe it was an important lesson for her and for me. I am reflecting.”
