Why she needed blankets given her ability to endure freezing weather was beyond Yvlon. She kicked Ceria again.
“You’re freezing. I’m trying to admire the stars. Go somewhere else.”
“I’ll roll off the side of the carpet again.”
“You’ll live. Why do you need blankets?”
“It feels weird without them. What’re you doing, trying to sleep? Counting stars? Admiring our new moon?”
Ceria could be annoying sometimes. But it could be she was still nervous. Free from morality she might be, but the half-Elf kept glancing up at the, well…cracked moon.
Some time had passed since it had broken. Enough for the discussions of why and what and whether or not Erin had anything to do with it were over. Nor had Pisces sensed another ‘death anomaly’ as he’d put it.
All worrying things; Yvlon’s ears actually hurt from the sheer amount of discussions that had taken place with everyone. They’d sent [Messages] and gotten confused updates about a Goblin King, sightings of a giant Harpy—the Death of Wings?
Yvlon had been tensed then, knowing she could do nothing. The relief had come from a single update from Lyonette—
‘All is well. No one is dead. Will update you as soon as we can.’
Which, of course, might mean anything according to Ceria and Colth, who were all twisted up with theories about what Lyonette could or could not say via [Message]. Or how the inn related to a Goblin King—and then they’d heard about this Goblin Lord Ragathsi who had a very similar sounding name…
Worrying. Worrying for hours and hours until they had to accept they were too far to do anything. Yvlon just rested now. She couldn’t help anyone in Izril. So, she just shook her head at Ceria, ignoring the green moon. She’d figure out what had cracked it someday, or not. If it was a monster, they’d have to fight it.
Instead, the [Armsmistress] pointed past it, at the stars.
“No. Just dreaming what’s out there. Berr once said that Gnolls had tried to go that high. That each light might be like a lighthouse in some sea.”
Ceria followed Yvlon’s gaze, then stared at her face. Some of the tension around her faded, and she sat back, and actually looked at anything but that green moon.
“…Huh. I would have never thought you’d be thinking of that.”
The half-Elf [Cryomancer] blinked in genuine astonishment at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] tapped her chest, slightly smug at Ceria’s surprise.
“I am a [Dreamer].”
“Yeah, Level 2.”
“Level 9.”
“Uh huh. Even after meeting the King of Destruction himself you can’t pass Level 10. I’d have hit Level 30 if I actually dreamed. I—ow, quit it! Stop kicking me! Okay, fine, fine! Sheesh.”
Ceria rolled over until she nearly ran into the final group: Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace. They didn’t shove her away; they were, after all, here to support and help the Horns as part of Delitandra’s bet.
Named-rank within the year. Potentially important people, if not quite on the level of the King of Destruction and his Seven. Yvlon lay back down. She pulled the thick, woolen blankets over her and tried to sleep.
They’d be in Nerrhavia’s Fallen soon. Well, they were technically ‘in’ Nerrhavia’s Fallen already, but the capital was their destination. Buler had flown for many days and nights to get them here, with little sleep; he dozed at his post, but never dared lie down. Not while piloting Reizue’s Dream.
That had to be unhealthy for a boy like that. Someone should do something about him. If this were Izril, Yvlon just bet Erin would offer him a room, or Lyonette would adopt him, and then he and Mrsha and Nanette would be flying around the High Passes. Right before a Wyvern kidnapped them and she had to climb a mountain and kill it.
The [Armsmistress] supposed…she had changed a lot from the Silver-rank woman she’d been; always impatient, always trying to both be a model leader and get out of Ylawes’ shadow. She felt calmer now.
All her anger was right where Berr had told her it’d be. All her fear about Ksmvr, too, the rage at seeing Erin’s state after being captured on that ship, at that Admiral—it wasn’t even that hot given that it had been a long time since the Winter Solstice. It was fine where it was. When she needed to, she’d take the seal off.
“Then you kill everything. Everything you don’t know should live. It’s very simple. I see it, it vanishes. Kill and kill when your hour calls…”
 
——
 
Across from Yvlon, Pisces stopped reading his spellbook and glanced up as a few of her words drifted towards him on the howling wind. He’d only caught some of that. Mostly, it sounded to him like Yvlon whispering, ‘kill, kill, kill’ to herself.
He traded a peek with Colthei, and the [Ultimate Supporter] shrugged and gave Pisces a tentative thumbs up. The [Necromancer] eyed Yvlon, then went back to reading. When he glanced up, he saw Nawal’s eyes were wide and bloodshot, locked on Yvlon’s back. He gave her a reassuring smile. She gave him a look like he was insane.
In truth, Pisces had no idea how Yvlon was so sanguine. He was worried about The Wandering Inn and that being of pure undeath he’d sensed. It had risen like some herald of a dark age, then…vanished.
Hidden or dead? He’d sent a few [Messages] to certain contacts he had and been reassured it was being looked into, but he wondered if he had understated the threat. Could you understate…? It was not the Draconic Titan his contacts had cited, Pisces knew that much. It was something worse, and he’d told them that in no uncertain terms.
Funny. His involvements in Izril…he had to go back sooner or later. Once this was done, Pisces had obligations. Another odd feeling for a man who had been outcast and criminal for so long. But he had made promises, not just to Erin and her inn. It was just that he had to keep his in Chandrar first.
He focused on reading. Tried to take a note from Yvlon and do something productive. Besides, Nawal’s fears of Yvlon were utterly misplaced. If she should have feared someone, it was Colth. The Ultimate Supporter was likewise engrossed in working with some odd beads and trinkets to the side. Sorting them, stringing them together in complex patterns…Pisces eyed it from the side.
They didn’t seem magical, but that was the best kind of secret communications device, wasn’t it? It was so adept…Pisces wondered if Silvenia herself had enchanted them. Probably not, but he just bet Colth was communicating with some Demon or other.
Likely about the position and whereabouts of the caravan of [Slaves] the Horns had freed. They’d left the group to scavenge what they could from Roshal’s caravan, but then the [Slaves] and [Riders] had just upped and ridden into the desert. Reprisals would soon follow. The woman in charge hadn’t recognized Colth; she’d talked to Pisces like she knew him. Or knew of him.
‘Our leader wishes to meet with you, Scourge. Strings willing, we shall see it done. For now, there are too many eyes. Come to the eastern wilds, and anyone with ears will hear your name and make contact.’
Straightforwards enough, he supposed. They hadn’t had time to talk. Colth…Pisces wondered if he coordinated with freed [Slaves] or if the Demons did their own thing. One glance up from the green-haired man showed that Colth was aware Pisces was watching him. Pisces peered down at his spellbook as Colth kept arranging the beads again.
First, Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Then they’d have to avoid eyes or tails on them before making contact. So much to do…so Pisces kept studying. A spell for all his worries. A spell might save everyone’s lives, including his own.
He wondered…which one had cracked the moon.
 
——
 
Yvlon wasn’t actually inclined to dream at the moment. They’d be arriving in Nerrhavia’s Fallen soon; the night-like atmosphere around them belied the actual time. Reizue’s Dream was flying so high they were in the ‘upper sky’ as Buler called it, where it was cold and you saw the world differently than the ground.
He was doing that partly to avoid any watchful eyes; apparently, he was higher than some [Scrying] spells manifested by default. But also, Yvlon suspected, so that the Horns wouldn’t leap down and kill another [Slaver] caravan if they saw one below.
He was a good kid. She hoped Queen Yisame was paying him well, and it was she who had arranged for the Horns to get here. Since it got them out of Flos Reimarch’s hands, it was good, and they needed to be here. Pisces was searching for his comrades who’d escaped Roshal, Yvlon needed to make sure Mectail, Thexca, Vitte, and the others were okay. They had helped her, along with Zenol, and she had sort of betrayed Thelican and Nerrhavia’s Fallen when last she left.
Ceria…
Ceria was just along for the ride. Though she’d said that she’d like to visit the Library of a Hundred Thousand Tomes while they were there. And Colth’s friends were far north, in Zethe, but he was supporting Pisces.
The point was, the Horns had to be here. So it wasn’t bad they had made this long journey, even if it wasted time. They’d do their work and go. Catch up with Ksmvr in Baleros.
She hoped he was okay.
 
——
 
Yvlon just didn’t know what she’d say to Yisame. She had the vague impression the [Queen] of one of Chandrar’s most powerful nations liked her, but she didn’t honestly know why.
Yisame just hadn’t met the others yet. She was a fan of adventurers. Once they got there, Yvlon would thank Yisame for her letters, support, go to the Coliseum of Monarchs and check on her friends, and maybe give them gold or something as a thank-you for what they’d done. She wished she had more, but she hadn’t taken any meaningful souvenirs from the Meeting of Tribes, and she only had gold.
Her only possessions were her armor, a breastplate that was moderately enchanted, battered leggings, a mithril buckler she never used anymore, her underarmor from Stalker’s hide, a pillow with a Goblin stitched onto it she’d won from a Gnoll [Shaman] that gave her weird dreams, and two rings she’d taken from the corpse of one of the adventurer who had slain the Putrid One.
Small stuff. She wasn’t like Pisces, who had his rapier that was steel and bone fused together, his many undead, and a spellbook written by Djinni, not to mention the bell he’d won from the City of Shields itself. Colth? Colth had everything, from leggings, armguards, and a helm made out of Stalker’s hide to his twin Bane Daggers and a bag of holding that had so many objects he could use from climbing gear to cards to cowpats for some reason.
And Ceria? All the robes and clothing she’d also looted from the City of Shields, two powerful magical circlets, and her master’s spellbook. Yvlon didn’t mind being low on items; she had a simple style with her arms. She didn’t even need a sword—
“Right, Ksmvr’s sword. Got to grab that too.”
Didn’t that Empress of Beasts have it? That’d be a problem. Maybe they could hire Buler to take them north. To another port city; she doubted he’d be able to fly over the sea. Before they flew off, they just needed to run up, punch the Empress, and grab the sword.
Violence wasn’t Yvlon’s first solution to problems. It just felt like it’d skip a lot of pointless negotiations in that case.
Yes, things seemed clear to Yvlon. She rolled up in her blankets as Buler yawned from the front of the huge carpet. They were descending, Yvlon realized, and she heard the boy call out after a moment.
“Honored ladies, gentlemen, and crazy adventurers, we are on our final approach to our destination, the exalted city of Tyrant’s Rest in the heart of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, may her bones rot forever. At this time, we ask you to fasten your belts, please, and stow all blankets. Or you will fall to your deaths, and it would be a shame upon Reizue’s Dream’s record. If you would look over the right-hand side, you may also see the fantastical city of Aeresuth, said to be a jewel of even Nerrhavia’s Fallen, whose streets run with waters from magical fountains even in the dry desert.”
Yvlon peered over the side of the carpet he indicated and saw no city, but a huge depression in the ground. She glanced at Buler, and he hesitated.
“Ah…forgive me. Where the city of Aeresuth was but a year ago until the dread Djinni, Drenirkessun, perished and dragged a million screaming souls into damnation with him. Such a loss still echoes through the great kingdom today. And now we can see Tyrant’s Rest, built on the bones of the Immortal Tyrant herself!”
That was at least familiar to Yvlon, and she felt her stomach rising in her chest as they descended further, and the city glittered in the evening sunlight. They were actually at a slant, and Ceria went rolling past her.
“Uh oh. Uh oh, I’m tangled—this isn’t a bit. Someone stop me, someone—”
Yvlon stopped her with a foot, and Ceria untangled herself from her blankets.
“Phew!”
“Seatbelts, honored and stupid passengers!”
Yvlon had already fastened hers, and Ceria did the same. The carpet rippled as they passed over a breeze, and Pisces turned green. Even Colthei grinned with a bit of tension as they descended.
“Flying carpets. The approach and takeoff are the most dangerous parts. We’re hitting different layers of wind, you see, and we’re only on magical cloth; if he hits a bad patch of air, we could spin and go into freefall.”
“Colth, please shut up. So that’s Tyrant’s Rest. It’s very…pretty. What a massive palace.”
Pisces murmured. Yvlon had to admit, the palace was huge—it put Medain and Reim’s to shame. It truly was fitting of such a massive kingdom. Colthei nodded to himself.
“Alright, Horns. We’re about to enter a dangerous and political arena. I’d say we have an hour until we’re landing, Buler?”
“An hour and thirty minutes unless the winds rise against us, Adventurer Colthei!”
“Right, plenty of time to go over how we’re acting and the state of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“We’ve all been in Chandrar before, Colth. Yvlon was even a guest of Yisame.”
Ceria pointed out mildly as Elena scooted over with Delitandra. Strange how their little team now had followers. Even Nawal crawled over, clinging to seatbelts to listen. Yvlon didn’t really care for the Heromakers, but she liked Elena. They were all respectfully silent, though. Colth rolled his eyes at Ceria.
“Yes, I know. And you all made an amazing hash of things. Every single nation you’ve been to wants you dead.”
“Not Medain. High King Perric just wants us in his harem.”
Pisces sniffed.
“Pomle was quite lovely for the fifteen seconds I saw it. I’m given to understand Ksmvr made quite the impression on Tiqr and Illivere.”
