The Coliseum of Monarchs was strange to Yvlon. Because, of course, she’d never really seen it from the spectator’s point of view. Certainly, the round walls were iconic to her understanding of such arenas; a massive circle filled with an interior amphitheatre from which you could watch the fighting in the cleared space in the center.
However, that was just the basic shape, which was apparently similar to Elena’s world too. She pointed out the differences in a low monotone to the Horns.
“I’ve seen the Roman Colosseum, but this is bigger! I guess it makes sense; you have so many Skills and various types of monsters, you need more space to run around in. Plus…[Geomancy] has got to make things easier.”
“What’s the coliseum called?”
“Just…the Colosseum.”
“Oh, they only had one? And it’s not even that big?”
“No magic, Ceria. Or Skills.”
“Right. Slightly more impressive. What’re the differences?”
Well, according to Elena, it was the walkways and staircases leading upwards to the higher seating. There were hundreds of entrances into the Coliseum of Monarchs, such that you could access your section without waiting in a line. Similarly, due to the increased size, and the dangers of the gladiatorial bouts, the Coliseum of Monarchs had a feature Yvlon hadn’t seen in, say, the Arena of Rust.
Not only was the fighting located a dozen feet below even the closest audience stands, which were built over the sleeping quarters, training area, and other amenities of the Coliseum of Monarchs that Yvlon remembered, but there were magical forcefields that ringed the entire arena. Ceria pointed them out to everyone.
“Powerful barrier spells. I’m not sure what tier exactly since they’re overlapped, but it looks good. Like some of the old Wistram magic. Must be from when it was first made.”
Unless anything hit them, they were transparent, but scrying spells had been put up to give audience members another way to see the action close-up. All of this led to a much less intimate experience, but the level of combat on display made up for the removal.
Even as the Horns in disguise sat, the last bout was finishing. A pair of Manticores had been fighting a bunch of new [Gladiators]. It…hadn’t gone well for the [Gladiators].
Either they were slave-gladiators, convicted criminals like Yvlon, or they’d been willing to risk death to fight in this famous arena. The blood littering the sand was bright red, and the audience was cheering and booing—there were tens of thousands in the stands, and it wasn’t even full.
The thrum of excitement and adrenaline hit Yvlon as much as the sound, and she shifted.
Calm.
Pisces didn’t do as well with the fervor and sound. Or maybe it was the display that appalled him. Ceria was calm as could be, pointing.
“Ooh, they have vendors on the sides in shops and they go around with—popcorn? Hey, over here! I’ll have a bucket!”
Elena was pale-faced as she stared at a Manticore savaging one of the [Gladiators] trying to get away. It was Pisces who held out a robed arm to block her view.
“I’m fine. I’m—thanks.”
She tried to protest, then turned away gratefully. Colth was busy scanning the crowd.
“I don’t think we’re being watched. We slipped the minders from the palace…huh, that’s an ugly fight. Crueler than I remember too.”
He’d been to Chandrar before, so it didn’t surprise Yvlon he’d seen the Coliseum of Monarchs. Most adventurers probably went to Nerrhavia’s Fallen to earn gold. She leaned over—there was a final [Gladiator] banging on the gates leading back to the waiting areas as the Manticores ate and licked their wounds.
“I heard from Leprel and Rexel that if you’re defeated, you don’t always die. Why aren’t the gates being raised?”
Colth grinned mirthlessly.
“Bloodsport of course, Yvlon. The people want to see if the Manticores eat that poor Stitch-man. If they’re bored, the [Guards] will either goad the Manticores with a dart lanced with a frenzy-inducing drug or just let the [Gladiator] go. Each Coliseum changes depending on the time and owners. This one…you can tell the [Manager] is trying to draw people in.”
Yvlon had heard much the same from Yisame. This owner had liked General Thelican and had her [Gladiator] friends? She felt her stomach lurch, but she had to see.
“Next up should be the mass-combat. It says the Champion of Monarchs is going to fight a bunch of prisoners from Reim, Tiqr, and other nations, including the ‘traitors’. Sounds like a melee.”
Ceria had a leaflet and was paging through it. Pisces gave her a disgusted look.
“Ceria, can you take that damn…headpiece off one second? Do you have to eat?”
She took the circlet off and patiently chewed on some popcorn.
“I missed lunch, Pisces. We’ve seen worse.”
“This isn’t adventuring. This is mere sport. It’s ridiculous. It’s—”
Pisces’ voice raised a bit too loud, and Colth shushed him as a few Stitch-folk glanced at his commentary. The [Supporter] nudged Pisces.
“Save it for later. And just so you know, Pisces, this plays well in Terandria and Izril. Even before television was a thing, you could get recordings or tales of the Coliseums. That’s why we know all about it. Larra, Deni, lots of Named-ranks from Izril went here and fought in the coliseums.”
“She never mentioned that. Not that we talked much of her career.”
Yvlon murmured. Colth scratched at his chin, then flicked a dagger out to shave a stray hair.
“I think she didn’t do well here. Nor did Deni; he had a brief career, but Orchestra fights at its best in a group. It’s not that much fun to watch them blast every foe with music. As for Larra…she was a defensive specialist. Even if she won, she didn’t get the crowd pumping. Not like the Silver Killer.”
That made Yvlon flush. She was opening her mouth to tell Colth she wasn’t nearly on par with Named-ranks yet when a pair of Stitch-teens glanced over.
“Are you here to see the Silver Killer? You’re too early; she’s not fighting here yet!”
They were wearing, Yvlon saw to her astonishment, t-shirts that had names of [Gladiators] on them. One was of a familiar person—Thexca! She had a scorpion’s dagger in one hand as she posed, and the other wore a t-shirt with Yvlon on the front, screaming with her mouth open and two razor-blades for her hands.
Merchandise? Ceria began guffawing, and Pisces covered his mouth as Elena giggled. Colth just leaned over as the Stitch-people looked affronted.
“Sorry about my yarn-headed friends. They’re drunk. What do you mean we’re not seeing the Silver Killer? That’s what we’re in the city for!”
The two youngsters immediately adopted the air of knowingness as they shook their heads and began to lecture the Horns.
“Everyone knows she’ll visit the Coliseum of Monarchs, but not yet. Today’s just a warm-up for the Champion of Monarchs. I hope he doesn’t decide it’s the day to finish off the Traitorous Three.”
The girl with the Thexca t-shirt seemed genuinely worried as she peered into the arena. Yvlon leaned over.
“The Traitorous Three?”
“Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte! The ones who helped the Silver Killer, and who were arrested. They’ve been fighting here for their lives for months. Some of their friends help out, but the Champion of Monarchs is toying with them. He ripped off Mectail’s arm last week, and he barely has the spare parts to sew himself together!”
“We don’t know the Champion of Monarchs. Good, is he?”
“He’s been the Champion for almost a decade. Lenxiol the Invincible—only, he’s not really. He only comes out for challenges or big events like this. Everyone knows he’s too busy winning favors in the Court of Silks to fight all the time.”
“Hm. Sounds like he’s a bit washed up.”
Ceria muttered to Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] nodded, but she was tense. Thexca was a very good [Warrior] who used poisons; she, Mectail, and Vitte had all been considered good [Gladiators], and Mectail had beaten her in a fight. If this Champion could toy with those three…but there were all kinds of ways to make gladiatorial bouts unfair. She saw the Manticores were settling down to rest, uninterested in the final [Gladiator], and the crowd’s booing only provoked a roar from one’s lion head.
It sounded like that meant the next bout would begin. Yvlon turned to the boy who had her face on the shirt.
“How do you know the Silver Killer is going to fight in the Coliseum of Monarchs?”
“And where did you get that shirt?”
Ceria added. The boy pointed and then turned to Yvlon, as if it were obvious.
“She’s the Silver Killer of the Horns of Hammerad! She needs to bathe her arms in blood once a new moon or they lose their shine. She’s the angriest, most violent member of the Horns of Hammerad—well, except Pisces the Scourge, but she wants to fight.”
Yvlon was turning red as Pisces and Colth avoided eyeing her, smiling, and Elena bit her lip. Then the boy added seriously.
“Besides, her friends are in the arena, and they’ll be killed if she doesn’t come back to fight! The Silver Killer would never abandon her comrades, would she?”
Yvlon’s colorful expression cleared. She sat back in her chair, then nodded at the Stitch-boy.
“That’s true. She wouldn’t. Do you know what happened to Vitte’s sister? Zirre? Relladen? Or Leprel or Rexel?”
“The gladiators she joined? Of course! They’re working as [Bookkeepers] and advisors to [Gladiators]. They might even be here. As for Vitte’s sister…I haven’t heard of anything. Are you a fan of the Silver Killer too?”
A crooked smile was his reply.
“Sometimes I like her. Sometimes not.”
“Oh, fairweather. Well, I was her fan since the Arena of Rust!”
More conversation was then rendered pointless because there was a roar, and Yvlon jumped as she heard the familiar voice of the [Announcer] coming from a booth overlooking the arena.
“Guests of the Coliseum of Monarchs! People of every cloth and fiber—the main event is about to begin! By the will of [Manager] Bnirm, we have a demonstration of Nerrhavia Fallen’s excellence in combat! The Champion of Monarchs himself will face captured [Soldiers] of enemy continents, including the King of Destruction’s forces—”
A boo from all present, including Ceria who got up to jeer.
“—and the Traitorous Three themselves will fight for another day! Let’s see if they survive until the Silver Killer can rescue her comrades, if she even remembers them, eh?”
“She does!”
The boy next to Yvlon got up to shout, and there were enough voices that Yvlon heard the same sentiment being expressed, but it was all…show. All theatre. Colth touched Yvlon’s arm.
“Hey. I think I found the [Manager]. See all those Silks that kicked you out of their booth? That one there. Surrounded by cooling spells.”
She saw what he meant: visible clouds were hovering over the head of one Stitch-man who seemed like a [Gladiator] himself. He was muscular, handsome, and strong-looking. She would have called him a seasoned warrior if she didn’t know Stitch-folk could change their appearances.
“He must have been a [Gladiator], but he’s more show than anything. Probably has his muscles sewn on.”
Colth muttered. Then Yvlon saw the arena floor shift—and the two Manticores leapt to their feet, fanning their scaly wings as the sand moved! Something was rising, and it was Pisces’ turn to be excited.
“Ah, this I do know about. The famous shifting floors of the Coliseum of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! It looks like they’re not filling the ground with water—see those sluice gates? They could make a naval battle if they chose to! Of all the nations I wanted to land in, Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Khelt were my top two.”
Instead, he’d gotten chains. Elena piped up happily as huge pylons of metal rose, revealing bridges and a kind of fortress with gates and walls for an army to besiege.
“They did that in Rome’s Colosseum too when it was active, apparently. If this world is at all based on mine, then that’s probably where the inspiration came from.”
One of the Stitch-teens frowned at Elena, then fiddled with their ears. Pisces just sniffed at the young woman.
“Another Earth-based assumption that assumes we did not invent and create this notion before your world or of our own volition. Why assume we copy everything, Elena?”
“Well, you guys never figured out how to do ice cream or anything more complicated than our renaissance eras. From how everyone describes the dead gods, it feels like they weren’t exactly strong in the imagination department. This feels like a pretty explicit copy.”
“C’mon, Elena. It’s a big arena for people to fight each other in. How original is that? You monkeys didn’t exactly invent fighting each other in the middle of circles.”
Ceria leaned over as she offered the popcorn frosted with some kind of sugar to the other two. Pisces took the bucket of popcorn as Elena flushed, then whispered.
“You notice the slur. I’d apologize on behalf of Ceria’s racism, but I’d never stop.”
“I don’t mind. It’s what I’d expect from her.”
They grinned as Ceria tossed popcorn kernels at them from her handful. It almost made Yvlon smile. Almost. Then she heard a scream and stood reflexively.
The [Gladiator] who’d been at the gates hadn’t been killed by the Manticores. But neither had they escaped death. A spear, hurled from within the waiting rooms, took the Stitch-man by the shoulder and flung him into the center of the new battleground. He lay, clawing at the spear which had embedded itself in the side of the wooden fortress.
“That’s some throw. That has to be the Champion of Monarchs.”
Colth commented, chewing on some popcorn. Yvlon craned her head as the crowds cheered, and a flood of people began running out of the gates below. She recognized them at once for what they were: fodder.
Much like she’d been once. [Soldiers] in battered armor or clutching poor weapons made of iron or rusted steel, shouting and making for the fortress. Some stopped, gesticulating at each other, and what might have been an officer was giving orders. Colth blew out his cheeks.
“Poor [Soldiers]. Looks like about eighty. Nerrhavia’s Fallen must have declined to ransom or sell them. Average level’s…twenty. Officer might be thirty. They don’t stand a chance.”
The [Soldiers] were fortifying the fortress as best they could, grabbing pieces of lumber to block gaps, organizing into groups and placing [Archers] higher as the crowd booed and jeered them. The barriers rippled as trash was hurled onto it, and Yvlon blinked.
Twice, an object did penetrate the forcefields and land below. Once an enchanted stone that curved and struck the officer in the helmet hard enough for him to stagger and take cover. The second—a basket filled with a potion?
