Etrikah spoke bluntly, and Colth hastened to assure Yisame they were loyal to the crown, which was utterly two-faced considering his earlier statements. Well, he would probably say that they’d promise Yisame one thing and do what was most expedient, just like with Flos Reimarch, the Quarass, the Speaker of Trees, and Mighty Jaganismet.
You see, Yvlon wasn’t blind. She knew they were in political webs. She just figured that at some point you could probably cut said webs with a sharp enough sword.
It tended to work out for her. Queen Yisame was murmuring.
“—Prince Zenol of House Isphel I would also visit had you the inclination. I regard House Isphel as an ally, but not one I would be able to use…his has always been a loyalist house. Sadly, his reputation was also sullied by General Thelican’s demise. The [Prince] has taken to the front, fighting the King of Destruction’s armies to prove House Isphel’s loyalty and valor.”
“Dead gods. How has he survived?”
That alarmed Yvlon, and Etrikah spoke sharply.
“By not running into the Seven or the King of Destruction himself. He’s no fool who’d charge a chariot into the heart of an army and expect to live.”
That glare might have been meant for Yvlon, but the [Armsmistress] had to point out.
“I did survive, Great Sage Etrikah. With Mectail, Thexca, and Relladan’s help. I owe them and you.”
Etrikah glanced at the rings on Yvlon’s finger.
“You haven’t lost the rings at least. Come to my workshop later, Yvlon Byres. I wish to continue studying you. Those damn Oresect insects plague our cities. I can rust all but those made of silver or an alloy, but I would rather end the cause outright.”
Yvlon bowed her head. This was her fault, and her own good mood faded. Pisces cleared his throat.
“If we might also visit, Great Sage? A student of magic and the world such as yourself would be a delight to converse with.”
She eyed him from head to toe and snorted.
“I’d allow a chat with Ceria Springwalker and you. Though I don’t trust that circlet. I have some bones I need analyzing, and you seem competent enough with your hands.”
“I’m also a student of the arts, Great Sage.”
“Yes, yes, you as well Ultimate Supporter. Strange. I thought the Horns of Hammerad would all be like the Silver Killer. It turns out there are three magic-users of various capabilities, one diplomat, warrior, child, and kind soul combined, and an angry puddle made of silver. Oh, and some Goat Beastkin that matches no known description of her kind.”
“Each team needs one, Great Sage. An angry puddle of silver, that is.”
Well, they were having a wonderful time insulting her. Yvlon folded her arms as Etrikah chuckled as Yisame clapped her hands over her mouth, scandalized. Yvlon jerked her head towards Elena.
“Elena also does makeup and appearance wonderfully. Maybe you could teach her some ungents or whatnot?”
“Perhaps. How good are you, girl?”
“Level 36, Great Sage. Nothing special, but I could offer you a light treatment with my Skills.”
“Bah, what a polite young woman. What are you doing in this lot’s company? If you want a job as an assistant, you might be bright enough. Yes, you, but not all of you together! One or two at most!”
Etrikah eyed Elena, and Yisame clapped her hand together.
“Level 36? At your age? That is so incredibly quick—!”
Hm. Yvlon tilted her head. She was not that much older than Elena. Nor was Pisces. She saw Ceria continue smiling, but felt a sudden chill on her left buttcheek that was not a figment of her imagination. Colth brushed at his hair, grinning, and Pisces rubbed at his ass.
“Oh, so you know about Earthers. Elena’s from Wistram, but she’s in our company until we can get her to her people.”
The Horns of Hammerad, Elena, Etrikah, and Yisame all turned to Yvlon as the [Armsmistress] nodded. Colth found a piece of ice and bounced it off Yvlon’s forehead. Yisame was patently shocked. Etrikah muttered to Pisces.
“One feels she’s doing this on purpose.”
Yvlon scowled at the others.
“I just don’t see why we have to dance around it. Yisame, you’re helping us. Elena’s from Earth. Flos knows. I think a lot of world leaders know or are finding out. Etrikah just tried to recruit Elena subtly, didn’t she? You can’t have her. Now we’ve said it, we can move on.”
Yisame rubbed at her brows.
“It would be pleasant to have Miss Elena speak to a few individuals I trust. We hunt for these…Earthers, but we have found few. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is simply too vast, and Humans, while notable, are in sufficient number that I fear they have blended in.”
“Or died. Chandrar is a harsh place to live if they did not appear in the cities. And in the cities, one can fall afoul to any number of problems. We’ll find them. We have a few leads already, but I would prefer someone trustworthy, knowledgeable, and preferably wise. I’ll try to charm this one, but she’s too canny if she’s slipped the Quarass and King of Destruction both.”
Elena beamed at the compliments and turned to Yisame.
“I’d love to be a credit as long as I’m here, but I do have people I must go to, Your Majesty. But may I offer all the fashions and stylings of Earth? It cannot keep up with Stitch-folk, who are frankly ludicrously beautiful and would put us all in mental wards back home—but whatever I have, I’m sure your people could improve.’
“You may. I find you delightful, Miss Elena. And I must then prevail upon you all to dine with me anon. You shall be the reckless adventurers I am taken with in truth as well as in deed.”
“Carefully.”
Etrikah interjected, and everyone eyed Yvlon again. She nodded.
“Absolutely carefully. I understand. And we won’t take your time during these wars, Yisame, I promise. Where’s Mectail now? Still in the Coliseum of Monarchs? All I need is a run to the Merchant’s Guild so I can pay him and the others back, however much’s appropriate. Then we can move to Pisces’ and Ceria’s tasks, which are harder.”
“I just want to read some books at your academy. And study a bit of magic? Who’s your highest-level [Mage], and how lewd is he?”
Ceria waved a hand, and Etrikah laughed.
“You won’t seduce the highest-level [Mage] in residence here, Ceria Springwalker. He’d only sleep with someone above Silk-caste. Anyone of flesh and blood he’d never let touch his precious cloth.”
“Ah. Damn.”
Etrikah hadn’t answered the question about the [Gladiators]. Yisame glanced at Yvlon.
“It may be more complicated than you wish, Yvlon. I have used some influence of the crown, but the Coliseum of Monarchs is its own entity. Refraining from entering or acknowledging it may serve your friends better than reckless action.”
Yvlon sat up.
“They’re in trouble? Are they under arrest? They didn’t kill anyone, just—”
Sabotaged Thelican’s charge. Colthei grunted.
“That sounds dicey. Am I to understand they’re still [Gladiators]?”
“Yes, fighting unto death—or defeat of the champion. But Champion Lenxiol is no foe like the one Yvlon defeated in the Arena of Rust. Nor does he face them. They have endured thus far; the sport of watching them suffer has long gone. So long as no one reignites that spark—”
Even more worrying. Yvlon almost got out of her chair.
“They were sentenced to be criminal [Gladiators]? Like me? And they can only get out by defeating the champion?”
She’d beaten one of them, the Champion of Rust, in the same Arena of Rust, but the head of Nerrhavia Fallen’s largest coliseum had to be far, far more dangerous. Mectail himself had beaten Yvlon when he had taken it upon himself to calm her rage. And none of her friends had ever spoken of taking the title for themselves.
“I shall apprise you of the correct methods to be undertaken. You must prevail on those who control the Coliseum of Monarchs. The [Coliseum Master] was a friend of General Thelican and part of the Court of Steel’s circle under the Minister of Defense.”
The [Queen] was speaking to Colth mostly as he took swift notes. Etrikah was nodding at the sheet of names that Pisces and Ceria had produced.
“Very good, someone can do his homework as well. I should expect nothing less from one of Larracel the Haven’s children. How is she doing…?”
They were speaking quickly and earnestly as Elena scooted over to join the conversation.
“How can I help? No one noticed me, I think. I pretty much backed out of the Court of Silks the moment the celebrations started and pretended to be like Buler. I can change my makeup—”
“You cannot fit in among Stitch-folk [Servants] as if this were another nation.”
Etrikah warned Elena, and the [Beautician] adjusted her hair.
“I’ve thought about trying to make fake stitch-marks. Let me show you—and I can play the [Servant] class. I had it once.”
“More and more interesting. Then perhaps. But this [Coliseum Master], Vornbl, is easiest to bribe or threaten if he feels his position is undermined.”
Colth nodded at Etrikah as he scribbled notes.
“I was asking Larracel if she had any contacts or favors I could take from when she visited. Unlikely, but she did come here. She’s in the New Lands, incidentally. Fighting the mana drain and salted land.”
The Fox Beastkin woman chuckled.
“Appropriate, boy. We knew of both. Nerrhavia’s Fallen lives in deserts; why would we not assume the ground was both fallow and the air poisoned? Your reputations should be your first concern as it plays into your madness.”
Ceria smiled from ear-to-ear.
“We’re already getting started. Or rather, Delitandra is. I heard the Heromakers of Hraace telling stories about us. I knew we kept them around for a reason.”
“You should involve her in your plans. I don’t know this Delitandra. But she would have instincts better than non-Chandrarians…”
Yvlon stood up and nodded at everyone. They all regarded her, and she smiled. From Yisame to Pisces, everyone here seemed to really understand the situation in Chandrar. Well, she assumed Pisces might be able to fake it, and they all had their specialities.
“You take care of that. I’m going to see them.”
She walked for the doors. Yisame’s lips moved.
“Who…?”
“The [Gladiators]. I’m just going to—”
Elena, Pisces, Colth, and Ceria jumped out of their seats and grabbed her. Yvlon tried to keep walking as Yisame leapt up.
“Yvlon, I just said it would be reckless!”
“I’m not going to do anything. I just want to see. You’re overexaggerating now, Colth. I just want to—”
They really were shouting and making a scene. So much so that one of the [Bodyguards] opened the doors to check on them.
The woman saw the Silver Killer of Izril with her entire team holding her back, smiling that eerie smile, trying to make for the doors—until Yisame ordered them shut and barred from the outside.
Of such things were the tales of Yvlon Byres made of. And that was the first day.
 
——
 
The second day began with an odd feeling in the air. Yvlon was a bit surly at breakfast. She was not stupid, and being called that by everyone present—even Elena—hurt her feelings.
Elena was allowed to leave the palace unsupervised. Colth was whispering with her and handing her things at breakfast, but Ceria had threatened to freeze Yvlon in a block of ice if she didn’t stay put.
And when Yvlon had gotten up at midnight just to use the toilet, she’d found that Ceria had frozen her door solid!
However, if Yvlon was slightly grumpy, no one else in the private royal wing of the palace was. Queen Yisame was in a most excellent mood, and whatever else she might be, she was still enough of a [Queen] that her exuberance infected everyone.
The servants moved with a quickened step and were all smiles; it was not hard to see why. Their normally mercurial [Queen] almost bounded down the stairs, and the reason for her joy?
The Horns of Hammerad. She looked like Visma if her dolls had come to life and wanted to have tea with her in person. Actually, given how murderous some of her dolls were…
She acted like a lot of people did when meeting the Players of Celum. Delighted, excited, nervous, and overflowing with questions by turns. The very first thing she did was refuse to sit at the head of the table. Instead, she had a chair moved back until she was practically shoulder-to-shoulder with Pisces.
One of her servants actually took her to task for it, murmuring something about ‘Her Majesty’s decorum’, but Yisame just looked sideways, and the [Servant] fell silent.
“If the Arbiter Queen, whom we have much respect for, can sit and speak to Pisces the Bane—or is it Scourge?—as equals, then so shall we! And I do insist on being spoken to without formality. Adventurer Pisces, I am somewhat familiar with your history, but I should be delighted to hear it from the man himself! Pray tell me, is that the very bell that so amazed the King of Reim? And your sword—it is not the one you sold in Wistram, is it? I believe that is still in the custody of some [Lord] of House Trevalier? Quite unfortunate, but if you so desired to have a new one made, there are some [Smiths] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen of sufficient acumen for a base weapon. In, say, mithril?”
Yvlon blinked over the table as Pisces hesitated and turned beet red as Yisame leaned over with a quite revealing dress for the morning and peered at the bell on his waist. Flustered, he tried to show her the sword and then froze as the [Bodyguards] rustled, but she barely noticed.
“You, uh, know about my dueling sword in Wistram, Queen Yisame?”
Even Ceria’s brows were raised, but Queen Yisame’s eyes were aglow with delight.
“Why, of course! One feels this is common information for anyone interested in your past?”
Common…? Pisces was so off-guard he stammered a few explanations about how he’d had to reforge his sword in the Trial of Shields. When Yisame heard that, she almost leapt up.
“This has not become any kind of story! You must recount it for me! I shall take—ah. [Servant], take notes!”
Yvlon got the impression the aspiring [Writer] and [Reader] would have loved to take notes herself, but Yisame contented herself with hearing the entire adventure from Pisces. And the other Horns, but she kept turning to him for clarity. She was rather…touchy. She’d place a hand on his arm, and he’d nearly jump out of his seat.
She definitely found that amusing. There was a smile on her lips, and she did it more than once. By the time Pisces got out the whole tale, though, she was fully fascinated. He excused himself from breakfast as fast as he could after that. Ceria and Colth almost ran after him, laughing, probably to tease the [Necromancer].
