Berr the Berserker offered the grass to her until she gingerly blew on it and coughed.
“Me. I wrote to him as he argued with the Honored Gnolls and leaders and told him that I thought the child should not die. You see, I was too far away to be present, so I sent a [Message]. I wrote that it had bothered me and weighed upon my mind that death should come to white fur just for the color of it. He told me he would heed my words, and I told him that if he stood with Plain’s Eye, I would challenge him. I ensured it would be said before the tribe, for all to hear. Outsiders do not know of it.”
Yvlon’s mouth opened. Gnolls didn’t always fight for the [Chieftain]’s title like Goblins. So that was more of just a plain threat than anything else.
“I’m—that was the correct thing to do, Berr.”
“Yes. It was. But that is not the point of this story, Yvlon. Do you know what Perale told me afterwards? He was angry.”
“I imagine he was. You gave him an ultimatum.”
Berr grinned.
“Yes, he asked me why I had done it publicly. He said, ‘could I not have been more discreet?’ Could I not weigh opinions rather than make mine the only one he would heed? And I told him no. He asked me why I had to push, and I told him what I tell you now: it is our responsibility to push.”
“You mean as [Warriors]?”
“No. As high-levels. Does he think Honored Deskie does not push in her way? She did to help Inkarr. We shape our tribes or cities or nations. Our choices matter.”
“Is that…right, Berr? To have all that power?”
He raised his bushy grey brows.
“Right? I do not know if it is right, Yvlon Byres. I only know it is true. Perale says all this all the time, much like your father or the voice in your head, I imagine. He says ‘do not fight those Drakes’ or ‘do not start a fight between our tribes over something so petty’. It is his role to say these things. But you know…if I listened to him, or that voice, nothing would change. Perhaps, sometimes, it is good not to change, but when it is time to push, I do. That is our obligation. Pretending we have none and that there is someone who is better to listen to, that we have no obligation to choose, is the worst thing of all.”
She nodded thoughtfully, thinking of the times she, Yvlon, had made a decision for her team.
“And if we make a mistake, we live with them, Berr?”
He bared his teeth, and there were gaps amidst the yellow canines.
“Exactly. I am a [Berserker]. I have made a million mistakes! Hah, maybe more wrong than right! But that is my wisdom for you. Don’t listen to your [Chieftain] except when he makes sense. Now, one last spar. Show me you won’t fall for the trap of a [Berserker]. First, I kick you in the stomach, then—aha, now you get mad—”
 
——
 
Yvlon awoke clutching her stomach, having kicked all her sheets off her. She sat up, blearily, and saw it was just before dawn.
“Thanks, Berr.”
She splashed some water on her face and slipped out of their rooms to harass the one person whose help she needed. Yvlon thought she’d been quiet, and certainly she could hear Ceria snoring from the hallway, but she’d forgotten Pisces was doubly alert in Chandrar.
She didn’t realize he was there until she sensed a presence and spun—he hastily dematerialized with a pair of [Spies]. They ran as Yvlon retracted the seeker-spikes her arms had emitted.
“What mischief are you up to now, Yvlon?”
“Just testing a theory, Pisces. Go back to sleep.”
The [Necromancer] fixed Yvlon with a long, level stare that made her shift and admire her metal foot, which was shaped like a Gnoll’s foot.
“Ceria and Colth would harass me for weeks if I let you go alone. I shall accompany you, even if it deprives us both of breakfast.”
“Our hero.”
He sniffed, and she smiled as he walked besides her. Pisces glanced at her face and murmured as they walked.
“I know you’re up to something.”
She jumped and gave him an innocent smile; he sniffed again.
“You may have Ceria fooled, but I recognized your behavior. Colth is, alas, still too new to pick up on it.”
“Ceria came to the slightly wrong conclusion thanks to her circlet. And I don’t have a plan, Pisces. Just the makings of one. You can help me test it, then I’ll know if…hello, Great Sage! Excuse me!”
Yvlon began hammering on the door to Great Sage Etrikah’s rooms, and Pisces winced. Yvlon kept banging as he stepped to one side—when the Fox Beastkin [Sage] opened the door, she had a wand aimed at Yvlon.
“Give me one reason why I shouldn’t murder you.”
“I need to use your workrooms. Pisces can help me, I think, so we won’t even bother you. But I need a private space and magic to test my theory on.”
“That still doesn’t answer the murder question.”
“You can’t murder me.”
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen opened another bloodshot eye and read more into that comment than just pure ire warranted. After a moment, she stepped aside.
“This had better be good. [Necromancer], tea.”
Pisces put on a kettle and poured tea as Yvlon outlined what she wanted. Etrikah just snorted.
“Adventurer Pisces can do that. It won’t be anything close to the barriers of the Coliseum of Monarchs. They’re old magic.”
“I just want to practice.”
Yvlon innocently smiled, so Etrikah directed her to a testing area where scorch marks and other residue clung to the reinforced chamber. Pisces waved one hand and created a very acceptable [Barrier of Light] spell.
“Not bad. I was told you only knew necromancy.”
“I’ve, ah, been learning some light-based magic thanks to my spellbook. [Wall of Bone] is superior, but this is a classic ‘barrier’ type spell. Yvlon?”
She punched it. The spray of light-shards made her smile. Then she waved at Pisces.
“I need another. That was just to see if I could break it with my fist.”
The [Necromancer] turned to Etrikah, and she was frying up sausages.
“Warriors. They treat us like we’re just walking spellbooks with mana pools. Don’t look at me. She’s your teammate.”
Yvlon had Pisces create a few more barriers for her to work on as he ate breakfast with Etrikah. Yvlon took a breath and activated her first Skill.
“[Aspect of Silver].”
She didn’t punch the next barriers. She just reached out…and her hand passed through each barrier, shattering them like cheap glass. Pisces glanced up, eyes widening, and Yvlon nodded.
“I thought so. Silver is a dispeller. Not enough to advertise in our arms from House Byres, but pure silver has some effects on magic, doesn’t it?”
“Some, but I wouldn’t carry around a silver mirror in a magical battle. Your Skill clearly amplifies that power. If you think you could withstand every spell Pisces or I could toss at you like that, it would be amusing for me to find out. Even so. What a freakish monster you are.”
Etrikah clarified when Yvlon glared at her.
“For us [Mages]. No one likes someone who can burst through magic like it’s cheap cantrips. The scariest thing for a [Mage] is a charging [Warrior] who can survive anything we throw at them. At least you can’t fly. I’d just [Teleport] you into the sky. Or [Blind] you.”
Yvlon wondered how she was supposed to deal with that. She shrugged and motioned to Pisces.
“More barriers.”
“Fm feating.”
He cast it anyways, and she glanced down at her fist. The right hand flexed as she adjusted the metal hand.
“I didn’t lose any metal hitting the barrier, you know. It doesn’t vaporize. At least, not if you punch it.”
Etrikah’s head rose from her breakfast, and Yvlon swung her hand at the barriers. Pisces’ sleepy, dopey gaze became as sharp as his rapier. After a few more tries, Yvlon sat down at the breakfast table and slid the entire rasher of sausages onto her plate. Etrikah threw up her hands.
She went to get more food for hungry adventurers. Pisces leaned over.
“You’re going to do something crazy.”
“Maybe. Are you going to tell on me?”
He thought about it.
“What are we, four? I…I am fully cognizant that your actions do not always bely a thoughtless belligerence, but a savage intelligence at times, Yvlon.”
“…Thank you?”
Pisces fiddled with his fork as he went on, staring at his plate.
“I mean this only to say that I have been impressed with your composure given recent events. Here we are in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, a superlative example of wealth and grandeur, and you—you keep your composure. You are, frankly, brave, if insanity is a mandatory component of that. And I? I froze up when we were greeted. I hesitate. I rather feel the imposter here.”
She blinked at him. What Pisces was couching in his fanciful language was a true worry. She smiled as she poked some of the sausage links and bit.
“Pisces. You are as silly as they say sometimes.”
“Who says?”
His brows crossed in paranoia, and she laughed at him. Yvlon patted his shoulder.
“Pisces, you drew a sword on the King of Destruction. You are one of the bravest people I know! Aside from Ksmvr, of course.”
He nodded.
“Well, naturally not Ksmvr. But do you mean it?”
He gazed at her, somehow still hungry for reassurance, despite the bell that hung at his waist, despite the man he should be able to see in the mirror. Yvlon swallowed and noticed Etrikah’s tail around the corner of the kitchen.
“I’m not being particularly brave in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. It’s just that, well, I’ve been more scared. When I was first in the Arena of Rust and I didn’t know where everyone was. Against the Adult Creler. This isn’t that scary except socially. But mostly, Pisces? I…I don’t care. That’s it.”
She stabbed her plate until it broke in half. Yvlon cursed.
“Tarnish it all. Let me explain.”
“By all means.”
Pisces found a teapot and helped her shove the shards of the plate inside. Yvlon half-smiled at him.
“I know some of it was me being oblivious, but I was willing to do my own thing because…I blame Mars.”
“A reasonable thing to do in all circumstances. But what, particularly, did she do?”
Yvlon flexed her arms, remembering her nonstop beatdown from Chandrar’s greatest [Warrior]. She shrugged.
“It wasn’t that she was rude or insane like other Named-ranks. She was actually pretty normal. Kind, even. But she just…was herself. She told me she’d kill me if I ever went against the King of Destruction. Still, Gazi or any of the Seven would say the same thing.”
“Death-General Losve was very insistent on that point.”
“Yes, but even the Death-General was less…confident than Mars was. Her chasing us for miles was pretty insecure.”
“…Insecure?”
Now, the [Necromancer] was struggling, but there was something in how Yvlon was talking that Pisces understood. He put the teapot back as Yvlon flexed her hands.
“Yes. Look at Flos himself. You drew that sword on him, and he was delighted. He might trample over someone, like how he broke Ceria’s circlet, but he did what he wanted. The same at Belchan, remember?”
“I’m not sure Mars or the King of Destruction are people to emulate…”
“Berr, then. Or Saliss. Or Erin herself, Pisces. They do what they think is right. Even if they’re wrong or stupid. They have…what’s the word?”
She hunted for it, and Pisces’ head rose. He had it, of course, the walking dictionary.
“Conviction?”
“Yes.”
The Silver Killer of Izril relaxed, relieved he had named the word at last. She turned to Pisces.
“That’s what I’m trying out. My own way. I know it causes problems, and I apologize. But I have been here before, Pisces. The Court of Silks could wrap us up, and I am not clever enough to beat them at their own game. You might not be, or Colth or even Ceria with her circlet. However, I think if I punch hard enough, I can get through a lot of problems.”
“Until the consequences arrive.”
He wasn’t saying ‘no’, though. Yvlon shrugged.
“That’s why I have metal arms. Let me see how far I can go, and back me up. I would have told you, I think, anyways. Do you want to stop me? Because you can, if you want to.”
He glanced down at his feet. Then up at Yvlon.
“I still maintain that I should like to trade some of my rationality for your bravery. But I do accept your logic.”
She snorted at that.
“I don’t care if I make myself look stupid. I care if we’re in danger, but I did this once. That’s why I’m not doing anything impressive. But you?”
The [Armsmistress] glanced up, then nodded at Pisces’ sword, reforged steel and bone.
“You can be as nervous as you want. When you find a reason to draw that sword, I won’t ever doubt your convictions. You’ll never run away.”
She smiled at him and knew they both remembered the wave of Crelers coming and a [Necromancer] wavering in the grass beyond the Bloodfields. His eyes grew distant, and then he reached out and touched her hand.
Pisces smiled and then sniffed just because it made her smile.
“Well, one tries to keep up with the insanity around here. I think I have some small inkling of your ideations. If what I posit is true…shall we?”
She raised her brows, amused and delighted as he made a show of brushing off his robes.
“[Cleanse]. Dead gods, do you lot not know that spell?”
Etrikah cursed as the two Horns of Hammerad strode for the door. She practically slammed it as Pisces bowed in front of her. But she peeked at them as they strolled down the palace.
“Not running to tell Ceria or Colth?”
Yvlon teased him, and Pisces the Scourge smiled.
“I rather think they’ll get in the way of your plan.”
Oh, they would. The Silver Killer walked down the steps, and her destination sat huge below the palace. It was a fine day. If they timed their steps just right, they could be there just in time for the morning exhibition. Manager Bnirm had planned a huge spectacle in ‘honor’ of the Silver Killer.
She didn’t wish to miss it.
 
——
 
As for Ceria Springwalker, she lay abed until Colth kicked the doors open. She had a wand trained on him in a heartbeat. He just stared at her, eyes bloodshot.
“Yvlon’s missing. So is Pisces. Elena and Delitandra’s group ran out searching for them.”
Ceria stared at him. Then she swore, and they ran around in a panic. Surely, if Pisces was with her—she wouldn’t—
They were going to kill her.
 
——
 
Elena Othonos actually caught Pisces and Yvlon in the Coliseum of Monarchs. It wasn’t hard to find them; the audience was staring at them from their seats, and one of the projections was just fixed on Yvlon Byres.
Manager Bnirm himself was next to the [Announcer]’s booth, smirking at Yvlon as a group of sacrificial criminals [Gladiators] and the Traitorous Three were lined up.
