“How did those get through?”
“Must be keyed for access. They came from the Silk stands. If you pay enough, you can help your favorite [Gladiator]. Or take a shot at one. You didn’t ever get that?”
“I was sort of…angry while I was there. And I didn’t stay long enough to figure out how the Coliseum of Monarchs worked.”
Colth grunted.
“Well, take notes, Yvy. I don’t think it’s a good idea for us to fight in one of these matches, but an honor-duel would take place here. And knowing our enemies…Creler eggs. Here come the regulars. They’re thirty to forty in level. Sound right?”
“Yep.”
Only about twenty [Gladiators] emerged, each from their own gate, to cheers from the audiences. One raised a trident overhead, whirling it for his fans. Yvlon recognized one of them—Romen, an [Archer] who could do a lot of trick shots. He was posing outside of his gate, blowing kisses upwards, when he jerked and dodged; a trio of arrows hit the sand, and the crowd booed in outrage.
The [Soldiers] from Reim and the enemy nations weren’t waiting to give the [Gladiators] a chance to showboat. They were already firing arrows and a few spells from above. Yvlon shook her head.
The level disparity was obvious at a moment’s glance. Romen snatched one of the arrows fired at him, placed it on his bow, and loosed; a Garuda fell from the tower, clutching at the arrow lodged through his neck. Colth winced.
“This is going to be a slaughter. Damn, they’re even keeping the Manticores.”
The two wary beasts were backed up, snarling at the [Gladiators] and [Soldiers], and it seemed like a real damn free-for-all. However, Yvlon was only waiting for three figures. When the first one exploded out of the gates, making for the fortress, she gasped.
Mectail, the Stitch-man from Pomle, looked much like she remembered. Long-legged, tough, wearing only handwraps and footwraps and eschewing armor, the [Martial Artist] dodged under several arrows and evaded a spear from one of the other [Gladiators], then took cover under a halfwall. He snatched a bow up and took aim, firing inexpertly at the other [Gladiators]. Then two other figures leapt out to join him.
Vitte and Thexca looked worse for the wear. Thexca bore more scars, and her left arm seemed slightly off as she carried her weapons, as if it had been broken and set wrong. Her and Vitte’s enchanted armor was in bad condition. Vitte’s fur was matted and unwashed, but they ran fast, joining Mectail as Vitte began shooting spells—at the other [Gladiators]. Thexca performed a few complex symbols at the officer who stared down at her before giving orders and pointing. The [Soldiers] switched off of the three ‘traitors’, and Thexca drew her daggers and made a slicing motion at the nearest [Gladiator].
Yvlon let out her breath then. Lightheaded. The Stitch-girl with Thexca’s t-shirt was screaming.
“Thexca, don’t die! Please! I bet you’d live!”
That was an insane thing to say—but it was as much encouragement as anything else. And Thexca seemed to hear because she turned to them and raised a dagger, baring her teeth.
Yvlon almost got up there and then, but Colth had a tight grip on her shoulder.
“Steady, Yvlon. Steady. They know what they’re doing. See how they instantly partnered with the [Soldiers]? They don’t have to beat the others. My guess is that this bout ends when enough people die or can’t fight. Surviving is what a [Gladiator]’s good at, and one of them is Stitch-folk. If he loses an arm or a leg, he can sew it back on.”
She nodded, but she was tense; one of the Manticores was backing up towards her friends as the [Gladiators] banged weapons on shields and shouted, trying to get it to engage the others. However, they hadn’t advanced on the [Soldiers] yet, just exchanged long-ranged fire. Why?
Well, because they were waiting for their leader to make his appearance.
She didn’t have to see his face to understand this Champion of Monarchs. Yvlon had noticed that the one gate that hadn’t yet opened was the one that the spear had come from, pinning the poor expendable [Gladiator] to the ground. The desperate Stitch-man was still trying to survive; he’d managed to wrench the bloody spear out of his arm and disengage the stitches so it fell away. He was staggering towards Nerrhavia Fallen’s forces, a sword raised, clearly trying to say, ‘I’m on your side.’
The second spear struck him in the neck and killed him fast. Yvlon saw the tip emerge out of his back, bloody, to the shouts of surprise and dismay from the crowd. Then the Champion of Monarchs appeared.
One second, the bloody spear and collapsing body were alone. Then—he was standing on top of the spear, waving at his audience. Colth’s voice was the only thing Yvlon heard over the roar of sound.
“Teleport to weapon. Nice way to dodge arrows as you’re entering. Shit. He’s Level 50+.”
She knew it too. The moment she laid eyes on Lenxiol, the Champion of Monarchs, she sensed the danger. He looked nothing like the [Manager] or what she’d expected. For one thing, he was thin. Lithe. That he was muscular was a given, but he was Pisces-like in stature and brushed at his black hair, dyed blue and green at the tips. He looked more like a flashy adventurer of Deniusth’s sort, but he couldn’t have been more than thirty-six.
Lenxiol flashed a pearly-white grin upwards, then pointed. His finger found the officer, who ducked back into cover, and the Champion of Monarchs flipped something up—threw.
A dagger. It hit one of the [Soldiers] firing arrows downwards and then zig-zagged. Two more [Archers] fell, and the rest took cover.
“Chain-attack. He’s probably a weapons master. Just hitting him is going to be nearly impossible for the [Soldiers]. He’s probably stronger than anyone else here. I wonder why he’s called the ‘Invincible’? That’s a boast. Even Mars was only known as the Illusionist when she fought here. I’m almost positive he’s a [Gladiator Champion], though he’s got to have consolidated at least once to get to that level.”
Colth, as the highest-levelled and most senior adventurer, was able to analyze how good this [Champion] was. The Horns weren’t cheering like everyone around them. Ceria squinted down at the match as it began in earnest.
“Well, this isn’t going to take long. Pisces has a bit of a point. This is all propaganda about the wars. I don’t think they’ve got more than a few of Reim’s [Soldiers], though. See that group at the gates? They look like they have Reim’s armor on. Everyone else is a different nation.”
With the Champion of Monarchs present, the [Gladiators] began to dismantle their opponents in a ruthless advance. They besieged the fortress, using their ranged Skills to pick off [Archers], then broke the chokepoints held by the grim [Soldiers] fighting for their lives.
It wasn’t a one-sided affair. Some of the [Soldiers] were high-enough level to give a fight of it, and there was no quarter for them. Two [Gladiators] tried the Reim-gate and came away bloodied to the jeers and cheers from the audience.
The spectators wanted blood, and they were willing to cheer even for the hated enemy if they surpassed expectations. Honestly, if it weren’t for the Champion of Monarchs, Yvlon might have actually put money on the [Soldiers] being able to overwhelm the [Gladiators] by sheer dint of numbers and teamwork.
But not Lenxiol. He strode up and down the ramp leading to one fortress entrance, whirling his bloody spear to block arrows. The Stitch-boy groaned.
“Ugh, he’s showing off. Just kill them already! This is why no one likes his mass bouts.”
As if he’d heard that, the Stitch-man whirled and threw his spear through the gap at the gates, impaling three of the [Soldiers]. He drew a pair of blades and ran through the gap—Pisces swallowed hard.
That group of [Soldiers] was dead in moments, but Lenxiol took that time to once again rest and wave at his audience, catching a flower thrown from the Silk stands above. He had his eyes on Mectail next. The [Martial Artist] had found Romen and was pursuing the [Archer] with kicks and punches, knocking Romen around to cheers from the audience.
“Mectail, watch out!”
Yvlon shouted—Mectail didn’t hear. But he noticed the dagger thrown at him and spun, catching it by the blade’s tip. He tossed it aside as the Stitch-folk next to the Horns cheered, and there was laughter from the stands.
Lenxiol narrowed his eyes and then flipped up that damn spear. He drew it back to throw, and Mectail tensed—the throw was fast. Yvlon didn’t know if she’d have dodged it like Mectail tried to do, but it didn’t matter; it hit a glowing shield in the air and deflected off of it.
Vitte. She was covering Mectail, and the [Martial Artist] whirled. He launched into a roundhouse kick and sent Romen, who’d been coming at him with a dagger, straight into one wall. The [Archer] dropped, unconscious, and Mectail sprinted at another [Gladiator] dueling Thexca. Lenxiol shrugged and then peered around, choosing one of his own gladiators as a target next.
He didn’t feel threatened at all. However, Yvlon read into that several things, and she turned to Colth.
“Colth, correct me if I’m wrong, but I think…well, I know Romen was knighting. He let Mectail beat him. But Lenxiol seemed like he was trying with that dagger and spear. He didn’t attack, though. I think he was wary.”
The [Supporter] nodded, eyes glittering.
“Yep. Your friends might not be treated well, but they had to have counterlevelled to have made it this far. Mectail was, what, Level 40 before all of this? That’s more than enough to do a lot of damage if Lenxiol drops his guard. The three of them can gang up and give him a run for his money. He’s not going to risk it. What he will do is wait for one of them to falter.”
So the battle was a knife’s edge for the Traitorous Three to walk. They had to both survive and watch each other’s backs in this furious melee. Yvlon’s stomach was twisting.
I’m so sorry, Mectail, Thexca. Vitte, I don’t like you as much, but you don’t deserve this.
 
——
 
The battle took about thirty minutes to conclude. On the [Soldiers]’ side, there were no real surprises. They closed ranks, retreating into the fortress until they made a last, desperate stand on the highest point with the [Gladiators] picking them off. There was only one shock; it was as the officer took a grievous stab from the trident-wielding [Gladiator].
The officer spun back, slashing the Stitch-man’s face open and reached for the potion delivered via basket. He splashed half on his wounds, then made to toss it to another wounded [Soldier]. However, the officer’s face twisted, and his plumed helmet jerked—Yvlon didn’t get it until Pisces hissed, and a boo ran through the coliseum mixed with applause from above.
“Poison.”
It was no healing potion after all! The red liquid was smoldering as the officer collapsed, the bottle spilling on the ground. The trident-wielding [Gladiator] shrugged, then bowed to the upper stands.
The lower stands were booing, deprived of the valiant last stand from the officer who’d masterminded the defense. The booing intensified as the Silk stands applauded the act of sabotage, but given the disparity in numbers, the booing easily drowned out the applause.
Which made someone upset. Yvlon heard the announcer merrily commentating.
“And that’s the [Officer] downed! The poor fool should have known better than to trust a gift from his enemies! It seems not all in the Coliseum appreciated the subtlety of Silk! I—oh, it seems there’s some censure in the stands!”
There was a scream, a plume of light—Yvlon jerked, and Elena stood upright.
“Those maniacs just hit the people below with a molotov cocktail!”
Or a potion of some kind—it was like a miniature fireball that struck the stands. Someone had tossed it from the Silk seats, and Stitch-folk were screaming, brushing the flames off their cloth, and rolling to douse the fire. It wasn’t as hot or long-lasting as real alchemical fire that Yvlon would have used, but Stitch-folk feared flames more than almost anything.
Colth’s smile never wavered, but there was a Demon in his eyes only they could see.
“Yep, that’s familiar too. Remind you of Terandria, Pisces, Ceria?”
The [Necromancer] and [Cryomancer] exchanged looks, and Pisces shook his head.
“Never that openly—”
“Eh, I’ve seen nobles do it to commonfolk, but this is a different flavor. Wow, so we might eat a bouquet of flames if we mouth off to our betters and superiors?”
The two Stitch-teens were glaring upwards and making covert gestures at the Silk stands. One turned to Ceria, visibly astonished.
“You must be from a different kingdom. Here, you’d be wise not to anger a Silk, Cotton-sister. Throwing fire only happens in the Coliseums, mostly. But they’ll have you whipped on the streets by their [Bodyguards] in a heartbeat.”
“Good to know, thanks!”
Ceria smiled brightly at the Stitch-girl. Yvlon was about to say how barbaric and horrific all this was—until she closed her mouth. She was reminded of stories her mother had told her about the Reinharts. Her mother had once told Yvlon never to insult a Reinhart, even if they deserved it. More than one lesser noble had ‘accidentally’ been hit by an enchanted carriage. It was sort of a family tradition.
The distraction was more than just an insight into Nerrhavia Fallen’s social strata. Colth cursed.
“Damn. That was the opening he needed.”
Yvlon spun, and the cheering turned into groans. Lenxiol was standing in the arena, in the shadow of the wooden fortress. He’d abandoned the siege of the [Soldiers] to leap downwards like a bolt from above. His target?
Vitte. Mectail and Thexca had stayed together, picking off rival [Gladiators], but as the [Soldiers] fought at the top of the fortress, they’d strayed a bit too far from Vitte, who had remained under cover, firing wands. The Fox Beastkin saw the [Champion] coming and tried to escape.
She leapt, using the Fox Beastkin’s gravity magic to soar upwards. Yvlon saw her rising along the edges of the magical walls of the coliseum. Vitte reached out—and a grinning Stitch-man seized her by the legs.
Lenxiol slammed Vitte into the ground, cancelling her gravity magic, then stomped on her arm as she tried to fire a wand at him. She screamed, and her other arm jerked as he stabbed it as well. The Champion of Monarchs stood with a foot on her chest as he called upwards.
“After so long of running around, I have one of the traitors! A shame—she can’t stitch up anything I cut off! Manager Bnirm, do I let this wily fox run another day or cut the chase at last?”
