Colth didn’t frame it that way, of course. Just implied it with every kindly explanation. She knew that he and Ceria were trying to account for her…wildness. For her idiocy. She appreciated her teammates not screaming at her—well, a second time—and just wished that she could reassure them she knew what she was doing.
…She just wasn’t quite sure she did know what she was doing, so for the moment, Yvlon played dumb. This strategy was effected in the most straightforwards way possible.
“Ah, Adventurer Byres. One hears you are desirous of a match against the Champion of Monarchs in single combat. Do you truly feel you have a chance? Not since Mars herself has a Champion reigned so long in the coliseum. And your own record, while exemplary, shows you were beaten by lesser [Gladiators].”
Yvlon turned to the Silk [Lady] who greeted her at the head of a roving band of marauder-[Ladies], on the hunt for weaknesses. She smiled and held out a hand.
“Hello, my name is Yvlon Byres.”
“Er, that we know. I was referring to—”
“Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous.”
“A fact all witnessed yesterday!”
Another [Lady] quipped to titters from her audience, but Yvlon wasn’t done.
“I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez…”
They stared at her as she listed her accomplishments and her team’s recent deeds in chronological order for them. Then, when one tried to get a word in edgewise about the fate of Vitte, Yvlon Byres began to talk about House Byres.
“House Byres steel is actually an alloy of silver and steel, did you know that? It’s not considered quite as strong as traditional steel, but the sheen and the qualities of the metal are considered worth the tradeoff. Unlike traditional steel, proper silversteel alloy does not rust but tarnish and is sometimes considered a valuable asset in wet or marshy terrain. The going rate for silver, historically, has been far higher than modern day prices, which has led to…”
They excused themselves.
She followed.
 
——
 
“Captain Ceria Springwalker. It has been an age, hasn’t it?”
“A literal one, Prince Zenol. It feels like we owe you a lot. Yvlon does, and I’m only sad Ksmvr couldn’t be here.”
Ceria and Zenol shook hands at last in the Court of Silks, watched by many, but the half-Elf was genuinely beaming up at him. He glanced at her damaged circlet and smiled ruefully.
There were lines on his face she didn’t recall from that haughty Chandrarian [Prince] not so long ago. It did feel like an age since the Village of the Dead. All that desperation, the insane raid on the say-so of Pisces’ mysterious helper…
“I’m pleased that your tale didn’t end in the Village of the Dead. And what a tale it became. I was proud to say I was there and part of it. Even if that Drake with a sword showed all present we did not deserve to clear that dungeon.”
Ceria’s eyes dipped, and she took a breath, staring into her winecup.
“The other teams got the gold…but I’ll be the first to admit that you got robbed of a lot of the treasures, Zenol. Especially because I didn’t mention my circlet when we divided the loot. Or Ksmvr’s sword since it was in Chandrar. We owe the other teams, and if they want to collect, well, I’ll sort it out as best I can. But you could collect right now.”
She took her circlet off her head and swirled one arm around in the winecup. It wasn’t a complete circle; the pearlescent ivory ended two-thirds of the way around the head. The [Prince] noticed there was a visible crack down the center and in a few places where it seemed to be faintly green. Repaired? Also that Ceria had been gnawing on one end, though that might just be his imagination.
Zenol snorted, and she peeked up to see a smile cross his face, and he seemed relieved by it.
“The sight of you sending my noble Court of Silks into twisted knots and frayed ends is a reward in and of itself, Ceria. We knew from the moment you four headed into the center that you had put more on the line than any of us were willing to. Isn’t that how it should work? To those that risk the most the glory.”
His eyes glittered with delight for adventure itself. He was still dressed like the royalty he was, haughty and, she had no doubt, objectionable in some way. But as adventurers went—she licked her circlet and grinned.
“Fancy words, Prince Zenol. But just say the word when you actually need something? Before we leave.”
He hesitated, then gave her a gracious nod as he glanced around the room.
“Perhaps some small deeds may serve. If you do not know, I have faced the King of Destruction’s armies to show House Isphel’s dedication towards Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“Pass on fighting him. But how is it?”
Zenol stood there a second and developed that stare that Ceria’s grandmother sometimes had. The one she recognized that even adventurers lacked.
“It is hardly as pleasant, reaping lives instead of monster carcasses. Even if it is sometimes easier, there’s no glory in it.”
That was all he said. Ceria nodded, then turned as a voice called out.
“Just like House Isphel to get cold strings after seeing the reality of war. As if one meager [Prince]-turned-adventurer shifted the warfront any. Isphel arrogance, Isphel weakness. You would do well to court true royalty, Captain Ceria. One trusts you would be wiser than the Silver Killer, or at least, to keep her better in check.”
Ceria pointed at the other [Prince], who smirked at Zenol with a far larger following.
“Who that?”
“Prince Esceit of House Quarein. A notable detractor of House Isphel.”
Zenol murmured through gritted teeth. The insults didn’t seem that good to Ceria, but she supposed there was royal pride. Even the perception of insult was too much. She peered at the haughty [Prince].
“So he’s the one who’s jealous of Nerrhavia Fallen’s most famous [Prince]?”
That took the wind out of Prince Esceit’s sails. He paled as the people around him gasped.
“How dare you!”
Ceria threw up her hands—and Zenol dodged the splash of wine that hit five people behind her. In her most honest voice, Ceria clasped her hands together.
“Oh, no! I don’t mean to offend! I’m terribly sorry if I implied anything of the sort!”
Prince Esceit unmottled slightly, and Ceria continued.
“It’s just the truth. Swear on a [Detect Truth] spell. See? No one knows about Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Princes]. Put a crossbow to my head and I couldn’t name any of you lot. But Prince Zenol Isphel, well, most of Izril saw him at the Village of the Dead. So he’s the most famous. Sorry. If you wanted to raid a death zone, I’m sure you’d all be just as memorable!”
She smiled as she held up a glowing [Detect Truth] spell in one hand. The Court of Silks murmured, and Zenol hid a smile as he stood straighter.
Eat shit, Prince Whoever You Are. Esceit was searching for a comeback to her apparently innocent drag on him before he snarled.
“That a [Prince] need stoop to the level of a commoner is a disgrace in itself!”
He wanted to end it with that, but Ceria turned to Zenol.
“Commoner? You had dozens of [Servants] who practically did everything for you. Every other Gold-ranking team couldn’t stand you waltzing in and lording it over the others. If that’s commonering it up, what do you do here?”
Zenol stroked his chin, preening like the peacock every [Prince] was, as Prince Esceit’s glower turned more intense. Ceria winked at Zenol as she got another winecup and tested it for poisons. Ooh, this one had something in it. She’d have to toss it on someone. The Ice Squirrel could at least pack a punch when no one expected it.
As for Yvlon—she saw a group of squawking [Ladies] fleeing Yvlon as the Silver Killer crossed the room.
“We are done with this conversation! Goodbye!”
“Silver has a much lower melting point than steel, so the process of making silversteel alloy is actually quite fascinating. Shortly after mining, the silver is washed in a custom bath of liquids to remove any impurities before—”
Ceria and Zenol were chuckling over her antics, which were, for once, largely harmless, when the [Ladies] burst through a crowd of people like a flock of frightened silk geese. And there—Ceria’s heart stopped. She dropped the winecup, this time by accident, and her face froze up.
There she was.
Unexpected. Larger than life. Without warning, next to the old [Bard], whose very voice declaimed legends, with Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace standing like schoolchildren next to adults. Yvlon Byres came to a halt as she came face to face with her.
Cognita Truestone. Yvlon gazed up at the Truestone Golem as Cognita turned, her expression of immeasurable boredom and disinterest flickering when she saw Ceria and Pisces and Colth, who were circulating the Court of Silks.
Yvlon glanced at Ceria as the half-Elf’s life at Wistram flashed before her eyes. Illphres. Pisces’ mistake. The test. Mage Rievan. Beatrice, Montressa, Calvaron—
Yvlon Byres studied her captain, then nodded. She made a fist and turned back to Cognita. She swung one hand up—-
 
——
 
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous.”
Few beings tried to shake her hand. Let alone so…obviously. They’d make the attempt, think to impress others, and never quite get their hands up. Or realize she had no intention of shaking their hand and let it fall.
Cognita Truestone stared at Yvlon Byres’ hand, a foot from her face, and it didn’t waver. Ten seconds passed. Then twenty in dead silence as Barelle the [Bard] raised his brows. At last, slowly, Cognita Truestone took the hand.
She extended two fingers and pushed it down. Yvlon Byres tried to resist; Cognita felt it, but the Truestone Golem effortlessly forced her hand down.
Her eyes. They were locked on Cognita’s own with an intensity that made the Truestone Golem reconsider whether the title ‘Silver Killer’ truly was a misnomer. She made what observations she wished, little caring if they sounded nonsensical to those listening or Yvlon herself.
“[Berserker]. I am familiar with the class or Skill. You are far less decorous than your brother, Ylawes Byres. He behaved with the decorum of a [Knight] despite lacking for an order. An irregularity to meet a Knight of Izril. I had noted it upon Wistram’s logs.”
Cognita noticed, to her urbane amusement, this seemed to incense the woman slightly.
“Ylawes did mention visiting Wistram. He also mentioned rescuing children held against their will.”
“A perspective not entirely unwarranted. I acted in defense of Wistram at the time.”
“So Wistram takes [Slaves]?”
The burning blue gaze intensified, and Cognita’s voice was flat; she had heard this argument before, but the results were interesting enough in this case.
“When has it ceased to?”
Confusion. Predictable. Boring. Cognita turned to Barelle the Bard. It seemed his conclusions were correct; this was a Gold-rank team, perhaps of higher overall level and gear quality than the Silver Swords, but no more.
“Excuse me.”
She took a step towards the [Bard] and halted. It seemed she had to recalculate her appraisal of Yvlon Byres. Few people offered her a handshake in earnest.
Fewer still dared touch her.
Part of that was the sheer height difference. Cognita, when she cared to be, was normally around eight point eight feet tall. Out of reach for most people—but Yvlon Byres’ arm had stretched. It was resting on Cognita’s shoulder. She let go as the Truestone Golem woman turned her head.
“Your transgressions are unwelcome, Yvlon Byres. I warn you once. There will not be a second time.”
“I apologize, Cognita Truestone. I merely didn’t wish for you to go before greeting my captain, Ceria Springwalker, and Pisces. They studied in Wistram as you surely recall. You named them [Mages].”
Cognita glanced at Pisces, but she hadn’t seen any undead in his presence capable of levelling. Thus, he had failed. She turned away.
“I recall everything, Adventurer. I have witnessed them once more. It pleases me they continue to study magic in their own ways. I have read and responded to their occasional missives. Conversation would be a further waste of my time.”
“Truly? They would surprise you, I think.”
The [Armsmistress] was so convinced of her position that Cognita elected to break her rule about tampering with politics in some small way. She turned, and her voice was direct.
“A sentient circlet is not unique. Nor is a spellbook written by the levelless. I have witnessed relics of old Walled Cities. Nothing I behold is new, woman of metal.”
If he had mastered the formula that Perril Chandler claimed to have finally perfected and had offered to her…she saw Yvlon’s eyes widen.
“I’ve been called that before. Woman of metal.”
“Indeed? Fascinating.”
If the woman was at all wise, she would drop this line of inquiry; Cognita’s statements had been registered even by the Court of Silks. She was endangering her team. However, Cognita Truestone saw Barelle’s own head was tilted in an annoying fashion.
He was intrigued by what he’d heard. She glowered and strode past him, not in the mood to humor his requests he could easily answer with his own research. After a second, she glanced to the side.
“I have no injunctions against violence here or against you, Adventurer.”
“Neither do I. What does ‘woman of metal’ mean? Am I doomed to become metal? I’ve been called it time and again by people who seem to have met people like me.”
There was a slight note of desperation in Yvlon Byres’ voice. Because it seemed to be the most optimal solution, Cognita slowed her walk out of the Court of Silks’ main zone and into open rock gardens and replied flatly. The sun shone off her and the magical stones placed in aesthetically pleasing formations. Which was all that she and the rock gardens were.
“That is not inevitable. Even should you pursue your class. It is a mere title to refer to beings who were, at best, part-Golem. Those who forsake their original bodies for those of artificial creation. Metal is not even the prerequisite for the classification.”
The [Armsmistress] relaxed slightly.
“Good.”
The answer displeased Cognita greatly. Because it was the answer that was…appropriate and therefore enraging.
“You do not wish to become a being of superior metal, Adventurer Byres? In time, you would become as close to a woman of stone as myself. That is the path your class walks. With every injury. You would be wise to fear it. To transform into a being similar to a Golem is a terrible fate.”
