“Yeah, that’s why I didn’t include him. You three all made messes of things. If Ksmvr were here, I’d tell him to just be himself. He has good instincts somehow. You don’t. So listen. The first rule of being high-level adventurers is never pick a side. Never commit to anything, never issue any statements supporting any side in the war with Reim or even in the palace!”
Yvlon nodded along as Colth pulled something out of his bag of holding.
“I’ve got a list of names for you to memorize—actually here, just take this and I’ll make a copy. If they’re on this list, they’re important. Dangerous. It’s got factions too.”
“Ooh, color-coordinated no less. Colth, you’re so helpful.”
Ceria’s eyes lit up as she read the document, and Pisces did likewise with genuine interest. But he studied Drake politics for fun. Yvlon took one look at the names grouped by royal houses and bloodlines and got a headache. She smiled at Colth.
“This is good, Colth. But we don’t have to worry too much. We’re on Yisame’s side.”
He opened his mouth. Gazed at Pisces and Ceria.
“No, I think you just didn’t hear everything I said, Yvlon. We’re the Horns. A neutral party.”
“But Yisame helped us. And she’s the [Queen].”
“Yes, but she’s also…the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Her interests are not going to coincide with ours, and she might have to make an example out of us for what you did to that General Pelican.”
“Right, but she is friendly towards us. Great Sage Etrikah too. So if I can, I’d like to repay her.”
Yvlon pointed out reasonably. Colth put his fingers together and pressed them towards his lips.
“Ceria? Pisces? I get the feeling I’m speaking, but Yvlon isn’t quite hearing me.”
“Oh, she does that. Don’t worry.”
“So she’s actually taking my words to heart?”
“Nope. Yvlon’s gonna Yvlon. You want to argue her out of things? You should have started three days ago. Hey, Zenol’s in Nerrhavia’s Fallen? We owe him too.”
“Zenol! Another person we owe. He seemed to be in hardship too.”
Yvlon snapped her fingers, and Colth began to ruffle his hair up.
“No, no. I know him. Village of the Dead, right? We can be friendly towards him, but he’s not on our side. He’s House Isphel, and they don’t have much going for them at all.”
“We can change that. Isn’t he fighting with a Prince Esceit or something? I beat his representatives once in the Coliseum of Monarchs. Oh, and I started the metal insect swarm. That might be a problem.”
Yvlon was sighing, folding her metal arms as she thought of all the problems she’d caused. At this point, Elena, Delitandra, Nawalishifra, and Buler all turned to stare at her. A vein began to work on Colth’s forehead.
“Okay, never say that again. In fact, why don’t we try from the start. Yvlon? What are we here to do?”
“Repay our debts, collect Ksmvr’s sword, and get out of Chandrar and get to Baleros.”
“Good! Now, what would be the worst thing to do once we get to the Court of Silks where they’ll be trying to get us to commit to any one side? To get entangled in Nerrhavia’s Fallen politics?”
“Commit to a side.”
“Perfect, we’re all speaking common here! So Queen Yisame is…?”
 
——
 
“Horns of Hammerad, welcome to Nerrhavia’s Fallen where the bones of tyrants rest!”
The [Herald] almost screamed the words as soon as they had disembarked from the carpet. The Horns, Delitandra’s company, Nawalishifra, Elena, and Buler, whom Yvlon was pulling with them despite his protests, halted as the grand doors were thrown open.
Pisces almost drew his sword as a pair of [Acrobats] flipped out the doors past him, and golden streamers of silk or some glittering material flew past them.
Yvlon was hit by the wail of stringed instruments played by an entire orchestra and saw bowing [Servants] by the hundred, each one dressed in bright reds, greens, and blues, silk clothing, though they were Cotton.
The Court of Silks were made of Silk-caste Stitch-folk. They stood as a swooping Djinni blew blue flames that lit a trio of chandeliers hanging over the vast chambers of tiered steps.
On the far end of the room was the throne and Queen Yisame. The Horns of Hammerad stood there as commonfolk cheered and scrambled for the little strips of cloth floating past them. Pisces’ mouth was open. Ceria was grinning and waving. Colth’s face was a perfect smile.
It was all very impressive. Elena was gasping as another rank of performers moved past them, tumbling and flipping through the air. She was smiling, and Buler, for all his deeds and the fame of his own carpet, was stunned.
He reached out, and the Stitch-boy hesitantly snatched one of the pieces of cloth-confetti. Then he grabbed another; Yvlon saw one of Delitandra’s people doing the same, and she noticed the commonfolk prohibited from the actual Court of Silks itself were on their hands and knees. Grabbing at the strips.
“What are they doing, Buler?”
He showed her the piece of silk he was holding, dyed gold.
“It’s—it’s silk, Adventurer Yvlon. Silk. And they just give it away! If I had a hundred strips of this—”
Oh, she understood. Stitch-folk; silk was produced en-masse in Chandrar, but it still commanded a high price because Stitch-folk wanted it so badly. With a hundred strips of this silk, Buler could change his cloth to Silk, which conferred upon him the rank and prestige and body even Revi couldn’t afford.
It was like throwing gold coins, she supposed. But even more personal to the people fighting for just one scrap. Fascinating. They hadn’t done that for her, but then, she’d been a [Gladiator] wrongly imprisoned when she had first come here.
For the Horns, after the Crossroads, their reception was far more impressive. Or perhaps it was Yisame. She was smiling, or so Yvlon thought; a fan was covering her face, and she had told Yvlon once that she had to be dignified and show no emotions in public. Great Sage Etrikah had said the same thing.
Actually, where was the Fox Beastkin woman? The old and grumpy [Sage] wasn’t visible; she was probably ignoring this event. Yisame and Etrikah were the only two people that Yvlon really knew in the palace aside from Zenol.
So in a way, this was her true visit to Nerrhavia’s Fallen as a visitor. Yvlon began to step forwards, but then the [Herald] started shouting.
“The Horns of Hammerad have conquered the Ruins of Albez! They challenged the Village of Dead and survived! They—”
Oh, wait, he was still talking. Yvlon held still and watched her team’s reactions. Ceria was purely amused, which made sense, but she had a glint in her eyes as she surveyed the room. Good. She was ice underneath her fun prankster personality. Yvlon didn’t like her circlet, but she could admit Ceria’s intelligence was an asset here.
Colth was giving nothing away, but Pisces…Pisces was gazing at the golden collars on some of the [Servants]—no, [Slaves]. His teeth were bared. When Yvlon touched his arm, he jumped.
“Be calm, Pisces.”
“Same to you. This is—you said the [Queen] liked us.”
“She likes us a lot? I think she’s a fan of Ksmvr. He is continent-famous after that series. See Zenol?”
“Where?”
There were a lot of people. But their conversation distracted Pisces from the [Slaves]. Yvlon understood his feelings, but they had to remain cool.
Cool as Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s [Mages] threw illusions into the air. Giants covered in chains being freed. A storm of swords and a black citadel falling. The history of the nation that had ended Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant.
It was all quite overwhelming. Yvlon was doing her best, but she was feeling slightly overawed. She knew the rest of her team was holding it together, but she’d never had this much attention or seen this much wealth on display. So she did the only thing that made sense:
She closed her eyes. The noise still roared over her, but if Yvlon just pretended there weren’t as many people in front of her, it worked.
Calm, Berr had said. You had to stay calm in moments like these or someone picked your pocket.
She checked them now. Just in case. She was reassured everything was where it should be; her two Relic-class rings were on her fingers, and her bag of holding was at her side. Then she glanced down and cracked an eye open.
“Buler? Where are you going?”
He was edging back, trying to hide behind her. Back to his carpet.
“This isn’t the place for me, Adventurer Yvlon. Not for a [Carpet Rider]! I am not even dressed to be a [Slave]!”
It was true, he was bare-chested aside from a jacket, and she’d wondered how he’d endured the cold high above, and his pants had patches in them.
“You should pay for better pants. But you brought us here. If you want to see this place…”
She handed him a few gold coins in case he needed them. Buler gaped up at her.
“Are you closing your eyes? In front of all this?”
“It’s very overstimulating. Try it if you’re too dazzled by all this gold and magic.”
She smiled at him. Delitandra glanced at Yvlon, frowning. She said something, but the noise was still so overwhelming that Yvlon barely heard her.
Oh, and now they were showcasing artifacts from Nerrhavia Fallen’s armories. Weren’t they retreating in the face of the King of Destruction? After the first hundred magical swords, Yvlon wondered if they wouldn’t be better served in the armies.
She closed her eyes again; she’d been taking peeks despite her closed eyes. Then Colth grabbed her arm.
“We should move forwards! They’re going to be doing this for a while. Yvlon, remain calm. Pretend like you’ve seen this bef—are you closing your eyes?”
She opened them.
“What? Oh, we can move? You seem rattled.”
“This is a lot more than I thought. I knew Nerrhavia’s Fallen was rich, but they don’t have these kinds of displays in Roshal even!”
He hissed at her, and she checked for Elena and Buler; they followed after her, for all Buler’s claims he didn’t belong. Eyes and mouths open as they trailed into the celebrations, and it wasn’t all about them. It just…revolved around the Horns.
They advanced into the heart of the welcoming celebration, and it got more frantic. Yvlon had to admit, by now, her heart rate was elevated, which was highly embarrassing. Do what Berr would do. She could just picture the old [Berserker] nodding and smiling along, having a drink. He wouldn’t be fazed by all this.
So, Yvlon took a drink from a passing [Servant]’s platter and took a sip. Strong wine. She tried not to make a face…then realized the rest of the Horns were staring at her.
“Yvlon, what—?”
“Too strong for me. Here.”
She passed Ceria the cup, and the half-Elf woman blinked at it. She took a sip, eyed around, then took a huge gulp, poured the rest over her head, and the cheering nearly deafened Yvlon. She cracked one eye open again.
“Yvlon what are you doing with your eyes?”
“Closing them. We’re supposed to be collected, Pisces.”
“Collected? They’re firing Tier 4 spells off as entertainment nonstop. That! Did you see that? She’s barely wearing any—”
“Don’t be lewd. Buler, close your eyes. Oh—”
Then Yvlon saw they were in the middle of the room, and the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was gazing at her. From behind the veil and fans, flanked by a lot of important people. Still, the celebrations were going on.
But she was right there. How long did Colth say this was going to be? Thirty minutes? Yvlon glanced at her team, but they were all pressed together, not mingling like the Court of Silks. They were having drinks and pointing, smiling at the Horns.
Possibly laughing along. Or laughing at them? It was unclear; they had to appear rather foolish standing here. So Yvlon squared her shoulders. She knew how the Court of Silks worked. She’d been here once before.
So, Yvlon broke ranks with her team and strode through the banners of silk being tossed in waves. The cheering and music faltered a beat as she walked past someone about to leap through a flaming ring of magic in the air. She lifted a hand in apology. She just had to get to the Court of Silks—perfect.
The nobles recoiled from her as Yvlon smiled and brushed a second layer of armor made out of colorful silk off her arms. She peered around, but the [Herald] wasn’t shouting more things. So Yvlon walked past the nobility.
Now, how did it go? She approached the throne as the noise died down immensely. Yvlon was concentrating, drawing on that old memory hewn into her. The right curtsey for royalty wasn’t practiced in Izril, of course, but she’d definitely learned—
Ah. About two dozen steps from Queen Yisame, Yvlon Byres realized she didn’t have a dress on. Cow dung. But turning on her heel would be too embarrassing and disrespectful.
She did halt when a pair of golden swords crossed in front of her. The Silver Killer of Izril eyed a dozen bodyguards who were flanking her on either side. Blades held just over her head.
A Chandrarian custom, perhaps. It was a narrow passageway, and she would have cut her blonde hair if she didn’t walk perfectly straight and narrow. But she threaded the gap perfectly as they gazed at her. One pivoted, and the sword came up towards her throat—she pinched the blade before it could touch her skin. Moved it back just so.
She hoped no one had seen his mistake. The [Bodyguard] met her gaze and pleasant smile. He was sweating. Then a voice spoke.
“Allow her approach.”
Then the swords withdrew, and Yvlon nodded. Perfectly timed. She walked forwards as the [Bodyguards] stood by the throne, and the [Queen] did not rise, but the woman who was her Voice spoke imperiously.
“Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer of Izril. We remember your name and grant you leave to approach.”
Tact. Apoliticality. She remembered everything Colth had told her. So, the Gold-rank adventurer walked forwards eight steps until it was just her in front of the golden throne. She executed a bow, arm across her chest, like she’d seen Ylawes do.
Then she gazed up and smiled at the [Queen] who was blinking rapidly at her behind the fan. She couldn’t see Yisame’s lips or much of her face, but Yvlon smiled with genuine good feeling.
“Queen Yisame. My friend. It’s good to see you again. I apologize for how I left. I have returned to make amends.”
She paused, waited for a response, but Queen Yisame said nothing. The Voice’s mouth was slightly open as Yvlon glanced at her, and the [Armsmistress] counted to ten before she swivelled on her heel and strode back to her team.
They hadn’t moved from where they’d been standing. The music took a bit too long to start up. Then there was a rise of noise and voices, and Yvlon exhaled as she turned back to face the dais. She nodded at Ceria, Colth, Pisces—they all had open mouths as they gaped at her. She elbowed them hard.
