The mountains of Veird were a good place to go to get lost and forgotten.

… Erick pulled himself away from that thought.

Yetta retreated while Erick brought in several Ophiels. They flew in the turbulent winds of the Mondariska Mountains, reveling in the wind, as Erick studied the problem.

The research station currently had a river of greenery growing out of the crack in the mountain, spiraling down the high mountain valley sides, growing into what had once been a lush green valley below. Bright green leaves grew upon the vine, and all around the monstrous plant laid purple fragments of dead air, like a purple carpet it had rolled out for itself. The Queen Vine had reached the valley floor a while ago. From that fertile valley floor, the Queen Vine had sent up trees larger than all the rest, shedding purple fragments onto other greenery it did not care for, blocking out the sun for every other plant with its three-meter-wide leaves.

The non-daydropper trees had been completely covered by smaller daydropper vines, like kudzu in the mountains of North Carolina in the summer. Those trees were still green, but they were fading; they would soon be dead, choked out of sunlight and resources, if this continued.

And then Erick saw the deer and the birds, rotting on the valley floor, surrounded by purple fragments, half-covered by green and purple vines.

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

As Erick cast his own Domain from one of the seven flying Ophiel, the other six each activated their own version of the spell. Seven white orbs formed around seven winged familiars. Thick air crashed to the ground. A violent shudder rocked the land as dark liquids poured out of the Queen Vine, and every smaller daydropper in the valley.

The Queen Vine retaliated, briefly. Beams of coruscating light slashed across the flying formation of the Ophiel. But the exposed parts of the Queen in the valley withered to nothing faster than Erick thought possible. It could not counterattack when it was falling apart this fast.

She didn’t go down without a fight, but the fight was determined in those first few moments.

Slowly, but surely, the Ophiels and their Domains cleaned the valley of the Queen and its spreading progeny, their spells sending bursts of [Cleanse] up and out of the layer of dead air that blanketed the land. With some direction, seven Domains poured into the research station, into the depths of the mountain, desiccating the second Queen Vine where it grew, killing it with little fuss. This one had not fed upon a hundred thousand people; nor had the necromancers of the Halls of the Dead bonded it with more than a few souls. This Queen Vine likely only had a few extra souls joined to itself, just to make sure the procedure worked like the Halls of the Dead wanted it to work. Or at least that’s what Yetta’s sources were telling her, according to what they were seeing through their [Scry]s sent inside the research station.

And then it was over.

The Queen Vine was dead; the notification hovered in Erick's sight, 95% Participation. It must have been in the low 50s, because Erick did not gain a level. He had already gained a lot, today. Too much, in his opinion.

- - - -

Yetta hovered beside a single Ophiel, holding position in the raining silver sky, above the valley outside of the research station. Ophiel was covered by a [Personal Weather Ward] but Yetta was not; she smiled at the cold rain upon her skin, goosebumps visible on the back of her neck.

Platinum rain washed away what remained of the carpet of purple fragments below and grew the forest back to vibrancy. The animals were gone, but they would come back, eventually.

Yetta’s connection held much of her relief, as she stared down into the growing greenery, and sent, ‘The Queens are dead. The Gellers are dead, and you destroyed Parox’s soul; he’s not even a demon anymore.’ She said, ‘And so begins the clean up, and the destruction of seeds. The Divine Scan should switch to long-range in a few days to facilitate that necessity.’

Erick asked, ‘What about Denutha Odaari? The last name on the quest?’

‘She’s already been captured.’

Erick’s surprise carried along the telepathic connection.

Yetta smirked, saying, ‘She turned up in Greendale at the start of your assault on Odaali this morning. She put herself into the custody of the Green Circle.’

‘What the fuck?’

Yetta laughed. ‘I know, right? She ~claims~ all she wants is for the Viridian King to hear her story before she’s executed. They’re still deciding if they’ll listen to her, so that might take a while.’ She added, ‘The Odaari’s are an offshoot of the Odaali family, you know? She’s actually Cyril’s cousin. I met her once, years ago.’

‘Did she seem like… someone who was capable of this?’

‘She’s a talker and I didn’t feel like talking, so I didn’t stick around. I’ve heard a lot about her since this started, though: Devout Atunirite, valued citizen. Researcher into magical plants, who spoke out against their creation every chance she got. History buff.’ Yetta said, ‘It surprised Cyril when her name was on the quest. Crushed him, really. They grew up together.’

‘… sorry to hear that.’

Yetta sighed. ‘It’s not over. At all. But I think… We can start to rebuild.’ She added, ‘After we’ve scoured the city for traps left by the Halls. Would you mind going over the battlefields with your Withering?’

‘Ah!’ Erick said, ‘Of course I can do that. It won’t catch seeds, though. And. Uh. I don’t really want to do that on top of people.’

Yetta smiled softly, saying, ‘We cleared our soldiers of intestinal rads days ago as soon as we knew you’d be coming. And besides that: There’s no people in those lands, Erick. Not anymore. If you find any undead, leave them, or round them up in a stone cage. Now that we have time, we’re going to need to cleanse their souls of the demonic taint left by the Halls of the Dead.’

‘… Understood.’ Erick sent, ‘Talk to you later, Yetta.’

‘Thank you, Erick.’

‘Glad to help.’

Ophiel [Teleport]ed away from the valley, leaving Yetta behind in the sky, under the lingering silver storm above. The storm rained itself out soon after Ophiel departed.

The sun began to show through the clouds, onto a vibrant green land, onto a glowing yellow Champion who hovered above the mountains, breathing in the chill air, letting her tears fall where they may.

Archmage Tenebrae and his grey castle never showed.

- - - -

Erick began sending Ophiel around to every battlefield he knew of, but mostly into and around the Kingdom City of Odaali. Much of the city was a ruin of ice and stone, but the tall white walls still stood strong, though the words ‘Kill and Exterminate Quest: Humans!’ were still writ several meters large and a hundred meters long across the white expanse.

The words were a [Permanent Special Ward], not paint; [Cleanse Aura] did not clean them away. Erick didn't have [Dispel]...

He bought [Dispel]; he was flush with points, anyway.

Dispel 1, medium range, 10 MP + Special Cost

Dispel a magic.

Costs as much mana as the spell you are trying to dispel.

Exp: 0/100

The first cast of [Dispel] against the giant letters cost 750 mana —once Erick figured out how much mana to spend on the [Dispel]; he had to guess more than once— only targeted a single one-meter section of black lettering, and caused that meter section to explode, damaging that Ophiel for half of his mana and sending a crack up the wall. The rest of the words did not care that a small portion had been erased.

It was not a [Permanent Special Ward] at all. It was a trap.

Erick wasn't qualified to remove this magic. He left it be, and moved on.

Ophiels everywhere turned on [Domain of the Withering Slime] as they flew across the city and across the land, bursting daydroppers down to dry wood and turning ten meter spheres of scattered purple fragments into so much thick air. Yetta was right; there were no people in these lands. But there were undead. Without a necromancer controlling them, they were mindless, shambling corpses, walking down the centers of streets or trapped behind fences. Erick locked those corpses down with [Stoneshape], wrapping them in piles of stone up to their shoulders, and placing them in easy-to-see locations, like to the sides of streets.

He also made sure to activate the Ophiel over his home in Spur, to move him out to the farms, to bring the rain at the appropriate time. He was only a little bit late.

Jane rejoined Erick, Poi, Teressa, and Rats in the underground lair, which Erick had fitted out to be a bit more comfortable after the battle was over. He'd disassemble it all when he was done clearing the land of Daydroppers, but until then, Jane waited, along with the rest of them, in a bit more comfort than before.

Eventually, hours into the afternoon, Erick was sure that he had cleared Odaali and the surrounding lands of every single daydropper he could. Most of that land was a disaster, with scoured fields of blackened stone, and entire towns and cities of little more than ashen logs sticking up from cracked foundations. They would have a tough time rebuilding; of that there was no doubt.

A message came through Poi: Yetta, Cyril, and Wilhelmina wanted to speak with him, inside a new White Palace, whenever he was ready.
