After a second, Erick shouted, “What the fuck!”

Rats joked, “I thought archmage Opal was just mad at him! But nah? He actually is a pushy asshole?”

“We need to move,” Poi said. “I’m not willing to accept that wasn’t a threat.”

“Shit.” Erick asked, “How many ways are there to track people down like he did?”

Poi frowned. “None that are that easy; now that we’re officially on [Telepathic] lockdown and all communication is going through me. You might get some more communications, sir, but I’m capturing them first to quarantine and verify the connection and their senders.”

“Again!” Rats said, “Sorry!”

Poi looked to Erick, saying, “Please allow this to happen, sir.”

Erick began, “Allow wha—”

Something shifted in Erick’s perception of the world as a vague sense of Poi being nearby magnified and then faded into the background, but he was still there. If Erick focused he could feel Poi’s mental presence inside his mind.

“That,” Poi said.

“That’s… weird,” Erick said, mentally poking at the perception of Poi stuck in his head. “Was that necessary? What spell was that?”

Poi said, “[Telepathic Interception]. And apparently, it is necessary.” Poi winced. “If you poke at it hard enough it will go away, but it really hurts every time you do. Sir.”

Erick stopped mentally poking at Poi, then turned to Rats, saying, “Don’t worry about it, Rats.”

Teressa frowned, saying, “He should worry about it, sir.”

Rats seemed to crumble slightly, mumbling, “Sorry.”

Five minutes later they were in a new location a hundred kilometers away, almost the same as the first. Erick needed the time to recover his mana, anyway.

He summoned several more Ophiels; the squad wasn’t up to full, not yet.

- - - -

A single Ophiel hovered into the sky above where the White Palace had been. Rubble and fire had replaced the surrounding stone towers and grasslands. Vast swaths of stone had been raised as haphazard walls across the hilly area, while some people held low to the ground, behind walls or behind rubble.

Other people had more active ideas of how to win a war. Men and women fought across the varied space, swords flashing against swords, magic blossoming against walls and battle lines. Some wore white armor, but most wore varied robes or plate or chainmail of every color. Chaos reigned.

Erick had no idea what the fuck he was looking at.

He watched for a while; Ophiel automatically dodging minor spells that tried to hit him, [Blink]ing left or right, but otherwise doing nothing.

Then he saw someone trying to [Grow] a daydropper.

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

A white sphere flashed around Ophiel, spilling thick air onto the battlefield far, far in every direction, causing countless locations to burst with a [Cleanse] from the deaths of daydroppers Erick had not actually seen. A cascade of retaliatory spells tried to shoot Ophiel out of the air, but Ophiel dodged with [Blink]s and [Swift Movement] and [Airshape]. A few tracking [Force Bolt]s managed to clip him, but they did almost no damage.

Other fliers were not so fortunate as to have eyes all around their body. Erick watched as other people tried to fly, tried to hover into better positions to aim their spells, or to gain the high ground. Almost all of those unfortunate people were shot out of the air as soon as they became an easy target.

People were still trying to shoot at Ophiel, but they were having little to no luck. Erick took notice of the people shooting. With [Ultrasight], he could see their skin was purple or magenta or pale violet, while everyone else, who was not shooting at Ophiel, was tan or brown. There were no horns on the incani, either through their helmets or on those with exposed heads; they must have shaved them off, or something, Erick wasn't sure.

There was a glut of soldiers in white on one side; those were humans. There was a glut of soldiers in darker greens and greys on the other, those were incani. But the rest of the people were wearing so many different colors that telling one side from the other was not simple. Red and blues and greens and oranges. People wore black and grey, or cyan or teal. Whoever the colorful people were, they were not all trained soldiers of Odaali-in-Exile; they were irregulars, and too many of them were of the Halls of the Dead for Erick to feel comfortable blasting any part of the battle down below. He couldn't just... Kill people? Could he? No. He couldn't. Not yet.

But not all of the people down there were still people.

All across the war torn fields, but mostly around the incani sides, people were fighting for their lives, but some of those people were already dead. Undead fortified the incani forces, forming the bulk of the attackers, now that Erick took a minute to understand the battlefield. The undead moved like a coordinated tide into the human lines, while well-hidden casters hung out behind the undead; fortifying the undead with a magic of some sort, but Erick had no idea what.

Suddenly, some great tide of mana burst forth from inside the incani battle lines, so great a power that the flex of the manasphere was visible to the naked eye. The withered grey husks of undead people suddenly bulked up, and raced across the battlefield in hail-mary attacks against the humans. Some humans hunkered down in fox holes, casting spells into the horde, blasting apart bodies, but the undead were stronger now; spells struck them and bounced off, doing little damage, halting none of the undead advance. The humans that hunkered down paid for that decision with their lives as they were physically torn apart by empowered undead.

Those who ran fared little better. Shimmering beams of white light shot out from the advancing horde, cutting through fleeing soldiers, ricocheting off of hastily erected [Force Walls], clipping through the human defenses.

Not one minute had passed since Ophiel had entered the sky above.

Erick was overwhelmed. People were dying to those already dead, but there were still living people in the middle of the horde. He couldn’t fire at a battlefield like this, could he? He decided that yes, he could kill the necromancers, for sure, But aiming where he knew people on the human side were going to die? Ophiel dodged while Erick tried to find an opening. Erick looked over his spells, and decided, as he saw one young woman torn to shreds, that he would have to do something.

Shimmer X, long range, 1 minute per level, 250 MP

Tiny specks of incandescent heat fill a large space, igniting flammable objects and dealing <damage>. <Shimmer can gain or lose damage based on the material inside the spell>.

Erick layered [Shimmer]s into the undead lines. Sculpting the spell to maximize coverage, aiming where [Ultrasight] showed that everyone was already dead. The spell wasn’t perfect; many undead escaped coverage, but many living humans escaped coverage, too. Several necromancers did not escape the fire.

Bright specks of light flowed up through the undead, turning dried flesh into burning meat, then to ash. Fires already burned on the hills, but [Shimmer] kicked up burning debris into globular spheres of fire that held the line, brightening to an inferno. The undead inside were burned to a crisp; they could not get through.

And then they could.

Bursts of what had to be [Temperature Ward] filled the [Shimmer] from the inside out, ripping the spell apart, scattering dying motes of flame into the air. Undead that had not fully burned began to stitch together, magical force transforming into withered flesh; shambling, burned bodies, restored to fighting strength.

They must have figured out Erick was using Particle magic based on the attack on Odaali.

Erick had Ophiel layer more [Shimmer]s into the enemy line, into different locations. The Halls could burst the spell apart with a proper [Temperature Ward], but they still had to spend mana and time to break the spell, and that time cost them everything. While they were distracted by flaming air, the human line reorganized. Spells unaffected by [Temperature Ward] ripped into the distracted Halls of the Dead, cutting down undead and incani alike. The Halls were routed; they just didn’t know it yet. Without their undead swarm, the human lines advanced against the Halls.

Erick looked away. This section of the battle was won. Odaali’s forces summarily broke the Halls of the Dead and then began to move inward, to advance against the other battle lines all across the rest of the hilly land.

Ophiel flew high, higher still.

From high above, Erick witnessed the true scope of the battle.

Odaali-in-Exile and the Halls of the Dead clashed over a dozen kilometers in every direction. Bright explosions and flashing swords. Blood and mud. Death and undeath.

All Erick had done was save one squad, and killed a few hundred undead. He was lost; he had no idea where to go next. He wasn’t a commander; he hated war movies and everything about this situation. He liked the romantic comedies and the dramas. He had no idea what to do, so he sent a telepathic link to someone who would know: Yetta.

293 damage and a major headache poked out from the inside of his skull. Erick briefly came back to himself, sitting in the stone room, clutching his head as the pain began to ebb away.

“Fuck.” Erick said, “That hurts.”

“Sir?” Poi asked.

Erick sat back in his chair. “Tried to contact Yetta to find out what she wants, but she’s not accepting connections."

“She's contacting right now.” Poi said, “She said to coordinate with Jane.”

Erick nodded, summoned up the last of his ten Ophiel, then sent to Jane, ‘Jane? Are you there?’

Two seconds later, Jane replied, ‘Quite— Quite busy! Dad! What!’

‘Yetta said to coordinate with you. Who should I shoot?’

After a long moment, Jane sent him an image from her perspective of a magenta-skinned man in enormous bright blue armor, racing across a battlefield. A mad grin showed in the slit of his helmet, the only section of his body that wasn’t covered by thick plate. He wielded a sword made of radiance the size of himself. Bodies lay bisected in his wake.

A location came next, along with the words, ‘This fucker!’ A pause. She sounded calmer as she sent,‘Parox Geller from the Kill and Exterminate Quest. He’s never fought unless he thinks he can win, and right now he’s right. He’s murdering the rank and file and avoiding the big hitters. Every time any of us get near he laughs and runs, while his people fight better than ours. It’s lose/lose for us to fight him, Dad.’

Erick hesitated for one, long, excruciating second.

Then he made a single Ophiel [Blink] rapidly across the battlefield, flying out of range of enemy spells, into the fray ahead.

Parox Geller was a guillotine of blue, flying across the ground, his sword of light held to the side, flat and long, as he swept through a soldier in white armor. Red erupted, but none of it touched Parox’s pristine blue armor. As Erick watched the soldier fall to the ground, dead, the man’s white [Conjure Armor] vanished, leaving him in a rough spun tunic and brown pants. The man was just a kid, seventeen at most. He was a kid who tried to stand up to a mass murderer and failed.

The kid was not alone. A dozen such bodies laid around the hilly fields. Several dozen other soldiers in white fought other incani in irregular attire, some in robes, some in armor, all across the greater area, but in this singular location, the soldiers in white were facing Parox on his own, and Parox was winning.

Multicolored beams of light shot from the surrounding soldiers.

Parox moved in a straight line to his next victims, avoiding every single beam but a few. He cut down another two soldiers. The beams that did manage to hit Parox reflected wide, carving burning or freezing or decaying trenches in the land around him. Parox didn’t care about the minor hits; they did little to nothing against him.

Erick had only been in the air, riding Ophiel’s senses, for four seconds.

Erick fired a storm of [Pure Force Beam Bolt]s through Ophiel, at Parox, altered to invisible Force.

Parox noticed, but he danced through the battlefield as though expecting to avoid normal [Force Beam Bolts].

Pure Force Beam Bolt, instant, long range, 100 MP

A bolt of pure mana unerringly strikes a target for 250 + 3x WIL

But these tracked, like a [Force Bolt], carrying with them a lot more power than most.

One clipped the man in the shoulder, knocking him off balance, burrowing in for 230 points of damage, surprising him, leaving a smoking hole in the blue armor. The next two strikes hit his legs for the same amount. Five of them struck his helmet, almost at the exact same time; four of those for 230 damage, but one for 2300, a critical, a lucky shot that had gotten into the slit of his helmet, followed instantly by another.

Parox faltered, looking to the sky—

Just as a rapid [Call Lightning] connected the man to the gathering clouds above; a brilliant stab of electricity that shimmered around Parox.

Around Parox.

He laughed at the sky, standing there as another bolt erupted, doing fuck-all as much as the first, wrapping around and over him, but not through him; he had put on a [Personal Weather Ward]. Somehow, he knew what to do. That shouldn't have surprised Erick as much as it did; people were always talking in his own ears these days. But still, it pissed him off.

Someone flashed a dark spell to the side of the area—

Just as the third lighting bolt smashed through Parox Geller, frying him from the inside, doing uncountable amounts of damage, locking the warrior’s face in a rictus of laughter as his body fried from the inside out, and his blue armor melted around him.

Parox Geller died. His body stood there, locked into a melted metal coffin, steam rising from his corpse.

- - - -

