“The understanding is that the Head of Houses on the other continent are Hallowed of their Houses, and by extension the current primary city their House resides in. Generally speaking, in that primary city, they reign over lesser branches of other Houses. Regardless, those who rule the cities are Hallowed as those here aspire to be. I do not know the difference aside from the direct association with a House. I don’t believe it is a question of time, as Croi has been under the current City Lord for longer than several Hallowed run Houses on the other continent have existed.”

Jord swallowed and raised a little hand. “The cities are closer together, and there was more fighting in the past. New houses and new Hallowed around the edges—only occasionally in the heartlands—always seem to rise through fierce contests with their neighbors, only seeming to enter the fullness of their power after major victories.”

Pamant sighed, shaking her head. “Yes, the cities are more spread out here, but how could having fewer to oppose your power make you weaker?”

Tala almost interjected, but she held back, realizing that she’d burdened these four with too many secrets as it was.

-They aren’t recognized by other powers, not explicitly, and those on the other continent are, and they recognize one another through conflict and strife.-

And that can’t happen in the same way here as these cities are too far removed both from the other continent and one another.

-Indeed. Though, there is potential for the Houses to create Hallowed under the current system.-

True, but I don’t think the other conditions are right. Houses are too dispersed a thing, unless they were to base their authority in a similar manner to Anatalis?

-Very true, and if what he said was any indication, that would be no easy task.-

Jord finished off that topic with a final point, “Regardless, with so many Hallowed, is it any wonder that more achieve Sovereignty?”

And that was a fairly reasonable point.

The remainder of Tala’s time with the fragment keepers was pleasant, but lacking in revelations. Still, she stayed with them for a couple of hours, chatting and building rapport for the days to come. After all, she had no idea when she would need such experts in the future.

Still, soon enough it was time to depart, and the five exchanged formal goodbyes before each departed back to their prescribed duties, feeling both lighter, and more confident in their chosen paths.

Tala, for one, was quite excited for what was to come.

Alat was a bit morose that they wouldn’t be eating the world-fragment, but that was to be expected.

-Now, we just need to figure out how to break the world to remake it.-

Tala huffed a laugh as she moved back toward her sanctum. I think that will be beyond our adventure, Alat. If I understood things correctly, practically all of Zeme would need to be dissolved, torn apart and fed into the world-fragments for reshaping.

-Exactly. Sounds fun.-

Tala sighed, choosing not to engage her alternate interface further. She simply had too much to do to cater to such delusions of grandeur.
