Staring up at the starry night sky, Min Gyu rocked his chair and stroked the sleeping Kishi curled up in his arms, reminiscing of simpler times when such a beautiful sight had brought him no end of wide-eyed wonder.

In his younger days, he’d contracted a feverish love of warfare and became a man besotted with battle and bloodshed. Every morning he woke up thinking of war, and every night, he dreamed sweet dreams of the Martial Dao, his hunger for strength and progress so insatiable it threatened to consume him. When one conflict drew to a close, he set his sights on the next, riding from one end of Central to the next while praying the fighting would continue until he arrived. It was an escape of sorts, for he’d long since given up on everything else. His parents cared little for his happiness and only saw him as a tool to propagate the bloodline, a chip to be bartered and married away. Women were not worth the trouble they brought, a deceitful and duplicitous bunch who wanted to take him for everything he had. Children were messy and irrational, a burden he never once cared to sire, and other popular pursuits such as hunting, calligraphy, poetry, and whatnot all bored Min Gyu to tears.

But war? War was a pairing of order and chaos, a life well suited to his tastes, which was perfect because it was all he had left. Battlegrounds were a magical place where anything and everything could happen, so long as one had courage, blood, fortune, and steel enough. Lives were lost and reputations made, friendships forged and grievances cleared, all while Warriors indulged in the heady and overwhelming thrill of the fight to their heart’s content. Outside of battle however, he had guidelines to follow and a routine to adhere to, ones he improved on and perfected over years of campaigning. The standard camp set up was optimal on flat ground, but what about in hilly terrain or by the riverbank? There were clear rules outlining how to post sentries, but one could adapt to the circumstances and should post more or fewer guards depending on any number of factors in play. Everything was standardized, whether it be tent size, uniform material, or even latrine depth, and because there was a rule for everything, this taught Min Gyu the importance of discipline, while war taught him to remain flexible since life did not always adhere to the rules. Rigid was good and comfortable, but adaptability was the key to survival on the battlefield, because matters rarely went the way the writers of those rules expected them to.

The duality of order and chaos in army life was exactly what Min Gyu needed to overcome his aimless existence, a structure to adhere to that provided the freedom to follow his heart’s desires. In battle, he only ever needed to concern himself with the enemies before him, and outside of battle, all the major decisions were made for him. How to march, who to meet, where to camp, what to eat, all this and more was delegated to others leaving him free to pursue he love of the Martial Path. There was no need to cozy up to higher ranking officers in hopes of securing promotions and better postings, he only needed to show up for battle and follow orders. Outside of combat, he trained as much as he could and made merry the rest of the time, putting much emphasis on temporary friendships and living in the moment with the comrades he had at his side, because come tomorrow, there was a good chance many of them would be dead. With battle to come with dawn’s first light, appreciating the starry night’s beauty became all that much more important, for it might well be the last night he ever bore witness to.

And now? Now he was a jaded old man whose blood relatives had abandoned him and comrades had all gone off and died before him, leaving him to discover the wonder of family all too late and relearn the risks of trusting too easily.

The worst part was not that he’d failed this new family of his and possibly set them all on the path to civil war, but how they behaved as if none of this was his fault. There was no talk of forgiveness because they did not care to lay blame at anyone’s feet, and instead treated this reunion like any other. After little Rain returned from his near-hostile meeting with Shuai Jiao and the Ryos, he simply shared everything that took place while the family broke bread and concluded with, “So now we wait.”

And wait they did, sitting out in the courtyard together as they were wont to do, with Mila and Yan pretending not to worry while Rain and Lin-Lin teased the quin pups. The former pair’s worry didn’t go unnoticed, which was why the latter were teasing the pups in the first place, to distract the mind and lighten the mood. Baatar and Sarnai sat side by side, their heads touching in a moving portrait of love and affection, while Akanai and her husband did the same in another corner of the courtyard. The touching scene sat in stark contrast to the Death Corps Guards and Bekhai Sentries patrolling the manor, both inside and outside the walls, while hidden Aspirants lurked in the shadows to watch and wait for their foes to act. Throughout it all, the multi-talented Luo-Luo played a moving tune that touched many a heart and soul alike, a poignant melody which did much to ease the tension and anxiety. At least, it did much for Min Gyu, because it was difficult to believe the Commander General would so easily accept Falling Rain’s miraculous abilities and give up whatever ambitions he harboured. Hell, Min Gyu himself wasn’t sure what to make of the boy’s Spectre Devouring prowess or what implications revealing them to the Empire at large would have going forward. All he knew was that the Mother Above must surely be watching over the boy from on high, even if Rain himself didn’t believe in her existence.

Silly child, to be so lacking in faith despite being privy to so many of Heaven’s secrets...

Looking back on his life now, Min Gyu was certain the Mother Above had also graced him with Her favour as well, else there was no other way to explain just how life worked out so well for him. Not only because he survived where so many others died, but also because he found his Path so naturally after running away from home and fortuitously saving the right person who’d been born to exactly the wrong sort of parents. Becoming a Warrant Officer was his first true step along the Martial Dao, one he took unwillingly, but matters would’ve turned out so differently if he’d simply enlisted into the Imperial Army of his own volition. Chances were he would’ve finished training and come out as little more than a Captain at best, one without wealth or backing to secure himself a proper posting. Thus, he might well have gotten stuck on garrison duty somewhere out in the middle of nowhere for a decade or two, and then he would’ve never have risen to the heights he enjoyed today. Being a Warrant Officer offered him a much needed degree of freedom, most importantly of which was the vital ability to pick and choose which conflicts to serve in, for though he harboured an obsession with chasing after the harsh winds of war, he’d always loathed the minor minutiae of actual command.

That being said, though he had no regrets regarding his Path, it was always interesting to think back and imagine what might have become of him if things were different. Would he have abandoned the Martial Path altogether? Met a good woman and fallen in love? Become a degenerate drunk and gambler? Gone crawling back to his parents? Or would he have focused wholly on his career to rise through the ranks as an armchair Officer?

It was this last possibility which tormented him so on this lovely but unappreciated autumnal night. Over the course of his military career, Min Gyu had often come across the type, those wealthy scions of powerful families who used money and connections to secure their military ranks, and rarely was he ever impressed by their abilities. They were always overly concerned with face and prestige without caring to earn any for themselves, riding on the coattails of others and shamelessly taking all credit without contributing anything more than coin. These silk-pants almost always had a competent and hardworking second-in-command to handle all the real duties of military office, but every now and then there would be an idiot too arrogant or unruly to be controlled, and the cost for their incompetence would be measured in human lives. Difficult to count the number of times he’d ignored an idiot’s orders to hold an untenable position or carry out a suicidal charge over the course of his career, a decision he never made lightly. In fact, he only narrowly avoided military sanction by making the correct decisions time and time again until he gained a reputation for snatching victory from the jaws of defeat, or at the very least preventing a bad outcome from spiralling into complete disaster. Some people had no place giving orders on the battlefield, and Min Gyu admitted that tactical command was far from his strongest skill, as he was more effective fighting on the front lines than commanding from the rear. Only then could he get a feel for the battlefield and know how to act and react, when to charge or when to hold, when to retreat and when to call for reinforcements, an instinct born of constant conflict that failed to exhibit itself while poring over maps and formations.

This realization made young Rain’s proposal to separate ranks between battlefield and tactical commanders an interesting one. Liu Xuande, Chen Hongji, and even young Rustram and Jorani were all living proof that the strongest Warriors were not necessarily the best choice for issuing battle-wide commands. It was rare to find a Warrior as multi-talented as the likes of Commander General Shuai Jiao or the traitor Bai Qi, a truth everyone and their mothers knew in the Army proper, but few cared to bring up on account of how strength was venerated above all else.

Alas, even this was not a hard and fast rule, but more of a guideline than anything else, and it pained him to see young Rain struggle so hard despite his strength and intelligence. Since the boy’s miraculous recovery, Min Gyu had been hard at work helping him gather allies in Central, and yet all his efforts were a mere fart in the wind, barely heard or noticed in the grand scheme of things. The Ryo Family seemed to have all but thrown their weight behind the boy after losing a Sword King and revealing a Sword Saint to hold up the Heavens. Alas, Min Gyu allowed his sympathy for the family and his trust in Da’in to override his caution and better judgment, which allowed Jeong Hyo-Lynn to play him like the muddle-headed old fool he was.

In hindsight, it was clear he should’ve seen the signs earlier and might well have were he not so inept in all things political. Lady Jeong graciously accepted his help and made use of his reputation to win over allies and threaten her enemies, but she always kept him at arm’s length when it came to any decisions of importance. He called on old acquaintances to find guards, workers, and contracts for the Ryo family holdings, and sang praises to the high heavens about their blacksmiths, who were admittedly fine craftsmen one and all, though their weapons were inferior to what the Bekhai produced. He was even foolish enough to trust her household with sending and receiving their mail, a trust Lady Jeong betrayed to read through all their correspondences and alter or omit them as she pleased. From start to finish, the Ryo Family as a whole only benefited from their association with little Rain, which Min Gyu believed would foster a sense of friendship, camaraderie, and gratitude, but now, it seemed as if Lady Jeong had simply taken it all for granted.

No, that wasn’t entirely fair, for there were ample reasons to side with Shuai Jiao and the Imperial Clan, though Min Gyu was still not entirely certain why there were sides at all. In his eyes, there was the Empire and the Enemy, and that was that, but alas, not all thought like him. He once believed Shuai Jiao was similarly apolitical, but recent events had proven otherwise. The cunning tactician played the game well too, roping in the Ryos from right under Min Gyu’s nose, though he supposed it wouldn’t have taken too much effort once it became known that little Rain was not entirely in favour with his patron, Shen ZhenWu, whereas Yong-Jin and Shuai Jiao were still firmly in the former Legate’s good graces. This was likely the straw which broke the camel’s back, but there were other factors to take into account, the most important of which was Lady Jeong’s discovery of Da’in’s silly infatuation for Kyung.

Oh what a fool that girl was, to have eyes for a man so unsuitable for her station and double the fool for getting caught making advances upon him. It wasn’t that Min Gyu was looking down on his grandson, but even once Kyung was freed from his Oaths, his status would still be nowhere near enough to match the shining jewel of the Ryo Family. He had no wealth or political power to offer, and while he was an exemplary Martial Warrior, he fell short of true rising dragons like Rain or Gerel. Kyung couldn’t even give the Ryo family an heir, which was usually the whole point of these marriage alliances, meaning there were plenty of eligible young men who were more suitable for Ryo Da’in that she’d already rejected. Difficult to say why a smart girl like her would chase so adamantly after Min Gyu’s boy, especially after he already refused her several times before. Perhaps it was an act of rebellion, choosing a man so unsuited to her family’s needs, or perhaps she was simply seeking comfort after losing her beloved father. Only the girl knew what was going through her mind, but at least Kyung had the good sense not to give in to Da’in’s demands. No rice had been cooked, but the girl represented the Ryo Family’s lifeline and even the mere hint of impropriety would be enough to ruin her carefully maintained image.

A silly thing to quibble over, a woman’s chastity, especially considering the great value men placed on ‘conquering’ women just like her, but while heroic men were venerated for their lusty appetites, heroic women were supposed to be chaste saints who should blush in the mere presence of the opposite gender. It was evident in how others tried to discredit Yan at first, with hateful rumours aplenty regarding how she ‘seduced’ him into making her his heir and terminal Disciple, rumours which quite nearly ruined her entire military career before it started. Even after marrying young Rain and displaying a mastery of Air and military tactics beyond what most of her peers could match, there were still whispers of how Du Min Yan wasn’t deserving of her rank and accolades. Were she a human man instead, she would be beloved by all, a celebrated hero of Central they would all be proud to have poached, but instead, they held her to an impossible standard and called her unpleasant names, all because she was a woman and half-beast who didn’t fit the proper image of an ideal heroine.

An image which fit Ryo Da’in so well she might as well have been cast from the same mould.

Hence why she was still unmarried despite being one of the most eligible women of Central, because her skill, beauty, and reputation were all so exceptional it afforded her the luxury of going against convention to insist on a husband willing to marry into the Ryo Family. Of course, it wasn’t so simple to attract a man of means who was willing to accept such terms, and thus the list of suitors interested in Da’in declined sharply in quality, but Min Gyu was certain the girl’s high standards were mostly to blame. Alas, the young were so often foolish in matters of love, and his phenomenally talented God-Daughter was no different, falling ‘deeply in love’ with a man so far below her station that their union could never be. Even if this were true, her love was one sided as Kyung himself said they were not suited, else Min Gyu would have moved Heaven and Earth to see them happily wed, even if he had to fight Lady Jeong to make it so. Why Kyung wasn’t interested in Da’in was a question for another day, but Min Gyu was just glad it was so, because the Ryo Family had shown their true colours today. Marrying Seoyoon to Yong-Jin was akin to declaring themselves against little Rain, a selfish act unbefitting of a noble and heroic family like theirs, especially after they’d done so much for them.

To say their betrayal stung was an understatement, but Min Gyu could not fault them, not entirely at least. From Lady Jeong’s perspective, Min Gyu had been the man to introduce the fox into their hen-house, a beast who tried to steal away their prized egg Da’in. It didn’t matter that Min Gyu was not aware of the situation or that Da’in herself had been the aggressor, for in the eyes of a loving parent, fault could be laid at anyone’s feet besides those of their precious child’s. A shame about young Fung, who was smitten with Seoyoon and had been hit hard by the news, but the boy was no stranger to heartache and would recover soon enough, already drowning his sorrows in one pub or another. As for public sentiment, most found the pairing between Seoyoon and Yong-Jin logical at the very least, as they would not be the first couple to emerge from the Hwarang. What Min Gyu found odd though was how Seoyoon was made the sacrificial lamb for Da’in’s mistakes, married off to Yong-Jin who lacked even a family name, yet still refused to become a son of the Ryos. It was, in short, a losing proposition for the Ryos no matter how you looked at it, because this loose connection to Shuai Jiao was hardly comparable to what they could get from almost any other powerful family. A marriage to Ishin Ken-Shibu for example would solidify both houses, and there were countless smaller houses that could be roped in with Seoyoon as the prize, but instead, Lady Jeong chose to express loyalty to the Commander General in return for what appeared to be nothing at all.

It wasn’t that Shuai Jiao was wholly absent from politics, but his public image meant he couldn’t outwardly favour the Ryos just because of this marriage, nor did he possess any commercial interests that could be used to support them. Marshal Yuzhen believed Marshal Yo had been working with Shuai Jiao all these years, and while Min Gyu wouldn’t go so far as to say she was wrong, the secretive nature of their partnership made it so that even if this were true, he couldn’t outwardly favour the Ryos either, not without good reason independent of their ties to the Commander General. So the question remained, why did Lady Jeong choose to marry Seoyoon off to Yong-Jin? What profit was there to be had? Not only was Fung an impressive young seedling and the sole heir to a wealthy city, little Rain would’ve likely given them a king’s ransom in wedding gifts and favourable contracts, because despite his vocal dissent on the topic of nepotism, little Rain would always choose to favour his allies whenever possible. One only needed to look at the meteoric rise of the Spring and Autumn Consortium to see the truth of the matter, though to be fair, there were some remarkable talents hidden within that seemingly unremarkable group of low-born merchants.

Young Rain even went so far as to claim the Spring and Autumn Consortium had earned every copper and title they held now, and while Min Gyu didn’t disagree that they put in a lot of effort, he would also note that they only had the opportunity to do so because they bought into his War Bonds early, which is why others would say they rode his coattails to success.

Heaving a sigh as he sank back into his chair, Min Gyu closed his eyes to the starry sky which he could not wholly appreciate and wished he were of more use. The Sanguine Tempest was a force to be reckoned with on the field of battle, but no match for the likes of the Sword Saint Jeong Hyo-Lynn, nor was he an unmatched commander like Ethereal Palm Chen Hongji, to say nothing of the Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao. Min Gyu’s sole value lay in his sabre and fan, a Warrior whose only use was to send at one’s foes, and in the subtle games of Central politics, this meant he was next to worthless. He couldn’t even garner enough coin or support to fill Yan’s five-thousand man retinue with elites, so what was he if not a burden to his beloved grandchildren? Little Rain even had a stately manor built for him in the Northern Citadel, a none too subtle suggestion that he stop interfering with their marital bliss and move his wrinkled old ass out of their home.

Not in so many words of course, for even the boy would not say something so crass out loud, though Min Gyu could imagine the boy thinking as much.

“Sorry grandfather.” Seated beside him all this time, Kyung finally deigned to speak, but it was not what Min Gyu wanted to hear.

“What for, my dear boy?” he asked, patting Kyung’s cheek fondly. “You’ve done nothing to apologize for. Ignore this old man’s melancholic noises, for they are like the creaks and groans of an old dusty house; insignificant and inevitable.”

“I’ve brought troubles to grandfather’s door.” Ears pressed against his skull, the boy still held his head up high despite his meek and unassuming words.

“By no fault of your own.” Cracking a smile, Min Gyu chortled, “You can hardly be blamed for catching a woman’s eye, now can you? A shame you’ve no interest in Da’in though, for there would’ve been much less complications had the rice been cooked.” The cat ears flickered as Kyung’s shoulders tensed, confused and unable to understand Min Gyu’s meaning. Leaning over to whisper in a conspiratorial tone, he said, “If you’d taken her maidenhood, then we could have easily resolved this matter by changing your family name from Du to Ryo.” Or more likely Min Gyu would’ve had to fight off the murderous Sword Saint as she tried to erase her daughter’s shame, but no need to mention that. The boy felt guilty enough for being a part of this mess, no need to point out how he might have made it worse.

“Oh.” The cat ears dropped again, alongside his shoulders and head as he slumped over in... regret? “...Should I have...?”

“Heavens no,” Min Gyu replied, chuckling all the while. “I’d have boxed your ears myself if you sought to take advantage of my God-Daughter without truly loving her. You did well, though I suppose it was all the easier considering you weren’t interested. Must have proven quite the blow to her ego though, you refusing Da’in’s advances, and I wager it might well have had something to do with how insistent she was.” Lady Jeong had caught Da’in mounting Kyung (fully clothed) after defeating him in single combat, a rare victory for the girl since they first started sparring. Little did they know the Matriarch of the house was lurking in Concealment to check on her daughter’s progress, though Da’in should not have behaved so scandalously even if she was wholly confident of their privacy. Yan’s fault, most likely, as the girl did so love to gossip about her husband and their exploits, much to everyone’s chagrin, but Da’in and Seoyoon hung onto Yan’s every word which likely led to this.

Still... even though Min Gyu knew their pairing would never work, there was a small part of him that would have loved seeing his grandson and god-daughter wed. Were Ryo Dae Jung still alive to shoulder the Heavens for his daughter, Min Gyu suspected the man might’ve even supported Da’in’s choice since he did so love to dote on his children. That was something Min Gyu would’ve never known had he not stayed with the Ryos for so long, because even though he was a strict authoritarian of a General to the world at large, at home, Dae Jung was the ‘easy-going’ parent who was likely to laugh at his children’s antics while Hyo-Lynn doled out the discipline.

It showed in how both daughters took after their mother, for girls were often more dutiful and obedient, while stubborn Geom-Chi even went as far as to refuse a second Spiritual Weapon multiple times in order to follow in his father’s footsteps. He never said as much of course, but being an outsider allowed Min Gyu to see things more clearly than those involved, and he spent many an afternoon helping guide the young man after his father’s tragic passing. Not that Min Gyu had the intention to replace Ryo Dae Jung, but men and women needed different types of attention, and his mother’s constant questions about his feelings and overbearing presence was stifling the poor boy, when all he needed to do was vent his anger and frustrations.

Min Gyu had hoped to help young Geom-Chi in that regard, but that was no longer possible, as the Ryos had all but cut ties with him by siding against little Rain. Still, what a perfect world it would have been if Kyung had married Da’in and they lived happily ever after, a dream which fell through before Min Gyu even realized it was a possibility. A real shame that, though it made him worry for his grandson, because if even Ryo Da’in couldn’t catch Kyung’s interest, then what sort of woman would he accept? “Kyung,” Min Gyu began, turning to his grandson who looked so uncharacteristically out of sorts. “If you don’t mind me asking, why did you reject Da’in advances?” Pausing to choose his words wisely, he tried to keep an open mind and Sent, “Is it because you... prefer men? Or did something... happen... like with Li-Li?” Heavens forbid, Jin Kai’s sins were heavy enough, and Min Gyu wasn’t sure if his old heart could bear it if there was still more to uncover.

“No grandfather.” More confused than offended, Kyung simply shook his head and sat in slumped resignation, hesitating to say what weighed upon his chest, but Min Gyu gave the boy all the time he needed. After a long period of silence, Kyung heaved a sigh and finally opened his mouth to reply, before closing it again. This scene repeated itself a few times until he found the courage to say, “I am... unsuited for Lady Da’in.”

Even though these words mirrored Min Gyu’s earlier thoughts, to hear Kyung say them out loud filled his belly with fire. “Nonsense!” Smashing a palm down on his rocking armchair, he surprised himself by shattering the chair out from underneath him, forcing him to Lighten and lock his knees to keep from falling on his ass. Three years ago, this would have been an impossible feat for a man in his condition, but now it was as easy as turning a hand, though sweet Kishi was most upset by the rude awakening and abandoned his lap to go seek peace and quiet elsewhere. Smoothly coming to his feet while ignoring Rain and Lin-Lin’s giggles, Min Gyu faced his grandson and asked, “That’s why you refused her advances? Because you deem yourself unworthy?”

At Kyung’s nod, Min Gyu stomped his foot and slapped his knee, unable to contain his anger until it spilled out into his actions. “Foolish boy,” he said, hating himself for how Kyung cringed at the statement. Stretching his arms out to take his grandson by the shoulders, he gently guided him to stand up. “Answer me this, grandson of mine,” Min Gyu began, choosing his words carefully. “Ignoring everything else, do you have feelings for Da’in?” The boy nodded immediately, his cat ears disappearing into his short hair and eyes cast down at his feet. “Deep feelings?” Another nod. “You want to marry her?”

The boy hesitated, but nodded, and his eyes finally looked up to meet Min Gyu’s gaze. “But I will not be a Ryo. I will be a Du, from now until the day I die.”

“Bah.” Delighted as he was by Kyung’s touching gesture, Min Gyu waved a hand and said, “If a woman like Da’in accepts you, you shouldn’t let a silly thing like a family name stop you. Du or Ryo, you’re still my grandson and Disciple, and no one can ever take that away from you.” This was not the important part though, so Min Gyu shook his head and continued, “But I do not understand. If you care for her, then why reject her advances?”

“Because he didn’t want to make trouble for you or the Ryos, Grandpa.” Striding over to give her big brother a hug, Yan reached up to pinch his cheeks with a smile and said, “You and your stony expressions... I actually believed you weren’t interested, else I would’ve told you to act on your urges before locking you both in a room somewhere.”

An unexpected emotion flashed across Kyung’s face, and Min Gyu almost laughed out loud. “Scared are you? You should be, because if you wish to wed Da’in, then there will be many trials and tribulations to overcome, and though I will support you as best as I can, I cannot guarantee you will succeed.” Tightening his grip on Kyung’s shoulders, Min Gyu narrowed his eyes and added, “But you will never know what might happen if you never find the courage to even try. Forget about the obstacles in your Path and follow your heart. Do you wish to pursue her? If so, then I will hold up the Heavens for as long as I am able, and do everything I can to convince Lady Jeong to acquiesce.”

Or distract her, if it came to that. Kyung had already won over Da’in, so it would likely be a simple matter to convince the girl to elope, and given what she told Rain in the meeting earlier today, Min Gyu put even odds on Lady Jeong not hunting the couple down and five to one that even if she did, she wouldn’t have Kyung castrated. Well, perhaps three to one odds, as the woman was cold and calculating to the extreme, but Min Gyu was almost completely certain she would allow a Healer to restore Kyung back to full health.

Probably, but such were the risks one took for love. Even if things didn’t work out, Kyung would always regret it if he never even tried. That was Min Gyu’s greatest regret, giving up on love altogether. He’d been hurt too many times before, first by his childhood sweetheart, then by a string of courtesans and Warrior women who were all too happy to have a tumble in the sheets, but unwilling to become the bride of a vagabond Warrant Officer. By the time Min Gyu’s career came to a crashing end, he’d long since given up on finding love, a grievous mistake he didn’t want to see his grandson make.

The rest of the family came to offer Kyung their love and support, with hugs and head pats aplenty, settling in around they boy to discuss things further. The boy was too aloof and reserved in his response, but Min Gyu saw the truth behind his stony exterior, for he had fast become overwhelmed by all these unfamiliar feelings and could barely even process his own thoughts much less respond to them. The others accepted this with grace, for they’d already accepted Kyung as a member of their patchwork family, the same way they accepted Min Gyu himself. It was good to know the boy would have a place to belong after Min Gyu’s passing, whether it be a family in Central or the north, but it would be best if he could have both.

Greedy to chase after two hares before securing even one in hand? Perhaps, but parents and grandparents alike only wanted what was best for their descendants, and Min Gyu wanted the world for Kyung, and perhaps it wasn’t too late for him to settle down himself. If only he could get a meeting with the lovely Madam Gam...

The family talked long into the night about plans and suggestions, and little Rain even had the audacity to suggest they simply kidnap Da’in away in the darkness of night, a plan which Min Gyu thought was a joke but progressed into the planning phase all too quickly. The Bekhai were nothing if not straightforward, and in their eyes, if Da’in and Kyung were both willing, then the only thing keeping them apart was physical distance. Better to try and convince Lady Jeong to agree, because even though she saw Kyung as an unsuitable husband for her most talented daughter, the truth was that the Ryos would benefit greatly from this association. Fung was Rain’s friend, but Kyung was his Brother-in-Law, a much closer and more significant connection. So what if the Ryos had betrayed Rain’s faction and tied themselves firmly to Shuai Jiao’s ship? Even if civil war should break out, having a link to both sides all but guaranteed the Ryos would come out victorious.

With Lin-Lin all but falling asleep on her feet and Ping-Ping squeakily insisting it was time for bed, the entire family was preparing to head in for the night when young Rain came to alert. “The Commander General is on his way over,” he said, glancing towards the direction Shuai Jiao must have been coming from. “On foot, with Monk Happy and no one else.” Not entirely true, as there was a Divinity from the Brotherhood also watching over them and likely an Imperial Divinity as well, but it was best not to even mention the movements of Divinities and leave everyone second guessing. “Sorry. Seems like bed will have to wait.”

The boy left to make fresh tea and snacks while Yan stood with Min Gyu and whispered about taking him shopping for a new chair in the morning. “Something sturdier made of steel, perhaps,” she murmured, giving no face at all as she joked about his earlier mishap, and he feigned indignation while struggling not to laugh along with her and lose all semblance of face. “Mila, weren’t you going on about some sort of sturdier, reinforced metal?”

The girl’s cheeks turned as red as her hair and Min Gyu sympathized with poor Mila even though he didn’t know why she was so embarrassed. Yan was a devilish girl with a mischievous streak, one which endeared her to all even as she poked and prodded at their weaknesses. It was a side of herself she kept hidden from the world at large, for the same reasons Da’in hid her petulance, because such behaviours were unbecoming of a Warrior Woman of the Empire. Strong, yet feminine, beautiful, yet chaste, these were but the beginnings of a long list of demands the people placed upon their Heroines, and even someone as powerful as Akanai was unable to rise above it all. Poor Mila tried her best to buck the trend, and it resulted in her being considered the ‘least worthy’ of Rain’s wives, at least as far as public perception saw it.

But Mother forgive the first fool to bring this up with Rain himself, for though She might show mercy, he had none for anyone who dared disparage his beloved wives. Call him a fool and an idiot to his face and chances were he’d laugh and agree, but say something bad about his wives and he might well draw blood then and there. Passion was something Kyung could stand to learn from little Rain, but one step at a time. Min Gyu’s grandson had already won Da’in’s heart, though it still remained to be seen how she felt after his stubborn rejection to disastrous consequence. Either way, the seed had long since been planted and taken root, so all Kyung needed to do was nurture it with attention and affection for it to blossom into beautiful love.

The Death Corps guards announced the Commander General’s arrival without any pomp or fanfare and brought him into the dining room where the entire family was waiting, even the youngsters who would only get in the way should violence ensue. Not that Min Gyu believed it would come to this, not right away at least, as Shuai Jiao was not a man to act in so murderous a fashion. Rain and the Bekhai however were another story, and Min Gyu respected the Commander General’s courage for not only coming here alone, but also partaking of the tea and snacks without hesitation despite having been given a scare by Rain’s would-be assassin earlier today, a man who emerged from Concealment within stabbing range without being noticed.

Min Gyu had not enjoyed being one of the practice targets for Rain’s masked assassin, but his pride remained intact since no one else had managed to catch the sneak thief either.

After barrelling through the polite formalities, Shuai Jiao dabbed his lips with a worn handkerchief and sighed. “Say I believe you,” he began, looking so tired and worn as he sat in a room full of Peak Experts and potential enemies. “Your miraculous ability and unheard of claims, your wild ambitions and selfless motivations. Say I believe it all and am willing to support you. Surely you don’t think that will be the end to your troubles?”

...Why would it not be? If the Commander General were to ally himself with little Rain, then who else was there to fight?

“Of course not,” Rain said, rudely playing with his cup of tea, but only because it was a nervous habit and not out of any desire to annoy the man across from him. “Retaking the West and Cleansing the inhabitants will be the easy part. The difficulties come after. Even if we can secure the Western Province post-haste, there will be a pressing need to relocate a sizable portion of the Western population, and we won’t be able to hide our actions for long. In fact, now that you know my secret, I don’t think I’ll even try to hide what I’m doing, but that means the general population will soon learn that I am not slaughtering the prisoners and actually freeing them instead.”

Oh... of course. Min Gyu was a fool for not seeing it earlier. He believed the boy’s claims, but no matter how much proof or Oaths they provided, there would always be those who didn’t believe. The people of the West would have many difficulties ahead of them, including but not limited to discrimination and misguided demagogues howling for their execution. It would be fine if they limited themselves to mere speech, but fear and loathing made for a poor combination that could easily turn a peaceful gathering into a full-blown riot. Not to mention how even Rain’s reputation had its limits, and his own soldiers might refuse to aid him in setting loose a ‘plague of Defiled’ upon North, South, or Central.

The boy briefly touched on these topics and more before going even further to say, “Most worrying of all is the Imperial Clan’s response. I know Xing Yong Wei has been supervising a kill squad of Disciplinary Corps Warriors who specialize in silent purges, and I don’t doubt the Emperor will turn those dogs loose on the relocated citizens of the West. Their tolerance for risk is next to none, but I will not allow them to slaughter thousands of innocents for no reason besides caution.”

“Easier to have the Disciplinary Corps denounce your actions,” Shuai Jiao replied, casually sipping his tea as if discussing the weather over a game of chess. “Then the people will rise up and carry out the bloody work for them. You cannot protect every refugee you save, and you would be a fool to even try.”

“Well, I never intended to bring them back to Central,” Rain replied, though it was clear from his expression that doubts were beginning to take root. “There’s plenty of untamed wilderness up north for Western refugees to get lost in.”

“But with winter approaching, can the North afford to feed so many extra mouths? And while concealment and isolation will work to your advantage, unless you conquer the entirety of the Western Province adjacent to the Azure Sea, your refugees will have to sail past a great number of harbours and villages before arriving in the North, with next to no chance that their presence goes unnoticed.”

“Not to mention the fact that South and Central also want a share of the workforce, yea? Taking refugees in presents a significant risk, but given how a large number of them are likely to Create their Cores and be grateful to the province that takes them in, then you cannot just sit back and let the North monopolize them all.”

“All true,” Shuai Jiao admitted without even a hint of shame. “We have suffered many losses in so short a time and must make plans for the future. So? How will you address these issues and keep your refugees safe?”

“Not sure yet.” Shrugging, Rain all too casually continued, “I was hoping you or Marshal Yo might have an answer. I asked Yuzhen about it, and we’re fairly certain we can keep them safe in the North, but Central is too reliant on trade and travel to keep a large group isolated with any success. I have ideas to distract from the refugees, but I doubt they would reassure you in the slightest considering my intents.” Draining his cup dry, Rain refilled his cup and stood up to fill Shuai Jiao’s as well, stretching one arm over the table while leaning on his other hand instead of using both hands to hold the teapot as decorum demanded. Another bad habit rather than calculated insult, one Min Gyu was helpless to resolve given the boy’s lacking reach, as he already had to stand on tiptoes to fill the Commander General’s cup. “Either way,” Rain continued, matching Shuai Jiao’s steely gaze and not coming up short, “I will not allow myself to be controlled by what others might do. I can only do what I believe is right, and deal with whatever may come from there. Yes, this action presents significant risks, and yes, there is a chance I will not be able to shoulder the consequences myself. By proceeding in this manner, I might well ruin my reputation and lose all the goodwill I’ve gained with the people of North, South, and Central, but so. Fucking. What?”

Drawing himself up to full height, Rain trembled with unrestrained righteous fury, his Aura emanating out like a burning sun of emotion. “The people of the West are suffering even as we speak, and I will not delay their deliverance just because the task before me seems too great. I have waited long enough, and now it is time to ride to their aid. Even if I fail, the attempt will be enough to show the people of the West that their Empire has not abandoned them entirely and give them something I fear they have long since lost: hope. Where there is life, there is always hope, but sometimes we must be reminded of this simple truth, and that is what I have set out to do.” Leaning over the table to face Shuai Jiao head on, he continued, “There will be many trials and tribulations ahead, some from within as well as from without, but that will not stop me from even trying. I would appreciate your help in overcoming these troubles, but if you refuse to provide any help, then I’ll settle for you getting the fuck out of my way, else you force my hand and I will have you removed.”

Even though civil war was still a very real possibility, Min Gyu was appalled by the boy’s lacking manners. How dare he speak to Grasping Vines Shuai Jiao in this insolent manner? Even as an enemy, he was deserving of respect, but thankfully the decorated veteran took no offence. Instead, he took yet another sip of his tea while nodding young Rain. “So, it is not hotheaded arrogance that drives you,” he said, his gaze softening every so slightly, “But an overabundance of empathy. This explains much. I do not know which one is worse, but I cannot say I disagree with the sentiment, and it is reassuring to know you are at least somewhat aware of the consequences ahead.” Heaving a sigh, the Commander General stood and stepped back before falling to one knee, raising his fists in a proper martial salute while simultaneously lowering his head. “Very well then. This one is here to obey, Legate. Your orders?”

Just like that?

Rain likely shared Min Gyu’s misgivings, but the boy recovered quickly. “...Marshal the troops as discussed. We march within the week.”

As the boy stood over the Commander General and took charge of the situation, Min Gyu sank back in his chair with a sigh, letting loose a breath he didn’t know he’d been holding. Sudden and anti-climatic though this resolution might be, this outcome was surely the best one possible, and he marvelled at how well the boy let bygones be bygones with only a moment’s hesitation. No longer was he merely a rising star full of potential, but rather a Dragon among men, one who would dominate this stage which he was born to stand upon as he shouldered the responsibilities of a nation.

Falling Rain, Legate of the Outer Provinces and perhaps, soon enough, saviour of the West.

After that... only time would tell if he would save the rest of the Empire, or throw everything into chaos in his efforts to do so, but regardless of the outcome, Min Gyu would support him every step of the way.

Chapter Meme
