So knowing all this, the Supreme Families were understandably wary of Lord Husband’s ambitions, and not without reason. In the first few years following his Ascension, Lord Husband had been none too shy about championing what he called the Rule of Law, a principle in which all people, peasant, merchant, Warrior, and Nobility alike, were equal under the law. A fanciful aspiration, and one Luo-Luo’s Imperial Father had encouraged since it put Lord Husband at odds with the Yang Family who oversaw the Disciplinary Corps. Of course, that support ended abruptly when it became clear that Lord Husband’s idealistic vision was popular with not only the masses, but the impressionable youth of wealth and nobility alike. Add in his reputation as a man of honour and repute, and Lord Husband was rewriting the ideal that so many youths aspired to, a consummate and unparallelled Warrior who espoused the burdens of responsibility and what he called the Dao of Peter Parker, who as far as Luo-Luo could tell was a Demi-human half-spider Lord Husband had idolized in his past life.

“With great power, comes great responsibility,” He would often say, with all the intonation and solemnity of a prayer. Words he lived by, else he would never have closed himself off in the village these past few years.

A gruff, yet hesitant bark shook Luo-Luo out of her thoughts, and she turned to find Buddy climbing through her office window. Or at least, he had been before he stopped to bark, his short fur all bristly as he growled around the basket of berries and yam leaves clenched between his jaws. The deep rumble resonated throughout the room and shook Luo-Luo to her core, but while the sound was intimidating to be sure, she knew Buddy was all bark and no bite. “Buddy,” she began, shaking her head with a smile as she waved the silly hound in. “You don’t recognize me? It’s Luo-Luo.”

The transformation was startling to behold as Buddy opened his eyes wide and pulled himself up through the window with a complete and utter lack of grace. Though capable of Cloud-Stepping up to the second story office, he climbed through the window like a normal, unathletic beast, his hind paws scrambling to find purchase on the windowsill before heaving his heavy rear-end up and over the obstacle. He landed with a thump in a similarly ungainly fashion, somehow keeping his head up even as his front paws slipped on the hardwood before his belly and hindquarters came crashing down. Unbothered by his rough landing, Buddy’s tail wagged so hard his entire body shook as he padded over while making silly noises of doggy delight, utterly relieved that she wasn’t actually a stranger and there was no danger to be had. The dog was no less powerful than Lord Husband, yet it behaved with less dignity than most hounds, which was all part of his ineffable charm.

Unable to kneel down to greet him properly, Luo-Luo pointed at the elevated doggy bed she’d commissioned just for him, one her guests sometimes mistook as a cushioned footstool. Again, the dog made a show of his lack of grace as he slowly pulled himself up onto the bed and carefully set his basket of goods down before raising his head for her to scratch. It always brightened her day to see how expressive his little doggy face could be as she massaged her fingers into his scalp, causing his big brown eyes to close as his mouth stretched into a sweet grin.

Sensing the arrival of her friend, Noodle poked her head out from Luo-Luo’s padded hip pouch and slithered over to greet him, though the emerald serpent was quickly distracted by Buddy’s basket of treats. Not for long however, as fruits and vegetables were of no interest to Noodle, so she draped her twenty-centimetre-long torso loosely across Buddy’s shoulders and rested her chin atop his head, seeking out her share of Luo-Luo’s affections after her morning wakeup call. “Good morning Noodle,” Luo-Luo said, greeting her sweet snake with the saccharine tone she reserved for all the pets. “I see you decided to wake up for today.”

The snake wiggled her entire body in delighted response, setting her emerald scales to shimmering in the sunlight as she stretched herself out before looking this way and that in expressive curiosity. Though not the most physically affectionate of their pets, Noodle had a certain charm to her mannerisms that most did not appreciate, and there was no denying her lustrous beauty either as she coiled around Luo-Luo’s bare left wrist in a scintillating show of serpentine affection.

As for Buddy, no one would ever call him pretty, but he had his own, lovable charms. Unfortunately, she wasn’t equipped to properly appreciate them today as he pressed his head against her leg and left a trail of dark brown dog hair embedded into her silk dress. “Yes, I know Buddy,” she crooned, giving his forehead a big kiss. “I love you too, but this is a new outfit I still have to wear at dinner, so you can’t sit in my lap.” Divine Beast though he might be, his grasp of Common was still shaky at best beyond a few key words and phrases, so she plucked a berry out of his basket and presented it to him instead. “We can’t cuddle today, so why don’t I feed you instead?”

It was a game they played, one born out of a misguided attempt to teach Buddy how to eat in a more refined manner, or at least keep him from flinging food all over the place whenever his bowl was placed in front of him. Wild and voracious though he might be when it came to meal time, she found that he was surprisingly gentle when taking food out of her hands, and doubly so when she held his treats between her thumb and index finger. Seeing him gingerly mouth at the treat as if deathly afraid to lay tooth to skin never failed to bring a smile to her face, because he always looked so concerned and frustrated when doing so. Today however, there was none of his normal eager greed, and quite the opposite in fact, as he craned his neck to throw his head so far back his nose was pointed straight up at the sky. What really brought a smile to her face however was how he tilted his head ever so slightly, just so he could keep an eye on the Spiritual Berry he so obviously desired, yet was saving for some other occasion.

For a time, she amused herself trying to get him to eat, and laughed at his antics as he twisted his head this way and that, right up until a knock came at her door to signal the arrival of her mid-morning snack. Taking a moment to regain her composure, Luo-Luo refastened her dress’s clasp around her neck and called for her Imperial Servants to come in, and for the umpteenth time, bit back a joke about how many Imperial Servants it took to serve an Imperial Princess her mid-morning snack.

Five. That was the answer, but there was little humour in it, merely the truth, each one striving to appear useful while keeping tabs on the others. The first two carried trays bearing a small bowl of fruit jelly, while the third’s tray held a teapot and a single cup. The fourth carried a single spoon, while the fifth bore two cloth napkins, having gone above and beyond to provide one for sweet Buddy. That was Bao Xiu, a silly and carefree girl whom Luo-Luo suspected hailed from the Liang Family, and thus might well be her cousin. A supposed ally, but the competition within the Supreme Families was second only to the competition between the Families themselves. Meaning all five of Luo-Luo’s Imperial Servants were not only scheming to seduce Lord Husband, they were also reporting back his every move to their original families.

And now Bao Xiu was trying to win Buddy over, but the Divine Dog was not so easily fooled. Or at least, Luo-Luo hoped he wouldn’t be, as he wagged his tail and sat up straight as Bao Xiu tied the napkin around his neck with a giggle and gave him a quick kiss on the nose. Spy and aspiring homewrecker though the girl might be, it was difficult to hate someone who spent every day and night by your side, and Luo-Luo saw much of her past self in her Imperial Servants. Though she had no desire to share her beloved with even more women, Lord Husband’s indifference to their advances had caused the five Imperial Servants no small amount of grief, and she sympathized with their plight. Even the most beautiful woman in the world would feel ugly and unloved after ten years of rejection, but such was life.

There were no good solutions to be had, or at least none any of the involved parties would accept, so Luo-Luo put her concerns aside to enjoy her mid-morning snack. At first, she resisted the idea of tea and dessert so early in the morning, but Imperial Father insisted she go along with Di Shi Shen’s lavish and excessive meal plans and Lord Husband agreed. It had little to do with pomp and pageantry as she first suspected, and everything to do with practicality, as every meal provided by Di Shi Shen was cooked with the finest Spiritual ingredients available. A necessary luxury, according to her Imperial Father and Lord Husband both, one meant to shore up her lacking foundation brought about by her inability to Create her Core without outside assistance. The difference was easily seen when comparing Luo-Luo’s abilities to her Imperial Sister, Liang Xiao Rou, a consummate Warrior on the cusp of inheriting their Imperial Father’s title as the Divine True Warrior of their generation.

Not that Luo-Luo minded, as she cared little for battle and bloodshed. The food was to die for however. Most of the dishes were of fruits and vegetables, as not even the Di Family had a method of raising Spiritual Beasts in a timely and sustainable fashion. What they did have was several thousand years of experience cultivating Spiritual crops which they provided to the Supreme Families to help nourish and refine the bodies of their most prominent members. As such, Luo-Luo had grown accustomed to dining on the finest Spiritual foods available each and every day. Though unable to secure enough for her sister-wives, she was more than willing to share, but Lord Husband would not allow it. Better to focus all the benefits on herself rather than spread them out thin, and looking at her tiny bowl of fruit pudding, which was barely more than a mouthful, she had to admit his argument held merit.

Before she could begin however, a chorus of girlish giggles drew her attention, and when she saw what had so captivated her Imperial Servants, Luo-Luo joined in their mirth. Most days, sweet Buddy would inhale his portion of the treat, one provided by Di Shi Shen solely because the Divine Dog had won the man over. Today however, Buddy showed immense restraint as he gingerly opened his mouth wide and tried to pick up the tiny bowl between his teeth, but the small size and voluminous amounts of drool kept him from succeeding. The silly hound tried once, then twice, then turned to her and let loose the smallest of whimpers, and Luo-Luo couldn’t hold back her laughter. “Oh Buddy,” she crooned between laughs, stroking his jowls with the back of her fingers so as not to get them covered in his saliva. “What are you doing, you silly little dog?”

Using his nose to poke his bowl, Buddy then brought his head down to his basket of berries and yam leaves, repeating the motion twice more in quick succession and growing more frustrated each time. It was clear he wanted to place the bowl in his basket and save it for later, but Luo-Luo couldn’t help teasing him. “Are you saving your dessert for later? A welcome home gift for Lin-Lin and the bunnies? You miss them don’t you? A whole week without Mama Bun to snuggle up to, or Ping Ping and Pong Pong to play with while they all look for wild Spiritual Plants.”

And the Divine Beasts responsible for fertilizing them, which was why Lord Husband insisted Medical Saint Taduk and Sister Lin-Lin bring both Divine Turtles with them for protection. Buddy didn’t answer of course, or even understand the question as he continued alternating between the bowl and basket, until he grew so frustrated he started barking. “Hush now,” she admonished gently, because even without using Resonance, the hound’s baying could wake the dead, and Buddy quieted down with a disgruntled huff. “Here,” she continued, patting his head before making room in his basket so that the bowl would not crush his berries. It made for a strange sight, a tiny bowl of fruit pudding in a basket almost overflowing with berries and yam leaves, but Luo-Luo had long since learned not to question Buddy’s strange antics.

Her actions resulted in a wave of love and adoration emanating from the sweet hound, and she spent a few minutes more petting his fur and basking in his pure emotions before returning to her own dessert. This resulted in a more powerful Aura radiating from the Divine Dog, a wordless plea of hunger and yearning, one which combined with his sad brown eyes and drooping ears left her no choice but to share half her dessert with him. She fed him one small spoonful at a time, loving how big his eyes grew while licking the implement clean. When there was no more food left, she let him lick the bowl too before her Imperial Servants cleaned up and left. Once they were alone again, Luo-Luo reached into her desk drawer for the ball and string which Buddy so loved to chase, but when she looked up again, the hound was nowhere to be found, having eaten and run with his basket of Spiritual goodies without so much as a second glace.

How rude.

