To lessen the sting of Buddy’s abrupt departure, Luo-Luo contented herself with singing to Noodle, who raised herself upright and swayed side to side in rhythm with the melody. Though singing was still one of her least impressive skills, ten years of practice had seen her improve by leaps and bounds. Mostly because it was easier to find opportunities to sing to Lord Husband than it was convincing him to sit still for a Zither performance, especially if she wanted to hold or be held by him at the same time. In truth, Buddy’s behaviour wasn’t all that different from Lord Husband’s, who might shower her with love and affection one day, then become distracted by something or the other and disappear the next. Like these last few days, for example, having all but disappeared after deciding to throw an impromptu dinner party on the anniversary of his victory in Shi Bei exactly one decade ago.

An idea Luo-Luo had brought up almost half a year ago mind you, which Lord Husband had rejected out of hand because ‘it sounds like too much work’. Granted, she had suggested a banquet in the city of Shi Bei itself, with invitations to everyone who took part in the defense and possibly an appearance from her Imperial Father the Emperor himself, but it still rankled to have Lord Husband dismiss her ideas only to turn around and agree when his old war buddies made the same suggestion. With less than a week to prepare mind you, and no invitations to anyone outside of close friends and family either, but that meant little to the Supreme Families once they caught wind of the event. Hence the mountain of paperwork awaiting her, which mostly comprised of innocuous letters intended to be sent to all of Lord Husband’s erstwhile allies and acquaintances and explain the lack of invitations. Not just Martial Warriors who fought in the battle, but also civil servants and merchant contacts who aided in the restoration of the West and might well take offense from being excluded from Falling Rain’s banquet celebrating their effort and sacrifice.

A factor Lord Husband never even considered, because despite all of her efforts to educate him on matters of politics and decorum, he still refused to conduct himself as a dignified Martial Warrior should, much less like an Imperial Prince Consort or the sole True Human Divinity in existence. Despite being one of the most powerful and influential men in the Empire, Lord Husband had remained true to himself since his Ascension, and might well have grown less mature in the time since.

As evidenced by his actions some two hours later, when he crawled in feet first through the window only to stop half way and wiggle his behind. “Oh no,” Lord Husband Sent, in the stilted tones of a two-copper actor, “I’m stuck. I sure hope no one takes advantage of me in this compromising predicament.”

Rolling her eyes with a smile, Luo-Luo took a moment to appreciate the view of Lord Husband’s shapely rear outlined in his loose pants, which sat just under his hips for no reason other than his personal comfort. It made him look ridiculous at times, and he had to pull them up far too often for her tastes, but after sitting in this tight dress for the better part of the morning, she had to admit that there was something to be said about comfortable clothes. She couldn’t even bring herself to stand, since she’d have to go to great lengths to avoid wrinkling the silken fabric, so she simply watched for a moment longer before replying, “Oh no. Lord Husband, wait right there and I shall send for my Servants to save you.”

“Please no.” Bolting upright inside the room, Lord Husband smoothed his shirt and pulled up his pants with a pout. “Why do you think I came in through the window? To avoid that flock of – Woah!” The last was said with a wide-eyed stare as he looked her up and down, though more down than up. “That is some dress.”

“Oh this?” she asked, coyly looking down at her outfit as if she’d forgotten she was wearing it. “A gift from my Imperial Father. It arrived this morning, and I considered wearing it to tonight’s dinner.”

“Then think again, my Imperial Princess.” Striding over to her side, Lord Husband feigned gruffness was spoiled by his tender actions as he turned her chair with a gentle effort of Plated Domain before extending his hand to help her stand. “Can’t be having you look like that, not in front of company. You’ll get all the married men in trouble, and I’ll be stuck beating back the unmarried ones with a stick.” Holding her out at arms length, he spun her right, then left to get a better look. “Yea, no. You should wear something nice and concealing instead, like a rain poncho or thick winter jacket and pants.”

“Does Lord Husband not approve of this one’s outfit?” She gave a little twirl and struck a pose, fluttering her eyes all the while.

“Your lowly husband most certainly does, oh Imperial Princess.” The husky growl which followed sent a pulse down her spine, and she happily posed for Lord Husband while simultaneously dancing away from his grasping touch, playing a game of predator and prey which she was more than happy to eventually lose. “And therein lies the problem. I approve far too much.”

But not so quickly just yet, as it was a rare occasion to find him in her office, and doubly so when there was work he could help with. “Perhaps you’re right,” she declared, releasing his hand and returning to her seat with a sigh. “I’ll change into something more modest after I finish up here.” Paying him no mind, Luo-Luo focused on the document in front of her and sighed. “If only someone were here to help me put the finishing touches on all these important letters.”

Rather than argue or protest, Lord Husband sprung into action. “What are these?” he asked, scanning the letter before her. “- ‘Sincerely apologize for the lack of invitation’? Oh come on.” Amazing how a man in his position could act so childish, and sound it too as he tossed the missive aside and huffed in displeasure. “It’s a small dinner for family and friends, which just so happens to coincide on the ten-year anniversary of our victory in Shi Bei. Big whoop.”

“Indeed it is a ‘big whoop’,” Luo-Luo replied, ignoring his bristling sarcasm whilst stumbling over yet another curious turn of phrase. “This letter in particular is for Minister Liang Yin Hang, whose efforts as you might recall were pivotal in the establishment of your War Bond initiative, which were instrumental in the victory we celebrate today.”

“Efforts. Ha.” Seating himself onto her armrest, Lord Husband slipped his arm around her neck and grumbled, “Would’ve gotten things done quicker if he kept quiet and out of the way. Hi Noodle. Boop.”

Which while true, wasn’t the point, as the once-lowly Administrator had risen high riding on the tides of that singular success, and now held the highly coveted position of Minister of Finance. As such, keeping up the pretense of friendship and camaraderie was more important that the actual relationship itself, as a public falling out would sever what little influence Lord Husband still had with his former office. “And yet he is still counted among your allies, so there is no sense in giving him reason to turn him against us,” Luo-Luo explained, even though she knew he would understand just as well as she did if he ever cared to think it through. “Not to mention we still need his help to garner much needed support for your Education Bonds.”

After greeting Noodle with a tap on the nose, Lord Husband set the snake upon a cloud of Domain which let her swim about the room, and she set to exploring their surroundings now that she was no longer constrained by gravity or had to worry about losing all her body heat to the cold floor. Scowling up a storm, Lord Husband sighed and said, “They’re happy to pay for war, but refuse to spare a copper to help the children of the Empire.” The contempt in Lord Husband’s voice was thick as always, while the subtle undertones of resignation and defeat were louder than ever. “Won’t let us pay for it either, because the people in power would lose face if private citizens without government positions started feeding children in their stead. It’s ridiculous. The Empire produces more than enough food to feed every last one of its citizens, yet somehow ensuring kids don’t go to bed hungry will cause mass economic strife when their parents decide they no longer have to work.”

Which was an exaggerated summation of the oppositions talking points, but Luo-Luo knew better than to argue semantics when Lord Husband was in one of his moods. At least she could report success with her shell companies, having created falsified ledgers for fake business that existed only on paper so that they could buy up all the Education Bonds the moment they were approved for sale. In the end, Lord Husband would still end up funding the vast majority of the proposed schools, except he would be paying more than necessary to keep up the charade and allow the politicians in power to save face. How frustrating to see so much pushback on the matter after what they’d accomplished in the Northern Province. There were multiple schools in every city of the North, and hundreds of smaller ones scattered across various towns and villages, as well as plenty of support in place for more isolated or impoverished areas, and Lord Husband had taken great pride in his success.

And was equally disheartened to watch his efforts in Central and the South fall flat year after year due to local politics. Alas, distant waters could not quench nearby fires, and even a mighty dragon cannot overcome a local snake. The only way to ensure success was for Lord Husband to relocate to Central or the South and personally oversee his efforts, but time and time again, he refused to take any direct action and instead tasked Luo-Luo to accomplish miracles. Difficult to do with the Supreme Families and local factions alike pushing back to see where the limits of Lord Husband’s tolerance lay after a full decade of inaction. It wasn’t just the schools either. All of his efforts were being blocked in some way, shape, or form, including creating a minimum wage, worker protections, safety standards, and various other passion projects he championed in his spare time, without any real passion, if she were to be honest.

He had his reasons, and she knew them well, but there were times when she felt so frustrated having to work at an issue she just knew he could fix with a few words in the right ear. Like the current pushback on all his efforts in Central and South. Economic concerns aside, the real reason for this blockade were simple. The nobles of the Empire all wanted to know how far they could go before running afoul of the Savage Divinity, an ill-fitting moniker if there ever was one.

To this end, she tried to convince Lord Husband to take more of an active role in his philanthropic efforts once more. “I’m sure much of this pushback could be cleared away if you just sat down and discussed it with the Minister,” she said. “You remember how he was always skimming over letters and missing out on context as such. A single, in-person conversation would go a long way towards seeing your Education bonds approved.”

“So he can parade me around Central, remind everyone how we used to work together, and use that to extort exorbitant bribes out of everyone he works with? Forget it.” Scowling in a dark fury, Lord Husband pushed her stack of letters aside with a wave of his hand, one which saw the papers lift right off the table and settle onto the floor in a nice, neat pile. “In fact, tell Cao Cuo I’ve changed my mind. I’m done playing nice. If the Magistrates of South and Central don’t want me building schools in their cities, then the Consortium and I will take our businesses to the villages which welcome our presence and build our own cities if need be.”

A move which amounted to economic warfare, considering how much money the Spring and Autumn Consortium paid in taxes, wages, and daily expenses, to say nothing of Lord Husband’s own sizable holdings. This was a path Luo-Luo was certain they should avoid even as a bluff, because doing so would only remind their foes how much influence he possessed, and in doing so might cause them to unite against him. Now wasn’t the time to argue however, not when he was acting more on emotion than logic. Her fault really, or rather, the fault lay with her dress as he used his Domain to lift her out of her chair and seat her on the table in front of him. “Enough talk about business,” he said, his eyes full of desire and filling her with the same as he graced her with a wolfish smile, one which made her forget all her protests about work and responsibility. “Let’s revisit your lovely dress instead. I’d like to see more of how it looks.” Running his hands over her hips, he kissed her deeply and stole her breath away, leaving her gasping for air when he broke away with a grin. “In particular, how it looks on your office floor.”

And miracles of all miracles, he had her out of the dress in short order without so much as tearing a stitch, a result neither of them could find complaint with. Whatever passion he might lack in his personal projects, the flames of passion continued to burn bright in their marriage, and for this, Luo-Luo counted herself most fortunate. Though her life was a far cry from the idyllic fantasies she’d envisioned in her youth, what she had was far better than anything she’d ever dreamed of.

The love of a good man and close-knit family, treasures more precious than all the dresses and jewels in the world.
