Bedecked and bejewelled in the noble trappings of aristocracy, Divine True Musician Liang Xiao Luo strode through the halls with nothing less than the grace and magnanimity her station demanded.

Her dress was a gift from her Imperial Father, a snug, silken, sleeveless affair dyed in a shade of vibrant lavender available only to the Royal Family. The intricate embroidery painted a fabulous tableau of flowers in bloom using gold wire rather than thread, with embossed gold-plated clasps in place of buttons or ties to hold it all together. Its high-collared neckline gave her a modest appearance, while the tasteful, diamond-shaped cut-out across her chest allowed her to display her feminine curves without appearing too wanton or immodest. The snug waistline hugged her hips and left little to the imagination, while a lilac stole draped around her waist and hanging loosely from her arms kept most of it hidden away from plain sight. Ten years ago, a dress like this would be considered scandalous in high company, but given Lord Husband’s lusty appetites, it was only a matter of time before others took notice and tailored their fashions after what best caught his eye.

No outfit was complete without accessories of course, and Luo-Luo’s was no exception. Her coifed high-bun hairdo was held in place by a mother-of-pearl comb, one inlaid with gold and silver markings to depict a phoenix on the wing. To add to the motif, she wore an elaborate golden circlet that made her hair look like an immaculate nest the legendary bird was returning to, which she herself thought was a little silly. Wonderous as the creature might be, Luo-Luo would never allow any bird to nest in her hair, not even a Divine Beast capable of piercing the Heavens and Ascending to a higher plane of existence.

The rest of her jewellery was nothing of note. Twin chains of dangling amethysts dangled down from her ears, and a single jade pendant hung around her neck to settle between her bosom and help draw the eye. She also wore a golden band of twin phoenixes around her right shoulder, and a single jade bangle around the same wrist, one easily removed should she ever see fit to play the zither. All in all, she was the very picture of nobility as she moved step by careful step through the halls, ringed by her coterie of Imperial Servants bustling about her. One to clear the way, one to carry her Sceptre, and three more to ensure no one ventured close enough to tread upon her voluminous stole trailing behind her. Five Imperial Servants in total for the Imperial Princess, and as a member of the Royal Family, Luo-Luo could accept no less.

Or at least that’s what she’d been told, but as always when it came to the Royal Family, the real answer had more to do with politics than anything else. Five Supreme Families meant five Imperial Servants, one hailing from each so that they might further their family’s cause in blatant disregard for tradition. Add in how her Imperial Servants had threatened to invoke their Privilege and take their own lives should she refuse their service, and Luo-Luo had no choice but to accept and endure their nagging about living up to expectations as the Imperial Princess. Not that anyone in the village cared much about her status. It was all so silly, dressing up like she was going to a banquet in honour of her Imperial Father instead of heading into the office in the vain hopes of making a dent in her mountain of paperwork. There was no helping it though. The dress and jewellery had only arrived this morning, and her Imperial Servants had made such a fuss about trying it on before the banquet this evening so they would have time to make any necessary alterations or possibly even find a replacement dress. A veiled barb that was, insinuating she might not fit into the outfit, or worse, would not look good in it. The thought made her turn her nose up as she proceeded up the stairs, because despite her thirty-five years of age, Luo-Luo was more physically fit than ever before. This was the result of keeping to a Martial Warrior’s training regimen for the last ten years, and while she wasn’t as taut and athletic as Mila or slender and supple as Yan, Luo-Luo was in far better physical condition than most Imperials, for whom indolence and indulgence was a way of life.

Yes, Luo-Luo looked phenomenal in her dress and she knew it. Sure, the eyes of the villagers held more amusement than awe, and the cold, chill mountain breeze made her yearn for a thick, fur cloak to wrap around her. All of which was beside the point. Fashion was not meant to be practical after all, else it wouldn’t have taken so much time and effort to slip into her new dress. That was partially why she was still wearing it despite not needing it until tonight’s dinner, as she refused to go through that long and arduous process a second time today. There had been far too much squeezing and pushing to get all her bits into the right places, because despite all her training, a decade of indulging her sweet tooth with little to no restraint had taken a toll on her hips, adding a layer of padding that no amount of training or exercise could render away.

How easily it escaped her notice for all these years, having grown accustomed to the lavish meals featuring Spiritual Plants brimming with Heavenly Energy, to say nothing of the delicious and delectable desserts made by Di Shi Shen, the cook provided to her by her Imperial Father. Combined with Lord Husband’s love of loose-fitting sundresses and slinky, silken gowns, and Luo-Luo had little reason to pay heed to her waistline. The only solace she had was the fact that his affections had only grown over time, rather than lessened as expected, and she looked forward to seeing his reaction to her appearance tonight.

It didn’t take long to regret her decision however, as the long walk to the office took its toll on her in more ways than one. Most days, she simply Cloud-Stepped out of the courtyard to arrive at her office post haste, but her dress was too restrictive to allow for any real range of motion. Or protection from the cold, as she already noted, which the jewellery only made worse, the metal sapping away what little body heat the chill winds left her. At least she’d managed to convince her Imperial Servants to eschew the many bangles and bracelets thanks to her title as Divine True Musician and parcelled them out as gifts for her sister-wives, Sister-in-Law, and Mother-in-Law. The earrings were a bit much in her opinion, as she worried her earlobes would soon be stretched to twice their normal length under their weight. Hence why the first order of business after arriving at the office and dismissing her Imperial Servants was to rush over to her full-length mirror and make sure her ears were still the same size as before. They were, much to her relief, and she allowed herself to indulge her vanity for a few moments more, turning this way and that to ensure she looked good in every angle. During the early years after his Ascension, Lord Husband had brought her to all manner of banquets and festivities, but these days he’d grown accustomed to rejecting invitations out of hand, leaving her few opportunities to dress for the occasion. Not that she minded, as the banquet hall was her battlefield and left her feeling stressed and overwhelmed more often than not, though she wouldn’t mind going once or twice a year...

Then again, perhaps not. Luo-Luo quickly reconsidered her stance as she took a seat in her padded office chair and found that it was impossible to get comfortable. Loosening the clasps fastening her collar allowed her to breathe at least, but not too deeply lest her dress burst around the chest or stomach area, while the circlet and comb weighed heavy atop her head. There was no removing it herself, not without losing half her hair, so it would have to remain. Heaving a small sigh, she made the best of it and marvelled at how she could have ever aspired to this sort of lifestyle, a childish dream come true that failed to live up to the fantasy. Being an actual Princess of the Royal Family was far more burden than boon considering Lord Husband’s status, one which heaped far too many responsibilities and expectations upon her.

Take her manner of dress for example. Were she ever to wear anything less than the latest fashions to a public event, the nobility would whisper of how the ‘Savage’ Divinity had no respect for the Emperor, else he would not treat the Royal Princess so poorly. Then there were matters of propriety and decorum to observe, such as maintaining a veneer of neutrality and impartiality before the Five Supreme Families. Whenever she wanted to visit her Paternal Family, she would have to schedule visits to her Maternal Family as well, and then stop to offer greetings at the remaining three Supreme Families after the fact so as to keep up appearances, and Heaven forbid her manners should be anything less than superlative. This was merely scratching the surface too, as there were all manner of dark undercurrents flowing through the Eastern Province of late, whispers of discord and discontent that were all too easily heard even by Luo-Luo residing several thousand kilometres away.

Yes, she had been far better off as the Imperial Servant Zheng Luo, and better off still as Lord Husband’s wife, a simple title, yet one she cherished above all others. Hardly surprising considering his lofty status as the one and only True Human Divinity in existence, which made him quite possibly the most powerful man alive.

Oh how quickly the tides had shifted in his favour with his successful Ascension. Not just for Lord Husband, but for Luo-Luo’s Imperial Father too, so much so that her five Imperial Servants hadn’t been trained from birth like she had. No, they were ladies of high peerage offered up by the Supreme Families shortly after Lord Husband’s resounding victory in Shi Bei. A show of obeisance to their ‘new’ Emperor once it was clear he had Lord Husband’s support, as none of the Supreme Families were ready to test the newly Ascended True Human Divinity who’d single-handedly defeated the Eternal Foe. Brilliant and capable as her Imperial Father might be, Luo-Luo suspected he and the Supreme Families had made what should have been a fatal mis-step in challenging the immortal Founder of the Azure Empire so directly. Were it not for Lord Husband’s miraculous and timely Ascension, the Eternal Foe would have emerged victorious in Shi Bei and doomed the Western Province. From there, it would only be a matter of time before Luo-Luo’s Imperial Father was either executed by one of the Eternal Foe’s many hidden pieces or supplanted in mind and soul by the body-snatching Immortal. Even if she were to take a dozen steps back and presume that the ageless villain would keep his word to abstain from meddling in the affairs of the Azure Empire, Luo-Luo’s Imperial Father and the Liang Family behind him lacked the strength to hold the throne for long against the other Families. The Five were far too evenly matched for any one to emerge victorious against another in open conflict, and had too much history of bloodshed behind them to ever unite as one. Civil war would have broken out within the year as each Family sought to seize the throne for themselves, a war which would spread like wildfire throughout the rest of the Empire. The fighting would be bloody, the battles fought to stalemate or marginal victory at unsustainable cost. From there, it was only a matter of time before one or more Supreme Family was unable to continue the fight, leaving them no choice but to escalate matters further by unleashing their Divinities. With the Empire at war, none would care to uphold the Treaty, and having felt first-hand the sheer destructive capabilities they possessed, Luo-Luo feared there would be no victor in any such battles, or at the very least, no prize left for whoever was left still standing at the end.

None of which would ever come to pass so long as Lord Husband still drew breath, for the existence of True Human Divinity posed such a threat that it united the Five Supreme Families against him, much like the Eternal Foe before him.

It was almost flattering in a way, for the Supreme Families to put aside their feuding in order to present a united front against Lord Husband. The final battle in Shi Bei proved that they’d greatly underestimated the threat of the Eternal Foe, and the years since had uncovered a great deal of hidden traps laying in wait. There were secret factions within secret factions reporting back to independent spymasters, and death cults standing by to rise up against the Supreme Families should they ever unite in rebellion against the seated Emperor. There were plans within plans laid out centuries in advance, and the more Luo-Luo looked back on the Empire’s storied history, the more she could appreciate the Eternal Foe’s brilliance. The man was a monster, of this there was no doubt, but there was no denying the fact that Ying Zheng had instilled peace and stability into a land that had never known it, one which lasted from the founding of the Azure Empire to this very day. Sure there were minor rebellions, blood feuds, and battles aplenty, but they were all minor altercations in the grand scheme of things. The Uniter’s invasion had sparked off the greatest conflict the Empire had ever seen in tens of thousands of years, and they were still years away from fully recovering from its effects.

Which more than anything showed the stabilizing effect an Immortal Monarch could have, tyrant or otherwise.

