He’d already figured out where they were going based on direction alone. True, it was an easy conclusion if you thought about it, but Olesm still admired the way Pisces had come to it so flawlessly. He coughed, and brought up another subject on his mind.
“Er, Pisces. I know you and the Horns of Hammerad have been doing a lot of missions together.”
“We have enjoyed some success, yes. Although right now we are simply keeping busy rather than aiming at one goal. Our tasks are by and large simplistic.”
Pisces waved a hand. Olesm nodded. He cleared his throat again, feeling extremely embarrassed.
“Right. So you spend a lot of time with Ceria. And you’re old friends from Wistram.”
“Old friends. I suppose you could say that, yes.”
“Uh huh. So she talks to you I bet. Does she…does she ever mention me at all?”
The Drake halted in the snow. Pisces turned his head, looking amused and trying to cover that amusement at the same time.
“You wonder if Ceria harbors feelings for you still?”
“No, no, I was just curious if she felt—yes.”
Olesm hung his head, tail drooping. The sympathetic look in Pisces’ eye told him all he needed to know. Pisces hesitated before cautiously patting Olesm on the back with one tentative hand.
“I regret to say she does not mention her feelings to me in that regard. In other regards, yes. But in this…she may still be receptive.”
“No. No. I just wondered if—I mean, we weren’t a couple long. We didn’t actually do many couple-like things, actually. We just uh—but I thought—”
Olesm’s cheeks were flushing. He blinked at suddenly painful eyes. Pisces averted his gaze and cleared his throat tactfully. After a long pause, he spoke.
“I do not believe the fault was yours, if there was any fault to assign for the demise of any, ah, relationship between you two, Olesm. Springwalker—I mean Ceria, is a half-Elf. They do not value long-term relationships with other species, by and large.”
“I know that. But I thought she and I had something.”
“Perhaps you did.”
There was a sympathetic look in Pisces’ eyes as he shook his head.
“Ceria is used to mobility, travel. She is an adventurer and a half-Elf. She is used to persecution for simply existing in Terandria, and I do not believe she is looking for a long-term partner. Speaking as one who has also had a relationship with Ceria, I think she seeks temporary solace, not love.”
“Someone who—what? You and Ceria were—you two?”
Olesm’s head snapped up. Pisces blinked, and then he looked the other way.
“I, ah, misspoke. We were only together for—”
“You two used to be together? When? In Wistram? Wait, is that why she hates you now?”
“Ahem. It is long past, and it would be inaccurate to call our connection anything more than a brief passing of ships.”
Pisces shook his head, but Olesm refused to let it go. The Drake walked in front of Pisces.
“Come on. Tell me. How close were you two? Why’d you break up?”
The [Necromancer] halted in his tracks and looked away. He bit his lip, and then replied.
“I don’t believe we were ever together, Olesm. Not truly. There was a time, once—but it never came to be. I misspoke earlier. Please do not repeat that to Ceria. I think she would take it amiss if she learned what I said.”
Olesm hesitated. He knew he should drop it, but he couldn’t.
“Why’d it never come to be, though?”
Again, the Human hesitated. When he looked back, it was with badly-concealed pain in his eyes. He really wasn’t that good a liar if you looked past the sneer he was always wearing like a mask.
“She learned the truth. Who I am. Before I could explain. That was all.”
The memory of the Bone Horror resurfaced in Olesm’s mind. He stopped, and his tail drooped.
“Sorry. I’m uh, sorry. I shouldn’t have asked.”
Pisces shrugged, covering up his emotions with indifference. He glanced past Olesm.
“It is no matter. The memory only troubles me at times. And it appears we have appeared at another memory. Tell me, why are we here?”
Olesm turned. He hadn’t noticed it, but they had come up on a large, excavated hillside. He cautiously ascended a few more steps and found himself staring into a dark, stone doorway looming amid the half-excavated stonework. This was not the dungeon’s entrance. No. This was the crypt.
They had thought it was the dungeon at first. Olesm remembered Klbkch delivering the report to Zevara and all the speculation it had caused. He remembered the expeditions of adventurers going in, and then the fated one that had included the Horns of Hammerad. And then the night when Skinner had overrun the gates with an army of undead—
The night he had been down there. In the darkness, fighting for his life, hiding from the undead with Ceria in the coffins. Olesm shuddered. He felt terribly afraid of the crypt. Pisces stared at the dark opening, and then at the Drake.
“It was clear you intended to come here. The reason is what I cannot fathom.”
“It’s a…hunch. Look, I’m realizing this might be a bad idea more and more, but you’re a powerful [Necromancer]; I feel like I’d be safe with you if we went inside, right?”
“To do what, exactly?”
Olesm patted at his pockets.
“Follow up on that hunch. Remember the report I asked for at the Adventurer’s Guild?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I noticed some discrepancies in another file a while back. I never had time to check it out—and I wasn’t confident enough to ask Zevara for an escort before now. Let’s go inside and I’ll tell you about it. Unless you think it might be dangerous?”
Pisces eyed the dark opening, and then shrugged. He reached for his bag of holding and poured the bones onto the ground. Olesm shuddered as the Bone Horror rose upwards. It scuttled into the large opening and Pisces motioned towards it.
“My creation should attract any monsters inside, and we will be forewarned in case of most threats. Moreover, I believe the crypts were cleared recently, so I don’t anticipate any true danger. Unless you do?”
“Not danger.”
“Then let us enter.”
Slowly, the two walked into the darkness. Pisces conjured a ball of light and Olesm shuddered as he looked around the crypts. Yes, it was just like he remembered. The excavated rooms, still full of dirt and tracks, the haunting echoes, the temple decorations…
Pisces walked next to Olesm, looking around, frowning ahead, monitoring his creation’s progress probably. Olesm remembered that Pisces had also come here, to rescue Ceria and Olesm both a lifetime ago. He closed his eyes on the thought and nearly tripped.
“Careful.”
The Human caught him. Olesm shook his head.
“Sorry. I’m just—memories, you know?”
“Yes.”
Pisces’ eyes were sympathetic. He looked around.
“Now would you enlighten me?”
“Yeah. Let me just collect my thoughts for a moment.”
The two walked onwards, through narrow corridors, towards the tunnel sloping downwards to the second level. Olesm felt his scales tingling, but told himself there was no danger. If there were undead, Pisces would have sensed them. This place was nothing more than a grave now. It had always been a grave, but now the occupants were silent.
“So like I said, I noticed something when looking through one of the old reports. It’s my job to file a lot of paperwork and I remembered this one. So I was looking…you know that all of the adventurers’ possessions were confiscated by the city afterwards, right?”
“Yes. I do recall. Everything but what Ceria, Yvlon, and the few survivors carried was taken. A group of guardsmen cleared this place of the last of the undead. What of it?”
“Well, we did an inventory. Naturally. Weapons we didn’t need were sold and we repurposed the magical artifacts, potions, and so on. We also did a tally of the dead. A…rough count since so many were—were attacked by Skinner. Identification was impossible, but we knew they were Drakes, Gnolls, Humans, and so on from the bones, right?”
“Yes. Was there something wrong with your count?”
“Just one.”
Olesm’s breath came in short, sharp bursts as they descended the ramp leading downwards. He remembered. A group of running zombies had come up the corridor. And beyond that, the ambush—Pisces gripped his arm and Olesm caught himself.
“What was I…? Yeah, I found one discrepancy, but I had to make sure. This report is from the Adventurer’s Guild. I didn’t really need it; I already had the one the Watch filed. But I had to make sure both were the same. And they were.”
“And who was missing?”
Pisces’ gaze turned to Olesm’s. The [Necromancer] walked through the darkness, his face illuminated by the soft yellow light of his spell, calm, waiting. Olesm looked at him.
“You already know.”
After a second, the mage nodded.
“There is only one individual whose remains would stand out enough to warrant positive identification, regardless of loss of skin.”
The two came to the intersection. Olesm felt his heart pounding in his chest. Pisces looked left and right. He spoke one word.
“Calruz.”
“Yes. The guardsmen never found his remains. Not his bones, nor his axe. And they should have found something, even if he was torn apart. His body wasn’t listed among the undead that attacked Liscor—not that he could have been reanimated that fast. And there’s no way he would have escaped and not gone to Liscor, so I thought—”
Olesm trailed off. It was stupid, now he said it out loud. He looked down the corridors. He remembered hearing the screaming in the distance, hearing the others wonder aloud where the other Silver-rank teams were. The sound of something dragging itself closer.
But there was nothing here now. He tried to reassure himself. Pisces stared around.
“You think he’s still down here. But it has been months. He would not have survived.”
“Right. Obviously.”
Olesm bit his lip. Pisces glanced at him.
“So you want to find his remains? You believe his corpse was overlooked?”
“Yeah. Maybe in a crevice or some secret door. It’s—look, I know it’s silly, but he fought with us, with me. I might be dead if he hadn’t charged Skinner. If I can find his body—”
“I understand. But it is a vast space. Do you really think we can find where he fell?”
The Drake hesitated.
“We can try.”
 
—-
 
It was dark. The light of Pisces’ magic was the only source of illumination in the darkness, casting long shadows and making everything seem just as frightening as it was. Olesm was glad for the light, though. Without it he might have panicked. The memories here were too strong.
At least he could see well. Maybe it was his ring, but the corridors seemed as bright as day. Pisces and Olesm walked down hallways, peering into rooms and trying to comb the place systematically. They were watchful for undead, of course, although Pisces insisted he didn’t sense anything. His Bone Horror kept prowling down corridors around them; it had scared the life out of Olesm twice now.
“I think we’re nearly done with this area. There’s only the treasure room where Skinner emerged from, and it was looted by something.”
“Indeed. Shall we pass through it just to be certain?”
“Yeah.”
The huge stone doors still stood wide open. Olesm breathed in at the sight; he could recall the two Silver-rank teams agreeing to stand watch while the Horns of Hammerad searched the rest of the crypt. They’d known something might be lurking behind the door. They just didn’t know that Skinner could open the door himself.
The room was emptied of all goods just like before. Olesm frowned around at it; Pisces picked up a stone amulet and tossed it down in disgust.
“I take it the city still does not know who made off with the treasures inside?”
“No. And I’m not sure if there were any.”
“Come now. The guardian of the crypts must have guarded something of worth.”
“Yeah. But in that case, where is it?”
Pisces could only shrug. Olesm looked around helplessly and frowned.
“Nothing. Let’s go. We only have to check out that last room and we’re done.”
“What room?”
“That one, of course. You walked right past it.”
The Drake walked back out of the treasure room. Pisces followed, frowning. Olesm pointed to the doorway ahead of him, just opposite the double doors. Pisces stared at the doorway, and then at Olesm.
“I don’t see anything.”
“What? Don’t yank my tail. It’s right h—”
Olesm stepped forwards towards the doorway. Someone yanked him back. He stumbled and turned to Pisces angrily.
“Hey! What’s the big id—”
“Illusion.”
The [Mage]’s face was suddenly concentrated. He nodded at Olesm’s ring as one hand fell back to the rapier at his side. Olesm froze, and then realized what he meant.
“You think the Ring of Sight that Niers Astoragon gave me—?”
“What better gift for a [Tactician] than a true view of the battlefield? I see only a wall. And I cannot detect any illusion here. Not that I am gifted in such things, you understand, but it means this illusion is a good one.”
“It just looks like an open doorway to me.”
“Hm.”
Carefully, Pisces approached the open doorway, and slid his hand across what looked like empty air to Olesm. The Drake held his breath.
“It’s solid? I mean, it feels solid even when you push?”
“Yes. A powerful illusion. Here, grab my hand.”
Pisces reached out and Olesm gingerly took his hand. The Drake walked forwards and Pisces walked behind him through the doorway. Pisces shuddered as he passed through the stone opening.
“You okay?”
“I felt as though I was walking through stone. No, I am not. But the sensation is done with. Now, what do we have here?”
The stone doorway led a few feet ahead, into a small, circular room with a strange, hexagonal symbol drawn onto the floor. It was a small room; large enough to fit a few people inside perhaps. Olesm stepped forwards curiously and Pisces grabbed him again.
“Gah! Stop doing that!”
“Stop stepping into uncertain situations, then. You don’t know what that pattern on the floor does.”
“Neither do you.”
“True, but I do not intend to touch it myself. Observe. This is appropriate caution.”
Pisces reached for his belt and fumbled with a pouch. Olesm nearly jumped out his scales as the mage lifted out a tiny Shield Spider. The [Necromancer] casually flicked it towards the opening and the spider began crawling into the alcove.
“What the—do you just carry Shield Spiders around?”
“It’s undead. Obviously.”
The [Necromancer] flicked his fingers and the spider scurried towards the hexagonal space on the floor. Olesm was about to point out that carrying around undead Shield Spiders didn’t make any more sense than living ones when the spider crossed onto the hexagonal floor and the ground vanished.
“Whoa!”
