The fact was that Aaliyah wasn't loyal to either of us—not yet, anyway. Pitz could claim Aaliyah was a valued part of Olebert all she wanted to, but that was just laughable. What had Olebert ever done for Aaliyah or her village?

I'll tell you what: Olebert ignored them in their time of need. Young Jason informed me about the letters they received about Spotted Creek's goblin problem and the response they sent in return. The only people Aaliyah was loyal to were her friends and family. It didn't matter which kingdom they fell under; only which of us could offer her more.

“You see, that’s why I sent one of my students to watch over her,” I tell her calmly. “I was never worried that she might run away.”

“You were banking on her forming an attachment to your student, and thereby you,” General Pitz frowned in realization before snapping back. “But that’s no guarantee that she will side with you over me.”

“Maybe, but it’s more than Olebert has ever done for her.”

Pitz looks at me as if I were crazy, making me smile. She couldn't comprehend that it was the uncertainty that thrilled me. I would love to be wrong— for Aaliyah to say she wasn't coming with me, for here to make me fight for her as we should. It's just that I've seen this too many times already.

“You have that much faith in your student?” The general asks me lifelessly.

“Honestly, no, not really,” I shake my head while continuing to smile, causing my partner to gasp in astonishment.

“But then—” She stutters.

“Tabitha isn’t that kind of student,” I do my best to explain. “She isn’t the craftiest person I've ever taught or the friendliest, for that matter. She stands out, even amongst her peers. But what Tabitha lacks in social skills, she makes up for with loyalty. I've tried to get her to branch out and make friends, but sadly, few understand her. Tabitha’s an oddball.” I smile fondly with a far-off expression.

“That said, she follows my instructions to the letter.”

“Meaning?” Pitz was confused as to where I was going with this.

“My orders were simple: ‘watch over the girl and teach her if she asks,’ that's it. If she influences Aaliyah in any way, so be it,” I laugh at the general’s dumbfounded expression.

“And if your half-assed plan didn’t work?”

“Then I would find some other way to convince her. The girl already knows that she can’t stay in her village forever. She knows she’ll have to make a choice, eventually, and I’m the better option,” I grin confidently.

What I don’t say is that I was confident Tabitha could win Aaliyah over by virtue of skill alone. If I read the girl right, and I’m sure that I did, then she’s an extremely hard worker with lofty ambitions.

And though she had her faults, Tabitha was, hands down, one of my hardest-working students. Her single goal in life is to eventually become as strong as I am—no, to surpass me.

And I have a feeling she can do it, so long as she doesn’t die young. There were many reasons why I picked Tabitha to watch over Aaliyah for me, but not all of them were solely for Aaliyah's benefit. I’ve tried to have Tabitha teach others before, but none of them could keep up with her strict training methods and stone-like demeanor.

At the end of the day, this was as much a test for Tabitha as it was for Aaliyah. Tabitha needed someone other than me to trust, and Aaliyah might be one of the few people who could bring my student out of her shell and keep up with her.

The last thing I wanted was for Tabitha to grow old alone, as I knew better than most how hard such an existence was. I wish I could say the same about myself, but I knew better than anyone how broken I was inside. That's what happens when you outlive all your family and friends.

The only thing that’s kept me from going crazy is finding enjoyment in others. It didn't matter if a person loved or despised me, worshiped, or tried to kill me; it was they who gave my life meaning.

There was nothing better than finding a new student, someone who could bring even a shred of excitement back to my life, even if only for a moment…

Similarly, there was nothing worse than being told one of them had died, nothing more soul-crushing.

My end was fast approaching; I could feel it in my old bones. Every day, I became a hair slower, and dancing became more arduous. There was no greater disgrace for a warrior such as myself.

I refused to die of old age. I've seen what lies down that path, and that's not how I wanted to go to greet my goddess.

I knew where my resting place was, but I wasn’t ready—my kingdom wasn’t ready.

Dragon, what are you doing now? Slumbering? Protecting your egg?

If you had chosen any other body of water, this needn’t have happened, but I have people who count on me. One or both of us will die the next time we meet, and what a battle it will be.

“Ugg, alright, you win. Just stop smiling like that," General Pitz's disgusted voice pulls me from my thoughts.

“You wound me,” I place my hand over my invisible armor before once again relaxing in my seat.

“And I haven’t won, not yet.” A tiny fraction of my killing intent leaks out, causing the men marching around us to yelp in surprise and raise their weapons. "So do me a favor, and don't give up. Try to convince Aaliyah to go with you. I won’t be mad. Just whatever you do, don’t lose that blazing fire in your eyes,” I purr in my gravelly voice.

Pitz was shocked to be challenged so openly, but didn't earn her level because she was meek. Her posture straightens to perfection, and her eyes turn into daggers, ready to strike at my vitals. “I am going to make you regret those words, old man.”

"I hope so—I truly do," I chuckle as I lean back in my seat. We were perhaps an hour from Spotted Creek Village, and I couldn't wait to see Tabitha and Aaliyah's growth.

The two of them were the future of Scholl. I was merely a fossil that refused to be buried.

In my eyes, the future was so bright. That’s why, no matter how fun it was having Pitz fight me for Aaliyah, I was assured she'd be coming with me in the end.

In my chest, I could feel my heart begin to beat a bit faster, for the future, and for a glorious death!
