“What?” Tarny asked.

“We didn’t think to ask Gus about Lellermen Green,” Ameliah said, having come to the same realization as Rain.

Tarny would know what they were talking about, as they’d mentioned the encounter in the report they’d sent before departing Xiugaaraa.

“We should have pressed him!” Rain lamented. “If he got out, then Green might have too!”

“Well, if it makes you feel any better, we have our own Green now,” Tarny said. “Greenbriar. You asked if someone took Cultivate. He and Camaya both did. They’ve been working together as a mother-son team.”

“That’s excellent,” Rain said, returning with a blink.

“Again, I agree,” Tarny said. “I’ve been using Fall to offset Ascension’s hunger, but we’ll need crops if we’re to survive here long term. They saw a need and decided to fill it. They haven’t joined Ascension, though. Most of the cervidians haven’t. There is a strong desire amongst them to not become reliant upon us.”

“That’s completely understandable,” Ameliah said. She hesitated. “Have there been any...incidents?”

#todo, Fall’s impact on essence. Mana is probably just a catalyst.

Pinning the thought with barely a blip in his focus, Rain returned his attention to the much pricklier problem Ameliah had raised. A problem he had much less idea how to tackle.

“Not as such,” Tarny said. “In fact, I would say things have improved markedly since you left. Some of the barriers are coming down. I think we have proved that not all humans are the same.” He grunted softly. “As if you did not do enough to prove that already. There are general tensions about the availability of housing and certain limited commodity items, but that is not unique to the cervidians. We will discuss the supply situation tomorrow.”

“Better than I’d hoped,” Ameliah said.

“Oi, Jamus, there they are!” Carten’s voice boomed through the trees, neatly cutting off that topic. “Thought I saw Tarny head out ‘ere!”

Rain turned, easily spotting Jamus first by his brilliant orange outfit, which would have been over the top even for hunting season. Carten was less visible, but he made up for it with noise, crashing through the underbrush toward them.

“Hey guys,” Rain said, raising a hand. “Long time.”

They have no idea just how long.

...

I’ll tell them later.

“Stupid swamp,” Jamus grumbled, whipped in the chest by a bush as Carten released it. He wasn’t wearing an Ascension jacket, but he’d pinned the three brass pips to his orange collar. “Hello,” he said with a wave as he struggled free, then tsked and stooped to pick the briars from the side of his robe. “One moment.”

“How was the big city?” Carten asked, beaming and spreading his arms wide. He had no Ascension jacket either and wore his pips somehow attached to his breastplate.

“Stressful,” Rain answered honestly, dropping his bag and accepting the offered hug, clapping the Defender heartily on the back.

“Ooph!” Carten let out a grunt. “Easy!”

“You’re the one who decided to hug a silverplate,” Jamus observed. “I would hug you both as well, but I value my ribs in their present configuration.”

“Come on, you know we’re more careful than that,” Ameliah said with a laugh.

Jamus grinned. “I take it things went well?”

“Very well,” Rain said, patting Carten on the shoulder. “Okay, that’s enough.”

Carten eventually let go, only to give Ameliah the same treatment. Once she managed to free herself without damaging him, Carten and Jamus joined them as they left the farms behind, chatting happily.

The hill they’d been situated on sloped down into a truly miserable bog, but a dry path had been built through it, making for easy footing. As they walked, Rain was forced to put his questions on hold, instead retelling the story of their adventure. He and Jamus weren’t on the short list of people with access to his full, unredacted reports, but they did know the basic details. Even before reaching the Bloodmarsh, the council had added a provision to the codes allowing all Entrusted to peruse mission summaries at their leisure. Some surreptitious probing revealed that those summaries didn’t include any of the more sensitive details, such as the attack by the Foundry. Carten and Jamus were oblivious to that event, and oblivious they would remain. They did not need to know. The lie of omission hurt, especially with how much Rain wished he could confide in them, but the system was in place for a reason.

Eventually, the land began sloping up again, and Ascension’s main camp came into view. Rain had already known roughly what he’d see, thanks to his Detection anchors, but there was no comparison to seeing it firsthand.

Dry land was at a premium in the Bloodmarsh—at almost as much of a premium as the time of Ascension’s lone Geomancer. The main camp was situated atop the tallest hill they’d found in the vicinity of Temerity’s landing site. The tents had just been going up when Rain and Ameliah had left, but now there was a proper shantytown nestled under the cover of the trees.

“This way,” Jamus said, taking the lead from Tarny as Rain and Ameliah returned various greetings. “We’ve prepared something of a welcome ceremony in the tavern.”

“We have a tavern?” Ameliah asked, then slapped herself on the forehead. “Of course we have a tavern.”

Rain smiled, taking in more details as he followed. Ahead through the warren of trees and tents, he spied the first proper building—the low walls made from the glassy stone bricks produced by the smelter. The roof was shallowly sloped, and four trees poked up through it, helping, he was sure, to hold it up. It didn’t look very sturdy, made largely of sticks and bark.

“That isn’t the tavern,” Tarny said, seeing him looking. “Smelt has designated this one as a supply depot for miscellaneous items and materials. Ascension’s armory is below ground.”

“Ah,” Rain said, seeing more buildings ahead. The construction was slapdash, but he still found himself impressed by the rate of progress.

Many hands will do that. Especially without a zoning board.

...

Hells, this is going to be a town, isn’t it? I can’t expect everyone to join Ascension. #todo zoning board. #todo mayor.

“Not being able to cut any trees has limited us,” Jamus said, waving a hand. “We’ve done what we can to keep things orderly.”

“You’ve been helping with the planning?” Ameliah asked.

“Everyone’s been helpin’ with everything,” Carten said proudly. “Gonna build a house fer me an’ Evonna with me own two hands.” He scratched at his ear. “Soon as there’re bricks for it.”

“It will be a while,” Tarny said. “The soil here is fertile, but it turns to ash in the smelter. The bricks you see came mostly from sand dredged from the ocean floor. Individual homes are low on the list.”

“We’re dredging the ocean floor?” Rain asked.

“To deepen the channel for Temerity,” Tarny said. “Bakal has appointed himself to be in charge of the harbor project.”

“Wow, Carten, you were really serious with that ‘everyone is helping’ bit,” Ameliah said. She turned back to Tarny. “Bakal hasn’t joined Ascension, has he?”

“No,” Jamus said with a laugh. “The illustrious Sea King cites boredom as the reason for his contribution. And worry not. He has been complying with the rules. The channel won’t be visible from above, though that means it will remain tricky to navigate for a vessel of Temerity’s size. Rest assured that no tree has been cut save those that were already dead.”

“That one of the rules?” Ameliah asked.

“No fire, smoke, light, or anything else that could be seen as artificial from the air,” Tarny said. “The smelter is underground, as are the kitchens.” He pointed to a building in the distance. “All the smoke is vented through there. We’ve installed one of Rain’s Purify anchors to deal with it.” He shifted his finger to indicate a different building. “That’s the entrance to the Ascension complex proper. It’s also where we’re going.”

“The tavern is underground?” Rain asked, already in the process of mapping the sublayer with Detection. All of it was warded. The protections were strong enough to block the spell when used through his old shoddy anchors, but they weren’t nearly strong enough to stop him in person. What he found as he pushed further only left him even more flabbergasted. They’d built below the groundwater. They’d built pumps. He could feel cables running through the stone walls to carry electricity.

It was starting to seem like he’d actually been gone for as long as he felt like he’d been gone.

“Drunks and discretion do not mix,” Jamus said as they entered the building, oblivious to Rain’s mounting awe.

Corrin deserves a medal. World’s hardest-working Geomancer. And Romer. And Vanna.

“Like we’ve got enough booze fer’ anyone ta get drunk,” Carten said, muscling past Tarny into the stairwell. “Oi! They’re here!”

Setting aside his amazement before he hurt himself, Rain descended, arm in arm with Ameliah. Carten took the first turn upon reaching the hallway at the bottom, leading them into a room just packed with friends. To Rain’s expanded senses, the positive vibes were so dense it felt like he’d been struck by a tidal wave of marshmallows.

“Welcome home,” Tallheart rumbled, standing closest to the door with Zero perched atop his head between his antlers. He held up a pair of plates. “There is pie.”
