"Hod, never change buddy. Never change."

I turned to Althea, holding up the dimensionally enveloped ascendant core.

"I couldn't think of what to make this into for you because of your transformations. I'm open to any suggestions."

She frowned.

"You didn't want to make an amulet?"

I waved my hands.

"I just didn't know if you wanted something different. I'll get it done."

I turned to make it before she hopped up onto my shoulder. She leaned in and whispered.

"Can...Can you make it one of those neck things?"

"A necklace?"

"No, the ones that sit higher up on the neck."

I furrowed my brow before snapping my fingers.

"Oh, a choker."

She put her finger against my lips.

"Shh. It's embarrassing."

I nodded before she hopped off with an elegant flip. I got the measurement of her neck a few seconds later. After getting some black silk from a store in Mt. Verner, I started making the choker. Oddly enough, the store obtained the base material for the silk from Althea's eldritch reformations.

It was a small world.

I set the fabric as the choker's base before making a small chain around it. I didn't want the chain to be uncomfortable or inelegant, so I kept the interlocking segments soft and flattened. It made the process ten times more difficult, but the result looked like jewelry, not shackles.

Making the metal weightless, I finished it with the red core at the center. Returning to Althea's training spot, I handed her the choker, which she tried on.

It was too loose, hanging like a necklace at first. She pursed her lips.

"Huh. That's disappointing."

I went to help her take it off before the metal tightened around her neck. It gave a slight squeeze, and Althea leaned back before stumbling. I caught her, and she grew a foot taller in my arms. Her jumpsuit tore in a few places, and she blinked before staring at me.

"Wow. That's a rush, huh?"

I frowned.

"It's not too tight, is it?"

She rubbed her neck, her eyes soft when she smiled.

"Hmm...It's just how I like it."

I had to calm myself down before letting her continue her training. After a goodbye, I flew over to the forests of Mt. Verner. Instead of spending all my time handing out the artifacts, I called over the executive golem.

It walked up, a foreboding presence that stalked out of the trees.

"Ah, creator. It's great to see you again."

I pulled up the pile of artifacts with a gravity well.

"I need you to hand these to certain guild members for me."

The executive tilted its head.

"Wait a minute. Those?"

It stepped closer.

"Wow, those are incredible. They'll make each of your elites far more powerful."

It wiped a hand over one of the artifacts.

"But, creator, do you mind if I challenge your perspective?"

I gestured to the artifacts.

"Go ahead."

The executive rubbed its fingers together.

"There's dirt all over these, and they're haphazardly piled up. Let's take a moment and imagine with me for a second."

It waved its arms overhead.

"Think of it. Specialized containers for each guild head's enchanted artifact. They're in their different colors, and we've cultivated a space to hand them over with. No, even better, we can have the guild watch as you hand over these life-changing artifacts. They feel the impact of each one as you give them away."

I furrowed my brow.

"That, uh, sounds like a lot."

The executive waved a hand.

"If it feels overwhelming, know that I can arrange it all at a moment's notice. I could have it happening by tomorrow with a bit of hustle, actually. In fact, we should do that."

I frowned.

"I'm going to be busy tomorrow. For a while, actually."

The executive leaned forward.

"Might I ask what it's about?"

I described my plan for conquering Earth along with the need for golems. The executive clapped his hands together.

"That is genius, creator. It really is a solid, well-put-together plan. Now, I know it may feel like a lot, but do you mind if I mention an iteration to said plan?"

I got the feeling I'd hear that kind of phrase a lot from this golem. I shrugged.

"Why not? In fact, always let me know if you have an idea or improvement on something I've said."

The executive snapped his fingers with gusto.

"You show your mental resilience with your every word, creator. So, here are my thoughts - the plan is strategically sound but neglects the human element of the equation."

I raised a brow. My golem lectured me on the human element of a plan. There was an irony here somewhere.

"What do you mean? I've got the guild members helping out."

The executive raised a hand.

"That's right, and yeah, we know they'll help. You're the Harbinger of Cataclysm, for Schema's sake. What you say goes, but hear me out here: we need to give the people a reason why they should leave their homes and fight the good fight. It'll make enrollment much better and more satisfying."

I spread my hands.

"Ahhh, I get where you're going with this."

The golem made finger pistols at me.

"Can you tell me what you're thinking?"

I smiled.

"We'll use the gifting ceremony you mentioned earlier to announce the guild's conquest of Earth."

The executive raised his hands high.

"Come on, make it better."

I nodded.

"Alright, I'll make a bunch of gear and show the guild what they can earn while they head out with a golem. The better they do, the more they'll get. We'll have Speakers design quests, and they'll see how effective the artifacts are when I gift them to each follower."

The executive clasped his hands to fists, shaking them.

"Now that's a damn plan!"

I gave him a high five before the executive swung a fist.

"I'll arrange everything with an architect while you prepare the golems for the announcement. We'll need to strike while the iron is hot."

I grabbed my chin.

"If we have a stockpile of golems, we can have people sign up immediately. I can even have the piled-up goods behind us during the ceremony."

The Executive pointed at me.

"Perfect. I couldn't have said it better myself."

The golem's dual manas flared out of it like the depths of an ocean on fire.

"This has got me completely fired up. I'm canceling all my other plans for the next hot minute and getting this show on the road. Creator, we will make big things happen here and fast. Trust me on that."

I believed it. The executive lifted a hand, a gravity well launching it into the air. It jerked its other hand, propelling its body to Mt. Verner's lower side. As it disappeared, I dwelled on the executive's personality.

Somehow, it felt like a hype man more than a domineering jerk. In fact, I couldn't believe it operated so well, to the point it felt like talking with someone more than a thing I made. It left me wondering if that's what having a child was like, just in slow motion. I winced, knowing I'd probably never know that for myself.

I was likely sterile.

I sighed before turning around. Seconds later, the executive landed in front of me.

"Oh, creator, I forgot to mention something. You never visited the Eltari you made appointments with."

I closed my eyes.

"Dammit."

The executive put a hand on my shoulder.

"I had it rescheduled for tomorrow morning and managed the fallout by giving them new houses with an architect."

It gave me a thumbs up.

"Let's just say there's going to be many more people hoping you don't show up when you say you will."

It gave me a salute before launching away once more. I ogled where it once stood, stunned by how it handled things I'd forgotten. Shaking out my surprise, I looked around, finding the guild coming to life. Architects built in the distance, the blue core's barrier sheened over the horizon, and my vanguards carried back useful eldritch.

It left me basking in a quiet but boiling excitement. After setting the alarm for tomorrow morning with my status, I cracked my neck.

It was time to mass produce a golem army.
