That being said, he’d not survived this long by allowing himself to become complacent. While the boy immersed himself in the memories this Sovereign left for him, most of which were even true, albeit with the more disconcerting details glossed over, he set to work breaking through the defenses of Falling Rain’s Natal Palace. A formidable fortress of solitude and isolation, one which repelled this Sovereign with remarkable strength even without the boy to empower it. It was so formidable that it took a full two seconds to break through, which may not seem like much time in reality, but was comparable to several days worth of exhausting mental effort. Once inside, he took another quick glance around at the unfamiliar settings and marvelled at how strange it all was once more, but such were the eccentricities of a mind as brilliant as Falling Rain’s, one which might well be comparable to fifth brother Di’s.

One problematic issue was the fact that the Predator was currently occupying the boy’s Natal Throne, though how Falling Rain could trust another sentient being in his seat of power was baffling to behold. Then again, this Sovereign wasn’t entirely sure if the Predator counted as sentient, because while it behaved like a dog, there was no telling how complete the transformation truly was. Perhaps it was only mimicking the behavior of a dog, which would explain its strange mannerisms, not even growling at this Sovereign as he plucked its shivering furry form from the chair and tossed it aside to the bed.

Then, without any further ado, This Sovereign lowered himself down into the odd chair and adjusted his posture to account for the wheels underneath, only to furrow his brow in befuddled astonishment as he discovered he was unable to take control of the Natal Palace. This wasn’t possible, for this seat was most certainly the boy’s Natal Throne, the symbolic seat of power from which he controlled everything within. The desk, dark glass panels, sound emanating boxes, and glass case with the spinning disks emanating multi-coloured lights, lights which had inexplicably gone dark, these were all also a part of the boy’s Natal Throne, but the seat itself should have been the most significant, only apparently this was not the case. Going back in memory, he saw how the boy took a seat in this very same chair, but the difference was that the panels before him lit up as well, and this Sovereign was at a loss on how to explain the discrepancy, nor was he able to identify how the boy made the panels go dark again, and the spinning, multicoloured discs along with them. Perhaps it had something to do with the flat, rectangular device bearing all manner of buttons with foreign markings, or the oval object next to it which the boy pressed and moved about, but even though this Sovereign emulated the exact same movements and pressed the same symbols, the screens before him remained black and dull, though still shiny enough to show his reflection.

How odd. In all his years as Emperor of the Azure Sea, never before had he seen a Natal Throne as unresponsive as this, and for a time, he was at a loss on how to proceed.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
