Try as he might to love his family the way his mother loved him, Ying Zheng could never muster up anything more than fondness for those around him, with his wives, children, and grandchildren seeming like little more than strangers who happened to share his blood. None of them had inherited his strength, only the enmity he’d sown in his life spent on the battlefield, and he knew that without him to defend them, his family would soon follow him to the grave. Thus, with his frail mortality weighing heavily upon him, he vowed to end this era of bloodshed once and for all out of a misguided sense of familial obligation, hoping that his children and grandchildren would one day know peace. The only way he saw to break the cycle of violence however was to conquer every state across the land, so he secretly sent his most talented strategists to the most powerful states to help them secure their own borders, while he led his army on a rampage which at the time seemed without rhyme or reason.

Though his motivations seemed all but unfathomable to his foes as he led slaughter after slaughter throughout the Central Plains, he knew his goal lay well within reach. He targeted helpless towns and worthless cities of no strategic value and slaughtered everyone within, only to slip away and strike at another vulnerable target no one would expect. These acts of terror were denounced by one and all, yet the desperate Kings continued to hire him all the same because he provided results, for the beleaguered states he targeted could hardly leave him free to run rampant which took pressure off the neighbours which they coveted so. Though others claimed he'd long since lost his mind to the bloodshed, Ying Zheng knew this was but a means to an end, for his true motive was to wholly expend the fighting strength of each and every state while allowing his confidants to work their way higher up the chain of command. The more bitter the struggle, the more soldiers would die, and the weaker their states would become, so when he finally set his mind to conquering the Central Plains, it only took another decade to put an end to the Warring States Era with the death of the last Yue King, whereupon Ying Zheng was crowned as the first Emperor of the Azure Sea at seventy-five years of age.

The unification of some sixty odd states was a grand accomplishment worthy of any mortal in history, but little did Ying Zheng know that his saga had only just begun. He spent another decade solidifying his rule, raising his most trusted allies to Kings in return for their loyal service. Yang Kai, the Flame Monarch of the West who wielded the fires of Heaven against his foes. Liang Bo, the Flute Virtuoso who conquered the North with his instrument and political machinations. Xing Wushen, the Martial God of the south whom Ying Zheng only defeated by the narrowest of margins. Tian Yi was the last of his great generals, but the man rejected any and all efforts to reward him and wanted to only be allowed to serve at Ying Zheng’s side, protecting him against unseen threats as he had for the last half century or more. These were his four conquering generals, the Warriors who helped secure his reign while he ruled from the Central Plains, the brothers in arms who made it possible to unite the Empire under his rule, and with their help, he hoped that it would survive beyond his coming death.

Back then, a man of eighty-five should have been a doddering great-great-grandfather on the cusp of senility and immobility both, but he was hale and healthy as a man half his age, while still arguably the strongest Warrior in all the lands. Every night he went to sleep expecting never to see dawn again, but he only grew stronger as he slipped free from the chains of anger and hatred to find Balance once more in the twilight of his years. When he was born, the world knew little of the Dao, with Cultivators being as rare as qilin horns and phoenix feathers, but the Warring States Era had sent humanity hurtling forward in terms of comprehension of the Dao. While he’d progressed further and faster than most, his brothers were not far behind, but he cared not to chase the heights of perfection and instead focused on living out his life as best he could and safeguarding the Empire he’d built, only to accidentally Shatter the Void and become a Nascent Immortal a week before his one-hundredth birthday.

A fortuitous event which garnered the attention of a passing scholar, a portly glutton of a man who called himself Di Zi. A homonym for ‘Good Student’ and something of an inside joke which he’d never shared, one Ying Zheng picked up on when the man introduced himself. After sneaking into the Emperor’s palace courtyard no less, shortly after Ying Zheng’s otherwise unnoticed ascension to Nascent Immortality. Only then did Tian Yi notice the intruder, but the seemingly innocuous Di Zi defeated the master bodyguard and assassin with little more than a wave of his hand. A simple application of Manifested Domain, but in those days, he was the first individual Ying Zheng had ever met who could duplicate the Secret Art with which he used to conquer his Empire.

It almost pained him to remember how naïve he was back then, so foolish and blinded by pride. All roads lead to the Dao, and out of all his famed generals, Ying Zheng’s perspective of the Dao was the most generic by far. Not that this was a disadvantage, and in fact was anything but, for his solid grasp of the fundamentals of the Dao had enabled him to build a foundation stronger than that of his generals and effortlessly ascend to Nascent Immortal. All of which Di Zi explained in great detail, for he harboured no ill-will and was merely wandering the lands in search of a place to call home, somewhere with resources and stability aplenty to carry out his research and studies. It was pure luck that he passed by Ying Zheng’s manor when he did, for a day or even an hour earlier or later and he might well have missed it and carried on along his merry way. The Heavens providing for Ying Zheng in his time of need once more, for now he had a teacher to help guide him towards the Dao and make sense of his lifetime of attainments.

Between Di Zi’s knowledge gleaned from the prosperous lands beyond the borders of the Empire and Ying Zheng’s accumulated experience, they broadened their understanding of the Dao which enabled the portly scholar to Ascend in turn. Never before had Ying Zheng met a man as brilliant and far-seeing as his fifth brother, and he would not come across another for many a millennia, but those early days of discourse and introspection were among the happiest times in Ying Zheng’s life. Together with his fifth brother, they guided their other four brothers to become Nascent Immortals as well, and under their rule, the Empire enjoyed more than a full century of peace and prosperity, a time unlike any other. Di Zi’s scholarly pursuits were not limited to the Dao itself, but encompassed all manner of topics including agriculture, economics, culture, and more. With his guidance, the Empire’s population exploded as food became more plentiful and nourishing all across the lands, with fine silks replacing coarse hemp in the wardrobes of even the poorest of his folk. They built roads along trade routes and encouraged travel within their borders, opened schools to teach any and all who cared to learn and introduced a system of government based on intelligence and merit to replace the blood dynasties of yesteryear and the rampant nepotism which went along with it. They even disseminated a standardized primer to teach others how to become Cultivators themselves in hopes of raising the health and standard of living for the people while eagerly awaiting to see who would be the next Nascent Immortal to join their ranks.

Then, in the hundred and thirty-seventh year of his reign, Ying Zheng’s great-grandsons rose up in revolt and denounced him as an oppressive God-Emperor who intended to rule humanity with an iron fist from now until the end of time.

A preposterous accusation without basis or fact, for Yin Zheng paid little mind to matters of governance and left the power in the hands of the scholars. He thought his days of conquest and bloodshed were long behind him, and cared only for his pursuit of the Dao, but his foolish scions coveted the title he’d earned and repeated the mistakes of kings past by seeking outside assistance in their bid to seize the throne.

The invaders came from the north, tribes upon tribes of nomadic Warriors, pseudo-cultivators with the strength of ten men wielding weapons of Honed steel that could cut through bronze, iron, and stone with laughable ease. These nomads were not a single unified force, but dozens of disparate tribes who’d received word of the Empire’s prosperity and sought to seize it for themselves, raiding and plundering to their dark heart’s content. The lands outside the Empire were habitable, but cold and harsh with little fertile ground to farm or raise livestock. To these struggling nomadic tribesmen, the Empire was akin to the fabled lands of milk and honey, and had they come in peace, he would have welcomed them with open arms. In fact, some of those tribesmen had settled peaceably within his borders, and their descendants still lived to this day, but the majority were a savage and bloodthirsty lot who were more beast than men. Even with Liang Bo to defend the North, two hands could not stop twelve spears as the tribal hordes rode roughshod through the north atop their strange and varied beasts. Garos, ursines, roosequins, and more, these foreign raiders killed and stole to their hearts content before retreating to their homes beyond the northern border, where they thought themselves safe from reprisal.

They were not, for Ying Zheng’s fury knew no bounds once word of the carnage reached his ears. For their crimes, he sentenced every last remaining member of his bloodline to death save for a single great-great-grandchild, a babe so young he still needed to be nursed on the teat. Once his house was in order, he set off to the north with his Great Generals in tow, and together, they wrought bloody vengeance upon the invaders, but even this was not enough to slake his thirst. In his rage, he travelled beyond the borders of his Empire and set to slaughtering every nomadic tribe he came across, but their numbers dwarfed even the population of his Empire and too many were able to escape reprisal. By the time his rage abated, the damage was already done, and he returned to the tattered northern province and set to rebuilding it once more, but this time with a mind towards defending his borders.

Alas, even a Nascent Immortal such as he was unable to stem the tide of opportunistic raiders, ones who came from the west and south now that the secret of his Empire’s prosperity was out. Time and time again his Empire was attacked, and each time Ying Zheng marvelled at how many powerful combatants these tiny countries could bring to bear, tens of thousands of pseudo-cultivators who were too strong for any commoner to stop. How was it possible for these outlanders to have such strength when their understanding of the Dao was fundamentally flawed? Rather than incorporate with the Heavens above and allow it to nourish their body, minds, and souls, they seized and consumed it to empower their bodies and minds alone, leaving them vulnerable to devils of the soul which often drove them to madness. Despite the flaws and the risks involved, some found far more success than others, for while none were a match for this Emperor or any of his Great Generals, he encountered hundreds of Warriors who came close over the next half-century.

Even though they were outmatched and outnumbered, the Empire’s saving grace was that no ships could make the journey across the endless oceans. There were only three points of egress to defend, so while Di Zi set to perfecting the formula for his liquid stone and building up the three Impenetrable Walls which still stood after long millennia of abuse, Ying Zheng tasked Xing Wushen with raising an army of cultivators to defend their borders. Thus, the Royal College came into existence, guiding new cultivators to the Dao each and every day, until finally the balance of power was restored and the Empire’s borders were safe once more.

During this time of turmoil, Ying Zheng had no choice but to plan for the worst and infuse a fragment of his soul into his sole remaining heir, the great-great-grandson he’d spared. The boy died of course, but his was a necessary sacrifice, for only then could Ying Zheng safeguard his own life in the event an even more powerful foreign cultivator should arrive.

