Warrior. Leader. Warmonger. Butcher.

All these titles and more were this Sovereign’s to bear, and he wore them with pride. These names were given only to those with power and recognition, which in turn gave him prestige and influence which he would one day wield like weapons as deadly as any sword or spear, but his origins were humble and ordinary as could be. The bastard son of a local politician in the minor state of Qin, his father refused to acknowledge this child born out of wedlock, a tale as old as time itself. His mother took the news in stride and named him Ying Zheng, which simply meant ‘Be Full’. That was her dream, that her bouncing baby boy would have food enough to fill his belly for the rest of his life. Times were hard back them, especially for a single mother, but she raised him with the help of her clan, a small tribe of nomads with less than a hundred souls who were best known for their strong breeding stock of cattle. An unremarkable beginning all things considered, but even as a child, those who knew him could see that he’d been marked for greatness. At the age of five, he wandered away while his mother worked and made his way to the crest of a hill, one overlooking a valley and the river running through it. The sun was barely peeking over the horizon and the light turned the flowing water bright red as it coursed through the valley and beyond, where the rustling grass swayed as the cattle grazed while wolves and wildcats lurked in the shadows and waited for the opportunity to strike. The sight of such pristine beauty literally stole his breath away, and when he found it again, everything had changed, for this exquisite vision unknowingly inspired him to harmonize his breathing with the rhythm of the world to draw the Energy of the Heavens into his body with each and every breath, marking this the day he became a cultivator of the Dao.

So began his journey to the peak of the Dao, the first step in an epic saga which would span dozens of millennia, but back then, every day seemed so full of meaning and significance. At twelve years of age, he woke up to screams in the dead of night, whereupon he took up his pitchfork and ran out to help fend off a band of opportunistic cattle bandits. Without any training or experience whatsoever, he single-handedly slaughtered three grown men and wounded five more before the rest broke and ran, an act of heroism which won him the admiration of his friends and a scolding from his mother for putting himself in so much danger. Much as he loved her, he loved the thrill of the fight even more, and by sixteen, he’d made a name for himself as a local head-hunter who’d captured many a famed bandit like the Bug-Eyed Brute, Elder Eight Plains, and the Birch Brothers.

Then the world was swept up by the tumultuous calamity which future historians would call the Warring States Era.

It started off simply enough, with the Jin state fracturing apart as the sons of the recently departed king warred amongst themselves over which one would succeed the throne. Hardly newsworthy unless you happened to live in the Jin State, which was merely one of some fifty odd-states of the Central Plains and hundreds of kilometres away from Ying Zheng’s home in quiet Qin. When he first heard of the Jin civil war, the news was weeks old and he paid it no mind, save to chuckle at the news of three separate Jin States and how the total number of states changed more often than the seasons. Little did he know that this civil war would soon make its way to his borders, as each Jin successor sought out allies to aid them in their quest to reclaim their ‘rightful’ kingdom. Yue, Wei, and Shan were first to join in, each backing a different claimant to the throne, and the war continued with vigour renewed, only for the young King of Wei to die on the battlefield without a rightful heir and spark off a new conflict back home. Qi, Lu, Song, Chu, and Han were next to join the fray, only for the wildfires of war to spread across the Central Plains and beyond within a matter of weeks.

And so the King of Qin rode off to war, with young Ying Zheng among the ranks of his hastily conscripted army.

Oh how his mother cried when he left, and he remembered how hard it was to hide his smile because he thought she was being over-dramatic. At sixteen years young, he was a crane among chickens, a towering boy who stood heads and shoulders above every man in the tribe. What’s more, he could lift a fully grown bull upon his shoulders and march all day and night if need be, and have strength enough to do it again the next day. This he told his mother, saying everything he could think of to assure her that he would be safe and promising to return home a victorious hero. His name would be known throughout the entire state and he would have wealth enough to buy her a thousand head of cattle so she could retire and grow fat off the labour of her tribesman. This was an opportunity, he told her, fortune found in disaster, for he would raid a king’s palace and capture a princess to be his bride, before looting all the priceless valuables kings were well known to hoard.

Time would prove him right. In his first battle, he took up his issued bamboo spear and used it to kill an enemy captain. A feat which should have jumped him to fame and fortune both, but fool that he was, he simply stole the horse with banner still attached and traded it to the quartermaster for a single silver tael and extra serving of dinner. The quartermaster then turned around and used this as proof to give his nephew credit for the kill, which earned the boy a captain’s rank of his own, but real gold does not fear the test of fire. During their second battle, the recently raised captain fell in the first charge, while Ying Zheng used the bronze halberd he’d looted from his first battle to cut a swathe through the enemy ranks. Nine weeks and five battles later, he lost that same halberd unseating the opposing commander from his lofty perch overseeing the battlefield, an act which caught the eye of his king and earned him a promotion to captain. From there on out, every battle saw him continue this upward trend as he made a name for himself among allies and enemies alike. During the clash on the Han River, he spotted a flanking force of a thousand soldiers getting ready to move across a floating bridge, so he attacked with ten men and held the enemy off long enough for reinforcements to arrive. In the siege of Shu, he was the first man over the battlements and took control of the eastern gate, which allowed the Qin army to stream in unchecked and overrun the fortress. In Shao, he took over the reins of command after the general and his cadre were slaughtered by an army of archers hidden in the mountainous crags overhead, whereupon he personally killed the opposing commander after offering challenge in single combat.

Nine years he fought, not even a decade in total. A seemingly insignificant amount of time in the grand sense of the cosmos, but when he finally returned home to the state of Qin, Ying Zheng was a changed man. True to his word, he’d amassed a fortune in looted treasures and awarded pay, and though he’d failed to bring back a princess, he had bedded all manner of foreign women which to him seemed every bit as laudable and prestigious. It was all for naught however, for when he returned to his tribe in search of his mother, he learned that she’d passed away shortly after he left, drowned in a flash flood while trying to save a pregnant cow who’d wandered too close to the raging river. Just like that, his lifetime of achievements all seemed for naught, for he’d lost the only person he cared for in this lawless world, the only person who cared for him.

Others saw Ying Zheng as the hero of Qin, a candidate for the next great general of the era, but in his eyes, he was merely an unfilial son who failed to protect his mother.

Such was his state of mind when he received word from his father, an invitation to a banquet during which he would be welcomed into the family. He attended the banquet in the clothes of his people, a conscious decision made after an entire day and night of quiet introspection, and he drew many a stare by showing up in patchwork leathers while riding atop a placid bull. Even after so many millennia, the customs had not changed, for only peasants rode cattle while the wealthy should be carried by steeds at the very least. He could have secured a horse for himself, having long since learned to ride and fight in mounted combat during his time away at war, a war which was still being fought outside the borders of Qin, but he cared not for the respect or admiration of these so-called noble elites. Instead, he rode his bull through the manor gates and barrelled straight into the banquet hall before stopping before the father who’d refused to acknowledge him some twenty-five years ago, all to ask but a single question.

“Did you send her flowers?” A simple enough gesture for a man of his father’s means, but it was clear the man did not understand Ying Zheng’s question. “For her funeral. Did you send flowers?”

There were no apologies made, he remembered that much, only muttered excuses about how things had changed and there were regrets for how matters unfolded, but what little he heard was enough to drive him to a blind rage. When Ying Zheng came to his senses once again, the banquet hall had become a scene of slaughter and bloodshed, with his father torn to shreds alongside three of his wives and seven other children. Ying Zheng’s half-siblings lay dead too, the oldest of whom was two years his senior, and the youngest still in braids, yet he killed them all the same, along with fifteen guests of no small esteem for no reason other than their close proximity. In the distance, he heard screams decrying him as a murderer while the rushed cadence of marching boots of the city guard heralded their imminent arrival, but all he could do was look upon what he had wrought in his rage and wonder why he felt nothing at all.

The events of that night saw him go from state hero to wanted criminal in the blink of an eye, but it mattered little to him. He never cared much for the state of Qin, felt no kinship to the nation which he supposedly belonged to, for his people were nomads who merely spent most of their time in Qin, while travelling to and from no less than four other states. As such, he escaped easily enough even without the help of his people, though they were not spared the wrath of the King of Qin, who had them all drawn and quartered for the crime of fostering a murderer as if they’d raised him for the sole purpose of going against the state. A power-hungry fool and incompetent ruler both, for word of Ying Zheng’s strength had spread far and wide and talents in short supply, meaning the doors of every state hostile to Qin and a few supposed allies were now open to him. In the end, he settled on serving under the state of Zhao after its king pledged to raze Qin state to the ground, a conflict in which Ying Zheng stood at the forefront of every battle.

Ostensibly so he could avenge his former tribesmen, but in truth, he merely wanted to kill and slaughter to his heart’s content, to find the thrill of the fight he’d lost upon receiving the news of his mother’s death, and the state of Qin had given him reason enough to do so.

Years passed as he devoted himself to the art of war, a subject in which he excelled, and he cared not who he fought so long as there was blood to be spilled. He became the young tiger of Zhao, then the rising Dragon of Han, who grew into the conqueror of Yan and the slaughterer of Wei. Though no one would go as far as to claim him the winner of every battle, he gained a reputation as the herald of death and victory both as he conquered lands and people for the states he served. Kings rose and fell like chickens over the next few decades, but Ying Zheng continued to fight for whichever patron would have him, until at the age of fifty-three, he decided it was high time he served his own interests instead and crowned himself the Mercenary King of the Azure Sea. Unlike the other kings who sought to grow and expand their lands, Ying Zheng cared not for wealth or territory beyond what he needed to sustain his army, whose services he sold to the highest bidder. In doing so, he amassed fame and fortune both, as well as a reputation for being a murderous savage who slaughtered everyone in his wake, soldiers and civilians alike.

Not because he was still the same angry boy of yesteryear. No, since the night he killed his father and half-siblings, his heart was but an empty shell, one which beat only when the thrill of battle surged through his veins. He had long since forgotten the blazing heat of hatred and fury, and could not remember a time when he felt love’s warm embrace, but he fought on because battle was all he knew, yet even he had long since grown tired of it. Almost four decades had passed since his inaugural battle at the age of sixteen, and he had never known a full season without bloodshed since. The kings of the Warring States era knew not how to govern, only how to kill and be killed, and now the third generation of soldiers were marching to these same wars, including Ying Zheng’s own grandchildren.

