His caution proved unnecessary however, for he was Heaven’s Chosen Son, and would forever be the strongest existence under Heaven. Alas, the perpetual trials and tribulations of life knew no end as new adversity rose to replace the old. Decades passed in the blink of an eye, yet no one from this new generation of cultivators were able to Ascend to Divinity and stand alongside this Sovereign and his five brothers. Discontent with their own lacklustre progress, many of the more promising cultivators of the Empire were unable to accept their own inadequacy and accused Ying Zheng of keeping vital information secret in order to maintain power over them. Another baseless accusation without even a scrap of truth, but he was not entirely without fault. Back then, they had yet to comprehend just how vast and ineffable the Dao truly was, so their teachings were all tainted by the way he and his Great Generals perceived the truth. An understandable oversight, considering Ying Zheng had already ascended to become a Nascent Immortal before even becoming aware of the concept known as the Dao, while Di Zi had an entirely different perspective due to a life spent outside the Empire. As for their four brothers, before Ascending to Divinity themselves, they’d each stood at the pinnacle of their respective Paths, and thus were able to see past the fallacies rife in their shared discourse and Ascend to Nascent Immortality in spite of it, but how could one expect these greenhouse flowers to do the same?

It would be centuries before Ying Zheng realized his mistake, so at the time, he’d been at a loss on how to explain why none of the second-generation cultivators were able to Ascend to Nascent Immortality. This led to a growing divide in which many were convinced he was working to keep them weak, for he had no way to prove the absence of hidden secrets which he never thought to keep. This led to hundreds of powerful cultivators defecting to take positions of power among the outlanders, and in his foolish desire to maintain peace and prosperity, Ying Zheng refused to denounce them as traitors and kill them to keep the secrets of the Dao from spreading.

To this day, he still believed this was his greatest mistake, for it was only a matter of centuries before the first Divinity appeared. A false divinity unworthy of the name, these pretenders had harnessed a power they could no longer control, but they cared not for the damage they wrought. They fought amongst themselves in spite of Ying Zheng’s warnings and pleas, reducing the lands outside the Empire to an uninhabitable wasteland where few could survive, only to set their sights upon the Azure Sea and the bounty surrounding it. With no other choice, he led his brothers beyond the borders of his Empire to wage war against the pretenders, a war without a name for he made certain no one would ever learn of it.

Which was easy enough, considering he was the only one to emerge from the battle alive.

The loss of his brothers pained him so, but though he could not preserve their lives, he was able to safeguard their souls within his own and work towards finding new bodies for them to inhabit. All of them agreed, save for Di Zi whose morals would not allow him to take a life even to save his own, and they almost had a falling out when Ying Zheng presented his fifth brother with a soulless babe to inhabit guilt free. The weakness of emotion, one which he had long since divested himself of in the wake of his failures, but there was no arguing with Di Zi on this. Instead, fifth brother became a permanent fixture within Ying Zheng’s soul, which was fortunate since it led to the discovery of the Natal Palace, and eventually, the Natal Throne. Unfortunate as well, for it soon became clear that even though their goals were aligned, their methods were diametrically opposed. Di Zi wanted to find the flaw in his teachings and perfect them to discover a means with which any mortal could ascend to become a cultivator, but Ying Zheng disagreed. While he also wanted his people to grow strong, the calamitous struggle against the outlanders had taught him something he should have known all along. Whether you were a mortal or a Nascent Immortal, the same rules held true; Might makes right, and conflict breeds strength, so he set about empowering his people the quickest way he knew how.

By throwing them into conflict with one another.

Though he survived his battle against the outlanders, he did not make his return to the Empire in public. Instead, he had his duplicate take over in his absence, the Nascent Soul he’d implanted into his last surviving heir, though the passing of time meant he was already on his fifth host as he had yet to Ascend to Divinity in any previous life. Why, this Sovereign could not say, as it was clear that his Natal Soul was flawed in some way, but the entity that would one day call himself Zhen Shi was still useful yet. While this Sovereign fought the outlander Divinities, his Natal Soul rallied the Supreme families behind him to become the second Emperor of the Azure Sea, whereupon he began his reign with a massed purge of dissident cultivators and historians both before enshrining strict rules for succession in place. Every fifty years a new Emperor would take the throne, but not necessarily the son of the last Emperor. Might makes right, so the strongest cultivator of each generation would have a chance to wear the crown, but aside from the Second Emperor who was his Natal Soul, each subsequent Emperor was merely Ying Zheng inhabiting a new body. It was not easy to give up the body he’d been born in, but cruel as he was to his enemies, he was even more merciless towards himself. By continuing his reign in this roundabout manner, he provided the mortals and cultivators under him with the illusion of change and progress while everything remained firmly within his control, for even though he was a just and magnanimous ruler, his subjects would always find reason to resent him. The unfathomable hearts of man, to find conflict no matter the cost, for in spite of all their lofty ideals, humans were not creatures of Balance, but beasts driven by pure emotion.

And so they must be treated as such, for should these beasts one day slip his leash, their foolish struggles might well destroy what little was left of the habitable world.

That was the role Ying Zheng took on, the protector of humanity who safeguarded them from themselves, a role Di Zi was thoroughly displeased by. Despite being an entity of pure spirit and nothing more, he somehow managed to unite his brothers against Ying Zheng without his notice. That was another clash for the ages, but one which took place within the landscape of his soul, and when he emerged victorious once again, he left the souls of his brothers intact. Not out of some misguided sense of compassion or hope for the future, no, the moment they turned on him was the moment they ceased to be his brothers. Instead, he kept them because he had long since discovered that he could siphon knowledge and strength from the souls chained within his Natal Palace, slowly but surely allowing him to perceive the Dao from different perspectives and perhaps one day even enabling him to observe it in its entirety.

Of course, keeping so many souls within his Natal Palace would foster an imbalance with his body and mind, one which would slowly correct itself over time to empower his body and mind even further. Eventually, the imbalance grew so great that his hosts' mortal bodies were unable to wholly contain the entirety of his presence, with his presence draining away at their Life Force as their bodies struggled to sustain him, but it mattered little considering he switched bodies every fifty years, and freed him from the effort of having to puppet the former Emperor whenever a new one took the throne. The deaths were explained away as the inherited mantle of power being too much for a mere mortal to bear, the secrets of the second Emperor passed down to ensure each successive generation would have strength enough to hold onto the throne. Fools one and all, and Ying Zheng looked forward to the time when he would cleanse himself of the red of dust of the mortal world and create a new body to inhabit, one which would be the match of his flourishing soul and mind.

So the years passed as he guided humanity down not one dead end Path, but two. One Path for the outer provinces, namely the Path used by the outlanders, and a second for the Imperial Clan, which was more powerful and more complete, but flawed all the same. This was his solution, to keep humanity in conflict with itself with minimal actual conflict, and one day give rise to a cultivator strong enough to see past all the lies. Though he encountered some setbacks along the way, like the murder of the ‘fourteenth’ Emperor by a rebel Grand Marshal, he improved upon the foundation he built in hopes that his Empire would one day give rise to another talent worthy of consideration. Yes, the humans of this era were disadvantaged by flawed teachings, but the greater the challenge, the greater the reward. Before Ying Zheng came along, humanity had never given rise to a Nascent Immortal, and even his brothers whom he guided to the Dao were not as powerful as he, for their comprehension was lacking and their foundations flawed due to having been built in accordance with this Sovereign’s perspective rather than their own. Thus, he was willing to wait thousands of millennia if need be while trying a whole host of other ideas, yet it wasn’t long before his efforts bore fruit.

For when the first Ancestral Beast took form, this proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that the concentration of Heavenly Energy was growing stronger as time passed, which was a theory he came up with long ago. How else to explain the lack of Martial Warriors and Nascent Immortals before his time? It wasn’t that their comprehension was lacking, but rather they never had the opportunity to reach these same heights. Now however, the ambient Heavenly Energy lingering throughout the world was enough so that even animals could make use of it. Perhaps this was part of a natural cycle of wax and wane, though it was more likely due to the fact that nine-tenths of all life in the entire world had only recently been wiped out. Regardless of the reason behind it, the overabundance of Heavenly Energy was the only explanation for this unprecedented advent of flawed Divinities in the form of Ancestral Beasts. Much like the primal humans of old, these creatures had stumbled across the same flawed Path in their pursuit of the Dao, and Ying Zheng soon discovered the root cause.

Or more accurately, Zhen Shi discovered the cause, namely Ying Zheng himself.

By leading all of humanity down this flawed Martial Dao, he’d somehow manifested a cycle of Creation and Destruction in the Energy of the Heavens themselves, wherein it was trapped in the process of manifesting Spectres and Demons, entities which did not exist before his time. These entities still required sustenance to grow and survive, but the by-product of their consumption was something Heavenly Energy needed to grow. All of this formed a delicate budding ecosystem which Ying Zheng had long since set into motion, and as such, he left Zhen Shi to his own devices and hoped he would see his Path through to completion. Only then would Ying Zheng have a peer to discuss the Dao with again, for if he were to wait for the Heavens to produce another Chosen Son like him, he might well be waiting for all eternity.

Or so he thought, until he discovered one Falling Rain.

This was a dragon who showed promise aplenty, one so promising Liang Wu Di had hoped to turn him into a weapon to use against Ying Zheng. True Divine Warrior though he might be, he underestimated the resolve of a true cultivator of the Dao, for what riches could a crane possibly offer to tempt a dragon? Long had Ying Zheng waited for so promising a talent, and together, they could lead humanity to a new era of prosperity and solve the riddle that had been plaguing him for so long.

How might a Nascent Immortal traverse the Void to Shatter the barrier beyond the Heavens? This was the true meaning of Void Shattering, not merely to shatter the Void, but to shatter what lay beyond it. Everything else was irrelevant, whether it be the transient bindings of family and friends or the inherent human dependence on emotion at the expense of logic and rationale. Shed yourself of all these mortal trappings, of your fear and love both, and take the next step which you have deferred for so long to become a Nascent Immortal in truth.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tearing his attention away from the memories of his distant past, this Sovereign struggled to rein in the emotions he’d long since left behind, but his forced merger with his Natal Soul had brought emotions back to the forefront of his attention and made it difficult to ignore them out of hand. A minor inconvenience in the grand scheme of things, for though he possessed an incessant and illogical urge to imprison Falling Rain’s soul and torment him for the next millennia, this Sovereign had strength of Will enough to resist it. The boy was too promising to do away with out of hand, and even though he expected this petulant child to reject this most gracious of offers, this exchange would set the foundation for the next time this Sovereign made the offer again. Not until some time had passed and the boy had learned his place, to both lessen the sting of his loved ones’ deaths and become acclimated to his new lot in life. He had pride and arrogance aplenty, else he would have taken Wu Di’s generous offer, but this Sovereign knew things would work out in his favour once again, for he was a true son of Heaven.

