“Bah. The foundling is no kin of mine,” Binesi replied, and Nian Zu could picture the unyielding grimace stretched across his proud features as he uttered the word, though Binesi would never explain why he deemed Rain so. “I hail from the mountains, but I am no Bekhai. My wife Asane, my children Aska and Teekway, and my grandchildren Mani, Matchi, and Ayas, they are my kin, and I would die for them.” Pausing, he added, “And I would die for you, Colonel General.”

“Then heed your orders and live instead, if not for me, then for your family and country.” Though touched by the implication, Nian Zu pictured the young, fifty-seven year old grandfather and wondered where all the years had gone. “The Empire will need your strength in the days to come, and in the future, it will need those whelps you so scorn. Serve Baatar as you have served me, for he is the leader I’d hope to one day become.”

“Yes Colonel General,” Binesi replied, his tone subdued, but unwilling. “Only I fear Baatar is not the man you believe him to be. You fight for love of the Empire, but him? He is a mad wolf who fights only for the thrill of the battle, and he would burn the Empire to ashes if it should so suit him.”

Having married one and adopted two more, Binesi would be the last man in the Empire to harbour hostile half-beast sentiments, which meant perhaps there was more to Baatar and the Bekhai than Nian Zu suspected. Still, this was not the time to delve into tribal mountain politics, so he snarled and Sent, “Then serve whomsoever you choose starting tomorrow, but today, while I still live and breathe, you will serve me. Understood?"

“...By your command, Colonel General.”

Sensing rather than seeing his Concealed subordinates leave, Nian Zu suppressed a sigh and implored the Mother to watch over them. Eight Peak Experts were all he could spare, and the remaining forty-two would live or die with him, as would most of the soldiers in Sinuji. Even if he gave the order to retreat and the Divinities allowed it, the surviving Defiled were unlikely to let them leave untouched, and out on the open plains of Central, his people would be ground to meat paste beneath the taloned claws and stamping hooves of garos and gajashias alike. Since his soldiers were doomed regardless if they left or stayed, then it was better to stay and consign the Defiled army to doom alongside them.

It might seem callous to say this, but thirty-thousand Imperial soldiers in exchange for one million Defiled was a butcher’s bill Nian Zu would happily pay time and time again, but when it came to the lives of his soldiers, he was stingier than any fishwife or farmer’s daughter and always demanded the best price. Thus, his next barrage of Sent orders were aimed at doing just that, laying out the groundwork for his plan of attack. Even the best laid plans rarely survived first contact with the Enemy, but Nian Zu knew none of them would survive first contact with a Divinity, and his plan reflected as much. Every single one of his forty-two orders were similar in nature. “Wait for my signal, then attack Zhu Chanzui with all your might.”

Not much was known about the Bristleboar Immortal aside from his prolific appetite for food and women alike, but anyone with eyes could see he was the stronger of the two Defiled Divinities. Perhaps it was due to exhaustion from her earth-shaping efforts, but the unnamed, Earth-Blessed Mole-Rat had been utterly helpless against Guan Suo’s Blessing of Smoke, so if Nian Zu could distract Zhu Chanzui, he might create an opening for his three allied Divinities to exploit. It was only tactically sound to have him, a relic past his prime with no hope of advancement, to deal the opening strike and risk springing whatever trap the Enemy might have left in place, for only a fool would believe the Enemy stupid, not after everything Nian Zu had witnessed first-hand.

There was a good chance there were more Defiled Divinities lurking about, whether they be human, Demon, or Ancestral Beast, so Nian Zu was prepared to sacrifice his life and the lives of his loyal soldiers to uncover them.

His orders given and the groundwork laid, Nian Zu steeled his determination and took to the air, Cloud-Stepping away from Sinuji like so many of his countrymen already had. With luck, the Enemy Divinities would pay him no mind and think him a rat scurrying away in panic, but unlike the others, Nian Zu moved north, rather than east. Soaring high into the sky, he hesitated for the briefest of moments until the Abbot’s drum sounded once more, a timing so fortuitous he wasn’t sure if he should attribute it to Divine Intervention or simply the Abbot catching wind of his actions. Then there was no more time for thought as he raised his mace to the Heavens and filled it with every scrap of Chi he could muster.

The Shooting Star. That was the title his peers and admirers had bestowed upon him, named so for his weapon and signature move, which, like Falling Rain so loved to do, was simply Nian Zu casting his weapon at his enemies from afar. A high-risk, high-reward gambit, it was a move he perfected over decades of duels against stronger, more experienced foes. Somewhere along the way, he’d discovered not only how to Guide, Reinforce, and Amplify the strike, but also how to use Lightening to increase his mace’s weight and Honing to cut through the air resistance to speed his weapon’s flight along.

And his crowning achievement? He combined all of the above with Reverberation to make his weapon oscillate at speeds invisible to the naked eye and emit destructive, pulsating shockwaves of Chi through the air which would shred apart anything which even came close to the speeding projectile, turning this simple throw of his mace into a true, Heaven-sent Talent.

The Shooting Star exploded from his grasp and hurtled towards his target, reaching Zhu Chanzui in the blink of an eye. The mace struck with a clap of thunder and raised a billowing plume of dirt and ash. As the debris rained down, the attacks from Nian Zu’s elites finally arrived. Most, such as Singing Spear Shi Yukun and Clearsky Bao, threw their weapons like he had, while a select few delivered devastating blows through Chi alone, imperceptible projectiles only visible by the gaps they left behind in the settling cloud of dust. Inefficient, but deadly, and even though he was titled ‘The Immortal’, Nian Zu had to believe Zhu Chanzui would not emerge unscathed.

Most would’ve opted for a coordinated attack in concert with his soldiers, but considering the strength of their opponent, he chose to strike first in the hopes of catching the Immortal off-guard and therefore allow his soldiers to inflict more damage on a hopefully wounded foe. Time seemed to stop as Nian Zu’s upwards momentum came to an end, and after single second which stretched into eternity, he began to fall, but still the Immortal had not emerged. Had it worked? He almost didn’t dare to hope, but drained of all Chi and strength, all he could do was watch the dust settle and hope against all hope that this sudden attack had secured an Imperial victory.

As the ground rushed to greet him, Nian Zu grit his teeth and readied for impact, but a light breeze swept him up and he found himself standing on the walls once more, this time behind Falling Rain.

Tock.

The Abbot’s steady drumming continued to echo throughout Sinuji, and while looking about for the mysterious stranger who saved him, Nian Zu belatedly realized Guan Suo and GangShu were both still standing on the parapets, or rather lying on the parapets in the case of the former. Not one of the Imperial Divinities had capitalized on Nian Zu’s painstaking efforts, and even though he hadn’t warned them in advance for fear of alerting the Enemy, he thought beings of such prowess would at least be able to react in time, but...

No...

It’s not that the Divinities didn’t react in time, but rather they couldn’t act.

The clouds of dust parted to reveal Zhu Chanzui standing at full attention, utterly unharmed saved for Nian Zu’s mace embedded in his meaty chest. An assortment of other Spiritual Weapons lay about his feet, but none had left so much as a mark upon his embroidered tunic. With a sneer so wide even a mundane farmer could see it from two kilometres away, the portly Bristleboar Divinity wrenched the mace out of his chest and held it up to inspect, his actions comically dismissive and meant to mock Nian Zu’s century of hard effort. “Not bad fer a weak mortal,” Chanzui said, the statement laced with barely restrained amusement. “What’s yer name again? Oh right, Nian Zu, isn’t it? The Great Hero of the Wall. Go train fer another three-hundred years, and mebbe yer attacks’ll be worth dodgin’.”

And just like that, with only a few words, Zhu Chanzui dealt a deathblow to the morale of Sinuji’s soldiers. A Colonel General and Living Legend, and his attacks weren’t even worth dodging.

Just as he was about to lose himself to despair, a small hand patted him on the arm and a voice said, “Stand tall.” Eyes fixated on the Enemy Divinities, Falling Rain had come to support Nian Zu in his time of need, even positioning himself to share his walker should his elder require it. Laughable is what it was, the boy was crippled and helpless, the first to die should he be left on his own, but still his amber eyes burned with the twin fires of courage and conviction. “The Great Hero of the Wall can falter, but he cannot fall, not while so many are still counting on you.”

“You’re right.” Finding new strength where he thought there was none to be had, Nian Zu stood upright and presented himself to the Enemy without shame. Opening his mouth as if to speak, he instead exerted what remained of his Chi and willpower to wring his mace from the Bristleboar’s hands and summon it back to his hand in a single motion, unsteady though it might be. “The man who prepared this stunning blow which set off our conflict,” he said, ignoring Chanzui’s unsightly scowl, “Was also a weak mortal, but your associate mistook his work for a Divinity’s. Obviously, I am no match for him, but I share with you his words which inspired me to act today.” Hoping against all hope, he prayed that if he should die here today, that Chen Hongji’s words would spread like wildfire through the Empire tomorrow. “When Gods stride out to meet in battle, Heaven and Earth are torn asunder, and Mortals can do naught but persevere.” Grinning like a madman, Nian Zu tucked his mace into the crook of his arm to strike a defiant pose.

“And I, Nian Zu, am nothing if not persistent.”

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2
