Despite having recently turned a hundred years old and spending eighty-two of those in military service, Nian Zu could honestly say that he’d never experienced a moment as gut-wrenching, heart-stopping, and downright terrifying as this one.

When the conflagration first consumed the Defiled army, Nian Zu had been overwhelmed with awe and delight as he fondly reminisced over the innocuous report which made this glorious blaze possible. A sealed document had been painstakingly delivered into his hands using the most stringent of security measures the Army had in place, a level of secrecy usually reserved for documents concerning the movements of Imperial Scions and their ilk. At the time, Nian Zu had thought this insignificant Colonel was either a self-important buffoon or an asinine fool, wasting precious time and manpower to convey a message which likely had no grave significance, but all of that changed after he read the first line.

Skipping any and all ingratiating preamble, Chen Hongji’s letter cut straight to the point. “This humble servant submits the following suggestions to bolster the front line’s defences, all of which were inspired by a single conversation with Warrant Officer Second Grade, Falling Rain.” From there, it detailed a comprehensive plan which painstakingly laid out each and every step along the way, as well as in-depth solutions for issues which might possibly crop up during development. When Nian Zu finished reading the letter in its entirety, he requested a meeting with the Legate at first light and spent the rest of the night poring over the document to both familiarize himself with the contents and search for any possible flaws or discrepancies which might require his attention.

There were none. He presented the plan to the Legate without making a single change or suggestion, and should he survive past today, Nian Zu would raise a glass to the humble Colonel, for Chen Hongji had dealt the Enemy a blow so devastating, they mistook his work for the actions of a Divinity.

Which, as horrid luck would have it, was not something the good Colonel, the Legate, Nian Zu, or any of his fellow Colonel Generals who’d all been briefed on the plans had expected or prepared for. Now four Ancestral Beasts and a single human Divinity were preparing to exchange blows on the fields of Sinuji, with at least two more Imperial Divinities and Mother knows how many Defiled ones still waiting in the wings. Before an audience of thirty-thousand Imperial soldiers and half-a-million Defiled killers no less, an audience which would survive for all of a heartbeat once one of these gathered titans threw the first punch. If Nian Zu left now, he might escape intact, or his efforts could prove fruitless and only buy him a few extra seconds of life in which to regret, but regardless of the outcome, the prudent thing to do would be to take to the skies and hope for the best. Before the Abbot even gave his challenge, the more sensible Peak Experts of Sinuji had already taken off, bringing away whatever talented youngster or prized heir they were sent here to protect. Strictly against military law, of course, but given the circumstances, the Justicars were certain to show leniency given that there was little a Peak Expert could do to affect the outcome in a clash of Divinities.

Thus, all that was left to do was wait for death while standing here cloaked in Concealment, their doom heralded by the slow, steady rhythm beaten out on the Abbot’s wooden fish.

Tock.

Tock.

Tock.

At seventeen years young, after Nian Zu’s ‘debauched’ trysts with the serving boys came to his parent’s attention, they proselytized for hours upon hours about face and filial piety in hopes it would cure him of his ‘deviant’ tastes, but even then, Nian Zu knew who he truly was and saw no reason to change. When words failed to sway him, his parents tried removing temptation and replaced his entire wait staff with willing and unwilling women alike, but he had no interest in tawdry perfumed courtesans or shy, androgynous young maids, so his parents soon turned to more extreme measures.

This came in the form of long periods of isolation and sleep-deprivation followed by endless sermons meant to turn his lust into self-hatred, delivered by a charlatan his parents hired to ‘cure’ this son’s affliction. Growing desperate for results, the charlatan soon turned to drugs, beatings, and eventually even torturing Nian Zu’s former lovers in front of him until he was forced to kill them with his own hands to spare them the suffering. Worst of all, his parents were always watching from nearby, often pleading with him to give in so they could ‘be a family once more’, as if he were the one forcing their hands. Everything they said and did only served to reinforce his conviction that they were in the wrong, for during their short meetings, he always asked them why they believed love between two men was so abhorrent and objectionable, but they could never give him a proper answer besides ‘because it went against nature’. Then they would go on about how it pained them to see him suffer, but that his actions shamed them to the core because as their only son, it was his duty to father them a gaggle of grandchildren to continue on the Situ name.

So one fateful day, Nian Zu slipped his bonds, killed the charlatan, and held a blade to his neck to threaten his own life and keep his parents from capturing him. Oh how they begged and pleaded for him to put the blade down, all the while desperately seeking a chance to wrench the weapon from his hands, but the edge had already bit into his flesh and it would only take the barest effort to cut through artery and bone, so they didn’t dare forcibly move against him. With his life’s blood spilling down his chest and his tormentor’s latest work still unhealed, he marched out the manor to the closest military recruitment facility and requested to join the Imperial Army, the only way he knew how to be free of Clan and Society influence. Never once lowering the blade or taking his eyes off his parents, he asked the recruiter for the longest contract the army had available and placed his bloody thumbprint upon the document sight unseen, pledging away the next five decades of his life to the Imperial Army on a document he later signed as simply ‘Nian Zu’.

And thus, the black sheep of the Society was born, the outcast and future Hero of the Wall.

Tock.

Before joining the army, he’d been no great talent, not in those early years, but Clan and Society helped forge him into the warrior he was today. Not through nurturing guidance and devoted care, but through constant tempering in fire and conflict. By the end of that first year, he’d slain no less than eleven of his more promising peers, each one sent to challenge him in single combat to regain honour for their respective factions. Then there was nothing they could do except keep sending challengers to face him, for their conflict had come to the attention of the current Situ Patriarch at the time, the dignified Situ Shi Min. Now there was a man who knew how to lead, a stately elder Nian Zu would have gladly pledged allegiance to were it not for his parent’s unrepentant actions. Unbeknownst to him at the time, Shi Min had not only punished his parents for their actions, but also declared that if Nian Zu were to be assassinated, he would overturn Heaven and earth to uncover the culprit responsible and exile their entire branch of the family from the Situ Clan or wipe out their faction from the Society.

“Situ turning against Situ will only end in disaster,” Shi Min had supposedly said, though Nian Zu only learned of it from Jia Ying decades later, who was only parroting what her grandfather told her. “This young genius is at odds with the Clan, but death is not the solution, not when he shows more promise than any youth in the last hundred years. You want his blood? Then bring me another genius to match him. Otherwise, shut your whining mouths and get to work wooing him back into the fold.”

Nian Zu never met Shi Min in person, for his status had been far too lowly for the Old Patriarch to take direct action, but apparently Shi Min was his staunchest supporter and always believed his grievance with Clan and Society would fade with time. In fact, the Old Patriarch was so fond of Nian Zu, he would often tell tales of the black sheep’s exploits in private instead of lauding his own grandson and successor, Rang Min, which led to an irreconcilable grievance between the current Patriarch and Nian Zu. Truth was, Shi Min’s effort to win Nian Zu over would have succeeded, because his anger died alongside his father, but on his first journey back to the Society Headquarters in four decades to attend the funeral, he was ambushed by assassins he later discovered had been dispatched by Rang Min.

As for Shi Min’s promise to expel the culprit responsible? That promise was never fulfilled, but Nian Zu suspected it was not for lack of trying. A week after the ambush, the Old Patriarch unexpectedly passed away and Rang Min rose to replace him.

Tock.

Such was the way of Clan politics, in which a heartless cad who murdered the loving grandfather who nurtured and guided him was more respected than a rebel child who ran away from the parents who abused him. Worse, the experience turned Rang Min into a rabid dog, one accustomed to killing anyone who crossed his path, as evidenced by the fate of so many Situ Clan talents. Even Lu An Jing, a man who would never hold true power in the Situ Clan on account of his name, was killed before he could become a threat, and Nian Zu shuddered to think of the horrific price Jia Ying was rumoured to have paid to keep her then-unborn child alive. Rang Min’s chosen successor was just as ruthless as he, little Situ Gulong going so far as to throw his own betrothed to the Defiled so as to free himself up for the mere promise of an Imperial bride. With such disgraceful behaviour becoming known to all, the Situ Clan was coming apart and held together only by Rang Min’s force of will, but once he was gone, the Situ Clan’s centuries of glory would be naught but dust upon the wind, for there was no one left to take his place.

No... there was someone. Nian Zu could be Patriarch tomorrow if he should so desire it, claiming the title as easily as turning a hand. Kill Rang Min, marry Jia Ying, and the rest of the Clan would fall in line behind him. He could even reach out to Han BoHai and install him as Patriarch of the Han Clan, then together, they would lead the Society towards a glorious future.

To do so, he only needed to survive today. Tomorrow, the possibilities were endless...

Tock.

Noticing his thoughts had gone astray once again, Nian Zu chuckled at the Enemy’s great efforts to dissuade him from acting, something he took as an undue compliment. With five Divinities already standing on the field, how could a mere Nian Zu affect the outcome?

...

Yes... how could he affect the outcome? There must be some way, else why was the Enemy so concerned regarding his presence? Remembering the letter which started this all, Nian Zu reflected on Hongji’s closing statement and steeled his resolve for the coming conflict.

How many times had he stared death in the eye? Far too many to count, most recently just over a year ago when the Enemy dispatched close to a hundred Wraiths and nine Demons to assassinate Nian Zu and the other commanders at the Northern Wall, hoping their deaths would put an end to the Northern Wall’s staunch defence. He himself had faced no less than five Demons and twenty Wraiths inside the walls of his manor, and only survived thanks to the destructive power of his Shooting Star which turned his beloved hill-top home into an unsightly crater. Even then, the injuries he suffered put him into a coma, one he would’ve never awoken from if not for the miraculous, painstaking efforts of the Medical Saint to help him recover and become even stronger than before.

And now, he knew why the Mother had spared him. To strike fear into the heart of the Enemy. All his years of struggle, countless hours of training, duels he fought, assassins he killed, battles he commanded, reputation he amassed, every trial and tribulation he faced before today, all of it was in preparation for this very moment, so he could persevere in the face of overwhelming odds and perhaps make a difference in this battle between Gods. Swallowing his fear and trepidation, he gripped his mace tight and Sent orders to his trusted cadre of Peak Experts, their loyalty unquestionable and their determination unfathomable. The eight youngest of his cadre he directed to Falling Rain’s side with orders to help the Bekhai keep their princeling and his talented comrades alive, though it was more for the safety of his soldiers since he doubted young Rain, who’d come to Sinuji with no less than four Divinities in his entourage, would need Nian Zu’s assistance to escape.

All of his chosen soldiers understood why Nian Zu picked them, but only dour Binesi dared respond. “Thirty years I have served you loyally,” the impassioned young warrior Sent, “And you would send me away, here and now, while facing the greatest challenge of your illustrious career? And for what? To guard some brat?”

Mother-in-Heaven... Had it really been thirty years since Nian Zu picked the fresh-faced Binesi to groom as a possible successor? “Do you not hail from the Saint’s Tribulations mountains? I would think you’d be glad to protect your kinsman.”

Tock.

