Ren's eyes widened. “I hope they weren't hurt too badly.” He said. “I got there as soon as I could.”

“I know.” The head cook said. “Everyone knows.”

Ren looked around at the other cooks, and they all nodded slightly. “You all had someone involved in that?”

They all nodded slightly again, and he smiled.

“Then what I said goes for everyone.” Ren said. “I hope they're all okay.”

“They are.” One of the female cooks said. “Did you really jump into the pit to fight giants?”

“Jump?” Ren chuckled. “No, I didn't jump. I ended up there just the same, though.”

“Woooow.” She said, and looked at Ren dreamily. “You fought giants.”

Two of the helpers brought over a couple of sacks of ingredients, and Ren thanked them and stored everything. He bid them a good day, and left the cafeteria. He climbed up onto Princess again, and they ran to the closest stairwell to get up on top of the battlement walls. No one questioned him being there, and they ran for the end of the Garrison and the spot where the pit trap was.

It didn't take them long to get to the end of the Garrison, because there wasn't anything in the way up on the walls. The walls were wide so they easily avoided the Warriors on patrol, then ran along the edge to where the pit trap was. Teepo found a stairwell for them, they went to ground level, and then they went outside through the closest gate. They arrived at the pit, and saw it was surrounded by Warriors and crossbows. Ren climbed down from Princess, told her not to go too far, and asked Riley and Stacy to keep guarding her. He walked over to the pit and looked down at the giants, and saw they were packed in tighter than sardines in a can.

Teepo? Use your Spot ability and count how many of them there are.

Teepo took a few minutes to do what Ren asked. “There's a hundred and thirty-five, Ren.”

“A hundred and thirty-five?” Ren said out loud. “Why so many?”

“They added in the ones that you captured inside the Garrison.” One of the Warriors said. “There wasn't anywhere else to put them.”

“How did they do that?”

“Ropes.” The Warrior said, and pointed to several large piles of ropes. “Some of them broke. They weren't designed to hold that much weight.”

“Was anyone hurt?”

“None of us at least.” He said, and Ren frowned as he concentrated on his Command Aura.

“Send for a couple of healers that won't mind working on giants.” Ren said. “I want the giants examined and checked out.”

“What for?” The Warrior asked. “They're just giants.”

“I didn't ask for your opinion, I gave you an order.” Ren said. “I want to know if any of them are sick. If they are, then I want them healed so it doesn't spread. Either to the other giants, or to the dwarves.”

“Yes, sir.” The Warrior said, and waved to a messenger to convey the order. While that was happening, Ren walked over to the piles of ropes to see what they were tied to. Several large spikes had been driven into the ground and the ropes were tied to them. Ren picked three of the closest ones, and sorted out the ropes attached to them.

“What are you doing?” One of the other Warriors asked.

“Making a stronger rope.” Ren said, then proceeded to braid the three ropes together. It didn't take long for him to do the entire length, and he tied a knot in the end. Ren held tension on the new braided rope, and walked over to the pit.

“Hey, you can't do that!” The Warrior said.

“Why not?” Ren asked him as the rope was eased down into the pit. The Warrior didn't know how to respond, and Ren smiled as he looked over the side of the pit. Several of the giants looked up at him, and he waved to them. Surprise was on a lot of the faces, and one of the female giants waved back.

“I'll be back in a few minutes.” Ren said, and disappeared over the side as he slid down the rope.
