“Where did that thought come from?” he asked, his eyes going wide at my response. “Are you planning to leave the realm or something?”

“Not specifically, though I won’t say it’s an impossibility,” I answered honestly. “Something like that should also work to let people outside the dungeon know if a delver is still alive.”

“But that isn’t what gave you the idea,” he said. It was a statement, not a question.

“No. It isn’t.”

I told him about Daver and the information I’d learned about incursion breaches potentially leading to other realms.

I considered telling him that I felt pretty confident that even if I were to find myself in another realm, I’d be able to get back via the sanctuary.

I hadn’t outright admitted that I could enter and exit the space from different locations, but I suspected Stephen had already put the pieces together. Mike and Cora might have as well, but I thought that less likely since I only really accessed the space with them while inside the dungeon.

The reason that I didn’t say anything was that I couldn’t be certain that my demesne really would work across realms like that.

Sure, it worked between the dungeon and Dia – presumably, since I hadn’t actually tested it yet – but that didn’t mean it would work if I were to travel to an entirely different realm ruled by a different deity.

Heck, I couldn’t even be certain my demesne would work properly if I just ran out of essence.

How much did my body actually regenerate on its own compared to what was just absorbed from the environment? What would happen if I ran out, and it turned out that my body didn’t regenerate anything?

Would I lose access to the space and everything in it? Or would my essence reserves even matter since the space was bound to my soul?

Without knowing the answers, I didn’t want to make any promises or even strong implied assurances. It was better just to avoid bringing it up at all.

I hoped that if I found myself in another realm, I’d be able to just pop back using my demesne. That was definitely the best-case scenario. But it wasn’t like I had any plans to intentionally enter an incursion breach anytime soon.

However, I did plan to learn how to close them, and I also planned on performing that service whenever the opportunity arose once I became strong enough to manage it.

Since that probably wouldn’t be until I reached at least silver rank, it wasn’t something that I needed to worry about anytime soon. I had decades – centuries, even, to figure things out.
