“…Lady Reinhart? Lady Reinhart, are you sleeping?”
Magnolia woke up with a start. She looked around blearily for a fraction of a second before her natural instincts took over. She sat up and smiled genteelly while the room swam back into focus.
Theofore the Assassin blinked at her as he stood at attention. The sight of a dark figure dressed in the ominous clothing of assassins and spies didn’t alarm Magnolia—that was a common enough sight.
But it took her a moment to remember that she wasn’t in her Celum property. The nice, rustic, intimate setting of that place had been replaced by the altogether more austere and rich setting of her winter home.
Ah. Of course. Magnolia sighed. She couldn’t feel it inside of course, thanks to a hundred spells, but winter had truly arrived. It was such a shame. Snow was all very well, but it made travel so tiresome.
She smiled at Theofore as he stood awkwardly to attention. His clothes were still drying, and although she’d offered refreshments and a towel, he’d refused both. It must come from being an [Assassin], she reflected. They had a certain aversion towards letting their guards down or eating any food not prepared by their own two hands.
“I’m sorry, I must have dozed off. It is past my bedtime after all. Do forgive me.”
He inclined his head without comment. It was very late, but she had standing orders for him to report to her the moment he arrived.
Hence his presence, and why it was imperative that Magnolia not yawn. That was un-Lady-like, and because it was, Magnolia fought down the impulse and smiled again.
“Now, where were we? I recall everything up to the point where Gazi vanished. My memory after that is…fuzzy.”
It had been an odd dream. Magnolia could barely remember what it was about. Theofore coughed.
“Yes, well, after Gazi the Omniscient departed, I had to move away from the group to maintain my concealment. It seems at least one of the Antinium heard her comment about an [Assassin], and I barely managed to remain hidden.”
He shuddered, and Magnolia felt the slightest hint of compassion for him. It could not be easy to hide from a half-Gazer, especially not the infamous Gazi. In fact, it was downright impossible, which was probably why Theofore had drawn the short straw and been sent to follow Ryoka. The Guild of Assassins – the Silent Brethren, the Unseen Guild, the Daughters and Sons of Silence – might be nominally unafraid to die, but they were at their core very practical.
Theofore coughed and continued. Magnolia hoped the man wasn’t coming down with a cold, or at least, that she didn’t catch it. The common cold was quite tiresome to cure, even for someone with access to the best magics.
“I followed Ryoka Griffin and the other girl – Erin Solstice – into the city. They talked with the Captain of the Watch for some time and the leader of the Gnolls as well before returning to the inn. The skeleton and Goblin followed them, while the others remained in the city.”
“Hm. Quite an interesting girl, this Erin Solstice, isn’t she?”
“She wounded Gazi.”
That statement made even Magnolia’s skin tingle with a thrill. An innkeeper, who’d wounded one of the King of Destruction’s most fearsome warriors? What was the world coming to?
Beside her, one of her maids shifted. She was new, or perhaps just tired, but the act immediately earned her a look from the head maid Ressa, who stood by Magnolia’s side.
Magnolia ignored that. No doubt punishment would be severe and swift once the maids were alone. Ressa ran a tight ship, so to speak, and the winter staff had grown relaxed in Magnolia’s absence. She’d talk to Ressa about relaxing later, although that was an exercise in futility.
So much to do, so little time. Magnolia gestured for Theofore to continue. He cleared his throat, coughing again. The stubborn man was sick.
“What of Ceria Springwalker and this Drake [Tactician]?”
“It seems the adventurers that survived the Ruins are now being held responsible for the undead invasion. I heard talk of fines before I left. The [Tactician] seems to be exempt from any possible punishment, however. Regardless, all the adventurers are recovering in the Adventurer’s Guild in the city.”
“Odd, to see that lot protecting them. I thought the Adventurer’s Guild in Drake cities was practically powerless. Perhaps their guildmaster has more of a spine than the others.”
Lady Magnolia sighed and drummed her fingers on her chair.
“Poor Yvlon. I wonder how the girl is holding up? Is she still comatose?”
Theofore hesitated.
“She seemed to be coming round, but she and the others are—changed.”
Lady Magnolia accepted that explanation without asking for more details.
“And the Antinium? What about those curious Workers with names you mentioned?”
“Sequestered within their Hive, or so it seems. Only the ones known as Ksmvr and Klbkch—”
Theofore stumbled as he tried to pronounce the name.
“—Are allowed aboveground.”
“Mm. That warrants further investigation. But the Gnolls?”
“I saw one of them running south after they returned to the city. More than that I cannot say.”
“Very well. Now, to Ryoka and this young woman. They returned to the inn. You followed them, of course?”
“…To an extent.”
Lady Magnolia did not frown. But her brow did crease slightly at she tapped her finger on her chair.
“Why?”
Theofore shifted. Nervously? But of course, [Assassins] didn’t get nervous. Not even in front of one of the most powerful Humans on the continent.
“I was unsure whether the skeleton possessed any detection capabilities, and besides, there were…complications. The winter sprites had followed the two girls to the inn, and they could sense my concealment.”
Theofore grimaced.
“Those…creatures chased me off. They harried me for nearly ten miles and forced me to return. If I had stayed, my cover would certainly have been broken.”
Lady Magnolia had to smile at that.
“Ah, yes. The winter sprites. Or—Ressa, what do the children call them?”
“Frost Fairies, milady.”
“How curious. They normally don’t fix on any one person for too long. I suppose you must have attracted their interest, Theofore. How unlucky for you.”
His expression indicated total agreement.
“They hindered my progress back. I landed in two pitfalls, was nearly buried by a small avalanche…”
“That might explain why my maids informed me Ryoka Griffin was spotted running north nearly a day before you arrived. Well, it cannot be helped.”
Magnolia sighed. The conversation between the two girls had been important, she was sure. But it was hardly more important than all of the other revelations she’d heard today.
“Well, what did you hear? Start from the beginning. What happened first before you had to leave?”
Theofore hesitated again.
“I cannot be sure of what happened as I was attempting to escape the sprites. But I believe—they had a fight.”
 
—-
 
“Raaagh!”
It was more of a guttural shout than any coherent word. The chair flew through the air, threatening splintery death to its target.
Which was not Erin, fortunately. Ryoka hurled the chair and it crashed into a wall and broke two legs.
“Damn, damn, damn!”
Ryoka hurled another chair across the room and kicked another one over a table. It hurt. A lot. But she had to vent her frustrations somehow, and Erin didn’t feel like offering her a pillow.
The innkeeper girl watched the runner girl breaking her furniture and wondered if she should say something. Probably not. Broken things were practically normal in her inn, by now.
Anyways, Erin didn’t want to interrupt Ryoka at all at this point, which was why she was watching from the other side of the room. The other girl was tall, athletic, and had a focused glare she could turn on you in a second.
She was sort of scary. 
Not that Erin was scared of Ryoka. Of course not. They were both from the same world – practically neighbors! Ryoka was from Ohio and Erin was from Michigan. Ohio. Good old Ohio. The state of…of…
Well, it was a good state. Not quite as good as Michigan of course, but a good state. It had lots of…cities. And people, Erin was sure.
And Ryoka was a pretty good person, too. She was one of those barefoot runners Erin had heard so much about. Which was weird. But cool! And she seemed smart. And she was brave. And that was pretty much all Erin knew about her.
New fact: Ryoka had a bad temper. A really bad one.
“I will rip that ****ing @%#!’s tail off and shove it up her —-ing ████!”
It wasn’t that Erin couldn’t hear the swear words, it was just that she chose to censor them in her mind. She wasn’t too big on cursing, but she had understood Ryoka’s frustration.
“It’s not like there was much left down there anyways. So what? Zevara confiscates everything in the ruins? Big deal, what’s the problem?”
Ryoka stopped breaking things long enough to pause and turn to Erin. Maybe she’d forgotten she was in Erin’s inn, because she turned slightly red. But she was still angry.
“Even without the treasure, all the adventurer’s gear would probably have been worth over a thousand gold. Two thousand, maybe.”
“…What?”
Erin blinked at her. Ryoka nodded and sat down in a chair, scowling.
“Magic wands, potions, high-class armor…it’s their property, not the city’s. With it, Ceria and the adventurers who survived would be able to send money to the families of the ones who died, heal themselves. Taking that—it’s theft.”
“But the city was attacked.”
Erin didn’t feel comfortable defending Zevara, but she understood why it had happened. She tried to explain to Ryoka.
“I saw Liscor after the attack. The streets were ripped up, houses damaged…a lot of people died. The money to repair that has to come from somewhere. And I guess they do blame the adventurers.”
Ryoka glared at Erin, and she hastily raised her hands.
“I don’t. But what can you do?”
“Nothing. Not one thing. It’s just—”
Ryoka made a fist and exhaled hard. Erin felt this was a first step. At least she hadn’t gone back to throwing things.
Carefully, Erin approached and took a seat next to Ryoka. Calm, that was the key.
“How about we have some food and talk?”
“Talk. Right.”
Ryoka scrubbed at her face and nodded. She was tired. Exhausted, really. But food sounded great right now, and it was time to really sit down and talk. Really talk.
“Toren!”
Erin turned in her seat and shouted. The skeleton walked downstairs, dustrag in hand. Ryoka started in her seat. Even now, she hadn’t gotten used to the—the unreality of Toren.
On the other hand, Erin talked to the skeleton as if having one was completely normal.
“Go get some food. We’re nearly out of blue juice and I need more eggs. Go find some.”
She thought for a second.
“And fish. We could use—oh, right.”
Erin glanced at one of the shuttered windows. Normally, the windows were open to let in clear air, blue skies, and green landscapes. Now though, if she looked outside…
Toren walked over to the door and opened it. A white pasture untouched by details like color appeared, as falling snowflakes completed the scene.
It was winter. And apparently, unlike on Earth, winter decided to arrive in moments, rather than over the course of months.
Ryoka and Erin both stared at the landscape outside. Toren casually stepped out into the falling snow and promptly disappeared against the white backdrop.
“Even after walking through the snow, I can’t believe it’s really winter.”
Ryoka had to shrug as she followed Erin into the kitchen. She watched as the other girl began rummaging through shelves and untidy packs of food left lying around on the floor.
“That’s how this world works.”
“Yeah, but it’s still weird. I mean, if this is how winter arrives, how does it go? Does all the snow just fly into the sky?”
Ryoka had no answer for that. Erin frowned as she stared at her pantry.
“I’m running out of food. Again. But I’ve got pasta! There’s always pasta. And sausages. Oh! And here’s an onion.”
It was Erin’s emergency fall-back recipe, which was probably why she always had ingredients for it. She really didn’t know that many recipes, which was probably due to her only having [Basic Cooking] as a skill.
“Pasta is fine. Just make a lot of it.”
“Can do!”
It took a while for the pot to boil, and longer for Erin to toss in the necessary ingredients and make several plates of it. By that time, she and Ryoka were sitting at the table, talking.
“No way. You’re serious.”
“I got a call and when I answered it, a screen appeared in the air. It was…a magical chatroom of some kind.”
“Whoa. Like magic Skype?”
“…Sort of. But from that I can guess there’s at least a hundred people from our world here. Possibly many more.”
Erin sat back in her chair, mind close to literally being blown.
“I mean, yeah. Yeah, I don’t have my smartphone and I bet a lot of people don’t either. But—hundreds? Seriously?”
Ryoka paused and chewed down her mouthful of buttered noodles before responding. She was on her second plate. So was Erin.
“It’s what makes sense. I can’t prove it, but sixteen people with working iPhones seems to suggest that’s the case. How many people are like you, without one, or don’t know how to recharge theirs.”
“Whoa.”
Erin stared past Ryoka with a dazed look as the other girl went back to her food. Ryoka forked a dripping sausage slice and chewed it down, ignoring the oil. Or rather, savoring it.
She ate with surprisingly good manners. Back straight, fork never overfull…Erin felt incredibly rude shoveling down her food, until she realized that Ryoka was still eating fast despite her table posture.
“We’re not alone. We’re not alone!”
Ryoka looked up. Erin was smiling happily. She was glad that Erin was glad, but she couldn’t share the sentiments.
“But we don’t have any way of getting in contact with them. Not unless that BlackMage person uses the spell again, and that’s risky if it gets hacked.”
“That’s true. That’s bad!”
Erin frowned and so did Ryoka, for different reasons. Was it really a ‘we’? She barely knew Erin, but the other girl seemed to accept the idea without a second pause.
“Anyways, one of the biggest mistakes we could make is if we kept secrets from each other or—or failed to plan things out. We can’t just rush around without thinking things through.”
“Mistakes?”
“Going forwards, I mean.”
Ryoka tried to explain as she ladled more noodles onto her plate.
“Now that we know we’re both from the same world, well, we should cooperate.”
“Of course. I mean, that’s obvious. Why wouldn’t we?”
