Erin looked confused. Ryoka debated for an instant going into backstabbing, potential dictators, selling out the secrets of their world…and realized Erin wasn’t that type of person. She really had few evil bones in her body, if any.
“Well, there are a lot of dangers.”
Ryoka said it lamely, as if Erin hadn’t just smashed her way through several undead to rescue Ceria. And poked Gazi in the eye.
“But we can work together! You’re a cool person with running skills and all that kind of stuff and I—”
Erin hesitated.
“I’ve got an inn! And a skeleton. And acid jars.”
“Yeah. Well, this winter makes everything harder.”
Ryoka frowned. The snow was not the kind of thing a barefoot runner wanted to see. She’d had to borrow a pair of boots from Krshia just to get here. How was she going to run around in this damn weather? She’d probably have to buy a pair of shoes.
She looked up and saw Erin was staring at her.
“So…what? We’re going to make a plan? Is that why you wanted to talk?”
“Partially. Like I said, we don’t want to make any mistakes. In a situation like this—it’s a survival situation. We need to work together. Pool information, share knowledge.”
“About what?”
Erin stared at Ryoka round-eyed.
“I literally don’t know anything about this place. I mean, I know stuff about Liscor and the things around here, but nothing else.”
“I know some things.”
Ryoka pushed aside her plate. She was close to full and the food wasn’t going anywhere.
“If you’re not too tired, let’s talk.”
Erin clapped her hands together excitedly.
“Oh! Better idea. We can talk and play at the same time.”
“What?”
“Do you play chess?”
Erin was already excitedly getting a board and pieces from one of the tables. Ryoka stared at it incredulously.
“They have chess in this world?”
“Yup! It’s just been invented, apparently. Isn’t that great?”
Ryoka wasn’t sure about ‘great’, but it might be a marker to indicate what stage this world’s technological level was at. Then again, they were surprisingly advanced in some places – with refrigeration due to spells – while relying on medieval technology in other areas.
“You like to play chess?”
“I love chess. It’s fun!”
That was surprising, but Erin was that kind of girl. Ryoka didn’t mind chess either, although all of the people she played against were terrible. She could play a few games with Erin, though. She just had to remember to take it easy on her.
They began playing. Ryoka half-focused on the board while Erin chattered away.
“So, did they say anything about our world?”
“What?”
“Those people you talked to. I wish Pisces were here so I could see it again. But he’s sleeping or yelling about his jaw. Did they say what’s happening in America? Are people aware we’re gone? What’s the news?”
“I uh, didn’t ask. And they didn’t say.”
Ryoka frowned at the board. It looked like Erin could play, although she wasn’t sure how seriously Erin was taking the game. She kept moving her pieces as soon as Ryoka made her move.
“Hm. Oh, right. Apparently, the election’s over.”
“Really? Who won? Hillary?”
“Trump.”
Ryoka said the world flatly. Erin’s jaw dropped as she took one of Ryoka’s knights. She frowned, and Ryoka did the same.
“What? He won? But he said—I mean, did you remember the election?”
“How could I not?”
It was the last thing Ryoka really remembered. She’d been walking past their TV when she saw the news about the latest Trump rally and something he’d said. It had put her in such a foul mood she went for a run—
And ended up in this world. Just another reason to hate the man. Or president. Ryoka really didn’t like thinking in those terms.
“President Trump.”
Erin made a face. It was good that she wasn’t a Trump fan. That would have…
…Have meant what? Ryoka wasn’t a Democrat – she hated both Republicans and Democrats for quite a lot of their policies. But even if Erin was some kind of conservative tea party member, so what? They were in this world. It didn’t matter.
And yet, it sort of did.
“But he’s the one who said grab women by the—”
Erin hesitated.
“Well. Wow. Isn’t that weird?”
Ryoka nodded. She frowned down at the board again. She’d lost focus. Given Erin too many pieces by mistake. She moved a pawn and Erin pushed her queen forwards seven spaces.
“…Huh.”
“Checkmate!”
Erin smiled at Ryoka, and then looked alarmed.
“Oops. Sorry, sorry. It’s just that I love to play chess and you’re not half bad so I went full-throttle right away.”
Ryoka stared at the board. She’d…lost? And not just lost. She’d gotten crushed in a few moves. She looked up at Erin and a thought made her ask her next question.
“Did you ever win a chess tournament?”
Erin blushed and waved her hand as she reset her side of the board without looking at it.
“A few. I mean, as a kid. They weren’t that big, although I did get invited to a few big ones. I never won, but I came close in Havana.”
Ryoka had a poker face. It was more like her default face, but it meant that she didn’t have an animated expression like Erin. Still, if there was a time for her jaw to drop, it would be now.
“You were invited to…Cuba? For a chess tournament?”
“When I was a kid. I was really into chess back then. Now…I mean, I was just getting back into it when I appeared here.”
Erin shrugged modestly, as if being invited to an international tournament as a kid was no big deal. And maybe it wasn’t, for her.
“Another game? I’ll play um…less strongly, I promise.”
Ryoka shook her head.
“No, I’d like to see your skills myself.”
They reset the board and started again. This time Ryoka concentrated as hard as she could as they talked.
“So. Trump’s president. That’s what I heard, but it didn’t sound like anyone knew anything about disappearances. One person had arrived here only a day ago, and she didn’t know anything about it?”
“Just a day ago? But that means this is still happening? IF that’s the case, someone is bound to notice sooner or later, right?”
That could be the case. Ryoka frowned over a pawn as she thought.
“Maybe. But thousands of people go missing each year, and this thing seems to be targeting more countries than just America. There was someone from England, Australia, Japan…”
“Oh, I love Japan. I went there once. Japanese stuff is so cool! You know, I thought you were Japanese when I first met you.”
“I am.”
“What? Really?”
Erin excitedly stared at Ryoka while the other girl tried not to lose all her pawns.
“I’m half-Japanese. My dad’s American. But I don’t know much about the culture or the language.”
Ryoka could speak a bit of Japanese, but she didn’t have much interest in the language. She’d never felt the burning desire to go there and rediscover herself, except as a way to get away from her parents, perhaps.
“That’s so cool.”
Erin smiled as she and Ryoka played on. But then she frowned again.
“Still. Trump. How’d he get elected? I wasn’t going to vote for him. I mean, I didn’t get a chance, but…”
She peered cautiously at Ryoka, as if she was afraid Ryoka was going to snap at her. Ryoka shifted in her seat.
“I um, voted for Gary Johnson. I mailed my vote in early.”
“Oh?”
Erin tried to remember who that was. Ryoka wondered if it had mattered. But then, Ohio was one of the swing states. How close had the election gotten?
It was silly, but Ryoka wanted to explain that she was making a vote of conscience against the established parties and for an independent party. If the Libertarians had managed to obtain a 5% vote they would have gotten federal funding, which might have been the first step towards breaking the two-party system if they could field a better candidate—
Or at least, it would have given another party a little more of a voice and why the hell was she worried about politics? Here? Ryoka focused on the board again. She was bleeding chess pieces at a prodigious rate.
“I voted for Bernie during the primaries, but uh, I would have voted for Hillary on election day. I think. Not Trump. Maybe for Jill Stein.”
Erin sighed as she took another of Ryoka’s bishops. She stared at the ceiling as Ryoka wondered if the game were even salvageable at this point.
“Is he building the wall? What’s happening in America right now?”
Ryoka sighed as she tipped over her king. Part of her wanted to say ‘who cares?’ but it was a small part. Erin was worried, and more invested in the news about others being here than Ryoka had been. That was probably the mark of a decent human being.
Erin smiled brightly at Ryoka.
“You’re pretty good, you know. Better than Rags, even, and she’s gotten good!”
“Rags?”
Ryoka glanced to the side. Sometime after Erin had made the pasta, the Goblin had wandered back in from outside. Rags had gone with them to the inn, and then left to find her tribe. She’d returned, covered in snow and clearly unhappy at the weather change.
She now sat in a corner, gobbling down food and poking at her stomach and wincing now and then. She had a mess of black metal and splintered wood on the table.
“She plays chess. The Goblin.”
Erin nodded enthusiastically.
“I taught her! And a bunch of the Workers—the Antinium. I taught Toren too, but he doesn’t play well.”
Ryoka stared at Erin.
“The skeleton plays chess. Of course.”
“Another game? I can take it down a notch.”
“Sure. But don’t hold back.”
Ryoka sat back, and resigned herself to a lesson in humility.
 
—-
 
Rags sat in her corner of the inn, pondering over the broken mess that had once been Cervial’s crossbow. She ignored Ryoka and Erin as they played—and then eventually went back to talking after Ryoka lost her eighth game. Rags listened, but only with one ear.
She had little interest in the transitory lives of the people who came to this inn. Only the innkeeper (and possibly the death mage) interested her. She noticed Ryoka glancing at her from time to time. Rags ignored that, which turned out to be a mistake.
After the…incident she sat in a corner, tensely watching Ryoka and contemplating vengeance as she and Erin argued.
“Don’t hit her! She’s just a kid!”
“She stole my potion! Her and that damn tribe of hers nearly sliced me to ribbons the last time I was here!”
Erin held up placating hands. She pointed to the orange potion now reclaimed in Ryoka’s hands.
“But now you’ve got it back, and everything is okay. Okay?”
Ryoka glared, but stopped threatening bodily harm towards Rags. She glared at the Goblin, and Rags touched her sword.
“She’s dangerous. You shouldn’t have given her that sword, much less that acid.”
“But it’s not like she goes around killing people!”
Erin hesitated.
“I think.”
“You heard what the Watch Captain said. The Goblins are attacking caravans, robbing people blind. Zevara will do something about them, or Relc and that Klb—Klbk—that Antinium guardsman.”
“Well…I’ll talk to Rags. But she’s welcome here as long as she doesn’t cause trouble. There’s no hurting Goblins while I’m around.”
“You’ll regret it.”
“Maybe. But no hitting!”
After that there was a lot of huffy silence, which Rags completely ignored. She plotted vengeance for a while, thought about what Erin might do, and gave up and left soon after Toren came back.
The skeleton stumbled into the inn around an hour after he’d left, just as the mood in the room was warming back up. He cooled it back down with all the snow he’d brought in, but fortunately Erin had made the fire in the fireplace nice and hot.
Erin looked up as the skeleton tromped over to them with a wicker basket he’d brought with him.
“Oh, Toren! What’d you get?”
The skeleton shook his head at Erin. She frowned at him as Ryoka eyed the melting snow stuck between the gaps in his bones.
“Where’s the blue fruit? And my eggs?”
Toren upended the basket and two wizened fruits and a frozen egg fell out. Erin stared at them incredulously.
“That’s it?”
The skeleton nodded. Erin looked back at Ryoka and smiled weakly.
“Um. Well, I can still buy food from Krshia.”
Ryoka nodded.
“But it’s all the more reason why I should go. You need to make money, and so do I. And there’s things I need to do up north. People to talk to.”
She put her hand down and touched at her belt pouch. The letter and ring were still within, and Ryoka was conscious of them, even if the desire to deliver them no longer burned in her brain.
Erin made a face.
“I wish you didn’t have to. Ceria’s going to get better soon. When she does, what will she do? I mean, I could let her stay at the inn. I’ve got plenty of room, but…”
She waved her hands. Ryoka shrugged.
“I don’t know. She’ll have to decide. But I can’t just sit around after all of this.”
Erin sighed despondently.
“You’ll come back though, right?”
“I will. Often.”
“Okay. That’s okay, I guess.”
Erin fiddled with one of the small blue fruits and pointed at Toren.
“Go put this stuff in the kitchen. And then…and then, go get rid of the snow outside. Clear the area.”
Toren nodded. He walked towards the kitchen and then trooped back outside. Ryoka watched him go.
“He doesn’t have a shovel.”
“He can use his hands. I’ll buy a shovel later.”
Erin put Toren out of her mind as she looked back at Ryoka. She was going to go. That…Erin didn’t like that. But if she had to do it, Erin guessed she could live with it.
Ryoka cleared her throat.
“Where were we? Talking about geography? Right. I was going to tell you about this world’s history…”
She paused as Erin raised a hand.
“Um, why?”
“What?”
Erin shrugged.
“What’s the point of knowing all this? I mean, it helps, but…”
“We can’t seem like we’re not from here. Moreover, we need to know the basics of this world just in case.”
“In case of what?”
“In case we need to know.”
Ryoka frowned at Erin. The other girl had a cavalier attitude towards Ryoka’s impromptu history lesson. How was she not interested in this world? But then, Erin seemed extremely grounded in the present.
At least she seemed willing to learn. Ryoka thought.
“Okay, you were saying this world’s history is different.”
“Yes. At some point in the past, this world had gods.”
“Oh, right! Pisces was saying something like that. They died, didn’t they?”
Ryoka had heard the same from Ceria. She nodded.
“They died, and so did a few other races. Elves, for one.”
“What?”
Erin’s face fell.
“You mean I’m never going to see Legolas?”
“Doubtful.”
Ryoka felt a tinge of regret just saying that. Not for the fact that she’d never see a bunch of Orlando Bloom lookalikes – although that certainly wasn’t a plus.
