“How about Dwarves? Are there Dwarves? Hobbits? Orcs?”
“I don’t know. I don’t think there are hobbits or orcs, but I do know some Dwarves still live in the world. The book I read didn’t say. The point is that the gods are dead in this world. Literally dead.”
Erin frowned.
“How can you kill a god? I mean, they’re not like our God. Or our…gods. I mean, the Christian one.”
Ryoka wasn’t Christian, although she’d read the Bible. Under duress, it had to be said, but she was distinctly, deliberately atheist. She tried to choose her words to avoid possibly offending Erin.
“It seemed that gods were a bit more active and…real in this world. Anyways, there was a war—no one’s sure about what—and they died. Long ago. That’s really the biggest point in history you need to know about.”
“What about this? I mean, this continent.”
Erin waved a hand around airily.
“I know a bit. There are five continents in this world.”
“Huh. That’s sort of like our world.”
Ryoka paused.
“No. It’s not. We have seven continents.”
“Well, Antarctica doesn’t really count, right? And North and South America are also sort of the same continent, don’t you think?”
“Um.”
“I mean, they’re both called America. And they’re connected, so doesn’t that make them one continent?”
There was so much to address, Ryoka decided to let it slide.
“Well, perhaps this world mirrors ours. There are five populated continents, but there was a sixth one in the past.”
Erin paused.
“Was? As in past tense?”
“Yep. A massive archipelago filled with whirlpools and deadly storms is all that remains of that continent. The other five are intact, but they’re massive. We’re in the most…peaceful one, I guess you could say.”
“Peaceful?”
“By comparison. Each continent has its share of wars, but this one isn’t engaged in any huge conflicts. Just constant warfare down south with a war every few years between the human cities in the north and the Drakes and Gnolls in the south.”
“That’s peaceful?”
“By comparison. Look.”
Ryoka didn’t have any paper or pencils, so she made do with chess pieces. She set up a rough map, marking the place she and Erin were on with a pawn piece.
“This continent is known as—well, it’s got multiple names. So do most of the other continents, actually.”
“Really?”
“Yes. This one, for instance was colonized by Drakes and Gnolls. They each gave it their own name, and so did the Humans who settled here. The Drakes call it Is—Issy—”
Ryoka tried to pronounce the name and gave up.
“There are multiple names. But this one is the third-largest, and as I said, it’s relatively peaceful and economically strong.”
Her finger moved up and she pointed north to a saltshaker.
“There’s one continent here. Terandria. It’s the continent of humans, and it’s pretty much a medieval version of Europe from what I can tell. Lots of kingdoms fighting each other. Royalty, knights…”
“Knights?”
Erin sat up in her chair. Ryoka sighed.
“It’s fairly stable despite all the wars. The humans don’t go anywhere else. We just kill each other.”
She smiled crookedly, and then moved southwest, to a corner of the map.
“Here’s another continent. I don’t know much about it, because it’s so far away. It’s probably the equivalent of America, only the natives never got ousted by colonists. Gazi’s people come from there.”
“Huh. What’s it like?”
“Humid. Hot. A jungle environment. That’s all I know. It’s not as…civilized as the other continents.”
Ryoka hated herself for her choice of words. Civilized? She went on, berating herself.
“Two more continents. One up here—”
She pointed to the northeast corner of the map.
“And one all the way down here. The northern one is odd. It’s some kind of dead continent where half of it seems to be eaten away by some kind of blight.”
“Like a sickness?”
“Something like that, only it’s more magical and it’s lasted for thousands of years. This continent is constantly at war. An alliance of nations is fighting against…something out there. Demons, maybe.”
“Demons?”
“I don’t know. The books don’t say, and the distance is so extreme that not many people know about it. That Pisces might know more.”
Ryoka scowled.
“That’s where a group of Americans are from. They’re in a nation ruled by someone known as the Blighted King. His nation is at the forefront of the conflict. Apparently, their adventurers and soldiers are some of the best the world’s seen.”
“Wow.”
Ryoka waited for something else, but Erin was just taking it all in. She pointed at the napkin she’d used for that continent.
“But they’re deadlocked. The war goes on, and they never get any richer or break the stalemate.”
Erin nodded.
“Okay, so there’s this place, a human nation with knights, a jungle…place, and a horrible continent at war. What’s the last continent?”
“Vaguely like any other, I suppose. But the main feature of this one is a massive desert that occupies a lot of the area. That’s where Gazi returned to, I think.”
“But you said this one—”
Erin pointed at the jungle continent, looking confused. Ryoka shook her head.
“That’s where her people come from. Gazers. But she serves the King of Destruction, and he lives here.”
She pointed back at the last continent, sitting in the southeast corner of the map.
“It’s the largest continent, and at one point he ruled all of it. The King of Destruction.”
“You said that earlier. I don’t know who that is. Is he someone important?”
“Very.”
Ryoka frowned.
“Putting geography aside, there are a number of powerful nations and species here. There’s no one superpower, or even a few here. Distance and the size of this planet are what stops any one group from becoming too powerful.”
“Right, right. You said this world is bigger than ours, right?”
“Possibly as much as three times bigger. It’s so large, apparently the sun is supposed to revolve around the earth.”
“That’s so weird.”
“And impossible.”
“But it must be magic.”
Ryoka scowled. Magic didn’t explain everything. Or at least, she hoped it didn’t. She stabbed the table with her finger, harder than she’d intended.
“Anyways. The King of Destruction once conquered his continent, and was intruding on three others when his kingdom collapsed. He…gave up, I think.”
“What, really?”
Ryoka shrugged. All the books she’d read—and there hadn’t been many references to him anyways—had painted him as some kind of Alexander the Great, only without the sickness and death halfway through.
“No one knows why he stopped. But he was close to being king of more than half the world.”
Ryoka paused.
“The King of Destructions. Flos.”
The words seemed to shiver in the air. Or maybe that was just Ryoka’s imagination. Ever since she’d said he was awake, the mood of the people around her had shifted. Zevara had asked her curtly whether it was true, and when Ryoka had said yes…
Perhaps this was what it was like before the first World War, or in the calm before the storm. You can feel it in the air. The world beginning to shift.
Erin wrinkled her nose.
“Flos? Like dental floss? That’s not a very scary name.”
Ryoka stared at her. Erin was…singularly unique. She didn’t even seem fazed by these revelations. They’d sent Ryoka’s head spinning when she’d first read of them. Even now, Ryoka was trying to imagine it. A world three times as big as theirs…
Erin sat back in her chair and stared at the ceiling.
“The sun revolves around the earth. Five continents. Destroyed sixth one. The gods are dead and so are the elves. Gazi works for a super-scary King of Destruction, and there’s some sick guy fighting an army of monsters.”
She nodded once.
“Got it.”
Ryoka blinked. That wasn’t the reaction she’d expected.
“You’re very calm.”
“It’s what it is, right? But if this Floss guy is so bad, isn’t anyone going to stop him?”
“A lot of people will try. And they’re more prepared than the first time. But I couldn’t say. There are a number of powers in the world, and probably a lot more I don’t know about. Aside from nations, there are a number of islands with power. Wistram Academy – that’s an isle of magic users. The Isles of Minos where Calruz came from…”
Both Ryoka and Erin paused. Erin stared down at her table. Ryoka went on as if nothing had happened.
“On this continent, the major powers would be the alliance of Drake nations in the south, the Five Families up north, the Antinium and…possibly Liscor.”
“Liscor’s that important?”
“Possibly. But even though the human cities have big armies, they’re not the real power here. The Drakes down south have more land and a far better position.”
“Yeah, the Walled Cities. What are they?”
“Super-cities. Think Chicago, only surrounded by walls.”
Ryoka shook her head.
“You know the wall Trump wanted to build? 30 feet high, right? That’s around the size of a castle wall back in our world. The normal ones, anyways. The Walled Cities have three hundred-foot-high walls.”
“That’s tall?”
“That’s tall. The cities are practically impossible to take by siege. The only reason the Drakes haven’t swept north and destroyed all the human cities is because they like to fight each other. And Liscor and the High Passes are the only ways north. And of course, there’s the Antinium.”
“What about them?”
Ryoka hesitated. Erin was friends with several of the ant-people.
“They arrived recently, but they conquered a good part of the south before being defeated. Now they live in…a stalemate with the other nations. They’re a serious threat. The presence of a Hive in Liscor makes the city far stronger than it was, and it’s one of six hives on the continent.”
“Wow.”
“Yeah. And all of this…”
Ryoka indicated her map. Saltshaker, napkin, chess pieces. It was hard to visualize, but this was a world. A new one, all unknown to her and Erin.
“All of this is being unsettled by all the people coming from our world. Everything that was—well, not peaceful—everything’s about to change. Maybe some of us had something to do with Flos reawakening. Maybe not. But it’s possible that war will come here, to Liscor. And even if it doesn’t, people from our world are scattered around the globe. Even finding each other would be nearly impossible without a nation’s resources.”
“So what should we do? I mean, what should the two of us do?”
Ryoka looked up. Erin was watching her. She felt the pressure of what she’d just say crashing down on her shoulders. She stared down at the ‘map’.
“I don’t know.”
The admission came hard. Ryoka had learned a lot, but even now, even after meeting Erin, she had no idea what to do next. They were alone, in a world where giants and legends still walked around. How would they go back? Did they even want to go back?
Where would they even start?
Erin stared at Ryoka, and then nodded her head. Her eyes took on a determined look, and she stood up. Ryoka looked up at her, as Erin paced back and forth. Then she looked at Ryoka seriously.
“I don’t know about you, but I’m going to add something to my menu.”
“…What?”
“A new food. Maybe some kind of American food. Mac & Cheese? That’s really good stuff. I think I should add more foods to my menu so I can get more customers. More customers means more money, and I could use some firewood. And I need to fix up my inn. And I could really use a fridge. Although I can probably store some food out in the snow! But then the Goblins might eat it.”
Erin thought to herself. She tapped at her chin as Ryoka stared at her. Erin snapped her fingers and smiled at Ryoka.
“You know what I really need? I really need advertisements. No one ever comes here. I need advertisements and a road. What do you think, Ryoka?”
Ryoka stared at the map, and then at Erin.
“…Huh.”
