“I’m coming brother!” Saluk shouted, barrelling towards Jorani with head lowered and arms outstretched. “Brace yourself!”

The half-bull tackled Jorani before he could scream, ‘Stop!’, and the impact introduced him to new heights of previously undiscovered agony. When he came to his senses again, he found himself pressed between two burly half-bulls with the Demon straining to resist their combined efforts, but Jorani was fairly certain his arm would give out long before Pran, Saluk, or the Demon grew tired. He was actually kind of hoping it would, because shortly after his shoulder separated from the socket, he ran out of breath to scream with and couldn’t bring himself to draw another. In fact, he could barely even keep conscious, though why he struggled against sweet oblivion, he couldn’t say. Besides, this was the dumbest plan he’d ever seen, because all the Demon had to do was ignore Mister Rustram and come after them.

Seemingly reading Jorani’s mind, the man-crab hurtled towards them with claws a clacking. The sudden lack of tension sent Pran and Saluk tumbling to the ground, and Jorani went limp with mild relief as the bull brothers rolled past him. Everything still hurt, but at this point, death was preferable, because as Monk Happy often said, “Life is Suffering.”

Of course, this wasn’t exactly what he meant, and Jorani had explained the real meaning to the bossman some months ago, but it was close enough for his current purposes. Why struggle to live through such adversity and hardship? Why continue drifting aimlessly through a life not worth living? There was no point in his continued existence, no goal to pursue or ambition to follow. He was aimless, directionless, purposeless, and no one would care if he died. It would be so easy too, because all he had to do was lie here and do nothing for one, single second, and then the sweet release of death would come claim him.

...

The world stopped as Jorani’s thoughts accelerated to never before seen speeds, his mind struggling to make sense of his situation. These were not his thoughts, but the whispered lies of the Father’s foul minions. Monk Happy had taught Jorani to recognize the signs and guard against their unholy machinations, but the strange thing was, they had no reason to bother. The Spectres were ethereal creatures of lies and deceit, but they always acted with a purpose, whether it be to bring someone low and drive them mad, or to discourage them from acting in a beneficial manner. Why lie to a man who was about to die? Why discourage him when there was nothing he could do to stop the Demon crab-running towards him? Because there was something he could do to stop it? Like what? His arm was broken and wrenched out of the socket, his ribs were bruised and chest compressed, his head was ringing and Chi low, meaning his Runic Armour would soon be nothing more than useless scrap metal, so all he had left was a Spiritual Rope tied around the crab-Demon’s claw and no strength to use it.

Well, at the very least, he could buy Pran and Saluk some time to get away. As stupid as their plan might have been, they meant well, and they were still the only ones around who could hurt the Demons. This meant that despite being unable to actually hurt the Demons, as an Expert of the Empire, Jorani was among the strongest Warriors still here and all that stood between this Demon. The other tens of thousands of soldiers would be helpless before it, men and women without Natal Palaces, Runic Armour, and many even lacking Spiritual Weapons. Jorani had all these tools at his disposal, so it was his job to delay this Demon for as long as possible, because where there was life, there was hope.

This was his purpose, to stand tall against the Father’s foul minions, even if he was helpless to stop them, because in his eyes, that was a life worth living, and a cause worth dying for.

His pain melted away as he came to his feet, taking hold of the rope with his left hand and leaving his right arm to hang loosely at his side. The Demon was upon him, but it hadn’t expected him to stand, much less move, so its claws hammered into the dirt at Jorani’s feet as he leapt aside from its charging bulk. His Spiritual Rope stilled looped about the Demon’s left claw, Jorani circled around its right, trusting his Runic Armour to protect him from the creature’s snake-like tongue repeatedly striking his face. Flicking his wrist as he passed by, he felt the Mother guide his hand as he weaved his weapon through the Demon’s skittering legs with practised efficiency, looping it around its two back legs before circling around to the other side. Just like before, the Demon pivoted at an impossible angle and tried to smash Jorani with its left claw, but the Spiritual Rope cinched around its legs and pulled them out from underneath it. Taken off balance by its own strength, the monster fell to its knees and wobbled precariously while finding its bearings, giving Jorani ample time to continue binding it with his Spiritual Weapon. There was no way he was strong enough to hold the creature in place, but as it struggled and pulled, it unwittingly helped tighten the tangled net around itself, tying hand to leg, leg to arm, arm to neck, and neck to ankle in an ever increasing complex web of knots.

Stepping back from his work, Jorani stood tall and watched the Demon struggle to find purchase. One front leg on the right and one back leg on the left were still free, as was its entire right arm, but thanks to its oddly-formed physiology, all the Demon could do was balance precariously on one hand and his legs. Any attempt to move would see it fall flat on its face or ass, especially if Jorani gave it a good, firm tug, and were he not utterly exhausted and falling into shock, Jorani supposed he might have even found the whole situation amusing. How many people could say they caught themselves a Demon? Jorani trussed it up like a pig ready for the slaughter, and all they had to do now was wait until a proper butcher came along to dress it. Between this and his performance in the battle earlier tonight, his accomplishments were fit for the dramas, albeit with a heavy dose of artistic liberties.

The Spectres were wrong. Jorani had plenty to live for, because who knew what the future had in store? Even if he had no hope or prospects, he still had friends to rely on and colleagues who depended on him, so he couldn’t give up now. Turning to the awestruck Pran and Saluk, he gestured at the Demon and said, “Why don’t you two make with the thunder and see if ye can’t off this crabby bastard?” Chances were they couldn’t, since even the weakest Demons were hardy, unearthly creatures, but perhaps they were in for a pleasant surprise. Nodding at Mister Rustram, Jorani added, “We’ve got things well in hand here. Seems like yer help might be of use elsewhere.”

Seeing as Mister Rustram outranked him, Jorani had carefully worded it as a suggestion rather than an order, but the moustached swordsman smiled and saluted as if he’d been given one. “Good work, Hangman Jorani. I’ll leave this Demon in your capable hands.”

Twin cracks of thunder sounded and the Demon wailed in apparent pain, sporting two gushing craters on its face and a snarl of murderous rage, but a hard tug of his rope sent it crashing back to the dirt. Muttering in discontent at the displeasing results, Pran and Saluk set to fiddling with their weapons once more as the Demon writhed and wreathed against its bonds, but Jorani was thoroughly impressed. Even most Experts would be hard pressed to injure a Demon, and judging by the intermittent cracks sounding off elsewhere on the battlefield, the bull brothers weren’t the only ones in possession of these miracle weapons. If four tries wasn’t enough to kill the Demon, maybe eight would do the trick, or sixteen, or thirty, or more. Either way, Jorani was happy to stand here and find out, even if it took the rest of the night.

Or until something more dangerous came along and sent him running for the hills. After all, he only had the one Spiritual Rope, which meant he could hardly wrangle up a second Demon, though it would make for a more impressive drama...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Siyar had been in plenty of tight spots before, but he never stuck around to see them through to the end.

That was the key to survival, knowing when to fight, when to run, and when to disappear. This right here was most certainly a time to disappear, but against all logic, he was still here, standing on the open field to take potshots at Demons. Impressive as the spring-coiled mechanism might be, Demons were made of sterner stuff, and a dozen shots to the head had yet to faze Siyar’s chosen target. A strange creature even as Demons went, a stooped, feminine figure with a body of tangled, fibrous matter, Siyar didn’t envy Mister Rustram for being her chosen dance partner, because nimble and tireless as he was, the strange Demon only needed one good hit to end him. It sort of reminded Siyar of a plant maybe, or a strange, waxy mineral, but whatever it was, it didn’t bleed, which really took all the fun out of shooting it.

Reloading his weapon for the umpteenth time, he tried to convince himself that he ought to get gone once more. These were fucking Demons, and all the Imperial Demon Slayers were tied up fighting even more Demons. Make no mistake, these heroes were making a good effort of it. The Ravenous Wolf was bleeding from head to toe while trading blows with a horned lizard thing, and Lady Yan was giving a bipedal goat Demon the run around while hammering it with Wind Blades, but this was a game of cats and mice, and those rarely went well for the mice. The only encouraging sight around was Lady Sumila chasing after her prey with a homicidal grin, a paragon of mice wielding an impossible bladed whip to thrash a heavy-weight rock Demon and a slender bone Demon at the same time. There were whispers of Hangman Jorani subduing his Demon single-handedly which Siyar dismissed, and talk of Ral holding the upper hand against his Demon which Siyar hoped was true, but that was only seven of nine Demons who’d slipped past Hongji’s rearguard contained, and even one was enough to rout the entire army.

Already a good number of would be heroes had fallen to these formidable foes, hoity, toity noble types Siyar wouldn’t mourn. Prospective Demon Slayers were a dime a dozen, but there was good reason why so few ever made the cut. Demons were minions of the Father given flesh, and well-protected against the weapons of man. Even with Chi surging through their Spiritual Weapons, none of the valiant Experts here could do more than scratch their foes. The Ravenous Wolf had the strength of three men, but even his most powerful blows did nothing more than knock the lizard-Demon foe off balance. Lady Sumila was even stronger than the wolf, but aside from her initial attack which saw her launch her spear into the rock Demon’s throat, she too was unable to harm her foes with her deluge of flashy, but ultimately inconsequential attacks, though she had little to no trouble tying her foes in place and even lending a hand to nearby beleaguered allies. Unfortunately, her dazzling whip-chain-staff weapon lacked the heft of a proper polearm, but even if she wielded the heaviest Spiritual Weapon in existence, there was a good chance she couldn’t kill a Demon even if it laid its head on the block and stretched its neck out for the blade.

Big-Eyed Kang had killed a Demon, back when he’d been in the army, and there were plenty in the Syndicate who could’ve vouched for it. A proper Slayer he was, and a right murderous bastard, which meant filling him full of arrows from afar was the smartest thing ‘Hangman’ Jorani ever did. Still, Big-Eye liked to wax on about his adventures in the army and how he was this big-shot Martial Warrior on the path to greatness before he killed his superior officer in a fit of drunken rage. Back then, Siyar rarely paid those tales any mind, but nowadays, he kicked himself for not committing every word to memory. See, Big-Eye wasn’t the best storyteller, because he always got distracted by the details no one ever asked about, but it was those details Siyar now desperately wanted to know. Big Eye talked about how clashing Aura’s felt like a pressure on your mind and soul, or what made it possible to cleave your blade through a Demon. Called it his Domain, he did, said it was like a bodysuit of Chi, an external layer which made him better in every possible way. Not just physically stronger, but able to do more with less and defend himself from impacts and mundane blades. It wasn’t as impressive as a Demon’s innate defences, since Siyar had seen a would-be killer carve Big-Eye from shoulder to ribs with a steel hunting knife over a breakfast table argument. Still useful though, since a lesser Martial Warrior would have died twice over, while Big-Eye was up and drinking again by dinner.

Either way, Siyar wished he’d paid more attention to those boring, droning tales which never seemed to end, because there might have been a useful hint for him to use in this perilous situation. No one here had a Domain, not the Ravenous Wolf, Lady Sumila, or Hangman Jorani. Ral might, but banking on that idiot was dumber than betting against the house in one of fat Bulat’s rigged games. Lady Yan also might, on account of all her Wind Blades, but the nimble goat Demon was shrugging her attacks off with almost no trouble at all, though a few Ichor-oozing gashes proved that she could at least injure it, if not outright kill it.

