The Demons came screaming out from the night, but Jorani stood ready to receive them.

Not entirely by choice mind you, but considering he was one of only three Warriors present clad in full Runic armour, it made sense he ought to contribute when Lady Yan came calling for volunteers. All the Peak Experts and Hidden protectors had already left to help Hongji, which was where Daxian had gone off to some hours back, but now it was time for Jorani and Ral to lend a hand.

Against Demons.

Which was a pretty good indication of how fucked they were.

If he could go back two weeks, he’d slap the shit out of his past self before telling Daxian to shove this Runic armour where the sun don’t shine, but when Jorani’s high-and-mighty half-brother presented him with the priceless gear, he put it on without even thinking. Who wouldn’t? The old bastard was out of commission and Daxian said Gang Shu would want Jorani protected, but he didn’t need convincing. This was Runic armour they were talking about, a full set which fit perfectly now that he’d filled in a little. Noble families had bankrupted themselves paying for one piece of Runic equipment, and Daxian was giving Jorani a full set, so why wouldn’t he take it?

Ral got a set too, which was mighty questionable since it would’ve probably fit Yelu Shi just as well, but Jorani wasn’t about to fuck things up for his best friend. Of course, they would’ve been better served going to battle in proper Bekkie leathers, since everyone expected a full-on Runic Knight to be a real heavy hitter. Over the past few days, he’d basked in the attention and prided himself on the respect and envy so many soldiers sent his way, but now he was paying for his sins. Here he was, first in line out of all the unqualified Martial Warriors holding the last, last line against a massed Demon attack, one which the likes of Hongji, two Exarches, ten Majors, and who knows how many hidden protectors couldn’t keep in check.

Jorani only had his greed and attachment to the material to blame, one of the three poisons according to Monk Happy, and for once, he agreed he would be better off without it. Though still adamant he’d never geld himself and join the Brotherhood, he had to admit that some of their teachings made good sense. All his life, he’d dreamed of being wealthy, and thanks to the bossman’s generous red pockets and lucrative War Bonds, that dream had become reality. Problem was, now that he had thousands of gold to his name, Jorani had no earthly idea what to do with any of it. Bed a fancy courtesan? He thought about it, but after looking into the specifics, he decided against it when he learned that most of the coin didn’t go to the women, but to their whoremonger boss, which didn’t sit right with him. Buy a big house to live in? Even putting aside the fact that he wasn’t one to put down roots, his thousands of gold wasn’t enough for a manor in the Citadel. Purchase art to show off and appreciate? How ridiculous. The only value in art was selling it to idiots who had more coin than good sense. Swaddle himself in silks and jewellery? Why bother? What purpose did swanky threads and flashy baubles serve? To advertise him as a mark to every cut-purse and mugger within a hundred metres, that’s what.

When it came right down to it, the only purpose Jorani had for coin was to fill his belly with good food and good wine, but he didn’t need thousands of gold for that. A lesson learned in the futility of greed, as Monk Happy had put it, for wealth and luxury were fleeting and impermanent. More to the point, by accepting the Runic Armour out of greed, Jorani created karma which had now come back to bite him in the ass. Who better to play bait for the Demons than the man wearing Runic Armour? He had the best odds of survival after all...

Despite standing ready with Spiritual Weapon in hand, the attack landed on Jorani’s chest before he even registered the Demon’s appearance. One moment he had his feet on solid ground, walking backwards at the rear of the Imperial soldiers from Sinuji, and the next he was staring at the night’s sky and wondering why the world had moved so quickly around him. Coming to with a gasp, he sat up and ran his hands over his chest to make sure everything was still in one piece, but despite feeling the cool, unbroken metal beneath his fingers and the rapid-fire pounding in his chest, he wasn’t entirely sure he was still alive.

The pain told him yes, he was, because even though his Runic Armour dampened the Demon’s powerful attack, the impact still managed to bruise his ribs and drive the air out of his lungs. Belatedly producing Panacea to fix his minor injuries, Jorani pushed himself up into a seated position and took in his monstrous foe. The eyes were the first thing he noticed, two dark, ravenous pits of despair, set over-top a formidable set of pearly bared fangs. Lips twisted in unmistakable agony, its sinuous, inhuman tongue writhed about from its open, cavernous mouth, dripping with viscous ooze which hissed and steamed when it hit the grass. Its gnarled head sat atop a bulbous torso covered in pulsing, fluid-filled bulges, a torso which ended abruptly at the waist where a half-dozen armoured, crab-like legs poked out from beneath its prodigious belly. The chitin-covered limbs blurred as it skittered to and fro with harrowing speed, its meaty, flabby arms swinging twin hammer-like pincers instead of hands, pincers which snapped and jabbed at empty air as Mister Rustram danced about the field to distract the beast so Jorani could get up.

Which meant he should probably stop sitting on his ass in a daze, so he embraced the pain and bolted back into the fray. Mister Rustram was too valuable to risk like this, because he was one of the few Warriors around who had Condensed an Aura. They didn’t have enough of those for this final last stand, and if enough of those rare individuals were to fall, then the army would be even more helpless before the Demons’ malignant Aura and not a single one of the fifty-thousand soldiers would make it back to the second line. Circling around to the Demon’s rear, Jorani charged in as quickly as he could before leaping into the air. With his Spiritual Rope coiled about his fist, he raised his hand to deal a mighty blow at the Demon’s exposed back, but then its torso turned at what seemed like an impossible angle. A weighty claw clipped him in mid air and sent him flying away once more, but this time he kept his wits about him. Inwardly cursing as he sailed through the air for the second time tonight, he grit his teeth and rolled with the impact, all the while feeling his body groan in protest with each bump. Head over heels he tumbled, once, twice, five times in total, before finally landing shakily on his feet and finding his bearings once more.

Mister Rustram was still dancing with the Demon, and somehow even fighting back, as several of the Demon’s pustules had burst open to ooze sickly green Ichor down its frame. The injuries did nothing to slow it down as it chased relentlessly after the annoyance, while Pran and Saluk lingered on the outskirts with their massive hammers pointed at the Demon. A fat lot of good those two giants were, which was disappointing since their sheer size and brawn were the sole reasons he stationed himself by them in the first place. With Ral playing bait in his Runic Armour somewhere down the line, Jorani figured the two towering half-bulls would make for decent enough replacements, but they weren’t even holding their hammers ready to swing. Keeping a few choice phrases to himself, he took a deep breath and readied to charge back in when two thunderous explosions stopped him in his tracks. A good thing too, for the Demon went wild with rage, flailing its arms and snapping its claws in a murderous frenzy of movement. Turning towards the bull brothers, the Demon screeched as its tongue reared up like a spear readying to strike, only to open and reveal a fanged maw within the writhing, fleshy protrusion.

Only then did Jorani see the pulsing craters on the Demon’s torso, as if two pustules had exploded and taken a fist-sized chunk of flesh with it. Somehow, Pran and Saluk had hurt it, punching through the Demon’s innate defences and invisible Domain to damage its fatty flesh. While the injury was almost negligible, it was more than nothing, which meant they were Jorani’s best chance to kill it. Moving to intercept the Demon’s charge, he arrived just in time to get swept up by the man-crab’s claws, his arm and Spiritual Weapon caught fast in the Demon’s left claw and his head and helmet caught in the right, all while the fanged tongue repeated stabbed out in search of a gap in Jorani’s armour. Rune-reinforced metal creaked beneath the behemoth’s powerful, vise-like grip and miraculously held firm, but while he felt minimal physical pressure from the squeezing pincers, his neck strained something fierce as the Demon tried its damnedest to put more distance between Jorani’s head and shoulders.

Thankful it was too stupid to twist, Jorani fended off the Demon’s tongue with his free hand and gathered his Chi. Dispatching everything he could spare towards his Spiritual Weapon, he envisioned a layer of sharpened teeth travelling along the outer surface of the rope and biting into the Demon’s chitinous claws. It was just like shaving through a tree with his Spiritual Rope, except this tree was fighting back by trying to squeeze the life out of him. His efforts counted for nothing as the invisible teeth ground themselves flat against a similarly invisible barrier while his neck muscles strained and tore. Feeling his Chi reserves draining fast, he thought fast and acted without thinking, because if he had, he would’ve tried something else. Grabbing the lancing tongue with his free hand, he redirected it up the Demon’s right forearm where it bit deep just below the wrist. By some miracle of the Mother, its tongue somehow pierced through its own innate defences and caused it to release Jorani’s head, giving him a short reprieve from his still-imminent death. Pain shooting through his head and neck, he grabbed the loose end of his Spiritual Rope and slipped a quick noose around the lower part of the Demon’s left claw, the one still clamped around his arm. Pulling hard to tighten the noose, he Honed his weapon and sawed away for all he was worth.

It was do or die now, so this Rope had best get through...

Again, the Mother smiled on Jorani as his weapon bit deep into the Demon’s chitinous plates around the wrist, not enough to injure the Demon, but enough to force its claw open. Ichor gushed out of the wound as Jorani fell back to the earth, where he immediately scrambled away out of the Demon’s path. The only problem was that his weapon was still fastened around the Demon’s claw, which meant Jorani had a choice to make: abandon his weapon and pray he got away, or keep fighting and maybe somehow kill a Demon.

The choice was simple. The Spiritual Rope billowed out as Jorani slipped his arm out from the bundled coil, but his foe was already upon him. Hammering him aside with a powerful right, Jorani’s world shook as he bounced off the dirt at speeds no human should ever experience. That was the downside to Runic armour, because no matter how durable it might be, its greatest flaw was the squishy human inside. Internally bleeding and more than a little concussed, he returned to his senses all too quickly and hated everything about this experience, with waves of crippling pain emanating from what felt like every single part of his body. A broken shoulder was the first injury he identified, solely due to the debilitating agony which shot through his very being as large hands pulled him from the dirt.

“Hold tight, yes?” came the rumbling question, and it repeated itself before Jorani realized it was directed at him. Noting he was being cradled in Pran’s arms, he used his good hand to grab the burly half-bull’s forearm, only for Pran to shake his head. “Not to Pran,” he said, using his chin to point at Jorani’s crippled arm. “To rope.”

Apparently, Jorani hadn’t divested himself of his weapon quickly enough, because the tail end was still resting in his hand. By the Mother it hurt to close his fingers around it, but once it was done, he felt oddly comforted, like a child hiding under a blanket. Nothing had changed, but he felt safer, which was better than nothing right? Nodding at Pran to indicate he’d done as instructed, Jorani opened his mouth to ask why, but the half-bull cut him off while looping the Spiritual Rope a few times around Jorani’s wrist. “Hold tight, very tight. Do not let go, okay?”

Without waiting for a reply, Pran planted Jorani’s feet on the ground and wrapped both arms around him, eliciting a shrill, unmanly noise some might call a scream. This was not solely due to the pain, as immeasurable as it might be, for in a moment of crystalline clarity, Jorani knew what the half-bull had planned, and he knew true despair.

Running backwards with more speed than Jorani thought possible, Pran dragged him kicking and screaming away from the man-crab currently locked in combat with Mister Rustram. Not the worst idea in the world so far, but there was more to it, for Jorani’s Spiritual Rope was still tied to the Demon’s left claw. The rope grew taut and the world turned white as agony lanced through his arm and brain, and he almost passed out. Blinking the spots out of his eyes, he endured the pain in hopes of seeing the Demon laid out flat on its back, but alas, it stood firm with claw raised and legs braced against Jorani’s taut rope, holding Pran in place while fending off Mister Rustram’s rapier.

