As for the bossman’s miracle weapons, the Spiritual Guns? Maybe if they had twenty of them firing into one Demon for several minutes, it would show some effect, but despite aiming all his shots at the plant Demon’s face, Siyar knew it was a futile effort. Demons didn’t have organs or weak spots to target, because they weren’t living creatures, and according to Big-Eye, the only way to kill them was to puncture their Domains and let their Internal Energy bleed out into the world. This meant doing massive amounts of physical damage, which in truth, was more of a by-product than anything else since most Martial Warriors couldn’t puncture Domains without puncturing Demon flesh as well. Big-Eyed noted there were Martial Warriors who could shred the metaphysical portion of a Demon apart without affecting its physical frame, like Living Legend Shuai Jiao of the Grasping Vine, but damned if he knew how.

All of which was utterly useless to Siyar, since he had no idea how to ‘Develop’ his Domain. Killing humans was easy, but Demons? There was no equivalent of cutting their throats, or at least not as far as he could tell. So why was he still here? This was the definition of a losing battle, one in which they couldn’t hurt the Enemy, but the Enemy could most certainly kill them. In fact, Lady Sumila aside, it almost felt like the Demons were going out of their way to fight these particular opponents, when they would be better served ignoring these flies and leaving to slaughter helpless Imperial soldiers wholesale.

Helpless soldiers like Siyar, which was a label he didn’t much care for...

So this begged the question: why the hell was he still here? He should’ve legged it the second Lady Yan called for volunteers to fend off a possible Demon attack. If Hongji and every Peak Expert in this fifty-thousand strong army couldn’t hold off the Demons, then they were doomed to the last. If Siyar escaped and brought news of their deaths to his superiors, he doubted he’d even be charged with desertion, and if he was, the bossman would fight tooth and nail to get him back, so... so that’s why Siyar had to stay and fight.

Because the bossman was counting on him.

For more than a decade, Big-Eyed Kang led the Sharktooth Syndicate and Siyar played his part, even rising to the rank of nominal third in the gang thanks to his skills in the field. People feared him then, respected him even, and he took more than his fair cut in the profits, but despite all that, he never cared much for his fellow bandits. Big-Eye’s death was an unfortunate accident, and the same with Light-Fingered Yu, because even though he grew up with those cutthroats and killers, he never counted them among his friends. Things were different now, because the bossman treated Siyar differently, not only trusting him with a Spiritual Weapon, but also inviting him to his weddings to hoist a drink or three. Silva, Birca, and Viyan weren’t a bad sort either, and Jinoe and Ronga were idiots, but they meant well most of the time. Even Ravil wasn’t so bad once Siyar was fairly certain the dark-skinned bastard wasn’t going to gut him in his sleep, but Bulat was still an insufferable twat. Jorani was somewhat bearable now that he stopped bragging all the time, though these days, he was prone to rants about religion and philosophy, and while Ral was an idiot, there was something about him which made it impossible to hate him.

Then there was Kimi, who shared his bed more nights than not, even when they were both too sober and tired to do anything about it. They just laid there together in silence, and damn him if he didn’t come to cherish those moments more than anything else, so he had to fight on for her, to keep her safe as she marched with the other tens of thousands of soldiers too weak to do anything against Demons. Siyar had come a long way from his bandit days, and he was a smuggler no more. He was a soldier of the Empire, but more importantly, he was Falling Rain’s subordinate, and that meant something, so he was in this to the bitter end.

Even though the smart money was on running.

As if to prove him right, a scream rose up in the distance, and several seconds passed before word arrived. “Xue Biquin and Jin ZhiLan are dead,” the breathless runner reported, his fear making him speak louder than he should while reporting to Lady Yan. “Their Demon is loose and headed straight for the troops.”

“I’m on it,” Siyar said, the words coming out before he thought better of it, and then his feet were moving away. His quin was waiting nearby, and he hopped on and rode towards the screams against his better judgment. Lot of that going on tonight, but to his surprise, he found Ravil, Silva, Birca, and Viyan right there with him, riding even faster than he was and flashing taunting smiles as if to say, ‘What? You afraid to die?’.

Siyar was, but he’d be damned if he’d admit it.

“Go in hard and fast,” Ravil said, grinning like a madman while reloading his weapon. “We’ve got your back. I just hope this ain’t another weird one, like that shitty plant thing. Takes all the fun out of shooting when they don’t bleed.”

That put a smile on Siyar’s face, if only because he’d had the same thought earlier, and they rode the rest of the way in silence. The soldiers were scattering from before the Demon, a right spindly skeletal creature with bones of translucent crystal and skin which hung over them like loose cloth. There it stood in the midst of frozen soldiers, slaughtering the helpless warriors with aid from its Demonic Aura, but as they approached, Siyar unleashed his own Aura to counteract it. Big Eye was right, but he never mentioned how the weight was so oppressive it felt like Siyar couldn’t breathe, but he pushed through and charged the Demon with blade drawn. Behind him, Ravil hissed, “I knew it, ye sneaking bastard,” and Siyar belatedly remembered he’d been hiding his strength since before he’d joined up, as not even Big-Eyed Kang knew he had an Aura. Well, too late for regrets now, but it warmed his heart to know Ravil and the others had come along on a hunch, especially since they’d all be dead if their hunch had been wrong. That was a lot of trust to put into a man like Siyar, and he never thought it would mean so much to him.

Rather than thank them, he growled, “What are ye waitin’ for? A written invitation? Shoot the bastard!”

Five shots rang out and struck the Demon head on as it turned towards this new threat. Ravil’s and Siyar’s shots smacked it clean in the face, leaving twin gashes along its forehead and cheek. The rest thudded solidly against the thing’s torso and rang out with an almost pleasant, melodic chime. Opening its mouth in challenge, a high-pitched shriek emanated from its throat and set Siyar’s skin to crawling and ears to ringing, but he ignored the pain and leapt from his mount to do battle with the crystalline bastard. Dodging beneath a wide swing, he circled around and scored three clean hits, his instincts taking over as he gutted the Demon, stabbed its liver, and directed a killing thrust to its spine. Or he would have, if it had those organs and his sword could cut through its hard, translucent flesh, but it was the thought that counted, right?

The Demon’s attention was wholly on Siyar as they fought in close quarters, cognizant that he was the only Warrior with an Aura and that without him, everyone else was helpless. The Aura was so oppressive, like nothing Siyar had felt before, trapping him in an unseen and unfelt blanket of fear and despair, hinting at what would come to pass if his courage should falter, but he had faced far worse with far less. It was like being back in the smuggler’s tunnels in Sanshu, with barely enough room for a skinny, eight year old boy to slip through in complete and utter darkness. The dirt could’ve collapsed atop him at any moment, or he might get snagged onto a rock and stuck to starve to death, but he never gave up then, and he wouldn’t give up now.

Hold the line. That was his purpose here, and Siyar would see this through to the end.

While he fought, Ravil bellowed orders at the surrounding soldiers to make themselves scarce, and they hot-footed out of the area with such speed it made Siyar question why the hell he was doing this to begin with. Certainly not for glory, since that was worth less than shit, and definitely not to save lives, since he would rather eat shit than be a ‘Hero of the Empire’. All his life, he’d kept his head down and made the most with what the Mother gave him, but he supposed now it was time to pay his debts. Better soldiers than Siyar had died beneath his blade, so it was only fair he take up their cause now, when the whole world was going to shit and they needed every blade they could spare.

This Demon was neither fast, nor strong, and Siyar had a remarkably easy time against it, and the most annoying thing was its incessant, high pitched whine. After a minute, the whine went away without warning, and Siyar finally thought he could do this. Even one Demon Slayer was enough to make a difference, especially if they could all hold out long enough for the Slayer to get here, but then the world rolled around Siyar and he found himself stumbling like a drunk on New Years.

His ears weren’t working, and he couldn’t tell up from down or left from right. This happened sometimes, when people fell into one of the Lakes and were fortunate enough to survive, and Siyar finally figured out why the high pitched whine went away. As the blood dribbled out his ears and down his cheeks, he found his bearings and faced the Demon with blade in hand. Its lifeless face broke into a smile as it reached for Siyar’s helpless frame, and all he could do was watch death’s slow approach.

Hopefully, Kimi would find a good man to keep her company, or a better man than Siyar at least. That wasn’t asking for much, was it, Mum?

So close he could see his reflection in the Demon’s glossy skin, Siyar took solace in the fact that even at the end, he kept his cool. There was no fear in his eyes, only resignation, and the determination to take his foe with him.

The Demon’s hand closed about his face as Siyar put everything he had into his swing. He barely even had to aim as his sword sliced across its neck, the target ingrained into his body from tens of thousands of repetitions. He was the sword, and the sword was he, and Siyar would cut this Demon’s throat even if it was the last thing he did.

Pain erupted across his face, neck, and chest, more pain than he’d ever felt before. For long seconds, he waited for the pain to subside and cold nothingness to come claim him, but his torment would not end. Grasping hands grabbed him and pulled him away, while more hands pressed against his tender skin, but Siyar held in his screams to deny his foe the satisfaction. Something cold splashed against him, compounding his agony even further, but it also jolted him back to his senses. Opening his eyes, he found Ravil and the others all leaning over him with empty water-skins and mixed looks of awe and amusement. Ravil moved his mouth, speaking words Siyar couldn’t hear, but he’d learned to read lips a lifetime ago. “Fuck me,” the murderous bastard was saying, “Never ever seen a man get covered head to toe in Ichor and not utter a peep. Even the bossman screams a bit and groans about it for weeks after, but you? You’re a stone-cold killer to the core.”

“Did I kill it?” Siyar asked, more surprised than anyone that he was still alive.

“No need to shout,” Ravil answered, gesturing off to the side. “Ye didn’t kill it, but ye carved it real good, which ought to count as an assist, at least. Best thank the great hero there for saving yer hide though, before he runs off to slaughter some more Demons.”

Turning just in time to catch the Demon’s death throes, Siyar chuckled beneath his breath as the Warrior flourished his twin curved sabres and turned to face him, dressed head to toe in silver and white silk as if attending a banquet rather than striding across the battlefield. No offence to the bossman or anything, but this was what a proper hero of the Empire was supposed to look like, now a man who’d finally crossed over into greatness judging by the ease with which he dispatched his foe. “Warrant Officer Jia Zian,” Siyar called, not sure if he was shouting again. “Appreciate the save. Head west for more of the Demon bastards to kill.”

No need to fret anymore. Reinforcements were here, led by none other than the Twinned Dragon Scion, Lu Jia Zian, a Talent second only to Falling Rain. His presence meant the tides had turned against the Enemy, and so with that, Siyar finally relaxed and let the sweet relief of nothingness finally claim him.

Chapter Meme
