“What is it?” A programmer asked as the other phones kept ringing and she held up her hand in a clear 'stop' gesture to tell him to be quiet.

“Hold, please.” The secretary said and hit the hold button on the land line, took out her cell phone, and checked the internet. “Sir!” She said and handed Edward her cell phone. It was the main forum website and the top pinned message had a press release.

From Ren.

“I guess that explains the time limit.” Edward said as he read the press release Barbi had sent out. “How in the world...”

“Sir! The servers are back up to 100% operating capacity.”

Edward stood there at the front of the room as all the phones kept ringing, and the player he thought was going to destroy his company, had potentially saved it... and thanks to the very well timed press release, everyone knew it as well.

*

Barbi had used a specially created distribution macro she had used when promoting shows for the television station. All she had to do was alter the recipients and the program did all the work.

“Nice going, Barbi.” Elise said as her phone beeped and she received the update from Ren's main website. “Everyone will know that it was Ren who fixed it.”

“He deserves all the credit, too.” Barbi said. “Now I wonder if he's going to stay in while everyone logs on and tries to find him.”

“Oh, don't worry. He's got all of the skills in the game and they are maxed out.” Elise chuckled. “No one is going to find him unless he wants them to.”

********

“Well, that's it.” Ren said. “It's all set up, and you've got primary control over your creation.”

“Ren, I cannot thank you enough for this.”

“I'm one of your chosen, Vasalor.” Ren smiled. “What was I going to do? Ask you for help and then say no when you needed it?”

“You can rationalize it all that you want, my friend.” Vasalor said. “It will not make this achievement any less significant.”

“I just hope all this work was worth it.” Ren said. “If we didn't get everything put back the way it's supposed to be...”

“We've gone over it a thousand times, Ren.” Vasalor said. “Not only have we caught any mistakes we did make, we even improved the efficiency for how the files are being used.” He clapped Ren on the shoulder. “Activate your skills and I will portal you to the bedroom of your house in Aurora.”

“Oh! About that...”

“Yes, I know you left that restriction off of your connection to Artemis.” Vasalor said. “You have taught and shown me how those things should work.”

“So, if I make any more...”

“None of them will feel pain if you or them are somehow caught on opposite sides of a portal.”

Ren took in a deep breath, then sighed. “That's a relief.”

Vasalor opened the yellow portal to return him to the Earth Realm. “Have fun my friend.”

“I already did.” Ren smiled. “I'm fine with having more fun, though.”

Vasalor laughed and poked him in the chest, then Ren drifted backwards and into the portal.
