Unable to bear the stench, I step out and call my Death Corps escort over. “Take him to the latrines to sober up, then bring him back for a chat. Gently, please. Chey, Ral, you stay where I can keep an eye on you.” Unable to sit still, I busy myself airing out Jorani’s yurt, opening the roof and fanning the door until the interior is filled with breathable air once more. Thankfully, the Death Corps were diligent enough to bring the vomit-filled chamber pot with them or else I’d feel pretty stupid wasting all that effort, so I light a fire and search for a clean place to sit down.

Fifteen minutes and one furious cleaning session later, the Death Corps return with Jorani in tow. Sober as a judge, the half-rat has enough sense to look ashamed, but wisely keeps silent and takes a seat across from me. Gesturing for the Death Corps to leave, I spy a concerned Ral and Chey standing outside the door as it slams shut. Alone with Jorani, I let the silence work for me while studying his sombre expression. Though I would never call him handsome, Jorani looks particularly wretched today, the dark circles and heavy bags beneath his eyes contrasting sharply with his pale, wan cheeks and rose-tipped nose. Bereft of the haze of alcohol, his clear eyes tell a tale of torment and misery, though tinged with a hint of relief. It’s like he wanted to be caught, and perhaps he did, making this all a not so subtle cry for help.

“What happened at the winery, Jorani?”

Surprised by the lack of anger in my voice, Jorani nervously shakes his head. “I ain’t supposed to say. Legate’s orders.”

“If I followed orders all the time, I’d hang you for dereliction of duty.”

Flinching at my cold logic, Jorani sighs. “Fair enough.” Taking a deep breath, he launches into his tale with a faraway look. Though seated across the table, his mind is a hundred kilometres away as he relives the harrowing ordeal of how he saw a Defiled Ancestral Beast dismantle three Heroes of the Empire, peak Experts and Living Legends alike. He tells me how the experience robbed him of courage and instilled terror in its place, and where he once held hope now only had despair. “She toyed with them,” he says, still unable or unwilling to believe it. “Whole thing weren’t nothing but a game to her. Should’ve seen it from the start when lifted thousands of kilograms of dirt to make her entrance, but even then, I believed we could win.” Looking me in the eyes for the first time, Jorani asks, “When faced with so much power, how are we supposed to make a difference?”

“Most nights, I ask myself the same question.”

“And the answer?”

I shrug, wishing I had a better one for him. “We don’t.”

“Ah.” And with that, I watch the last vestige of hope and courage drift away on the wind as Jorani deflates in defeat. “Then ye might as well hang me fer all the...”

In the flickering firelight, the shadows coalesce around Jorani as he waxes on about how useless he is, but I only listen with half a mind. The other half is busy trying to comprehend what’s happening before my eyes as the light darkens and air thickens around him. My vision blurs for a moment and I blink to clear it away, only to realize there’s nothing wrong with my eyes. It’s the world itself which turns hazy and indistinct, but only the area directly around Jorani as the rest of the room remains clear and distinct. My belly protests in discomfort as I focus on the anomaly, my skin crawling and hairs standing at the loathsome sight before me. It’s not Jorani, but something around him, emerging from him, yet the person in question seems wholly unaware of the abominable happenings around him. As if stretched beyond breaking, the fabric of reality snap back into place and everything is as it was before.

Except now, a Spectre haunts Jorani’s mind, born of his resignation and misery.

Well... That’s... disconcerting.

“...And no need to worry about the old rat bastard, he won’t shed a tear. I ain’t nothing but a sorry excuse to him, but I can talks to him first. Actually, I’d very much like to talk to him first, the old bastard got a few words comin’ to him, he do.” Jorani’s eyes burn with anger as he rambles on, wholly unaware he just gave birth to a disembodied phantom of negative emotion which is now egging him on from within. “In fact, I’d -”

“Quiet.” Outraged by the interruption, Jorani holds his tongue, though barely. Still not sure what to make of this, I reach over and palm his head, obscuring his vision as I devour the newborn Spectre with ease. Drained by the seesaw of emotions raging through him, Jorani shudders with its passing and slumps down and almost passes out, taxed by the cleansing despite being host to only a single Spectre. Putting the metaphysical developments aside, I tell Jorani, “Hand over command to your second and report to latrine duty until further notice. You think you’re the only one who’s afraid? There will always be someone stronger, but that doesn’t mean you give up the fight.”

Standing to leave, I stop and try to think of something to say, something I’d want someone to tell me when I’m wallowing in the depths of despair. “Sanshu looked hopeless until Hangman Jorani arrived to stem the Defiled tide. His efforts kept the city alive long enough for others to join the fight, and in doing so, saved millions of lives.” Giving him time to let my words sink in, I look him in the eye and continue, “You still live and breathe not because I’m afraid of GangShu, but because I want Hangman Jorani fighting at my side. Let me know when you find him, will you?”

“And if I can’t?” Jorani’s voice is barely more than a whisper, his spirits low despite the cleansing.

I can take care of supernatural manifestations of anger and despair, but I can’t do shit about plain old depression. “Then let me know and I’ll send you somewhere safe. I won’t force you to fight Jorani, but I could use your help.” Closing the door behind me, I shake my head and keep Ral from going inside. “Give him some time to think.” God, I hope he doesn’t kill himself. “But uh... stay close, just in case. He’s had a rough time.”

Now... what the fuck happened back there and how can I make it stop?

Chapter Meme
