The moment I activate my new buff, the [Noble Bloodline Transformation], the strange vibrations I can barely sense around the Exile Guardian become magnified; and the same frequency begins to radiate from my own body.

It creates a strange resonance, and everything happens extremely quick.

I close and open my eyes to unseal this power, and it floods outward, not from a single source, but from within every cell in my being.

It feels like I'm viewing the world around me from a higher frequency of understanding that I didn't even realize existed before.

All of the ringing in my ears stops.

The foggy mind, being attacked by the Guardian's mental attacks, clears to a peaceful silence.

Best of all, my vision and perception of the world around me becomes crystal clear, and everything slows down by what feels like a thousand times.

I don't even have to use my All-Seeing Eye or Ether Senses to see.

It is all just crystal clear...

My muscles fill with newfound elasticity and strength, hardening and strengthening the actual physical muscle fibers; and my skin becomes glossy and glows like jade as energy flows through it, amplifying every bit of power that ripples through me.

I feel my body grow to ten times its size, and take a deep breath as if it's the first true breath I've ever taken.

My body glows with an ethereal white energy as the Ether within my body expands and reacts with this sudden change.

The frail dome of demonic energy surrounding me shatters from this release of power, and the excess white ethereal shimmering light bursts upward in a pillar.

I feel my Astral Form expanding multiple times its size as well, making the Guardian, whom moments ago I thought of as an indestructible, immovable monstrous force, now look like a small helpless animal.

Without hesitating at all, I swing my sword downward in a fluid and graceful motion.

Its Spiked Soul Weapon shatters, its eye is split in two, and the hot red and white blade slices through the two-kilometer-tall Noble Demonic Cyclops Guardian like butter, shattering its cores and making contact with the ground beneath its feet as if it isn't even there.

The shockwave of this destructive slice creates a five-kilometer-deep and fifty-kilometer-wide ravine in the center of the central peak, and completely obliterates the Guardian, leaving only fragments of its armor and flesh behind.

The dark blotches of demonic energy and cracks on my Astral Form completely disappear the instant the white ethereal glow ripples through them.

Though, as fast as my enemy is killed, I deactivate my Astral Form in the same moment.

My thought process has become crisp and calculated, making no room for errors or confusion.

Keeping this massive fifteen-kilometer-tall form activated, that is changing the air pressure and gravity for tens of thousands of kilometers in all directions, is no longer necessary.

It bursts in a shimmering white and green glow the moment the job is done, leaving just my Noble Human form behind, hovering over the ravine I've created, that has split the top of the mountain in two.

My body glows white, and the sword in my hand contrasts my being with a bright crimson glow, while swirling energy forms around me in green, white, red, purple, and black wisps. The Exile Guardian's being is absorbed into me, and its Soul Weapon's remains flow into my sword as I float still in the air.

[Level Up] x3417

[Use Absorption]

Skill: Berserker

Upgrade: Divine Grade

[YES] [NO]

[Use Absorption]

Skill: Perfect Strike [Divine Grade]

[YES] [NO]

[Congratulations! Rising Emperor's Domain Milestone Reached!]

[1242/1000 Worlds Claimed]

[New Perk Unlocked: Authority among Worlds]

Info:

New Update to the [World Wide Connectivity System][i] Granted Solely to the Rising Emperor!

The Rising Emperor may now borrow an additional 5% of all Base Stat Points and Mana Control efficiency from all subordinates under the allegiance of the Rising Emperor.

The caster may only borrow or share exclusively; both actions cannot be performed simultaneously.

Members affected by this perk are not required to be within range of the Rising Emperor's Domain.

This buff stacks with the [Ruler of Worlds] perk, [World Collector] perk, [World Domination] perk, [Imperial Reach] perk, [Expansion] perk, [Dominance] perk, [Authority] perk, [Power Holder] perk, and [Ruler's Gaze] perk if used simultaneously.

_____________

These notifications echo in my mind while the green light on my bright white hand glows with a [1242] and my level hits [Lv. 33,189].

I feel extremely high grade worlds boosting my stats, stronger than any of the 2nd grade worlds I've managed to acquire so far, and my total available pull rise to 65% of all the beings on them; but my mind is wisped away to relive the Guardians long life of memories before I get a close look.

–

The start of its journey feels very familiar, just like Drako Vermillion, born into chaos, on a world densely packed with Demonic energy, and extremely vast.

Unlike the demon's memories I vividly remember, this monster's life flashes by extremely quickly. Its only defining moments where time seems to slow down are during immense battles, where it becomes very injured or wins by extremely small margins.

It roams these dark lands as a mindless beast for thousands of years, so long it is impossible to keep count. I guesstimate it is anywhere from 7 to 10 thousand years, roaming alone on a Noble Grade World, killing and battling to the death with every monster it deems a threat.

A strange phenomenon happens the day a demon visits its world.

Clearly, it is not a Noble Demon, but it has a True Yellow Core, so must be at least 2nd or 1st Class.

The Demonic Cyclops stands its ground against it, fighting the longest battle of its life, and ultimately killing even this intruder; spreading divine threads throughout its world despite there not being large spatial deposits in this Sector of the Galaxy.

Its battered body slowly absorbs the raw yellow threads scattered around its world, and eventually awakens its own yellow core.

Meanwhile, more demons from the Four Great Families were sent out here again to do prospecting, and every time, no one ever made it back from this demonic world alive.

Every new demon it killed, the more raw divine threads spread throughout the world, and the stronger it became; eventually compressing its true core and slowly reaching the saturation point.

That is, until one day, a strange shadowy figure with long horns entered this Cyclops's life.

The memories associated with this day only tell of immense fear, sorrow, and defeat.

For some reason, within this Cyclops's mind, all that is left in place of this ten-year gap in its memories is a dark demonic veil of mystery.

The memories give off a vibration, similar to that of a Noble Resonance, but as more memories flow by, it's hard to see and feel exactly what has already passed.

The next thing I see is this Demonic Beast in the Upper Realm, on a strange dark citadel.

It has a True Green Core awakened, and from the looks of it, in the time its memories were erased, it awakened a mana-based system with levels and skills. It holds a spiked soul weapon too.

Another 5 to 8 thousand years pass, the Cyclops lives alone in this dark citadel, but as years pass, more visitors come by.

Two of which stand out to me a lot: there are two noble Demons. One named Andras, and another named Sisco.

Endless days of sparring turn into weeks, months, years, and centuries.

New Avatar changes and upgrades are granted by a voice in the Cyclops's head, and it accepts without question.

Weaker 1st Class demons watch the sparring matches in awe, and the Cyclops even watches other demons spar within this citadel made of thousands of large training cubes.

It is soon named The Fortress, and the Cyclops overhears demons talking of the Ellipsia Citadel, the Mensa Citadel, each of them where the two Noble Demons come from; and word of a Grand Citadel as well, where strong demons can leave the Fortress and try to impress the family heads.

While this beast isn't an intellectual, it grasps the concepts of what others say, and after thousands of years of repetition, it definitely understands.

Though, every time it gets into a rhythm of life, there is always a disruption in its memories.

Once, the first time it was shipped off to the Grand Citadel, a fifty-year block is missing, and again, a few thousand years later when a shadowy horned figure came to visit The Fortress.

All that remains in the dead Guardian's mind is pure terror and a mere shadow of this being.

–

The last 10 to 12 thousand years of its life are quite simple, and fly by the fastest.

All of its training, and years of fear and loyalty that have been instilled into it, are consolidated into a single task.

Not much is explained to the beast, as it just receives new Avatar commands, and is limited to only staying within a fifty-kilometer radius above this peak and ordered to shovel worlds off above a certain height and kill all intruders.

However, from the words of many escaped exiles, and Lords roaming the mountains below for millennia as this Guardian watched, I can tell this is the result of a new leader in charge.

Every few hundred years, a family sparring partner stops by, Andras Vermillion, to check up on the zones and see how the Guardian is doing with a quick spar atop the peak to make sure it's not growing old and weak.

However, other than that, there are no Lords that ever come close to its immense power.

As the many years of solitude move by, the fear and imagery of a shadowy horned figure never leave this monster's mind.

Even in its final moments, as a human slices it in half, the Guardian still fears something else far more...

–

This rush of knowledge flows into me, and I can feel its home world now glowing with dark purple energy in the forefront of my mind.

A strange sensation washes over me as all of the beings on it link to my system. While it's a chaotic world, there are still over 20 million strong Noble Cyclopes on it, and their average level once converted to mana is over 1500. Some are even above level 10,000, and there isn't a single labyrinth on this world at all. Their levels are purely from killing each other and absorbing the ambient demonic energy in the atmosphere.

Many other worlds float behind this one in my mind, eighty of them being First Class worlds, each with tens of millions of citizens, ranging from level 700 to 1000 on average.

Another 921 worlds are identical Second Class worlds like the Demonic Guards I fought below the Central Peak.

–

With this immense rise in borrowed power, and the Noble Bloodline Transformation I've gone through myself, my perception seeps upward, through the clouds with ease, and I can feel every single being within the Ellipsia Citadel.

A large tower in the center of the Citadel gives off strong radiation, as I see a familiar demon battling four Lords alongside his Demonic Dragon.

One of those Lords is Ember... and for some reason, he's fighting in his human form.

My bright white body and ethereal eyes move downward until I spot Ava among the rubble.

She's stopped her ruthless attacks on the demonic guards, and her mouth is open and her eyes are glued to me as I give off a warm light.

Then, my gaze moves down the mountain, and I slowly rotate my body until my eyes meet the Blue Wyverns.

As soon as they do, I look up at the Access Point that has almost entirely shut, leaving less than 10% of the Power Plant's underside exposed. A series of angled shimmering lights shine downward on me in far brighter concentrated rays. When they hit my skin, I glow even brighter.

My mind takes in all of the facts of this situation, and I can't help but grin as I come up with the perfect plan.

A long-range telepathy channel is formed, and I beam a message down to the Goblin Queen.

"Come on, we're going up to the Citadel, let's move before we're too late."

Then, I turn to the Wyvern and activate my Conceal Skill, changing my appearance while I send it a message too.

"I passed your test. Now, I need a favor in return before those doors shut."
