“Come on in,” Rain said, beckoning to Samson as he came into view through the open flap.

“Rain,” Samson said in greeting as he entered the tent, followed by the pale imperial. Fechton seemed to be coping well enough with the situation, all things considered. He didn’t look nervous or anything. In fact, he seemed perfectly at ease. Rain wasn’t sure how much of that was an act.

“Close it behind you,” Vanna said, seated beside Rain in a high ladder-backed chair. It was one of eight seats lining the circular space, no two of them alike. Like Rain’s tent, this one was also made of monster hide and was painted with noise-blocking runes. He had commissioned it after tiring of the council heads co-opting his bedroom whenever they needed to hold a discussion. It was spacious but otherwise unimpressive as a command tent, given the dirt floor, mismatched furniture, and the trio of bare light bulbs dangling like fruit against the aluminum support pole. At the moment, only three of the chairs were occupied. Ameliah was lounging to Rain’s right in an upholstered armchair, though she’d straightened up a bit in response to Fechton’s arrival. Her bow was propped against the tent wall just beside her, ready if needed.

“Please have a seat,” Rain said to Fechton, gesturing toward the mismatched furniture. “Just pick any chair. Doesn’t matter.”

Fechton nodded, selecting a short three-legged stool as far as possible from everyone else. The stool wouldn’t have been Rain’s choice, that was for sure. He’d have taken the armchair if Ameliah hadn’t beaten him to it. Samson, meanwhile, hadn’t taken a chair; instead, he’d remained standing by the tent flap, with his hands clasped behind his back.

“So, who is he?” he asked, getting straight to the point.

Fechton looked down, pulling his eyes that had been lingering on the light bulbs to meet Rain’s gaze.

Rain supposed he might look a bit nervous after all. He probably hadn’t been expecting this many people. Rain nodded to him, trying to make the motion reassuring, then turned to answer Samson. As head of the Defense Council, he needed to know. “An imperial.”

Samson didn’t bat an eye, probably having already suspected as much. “I see,” he said slowly. “How did you find him?”

“He found me,” Rain replied. “He asked for...political refuge.”

Todo: learn the word for asylum.

“Ah,” Samson said, casually uncrossing his arms and resting one hand on the hilt of his sword. He turned to look at Fechton with a speculative expression. “And have you granted this request?”

If he hadn’t been before, Fechton was certainly looking nervous now, cracks appearing in his earlier composure.

“I have,” Rain replied hurriedly. “There’s a lot he can tell us.”

“I agree,” Samson said, taking his hand from his sword, seeming to have realized the effect he was having on their visitor. Rain didn’t get the sense that the intimidation had been deliberate. Samson glanced at Vanna, then to Ameliah and back to Rain. “I am curious, though, why you left him with me with no explanation. Who was that cloaked woman you were speaking with?”

“She’s, uh...a problem for later,” Rain replied awkwardly, sharing a glance with Vanna. He flicked his eyes toward Fechton significantly. “This is more pressing now.”

“Very well,” Samson said, and Rain breathed an inward sigh of relief as the freelord turned to face the imperial. He looked at him speculatively. “Who else knows about this?”

“Just Tallheart,” Rain said, and Fechton practically choked.

Rain suppressed a grimace. Oops. “We’ll talk about informing the other council heads once we’re done here, Samson, but for now, it’s all hush-hush. Before we get going, can you please get someone to stand guard? The last thing we need is someone ignoring the bell and bursting in on us.”

Samson nodded, reaching for the flap. “Wise. Just a moment.”

The silence quickly became awkward after he slipped out. Only Ameliah looked relaxed. She shifted in her armchair, crossing one leg over the other and running her hands through her hair to straighten it. She and Rain were both helmetless for this meeting, Rain having stashed his under his chair. Vanna, on the other hand, normally unflappable, seemed on edge. She began shuffling through the stack of maps on the table beside her—the rough-cut, heavy thing looking like it would have been more at home in a workshop.

We need a proper council table. This is embarrassing.

A hesitant clearing of the throat surprised Rain, and he looked over at Fechton.

“Captain Rain, may I ask a question?” the pale man asked.

“Go ahead,” Rain replied. “We don’t bite. If it’s important, though, please wait for Samson to get back.”

Fechton hesitated, then gestured to the trio of bulbs, their light ebbing and swelling slightly from time to time with the varying demands on the generator. “What are those?”

Rain suppressed a smile. “Sufficiently advanced.”

Ameliah rolled her eyes, but before anyone else could say anything, the ring of a small bell dangling beside the tent flap heralded Samson’s return. The flap opened, and Rain caught a glimpse of Gigs outside before Samson stepped through and closed it once more.

Rain smiled. Gigs had been a tavern bouncer back before he’d joined Ascension. He’d be more than up to the task of deterring any curious Kettels or Avas.

Samson finally took a seat, and then Rain cleared his throat. “Right then. Let’s get the introductions out of the way so we all know where we stand. I’m Rain, Captain of Ascension. You’ve met Samson. He’s head of the Defense Council.” He gestured, first to the left and then to the right. “This is Vanna, Commander, and second in command of our company, and this is Ameliah. She’s an Entrusted like the rest of us, which is our highest formal rank, but she doesn’t hold an office.”

“Nor do I want to,” Ameliah said.

Rain smiled at her, then looked at Fechton expectantly.

Looking slightly confused, Fechton nevertheless took a deep breath and spoke, though he didn’t take his eyes away from Rain to look at the others. “I am Fechton Stone. I was first starguide on the Fist of Progress.”

“Let’s break that down, shall we?” Rain said. “Fist of Progress was the ship that attacked this city?”

“It was,” Fechton confirmed.

“And first starguide means what? Navigator?”

“Yes,” the imperial said, though after a slight pause.

Rain raised an eyebrow. “I’m hearing a ‘not quite’ in that answer. What’s the difference?”

Fechton inclined his head, then spoke in that odd, formal way of his. “A navigator follows old channels in shallow waters, charted by those long dead and marked by lighthouses for all but the blind to see. A starguide reads the shifting heavens, keeping to unmarked and uncharted ways, even through open seas where Leviathans slumber.”

“Impossible,” Vanna muttered, low enough that Rain was sure he was the only one who heard her. Samson and Ameliah also looked skeptical. Based on what he’d learned about the ocean, he could see where they were coming from. Fortunately, there was an easy way to find out more.

“Okay, how? What lets you do that?”

“I...” Fechton hesitated. “Are you asking about my skills?”

“Skills?” Ameliah interrupted, glancing to Rain, then to her bow, before returning her attention to the imperial. “You’re awakened?”

“I am,” Fechton confirmed.

Rain didn’t tense. It was hard to feel unsafe with Ameliah’s comforting presence pressing against his soul. He did frown, though. Obviously he’d misunderstood something from his first conversation with the imperial, and Ameliah and Vanna clearly had as well in the retelling. He glanced to each of them, then back to Fechton. “I take it ‘Called’ doesn’t mean ‘awakened,’ then.”

Now it was Fechton’s turn to look confused, but he explained without further prompting. “Called are Undama who have proven themselves worthy, warranting elevation. All Called are awakened, but not all awakened are Called.” He looked between them. “I had thought your rank, ‘Entrusted,’ to mean this, given that you hold rank, but... If you are not Called, are you then Dimae? Um...nobles? That is your word, is it not? Families carrying the will of the Citizens?”

“Wow, okay,” Rain said, scratching an ear. “Lots to unpack there. No, we’re not nobles, and we don’t work for the DKE, either. We’re independent.” He paused, then continued. “Well, Samson’s sort-of a noble, but ‘noble’ doesn’t mean... It’s complicated. It sounds like whatever you’re talking about is too.” He sighed.

Is Stone a family name, or is it something else?

Rain lowered his hand back to his lap. “Are you a Dimae, then?”

“I am not,” Fechton said. “I was...” He cleared his throat, then spoke with certainty. “I am Undama. Even in defeat. Even in surrender.”

“That doesn’t really help,” Vanna said. “Undama means...commoner? The people that till the fields, dig the ditches, and haul away the shit?”

“Undama are the heart of Adamant,” Fechton replied, reciting hotly and as if by rote, “its flesh and its blood and its bone.”

“So that’s a yes?” Samson asked.

“Yes,” Fechton said in a clipped tone. Clearly, it wasn’t that simple.

“Sorry,” Vanna said. “I’m not trying to insult you, just to understand. In fact, I used to dig ditches and haul shit myself. Some days, I miss the simplicity. Not the smell, though.”

Rain waved his hands. “We’re getting off track.”

Ameliah smirked at him. “That’s funny, coming from you.”

“Here’s what we’ll do,” Rain said, ignoring her. “Fechton, I’d like you to write me a report on the sociopolitical structure of the Empire. Define all those terms you just used and explain whatever classes, castes, or whatever other divisions of society you have. List out the military ranks and structures, explain how cities are governed, how common folk make a living,” He waved his hands. “So on and so forth. I want twenty pages at least by tomorrow. Don’t worry, we’ve got plenty of paper.”

“Seriously?” Vanna asked, giving Rain a sharp look. “You’re giving the prisoner homework?”

Rain rolled his eyes. “Firstly, he’s not a prisoner; he’s an I-don’t-know-the-word. A person who’s been granted...political refuge...which I also don’t know the word for.”

“Asylee and Asylum,” Samson said.

“Asylee, thank you,” Rain continued, still looking at Vanna. “And secondly, do you have any idea how hard it is to find information about the Empire that doesn’t read like it’s out of Wix? I’ve found more hard details on Ter’Karmark, and that’s practically on the other side of the planet!” He sliced a hand toward Fechton. “I’d much rather hear what he has to say than go by any of the books we’ve dug up, and we don’t have the time for him to tell us now, so yes, I assigned him homework.”

“But twenty pages?” Vanna crinkled her nose. “And you wonder why people don’t like your classes.”

“Oh, hush,” Rain said while Ameliah tried to suppress her laughter. “That was half a joke just to set expectations. I’m not going to dock him points if he doesn’t hit the page count.” He turned back to Fechton, then took a breath and smiled. “Sorry. Anyway, seriously, please be as detailed as you can. Assume we’re five-year-olds and don’t know a thing about the world and how it works. Actually, we’ve got some reports just like that on Fel Sadanis and Vestvall. We can give you them when you’re done so you can learn about us, too. A little mutual understanding will go a long way.” He turned to Vanna. “When we’re done here, can you please ask Romer to dig those out? I think they’re with the rest of the stuff from his literacy classes. Make sure there’s nothing classified in them first, then pick a few with decent handwriting.”

Fechton looked a bit overwhelmed, looking from face to face. “You are all...very strange.”

“We’re well aware,” Rain said, meeting his gaze while maintaining utter seriousness. “Okay. Let’s start again. You’re awakened. What’s your level and class?”

Fechton nodded, plainly relieved to be back on anticipated ground. “I am level four, and I have no class.”

Samson motioned for him to go on. “And your skills?”

“Hard Light, Barrier Shaping, Far Sight, Intrinsic Clarity, and Twin Construct,” Fechton rattled off.

“Okay...WHAT?!” Rain demanded, almost having launched himself out of his chair before Fechton had even finished speaking. “Those are all in different trees! You don’t even have the prerequisites for most of them!”

“A lie?” Vanna asked.

“I speak truth,” Fechton said, having regained his composure after shrinking back slightly at Rain’s outburst. “Those are my skills.”

Rain settled back down into his seat, admonishing himself for his reaction. “What, then?” he asked. “Did you use respec accolades or something?”

“Only one,” Fechton said.

“A reusable respec accolade?” Rain’s eyebrows would have climbed off his forehead if they’d had anywhere to go. If he hadn’t just reminded himself to keep calm, he’d probably have lurched up from his chair again, too.

Fechton nodded in confirmation. “I was honored to use the Accolade of the Sunken Lake at the academy of Danton’s Spar. The respecialization plate is but one of many accolades in the academy’s possession, entrusted to them by Potentate Fecht for use in building the glory of the Empire.”

“Okay, that needs to go in the report,” Rain said excitedly. “Everything about how you were trained and everything about that academy you mentioned. Like, did they come up with that build for you, or did you pick it yourself? You make lenses out of light, don’t you? For seeing far away?” He waved his hands and stopped himself. “No, no, don’t answer that. We’d be here all night. Put it in the report, please.”

Fechton nodded. “I will do so.”

“Yes,” Samson said after clearing his throat. He caught Rain’s eye. “Let us stick to matters of immediate practicality.” He gestured to the imperial. “If I may?”

Rain nodded. Probably for the best. He still had his Clarity dialed down, but he was also still, well, himself.

Samson nodded back, then addressed Fechton. “Do you have any accolades on you?”

“No,” Fechton replied.

“Enchanted equipment, whether bound or unbound?”

“No.”

“Are there more imperials in the city?”

“None that I know of.”

