Samson nodded, seeming to accept this for the moment, though he glanced at Rain in a way that indicated he wanted to discuss it later. He returned his attention to Fechton as he continued. “What was the mission of the Fist of Progress?”

“We were to destroy all resistance, then hold the city,” Fechton replied without hesitation.

“You weren’t ordered to continue to Barstone?”

Fechton shook his head.

“Why not?” Samson asked.

“I do not know,” Fechton said. “I did not even know our mission was war until we were already underway. It is not the place of Undama to question. Only Cento Pina, Sereni Berix, and Sereni Kentus would have known what came next, if even they. We had a mindcaster aboard. Once we had secured the city, Cento Pina would have received additional orders from Dominus Illus himself.”

“Do mindcasters work at sea?” Vanna asked.

It was Ameliah who replied. “No, they don’t, unless the Empire’s mindcasters are different somehow.”

“Our mindcaster would not work at sea,” Fechton confirmed.

“And the range?” Samson asked. “There’s nothing but wasteland south of us. The link shouldn’t be able to reach that far.”

Fechton only shrugged.

Samson frowned, clearly as unhappy as Rain was with that answer, but he moved on. “Are there more ships coming?”

Fechton shook his head. “I suspect not, but in truth, I do not know. Until I saw the Fist in the secret harbor at Tinan, I did not even know that such a vessel was possible. Made of metal, of adamant itself, and yet floating. Indestructible, or so I believed. Even navigating through the safest waters I could find for us, we were still set upon almost every night as we sailed past the badlands. For a normal ship, it would have been the end. Thrice we encountered Whales, drawn by the blood and the vigor of our defense before we learned to trust silently in the hull. Even when the Whales came, not once was our vessel breached. Not until we arrived here. Not until I was shown the lie.”

Rain scratched at his beard. “So the ship was a prototype?”

“Just because he didn’t see more, it doesn’t mean there aren’t more,” Ameliah said. “What he’s describing sounds exactly like a Goldship, by the way. Except, you know, not gold.”

“Goldship?” Fechton asked.

“What Ameliah said is correct,” Samson said, ignoring the imperial’s question. “We must assume that there are more ships coming. From the fact that this one was defeated, we can conclude that it would have had no hope against a DKE city on its own. The Dominus, this...Illus, would likely have known as much.”

Rain bit his tongue, reaching for his canteen to cover any expression that might have made it to his face. He obviously wasn’t going to mention Velika with Fechton here. It was bad enough that she’d come up in the conversation once already. Samson’s conclusion was reasonable, given what he knew, but the adamant forces had been stronger than he was giving them credit for. If Velika hadn’t been in Three Cliffs, the reception Ascension would have received upon reaching the city would have been quite different indeed.

Samson tapped a finger on the arm of his chair, continuing. “They likely intended to use Three Cliffs as a staging point once the lead ship had proven the journey to be possible. Therefore, we must also assume either that their mindcaster has the required range, or that they have already established relays within the badlands.”

“Or at Vestvall,” Vanna interjected.

“Or at Vestvall,” Samson agreed, nodding to her. “Perhaps the reason this attack only came now, and not when they assailed Fel Sadanis, was simply that they did not have the required network for communication in place. Or perhaps the ship was not ready in time.”

Rain settled his canteen into his lap, toying with the cap. Whatever the reason, we need to be not here. Yesterday.

“Tell me,” Samson said, addressing Fechton once more, “what were the full capabilities of this ship of yours? From the description, it was most impressive, and yet it fell to a town of silvers. I have found the reports hard to believe.”

“I would find them the same had I not experienced the fall,” Fechton said, a note of something that might have been pride entering his voice. “The Adamant Army would not be defeated by mere silvers. And so, I tell you that it was no silver attack that destroyed the Fist.”

“Go on,” Samson said. “Tell me what you saw.”

Fechton nodded, and as he spoke, his gaze seemed to drift off into the distance. “The world was slashed open, from the clouds to the ocean floor. A roar like a thousand ringing bells shook the sky for what seemed an eternity. And then, time seemed to...skip...and I was falling. I do not remember being thrown into the sky, only what I saw. The ship that I knew to be unbreakable, cloven in two, sinking beneath the waves. A whole battalion, lost in an instant.”

Rain, who’d been taking another sip from his canteen while Fechton had been speaking, almost choked on the last sentence. “Did you say a battalion?”

Fechton nodded.

“As in, five hundred and twelve soldiers?” Rain pressed.

Fechton nodded again. “Half our complement. Sereni Berix’s battalion was already embattled ashore.”

Rain settled back into his chair, re-screwing the cap of his canteen. “That’s a huge ship.”

And there might be more coming. Damn, I wish I knew how to avoid them. Should have bought that book.

“Don’t look so surprised, Rain,” Ameliah said, misinterpreting his momentary lapse for shock. “You heard what the townsfolk said. It’s not impossible. Goldships are about that size, at least.”

“This is the second time you have used that term,” Fechton said, crossing his arms. “What does it mean, Goldship?”

“They’re built by the Bank,” Ameliah answered, looking at him. When she only got a blank look in return, she tilted her head. “You don’t know the Bank?”

“Which bank?” Fechton asked.

“Oh, boy,” Rain said, running a hand through his hair. “What part of the Empire did you say you were from again?” He got to his feet, gesturing to Vanna. “Hand me the map, will you?”

“Which?” Vanna asked, reaching for the stack of papers on the desk beside her.

“The less-shit one,” Rain said. “The one that shows the whole continent.”

“Here,” Vanna said, handing him a folded square of fine parchment. “Be careful with it. Romer hasn’t made a copy yet.”

“Thanks,” Rain said, accepting the map and moving across the tent. He spread the map out on the card table beside Fechton’s stool, then drew up a chair and sat before tapping his finger on Three Cliffs.

“Here’s us,” Rain said, taking his hand away. “Where is Tinan harbor in relation, and where is Danton’s Spar? This map’s annoyingly blank when it comes to the Empire, so anything else you can tell us would be a great help.”

“I...” Fechton hesitated, then pointed to the southernmost cove of the badlands. “Tinan would be around here, within the ranked zone, but this is all...wrong. Osar is not that far north, and those lakes aren’t where they should be. The whole coastline around Pridestone isn’t even close to correct. You have been navigating by this?”

Rain sighed. “I said it was a less-shit map, not a not-shit map. Is the distance between here and Tinan correct, at least?”

“Do you have a compass or a stridestick?”

Rain shook his head. “Not handy.” Tracing a finger east along the grid from the point Fechton had indicated, he counted intersections until he was below Three Cliffs, then began counting north. “About two-hundred-fifty leagues east, and about...two-hundred-fifty north. Isosceles. That’s convenient. Two-fifty times root two is three-fifty-four.” He wiggled a hand. “Ish.”

“We did not take a straight line,” Fechton said, giving Rain a slightly strange look. He traced a finger across the map, passing well to the east of the unmarked island floating off the coast. “By my star reckoning, our course carried us approximately four-hundred and fifty leagues.”

Rain deflated slightly, wishing that the math he’d done had been more relevant. “And how long did that take you?”

“Eleven days,” Fechton said, a hint of pride in his voice.

“Is that...fast?” Vanna asked, looking at Samson, who shrugged. “That sounds fast.”

Rain looked at Ameliah. “How long did it take you to get from Ter’Karmark to Rellagia by Goldship?”

Ameliah thought for a moment. “I remember it taking two weeks to get to Scarport in the Ember Kingdom, traveling only during the day. For comparison, it then took a month to get to Lendis on a normal merchant’s ship, sailing day and night through safer waters.”

“Hmm.” Rain scratched at his beard. “Vanna, can I have the medium-shit map, please? The big one with the shipping lanes?”

Vanna got to her feet. Rather than shuffling through the papers again, she simply lifted the table beside her by one end and dragged it across the floor, leaving furrows in the dirt. With her levels and the Strength rings she was wearing, the heavy piece of furniture gave her very little trouble. “We really need a big meeting table in here,” she said as she kicked it into position in front of Fechton.

“Tell me about it,” Rain said.

Vanna rifled through the maps until she found the one Rain had requested, flattening it out on top. “There you go.”

“Thanks,” Rain said, taking the first map and laying it over the larger one. The world map was infuriating, given the lack of a scale, and he had serious doubts about the quality of the projection—assuming it even was a projection to begin with. It was the best they had at this scale, unfortunately. He sighed, trying not to let it bother him as he took a guess. “Okay, so it’s maybe five hundred leagues between Ter’Karmark and Rellagia.” He looked up, seeing that Ameliah and Samson had come over to see as well.

Ameliah touched two fingers to the world map, tracing them between continents. “Five hundred leagues in two weeks is thirty-one leagues per day.” Rain felt his heart melting, but he managed to keep his composure as she traced her fingers along the badlands next. “The Empire’s ship did four-hundred-fifty leagues in eleven days. It’s faster. Um. Forty-one leagues per day.”

“Oh, gods, he’s infected her,” Vanna said. “Next, she’ll be converting to kilometers and telling us the answer to six decimal points.”

Rain grinned. “You show me a map worth a damn, and either of us will work it out to as many significant figures as you like. Ameliah’s right to round. With the errors we’re working with, thirty-one and forty-one might as well be the same number.” He gave Ameliah another smile, then looked back down at the map. “Maybe the Empire jacked a Goldship and spray-painted it. Or maybe whatever kind of journey core they used has the same limits as the Bank’s. Convergent design or something.”

“There’s one way to find out,” Ameliah said. “It’s still down there, after all.”

Rain looked up again and grinned at her. “Shall we? Reason should have them ready by now.”

“Have what ready?” Samson asked.

“Waterbreathing potions,” Vanna replied. “That’s what you get for skipping a council meeting.”

“I was busy stopping the former slaves from murdering their former masters before their trials,” Samson countered. “On that note, Rain, I gather that you are not going to be standing in judgment this afternoon?”

“Shit,” Rain muttered, glancing at his HUD. He’d had a lot on his docket today, but it had all flown out of his mind with first Fechton’s arrival, then Velika’s.

I could push that stuff off...but I really shouldn’t. Shit. I need to deal with Thrast. AND I need to talk to Bakal about borrowing Green at some point. Gods damn it.

He chewed his lip, then sighed and got to his feet. “The fun will have to wait until tomorrow. I need to take care of some stuff, and I don’t want anyone going down there alone. Especially not this late in the day. It is the ocean.” He looked at Ameliah over the table. “You’d be fine, of course, but I kinda wanted to go exploring...together. I’ve never walked on the ocean floor before.”

Ameliah smiled. “Don’t worry. I won’t go without you.”

Vanna cleared her throat loudly, then jerked her head toward Fechton, who looked distinctly uncomfortable with everyone standing around him like this and ignoring him. “What are we doing about him?”

Rain turned to look down at Fechton, addressing the imperial as he thought out loud. “Uh, hmm. We could say you’re an aspirant. No, wait, that’s probably a bad idea. Kettel would probably try to pack bond with you or something. Hmm.” He scratched at his beard. “Okay, we’ll say you’re a navigator—not a starguide, sorry—and that we hired you to guide us once we’ve got a ship. You’ve got some enemies in the city, and we’re letting you stay in our camp under guard to protect our investment. Hells, it’s basically true.”

“That should work well enough,” Samson said.

Rain smiled, offering Fechton a hand. “Come on. We’ll set you up with a meal and a private tent so you can do your homework. Sorry, but we can’t let you just walk free around our camp. Oh, and don’t talk to anyone but us. Like, at all, at least for now.” He let go of Fechton’s hand after helping him up. “I don’t want your accent giving you away. I doubt there’s a real chance of anyone recognizing it, but it pays to be safe. We’re also going to need a different name for you. Stone might be fine, but it’s a bit odd as a first name, and I’d rather avoid questions.” He placed his hands on his hips, tilting his head. “Do you have a nickname?”

Fechton looked at Rain blankly, seeming a bit overwhelmed. “I do not.”

“Lucky you!” Rain said with exaggerated delight, taking his hands from his hips and spreading them in a Mlemlike gesture. “Unlike me, you actually get to pick!”
