"I have been reading Confriga’s Tome. I have delved into some of its mysteries during my spare time," Uva whispered. "The Outside is..." She held out a hand, and for a moment, Shiv saw a faint aura glisten around her flesh. "It's close, yet separated. It's like it exists in the same space as we do, yet there is an additional axis of distance, one that cannot be accessed. Do you understand?"

Shiv licked his lips and tried to conceptualize what she was saying. "A bit, but it's pretty murky to me. I know the Eldritch stuff is weird. I don't really like thinking about it too much, but I always kind of imagined the Outside to be separated from us by a wall."

"By a threshold, yes," Uva said. "Not exactly a wall, but a defined border. As you said, weird." She hesitated. "The Outside is seeping into me. Into my soul first. A few of my other skills have changed as well.”

Shiv sat up and pulled her to his side. His heart pounded with nervous strain. “How bad?”

"I don't know," Uva said, sounding more uncertain than ever before. "I've been having trances recently."

"Trances?" Shiv asked.

"Yes, moments where my thoughts are my own, but also something more. It's like my mind has a mind of its own. And that there are other things living inside of me.” She closed her eyes and concentrated. Her flesh pulsed momentarily with a flash of kaleidoscopic color, and for a beat, Shiv saw an ocean of strange, shifting creatures swimming within her body, like things that lived in the depths of the sea. And her body wasn’t a body anymore. It was like a keyhole to another place. A portal to the Outside. There, something else was peering in. Something was trying to shape her from portal to doorway.

And then the glow faded, and she was herself again. “I’ve been hiding this from my Sisters,” she whispered, as if the bunker itself would betray her. “From the Exalted Mothers. Even Adam doesn’t know. But this is… The changes are happening faster, and even the Dreamtaker can't help me. I’m afraid. I don’t know what will happen to me—if I will remain myself if this continues.”

“You will,” Shiv insisted. “I’ll make sure.” Slowly, he summoned his Vitae. “You said your skills changed.”

“Yes,” Uva breathed. “It changed just a few hours ago. When we first got back from the ambush.”

“Alright,” Shiv breathed. “Let’s see what the Outsider’s doing to your soul.”

Carefully, gently, he directed tendrils of red and white mana into her. Her breath hitched. He could feel her heart pumping fast, her skin flushing with heat, and—

And something seized Shiv’s Vitae tight, and began crawling its way across into him as well…
