They all had potions, and even a few cleansing and healing powers, but the afflictions were pernicious. Healing was absorbed and cleansing was resisted. What little that did take effect triggered yet more afflictions that delivered damage in reaction to cleansing. They quickly gave up and refocused on taking down Jason.

The one exception was Bussinger. The woman with the lightning powers had called down lightning upon herself, inflicting what looked like considerable damage. She was left with patches of skin scorched black or burnt raw. But the power had not just purged every affliction but seemed to boost her powers. She successfully fended off Gordon and the Shades, avoiding fresh afflictions while finding time to keep blasting lightning at Jason.

Knowing that they had to take greater risks, the gold-rankers pressed on Jason, gambling on more targeted attacks. Bussinger, being the best off in the group, helped coordinate attacks in sequence, trying to pin Jason down. The tactic found some success, a few hits landing on Jason, but it was never enough. He was still frustratingly elusive, and every wound was quickly healed.

The battle came to a head when Jason unleashed one of his biggest damage spells, Punition. It was a big, immediate damage spell for one target, with power based on the number of afflictions the target was suffering from. As of gold rank, it had a new variant with a much longer cooldown. A wave of energy shot from the target in a wave, triggering another instance of the spell on anyone it hit, including the wave itself.

The resulting cascade of powers devastated the gold rankers. Each spell could only be triggered once, but that was once for each of the six gold rankers suffering afflictions. Only the affliction-free Bussinger was spared.

On Pallimustus, gold rank battles were rarely lethal. Gold-rankers were too hard to kill outright, and anyone able to reach that stage, even with cores, had a plethora of escape plans. Mostly this involved carefully curated magic devices, kept secret from enemies that would try to counter them. Single use teleports, magic to purge afflictions like Inescapable, responsible for one of Jason’s defeats.

This was not the case on Earth. The gold rankers had the best gear the nations and factions behind them could muster, but it was paltry by comparison. Most had a gold-rank item or two, usually at least a weapon, and perhaps armour. The rest was a grab bag of silver gear, usually basics like healing potions that could only do so much for a gold ranker.

Without the power to escape, the massive damage from the cascade of Punition spells marked the end of the battle. A couple of the gold rankers made it into the cave. The rest collapsed against the mountain, either clinging to it or tumbling down. Bussinger and Jason rushed down to catch them, eventually dropping them all with the others in the cave mouth. Geneva and Remy were nowhere to be seen. He’d felt them move deeper into the complex, where his senses were blocked by crude but powerful wards.

Laid out on the cave floor, the gold rankers looked more dead than alive. Only Bussinger escaped the rampage of necrotic tissue still overtaking what living flesh they had left. There was no more fight in Bussinger, knowing that facing Jason alone was pointless. She stood over her allies, who looked more like corpses than the living. She had known that gold rankers were hard to kill, but now she could see just how much punishment they could live through.

“Are we even human anymore?” she wondered.

“Arguable. By gold rank, we have more in common than monsters than normal humans. Although our bodies are closest to summoned familiars than anything else.”

“Will you let them die?” she asked, and Jason looked at her.

Her gauntlets were streaked with scorch marks, but appeared undamaged. Her clothing was gold rank and reinforced, already cleaning and mending itself. Her burn marks were healing slower than they should, and he sensed something odd in her aura. It was worth exploring, but not now.

Jason, by comparison, was unmarred. His wounds had healed, his robes had repaired themselves and absorbed the blood from his injuries. He dispelled his void cloak and looked down at his victims.

“I’m not looking to kill anyone,” he said.

Bussinger watched as Jason touched each of the others with his sword. Their bodies stopped twitching and the necrosis stopped spreading. A couple let out wheezing breaths, the most horrible sounds of relief Bussinger had ever heard. They still looked more like set dressing from a horror film than living people.

“Natural healing will let them recover eventually,” Jason explained. “I’ve suppressed their powers, but you can use healing potions on them, if you have any.”

“You can dampen powers without a collar?”

“An ability of my sword, to turn my afflictions into ability suppression. The friend who made it wanted me to have more chances to be merciful.”

Jason sighed and she saw sadness in his face.

“Why do good people have to die, while people like this get to live?” he mused.

She knew the question wasn’t aimed at her, but she answered anyway.

“These aren’t bad people,” she told him.

He turned to look at her. It was hard to read those alien eyes, but she was certain there was danger in them.

“We’ll see,” he told her. “It’s time for you and I to have a talk.”
