Holding up his hand, Jake conjured some Lesser Primeval Energy inside a sealed cube of stable arcane mana, the Viper looking on with genuine interest. Jake knew the god was doing something to inspect the energy inside, so he just sat back as a dozen seconds passed before the Viper spoke.

“An inferior form of your Primeval Origin Energy?” Villy asked.

“Indeed,” Jake confirmed.

“Is it wise to summon it like this? From my understanding, your Primeval Origin Energy is a limited resource that doesn’t regenerate as easily.”

“That’s the best part; the cost is so little that a small demonstration like this has no impact at all,” Jake smiled. “Sure, it is limited, but taking a droplet from a lake isn’t gonna affect anything. Besides, I just need to get more Records, and that droplet will be re-added.”

“I’ll trust your judgement,” the Viper nodded as he seemed in thought for a moment. “I can already begin to imagine the possibilities with that energy. I’m not going to offer any advice or ideas, but I will definitely encourage you to experiment. Hopefully, you’ve already figured this out, but having access to this Lesser Primeval Energy will allow you to relatively safely also learn more about your Primeval Origin Energy.”

“It was one of the first thoughts I had after reading the skill description,” Jake said, emptying his first bottle of beer before popping open another.

“How about that Path of the Heretic-Chosen skill?” the snake god asked curiously.

“Changed, but still there and the same for the most part. Not gonna share more than that,” Jake said a bit cheekily.

“Fine,” Villy waved him off. “I see no reason to ask you about your class, and while I do have some more questions related to your profession, I guess it’s time to address the behemoth in the room... your variant race evolution.”

Jake nodded as he motioned for the Primordial to ask away.

“Let me first set the scene. After you evolved, Records echoed throughout the entire Order, affecting everyone on a minuscule level that not even the other gods detected, but I felt it... including the fact that even those gods were affected. That, it turns out, they did notice, as gods are very sensitive to anything affecting their own Records. However, due to Shroud of the Primordial, they cannot track the source of this effect, so I kind of just said it was something I’d done,” the Viper set the scene before he continued.

“So, time for me to get my answer... what did you do? Was this truly the result of some special leadership-related Spirit of Man skill?”

“Yes and no,” Jake said as he leaned back. “Before I tell you, I’d recommend downing a few more beers. Should help lessen the shock as I unveil what might just be the most overpowered race skill any human in the history of humans has ever gotten.”
