That was pretty good. She was usually hands-off with things so she could just rotate around New Harrak and keep everyone in good spirits even during a crisis. It would also serve in battle. Maybe that would be enough? She checked her third option.

Aura of the Champion: you lead from the front. In the thick of battle or at the head of complex projects, your leadership inspires those around you while you are actively participating. They perform at peak performance. The effect is less on strongly minded individuals unless they fully acknowledge you as their leader.

This was a more concentrated effect, to an extent, and if she had to be honest, it was perfect for her. She often worked more with small groups of elites, preferring to leave the general management to people who were just good at it like Lady Azar or General Jaratalassi. She hesitated for a moment before picking that option.

“Why don’t I get draconic leadership, if I may ask?”

She offered a ton of mana to Nous to nudge him. It was a polite way to get his attention. She felt it drain away, receiving an annoyed ‘hmph’ in return.

First, dragons are not leaders. They are an extremely individualistic species that only gathers for the mating season, rare celebrations, and extremely rare wars. Second, while your intimidating tactics have been incredible, your leadership was only above average. You are more an expert than a commander and your leadership skill options reflect that. You are good at it, just not the best.

It…. hurt a little bit but he was right. She was a capable leader. She simply wasn’t the best one around, and that was fine. That skill was still amazing. It would make a great difference.

And it probably fused with intimidation at higher levels.

“Alright. Now what?”

***

A part of Viv wanted to follow after the dragon, but it wouldn’t just be a distraction from her current goal. It would also be a complete waste of her time. She had absolutely no way of tracking a fast-moving flying target. As such, she moved with her escort towards the still burning ruins of the devastated village, finding something she never expected.

Survivors.

Pale and grieving, in clumps or alone, laborers emerged from behind the odd rock or the few standing stone cabins at the edge of growing fields. They watched her come with reverence. A few made religious symbols with their hands as she passed them by. Stooped. Desperate. Deep red marks under their eyes. They were otherwise well-fed and clothed in carefully-made fabric, so not destitute, but they shared the same tragic fatalism she had seen in so many enclaves she had come across. Those were people lacking the elites New Harrak had aplenty, the paths dedicated to killing. They knew they were at the mercy of fate, and fate had come for them with great wings and fire to melt the very stone. Viv stopped in front of one of them who didn’t avert his eyes quick enough.

“Do you still have a leader alive?” she asked in Old Imperial.

He replied in Harrakan but… weird.

“You! You glazy the dragon, weh! I cannot believe.”

Ah.

Three hundred years of isolation.

A likely contact with southern tribes.

They were going to develop a sort of creole, of course. That made perfect sense. It was just going to be a huge pain in her ass.

“You’re almost making me miss quebecois.”

“Kessou?”

“Your leader. Mayor? Alderman? Elder?”

“Oooh, yes. You want clap lips with the Elder!”

That better just mean talking.

“I will show you.”

Viv followed the man inside of the useless palisade that had served only to keep people in so they would die from asphyxiation faster. A woman by the gate was holding the hand of a dead child, his arm the only thing left unburnt. A surge of anger filled Viv’s heart. Maybe she had been… a bit too lax with her nephew. Maybe she should have tried to kill him. Pluck his wings and let him remember how to hunt properly…

Oh yes, they were not done.

There was a reason Judgment didn’t intervene with overly aggressive whelps.

Viv’s entrance left the locals absolutely terrified, not least because she was a war caster with an escort clearly composed of elites in black, high-quality gear. It was nice to see her evil overlady brand was finally paying off. The local Elder proved to be a bereaved man standing next to the smoking husk of his house, holding a younger crying man. The stench of burning meat told Viv all she had to know about the situation. She gave him some time to recover and ordered her escort to help where they could, authorizing them to use their flesh-mending potions. Even though those things were damn expensive. The mood in the village shifted.

Eventually, the Elder approached her. His clothes were dyed blue, and he wore a few jewels, the only sign of affluence she had seen so far. His long gray beard was charred at the tip.

“Milady, thank you so much for saving us,” he said in perfect imperial.

“Oh, you speak the language fluently. Excellent. After hearing the others…”

“We are good, simple people, milady. My father sent me to the capital for my education, so I could read and express myself in full imperial. We are defenseless, milady. Your help is most generous.”

A bead of sweat dripped down his temples. It was warm here, yet Viv suspected his stress was part of the issue.

He looked terrified. Her intimidation aura was carefully tucked in her soul and she had even pulled her wings in, so that wasn’t it. To be fair, she hadn’t said she wasn’t here to kill everyone yet.

“I apologize for the poor welcome,” he continued, eager to fill the silence. “My name is Osso. May I ask who you might be? You come from the east… on foot? We thought everyone had died over there!”

“Am I the first to come this way?”

Osso wiped his brow. His replies were quick and eager, his voice halting and a little shaky.

“Well, there were the folks from Plima when the town was abandoned. Too exposed you see? To the monsters and the raiding tribes. Haha. But no, not from… farther, as you seem to be, milady. Ah, and you speak our language as well! How fortuitous!”

“Look, I’m not here to pillage and loot if that’s what you’re worried about. You can relax.”

“Aha, of course milady, thank you very much. We depend on your mercy, though, may I ask who you might be?”

“Oh, yes, I have not introduced myself yet. I am Viviane, empress of New Harrak.”

If Viv hoped this would make the Elder relax, she was solely mistaken.

“N…. new Harrak? Empress? Oh, Maranor… I, uh, I am sure that Emperor Marus will be delighted to… to know that more of us survived, haha. You, ah, you will tell him?”

Emperor Marus?

Oh, this was going to go to shit in a handbasket. She could already feel it coming. A body needed only one head. Ooooooh yeah that was going to be a big problem.

“So, you are the empire?”

“What? Oh, we are what remains of the disaster, of course, as I was taught in the hallowed halls of the Imperial Academy at Frostway. The, ah, capital. It’s near the sea.”

Viv considered her options. She didn’t have many, really. She needed to meet that Emperor, Marus, sniff each other, and decide if they killed each other, if he would submit, or if the two nations were simply impossible to merge. Because she was going to absorb them if she could.

“I know you are in the midst of great tragedy, however I require help meeting with your Emperor. We have much to discuss, including the dragon.”

The Elder was positively shaking in his boots by now.

“I assure you, we are normally better protected from wandering beasts. The dragon is newly come, but I assure you that the Emperor can protect you while you visit our lands.”

Viv frowned. What was he implying?

“Indeed, we have followed protocols to call upon the Hunters. They will surely arrive soon to chase off the beast for good.”

He gave her a pointed look, the kind that said that there was a hidden message. He was clearly utterly loyal to his nation, but he was… ah, that was it. He was warning Viv that soldiers were coming.

Now, she wasn’t completely familiar with the power scale on Param, but she doubted any of the hunters had the ability to pick a dragon out of the sky. She would be fine, even if they were hostile.

It would probably be best to wait for them. Her role was that of a diplomat, for now.

“Very well. And when can we expect these hunters to arrive?”

“Two to four days, milady. The, ah, the finest hunters will come if a dragon is present.”

“Is this dragon a constant danger then?”

Elder Osso carefully checked if anyone was listening before replying. As far as Viv could tell, the villagers were more concerned with the slaughter of relatives and friends and the destruction of their lives than with spying on them.

“I have heard rumors. Several villages wiped out over the previous two years, milady. It is.. difficult to ascertain the truth, as we are not to speak of evil without proof. For the common good, of course.”

The specific choice of words sent several alarms blaring in Viv’s mind. She was pretty sure you wanted your people to know about asshole evil flying flamethrowers so people kept a look up, if anything else. This didn’t bode well.

“And those hunters could escort us to the capital? Frostway? I remember that Frostway was an important harbor before the disaster.”

“Yes! All of the supplies to the southern outposts passed through here. Ships would travel south from the Bitter Sea port all the way down here, purchase food and supplies, then travel to the relevant island, then return loaded with precious metals, or fish, or whatever was profitable at the time. Of course, with the death of… but you are back now, meaning that… oh, what an incredible development. I would be elated to be a witness of history, if only…”

He waved around, at the death, at the destruction. In the distance, wails continued.

“Speaking of, milady, I apologize but… I must look after my people if you will allow it.”

“I will come and assist.”

“Oh, milady, it is obvious that you are a mighty caster. To lower yourself…”

“Helping people isn’t lowering oneself. Lead the way.”

Although Viv couldn’t heal anyone, she could still help by using Telekinesis to, for example, remove half-burnt beams from people. The dragon attack had utterly devastated the village. His assault had been indiscriminate. Barns and houses went up in flames without rhyme or reason. VIllagers confirmed that the dragons had carried off all of the cattle he hadn’t simply vaporized over the course of several hours. Thankfully, the fields had been mostly left unburnt so the village wouldn’t starve on top of everything else.

It pained her to realize how much it helped that… there were less mouths to feed now.

The New Harrakans set up camp at the edge of the seeded fields, with the Kark being watched with a mix of fear and curiosity. Viv had brought them on purpose. With all the weirdness New Harrak had gathered, it would be useful to know if her potential recruits were as racist as the Pure League. Fortunately, it didn’t appear to be the case.

As for the Hadals, they kept themselves out of sight, as usual.

Viv considered sharing the knowledge of portals with her guests but decided otherwise in the end, even if it meant that more people suffered because their healers were out of mana. It was a strategic advantage she was unwilling to disclose before knowing exactly where she stood with ‘Emperor Marus’.

A part of her wondered what Solfis would have to say about that.

Meanwhile, she would keep her cards close to her chest.

As promised, the hunters arrived two days later, ready for war. The appearance of armed men with large bows spread in a loose formation immediately gave Viv a positive opinion of them. They could have delayed until they were sure the dragon was gone. Instead, the group did not just hurry, they came ready for a fight. Against a dragon. They were courageous.

Viv stood near the gutted gate next to Elder Osso, the Kark arrayed in formation and the camp people waiting behind with their gear. To meet her first official, well, first one barring the bereaved mayor, she had chosen to get out of her armored robe and into a more official travel dress. She still wore her circlet as a symbol of sovereignty, though a rather understated one. She also sat on a horse because it helped her look down on people even more. So far, she had been on foot to stay with the Kark but sometimes, one had to play up to expectations. Queens and empresses rode. That was just the way it was here.

The hunters closed formation as soon as it was clear there were no dangers present. Or at least, no feral ones. They wore mismatched armor of metal and leather that looked well-traveled in. Their bows were wood, polished to a sheen and decorated with trinkets she couldn’t identify. They looked like an important part of their path.

She felt them identify her, and returned the favor.

[Guardian Hunters, not dangerous, a path dedicated to the elimination of monsters and dangerous foes. Decent melee combatants, expert marksmen.]

Not dangerous to her. The hunter leader was a tall man with deep brown eyes, the light green skin tone of the Imperials and a thick beard. He didn’t show fear but he was certainly concerned. She felt him twitch, and two hunters detached themselves from the back of the formation, disappearing into the shadows thanks to the help of a black mana skill. It was absolutely pointless against her, of course. Only the best Hadals managed to fool her.

“Zero-Five, it appears some of our visitors are leaving the fray. Do make sure they return,” she whispered.

“As you command,” the wind replied.

