Inside, a flustered voice was saying, “Stu-art’h! Oh.”

Alden looked over Stuart’s shoulder and saw Bithe holding an ink brush and a piece of paper.

“It’s both of you?” The knight turned back around quickly, but not before they got a look at his face. His eyes were puffy, and he’d wiped away some of the paint Leeter-zis had applied. “Ryada and Emban are talking. They should talk. And…I’m tired, so I thought I’d come leave a note here. For the bors. Learning about their lives has been a privilege. I’m going to write something like that and then leave. I’m just taking a while, <<arranging>> my thoughts.”

He stood over the wevvi tray. The paper in his hand was blank. Alden waited for Stuart to say something.

Say something, Stuart.

“I am not going to be pleasant company right now,” Bithe said after a moment. “Maybe Alden Ryeh-b’t didn’t tell you, Stu-art’h, but Ryada has decided to reject Emban. And…she’s also decided she will not go with our squad this year. She said she’s sorry for all the trouble this will cause everyone. She said she…that she couldn’t take my home away from me by asking me to hide her secrets from the ones who live there with me.”

His neck was bent, his shoulders hunched. “This paper is a lot more trouble than Ryada…I can’t seem to put anything on it.”

“We were going to leave your pin,” Stuart said, at the same time as Alden was saying, “Stu said the bors would appreciate the pin. So maybe you don’t have to think of something to write.”

They were both crowding into the tiny room with him like proximity would somehow solve it all.

“The pin? That would be fine. Yes…”

“We’ll put it right here,” Stuart said. “And I’ll get rid of this ink drop on the tray. Please don’t take on anything else by yourself. If you want to go to the teleportation point now, Alden and I will handle whatever needs to be done for the rest of the morning.”

“We will,” Alden said.

“We’re very capable.”

“We are.”

Stuart was pulling an embroidered handkerchief out of a pocket and dipping the corner of it in the drop of ink. “See? Everything will be—”

Would he have said “fine”?

Alden never found out. At that instant, something strange happened around them. Alden held himself still, trying not to react physically or with his authority, even though reality seemed to have an unfamiliar buzz to it.

It’s not that strong? I don’t think it’s directed at me. Is it dangerous?

Bithe was wincing. Stuart had stopped talking and closed his eyes like he was listening.

The phenomenon ended as suddenly as it had started…with an explosive, shattering sound from the living room.

******
