Alden and Stuart were at the edge of the open area surrounding the pavilion, standing close to one of the walls of paddle plants that marked the start of the garden. Emban, Ryada, and Bithe had been nearby, accepting farewells and gratitude from anyone who wanted to speak to them, but now they were walking fast to one of the wooden pathways that led out. Alden caught a glimpse of their faces. Bithe’s jaw was quivering, his eyes wide. Emban was tense from head to toe, mouth clenched. One of her hands pressed Bithe’s shoulder, and the other pressed Ryada’s as she steered them onto the path and out of sight.

And Ryada…she seemed calm.

That calmness made Alden’s breath catch.

What happened? What did she do?

Stuart was already in pursuit. Alden jogged after him.

They soon realized they should have run if they wanted to catch them. The knights had sped up even more once they were out of public view. Stuart and Alden hurried along the walkway and even spent a while checking nearby nooks, but they were nowhere to be found.

“Emban’s not receiving my messages. Or not answering them.” Stuart was frowning as they met back after another quick split-up to look down side paths. “They must have wanted to speak of something in private. I suppose we should let them without <<making bothersome noises>> in their ears. Earlier, I said they should check my work on the houses one last time before we leave, so we can wait at the prans’ new home or the bors’ until they arrive.”

“Are you worried you did a spell wrong?”

“No. It’s proper for them to show their diligence in that way since I was still performing final blessings and adding gifts to the houses after they left to attend the party. I represent them as their votary, but it might be disappointing to the families for them not to cross the threshold again when the homes are such a short distance from here.”

Alden hesitated to say anything about the Ryada situation for a couple minutes more while they left the pavilion and garden behind and crossed the wide green park, heading toward buildings with the same swooping white rooflines and balconies that filled many of the residential areas.  The bor home was only one street back from the park edge. Alden couldn’t remember which roof was theirs from this direction, but he knew the assistants had a great view from their uppermost floor because they’d been so excited about it. Greenery hadn’t featured much in their old village.

“Stuart, Bithe told me something. It was right before we heard Olget-ovekondo being distressingly weird with Uro-bor. I don’t know if he would appreciate me repeating it to you. I’m not sure he meant to tell me. He might have had emotions summoning his thoughts from him when he wanted to keep them private.”

“What did he tell you that would…of course you may wait to speak to him again and make sure he wouldn’t mind you sharing it with me.”

Alden was impressed at how fast Stuart had switched the tone of that sentence from curious to primly professional.

“Since they’re acting like this, I think I’d better tell you now. So you’re not surprised, and so that one of us can do the right thing. It can’t be me because I don’t know what the right thing is. Give me a moment.”

He sent the story via one long text message in English. Not only because he didn’t want to share that gossip out loud, but also because he suspected the translation the System provided to Stuart about this kind of situation would be much clearer than anything Alden could say in Artonan. He knew when the whole missive had been read because Stuart stopped for a moment, stared down at the ground, then moved forward again at a faster pace, taking one of the privacy rings from their box and thrusting it toward Alden.

“So Emban’s joy will become a long period of fear,” he said before Alden had even managed to get the ring all the way on. “And anger, if I know her nature as well as I should. Where she’ll place that anger I can’t predict. I hope not on Bithe. Much of his behavior on this trip has an explanation now, doesn’t it? And he was speaking such tender hopes to them both when I was talking to you about homes. I heard part of what he said, and they were beautiful words about how he thinks of their squad.

“Perhaps Ryada couldn’t hold those words in one half of her thoughts while her own pain sang loud in the other. She must have told them she wouldn’t deepen with Emban after all, and why. With this, Rel might want to step in and replace Hn’tyon Kyana-let as their next mentor…well, someone will decide that. This will chill the last days of summer for those who are fond of Ryada. I’m not sure how close she has become to this season’s Declared, but she was <<involving>> herself a lot in the preparations for Welcome End. Quite a lot. Emban complained. That will be hard. And the squad will miss her.”

Stuart said all of this so quickly that Alden wasn’t able to get a question in. And once he finished, with that ominous line, Alden could only focus on what those final words meant.

“They’ll miss her…” He swallowed. “What do you think is going to happen to her?”

“I think the older knights will recommend that she be removed from their squad until she’s more <<stable>>,” Stuart said. “If she’d been honest about her struggle, it might have been different. Hiding it, changing her mind about something as important as deepening with another person so quickly…it’s concerningly <<erratic>>. If the squad was more experienced, her staying with them so that they could help her would probably be good for them all. This is too soon, and they care about her too much.”

His necklaces rattled against each other. “They would blame themselves if anything happened to her on a mission. They would feel responsible for monitoring her decisions. Did she sacrifice her life in a battle because it couldn’t be prevented? Or was she having trouble they didn’t recognize that day? Should they have told her to stay back?”

I hadn’t thought of it like that. The pressure of that would be too much for anyone.

“That needs to be avoided,” said Stuart. “Staying at the Rapport while they travel or being included in a squad with older members—I think one of those two are likely for her. Maybe…I’m sure she’ll be fine. A lie like this, when we are taught not to lie about this, is frightening. But it’s only been a short lie, since her latest binding, or so I will hope. And she seems to have ended it herself unless there’s some other reason for their reaction. So she knows what she should do, and she’s trying.”

Bithe was telling her their squad was his home.

Maybe it was because Alden had just spent an hour locked in a communal spell that Bithe was a part of, striving to find home himself, but the ache of empathy for the knight was stronger than it had been. And it hadn’t been weak before.

What if Emban and the others are mad at him for considering hiding Ryada’s trouble from them?

“Fuck,” said Alden. “The Here-to-There was such a success. I thought we’d helped Emban and Ryada, and now…it ends like this.”

The city was slow to wake up. They had made it to the end of the park and reached a mottled orange street. Nobody was walking down it, and there were only a few signs of life through windows and on balconies. A warm wind was blowing.

“I’m disappointed, too,” Stuart whispered. “They all deserved ease; they will have this instead. Through our efforts, may the way be made closer to perfection.”

Alden had heard the phrase plenty of times. Wizards really liked it. But it landed like a boulder on him now.

“Through our efforts,” he said. “Is there anything we can do to make this better?”

Stuart sighed. “Let’s just wait for them. And we can leave the appropriate one of those at each house.”

He pointed at the wooden pins Alden was wearing to represent each knight. “Those could be a <<token>> for the families if Emban and the others are too busy with all of this to make a final visit in person.”

Alden studied the pins. They had dust all over them. And some party grime. “Entrust them, and I’ll clean them with my skill.”

If this was the only thing left to do, then he was going to make them spotless.

“I’m glad you’re here, Alden.”

“Is it only because I’m going to be useful for getting dirt out of all the swirls on these pins?”

“Yes.”

Alden started to take off one of the pins. Then he stopped and made a gesture instead, two fingers extended and bouncing in front of him. A funny character known for telling lies then running away over the hills.

“You’re right,” said Stuart, smiling tiredly at him. “I’m so sorry for the danger and harm you endured when Anesidora flooded, but I’m grateful it made me realize I shouldn’t delay getting to know you better.”

“That’s right. My first real invitation to the siblinghold was supposed to be next weekend.”

If it had gone that way, there would have been no zansees yet. No long talk about mind healing or introduction to Yenu-pezth. No knowledge about Stuart’s childhood, and no demonstration of The Maker of Narrow Ways. He’d have gotten some of it probably during next weekend’s visit, but today…he’d know so much less.

“What was on the itinerary for that visit when you planned it?” he asked.

“I was hoping to show you what I want my skill to be. And I wanted to explain to you that I will use it to make a universe where there are fewer places like the one you survived on Thegund. I hoped you’d be…not grateful to me…<<comforted>> by the knowledge that I’ll dedicate my life to this path. And I hoped you would think my skill was cool. I thought it would be encouraging to know you a little better and tell you about myself before first binding. It has been more than encouraging.”

“Your skill is cool,” said Alden. “Beyond cool. By a very long distance.”

“I don’t know what will happen between now and the weekend,” said Stuart. “Emban may need me. But the next time you stay at the siblinghold for a longer while, I would like to show you something. The symbol on the front of my study journals—I wanted to tell you about it before my first binding. That was the last thing on the itinerary.”

“I look forward to it.”

Maybe if we complete your itinerary, I will somehow, miraculously, know what to do myself.

******

******

Before they reached the bor home, Alden spotted a person through one of the balcony windows of a house that stood across the lane and a few doors down. He was slumped on a chaise just inside, playing with his auriad with one hand and drinking from a bottle with the other.

Good grief, dude, thought Alden, even as he spared a few seconds to see if he recognized anything about the way the auriad was shaped. Really?

The tall black bottle with the red filigree had been a gift to each household from Olget’s own brother. Stuart had turned his nose up at it because the drink was brewed on III, which made it less than traditional for a Mother planet Here-to-There in his opinion, but it was expensive stuff and almost all of the recipients had seemed pleased with it.

Instead of going home, he broke into one of the houses to drink the present and get back at his brother.

The buildings weren’t locked. Most of them had windows open to welcome the air in.

“Do you want to hear about Olget-ovekondo drinking someone’s bottle of shenav back there?” Alden asked as he caught up with Stuart again. “Or should I pretend I didn’t see him?”

“Like a suckerbeast with no sense of direction!” Stuart spat.

“Was…that a no or a yes?”

“He is an adult wizard, but he makes my schoolmates seem mature. Let’s do our work. I’ll speak to him if he’s still there when we’ve finished and call his sister if that doesn’t move him.”

“She seems like a better choice than their brother,” Alden agreed.

The house where several generations of bors would be living now was very different from the one they’d left behind. The door chimed a welcome when Alden and Stuart stepped inside, the shelves beside it sliding open to receive their shoes and then disappearing seamlessly into the wall. Only the kids liked that feature. The grown-ups all thought there was meaning in seeing the shoes lined up together.

“We’ll put the pin beside the wevvi service.” Stuart took Bithe’s symbol from Alden, and led him down three shallow steps into the main room. “They’ll like that.”

All of the furniture in the living room was arranged for a view of the wide hearth in one golden brown wall. The family stone at the base of the fireplace was a rock twice the size of Alden’s learning cushion. On the hearth, Stuart had placed one of the logs wrapped with red string that Alden had found him transporting to the summonarium yesterday morning. It would be burned tonight.

And above it, high up so that it was beyond the reach of curious young fingers and protected by a clear case Bithe had asked Stuart to order before they boarded the train, the greatest honor the family had ever received was displayed. Tass-ovekondo’s wand. Its case was surrounded by stubby candles that Uro-bor had insisted on arranging herself while everyone fretted about the old woman toppling off the tall ladder.

The candles weren’t lit at the moment, but light from the three narrow windows on the opposite wall filled the room.

Alden had been in and out of here so many times he thought he could have navigated around the chairs and cushions with his eyes closed. He followed Stuart to the walk-in closet beside the kitchen where the wevvi service and a few other significant dish sets stayed when not in use. Stuart slid the door aside and stepped back in surprise.

