In response, Daphne strode forward, pulled out the papers, and laid them out on the bed. Callan immediately floated higher so that he could see them all at once. He frowned.

“These are… close,” he finally said. Daphne snorted and sat down on the edge of the bed. Pyre used the opportunity to take a closer look at the maps herself, and some of them did indeed look very familiar.

“One in the forest, one in the garrison, one on the manor grounds.” Daphne looked disgusted, and she shook her head. “I can’t believe I didn’t notice,” she muttered. Her eyes were dark. “How many people have known about this?”

Callan looked equally disturbed, but he kept reading. “This is good, though, it means we won’t have to go far to destroy them.” Despite his words, his voice was hesitant, and it wasn’t hard to see why.

The papers each held a drawing of the full glyph circle, then a map with an X marking their location, and finally a diagram of what the circle actually looked like. And Pyre might not understand magic shit, but it was quite clear that those ritual circles were one, massive, two, made of solid stone and not just drawings, and three, underground.

Well. That explained how no one had noticed them.

Pyre picked up one of the pages, inspecting it more closely. “We need to pull these things out of the ground or what?”

Callan shook his head. “Based on the types of runes they’re using, I think it’s enough to break a few sections on them. Just enough to disrupt the glyph chain.” He frowned, eyes tracing the diagrams and the notes scribbled around the pages. “With them so far underground, they’ll be hard to reach,” he muttered. “And they’re stone, too. Even if we dig a hole, that’ll only reach one section of the glyph, and we’ll definitely need to break more than that.”

“Not just that,” Daphne interrupted. She leaned forward, tapping a specific rune around the edge of the glyph circle diagram. “Look.”

Callan’s eyes widened. “Shit,” he cursed. “I didn’t even notice that.”

Pyre looked between the two mages, raising an eyebrow. “Care to explain?”

The human and ghost exchanged looks, both of their expressions grim. Finally, Daphne turned to the demon and spoke.

“The circles are linked. They channel magic to the main barrier, but also to each other. We’d have to break all three of them at the same time to destroy them.”
