Mother Vinell held his implements out to him, the lot of them rolled up tight. Harker took them without another word. Fast as he could manage, he stuffed things back into his satchel, for once not caring about their placement or cleaning them. If there was one thing Harker had gotten good at in his life, it was telling where the wind was blowing. A storm was about to break in that house, and he had no intention of being caught in it.

"Yarl, get a hold of yourself! Boy or not, you assaulted a healer," Mother Vinell said. "That has consequences!"

"No one would waste their breath defending him! I told you inviting that thing into our house was a mistake!" Yarl didn't even look at Harker as he slipped out of the room, his attention wholly taken up by the aging matriarch. "Of course he couldn't help! Worthless Knack like him—"

Harker slipped out of the house just as the argument burst, yanking on his patched cloak as he scurried across their grounds. He sped across the thawing fields, uncaring that his boots left sliding tracks in the furrows or splashed in the near-frozen puddles. The sky above him rumbled, but it was far more welcoming than the violence brewing back in the farmhouse.

Idiot. You stayed too long. No one in the Vale liked having Harker Shoalborn shadow their doorstep. Knowledge and skills learned at his mother’s side were all he had to survive on, and even that failed him today. He should have given them a salve, some assurances, and left before Yarl had time to stoke his anger. Harker had rules—Laws, he called them—for these sorts of interactions for a reason, ways to minimize exactly how much time he spent around dangerous company like Yarl Vinell.

He groaned. Mari's inevitable decline wouldn't reflect well on Harker, despite his best attempts. At this point, his safest option was to make himself scarce for as long as possible. If I see another Vinell in the next six months it'll be too soon.

If he’d been able to heal Mari, the situation wouldn't have escalated. If I had more training perhaps I could have stopped the rot. If I bore a real Talent. If I could even glimpse the smallest piece of the Infinite Sea. If, if, if.

A sharp crack caught his ears, and Harker whipped toward the forest, hood falling back. The fields were empty. The farmhouse wasn’t, but this didn’t come from there—these sounds never did. Harker licked his lips, squinting through the wan sunlight and into the close packed trees just beyond the frozen fields. Winds shook their skeletal branches, rustling like dry fingers that cast shifting shadows deep into the dark of the Vale.

Shadows that could hide anything. Beasts, Aberrants, even Tidelings.

Hark scowled. Having lived his entire life in the wilds of the Vale he was used to the dangers that could skulk out there. Even a Knack could handle beasts, so long as they were smart about it. Aberrants stayed away from farmsteads. As for the Deep Children… Harker touched the chain around his neck. There was a reason he carried cold iron.

It could be another wild hound… Harker gave himself a shake. Fear was only useful when it could be leveraged. Don’t see one. Don’t hear one. Just keep moving.

"Where're you goin', Knack?"

Harker mouthed a curse. In his distraction, he'd lost awareness of his surroundings, and two boys had approached him from the other side of the barn.

"Kaz. Mert." Harker nodded to each. They were easily a foot taller than him and wide with heavy muscle despite being two years younger than the healer. "I'm leaving."

"You hurt cousin Mari," Mert said through a wispy mustache. Kaz cracked his knuckles and the skin along Harker’s forearms tightened. One or both of them were tapping into their reservoir. "You ain't goin' nowhere til you talk to Uncle Yarl. He's lookin' to vent and it ain't gonna be on us."

"I didn't hurt anyone, Mert. She was bitten by a wild—" A punch in the gut folded Harker in half. He collapsed to the ground, gasping for breath.

"Stop lyin', Knack," Kaz said. He spat on Harker's back, but the healer couldn't worry about that. He had enough trouble trying to breathe. "We heard Uncle shoutin'. Everyone knows you're a curse. Whatchu think Shoalborn means?”

Treacherous. Shallow. The last name of foundlings. Harker was intimately familiar.

“Nah, Kaz. He didn’t curse her.” Mert scratched at his belly. “He was just jealous. Mari had real Talent.”

A boot caught Harker in the shoulder, flipping him up into a wild spin. He landed over two yards away, splatting into the half-thawed furrows.

“No. Bet it didn’t even matter.” Kaz kept talking, but Harker was having trouble following the words or the logic. His ears were ringing.

While they were well-muscled their strength wasn't from hours working on a farm, but from the Water that was cycling through their tributaries. Harker's own anemic reservoir couldn't compete, and they weren't even using their Talents.

Yet.

Harker shoved all those thoughts away and focused on breathing—on thinking. He needed calm. He had Laws for battle too.Law 3a — Have An Escape Route.

Reach the woods. The trees are too close together for them to attack as easily. It also meant he could get ahead of them and potentially lose them in the thicket.

"You couldn't hold a candle to Mari. And you're here, walkin' free while she's dyin'.” Harker mastered his breathing as he watched the both of them slowly walk closer. Kaz stomped, but Mert prowled. "Don't seem fair."

"Plus, it's fun," Kaz added with a gleeful smile. "Knack’s gotta know his place."

Harker pushed himself to his knees. He was going to have some serious bruises, but they hadn't broken anything yet. That punch was fast and well aimed. He's been getting practice. Need to...ugh, need to get them off balance.

His mother's words were etched into his mind so deeply he could almost hear her voice.

Law 4a: Seize Their Minds.

Exploit their weaknesses. Disorient them. Make them mad. Whatever you can do. You’re weaker than they are, Harker. If they land a hit, a real hit, the fight is over.

Do not let them.

“Mari kicked me in the balls once,” he said, climbing up from the ground. “Said I answered too many questions in class; made her look bad. You remind me of her." Harker faked a laugh, forcing it through his lungs with all the derision he could muster. "I suggest staying away from dogs though.”

"You little shit!"

They rushed him, but this time they were sloppy.

This time, Harker was ready.

Slow, telegraphed haymakers swung for his head and chest—Harker ducked back, evading one and side-stepping the second. Mert bumped into his brother, spoiling both of their follow ups, and in that moment of confusion, Harker turned and ran.

Kaz caught up to him in less than a second, tackling Harker to the ground. They rolled along the muddy earth, clothing soon smeared and soaking. He pinned Harker down, one hand creaking the bones of his shoulder while the other seized Harker’s neck. “Use that smart mouth for somethin’ more suited.” Kaz leaned close, breath stinking of morning gruel. “Scream for me.”

Without word or breath, the healer jabbed his fingers at Kaz’s eyes. The big guy flinched, and Harker threw his weight into the man’s elbow—not against the joint, but with it. Kaz fell forward, off-balance again, and Harker rolled free.

He made it two steps before Mert kicked him back into the mud.

"Stay down!" Mert shouted. “Take the beating like your s’posed to!”

Harker rolled to his feet, blood dripping from his nose and mouth. His breath was heavy steam in the frigid air, uneven and rapid, but he lifted his clenched fists. "Make me."

Mert screamed as he charged, going for another tackle. Harker twisted free by the barest of margins. The farmhand sprawled into the dirt, but Kaz was right behind him, leg already swinging for Harker's groin.

"Ah!" The healer twisted to avoid the blow, but took it to his thigh instead. He staggered backward, and a half-standing Mert tripped him. Harker fell, tumbling out of the fields and into the moldering wet leaves near the forest's edge.

S-so close. Thinking was hard and moving was harder, but he forced himself to scan the terrain, eyes never stopping as Mari's cousins advanced on him.

Law 4b: Seize The Field.

Rotting leaves. Mud. Stones and roots and the leaning trees. What else? What else?

“Delve!”

Desperate, Harker pulsed his Talent once—all he could afford before his reservoir was exhausted and pain crawled through his chest. Even so, he saw something. A possibility. He just needed them closer.

Kaz cracked his sunken knuckles. “I’m gonna enjoy this.”

“Depths, Kaz. Ask…ask the elders to court me first,” he said, spitting out a wad of bloody phlegm. “I’m not some longhorn you cornered in the barn, you know.”

Kaz flushed a deep crimson, but in his rage he manifested his Talent. Stones hidden in the muck shot upward and assembled over his left fist, forming a craggy gauntlet.

“You need a lesson in manners, Knack," Kaz growled. "Sorry for you, but I’m not gentle neither!"

“Those poor steers,” Harker gasped through bloodied teeth.

“Shut up!” Kaz charged, kicking off the soft earth with murder in his eyes. “Surface Depth - Earthbones!”

Law 4d: Show No Mercy.

With all of his strength and body weight, Harker threw himself onto a thick stick hidden below the wet leaves. It lurched upward atop a buried rock like a fulcrum, flinging leaves and mud up and outward. Straight into Kaz's eyes.

"AHH!"

The stick shattered as Kaz ran face-first into its length, but the mud proved more pressing. Blinded, Kaz swung with all of his might. A glimmer of yellow-brown liquid flickered atop his rocky fist just as it crashed into the ancient oak.

It erupted.

Pulped wood blasted outward, and the sheer impact of the blow threw Harker backward so forcibly his damn boots flew off.

The huge, fifty foot tree broke, its trunk sundered in that titanic blow. It fell...right on top of the idiot.

"Kaz!" Mert bellowed before getting himself tangled in the descending branches. He crumpled into the wet leaves.

Harker stood up and stared, heart pounding, but only for a worried second. Only to make sure the idiots were alive.

Hallowed Depths. They're still breathing. Harker let out a relieved breath, before a painful hitch caught at his side. I think they cracked my ribs.

A crashing noise sounded from the farmhouse, audible even from the forest, and Harker stopped caring. If Yarl or the others got involved, he wouldn't just have a few bruises and cracked bones.

He stumbled into a run, barefoot through the cold mud and snow.
