The [Priest] was the brightest thing in his Hive. She could see a foreign power clinging to him and coveted it. Feared it. He was a reason she moved slowly.
But he left. Left, and she thought now was a time to strike. To push. Not to unleash—not yet. There weren’t enough children anywhere. But she had servants.
Thus, arise, General of the Unhallowed Armor, those who are bound to metal shell. Prepare for an assault.
Her great general had already been marshalling his forces, sending his warriors of metal above, but he had been scouting of late. Again, there were complications. The dead not under her children’s control were…fighting his troops? Another setback.
She blamed that building. That place. It was right up there. She told him that, though her mind and his were so divergent that the way they had to communicate—her, through the lips of her children, he, in his metal tomb—meant it was confused language at best. Difficult for her to speak the words of ‘Drakes’ they had taught her.
But she told him it was that place. She sensed it too. A place where ideas seemed to grow, and rooted, strong, like the [Priest] itself. Faith of a different kind.
She still felt it from above. An idea—like a safe ground, like mercy and protection all combined into an idea.
Sanctuary. And there had been other things.
The Goblin King. The great and terrible wings of a being of true horror. A…Dragon.
She knew Dragons, though. Right now, there were so few left. So she told her general that he would prepare. Prepare to strike there, among his targets.
Soon.
A relative word, given how long she had waited. As soon as he was ready.
The Mother slept again. Waiting…she had forever to wait, since no one would know the plan or know her children were there, unseen, multiplying under their skin.
No one. So forever was to her advantage.
Uneasily, she dreamed. A foreboding feeling unknown and unpleasant to her. But soon, she would win.
Soon enough.
 
——
 
When Lyonette left the [Garden of Sanctuary], she was relieved to find no trouble in the inn.
No one had noticed her and Rose’s short conversation, thankfully, and when Lyonette turned to Rose, the young woman seemed totally Human again. She winked at Lyonette, then strode into the party, and Lyonette trusted she’d handle herself. Besides, Lyonette’s attention was drawn to the bar instantly. The party had gotten far more lively than she remembered.
“Rosencrantz, is that Zevara I see over there?”
“Yes, Lyonette. She is having a celebratory drink with others. Would you like a drink yourself?”
He was shaking two canisters of drinks with four arms. He offered her a rather tempting glass, and Lyonette wavered.
Last night’s…libations hadn’t been so bad, had they? Imani made it worse.
“Oh, that’s the coconut milk I asked for from Oteslia! If you’ve got it—it must be delivered to my restaurant! I hope Palt answered the Street Runner! I’ll have that. What is it, a bacardi?”
“I don’t think they have those, but it’s something tropical. Hit us up, Rosencrantz!”
Rose grabbed both cocktails, and they joined Kevin and Joseph. Ilvriss cautiously offered his empty wine cup.
“I could take one of those without the alcohol. Lyonette?”
“I…shouldn’t. Not after last night. I rather overdid it.”
She blushed, embarrassed, and he smiled. He indicated his own cup.
“No judgement from me.”
She’d forgotten that he had gone off drinking! Lyonette chuckled as she accepted a non-alcoholic version of the drink, which tasted peculiar, but good! It also meant she could share with Nanette and Mrsha, which was a mother’s delight.
The only alcoholic of the bunch was Apista, who got a cocktail and began sipping with her proboscis. Ten minutes later, she was flying around upside-down overhead.
Her silly, drunk bee. Ilvriss instead took a seat at a table with Lyonette, and after they’d heard a retelling of what had happened with Zevara from a fairly drunk Drassi, they all settled back, and Lyonette thought—this would be a lovely new normal.
Ilvriss hanging out, and Nerul as well. If they were so close, she felt certain she’d see more of them. And they were both good at being in the inn, if that made sense.
“Beer pong? My friends. You had me at ‘beer’.”
The Earthers minus Joseph were trying to invent a new game with the [Diplomat], who headed into the rec room. Meanwhile, Joseph ambled over and was inducted into the table of Lyonette, Ilvriss, Mrsha, Nanette, Liska, and Ishkr.
“This is a Salazsarian game. It’s called Hoardbreaker. They play versions of this in pubs and in the company of Wall Lords. I know several versions. We’ll play a simple one. No dice, just cards.”
Ilvriss had a magical deck, and he was teaching them a game. Lyonette had told him about the gambling night while sparing some details like the amounts and the players involved, so the Wall Lord had decided to teach them a game.
Instead of drinking, gambling! Huzzah! Well, Mrsha and Nanette were having a grand time, and Lyonette had to own, this was very pleasant. She was tickling Apista on her underbelly as the bee waved her legs at the ceiling.
Huh? Why am I on my back? What’s this giant hand? Wheeeee~
Her silly bee. Lyonette was just about to ask Ilvriss to include some dice so she could use [The Gambler’s Dice]. There were tons of Skills she didn’t use! Like [The Treasury of House Marquin], which was a mostly-empty closet that seemed to act like a more expansive Chest of Holding.
Ilvriss was just showing her the trump card for the first hand and grinning when Dame Ushar tapped a speaking stone in her ear. Then she bent down.
“Your Highness. Someone just teleported right in front of the inn. The [Necromancers] and Bush Shamblers tried to stop them. They’re in the hallway.”
Lyonette stood fast. Dalimont was already gone, and she cast around.
“Elia and Bird—”
“Dalimont is preparing to activate…hold. Wait, stand down, I think.”
Ushar’s eyes flickered. Lyonette stared at her, tensed, and then Ushar spoke.
“It’s a friendly. The Duke—”
And then Duke Rhisveri kicked open a side-door to the inn and stepped out of the passage that led to the secret entrance to the security hallway. He nearly stepped on Asgra.
“I said it was me. I’m in a hurry! Excuse me. Where is—aha! There you are.”
He came swanning into the inn, dressed to the gills in a lacey doublet with a terrible ruff. Black, purple, and brown boots that were expensive without style. Lyonette blinked at him, and her sudden alarm became a frown.
“Rhisveri? What’s going on?”
Had he heard that—no, he’d been told that Mrsha had come back. But he’d vanished to stop the attack on Liscor, and that was the last she’d seen of him. She owed him a greeting, but from the way he stopped and adjusted his collar, almost nervously, and licked his lips, she suspected trouble.
“Hello, who’s this?”
Ilvriss stopped dealing cards and glanced at Rhisveri with a frown. He recognized someone important on sight, and Mrsha groaned.
It’s him again. If he’s going to cry again like he did on the call, I’m leaving. I want to have fun! And the last time he gambled, he got beat up. I like him enough not to want to see that twice.
Ilvriss read the notes blankly, then turned to Rhisveri. He was clearing his throat.
“Right, there you are. I am owed a favor, and I assure you, it’s purely that. Necessity.”
“Duke Rhisveri, good evening. May I ask what brings you here?”
Lyonette was all politeness as he strode over, but the Duke was checking a miniature timepiece on his wrist. He was rather—frantic, everyone observed, and covered it with bluster.
“No time to explain, I’m afraid! Er, I, ah—you owe me a favor! So with apologies, [Greater Telep—]”
Ilvriss leapt up with a shout of alarm as he reached out and grabbed for Lyonette’s arm. She was recoiling when the two popped out of existence. No, wait, not two—
Dame Ushar had grabbed Lyonette. She vanished too as Dalimont appeared with a shout. Ilvriss spun.
“No! What kind of spell—? How did he—!”
He swivelled, aghast, to Mrsha and Nanette, and the young Gnoll girl just slapped her face with one paw. She eyed Nanette, and the witch tossed her cards down.
“We need a seventh! Someone get Bird! And Elia, I bet she could play a great card game.”
The Wall Lord gestured at the empty spot, goggling at Dalimont and the others, who were not calm, but mostly playing it up—and then he realized that despite his best efforts, it was happening again.
The inn got him.
It always did.
