“And how are you, Peggy? Run into any other events during this Goblin King fiasco?”
The [Floorboss] just pointed at Lyonette.
“Is big secret, Diplomat. You rogue. You talk to Princess Lyonette.”
Nerul’s eyes twinkled as he returned his gaze to Lyonette.
“You’ve trained them well. Asking a Goblin or Antinium is basic, but I’d expect the [Spies] to have worked up to that level.”
Lyonette blinked, twisted in her chair, and glanced at Ushar.
“Has anyone tried that?”
The Thronebearer smiled despite herself.
“A Drowned Man tried to buy several Antinium on Rosencrantz’s crew a pie and offered to pay for their entry into an Antinium pet café. They refused. Several of Xinthe’s staff were paid to talk. They did, though the veracity of their claims is dubious. And I did hear two tried to bribe the Goblins. They laugh in such hurtful ways.”
“A pleasure to work with professionals.”
Nerul reached out and took a cup of water from the table, then toasted them all and drank, ignoring the clear glass of alcohol on a tray that Asgra had brought over. Joseph, who’d joined them, made the mistake of reaching for the glass. One mouthful and he sprayed it to the side.
“I’m afraid the events in question are rather secret, Nerul, but I’d be delighted to furnish you with some details—in private. Have you been keeping up with Ilvriss?”
Lyonette spoke as Joseph washed out his mouth with water. The reformed alcoholic got applause from Nanette and Mrsha as he glared at Asgra, and the Calanferians tried to appear innocent. Nerul sighed.
“I haven’t seen my nephew in months. So—what’s new? Mostly, I’ve been keeping nobles off his back. The big players, that is. Remarkable how you can divert even the legendary Reinharts. I threw one of them at Liscor, with apologies. A nasty woman, Cecille Reinhart. But an honest conversation and she was put onto an opportunity in the city.”
“That won’t hurt Liscor, will it?”
“I doubt it. I placed a bug in her ear about the dangers of, well, bugs ripping off your ears.”
Nerul waved the question away, and Lyonette wondered what that meant, but Nerul accepted the jambalaya and tucked into it with relish.
“Ah, not even poisoned. We’re all friends here after all! It’s Ilvriss I wanted to talk to you about. Now, I could ride on over to him and try to sort things out, but he’s dealing with a host of problems, and why bother negotiating when you could just bypass a lot of talking? He’d very much appreciate it if you could send a door as far northeast as you can—I have the exact location, and he could send a rider to you. And through the door, he’d like to purchase food, potentially more manpower, and supplies, wholesale. It’s a wonderful business opportunity.”
Ilvriss? Mrsha and Nanette sat up, and Joseph, coughing, frowned.
“That’s the Wall Lord guy who likes the inn, right?”
He eyed Lyonette, and she nodded, frowning. She decoded what Nerul had said.
“So no one’s selling him food? But he is digging?”
“He is digging, and he would love a magical connection to the inn or anywhere else. I had a thought that he might buy from Riverfarm? If you’d be an intermediary, given the fact that they don’t like Walled Cities at this moment. Even if I pointed out it was Manus…”
Nerul shrugged. He was cutting through the problem efficiently, Lyonette realized. The inn had a magical door—and if she talked to Riverfarm for Ilvriss…
“And what do we get for all this hard work?”
Nerul beamed at her.
“Somehow, I don’t think gold is a motivation, and I’m not crass enough to threaten a friend. But if you need a favor to help out Ilvriss and myself, I’ll see what I can do!”
She resisted the urge to blush as Mrsha nudged her repeatedly. Then held up a card.
You’re a bad person for shaming Mother, Nerul. I like you. You should come by more often. Don’t negotiate with the Blighted Kingdom, you hear me?
Nerul chuckled and laughed at her card—and for one second, his eyes focused on the words, and he lost that smile and stared at Mrsha. Then a huge grin spread over his face.
“Me? I hate boat rides, Miss Mrsha, but if you’re offering fine food, I may just have to visit more regularly! Now, how fast can that door be set up?”
“Diplomat Nerul, Her Highness is rather busy.”
Ushar objected, and Nerul held up a claw, not looking away from Lyonette.
“The situation, as Ilvriss describes it, is rather urgent. I believe he was the victim of…a cattle raid? Please don’t laugh.”
Lyonette almost did; the notion was hilarious. However, another breakfast partner sat down with a frown. Colfa.
“Cattle raid? How many?”
“Nearly four hundred. Not just cattle, but chickens, goats, the lot.”
Colfa whistled.
“An all-farm raid? How many? Did you notice which group it was?”
Lyonette was getting very confused.
“What’s Ilvriss doing with four hundred cows? And what kind of [Bandit] group would raid him? He has [Soldiers]!”
“It wasn’t bandits.”
Nerul and Colfa chorused, and she gave him a respectful gaze. He bowed his head to her, and she explained.
“If it was north of here, it wasn’t [Bandits], Lyonette. Or rather, not the same. They can’t grab that many animals and herd them. Likely, it was someone who knew exactly what Ilvriss had and decided to rob him of food and a lot of gold. As for cattle—food is low after the winter frost. Even with harvests coming in, cattle would be better. But a trap.”
Nerul nodded.
“One of the self-styled [Cattle Barons] sold him a herd, and I rather suspect they or someone else had something to do with the theft. You know them, Miss Colfa?”
“Know them? Half my family would be doing the buying or selling. If he’s offended the Golvas or Lischelles or—they’re more troublesome than [Bandits].”
“He’s a Drake in the north digging, Miss Colfa; he was bound to offend someone! But it’s [Cattle Raiders] versus [Assassins]. I’ve convinced the Five Families to hold the [Assassins] until he’s found what he’s digging for. Still, he could use Miss Lyonette’s help, and I rather think he was hoping she’d have time to come visit. But all things considered, he understands why she couldn’t.”
That twisted Lyonette up with guilt. She had been intending to travel more, and she’d even bought a bicycle and practiced with it for that reason! She opened her mouth to say that she’d help, of course, they’d just need to arrange it…then she caught herself.
“No.”
Mrsha and Nanette faced her in alarm, and Nerul raised a brow. He didn’t jump to conclusions, and Lyonette spread her hands on the table.
“No delays, no delegation. I’m tired of being reactive. If Ilvriss needs food and a door—he will have it. Mrsha, dear, do you want a holiday from school?”
And that stupid little bully? Mrsha blinked, then hesitated.
Forsooth, Mother, is this an event for which I should stay home?
Lyonette gave her a happy smile.
“Not for this, and not for anything I foresee! Dalimont, get my bicycle ready, and I believe we’ll need a horse? Maybe a wagon or carriage. But I intend to cycle.”
“Your Highness, what are you planning?”
He was mildly alarmed, but Lyonette just turned to Nanette.
“Do you want to practice riding? Actually, is Kevin here?”
She didn’t see him, and she found out he was busy, but Lyonette was already speaking as she rose.
“This won’t take long. Only a few hours, hopefully. The door doesn’t have that much range even with Erin’s new levels. I want Dalimont, Ushar, Bird, Elia…and our most important guest of honor.”
Everyone regarded Nerul, and he didn’t even blink. Oh, he was good. In fact, he was even better than Lyonette knew, because he hadn’t even reacted to the name ‘Kevin’. The fact that he’d heard it showed he had dangerous levels—or was it his [Diplomat] class? He just waited as she smiled.
“Someone take over for her—but get me Liska.”
Everyone gaped, and Ishkr almost dropped his tray.
Liska?
 
——
 
The most important Gnoll in The Wandering Inn wore a vaguely surprised expression as the wind blew over her face. She was open-mouthed as she sat in the cart rolling down the road out of Invrisil, heading due east.
Lyonette was cycling next to the cart as Mrsha hung over the side, waving at people passing by and staring at the odd procession. Ser Dalimont and Ushar were riding horses, and Bird and Elia were standing, occasionally taking potshots at game.
“Wait, why am I here? Where’d the fat Drake guy go?”
Liska protested as she stood up in her seat and shaded her eyes. Everyone she was passing by was Human! This was the north, and the sun was shining down on her brown fur. She blinked, and the wagon hit a rock.
“Whoa—whoaaa!”
She fell over the side of the wagon, but someone skated by the wagon on the dirt road and caught her. Ishkr shoved his younger sister into the wagon, then did a hop and skated past the wagon, passing by the [Driver] as a [Farmer] stared at him, open-mouthed.
“Watch it, Liska. Nerul’s not here because he doesn’t need to travel. But we need you. Believe me, everything would be easier without you.”
“Hey, eat my tail, Ishkr!”
She flipped him off, then went back to staring. As for why she was here—well, wasn’t it obvious?
They needed a door to get as close to Ilvriss as possible to deliver supplies. But it was Erin’s [Door of Portals], and it no longer had the ability to just link to stones. Erin had to go somewhere first and generate a new location to connect to. And without Erin…it was impossible to add more spots.
Unless, of course, you had a [Doorgnoll] who could use Erin’s powers. Then all Liska had to do was go somewhere and—bam. That was the theory that Lyonette was operating under, and Liska had confirmed she could do that. If not, they were going to have to go all the way back, and Lyonette didn’t intend to waste time.
“This is sort of fun. Relaxing. Do we have anything to eat?”
Liska commented to Bird, who aimed up at a passing hawk and offered to shoot it down. Elia kept ducking to avoid being recognized. After the eighth time she did that, Bird got tired and shot the tailfeathers off a crow. She buzzed off the wagon and came hop-gliding back.
“Here. This is for you, Elia, so you do not get recognized as a horrible failure.”
She had made a black mustache of feathers which she tried to get Elia to wear. The Named-rank adventurer objected.
“This is just going to make everyone stare at me worse, Bird.”
“Ah, but they will stare at the mustache, not you.”
…Bird had a point, so Elia tried it. Sure enough, anyone who got close enough stared at the feather mustache instead of Elia’s face. Mrsha nearly laughed herself out of the little cart that Lyonette was pulling, and Nanette crashed her bicycle because she was wobbling on the road too hard.
That was it. Lyonette was sweating like a pig when they stopped after an hour so she could drink water. She gasped.
“This…felt easier during practice! Mrsha, dear, do you want to try pedaling? Nanette, how are you doing?”
“I’m okay!”
Nanette had a few bandages over scrapes, but she seemed determined to ride the bike. As for Mrsha, she lifted a laconic paw.
Sadly, Mother, I am quite short still. And my fur gets caught in the gears. Kevin said he’d work on a better version for me, but I cannot ride. My current form of locomotion is quite pleasant. Also, I’m frail with my thinness. Avē motus.
“…Is that your new way of talking?”
I think it’s pretty funny, yes. It makes all the [Mages]’ faces wrinkle up when they try to decipher what I say, and they try to get cleverer about it.
Mrsha smiled, and because it was genuine, Lyonette got back on the bicycle and decided she could keep cycling. Especially when she glanced over her shoulder and saw Mrsha putting her legs up, waving at people flashing by. She even had a book to read when she got bored of staring.
Her daughter in the sun. For a dream she’d thought she lost—Lyonette could pedal all day.
Okay, she managed two more hours before she had to flop onto her back in some grass, but then she sat up and stared across northeastern Izril.
“It’s so…rural. Colfa was right, this is prime grazing land.”
The Vampiress had declined to go on the day-trip, since she had work and, in her words, she knew the place far too well. But Lyonette’s eyes drank in the rolling hills, like waves of grass that rose as they approached the coast, and a cloud of butterflies blowing past in the wind.
“It’s so pretty.”
Liska breathed, and Nanette grinned. She was, in fact, the only person in their company who knew this area well.
“It is! But don’t go rolling in the grass, Liska! You’ll get all the nectar on you!”
She cautioned the Gnoll, and the brown-furred Gnoll glanced down at the clear nectar and sniffed.
“It doesn’t even smell bad, and it doesn’t feel bad. Why n—aaaaah!”
The cloud of big monarch butterflies swerved and went for her. They landed on Liska, who went running; butterflies freaked her out of all the insects she’d met, since they weren’t common to Liscor. Lyonette laughed as Ishkr went chasing after his sister.
They had to empty water flasks over Liska before the butterflies stopped trying to suck the nectar off her. Then a very wet Gnoll sat on the wagon…until Nanette handed something to her.
“Try this, Liska. But don’t make it any hotter or you might burn yourself.”
She gave Liska eight glowing orange stones—her Elemental Stones! Liska lay down on the wagon as Bird and Elia placed them on her back. Within ten minutes, she was dry and beaming again.
“Hey, these are great! Can I have one, Nanette?”
“No.”
“Aw, come on! I know you got them from…Seve.”
Then Liska’s face fell, and Lyonette glanced over her shoulder. A cloud passed over the group, and Mrsha glanced up as Nanette’s smile faded. But then she took the stone back from Liska and exhaled.
“Yeah. The Hundredfriends Courier!”
She raised her voice, and some people on the road gazed at them. Nanette called out, and Lyonette glanced back. The [Witch] proudly raised her arms, and her over-sized shirt gleamed in the sun.
“Until you forget their names, they’re still remembered.”
That was true. Mrsha wrote magical words that hung in the air as a passing City Runner jogged by and read it.
I miss Tritel, the Moonlight Courier. I wish he could have met Taletevirion.
“He might have tried to ride him. But I’m glad I met Valceif.”
That was all Lyonette said. Bird stood up.
“And I have a Kevin again! Another one, since there were several Antinium Kevins. The world needs more Kevins!”
She beamed as she stood in the wagon, and the City Runner pointed and screamed.
“Antinium!”
The man twisted and ran, and Bird shouted back as she raised her bow overhead and traffic swerved away from her.
