Mrsha stared at the [Knight]’s face through the cracked-open window. She wrote for a second, then handed him a note.
Do you ever feel like your splendid talents are being wasted performing guard-duty for a child in school, Ser Dalimont?
He blinked at the message, then smiled faintly.
“I consider this a lull between storms, and I wouldn’t assume working for Princess Seraphel would necessarily be more bracing, Miss Mrsha.”
Fair enough, she supposed. Mrsha wrote again.
I’m not a tattletale, and neither are you, Dalimont. Leave it be.
“But Miss Mrsha, that nail might have hurt you—”
Rinni hates me because she blames the inn for killing her father. She has every right to be mad. Maybe not at me. Kicking her out of school isn’t the right thing to do either. So don’t tell my mother, got it?
That was the reason. Dalimont hesitated, but he’d been the one who had ferreted that information out for her. Mrsha turned her head and saw the Drake girl staring at her.
The tragedy of Rinni was simple, straightforwards, and not Mrsha’s fault—but also Mrsha’s fault. The worst part was that her father hadn’t died to one of the artillery spells hitting Liscor. It had been after Erin had been shot by Hectval’s [Soldiers]. He’d been part of the militia-army that had gone to fight Hectval. One of the casualties.
Of course she hated The Wandering Inn. And Mrsha was her only target—the Gnoll girl got it. Ser Dalimont nodded after a second, and Mrsha walked back over to the kids, who were playing dodgeball across the playground. She was waving at Visma and Kenva, who were throwing down balls at Ekirra and a gang of his friends trying to besiege them, when someone nailed her with a ball to the back of the head at point blank range.
Ow.
“Mrsha! Golly, I’m gonna kill you!”
Ekirra ran over, and there was a fight before Uller broke it up; Mrsha picked herself up, rubbing her nose. She’d smacked it hard on the ground when Golly hit her with the ball.
“Mrsha! He hit you right after Rinni pointed! This time, you’ve got to tell!”
Kenva and Visma slid down to Mrsha and ran over. Mrsha saw Rinni glaring and flipping her off as Golly was lectured by Uller—Mrsha saw Ser Dalimont watching from the side and sighed.
The problem with caring minders like Dalimont and Lyonette was that they went too far. She’d been downplaying the problem to Lyonette because the [Princess] was likely to set Rinni’s mother on fire if she came to the school. As for Ser Dalimont…he meant well, but he was used to dealing with [Princesses]. Any affront had to be redressed in moments so it never happened again.
Mrsha herself was holding back, because, well, what was she supposed to do? Throw paws with Golly? She could do that. She could defend herself, and she was afraid because she didn’t know how far it would go.
The [Palace of Fates] aside, Mrsha had more levels on Golly and Rinni and their friends than the entire group combined. What would happen if she cast [Thorn Paw] and slashed him? Or just got into a fight with her [Lesser Toughness] Skill or something? With [Fur of the Fortress] on, did he even have a chance against her?
She wrote slowly to her anxious friends.
I don’t want to make this a big issue, guys. Rinni’s hurting, and I feel responsible in a way. I know it’s not my fault, but I get why she’s upset. I was like that once with Goblins.
She rubbed at the back of her head.
…Then again, I don’t really want to be bullied for the next few years at school. So I guess I’ve gotta do something. Any ideas?
“I could go over to her house and break all her toys and throw them in the sewer.”
Visma suggested. Kenva turned.
“What if I tell my father so he gets a [Guard] to arrest her?”
…Maybe her loose grasp on what normal childhood was like wasn’t so out-of-place among her friends after all. Mrsha eyed Ekirra, and he wiped at his nose.
“What if I punch Golly in the face and call him a Creler-eater?”
She sighed. Mrsha wished Rittane were here. She was the sensible one. It probably came from all the undead.
 
——
 
Hey Rinni, can I have a word?
After school, everyone was collecting their things when Mrsha approached the girl and her friends. Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva looked alarmed when she walked over to Rinni and her group. So did the teachers; Uller and Shassa were both here, keeping an eye on the afterschool pickups as parents and siblings came by.
“Is someone there? I can’t see anything. It’s all white! Can you?”
Rinni pretended she couldn’t see Mrsha; she’d already gotten in trouble for comments about Doombringers. She tried to step around Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl stepped left.
Rinni, I’d like to chat, please?
She was grateful that Ser Dalimont wasn’t here; she could see some of the parents, and he’d just make everything awkward. Rinni glowered as Mrsha blocked her path.
“Golly, do something!”
The Gnoll was nine years old and big for his age; he towered over Mrsha as he made a fist.
“Get out of the way, Mrsha. Or else.”
She faced him and wrote in the air.
Hey, Golly, I need to talk to Rinni. This is important. I don’t appreciate being hit, and you don’t want to keep getting in trouble, do you?
He squinted at the words, then waved a paw through them and spoke loudly.
“I don’t hear nothing! Do you? Speak properly, Mrsha! I can’t hear you!”
He put one paw to his ear, which had a nick taken out of it, and everyone laughed. Ekirra growled as he wanted to race over, but Mrsha held up a paw.
What would Erin do here? Wait, no, that was a terrible thing to think. What would Ceria do…no, Mrsha had no bugs to eat, and Ceria was just as bad. What would…hm…who was the most responsible, reasonable adult she knew?
She scratched her head, thinking, as Golly and Rinni stared at her. Mrsha snapped her fingers.
Hedault! Damn, I’ve got no clue what he’d do. Oh well, I’ll just wing it. Golly, I want to talk to Rinni, alone. Move back, please.
He squinted at the words, then snorted as Rinni nudged him.
“You’re stupid. Go away.”
He went to shove Mrsha as hard as he could. The bigger Gnoll child gave her a hefty push. Then he fell down.
Visma sniggered loudly as Golly’s feet went out from under him. Embarrassed, he got up and tried again. Mrsha didn’t move. Rinni stared at Mrsha in confusion until she gazed down.
“Golly, look!”
He stared down at two patches of grass that had sprung up and anchored Mrsha to the floor of the classroom. [Grow Grass]. The boy lost his temper.
“No fair, you cheater!”
So he swiftly slugged Mrsha in the stomach. That did cause an outcry.
“Mister Golly!”
Shassa shouted, and several parents objected too. The boy hesitated, ears flattening at the censure, but his attention was still on Mrsha. Because she hadn’t moved. She hadn’t even…flinched.
[Lesser Toughness]. It was only now Golly seemed to realize that not all the looks at him were outrage, but apprehension. And Visma making punching motions and shouting for Mrsha to ‘kill him dead’ didn’t help.
Mrsha leaned forwards and wrote tiny words in the air.
Golly, go away, please. I just want to make peace with Rinni. I’ve got no quarrel with you, and you don’t with me.
She stared up earnestly at him with her brown eyes. He hesitated—glanced at Rinni, who was jabbing at him with a claw—and then slunk backwards. He kept his eyes on Mrsha and didn’t turn around, like someone backing away from a wild animal. Then he let Shassa scold him.
The angry young Drake was glaring at her soon-to-be-former boyfriend, but she realized, suddenly, that all her friends were somewhere else. Mrsha rubbed at her stomach absently as Rinni backed up a few steps.
“I’m not afraid of you!”
I hope you’re not afraid. I haven’t done anything to you, Rinni. And I’m not scary, I think. I just want you to stop bullying me, please. I know you’re mad at the inn, but I didn’t do anything to you. And I don’t want to be harassed. Can’t we just agree to not get along in peace at school?
Mrsha had worked on her note, and she felt it was the most reasonable offer she could make. Rinni squinted at the words, eyes darting left and right, then she paled.
“I hate you! You and that stupid inn and—you think you’re special, so everyone’s got to be nice to you and treat you well! Like Miss Shassa! She only lets you here because she’s scared of those Goblins and Antinium!”
She pointed at Shassa. Mrsha just stared at Rinni, wondering what to do.
Okay, maybe I do hit her and she’ll either try to kill me or be scared? That’s not an option. What am I supposed to do, apologize? For what? Just tell on her until she quits? Defend myself?
Mrsha was about to write a subtle threat out in the air—paper left too much of a trail of evidence—when someone cleared his throat, and her heart sank. Oh no.
“Excuse me, Miss Mrsha, Miss Rinni? I believe this dispute between the two of you has reached a tipping point. I do apologize, Miss Mrsha, but I did have to go back to the inn for reinforcements.”
Ser Dalimont made Rinni back up several steps. Mrsha closed her eyes and prayed.
Please, not Mother. Not Mother…
To her absolute relief, the first person she saw behind Dalimont wasn’t Lyonette with one of her death-smiles. It was, in fact, a nervous, yellow-scaled Drake with spectacles.
“Rinni! What is going on? Did that boy just hit Miss Mrsha?”
“Mother!”
Rinni paled as Ser Dalimont let the very nervous Drake approach. Wasn’t she a [Librarian] or something…? Mrsha began to get a bad feeling as she started to apologize.
“Knight, sir, I am so sorry—please, let’s not make this an issue! Rinni, apologize and come here, now!”
Dalimont, you pig turd, you’re pressuring Rinni’s mom? That’s low! Mrsha was giving Dalimont a glower of her own. It might work, but it felt nasty. However, the Thronebearer returned her gaze calmly. He stepped to one side with a bow.
“I hope this can all be talked out, Miss Chilette. It’s slightly more than a squabble between children, but there is, to my mind, no need to bring this beyond the parties here. Certainly not back to Miss Lyonette, who can be a tad bit unreasonable in these matters…may I introduce you to an adjudicator whom I believe can resolve the issue? We’ll follow along, and if I may buy you a coffee?”
Who did he have with him? Ishkr? Nerul? Actually, Nerul might work. Mrsha needed a real [Diplomat] for this moment. She was searching for the familiar bulk of the Drake when she realized she couldn’t see anyone behind Dalimont.
Then he stepped aside and revealed a young woman wearing colorful blue suspenders and a red t-shirt. She had a yellow parasol with blue ducks still dripping with rain, and her boots were terribly red.
Nanette Weishart bowed to the surprised mother and daughter, and she had a backward baseball cap on her head. The walking affront against good clothing and witch smiled at Mrsha.
“Hello, Miss Chilette. And hello, Miss Rinni! I’m Witch Nanette, of The Wandering Inn. Mrsha’s older sister. If I may, why don’t we talk in one of the classrooms?”
Nanette? Mrsha’s mouth opened, and she began to write an inquiry as Rinni stared at the young woman, but Nanette held up a finger. She steered Rinni and Mrsha towards a classroom as Dalimont smiled at the nervous [Librarian].
 
——
 
“I’m not scared of you either. I-I’m not! It doesn’t matter if you threaten to hurt me! Leave my mother alone! Lots of people hate you!”
Rinni was shaking with nerves as the fourteen year-old witch took a seat on top of a desk, like the cool kid she was. Mrsha tried to copy her, but she couldn’t pull off Nanette’s style. The witch’s voice was calm, and she was a witch at the moment, class or not. Dress or not.
“Oh, I’m not here on Mrsha’s side, Rinni! I’m here as a witch. Do you know what those are?”
“You don’t have a pointy hat. Yours is stupid.”
Rinni mumbled, trying to keep on being angry, but the presence of an older girl like Nanette and her—attitude—was sapping the girl’s fury. There was something gently overbearing about how Nanette spoke and acted. Suffocating with that kind smile. Rather like Witch Eloise.
Nanette laughed softly.
“I don’t need a pointy hat. I’m just here to make peace, Rinni. I know you and Mrsha haven’t been getting along.”
Rinni glanced at Dalimont and her mother, who were watching from one window, and refused to talk, like a suspect being interrogated by the Watch. However, Nanette seemed to be prepared for everything, because she changed subjects.
“Do you like cute things, Rinni? I bet you do! I have a friend here I’d love to introduce to you. Smallhoof!”
Mrsha hadn’t noticed a little travel-bag at her side until Nanette reached down and pulled out a little Sariant Lamb. Rinni stared, and Mrsha recoiled as the lamb mewled cutely.
“What is that?”
“A Sariant Lamb. He’s very friendly. Go ahead, stroke his head. But be gentle!”
Mrsha knew Nanette was a [Sariantfriend], but she hadn’t expected one of those little monsters. She eyed the lamb as Rinni hesitated, but the girl was still only nine. She cuddled the lamb, and her eyes went round as it nuzzled her face. She hugged the lamb gently, then remembered Nanette was the enemy!
But the witch was calling the shots. She fiddled with her backwards baseball cap and then looked at Rinni.
“Rinni, I know you hate The Wandering Inn. And I know…you hate Mrsha, because your father died fighting Hectval. I’m very sorry, but will you tell us about him?”
The girl froze up. She backed away from Nanette, face growing hostile.
“You don’t care!”
“I do. And I know what it’s like to lose your parents. So does Mrsha.”
Nanette slipped from the table and lifted her hat off her head. She placed it gently down on the school desk, and Mrsha felt something run past her. Cool, wet, and terribly sad.
Rinni blinked as Nanette’s eyes shimmered. The rain fell outside, but it seemed warm compared to the faint tears in her eyes.
“My mother died last year. I never knew my father. Mrsha’s parent, Chieftain Urksh, died two years ago. You have every right to be angry, but not at her, I think. She didn’t do it. I heard your father died fighting Hectval. For Erin, our friend. Can you tell me what his name was?”
Oh. Then, Mrsha saw it and felt embarrassed. She glanced at Ser Dalimont, who gave her a nod, and was embarrassed for thinking he’d go full Lyonette. Thronebearers did know subtlety. And so did witches.
Nanette had Rinni pinned so many ways, from the Sariant Lamb in her hands to the witch’s demeanor and her magic. And…Rinni gazed into the witch’s brown eyes, and she began to shake. The Sariant Lamb, Smallhoof, nuzzled her as she trembled. Then in a small voice, she said.
