“The northeast isn’t as thoroughly developed as other areas of Izril, as you saw. Lots of country. And given that we’re such a large group, it’s been hard finding accommodations. It’s essentially a rough outpost over our dig site. We haven’t clashed with the locals…but they’re pressuring us in other senses.”
“I wouldn’t imagine anyone could pressure a Wall Lord economically.”
He shrugged as he ate the jambalaya with relish.
“All the gold can’t buy a thing if no one will sell. These rancher-nobles, as they’re called, are as proud as the Five Families. Thoroughly anti-Drake.”
“Well, they would be. Every family loses sons and daughters at the Bloodfield battles.”
That came from Colfa, and Ilvriss blinked, then introduced himself to her.
“Lady Colfa, isn’t it? I do apologize if I’m speaking out of turn. They’ve just been…frustrating.”
To Lyonette’s relief, Colfa chuckled at the title he accorded her and simply nodded.
“They are frustrating and obstinate. And dangerous in their own ways. You’ve done well not to react with force. That would make this far worse.”
He nodded as Ishkr appeared behind the bar and trotted over with a basket. It contained shampoo, toilet paper—and he had an entire bag of holding filled with more. Ilvriss sighed.
“Oh, dead gods. Finding an [Alchemist] in this mess…is Miss Octavia here?”
No one had seen Octavia in a minute, and when they checked on her, she wasn’t in Stitchworks. Ishkr vanished and came back as Ilvriss was finishing lunch. A panting, eyes-bloodshot Octavia ran in with Reagen on her head.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss? You wanted my business? Sorry I’ve been out—I was prepping potions for Master Saliss, and then—I’m going to have to run his entire laboratory while he’s on expedition!”
Ilvriss blinked at her.
“You’re moving up in the world, Miss Cotton. Congratulations.”
“I am? I am!”
She stared at him before realizing that being allowed to work in Saliss of Lights’ private workshop in Pallass was an upgrade. Though, clearly, it felt like work. She flopped into a chair, then saw a Drake emerging from the bathroom with a towel.
“Is that—the tub? Is there still water in it? I could use a wash. I think. My nose sucks, but…”
She had visible layers of alchemical residue on her, and Mrsha had already covered her nose. Ishkr, normally wise in such ways, gave her a good whiff and gagged.
They almost tossed Octavia into the bathtub, and Ilvriss shook his head. Then he realized Lyonette had new staff, and he had to ask about that—and Valeterisa. By that time, Nerul had appeared, and Lyonette realized she had a small party going on.
“Ishkr, can you find wherever Joseph and Kevin have got to? Bring them here, discreetly, would you? Rose and Imani too, if she’d like to come. Who else? Relc’s on duty, but afterwards…oh, Selys is gone.”
“Krshia? Elirr?”
Lyonette chewed on her lip. But then she shook her head.
“Don’t advertise. Just a quiet gathering. But do bring Rose.”
That confused Ishkr, but Lyonette hadn’t forgotten her drunk [Pavilion of Secrets] encounter. She’d almost written it off as a dream, but it hadn’t been. And she thought the Earthers in general would enjoy this.
Certainly, the normally-active Ilvriss looked like he wanted nothing more than to sit and relax in the common room. He almost got up.
“I really should visit the Council and ask how Liscor is…but I’d be dropping in unannounced. Perhaps…later. Though we have to be back at the excavation site—”
He groaned as he sat back, and he did seem tired. Lyonette hesitated.
“What if you stayed a night, Wall Lord?”
“I can’t make Captain Shieldscale take over that long. But it would be nice.”
Lyonette’s wore a cunning smile as she gestured at the stairs.
“Ah, but Erin’s inn has [Twofold Rest], Wall Lord. Even from a practical level, it would make more sense to stay the night.”
That was a compelling point. Ilvriss hesitated. His aides and followers all gave Ilvriss a silent gaze of entreaty, and he decided to put the decision off till later. Lyonette glanced at Peggy and got a thumbs up—they had rooms, and the staff got them ready.
So what did they do after that? Well, Lyonette sat back down as Ilvriss talked to Mrsha.
“What else have I missed at the moment? Aside from matters that belong in the garden?”
She gave him a bland expression that contained a tiny bit of mischief.
I’ve been doing some digging in the garden too, Wall Lord. You might be very surprised by what you dig up.
Nanette spat out her entire cup of milk, which Nerul dodged. That dark humor made Lyonette gasp, but, undeterred, Mrsha handed Ilvriss another card.
More seriously, we are worried about Tessa. She went to Tenbault and never returned, if you recall.
“Tessa. Ancestors. How is she?”
To Lyonette’s relief, the moment Ilvriss thought of the Named-rank adventurer, he focused on the problem as if he’d always been here. He faced her.
“You have a plan, I trust. Have you made contact? I think I sent a letter…two months ago. I wasn’t surprised at not receiving a reply, though.”
“I sent a trusted expert, Vaulont, to make contact with her. She sent him back with over two dozen stab wounds.”
Ilvriss began drumming his claws on the table as Nanette punched Mrsha’s shoulder, and the girl patted her on the arm. He glanced around.
“That’s…not good. I was warned by Tessa’s ‘handlers’ to essentially drug her into oblivion if she went over the edge. The tonics were so strong I had to change them out monthly or they’d lose potency.”
“Oh, that’s fresh stuff. Pull my strings, it could probably take down a Grand Elephant if it beats something you can preserve.”
Octavia frowned, and Ilvriss nodded.
“That…doesn’t sound like a solution, though.”
He regarded Lyonette, and she agreed.
“No, it does not. I think if I could talk to her…! But this Healer sounds like a wretched woman. I’m inclined to just go there in force, even if there’s another Named-rank adventurer, Crowdcaller Merdon. My worry is that the Healer might do something rash.”
In which case, Tessa might get stabby. Lyonette had little fear for herself, but the danger was there. She was more worried about Dalimont or Ushar. Ilvriss eyed Lyonette.
“Surely a [Princess] wouldn’t incite the Healer to any mistakes. How rash is this Merdon? Named-ranks are unpredictable. I’ve worked with enough to recognize the ones with magicore temperaments—quick to change.”
He turned to Nerul, but the [Diplomat] just sipped from some wine.
“Sorry, Nephew, but I don’t know northern adventurers well. The last generation, yes, but I think Merdon’s a former member of Orchestra? He wasn’t independent when I was paying attention. They’re one of the real northern teams. Haughty, with culture of their own. He’s second-rate as Named-ranks go, though, to have a guard job this long.”
Lyonette got up and decided to pass around a few snacks. Normally, she wouldn’t, but some silkap and crackers with refreshments wouldn’t hurt. Ilvriss stuck a huge cracker into the silkap and seemed highly embarrassed when she covered a smile. Another thing he was missing.
“Does anyone know what Merdon is like? Captain Todi!”
Todi jumped and closed the window. He’d just fired a crossbow through it. She gazed at him, and he shrugged.
“Ghoul. Might have been loyal. Kneecapped the bugger, but Bird just had to shoot it through the head. Showoff. Who, Merdon? He’s a hot-tempered bastard. I’ve gone drinking with him—when he’s flush with coin, he’ll buy the entire tavern drinks. He spends gold like he’s got a hole in his bag of holding. No head for that—or his temper. I’ve seen him go at Gold-rankers three times. Lose twice. Then he uses his voice.”
“Wonderful. That’s the scenario I envision. Any attempted threat and he might decide to throw his weight around. And given Tessa’s temperament, her reaction is the most dangerous.”
Ilvriss opened his legs and leaned on his knees, clasping his clawed hands together. He was thinking hard, and Lyonette beckoned Todi over.
“Would he back down in the face of a threat, Todi? Elia and the Thronebearers might impress him.”
“Sure…but he can’t appear too bad, Lyonette. I reckon you don’t have enough to scare him. Though Bird might. He don’t like Antinium. Merdon’s a bully. He might have the class. Speaking as a former [Bully] myself, once you show him you’re too tough to shout down, he’ll back off. ‘Scuse me, by the way, are you Wall Lord Ilvriss? Captain Todi, Gold-rank adventurer.”
Ilvriss shook hands with Captain Todi, clearly not knowing who the heck Todi was. Lyonette was thinking.
“Bird might do, but she’s worse than Tessa. She’ll declare war on Tenbault and get us all killed.”
“Hey!”
Bird had come downstairs for some victory chicken wings in barbeque sauce. She thought about it.
“Okay, maybe.”
“Merdon’s not the biggest threat, Lyonette. Tessa being attached to the Healer is. She needs a cure, and without the Faerie Flowers…”
Nanette pointed out, and Ilvriss’ jaw dropped in horror.
“They’re gone?”
“We have the Minotaur’s Punch, but yes. No more free wonder. Even so, Nanette, I don’t think Tessa is the problem. She’s…miserable.”
Lyonette had only gotten a glimpse of her, but when the witch girl raised her brows, the [Princess] elaborated.
“I should never have let her run off. I know she just vanished—but I’ve met Tessa. She needs more than just relief from her cravings. She needs someone who respects her. Who knows her name. Without that, she’ll sink.”
The young woman bowed her red hair.
“I think I’ve let her sink, and the Healer is no great [Healer]. I think she’s miserable, Nanette. I need to go there to extend my hand. It’s the Healer of Tenbault or Merdon who might get in the way. How do I deal with them?”
Ilvriss scratched at his chin.
“Xesci, you’re the people person. Thoughts?”
The [Courtesan] inspected Lyonette as everyone turned to her. Ushar and the Calanferians seemed mildly horrified by having a lady of the night anywhere near Lyonette and the girls, but Xesci just murmured.
“I was only with Shriekblade for a while.”
“Tessa.”
Ilvriss and Lyonette said it at the same time. Ilvriss glanced at the [Princess], then addressed Xesci.
“Her name is Tessa.”
“Is it?”
The [Courtesan]’s face seemed scarred, suddenly, like a shadow of Tessa’s own countenance. She spoke with a blank weariness.
“Or has she been Shriekblade so long she’s forgotten who Tessa was? I think you’re right she likes to drown in misery, but she’s not blind. She knows the Healer will never save her, deep down. But she expects nothing more. If you want to convince her, Princess…don’t send a thief in the night. Show her something to hope for.”
She turned, and Lyonette breathed out.
“Well then, Merdon. Does he have a…a way to get him to back off, guaranteed? Or will we just have to do a show of force?”
Perhaps she could ask Lord Raithland for a favor? Arrema raised a paw, still avoiding Ilvriss, but Merdon wouldn’t know her. It was Asgra who tapped Lyonette on the back.
“You should send Goblins.”
When everyone gave her a blank stare, the Cave Goblin grinned.
“Goblins beat him like drum. Remember when Chieftain Rags stole Healer? You send Redscar, and he poo his pants.”
Now there was an idea. If only Numbtongue were around…Ilvriss murmured.
“That just leaves the Healer.”
“I think I know who could handle her.”
Lyonette had the beginnings of a plan. She was mostly winging it, but it sounded relatively safe, and she leaned over to describe how it would work. Everyone was following along when Ishkr raced into the inn.
“Lyonette, switch the scrying orb on!”
“What? What is it?”
She whirled, and he ran to the mirror. That’s when everyone saw Joseph, Drassi—and Captain Zevara. Lyonette’s jaw dropped as she saw the Watch Captain running through Pallass of all places!
“What’s going on? Zevara? Is she in trouble?”
She shot from her seat, and so did Mrsha—until she saw the Thronebearers move—and the girl deliberately sat back down. Nanette was already running towards the [Door of Portals] with Lyonette.
As for Ilvriss? He assessed the situation on the scrying orb, then he spoke to Asgra.
“You know, I will take a milkshake. One for Miss Mrsha too.”
She gave him the betrayed eyes of someone in the service industry forced to do their job at the worst moment, and Ilvriss made a rapid calculation.
“One for you too. Put it on my tab.”
She brightened up and ran to get his order. The Wall Lord exhaled as he stretched out in his chair. The milkshake was, of course, all sugar and sweets, but he was low on sugar at the moment, and he slurped half down and then just started watching. When he saw the Watch Captain go cycling down Pallass’ grand staircase on a bicycle, the Wall Lord just started chuckling to himself.
“It’s good to be back.”
He chinked glasses with Mrsha, who grinned and nodded.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was back, and Zevara was up to shenanigans catching crooks in Pallass. For a moment, it felt like the good old days, only different.
Mrsha had never seen Zevara doing something crazy and stupid and good like that, and it made her heart lift. Especially because she felt like the Watch Captain deserved a win. She deserved…everything.
That wasn’t the only reason the girl was happy. She stepped back after Ilvriss had settled himself down at a table and just watched him looking around and smiling. And her heart felt happy and sad. It hurt in all the best ways.
What really made Mrsha feel good about the entire Zevara thing was that she hadn’t seen it coming. As in…Roots Mrsha hadn’t ever found a door in the [Palace of Fates] where Watch Captain Zevara rode a bicycle down Pallass and Joseph kicked a soccer ball at a fleeing duo of Fissival secret agents, one of whom was named Moass.
Given the infinite possibilities within the [Palace of Fates], you’d think she might have seen something like that, but Moass, really?
The girl was giggling about it to herself as she combed her hair with a brush; she’d gotten a bit dirty on the day trip. She swore, for a second, she could hear a second silent giggle. But of course, there wasn’t another Mrsha to laugh with. It was just her.
Both of her. One of her. Both Mrshas thought it was funny, though. She was already forgetting, a bit, that there had been two of herself. But if she really concentrated, she could diverge the memories as being ‘Original Mrsha’ and ‘Roots Mrsha’. She didn’t need to—knowing that fate was moving in a direction she couldn’t predict felt right.
