The note of pure, plain relief in her voice made everyone stir. They waited, but Lyonette let the words linger for a moment, and the smile that crossed her face seemed to spread like a disease onto their faces.
She’s alright. Then, of course, Lyonette explained fully, omitting the last part of the conversation. It took a while since she had to catch Ilvriss onto the [Palace of Fates] and the fact that the ‘Erin’ he was seeing was fake. The Wall Lord was shaking his head.
“A fake? That’s…actually very reasonable. I thought she was off, but Xesci was adamant that wasn’t her.”
He turned to the [Courtesan], who smiled rather smugly.
“She walks different. Everything else aside, that’s obvious as the sun.”
Then Mrsha began demanding answers about what the ‘Battle Hamster’ looked like in person. And without revealing a possible Erin secret, Lyonette could just talk about what she’d seen—and the real part, which was just Erin.
“She seemed better. Truly.”
That was all, and perhaps Ilvriss didn’t quite get it, but everyone else did. Ishkr exhaled, and Mrsha leaned against Nanette, who hugged her with one arm.
Better. The Wall Lord gazed into his cup.
“I haven’t had the honor of her calling me into this [Pavilion of Secrets], but she is busy. Perhaps later.”
He looked so wistful that Lyonette felt guilty and assured Ilvriss that Erin was busy—and had been dying—and it had been bad until recently. He nodded solemnly, and she sprang to her feet.
“That’s all I wanted to share in private. Come on, Wall Lord, you are missing a Solstice, nay, Wandering Inn event. Let’s rejoin the gathering!”
She tugged him to his feet, and surprised, he let her drag her into the common room where everyone was still talking about the day’s events and partying.
“I always wanted to be Fraerling-sized. You know, that’s one of the things they don’t have in the future.”
Arrema remarked to Mrsha as they walked out. Ilvriss half-turned his head and nearly went over a table. And Lyonette decided…she’d let Arrema figure that one out if she wanted to.
She was intending to subtly catch Rose before she left, but to her surprise, the young woman lingered behind. Her smile when they were alone in the [Garden of Sanctuary] was oddly mischievous.
“Let me know if I’m crazy, but I feel like you want to talk to me, Lyonette?”
The [Princess] frowned as she closed the door to the inn for a second and inspected Rose again.
“You’re correct, but that’s awfully perceptive of you, Rose.”
More than usual. Rose had always struck Lyonette as a rather thoughtless young woman. Someone with her heart in the right place with a decent sense of responsibility, but like her group, she’d had a bad entry into the inn.
That felt like ages ago. Imani had been traumatized, the others had been useless—Joseph had been drunk—look at them now. Even Kevin had turned from a funny, likeable guy into someone who’d changed the world.
If anything, Lyonette felt bad for Rose because she hadn’t changed things in any great way. She’d done good work in the Meeting of Tribes, but Lyonette only had second-hand accounts of that. Rose deserved to make something of herself, like the other Earthers.
In Lyonette’s thoughts, she had unconsciously cut Leon out of her image of the Earthers. Even Troydel was doing some good work in Pallass. But Rose?
…Something was very different about her, actually. Lyonette frowned. She hadn’t gotten so close to Rose before, but the longer she stared, the more obvious it was.
It was a kind of allure or—eyecatching element. Like natural poise or charisma that made someone the center of attention in a room, but Rose had not had that a while ago.
“What’s happened to you, Rose? I was going to, ah, ask about something Erin said. Which I hope you’ll keep private, but I’m noticing you’ve also—changed.”
Rose did a twirl around on her feet, looking quite delighted by the attention.
“You’re the only other person to notice! I’ve been keeping it under wraps, mostly. I suppose a high-level [Princess] can sense it.”
“Who’s the second person?”
“Xesci. She was giving me tips. Mostly about using protection! Eugh! I guess they do have condoms in this world.”
What was that? Lyonette frowned. Why on earth would…
Her eyes narrowed, and Rose winked at her and switched whatever effect she was generating up to maximum. Then Lyonette felt the same sensation as yesterday. The same giddy excitement as when she’d been drunk and talking to Erin. A kind of infatuation with trying new things. She stared at Rose’s lips, the slightly pointed teeth—then looked down. Rose wiggled her hips suggestively. Lyonette reached down and grabbed Rose’s butt.
“Oh! Hey, Lyonette—”
“What is that in your pants?”
As statements went, that one wasn’t the best, but Lyonette wasn’t staring at Rose’s front, but her behind. Rose’s posterior had developed a wiggle. Was that a…
“Is that a tail?”
“Hey, it’s still growing! Don’t touch—”
Rose was trying to heighten the seductive expression—right until Lyonette grabbed her ear and twisted it.
“Rose Cinevoy, what have you gotten yourself into?”
The wincing young woman tried to get away.
“Lyonette! Let me explain! It was just—look, it’s totally okay, I can reverse it and appear normal when I want! And it was consensual! I just made a little deal.”
“With whom?”
Then Lyonette had a thought. There was only one person who fit the bill of ‘deal’—she cast around.
“Where is Viscount Visophecin? I’ll kill him. I’ll get Pawn to kill him.”
“Nonono! I wanted this, Lyonette! Don’t do anything crazy! Listen, I’m just leaning into, well, experimenting. This is what I wanted. Damn it, I thought I was supposed to be super charming and seductive! Stop twisting my ear!”
All the powers of Rose’s new whatever-she-was didn’t work against the power of ear-twisting. Lyonette hissed at her.
“Making deals with Visophecin is insane!”
Rose lifted a finger.
“As insane as using the box or opening doors in the [Palace of Fates]?”
She yelped as Lyonette twisted her ear hard, but then the [Princess] let go. She rubbed at her face, then took a deep breath.
“You know what? You’re an adult. Whatever you get into, as long as you don’t bring it back to the inn without very good reason, it’s your choice. I’m sorry, Rose. Let me try again.”
Rose smiled in relief. She went to hug Lyonette.
“Hey, I was going to tell you once the transformation finished. It has a lot of, uh, really interesting features. And I think you were feeling a bit of interest in me, right? Totally normal—um—”
She realized that she wasn’t the only person with something interesting in their pants. Lyonette’s sword was unsheathed and under Rose’s chin.
“What did you do, Rose? Full explanation, thank you.”
It was mostly for show because they were in the [Garden of Sanctuary], but Rose gulped.
“Okay, fine, fine! I’m a Succubus! Sort of! I’m pretty sure that’s the deal I made with Visophecin.”
“A—what?”
Lyonette listened to a quick and very garbled explanation from Rose. Then she lowered the sword and began rubbing at her forehead.
“Allow me to confirm. You just made yourself into some kind of being of myths from your world’s religion?”
“Satanic religion. Only the cool kids like that.”
Rose added helpfully. Lyonette stared at her.
“A species that is quite literally a Demon.”
“Technically, I think they’re closer to Devils—”
Lyonette raised the sword again, and Rose shielded herself. But Lyonette just thunked Rose ever-so-gently with the flat of her blade.
“Rose…why?”
The young woman spread her hands earnestly.
“Well, I didn’t have any power, Lyonette. Everyone else was levelling, and I felt like I was important with Adetr in the Meeting of Tribes, but I never levelled, you know? And now I’m here, on Saliss and Mirn’s side, and, well—they need help.”
So how does that make a pact with Visophecin a good idea? Rose elaborated.
“Charm is one of the things my…species…is supposed to be really good at. Seduction, really. But I’m going to be super ethical about it.”
Ethical about what? Then Lyonette’s eyes narrowed.
“Ethically seducing people? Of the same gender?”
The young woman innocently folded her hands behind her back.
“I don’t know, just making people think a bit wouldn’t be the worst, would it? Don’t worry, I’m being ultra-subtle.”
The fact that she hadn’t already caused an incident after a few weeks and Lyonette was just picking up on it now was actually a good sign, but Lyonette was almost thinking her pulling a sword on Rose was the right move.
This could be a terribly bad decision! Turnscales were not a light topic—but if anyone knew that, it would be Rose. Once more, the [Princess] was wrestling with the problem before she sighed.
“Alright, Rose. You’re able to make your own decisions. I’m not going to stop you, but we will have a conversation about dangers and the inn, agreed? And you’re also going to spend a day in Miss Xesci’s company.”
Chastened, Rose nodded.
“I was going to talk to her anyways. I bet someone in the sex work industry knows all the dangers. But I’m not upset with my decision, Lyonette. Unlike Erin, Visophecin says there’s no real risk with this kind of thing. And hey, if you’ve got a soul, why not sell a bit of it? Right?”
She beamed at Lyonette’s expression.
“Now, what were you going to talk to me about?”
The [Princess] had almost forgotten about her actual goal. She began to relate her encounter with Erin hesitantly.
“This is not to be shared with anyone, Rose. I mean it. I only threatened to stab you with my sword here. If you betray Erin’s trust—but you would know about this.”
Rose sombered in a gratifying way.
“Whoa, I get it now I’m in this world! This is super serious. Swear on my life. What, uh, what did you talk to Erin about? Mind you, I think I got a whiff of something. You were acting a bit, uh, attracted for a second when you were talking about being drunk with Erin.”
She already had an inkling? Lyonette glowered, but because her cheeks had become red this time. She muttered.
“I…may have said something strictly true in the moment. Due to the drinks and the way the pavilion works. But that’s not important. What’s important, Rose, is…”
When she related her suspicions, Rose didn’t gasp or say anything for a moment. She just stood, staring thoughtfully into the distance. Then she nodded.
“Yep. I have no idea. I wish I could have seen Erin or I could see her now. Because I can see it, Lyonette. But she could be like you.”
“Like me?”
Rose nodded absently.
“If I turn the charm up, I think you might be interested in me or someone. Or if you were drunk, but my instincts say that you’re not normally going to try to court me. Preferences, and everyone’s on a spectrum…Erin could be ace. Or demi, or…it’s complex, but I’m sure she’s not sure herself. And you don’t want to push her or make her feel pressured.”
That was such a reasonable comment that Lyonette relaxed. She nodded a few times.
“Absolutely. And I wasn’t doing that! I was just—testing.”
“Oh, sure, you two are friends. But have you ever seen hints…? You know what? We should have a talk. Very respectfully of her. But the key thing is to be a good friend, y’know?”
Rose smiled at Lyonette, and the [Princess] nodded. She could do that. They agreed to have a conversation—not now with Ilvriss here, but Rose confirmed she was the right pick for this, despite the surprise about her new deal.
“Plenty of people can be happy without diving into relationships, let alone sex and stuff. I realize that I’m not the best purveyor of that message—but if she’s unhappy or searching, that’s different. The important thing is we’re supporting her, even if we’re trying to figure out stuff too. Is she happy as-is?”
The [Princess] stood there for a moment and remembered Erin smiling as she rode the beetle. A smile, after so much and so long. She took a breath and shook her head.
“No. I don’t think so. I think she can be a lot happier, Rose. That’s what I want to see.”
The truest thing she’d said was that. A smile from Erin was like temptation. One little sip, and Lyonette wanted more than a sliver of sunlight. She wanted to bask in that sun.
Only when she turned to say they should go into the inn did she see Rose staring at her curiously. Lyonette blinked.
“What?”
“Nothing. I was just thinking—‘oh. That’s what platonic love looks like’. It’s…something.”
Rose averted her eyes, blushing, and Lyonette didn’t have a comment for that. She just shook her head, then tugged Rose towards the door.
“I’m sorry for threatening you with a sword. I wasn’t going to cut you, but I’ve had too many surprises, Rose.”
“Hey, no problem, Lyonette. I’m sorry for using my Skills on you. I still have Skills, by the way.”
“You’re forgiven.”
“Awesome. And if you ever did want to see what it’s like, hit me up.”
Lyonette sighed loudly and almost kicked Rose into the common room. Temptation, a literal temptress under her roof. Wonderful.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss realized Lyonette hadn’t followed him out of the garden. He supposed she was attending to something inside, so he wandered the common room of the inn.
A full nostalgic trip. Filled with both pain and smiles, as such things were. It was odd for it to be ‘nostalgic’ given he’d gotten to know the inn only, what, two years ago? But there it was. The quality of life versus the quantity of it, or something.
The only problem was that Ilvriss wasn’t the most gregarious of sorts. He couldn’t walk up and slap someone on the back, but he did his best.
“Is that Menolit I see? I’ve heard of Liscor Hunted even in Salazsar. Hello, hello!”
The surprised Drake shook his hand, half-rising, and Ilvriss got engaged in a conversation about the activity before politely turning down the opportunity to try to survive on a water-drenched island during the rainy season.
Ilvriss nodded at a Goblin.
“Nice to meet you. I’m Ilvriss, Wall Lord of Salazsar. And you are?”
“Sticks.”
The Cave Goblin shook Ilvriss’ hand cautiously, and Ilvriss gestured around.
“Good to see so many, uh, employees. I recognize Rosencrantz, I believe. Is, uh, Silveran here?”
Erin had talked about him a lot. Where was that Worker with the mop? Sticks gave Ilvriss a curious stare.
“Silveran? He big cleaning man in the city. He never come here. Silverstache sometimes comes here.”
“…I don’t know a Silverstache, but I’d be delighted to meet him. Wasn’t there another Antinium with the silver motif? Silver…mop?”
Sticks paused.
“Oh, yah. Silvermop is dead.”
