Nanette was pouring a goat’s milk into Mrsha’s cup, and the girl chinked her glass hard against the young witch’s cup. Sammial and Hethon were doing the same. They took a long drink, and Mrsha met Lyonette’s eyes. The [Princess] raised a cup, guilty, and swung around.
“My mother smokes. I’ve seen worse, and so have you, Xinthe. I’d rather drink somewhat responsibly in her view than pretend I don’t at all.”
“Yeah! My mother pretended she didn’t drink shit. And look how I turned out!”
Arrema flailed a paw at the Calanferian. Faced with this kind of impeccable logic, the woman just watched as Lyonette beckoned at Ishkr.
“Give me another Providence’s Cup, Ishkr.”
“Don’t you think you’ve had enough, Lyonette?”
She scowled at him.
“I can still remember why I reached for a drink. Lay on, Macduff; I’ll tell you when I’ve had enough!”
Arrema and Lord Raithland chuckled at the reference to Shakespeare, but Lyonette just reached for another drink. She couldn’t say why she was so miserable today—the obvious clues aside, she hadn’t tried to drown her sorrows after the [Palace of Fates]. Maybe…it was mundane difficulties.
The [Princess] raised her cup for another swallow and wondered when she’d fall flat on her back. It belatedly occurred to her that being resistant to poison probably meant she’d shot herself in the foot. Was it normal to be only drunk after taking half a bottle of whiskey down?
The liquid was touching her lip when the [Princess] froze. She glanced up—and her eyes locked on the thing she hadn’t searched for.
A door.
Another door. She almost threw her cup at it until she realized…she knew this one. A pale door hung in the air, unlike the [Garden of Sanctuary] or the [Palace of Fates]. It had a Harpy’s wings rising over the door, and she rose and looked around. The world was frozen…
“Oh. Oh, no.”
She stepped off of her stool and unsteadily walked towards it. It was her again. What had gone wrong this time? Please, not Ulvama. But whatever it was, Lyonette had to know.
She put her hand on the curious latch, fit for a Harpy’s claws, and she took a breath. Her heart pounded terribly. But she had to know. She always had to know. So she swung it open, expecting to see a hat blazing with black flames. A dying woman dripping with her miseries.
“…Erin?”
 
——
 
The [Pavilion of Secrets] Lyonette knew full well. It was a black void where, in every direction, she expected to see stars…or water. As if they were in space or at the bottom of the abyss of the sea.
The pale, worn gazebo sitting there and the single chess table like a place of judgement. A terrifying spot where the [Innkeeper] sat, breaking your heart as she continued, despite falling to pieces before your very eyes.
Demanding the truth from you as she prepared to dash herself to pieces. A scarred survivor wading through the blood she’d shed.
What was it this time? The drunk [Princess] actually closed her eyes as she opened the door…and then it was bright.
Something bounced Lyonette up, and she flew a good foot through in the air, which felt like far more. Drunkenness meant she stumbled on coming down, but it didn’t hurt. She bounced again.
“W-w-w-whaaa—?”
A hand caught her arm, and Lyonette felt the sunlight bathing her face. She gazed up, and a smile cracked that worn face. The [Innkeeper] brushed at a discolored strand of hair and hauled Lyonette up the giant beetle’s shell.
“Bad time, Lyonette? Sorry.”
“Erin? Where are we—a giant beetle?”
It was huge, red, and it had a hut on its back! The [Innkeeper] was sitting on its massive head as two giant pincers mashed together. The ground was streaming past them, giant rocks and blades of grass—
No, she was small! Small as a Fraerling! Lyonette was so startled that she didn’t see Ulvama at first. The Hobgoblin was combing a giant, one-eyed hamster’s fur as a man on the other side with white hair fed it seeds. The grumpy-looking hamster was glowering at a Fraerling sitting on the hut, strumming a three-stringed guitar—a young woman.
There was a Fraerling in the hut with a roach’s leg, too, stretched out on a hammock, and running along on the ground behind them were a pair of Fraerlings, a young man and woman who seemed scuffed up and quite fit! Lyonette took it all in, then ran over.
“Ulvama! Ulvama, are you okay? Erin, you learned how to abduct people with your door? No, wait, is this some other power? Am I in Baleros? Can you take me back?”
Her frantic shouting and appearance should have alarmed the Hobgoblin or gotten some reaction, but Ulvama just kept combing the hamster’s fur, grinning as the music came from above. Lyonette felt the beetle bump again and lifted in the air several inches. She caught one part of the hut on the beetle’s back, casting around wildly, but no one reacted to her except for the young woman standing with hands in her pockets.
Erin appeared…better. She was wearing a t-shirt and shorts, predictably, but made of grass and some kind of soft, cotton-like substance. She still had scars around her neck and on her wrists, but she seemed less desperate than last time.
“They can’t hear you, Lyonette. This is just a memory. A simulation of what I’m seeing.”
Lyonette shuddered at the word ‘simulation’, but then she got it. She spun to Erin, wide-eyed.
“I knew you could do that. I think. But—dead gods, Erin, this is incredible! You told me about the beetle, and is that the angry hamster?”
“Yup. He’s a jerk. That’s Eurise, and up there is, uh, Matha. The guy in there is our [Mad Doctor], Bowom, and the two running after us are Zemmy and Mera. We’re on the move. We left the Fraerling villages yesterday. I didn’t even include the others leaving the villages. Some are meeting up with us, some are just—leaving.”
She wore a bittersweet smile at that, as if she’d again done a bad thing, or perhaps just not a perfectly good one. But it wasn’t—bad. Lyonette gasped as she put two and two together.
“Oh. Oh my. You’re going to a Fraerling city?”
“The nearest one.”
Erin nodded. She was sitting cross-legged on the beetle’s head, used to every bump that sent Lyonette flying. The [Princess] stumbled as she landed, then blurted out.
“What’s wrong this time?”
“Wrong? Oh…”
Erin blinked and then ruffled her hair.
“Nothing for once.”
“Truly? You’re actually just checking in, like you promised? You? Keeping to a schedule?”
The [Innkeeper] scowled at Lyonette, but without any real wrath.
“Hey, I can remember things. Yeah, it’s just, well, an update. Okay, we had a problem with the, um—remember those Fraerling [Raiders]?”
“Oh no, were there more problems with—?”
“No, they were just kids. I overreacted. And then I nearly got in a fight with a bunch of mean aphids, but nothing’s happened the last few days. We had a really nice sendoff, and now we’re on the road.”
Lyonette waited for the ‘but’. Something like ‘but we’re out of food’ or ‘and I have this strange cough where I cough up blood, but I’m sure it’s fine’ or ‘and there are a hundred thousand ants following us’, but Erin said nothing more. She seemed to find it just as incongruous as Lyonette.
“So you’re…okay? Why did you call me?”
The [Innkeeper] blinked at Lyonette, and then she glanced at Ulvama. She cleared her throat as her eyes lingered on the Hobgoblin.
“Ulvama was really worried about all of you at the inn. And I thought—it’d be good if you knew I was okay. Our weekly check-in, remember?”
Lyonette had asked for that, but she was amazed that Erin had kept to it. She took a seat, or tried to, and the next bump from the Corumdon Beetle nearly sent her flying six whole inches in the air.
“Aaah!”
“Careful! You just have to move with the beetle!”
Erin jumped and grabbed Lyonette; she swung them through the air, and they landed on the beetle’s shell. Lyonette stumbled and felt embarrassed at how sure-footed Erin was.
“I’m sorry, I’m a bit—drunk.”
“Whaaa? You’re touching the devil’s juice? You, Lyonette?”
Erin feigned mock-outrage, but Lyonette was relieved to see a twinkle in her eyes. The [Princess] put her hands on her hips.
“I’ll have you know I only had…half a bottle. Practically only one with all the other drinks.”
“Oh, okay. That’s fine.”
Erin’s expression cleared, and Lyonette smiled. Then the [Innkeeper] did a bit of math on her fingers.
“Wait, that’s a lot…right? One bottle of cider?”
The [Princess] just laughed. She swung herself around, then peered around.
“Dead gods! This is amazing, Erin! Everything looks completely foreign from this height! That’s a tree? It’s like Oteslia’s tree!”
“You should try climbing one. It’s easier than you’d think. Still hard, but you can climb a lot more, and you feel like a superperson as a Fraerling.”
“If that’s how big a hamster is…birds and bugs must be a nightmare!”
Lyonette stared at the Battle Hamster, and Erin nodded.
“But they’re not as horrific as you’d think. Somehow, they’re more like giant animals when you’re their size. So you’re more wary than grossed out. I punched a cockroach the other day, and it barely bothered me.”
She wiped one hand on her shirt.
“…Gutting it was a lot nastier, and I didn’t try eating it. It had little eggs that the Fraerlings made for breakfast. You, uh, get used to the food. Sort of.”
“Ancestors.”
The [Princess] blanched, but then she saw the [Innkeeper] swaying to the music. She glanced up at the Fraerling playing.
“Matha? Isn’t that, um, the one who kidnapped…?”
“Yeah, I hate her guts. She insisted on coming along, and Ulvama said we had to bring her.”
“Because you almost killed her.”
The [Innkeeper] wore a guilty expression, but then she turned to Lyonette.
“—So I’m doing okay. How about you? Lyonette? Lyonette…?”
For answer, the [Princess] swayed over to Erin and put her arms around her friend. She embraced Erin in a sloppy, maudlin hug.
“Erin. I’ve missed you. I wish you were back!”
She felt tears coming on, and the [Innkeeper] took stock of Lyonette’s current inebriated state. Her eyes focused, then softened.
“Aw, man. Are you having a bad day?”
“No! Yes!”
“Did someone cause trouble at the inn? I can’t sense it that much…is there a big hole in the common room? Or—well, what is it? C’mon, let me know. I’m still the [Innkeeper].”
Erin sat Lyonette down, and the [Princess] held on to Erin, unwilling to let go. The [Innkeeper] even felt sturdier! Lyonette realized…Erin was the only person that she could go to with her problems. The adult to Lyonette, much like she was to Mrsha.
“Erin—I just declared the inn was independent from Liscor! And the damn elections are going on—and I think the undead are going crazy, and I don’t know how to talk to Arrema! And I want to get Tessa back, but I’m worried—”
“Uh. Wait, go back to the first one? You did what?”
“They were going to tax us! I had to!”
“Taxes.”
Erin muttered darkly, and she heard Lyonette out as the [Princess] spilled all the things that’d been bothering her.
“And what’s so jarring is—Mrsha and Nanette are being good! I haven’t heard a peep from either one.”
“Uh oh. Did Mrsha find another Creler nest or something? Is she hiding Shield Spiders in the basement or…?”
Lyonette shook her head vigorously.
“She’s actually just being good after all that’s happened. I…think…”
She’d have to check the basement. Just in case. Erin patted Lyonette on the shoulder. It was surreal being so close to the [Innkeeper] again. The last few times, she’d seemed at a great remove, for all they were in the same ‘room’.
The [Innkeeper]’s hazel eyes were focused on Lyonette.
“I’m sorry I left it all to you, Lyonette. I know you can handle it. But I wish I were back too. I’m coming, I promise.”
“I know. And Ishkr is wonderful, and I have Todi and Captain Earlia’s teams and…I’m just lost without you, Erin. I know I was always impatient with you, but now I’m making all the decisions, they never feel like the right ones.”
“Yeah, that’s normal. You just keep making choices until you find something you know is right.”
That made…sense. Lyonette sniffed and calmed down. Erin regarded her, then turned and stared at the moving scenery.
“I wasn’t there for the palace. I know.”
“Oh, but you were, Erin. You were, and you were wonderful. Even when you shouldn’t have been, you were there.”
The [Princess] remembered the burning [Innkeeper] fighting the Witch of Webs, and no one, surely, could ask for more than that. Erin didn’t understand, of course. She hadn’t been there. Lyonette wished Erin could have seen herself…but that was too heavy a conversation for this moment. Erin was shaking her head.
“I wish I had some kind of super-item to give you. Aside from the…boxes, of course.”
“They’ve been helpful enough. And if I needed something else, I’d just go raid your gardens, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] winced at the way Lyonette said it, but nodded. The [Princess] added softly.
“Besides, short of a Goblin King, I’m ready. The [Palace] was beyond anything I expected, but if it’s just Tyrion Veltras—I can handle it.”
This time, Erin gave her a suspicious eye, and Lyonette would have elaborated, but the [Innkeeper] just shrugged.
“Good. You’re always better prepared than I am, Lyonette. Like I said, the most valuable thing I have in my rooms would be the chess set to play Niers. You could send a coded message, but that’s about all, and I doubt he checks…no, wait. There is something you could use.”
“Oh? What’s that?”
Erin frowned, snapping her fingers.
“It’s in my rooms…in a jewelry box that Krshia gave me. It’s probably the only thing in there. It might be on my desk, or it’s in the wardrobe in one of the lower drawers. Probably next to my socks. It’s the ring that Ilvriss gave me.”
“Oh. Oh! That one? That’s useful.”
Having worn it before, Lyonette respected its powers, even if it wasn’t like her Ring of Conflagrations, which could spit [Fireballs]. Erin spoke to Lyonette.
“If you want it, it might come in handy. At least for pulling rank on Drakes.”
“I’ll take it, then. Just in case. Thank you, Erin. But I’m really not concerned about safety for the moment.”
Lyonette reassured Erin and saw the [Innkeeper] relax. Then she added, trying not to sound petulant.
“I didn’t even mention the worst part, really. The taxes were just one thing.”
The [Innkeeper]’s voice rose slightly with faint anxiety.
“Wait, there’s more? What’s the worst part?”
“Pawn’s trying to start our relationship up again. Well, he says friendship, but I think he’s hoping for more than that.”
