“…and when you rise, know that we are one step closer to Heaven, both here and afterwards. Remember, Mottleshell’s Pet Café is a limited venue, and we must be content to wait and not crowd the animals. If it succeeds financially, we may hope for more, but do not spend all of your allotted income on pet cafés. Also, do be careful not to misplace your possessions; lost or stolen items are on the rise, and we must be vigilant with what we are given. Check market prices before buying from non-Antinium vendors, for being duped is for suckers, and we should not be suckers. Amen.”
It was such a simple way to end his sermon, but it was largely…practical. That was what shocked Lyonette. He motioned to her.
“And now our guests will offer this congregation prayerful, or perhaps simply musical, song. Lyonette, Miss Colfa, and Witch Nanette.”
Everyone turned to her, and Lyonette got up. Pawn was standing with Yellow Splatters and some of his [Acolytes] and [Priests]. She whispered to him as she stood with the other two.
“Fair market prices and pet cafés, Pawn? Is this what you pray for?”
His antennae twitched at her as his mandibles lifted.
“What else should one pray for, Miss Lyonette? Not everyone is fighting for their lives every day. A prayer for great and impossible things and a prayer for mundane needs is a good balance, I find.”
She nodded, then took a breath and smiled at the disconcerting rows of Soldiers, Workers, Painted Antinium, and even guest-Antinium from other Hives.
“Good morning! I’m Lyonette, from The Wandering Inn, and I’m delighted to lead this congregation in song. The three of us will sing, and if you are so inclined, please, join in. We have some copies of the lyrics…”
Antinium were staring at the sheets of paper in their hands, and when Lyonette nudged Colfa, the Vampiress licked her lips nervously. Possibly, she hadn’t thought singing for an Antinium congregation was scarier than just going into the Free Hive. But it was hard to fill the vast chamber with their three voices alone…
“Sing like we’re just practicing together. You help too, Ushar.”
The Thronebearer jumped as Lyonette glanced over her shoulder. Pawn nodded.
“We shall sing too, if we are not too off-key. You should take the first verse to show them how it is done, Lyonette.”
She nodded and closed her eyes. It wasn’t an Earth-song they sung, though there was plenty of religious music, apparently. This was just one that Colfa had taught Lyonette.
 
“I have roamed from every shore…
To Giant’s peaks, from the Kraken’s nests…”
Seeking a place to call my home.
To call my rest…”
 
It was a song that they sang up in Reizmelt called Izril’s Homecoming. A sentimental song about the continent that Lyonette had heard Barelle the Bard once play when he’d visited Calanfer’s courts.
The version Colfa had taught her was different from the one Barelle had played, and Nanette knew six different lyrics. Even the rhythm changed, apparently, but most versions of the song were very pleasing to the ear.
The three women sang slowly to start, and then their crooning voices deepened. Colfa’s was the lowest, and she could project her voice in the chamber, filling it; by contrast, Lyonette might lack for volume, but she had mastered pitch and control thanks to Ielane insisting all [Princesses] learn to sing for anthems. Nanette had the highest voice, which could effortlessly hit notes that Colfa and Lyonette struggled with.
At first, Lyonette feared that no one but Pawn and the priests would join in, and they weren’t…the best singers. Even Yellow Splatters, gifted with an amazing voice, didn’t have any real experience with singing. The congregation before them was silent—too nervous to join in, and the song faltered slightly with dissonance.
Then—someone stood. And began clapping their hands and sang. Sang with such force and enthusiasm that it outstripped the three women!
Singy, the Antinium who had sung with the Yoldenites, was a dedicated [Singer], and he drew other Antinium upwards like a wave, copying him. Then—they were joined by another female voice, and the uncertain voices became as strong as any choir in a moment. Lyonette gasped and almost lost her own place—
Bird. The [Queen]’s eyes shone as she linked with the Antinium choir, and they sang the lyrics as if they all had ten levels in the [Singer] class.
Nearly four hundred voices all singing Izril’s Homecoming nearly took Lyonette’s breath away. It wasn’t just the numbers, but the coordination and the reverberations of the room, which gave the song a resonance she’d never dreamed of. A style unique to her ears that made her heart beat faster and take notice.
When the last lyrics stopped echoing in the cavern, there was a long, respectful silence. She had never heard so many people singing, save for Calanfer’s national anthem during public events—and that was second-nature to her. Boring.
But this? She met Colfa’s gaze, and they shared the same thought. The Vampire leaned over.
“We’ve got to get a choir. And invite Bird and Singy.”
Lyonette just nodded in reply.
 
——
 
“Another kind of wonder was given to us today. That of music. Let that be a lesson to all, including myself. Thank you for attending—if anyone would like scraps of bread, please line up here. Thank you.”
Pawn dismissed the congregation, then faced Lyonette. He hugged her, and she smiled as Pawn gazed from her to Colfa.
“Lyonette, your presence here is extremely welcome. I have been wanting to visit ever since the Goblin King event, but Bird kept ordering me not to. It was highly distressing, but he…she said I would, and I quote, ‘freak everyone out’.”
His mandibles clacked in displeasure, and Lyonette sighed.
“Oh, Pawn, it’s not your fault.”
“Except that it very much is.”
Bird muttered as she wandered past them, staring around the Free Antinium’s barracks. Pawn glowered at her, and Lyonette sighed.
“We had a Solstice Event.”
“Oh no. I had presumed as much. But why not send for me? We could have helped!”
“We—well, for one, the Free Antinium would not have done much good for this one, Pawn.”
“What? Even without the 7th Hive or the [Crusaders], we would have made a difference!”
Yellow Splatters barked, hurt, and Lyonette shook her head.
“Not this time. And—technically—you were there, Pawn. You may wish to sit down.”
 
——
 
It took a long time to relate even an abridged version of the events to Pawn, but Nanette helped, being one of the people with the best insights into what Mrsha had done.
Lyonette rather feared that Pawn’s mandibles would fall off by the end—the other Antinium were equally astonished. Yellow Splatters kept protesting.
“Me? Condemned to Hell? Then resurrected by Erin, who was a Goddess?”
“Have you been eating suspect mushrooms grown by Palt, Lyonette?”
Pawn asked after a while, and Lyonette shook her head, smiling.
“I wish, Pawn. Mushrooms do not become Goblin Kings.”
“They do in one of the stories about space that Kevin told the Kevin-Antinium. But if that is the only other explanation that is logical…then this happened. I was a Level 60+ monster. With glowing eyes.”
“Very scary, but also sort of cool. You kept attacking Roshal, which was good. If strategically unsound!”
Nanette added. Lyonette feared that Pawn would take it badly or not believe her, but to her surprise, he just nodded.
“I see. That explains much. Yellow Splatters, begin a sweep.”
“At once, Pawn.”
“Hmm? For what?”
Lyonette sat up, and Pawn explained.
“There have been odd incidents among the Antinium of late. Some are…lazy? Or perhaps even committing crimes. Byproducts of our exposure to Liscorian culture. Our version of Aberrations, in a sense. But there were also other oddities—there were several Antinium who appeared to be Painted Antinium, but spoke oddly to my flock and the rest of the Antinium. They preached of a ‘Goddess’ and a ‘failed Prophet’. When I attempted to question them, they fled.”
Lyonette felt her stomach do a tiny hop. No more, really. She sighed.
“That…is not very surprising. Don’t treat them harshly, please? But don’t let them—influence you.”
“It sounds as if I should not, Lyonette. Fear not; we are all Antinium and thus reasonable people.”
A few weeks ago that would have been so much more reassuring. Lyonette smiled at Pawn, and he tried to urge her to tour the rest of the Hive.
“I can’t stay all day, Pawn. I promised I’d take Nanette shopping.”
“Oh, I see.”
Pawn grew visibly disappointed, and an Antinium behind him desperately started shuffling cards in their hands. Pawn took a step back to read a new card offered to him. Nanette, who’d edged around the group to see what was written, mouthed at Lyonette. She sighed.
“Pawn, are you attempting to make a date of this?”
The [Princess] raised her brows, and Pawn froze.
“No. I am certainly not attempting to re-woo you.”
“Nor is it a plan he and his Free Antinium spend too much time talking about.”
Bird commented as she passed by with a sample of free spicy donuts from the inn for any Antinium. This time, Pawn actually kicked at her; she flutter-hopped over his foot. Lyonette smiled ruefully.
“Not the best moment, Pawn.”
“Ah, because of the death and destruction. I see.”
His antennae drooped, and she half shook her head.
“That—and also because your older self and I had some rather unpleasant encounters. I think he was trying to be charming to me, but a bridge of about a decade’s time did not make me like what I saw. Forgive me—but I will visit again.”
She smiled again, and he sighed and hugged her before she went. When the [Princess] had gracefully exited, Pawn punched his knee lightly.
“Pawn. Of all the obstacles we anticipated in our simulations, I never expected it to be that fool. Curses! What did he do?”
He went to join Yellow Splatter’s hunt for the mysterious future-Antinium, partly in search of answers and to analyze their odd Erin-centric faith…but mostly to figure out how the other Pawn had gotten so lucky and what the hell he’d done to this Lyonette.
 
——
 
Then it was Lyonette and Nanette together, having a mother-daughter time. Well, and Colfa too and Dame Ushar, and Vaulont was on surveillance, and there were a few Calanferian servants in the mix as well, and Lyonette wouldn’t have been surprised if there were spies following her at a great distance, but in practice, it was just Lyonette and Nanette.
Different from Mrsha and Lyonette. Lyonette had called Nanette her daughter, and the witch-girl had accepted, but it was a compact between them. Califor would always be Nanette’s mother as well, and Lyonette wouldn’t interfere with that. But right now, they both needed each other, and they needed to figure out what that was like.
“So…how do you shop for clothing? We have an unlimited budget, Nanette. Let’s get something. Shall we stop at that store and make some more outfits to stab the eye? I’ll help.”
It was part of Lyonette’s new attitude towards things. Which, like the Archmage’s Well, was to let Mrsha and Nanette do what they wanted. Not everything, but if it was something like this? Why the heck not?
“You can’t just walk into a shop and do it deliberately, Lyonette. It’s got to be…spontaneous. You walk around new streets, and then you get what catches your eye.”
“With no eye towards color-coordination?”
Colfa interjected quizzically. Nanette was getting fewer looks in her suspender-t-shirt combo than Lyonette thought was appropriate. The witch girl smiled.
“With tons of eyes, Miss Colfa! You just don’t have to bow to what people think is proper.”
“Oh, I see. We’re shopping like [Witches].”
Lyonette pieced it together, and Nanette grinned. So they were off.
 
——
 
The first thing they collected was a flower dress on sale. Not a dress with floral prints, oh no. Rather, a skirt and upper dress that was made of huge petals, like a flower, dyed such that you appeared to be a giant daffodil with a grass skirt. Lyonette held it up, utterly entranced by this heinous crime against cloth.
“Who made this?”
Even in Invrisil, you had to ask. The pawn shop owner said one word.
“[Druid].”
“And they are not wearing this beautiful garment because…?”
Colfa eyed the clothing, and the shop owner uttered a mirthless laugh.
“I heard they walked by an Ashfire Bee nest with it on.”
“Ah, well, we’ll take it, if it fits, Nanette?”
The girl propped her hands on her hips, thinking hard.
“Of course the answer is yes. But who should wear it? It’s rather your size, Lyonette. We could take it for me, but maybe we can do something with that skirt!”
“Oh, joy…”
Despite herself, Lyonette got into the spirit of things. The next thing she bought were some gold bangles for ankles that were far too large; they jangled as Nanette tried to walk with them, then she shoved them onto her arms.
Colfa found a pirate’s tricorne hat. It was far too stylish to fit Nanette’s criteria, but Colfa insisted on wearing it and adopted a swagger as she walked.
Funnily, Colfa was the best actress of the three by far, since she’d had to disguise herself so long. After two more stores, someone came up to her asking if she was a [Captain] or part of a crew with a ship at any harbor. She told them her ship was booked up in a fairly convincing accent.
Lyonette, meanwhile, had noticed a bit too many stares coming her way, and after she saw Dame Ushar bodyblock the third person in sight, she motioned the Thronebearer over.
“Ushar, why is everyone staring at me?”
“I believe they’re realizing who you are, Princess. Your mother has taken off some of the obfuscation of your identity in Calanfer, and with this latest incident…”
Ushar grimaced, and so did Lyonette. Well, it hardly mattered…then her eyes fell on the dreadful skirt Nanette had bought her, and she had a horrific idea.
 
——
 
Fifteen minutes later, Lyonette, wearing her floral dress and elkhide legging jeans, strode after Nanette. She had black hair and a scar down one cheek, thanks to Dame Ushar’s work with some hair dye and a makeup kit.
“How did you have that just lying around?”
Ushar gave Nanette an innocent look.
“My budget allowed for it, Miss Nanette. We could dye your hair if you wanted.”
“I’ll go redheaded, then! No, wait, make it a natural orange!”
Colfa refused to change her hair, even though Ushar assured her it would wash out easily. She did buy more clothing, though, since Lyonette was paying for everything, or rather, the inn’s rather vast budget was.
By the time they were two hours in, a [Pirate Captain], a [Druid], and a disaster of fashion were ready for lunch. Nothing would do but for Lyonette to take them to a fancy restaurant.
