“Dad’s name was Johnss. He was a [Scribe]. Mom said he shouldn’t go, but he was really mad. He said Hectval shouldn’t have killed the [Innkeeper]. ‘Cause if they did that, they could kill anyone.’ H-he was really brave, everyone said. But then the [Innkeeper] came back to life…and he didn’t. That’s not fair. Why does she get to come back?”
She was crying, and Mrsha stared out the window at the rain. She could hear a door closing…but only in her head. A thousand glowing worlds, realities where everything else happened—but Nanette broke her out of her trance. She took Mrsha’s paw and gently sat down on the floor.
“I’m so sorry, Rinni. Tell me about him. My mother was Califor, a [Witch]. Mrsha? Urksh was part of the Stone Spears tribe, wasn’t he?”
Part of Mrsha hated Nanette’s gentle tone. Hated the way she used emotions like a spear and did more damage than Mrsha could have ever done with her fists or wands. But then she regarded the girl and began to write. Because she wanted Rinni to know.
Like a lonely [Builder] on her island, Mrsha felt like she was trying to build a bridge across the gap between them. Towards the Drake, who finally looked up and saw Mrsha, not an enemy.
 
——
 
An hour or so later, Mrsha’s eyes were red, and she was all cried out for a moment. She and Rinni had hugged before they’d left, and Rinni had apologized. Mrsha thought that the bullying would end after that.
Nanette appeared pleased with herself, despite her own red eyes, and Ser Dalimont had had a productive conversation with Rinni’s mother, it seemed. There was a really good feeling in Mrsha’s chest, despite the strong emotions.
They were walking back towards The Wandering Inn, splashing past a rally of Drakes in the streets. Mrsha sighed as she saw a Gnoll with slicked-back fur shouting from a stand.
“No more rent control! No more chaos! Vote out the old Council!”
He wasn’t getting much applause at first aside from a loyal knot of supporters, so the head of the Merchant’s Guild switched tactics.
“—More fairness for old Liscorians! Less bias, more equality!”
That got cheers from the Gnolls and Drakes. Mrsha sniffed. Oh, equality was what they were calling it? Nanette paused to peer at the crowd.
“That’s more people than last week. They’re not having this Gnoll. It might mean the elections are going to be closer than we think.”
The young witch was running a check on the crowd’s feelings, and Mrsha shrugged.
It’s not like we can do much. This isn’t our battle to fight.
She wasn’t going to be the one to try something and cause a full-scale riot. Good girl behavior all the way down, no matter how much she was tempted to throw a hardboiled egg at that idiot shouting about the poor [Landlords]. Or the idiots who thought he had a point.
But perhaps Mrsha was biased; no one had been charged for a place to sleep in the Stone Spears tribe, no matter if they were the lowest-level and most useless. What were you supposed to do if you couldn’t afford a place to stay? Get rained on in the streets?
Her nascent theories on property and common civil liberties aside, Mrsha didn’t realize they had a problem until Ser Dalimont threw an arm out.
“Miss Mrsha, Miss Nanette—a moment. Stay behind me. I may need to call for backup.”
Mrsha blinked and grew mildly alarmed. She didn’t see a problem, but she realized that she had been unfair to Dalimont with her earlier question. It seemed that a Thronebearer of Calanfer still had challenges in guarding her.
The fact that Ser Dalimont had noticed the shadow waiting for the two girls in the busy street was impressive enough. Neither Nanette nor Mrsha had spotted the woman tucked into the alcove of a building as rain pattered down the awning over her head.
She looked like any new citizen of Liscor, really. A motherly-looking woman with a scarf wrapped around her head, not some red-haired [Princess] or [Mage]. But Mrsha wondered how many people in Liscor, even now, could claim to outlevel her.
Miss Ebente, the [Carer] hired by Queen Ielane, stepped forwards, and Ser Dalimont didn’t reach for his shield or sword. He stepped forwards, interposing his body between Mrsha and the [Carer], but the girl wrote in the air.
Dalimont, don’t.
“I would like to talk to Mrsha, please. I insist upon it, Knight.”
Ebente looked Dalimont in the eyes without fear, and he eyed her as she glanced at Mrsha. But the girl had rather thought this might also be coming. She was glad Ebente hadn’t come to the inn. Again, sometimes having Lyonette for a mother meant knowing when she was the unreasonable one.
“—A café, then?”
Dalimont offered a compromise, and the [Carer] nodded after a second. She was watching Mrsha, not with that desperate determination like the last time, when she’d tried to rescue Roots Mrsha for all the right reasons in the world. She appeared…terribly sad.
Mrsha felt so bad for her.
 
——
 
The café served paninis and ice cream milkshakes, among other things. Erin’s cooking, stolen and probably upgraded if you were being honest. Mrsha ordered a panini even though she wasn’t really hungry, and split it with Nanette. They bought a hot one for Miss Ebente too, and a milkshake.
She clearly hadn’t had the food before, and it distracted her a bit as Dalimont and Nanette sat at a table where they could watch Mrsha, but not overhear. The woman had wanted to talk to Mrsha alone. She observed Mrsha chewing on her food for a while before speaking in a low voice.
“I’ve been observing you for the last week, Mrsha. You appear—happy. You’re eating enough. You feel happy.”
You can sense how I’m doing?
The [Carer] nodded. She sipped from her milkshake and gazed past Mrsha.
“That’s my job. I am a [Caretaker]. Like a [Carer]. Do you know my class?”
Mrsha nodded, and the woman explained with a faint smile. She seemed sort of like Miss Shassa, and Mrsha bet that she was sort of like a [Teacher], a [Mother], and a [Carer] rolled into one. For cities smaller than Pallass, perhaps? Or for whomever needed her.
“I make sure children are taken care of. I was at First Landing before this, but I’ve been to many cities. I’m not that high-level.”
Level 32 wasn’t that high-level? Mrsha raised her brows, but Ebente went on softly.
“There are better [Caretakers] than me. Real ones. I worked with one of Lady Lis’ helpers for a year. Do you know Lady Lis?”
No clue.
That didn’t surprise Ebente. She nodded.
“She worked on Chandrar when the King of Destruction was awake. The first time. She passed away—but her apprentices carried most of her levels. A [Carer] is a fine class. They can help families who need someone to mind a child. They’re compassionate, hardworking, mostly, unless it’s just a low-level one who doesn’t respect their class. But they’re not [Caretakers]. They seldom do more than try to make things better in small ways.”
Like…take a child away from a bad place? I’m very sorry how you were treated at the inn, Miss Ebente. You did the right thing, but I can’t go with you. I’m happy at the inn. And safe as I can be. I don’t want to go, and I don’t think I’m someone you should rescue.
Ebente gazed past Mrsha, her half-eaten panini steaming on her plate. She spoke abruptly.
“This isn’t the kind of thing I tell girls your age unless they’re too old. Like you. Most [Caretakers] who reach my level have—troubles. I was banned from First Landing when Calanfer hired me to come here. I was working with the Five Families. Noble households.”
Oh. Lots of sad children? Nobles wouldn’t let you take their kids away from them.
“No. But there are ways to pressure them, if you have no fear.”
She was a very brave woman, then. Mrsha felt worse. Ebente gazed past her.
“I was told you needed protection. I thought I might have to do more, but when I saw you…the last child I saw who had suffered like that was in the middle of a Drake war between cities that had become a siege. I failed.”
I didn’t want your help. Miss Ebente, I understand what you think, but I’m not like other children. I’m Level 22. I don’t think you can help me like the others.
Mrsha was very worried what the woman might do. But Ebente just gazed at her, and Mrsha realized the woman was very sad—and also confused and, perhaps, even a bit afraid.
“I watched you for this last week. To see how you were doing. Not the one before that. I was seeing a [Thought Healer] in Invrisil. I thought I’d lost my mind.”
The girl stopped chewing on her panini and put it down. Oh. Oh no. Ebente was dry-eyed as she watched Mrsha, but she spoke with a voice that quivered.
“I don’t understand. Were there two of you?”
Sort of. Yes.
The [Caretaker] closed her eyes. Mrsha tried to write an explanation, and then she saw Ebente’s eyes open again.
“Were there…more? Somewhere? In the inn, but far away?”
Her eyes were gazing at something she couldn’t see nor imagine. This time, Mrsha wrote even slower.
Yes. But there’s nothing you could have done. That’s the inn, Miss Ebente. And this was the biggest thing yet. Please, don’t blame yourself.
“I should take you somewhere far away. But Calanfer has told me to stop. So I imagine it would be incredibly difficult. Your mother will chase me, and she’s more dangerous than a Lady of the Five Families.”
Still, the woman didn’t look afraid. Just incredibly guilty. Mrsha nodded.
I’d fight you. This is my home. You can’t protect me, Miss Ebente. These things happen to everyone—
“They should not happen to you. You don’t understand. You shouldn’t think like that! No one should be here if that is what you have to believe.”
The woman reached over the table and captured Mrsha’s paw in a strong, yet gentle, grip. Her fingers were trembling. Ebente’s voice was hoarse.
“I could try. He couldn’t stop me. I have every right, and I believe there are enough good people in Liscor. But how far could I go, to outrun Calanfer? Or this inn? If I tried and levelled, and called everyone I know, perhaps I could do it.”
Please don’t. I’d be so unhappy.
Ebente gave Mrsha a terrible look, like a warrior staring down an impossible battle. But resolved…
Oh, she would have fit in the [Palace of Fates] so horribly well. Mrsha was so glad she hadn’t been there. Ebente would never have come back.
“It would be so much easier if you were unhappy. If you would just ask me, I would do it. But I’m too low-level. And I’ve already failed.”
The [Caretaker] rose, and Mrsha felt a surge of relief and a pang of guilt in her chest.
I mean what I said. Thank you.
“Don’t thank me.”
The [Caretaker] avoided Mrsha’s eyes. She reached for her money pouch, and Mrsha tried to stop her. But the woman carefully placed down some coins on the tables. She shook her head.
“It’s you, Mrsha. You or dozens. Maybe even hundreds of children who need someone like me. There are never enough of us. However it has to be done, with mercy and bravery and a plea to common decency like my teachers—or an axe—we’re needed. And I could help you or many more. I’m so, so very sorry.”
Oh. That was it. Mrsha wasn’t surprised to realize that Ebente knew Hedag. She wondered, if Lyonette were an actually bad mother or if she were actually being hurt, if they chased Ebente off, if she’d come back with Hedag? She wondered how far the [Caretaker] had gone or would go.
So that’s it?
It was just a logical conclusion. Ebente nodded. Then she spun away.
“There’s always a war. But even if there were no wars in the entire world—I’d be needed in the most prosperous paradises, and it wouldn’t be any easier. I’m not ready, but I think I’m needed. In the New Lands.”
Mrsha didn’t get it until she felt a sinking pit in her stomach.
There aren’t any children there. No one would be that stupid, would they?
Ebente gave her a bleak look.
“Families go together. Some decided to bet their entire fortunes on the New Lands. Parents are terribly selfish creatures. Goodbye, Mrsha. If you ever need help, then send a [Message] to these people.”
She had a piece of paper in hand. Her name was on the top. Mrsha took it and peered up at Ebente.
Can I give you some gold, Miss Ebente? Please? To help out? Or a healing potion? Dalimont—
The woman halted as the Thronebearer rose. She accepted both potion and gold, murmuring faint thanks, then she was standing, and Mrsha awkwardly got to her feet. She felt like she should apologize, but all the woman did was wrap her scarf around her neck.
“I’m so sorry, Mrsha.”
You didn’t fail me. But she had. Ebente stared at her hands, then turned towards the rainy street.
“I levelled twice. I wondered, why? But I took them. You understand, it’s you or so many.”
I get it. I’m happier than so many. Go, Miss Ebente, and please don’t feel bad.
Mrsha’s paws were trembling, and the [Caretaker] glanced back, once. Her kind eyes flashed.
“—Do you need my help, Mrsha? Just ask.”
She twisted around, and Mrsha saw Ser Dalimont’s face growing apprehensive. No matter what it took…the girl admired Ebente then, terribly deeply. And she thought there was no way she’d ever be someone like that woman. There were some things too hard for her.
The Gnoll girl lifted a paw and waved, silently. So the [Caretaker] bowed and strode away, and Nanette stopped squeezing Mrsha’s other paw. They watched her walk into the rain, and Nanette murmured.
“All the [Witches] always say that Witch Hedag is the most fearsome and hardest-working out of all of us. I wondered why she was at the coven for Riverfarm, because she seemed so unimpressive compared to the other [Witches]. Now, I think I get why they respect her.”
Mrsha nodded silently. Then she hugged her sister, and they paid for their food and drinks.
Painful conversations all around. Good ones. Mrsha silently added Ebente to a list in her head of everyone she respected or admired. And she hoped the living would continue to outnumber the dead.
She’d do what she could to keep it that way, small as it was. But for now…
They went back home.
 
——
 
The only trick was getting them all back to the inn before Lyonette noticed the red eyes. They used the [Garden of Sanctuary] to avoid going through the common room, and Mrsha thanked Dalimont and Nanette for the help.
Smallhoof too. The Sariant was a bit less emotional about the entire thing. In fact, Nanette was stuffing gold coins into a bag around his neck. He gave Mrsha a ‘good for you’ kind of placid stare as Nanette hugged her sister.
“Thanks for trusting me, Mrsha. And I think I actually acted like my class today. I’m going to talk to Wall Lord Ilvriss. You coming?”
Mrsha gestured at her red eyes.
Give me thirty minutes to chill out. I’m just gonna hang around the gardens, okay, Dalimont?
He bowed.
