“Of course, Miss Mrsha. Your friends are at the inn already; I’ll have refreshments sent around and inform them all is well.”
The man left her alone, and Mrsha stood in the garden until a little bee buzzed down. Mrsha hugged Apista.
Hey, Apista, today was a pretty tiring day. Emotional.
The bee did a slow barrel-roll in Mrsha’s arms.
No kidding? Emotional? Since when are they not?
With a sigh, Mrsha tossed the bee upwards, and Apista flew higher, smoking one of Niers’ tiny cigars. She supposed saving the tiny [Strategist] and acting as his mount had benefits; he kept sending the little cigars each month in care packages for Apista. And what did Mrsha get for bandaging him up and whatnot? Nothing, that’s what.
The girl stood in the [Garden of Sanctuary] for a while, then glanced around. She padded around the hill, where no one, not even Apista, could see her. And then Mrsha opened the second door.
 
——
 
She was a good girl. She was trying to be, she really was. It was easy, and oh so very hard. But sometimes, right now, the girl needed to be herself. And what ‘herself’ was was changing.
The ordinary kilt and t-shirt that Mrsha wore went in a little chest she’d stored in this second garden. She felt naked without it, which was really odd; when had she become such a clothing-person? Her mother had just let her run around naked in the inn? That was bad parenting.
Then the girl collected the rest of the objects in the chest. There were only a few, but she put them on one at a time.
A ring from the future. A pair of handsome red robes that weren’t as cool as the [Archdruid]’s robes, but close, and a staff in two hovering pieces.
Then Mrsha began to climb into the second [Garden of Sanctuary]. It wasn’t like Ser Dalimont wouldn’t know how to find her, and Lyonette knew she was here. But for a moment—Mrsha was alone. The robes of Warmage Thresk clung to her, and they were very cool, despite the sand and light that blew across her face.
A storm of sand was howling down, harsh grit passing across the Gnoll’s fur, the same color. In the distance, more dunes of sand rose across the dome, and the girl climbed towards the central hill.
She felt her legs getting a workout after a few minutes of hiking. But she used the clockwork-staff as a walking stick and kept going upwards.
Exercising. She was climbing the mountain of sand that led up towards the center of the dome. Ascending upwards, through the blazing sunlight and the whirling sands.
She didn’t know who owned this garden; it was the third one that spoke of Chandrar, but even more inhospitable than the arid garden that had belonged to a flier or Pomle’s lost [Garden of Sanctuary]. Whatever was here, the sandstorm had covered it all, and an ever-shifting mountain meant all you could do was climb or be buried by the storm.
As far as Mrsha knew, she was the only one who had spent any time here; no one had found anything given the inhospitable environment. She kept heading up the mountain, slipping, sliding down, doggedly working her way upwards with only the storm for company. But the howling wind and darkness of this garden wasn’t what she was listening to.
The Gnoll’s ears were filled with music. A crystal-clear song played from the magical W-Ring from the future. Songs that no one in this world had ever heard, unless Rianchi, Dyeda, or Rags had found the exact same songs as she had.
A song so piercingly painful that she could never just stand still when she listened to it. Like so many that had come with this magical artifact. Mrsha knew that if she wanted to, she could probably sell the songs and become famous, or do something with them. But she didn’t fancy those consequences.
All she wanted to do was this. The Gnoll climbed towards the rays of light shining down from the top of the mountain of sand, and she’d never made it up to the top. Even hours of effort wouldn’t let her climb up there, but it wasn’t the destination, but the ascent that mattered.
Well, she also wanted to know what the view from the top was like. But until then, Mrsha doggedly climbed. After a moment, when the wind blew her head-over-heels down the mountain, she stopped, closed her eyes, and lifted her staff overhead.
Then she cast a spell, and the red robes whipped around her. The Relic-class staff blazed in her paws, and Mrsha wondered when she’d find someone to give it to. But for a moment, she cast a spell of wonders and began to climb again. Up a staircase of glittering steps made of light.
Listening to the song—sung by that familiar voice.
Cara O’Sullivan had covered so many songs from Earth, and the magical ring held them all. Mrsha listened to her soft voice and knew that the [Singer] of that world in the future had been better than even the Singer of Terandria of her world. She captured every note and nuance of the song like the original singers.
Up, higher and higher.
The song, Golden Slumbers, kept playing on repeat in her ears until she switched to another track by the same band. And she was content.
 
——
 
How long Mrsha climbed, she didn’t know. Only when someone came to get her did she stop and turn.
A taller Gnoll with brown fur was watching her, hands in her pockets. She said nothing as the sand blew over her until Mrsha switched off the music. Then Arrema, the older Mrsha from the another world, spoke.
“You’ve got terrible taste. The Beatles, really? What are you, fifty years old? Only the Earthers and old folks like that stuff.”
Hey, I didn’t ask for your criticisms. All your recommendations suck. It’s all about pining for love and sex.
Arrema rolled her eyes.
“You’ll get it eventually.”
Mrsha mimed sticking a finger down her throat and vomiting. Then they just stood together. Arrema glanced at Mrsha’s robes and staff.
“Nice gear.”
Want it?
Mrsha offered somewhat unwillingly, but Arrema shook her head. She flexed her arms.
“I’ve got to start from the bottom. That’s the only way you level. I’m thinking, Mrsha, I know where I might want to go.”
Mrsha’s ears perked up.
“Really? Where?”
“Oh, Salazsar. Remember old Wer the Wanderer? We never went to him, but I always wondered what the heck happened. In my time, Salazsar fell to pieces. There was this huge uprising that became bloody…turns out you lost Sellme way before we did. In my world, he got executed publicly, and it started the riots.”
Mrsha nodded slowly.
Wer’s not gonna trust you, even if I write him a letter, though.
“Hey, I’ve got the fur to prove I’m legit. And I’m a tough girl. I can handle myself! I can’t just sit around scheming like Moore. I mean, my Moore. He’s going around making deals with everyone and working his way into Liscor. And countering the Mother of Graves; he’s got every well in the city marked, and I bet he’s tossing the cure in there soon. He’s got Liscor, and he’ll just look over my shoulder. Same with your Mom. I’m not taking orders from someone a year older than I am!”
Arrema jerked a thumb at her chest, and Mrsha nodded. She tilted her head slowly.
Just one small problem. In this world, a lot of white-furred Gnolls are former Plain’s Eye. So…you might have a bit of a problem proving you’re cool anyways.
The older Mrsha faltered, then threw up her paws.
“Oh come on! How much stupid stuff did you guys get up to? At least I don’t have to assassinate Xherw…nothing’s fun here. So—Dalimont sent me to get you. Want to get back to the inn? I want to talk to Ilvriss, but he doesn’t know me. Could you sort of introduce me?”
Mrsha nodded. She took her older self by the paw as they walked back to her chest. Arrema murmured.
“It’s a shame he’s still mourning Periss. Because he’s really cool, y’know? Hot.”
I’m going to throw up. What’s wrong with you?
She turned, and an older version of herself grinned. Mrsha walked out of the garden, shaking sand off her fur. When she couldn’t take it anymore, the memories, her guilt, her agony, she’d go back into that garden and fire a spell up at the sky. Or just climb.
“You’re older now, Mrsha. Does it feel bad?”
Arrema asked her, and Mrsha just smiled.
I’m firing [Grand Lightning] up at the sky. It’s awesome. Don’t tell Mom.
“Lips sealed. Can I try with the staff later?”
Sure.
 
——
 
That evening, the inn was full of noise. So much so that Lyonette had to cordon off parts of it. Relc was in the common room, reenacting the entire case with Zevara—who wasn’t even here! They’d asked her to attend, but she had to ‘close the case’.
However, that wasn’t the only event. Wall Lord Ilvriss was in fact in the [Garden of Sanctuary] having a more private dinner than the raucous inn—everyone seemed to think that Zevara’s antics were the inn’s fault, but it wasn’t anything Lyonette had done!
Kevin and Joseph…maybe. However, Lyonette just ran around making sure they had enough capacity for everything, and then she went to find Valeterisa. She settled everything to her satisfaction for tomorrow, and only then did she get to the real dinner party.
Ilvriss was having dinner on the grass, and a meatball rolled off his plate and down the hill. Apista buzzed down after it and dropped it back on his plate. His expression indicated he would rather not eat the grass-covered meatball.
“Hey, Lyonette, any luck on getting you-know-who and Joseph in here?”
Rose jumped to her feet as Ilvriss flicked the meatball off his plate again, and Apista went after it. Lyonette shook her head.
“Joseph’s surrounded by fans talking soccer—excuse me, football. And as for Kevin, he’s having too much fun with Drassi.”
Rose offered Lyonette a rather salacious, and pointed, smile.
“Ooh, fun-fun or…?”
“Just fun, Rose.”
Lyonette threw herself down on the grass with a huge sigh of relief. She was tired! Wall Lord Ilvriss cleared his throat, eying Rose side-long. He didn’t really remember the Earthers well, and she seemed radically different from his memories.
“If I’m taking away from the moment, we could move into the main inn—”
“No, no, I want to talk to you, not shout above the rest, Ilvriss! Anyone is free to go, though. Nerul is certainly holding his own at the bar.”
No one did. They had Rose, Imani, Mrsha, Nanette, Bird, Yelroan, Octavia, Dalimont, Ushar, Ishkr, Arrema sitting next to Wall Lord Ilvriss, and even Xesci in this quiet ‘inn family’ gathering. And Apista. The bee buzzed down and dropped a meatball into Lyonette’s hand. The [Princess] threw it instantly, and Apista flew off happily.
“Nerul’s been working extremely hard. He deserves a night off. Where’s Elia Arcsinger?”
Ilvriss cast around, and Nanette pointed.
“She’s with Calescent. They hang out.”
“Arcsinger. With Calescent.”
“He’s one of the only people nice to her.”
Ilvriss blinked, but it was a mark of his veterancy that he just took another bite of his dinner.
“I shouldn’t ever be surprised by this place. Dead gods, but this is good pasta and meatballs.”
“I worked on the recipe.”
Imani volunteered, and Ilvriss gave her a respectful nod.
“If you’d ever care to work in trying circumstances, we’d hire you for the excavation in a heartbeat. Wonderful taste. It goes splendidly with this grape juice.”
He was enjoying himself, and Lyonette shifted as she gazed about the company. She spoke abruptly.
“Ilvriss, now we’ve put a door near enough to you to get within half a day’s ride, I think you should visit more. And I certainly can do the same for your project!”
She’d missed him. Genuinely and truly, he was good with the inn, and she had appreciated his input on the Tessa situation. Ilvriss patted his mouth with a napkin.
“I agree. There’s a touch of insanity I’ve missed with the inn’s folk. We could have used it—or an earthquake or sinkhole—these last few months.”
“I’ll take that as a compliment.”
Lyonette chuckled at him, then grew serious.
“How bad was it, Ilvriss?”
He fiddled with his napkin and shot Xesci a glance; she grimaced, and Ilvriss murmured.
“Truly, it was just organizational issues. Most of it wasn’t anything to write about. I could share the entire tale, but I think it’d bore more than entertain. If no one has anything else to bring up, I could tell it.”
He regarded Mrsha and Lyonette, clearly hoping they’d talk about the [Palace of Fates]…but the memory of who was buried in the [Garden of Sanctuary] almost made Lyonette push her plate away. The fact that Mrsha was sitting, eating, kept her from doing that, but it was too close.
No one else said anything, but Lyonette did have something to bring up. Yet she wasn’t sure.
“I…have something fit for conversation, actually. It was yesterday when I had a few beverages that I received a—I encountered someone.”
Nanette, Mrsha, Ishkr, Bird, everyone sat up. They grew fascinated, and Ilvriss raised his brows. He began to sip from his cup, then thought better of it and put it down.
“Who?”
“Erin.”
Ilvriss inhaled sharply. Then Apista slammed into the side of his head. The bee was as shocked as the Wall Lord! Erin? No way!
Then Apista realized they weren’t pretending to be shocked and buzzed over to land on Mrsha’s head. Lyonette wanted to relate all of the encounter, and she was prepared to talk about the odd size Erin had been in this trusted company…but she hesitated.
There was a sizable portion of their discussion that her instincts were telling her not to share under any circumstances, even to this group that loved and wanted the best for Erin. Both on a political level and a personal one, it was private.
Assuming I’m right. I want to, dead gods, but I wouldn’t betray her trust like that. But whom could Lyonette talk to? For she had to talk to someone.
Colfa? But the Vampiress, a good confidant in many matters, wasn’t an expert in this. Lyonette’s gaze flickered around the group and landed on the best candidate.
Rose was as open-mouthed as everyone else, but she seemed to sense Lyonette’s reserve, and her cheeks flushed. Or…changed?
Lyonette felt her heart skip a beat as Rose smiled in a way that defined coquettishness. And Lyonette had never seen the word illustrated so well. Rose had changed after the [Palace of Fates]. In ways that were subtle, but right now, she was being unsubtle.
“Mother of—what did you just do, Rose?”
Imani certainly noticed whatever Rose was doing and nearly leapt into Nanette as she jerked away from the other Earther. Rose stopped and apologized.
“Sorry, Imani. Just testing new tricks. What did Erin say? What was she like?”
“How’s the Titan’s company?”
Ilvriss was so lost at sea he was probably still floating on Erin’s raft. Lyonette took a breath to explain.
“She’s alright.”
