“My name is Bird! I am not threatening! Stop running! You’re still in range of my bow if I was killy! Raaaaah, this is a racism!”
So saying, she drew an arrow to her bow, and Lyonette whirled.
“Bird, don’t—”
The Antinium fired a [Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow] straight up. Elia whirled and aimed her bow up.
“Wild magical arrow! Bird!”
She fired, and her arrow hit Bird’s at its zenith. The explosion of lightning in the clear spring air made everyone stare. At Bird, who fanned her wings and hugged Elia.
“I did that because I knew you’d hit it. Hello, world! I am Bird the Huntress! And this is Mustache-Elf, my friend who looks like no one else!”
She stood on the edge of the wagon, fanning her wings to keep her balance and waving her arms. A green bug-person, and a half-Elf with a mustache waving weakly. Then Liska got up.
“And I’m Liska!”
…No one knew who that was. Ser Dalimont galloped back to ask Bird to get down and stop screaming her location to the skies. They were being observed…but the open road wasn’t a good moment. If there were enemies of the inn, they’d want more warning and preparation.
Besides—that Wall Lord had sent people of his own.
 
——
 
“Lyonette!”
The first thing Wall Lord Ilvriss did when he rode towards the door being set up on the side of the road was shout the [Princess]’ name. He dismounted and strode towards the [Princess], who ran over and hugged him.
“Wall Lord! It’s good to see you! I’m sorry it’s been so long—but here we are!”
She gestured, beaming, to a door propped up in the middle of the road. A Gnoll was standing in front of it, holding her fingers up to frame it.
“Nah, I don’t like the position. Tilt it a bit more right. No, my right, Ishkr.”
Her brother growled at her.
“That is your right!”
“Oh. Well, your right.”
“It’s level and straight! What more do you want?”
“Hey, you’re not the one who has to stare out of it all the time. I want the best view. Move the waystone a tad bit to my left…can you smooth the dirt a bit where you plant it? Actually, we need to anchor it or else someone accidentally kicks it and it gets all wobbly.”
Ilvriss peered at the magical door, and then a little ball of fur hit his legs. Mrsha! He laughed.
“It’s Mrsha! And Miss Nanette! How are—huh?”
He picked up Mrsha and blinked. She was far lighter than he thought she should be. But the girl just beamed at him.
Hello, Ilvriss! It’s good to see you! You’re looking pretty dirty! And I hear you’re herding cattle!
“Mrsha, that’s not polite to say to Ilvriss!”
Lyonette scolded her weakly, but Ilvriss was dirty. He had both travel dust on him and dirt on his normally splendid attire. Ruefully, the purple-scaled Drake put Mrsha down.
“I apologize for that. When Nerul said you were coming today, I just mounted up and left the excavation site. I’m digging myself to raise morale. As for herding cattle, I would rather have not, but it’s far more economical than Chests of Holding—and the animals can graze. Except when someone steals them!”
His long-suffering sigh was annoying to his own earholes, but Lyonette gave him a sympathetic look as Nanette came over to shake his claw.
“Is it that bad, Ilvriss?”
“Oh, no. Just a longer project than most. I forget how hard it is to open a new vein in Salazsar. This isn’t worse than that.”
He lied. Ilvriss didn’t want to get into it in public—he was mostly scrutinizing them to see if the effects of this Goblin King attack were visible. Lyonette had told him…everyone was alive.
But she looks ten years older, and Mrsha’s too light. Isn’t she? As for Nanette—Ilvriss focused on the witch and hesitated.
“Ancestors, Miss Nanette. Did the Goblin King slay your sense of fashion?”
The words exploded out of his mouth, and the young woman’s eyes widened in outrage.
“I beg your p—”
Everyone around her burst into laughter. Ilvriss blushed, but her attire was just—why did he put his foot in his mouth within moments of meeting someone from The Wandering Inn?
It was a curse. He blamed Erin. First the toilet incident with her, now…Nanette was puffing up with outrage, but someone else accompanying Ilvriss whistled.
“Hey, Miss Xesci, you see that? Never thought I’d see a walking watermelon.”
One of the Sisters of Chell acting as Ilvriss’ bodyguard—along with his actual Rubirel Guard, who were silent and professional—nudged a female Drake and pointed at Nanette. The Drake woman instantly slapped her arm.
“Be nice. That’s a witch. They hex.”
Nanette whirled as the [Courtesan of Change] approached with a small group of Drakes, Gnolls, the Rubirel Guard, and Sisters of Chell. Ilvriss gestured at them all.
“Captain Shieldscale is supervising the excavation. I brought this group and Chests of Holding. May I take it that this door is connecting us back to Liscor?”
He tried not to sound desperate, but when Lyonette assured him it was, he had to refrain from crowing. Finally, freedom from the tyranny of those damn cattle-nobles! They seemed to control everything around here. It was aggravating, and Ilvriss knew that was ironic, coming from a Wall Lord, but he hadn’t caused any fuss! Well, not much.
“It seems you’ve had some difficulties, Wall Lord?”
Lyonette certainly picked up on his harried state, and Ilvriss exhaled.
“Well, between some personnel issues and the challenges of actually pinpointing our dig…it’s a problem. We keep passing over what looks like innocuous flat land, and we had [Geomancers] send down magical pulses to locate buildings.”
“Oh, very promising!”
“Yes…but no. It turns out we were finding pieces of, well, the city—but all the wrong pieces. I realized that after we got residential blocks. You see, if a Level 30 [Geomancer] can detect it…”
“It’s the wrong building! Anything still magical would be shielded.”
Nanette chimed in excitedly and stole Ilvriss’ thunder. He stared at her until she shuffled her feet.
“Well, it’s simply obvious, Wall Lord.”
“I…thank you, Miss Nanette. And it seems the inn is well enough to travel this far, Lyonette? No troubles on the road?”
“Well, it was a welcome break from the rains of Liscor, Ilvriss. There’s a bit of trouble with the inn—but we have undead working on the new one.”
“Undead. I’m almost desperate enough to hire them, if they were on offer.”
It was a mark of how worn down he was from all this damn digging. Too many Humans coming by to try and get overpaid for no work, thinking Salazsar was all richness and no brains. Nanette raised her brows.
“Surely you could get a good [Geomancer] to haul all the earth up, Wall Lord? Wouldn’t that beat even a dozen higher-level [Diggers]?”
He twitched and snapped back.
“As you observed, magic fails at a certain point when digging towards the city, Miss Nanette! Also, that much earth is too taxing, even for a high-level [Mage]! Third, when I want advice from a walking strawberry, I will ask.”
He regretted his outburst the moment it came out his mouth, but her fashion sense was genuinely upsetting him. Nanette’s offended glower said it all, but Lyonette snrked. She tried to look innocent as her daughter gave her a betrayed glance, but the [Princess] just gestured.
“We have food from Riverfarm if you have Chests of Holding. But may I treat you to a drink and meal in the inn? We have a jambalaya—Liska, is the door ready?”
“Ready! Though it’s just going to stand here. It might need, like, a checkpoint or guards on this end. Or a sign, at least.”
Ilvriss was ready for that. He gave one of his people a nod.
“We’ll take over this door. See to it, Sergeant. I don’t know if Miss Lyonette wants full traffic, but I want a little outpost here.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
Then, the Drake gratefully followed Lyonette back into the inn. Or rather, he began to as Liska threw herself down into her couch.
“Man, I’m beat! Alright, I can take over, Xinthe, thanks. Who wants to go to some random place in the northeast?”
She grabbed a bag of snacks as Ilvriss stared at her, then saw the dial click on the door as Liska stared at it. But he was so excited to be back at the inn he didn’t ask about her. He just strode through the door, into the hallway—and gaped at the giant barrier spell and exposed common room.
Lyonette turned to him when she saw the Wall Lord staring open-mouthed at the devastation. She smiled weakly.
“Oh, that. The Goblin King did cause a bit of a mess.”
“So he was actually here?”
Ilvriss just regarded her. The [Princess] waved it off airily.
“Yes, but as I said, no one died…”
Mrsha strolled past her, nodding, and Nanette halted as she saw Kevin running with a bicycle towards the doors. She stepped aside, and Ilvriss’ head slowly swiveled. The Skill that let Kevin hide his identity didn’t work on the Wall Lord.
No.
He turned back to the [Princess]. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut as Kevin ran into the portal room.
“Liska, send me to Esthelm! I need to help Captain Z—”
Ilvriss’ eyes found the broken wall. Then his head moved to Ser Dalimont, who stood, face unreadable. To Ushar—he gazed after Mrsha, and Xesci cast around and gave him one of the bleakest expressions he’d ever seen in his life.
She’d sensed something too.
“Lyonette. No one died?”
The Wall Lord walked forwards, and he entered The Wandering Inn and nearly ran into a young Gnoll woman with brown fur.
“Excuse me. I—Ilvriss?”
She froze up, then backed away when he apologized to her. Then ran like she’d seen a ghost. The sense of incongruity grew worse. Ilvriss searched around the inn, and no one was missing that he could see. Calescent grinned when he saw Ilvriss and waved out the kitchen window.
It was the same—but Ilvriss stared at the new Bird and then felt his bones shivering, as they always did, when The Wandering Inn surprised him.
“So a Goblin King truly walked through this place.”
He was speaking to Lyonette. She murmured.
“Oh, yes.”
“And no one died.”
“Yes.”
There was no truth stone that would work on her. So Ilvriss used his eyes. She lifted her chin and met his gaze without blinking or staring too long, even seeming amused by the question in his eyes—a perfect liar, trained by Calanfer. But the Wall Lord knew her.
“A Solstice event?”
“…Yes. Without her.”
Mrsha was watching him from her table, and her regard disconcerted the Wall Lord. Ilvriss cleared his throat as he gazed at the floorboards and saw a deep divot in them. As if something huge had rested a claw there.
“Then something quite grand or perhaps wonderful may have happened. Or tragic. And no one died?”
His head rose, and he met Lyonette’s again. Her gaze didn’t waver. She took in a breath, too quickly, and tried to speak.
“No…no one…”
She coughed, smiled, and spoke naturally.
“No one, Ilvriss. Of course not.”
The [Princess] thought she’d sold the lie until she realized he was a purple blob in her vision. And the hot tears were rolling down her cheeks. She hiccuped and felt for a handkerchief.
“Oh dear. Ushar. I—”
“Here.”
The [Princess] took the proffered silk handkerchief, wiped her eyes, blew her nose into it, and realized it was Ilvriss standing in front of her. He seemed ashamed.
“I’m sorry. I simply…wished to know the truth.”
He bowed his head. The [Princess] half-shook hers. She almost offered him back his handkerchief, but then realized how messy it was.
“The truth is so hard, Ilvriss.”
“I should have been there. That’s my fault. It feels like I shouldn’t stray beyond the reach of the [Door of Portals].”
He murmured as he gazed about. Lyonette almost laughed.
“You couldn’t have done anything, Ilvriss. It was just—a miraculous, terrible thing, as always.”
He nodded, accepting this at face value. How much should she tell him? Could she burden him with it? But if the inn had friends…he was one of the best. He and Zel. Dead gods. She missed Zel. She wished he’d come with them. Lyonette blinked more tears out of her eyes. The Wall Lord spoke gravely.
“That may be true, hard as it is to admit. Wall Lords, Archmages, and adventurers might not have been enough. Not in front of a Solstice event or a Goblin King. But sometimes, I think, you should be there or stand up to be counted. For your own sake, if no one else’s.”
When he said that, Xesci and the Drakes and Gnolls who’d followed him gazed at the Wall Lord in astonishment or…something else that Lyonette hoped was real.
One of the Sisters of Chell nudged the other and mouthed silently something like, ‘can you believe this guy’? They snorted until a [Knight] with a bowler hat half-rose from a table where he was eating with some very nervous men with hats and peered at them. Then they went dead still.
But Ilvriss and Lyonette were only paying attention to each other. The [Princess] gazed up at the Wall Lord, then threw her arms around him again.
“Eternal Throne, Ilvriss. I’ve missed you.”
He patted her on the shoulder, awkward.
“I’ve missed this inn too. Ah, just one more question. I swear this one isn’t emotionally striven. I hope.”
“Yes? Go on.”
She blinked wetly at him, and he pointed a finger.
“…That is Elia Arcsinger, isn’t it?”
Everyone stared at Elia, and she removed the crow-feather mustache and, amazingly, didn’t become red, just wore her most professional face ever. Lyonette simply began laughing, which answered his question.
 
——
 
Then the Wall Lord was back at The Wandering Inn. Just for a little bit. He arrived actually at a late lunchtime, which meant he had plenty of time to avail himself of the inn’s services.
Which was a hot bath, then food. In fact, the inn’s copper bathtub got a workout, and after the staff got tired of hauling hot water up to fill it, Inkpaper came up with a rather clever solution. While the Antinium worked, he vanished downstairs. Peggy eventually went looking around to kick his ass, but the Goblin came out with his invention.
A pipe. Peggy was hitting him with it when she noted the fluted end he’d stuck on with some Shield Spider glue and some new guttering that Hexel wanted to add onto the new inn. The end result was a raincatcher…that Inkpaper stuck out a window and attached to an open barrel. Easy water collection thanks to the rains.
Little things like that. The entire crew the Wall Lord had brought needed a bath; even the Rubirel Guard traded off to use the tub. It transpired that creature comforts were in rare supply at the dig site.
