“Miss Lyonette? I’m from Liscor’s Council—”
She flashed a huge smile at the Gnoll and turned away.
“Once Ishkr gets in, I’m sure he’ll be delighted to speak with you, sir.”
“Actually, I was hoping to speak to—”
The Gnollish [Negotiator] ran into Ser Dalimont as the [Knight] emerged from the gym and finished his morning workout, a towel around his neck and sweat running down his biceps. Lyonette saw him put an arm out and halt the Gnoll.
Both she and the Gnoll gave the man a second look. Without his armor, Ser Dalimont appeared a lot sharper than the man who’d first come after her to bring her home. Part of that was probably his advancing level and battle experience…but part of it was also, perhaps, access to the gymnasium.
His arms and legs and other parts of his physique were far more developed. Certainly enough for the Gnoll to hesitate as Dalimont politely chivvied him back to his seat.
Lyonette stared a bit longer than she needed to, and when she glanced around, she saw a head of brown hair disappear back upstairs. Which told her that Nanette had been right there. Perhaps waiting to see Ser Dalimont finishing his workout as well?
That’s not very discreet of Nanette. Did I do that when I was fourteen? Of course not! Lyonette’s memory presented her with an image of the younger [Princess] just casually hanging out around the Thronebearers’ practice courts. She instantly thought about putting her head through a wall. Because in hindsight, all the Thronebearers would have known what she was doing, ogling them as they worked out. Much less poor Thronebearers having to field questions from the [Princess] doing her best to be innocent…
Dead gods, memory was a terrible thing. She almost reached for another bottle before shaking her head.
The point was that she had an appreciation for Ser Dalimont. That was all! The very idea of doing anything more with a [Knight] in service to her was a terrible idea on all fronts. But it rather, ah, confirmed something Lyonette had been thinking of.
Firstly, she hadn’t lied to Erin. Well, she’d lied in the sense that she’d been very drunk and said what she’d been thinking at the moment to get a rise out of the other woman, but she definitely appreciated the male form in a way the female one didn’t do for her.
Second…she was perhaps a bit too lonely for her own good. Which again didn’t mean she was going to jump back into Pawn’s arms.
Wonderful, another problem for me to deal with. At least she could push ‘romance’ down to the bottom of a rapidly-filling queue. And she had the bandwidth to deal with problems this time. First off after mandatory Dalimont appreciation: Vaulont!
 
——
 
“Vaulont, are you well? I have breakfast if you’re able to stomach it.”
That was both a question about his mood as well as whether his stomach had a hole in it. When the Vampire answered in the affirmative, Lyonette opened the door and found him sitting up in bed. He was thoroughly bandaged, and when she entered with a jar of blood on a tray and some porridge on the side, he blinked.
“Where did that…?”
“Liscor’s blood bank. I asked Fierre what might be appropriate.”
“Oh. Thank you.”
He seemed startled to have her waiting on him, but Lyonette just put the tray down on a little stand that Asgra brought into the room.
“Do you mind debriefing me on what you saw?”
He nodded as he sat up a bit more and winced. Asgra waved a claw.
“You want me to feed you?”
Vaulont shook his head. Vaguely disappointed, the Cave Goblin retreated. Which made Lyonette think that Asgra admired Vaulont for his ability to kill…or maybe it was his red eyes and pointed teeth. Or maybe Asgra just thought that was a better job than working a morning shift.
“What can you tell me about Tenbault, Vaulont? This can wait if you’re unwell—I know you came in just past dawn via the door, but I was, ah, sound asleep.”
Or drunk. Vaulont found a spoon and hesitated as he reached for the blood. But after she nodded encouragingly, he picked up a metal straw and poked through the cork at the top of the glass jar.
“Honestly, there’s not much. It’s hard to notice Shriekblade at the best of times, and most of Tenbault is just focused on the Healer. She’s tripled her prices, but she’s doubled how many patients she sees per day.”
“She has? Dead gods, doesn’t she charge a fortune?”
Lyonette was astounded, and Vaulont nodded.
“And she’s cut down on the lottery for free healings. It feels like she’s…panicked. That’s just my perception. She’s generating as much gold as she can, even though it’s ruining her reputation.”
The [Princess] trusted that. Lyonette recalled that Valeterisa had obtained the [Restoration] spell—if the Healer knew that, she might be trying to cash in on her power while she could.
“I assume that doesn’t help the mood of the city.”
“No. I witnessed several fights, and it struck me as unsafe. Only her Named-rank bodyguard and the adventurers keep order around the place. And…Shriekblade. But she seems like she’s gone wild. All the [Drug Dealers] and the [Fences] I spoke to knew her, but they were terrified.”
“Oh, Tessa. Is—why is she like that?”
Vaulont rubbed at his stomach and avoided meeting her eyes.
“At a guess? I think she’s making use of the Healer’s talents.”
Lyonette gave him a blank look.
“But she said the Healer could cure her…”
Then she remembered what Tessa used to say, and Vaulont explained.
“Healing resets you. It also means if you were resistant to a drug, you’re back to square one. Or so I’ve heard. She could go on binges and then reset—”
The worst thing for an addict to face. One of Roshal’s agents had done something to her. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut.
“And the moment you ran into her, she attacked you?”
Vaulont shifted and glanced out the window.
“She…detected me. I thought my approach was good, but she was too vigilant despite whatever she was on. At least some of it was Selphid’s Dust. That heightens your senses. She only stopped attacking when I told her I was here on your orders. Then she fled.”
“She would have killed you unless you were high-level or…you.”
Lyonette eyed his wounds, which were still visibly healing, and Vaulont shrugged.
“I’d do the same thing if I thought someone dangerous at my level was approaching. I got away, and I could have put up a good fight if I were trying to kill her…but with respect, I don’t want to do that again.”
He gave her a mildly embarrassed gaze, recalling his boasts to her yesterday, but she just patted the blanket over his knee.
“You’ve given me enough, Vaulont. Knowing what condition Tessa is in…I must act sooner and without stealth. You rest.”
He nodded, but raised a hand. She halted at the door.
“You shouldn’t go to Tenbault until I’ve recovered, Lyonette. And I’d bring Elia and Bird and the [Knights]. Just in case.”
“She’s not that far gone.”
Lyonette wanted to believe that, but Vaulont just shrugged.
“There’s also Crowdcaller Merdon. If the Healer thinks she’s losing her best bodyguard—and she needs Tessa with the unrest—she might act rashly.”
A warning well needed. Lyonette sighed. But then she squared her shoulders.
Take my life one battle at a time. She thanked Vaulont and headed downstairs for a new encounter. She thought it was going to be Liscor’s envoy. But that [Negotiator] was outclassed.
 
——
 
A man was waiting for Lyonette as Mrsha and Nanette waited for breakfast. Which was a jambalaya, courtesy of Imani’s recipes, delivered with a flourish by Calescent.
The Gnollish [Negotiator] drew back at the advent of the Goblin. He backed up a step—and then kept backing up until he nearly hit a wall and was utterly confused. He tried to move forwards—but it was like a force was pressing him against the wall.
Not Ser Dalimont. The Gnoll began to open his mouth—and a friendly, clawed hand clasped his shoulder.
“[Lose a Step, Lose Ten Feet]. You can’t flinch when you want something. You need to smile at a Creler, young man. Here to see the Princess?”
“What? I—yes. I’m Negotiator Harclaw, on the business of Liscor’s Council—”
He found himself shaking hands with a Drake who was heavy-set and wearing robes. Harclaw was a no-nonsense Gnoll used to arguing with [Merchants] and busybodies. Not the inn, but every other [Negotiator] had failed. He had a firm handshake—but this Drake had a handshake you could use to hold a bridge together.
One bright eye blasted Harclaw like a [Lightbeam] spell, and the dizzy [Negotiator] stumbled. Diplomat Nerul caught him, eased him into a seat, and waved a hand.
“A drink for my friend here. Pardon me, young man, but I’m on urgent business as well. Salazsar. You know how it is. A bit of a lesson—mind what you gulp and hope you level.”
“Uh—uh—thank you. Did you say—?”
Woozy, stunned, the poor young Gnoll reached for the cup that Nerul had paid for and took a deep gulp. Then he choked as the burning glass of clear alcohol hit his stomach like a punch. He gave the Cave Goblin a betrayed eye. Asgra just rubbed her hands together.
“This fun after all!”
She skipped off as Nerul barrelled towards Lyonette, a smile on his face.
Salazsar’s strongest [Diplomat]—perhaps the highest-levelled in all the Walled Cities—walked towards Lyonette, who was having breakfast with her daughters and discussing the day’s events with them.
Lyonette did not need more headaches, a fact that the staff and her bodyguards knew quite well. Besides, there was decorum to having a quiet breakfast. So Ser Dalimont moved to intercept as a Calanferian servant tried to pull the old ‘water glass’ distraction.
“Oops, I’m so sorry, s—”
Nerul whirled like a [Dancer], caught the tripping young man by the arm, and had him in a seat with the tray balanced. He patted the [Servant]’s shoulder.
“Not to worry, young man, it happens to us all. Let’s have [No More Accidents], shall we?”
A wink, and Xinthe stirred from her spot where she was watching him. Oh, he was good. But he was coming at Dalimont now, and the Thronebearer was beaming. Ready to offer Nerul a meal and a drink and block him physically from reaching Lyonette.
Nerul opened his mouth to call out, and Dalimont triggered a [Silence] spell.
Unfortunately, he was up against the Drake who’d negotiated the end of the Retirement War between Oteslia and Salazsar. Nerul saw the Thronebearer activating Skills, gathering himself like a bulwark of propriety—and Dalimont had levelled too. A Gold-ranker’s strength in the form of a [Knight], armor and dignity.
In response, Nerul spread his arms like a [Vizir of Villainous Deeds] and smiled. The light flashed off his teeth and ostentatious, bejeweled rings. His own aura coalesced until you could see vivid purple trails of what seemed like smoke rising from his body.
Aura clash? Dalimont eyed Nerul as the Drake approached, arms still outspread like the final encounter of one of Kevin’s fighting games. Dalimont braced for a push—and then saw Nerul stop concentrating, then mouth silently.
The Thronebearer blinked, chanced a glance over his shoulder, and realized he’d already lost. Why?
Well—Nanette and Mrsha were both staring at the Thronebearer and [Diplomat] squaring off in silent drama, and Lyonette had twisted around in her chair and noticed Nerul.
The [Diplomat] winked as Dalimont groaned. Possibly, the battle had already been lost the moment Nerul entered the common room unchallenged. All he had to do was get their attention. With a bow, Dalimont deactivated the [Silence] spell and moved out of the way.
“A visitor for you, Your Highness.”
“Nerul, you certainly make an entrance! I would have thought the staff would put up something of a fight against you.”
The [Diplomat] sat with a sigh, beaming around the table, and nodded at Lyonette.
“Oh, they did their best, but they always underestimate us Drakes. That’s why I like our diplomatic corps. Lower their expectations and let me come in and clean house every now and then. At least, that’s how I have to rationalize it so I don’t drink myself under the table. I’ll have what Miss Mrsha and Miss Nanette are having. Hello, hello! How are things going in the inn of late? Calescent, good day to you! Hold the death spices!”
He shouted at the kitchen, and Calescent called a greeting. Despite knowing he was here on business, Lyonette hid a smile. Nerul embodied the best parts of Calanfer’s diplomatic abilities to her.
“How can we help you, Diplomat Nerul? Things have been ah, usually unusual here. Can I help you with anything this morning?”
“Oh, let’s not rush things over breakfast. Miss Mrsha, you’ve lost weight. Can I get you anything from Invrisil the next time I visit? And you, Miss Nanette—wonderful attire.”
He gazed at Nanette’s new outfit she’d selected from yesterday without a hint of irony, and his eyes flicked to Lyonette when she froze up. However, Mrsha just smiled and wrote to Nerul that she was eating tons, and Nanette beamed at the compliment.
The Drake cast around the room and exhaled.
“Goblin Kings. Damndest things. They just pop up like that.”
He snapped his fingers, and everyone realized he had no idea what had gone on with the [Palace of Fates]—not more than anyone else. But he had walked in here and was just…rolling with it.
You had to admire the Drake’s bravery. Lyonette raised a truth stone that Ushar handed her as she eyed Nanette’s new clothing, which was a blazing red, Drathian-style shirt two sizes too big over a too-short yellow dress…but that was okay because it was paired with orange shorts and pink socks. In theory, it would be a great fire-patterned outfit, except for the fact that it made Nanette look like she was two sizes bigger and at the same time had no bones.
“You didn’t even lie, Diplomat Nerul?”
He gave her a mildly outraged gaze.
“Miss Lyonette, I don’t lie when the truth works better. I delight in Miss Nanette’s outfit. If everyone in Invrisil or Salazsar dressed like that, my mood would never be dour! We should be encouraging, shouldn’t we? And might I add, the [Druid] outfit rather suited you.”
She blushed mightily as he grinned and faced Nanette.
“You should try young Salazsarian fashion. It’s all gemstones. You sew them into everything. The bigger and shinier, the better. It’s meant to offend the eye and tell you how much they’re worth. A [Thief] with a knife’s wet dream.”
Nanette laughed.
“I want something practical, Diplomat Nerul!”
Practical? You can’t even swim in that.
Mrsha shot back as Lyonette, scandalized by Nerul’s wet dream comment, shot him a glare. But the Drake was already turning to Peggy to ask another question.
