“Ah.”
The expression on Erin Solstice’s face said that she knew too much and would prefer not to know any more. Lyonette, however, was far too drunk to spare Erin’s sensibilities.
“I know you knew about me and Pawn…it made sense at the time, but now we just don’t fit quite right, Erin, you know?”
“Um. Nope. Relationship advice isn’t for me. Isn’t, uh, that Lord Pellmia guy around? Or Ishkr? Menolit? Mrsha?”
The [Innkeeper] was trying to be supportive, but Lyonette just flopped against her. Now she was getting used to the beetle, she felt relaxed, sleepy, as they trundled along in the warm jungle. This was…beautiful.
When Erin looked around, she seemed more alive.
Younger. Like an actual young woman.
I want to be here with you. Everyone in the inn, with a magic door so we can join your adventure. But I want you to be unable to come back…because I think this is actually good for you, roaches and all.
Lyonette felt that so strongly she wanted to weep. Weep for the relaxed, smiling [Innkeeper] she’d thought had vanished forever. The only thing she resented was not being here with Erin.
“I feel silly about Pawn, Erin. I thought we’d be in love…forever. But just like all the poets say, it was only for a few months. Then I was so worried about Mrsha and everything else, it felt like we were strangers when we met again. You know?”
“Seriously, I don’t. I have only a few relationships under my belt, Lyonette. Is that how you say it? Under your belt? Yuck, that sounds gross, actually.”
Erin grimaced, and Lyonette laughed up at her. Then she grew serious as only a very drunk person could. Because she had the liquid courage to ask the questions she and everyone else hadn’t ever really dared to ask.
“Did you…ever find anyone you liked so much it hurt, Erin?”
“Me? No.”
The [Innkeeper] said it so simply and easily that it pained Lyonette’s heart. Erin brushed at her white patch of hair.
“Well, the relationship hurt. But never like…wanting someone so bad like that, I guess. It sounds nice.”
“It’s terrible. And wonderful. Not once?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged, defensive.
“I didn’t meet that many guys, Lyonette. One time, I accidentally dated a girl online…most chess dudes are, um…chess…dudes.”
“Ah. On par with a 4th [Prince] of the realm?”
“…Probably below that. Do [Princes] bathe regularly?”
The [Princess] gave Erin such a morose stare that the [Innkeeper] began chuckling. She hugged her ribs as if they hurt, and Lyonette began giggling too. Then she remembered…that was what she was missing.
Her best friend.
“Erin, you have to come back. I miss you! Everyone keeps living their lives without you and treating us like we’re just…an inn. You have to come back and push over a building in Invrisil!”
“I promise I’ll do that once I get back. Is Pawn really the worst of it, Lyonette?”
She gave Erin a serious gaze.
“Well, that, and Future-Pawn became the [Prophet] who nearly destroyed everything, so…yes. I’m rather afraid that if I reject him, he’ll become the same Prophet! Only more radical.”
The [Innkeeper] had to admit this was a good point. She stared up at the trees passing overhead as the Battle Hamster began sneezing on Eurise, who was tickling his nose with some wild cotton. They began fighting and leapt from the beetle’s back in amazing displays of martial arts as Lyonette and Erin watched.
“Y’know, Lyonette, you can’t date someone or be worried about rejecting them because they might become a religious maniac. But that’s just my opinion.”
It turned out that Erin was full of relationship-wisdom on par with Lord Pellmia! Lyonette drunkenly sat up.
“I’ll remember that! Can I tell Pawn that you thought a relationship wasn’t a good idea?”
“Aw, don’t drag me into it. Um…fine.”
“Wait, wait—what if you called him into your [Pavilion of Secrets] and told him not to attempt to date me?”
“No…no. I’m not doing that.”
Lyonette pouted, then put her head down in Erin’s lap. The [Innkeeper] gently picked up Lyonette’s head and put her on the beetle’s shell instead. She got up with a sigh, stretching out her back.
“Whoops, I forgot that I can’t exercise in here. This is from earlier. It’s night right now, and we’re about to stop. And you’re…?”
“At the bar. Drinking.”
“Huh. Well, I can’t help with Pawn, Lyonette. But, uh, you’re not the only one with unwanted romance. Poor Ulvama has Matha flirting with her. She says it’s fine, but it’s really annoying.”
Erin developed a scowl as she pointed up at the guitar-playing Fraerling, but unlike a real expression of her ire, this was just hilarious. She flopped onto her stomach.
“Oh, really? Well, Ulvama can handle her. I’m more amazed that a Fraerling is interested in a Goblin.”
The [Innkeeper]’s scowl deepened.
“Yeah, they’re really open-minded. Did you know? Her grandmother told me Matha’s a…lesbian!”
She glanced around before whispering that to Lyonette. The [Princess] gave Erin a very serious look.
“Erin, I don’t know what that is.”
“Oh. Uh…”
After a brief explanation, Lyonette got it, but she didn’t feel much of anything at the news. The [Princess] knew her Terandrian roots should have her exclaim in horror at this point, but after having met various people in the inn and having a good talk with Rose…she just raised her eyebrows.
“Terrifying, Erin. Far worse than that fellow with the roach leg.”
“Who, Bowom? Absolutely. He’s really cool. I just hope I don’t lose a limb with him around because he’ll probably get me a new one. But it’s annoying! And I think Ulvama’s encouraging it.”
“Dear me.”
Erin eyed Lyonette as the [Princess] rolled up the Corumdon Beetle’s back, giggling to herself.
“I feel like you’re not taking this seriously, Lyonette.”
“Erin, if the worst you have is a Fraerling flirting with Ulvama, I am very relieved. I wish…I had someone nice flirting with me. Not Pawn, but someone I could talk to.”
She lay morosely on her stomach. Erin pointed a finger at her.
“You’re weird. What happened to self-sufficient, tough Lyonette?”
“I’m lonely, Erin. I’d rather have some—interesting, casual, fun relationship with someone handsome, knowledgeable, who can dance…something less involved than the inn!”
“Huh, I’m…too busy for that. And so is Ulvama.”
Erin stared at the Hobgoblin, longer than was mannerful, but since it was just her memory, the Hobgoblin didn’t react. Erin hesitated, then walked over next to Ulvama and sat down. Lyonette sat up and squinted.
“Really now?”
She felt her buzzing mind focus for a moment, but she was so doubtful of the conclusion her alcohol-soused brain gave her that she shook her head. She stood up, and Erin smiled wistfully up at her.
“Yeah. I’ll figure that out when I get back to civilization. And if you’re gonna date someone…maybe not an Antinium? They’re pretty young, Lyonette. So are Hobgoblins. Like Numbtongue.”
“Erin, I may throw up on you. The idea.”
“Oh, good. I wasn’t sure if his [Bard] powers were still active…”
The [Princess] sat next to Erin, glancing at the [Innkeeper], who was now distracted for some reason.
“He’s another reason why we need you back. Oh, Erin, I don’t want to burden you, and I’m so glad you seem better.”
“Me too, Lyonette.”
Erin glanced at her, and the [Princess] heard another foreign song being played on the guitar overhead. Erin glowered, but Lyonette’s eyes twinkled with a sudden idea.
“Well, I’ll be fine, Erin. I’m feeling better, truly. Strange, I never thought about…seeing another woman. It’s rather unappealing.”
Or to be precise, it made none of her that interested. Even Pawn made her more wistful than that. Erin blinked.
“What? Uh, yeah. Not that there’s anything wrong with that. Equal marriage and everything.”
“Mhm.”
The [Princess] leaned over and rested her chin on Erin’s shoulder. The [Innkeeper] frowned at her.
“You really are drunk. Be sure to lay off the strong stuff, okay? What were you drinking, Rxlvn?”
Lyonette chuckled.
“Just enough to stop worrying so hard. And to embarrass my mother, which I realize isn’t a splendid motivation…”
“Yeah, uh, that sounds bad. You sober up with one of Octavia’s drinks, m’kay? That’s an order! Promise me in the [Pavilion of Secrets]!”
Erin pointed at Lyonette, and she sounded so much like her old self for a moment that Lyonette’s heart hurt.
“I will. But on the topic of relationships, Erin…”
“Aw, man. You’ll find someone, Lyonette! There’s plenty of fish around Liscor. It’s still raining, right?”
The [Princess] laughed. Then she leaned closer.
“I’ll go searching, maybe. But if there was a woman I’d consider trying a relationship with, well, there’s only one person.”
“Who? Is it Selys? Krsh—”
The [Princess] pecked Erin on the cheek. It was just a quick smooch, but Erin Solstice froze up—then performed an eight-inch jump into the air. The [Princess] was laughing even as the idea solidified in her head.
“Why not, Erin? If you’re interested, I’ll—”
She tried to embrace Erin. The [Innkeeper] picked up the drunk [Princess] in her arms. Then she gave Lyonette a huge smile—and tossed her off the beetle.
“Nothing personal, Lyonette! But you’re acting really Nerrhavia-like right now!”
The young woman screamed as the ground flashed towards her.
“Eriiiiiin—”
 
——
 
She moved off of her barstool in a defensive roll as the [Pavilion of Secrets] ended and did more damage to herself than a fall from a beetle’s back would have.
“Argh! Oh—my spleen! My legs!”
The crash of four barstools and a Gobin falling on the [Princess] made Arrema and Lord Raithland turn and stare at her. Arrema peered down at the groaning Lyonette.
“Hey, uh, you okay, M—Lyonette?”
The appalled servants were rushing forward when Lyonette popped up.
“I’m fantastic!”
And she did a cartwheel on the spot. She laughed at the expression of the servants, and Mrsha and Nanette blinked. But Lyonette was suddenly giddy—she cast around, then did a frontflip onto a table.
That was a [Flawless Attempt], but it was worth it for the jaws dropping. The [Princess] snatched a mug up from Relc, who happened to be sitting at the table with Valeterisa.
“Hey.”
“Drinking is worthwhile after all! One more mistake for the night. Why was I even gloomy?”
“Because you seceded from Liscor? How drunk is she, Ishkr? What’d you give her?”
Arrema called out and leaned over the cup, which Ishkr was sniffing suspiciously. But his head rose, and Lyonette mouthed a name at him.
Erin. His eyes went wide, and she swivelled to Mrsha and Nanette. They sat up, and when they saw Lyonette smiling—the [Princess] gazed around.
Erin was okay. She was smiling! And—Lyonette felt giddy at the stupid thought she’d had. She just had to tell Ushar, Mrsha, Bird, Nanette, and everyone else. But later. Oh, and Rose! Dead gods, Rose, her favorite Earther!
It wasn’t about that fake confession to Erin—well, fake as you got in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. It was just seeing her [Innkeeper] smile. So long as she was alright, it felt like Lyonette could handle things here.
She did a twirl on the table—Relc and Valeterisa saved their plates as they hurried to another table.
“Seceding from Liscor? Hah! I’ll do it again in a heartbeat! Let the Council complain—I’ll blow up City Hall! Just give me an excuse—Lord Raithland, Arrema, let’s raze the first city that gives us another problem!”
“Whoo! Go young-M—Lyonette! I haven’t seen a good city-razing in years!”
Arrema waved her paws, and the half-Giant just chuckled. But Lyonette was dancing on the table. She laughed as the people in the inn took notes or suggested cities. And her daughters at the table regarded Hethon and Sammial.
“Mrsha, your mom’s so cool. All our mom did when she got drunk is throw things. And threaten to erase cities, but they were all Drake ones.”
Sammy confided to her in all seriousness. Hethon nodded, eyes on Lyonette with another of adolescence’s temporary crushes. Jericha was trying to get them not to take this as an example of what they should do, but Mrsha just scribbled back.
Perhaps I’ve been wrong about this alcohol thing. It looks quite fun.
Nanette nodded as Lyonette laughed happily for the first time in weeks. The two boys glanced around to see if they could try a mug, and Bird fanned her wings and stroked her chin.
“Yes, I too must re-evaluate my position on this horrible drink. Bartender, a mead for me and the table!”
She slapped the table, and Asgra took her order and came back with five mugs—which Jericha instantly confiscated. Not to be deterred, Bird un-confiscated them and walked out the door.
Later reports from spies would reveal that Bird had found a local farm belonging to a Farmer Himilt and gotten eight birds and several goats drunk along with herself. As for the [Princess], she vanished into the [World’s Eye Theatre] after a few more minutes of cavorting on the table. But the inn was smiling after that.
Where the [Princess] led in mood, the rest followed. Or, rather, the [Innkeeper]. Nanette and Mrsha, sadly sober, ended up practicing square dancing with the more sober members of the inn, twirling around and locking elbows. Giggling until sleep hit.
As for Lyonette, she was smiling until her head hit the pillow. A silly, inconsequential night. Sometimes, that’s all you wanted.
 
——
 
Of course, she woke up with a splitting headache the next day. Lyonette sat up, groaning in agony, then took the Hangover Tonic that Dame Ushar proffered to her. She drank it, then beamed.
“Oh, that was a splendid night. Dead gods, I don’t see what the problem with drinking is! Erin was always so down on it.”
“Most people do not have Hangover Tonics of sufficient quality, and I believe Earthers like Miss Erin do not have them at all, Your Highness.”
“I can’t imagine how you’d live like that, Ushar.”
Lyonette cartwheeled out her door just for the heck of it.
 
——
 
Alright, in truth, Lyonette did feel a bit better after last night, and not because of the alcohol. It was just Erin.
She felt like she could handle the world’s problems now, and the very first thing she did was check on what mattered.
Well, strictly speaking, the first thing Lyonette did was go to Erin’s room and find the ring that Erin had mentioned. She stared at the ring that Ilvriss had given Erin and then slipped it on. It was familiar and plain, and Lyonette smiled at it with a hint of nostalgia for the…well, differently bad old days.
She forgot she had it on as she hurried to her tasks with a determined air. The moment Lyonette came downstairs, someone rose to their feet.
