Ekirra began and clutched at his leg as Mrsha kicked him. Lyonette eyed Dalimont.
“And you were…”
Watching from the side because he’s a [Knight], Mother. I’m fine. She’s just angry at me. And the inn.
Mrsha intervened with a patient look. She had a tiny bit of dried syrup in her fur; Nanette tried to comb it out as Lyonette turned to her.
“But if she’s being unpleasant—”
I told Miss Shassa, and she knows. I’m not bothered, Mother. It’s not like she’s a Creler. She’s nine. If Ser Dalimont got involved, that’d be bad. Please, don’t worry. Did you secede from Liscor while I was at school?
Mrsha changed subjects, and Lyonette inhaled to explain—then glanced at Dalimont. His helpless shrug did make her realize how bad it might look to have an adult [Knight] haranguing a child. But even so!
Where is their family, and who do I have to send Vaulont after? No—no—Mrsha has a point. Lyonette realized she might be overprotective.
But after all Mrsha had gone through—! It struck Lyonette that a month ago, it would have been the other girl she’d be worried for. Mrsha had poisoned Thronebearers with death spice and gotten into scrapes—a vengeful Mrsha would be a problem. But this Mrsha…just watched her mother, worried it was Lyonette who’d go too far.
“…If Miss Shassa knows about the issue and is taking steps, I’ll—let it be. I’m quite sorry that happened to you, Mrsha.”
Eh, it was a pretty good day. I didn’t mind any of it. We learned how to resole shoes in class. Very practical. Ekirra’s feet stink.
“Do not!”
Visma and Ekirra chorused. Then they eyed each other and blushed. Oh my, were they a tiny couple? Mrsha pretended to stick her finger down her throat to throw up and gazed at Arrema for support. The older Mrsha leaned over.
“It’ll never work out, guys.”
Ekirra and Visma gave her a very strange look and edged away from the big, scary Gnoll. Arrema’s face fell for a second, and Lyonette breathed in and out.
“Very well. I, ah—”
“Miss Lyonette? Someone from the Council to see you.”
Xinthe stopped as Lyonette whirled with such a glower on her face that Raekea halted in her tracks. Lyonette faced Mrsha.
“I have to go, Mrsha, but after this, tell me more about your day!”
Mrsha lifted one hand like a weary [Senator] casting a vote into the great beyond.
Good luck on your trials, Mother. I’ll be snacking. Ave, domina!
Lyonette had no idea what that was about, and neither did Dame Ushar until she snapped her fingers.
“I think that was one of the mage-languages. Latin, the Earthers call it. She might have learned it from Kevin.”
“Kevin.”
Lyonette muttered darkly, forgetting she was glad he was alive. She glanced around for him.
“And where is our [Mechanic] today?”
“I believe he visited Miss Imani this morning. As for his current whereabouts…he’s with Watch Captain Zevara as well?”
“Huh?”
She’d just talked to Zevara. What was that Watch Captain doing? Then Lyonette focused on the present.
 
——
 
Headaches. By the end of the day, Lyonette had one, and she was regretting her rash decision to secede from Liscor. Or perhaps it was just…well, opening the inn again.
Maybe it was knowing someone was harassing Mrsha and the last thing she should do was march over to the school and have a word with the parents—or Shassa—and wanting to.
Or maybe it was having the Council braying at her for her decision, as if they owned the inn or had protected it despite all the inn had done for the city, good and bad.
Possibly, it was the fact that the Calanferians needed guidance and were a bit—snoopy. Bird had complained to Lyonette about them poking around her rooms and cleaning up her dead birds.
It might have been the undead thing.
Conceivably, it was Pawn and a group of Painted Antinium sitting in the common room, talking louder than usual and trying to engage her in conversation any time she walked past.
…Yep. It was definitely that last one that pushed her over the top. Lyonette had to stop on the fourth attempt. She found herself sitting with some Painted Antinium and smiling at Pawn.
“Is everyone enjoying their meal?”
“We are, immensely, Lyonette. This is certainly the best venue for good food in Liscor.”
Pawn smiled at her—and instantly, Holytext, one of his disciples who’d come by the inn earlier with some business, raised a hand.
“The best venue in the Floodplains, as the inn is not a part of Liscor any more. Not the best in Liscor in any case because Antinium are now operating food-based establishments and we must support our own people.”
Every head focused on Pawn, and he visibly hesitated.
“Um…yes. Thank you, Holytext, for that clarity.”
He gave Lyonette an embarrassed stare as his Painted Antinium nodded and clacked their mandibles as one. Despite herself, Lyonette covered a smile.
“And what is going on in Liscor? Besides my, ah, little declaration?”
“Oh, the usual. Theft, rain in the Hive, and enchanted suits of armor attacking people on the road.”
“Ah—is that usual?”
Despite herself, Pawn did get her attention, and the Worker explained.
“Well, the rain and armor is. It is a very trying thing. You are aware that the dungeon is releasing more suits of enchanted armor? Some even climb out of the tunnels and attack travellers on the road. The Watch and adventurers are also combating them.”
“I had no idea.”
Lyonette was faintly alarmed by the notion, but Pawn just shrugged. He turned to Yellow Splatters, and the [Captain] rumbled.
“They seem…cleverer than before. They will retreat in front of a threat. And they fight better.”
He rubbed at a scar on his carapace that appeared like it had come from a big blade. All the Painted Antinium nodded. Lyonette bit her lip.
“That sounds like a problem. Ah—and the thefts? Someone’s stealing from Antinium? You mentioned it during your sermon, Pawn.”
“In small quantities, yes. I do not believe it is a great problem, simply a new one to face. In fact, I heard Watch Captain Zevara was interviewing some Workers very recently.”
Pawn assured her airily, and Lyonette supposed that it was petty theft. She put it out of her mind and tried to make small-talk with Pawn. The problem was…
He put his hand on hers as she rested it on the table. She took it back. Pawn hesitated, then folded his hands together as he used his other two to eat.
“So, Lyonette, may we count on your presence at the next sermon? Your singing was very inspirational to the congregation. There is already a petition for a choir, but Bird has declined to join another sermon. You could teach it.”
“I—could certainly see if Colfa and Nanette will join me. When is the next sermon?”
“Tonight.”
Pawn saw her expression.
“We could do another one tomorrow. Or once per week?”
All the Painted Antinium were staring at her, and Lyonette felt that current of pain in her head grow worse. She spoke abruptly.
“I don’t think I can commit to that, Pawn.”
“What about once a m—”
“Oh my. Is that Dame Ushar calling me? Ushar, I’m coming! I’m so sorry, Pawn, I have to go.”
Thank goodness for Thronebearers. Ushar was waving at Lyonette with feigned urgency, and Pawn swivelled as Lyonette shot from the table. Only, the [Princess] realized it was an actual emergency as the Thronebearer motioned her over.
“Your Highness, into the [World’s Eye Theatre]. I have him on speaking stone, but…in person would be best.”
“Who?”
“Vaulont.”
 
——
 
The Vampire was leaning against a wall in an alleyway that was far grimier than Lyonette expected. She was almost positive it was in Tenbault…he was holding one side, and when he saw her appear, he rasped.
“She got me.”
“What? Vaulont! You’re wounded!”
He had a hole in his side and more cuts in his arms! They weren’t healing, and Lyonette panicked.
“Healing potion. We have enough! We need to get you—no, wait, Holytext gave me some healing scrolls—”
The Vampire shook his head, glancing over his shoulder.
“No, don’t waste one. I’ll heal overnight. They were just enchanted daggers. She stabbed me the moment I came into her radius. I tried to tell her who I was—I think that stopped her from killing me.”
“Tessa. Tessa did this?”
Lyonette was horrified, and Vaulont winced as he straightened; red blood leaked from his armor, and he cursed.
“Ash me, she’s fast. Yes. She’s not in a good state, Lyonette. Not at all.”
“How bad…?”
The Vampire counted.
“I think I saw her on a mixture of four drugs at once. I asked around before trying to get close to the Healer’s mansion where she resides—she’s been on some kind of substance nonstop since the Winter Solstice. Several fights with both clients of the Healer and other adventurers.”
Oh no. Tessa. Lyonette felt that pang of guilt worsen. But she had to focus.
“Vaulont, you return right now. Do you need someone to pick you up?”
He seemed to be ready to say he’d come back on his own, but hesitated.
“If there was an overnight coach…”
Lyonette glanced at Ushar, who nodded and beckoned; Xinthe ran over at once. Some small help there.
“We’re having one sent to you now, Vaulont. Good job. I am terribly sorry you got hurt.”
He wore a bitter smile on his face.
“It’s hard to go up against those with Skills, even with all my capabilities. I’ve failed my task. Can I do anything while I’m here?”
She saw apprehension flash across his face, carefully hidden, and spoke fiercely.
“You did not fail, Vaulont! You’re the only member of staff I would send into danger and hope to escape it, especially if Tessa is berserk. Please gather any information on the state of things in Tenbault about Tessa.”
He seemed gratified at this and nodded. After a few more words, he signed out and Lyonette closed the call. She stood there a moment, in the [World’s Eye Theatre], and knew what she had to do.
“Tessa?”
The theatre flickered around her. For a moment, Lyonette thought she saw a Drake writhing around on the ground, and she heard a scratchy scream. A familiar voice in agony.
“Tessa.”
Lyonette thought she saw the scarred Drake twist around, but Tessa was blurry. Static shot though the image, and the scream was equally ‘scratchy’. She reached for the Drake, who flinched back from her—then the image dissolved into black and white dots. Tessa broke apart as the rushing hiss of static surrounded Lyonette.
“What the—?”
Protection spells? Normally, not even foreign rulers had the power to block the [World’s Eye Theatre]. From everything said of the Healer of Tenbault, Lyonette didn’t think she was that good a [Mage]. But then it all made itself clear.
The static coalesced, and several golden lines of text drew themselves in the air.
 
This more complete anti-scrying spell has been brought to you by the Terras faction of Wistram. Please inquire at your nearest Mage’s Guild for our new spell protection package and other services!
 
Lyonette cursed the Archmage of Memories out for a good half-minute. Then she stared at the place where Tessa had been.
She’s getting worse, and I let her go. I should have focused on her, but first it was the Solstice, then the [Palace of Fates]. No more. No more!
Tomorrow, she’d work harder, but she’d done all she could tonight. A busy day. Pawn and taxes. New servants.
Because all of these things weighed on her, along with her determination to hit Level 40, Lyonette did something she never did that night as she trailed into The Wandering Inn’s common room. A moment of weakness.
She had a drink.
 
——
 
She was having a bad day, so Lyonette hit the bottles. She was six cups down and possibly half a bottle too. The horrified looks from her Calanferian staff just made her indulge harder.
You see, she never drank. Not with two daughters around and an inn to run. However, she felt like there hadn’t been a disaster for weeks, and…she was upset. Drinking as an escape surely wasn’t a bad habit?
It was actually precisely because these weren’t huge disasters that she felt she could have a drink. If Vaulont had been bleeding out in Tenbault, Lyonette would have been dry as a bone, worried. But he had already gotten on the overnight carriage.
So she poured herself another drink from behind the counter.
“Your Highness, you’re drinking too much! Surely you’d care to have any—beverages in private?”
Xinthe was begging Lyonette to take this somewhere where spies couldn’t see her, but the [Princess] didn’t care.
She was sitting at the bar, and some of her headaches were drinking with her.
“Shut up, you. We’re pouring one out for—everything. Right, M…Lyonette?”
Arrema was tapping on the bar, looking for her drink. She hadn’t been served one yet, and Ishkr hesitated. But Lyonette just glanced over as the young Gnoll woman fixed Ishkr with a look.
“Listen, buddy. My entire world is dust and memories. If you don’t hand me a drink, I’ll get mad.”
That decided Ishkr. He gestured at the bottles on the wall.
“Got a favorite?”
“Uh…Velrusk Claw?”
From the way that Arrema said that, everyone in earshot knew she actually wasn’t much of a drinker, which made Lyonette proud for her future-self. Arrema might smoke Dreamleaf like Palt, but she didn’t drink like Pelt. 50% was decent.
Someone leaned over the bar and pointed. Arrema jumped, then her face went blank as Lord Raithland, the half-Giant, took a seat. Or rather, the magical earth rose and reinforced the stool so he could sit.
“Providence’s Cup. Eight shots for me, one for Miss Arrema, please.”
“I don’t know that one.”
Ishkr blinked as Arrema peered at the half-Giant and then leaned on his shoulder without a word. Lyonette gulped down some cranberry juice she’d mixed with whiskey and pushed her empty cup forwards.
“Providence Spirits on the shelf, there. You mix it with a spoonful of Ashfire Bee honey and purified water or close as you can get. Then a cider or mead.”
The half-Giant instructed Ishkr on the preparation method, and it was a rather pleasant drink when he served it out. Not with all the subtlety of a hammer; the water truly cut the strength of the alcohol, and Lyonette toasted the others.
“Here’s to regrets!”
Arrema took down her drink too fast, and then she stood on her stool and raised her cup. The inn’s diners eyed her. Lyonette said nothing. If she was having a bad day—then her future daughter was having enough for a distillery. The [Princess] raised her cup and took it down to the horror of the Calanferians.
“Your Highness! Think of your offspring!”
Xinthe hissed at Lyonette, and the [Princess] cast around reflexively, guilt eating at her on top of the drink. Lyonette saw that Mrsha and Nanette were copying the bad examples of the adults like every parent’s worst nightmare.
