“Oh, of course. My condolences…”
Like that, Ilvriss nearly reached for a drink before remembering it had to be goat’s milk. He muttered to Nerul out of the corner of his mouth.
“Dead gods, it feels like I’m at a reunion of Zail’s old war-buddies. Five seconds in and they’re toasting the dead.”
The [Diplomat] was pouring himself a drink of wine that Ilvriss was trying not to glower at. He gave his nephew an understanding smile.
“Well, now you know how your father feels.”
“What? Don’t be ridiculous. I’ve been gone so long—”
“And you’re part of the inn, Nephew. You think Zail likes going to those reunions? He dreads them. Now, if I were a thinking Drake, and I never claimed to be, I’d wonder how I should act if I don’t want to make the same mistakes. Excuse me, now, I see two delightful ladies to chat up.”
By that, Nerul meant Elia Arcsinger and—Bird? Ilvriss opened his mouth as he eyed the female Antinium. He trusted Nerul was just being social.
He hoped that was just it. But the [Diplomat]’s advice was good. Ilvriss began to put a bit more conscious thought into his interactions. That was why he deliberately noticed and sought out the company of a somewhat overlooked group.
The Painted Antinium were all sitting together, talking and less-than-jovial despite Zevara’s victory and being in the inn when Ilvriss approached.
“Pawn, Yellow Splatters. Good evening. I’ve returned for a rare visit, and I’d be remiss if I didn’t greet you all. Could I buy your table a round of snacks?”
The [Priest] glanced up and smiled, seemingly surprised—and happy—to receive Ilvriss’ attention.
“Wall Lord, I am very happy you have approached me. We accept, thank you.”
That was how Ilvriss found himself seated by a bunch of Workers and Soldiers. He imagined his father and all his associates in Salazsar would have a heart attack to see him—and in truth, this wasn’t Ilvriss’ usual company. But the Painted Antinium seemed to accept him, and Pawn was happy to talk.
“It is good to see you, Wall Lord. I have been feeling dispirited of late.”
“Oh? I confess I’ve also been down until I came back to the inn. Digging in the north is…challenging.”
“I see, I see. Monsters?”
“No. Humans.”
The Wall Lord would have elaborated, but Pawn just clicked his mandibles.
“I understand that, I believe.”
He did? They were still changing. In fact, one of the Workers grumbled.
“Humans are very objectionable.”
He glowered across the room at a certain [Princess] who’d just left the [Garden of Sanctuary], and Pawn slapped Holytext’s arm.
“Holytext, you are not helping. Lyonette visited our Hive after so long. And invited us to the inn. We are being sociable.”
His voice made the other unhappy Antinium shift, and Ilvriss realized that the snacks in front of them weren’t vanishing like normal. Antinium not enjoying the inn? He eyed Pawn.
“Are you and Lyonette fighting?”
The [Priest] paused, then confessed.
“On the contrary, Wall Lord. We are doing better than normal. It is just that there is a rift between us, and though we have interacted more…she came to sing at one of our congregations. Which was very good.”
“The part where she interrogated your view of Heaven and appeared to be judging the Painted Antinium was most unwelcome. As well as her comments on the nature of our faith.”
Yellow Splatters rumbled. Ilvriss blinked as all the Antinium nodded with him.
“I didn’t realize there was a philosophical difference between the inn and Painted Antinium.”
“Theological, Wall Lord. It is all due to the events of the palace, which Rosencrantz and the Antinium here refuse to relate in great detail. It is not our fault…but it is. A future glimpsed.”
The what and the what now? Ilvriss’ mind was racing. He knew something had gone down, but Lyonette had refused to give him details. He lowered his voice.
“Do you know what happened? Lyonette refused to tell me.”
Pawn smiled ruefully at him.
“I as well, Wall Lord. It is a hurtful feeling only mitigated by the fact that she also did not trust you.”
They chinked mugs, and Pawn drank with Ilvriss.
“The only thing I have gleaned is that an alternate-future version of myself over Level 60 was apparently very unpleasant and nearly killed many people.”
Ilvriss choked on his drink, but he’d learned to avoid the old Goatmilk Blaster. He coughed.
“Er—what?”
“That’s what we want to know!”
Another Painted Antinium hammered a fist on the table. Pawn just sighed into his cup.
“It’s not just that. I feel as though I have been improper to Lyonette, but she has to me, as well. I hoped to rekindle our relationship, but is it just…broken? It feels wrong. It feels as though I have done nothing wrong and I am being punished unfairly. But this is our mortal world, which is unjust and unfair, unlike Heaven where one would think we at least have counselling.”
He lifted a finger and proclaimed, and all the Painted Antinium clacked their mandibles together.
“Amen.”
Ilvriss raised a claw after a second.
“I, ah, don’t quite follow.”
Pawn shook his head.
“Forgive me, Ilvriss. I am not explaining myself properly to you after so long. Please, have some dumplings. You know that Lyonette and I were in an intimate relationship, of course—”
This time, Ilvriss spat out half his dumpling onto Holytext’s face, and the Worker picked up the piece of food, thought about it, and put it in a napkin rather than eat it because the Painted Antinium had standards. Ilvriss goggled at Pawn.
“A relationship—”
“An intimate one, yes. It is meant to be a secret but I feel that I can relate this to you, as a close friend of Lyonette and myself. But now, because of that, because of the palace, we, who were once the mainstay of the inn, are now sidelined. Much like Defender Rila during the Little Crab’s last football game against the Celum Stompers.”
Nods around the table. Ilvriss’ mind was working overtime to keep up.
“Those would be the children playing football?”
“Yes, Wall Lord. Thank you for keeping up. I just don’t understand what I’m supposed to do. About Lyonette. You are a man of many relationships. How have you navigated heartbreak and rejection?”
All the Antinium stared at Ilvriss, and he was suddenly doling out relationship advice. He thought of Periss…not the same. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“Well, in my experience, once something ends, it’s, ah, very hard to restart, Pawn. Especially if the other party is unwilling. Dwelling on it is a rather classic way to cause a permanent rift.”
“But it is not Priest Pawn’s fault!”
One of the Painted Soldiers objected loudly, and everyone shushed him. Ilvriss nodded at him. This was actually firmer ground, giving relationship advice to Antinium. Ancestors.
“That might be so, but backing him up is only going to divide everyone, er…”
“Colorspray.”
“Colorspray, thank you. You have to step back sometimes, Pawn. It sounds like it’s still personal. And so long as it is, you’re not going to be able to talk to her like a person. Just an ex-lover. Even if it is her fault…”
Pawn was nodding unhappily.
“Much like Zel Shivertail, you have furnished me with difficult advice, Wall Lord. Thank you.”
Ilvriss really hoped his comments weren’t being put on the same level as Zel’s words. He began to try to get clarity on what intimate relationship meant—and about the [Palace of Fates] as he tried to imagine…no don’t imagine…
The Painted Antinium were grousing at the table, and Ilvriss was actually feeling like the most responsible thing he could do was get up and invite them all to a night at Wishdrinks or a bar. He wouldn’t drink, but they could grouse, get drunk, and talk out some of their grievances instead of being at the inn.
Sadly, the Wall Lord introducing the Antinium into the world of libations did not occur. Because at that moment, someone came striding into the inn.
It was none other than Courier Salamani, a regular sight in the inn given his project with Archmage Valeterisa. However, he was performing his real duties tonight, so he was at their table before Ilvriss had even processed him.
“Priest Pawn? There you are. Apologies, I’m on duty as a Courier. I have an urgent message for you and a request!”
He handed a black envelope sealed with a golden stamp to Pawn, and Ilvriss turned. Pawn took the letter and opened it.
“Is this another very unhappy statement from Roshal? Because I have had four such already, and I do not know what—oh. No. Huh. This is…”
The other Antinium leaned over his shoulder, and Ilvriss tried to see as well. Salamani was breathing hard—he noticed Ilvriss and blinked.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
“Courier Salamani, how are you? Did you run here?”
“Yes, I was doing a short run when I received a priority message. I had to turn around and run here. Well, to the Runner’s Guild to have this letter transcribed, then straight here. That was, what, thirty minutes ago?”
He’d dumped a delivery to come here? Someone was paying lots of gold for that. Ilvriss whistled. He knew better than to ask for the client. Instead, he scrutinized the golden stamp. Gold and black…where did he know that motif? Then he saw what might have been a hand reaching skyward, and his eyes widened.
Wait, that sigil. But why wouldn’t he just send a [Message]?
“Oh dear. This is a serious state of affairs. But this request…”
Pawn seemed surprised as Ilvriss. He looked up, and Salamani pointed.
“If you accept, I’ve got orders to bring you as fast as I can move you. I can cast [Haste]—there’s no going south since you’re Antinium, so we’ll have to head to Invrisil. Well, yes or no?”
“This is—I do not know if I can do this, Magus Salamani. I would have appreciated time to think on it!”
Pawn was disturbed, and Ilvriss edged around the table to eye the letter. He read the golden letters, and his mouth opened.
What?
The Courier spoke softly.
“I don’t know what you read, but if you need to wait or get clarity, I can set that up. But it sounds like this is urgent, Priest Pawn. I have room for you and as many people as you need.”
Pawn looked around the room, at Ilvriss, the other Painted Antinium, and then rose. He swung around.
“I’ll ask Lyonette—”
The [Priest] stared at the [Princess], who was laughing and speaking with Zevara at the bar. Then he paused. He met Ilvriss’ gaze, and the Wall Lord recognized that expression.
Slowly, Pawn glanced down at the letter, then his mandibles lowered and clacked together.
“No. I’ll do it. There is no question that a debt is owed. So we go. Yellow Splatters, choose as many people as Salamani finds appropriate. I will notify the Free Queen.”
“You yourself, Pawn? Will she agree? I could go—”
Yellow Splatters began to protest, and Pawn shook his head.
“I will notify the Free Queen. We are the Free Antinium, and whatever Lyonette believes, we must find our own path. I feel the calling. We go.”
They were moving before even Salamani expected it; the Courier stepped back as a white-maned horse peeked in from one of the windows. Then he nodded.
“Tell me how many and I’ll get a carriage ready. I’ve got a Master Termin ready to roll once I let him know—”
They were storming out of the inn so fast that only Wall Lord Ilvriss was left. He stood there, gazing at the empty chairs and half-eaten food. And the letter.
Asgra ran up after the Antinium had gone and cursed.
“What? They eat and run? Those bastards!”
She began to shout, but Ilvriss dug in his belt pouch.
“I’m paying for them.”
“Oh? Okay. But where they go?”
Asgra spotted the letter on the table. She began to snatch it up, but Ilvriss was quicker. He picked up the letter, folded it, and tucked it into his belt pouch. Better that way with all the eyes around…he wondered if anyone had picked up on it? He debated showing it to Lyonette—and then decided it was Pawn’s decision to tell her. He turned to Asgra.
“On an adventure of sorts. Here. This is for the food, and this is a tip. Now, could you help me talk to Lyonette?”
He handed her some coins, and she blinked up at him. Ilvriss saw the Cave Goblin study the coins, then pocket them. She grinned toothily at him.
“You is tip Goblins. Sure, I help. You not bad as a guest.”
Then Ilvriss was heading back towards the party, and that was the last anyone thought of or searched for the Painted Antinium that night. Or for quite a while, actually. They weren’t major parts of the inn these days. The next time Lyonette thought about Pawn, in fact—
Well, he certainly managed to get her attention. But that was a later tale.
 
——
 
A small aside.
The departure of the [Priest] from Liscor went largely unnoticed by all, even those who were paid to observe such things. If the Antinium’s Queen knew, well, she kept her own council, and even among Liscor, it was hard to tell where any one given Antinium was.
Few noticed Pawn’s departure, and the Courier had been paid to keep it that way as well as for speed.
But someone noticed the [Priest] leaving. Someone was very relieved.
She…wasn’t happy.
She hadn’t been happy for a long, long time. Ever since her city had fallen.
Fallen. Sunk down and been damned. Yes, ever since then it had been worse. Unpleasant. All the growing, radiant shards of power had died in the darkness, with the madness, even if her control had been absolute. All the strands of…of…what was the word?
Ah, yes.
Faith. It had vanished. And then it had just been her. Waiting, waiting for the day they promised would come again.
The Mother, and her remaining servants. But the wait had been long—too long. One had rebelled. One had died. One had remained loyal, but hidden himself—until he had also perished.
And her people were no more.
So the Mother of Graves had waited, unhappy. Waited and waited until they had dug her up. But it hadn’t gone how it should have.
The seeds were there. The children…but it was an agonizing wait, and the floods she had expected weren’t coming. She had sent wave after wave of the mindless monsters and her children above, but they were stymied. Held back by the curious insects whose bodies dissolved her children stillborn.
Even so, progress was made. Progress, however slow—but they had killed her greatest servant. Killed him. Him.
That scared her, though she knew little fear. And then had come the woman who had demanded obedience. Far, far more terrible than the mere [Necromancer] who had tried to exert his power here.
The Mother did not like these things. They were familiar to her. They glowed with the power she had been promised, but never truly learned. And like them—
