Well, obviously, she had [Basic Prediction (Daily)], but that wasn’t the same thing. Her basic prediction today had told her that the Picante Sandwich was the tastiest thing on the menu. Which…very respectable, and accurate. But the big things were already diverging from what Roots Mrsha had seen.
Of course, that means I’ll be less useful. And maybe I can’t help. But I’ve caused a bunch of messes. It’s probably better to let everyone else make their own and just help. Be a good girl. Whatever that means.
That was Mrsha’s philosophy towards life, right now. She was doing her best; so was Nanette, though her crimes against fashion were still probably punishable by death in some parts of the world.
So, that was why, after a quick self-grooming, Mrsha went to find Ser Dalimont. She tugged on his arm and handed him a note. He blinked down at it.
“School, Miss Mrsha? Really? But we’ve missed the morning, and there’s barely more than lunch and the afternoon lessons if we were to hurry.”
I insist, Ser Dalimont. Going to school is important, and I shouldn’t escape it all the time, should I?
The response was one that Dalimont couldn’t argue with, so he nodded. Mrsha didn’t tell Lyonette as he informed Ushar; she had the idea that her mother had been trying to get her out of school.
Because of the bully thing. Mrsha shook her head. Her mother didn’t have all the facts. If she did, well…she probably wouldn’t change her mind. She’d just feel worse about it. The Gnoll girl walked towards the door to Liscor, and Ser Dalimont held open a parasol as they walked into Shivertail plaza. The rain patterned down on the umbrella, and Mrsha gazed up at the rainy skies.
Beautiful and vast. So much better than those magnificent, endless hallways where she thought she’d die. Yes, everything was better now.
 
——
 
Mrsha still thought that, even after the third Yellat bounced off the back of her head. She had arrived at the schoolhouse just in time for lunch, which was fairly ironic since she’d just had some. Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva, her friends, were all eating at a table in the newly-built facility.
Ser Dalimont was somewhere around the school; he wasn’t allowed inside according to Druid Shassa, but Mrsha bet he sometimes came in and had tons of ward spells to monitor the inside. However, inside the school proper, only [Teachers] and the students were allowed.
They had five rooms in the entire school at the moment, but the Council was already talking about adding more and multiple schools to enroll students in. Lots of artisans were objecting that their apprenticeships would be harmed, but the parents of the students had noticed their children levelling.
Not just in the [Student] class; Shassa was teaching practical lessons, so anyone who picked up an [Archer] class from their lessons, or a [Cook] class, was benefitting a lot at the children’s ages.
That was the political stuff, of course, like the elections in the background. Mrsha didn’t have a firm grasp on what was going on, she’d readily admit. But she wrote out this kind of stuff, and her friends seemed to think she knew it all.
“Really? Everyone wants apprenticeships? But they suuuck. I like school. No one hits you or shouts when you mess up. My big sister used to get things thrown at her by her master.”
Ekirra read slowest of the four friends, but even he was top of the class at reading. Kenva bounced up and down in her seat.
“My father says that schools are a mark of an industri-ous city. He thinks apprenticeships are old fashioned ‘cause no one knows if they want that exact class, then they’re stuck.’”
Well, he would say that. He’s Pallassian. So are you, Ekirra, technically. You should be more patriotic.
The Gnoll boy scoffed; his family had been given an apartment by Pallass in an attempt to lure him to the City of Inventions. Which had worked for all of a week until Liscor had countered with an apartment for the Little Crab’s star striker.
“I’m not patrioting nothing! I’m going to be a famous football star!”
“We know.”
Visma, Kenva, and Mrsha all chorused—well, she wrote it in the air. Visma was kicking her feet at the table, playing with a doll.
“I think school is boring. I want to play all day. Mrsha, if the new Council wins, do you think they’ll get rid of school?”
The Doombearer thought about it as everyone turned to her. She was the ‘smart’ member of their group. Also, the one with connections. They listened to her opinion, or Kenva’s, about Pallass. The shy Drake had been too nervous to talk at first, but she knew a lot about the big city that the Liscorians were interested in.
If they had roles, then Ekirra was the goof and athletic one, and Visma was the Drake who knew everyone thanks to her dolls and playdates. Also the scary one; no one messed with Visma. She’d sneak into your room and cut all your dolls’ heads off if you bullied her friends.
The last member of the group who wasn’t present at school was Rittane; the young [Necromancer] girl didn’t go to Liscor’s schools since her parents thought, probably accurately, that she’d be bullied for her class, and they were teaching her magic. But she hung out after school. Everyone knew she was the cool one, but Rittane was good about not acting snobby, despite having undead dolls and being able to raise a skeleton.
Mrsha’s reply was a bit lengthy, so Kenva read it out to everyone else.
“Mrsha says: you don’t want the new Council to win, Visma. They’re actually the old Council in disguise. Wait, really? And if they get rid of school, you’ll have to get an apprenticeship. Oh no!”
“I don’t want that! I guess I want the old Council to win. Who’s the new Council?”
Mrsha sighed as Visma changed her mind at once.
Just get your parents to vote for Krshia, okay?
She was munching on some food. She’d had a very filling Picante Sandwich from Calescent’s menu, very delightful with that avocado stuff that Imani had found. But she always had room for more food. In fact, Ekirra had offered her some of his fried fish, but Mrsha hadn’t needed it.
She had a bunch of nuts in her bag of holding, and she was chewing them down with a bottle of water—again, stowed in her bag. Nuts were great. They filled you up, made good snacks, and if you were ever trapped in a place without food, you could plant them and they’d grow with a bit of [Druid] magic.
Not that she was thinking about that. Just—who didn’t need snacks at any time? Mrsha chomped down on some dried berries as well and was about to ask what the mood on the streets was when the fourth Yellat hit her.
That one actually hurt, probably because the fork was still attached. Mrsha jerked, then rubbed at the back of her head. Visma twisted around with a look of outrage.
“Mrsha! Teacher! Rinni threw something at Mrsha again!”
She shouted at the [Teacher] who was supposed to be watching over the kids. And the young Gnoll, the [Teaching Assistant] named Uller, was looking. But she didn’t have eyes in the back of her head.
“Is that true, Miss Rinni? You know what the rules about bullying and wasting food are!”
The Gnoll scolded one of the Drakes sitting as far from Mrsha as possible. The yellow-scaled Drake glared at Mrsha as the [Survivor of Fates] searched around. She gave Uller an innocent smile.
“I didn’t throw anything! Visma’s lying!”
Uller didn’t have a truth stone, and all of the children around Rinni chorused that she was telling the truth. So he came over to Visma, who indignantly pointed at the Yellats on the floor.
“Miss Mrsha, is what Visma’s saying true?”
The Gnoll squatted down with a friendly, if concerned, smile. He was seventeen and learning to be a [Teacher], and several girls had a crush on him, like Kenva. However, his good temper and way with kids faltered a bit when he gazed at Mrsha.
Mrsha, the white Doombearer, whose mother was probably a [Princess], who had a [Knight] bodyguard, and who went to the inn. Mrsha knew he was concerned she’d do something and he’d get in trouble. So she wrote placidly on a piece of paper; writing in the air unnerved him.
It was probably an accident, Teacher Uller.
“I see. In that case, Rinni, why don’t you apologize to Mrsha?”
“Sorry~”
The Drake called out without glancing at Mrsha, and that was that. Visma glared daggers as she sat back down and whispered to their group. Uller was keeping an eye on them, so more Yellats didn’t come flying their way.
“Mrsha! She was doing that on purpose and you know it!”
Yes, but what’s Uller going to do? Put her in time-out? That’ll just make her madder.
“She already hates you, Mrsha. You should report her! Bad people shouldn’t be allowed to keep doing that.”
Kenva pointed out. Ekirra’s eyes were almost crossing with the stress of this new problem in their school lives. He whined.
“Rinni isn’t nice to Mrsha. But she’s nice to me.”
“That’s because you’re popular and everyone likes the Little Crabs, Ekirra. But she’s mean to Mrsha, and you’re my boyfriend.”
“So?”
“So, you have to defend Mrsha! Go beat her up!”
The [Striker] hesitated as he tried to work out how this logic made sense. He whined louder.
“But she’s friends with Golly, and he’s bigger than me!”
“Just kick him in the testicles with your kicking Skill! Or I’ll have to push Rinni into the sewers and hope the undead rat eats her!”
“Visma! That’s wrong!”
They began arguing about Rinni, and Mrsha glanced around the lunchroom. Her little quartet of friends weren’t pariahs. Far from it; Visma and Ekirra were very popular, but they sat alone in moments like that. It was her, she knew.
She was from the inn. She was Mrsha. If Rinni and her friends hated Mrsha’s guts, well, the other students were a mix of nervous or wary of her. Mrsha didn’t know them well, only a few of the girls in other classes like Hickery or Comrei. And she suspected she scared them too.
There was a hiss from Rinni’s table as Mrsha saw the Drake giving her a death-stare. And Mrsha?
The Gnoll girl just waved until Rinni leapt up to use the bathrooms, outraged. Like her mother, Mrsha just sighed. She wasn’t bothered by the flying Yellats or even the other bullying. Because she got it. Old Mrsha would have been borrowing Calescent’s death-spice and probably have caused a huge incident with the parents.
This Mrsha just felt bad for Rinni. Because she had done what the old Mrsha would have never thought to do.
She’d asked herself a question. Why does Rinni hate me?
The answer might depress you.
 
——
 
The truth was that nothing a child could do to her would come anywhere close to the [Palace of Fates]. Mrsha believed that as they filed into their evening lesson, which was geography.
“Alright, everyone. Take a seat! Today, we’re studying Drake cities and Chandrar! Drake cities make a lot of goods that are very important for cities like Liscor or even Invrisil! Because of the Trade Roads, everyone can get what they need! Tell me, does anyone know where Prelons come from?”
“Oteslia, Miss Shassa?”
The [Druid] had a pointer and a map, and she laughed as Ekirra waved a paw.
“Yes, that’s true, Ekirra. But there’s another city that grows Prelons. Who knows the answer?”
Cellidel. Mrsha knew that because of Relc, but she didn’t raise her paw. She had a reputation as a know-it-all, because her knowledge of other nations was already far stronger than most. Instead, she cracked open a book from the school. It was a storybook about other nations, with little hand-drawn illustrations and anecdotes about their cities and cultures.
A textbook from Oteslia. Mrsha paged to the Chandrarian section and eyed a Djinni flying over the page. Merreid, the Shield Kingdom. She began to read. Druid Shassa noticed, of course, but she let Mrsha read with only a single question her way.
“Mrsha? Do you know what Marwsh is famous for? Can you point to it on a map?”
Mrsha squinted up at the map and missed Marwsh when she was called up to the board, but she did know it had big cats.
“Very good, Mrsha! Though it’s not known for that as a trade expert—how did you know about Marwsh? Did your tribe visit it?”
Mrsha shook her head and wrote.
No, the Horns of Hammerad went by there and Ceria said that they had cats.
To her credit, Druid Shassa only wavered a millisecond before clapping her claws together.
“The Horns! Oh my! Well, friends going travelling is a wonderful way to get to know other cities! Thank you, Mrsha. Does anyone else have friends who’ve gone to Marwsh or other cities?”
She was very good with the kids. But Mrsha felt a bit bad for her; she had to have trouble with someone like Mrsha. Certainly, a few of the other students had given Mrsha that awed look mixed with denial. She couldn’t help it, and she’d stopped trying to play down these things.
I know the Horns. I can’t lie about who I am. Mrsha went back to her book; she could read it or daydream quite happily in classes like this. But when she sat down, she leapt up with such an expression of alarm that Shassa blinked.
“Something wrong, Mrsha?”
The girl was silent, but she rubbed at her behind—it was Kenva who spotted the little nail sticking out Mrsha’s kilt.
“Miss Shassa, a nail!”
It hadn’t gotten far into Mrsha’s skin because of her fur, but it had still hurt quite a lot! Mrsha rubbed at her butt as Shassa grew alarmed.
“How did that get there? Who put that there?”
She swivelled, a severe expression on her face, but the culprit didn’t reveal themselves. However, Mrsha’s eyes moved to Rinni, and she saw the Drake giving her a triumphant stare.
“Miss Rinni? Do you have anything to say?”
“I didn’t do it, Miss Shassa! I swear it on a truth stone!”
The girl gave Shassa an innocent look, and she was indeed far too far away from Mrsha to have planted the nail. The [Druid] hesitated, and her eyes fixed on Mrsha.
“Mrsha, are you hurt? Did you see who did it?”
The [Druid] was using her wildspeaking telepathy to communicate with Mrsha. But Mrsha, who had established she wasn’t bleeding, just shrugged.
“Nope. Sorry.”
“I see. Well then, I think we need to have a lesson on bullying.”
The [Druid]’s voice was very severe, and she changed subjects as Mrsha saw Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva gazing at her worriedly. She waved to show she was unharmed and sat back in her chair. Even now, Rinni was glaring hatred at her, and Mrsha?
She still felt bad for Rinni.
 
——
 
Ser Dalimont found Mrsha after Shassa’s class, during recess. They had a small playground to run around in, and the [Knight] whispered to Mrsha through a window.
“Miss Mrsha, do you need a healing potion or bandage? I have observed the culprit, the Gnoll boy, Golly. As directed by Miss Rinni. I will bring the matter up discreetly with Miss Shassa.”
