They might not have reservations, and they looked a fright, but Dame Ushar’s armor opened a lot of doors—as did handing gold to the server in charge. They found themselves eating at a restaurant named Palatable Cuisine, which was overly fancy and had that ostentatious fondness for Terandrian foods because that was ‘high-class’.
“I’ll share a bloody steak with you, Colfa, and we’ll have a curlwrap leaf salad…Nanette?”
“I would like more bread with butter!”
Nanette was greedily eating some dark Noelictan Ashwheat bread. She only ate two small loaves of it, and Lyonette and Colfa actually managed half the steak; Dame Ushar was only too happy to take custody of the other half for herself.
“The real reason I wanted to come here was for this. Aha!”
The dessert menu made Nanette sit up. It was miniature jello and sugar creations! You could request anything you wanted, and the chef, a dedicated expert in desserts, would come out and serve it to you. But that wasn’t the amazing thing.
“Slimes! Are you from Onononno, sir?”
Nanette clapped her hands as a tiny slime rolled out, balancing a platter on its body, and she picked up a soldier waving a sword, made of blown sugar like glass. The [Chef] smiled, but wanly.
“That’s correct, Miss. I’m a [Slime Chef de Patisserie].”
“You must be the hit of the city. This is delicious.”
Lyonette complimented him, and the man ducked his head.
“Oh, well, I’m hardly that famous, Miss. And I’m told it does lose its charm in time…”
He glanced back at the kitchens, and she detected his withheld sigh, but she let the matter be—she was with Nanette and Colfa, and after the fun little sweets, they had passed into midday quite splendidly.
 
——
 
“Well, what shall we do now, Nanette?”
“Hedault! I should bring him a gift.”
“Oh, right.”
Lyonette had to escort Nanette to Hedault, who was indeed pleased to see she’d come precisely on time, and he even accepted a small gift of fruits with a nod. Lyonette waved at an additional guard who’d come to make sure Nanette was safe during her studies: Elia.
That left her and Colfa, but the Vampiress checked the time and sighed.
“I must get back to the farm, Lyonette. Fun as this is, Himilt will do all the chores alone without me. Dinner tonight? I’ll bring Himilt.”
“Please do! I’ll get Calescent to make something appropriate.”
Lyonette smiled, and then she was alone. She stretched and remarked to Ushar as the Thronebearer fell in beside her.
“Vaulont, you can appear if you feel the need. That went well. Mrsha and Nanette loved the surprise breakfast, and I think Nanette enjoyed that, right, Ushar?”
“I think so, Lyonette. And Mrsha is doing well in class, Dalimont reports.”
Lyonette nodded. This day had no problems. None. She had managed to hold down a few weeks now with no incidents, no drama, just good and pleasant things, even if slightly superficial.
She strolled along Invrisil’s streets, glancing right and left at her world, her timeline, with two daughters who were alive and an inn mostly intact. Grateful to be alive. Grateful for peace, however temporary. Grateful…
It was Vaulont the Ash who spoke tentatively. He was still a silent figure, but he’d gotten a crash-course in what The Wandering Inn meant, and he hadn’t run, even after Lyonette had given him all the bonuses he deserved. So perhaps he was being sucked into this place that made heroes or statues of people. If so…he didn’t appear afraid. Brave man. Desperate man.
Perhaps, just a lonely man.
“You look like some of my employers before they ordered me to assassinate an entire family, Miss Lyonette.”
She and Ushar swung around, and Vaulont stopped, then clarified the comment.
“Too pleasant. Like you’re holding in an explosion.”
“What sort of monsters—you worked for the Reinharts, didn’t you?”
He nodded.
“Before Magnolia Reinhart took power.”
Lyonette went striding along the streets. A few passersby nodded to her warily.
“[Druid], Miss Knight.”
“Lady Druid.”
“I don’t beat my dogs, I swear! Don’t hit me!”
She ignored that. Lyonette searched her heart for a core of killing rage, and if it was there…she shook her head.
“I’m not bursting with rage, Vaulont. If anything, I think I’m genuinely enjoying this kind of day. But every moment I do…hah. Is this how Mrsha felt? I can’t stand here under the gentle sun and just savor living. Mrsha can, and she must, because I think she’s seen what she can do. But I cannot. Nanette is practicing. But I…am restless.”
He nodded.
“Aside from the sun, I understand. What do you will?”
“I will myself hitting Level 40. That I have not already is likely because I accomplished few great deeds of my own during the Palace of Fates. Or that I reacted instead of made my own plans. It’s time. I will many things, Vaulont. But mostly, I will that these peaceful days continue. For myself and all those who deserve them.”
The Level 39 [Princess] spoke softly. Ushar shivered and rolled her shoulders, and the Vampire waited. Lyonette turned to him.
“The Horns. Erin. Ryoka. Most of them are out of my reach. But there’s someone I almost forgot during the Palace of Fates. My warning has come and gone. Perhaps she never belonged to this inn as strongly, but she also survived several life-or-death moments. We owe her more than idle threats. Tell me, Vaulont. How well do you know Tessa, Shriekblade?”
His brows rose, and he smiled. Somewhere, a listening force made a note in its files and began to prepare for a level-up. Exciting. It was beyond time. Vaulont spoke quietly.
“I know she’s supposed to be as good as an [Assassin] in many ways, madder than a Face. Likely to stab the hand that feeds her. I also know the Healer of Tenbault’s only good for a single spell. She can’t help my people; her spell kills or maims us. So I’d be delighted to do something, but I’d be wary of Shriekblade being wild…and the Healer’s pet dog. He barks loud.”
“Her spell hurts you?”
Lyonette was astonished. Vaulont shrugged.
“Most healing magic does, apparently. We usually don’t need it. If Shriekblade were coming willingly, we could evade Crowdcaller Merdon and his team easily. But if she wanted to, she’d leave the Healer herself. So like as not, you’d have to persuade her or get her by force.”
“And you couldn’t do it yourself?”
“Immobilize her without cutting a limb off? That’s a tall order for a Named-rank. I might be able to do it.”
Lyonette nodded, calm now, and her mind felt, if not free, then happy enough with the burdens it took on.
“Then we shall need a plan. I doubt Tessa has received my missives; she never replied. Or if she’s ignoring me…how fast can you reach Tenbault?”
He offered her a sliver of a smile.
“If I hurry, one night.”
She liked that. This was a day of…responsibilities, Lyonette decided. Obligations. Promises made and kept.
She was, of course, wrong. This was a day of changes. Small and large.
 
——
 
There was a leak in The Wandering Inn when Lyonette got back. Not a bad one—but inevitable. The Goblin King’s rampage through the common room and hallway had done extensive damage to the inn, and it was true that Valeterisa and Montressa had put up a magical barrier to contain the rain and let the inn operate as normal.
But still—damage was damage. There were cracks in the foundation and structure that Hexel had taken one look at and shaken his head.
“Too much for me to take on unless you want me to start from the ground up. I’m just grateful our new foundations were spared. Anything that doesn’t fall over in the next month should just be patched. I’ll try to have the new inn’s first floor at least livable by the end of the month.”
His workers and the undead of Rheirgest were swarming over the new construction site, but it meant that The Wandering Inn was on its own for problems. Like leaking water and insanity.
Lyonette didn’t realize there was a problem with insanity—she was eying the water dripping from a broken beam that led up to a roof. One of the Calanferian servants had put a bucket out, but it was annoying.
“What’s that about insanity?”
“Oh, we’ve got that covered, Miss Lyonette!”
The [Princess] turned, and a cheerful Captain Earlia waved at a wall. She had a blindfold on. Lyonette opened her mouth as the Silver-rank Captain walked into a table and swore.
“Fuck. Hey, lead me to the hallway, you idiots!”
Her team obligingly spun her around, and Lyonette realized what it was.
“Oh no. Our trapped hallway?”
It was filled with the Runes of Insanity she’d bought! They hadn’t been deployed against the Goblin King since he’d come in the wrong way, but if any were exposed…Earlia cheerfully called out.
“It’s actually putting ‘em back, Miss Lyonette. That guy blew pieces all over when he left. We just have to put them in and cover them. Won’t take more than an hour if we can close it down?”
“Of course. Can someone lock the door to the portal room? No, wait, that won’t work…”
Mrsha had to come back from school, and they had guests. Then a hand rose.
“Miss Lyonette, we could put up a curtain and sign and redirect anyone around to enter the inn from the outside!”
It was Xinthe who offered a very practical solution. Peggy and Rosencrantz turned; the Worker had his hand up too, and they seemed surprised to be upstaged. Lyonette was just grateful for the support. She smiled at the young woman.
“That’s a good idea, Xinthe. Please, do that. Rosencrantz, can your Workers patch the leaks?”
“Of course, Lyonette. We will get on it.”
“That leaves Peggy’s team for serving the inn. Let’s get to it!”
The group broke up, and the Calanferians swept into action, finding cloth for the curtain and assigning people to keep anyone away from the dangerous hallway as the Goblins covered the floor and Antinium tackled the leak. Only a fraction of each group was on active duty; they rotated out through the day, which kept work a lot easier on the staff now it wasn’t a skeleton crew.
However, there was a definite note of rivalry between Xinthe and her Calanferian team and the Goblins and Antinium. The two non-Human species hadn’t realized it at first, but it was getting more obvious. Of course it was.
They’d been sent by Eternal Calanfer to help the 6th Princess of Calanfer. Xinthe and the servants had been chosen for both espionage and their ability to be good serving staff, and they intended to win Princess Lyonette’s favor.
Rather smugly, they accomplished their task in eight minutes with a sign, warders, and even went out to empty the outhouses and bring refreshments to the…[Necromancers]…working outside. But they did it and marched back inside in short order.
When they came in, they found Lyonette scrubbing a table with a cleaning cloth as Asgra and Inkpaper worked on two more. Instantly, Xinthe tried to grab the cloth, but Lyonette just blinked and recoiled.
“Your H—Miss Lyonette, what are you doing?”
“Er, working, Xinthe.”
The aghast servants stared at Lyonette as she eyed a stubborn stain on the table and picked at it. Then bent under the table.
“Who is leaving gum here? I swear, it’s one of the regulars. When I find who it is…”
“I bet it’s Ekirra. He chews.”
Asgra volunteered. Lyonette gave her a shocked look.
“He’s not that rude, Asgra! Well, poo.”
To their horror, she not only used foul language, but she began picking at the calcified gum—with her fingernails! Like any [Barmaid] might!
“Miss Lyonette, allow us to take this over for you.”
Xinthe practically tried to shove Lyonette aside, but the [Princess] just frowned at her.
“I can work, Xinthe. You check on Calescent in the kitchen, would you? And the undead.”
“W-we’ve attended to the villagers of Rheirgest, but Miss Lyonette, your fingers!”
Lyonette tossed the offending piece of gum onto the table. She eyed her fingers, which were clean enough, and shrugged as she dipped them in the cleaning water. She wore a sardonic look of amusement, now.
“You didn’t see me working during the…palace incident, but I do perform tasks, Xinthe. You must get used to that. Though I’m glad not to be hammering wood into place in the rain.”
She shuddered as she glanced up at the leak, which was already slowing. The Calanferians just gazed at her in astonishment. They’d known she was running the inn, but they’d assumed she was just managing it. To see her working like one of them was—
Something. It disturbed them. In turn, they began trying to preempt work for Lyonette, scrambling to clean tables and bus dishes in a way that was meant to be helpful.
In truth, it was really annoying for the [Princess].
Lyonette had known she’d have issues when hiring more staff, but offending the sensibilities of Calanferian commonfolk was not on her list of concerns. After the second time she made a move for some dishes she thought could be bussed or a guest waiting for an order and a [Servant] almost threw themselves on the problem, she pulled Xinthe aside to have a conversation about it.
“Xinthe, I am going to work. If your people cannot behave themselves around me, I’ll have to assign them to jobs where I am not present. Something I don’t believe you are keen on, and I need their help. Peggy, rotate more Goblins in from the upper floors, would you? Keep a few of the Calanferian staff below.”
“You got it, Boss-Chief.”
Peggy saluted and reduced the number of Calanferians on the ground floor, which meant they were now too busy to interrupt Lyonette. And the other Goblins were only too happy to let Lyonette help with their work. Xinthe just gazed at Lyonette’s back as the [Princess] sighed.
She was going to get a headache. But this was a mild problem! Mild—until Nanette ran up in the rain.
“Lyonette! Can you come outside? The villagers of Rheirgest have an undead problem!”
Lyonette’s head snapped around.
“I thought Xinthe checked on them?”
Then she realized the Calanferians had fed the [Necromancers], but probably stayed away from the undead. She sighed and went outside.
These were the problems of a [Princess] on days when the world didn’t end. Minor, she thought, expecting to find a visitor complaining about the undead. Instead, she found—an oddity. Extra skeletons? She went to have a word with Master Elosaith. Then came the…
Tax collector incident.
 
——
 
The entire rather embarrassing altercation with [Tax Collector] Geilsten was witnessed by none other than Captain Zevara, and Lyonette truly regretted how it had gone down.
