Not the outcome, perhaps! Even as she watched the Drake running away, Lyonette didn’t actually see how it could have gone any other way. No city like Liscor would just grant The Wandering Inn a waiver on all its taxes without at least knowing what they stood to lose. And with Geillsten’s abilities…
No, we can’t let it happen. She still felt bad—not for him, but for Zevara and the trouble this would bring. But there was some vindictive pleasure in reminding Liscor that they hadn’t supported the inn when it mattered most, and there were consequences for that!
A real Erin moment in short, and Lyonette felt properly embarrassed and triumphant at once. She wondered whether Erin felt like that?
What didn’t help was the attitude of Rheirgest’s villagers or Arrema.
“All hail Queen Lyonette, bane of [Tax Collectors], ruler of the undead. Hip hip—hooray. Hip hip—”
The [Princess] really wished they’d stop cheering her. She strode back to the inn, bracing herself for the inevitable counter attack once the Council heard of this one. Her day was suddenly very busy…so much for relaxation.
“Arrema, stop that. All hands on deck! We have a small incident—I need refreshments, a double-layer of obfuscators—Ishkr, the Council and Watch Commander Venim should be allowed through, but not any flunkies, busybodies, or…”
“Lookie-loos?”
Asgra suggested as the staff smiled with amusement. Lyonette gave her an incredulous look.
“What on earth is a…yes, those. Ushar, how much ammunition do we have to counter anything the Council tries to pressure me with?”
“I have a file right here, Your Highness.”
Ushar handed Lyonette a little file that Lyonette had written up herself, listing the various favors—and debts—that Liscor and the inn had towards each other.
She was actually quite prepared for something like this. Which was from her Calanferian training. But the irony was that the new Calanferian staff, who were perfect for this moment, were again falling behind Antinium.
Xinthe, the unofficial leader of the Calanferian servants, asked Ishkr.
“Excuse me, Head Server Ishkr, what is a ‘double-layer of obfuscators’?”
The term sounded sort of familiar; her training in Calanfer’s palace had taught her how to interrupt and trip up people in small ways. Ishkr was already grabbing chairs and tables and shoving them into place in the open-air common room.
“It’s an inn-term. Peggy’s in charge of that.”
The Hobgoblin? Any skepticism Xinthe had was erased when she saw Peggy marshalling her troops. And how Ishkr was setting up the table with Rosencrantz and the Antinium. He was placing the tables and chairs in a deceptively tight-knit pattern on the outskirts of the common room, such that if you filled them, it’d be actually really hard to weave through the chairs and seated people towards the inner section. It went against any good seating arrangements…unless that was the point—while the inner tables allowed the staff to easily navigate on the inside.
Rather like a moat of guests and a keep of tables of people you actually wanted to talk to. As for ‘obfuscators’, one of them was just Asgra. With a menu.
“Hello sir or madam. Is you sit down there. We have specials on the menu.”
She popped up, beaming, as the first [Spy] tried to weave through the chairs towards a table where the woman could eavesdrop on Lyonette, who was reading from her files. The woman protested.
“Er, thank you, but I’d love to sit somewhere over…”
“Hello sir or madam, you is please sit there. I not understand fancy words.”
“Uh—I—uh—I sit there. Please? I pay. Eat there?”
The poor [Spy] was new. Asgra stared up at her with big, innocent, crimson eyes, and the nervous [Spy] saw the Cave Goblin tilt her head.
“Hello sir or madam, you is sit there. You want menu? Or eat rocks? I can get. Is plenty. Very good. You probably not die.”
She was one ‘obfuscator’ who worked in the time-honored tradition of Erin Solstice. Each one had their own style, and it was a lot more fun than just waiting tables; Gothica had been a great one in her short time at the inn. There were more advanced compatriots as well; Ishkr and the Thronebearers were a final line of defense against anyone who Lyonette didn’t have time for.
Then came the guests, as ever. Spies…which were like 30% of the clientele, really, upset people from Liscor, and the onlookers who always came by to get the freshest gossip. The worst part, Xinthe realized, was that the staff knew a lot of them.
A Gnoll came bounding out the doors from Pallass. With a big ‘Channel 2’ hat on her head. She had a jacket on with a logo for Drassi’s channel and a notepad. She slid into a seat in the inner ring without anyone stopping her.
“Hey, everyone! Where’s the fire? Drassi’s [Journalistic Instincts] were tingling, so she sent me over.”
“Rubri! How are you? You want a sandwich and coffee?”
Asgra beamed and stopped harassing her [Spy] as the Gnoll, one of Drassi’s more promising [Reporters], sniffed the air.
“I can have brunch. Ooh, I love what you’ve done with the front of the inn. That hole was getting super depressing—I might need a [Magic Picture] of it. So what is this, camera-worthy or just newspaper?”
“Eh, probably just newspaper. We quit Liscor. No more taxes.”
Rubri began taking notes as food and coffee appeared for her, and across from her, Rosencrantz was welcoming in a Drowned Man and six others.
“Hello, Not-Spy Nollesc. And friends? A table for six? We will have your usual out in a moment; do you have your card to stamp? Ooh, you are only two meals away from a free special on the house. This way, thank you!”
The other not-spies jumped and seemed quite rattled; they were new. But the Drowned Man who had once earned Erin’s favor just shook Rosencrantz’s hand and asked for a table for seven; someone was coming. Then he sat down unobtrusively and took notes, also admiring the new frontage of the inn.
Ah, the frontage of the inn. Lyonette smiled as she heard a few more organic compliments about it. The inn was still ‘open’ to the elements, and the Goblin King’s smashing through the walls had meant that impromptu barrier spells had been necessary to keep the rain from washing into the inn.
However, after a few weeks, Architect Hexel and the builders of Antinium and undead had had plenty of time to repair most of the damage to the inn. Honestly, a day or two was all Antinium needed usually.
But the barrier remained. It just wasn’t a crude bubble spell; guests walking into the inn would stop and admire the light-walls that resembled actual beams and wood, just made out of glowing blue light that melded into the original structure. The ceiling that faced out onto the Floodplains was transparent; it was like a perfect barrier of glass that only rippled faintly now and then as the rain struck it.
It felt like you were exposed to the storm, but of course, no water or cold leaked through, and if the majesty of the rains got too much at night, Lyonette could make the barrier-spells opaque. It was quite something and why she’d asked Valeterisa to adjust the magic.
Well, in truth, it hadn’t been the Archmage of Mages who’d done this. It had been Montressa assisting Lord Moore. Before he’d begun entering Liscor every day, he’d cast a number of spells around the inn and demonstrated to Valeterisa that magic had advanced quite, quite a lot. Even if he wasn’t a ‘great spellcaster’ by his own standards!
Montressa had learned quite a lot. In fact, Lyonette fiddled with the little glowing remote control that Moore had made for her. A magical pad of runes! What would the future come up with next?
“Let’s see. That one’s to allow smells in…no. The undead might bother the Council a tiny bit—so what about, um? Aha!”
She hit a button, and the skies lit up. The people filtering into the common room cried out and shaded their eyes. Instantly, Lyonette hit another button, and the bright glare of the sun faded, but the amazingly blue skies still shone down, and in the distance, the sandy dunes kept blowing…she laughed in delight.
“So sorry, folks! I’ll change the vista if it’s too bright! Where are we…? Ah!”
The ‘glass’ of the barrier had shifted in what it was showing. Instead of Liscor and the Floodplains, it was a scrying spell anchored to…Lyonette peered at the writing on the top right corner.
“Zeikhal? Oh my, it looks rather pleasant! Except for the sandstorm over there.”
The amazingly exotic vista was bathing the inn in light, and she fancied she’d change it to another setting in a few minutes, but it was a good…icebreaker for the Council, wasn’t it? She carefully tucked the remote into her pockets. If she left it out, Asgra would switch it to something unsettling like the deep sea. The sight of gigantic waves rolling towards you tended to put you off your food.
This was the new inn. And the magical front was probably one of the stronger parts of the inn right now. Certainly, a few visitors trying to sneak into the inn instead of going through the long, trapped hallway kept slamming into the lightwall. Lyonette smiled to herself as she saw someone pop into a seat.
“Vy, Lyonette. I leave you for one second and you’ve caused another incident. Vhat is it this time?”
Colfa was smiling, though, because her accent was out in full force. Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“This one wasn’t my fault! What happened, Colfa—oh, dead gods. It was such a peaceful morning, too! We were just singing a moment ago. Now I can’t believe what’s happening/but I’ll get the last laugh. Just you wait. I can’t wait. I won’t be beat/I can’t be defeated in my—wait a second, why am I singing?”
She narrowed her eyes, then groaned as she turned.
“Miss Calla! Switch your Skill off, please!”
“Oops, sorry.”
A Drake sitting at a table innocently deactivated her Skill, but the [Singing Instructor], Calla Songstress, had definitely done that on purpose. She seemed to think that having people burst into impromptu song-and-dance numbers was an appropriate way to live. Despite what had happened last time!
Actually, Lyonette was amazed Calla kept coming back to the inn, but it seemed the Drake had liked the taste of music, if nothing else. Plus, she was sitting at a table on the inside.
“What is this new magic thing? Oh, that’s so much better than even Invrisil’s best cafés! And the prices are so much better than Pallass or Invrisil. I just had to stop by because everyone loves the gossip from this place. It’s so hard to start up in a new city, you know, but if you’re brave enough to sit at the inn, people want to hear about it!”
She was chatting to Xinthe, and Lyonette and Colfa eyed each other. The Vampiress made a face.
“She is very good at singing, though. Mayhaps you should hire her to teach ze Antinium?”
“I’ll give it a thought. But I think she needs toughening up. She’d probably faint before she got to the Painted Antinium’s barracks.”
At least that other woman, Ebente, wasn’t around…Mrsha had directed Ushar to watch out for her. But then the Council strode on in, and Lism’s familiar voice rang out.
“Where is she? We don’t have time for this today! Not with the election! Does she even realize she’s hurting our campaigns? Miss Lyonette—”
He did a double-take as he tried to shove past Menolit and saw the vista of Chandrar. Lism halted, mouth open.
“Dead gods, the door’s opened a portal to Chandrar! Summon the army! We’re going to have to fight off the King of Destruction now! Get me every [Merchant] in Liscor! Chandrar! We’ll sell them fish and water—”
He was about to dash back the way he’d come when Krshia grabbed him by the scuff of the neck with a sigh. She waved at Lyonette, and the [Princess] muttered to Colfa.
“I do not know what she sees in him.”
“Eh, many people say good things about him. Better him than the Merchant’s Guild leader. Now, do you want me with you? I could add zome…elegance to the discussions.”
Colfa produced a fan. She just wanted to be there in this kind of discussion, so Lyonette rolled her eyes and gestured to a table. There was already a rather grand seat where she was meant to sit, and Colfa beamed as Peggy brought over a high-backed baroque-style chair for her. The Council eyed her, and Elirr muttered to Raekea.
“I told you we should have brought our own seats. Time to counterlevel…”
You know, it was fun. For a few seconds, Lyonette smiled…until she saw the actual anxiety on the Council’s faces and saw more people flooding in. Then she wished that her peaceful day had continued. Not that this was like seeing an Elder Creler coming at you, but it was suddenly just a tad bit of work. Consequences for her actions.
That familiar thread of anxiety and uncertainty. Lyonette sighed as she focused and got down to brass tacks with the Council.
And it didn’t get better when Mrsha came home from school. On the contrary, Lyonette had thought it might, but then she heard Mrsha had been…
Bullied?
 
——
 
The girl was having a late lunch at The Wandering Inn, and Lyonette saw Captain Zevara wandering down the repaired hallway when she rushed into the common room. She didn’t even ask about what the Watch Captain was doing here; she assumed it was part of the flood of [Negotiators] and Councilmembers and Watch Commander Venim who’d come to try to talk her out of her decision.
Dead gods, her head. She’d refused them all, and since she couldn’t really say why she had made her decision other than that she didn’t want to pay taxes, it had been fruitless. And stressful.
This Council might know to back down, but what if Liscor elects a new one in this dratted election they’re forcing? We cannot and will not pay taxes.
It even made sense; Liscor wasn’t sending the Watch through the door. It was removed physically from the city—it was just that Lyonette wished she could have done that more gracefully and for a better reason.
Well, it was done, and the news of Mrsha had thrown everything else out of her head.
“Who did it? Dalimont, did you summon the Watch? Teacher Shassa knows, doesn’t she?”
She looked Mrsha up and down for injury, and Mrsha scowled.
Who snitched on me?
She gave Dalimont an accusing glower as Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva shook their heads at a table they were snacking at. The Thronebearer avoided Mrsha’s gaze.
“I merely informed Her Highness of the event, Miss Mrsha.”
“Mrsha, who did it? And why? You don’t seem that upset.”
Nanette was there too, and she gave her roommate and sister a critical witch’s eye. Mrsha merely sighed and wrote in the air with a glowing claw.
It was a new girl. Rinni. She just threw some candy apple on my fur.
“And she pushed you during recess—ow, my leg!”
