For a moment, the [Soldiers] on the wall were stunned. They couldn’t comprehend what was happening. The Wyverns had retreated. And then—they couldn’t understand the frost attack, or the sonic boom that had hit the walls. What Teriarch had defeated in his duel with the Wyverns had caught the defenders of Pallass off-guard. They had forgotten. Small they might be, and bestial, savage.
But here flew the kin of Dragons. Now the Wyverns flew on the wall. Sucked into the vacuum of their attack, they struck the walls in an instant. For a moment, there was only paralysis. Then a Drake screamed.
“The alarm! Sound the alarm!”
Horns blew. The [Soldiers] scrambled for their weapons. But half were frozen. And the other half—the Wyverns dove. The smallest was thirty feet long. And their hides were thick enough to shrug off sword blows like rain. They tore and shrieked and the Wyvern Lord roared.
 
——
 
The explosion made every head in Pallass turn. Erin Solstice felt the Wyvern attack moments before it came. She looked up and saw the bloom of frost. Heard the sonic boom. She gaped as the temperature fell several degrees.
And then she saw them. Flying above like pale reflections of their kin.
They flew over the Walled City. And Erin heard them scream. Louder than her [Dangersense]. A full-throated shriek. A scream that told the people of Pallass there was no safe place the world over.
Wyverns. Erin was just staring. But the Wyverns began diving. They flew down, landing on lower floors, diving as fast as eagles, hitting targets with pinpoint precision. It was so sudden. One second the skies were clear, the next, it was snowing.
“What was that?”
“My ears—”
Rufelt and Lasica were stumbling. They hadn’t even realized what had happened. They were looking around wildly. Not even looking up yet. Erin just stared. She saw a huge Wyvern spreading its wings.
“Ancestors!”
Chaldion’s voice roused Erin. The old [Strategist] was staring up at the walls. His scales had gone white. He snatched something from his belt.
“Day Strategist! Watch Captain, report in!”
He bellowed, but there was no response. And the Wyverns kept flying. Not just one hundred. Hundreds. They poured over the walls, casting vast shadows below. And their leader raised his head and uttered a triumphant scream.
Prey! He had found it! And he had beaten the Dragon’s magic!
Erin heard a shriek that echoed throughout the Walled City. It reached inside of her and touched a primal part of her. Fear. A predator screamed and across Pallass, people looked up. They froze.
“What’s that? Are those…?”
“It’s an illusion. It has to be. That’s not—”
This wasn’t happening. This could not be real. Not like this. Not to Pallass. Disbelief froze almost everyone in their tracks. The first to move were adventurers. [Soldiers]. The Watch.
“Get inside! Inside!”
“Dead gods! Sound the alarm! Why aren’t the alarms ringing?”
A horn blew. Frantically, from atop the walls. Then it was cut off. Another sounded. And then another. Horns began screaming an alarm across the city. But still, the paralysis lasted another beat. As if this was a bad dream from which you might still wake.
 
——
 
4th Army watched the Wyverns attacking Pallass. They had seen the frost orb, seen the Wyverns loosing it at the city. Stunned, they stared as the Wyverns sped at the city in the vacuum. They saw the Wyverns flying at the Walled City, diving, taking the walls in the confusion caused by their attack. And then they ran for their home.
 
——
 
Erin heard the wailing horns. Lasica and Rufelt were frozen in shock. As still as statues. It was almost funny. Erin wanted to laugh at their expressions. She looked around. Everyone was frozen, but her. In pure disbelief.
But Erin believed. She looked up at the Wyverns.
“That’s not my fault. Is it?”
“Why would it be yours?”
Chaldion could move. He looked at her. His eyes were wide, but like her, he inhabited this second. This moment, as the Wyverns flew over Pallass, diving. Erin looked at him. They were too calm. Shock raced through one to the other.
“It is no one’s fault. But whoever was on that wall. Run and hide. We must take the walls.”
The [Strategist] was calmly looking up. Erin saw the Wyverns diving. Slowly, so slowly. She felt the [Immortal Moment] shaking around them. Chaldion looked at her.
“Good Skill. Don’t die. This was not your fault.”
He met her eyes. And Erin knew it was true. It was just poor timing. Chance. Maybe fate, but the gods were dead. A Dragon’s meddling.
Slowly, in the breaking [Immortal Moment], Chaldion reached down for his belt. He calmly pulled out a glittering scroll and unfurled it. Erin saw him read. The scroll glowed, and then the Drake spoke.
“Chaldion. By my authority as [Grand Strategist] of Pallass, I am issuing a city-wide alarm. Now.”
Erin felt the air shaking. The Grand Strategist drew himself up. He removed his eye patch, yanked out the azure eyeball and dropped it in his belt pouch. He replaced it with a fiery red gemstone. And when he spoke, his words were like thunder.
“Pallass is under attack.”
Erin heard the Drake’s crackling voice from all around her. It echoed through the entire city. Chaldion spoke.
“Wyverns are attacking Pallass. Get indoors! 1st Army, take the walls! Sound the alarm! Pallass is under attack!”
And it spread. The paralysis broke. Erin felt her [Immortal Moment] shatter. Rufelt grabbed Lasica, his face pale. She shouted in terror. They began to run.
And the Walled City moved. People pointed up and screamed. They fled for their houses. The Wyverns dove, and Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda fled. Some turned to fight, grabbing weapons. And the word raced around the world.
Pallass is under attack!
The news hit the Blighted King’s courts. It was already being screamed from all five Walled Cities. Az’kerash sat up in his chair. Tyrion Veltras halted his horse, demanding an answer from the City Runner. Magnolia spat out her mouthful of tea.
Teriarch was fast asleep.
In Liscor, Watch Captain Zevara whirled. She abandoned searching the High Passes and stared at the Street Runner.
“Under attack? By what?”
The other [Guards] stared at her. But they already knew the answer.
“Wyverns.”
 
——
 
In The Wandering Inn, the world was frozen. Lyonette, the servers, and the clients were all staring at the little scrying orb. Tersk had pulled it out when it had flashed and shrilled a sound unexpectedly.
Now, the world over, an image appeared. Wistram’s [Mages] caught the spell, throwing it. Lyonette stared at the orb, reflecting a Drake as he ran, and then a sky full of Wyverns. Then she looked at the magical door.
It was open to Pallass. In the center of the room, she saw a street covered with frost. It was snowing. And above—there were shadows. She heard screams, echoed moments later from the orb.
“Sound the alarm! Where’s the army?”
Lyonette looked around. The room was frozen. Klbkch was on his feet. So was Relc. The Drake was staring.
“How’d they get past the walls? No way. Pallass has a million spells—”
“Impossible.”
Bevussa was staring. Then—in the center of the orb, she saw the running, bobbing view stop.
Someone halted in the magical door. A panting Drake, gasping for air. His view swung around and for a second Lyonette saw herself through the magical door. He was holding up a glittering mirror, and wherever he turned it the view in the scrying orb reflected.
“Pallass is under attack! Ancestors! They’re everywhere—”
Another Drake raced into view, from the door and the scrying orb. He was wearing expensive clothes. He turned, not even seeing the occupants of The Wandering Inn staring at him. He shouted as the first Drake held up the mirror.
“This is Sir Relz of Pallass! We are under attack! Are we broadcasting? Hello? Pallass is under attack! We just saw—Noass! Are you alright?”
The other Drake started. Lyonette saw him jerk—the image jerked and then he was holding the mirror up. The two Drakes crowded into frame.
“I’m fine, Sir Relz. Dead gods! This—this is Noass, your [Commentator]. We’re just—we’re in the middle of an attack! There are Wyverns everywhere!”
“They’re diving out of the skies! This is—my [Dangersense] went off a second before—some kind of shockwave in the air—”
“Sound the alarm! Why aren’t the wall spells activating?”
Noass bellowed over his shoulder. He looked around frantically.
“We’re under attack. Ancestors! Someone—”
He stopped. The viewpoint shifted again as he turned the mirror. He stared at the inhabitants of the inn. They stared back. The Drake breathed at them, panting, his voice ragged.
“We’re under attack. This is—this is the inn in Liscor, isn’t it?”
“Yes.”
Lyonette gazed at him in shock. The Drake nodded, shakily, and then looked at them. Pleadingly.
“Help. Someone—”
He pointed at the sky. Wyverns were flooding into the city. Lyonette looked at him, wide-eyed. And her face was reflected a hundred thousand times, the world over.
“It’s her.”
Lyonette’s father stared into the scrying basin. But then the viewpoint shifted. A Garuda surged to her feet.
Bevussa Slenderscale stood up. She looked at Pallass through the magical door. Her home. Her voice was a croak. Then a shout.
“Wings of Pallass. Wings. Pallass is under siege.”
Her teammates were still sitting at their table. Bevussa looked at them and then knocked the table over. She leapt towards the door.
“Wings of Pallass! To me!”
She flew. Zassil, Issa, and Kin leapt through the doorway in a second. Shock shattered as Keldrass overturned his own table. His voice was a bellow, a scream.
“Get me my Flamewardens! To Pallass! The City of Invention must not fall!”
He charged at the magic door as Bevussa and half her team leapt through. Keldrass tried to follow, but collided with the wall as the magic ran out. He roared for his team, the Heartflame Armor, someone to recharge the door! Kin and Zassil shouting at each other as the Drake [Mage] put her claws on the door.
“Everyone back! Get back!”
Relc roared as he looked for his spear. Lyonette whirled back to the scrying orb. On the other side, she saw Bevussa and Issa whirling, looking at the magic door. Then the Garuda took wing. The image followed her up as she flew straight up. Issa was behind her.
“There. Go! Go!”
The view swung down. Kin and Zassil flew after. Lyonette saw the door flicker. Go out. Reappear again as another [Mage] in her inn grabbed the door. She saw herself.
And the Wyverns. They flew. And as Noass and Sir Relz ran, shouting into the scrying orb, the Wings of Pallass flew. And for once, The Wandering Inn was only witness. They stared, as one of the six Walled Cities fell under attack.
In the silence, Lyonette saw Tersk put the scrying orb on the table. Everyone crowded around it, or the magic door as it recharged. And only one voice was clearly audible in the silence.
“Ooh. Big birds. I am so very envious.”
Bird stared through the magical door. He looked up at the sky full of Wyverns and then at Lyonette’s pale face. He stopped.
“I mean…oh no? Oh no. They did not attack Liscor? Oh no…I mean, yes. This is good.”
Bird paused.
“I am so jealous.”
