Lasica glared at Erin. She avoided the Drake’s wrathful gaze. And she found herself glancing at Chaldion.
“Thanks. Again.”
“It was nothing. But I do mean it when I say I want to play a game of chess with you. I’ve been thinking over the last time we played.”
Erin nodded slowly.
“Yeah. I wouldn’t mind that. But—Lasica. I have to go back to my inn. I got sidetracked, but I know it’s open.”
“You owe Chaldion a game. And we owe him some drinks. It would be impolite to go now.”
The Drake had a warning note in her tone. Erin winced, but Chaldion stroked his chin thoughtfully.
“That inn? Very well. I wouldn’t mind drinking there. Assuming there is good alcohol on tap?”
He looked at Erin. Lasica exhaled loudly, but Rufelt grinned.
“Absolutely. Then we shall go with you. Erin has been gone from her inn.”
“You’re spoiling her.”
“I might as well practice!”
The Gnoll laughed again. He pointed to an elevator and Erin smiled, grateful. She inhaled, taking in the air. The stories were true. Everything felt different after prison. Or meeting one crazy nude Drake. She looked at Chaldion, about to ask who he was. She had a feeling—
Erin stopped dead in her tracks. She heard a warning bell, then a siren go off in her head. She saw Chaldion stop too, and his head whip around. Rufelt and Lasica were walking, talking with their heads together about alcohol and the drinks Lasica would be getting. Both stopped.
“Now what is it?”
“I—”
Erin saw Chaldion look at her sharply. And then she heard a roar. A boom shook the air from atop the walls. Erin Solstice looked up. For a second she only saw dust, a cloud of…mist? No. Frost.
And then she saw it. A huge shape, landing high, high on the battlements of the Walled City. Far away, but massive. First one. Then hundreds. Erin Solstice looked up and stared at the Wyverns as they flew over Pallass, casting a shadow over the Walled City of Invention.
“No way.”
 
——
 
Watch Captain Rekhassha and the Day Strategist already knew the Wyverns were headed their way. They hadn’t taken their eyes off the weyr in the last two hours.
“They’re as large as any adults I’ve seen. Larger.”
All of the hair on Rekhassha’s body was standing up. The ploy with the cattle decoy had failed. For some reason, the Wyverns were headed straight for Pallass. Why?
“Nothing to fear.”
The Day Strategist was standing as tall as he could, although he was still shorter than the female Gnoll. He glared around, projecting his voice as the [Soldiers] and [Guards] on the wall stared at the Wyverns. He was trying to exude confidence, but Rekhassha had gotten the message from 4th Army as fast as he had, and she’d seen him swearing a blue streak.
“Would now be a good time to inform Strategist Chaldion? Or call up a corps of the 1st Army?”
Rekhassha stared at the Day Strategist. He glared back.
“We don’t need to cause an alarm! The Wyverns will not reach Pallass’ walls, Watch Captain.”
He sounded sure of himself, but Rekhassha didn’t like the way the Wyverns were flying. They were coming at Pallass.
“I believe we should call an alert. Put everyone indoors—”
“That is not necessary! I’m in charge here! The Assembly of Crafts will have my tail and yours if we cause a false alarm!”
The Day Strategist snapped back. Rekhassha was aware their argument was in plain view of the soldiers. She growled.
“And I am Watch Captain and I say—”
“North wall! West wall! Prepare for aerial engagement!”
The Day Strategist shouted past Rekhassha, using a speaking stone to convey his message. She snarled as he strode past her. [Soldiers] and [Guards] snapped to alertness as the Day Strategist bellowed. The Wyverns were still far off, but closing in fast. Still, they had miles to go, and they were entering into Pallass’ range.
“Ballistae crews, hold! Catapults, load flaming munitions! Trebuchets, aim and fire for the mass of the Wyverns when they reach maximum range!”
The siege weapons atop Pallass’ walls turned, calculating their shots. Rekhassha watched as trebuchets were loaded with enchanted munitions. These were not the smaller-scale, mundane trebuchets that the Humans had somehow managed to acquire at Liscor. Rekhassha had heard a rumor the Humans had [Engineers] who could build them. Ridiculous! Only Pallassian [Engineers], among a few others, had the technical prowess!
And they had built massive trebuchets, twice as large as what normal wood and steel could withstand. These were magical monsters of siege artillery. They could hit an army from miles away. Now, they turned, and the Day Strategist bellowed. He was calculating the Wyvern’s approach and the maximum range of the trebuchets.
“Hold! Hold! Now! Launch!”
The trebuchet’s arms swung up. Rekhassha saw huge slings filled with giant stones—or smaller payloads of explosive or enchanted munitions—hurl through the air. The sound the trebuchets generated was like thunder. She stared.
Pallass’ trebuchets fired for practice, but this was a rare sight. Huge orbs of magicked brass and giant stones flew at the Wyverns. Rekhassha saw their formation break up—then plumes of light.
“Direct hit!”
The Day Strategist clenched one clawed fist as Wyverns fell out the sky. The entire weyr reacted with visible shock. But still they came on. The Day Strategist bellowed.
“Long-range ballistae! Fire!”
Specialized [Archers] and [Engineers] aimed the rare and deadly Drake war weapons. The Day Strategist bared his teeth as he heard a tremendous snap and tearing of the air as one of the ballistae fired. A bolt, propelled by magic and physics and a Skill shot through the air. It struck a Wyvern impossibly far away, piecing through one—then halfway through another.
“Yes! Reload! Fire for maximum effect! [Archers]! Fire as the Wyverns reach your range!”
Dedicated [Longbow Snipers] raised massive longbows and set enchanted arrows to the strings. The Day Strategist strode back towards Rekhassha. Another trebuchet thumped and the Wyverns dove as a deadly rain of flaming stones tore at their wings.
“I have the keys to the wall spells. Watch Captain Rekhassha, do I have permission to unleash our first grade of spells?”
She stared at him. The Wyverns were breaking up, unsure of what to do in the face of the attacks. And as they kept flying forwards, more and more archers and [Mages] and siege weapons were firing.
Even so—she detested the smug look on the Day Strategist’s face. He was acting too casual. Showing off. Rekhassha growled.
“Granted.”
The Day Strategist already had the command scrolls in one hand. He unfurled them as the Wyverns regrouped. They spread out, but they refused to retreat. Rekhassha heard, in the distance, a piercing shriek, incredibly loud and filled with rage. She saw the Wyvern Lord leading the charge. It dodged an enchanted ballista bolt, diving with incredible speed and flew at the walls. But if it thought this was all Pallass could do—it was wrong.
“Activating the first layer of defensive spells! Mark!”
The Day Strategist unfurled a scroll and Rekhassha saw his eyes shine. He grinned, laughing as power coursed through him. And he pointed.
The Wyvern Lord, flying at Pallass’ walls in a rage, sensed the magic surging through the walls. In his vision, the walls lit up, and magical symbols traced themselves in the air. The Wyvern Lord pulled up his flight, alarmed. And he saw a miniature cataclysm blast through the air at his weyr.
Hundreds of fiery orbs appeared and shot like rain towards the distant Wyverns. They streaked through the air, faster than the few arrows being loosed by the longest-range [Archers]. They were tiny, but they exploded in huge blasts of flame.
The Wyverns screamed and dove, but the fireballs flew down, catching them and blasting their scales apart. One couldn’t kill a Wyvern, but just one could punch a hole in a wing. And three? Five? Eight? The Wyvern Lord saw a Wyvern explode as twelve hit it from all sides.
Homing [Fireballs]. And—Rekhassha clapped her paws to her ears—lightning. A classic deterrent to everything that flew. Dozens of bolts flashed from Pallass’ walls each second, striking down any Wyvern in range.
Fireballs, lightning—the next wave was an assault of stones, conjured from the sky, but Rekhassha didn’t see them falling. The fireballs and lightning ceased and she saw the Wyverns were in full retreat. Nearly a hundred lay dead as the trebuchets kept thumping and the ballistae fired a last volley of shots.
“There! They’re running scared!”
Someone cheered and the [Soldiers] shouted as they saw the Wyverns flying back, as fast as they could come. Rekhassha saw the Day Strategist’s chest inflate to near-bursting. She glared at him, but she had to admit—the fallen corpses of the Wyverns filled her with pride as much as awe. She and the defenders on the wall saw the lesson that the Wyvern Lord had just learned.
This was Pallass. To get in range of the city, the Wyverns would have to fly through walls of spells and munitions. The Day Strategist hadn’t even activated the most powerful spells yet. And the [Soldiers] could unleash devastating hails of arrows, not just the high-level [Snipers] from afar.
The Drake [Strategist] swaggered back to the Watch Captain, drunk on the power of loosing all those spells. He waved a lazy claw at the weyr, now out of range of even the trebuchets.
“Just as I said, Watch Captain. Nothing to fear. I have the [Cage of Pallass] spell ready for use as well. If the Wyverns somehow make it to the walls, I will activate it. I imagine the Assembly won’t appreciate the mana cost, but the safety of Pallass comes first.”
“Of course.”
Rekhassha tried not to meet his smug gaze. She narrowed her eyes and found her spyglass. The Wyverns were regrouping around their leader. He hadn’t fallen. And he was facing Pallass.
“I imagine they’ll scatter. 4th Army will have to hunt them down as they land and rest, but we’ve reduced their numbers by a full tenth. At least. If they come back this way, we’ll settle the matter, but even Wyverns should flee after that lesson.”
The Drake was going on, but Rekhassha tuned him out. Her brown eyes narrowed and she pressed the spyglass closer to her face.
“Day Strategist. Day Strategist! The Wyverns are regrouping. And they’re doing something!”
The Drake broke off. He stared at Rekhassha suspiciously, and then fished out his own seeing glass. He frowned.
The Wyverns were doing something. They were lined up in the air—not a wall, but more like a half-sphere. The Wyvern Lord was in the center. And they were—breathing?
From so far away Rekhassha could only see the white frost as all the Wyverns exhaled. The Day Strategist blinked.
“What is that? Are they breathing frost? They must be uncommon variants.”
“What are they doing?”
Rekhassha didn’t like it one bit. She stared at the Day Strategist. Her [Dangersense] was going off. The Day Strategist wavered. The Wyverns were concentrating their breath into a single point.
“I don’t—those are clearly Frost Wyverns. Maybe they’re trying to stop the spells? That’s a unique behavior. Nevertheless, even if they keep approaching we’ll hit them from angles. There’s nothing to fear, Watch Captain. They’re miles out. And frost breath can’t—”
He broke off. Rekhassha stared.
“It’s—condensing. What’s going on? Day Strategist!”
She pointed and snapped. The Day Strategist stared. His eyes bulged.
“What the—”
A thousand Wyverns breathed at once. The magic, freezing air blasted from their maws, mixing, multiplying the force—
Collecting in the air. The magical frost didn’t dissipate. It gathered together. Against all logic. But it wasn’t just a biological trait. It was magic. A spinning orb of frozen air was whirling, frost and snow spinning faster and faster as the Wyverns kept exhaling.
“What’s that? In the air?”
One of the [Scouts] pointed. Rekhassha realized what it was.
“It’s some kind of mass-attack spell! Everyone, take cover!”
“There’s no way it can hit us from afar. Our best spells can barely reach—”
The Day Strategist looked around. [Soldiers] were taking cover behind the battlements. The Drake glared at Rekhassha. Then he heard a shriek.
The ball of frost shot forwards from the massed Wyverns. And the air tore around it. Rekhassha’s eyes went round.
“Brace! Activate the shield spells!”
She turned. The Day Strategist stared. The air was moving as the orb shot at Pallass’ walls. At him. It looked like—a ripple in the air.
Snow, and a blast of wind coming at them. Faster than any arrow. It covered a mile in five seconds. It was—
So fast.
The Drake reached for his key scrolls, clawing for the right one. Rekhassha threw herself behind a barrier of stone. She bellowed, tearing at her own key scrolls.
“Get to cover! Activate the scrolls!”
The Day Strategist gulped.
“Sound—”
The Day Strategist never finished the word. Faster than he could move, could speak, faster than sound came the blast of frost. The blizzard covered the entire wall. The orb exploded across the northern wall, and everything froze.
Everything. Across the eastern wall, [Soldiers] screamed as their armor turned frozen in a second. And they were thousands of feet from the blast! Even on the southern wall, the defenders felt the impact and the sudden, biting frost.
A [Lieutenant] Garuda caught herself as the sudden wind nearly blasted her into the air. She stared at the frost on her feathers and the pain suddenly radiating across her body. Like frostbite! But she stared at the wall.
She saw the figures on the northern wall. The distant Day Strategist, Rekhassha. The [Soldiers] and [Guards] in their cover. They were…pale.
White. The Lieutenant raised a speaking stone to her beak.
“Watch Captain Rekhassha? Day Strategist? What was that? Watch Captain? Come in! Anyone?”
There was no response. And as the [Lieutenant] stared—she realized none of the figures were moving. Her eyes went wide. She stared at a [Soldier] getting to his feet. He looked at her, color draining from his face.
“They’re dead—”
Frozen solid. Then came a shockwave, a thundering boom that shattered glass and made the ears of [Soldiers] and [Guards] across the wall ring. It threw the [Lieutenant] through the air. She flipped head over talons, barely avoided snapping her neck on the ground.
“What was—what was that?”
She stared. Then she looked up. A shadow dove at her. The [Lieutenant] looked up, shouted, and a pair of jaws cut her in half. The Wyvern Lord landed, crushing a Dullahan [Soldier] and screamed. He had been barely slower than the sonic boom. Racing in the vacuum created by the onslaught of frost and wind, the Wyvern hit the frozen wall, shattering the frozen forms.
