“Hey! You can’t arrest me! Let go! I’m innocent! I didn’t mean to do it! Put me down! I’ll wriggle! Hey! Hey!”
The Watch House on the 8th floor of Pallass was one of many of the stations that Pallass’ City Watch operated out of. Again, unlike a smaller, and thus lesser city, Pallass needed multiple areas to allow its law enforcement to operate from.
Almost every floor had a Watch House, positioned so that a patrol was never too far from trouble no matter where it might occur in the city. The one exception was the 9th, and that was only because it was the floor right below the battlements, and thus immediately reinforceable from that spot.
In this case, the 8th floor’s Watch House on the eastern section of the floor was generally quiet. You got thefts, and fights, and sometimes more serious crimes like armed robbery and so on, but aside from responding to an [Alchemist] causing an incident above, it wasn’t as bad as the lower floors, which had the bazaar—a hotspot for [Thieves]—or the major warehouse districts, the night life…
But there were always surprises. And unfortunately, the Watch Captains on duty today weren’t present in this particular Watch House. Thus, it fell to the Desk Sergeant to manage the building and the patrols coming in.
Desk Sergeant. Different from Senior Guard. One was a rank, the other a position. A Senior Guard could fill that role if need be, and they often did, but a Desk Sergeant was temporary. The one on duty looked up as he heard the female voice shouting. A patrol marched through the doors, shoving a young woman forward. The Drake in charge marched up to the desk and saluted.
“Patrol Leader Tanic reporting in, Desk Sergeant! We’ve apprehended the criminal responsible for the disturbance on the 9th! Orders?”
The rest of the patrol fell in behind the Drake, on two sides of their prisoner. Said prisoner stared around the familiar-yet-unfamiliar Watch House in Pallass. It was rather like the one in Liscor, really, but just different enough to feel weird. Erin licked her lips nervously, staring at the patrol leader’s back and then at the [Guards] surrounding her. They’d carried her off the 9th floor and then marched her here and she had a bad feeling she was in serious trouble.
“Look, this is all a misunderstanding! Let me explain. I didn’t mean to use the Skill—”
“Silence, Human! You do not have the right to speak!”
One of the [Guards] holding Erin bellowed right in Erin’s ear. Erin opened her mouth, saw the female Drake make a fist, and went still. She was nervous. This wasn’t Liscor’s City Watch and she didn’t know anyone except Watch Captain Venim.
“I uh, know Watch Captain Venim—”
“Silence! You are under arrest for using a mass-effect Skill in public!”
Erin winced. She had done that. But by accident! She opened her mouth, saw the fist swing up again, and fell silent. This wasn’t her world where a beating was, in theory, illegal. In this one, as Relc had once explained, punching a criminal wasn’t just part of the job, it was the perk of said job. Of course, that had been him saying it, but Erin wasn’t about to risk her teeth.
“Damage report?”
The Desk Sergeant was hidden from view. Erin heard the patrol leader snap a reply.
“Minimal. The patrol approached when the Skill ended and managed to successfully retrieve the suspect without resistance. Per orders, the [Smith], Pelt, was not apprehended and his attempted masterwork appears to be completed.”
“I’ll send a memo to Watch Captain Qissa about it, confirming it was a success. Patrol leader, is there a report on the quality of the masterwork completed? Tell me it’s at least Gold-rank or all our tails are going to be chewed out by a [Senator] for delaying the arrest.”
The entire squad around Erin winced, but the two holding her arms didn’t let go. She bit her lip as the patrol leader replied.
“Some of the other [Smiths] vouchsafed to me that it was Silver-rank gear, but with enchantments it could be high-gold at least!”
“Let’s call it a win, then. Street Runner—message for Watch Captain Qissa! 5th!”
Erin saw a scaly hand flick something across the desk. Then she saw a young, male Garuda—but a boy, not an annoying teen—dash forwards. The Garuda grabbed the folded bit of parchment and hurtled out the door like a shot.
“Patrol leader, take your squad out and deal with any complaints or disturbances caused by the Skill. Leave two guards for the prisoner.”
“Yes, Desk Sergeant.”
The Drake standing at the desk saluted. He sounded tired, and he spared a glare for Erin as he passed. The rest of the squad fell in, grumbling complaints. The two holding Erin dragged her forwards.
“Charges?”
Erin heard a weary voice. She saw a Drake, head bent, buried in paperwork as he wrote with a quill. His voice sounded vaguely familiar, but the female Drake holding Erin’s right arm spat a reply at once.
“Use of a mass-effect Skill in public, Desk Sergeant! Resisting arrest, public disturbance, public nuisance, and disruption of industry!”
“What? I didn’t do all that!”
Erin protested. The two [Guards] holding her glared and she hesitated.
“I didn’t! And if you hit me, I’ll—I’ll kick you back! I mean it! I know Watch Captain Venim! And Pelt and Maughin can tell you this was all a mistake!”
The Drake [Guardswoman] made a sound. She raised a fist and the Desk Sergeant looked up.
“At ease, Guardswoman.”
The female Drake instantly sprang to stiff attention. Erin breathed a sigh of relief and then did a double-take. The Drake sitting at the desk in front of her had a familiar face. And scales. They were a dull orange, and his narked expression and glare put a name to his face in an instant.
“Kel? Hey, is that Guardsman Kel? Did you get promoted, Kel? Long time no see! I thought you were still on door duty! Hey, so this has been a complete misunderstanding—”
Erin brightened at once. Kel wasn’t the nicest [Guardsman] she knew, but she did know him. She smiled. Desk Sergeant Kel did not.
“Miss Erin Solstice. I have been promoted after the incident with the Creler attack. Two weeks ago, in fact.”
He looked openly proud about that. Erin smiled, and it was genuine, not just desperate; Kel had been the one who believed her when she warned Pallass about the attack.
“Great! So, look, about this—”
She was all set for Kel to tell the [Guards] to let her go, after which she’d clearly be treating him to a huge bag of cookies the next time she got back to her inn. And a hug. But the Desk Sergeant did not immediately call for Erin’s release. Instead, he sighed and continued writing.
“Miss Solstice, this is your opportunity to explain the incident that occurred for yourself. Do you have any remarks?”
“What? Sure! Let me clear the air. Look, it was an accidental Skill. Pelt—you know Pelt, right? Grumpy Dwarf? Well, there was this thing with him—”
Kel held up a claw and checked something.
“Can you corroborate a report of intimidation and near-battery by the Dwarf on two aggrieved Garuda males?”
“What? Oh, that. They were bothering me. Well, Pelt overreacted, but—it’s a long story.”
“Proceed, then. As clearly as you can be, Miss Solstice.”
Kel looked up, clearly ready to take notes. Erin glanced at the two [Guards] holding her arm. She was still manacled, but after her threat to punch one of them, they weren’t letting go. It was cool, though. Protocol. She tried to give Kel as brief and informative a summary as possible.
“…And because y’know, Pelt was using the flames, I didn’t get a chance to put them out myself. Which I don’t know how to. But no one got hurt, right?”
She looked at Kel. The Drake finished writing, his quill dancing over the paper and only pausing now and then to dip in the inkpot. He looked up and cleared his throat.
“Hm. Thank you, Miss Solstice. You were cleared via truth spell, so I shall list your account as completely accurate. Now—”
The door to the Watch House swung open with a bang. Erin jumped, but a young voice shouted instantly.
“Message for the Desk Sergeant! 9th Floor!”
A young female Gnoll—another Street Runner barged up to the front desk without looking twice at Erin. She thrust a bit of parchment at Kel. He sighed and nodded to her.
“Received. Here. No messages at the moment.”
He flicked a Runner’s seal from a bowl at her and the Gnoll girl caught it and ran out. Kel unfolded the message and sighed as he read it. Erin was busy admiring the system of using Street Runners, but she saw Kel’s forehead crease. Now seemed like a good time.
“So, Kel, buddy. About this incident.”
The two [Guards] holding her, one the female Drake, the other a burly Dullahan, both glowered. The Dullahan, who’d been silent until now, looked at Kel.
“Is this the Human, Desk Sergeant?”
“The [Innkeeper], Regil. Yes.”
Kel’s tone and expression made the two [Guards] eye Erin. She didn’t like the look they were giving her and each other. He put the parchment down and addressed the female Drake.
“Was any [Guardsman] hurt when Miss Solstice resisted arrest, Guardswoman?”
“Nossir! But she squirms like a damn bag of worms, Desk Sergeant!”
The Drake glared at Erin. Erin glared back.
“Hey! You picked me up! I can walk! I—”
She shut up as Kel lifted a claw. The Desk Sergeant’s tone was…well, it was rather like Erin was used to in her previous dealings with Kel. Annoyed and resigned. The Drake shook his head as he collected the note and paper he’d written on into a single report.
“Right. Well, all things considered Miss Solstice, I believe you when you say it was an accident. And apparently, I have two dozen [Smiths] already protesting your arrest and standing witness. So it would behoove the Watch to look kindly on the accident.”
“What? Desk Sergeant, it was a mass-Skill that could have been city-wide—”
The [Guardswoman] barked. There was clearly some level of formality to Pallass’ Watch system, because she shut up as Kel glared at her.
“The protesting smiths include Master Maughin and Master Pelt of the Blacksmith’s Guild.”
The female Drake bit her tongue. Erin smiled, but made it vanish as Kel looked at her. The Drake steepled his claws.
“On the other tail, this incident has upset a large number of Pallass residents. But given your unique relationship with Pallass, I have no doubt once we get it all sorted, Watch Captain Venim or another day-Captain will find you innocent. Or at least, remand you to Liscor’s care after paying a fine.”
Erin breathed a sigh of relief as both of the Pallassian [Guards] glowered. She smiled at Kel.
“Thanks, Kel. So I’m not in trouble?”
He nodded at her, and his half-glare didn’t change one bit. Kel paused.
“Not in any serious trouble, Miss Solstice. This is your first offence, and I will speedily convey the details of the situation to my superiors. I imagine they will want to speak with you before you are released. And until that moment, you are under arrest.”
He nodded to the two [Guards].
“Take her to the prison. I’m not having her in lockup.”
Erin’s jaw dropped. The two [Guards] grinned. And then, only then, did Kel smile faintly. Erin felt the two arms begin to drag her back. She tried to fight forwards, shouting.
“What? You can’t do that! I thought we were friends, Kel! At least frenemies!”
“Silence, prisoner!”
“Treat Miss Solstice with care, [Guardswoman] Leciss. Unless she resists. Then I’ll authorize force.”
Kel warned the Drake. She looked disappointed, but Erin was furious. She struggled towards Kel’s desk, ignoring the other [Guards] who’d been idly watching her the entire time with urbane amusement.
“You can’t do this! It was an accident!”
The Drake sitting at the desk met Erin’s furious glare. He sighed.
“So you ‘accidentally’ used a Skill that caused sadness in anyone who beheld it? And we should let you go because you ‘didn’t know any better?’ Is that right, Miss Erin?”
She hesitated. Well, when he put it like that…
“But it was an accident. You know that. Right?”
Kel nodded agreeably. The Drake consulted his report.
“Absolutely, Miss Solstice. You were tested under truth spell and we have witnesses who all corroborated that in the report. Any Watch Captain would agree this was an accident. And I am sure they will when they have time to review your case. That usually occurs each evening before nightfall.”
“But why do I have to be in jail for it?”
The Drake paused. He met Erin’s eyes slowly.
“Why indeed? Miss Erin Solstice, I have over four hundred complaints in the lower Watch Houses from people who witnessed your Skill. Distraught victims moved to tears. Families, guests of the city. People celebrating birthdays. Children. All of whom were affected by your ‘accident’.”
He stared meaningfully at Erin. Her heart fell. And Pelt. She remembered his tears. Maughin’s too. Kel looked at her.
“Should I let you walk free, Miss Solstice? For your accident? That is within my authority as Desk Sergeant. If you believe I should, please, let me know.”
He was being unusually erudite. But Erin saw the glint in the Drake’s eyes. He was enjoying this. She hung her head and muttered.
“…I’ll go quietly.”
Kel the [Guardsman] nodded with great satisfaction. As the other two [Guards] turned Erin around and began leading her out of the Watch House, he called at their backs.
“Put her in the non-magical section. Block—no, put her in our temporary holding area. In the punishment cell.”
“What?”
Erin hesitated. The Drake grinned.
“As you say, Desk Sergeant! Come on, Human.”
She pulled at Erin. The young woman looked back.
“Kel? Wait. Punishment…Kel?”
She ignored Erin’s protests and dragged her out of the Watch House. Kel listened to Erin shouting until her voice was muffled by the door slamming shut. Then he sat back at his desk and sighed.
“Report to go to Watch Captain Qissa. Anyone headed down?”
“I’ll take it on my patrol.”
One of the Senior Guardswomen offered. A Gnoll trotted over and leaned on the desk. She was a grizzled veteran with a missing ear and scars from her encounters with trouble. She nodded to the door.
“So that’s the Human whose door you had to guard this entire time, Kel?”
“Yup.”
“Is she always like that?”
Kel paused. He looked the Senior Guardswoman in the eye.
“That? That was the most pleasant encounter with her I’ve ever had in my life.”
He held the look for a second. Then he went back to his work.
 
——
 
Pallass’ prison was not a small place. Again, to compare it to a city like Liscor was to fundamentally change some aspects of, well, everything. Liscor was not Pallass. And Pallass, as a Walled City, had a far larger criminal problem. And indeed, a different method of dealing with them.
