“It was just dancing, Chaldion. But if you insist, I suppose the Assembly can punish me. Kick me out of the city! Go on, I deserve it.”
The Drake spread his arms. Chaldion sighed.
“Why am I not surprised to see you with the very Human I’m here to find?”
Saliss pursed his lips.
“Well, she was put in the cell opposite mine.”
“Ah.”
Chaldion looked at Erin. She blinked at him. She knew him too! Erin glanced past him at the Gnoll and Drake couple.
“Rufelt! Lasica! What are you doing here?”
Erin smiled weakly. Lasica, the Drake [Chef], pursed her lips and spoke in an acerbic tone.
“Erin, when I recommended you to Pallass Hunting, it was to keep you from causing trouble in Pallass.”
“I uh—I didn’t mean to cause a problem.”
Rufelt sighed. He looked more amused than his wife; his eyes were twinkling as he looked at Saliss and then the prison.
“And so you got thrown in jail, yes? The 9th floor is still in an uproar. Lucky for you, we’re here to bail you out.”
He winked. Lasica elbowed her husband, glaring.
“And Strategist Chaldion has been exceptionally kind enough to review your case on his time off.”
She half-bowed to the Drake and Chaldion grinned, showing yellowed, but still-sharp teeth. Erin blinked at him.
“He was? I mean—thank you! I wasn’t—it was his idea to let me out. He has keys! And he’s naked!”
She pointed at Saliss. No one had commented on his nudity. Indeed, all three adults just gave Saliss a resigned look. Both Rufelt and Chaldion kept their gazes strictly focused upwards. Lasica’s look was the most pointed. She glared at Saliss, and then at Erin.
“It’s quite an imposition, and you should be grateful that Chaldion decided to release you early. Or he was going to.”
“Oh. Thank you! I mean—it was an accident! But I’m extremely sorry—”
Erin gulped. She’d completely forgotten about her sentence while she’d been dancing with Saliss. But Chaldion smiled. His tail moved back and forth lazily as he gestured at her.
“I heard a rumor that a strange Human female had been causing trouble. I thought it sounded familiar, so I made an inquiry. I’m partial to gambling, so I owe myself a few drinks at Tails and Scales.”
“Which we’d be delighted to treat you to, sir. Our Human friend has been exceptionally disruptive, and we can’t apologize enough.”
Lasica frowned again at Erin. The young woman shuffled her feet.
“I didn’t mean—I am sorry.”
“I’m aware. Although, I must ask. Do you remember me, Miss Solstice?”
Erin blinked at Chaldion. He was short, having shrunken with age. She nodded.
“I remember. At my inn. You used that crazy Skill to win. Hey…are you some big shot?”
Lasica and Rufelt both sighed. Chaldion only laughed.
“That’s relative. But I do have the authority to release you. Which I will do. On the condition that we play another game. None of the brats—I mean, whelps Pallass churns out can play a game with me.”
“Really? Just for a game of chess? I mean—thank you!”
Erin saw Lasica’s warning look. Chaldion chuckled to himself and nodded.
“You’re already out of your cell and cuffs. Now, as for you, Saliss…”
He eyed the naked Drake. Saliss folded his arms.
“I was just helping Miss Solstice find her inner [Dancer]. By all means, arrest me! Put me in the stocks—”
“Saliss.”
Lasica growled at him. The Drake sighed and unfolded his arms. Chaldion gave him a one-eyed look.
“Sir Saliss Oliwing.”
His tone was cold. Erin felt her own back straighten as Chaldion stared at Saliss. There was a familiar tingle in the air. Lasica and Rufelt winced, and Erin felt the distinctive feel of an aura being used. She pushed away the oppressive feeling. But then—it wasn’t aimed at her.
The nude [Alchemist] paused, and his lighthearted look turned into reluctant seriousness. He stared past Chaldion’s head as the [Strategist] looked at him.
“Sir Saliss. Are you simply incapable of keeping yourself out of trouble?”
“Apparently not, [Strategist]. I apologize for the inconvenience to the Watch, and the city.”
Saliss spoke in a flat tone, not meeting Chaldion’s gaze. The old [Strategist] pursed his lips.
“Your rank gives you privilege. Do you have any respect for it?”
There was a glint in Saliss’ eye as he turned his head. He met Erin’s gaze for a moment.
“What good is rank if it’s not used, Strategist?”
Chaldion glared. Erin felt the pressure intensify—and then vanish. Chaldion waved a disgusted claw.
“I’ll consider this part of mitigating your sentence. And if it means restoring order here, it’s a small cost. You’re free to go. Clothed. Get out of my prison.”
“There’s always a catch.”
Saliss relaxed. Chaldion turned.
“You’re a disgrace to Pallass, you know.”
The [Alchemist] paused.
“Well, I’d say in that case it’s a wonder Pallass has to embrace me at all. It was lovely meeting you, Miss Solstice. Rufelt, Lasica, I’ll visit the bar sometime later. When the glorious high-strategist Chaldion’s gone. I need to find a towel.”
Erin didn’t quite see sparks bursting off Saliss and Chaldion as the two Drakes walked past each other. She held her breath—and then Saliss was gone, waving at a [Guard]. The air relaxed. Erin looked at Rufelt. He gave her a knowing nod, saying…well, she got it.
Chaldion sighed. He looked at Erin and Lasica intervened. The [Chef] gave a polite smile and grabbed Erin’s arm.
“Thank you for your help, Chaldion. And you, Erin, will be coming with us. For a talk about rules in Pallass. Let’s all retire to the bar, shall we?”
Her claws were sharp. Erin yelped.
“Ow! Lasica! It was an accident! Ow, ow!”
Chaldion chuckled as the Drake hissed at Erin. He waved a claw as he turned.
“That will be all, Warden.”
He nodded as the quartet walked back towards the entrance of the prison. Erin stared as the prison [Guards] smartly opened both gates to let them out. They treated Chaldion like…she eyed the Drake hurrying out ahead of them with a towel wrapped around his waist. Rufelt and Lasica eyed Saliss from behind, but he did have a covering on.
“Lasica, who is he? I met that guy—Saliss—in jail. They threw me in the punishment cell and he—he’s naked and he’s an [Alchemist] and—”
Lasica sighed. Her claws weren’t digging into Erin’s arm anymore. She nodded at Saliss as the Drake spread his arms, his towel perilously close to falling off him. Erin heard him shout.
“Freedom!”
“That would be our insane Drake. Saliss Oliwing. Everyone in Pallass knows him. I hope he didn’t bother you too much?”
“He didn’t—actually, he was really annoying. But it was also good. Sort of.”
Erin blinked. Somehow, she’d forgotten her funk. She’d laughed for the first time in ages. Lasica gave Erin a side-long glance.
“Well, well. You’re smiling. Maybe it was good the two of you met. He does have that effect on people.”
“I am?”
Erin felt at her face. She blinked.
“But who—”
Chaldion cleared his throat. As the group emerged into the sun, the [Strategist] pointed at Saliss’ back. The old Drake glared as Saliss spread his arms towards the sky.
“Erin Solstice. May I present Saliss Oliwing, the highest-leveled [Alchemist] in all of Pallass. Perhaps the world. He is also a Named Adventurer and Pallass’ only permanent resident Named-rank adventurer in the entire city. He is one of the most powerful Drakes on the continent, known as Saliss of Lights.”
Erin stared. Her jaw dropped. She saw Saliss waving at a pair of Drakes who hurried past him, avoiding his gaze.
“What?”
She looked at Lasica and Rufelt. The two nodded, resigned. Erin looked at Chaldion. Then at Saliss.
“What? Him?”
“Our Named Adventurer. He gets arrested every other week for nudity. And he’s completely above the law. The city needs him too badly.”
Lasica muttered, shaking his head. Chaldion just stared.
“Not my law. But the Assembly of Crafts has given him immunities. That hatchling dances about and does what he pleases, even in prison. Don’t let him fool you. He’s dangerous.”
“Not to you. To monsters. But he is a Named Adventurer. A powerful one, even by their standards.”
Rufelt clarified. He nodded at Saliss. Erin just gaped at Saliss. It couldn’t be. But—everything made sense. The Drake was laughing, doing a boogie-dance in the streets.
“But he’s so…random.”
“It’s an act. Mostly.”
Lasica’s lip curled. Her tail moved restlessly as she looked at Erin.
“He aggravates anyone he’s put in a cell across from. And he’ll tangle with even a gang in Pallass and cause a commotion at the drop of a hat. He’s a nuisance—but he’s also generous. He keeps Pallass safe, so he gets a lot of leeway. And he does help people in need quite often. Actually…I think he’s you. Pallass’ crazy Drake [Alchemist]. Which makes you Liscor’s copy.”
Erin’s jaw dropped. She spluttered.
“Hey! I’m nothing like him! I’m not a nudist! Hey! Take that back!”
Lasica refused to. She grinned as Erin turned red and pointed at Saliss’ back. Chaldion and Rufelt laughed as well. The Gnoll gave Erin the side-eye as he cupped his chin thoughtfully.
“It’s true! I didn’t think of it that way, but Saliss is like a male Erin. He’s certainly done as much or more than she has.”
“I’m not him! Hey! Hey! Take it back! He’s crazy! I don’t dance about naked! He wouldn’t put on pants! I’m nothing like that!”
The old Drake grinned at her and his one good eye crinkled up as the young woman shouted, and then laughed along with the husband and wife. Erin was outraged, amused—and strangely, happy. As she protested outside of Pallass’ prison, and the Drake [Alchemist] laughed and spun in the sunlight, Erin Solstice remembered.
She could be happy too. And like a bubble bursting in her chest, Erin remembered them. Happier days. Something bright emerged, and blew away the rainclouds that had been hovering over her heart. She blinked. And then she remembered a day in the inn, sitting and watching Mrsha tease Pisces. Feeding the Redfang Goblins. Laughing.
“What the—”
Lasica recoiled away from Erin. The young woman jumped and looked down. A bright flame bloomed in her hands. Rufelt and Chaldion stared. The old [Strategist] blinked.
“Ah. So that is the Skill that caused so much trouble.”
“Erin!”
Lasica stared at the flame in Erin’s hands. The young woman blinked.
“I didn’t mean to! I’m sorry. I—”
Her breath caught. Erin stared down at the dancing, bright flame. It wasn’t sad. In fact, it was lively. Small, but burning bright. And not blue, but—
“Purple?”
There it was. A fiery, purple flame, turning to pink around the edges. Bright and shining, fading to pink out from the purple core. It was small, but it glowed. Erin stared at it. And she didn’t feel laughter. She just felt…a bit happy.
“Now, isn’t this a lovely color?”
Erin started. Saliss of Lights, the Named Adventurer of Pallass, rested an arm on Erin’s shoulder. He stared down at the flame, grinning.
“I knew it was tied to emotion. Well, well. Happiness is a royal purple for you. Not yellow? But is it my preconceptions or yours? Or just the color the flame takes at this particular moment, or with this set of emotions? And what does this flame do? Let’s find out!”
He touched a tiny length of wood to the flame. Erin jumped and felt a bloom of warmth as the flame leapt onto the torch. Saliss laughed.
“Yoink! Thank you, Miss Solstice! Ooh. What a pleasant warmth.”
“Hey! How did you—? Give that back!”
“Call it a fee for the help! I have to experiment with this! Tell Xif this one’s mine! And away I go!”
Saliss leapt backwards. Erin grabbed for him, but he raced off, charging down the street and laughing. The purple flame bloomed on the torch, small, weak, but radiant. A bit of happiness.
After about fifty feet Saliss’ towel came off. Erin heard shouts. An exclamation. A scream for the Watch. Chaldion stared after Saliss and shook his head. Lasica sighed.
“If he wasn’t a Named Adventurer, I think the Assembly of Crafts would have exiled him years ago, genius or not. But he is unrivaled in what he does. Still, someday…”
She shook her head. Rufelt nodded and Chaldion just pursed his lips. But Erin smiled. She looked after Saliss. He did remind her of…her. Of the act, certainly. But he’d been kind. And somehow—he’d managed to turn her mood upside down. She wondered what the real Saliss was like.
“I like him. He’s free.”
“Of clothing, certainly. Shall we leave him be? Hopefully he just holes himself in his workshop and doesn’t emerge for a week. And I could use a drink I was promised. And a game of chess with this young woman.”
Chaldion snorted. Lasica started and Rufelt, smiling, swept his paw up.
“Of course. To Tails and Scales!”
The group headed out. Erin looked sideways at Chaldion. They’d played only a few games, but she vividly remembered the one-eyed Drake flipping his eye patch up to use the magic embedded in his fake eye. She caught Chaldion looking at her too.
“Um, thanks. Really. I know I caused a fuss, but it was this thing with Pelt and—”
The Drake waved a claw.
“I’ve dealt with far worse. But I am sure you will not cause a fuss like that twice.”
He looked meaningfully at Erin. She shuffled her feet.
“Who me? Of course not! I’ve learned my lesson! I don’t want to go to prison.”
”Good! Because Pallass would be well within its rights to leave you there for at least a day, even for an accident.”
Lasica warned Erin severely. The young woman winced. Chaldion just smiled, though.
“True enough. But on the whole, I believe Miss Erin should thank Guardsman Kel. I understand he ordered her put in the cells near Saliss. Normally we consider that a kind of punishment since our Named Adventurer is quite adept at aggravating his cellmates.”
“Thank him? He told them to put me in jail!”
Erin started, remembering Kel’s order to the [Guards]. Chaldion nodded agreeably.
“Yes. With one of the few individuals in the city able to help you control that Skill of yours. Of course, Magus Grimalkin is another renowned expert, but you did commit a crime. There are consequences.”
He looked at Erin again. She flushed.
“Yeah. That’s true. But—huh.”
“You have to pay for your mistakes. In case Chaldion wasn’t clear, you don’t get another chance.”
Lasica poked Erin in the side. Rufelt put an arm on his wife’s shoulder.
“Now, Lasica. I’m sure Erin is sorry enough. Especially after dealing with Saliss for an entire hour.”
“I just want to make sure she understands this isn’t Liscor! There are serious consequences and we can’t protect her!”
Erin kicked along the street, looking down at her feet. She muttered under her breath.
“But I’m the consequences.”
“Hm? What was that?”
