The Walled City’s prisons ran along the 3rd Floor. And they were built against the wall, like a miniature fortress emerging from the Walled City of Inventions itself. Out of sight and out of mind for most residents. Well, not out of mind; property value didn’t seem to be that great around here, Erin saw. People didn’t want to live next to a prison, even one as well-guarded as Pallass’.
Indeed, the streets might not have been as nice as, say, around Tails and Scales, but they were definitely clean and well-patrolled. The Watch was heavily entrenched in this area and for good reason. The prison kept Pallass’ worst elements locked up, and the Watch was prepared to house even [Mages] and powerful threats. And, apparently, Erin had just been given one of the worst cells in the entire prison.
“Peel my scales and call me a fleshbag. That’s a nasty punishment. Desk Sergeant Kel must hate your guts, Human.”
[Guardswoman] Leciss was gloating as she led Erin towards the large prison doors. Erin stared up apprehensively at the prison. The Dullahan was more sympathetic. He looked down at Erin as one of his arms held her shoulder. Separate from his body; the rest of him was walking a few feet to Erin’s right. His detached arm had hold of Erin. It was very creepy.
“It seems harsh.”
The Drake snorted.
“It’s only for a few hours. She’s not gonna die. Anyways, she gave us all this trouble. Why not throw her in with a few criminals for a few minutes?”
She grinned nastily at Erin. Leciss paused as they approached the gates.
“If it was up to me, and if you hadn’t given us trouble, maybe I’d have let you off in one of our nicer cells. But you asked for it. You think you can waltz on in from Liscor and do whatever you want? This is Pallass.”
“Yeah, you keep saying that. But it was an accident. Hey, come on. I don’t need punishment. Right? How bad is this…cell?”
The two [Guards] looked at each other. Regil shook his head and Leciss laughed.
“You’ll live. Hey! One for lockup!”
They passed through a double set of gates much like the plans Lyonette had drawn up for Erin’s inn. [Guards] could hold this position against intruders—and, Erin saw—attackers from within. They had to unlock the gates from their post to let the two [Guards] take Erin in. A Gnoll [Warden] called out.
“Which sector?”
“Punishment cell.”
The Gnoll did a double-take as she let the [Guards] and Erin through into the main prison. She stared at Erin.
“Really? What’d she do?”
“Tell you later.”
[Guardswoman] Leciss marched Erin into the prison. Now, they appeared closer to Liscor’s prison. Rows of cells, some with narrow steel bars, were the first thing Erin saw. She shuddered, but Pallass’ prison was far from dirty. In fact, it was uncannily clean and well-lit. Magical [Light] spells provided illumination and there wasn’t any smell of sewage or the bugs and stains that sprang to mind when Erin imagined a prison.
But it was far from nice. The [Warden] tossed Leciss a ring of keys.
“You know the way?”
“Yes, Warden!”
“You have six minutes. Go.”
She nodded them off. The two [Guards] marched Erin forwards. She passed by cells, and saw the inmates look up as she passed. Some came to the bars. Others called out to the [Guards], asking what Erin was in for.
“Uh oh.”
Erin muttered. She hadn’t believed she’d actually go to jail. Not really. What was she, a criminal? But now she was here, it was starting to sink in.
On they went. The two [Guards] led Erin to the left. The prison wasn’t one big corridor, but separated into blocks. The first block looked like a mass-lockup with steel bars on each cell being the sole deterrent. The next area was filled with magical cells. Forcefields made of energy, glowing locks—Erin began to sweat.
Quick! What was the first rule of prisons? Erin hadn’t watched that new show on TV! She tried to remember the few scraps she was aware of. Like when she and the Hobgoblins had been arrested. But this time it was serious. All of Erin’s jokes—in prison—in prison you attacked the biggest guy first! Or girl! Wait, was this an all-female prison?
Erin had a moment of hope. Right until she looked into one of the cells and saw a Gnoll glaring at her. He was male.
It was a mixed prison. Drakes and Gnolls stared out of the bars. Garuda and Dullahan and even this guy with feline features were there too, but other races were rarer. Some looked innocent, or at least, like they were people who’d committed an offence that would land them an overnight sentence, like being drunk or causing a fight.
But some looked like career criminals. And Erin judged that only by the look in their eyes. That impartial, cold look that told you they had seen people die and they could see your death, too. Erin had seen that look before. In Relc’s eyes, Klbkch’s…in many of her friends’. And in a mirror. They stared at her, some grinning. Others appraising.
She glared back. Erin wasn’t afraid of them. Well, she was, but she wasn’t going to show it and the criminals whose cells she passed appraised her a second time as she met more than one growling Gnoll’s eyes. But Erin was afraid.
She was afraid of what the punishment cell was. Of having to do something to hurt someone. She remembered a Goblin, a pot of boiling oil. She never really forgot.
“Special section. Prisoner for the special cells. In here.”
Both [Guards] stopped at a cell and Erin blinked. They hadn’t gone into any of the blocks. They’d just kept heading left and now they were at a dead end. Erin looked about apprehensively. What was this section?
It looked like just steel cells, like the standard ones. But the two were pushing Erin into the last cell in the block.
“Hands out of the bars. We’ll unlock the manacles.”
Regil instructed Erin. Helplessly, the young woman did so. Leciss collected the manacles and keys. Erin blinked around the cell they’d put her into.
“Wait, this is the punishment cell?”
The two [Guards] nodded. “You’ll be here until someone reviews your case. Don’t cause trouble, Human. If you’re in some kind of emergency, shout. [Guards] patrol regularly. But keep shouting and they’ll make you shut up.”
Regil warned Erin kindly. Leciss just turned. They were already walking away. Erin stared at their backs.
“But wait! Why is this the punishment cell?”
“You’ll find out!”
[Guardswoman] Leciss called over her shoulder. Left with that, Erin could only take stock of her surroundings.
Her first instinct was to check for something horrible in the cell or around her. But Erin only saw a slumbering shape in the cell across from hers. Erin looked around. The cell was small. Not as small as Calruz’ cell, but still like a box. And it was empty. Erin breathed a sigh of relief. Then she whirled, checking for traps, something horrible in the corner.
It was bare. Well—there was a bench/cot worked into one side of the cell. Erin could sit on it or sleep there. And the bars were far too thin for her to stretch through and there were horizontal ones as well as vertical. Erin stared around. Then she noticed a hole in one corner. She walked over—and then walked back hurriedly.
“Sewage hole. Ew.”
It didn’t stink too bad. But maybe it really stank after a while! Or overflowed! Erin winced. She did not want to have to use the bathroom here. But…she hesitated.
“It’s really not that bad.”
After a second she even found the cot had a pillow and a blanket, folded, and hopefully, unused. There was a privacy screen Erin could drag out to use the bathroom—it was a nice cell if you weren’t going to live in it. But where was the punishment?
The young woman stared around the cell. Then she heard a sound. A voice rang out, sounding surprised.
“What’s this, what’s this? Looks like I have a guest.”
Erin Solstice froze. She felt her skin crawl. And she had a thought. A premonition. Maybe the punishment wasn’t a thing, but a person.
She turned around slowly. The occupant of the cell across from her had risen. As Erin swung to face him, she saw the prisoner in the magical lighting. And Erin Solstice realized one thing.
A prison was where bad people went. Sometimes innocent people. Sometimes people who made a single bad mistake, or were desperate. But sometimes the worst of the worst. The kind of people who were more monster than person. Who made you question whether the devil danced behind their eyes, laughing as they did unspeakable things. The kind of people who left scars by their very presence on the earth, who could hurt you just from a single conversation.
A Drake stood in his cell, against the steel bars. His scales were dusky yellow, and his frame was slim. He was tall, and stood quite straight. He looked normal, like anyone you’d pass in a Drake city, really. Except for one detail that made Erin realize why he was in jail in an instant.
He was completely, absolutely, buck-stark-naked.
Naked. Not a scrap of clothing on him. His scales shone in the magical light and he made no attempt to cover himself up. The steel bars did not help either. He posed.
“Funny. I never get cellmates usually. I wonder why?”
Erin stared at him. He winked at her. She stared at his face. Then, slowly, her gaze travelled down. You couldn’t really help it. Erin stared down, and then her face screwed up into an expression of profound annoyance and disgust. She threw up her hands and shouted.
“Aw! Come on!”
 
——
 
The world was changing. In small and large ways, unknowingly, the world Erin had found herself in was altering itself to mirror Earth. Some of it was intentional, by design of the strangers who found themselves in another world and tried to bring what they knew into this place. But other events were incidental. They occurred because it was a natural evolution.
Like weights. Pallass’ prisons were as yet devoid of sets of weights, and the world in general lacked gyms. But in Pallass, at the very moment Erin came face-to-face with Drake nudity, the first weight bar was being lifted by a grunting Gnoll.
Some things were universal. A bar of steel, lead weights on each end. Rounded, naturally, and balanced on either side. Heavy lead weights. It had to be at least three hundred pounds of weight including the bar, and the Gnoll pumping the weight was unused to the exercise.
Her arms strained as she tried to do a bench press. For a second it looked like her arms might give out as she halted halfway, but a roaring voice shouted a few feet above her.
“Lift! Don’t you dare let that bar sink, Ferkr! Lift! Two more times! Push your limits!”
The struggling female Gnoll growled and the bar moved up. Slowly. So slowly. Grimalkin stood over her, bellowing encouragement.
“Don’t let it slide! Balance! That’s right! Up! Up!”
The arms moved—from the force of Grimalkin’s bellowing as much as sheer willpower. The bar rose—and it was up! But there was no place to lock the bar. The Gnoll panted.
“Master Grimalkin—”
“Two more times! That’s right! Down! Slowly—”
The Gnoll gasped as the bar lowered. She was fighting to keep it steady. Because—another thing yet missing from weight training—there was no locking nut on this bar. If Ferkr’s arms let the bar go left or right, the weights would just slide off.
Oh, and there was no spotter. As the bar lowered to her chest, Ferkr groaned. Grimalkin was still shouting.
“Inhale! And exhale as you push! That’s right! Up! One last time! Push!”
“I can’t—”
“No one will help you on the battlefield or when a spell fails! There is only you! Push! Now—”
One last rep. Ferkr growled, then she howled as the bar lowered—and then rose. It wobbled as it came up and Ferkr’s arms lost their strength. The bar twisted—the weights began to slide and Ferkr’s eyes went wide.
“Good!”
Grimalkin grabbed the bar. Without apparent effort, he lifted the bar up and caught the weights with one claw. He lowered the bar in a perfect squat, and then rose as Ferkr lay on the bench, panting.
“Look at that! Testicles!”
He bellowed and every head in the room swiveled. Grimalkin pointed down at Ferkr.
“Five times! Five lifts at three hundred pounds! Ferkr could barely do one, but she forced herself to do five! She pushed her limits with sheer willpower!”
He punched one fist into his hand. Grimalkin strode past Ferkr as she struggled to sit up. He was a giant compared to her. Not in height, but mass. Grimalkin was almost pure muscle, from head to toe. He was similar to Erin’s notion of a bodybuilder from her world; his arms were twice as large as a normal Drake’s. Three times?
He was also, coincidentally, a [Mage]. The Drake, or rather, [Sinew Magus], pointed at Ferkr and she winced. Grimalkin’s voice was near-bellow inside as he addressed the other occupants of the gym.
“Willpower! That’s all it is. You can force yourself to do what your body protests! If a Selphid can Rampage and unlock a body’s potential, we can do the same! Ferkr, up! To your desk!”
He pointed and the female Gnoll swung herself up with a groan. But she didn’t have time to rest; she slumped her way into a chair and desk. Then she stared at a roll of parchment in front of her. And a quill. And inkpot.
“You have thirty minutes. Begin!”
Grimalkin grabbed a sand timer and turned it over. Ferkr wanted to lay her head down on the desk, but she forced her paw to grab the quill and begin scribbling on the parchment. Her fur was matted with sweat and there was the odor of…workout in the room. Grimalkin paused and his head turned, looking for another victim.
“Terreskil! Stop lazing about and squat! You have fifteen more squats before you get back to your desk!”
He strode over to a Drake trying to do squats with a weight bar on his shoulders. The Drake groaned as Grimalkin stood over him.
“Squat! No, not that low! Do you want to injure yourself?”
“Magus Grimalkin, I can’t—”
“You only think you can’t! And your brain is wrong! Give me another squat! Lift with your legs!”
The smaller, younger Drake tried to rise. But his legs shook and then—he lost his balance. Grimalkin caught the weight bar before the Drake could collapse under it. He stood over Terreskil as the Drake fell to his knees, panting wildly.
“You have to push, Terreskil! Alright. Fifteen minutes of writing. To your desk!”
He hauled him up with a single claw. Terreskil looked like he wanted to protest, but he slumped over to his desk. He lay on it, panting.
“If you do not have at least two pages of writing, I will make you run four laps up and down the stairs! From the walls to the first floor!”
