He held out one hand and the length of wood. Erin hesitated, but then she gingerly offered him her cupped palms through the cell door. Saliss peered at the fire.
“Ooh, that is cold. Fascinating. I wonder, is it one thing or is it just…fire? It’s clearly burning off some magical fuel. Your mana? Some facet of your Skill? If I put the torch in here, will it migrate entirely to the torch or just partially?”
Erin blinked at Saliss. The Drake nodded to her.
“The spirit of inquiry. [Alchemists] love playing with new things. And figuring out a new Skill is great! Alright, let’s try the bit of wood.”
He dipped the wood into the flame. Instantly, the fire stuck to the wood. Erin felt a chill and snatched her hands back.
“Ah! Cold!”
“Aha! We’re learning something already! Once it leaves your hands, the flame is no longer yours! Fascinating. This is cold! But if you look closely, it is feeding off the wood. So it needs a fire source! But is it feeding off ambient mana in the air as well?”
Saliss waved the blue torch around. Erin saw him pointing out the slowly burning wood. It was turning into ash, not an ember. She found herself blinking as he observed things she should have. Would have, if she hadn’t been so down.
“It’s cold, which I’m familiar with, but it’s giving off an emotional aura. Definitely not your average fire.”
“What will you do with it?”
The Drake shrugged.
“I could freeze something with it. I do need to chill some materials, but I can just cool off whatever I want another way. And this flame is depressing. Hey, do you know how to put it out?”
“No. It just went out when there was no more charcoal in Pelt’s forge.”
Saliss brightened up.
“Excellent! Then we can perform some tests! Let’s try air first. Then some other things!”
He rushed into his cell. Erin saw him rummaging about.
“Okay, for test number one. Smothering. If I toss it on the ground and stomp—whoops! There it goes!”
The Drake happily stomped on the torch as he tossed it on the cell floor. Erin saw him stomp twice with a bare, clawed foot and the flames died down. Saliss snatched the torch back up. Erin called out as he nodded, satisfied.
“Isn’t that cold?”
“Not to my Skill! I could bathe in acid! Actually, that’s great for cleaning the scales! Don’t try it if you’re not me. Now, let’s try water.”
Saliss hunted for some liquid and poured it onto the torch. Half of the fire went out with a familiar hiss. He laughed.
“Well, that’s not dangerous at all! Although—look at that!”
He showed Erin the part of the torch he’d extinguished. Rather than being wet and smoking, the water had frozen where it had put out the flame. She blinked. That was different.
“I didn’t know my Skill worked like this.”
“Isn’t it fun?”
The Drake grinned as he waved the torch at Erin. But then he grew serious. The fire was retaking the wood, and the [Alchemist] held it out thoughtfully. Erin expected another laughing comment, but Saliss’ voice was just…calm. He stared into the blue grief of the fire and shook his head.
“If you just hold it, Erin, it’s fire. Sad fire. Cold fire. But worthless. Rather like casting a mass-emotion spell. Like, say, [Complete Grief]. I can see why you were arrested. Who wants someone waving that around?”
He nodded at the torch. Erin hung her head. It was true. She could show Pelt the depths of her honesty, but all she had done was bring him sadness. Saliss regarded Erin.
“But it can be more. And figuring out what it can be is my job. And yours. Look at this flame, Erin. What do you think it can be?”
Erin looked. She tried to think.
“…Making ice cream?”
“Hah!”
Saliss nearly dropped the torch as he laughed. He grinned at Erin and nodded.
“That’s thinking like an [Alchemist]! It can cool, which is valuable. And look—”
He gestured at the torch.
“It burns so slowly. But it does burn, in its way. That can be useful. I know I’d prefer this on a summer’s day to explore a cave. Nice and cooling. Still depressing. But I wonder. Are there other flames you can make?”
He looked at Erin. She blinked.
“Other flames? I don’t know. The Skill is [Like Fire, Memory].”
“Which implies it’s memory that changes the nature of the fire. Can you make a happy flame?”
The Drake looked at Erin. She shook her head.
“No. I can’t. Not right now.”
Erin had tried. She’d tried to think of something other than Toren. But even if she smiled, right now she was—Erin wiped at her eyes. She looked over as Saliss made a sound in the cell opposite hers.
“Ah, perfect! I can cool these potions—oops, sorry. Go on. You were crying?”
Erin glared at him. Saliss gazed back. He had that smile. It was knowing, annoying, and reminded her of Pisces. If Pisces was a nudist. No—it wasn’t really Pisces. It was…Erin didn’t know how to explain it. Someone knowingly playing up his silliness. Who did that remind her of?
“I’m sorry I can’t be happy, you—you jerk!”
The Drake laughed lightly. He waved the torch at Erin and the pale flame flickered.
“I didn’t say it was a bad thing. But listen. You say sad, but I say you’re wallowing in it. Pigs do that. And I’ll grant you that Humans look closer to pigs than anything but a shaved Gnoll, but cheer up, please! This flame’s bumming me out.”
He produced a clear bottle and poured it on the blue fire and it went out.
“Aha! Got it!”
“Hey!”
Saliss tossed the burnt bit of wood aside. He whirled to face Erin and clapped his claws together.
“You’re clearly depressed, and your Skill is causing trouble. It’s my duty to help you out, Erin. So let’s cheer you up!”
“Please don’t. I just want to rest.”
Erin shook her head. Saliss ignored her. He looked around his cell, and then snapped his claws.
“You know what cheers me up? And gets me arrested? Dancing. Watch this!”
He did a little jig. Erin stared at him.
“Stop that. It’s not funny and you’re naked.”
“Well, have you ever seen a naked Drake dancing? No? This not doing it for you? How about this?”
Saliss slid out of his cell. He did a little tap dance on the ground, his claws taking the place of shoes. Erin stared at him.
“Stop. Really.”
“I wanted to be a [Performer], you know. Okay, I can see this isn’t entertaining. How about—this?”
Saliss did a twirl in place. Erin stared at him. He looked ridiculous. The Drake poised with one leg up, balancing on his tail. He waggled his brow ridge at her.
“Huh?”
She snorted. Erin had to snort, in disbelief as much as anything else. She held up a hand.
“Stop! Really, I appreciate it, but I want you to stop. Don’t you understand words?”
“I understand that I’m not getting to you. Let me try another one. How about Terandrian waltzing? La, la dee da—”
He hummed something like a formal tune and glided across the stone floor. Erin stared at him. She had to say it.
“You’re crazy.”
Saliss stopped dancing, looking deeply offended.
“Me? Is it a crime to dance? If it is, lock me away! But watch out! I’m not going to stop! Watch me!”
He leapt forwards. Erin saw him twirl down the length of the prison. Other inmates saw Saliss flash by them. Erin heard their raised voices, shouting in outrage.
“What the—”
“Ancestors! My eyes! Put some clothes on!”
“Oh dead gods, he’s out of his cell! Hey! Prison break! Put him back in! No one wants to see this!”
They began shouting for the [Guards]. Erin poked her head out of the bars as prisoners swore as Saliss danced by. And the [Alchemist] was dancing! He pirouetted, leapt, and then shook his body as he came back towards Erin.
He was good at dancing! It was like watching a performer. Saliss strutted past Erin, and then did a move like a disco dancer. He grinned at her.
The prison was full of shouting. [Prisoners] were hurling things at Saliss, shouting for him to put his clothes on and get back into his cell. They clearly knew him and hated his guts. And so did the [Guards]. Erin saw a group watching Saliss, but they didn’t stop him. Some were rolling their eyes, others looking away.
“Put some clothes on you freak!”
“No one wants to look at you!”
“Speak for yourself. There’s just not much to see!”
That came from a female Gnoll. Saliss ignored the shouts. He swung his tail back and forth as he sidled back over to Erin. He turned.
“Well?”
“Well what?”
Erin looked at Saliss, her lips twitching. She couldn’t believe what he was doing! He was mad, completely! And yet—Saliss raised his brows.
“Can’t you dance? Come on, show me what you’ve got.”
He tapped his feet against the ground, did a little spin. And Erin saw him swing his arms and travel back down the prison to more shouting. And he was dancing.
She was no [Dancer]. Erin could sing and she had the class, but even that wasn’t in her purview generally. She was a chess player. She didn’t…dance. Nor had her social life in dancing situations ever ended up with her in the center of the circle of attention.
She could dance, or at least, show Goblins how to do the Gangnam Style dance. But honestly, everyone had tried that one. But what Erin realized now was that dancing was another game and she was an amateur figuring out the board.
She’d seen Lyonette teaching Pawn classic ballroom dances from her world that reminded Erin of dancing from an era with kings and castles, but casual dancing between the people of this world was something Erin had seen only once. When she’d sung from atop her inn, for instance.
They moved. Erin was no [Choreographer] who could speak to the evolution of dancing, but if she was, she might have observed that as the years had drawn on, dancing in her homeland of America, for instance, had ceased to move about as much.
It wasn’t fair to say it was less technical; indeed, modern dancing had a lot of complex movements that involved every part of the body, but it had grown directional, and in many cases, static, dances you could perform in a confined arena, or, helpfully, captured by a single camera lens. But dancing in this world had never been constrained by the need to put it on video.
It was free, and it travelled. Erin saw Saliss travel halfway across the prison hallway, his feet kicking high, laughing as he danced to an imaginary beat. If Erin could have compared it to anything, it would be swing dancing, or the free, expressive, limbs-akimbo dances from the beginning of the last century.
And somehow, the Drake’s insanity was catchy. Erin felt something rising in her chest as she watched him coming back her way. He paused in front of her cell, expectantly.
“Well? Hey, show me what you’ve got.”
He produced a ring of keys and unlocked Erin’s cell. Her jaw dropped. Saliss winked at her. Then he held out a claw.
“Tell me you can dance. Everyone can dance. Come on. What’s stopping you?”
He winked again. And she couldn’t help it. The ridiculousness of it, the sight of the Drake dancing in the prison amid all the shouting prisoners, it flipped a switch in Erin’s chest. It was so familiar. It was—something she’d do.
And then it happened. Erin started giggling. And then—like magic, she started laughing. But it was no spell, or even a Skill. Saliss needed none of that. He grinned as Erin left her cell.
“Okay. Fine. You’re insane.”
“Takes one to know one.”
He winked. Erin laughed. Then she tried to do a moonwalk. She failed. She couldn’t dance. And she hated that Saliss was actually better nude dancing than she was. By a lot. But Erin knew some moves.
They ended up doing the Cha Cha Slide past a row of cells. Erin was laughing so hard she was crying. The [Guards] were shaking their heads. And the prisoners were rioting.
“Argh! Turn the other way! Turn the other way!”
“Stop waving it around you damn [Alchemist]! Get lost!”
“You can leave the Human. Take your clothes off!”
What a strange world. Erin didn’t quite believe it was happening. But somehow, she found herself laughing, laughing at the strangeness of it all as the [Alchemist] did the hustle while rolling his arms past a cell. He dodged a cup and did a Travolta, pointing out at the sky as he posed.
“See? You’re smiling! I knew I could do it! Show me some more! Come on! Dance! Can we get some music in here?”
He laughed at Erin. And she was giggling too hard to reply. Saliss backed up, doing a grapevine—and someone blew a shrill whistle.
“Silence!”
The piercing whistle made even Saliss and Erin pause. A squad of [Guards] marched down the prison on either side, forcing the prisoners back. They ignored Saliss and Erin, although a few glared at the Drake in a familiar way. He waved, and Erin saw a quartet of figures making their way towards her. The inmates went quiet as the patrol swept through the prison. Saliss sighed.
“Ah. I think we’re in trouble.”
“You think?”
Erin swallowed. But he didn’t look worried. He put his hands behind his head as the Gnoll [Warden] stomped towards him.
“Sir Saliss. Please refrain from throwing my prison into chaos at your whim.”
The Gnoll [Warden] snarled at him. The Drake sighed.
“I make no promises. And I was just dancing. But if you insist, [Warden].”
“Asset to the city or not, I could triple your sentence!”
The Gnoll snapped at him. Saliss raised his claws innocently.
“If it has to be that way, I suppose I could stay a while longer.”
The Gnoll stared at Saliss, dismayed, and then glared at Erin.
“And letting a prisoner out of their cell? Those keys are for emergencies only! This is a flagrant disregard for—Strategist, I apologize. Our prisoner is normally well-behaved. This hasn’t happened in over a month—”
She was bowing and addressing a much shorter Drake. Erin saw grey scales, an eye patch—her eyes widened as Chaldion, the aged [Strategist] lifted a claw. He eyed Erin, and then looked at Saliss. He sighed.
“Saliss.”
“Chaldion! And Rufelt and Lasica! What brings you here? Am I under arrest? Lock me away! I could live here a week! Make it a month!”
The Gnoll [Warden] paled under her fur as Saliss winked at the old Drake. She turned hurriedly to Chaldion as Erin spotted the Gnoll and Drake beyond Chaldion. Rufelt grinned at her—Lasica was covering her eyes. Erin weakly waved.
“Strategist Chaldion! I cannot apologize enough—”
“Enough.”
The Drake spoke softly, but the [Warden] shot to attention. Chaldion eyed Saliss again and shook his head.
“I am well aware of Adventurer Saliss’ antics. Given the circumstances, I don’t find any issue here. Except with Saliss himself. Let us pretend this incident never occurred, Warden Grasfur. I will take it from here.”
“Sir!”
Relieved, the Warden saluted and retreated. She shot Saliss a glare and he waved back at her. Chaldion sighed.
“Saliss—”
