“Dead gods damn it. Tell the city the Wyverns are headed their way right now.”
He sighed. No glorious captured Wyverns for him to ride. Oh well. Pallass would have its beef. And some Wyvern meat. If the city left anything large enough to eat. He sighed as the Wyverns headed straight for Pallass. He estimated they had about thirty minutes before they came in range of the walls. Nothing to worry about, though. Pallass had been built to resist Dragon attacks. What could a bunch of Wyverns do?
 
——
 
“I didn’t think it would hurt anyone. Or cause so much trouble, you know?”
“Famous last words. You know, most [Alchemists] have one. They’re generally not very good. ‘I didn’t think it would blow up if I mixed them together’. That’s a common one. Or just—‘Oops’.”
Erin glared at Saliss from her cell.
“I’m being serious.”
He half-turned and raised a single brow ridge, Drakes not being naturally endowed with eyebrows.
“So am I. So your Skill was fire-based, hmm? And it made old Pelt cry?”
“Yeah.”
Erin sagged onto her cot-bed. She felt tired. And sad.
“I just—I think it helped. But it hurt him. And I didn’t want him to be hurt. I didn’t think about the knife.”
“Or your pet skeleton. Which could apparently think.”
“That’s right.”
“So—just to be clear, you’re upset about accidentally ignoring your pet skeleton gaining a mind, and accidentally traumatizing an old Dwarf [Blacksmith] with your magical emotional fire that you can conjure into being with the power of memory?”
Erin Solstice paused. She glared at Saliss’ nude backside, which was preferable to his front.
“I’m not lying!”
“Oh, I believe you. I’m just trying to put it all in perspective.”
“It’s not as silly as you make it out to be.”
“I’m not saying it is silly. Did I say it was hilarious?”
“It’s in your tone of voice! Are you even listening to me?”
Saliss looked over his shoulder.
“Absolutely.”
“But you’re making potions!”
The Drake shrugged.
“I like to multitask. Go on. Did you get arrested after that? I assume so—the Watch wouldn’t just let you get away with that.”
“Yeah.”
Erin slumped against her bed. The [Alchemist] half-turned. The vial was bubbling in one fist, but he stopped it neatly with a cork. He put it in a little holder on his workbench and picked up a flask.
“Well, it sounds like you had a rough day, Miss Solstice. And I wish I’d been there to see it! But that’s the problem with the Watch. They’re overzealous. They got me this morning. And there I was! Just minding my own business.”
“What if children saw you naked?”
Erin scowled at Saliss. He eyed her.
“Well, why is that a bad thing?”
“Because you’re naked! They’re kids!”
“And everyone gets naked. Do we have to have this argument again?”
Erin threw up her hands. Saliss nodded.
“Glad you agree. Now, where did I put…? Better mix this up before my vial explodes. One second!”
He picked up a glass jar and flitted to his shelf of ingredients. He was so quick! Erin could barely follow him as he pulled out powders or flasks of liquid and began combining them at rapid speed. They all went into the glass beaker, and Saliss mixed it all up before pouring it into a round container over a small burner.
He had any number of wonky containers, all glass, which did things like leave a thin layer between two liquids, or funnel both down towards a bottom…now Saliss lit a fire under the rounded beaker, and inserted a tube into the vial.
Erin watched the vial begin to bubble up. Since there was nowhere for the liquid to go, she saw it shoot up through the tube into the beaker which was bubbling. The two mixed and Erin backed up.
“What are you doing?”
“Just a little reaction. Want to see?”
Saliss picked up the connected vial and flask and waved it at her. Erin recoiled.
“No! Isn’t that dangerous?”
“Only if I drop it. Oops!”
Saliss dropped both containers. Erin jumped backwards. The Drake caught both containers a foot from the ground.
“Hah! Got you!”
“Don’t do that—if you—I’m going to kill you!”
Erin’s heart was beating way too fast. Saliss rolled his eyes, amused.
“Don’t be worried. Actually, the worst that could happen is that this vial overpressurizes and explodes. But you can’t make anything go ‘boom’ with this mixture. Not really. Everyone thinks that’s so common among [Alchemists] when it’s really just accidentally poisoning yourself with gas. Real explosions don’t happen that often.”
He paused.
“Well, they do in my shop. But I’m specialized.”
“None of this is reassuring me. And why do you get a workbench—no, why do you get anything in prison? Isn’t the point that you don’t get anything?”
The [Innkeeper] glared across at Saliss. He laughed lightly.
“But then how would I make a tonic for all the poor old people? Some [Senators] buy my tonic, Miss Solstice. Well, that damn Xif has cornered the market on most of the soothing tonics, but this one he hasn’t copied! Nearly done. See? Want a taste?”
The liquid from the vial had migrated over to the flask. Erin watched as he swirled the grey liquid from the vial into the flask. The result was…well, it was a beige-grey liquid. Not appetizing, but she had to admit it didn’t look the worst. More creamy, really. She still backed away as Saliss poured it into a bottle and offered it to her.
“No thank you.”
“Oh come on. It’ll make you feel better. It’s not poison. I’m an [Alchemist]. A professional! I’m part of the Alchemist’s Guild I’ll have you know!”
“You’re butt-naked.”
“And? At least I don’t get fur in my potions. Fine, suit yourself.”
Saliss sniffed. He took a sip from his tonic.
“Ooh, that’s hot. Good thing I didn’t offer it to you. You’d have scorched your tongue.”
It didn’t seem to bother him. Saliss happily bottled the tonic and put it on a rack to cool. Erin saw numerous bottles and ingredients on his shelves. Saliss sighed.
“What next? Another tonic? Or maybe something for hair loss? I could sell a few dozen bottles, maybe. Gnolls buy it up like mad. Say, do you know if Liscor’s got a market for strength potions?”
“What? You mean, strength as in…”
“Muscles. You drink, you lift heavy things. [Woodcutters] and such buy them, but they can’t afford a lot. I’m thinking more of adventurers. Any Gold-ranks in Liscor?”
“We have the Wings of Pallass, the Flamewardens…there are some Gold-ranks there.”
“I guess I could make a few draughts, then. Oh well. Busy work is busy work. So that’s your day, is it?”
Saliss casually found another beaker. Erin stared at him. Who was he? She was convinced he was not your normal prisoner. But she still couldn’t remember where she’d heard his name.
“Yeah. That’s how I got here. By causing trouble.”
She sighed. Saliss nodded agreeably. He was a good listener, which was surprising, but he’d heard Erin’s story out, even when she’d had to explain about Toren. Actually, he’d taken her story about a magical skeleton at face-value. Even someone from this world would have had to ask questions, but Saliss?
Erin eyed him. The Drake was nodding to himself. He turned his head as he dropped a very green root in a mortar and began smashing it up with a pestle.
“I get it. You’ve been making mistakes. But you know something, Erin? No one’s perfect.”
“I know that. And I don’t need a pep talk!”
Erin scowled at him. Saliss chuckled.
“Good. Because I wasn’t going to give you one. I was just going to say—the thing with your skeleton—”
“Toren. His name was Toren.”
“Toren. That’s different from what happened just now with Pelt. I mean, the thing with the skeleton was awful.”
Erin hung her head.
“Yeah.”
“It had a soul. A heart. And you killed it. All those people are dead because of you.”
“Yeah.”
The young woman sat heavily, staring at nothing. The Drake went on.
“Dead gods, all those deaths on your conscience? And you could have avoided it all? You’re a monster. If I had a club, I’d go over and smack your brains out.”
“I deserve it.”
Saliss nodded.
“You are walking scum. Scum! I’ve known Crelers who deserved more love than you!”
Erin looked up and glared at him.
“You can stop now. I get the point.”
The [Alchemist] grinned at her.
“Was I saying anything you disagreed with?”
Erin hesitated. Then she shook her head.
“No. People died and I could have stopped it. Toren was my fault. I just never—”
Saliss poured the ground-up root into a container.
“You made a mistake. And I’m no Watch Captain who can tell you how much was your fault. But that one was yours. Still—the thing with Pelt? That’s different. And I think you’re mixing the two up in your head. You used a Skill that got that old Dwarf to make something he was proud of.”
“But he was crying.”
Saliss laughed. Erin’s head shot up angrily. The Drake waved at her.
“Sorry, sorry. I know you’re upset. But Pelt cries when he spills his beer. He’s a terrible drunk! So you made him cry and cause a stir. So what? That Dwarf hasn’t made something he was proud of since he came to Pallass. If all it took was a bit of a stir—hells, I’d have blown up Maughin’s forge too if it meant giving the Dwarf something. So what if you caused a scene? The question is: was it worth the cost?”
He looked at Erin with a grin. The young woman blinked. Then she remembered something. Pelt’s last look towards her. His words.
The craft thanks you. She hesitated.
“I don’t know.”
“Fair enough. But I think it was. Your problem, Erin, is that you just don’t know how to control your Skill. You let it get out of control. You don’t know what it does.”
“True. So what do I do?”
“Find out. Obviously.”
Saliss flipped a vial over his shoulder and caught it in the other hand. He waggled his tail in delight. Then he looked at Erin.
“Mind showing me?”
She blinked at him.
“What? Show you my Skill? That’s what got me in here!“
“So show me! How much worse could it get? That’s another famous set of last words. I think I knew a fellow who said that right before he melted his bones.”
The [Alchemist] laughed. Erin blinked at his back. Then she paused.
“It’s just so sad.”
“Show me.”
Saliss looked at her. Erin bristled, but the [Alchemist] didn’t blink. He watched Erin steadily out of the corner of his eye.
“What’s the worst that could happen? Really. All that would happen is that I’d burst into tears, and then I’d stop annoying you.”
Erin’s lips almost twitched at that. He had a point. Reluctantly, she put her hands together. And it wasn’t hard. All she had to do was think of Toren. And Pelt. Her grief and guilt rose. It was all she could think about.
Guilt, and pain. And sorrow.
And there it was again. Erin felt the memory burning. And then there was fire. In her hands. A blue flame licked upwards. Erin gazed at it—
“Prisoner using a Skill!”
A bellow rang through the prison. Erin jumped and saw a [Guard] pounding towards her, a huge baton drawn. Erin panicked, but Saliss whirled.
“Shh. Shh. It’s fine.”
He stuck an arm out of his cell. The charging Drake skidded to a stop.
“Sir Saliss? But—”
She looked uncertainly at him, and then at her companions, who had rushed over at her shout. Saliss leaned against his cell and waved at them.
“Hello! Thanks for shouting my earholes off. But I’m fine. This young woman is just showing me a Skill. Go on. Shoo.”
Erin’s jaw dropped as the cluster of [Guards] stared at Saliss. The female Drake with the baton hesitated. Erin waited for her to smack Saliss upside his grinning face, but to her astonishment, the [Guard] nodded. Without a word, she turned around and the [Guards] walked away.
“What? What?”
Erin stared at Saliss. He shrugged.
“Well, I can’t let them beat you into a pulp now, can I?”
“But they—you—who are you?”
The [Alchemist] smiled.
“Just a naked Drake in a cell practicing alchemy. Who are you, Erin Solstice? A random Human who’s reached Level 40 before she’s turned thirty? You know, that’s beyond a genius. The King of Destruction pulled off that feat, and he was called a prodigy and a threat to end the world. Who are you?”
Erin had no answer to that. But the blue glow in her cell made her look down.
The flame burned in Erin’s hands, neither hot nor cold, but burning with memory. Guilt and sadness. Erin heard a sound and realized a prisoner eight cells down was staring at her flame. Tears ran from the Gnoll’s eyes and he whirled away. Even the [Guards] had to look back once.
It was a beautiful, terrible fire. Erin waited for it to touch Saliss, but the [Alchemist] just blinked at the blue flame. Thoughtfully, he paused with the beaker in one hand. He looked at the blue flame, and then at Erin.
“Interesting. You’re no ordinary [Innkeeper], are you, Miss Erin? Even for your level, I’ve never seen that Skill. Nor heard of it.”
He gestured to Erin’s hands.
“It’s a beautiful flame. Sorrowful. And I can’t say I know the Skill. But—may I see it?”
He wasn’t crying. But his laughing expression and the humor in his tone had evaporated. He was just thoughtful, now. Serious. Erin looked at him.
“How? I can’t throw it to you. Can I?”
She’d done it once, but she doubted Saliss could catch the cold fire. The Drake grinned.
“No problem. Hold on one moment.”
He put down the beaker on his work station, then trotted over to the cell door. He pushed at the cell door—and it swung open. Erin gaped. Saliss stepped out into the prison and walked over to her cell.
“Alright, hand it over. Actually, maybe I should get a bit of wood. One second.”
He walked back into his cell. Erin gaped at him some more as he casually swung the door closed after him. She half-shouted as he came back.
“You could walk out the entire time?”
Saliss looked surprised. He waved a claw at his cell as he came back with a length of wood.
“Oh no. I’m still under arrest for general indecency.”
“But the door—”
Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Well, I have to stay in my cell most of the time because it’s the law. I’m under arrest, still. But because it’s me, I get my cell door unlocked and some equipment in my cell so I can work. The open door is nice—I can use the Watch’s bathroom and get snacks. And if there’s an emergency, I don’t need to break the door.”
“Break the—”
Erin bit her tongue. She squinted at Saliss.
“Who are you? Really?”
His eyes glinted and he smiled. The naked Drake struck a pose.
“Just the most talented [Alchemist] you’ve ever met! And too valuable for the Assembly of Crafts to exile. Now, your blue flame. May I see it?”
