Since the day he brought the foundling home, Baatar’s son had always been a source of joy and concern.

The first was self explanatory, for he counted it as a privilege to have witnessed little Rain’s transition from tormented slave to lively young man with friends, wives, and pets aplenty. This was without even touching on his lofty achievements in life, whether they be political, mercantile, medicinal, Martial, or any other sort of accomplishment worthy of praise, for the boy had become a man to be proud of. That being said, he would always be a boy in the eyes of his father, the same way his sister would always be a little girl despite being a mother of two herself. That was the way of parenthood, and he would be their loving father from now until the day he died, always ready to help if they should falter or offer whatever advice he could. Both son and daughter had proven uniquely challenging to raise, and while he was glad he raised the girl well, it was grating to admit he had little to do with the boy’s development aside from those first few initial steps, as little Rain took off sprinting the moment he learned to walk. Proud, stubborn, compassionate, and loyal, he picked these traits up without any need to be taught, a man who held fast to his own morals regardless of what anyone else might think. Though this made him a man worthy of admiration, it cut both ways like a double edged blade, for the boy held fast to his ideals without fear or respect for the dangers they posed.

Which was a large part of why the boy was also an endless wellspring of vexation, but Baatar cherished his worries almost as much as he treasured his joy, for the former made the latter just that much more precious. Early on, he’d tried to distance himself from the boy for fear of growing too attached to do what needed to be done should the worst come to pass, but that turned out to be a mistake. They all worried that his time spent in the mines had damaged him beyond repair and turned him into the Father’s foul minion, and so they kept him at arm’s length, but in hindsight, this sort of approach would only serve as a self-fulfilling prophecy. What better way to push an individual further from the Mother’s light than fear, suspicion, and isolation? Were it not for little Alsantset’s courage and compassion in opening up her home and heart to little Rain, he might well have given in to the Father’s lies and become the very thing they all feared. Instead, Baatar’s valiant daughter accepted the foundling as her little brother in truth, and in doing so, she showed her parents the folly of their ways.

What parent did not spend sleepless nights worrying about their children’s futures? What parent did not know the anxiety of watching their children make their own mistakes? What parent did not share in the heartache and misery of their children’s failures? An uncaring, unloving, undeserving parent, and after seeing how far the boy had come in a mere six months, Baatar could play that role no longer. For this reason, he sought out his old friend Naaran to take over his role as little Rain’s guardian, for Baatar had long since lost the ability to look at his son objectively.

The practice of assigning guardians had been around since the founding of the Sentinels, for they guarded the people of the Saint’s Tribulations mountains from all threats, both from within and without. A guardian was assigned to all newcomers, not just foundlings extracted from trying predicaments like little Rain, but also orphans of unknown origins, abandoned demi-human children, and even exiles seeking to make a life in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, whether by joining an existing village or striking out on their own. The isolated nature of Baatar’s homelands meant that it often drew the attention of the Father’s foul minions, especially those who were weak of will and weak of arm seeking a quiet retreat to indulge their murderous urges and heretical practices without interruption. To counter this, experienced Sentinels often took on the secondary role of guardian to any and all new additions to the Saint’s Tribulations mountains, wherein they watched for any signs of Defilement and lesser corruptions for a period of time and served as warden and executioner whenever the need should ever arise.

This was the true role of Sentinels in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, the watchers and guardians defending them from the Father’s foul influence as much as they guarded the people from His earthly minions. Of course, this role was kept secret to all except those involved, since this sort of power would appeal too much to those who would most readily abuse it. Mother was the one who insisted on this, for she loathed the idea that the organization she built from the ground up might one day be used for nefarious purposes. It was so secret that as a child, Baatar never even knew he had a guardian, or that the Chief Provost herself had taken on this most significant of roles, for her time as his guardian came to an end years before he first came into contact with her. A good thing too, because it meant he was sent to live at the People’s village, where he eventually met his beloved Mountain Rose, Sarnai, not to mention how his mother, who was merely his guardian back then, argued vehemently on his behalf to keep his head attached to his shoulders, for he’d been a wild child like the rest of his half-siblings who’d come before him, an angry, territorial brat that fought tooth and nail to lay claim to whatever took his fancy.

Though he himself had little memory of his early, formative years, Baatar believed all the stories he’d heard after serving as Guardian for young Huushal, a role he volunteered for after hearing he had a younger sibling and couldn’t bring himself to adopt the pup. It wouldn’t have been fair to Sarnai, as she would have been the one responsible for little Huu what with Baatar being away all the time, and she already had her hands full wrangling the rebellious teenage Alsantset, who was every bit as fierce and independent as her heritage might suggest. Chickens coming home to roost as it were, for Sarnai had been the one to pick out that bundle of female, feline fury from the orphanage, taken in by the girl’s dazzling round eyes and beautiful tufts of fur surrounding her rounded, tiger ears. Of course, Alsantset wasn’t half as bad as Huu had been, for she had been snatched up as soon as the Ancestral Tiger abandoned her, a beautiful baby not yet weaned and wholly trusting of her new parents. Alas, little Huu was a few years old when he first arrived at the orphanage, abandoned by his birth mother who could no longer keep up with him, and not without reason either. The orphanage volunteers were at their wits’ end trying to deal with his temperamental and territorial nature, a feral and angry child unlike any they’d seen before, for the good people who helped raise Baatar had long since passed away. On his good days, little Huu was quiet and docile as could be, happily ensconced in his bed whilst peering out from beneath a pile of blankets he’d claimed as his own, but woe betide the poor soul who tried to tidy his room, put away his toys, or wash his clothes and bedding, for he did not take well to intruders within his den.

One might think the actions of a furious toddler laughably adorable to behold, but they’d never seen a half-wolf boy tear out a chunk of bloody flesh from a caretaker’s throat with teeth alone.

Baatar remembered the day well and almost executed the boy for his ‘murderous’ ways, but luckily, the thought of killing a child and half-brother was too much for him to bear. Instead he sought out his friends, got drunk, and laid bare his thoughts, about how the pup just needed a more stable environment in a home without so many unfamiliar faces moving about, which eventually led to Ghurda adopting the pup as her own. They were a good fit, their little family of four, six now that young Huushal was married twice over, but not all stories were as happy and heartfelt as his and little Rain’s.

Nor were either of their stories over just yet. Young Huushal was now the Ravenous Wolf, still struggling with the same murderous urges which Baatar himself shared, ones they both channelled towards their desire to protect their families and loved ones. The pup was struggling under the Father’s attentions, but time and tempering would serve him well so long as he did not break, and the same could be said of little Rain. Having seen him blossom into a devious politician, cunning tactician, and brilliant leader over the past two years made it all too easy to forget that the boy was still green yet, a novice in the ways of war and the dark hearts of the Defiled. What’s more, in spite of having experienced so much pain and darkness firsthand, little Rain never lost his empathy for others and was driven to help as many as he could. Never before had the boy spoken of his time in the mines in detail, not beyond a few words in passing, not to his parents, his wives, his grandparents, his friends, or even his pets. There were hints of course, aside from the traumatic condition they found him in, as oftentimes, they would find the boy staring off into nothingness like a grizzled veteran haunted by memories of war. A condition that persisted even to this day in fact, not to mention his nightmares which he never acknowledged and the lengths he went to in order to avoid his traumatic past by creating a brand new personality to become instead. Baledagh, he called it, or ‘Warrior’ in the language of the People, a role little Rain aspired to while being wholly unsuited for the job if one took everything except talent into consideration.

It all came down to his personality, a kind and caring young man who was utterly unlike everyone else in his bloodline. Were it not for the fact that Charok’s parents never stepped foot out of the village right up until the day they died, Baatar might well have suspected the baker of siring little Rain out of wedlock, for their personalities were far better matched.

Alas, there were absolutely no doubts as to the boy’s heritage, but that was neither here nor there. What was more surprising was to hear the boy talk about his time as a slave to every soldier gathered outside of SuiHua, a massive, conquering army consisting of Warriors from all five provinces. Even without his Aura to make his emotions clear, Baatar could tell it cost his son something dear to acknowledge those dark moments and speak of his pain and suffering even in the most cursory of fashions, for those scars were buried deep and revisiting them caused them to open up fresh once more. The physical abuse meant little to the boy now, for he emerged stronger and more resilent, but the mental trauma it left behind still plagued him to this day, though it gave rise to his formidable strength of spirit and faith in humanity. That was the crux of Rain’s speech, his faith, for even so dedicated an effort from the Father’s minions failed to turn even a single child slave, so why should the people of the Empire fear Him so? A much better way to go about it than revealing his ability to Devour Spectres in Baatar’s opinion, as that would’ve required an explanation of Spectres and Devouring both, not to mention how it would’ve laid all hopes of success upon the boy’s frail shoulders, a burden which was best left shared.

And Baatar would do his best to help shoulder that burden, but the boy was not making it easy to help.

The slaughter in LuZhuo was not entirely unexpected, but little Rain was caught wholly unprepared, because thus far, the war in Central had been fought out in the sticks with clear lines drawn between the two opposing armies and no innocents wandering about to get caught up in the conflict. As such, soldiers and officers alike were largely spared the sight of the bulk of the Enemy’s atrocities, aside from those few occasions when the Defiled sought to use those atrocities against the Empire, like when Bai Qi made a spectacle of forcing captured soldiers to torture their comrades during the siege of JiangHu. Having patrolled the Saint’s Tribulations mountains for nigh on fifty years, Baatar had seen more than his fair share of atrocities, and so when the Demon unveiled the horrific spectacle hiding underneath the massive canvas tent, Baatar had already steeled his heart in preparation of the worst. Nothing, however, could have prepared him for his son’s scream of palpable rage and sorrow, a piercing, keening howl of wordless emotion which threatened to overwhelm every last man, woman, and animal in earshot.

A response he should have seen coming, but overlooked in the moment. Though he’d not been present at the time, Baatar had heard the stories of how his son came across the ruined remains of an isolated village located outside the protection of the Sentinels and Imperial Army both, all those years ago in the opening months of this extended conflict. There, he stumbled across the foul work of a Defiled scouting party, a discovery which set him on a collision course with madness as he gave into his anger and set out to unleash his rage upon any and all Defiled he came across. Thankfully, Yan had been present at his side and kept him in check, but little did they know that Naaran had been watching over both of them from above, his spear ready and waiting to end the boy’s madness should he ever go too far.

