Of course, even though the boy’s superlative movements allowed him to exert one-hundred percent of his force without waste, his attacks were still limited by his base strength. Even Reinforced and Amplified to the high Heavens, the force delivered by little Rain’s attack was unable to match one of Bai Qi’s attacks, which were less perfect and perhaps only ninety-five percent of the traitor’s full potential, but ninety-five percent of a much larger base figure. That being said, the newborn Demon was no Bai Qi and died in the first strike as the boy’s glaive cleaved it in twain from hip to hip, ending the match in a single exchange almost before it could even begin. A spray of Ichor erupted from both halves of its remains, and for a moment, Baatar’s stomach leapt into his throat from concern, but the boy paid the caustic liquid no mind as it splattered harmlessly around him, missing his hair, clothes, and armour completely while landing only on bared flesh. Which was intentional of course, so he could Devour the Heavenly Energy trapped within without raising any suspicion, but Baatar was taken aback by this phenomenal display of Controlled Deflection. Despite having secured his bounty however, there was no sign of joy or victory in the boy’s furrowed expression, and instead he wore a grimace that spoke volumes to his inner complaining.

Striding past the Demon’s still toppling lower half, little Rain leaned over its torso to pluck his sword from its throat, glowering all the while at this latest mystery he could not solve until Baatar could contain his curiosity no longer and Sent, “Something amiss?”

“Sort of, but nothing dangerous. Just unexpected.” Looking up from the Demon corpse, the boy met Baatar’s gaze and pursed his lips. “There’s something off about the Demon’s Ichor, the same as those Half-Step Divinity Wraiths which attacked the former Legate. Look at the dirt and grass around me.” Once the boy pointed it out, Baatar instantly saw the issue, as the Ichor pooled harmlessly around the bisected corpse. There was no white smoke of blackened ash to accompany the nonexistent burning, the Ichor inert and harmless as water and insolvent as molasses, refusing to eat or sink into the dirt and grass and instead doing nothing of note at all. Sucking his teeth, the boy continued, “Zhen Shi’s work no doubt, to keep me from benefiting from slaughtering Demons, but how?”

Thankfully, the boy was just voicing his thoughts through Sending rather than asking Baatar for his guidance, as this sort of question was far above and beyond his understanding. “Study later,” he Sent, directing the boy’s attention to another disturbance nearby where a second Demon was forming. “For now, we fight.”

“Right.” Before he even finished Sending the acknowledgement, Rain hurled Peace up and out into the air, where it curved in an impossibly sharp arc to pierce the still forming Demon through the head. A chorus of gasps rose up around them, and only then did Baatar realize the Cannons had fallen silent, their echoing roars still ringing in his ears despite no longer sounding in the air above.

“Lad, have you gone daft?” Father roared, his boisterous words cutting through the deafening silence as emotion overruled reason. “Was shattering your Core once not enough?”

“Sorry for worrying you, Grandfather,” Rain replied, flashing an apologetic smile before Cloud-Stepping over to slaughter the second Demon with a single blow, only this time he didn’t waste the effort to perfect his movements. He didn’t even wait until his feet were back on solid ground before delivering a half-hearted strike from mid-air, but the results were as spectacular as the first. The still forming Demon came apart in a shower of blood and Ichor, its transformation not even half-finished and face still visibly human, at least insofar as the parts Peace did not ruin, an oversight little Rain remedied by stomping the head into meat paste after extracting his wholly intact sword and waving it about for all to see. “I had a hunch I wanted to test out,” the boy Sent, clearly broadcasting to Baatar and Father both. “Zhen Shi is poaching my Heavenly Energy somehow, siphoning it off before I can Devour it. While he can’t do anything about the energy being infused into the Demon’s flesh, he’s intercepting the rest before it can empower the Demon in a... I wanna say ‘metaphysical’ manner. Dunno if that’s the right answer, but it feels like it should be, because I’m pretty sure its the act of merging of the physical and metaphysical that causes damage to Spiritual Weapons.”

Frightening to think this eight-hundred year old foe would so quickly uncover the secrets behind little Rain’s Devouring, or at the very least come up with a method to deny him its use. The boy warned them all that this was likely one of Zhen Shi’s goals, to capture him for study and experimentation, but even without little Rain in hand, the mad researcher was able to comprehend at least some part of the boy’s ability. Wholly focused on ascertaining even more information, little Rain barely paid the dead half-Demon any mind as he Cloud-Stepped towards a third, slaughtering any and all Defiled he passed with almost casual disdain, and it was easy to see the admiration in the eyes of the gathered Peak Experts. Even though the boy himself claimed he was not yet ready to join their ranks, these gathered Warriors were able to appreciate just how far along the boy really was, and if they had a head on their shoulders that wasn’t hidden up their ass, they would agree with Baatar’s opinion that Falling Rain had in many ways already progressed beyond the level of a mere Peak Expert.

His flowing movements, his casual and almost instinctive use of Chi, and his nigh unheard of ability to control his Spiritual Weapons, these sorts of achievements were normally attributed to the realm of Divinity, or Half-Step Divinity at the very least. While he was sorely lacking in raw strength, skill, and ability, none could deny that the boy’s fine control was far beyond what even the greatest Peak Experts could match, and soon enough, the rest of the Empire would learn of it too. During the public spars, the boy only ever showcased his physical abilities, and not even half of them at best, because when it came right down to it, it was impossible to get him to take any spar seriously, even one with Gerel whom he instinctively clashed with.

Having already lost that same tension, the boy’s fourth attack was even more careless than the first three, a throw of the sword that hurtled end over end before cleaving clean through the third half-formed Demon’s skull. The boy’s accuracy was near flawless, but Baatar saw the panic on his face before anything else and his stomach flopped with dread, for there were few things that could unnerve the boy so. Fear turned to pain, then pain into anger, and the boy seized that emotion to let loose with a roar of unrestrained fury, an emotion which spilled out through his Aura and was felt by all. Alas, this meant he was no longer emitting his Aura of despair, and the Defiled recovered quickly once its absence was felt, their headless hysteria transitioning into a disciplined fighting retreat in less time than it took to blink.

“Disengage,” Baatar ordered, praying he wasn’t too late, for even a single death here would serve as the fly in little Rain’s ointment and spoil the victory for all. Thankfully, even though there were enough gathered to make others think they were mere cabbages, these were still Peak Experts poised at the forefront of humanity, each one a seasoned veteran and dauntless survivor at the very least. The Enemy withdrawal continued as father took up the slack to resume his bombardment of the Enemy forces, but it was clear his heart was no longer in it as his once vigorous tempo slowed to a feeble crawl.

As for little Rain, he’d already charged over using Mother’s signature Ground-Shrinking Strike and skewered the Demon clean through, but even this was not enough to sate his rage. Screaming like a maddened berserker, he repeatedly plunged Tranquility’s twin blades into the Demon’s torso as it toppled over dead to the ground, mangling its corpse beyond all recognition and demostrating why so many were so concerned about his state of mind, his Warrior persona so very different from the calm and rational man he presented himself as. Worrying as his behaviour might be, what was truly concerning was the half-melted state of the boy’s shield, the caustic Ichor back in full force as it ate away at his clothes, armour, and Spiritual Weapons all at once, yet somehow leaving the boy’s tender flesh completely intact. No wonder the boy was so incensed, for the pain of a shattered Core was not something to laugh at, especially after having so easily taken the bait to fall headfirst into his foe’s insidious trap.

A learning experience, Baatar told himself, a lie to quell his mounting fury. Thirty days and the boy’s Core could be restored once more, along with his Spiritual Weapons to boot, so at most, this was merely a much needed lesson in humility and prudence for Baatar’s beloved son, albeit a painful and humiliating one at that.

Chest heaving with exertion, the boy stood shirtless over his fallen foe and fumed in silent fury as the gathered Peak Experts took in the aftermath of his folly. No one said a word, not even Baatar himself, for he would much rather the boy act on his anger and hatred than swallow it up inside. There were no more angry roars or futile flailings however, and instead, the boy reclaimed his ruined weapons and turned to glare at the shadows to the West. “Is this all you can do?” he asked, his fury lending volume to his words. “Slaughter helpless innocents and play trifling tricks while hiding from real conflict? Coward.” The Energy of the Heavens surged around the boy, and so too did Baatar’s hopes, for it meant his Core was not wholly shattered yet. “I’ve already shattered my Core once and it didn’t stop me then,” he declared, sneering at his unseen foe. “So what makes you think this is enough to stop me the second time around?”

Holding his broken sword overhead, he showed everyone how the blade melted clean off and only a hilt remained, as well as the broken tusks of his shield and the shattered blade of his glaive. Then, the Energy of the Heavens ran wild as the boy Devoured it all for himself with a determined look in his eye, converging around the Mother’s Chosen Son to answer his call. “I am the Sword,” he declared, standing tall and unbroken while channelling more Chi than the three hundred gathered Peak Experts could manage all together. “The Sword is Me.”

And there, before the eyes of so many witnesses, Falling Rain reforged his Spiritual Weapons in what could only be described as a miracle, drawing steel out of thin air to make up for what was lost. Chi was a wondrous power, one that allowed Martial Warriors to soar high above mere mortals and carry out feats of inhuman strength and skill, but what the boy did now was beyond the means of mere Martial Warriors. Though he claimed it was no different from Healing a broken limb, the human body was not made of lifeless metal, which made this a feat of pure Creation, something supposedly only a Divinity, a True Divinity, was capable of.

And the boy showcased his talents so shamelessly just to spit in the eye of his foe, who may or may not be watching.

“Gather the captured civilians,” little Rain said, putting his reforged weapons away without noticing the astonished and reverent gazes cast upon him. “We’ll sort them out, then move on to the next harbour, so we can strike while the iron is still hot. Send word back to the fleet and tell them to dispatch another group of Peak Experts to meet us along the way, as well as ships with food and blankets aplenty to offer some small comforts to these people. I’ll talk to them myself and reassure them that everything will be fine, but...”

And so the boy continued, striding off like the commander he truly was, while everyone else still had yet to recover from their shock. Chuckling beneath his breath, Baatar met Naaran’s eyes and clapped his old friend on the shoulder, basking in pride at how his beloved son turned out. Soon enough, Naaran was chuckling along with him, which then turned into full on hearty laughter, with only a bare hint of unrestrained hysteria.

For what else could one do when witnessing the impossible save to go along with the flow and laugh?

Chapter Meme
