Baatar still had nightmares about it to this day, knowing that Rain had almost broken down and tortured a Defiled captive in those woods just to make her scream, ostensibly to draw out her allies, but they all knew that was a thin excuse at best. Rain wanted the Defiled to suffer for the sake of suffering, and though he’d come a long way since those humble beginnings, this time, Baatar would be here to step in before his son went too far.

Despite the dire circumstances and near disaster behind them, he still took great pride in seeing the boy at work in Sha Meng, standing out in the bay as bold as could be to demand the Defiled surrender. Then again, the boy was nothing if not bold, to bring a force of three-hundred Peak Experts out into the field without any support whatsoever. Were he of mind to go head to head with the Enemy forces, Baatar would have long since put an end to this folly, for Peak Experts were a precious resource to be jealously guarded rather than recklessly squandered in chaotic melee. At least, that’s what standard operating doctrine dictated, and Baatar wholeheartedly agreed, right up until he saw eight Runic Cannons make short work of some eight-thousand Defiled.

The roar of the Cannons and screams of the Defiled filled the air once the boy’s deadline was up, and Baatar gazed upon the new face of war, wherein eight Warriors led by his father Husolt rained death down upon a disciplined and well-fortified army. Were this an Imperial fortification, they might well have broken in the first salvo, for no Warrior feared anything more than being helpless to act. Once these Runic Cannons grew widespread or little Rain’s idea of projectile Spiritual Weapons bore fruit, there would soon come a day in which Peak Experts were valued for their mobility and stamina over their strength of arm and spirit. So long as one could Cloud-Step about, they too could wreak untold destruction with a Runic Cannon or Spiritual Rifle in hand, to the point where even the famed Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao needed to take extensive measures to guard against a mere MuYang. Were Rain truly after the Commander General’s head, he could easily have substituted his notorious spymaster for the less distinct Ravil, Bulat, or any one of the former cripples currently wielding one of Mila’s wonder weapons, and so long as they weren’t too concerned about surviving after the fact, the Commander General’s death would have been all but guaranteed.

For years, the boy argued about how might should not make right, and it seemed that his solution was to make everyone so mighty that even the strongest Peak Expert should have need to fear the weakest Martial Warrior so long as the latter was properly equipped and determined. Change was coming, but that was a matter for the future, as the here and now demanded Baatar’s full attention. There was little for him to do at this very moment however, for even the fearless Defiled could not stand firm in the face of this deadly barrage. It took less than a minute for their line to break into full-fledged retreat, but they would have held even longer if not for the boy’s Aura of overwhelming despair, one he emanated from where he stood without affecting any Imperial in sight. Had Baatar not experienced it first-hand, he would have been as perplexed as the other three-hundred Peak Experts gathered here in Sha Meng, but despite progressing by leaps and bounds along the Martial Path these past few weeks, the boy’s Aura was still his most deadly weapon by far.

In these trying days, being the boy’s Mentor was synonymous with being his test subject for whatever new mad skill he’d devised, and the offensive Aura had been the first and most formidable working on the boy’s long and lengthy list. Granted, this was a weapon borrowed from the tiny Divine Turtle’s arsenal, but made it no less impressive in execution. Though he and all the other Imperial allies had been spared from Rain’s offensive, Baatar remembered the sensation well from a few hours earlier and pitied the poor Defiled subjected to it. This particular Aura was overbearing and oppressive, a mountain of weight pressing in on him from all directions and threatening to crush him where he stood. It wasn’t grief or anguish, doubt or dismay, but pure, unsullied despondence, a hopeless surrender that paralyzed you with the realization of an inevitable and inescapable doom. It wasn’t like standard Aura which made you too terrified to move, but rather one which filled you with so much dread and foreboding that it made you want to welcome death, for at least then there would be an end to the despair.

So to see the Defiled overcome their forced despondency and flee was nothing if not impressive, a feat Baatar was not sure he himself could replicate under the same circumstances. The Cannons were formidable, but he had little to fear from death, and the same could be said of the Defiled.

“Demon birth,” the boy exclaimed, as if unaffected by the slaughter taking place before him. “With me. Kill it before it escapes.”

To others, it would appear as if little Rain had already recovered from the ordeal in LuZhuo and put it out of his mind, but Baatar knew his son had merely swallowed his rage and buried it deep. In him burned a fire that would not be extinguished, a thirst for vengeance that could not be quenched, for he knew not who to direct all his rage at. That was the boy’s greatest failing, his inability to let go of his fear and hatred, and Baatar counted it as his own failing for being unable to guide the boy to an appropriate answer.

Now, with an outlet to direct his ire towards, the boy became the Warrior once more, stepping into the role as easily as Baatar might step into his most comfortable slippers. With Tranquility already strapped to his wrist, the boy drew Peace with his left hand and unslung Unity with the right as he Cloud-Stepped towards the transforming Demon. For a Defiled Warrior to give into despair was not only expected, but eagerly anticipated by the boy who no longer saw Demons as a threat to be wary of, but rather a resource to be hunted and Devoured. As well he should given how each slain Demon represented a significant source of ‘usable’ Heavenly Energy for him to plunder and hoard, one he needed to replicate his miraculous and awe-inspiring demonstration which snatched victory from the jaws of defeat during the naval engagement with Huanhuzi. That being said, even this much wasn’t enough to sate the boy’s voracious appetite, as the boy Sent, “Hold the perimeter please. I’d like to tackle this one myself.”

A useful skill, Sending to multiple recipients at once, and no one was as adept as the boy, not even Luo-Luo who gave him the idea for it. To hear him explain it, he envisioned Sending as transmitting a wave of sound to one specific recipient, whom he designated using a unique identifier he allocated upon meeting the recipient and kept firmly affixed in memory. It was similar in theory to the Keystones he relied on earlier along his Path, and while he had yet to revisit the idea in whole because he had yet to feel the need, it was clear he was entertaining notions of going back to those unwieldy crutches rather than work on mastering the skills in their entirety. Though Baatar disapproved of such shortcuts which cut off the path towards self improvement, he could see why his son was so enamoured by the idea of them. Given how the boy advanced along the Martial Path faster than anyone in living memory, any sort of ‘natural’ progression must seem agonizingly slow in comparison. Of course, this didn’t mean taking short-cuts was the right move, but ultimately, even though Baatar was the boy’s father and Mentor, little Rain had to walk his Path alone.

And so, Baatar suppressed his protective urges and watched with a belly full of dread as his boy readied to battle a newborn Demon in single combat. It was never easy watching your beloved child struggle against adversity, but even a lion will push its cub off a cliff to teach it to endure, so how could Baatar do any less for his son? This was the difference between Rain and Alsantset, not one of skill, courage, or heart, but of resolve and determination. While the girl was a natural genius standing at the forefront of her peers, she’d faced few true tribulations in her blessed life, a result of her mother’s over-coddling. His too, if Baatar was being honest, for he would sooner remove his own spleen than watch his daughter suffer without need, but where sweet Alsantset was a dutiful daughter, little Rain had come to them as his own man and refused to let his parents shelter him from above.

It was a point of pride for the boy, to stand alone without aid, something Baatar only figured out a handful of days ago on the fields of SuiHua when he gave his speech to the army. The boy struggled to survive in the slave camps without anyone to rely on, and he would’ve died in a pit if not for luck and fortune, a fate he refused to submit to. Thus, in order to prove himself worthy of this life, he was determined to show everyone that he was wholly capable of standing on his own two feet, even though he had so many people ready and waiting to support him. A fool’s pride, but pride all the same, and Baatar would wound the boy greatly if he were to trample upon it, for while others called Falling Rain a genius, even the greatest genius in existence would have amounted to nothing next to the boy’s staggering dedication and conviction.

That being said, Baatar wasn’t overly concerned for his boy’s life as there were so many Peak Expert protectors standing nearby. The Death Corps would die for him in the blink of an eye, not just because of their Oaths, but because they respected him as a man and master. The same could be said of Gao Changgong and the other loyal men and women of the West, for little Rain was not only their saviour and benefactor, but also the sole champion of their cause, one who made no demands of their loyalty because he fought for justice. For similar reasons, the Aspirants were also wholly devoted to the boy, having lost their faith after pledging themselves to a false cause only to find a like minded lead in little Rain. Though initially founded by the traitor Confessor Goujian, the Aspirants’ had not banded together simply to uncover the Defiled and remove their threat from the Empire, but because they aspired to a better tomorrow in which the Enemy was no longer a threat, a belief which, despite all his talk of lacking faith, little Rain shared.

Any one of these gathered Peak Experts would gladly die to keep the boy safe, and they would be competing with Baatar for the opportunity, but truth be told, there was a good chance little Rain wouldn’t even need their help. Stalking over as he studied his prey, the boy flicked his wrist and transformed Unity from longsword to glaive, the blades sliding up and locking into place with a click that was lost to the booming Cannons overhead. The majority of work was done by those eight Runic weapons, while the remaining Peak Experts cleaned up the stragglers not worth wasting the ammunition and Chi on, not to mention each Cannon could only sustain fire for so long before warping from the sheer heat of the forces involved. A carefully guarded weakness that Rain wholly ignored in favour of shock and awe, but having seen the results firsthand, Baatar couldn’t argue against the daring decision.

As if reinforcing his brazen reputation, the boy attacked before the Father’s foul attentions had faded from His newest abomination, a vaguely humanoid aberration with supple flesh the colour and texture of hard stone. Peace shot out and pierced the Demon’s throat an instant after the danger had passed, but the monster was beyond such mortal failings as the need for air or blood. With a raspy, inhuman roar of bestial fury, the rock creature charged forward to crush the boy standing before him, a hulking monstrosity that towered over Baatar’s courageous son. The Demon’s rocky hide pulsated and shimmered, flowing like a solid liquid to form sharpened stalactites that erupted from its skin, but the boy’s follow-up attack landed before the creature was even in range.

To see him in action was like watching poetry in motion, his Movements so fluid they blended seamlessly into one another until it was all but impossible to see where one Movement ended and the next began, so Baatar didn’t even bother to try and instead focused on the final product instead. On the surface, the boy’s opening attack was nothing special, a two-handed, horizontal swing like any child could emulate, but the difference lay in the execution. Toes, ankles, calves, knees, quads, hips, back, shoulder, and arms, every link in the chain from bottom to top worked together in perfect concert to deliver this near-transcendent strike. Easy to say but impossible to teach, for each person’s body behaved differently depending on a near endless number of factors, of which height, weight, muscle tone, and body shape were but the most obvious of the bunch. There was no wasted movement in the attack, no inefficiencies to be seen, a fluid strike from start to finish that was deceptive in its ease of appearance, for this sort of Movement was something every Peak Expert aspired to, but at a level few would ever reach.

Baatar himself included.

