Striking even as the thought came to her, Yan directed her Chi to do more than Hone the edges of her weapons, but also adhere to their forms like an invisible sheath. Battle-fan met clawed arm of the headless stink Demon, but alas, failed to bite deep. Reeling from the impact, Yan retreated even as her shield bounced off the steely bark of the tree Demon before returning to her hand. If only creating a Domain were so easy, but the problem was, one’s Domain was tied to the Natal Palace, and Yan’s Natal Palace was tied to her Blessing of Air, so how was she supposed to Develop a Domain that was independent from her Blessing?

Then again, why did she have to?

There was no need for Yan to envision or externalize her Natal Palace, for the wind had always been there to support her ever since she first Awakened to her Blessing. Before then even, for she had been favoured by the Divine Air, chosen to wield its power in the eternal battle against the Enemy, and now it would guide her yet again. Instead of the invisible sheath from before, she wrapped her weapons in a curtain of flowing air, not Wind Chi, but something more akin to the wind within her Natal Palace, the hidden presence which flowed all throughout her very being. Again, her shield flew out, this time targeting the stink Demon, which opened the fanged mouth on its belly in a bid to catch her weapon in flight. A grievous mistake, for it had not sensed the presence of her pseudo-Domain lingering upon the spinning shield. The Honed blades shattered fangs and lacerated flesh with ease as the Demon shrieked in an inhuman cry of pain and rage, but Yan was not yet done. Usually, she summoned Wind Blades using the edge of her Battle-Fan, but this time she summoned one using her six-pointed shield instead, and the results were more spectacular than expected. Rather than a single, invisible blade, the spinning shield was enveloped in a disc of cutting Wind, one the stink-Demon did not negate in time. The disc surged and expanded as the shield spun and dug itself deeper into the Demon’s flesh, bisecting it from hip to hip and sending a spray of Ichor in all directions. Quick to react, Yan summoned a gust of Wind to carry the Ichor away from the Imperial lines and out into the Enemy, and she was rewarded with a smattering of screams as the Demon’s caustic life’s blood ate away at unprotected flesh.

Though unshaken by the death of its comrade, the tree Demon proved no match for Yan’s newly discovered pseudo-Domain technique. Before the second Demon’s corpse had yet to fall, she’d already turned her mind to how she could use this knowledge to Develop a Domain in truth, but while she felt like she was on the cusp of understanding this next milestone, the Enemy was not willing to sit back and give her time to ponder the Dao. While her Chi reserves were dangerously low and her headache nigh unbearable, the thrill of the fight was still surging through Yan’s veins and she continued to fight with all her worth. Two more Demons fell to her weapons, and she was riding a high unlike any other, but alas, her mood was not as infectious as she’d hoped. Though the day could still be won, most Imperial soldiers were fighting as if the battle was already lost, their fear and desperation mounting even as the Enemy died in droves at their doorstep.

A shame Yan’s Insight only helped her awaken her Spiritual Sense and form a pseudo Domain, for this maleficent Aura that wasn’t an Aura was wreaking havoc on morale. No matter how brightly she shined, she could not carry the day on her own, for her shoulders were not yet tall or sturdy enough to bear the heavy burden. To make matters worse, Yan noticed Mila trading blows with the Demonic Gen and faring none too well, while Li-Li’s battle against Yuanyin could still go either way. As for Mataram YuChun, he clearly held the upper hand despite being outnumbered by three Society Peak Experts, while the battle between the Mataram Patriarch and the Unyielding Naaran was anybody’s guess, as Yan could not make out who was winning even with help from her Spiritual Senses.

All of which meant that if matters continued to devolve in this manner, then Meng Sha would fall before sundown, an outcome Yan was powerless to stop by herself. If only Rain were awake and ready to fight, because as things stood, they would need a miracle to hold Meng Sha, and if anyone could deliver one, it would be her husband, Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
