There was a time when the thrill of battle was enough to get Yan’s heart racing, blood boiling, and spirits soaring, but now it seemed like those times were long past.

Difficult to say when she started feeling this way, for it felt like just yesterday when her promotion to Major had her walking on clouds for weeks without end. A rank she earned with her own merits no less, largely in part due to her performance during the withdrawal from JiangHu. Now there was a tale for the ages, one which she would tell her children and grandchildren until they grew bored of her repeated ramblings. JiangHu was the first time Brigadier Hongji went head-to-head with the Traitor General Bai Qi, though they had yet to learn the identity of the cunning Enemy commander. This made the good Brigadier’s accomplishments all the more impressive in hindsight, for he remained vigilant and focused throughout the entire battle against one of the most brilliant minds in three generations. Bai Qi had long since proven his skills in combat, governance, and command as the Lord of Martial Peace, but Brigadier Hongji was a late bloomer with minimal accomplishments to date, so there were few who would’ve believed he had what it took to match wits with a Living Legend.

No doubt Bai Qi thought the same, for upon arriving at Castle JiangHu in the dead of night with his army of Chosen and tribesmen, his forces wasted no time encircling the castle before launching their first assault. Waves upon waves of tribesmen and Chosen had crashed headlong into the walls, where the fighting was hard and fast as the Enemy sought to tear through the Imperial defences in a single pass. Arrogance? Not entirely, for the walls might well have fallen in that first night if not for Brigadier Hongji’s superlative command. Though war was ultimately a game of numbers, battle was about more than just throwing soldiers into the fray and letting them fight until victory or defeat became clear. Soldiers were a limited resource, with limited stamina to fight with, so a good commander took steps to utilize the resources at their disposal in the most cost-effective manner possible. Kill the most using the least, that was the mantra a good commander lived by, and Brigadier Hongji was more tight-fisted with the lives of his soldiers than a fisher-wife with her coin. Every decision he made was with the intent of reducing casualties as much as possible, whereas other commanders made their decisions based on the costs and benefits of the expected outcome. A minor distinction in the grand scheme of things some might say, but Yan would argue differently, for there was a stark disparity in intent. Most commanders approached a problem with the intent to spend lives in order to solve their issue, while Brigadier Hongji looked to minimize costs in pursuit of the same goal, which was one reason why he proved so effective at command.

Repair the roof before the storm arrives, that was the idiom the good Brigadier used to describe his mindset, or as Rain put it, a pinch of prevention is worth a fistful of cure. Rather than react to Bai Qi’s probes and feints, Hongji already had his countermeasures worked out and in place long before the Enemy army arrived at his doorstep, and it showed in his stunning execution. Any fool could dispatch reinforcements to where they were needed, but it took careful planning and in-depth preparation to make sure they also arrived at the perfect time, neither too early or too late, and encountered no obstructions or impediments in their routes. An obvious detail to account for, yet so few commanders cared to work out the most efficient paths to take when defending a fortification, but this was a skill Brigadier Hongji had long since mastered.

Against a lesser opponent, minor interruptions and late arrivals might well have presented Bai Qi with a weakness to exploit, which was likely his plan from the start. Thanks to ample preparation and a superb sense of timing however, Brigadier Hongji denied the Lord of Martial Peace an easy victory at Castle JiangHu, which might well have been the turning point in the overall war.

Of course, there were other reasons the war went the way it did, and Brigadier Hongji used all manner of tricks and stratagems to keep castle JiangHu from being overrun. Concealed Wraiths sent to open the gates were foiled by stringent countermeasures put in place. Everyone was kept to a strict shift schedule to ensure the soldiers had time to rest in-between long bouts of fighting, while using the combination of the counter-weight catapults and roaming bands of Imperial cavalry kept the bulk of the Enemy forces at arm’s length. More than once, Brigadier Hongji had allowed one section of the walls to be overrun, only to reveal that it was a trap meant to clear out whole swathes of the Enemy in one fell swoop with help from the Irregulars’ crossbows. What’s more, he also saw through Bai Qi’s feints multiple times and responded appropriately, committing just enough forces to make the Lord of Martial Peace believe his foe had taken the bait, but holding back just enough reserves to throw at the true target once it was revealed.

There were many more virtues to extol and accomplishments to admire, but as Yan fought atop the walls of Meng Sha, she found that she missed Brigadier Hongji’s sense of timing the most. In stark contrast, Commander OuYang Min Jun’s orders showed that he possessed no sense of timing whatsoever, nor had he made any preparations since taking command. The battle had only just begun and she could already see reinforcements streaming in to bolster the defences, a panicked decision made by an inept commander who thought more was always better. Far from it, for despite being built much wider than your standard fortress walls, there was limited room to stand atop the battlements. Most of the space along the inner side of the fortress was meant to be kept clear for wounded and traffic, allowing reinforcing units to flow freely from one section to another, but now the entire wall was packed to the brim with soldiers on deck, most of whom had nothing to do besides twiddle their thumbs.

Better if those idle soldiers had been kept in reserves, but it was clear OuYang Min Jun lacked the confidence to deploy his troops in such a manner. The situation was made all the more frustrating by the fact that he’d also decided Yan was best utilized as a rapid response unit of one, dispatching her from one end of the wall to another in a desperate bid to keep control of the battlements. Flattering that he thought her so capable, but despite her best efforts to explain the limitations of the Forest Clearing Gale and her need to rest and restore Chi between each use, he steadfastly ignored her Sendings and expected her to single-handedly clear whole sections of the wall with little more than a wave of her hand. Five times now, she’d unleashed her signature Chi skill upon her foes, which was one more than what she previously believed was her limit, and yet the battle had only just begun. Exhausted from her efforts and sprinting this way and that, Yan pushed her way through the press of soldiers to the back of the battlements, and even went so far as to crouch between the parapets just so she wouldn’t be surrounded by sweaty, armoured soldiers on all sides. A fun prospect in theory, but not in these current circumstances as she fought to catch her breath and refill her Core while ignoring the mounting pressure threatening to burst out the back of her skull. Taking deep breaths to ease her growing migraine, she squatted between two crenellations and took a moment to see how the overall battle was unfolding.

Not terribly, but not great either, which was admittedly better than she expected. The Mataram heavy infantry spearheaded the centre, while Defiled tribesmen braved the waters on the flanks in a determined effort to circumvent the walls, but commander Min Jun had acted quickly to keep the beleaguered defenders from being overrun. The walls were packed with soldiers who had no choice but to fight to the last, since their only escape now would be to jump off the wall into the courtyard below, while the Irregulars were free to lob stones and bolts into the press of Defiled with near impunity.

Though Yan still believed he’d squandered her potential, it was clear now that he’d been using her talents to buy time for his soldiers to get into place. Though not ideal, it was an effective response to the unexpected army appearing on their doorstep, though Yan maintained that he wouldn’t have needed the extra time if he’d simply worked out a more efficient deployment plan beforehand. She also maintained that the defenders would be better served with fewer soldiers on the walls, but since it was clear the commander lacked Brigadier Hongji’s impeccable sense of timing, this would have to do.

To be fair to OuYang Min Jun, he wasn’t a completely inept commander, just not up to Yan’s admittedly high standards. It wasn’t entirely unjustified for someone to fail to match up to Brigadier Hongji, or any of the other superlative commanders Yan had either served under or studied in great length. The aged Society Adherent was passable, having acted quickly to keep the walls from being overrun, and though his tactics were outdated and not wholly suited for the modern fortifications of Meng Sha, he still managed to cobble together an effective defence. Seeing how she had yet to receive new orders, it was clear he also knew that he’d pushed her as hard as he could and was now giving her some much needed time to rest. This told her that Min Jun demanded much from the soldiers under his command, meaning there would be a hefty butcher’s bill to pay when all was said and done.

Alas, her kids would have to weather the siege without her for now, a prospect which had her beside herself with worry. Sutah was an able second, but he lacked the strength and charisma to lead a five-thousand-man retinue unaided, to say nothing of her woeful lack of true elites to help shoulder the Heavens. Had she known this was the sort of commander in charge of Meng Sha, she would’ve asked Brigadier Hongji for time off instead of a transfer to the harbour fortress, but it seemed like the right decision at the time. At worst, Rain would still be comatose when she arrived and she’d have her duties to help distract her, and at best, her husband the Legate could authorize her time off with little more than a wave of his hand. There was no cure for regret however, so Yan’s kids would have to make do with the circumstances, just as she would have to grit her teeth and endure until battle’s end.

...

Why was she so miserable about being asked to step up? At the very least, it meant commander Min Jun had acknowledged her strength, else he would not have tasked her with so pivotal a role. A year ago, this revelation would’ve had her jumping for joy seeing how so many soldiers and Warriors spurned her achievements for one reason or another. Sometimes it was because she was a woman, or a half-beast, or because they believed she was using her feminine charms to get ahead, or any number of irrational justifications others used to discredit her achievements. Now, she was serving under a commander who trusted her enough to shoulder the burden of holding the line with martial skill alone, and all Yan could do was bellyache about how tiring the effort had been.

Was this not her dream all along? Thousands of Imperial soldiers had seen her efforts first-hand and would share the tale with thousands of others, and within a week everyone across the Empire will have heard about how Du Min Yan unleashed five Forest Clearing Gales to kill countless Mataram Chosen in quick succession. This was an accomplishment comparable to the feats which set Grandpa Du on the path to becoming an Exarch, and he never stood out like this until he was closer to forty than thirty, whereas Yan was not yet twenty-five and still considered a young Talent of the Empire.

So why was she so bitter and jaded about all this? Sure, OuYang Min Jun was no dragon among men, but he was capable enough to muster an effective defence. More importantly, he appreciated her talents and put them to good use, though she still maintained it wasn’t the best use of her skills. Regardless of her doubts however, this was all preferable to being left to languish in obscurity, or worse, set up to fail, intentionally or otherwise.

Something was amiss, for Yan knew herself well, and though the fighting in Shi Bei had worn her down, she should not be so dispirited in the opening minutes of battle. Some sort of subtle working of Aura perhaps? Though she’d long since deployed her own Aura, Rain had proven that there was more to this seemingly unremarkable Milestone than what the people of the Outer Provinces previously believed. Perhaps this was something similar to the Demonic Dread Aura only Li-Li and Rain could defend against, but something more widespread and slower acting meant to quietly chip away at morale without anyone noticing. Out of an overabundance of caution, Yan Sent word not only to commander Min Jun, but also to Yaruq who she knew would pass the message along to more worldly Peak Experts like Naaran and Binesi. Though she did not hear back from any of them, aside from a brief acknowledgement from Yaruq, Yan paid it no mind for this was not something she could fix or prepare for. Perhaps Commander Min Jun would ask Li-Li to lend aid in the defence, or maybe the monks would have something to add, but regardless of what came next, her part was over and done with.

