Much as Yan wanted to send a scything Wind Blade over to cut his throat, Mataram YuChun was too far out of range, not that she expected her attack would land even if he wasn’t. Though invisible to the human eye, Peak Experts were able to perceive her Wind Chi through their Domains, and possibly even through something Rain called ‘Spiritual Sense’. Perhaps that’s how Yan was able to divine how the battle unfolded while meditating within her Natal Palace, though she felt that wasn’t entirely right. It was as if the wind was speaking to her once again, informing her of what took place in her absence, the same way she heard it whispering the secrets of the Divine Air in Medical Saint Taduk’s bamboo grove. Again, her conclusion didn’t feel entirely correct, and she quickly realized why. It wasn’t the wind whispering secrets to her this time, but rather her Chi mimicking the properties of wind. How else to explain how she could understand it now, when she still couldn’t make heads or tails of what she heard before? Somehow, she’d utilized her Natal Palace to... not Scry, not Listen, but take in the happenings around her, gathering so much information that it took her mind long seconds to process it all in full.

Though she failed to glean anything about the suspected Aura pervading Meng Sha, one thing was clear. The Enemy was hell-bent on overwhelming the defenders of Meng Sha with quantity and quality both, and thus far, the odds were moving in their favour. While Naaran battled with the Mataram Patriarch, YuChun stood unmatched upon the battlements, and if no one stepped forward to keep him in check, he would be free to run roughshod over the elite defenders. Knowing this, three Peak Experts stepped forward to attack him together, Warriors Yan recognized as Adherents of the Society thanks to the sigil emblazoned upon their armour, but their names escaped her for the moment. That being said, if they were willing to abandon face and attack YuChun together, then this meant matters were far more dire than they appeared, for it was akin to admitting they no longer had any one Warrior able to match him. The effect on morale was almost visible as Imperial soldiers all across Meng Sha trembled in concert, their pride trampled in the face of the traitor’s strength, but while Yan understood why they might feel this way, she also recognized that there was something foul afoot. This was more of the same subtle influence she’d noted earlier, the Aura that wasn’t really an Aura, but one instead infused with the essence of... what exactly? Foreboding? Despair? No, nothing so distinct and compelling, but something else altogether, a defeatist attitude and almost melancholic atmosphere permeating throughout the harbour fortress.

Surely the monks of the Brotherhood could recognize what was happening, but aside from Monk Happy watching over Jorani in Concealment, the rest of them were chanting quietly along the shoreline, as far from the fighting as they could be. Their voices were so subdued Yan couldn’t even make it out using her newly awakened senses, but their efforts were being matched by the traitor monks chanting on top of the battlements themselves, so either the loyalist monks were losing slowly or they didn’t notice the subtle working Yan had long since identified. So what could she do then? Ask Li-Li to use her Emotional Aura to counter it? Perhaps, but she was still embroiled in a bitter life and death match against the young monk Yuanyin and Yan didn’t dare distract her. Withdraw to Rain’s side to try and convince Kukku or Rakky to counter whatever the Enemy was doing? Putting aside how she had no idea how to even convey her request to the animals in a way they would understand, she wasn’t even sure if they could do anything about it.

If only Yan had an Emotional Aura of her own, but alas, all her efforts to Condense one had failed to bear fruit. Not for lack of trying either, because she wanted nothing more than to show sweet Shana how much she loved her, and spoil the poor rabbits Rain often neglected in favour of Mama Bun and his other pets. Drawing deep on emotion and pouring it into her Aura had resulted in a normal Aura emerging, meaning there had to be some trick to it that they had yet to understand, but now was not the time to test wild theories.

No matter. When facing an attack, you were never solely limited to blocking. You could dodge, parry, or counter attack as well, and Yan favoured the last more than the others. If some Defiled working was bringing down Imperial morale, then she would just have to work that much harder to raise it back up once again. Leaping off her perch atop the battlements, Yan flourished her battle-fan and six-pointed shield both as she marched into the fray, her Aura blazing with standard courage and determination. It wasn’t flashy or unique, but it was something, and somehow, the soldiers barring her path sensed her presence and parted to make way as she approached. It was gratifying to see the look of relief in some of their eyes as she passed, and she marvelled at how far she’d come. Somewhere along the way, she’d become a pillar in the Imperial Army without even noticing, a Hero to help shoulder the Heavens when they came crashing down, and though there were still taller shoulders to bear the burden for now, that didn’t mean she was utterly helpless to act.

While she could do nothing to affect the battles between Peak Experts, Du Min Yan was more than capable of running roughshod over the Enemy chaff, maybe even enough to send them running for the dunes.

Making her presence known as soon as she arrived, she delivered a scything Wind Blade to the throat of the first Chosen she encountered. The second and third shared the same fate, while the fourth caught her spinning six-pointed shield with his face. Willing the weapon back to hand, Yan laughed as every Mataram Chosen in sight identified her as the greatest threat to their lives, and tried her best not to giggle as they charged headlong towards her. A logical move, as closing the distance limited her ability to kill from afar, but if they thought she would be easy pickings in close combat, then they were all in for a surprise. After all, she’d Awakened for less than a handful of years, but she’d been practising the Forms for as long as she could remember, and she put those countless hours of practice to good use here.

Unlike Kyung and Li-Li, Yan’s Movements lacked any and all resemblance to Grandpa Du’s, for she was a woman grown by the time they met and had already taken her first few steps along the Martial Path. Where Grandpa Du was graceful and elegant in execution, Yan was raw and crude to the extreme as she swung her battle-fan like a butcher’s knife and brought it down on the head of her closest assailant. The wide blade failed to slice through the Runic helmet, but the subsequent uppercut saw her six-pointed shield punch clean through his jaw and kill him almost instantly. Slipping around the falling body of the first combatant, she used it to hinder the two Chosen on her left and charged the one on her right instead, only to turn back at the last moment to throw a Wind Blade at the unsuspecting foes she’d left behind. The surprise attack landed before her target even had time to scream, so easily killed despite wearing so much Runic armour to protect him, armour which her Wind Blades easily flowed over without triggering the defensive mechanisms. Why this was the case, she had no idea, aside from an inkling that this was just how the wind worked. It didn’t hit a steel plate and stop moving, but instead continued to flow along the surface until it found a way around it. For this reason alone, her Wind Blades and Forest Clearing Gale were exceptionally effective at killing armoured Chosen, something Commander OuYang Min Jun had clearly noted in advance, so Yan felt compelled to forgive the man for not being a stand out genius of his generation.

At least he had a good eye for talent and knew how to utilize the soldiers under his command. That was already better than most, so why quibble about the minor details?

The wind coursed around Yan as she flowed across the battlements unchecked, her speed and savagery wholly unmatched. Forget grace and dignity, for war was a dirty and ugly affair. Who cared if she had blood and gore smeared across her armour from garroting a Defiled throat, or brain matter splattered across her hair from bashing someones head in with her horns? Not her, and not Rain, and that was all that mattered, so she would do as she pleased until someone came to stop her. Most fell easily before her shield and battle-fan, but if someone proved bothersome to defeat, then she simply disengaged and struck again when they weren’t expecting it. Many a Chosen died to a Wind Blade to the throat, but she wasn’t above butting heads or kicking groins from behind if that’s what was needed. If Li-Li’s movements were like a dance, then Yan’s were akin to a bar-room brawl, and truth be told, she wouldn’t have it any other way, because this was how war was fought. Duels had their place on the battlefield, but it all came down to numbers in the end, and Yan was determined to kill the Enemy Chosen until there were none willing to face her in combat ever again.

So what if she couldn’t spare the Chi to unleash a Forest Clearing Gale? Du Min Yan was no one-trick pony, but a Warrior of the Empire and Sentinel of the People.

A disruption in the flowing wind warned her long before her Concealed foes revealed themselves, and Yan cleanly retreated as the Demons made their presence known. Hardly surprising considering the Chosen and tribals were making little to no headway with their assault, for the soldiers of the Empire were made of stauncher stuff. Blasting the two most dangerous Demons with a Wind Blade each, she silently attracted their attentions and claimed them for herself while leaving the rest for the other elites to fight over. Though she didn’t know it before attacking, she quickly realized why they’d caught her attention as her Wind Blades dissipated into nothingness upon impact with their chitinous skin, for these Demons were both Awakened. Both were roughly humanoid in shape, but that’s where the resemblance ended, for one had a body akin to a rotting tree with at least eight extra wooden limbs and six multi-faceted eyes like a spider, while the other was a misshapen aberration bearing no less than five mouths across its pale, sleek, sinuous torso and no eyes or head to speak of.

Wood and... Mother in Heaven, Yan didn’t even want to guess was its Blessing might be, but the second Demon was horrific to behold, and both were able to counter her Wind Blades, which were arguably her strongest and most versatile attack. Sure, the Forest Clearing Gale possessed more killing power, but it was wasted on a single target, especially a Demon considering the individual Wind Blades produced by her Gale was weaker than one she conjured herself. What’s more, Yan lacked a Domain to enable her to damage the Demons with her weapons, but somehow, this didn’t concern her in the least, for she approached her foes with nothing but confidence and a grin stretched across her face.

Yes, this was far more like her, enjoying the thrill and challenge of battle as she fought the good fight. Glory, fame, reputation, and rank, all that fell woefully short in comparison to the sheer exhilaration of fighting the Enemy.

Though unable to utilize her Blessing directly against these Awakened Demons, the wind was more than capable of bolstering Yan’s speed to staggering heights. Using this to her advantage, she ran circles around her foes while avoiding their multi-limbed attacks, all the while shrugging off their attempts to utilize their Blessings against her. A good thing too, for if left to run amok amongst the Imperial soldiers, these two Demons might well have overrun the battlements by themselves. The tree Demon’s Blessing of Wood was well-suited for supporting his allies in battle, mostly by hindering his enemies with barbed branches emerging from the cracks in the stone. Wood Chi, and it was similar in nature to Shuai Jiao’s Grasping Vines, the titular move which earned him his moniker, but with Yan’s Wind Chi negating them wherever they spawned, the tree Demon could do naught but flail its many limbs about in hopes of catching her with a lucky strike. With the wind at her back, it would need far more than luck to hit her however, so she focused more on the headless, multi-mouthed aberration.

Who regrettably expressed it’s Blessing by vomiting some foul-smelling, brownish sludge out of its many, multi-fanged, barbed-tongued mouths.

Never before had Yan felt so fortunate to have been Blessed by Air, for after catching a single whiff of its noxious fumes, she set to work blowing away the stench before it could reach her. The smell was worse than rotting shark mixed with the shit of a million soldiers, which she knew because she’d experienced that particular stench first-hand back on the beaches of Nan Ping. That being said, she could hardly dance around the two Demons forever, as she’d come into the fight at a disadvantage considering she had less than a fifth of her Chi. A tenth now, though she was frantically fighting to channel more into her Core, but she was not as talented as her handsome husband who could fight and meditate at the same time. If only she had her Domain, then she could pierce through the Demons’ defences to cause some actual damage, but she only knew how to form a quasi-Domain, which she wrapped around her Wind Blades to keep them from dissipating back into unclaimed Heavenly Energy once outside of her Core.

...

So what was stopping her from forming a pseudo Domain around her shield and battle-fan?

