Or maybe not. Since she had nothing better to do while gathering Chi and waiting for new orders, why not see if she could solve this mystery herself? Rain spoke often of his frustrations regarding Aura and how it didn’t ‘fit’ in the grand scheme of things, but while she never really understood his explanations, she always thought he put too much weight on logic and rationality. For untold millennia, countless Martial Warriors had endeavoured to understand the laws of Heaven and none had yet to succeed, yet Rain thought he could unravel the mystery by simply thinking it through long enough. In all likelihood, no one had come across the right answer because there were still too many unknowns to account for, but this didn’t mean understanding would forever be denied them. Even if the secrets of Aura were too complex for mortal minds to comprehend, Yan figured there was no harm in asking the Mother Above if She had any Insight to spare.

Something Rain almost never tried anymore, simply meditating on his problems. Probably because he always took it personally when the Mother Above didn’t descend from the Heavens to personally answer any and all of his questions.

In contrast, Yan had no qualms with asking for help from the Mother Above, but doing so was easier said than done. Dangerous as it might be to meditate so close to battle, she knew she had at least six hidden guardians keeping watch over her, even if she didn’t know who they were or who put them up to the task. These were merely the ones she’d found, using Grandpa’s trick of deploying Wind Chi in all directions to uncover Concealed individuals, and while she lacked his ability to keep control of Chi passing through another person’s body, losing connection with her Chi was enough to give her a general location of any hidden individuals. Though she didn’t have the Chi to spare to check if they were still there, she knew Grandpa would never allow her to go into battle without a guardian, so she wasted no time in seeking Balance.

Others spoke of closing their eyes and opening them again to find themselves ensconced within their Natal Palace, but in Yan’s admittedly limited experience, it didn’t work like that for her. The reason being was simple. Most Martial Warriors based their Natal Palaces on physical locations in reality, or an approximation of reality at the very least. Their Natal Palaces often had sunlight shining down from overhead and grass or flooring beneath their feet, as well as walls or horizons to block out the infinite darkness of the void, and cushions, chairs, beds, or other furniture to seat themselves upon. In contrast, Yan’s Natal Palace was made up of the wind and nothing else, a constant and ever-present breeze that set her skin to tingling and her mind at ease. When she closed her eyes, there was only the Void to greet her, which visually was no different from what she saw before she Formed her Natal Palace. The true change was something no human eyes could see, the hidden presence of the wind flowing all around her, filling the limits of her invisible Natal Palace as it whispered indecipherable messages for her to hear. The messages were not new or unique, but rather a repetition of the messages she first heard when meditating in Medical Saint Taduk’s mysterious bamboo grove, messages which had existed since time immemorial. Unbeknownst to her, she’d committed those messages to memory and could now hear them inside her Natal Palace, and though she’d spent many a night musing on the meaning behind those ineffable tidings, she was no closer to understanding those whispers now than she had been when she first became aware of them all those months ago.

Not because her comprehension was lacking, but because these were messages left by the Divine Air itself, one of the four Prime Children who helped the Mother Above form the very world Yan lived in. How was she, a mere mortal, supposed to understand the whispers of a Divine being that had taken part in the greatest act of Creation known to humankind? The best she could hope for was a smattering of Insight to help guide her along her way, so Yan made no effort to parse through the messages and simply stilled her mind to listen to what the Divine Air had to say.

The wind gently kissed her skin and rustled through her hair as she focused on nothing but awareness itself, and it brought to mind the understandings she’d stumbled across the first time she heard its voice. The wind sang as it traversed through the bamboo grove, an ever-changing melody with highs and lows that were both loud and quiet, while evoking sensations of harmony and dissonance all at once, but this song was merely the by-product of the true message hidden underneath. Yes, the wind didn’t exist to make sound, it merely did so in passing without conscious effort, so the message was not in the sound itself, but rather its source. Why did the wind fluctuate in speed, pitch and volume while passing through the bamboo grove? Various different obstructions for one, for the wind went through and around the hollow bamboo shoots while traversing through the flowers and branches interspersed through the grove, but how was this knowledge of any use?

No... Yan was making the same mistake Rain made so often, demanding answers that would only lead to more questions ahead. The wrong sort of questions to boot, for the Divine Air was more than just physical air, but something more, something... well... in a word, Divine.

Still immersed in her Natal Palace, Yan opened her eyes in reality and took her Battle Fan in hand, and just as she did when she first heard the Divine Air, she twirled and waved it about in an effort to understand this most capricious and changing of Elements. The wind was wild and untamed, yet had rules to abide by, blowing east one moment only to shift west the next, yet always with good reason. The wind was always flowing, sometimes so weakly you couldn’t feel its touch against your bare skin, and other times with power enough to tear apart buildings of heavy stone and steel, yet if given enough time, even a gentle breeze was enough to smooth out the most jagged of mountains.

Light as a feather and heavy as a mountain, gentle as a kiss and sharper than any sword, this was the wind Yan sought to wield, yet these were only the physical characteristics of the wind itself. What of its metaphysical characteristics? A word Rain used often of late, but one Yan only understood as ‘not physical’, and he described as anything outside the range of human perception, but if the end goal was to merge the physical and metaphysical into one, why was he so intent on differentiating between the two in the first place?

Yes, that was it. Physical or metaphysical, the properties of the wind remained unchanged, so all Yan had to do was emulate the wind, and the rest would sort itself out.

Standing up on a whim, Yan peered out over the battle and took in everything she’d missed, for even in the throes of Insight, she did not lose focus on her surroundings. It was a little like hearing someone speak without paying it any mind, only to register their words after the fact as your mind filled you in on what you thought you’d missed. Not much time had passed since she first sat down to meditate and her Core still had a ways to go until it was even one-fifth full, but the battlefield had undergone a myriad of swings and changes in her absence. Mataram Yu Kong, the traitor clan’s foremost young talent, had been slain by none other than Bulat, the stout, self-important gambler of Rain’s retinue. In response, Mataram YuChun made a move to avenge his son, only to be stopped by none other than the Immovable Binesi. Alas, he proved no match for the Ten Thousand Spears and might well have died if not for the timely arrival of the Azure Ascendants.

With an Enemy Major General taking the field against the foremost Runic Craftsman of the North, matters only escalated from there as all manner of elites made their presence known, including sweet Li-Li who came to Jorani’s rescue. The young monk named Yuanyin was formidable indeed, having shrugged off five bullets to the face with almost careless ease, but Li-Li was not so easily defeated. Though she was far from the strongest of her peers, she excelled in one on one duels against foes surpassing her in skill and strength, consistently able to eke out a victory so long as the odds were not too too stacked against her. A beautiful sight to behold, the gorgeous woman putting her mastery of the Forms on display, and Yan could clearly see Grandpa Du’s influence on her style. It wasn’t as obvious as it was with Kyung, whose Movements were a perfect match in every way except speed and power, but the similarities were still undeniably there. The biggest difference was that while Kyung strove to emulate Grandpa’s domineering style, Li-Li had taken what she’d learned and transformed it into something more suitable for her, without impacting the underlying effectiveness. Grandpa’s style was all about domineering decisive attacks, singular strikes meant to control the flow of battle and decide the outcome of a match in as few exchanges as possible. Though Li-Li’s style retained these domineering elements, she lacked Grandpa’s overbearing strength and thus had to use other means to take control of the pace, namely superior skill, timing, and finesse. She still had the ability to deliver those same battle-ending strikes, but she wove them in between other attacks meant to create openings for her to exploit.

Grandpa Du and Kyung were like typhoons, tyrannical and oppressive to the extreme. Most of their opponents could only struggle against the odds until the wind carried them away to be dashed upon the rocks. In contrast, Li-Li’s style was more akin to running headlong down a mountain, in that her opponents felt like they were firmly in control until they were moving too quickly to avoid the tree in their path, the tree being Li-Li’s killing blow. It could come as the opening attack, on the heels of a deceptive feint, in the aftermath of parrying your strike, or in the middle of an otherwise standard combination.

In both instances, you were only ever one overpowering strike away from defeat, but with Grandpa, his foes at least had time to rest and reset before each subsequent exchange, assuming you survived the first. With Li-Li, her attacks came hard and fast, and you never knew when she would pull out the deciding blow, and thus had to always be on your guard. While Grandpa’s overwhelming, single-hit victories earned him a reputation as a domineering duellist, Li-Li was domineering in her own way, so full of calm aggression and calculated destruction. Truth be told, it was difficult not to be envious of the beautiful half-cat’s comprehension of the Forms, but while Yan herself was unable to emulate Grandpa Du’s fighting style, she would do his legacy justice through their shared Blessing of Air instead, and that was good enough for her.

Glancing over at where Li-Li was still fighting and now reciting poetry, Yan was surprised to see how far away her dear friend and potential future sister-wife really was, almost a full two-hundred metres away. How was that possible? There was no way Yan could have seen or heard what she did, but that was far from the end of it. Here on the northern parapets of Meng Sha, Yan had unwittingly taken note of events far beyond her sphere of perception, the information filtering into her conscious mind as soon as she knew to look for it. Mila was fighting now too, on the southern beaches no less, riding Zabu into battle with Paragon in hand and running roughshod over the Defiled with little to no opposition. Zian fought valiantly on the wall with his twin sabres a whirling, but his movements paled in comparison to the show his dapper Uncle Yang put on in his duel against the Whirling Dervish, Mataram Minzhe. Difficult to say who held the upper hand in their match, which was surprising considering their reputations, but Situ Jia Yang’s impenetrable defence was proving to be the bane of Mataram Minzhe’s relentless assault.

Situ Chi Gan. Tam Taewoong. Teng Hong Chuan. Dastan Zhandos. Dong Ping. These were but a handful of the faces Yan recognized who stood out from the rest, but there were many more Imperial Heroes revealed today. There were too many to take note of one at a time, but she saw that some still fought valiantly to defend Meng Sha, while many were now resting in the arms of the Mother. These deaths were not without cost, for it was clear Imperial morale was fast flagging, a fact made all the more evident as the Tyrant, OuYang YuHuan came plummeting down from the skies. Bleeding from a half dozen serious wounds and countless smaller ones of no consequence, the formidable woman might well have died if Daxian hadn’t been there to catch her. Even then, the force of her descent was enough to crack the concrete battlements beneath his feet, and Yan could see the pain flash across his eyes, pain which he transformed into sheer rage as he glared daggers at the man who dared injure his Mentor.

Slowly hovering down from on high in a display of Lightening even Grandpa would’ve been hard pressed to emulate, the seemingly indomitable traitor Mataram YuChun descended back down to the battlements with unworldly grace and limitless confidence, his nose pointed so high it was a wonder if he could see anything in front of him. “Is this all the North has to offer?” he asked, and his words swept through the Imperial ranks in a wave of cold terror. “A backwater bumpkin with delusions of grandeur and an unruly woman who doesn’t know her place. How disappointing.”

