Alden pretended to admire the brass number plate on 515’s door, while shooting surreptitious glances down the hall.


“It’s not all right,” Laura said in an annoyed tone. “You tell her that. A good job is one thing, but when it turns this sour…it’s not worth it anymore. You tell her. Tell her I said it, and it’s not just me.”


“I understand. I understand,” said the smaller woman, shaking her head. “You have reason to be upset.”


“Manon isn’t the only person who matters! It takes the whole team.”


[I don’t think she’s a Mind Healer,] Alden reported to Lute.


“And I want to be paid for…for pain and suffering!” Laura said angrily. “Tell her that, too.”


She slammed the door in the blonde woman’s face.


The woman sighed and turned around. Alden forgot himself and stared at her openly for a couple of seconds.


She looked Artonan.


She looked so Artonan that he had to actually stop and think about whether she was one or not. As far as facial features went, it wasn’t strange to see a human who had a couple that called to mind the other species’s average individual. Prominent cheekbones, unusually wide-set eyes, narrow brows, a high forehead, small chin—they were common enough that even seeing the full combination on a human face wasn’t shocking. But in this woman’s case, all of those features were pushed farther than they could be without registering as alien.


And there were other cues, apart from her face, that made him question his initial assumption about her species. Her skin was just a couple shades darker than he would usually have expected of a human with such strikingly pale hair. The ice blonde seemed to be natural. Her eyebrows matched anyway. Skin and hair were quite varied for both species, but this combo felt more unlikely for a human than it would have for an Artonan. Then there was the height. She was maybe five feet tall with the heels. Petite was normal enough, but when you added it to everything else…


Even her hands, thought Alden. Was it his imagination or were the fingers wrapped around the large cell phone she was holding just a little long?


Still, she was human. Even if he disregarded the context of their current location, Artonan women were almost always flat-chested, and the woman who’d just left Laura’s apartment wasn’t. Plus her skin had a honeyish undertone, rather than a purplish one.


She’s just a very rare looking person. Possibly one who’d had a much more artful plastic surgeon than his old wordchain teacher. Or maybe she’d asked the System to tune her Appeal in an uncommon way.


He didn’t have to stare at her for long to take in her appearance and get over the surprise. She must have noticed him standing here, but she didn’t seem interested. Her eyes were on the phone.


What do I do? What were she and Laura talking about?


Alden had heard just enough to think that things were not going the way he’d hoped or expected. Laura had called this person instead of a healer. She wanted to be paid for pain and suffering?


So my message prompted her to do something, but I don’t understand exactly what.


Still facing 515, he cut his eyes to see the woman again. She was pushing up the sleeve of her suit. She had a smart watch on her wrist and a second piece of tech in the form of a bracelet that was casting what looked like a lighted computer display across the skin of her forearm.


I can’t just stand here silently. That’s the most conspicuous option.


Knocking on Laura’s door right now, with this stranger checking her email or something just outside it, didn’t seem like the right call.


Leave and come back?


Alden turned.


“You’re leaving?” Lute asked curiously. “Is the person who’s probably not a Mind Healer scary?”


[I’m just getting out of sight while she’s here. Laura was complaining to her. And asking for compensation. And I think asking her to report how dissatisfied she is to a boss?]


“Sweet! There’s a boss. Is the cult leader the boss, or is there a bigger boss?”


[How should I know?]


If this woman worked for Manon…then Alden was at a loss. How did he help the boater members if their answer to finding out they were mind controlled was to call the mind controller? And ask for money.


He heard the click of high heels behind him as he headed for the stairs. Fast clicking. He’d been deliberately strolling at a leisurely pace in an effort not to look like he was running away. Now he had to fight the urge to speed up.


Don’t be dumb. Your legs are way longer than hers, and you had a head start. And she’s just walking down a hall, not running after the strangely dressed guy to stab him in the back.


He still felt relieved when he reached the door to the stairs.


Then considerably less relieved as a butt dressed in cargo pants backed through it. The man attached to the butt had…a canoe.


Why is a canoe coming up the stairs at a time like this?!


“Who hauls a canoe indoors?” Lute asked. “Who hauls a canoe up a staircase instead of using the elevator?”


<<Do you mind getting the door for me?>> the man asked Alden.


“Sure,” said Alden, holding the door open.


“Maybe canoes don’t fit in elevators? I’m impressed he got it up the staircase really,” said Lute.


Fine. This is fine. Now I’m helping Mr. Canoe. That probably makes me look less suspicious.


“I get that these people want to live the lake life, but can’t they just rent boats if they—”


Lute’s merry chatter stopped. His expression was shocked. And then his eyes widened even further as a look of horror transformed his face.


[What’s wrong?] Alden texted him.


The woman in heels had just reached him. She stopped a couple feet away. She couldn’t get to the elevator because the canoeist was in her way as he maneuvered his vessel into the hall.


“Alden,” Lute said. “Don’t…”


Don’t what? Alden wondered.


“Don’t look,” maybe. “Don’t say anything.” Or something more personal.


Whatever it was, it remained unsaid. And Alden did look. The woman didn’t have herself name-tagged, but when she was standing this close, a special notification appeared beside her thanks to his interface.


He blinked at it in surprise.


[She’s not Avowed,] he reported to Lute. [She’s a regular human.]


Lute took a deep breath. “You need to come back here. To the SUV. Don’t say anything. Keep your sunglasses on. She’s not acting like she’s recognized you, but she might if she gets a good look at your face.”


Something in his tone made Alden freeze up. Literally. He activated his skill like he expected to be on the receiving end of an attack after all. The puffer coat stiffened around him.


He forced himself to drop it. Being unable to move your arms wasn’t exactly subtle.


The canoe was finally through. <<Thank you!>> the owner called, hefting it over his head and trotting off toward his apartment.


The woman headed toward the elevator. Alden slipped through the door and took the stairs down quickly.


[You know her?] he asked, keeping up with the texting since Lute had made him even more nervous.


“Yes,” Lute said.


[Is she dangerous?]


“She’s my mom.” This tale has been unlawfully lifted without the author's consent. Report any appearances on Amazon.
 
*
