“No, not because of me, though that might be their excuse. They resent who you are and what you represent. You said your father was a good man, right? There's your reason.” Yawning, he stretched lazily and settled back down to sleep.

“What's this have to do with my father?”

“Well, a physician is a valuable resource and it stands to reason he was well liked. He was probably their friend, maybe even a benefactor, and seeing him killed on a whim and his family tortured would be traumatizing. They looked after you out of guilt, but guilt can only last so long.” Shrugging, he continued speaking sleepily. “You're a living reminder of their frailty and failures, the very sight of you dredging up old guilt and shame, which then turns to anger and hatred, a powerful emotion. Eventually, they forget everything besides the hatred, and here you are.”

Kneeling at his side, she watched him close his eyes to rest, the day's events exhausting him. So young yet so jaded, was that really how the world was? “What about everything Bei said? Her parents were so good to me and she's been my best friend since we were young.” They swore to be best friends forever...

“She unmarried? And Gen's strong, right? Most eligible bachelor, the bitch wants him for herself. Jealousy. Simple.” Waving his hand, he smiled drowsily. “Forget about her and the rest, you're better than them. I'll bring you away from this miserable backwater, my lucky star. Reward you richly, I swear it. Won't be long, healing quickly. Used the chamber pot today, won't need to do laundry every day...”

Smiling at his sluggish voice, she timidly reached out and stroked his face, delighting as he rubbed his cheek against her hand, like little puppy seeking affection. Perhaps he wasn't so bad, he was trying so hard to regain his strength and reunite with his people. It was sweet of him to comfort her. He was right, she was better than them.

Taking a deep breath, she patted her own cheeks and steeled herself. If she wanted him to bring her away, then she'd need to work hard and care for him. There was still plenty to be done, the laundry needed drying, the floors sweeping, and she still had to scavenge for food. Most pressing was that she didn't own a chamber pot, so a search would have to be conducted. Luckily, the hut wasn't large and she only needed to follow her nose. She prayed to the Mother, hoping he hadn't used her only cooking pot.

Again, she compared him to a stray pup, hoping he could heal and grow into a powerful protector.

Perhaps her dreams would come true after all.

Chapter Meme
