“I thought I had everything I had ever wanted when I came here. But now I realize I have nothing. That Faith never loved me. That my Class? Being a [Hero]? It does nothing if I’m not actually suited to be a hero. I just want to… I just want to…”

He choked back on his regrets. His desires. Facing the floor, then his palms, he spoke his one wish.

“I just want to go home.”

And then there was silence; his thoughts finally realized. All that could be heard was his own muffled crying. He didn’t know how much time passed. Just that he sat there, head buried in his hands, overcome by sadness.

Then the silence ended. Salvos spoke out, drawing his eyes towards her.

“Then let’s make a contract.”

The words were simple. Straight to the point. Just as she always was. Except, there was something about her voice— no, something about her form that was different.

Instead of finding himself face to face with the beautiful woman from before. The enchanting young maiden with piercing golden eyes and flowing silver hair tied into a ponytail. He instead found himself facing a face like a dog’s skull. A creature with four clawed hands. Flesh like bone. Dozens of piranha-like teeth bared to him.

Daniel would have flinched a few months ago. But he was used to this now. He only spared a glance over at the extra set of arms and the bulkier form.

“...what did you say, Salvos?”

“I said, let’s make a contract.”

The raspy voice of the Demon came out with alacrity, showing not a hint of the terrifying creature she appeared to be. But Daniel knew that could change easily.

The two gleaming dots looking down at him curved up, showing a smile that Daniel otherwise would not have picked up.

“You’ve helped me out a lot, Daniel. In fact, you’ve already done exactly what you said you would do! I now know the way back to the Netherworld, and it’s thanks to your help. So, I’m going to get a Class, become a [Space Mage], find Haec, then—”

Salvos rested a hand on the mattress as it pressed down under the weight. She stopped just inches away from Daniel’s face, finishing with a grin.

“Then I’ll help you find your way back!”

Daniel slowly took this in, not really comprehending her logic. He rarely did.

“But, Salvos, we can’t form a contract.”

“Why not? Demons do it all the time!”

“You don’t have a summoning collar! Or whatever Spirits use to bind them to a master! Without them it won’t be a contract, it’s just… words?”

Daniel lost himself in his speech. Salvos seemed to see the flaw in what he was saying too.

“Everything I’ve seen about Humans revolves around words. You say this gold coin is worth the same as that dagger, and I buy it. I say I’ll give you this pendant if you save my daughter, and you save my daughter. Why do these words matter? Anyone can just lie.”

“Because if you lie, others will stop trusting you. Your words will lose meaning. And if you lie enough times, there may be consequences for it.”

Salvos nodded.

“Exactly.”

She waved a clawed finger as she spoke casually.

“If I didn’t keep my word, you wouldn’t trust me. And if you stop trusting me, I lose a companion. Why would I want to do that?”

Standing up, she loomed over Daniel and walked in front of him. Light seeping in through the cracks at the window shone behind her as she slowly changed back to a Human. Now, an angel stood before him. One that offered him a deal like the devil.

“I, Salvos, Demon of the Netherworld, wish to make a contract with you, Daniel, [Hero] from Earth. That as long as either of us lives, I shall find a way to bring you back to your world. To your home. And for that, you only have a single price to pay.”

Daniel hesitated, biting his lower lip to keep himself from giving an immediate answer.

“And what is this price, Salvos?”

“It’s simple: even when you go back to Earth, you will never forget me. Salvos. Your companion. And you will carry my name with you until you die.”

She smiled and put a hand out.

“What do you say?”

The answer was obvious.

End of Volume 2

Author's Note:

It is, honestly, demotivating to see my rankings tank constantly from people who are upset that Salvos spends too much time grinding, and from others who are upset that Salvos spends too little time grinding. A lot of my 'good reviews' are getting downvoted like mad, while the 'bad reviews' are getting voted up to the top. And if they were actually substantive and constructive bad reviews getting voted, I'd understand. But some of them are just... what? Especially the one complaining about Daniel's screen time... literally, Daniel had less POV time than Edithe, and the entirety of Volume 2 was always related to what Salvos, her goals, and her desires.

Anyway, my mental health is down the gutter at this point, so if you're an asshole who can only leave negative comments, I don't care but you're getting blocked. I had to put up with this bullshit for Melas, and I will not put up with it any longer.

Of course, I am aware that these assholes are the vast minority of my readers. So, to everyone else— to all the normal people out there— thank you once again for reading. Your support is the only reason why I haven't just pulled this story for KU where I'll at least get paid by people who will spew shit my way. Thank you <3

Also, typical plug for patreon, but fun fact, I have the 10% discount for those subscribing for a year open until the end of April. Consider checking my patreon out. I offer 20 chapters ahead for only $5, despite the fact that it would honestly be a lot more financially better for me if I had my patreon rewards mainly centered around the $10 tier. I did the change because I understand a lot of people are struggling financially, especially with today's climate, so I would rather not charge more than absolutely necessary for what I can offer.

Anyway, check out my patreon here, it offers 10 chapters ahead for my $3 tier, 20 for my $5 tier, side story content for my $10 tier, the chance to contribute to the story for my $15 tier, and the chance to have a character in the story for my $50 tier. There's a $69 meme tier which has the same rewards as the $50 tier, but it lets you keep a discord role color of your choice permanently, even if you subscribe once.

Also, join my discord and be greeted by my greeter bots!

Volume 3 will be more focused on the monster evolution aspect of the story. Not because of the constant complaints, but because I had it planned since the very beginning. Thanks for reading!

Consider voting for me on TopWebFiction Salvos | Top Web Fiction
