There was a murmur at this, which quickly exploded into a roar as Rain upended the sack on the table. Tel poured out onto the wood like grain from a ruptured silo.

Before things could devolve into chaos, Ameliah stomped her foot. A ripple spread through the earth from the impact, rattling tables and sending drinks crashing to the ground. “Silence!” she roared, so loudly that Rain flinched. They’d been prepared for this reaction, of course. It was all part of the fun.

Was it necessary to do things like this? Not really. Was it satisfying? Hell yes.

Rain turned back to Rankin, who had turned as pale as a sheet. He looked like he wanted to run. Ameliah would stop him if he did, not that there was anywhere to go. Rain grinned. “Go ahead, try to deny it.” He reached into his bag, then tossed a ledger onto the table next to the pile of Tel.

“It’s this year’s quest ledger,” Gus said, stepping forward. “The real quest ledger. The one that we were using in the Guildhall was a fake.” As he spoke, he drew said ledger from his own bag and held it up for the crowd to see. “Rankin’s been fooling us all. He had two past year’s ledgers, as well, but I don’t have the copies from the Guildhall, so I can’t check them.” He placed the fake ledger neatly next to the real one, brushing aside a few errant Tel, then took a step back.

“The proof is all there,” Rain said, pointing at the pair of identical-looking books. “Whenever the Guild accepts a quest from a poster, it gets assigned an identification number and written down in the quest ledger, including the size of the reward. When you turn in a quest, that identification number gets written under your plate number in one of the log ledgers, which are a different thing.” He raised his hands. “You all know this already, and I’m sure you’re wondering what this has to do with how he stole all that money. Don’t worry, I’m getting to it. Gus?”

Gus nodded. “The contents of both the quest ledger and all the log ledgers get sent to the main branch during the weekly pull. That’s how you get credit for the quests you’ve done and how headquarters knows how much they need to collect from each branch. Those dues are one Tel for every ten that gets paid out as a reward. The fee gets charged to the poster, not the one who completes the task, so most adventurers don’t care, just us clerks.”

Rain nodded along. Todo: Find out how the Guild managed to get Git running across the entire planet without anything even approaching the internet. It violates the supposed magical distance limit. Majistraal tech?

Gus cleared his throat, continuing. “Every week before the pull, Rankin would transfer everything that we clerks had written in the fake quest ledger to the real one, decreasing the listed reward for each quest when he did. This decreases the amount of money that the main branch expects us to send them.”

Rain surveyed the crowd, unsurprised by the numerous blank looks. He’d already been through this once with Ameliah and Gus, and he’d expected this reaction based on how that conversation had gone. It was time for the practical example.

“Say you take a quest that has a reward of one hundred Tel,” he said. “If things are working normally, you do the quest, it gets recorded in the log ledger, and you get your one hundred Tel. Great, you’re happy. How about the quest poster? The clerk informs them that the Guild is going to charge ten Tel for facilitating their request. The poster gives the clerk one hundred and ten Tel without complaint, and the quest gets recorded in the quest ledger. One hundred Tel goes into the Guild strongbox to pay out the reward once the quest is done, and the other ten gets deposited in the Guild’s account at the Bank at the end of the month, along with all of the other dues that the clerks have collected. The main branch is happy with this. They know how much they should have gotten from each branch based on the contents of the central quest ledger.”

More blank looks.

Rain sighed. “Once more, just to summarize. The poster pays one-ten, the adventurer gets one hundred, and the Guild gets the rest. Nice and simple. Everyone is happy.” He raised a finger. “Now, what happens if the quest ledger in the Guild is a fake?”

He waited a beat, half expecting someone to raise their hand. No one did, somewhat disappointingly, so he pressed on. “I’ll tell you. The quest gets written down as having a reward of one hundred Tel, just like before. Rankin, though, has the real ledger. He writes down ninety. Now, all of a sudden, headquarters only expects to get nine Tel from this branch, not ten. Where does the extra Tel go?” Rain didn’t wait for an answer this time. He raised his arm, pointing directly at Rankin without looking at him as he addressed the crowd. “And there you have it. Oh, and I’m pretty sure he’s been dipping into the maintenance budget too, but I can’t prove that one. Doesn’t matter.”

It was a surprisingly sophisticated plan, given how much everyone in this world sucks at math. I’m actually a little impressed.

“You can’t prove anything!” Rankin shouted. He was positively livid with rage now that he’d gotten over his shock. “Just because someone was messing with the ledgers, it doesn’t mean it was me!”

“Was it you?” Rain asked.

Rankin glanced at Bartum, then clamped his lips shut.

“Silence is an admission of guilt,” Bartum said. “Answer the question.”

“I don’t answer to the Watch,” Rankin snapped.

“Answer the fucking question,” someone shouted from the crowd.

Rankin turned, searching for support and finding none. He hesitated, looking back at Bartum. Ameliah cleared her throat, raising an eyebrow. “Well?”

“No, it wasn’t me,” Rankin spat.

“Lie,” Bartum said.

“I concur,” said Sentinel Berel. Rain had almost forgotten he was there.

Rain cleared his throat, cutting off the growing murmurs of confusion, and, increasingly, anger. He gestured at the pile of Tel. “As this was stolen from the Guild, most of it is going back to the Guild, as per the rules. As for the rest of it, I’m giving every Guilder left in the city one hundred Tel.” Rain grinned at the reaction this caused. Pinning down an exact exchange rate was hard, but one hundred Tel worked out to something like three thousand 2019-dollars—not a bad bonus. There were thirty-three adventurers left in the city. Even after giving away a hundred Tel to each of them, that would still leave him filthy rich. Even if it hadn’t, as he’d told Ameliah, he needed goodwill more than cash. He’d figure out the rest of the details with Khurt, who he expected would end up in charge once this was over.

“Fuck you!” Rankin screamed. He launched a fist at Rain, but Ameliah caught his arm, restraining him easily.

Rain shook his head, reminding himself that he didn’t need to feel sympathy for every asshole in the world. Finally, he snorted, speaking to Rankin as the furious man continued struggling to reach him. “And you would have gotten away with it, too, if it weren’t for us meddling kids.”
