“Is it going to be worth the time?” Ameliah asked. It was just the two of them, the Watch having escorted the recovering adventurers back to safety despite significant protest.

“Yes,” Rain said, checking again. “Definitely yes.”

“Well then,” said Ameliah, taking a broad stance. “There’re two ways we can do this. The fast way, or the slow, annoying way.”

“Hang on,” Rain said. “Is the fast way going to destroy the house?”

“The house is already destroyed,” Ameliah said.

“Well, yeah, but I don’t want to damage any evidence if it’s there. I’m not going to steal all of Rankin’s retirement money if he came by it legitimately. I need to find something incriminating, like a logbook.”

“You really think he’d keep a detailed record of all the money that he’s stolen?” Ameliah asked skeptically.

“Well, no,” Rain said, scratching his head. “Maybe. I want to look, though, just in case. The backup plan is to have someone from the Watch do their lie-detector thing when we confront Rankin with the Tel.”

Ameliah sighed. “Look, Rain, you need money, right? For supplies and equipment for your company?”

“Yes, but—”

“But what?” Ameliah said. “How much money is down there? If it’s thousands of Tel, I might believe he earned it, but tens of thousands? Hundreds of thousands?”

“I can’t tell,” Rain said. “There’re too many signals, too close together. If I boost the power to resolve them, it gets overwhelming.” Hundreds of thousands? No way.

“A lot, then,” Ameliah said. “Let’s dig it up and see, then decide whether to tell anyone about it.”

“We’re telling the Guild, one way or another,” Rain said. He was prepared for this argument. “I checked with Gus way back. He said that anyone who steals from the Guild gets their ass kicked out, and that anyone who turns them in gets to keep a fifth of what was stolen. Yes, we could just not tell them and keep it all, but as much as I need money, I need goodwill more. If this whole company thing is going to work, I can’t put myself against the Guild. Besides, it’s not like it’s a secret what we’re doing out here. It would come back to bite us.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said. “There is that. Okay, fine, we turn it in. I hope you’re not planning on splitting the remaining fifth with the idiots, though.”

“Of course not,” Rain said. “That would just be rewarding bad behavior.” They’re going to be PISSED. They can deal with it. Still, I should probably give them something… Hmm. Perhaps I’ll just give everyone something. That could work.

Ameliah grinned. “Ha. I recognize that calculating look. Looks like there’s a little bit of adventurer in there after all.”

Rain grinned back. “I’d like to use most of it for the company, if that’s okay with you. Of course, I couldn’t have gotten out here easily on my own, so if you want your own share, we could do fifty-fifty or something.”

“That’s fine, I don’t need a share,” Ameliah said.

“You’re sure?” Rain asked. “I know you’re a silverplate, which means you’re loaded, but what if it’s a lot? Like, a lot, a lot.”

Ameliah shrugged. “Let’s just see, then. Is there anything on the ground floor?”

Rain shook his head. “Just a few Tel over in that corner, there,” he pointed.

“Just in case, are there any humans within a hundred stride?”

Rain checked. “No. Monsters, yes, some even in the house, but no humans or animals. Not even rats.”

Ameliah nodded. “Good, I didn’t sense anyone either, but it always pays to double-check. Stand back a bit. I’m going to open up the basement.”

“Wait, you’re going to what now?” Rain said.

“Just watch,” Ameliah said. A tremor ran through the earth, and Rain would have blamed it on the Watch’s ongoing construction of their citadel, but for the perfect timing. He stared at Ameliah’s bare feet, the implication finally clicking in his mind. Rooted? That’s Earth magic. Since when does she have Earth magic?

Ameliah walked up to the house. After a brief chant in some unknown language, she dropped to one knee and pressed both of her hands to the cobblestones. The earth shook, then bubbled as an enormous wall of mud squeezed its way up through the cobblestones without damaging them. Mud Wall, like Ice Wall, was a conjuration spell, meaning that the mud wasn’t real, merely structured mana.

Taller and taller the wall grew, not stopping until it overtopped Rankin’s house, completely blocking it from view. Ameliah stood, dusting off her hands as she spoke another chant—more of an invocation really, as it was only four syllables. She tapped the wall with a finger, and the mud flashed to stone with a noise like the slamming of the door to a crypt. Rain barely had time to react to this before Ameliah planted her feet and punched forward, rotating her torso as she struck the wall with her palm.

“Kya!”

It wasn’t clear if this was another use of Chanting, or just a shout of exertion. Rather than shattering the wall, Ameliah’s strike launched the entire thing forward as one piece, almost faster than Rain could follow. It shaved Rankin’s house from the ground like an enormous razor, stopping instantly the moment it reached the street on the far side. From the continuing sound of exploding wood, house shrapnel was doing some significant damage on the next street over. The system also presented Rain with a smattering of dings, informing him that more than a few monsters had met their ends.

“Holy shit!”

He reeled, his mind scrabbling to catalog what he’d just seen.

Geoevocation: Tier-1, Mud Wall; Tier-0, Rock Push.

Earth Manipulation: Tier-2, Stoneset, Rooted.

Force Metamagic: Tier-1, Expanded Force.

Evocation Metamagic: Tier-0, Chanting…

Ameliah was still going, he realized, tidying up the hole’s ragged edges, stabilizing the walls, and creating a ramp leading down. She was gesturing with her hands like a conductor as she did this, the earth flowing like water.

Earth Manipulation: Tier-1, Earthmolding.

Evocation Metamagic: Tier-1, Somatic Manipulation.

Rain kept staring as Ameliah formed the ramp into earthen stairs, then flashed them to stone.

Prerequisites…Rock Pull, Liquefaction, Earth Affinity, Force Mastery, Guide Sending…

Rain flinched as the conjured wall of stone exploded without warning. Far too late, he covered his face with his arms. Fortunately, nothing struck him. After a few seconds, he peeked, then lowered his arms completely. Not even a single shard remained where the wall had been. With it gone, he could see the remains of Rankin’s house strewn across the neighboring street. The building on the other side looked like it had been nailed by an explosive shell from a howitzer.

“There,” Ameliah said, cleaning the dirt from her clothes with a blast of Purify. “Send me some mana, please, I’m a bit low.”

Rain stared at the devastation. That doesn’t make any sense. Mud Wall should have lasted for at least…I don’t know. She’s using so much metamagic that I can’t tell. Did it shatter because she used Stoneset? No, that would have made it last longer, if not made it completely permanent. I don’t know how those two spells interact. Did she break it on purpose? Rockbomb? No, why bother? Construct Reclamation? It had to be… That’s Arcane Utility, Tier-2! Holy… How many skills does she have? Why have I never seen her use Earth magic before?!

“Um, Rain? Hello?”

Numbly, Rain pivoted his head to look at her. He activated Essence Well, watching as the blue rings formed. Only then did he realize that his mouth was open. He closed it with a click.

Ameliah winked at him, smiling.

“How, um… How much mana did that take?” Rain asked. I mean, I could have burned the house down with Immolate or something, but that… that was…

Ameliah shrugged. “Not that much. I was low from earlier. This is child’s play compared to what I did to the river.”

“The river?” Rain sputtered. “What did you do to the river? You’ve got Water magic too?”

Ameliah laughed. “No, just more Earth magic. Intrusion.” She grinned.

“Intrusion? Is that hidden? I’ve never heard of it.”

Ameliah looked slightly disappointed. She clearly hadn’t gotten the reaction she’d expected. “No, not hidden. It is tier-4, though, and it’s mostly for breaking things like city walls or smashing tunnels shut. It’s siege magic. I got a little impatient.” She gestured to the basement. “Doing the river this way would have taken all morning.”

“Doing what to the river?” Rain said, then he froze. Hold the fucking phone, did she say tier-4? That’s a hundred thousand experience just to unlock!

Ameliah shrugged. “You want to go east, but the river was in the way. I moved it.”

“You moved the— Never mind. Of course you did.” Rain pulled off his helmet, then ran a hand through his hair. What level is she? I know she’s silver, but I was pretty sure she was on this side of thirty… Fuck it, I’ll ask.

“Ameliah?”

“Yes, Rain?”

“That was at least fifteen different skills you used right there if I count the prerequisites. I’ve never seen you use a single one of them before. You’ve also got Purify, Amplify Aura, Extend Aura, and Aura Focus, so that’s nineteen. Firebolt, Lunar Orb, Attract, the prerequisites for Attract, all three of them, Healing Word, Tissue Scan, Message, Redirection, Shrouded by Flame, Concussive Blows, Probably Intrinsic—”

“I’ll just stop you right there,” Ameliah cut in, raising her hand. “I knew you’d be the first to notice. It’s not something I really want known, but not using it defeats the point, so…” She shook her head. “My class lets me swap out skills.”

For the next few seconds, Rain’s mouth moved like that of a fish suffocating on dry land.

“WHAAAAAAAAAAAT?!”

A few hours later, Rain was back inside the safety of the barricades, leading a small group behind him as he walked excitedly toward his destination, his weariness forgotten. He was wearing his full outfit, helmet included, dark cloak billowing behind him from his haste.

As if the revelation about Ameliah’s class hadn’t been amazing enough—the potential for testing builds was simply ridiculous—another astonishing discovery had been waiting in Rankin’s basement. Below a barrel, they’d found the remains of a carpet covering a decaying wooden trapdoor. Beneath that, there was an iron box. Inside the box…

Fifty-three thousand Tel.

That wasn’t even the best part. The best part was the paper trail. There had been a ledger after all—three of them, in fact. The ledgers weren’t there because Rankin was stupid; on the contrary, Rankin was actually smart. The ledgers were necessary for his plan to work. They would also be his undoing.

“Ready?” Rain asked, slowing down to look over his shoulder. Ameliah, Gus, and Bartum nodded back to him. Bartum’s escort, a Watch sentinel from Jarro by the name of Berel, trailed behind them at a discreet distance. Rain smiled and resumed his rapid pace. This was going to be good.

The ‘new Guild’, such as it was, amounted to a cordoned-off area that looked like nothing so much as outdoor seating at a restaurant, without the actual restaurant. It had recently annexed Khurt’s bar area, and there were plenty of unawakened inside, though they were keeping a healthy distance from the raucous Guilders.

Because of the ongoing political snit between the Watch and the DKE, no more refugees were being allowed through the teleporter at the moment. The issue was close to a resolution, Rain understood, but for today at least, the remaining adventurers were stuck here with nothing to do but wait. There weren’t any quests to be had, and, not being Dynamos, they couldn’t just spend mana endlessly, which put a limit on monster hunting.

According to Gus, Rankin was still trying to act as the leader of the local Guild. Basically, he was trying to play king, while all that the other adventurers wanted to do was play cards. It was going about as well as you’d expect. While Rankin was still nominally in charge, his authority had been based on Velika’s support. With her gone, his claim was dubious at best, though no one had challenged it.

Until now.

Barely anyone had looked up at their arrival, but that changed when Rain hopped up on a chair next to an unoccupied table and shouted at the top of his lungs. “Rankin! I’m callin’ you out!”

His companions didn’t even bat an eye at this. He’d told them what the phrase meant—briefly, without getting bogged down by trying to explain the nuance. Ameliah had rolled her eyes at his insistence on using the foreign idiom, but damn it, he was going to have this.

“Rain?” Rankin’s angry voice floated over the dying clamor of the crowd.

Rain grinned like a Cheshire cat beneath his helmet as he spotted the man heading angrily in his direction.

“There you are, Rankin,” Rain said, hopping off the chair. “I’ve been looking for you.”

“Horseshit,” Rankin said, shoving a finger rudely in his face. “You’ve been avoiding me.”

Rain ignored the finger, safely protected by his visor. “Yes, I was, because frankly, I don’t like you. But I’ve got business with you now, so here I am.”

“What business?” Rankin said, glancing at Bartum. “What’s the Watch doing here? And what’s that around your neck?”

“I’m a custodian, now,” Rain said, gesturing to the steel plate. “You really should pay more attention. Don’t worry, I’m not quitting the Guild or anything. Sentinel Bartum is just here as a favor to me. This is a Guild matter.”

“What’s this about?” Rankin asked, narrowing his eyes.

Rain smirked, then threw back his cloak to reveal the jute sack that he was carrying. Fifty-three thousand Tel was a lot, weighing something like 4 kilograms and taking up more than a liter of space. He hadn’t even been able to count it until he’d returned to the city, not having a scale, and he still needed to formalize his conversion factors for the mass and volume units. Either way, sticking a bare hand into the sack felt better than doing the same with a bag of rice. It was almost on par with lentils, but not quite. The sense of weight was there, but the shape was slightly irregular, detracting from the experience.

Putting lentils out of his mind, Rain glanced at Ameliah. She nodded, signaling that she was ready. He took a second to survey the watching crowd, then adopted his best loom and pivoted his helmet melodramatically to stare directly at Rankin. “It’s about how you’ve been overcharging everyone who’s posted a quest at the guild for at least the past three years.”

