Bartum had sent two sentinels and six officers with Rain on his rescue mission. They’d run into Ameliah as she was returning through the barricade. By this point, they’d spotted smoke coming from the far side of the river. Rain had been more concerned with getting to Kettel quickly, so he hadn’t asked her what she’d been up to, and it had since slipped his mind.

The rescue party had rushed through the city, arriving just after Mahria finished casting Froststorm. They were too late to do anything other than to check for survivors.

Rain had Purified the pile of dead Coal Lurkers out of existence, revealing several lacerated and frozen human bodies beneath it. Ameliah hadn’t hesitated. She’d darted straight to Kettel and stabilized him before moving on to the others, who, it turned out, weren’t nearly as hurt as they appeared. One of them had received some concerning internal injuries, but that was it. No one had died.

Now, the Watch was busy setting up a perimeter. Ameliah said that everyone would be able to walk back under their own power, provided that they had a half-hour or so to recover from the healing. She was currently discussing something with the sentinels, while Rain had just finished helping to get some fires going.

Satisfied that nothing was going to pop in to surprise them, Rain nodded to the officers he’d been assisting, then made his way over to where Kettel and the other members of his so-called party were resting. It was time to figure out what the hell was wrong with their brains.

“Okay, does someone want to explain what you lot were doing out here?” he said as he came to a stop in front of them.

It was Mahria who answered. “What do you think? We were hunting monsters, of course.”

“You could do that from within sight of the barricades,” Rain said. “I don’t buy it. You were looting.”

“Fine, so?” Mahria said, defiantly. “These houses are abandoned.”

Rain rubbed the bridge of his nose, sighing deeply. “That’s not the point. I’m less worried about what you were doing, and more about how you were doing it. What made you think that coming out here with only six people was a good idea? And without a healer, no less. All of you could have died.”

“We didn’t, though,” Mahria said. “We would have been fine without your help.”

“Mahria, I don’t think—” Stoneshield began.

“Let me do the talking,” Mahria snapped, glaring at him.

“You wouldn’t have been fine,” Rain said, nodding to Stoneshield before returning his attention to Mahria. “Kettel would have died, and probably Mindyblades as well.” He turned to look at the younger woman. “Ameliah said your lungs were in really bad shape.”

“You know me?” Mindyblades said, a puzzled expression on her face.

“I know who you are,” Rain said, sweeping his gaze over them, “All of you. Which is why I know that your little group wasn’t up to this. Not with six. What were you thinking?”

“Hey, listen here, kid,” said Jaks. “Thanks for the rescue, but we don’t need the bloody lecture.”

“Clearly, you do,” Rain said. “What part about ‘don’t cross the river’ didn’t make it through your thick skulls?”

“As if we care what the Watch says,” said Jaks. “We aren’t bootlickers like you. I notice you’ve got yourself a new plate. Joined them, huh? Fucking traitor.”

Rain reached up to touch his custodian’s plate, which hung from his neck along with the bronze one from the Guild. He glanced at the pair of sentinels that were still speaking with Ameliah, then back at Jaks. “This just means I’m their ally. It doesn’t mean I’ve joined them or that I’m leaving the Guild. And don’t change the subject. I’m still waiting for an explanation.”

“We were lookin’ fer—Ah!” Kettel shouted as Mahria elbowed him.

“Looking for what?” Rain asked as Kettel rubbed his ribs.

“Don’t you dare tell him,” said Mahria, glaring at Kettel.

“But it were his ide—Oi! Stop that!”

“Ah, I see,” Rain said, looking around. “So that’s it. Which house is Rankin’s?”

“Damn it, Kettel,” said Jaks. “Now he’s gonna want a share, if he doesn’t just bloody take it all.”

“So, you already found something, then?” Rain raised an eyebrow. He boosted Detection to the absolute limit short of Aura Focus and released a pulse, checking for Tel. The extra power would be needed to punch through any Arcane resistance that the others might have.

The scan returned signals from everyone except Ameliah and the two sentinels, which wasn’t that surprising. He hadn’t expected to be able to overcome a silverplate’s defenses so casually. As for what he learned, the group before him did indeed have some Tel on them. The quantity varied, with Kettel being particularly broke. Nobody was carrying anything like the mother-lode that he’d have expected had they found Rankin’s stash.

Rain clicked his tongue. “No, none of you has more than a few dozen Tel. You haven’t found it, and it’s not within my range, either.”

“How did you—” Mindyblades began, but Rain cut her off.

“So you haven’t found it yet, and you didn’t want Kettel to spill the beans. That means you were planning on trying this again. Did you all eat a lot of paint chips as kids?”

“Beans? Paint chips?” Stoneshield said. “I have no idea what the depths you’re talking about.”

Rain sighed. My references are lost on this world. He shook his head wearily. He’d stayed up too late last night, and he was starting to get one of his soul headaches. Time to get serious. “Look, you know the rule about not going into a lair that’s over your level, right? This is a ranked zone now, which might as well be the same thing.”

He reached into his pouch and removed a small metal object that looked like an old brass pocket watch. Lady Par had finally come through, finding what he’d asked for a day ago, though he still had to figure out how to pay her back. He flicked open the depth gauge, then turned it around so the others could see the needle. “Rank eleven where we’re standing, though I have no idea how accurate this thing is.”

“What’s tha’?” Kettel asked.

“A depth gauge,” Mahria said, barely even glancing at him before she returned her focus to Rain. “A cheap one. Okay, we’re in a rank eleven zone, so what?”

“I only count one of you that’s above that,” Rain said, flipping the lid closed and slipping the depth gauge back into his pouch.

“Fuck, he can see our levels?” Elmwood said, speaking for the first time.

“No, idiot,” Mahria said. “Nobody can do that without some very specialized equipment.”

Specialized equipment? Rain pushed aside that line of questioning. He could ask someone else later. “All you have to do is pay attention to details. What spells people use and so forth. I’ve got a good enough estimate.”

“How—no—why do you know so much about us?” Stoneshield said. “How long have you been watching us?”

Rain sighed. “I haven’t been watching you. I have a very good memory, and I pay attention, but we’re getting off track. Just shut up and listen, okay?” He took a few steps away and ran a hand down his face, trying to decide how to proceed. After a moment, he turned, gesturing broadly. “It’s all about numbers. Six of you with levels less than ten. That makes your total strength sixty, at best. If you want to match the monsters in a rank-eleven zone with a traditional party, the score you’re aiming for is eighty-eight, and that’s with no margin. Sixty is less than eighty-eight. Try it, and you die.”

“That’s a ridiculous oversimplification,” Mahria said.

“Yes, it is, but it gets the point across,” Rain said. “Believe me, I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about this recently. I’m planning an expedition, and it’s going to work because I’m going to make sure the numbers are on our side. How’s it go? At low levels, humans are stronger than monsters, and at high levels, it’s the other way around? I can’t prove this yet, but I’m telling you that that’s a bunch of crap. The world is balanced for a party of eight, all the way through. I’d put money on it. Monsters are only stronger because people don’t work together. You use shitty all-offense builds and expect to get somewhere. It’s like everyone thinks they have to do damage or they aren’t helping or some shit. Do you have any idea how insane that is? What the hell is wrong with you people?”

“I—” Jaks began, an angry expression on his face, but Rain ran right over him.

“You see this?” He thumped his chest, his metal gauntlet clanging loudly against the breastplate. “This armor is the kind of thing that you get when you give an awakened smith a couple of days and some rocks that you picked up in a cave. Imagine what kind of equipment would be out there if people actually became crafters! But they don’t! Why? Because they know it means they’ll get enslaved by the first noble that passes them in the street. That’s fucking ridiculous. Did you know Havenheild doesn’t even sell half the stuff that their smiths make? The good stuff goes to the nobility, goldplates, Citizens, and the like. The commissions are ridiculous, which shouldn’t be a surprise because Havenheild is owned by the damn Bank! Have you ever heard the term ‘artificial scarcity’? No, of course you haven’t. Oh, that reminds me of another—”

“Rain,” Ameliah said. He jumped, only now realizing that she had joined them. “What’s going on here?” she asked.

“Um,” Rain said. Shit. What I just said… If that gets back to the Bank... He glanced at the Watch. They didn’t appear to be listening.

“He’s explainin’ at us how we’re idiots,” Kettel said unhelpfully.

“I see,” Ameliah said.

Rain sighed. His head was really pounding now. “I might have gotten a little worked up. Look, Kettel, the rest of you, you’re adventurers; I get it. The only people whose lives you were risking were your own. That’s what adventurers do. You took a risk, things went bad, it happens. Maybe you thought it was worth it, hell, you probably still do and are just waiting for me to shut up so you can go do it again.” Rain clenched his teeth, trying to control his voice, which had been getting louder again. It was just so frustrating, the way that everyone in the Guild acted.

He stared directly at Kettel. “Did you even think about the people who care about you before you tried this stunt? How would little Manda react if you died? The rest of your sisters? Your parents?”

Kettel looked down at his feet. “I’m an adventurer. Might never see ‘em again anyway, once I leave ‘em. What’s it matter?”

Rain’s eyes widened, and something in him snapped. “IT FUCKING MATTERS!”

Ameliah grabbed his arm and pulled him back. “Rain, stop. Let me take it from here.”

“But—” Rain cut off, stumbling as Ameliah started dragging him away.

“They get your point, Rain, and they’re not going to change their opinions if you yell louder.”

He struggled, but he might as well have tried to resist being towed by a tractor-trailer. Where’s she getting the leverage for this? He glanced at her feet, then blinked. How long hasn’t she been wearing shoes? When he looked back up, everyone was staring at them. “Damn it,” he said, relaxing his arm.

“Just…take a minute. Calm down,” Ameliah said, releasing him. She fixed him with a commiserating smile. “I understand what you’re feeling. You can’t protect everyone, especially from themselves.”

“I know,” Rain said, rubbing his eyes. Not having anything to sit on, he folded his legs and plopped down directly on the cobblestones, turning his back to the group. He brought a hand to his throat, fighting through the familiar burn of acid reflux. It and the headache always got worse when he got worked up, and his antacids were in his bag back at the compound. “You’re right. I got carried away. My soul is acting up and…” He sighed. Excuses. “I should try to meditate for a bit, not that I’ll be able to. That usually helps.”

Ameliah nodded. “Just a minute. I want to get some things straight before I go talk to them. What were they doing out here?”

Rain sighed. “Looking for Rankin’s treasure hoard. I have a hunch that he’s been embezzling Guild funds, and I made the mistake of mentioning it to Kettel.”

“Embezzling? That means…stealing or something, right?”

Rain nodded.

“Since when did you get better at common than me?” Ameliah asked.

Rain shrugged. “It was in Staavo’s book. Lots of weird words were. Look, Ameliah, I shouldn’t have snapped at them. I know it was the wrong way to handle it.”

“You’re not wrong, though,” Ameliah said. “You’re just…”

Rain snorted. “An asshole.”

“No. I wouldn’t say that. I’d never say that.”

Rain didn’t respond. The silence stretched, and he jumped when Ameliah laid her hand on his shoulder. She was staring down at him, the same sad smile back on her face. “You care too much. That’s the problem.”

Rain grimaced as another flash of heartburn hit him, then looked away.

“It’s better than not caring enough,” Ameliah said, jostling his shoulder before taking her hand away. “Let me talk to them. Then we’ll go see if you were right about Rankin.”

“Ameliah, thank you,” Rain said, looking back at her. “For everything. Just…thank you. Your help means a lot.”

“Don’t be sappy,” she said, turning to walk away.

Rain watched her go, still wondering what had happened to her shoes. He closed his eyes, shaking his head slowly as he sat, thinking. I need to do something for her. She keeps helping me, and I haven’t given anything back. She’s basically trapped here because of me and Tallheart. I want her to stay with us because she wants to, not because she feels like she has to. She’s got no family, and she’s afraid of friends for the same reason that I just snapped at Kettel. I need to change that. The company is the answer. A new family for all of us, if I can make it work.

He clenched his fists.

I will make it work.

“Huh,” Rain said, flipping up his visor as he surveyed the ruins of Rankin’s house. “That might be an issue.”

The house had collapsed completely, and a particularly large mushroom was growing up through the remains of the roof. Whether the damage had come from a rampaging monster, or merely the degradation from the toxic moss weakening the rafters, it wasn’t clear. The signal he’d been following was coming from the basement, almost blinding in intensity. It wasn’t shielded at all, simply buried beneath a ton of rubble.

