“Of course.” Tee-one said. “I've kept the smelters full.”

“Great.” Ren said. “I didn't see the armor crates in the main room.”

“I stored them just before the workers showed up.” Tee-one said. “They wouldn't have had any room to work, otherwise.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Thanks.” He said. “I'll take them from you.”

Tee-one handed the crates over and Ren stored them, then opened the Iron Defender recipe, and looked at it. “Wow.” He said. “Retractable razors in the jaw like a bear trap. The claws in the paws, too.” He frowned. “I don't like how open the insides are.” He said, opened the armor design he'd made for Princess, and added it to the recipe. “That's better.” He looked at his Improved Homunculi ability, and frowned. “How can a dog have a weapon proficiency?”

“I assume because of it's jaws and claws.” Tee-one said.

“Of course.” Ren smacked himself in the forehead. “I was thinking actual weapons, not weapons they would already have.” He made one more change to the design, and gave the improved plans to Tee-one, and they started pouring out the metal needed. They folded the metal a dozen times for each piece, and with the two of them working, it didn't take long to have all the pieces needed to make two constructs. He enchanted each piece with Strength and Protection, just like he did with Tee-one.

“Why build one when you can build two at twice the price?” Ren said as he assembled the pieces together and dyed them pitch black. He took out a diamond crate and picked 2 similar sized ones, worth about 20 platinum each for the payment. Then he found 4 ovals the right size for the eyes, dyed them red, and set them into place in both of the heads.

“I don't know if this will work.” Ren said. “I might only be able to do one, then have to wait and do the other later.”

“Why not put a pile of metal inside the forge and keep absorbing the heat from it?” Teepo suggested. “It'll keep melting, and you can keep a steady flow of Mana going.”

“That is an excellent idea, Teepo!” Ren said, and picked up the huge chunk of gold steel from the pile of gold ore beside the forge, and slipped it inside the large forge he hadn't used yet. Ren activated it, the heat from the double glyphs blasted the metal, and it softened almost immediately.

“Here goes.” Ren looked at the first construct. “Activate Construct.”

Notice!

You have chosen to activate a construct: Iron Defender (Armored). Unlike familiars, they are only semi-sentient and will only follow basic commands.

Please insert the correct value now.

A small portal appeared over the chest, and Ren put in 5 platinum coins and the diamond worth 20 platinum. It closed and he got another popup.

Notice!

Constructs only require a small amount of blood (one quarter of a pint) to create a bond.

Please insert the correct value now.

A portal opened over the constructs head, and Ren took out his hammerpick to cut his palm. It didn't take long to get the amount needed, and he wrapped the hand when the portal closed.

Notice!

All ingredients have been gathered and you have built a suitable body. Place a hand on the construct to infuse it with your will and finish the bond.

Ren looked at the popup, and wondered why it didn't have the warning about not removing his hand. His Mana pool dropped by a third, and the construct glowed for only a moment. It's leg twitched, and then the tail wagged.

Congratulations!

Your construct is now ready for you to enjoy.

Ren frowned at the popup. Nothing about the excessive value or anything? He thought, as the dog hopped up and looked at Ren with glowing red eyes, then it barked. It sounded like grinding metal.

name. name. name. name. name. It started to jump around, while it waited for Ren to name it.

“You're pretty riled up.” Ren said, then smiled. “How about 'Riley'?”

It barked and kept jumping around.

“Riley, sit.” Ren said, and the dog sat down. “Wait there.”

The dog sat and Ren repeated the same process for the second dog, thinking 'female' the entire time. It got up and looked at Ren with the same glowing red eyes.

name. It sat down and waited.

“You're staying quiet.” Ren said, then smiled again. “How about 'Stacy'?”

She gave a low bark and looked at him.

“Riley, come here.” Ren said and the metal dog came over to him. “Sit.” He said, and the dog sat. Ren knelt and put a hand on the dog's chest, gave it a Minor Healing spell, then did the same for Stacy. “Stacy, I'd like you to meet Riley. Riley, this is your mate, Stacy.”

She turned to the dog, and they rubbed muzzles. Ren heard the sound of scraping metal, and smiled.

“Don't bite anyone. Don't scratch anyone. Don't jump on anyone.” Ren said. “Don't attack unless I say.” He said. “Be careful. Stay close. Help each other.”

Both dogs turned their heads to the side in confusion.

“That's too complicated. Right.” Ren said. “Stay together.”

They barked, and Ren pointed to himself. “I'm Ren.” He pointed to his shoulder. “This is Teepo.” He pointed to Tee-one. “That's Tee-one.”

The dogs looked at each one in turn, and then back at Ren. “Follow me.” He took the dogs out to meet Ruck, and the women gasped at the dark metal dogs. “This is Riley, and this is Stacy.”

Dorcot came over to greet them, and told Ren that his brother-in-law was waiting at Dorcot's place for him. Ren nodded slightly and took the dogs down to the house. They greeted Golir, who nodded slightly at them and opened the gate for them to pass. Ren's Aura merged with the one around the house and he went inside to introduce Riley and Stacy to Nathalia and Narhilda. The two women stared at the dogs as Ren introduced them back, and then he took the dogs out to the stable to introduce them to Princess.

*

Narhilda put a hand over her heart. “By the gods, I thought asking for a dog would be less scary.”

Nathalia nodded slightly. “Those glowing red eyes...” She shivered. “...and he made 2 of them.”

“Should we tell him they scare us?”

“We don't have to.” Nathalia said. “He felt it.”

“What?” Narhilda looked down at the pendant she had been practicing to use, and then felt Ren's sadness fill the Aura their shared. “Oh, damn.”

*

Ren felt sad that his new friends scared Nathalia and Narhilda so much, but pushed that feeling aside as he felt regret from the two women. He watched as the dogs greeted Princess, and was fascinated. They sat in front of her, side by side, and touched noses to her briefly.

...hello... new... guards...

“Actually, that's a great idea.” Ren said. “Riley. Stacy.”

The two dogs looked at him.

“Stay. Guard Princess.” Ren smiled as the two dogs barked together. “You can run around the courtyard during the day, but do not leave it.” He said. “Stay in here at night.” Ren walked out of the stable, and left the door open enough for the dogs to go in and out. He ran up to the workshop and made another 40 wands, and told Tee-one to keep making rebar.

If he keeps going, I'll have enough for a good portion of the Keep in a few days. Ren thought then ran down the road to the stable. Once there, he placed several enchanted steel squares around it and activated them. He built several more carts and enchanted them with the House Neram crest; then counted the ponies, and made one more cart to make it an even 10. He moved the carts over to the spot where they were stored until used, and grinned at the popup.

Notice!

You have completed a task for House Neram, that will greatly improve the comfort and mobility of the residents.

Influence: +1000

Honor: +150 ; Lady Neram: +150

Not too bad. Ren thought, then went over to the Church to see how things were progressing. He was quite happy with the result as he went into each room and checked to see it was all up to specifications, then he grinned.

Now all I need is the stained glass windows. Ren thought, and looked at the Main House down the road. He walked down to the road, and stopped as he thought of Nathalia.

“Nathalia, could you call the Main House and ask about the sand I ordered?”

“Of course.” She said immediately, and then told him there was a cart coming shortly.

“Thank you.” Ren said and walked back to the workshop.
