There are some problems you are not ready to face. There are some adversaries you are not ready to fight. There are some questions you do not know enough to answer. It is a mark of wisdom and a Pathbearer who will continue to survive through the ardors and miseries of life to recognize this and adjust accordingly.

Though one can find enjoyment and even actualization in throwing themselves against seemingly unconquerable problems, it does not always result in proper gains. Beyond the risk of death, there is also stagnation. Strain is an important aspect of gaining levels. But novelty and difficulty weigh heavily in that equation as well. You will gain a rainfall of reward initially, but soon things will trickle to a near halt. Because you are wrestling with your own ineptitude instead of your active deficiencies.

Realize the levels you gain are steps to a final summit. You must achieve triumph to earn that eventual windfall. Failing to meet that point means that you are doing something wrong, or something wrong is being done to you. So you must change your approach. Or you must understand that this is a matter which requires patience. Certain tasks in trials are not things that last days or even weeks, but expand to months, years, or even centuries, depending on the grandness of their scale.

In saying this, I'm not telling you to surrender and stop, but rather let yourself recover. Recovery, in general, is something that too many Pathbearers let fall by the wayside. You must recover. Until you are fully restored and ready to make a proper new attempt, you are simply whittling yourself down to the bone, and bone does not get stronger. Bone hardens, and it is muscles that strengthen. Only in concert and after concentrated conditioning with one's mind-body connection will you even begin to gain the meagerest increases in strength.

Ultimately, do not let your determination betray your adaptability. You will need to apply both correctly and in the exact right situations if you want to thrive.

—Valor Thann

309

To Break a Curse [VI]

Inertial Overdrive 228 > 267

Pillar of Orichalcum 299 > 352

The Creeping Void 148 > 170

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 510 > 512

Phase Frame 53 > 88

Whip Proficiency 29 > 43

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 169 > 182

Non-Sequitur 139 > 166

Return to Sender 110 > 144

Eldritch Physiology 21 > 51

968 times.

17 hours.

855 combat-based deaths.

100 cognitive collapses followed by summary euthanasia at Valor’s hands.

Thirteen entrapments in an unstable time loop.

One very, very frustrated Deathless.

In the end, the closest Shiv came to finding Merrielmel's brother and that mysterious cavern which emitted anti-System radiation was during his first attempt. From the second onwards, the Stranger's garden changed. Rather than being a wide-open expanse of twisted branches and colossal trees, it shredded apart, resembling more a briar patch with interconnected nettles, spawn points for lesser Fingerlings, and active camouflage for the Supplicant.

Being ambushed by the kilometers-wide monstrosity was quite the experience. All it took was a single mistake for Shiv to die, and he made hundreds of “single mistakes” in a row.

At first, he focused on speed, trying to accelerate through the Stranger's dimension before any of the Fingerlings could intercept him. He died like a mosquito flying into an Aeromantic shock trap. The moment he entered the Garden, the Stranger noticed him. His mana signature was too unique, and he had no ability to hide it. The dimension promptly shifted around him, with the environment proving as great an adversary as any of the Fingerlings. It rapidly began to shuttle his destination around, and soon, Shiv found it far beyond reach. Far enough that even at his constantly climbing velocity, it was going to be more of an expedition than a mad dash.

The presence of the Supplicant, even if it was clearly weakened from whatever Valor and the Educator had done to it, made any attempts at an expedition impossible. Every time it struck Shiv, he disintegrated outright, no matter how much he enhanced his Pillar of Orichalcum. During his twelfth attempt, he managed a Phase Frame, dodging the initial attack. However, his skill didn't remain active for long enough to spare him from another death. He re-materialized while still inside the Supplicant, and with that, he was assimilated. Every bit of his body was dragged into the flesh of the overwhelming Fingerling. Shiv's cutting aura opened a slight gash within it and nothing more. The sheer amount of density infused within the monstrosity was too much for him to hew through its tissues.

Obliteration followed.

And though the Supplicant was already a calamity in the flesh, its magical power was a whole realm above. It cast a shadow upon the world, and the way it pulled at time was the same way mass worked with gravity. The fabric of existence folded and tore, drawn toward the Supplicant as it flexed its power. Time burned around it like the corona of a hateful sun. Its Chronomancy field was so wide that if it were to appear on Integrated Earth, even the entirety of Lost Angeles would be little more than a dot inside it.

His corresponding field was like an eggshell compared to the Supplicant's. When the Supplicant struck, it broke. Then the burden was laid upon his Shapeless Tides.

His Legendary skill allowed him to swim and struggle against a maelstrom for a while. The first time, he managed to survive two minutes against the tides of wrenching retro-continuity, and that was only possible because he had been amassing overflow tides in preparation for the struggle. But the dedication of his Bifurcated Processing meant he couldn't trigger his Eldritch Physiology skill prematurely. The moment his Shapeless Tides faltered, he died, torn asunder in an instant.

He tried dodging. He tried increasing his Toughness at the same time. He even tried going out of context, but he performed the act too late. Shiv's sundering was instantaneous and complete. Clawed hands shaped from tarnished gold drew pieces of Shiv away. The pain was dissonant. He didn't truly feel the hurt during his disassembly, only after. He came apart more like unscrewed components, his arms and legs plucked off and drawn somewhere else.

Before he died, he saw them reappear where he was a few seconds ago, the path of his chronology scattered with bits extracted from his body.

Shiv did his best to avoid the Supplicant in his subsequent raids. This was how he discovered its mastery over his chronology was on another level. Masking his position using his Creeping Void and skipping from place to place with Non-Sequitur, he managed to slip back into the Stranger's Garden. From there, he encountered two separate issues: the Divination matrix Merrielmel had given him to track his brother was going wild. The violet mana painted a chaotic path, twisting and bending, unable to settle on a stable route. The Stranger was constantly shuffling the geography of his dimension. That effectively made every raid different. Shiv couldn't just leave a temporal echo and blink back in place before crossing into the cavern.

The second problem brought Shiv back to the Supplicant. The moment he returned to context, it struck. And it didn't even need direct contact to finish him. When the Supplicant's Chronomancy field overlapped with the place Shiv had been, it could snatch him across time and space.

Death followed.

He exploited his Non-Sequitur skill to its fullest extent in the following raids. Though it helped with his survivability, allowing him to travel unmolested by the Supplicant and undetected by the Stranger, the entire dimension remained on high alert. The Divination matrix also didn't work when Shiv was out of context. Something about how he could submerge himself beneath the flesh of existence caused the mechanism’s mana to flare and spasm uncontrollably before imploding. That made finding Merrielmel's brother all but impossible. On top of that, the dense Eldritch Thicket hid the Supplicant's exact position, so Shiv couldn't even try to do something with the oversized bastard.

His greatest attempt came three seconds short of a minute. Incensed by boldness and frustration, Shiv switched tactics. He brought his Severed Shadow to bear in place of his physical body. As soon as he crossed over into the Outside, the Stranger roared his name again. Shiv had no idea how he detected him. Maybe he could sense his vitality. Maybe his Vitae signature was simply that aberrant. Either way, he couldn’t slip through the Garden unnoticed, not even as a revenant. The sheer weight of the Eldritch God's anger was enough to alchemize Shiv's impatience into caution. His Severed Shadow's knife-shaped hand cleaved a path in space and swapped places with his physical body.

He died again.

But meat was expendable.

A soul was far harder to replace.

"You're still at this?" Adam asked. He landed atop the Court Leviathan and sat down next to Shiv, who was on his back, staring up at the death-soaked sky of the Tutorial. With the storm gone, a tapestry of crimson rashes stretched out above them, flames flashing behind a blanket of ominous and sickly clouds.

"Still at it," Shiv grunted in response. "Came close the first time, ate shit all the others. Turned my attention to killing the Fingerlings now. I go through all the little ones like butter. Well, littler. Killing a Pinkie is like stepping on a bug. I can't count all the Recollectors I've cut apart by now. They're just a blur of severed floating fingers in my mind. The Indexes take a bit more effort. When I'm trying to saw through their mana fields, that is. They're pretty shit at fighting once you get up close."

"I'll have to take your word for that. I think I'll stick to my usual strategy of killing my enemies from over the horizon." Despite the sarcasm, Shiv detected a hint of envy in Adam's voice. "So, what are you stuck on? Is it the dimension itself? Are you getting lost?"

"No, it's not that. Well, not entirely. It's complicated. The main problem is that there's just one big Fingerling, a thing that seems to be two hands steepled together. Felling piece of shit’s bigger than Sullain's Tarrasque. Unreasonably fast too. Might be one of the fastest things I've fought. It's a weird kind of fast too. It's not like it's moving; it's like the world is folding around it. Everything is wrong when it comes to the Outsiders. Up is down, and left is right. If it hits me dead on, it kills me. Maybe I could take a hit if I spent an entire day building up my Toughness, but I think that might just burn out my Bifurcated Processing. The worst thing about it isn't its strength, though. The worst thing is how it can kill me by reaching into my past. If it comes across somewhere I've been, it can just pull me back along that track and rip me apart using its Chronomancy—and its fucking field is way wider than all of Lost Angeles."

Adam hummed. "So why don't you try to avoid it?"

"I can't even tell where it is. The Stranger's place turned into a dense nest of brambles and other shit, and now I can't see through it. Everything has a bit of organic stuff, so using my Atlas just gives me a headache because the entire world lights up."

"Can you try tracking its vitality? If it's that powerful, it must feel like a small sun near you."

"I have to use my Severed Shadow for that,” Shiv replied. “My physical body can't really sense vitality anymore. Hells, I can barely use my Vitaemancy unless I'm holding a knife. I managed to nick the Supplicant a few times, but it feels like I'm just breaking skin. Its mana is so dense that it's like trying to drive a knife through a brick wall. At least I'm still hurting the damn thing. Then there's the Stranger himself. His mana is even worse. Not even scratching that one."

"Stealth? Evasion?"

"Tried both. The former, well… My Revenant form gets detected immediately. The Stranger can sense me. Non-Sequitur brings its own problems: When I use that skill, the divination matrix breaks. It doesn't stop working for a moment; it completely breaks. I think it's something to do with my Vitae. Might be driving the System insane and giving the device the full hit of that madness. And if I don't have the Divination matrix…"

"You can't track Merrielmel’s brother,” Adam concluded. “Yes, I do see how that's quite a pain."

"His brother is also inside a cave of some kind. That cave is now being shuffled about the Stranger's Garden. On top of that, it's giving off radiation—same kind of radiation we suffered walking into the old city. It's an area dead to the System."

"Really?” Adam asked, frowning. “But how? Why would the Stranger allow such a place to exist within his realm?"

Shiv shrugged. "He might not know it's there. He might be hiding something inside. Or there's some other bullshit going on. Maybe Merrielmel's brother installed it. The good thing here is that he might still be alive. Might. If you asked me a day ago, I would have told you he was likely somewhere south of dead. Now I'm not so sure anymore. I spoke with the Enchanter earlier. Apparently, he has no idea either. He doubts his brother created that cave—says he has no idea what kind of radiation suppresses the System. Up until I told him, he didn't even think it was an actual thing. Gardener of Doubt told me he was being honest, so it's probably something else. He's also trying to rebuild his Divination matrix so it can work with my Vitae."

"And how's that going?" Adam asked.

"He ran out of matrices. That’s mainly why I stopped."

"Not because you died, what, a few hundred times?"

Shiv looked up and pretended to count on his fingers for a few moments. "I think I'm a few tries short of a thousand."

