"A thousand deaths, a thousand—Shiv. It hasn't been that long. Have you just been throwing yourself at the Outside over and over again?"

"Yup, and before you ask how many levels I got, a whole bunch early on, but it pretty much tapered off later. I got ten or so levels for most of my martial skills across my first five raids. I got around ten again for the next fifty, then things started slowing after that, even though I kept dying. Took maybe three hundred more before I got another ten, and then I found myself back in the single digits. The struggle's still high, but the uniqueness is gone, and I'm not really making that much progress."

Somehow, he felt Adam's smile before the Gate Lord even laughed. "Oh, finally. You can be a person as well! I didn't think you had it in you. I thought I was never gonna see the day, with how you're the System's golden child."

Shiv flopped onto his side to better look at Adam. "The hells are you talking about?"

"You're bottlenecked, Shiv. You're experiencing a bottleneck. You're exerting a lot of effort, but you're not growing because you can't go that little bit beyond or that massive bit beyond. Now, rather than conditioning or strengthening yourself through intense struggle, you're just eroding your body and mind."

Shiv sat up and looked his friend dead in the eye. "I'm not getting eroded. I'm not tired. I'm going to keep going as soon as Merrielmel's ready. And I'll keep going again, and again, and again, and again, and again, until the Stranger's will breaks. Until every cut I make on him finally gets deep enough that I'm digging through flesh, and then I start chipping away at bone. Until finally, I begin carving away his soul. It might not happen today. It might not happen tomorrow. It might not happen for a hundred days or a hundred years, but someday I'll castrate his very soul. After that, I think I'll feel good for a while, maybe cook something nice. Then it'll be on to my next challenge."

Adam rolled his eyes. "Your willingness to suffer unspeakable amounts of anguish and misery for personal return does not answer the question of whether this is a practical way of doing things. You can continue throwing yourself at the Outside while you have spare time. But with Merrielmel indisposed, why not take a break? To deal with some other problems. You're still planning to go back to the academy, aren't you? And you told me earlier you wanted to pay the Fairwoods a visit. We have a Bread-Knight to return, don't we? And you have a Curse you want to resolve, right?"

With every subsequent question, Shiv felt his resolve softening a bit. He did have a great many things to do. And ultimately, the Outside wasn't going anywhere. If Merrielmel's brother was in that cave, living or dead, then he was likely preserved. "I guess I kind of got a little bit obsessed over this whole Outside thing," he muttered.

"Tunnel vision is a common habit to develop when one runs into a significant impediment. You're not special in this regard, either. Where you might differ is the fact that you aren't disheartened at all, and you simply want to keep fighting. You might be able to fight for the rest of time. But it's just not a good use of your time. Or anyone else's."

"Yeah, you're probably right." Shiv nodded, and then he jumped to his feet. "Alright, I think it's time for me to get some of my shit in order. I'm gonna go talk to Toasty, then maybe resurrect a few additional bodies to send into the capital and the Fairwoods."

"Didn't you say that you couldn't control more than two bodies? That even three was a sensory overload that was too high a burden on your mind?"

"Yeah, but Uva figured out how to control multiple bodies at once."

"What? How?" Adam squinted as he tried to read the expression on Shiv's face. "Okay, never mind. I don't want to know anymore."

Shiv sneered. "I wasn’t going to tell you anyway."

Though silence came thereafter, it was awkward rather than blessed.

"I'm going to get back to handling matters at my Gate now," Adam declared.

"I'm gonna have a talk with Toasty and see if I can wring out an extra reward for delivering his ass back to the Summer Court. Should probably ask Uva if she wants to help me with that. Actually, you got any idea where she is?"

Adam hooked a thumb over his shoulder, in the direction of the currently dormant gateway connected to Piety. "She's back in the Gate, speaking with her Sisters or being harassed by Hymn. They talked a bit about her developing an Eldritch Physiology skill. From what I overheard, she didn't give him an exact yes, but… Let's just say that your new capabilities and her desire not to be left behind are likely going to push her to develop the same skill under Hymn. And though he is a loathsome degenerate—"

"On the surface," Shiv replied. "Maybe a bit on the inside as well. But most of that's just an act. I think he might be the most powerful Pathbearer in the Gate."

Adam frowned. "He’s wary of Valor."

"Everyone is. Shit, the only person who managed to notice Valor—even in his passive state—was your father. Hymn’s playing his own game. He might be associated with the Neath, but he also knows Veronica. He knows enough about Udraal, has contacts in the Abyss, has history with the Culturist, and he's a godsdamned Seeker.”

Shiv huffed. “If you ask me, everything he does is to keep us off balance and unsuspecting. And that's my main issue with him. I've no idea what he actually wants or what he's really playing at besides trying to bring down the Stranger. If he claimed to be the wisest or most experienced Seeker, I'd trust him about that. If he claimed that he could teach Uva how to master and use her new eldritch skills better than anyone else, I think I'd still believe him. But ultimately, that doesn't matter because I don't believe he has our best interests in mind. And so we have to keep an eye on him—but we also can’t waste him. Because the felling shit’s actually been pretty useful so far."

Adam didn't seem entirely convinced by Shiv's suspicion. "I don't disagree, Shiv, but you can say the same thing about the Culturist and most other High-Tier Pathbearers we associate with. Hells, you're being mentored by Jessica Bloody Hawgrave, who is still itching to murder my father. The Educator has sulked off somewhere, and she's overtly working with Udraal. By this point, we're not just keeping our enemies closer; it's hard to tell who our actual enemies are anymore."

"Depending on the situation, anybody,” Shiv grunted. “Other times it might be everybody. But with our situation changing all the time, it’s hard to tell."

"We're using everyone, and everyone's using us."

"Something like that. Anyway, I'm going to do what you suggested and get everything set up with Uva’s help. A little more balance might be exactly what I need. I don't think I'll be getting that balance unless I can start cooking using my own two hands again." Shiv exhaled and centered himself. "We have time now. I don't need to rush through this fight anymore." His lip twitched, and then it turned into a broad smile. Not only did he have time, but he could also choose to avoid being goaded by the System.

Shiv dragged himself up into the air using his Shapeless Tides. He bounced in place as if he were hanging from an invisible string and slowly drifted toward the gateway. They would need to find Merrielmel first, and have the mana frequency tuned back to Gate Piety, but after that, Integration was their oyster. So long as they knew the mana frequency to another gateway or found a place of mana instability in another dimension, they could bridge the gap. And that got Shiv thinking about even more possibilities.

"Hey Adam, about your Gate Quest, I'm assuming you don't just want to fill those numbers with my orcs?"

An expression of pure disgust spread across Adam's face. "What impressive insight you possess, oh Deathless. No, I absolutely don't want the citizenry of my sanctuary to consist of psychotic monsters."

"They have the numbers," Shiv noted.

"I don't want their numbers. They're liable to eat the rest of the people inside my Gate. Who bloody knows what kind of twisted skills they'll give us?” Adam shuddered. “Do you know what Second-Person Perspective does, Shiv? It lets me leer at people over their shoulder. Or from the front. Even the sides. I think the only reason I got that skill is that too many people came in at once, and I was trying to keep track of all of them. And being the funny, clever bastard that it is, the System decided to gift me something that was perfectly invasive of everybody's privacy. If my Gate's filled with nothing but orcs, I'll get something like Amplified Exsanguination."

Shiv blinked. "That sounds awesome, actually. Is that an actual skill?"

"Of course you would bloody think that. And no, it's not a skill, it's a Biomancy spell. One of the few I know and suffered before. It makes any injury you have worsen dramatically."

"I should learn that." Shiv shook his head as he got back on topic. "Anyway, I agree with you about the orcs. You don't want them to be our citizens because, well, like what you said before, they'll torture, kill, and eat everyone just to piss me off. But what we can do now that we have a Slipgate—and we can access practically any other gateway in Integration—is recruitment."

"Recruitment?" Adam echoed, squinting.

"Yeah, recruitment. There are a lot of people who need help. There are a lot of people in bad shape. Probably towns and cities falling all over the place. Not to mention all the slaves the First Blood and Compact are keeping. I think it'd be fun for me to raid them, and it'd be good for the Gate and you to take all those people in."

Adam's eyes fell as he considered Shiv's suggestions. "That's not a bad idea, but we're going to have to do this strategically. We're going to find experts and reliable people first. Though freeing slaves is an ethical and rewarding thing to do, most often slaves don't exactly have the right skills to make a Gate prosperous, and the logistical load we'll be taking on will spike significantly as well. Consider how much you needed to eat, sleep, drink, and rest before you had a Path."

A faint pulse of horror swept through Shiv. "Oh, shit, you're right. So maybe we change our approach a bit. We find mercenary companies or towns trying to fight off invasions or something. We do it like Blackedge, we save them in their time of need and have them settle here. I’ll probably go see some Lone Star mercs before they leave, cause I think we need some people who are good at handling the orcs."

Adam smiled. "I like that idea. If you're going to talk to them, I'll come with you. Since we're hosting the grayskins here, it would also be wise to get an advisor, or at least some military presence from Lone Star within our Gate. Maybe even a consulate down the line. Still dangerous for treating the conditions of a cold war within this Gate. But since we already have enemies placed beside enemies here, we can serve as the fulcrum between them and keep the peace."

"Alright, sounds like a plan. Get some of that handled. After the excursion into the Fairwoods, I'll also get back to school. Classes should start up again by the time I'm done with that. Besides that, I think there’s more than one way to break the Curse, and if I can, I’m going after all of them. One’s gotta eventually work, and even if I can’t find an indirect solution…" Shiv developed a feral smile.

"Shiv, I know that expression on your face. And I don't like it. What are you planning? You know what? I don't even know if I want to hear this."

"I've got expendable bodies now, Adam. You want to know what that means? That means one thing I can do now is throw myself at Maiden and the Ascendants over and over again, if only out of spite."

Adam's left eye began to twitch. "Are you serious?"

"Hells yeah, I’m serious!" Shiv barked a laugh. "Actually, you've inspired me, Adam. I've been throwing myself at the brick wall that is the Outside that I didn't realize I could do the same thing to the Ascendants and especially the Inquisition. You know what? Here's my new plan—"

"I don't like this new plan, Shiv."

"Huh? You haven't even heard it yet. Anyway, first I'm gonna try to fix the Curse by going to the Fairwoods and making a deal with a fairy. We're gonna turn in Toasty anyway because we don't want him around. Then, if that doesn't work out easily or I get stuck any time, I'm going to move on to helping Irons with that investigation of his."

"Shiv…" Adam moaned.

"Don't worry, I'm not going to smash up the capital. I'm just going to ambush some of those Inquisitors and go take a closer look at the orphanages. If I lose the physical body, I lose the physical body. No big loss. And someone's got to know something, right? So I'm just going to start capturing the impostors and taking them places so I can interrogate them. Actually, I can even play dead and see where they bring me. Have them cut my head off, and then they'll just stay there headless. Yeah, the possibilities are endless!"

Shiv began bellowing with glorious laughter, while across from him, Adam wilted like a flower that could inspire a deranged poet.

"You got great ideas, Adam. Great ideas!"

"I'm so sorry, everyone. I'm so, so sorry," Adam whispered.

Within Shiv, the darkness of his bottleneck lifted, and new possibilities dawned in the glowing horizon. It wasn't that he wasn't determined enough. It was that he wasn't determined enough in the right direction. He would have the rest of time to throw himself endlessly at the Outside. But for now, there were people that he could hurt reliably, adversaries he could break. An Ascendant he needed to bully. An Inquisition he wanted to ruin.

A Curse he was going to lift. One way or another.

