“You survived!” Fallopolis appeared in the breaking light, not ten meters away, like a blot of indelible ink that could not help but stain everything it touched. As Erick’s [Domain of Light] broke, completely, she said, “You thrived. I knew you could do it.” With a wave of her hand, molecular wires snapped, a dozen at a time. “Nasty trick you have there.” She switched to using her crystal staff and cleared wires like an old grandma clearing cobwebs, until none were left. “I can barely see them.” She mocked waving her staff through the air three more times, though she clearly knew she had gotten them all.

Erick frowned. “Nice [Dispel]. I didn’t think it was possible.”

“Besides the fact that the Script doesn’t tell you the whole truth; that weren’t no [Dispel].” Fallopolis smiled wide. “I tried my best [Dispel], and that didn’t work. So it was time to test my Domain against yours; that did work. I do admit I had to draw upon my God to break through your spell, though, and that’s good news all around. Shows just how far you’ve come, but also how far you’ve yet to go if you want to kill every Shade.” She asked, “So! Who do you want to kill next? Did Killzone give you a list? Or would you like some advice from me? I really would like to kill the Witch if at all possible. You’re very capable of doing it. Besides, wouldn’t you like to get revenge for your Teressa woman?”

Erick reorganized his Ophiel, conjuring another to fill in the gaps left by Dorofiend. He’d have to wait twenty seconds to summon another, but if Fallopolis was back to talking, that was fine. He said, “I won’t purposefully go after any Shades tonight, Fallopolis. But I also won’t back down from a fight.”

“Oh! Perfect! Let’s head to the Jungle, next. We’ll have to descend to the Middle Layer, but that’s okay, isn’t it? Or…” She gestured to the west. “There’s the captives at Dorofiend’s Mire. Want to go set them free, or end their suffering?”

“… Let’s loot the Mire.”

She smirked, her eyes crinkling in the corners as her entire self seemed to flush with delight.

“Also,” Erick asked, “I was informed that casual violence was not permitted.” With the least amount of displeasure that he could manage, he asked, “So what the fuck was that? With Dorofiend?”

“That—” came a voice from the side.

Erick turned.

An incani man with tiny black horns and deep black leathers stood upon the shadows in the air, leaning against a kendrithyst tower, smirking. Erick knew his blood would have been boiling, if he was still wearing his fleshy self. As it was, he almost reached out with a lightform scythe and reaped Bulgan’s head.

Bulgan continued, “—was just Dorofiend finally getting what he deserved. Man was too soul-scoured to live. Besides. He attacked you first.”

Erick spoke, “I challenge you to a duel, Bulgan.”

“I decline!”

Erick blanked.

Bulgan laughed. “What? Did you think to challenge a god just by asking. Did you think it was going to be that easy? Fuck you, piggy.”

Erick almost went apoplectic in anger, but another Shade appeared on a brilliant white spider, directly behind Erick. She had ‘phased-in’, or something. It wasn’t a dark blip of [Greater Shadowalk]’s pseudo-[Teleport] option. It wasn’t [Greater Lightwalk]’s blipping feature, either. At least Fallopolis had the decency to walk to him, but now that he had seen Tania do whatever she had done to just appear, he realized that Bulgan had done the same thing. They had both just appeared, using some unknown magical FUCKERY.

Just like they had done to destroy his undispellable [Domain of Light]!

ARGHH!

He did not need to turn. He could see Tania Webwalker and her ten-meter wide, white shadow spider, just fine. So he did not. He would not give her the satisfaction of seeing his face.

“Stop taunting the Fire of the Age, dear,” Tania said to Bulgan, adding, “But do ensure that he doesn’t break anyone who doesn’t deserve to be broken. He’s our guest of honor.” Her voice turned harder, as she directed her gaze toward Fallopolis. “You’re treading a thin line. Don’t cut yourself on it like Dorofiend managed to.”

Fallopolis bowed to Tania, saying, “Of course, Headpriestess Tania.”

Bulgan vanished first, like the piece of shit he was, running away into invisible power before Erick could nail him to the sky for his transgressions against all the good in the world.

Erick caught Tania, though, by whipping around to face her, asking, “Why are you blipping around? I thought this was a religious thing? Walking to the Feast.”

Tania smiled, as she said, “We did walk here.” Her voice took on an edge, but Erick did not feel it was wholly directed at him, as she said, “Take care what shadows you tread. Fallopolis would use you until you perish, and feel nothing for the loss, but you are not nearly good enough to take on all what she would have you do. Leave the Witch alone.”

She vanished without another word.

And Erick centered himself with some deep thoughts.

Shades could die, easy enough. The Script enabled this, and even encouraged it. But Erick wasn’t strong enough to kill them all, and especially not strong enough to challenge the stronger ones. He had been lucky to speak up about their heading toward the Swamp when he had. The Witch was certainly out of his power, and guarded by others, for some reason. Erick didn’t think Shades did that for other Shades.

Anyway.

Fallopolis was similarly out of his league. Tania and Bulgan, too.

He had no idea why he chose to challenge Bulgan right then, but thank the gods he was still in his lightform self, and all his normal biological nuances simply weren’t there; he probably would have either pissed himself, or given over to his suicidal rage. It was an even chance for either. Whatever would have happened, he likely would have been crying in rage the whole time, or possibly broken the second he flinched in a way that would have indicated an attack.

As it was, he was still floating there, in his lightform, in his [Lodestar], appearing to be the peak of propriety and composure.

Fallopolis, however, was grinning like a child with a new toy.

Erick said, “I wish to get to the Feast, but a few detours are fine. Would you mind leading the way to the people trapped by Dorofiend?”

“Are you going to continue to wear that spell?”

“Are you going to warn me of every upcoming Shade or deadly trap?”

“I have no idea who will be coming our way. Or how. Especially now that you’ve killed one of us.” She added, “But I successfully warned you this time, didn’t I? And you succeeded! Joy all around!” She teased, “So how about a little bit of trust?”

“I’d love to, but how can I?”

“Simple! You retract your spells. I retract mine.”

After a moment of deliberation, where he considered betrayal and other dark thoughts, Erick chose, perhaps stupidly, to trust. Not in Fallopolis, of course, but in the fact that she had a history of pointing people at Shades, hoping to cause the downfall of her own kind. Personally, Erick thought that she was just strengthening her own position by doing this, for whatever reason. Killzone had his own theories, though he shared none of his personal ones. Perhaps, Fallopolis was a ‘culler of the flock’, or whatever the Priests of Melemizargo called her official position. The Shades certainly seemed like they would have an assassin or diplomat position, purely for killing their own people in an attempt to strengthen the whole.

With Dorofiend’s death, they could put someone saner in charge of the North River Tower. Erick’s murder of the Shade of Dead Waters certainly seemed like the clearing of dead weight…

Possibly.

But anyway…

Erick finally pulled his [Lodestar] aura to skin-tight, since that was something he could easily do, then he turned his [Greater Lightwalk] into something smaller, returning to his flesh and bone body. He stood upon the crimson light all around him, feeling a bit more secure since he was wearing his [Lodestar] like a skinsuit. He said, “I obviously can’t trust you, but I can work with you, since that seems to be what you desire.”

Fallopolis smiled. “It is.”

Then she, too retracted her own shadows.

Erick hadn’t noticed her shadows until she pulled them back. As hovering imprints of half-darkness faded inward, her body seemed to flicker, as she, too, resumed her mortal coil; skin turning from grey, to pink; reflecting the actual light of the crimson towers all around, instead of being a shadow.

And then Erick’s skin rippled. Every hair that could possibly stand up, stood.

Fallopolis’s voice took on a cadence, “Wrapped in Domains, gathered in tight, the two of us might make quite a sight—”

Erick countered, "Your pressure is gone, a working undone. Wouldn’t you like to see another sun?”

“I quite would my dear, my darling lil Fire; But I’d settle for turning this city to pyre.”

“Not on this night. I will not entrust, my life or my plight, because you disgust.”

“We’ve got—”

“We’ve not.”

Words built. Domains flickered. Shadows reached for Light, and Light denied their entry. Erick countered her words with his own; half-thought out, but full of intent. Conviction, utter and pure, closed out the altercation.

Fallopolis gasped for breath, once, twice, almost sinking in the air, but she gathered herself fast enough. She settled. Erick had no such problems. He just watched her play out her drama, or whatever it was she was doing, after she failed to do whatever it was she tried to do.

Like. Obviously it was a curse and Erick managed a counter-curse. Or at least that’s what it felt like. But Erick had no idea where that idea came from, nor how he managed to deny Fallopolis's working. He spoke with his own voice, but also something deeper.

With a small, serious voice, Erick asked, “What did you try to do to me?”

She smirked. Blood trickled from her lips. “A Blessing, actually.”

“Don’t try that again.”

Fallopolis stood up straighter. “I will not.” She added, “Not without your permission.”

Moments passed.

Erick offered a metaphorical olive branch. “Would you care for a [Cleanse]?”

“I would.”

Erick obliged.

A breeze of thick air flowed away from Fallopolis.
