The sky was full of lands composed of myriads of mixed elements and stars brighter than they had any right to be, while the horizon in every direction was a crimson glow of towers, fading down to violet, shadowed depths. A comfortable wind blew through the quiet city. Not too hot, not too cold. Erick’s white [Conjure Armor] was fine to wear for extended periods of time, especially with his new clothes.

But a bit of thirst got to him.

Fallopolis continued to talk, “… And then there’s the weirdwood. It’s an Arbor that grows in the third layer but sends roots everywhere to feed off of dead shadows and adventurers. What usually happens, is that the adventurers think they’ve found a simple duskwood grove, and they’re all like ‘Oh! Duskwood heartwood! That’s good for such-and-such enchantment or so-and-so potions’. And so they try to attack it and if they’ve run into the main tree, they die, but if they run into the side growths, they might live.” She added, “It’s rather similar to your Yggdrasil, but it’s not a true World Tree.” She continued, “And then there’s—

“A World Tree?” Erick asked, interrupting Fallopolis.

It barely fazed him that she knew what had only happened two hours ago, but her casual naming of the ‘world tree’ phenomenon sparked Erick’s interest; he couldn’t not interrupt her.

She didn’t seem to mind. “Of course! People try to make them all the time and they almost always fail, because World Trees are Arbors of a larger sort, but the Script doesn’t like them because they are extreme defensive structures, the lot of them. Back in the Old Cosmology, they truly did protect entire worlds.” She added, “I doubt your Yggdrasil will ever be what it could have been. The Script constricts the top and nurtures the weak. If you’d’ve made this tree in the Old Cosmology, you would have truly created something to behold. A defensive treasure worthy of founding a multi-plane civilization.”

“You’ve spoken like this a few times, now.” Erick said, “No one needs that much power. The Script could do with a lot less power, in my opinion.”

“Ha!” Fallopolis said, “I am glad we have come to this part in our discussion, because every single Shade agrees that most people could do with a lot less power, for the Script is an unfair equalizer. Mages study for decades to make their part of the world a bit better with a bit of magic, but then some unlearned asshole comes along with two points, buys [Strike] and [Invisible], and beheads the mage, turning their part of the world back to anarchy. The same phenomenon happened in the Old Cosmology, too, of course, but back then, a mage could protect themselves, and assassins had to really know their trade to get you. Anyone could overcome old power, in fact. But it wasn’t as simple as ‘spend two points’.”

“I think you misunderstand. Even mages don’t need that much power. No one does.”

“Now that’s insane! Of course people need power, for the truly natural world is a dangerous place, and I’m not talking about this curated experience of Script and monsters. I’m talking real magic; unfettered.” She asked, “Would you get rid of magic itself?”

“Absolutely not.”

“Well good. Then you’re not a total lost cause.” She asked, “Where would you set the bar of acceptable spells, then?”

“I’d keep [Cleanse] and [Greater Treat Wounds]. Maybe [Telekinesis], too. I could do without all the rest, if it meant no more monsters, or ancients, or archmages of any kind.”

For the first time, Fallopolis went speechless. “… I was not expecting…” And then she said, “But you love magic? Creating the higher tiers, working Particles? Ophiel. [Exalted Rain]. All the rest.”

“I do.” Erick smiled at the illusion-filled sky, saying, “But I also love talking with neighbors and helping people and having dinner with friends. I do not love fighting for my life because some ancient mage decided to create a monster and loose it upon the world some thousand years ago, or even just last week.”

Fallopolis glanced at him, then looked forward, not breaking her stride. Erick had spied a frown, but not much of one. For a long moment, the only sounds were the sounds of wind, blowing through Ar’Kendrithyst, and the gentle hum of the Ophiel trailing behind Erick. The ones on his shoulders were completely silent.

Erick broke the silence, offering, “I have a canteen of water. Would you like one, too?”

“… Sure.”

Erick directed the lightform Ophiel, currently holding his bag, to reach in and copy his canteen. Another Ophiel did the same action, effectively letting Erick briefly pass the global cooldown of the Script. With a reach of his own light, he grabbed both bottles out of the dense air around the bag. With a gentle extension of solid light, he handed one of the round canteens to Fallopolis.

She eyed the canteen, and took it. With a flick, the cap came off and fell into the violet depths below.

Erick drank from his own bottle—

The attack came suddenly, but Erick had been ready this time, for his vision had not been blocked by the canteen, at all. Even still, it was only his lightform self and his lightform Ophiel that allowed him to see well beyond the normal spectrum, and see the [Invisible] creatures as they detached from the crimson kendrithyst, from the surrounding five crystal towers.

With no color to describe them and with the barest shift in their surrounding heat, Erick registered the threat, and waited to see if they actually attacked. They had two arms, two legs; maybe more. They were certainly multi-jointed, with skin flaps between every part of their blanket-like bodies. With such a figure, they easily took to the air, like flying squirrels. They flew toward Erick, and the Ophiels trailing behind him.

Erick shot out four [Shooting Star]s from four Ophiel.

The first monster came toward Erick, like an unfolding blanket, but it met a speedy ball of light that ripped it apart, sending a shower of suddenly-visible gore into the air. The death of their member did not seem to deter any of the other thirty-ish [Invisible] killer blankets. Some attacked Ophiels, but Handy Auras caught those offenders and ripped them apart, sending more gore into the depths below.

Laughing, playing balls of light, killed most of the tiny pack hunters. Few made it close enough to be ripped to shreds. Every single light orb avoided Fallopolis by a wide margin, but the [Invisible] blankets did not; those that got near the Shade were torn to shreds by telekinetic forces of a different sort.

Erick just watched the destruction, as he sipped from his canteen. Ahhh, that felt good. Nice water. It even tasted better than usual. Since it was duplicated inside a [Prismatic Ward], was it also magically imbued, like the metal in Erick’s wrought-quality metal experiment?

The encounter took about four seconds. There was a brief pause in the forward march as the monsters completed their suicidal attack, but Fallopolis continued to stride ahead as she saw Erick had it under control, and Erick soon resumed his own quick pace, beside the Shade.

When it was over, he had another Ophiel spread out a [Cleansing Aura], wiping away the little bit of red gore than had managed to spray across all of them. Erick noticed the gore that had gotten on Fallopolis, this time, before it turned to thick air.

Every [Shooting Star] gave a chuckle and a laugh as they faded out; their killing spree done and over.

Fallopolis shook the canteen, sloshing water, saying, “This is good water.”

Also ignoring what had just happened, Erick asked, “Does it have any special qualities? I just found out the other day that [Prismatic Ward] is more special than I gave it credit for.”

“Yes.” Fallopolis said, “A very minor mana potion effect. Too small to notice, too limited to matter.”

“Interesting.” Erick asked, “Are we really going to walk through the Swamp to get to the Palace?”

Fallopolis shrugged as she walked. “Up to you.” She gestured with her staff, saying, “The Swamp is there. Or, we could go left, and walk along the wall. The Swamp is marginally safer than the wall walk, for the walls of Kendrithyst are home to many areas of no return.” She gestured right. “We could also descend to the central layer and hit the highlights of the city, as well as find fewer monsters. It’s generally safer where Shades routinely move, but all of them will likely be taking the high roads, to see the planes above. In such an odd case as tonight, it might actually be less monster-filled to also travel the high roads, but we might meet other Shades.

“In either case, we might not hit any more monsters at all. Like all battles, Kendrithyst is mostly blank space, punctuated by moments of terror and triumph, or defeat.” She looked to Erick, and with a gleam in her white eyes, said, “We could also attempt to sneak into a few choice locations and steal everything that isn’t cemented down. A trip to the Library, perhaps, for some tomes of True Magic? A swing by the Jungle, to net one of Hollowsaur’s level 90 beasts? That’s a lot of levels for you! Oh! Or the Armory! That place is locked up tighter than a virgin’s arsehole, but the rewards are well worth the conquering.”

“If all those are options, then why are we on a direct line to intercept the center of the Swamp?”

“My greatest hope, is that you will meet the Witch, and when she proves herself incapable of participating in Polite Society, she will try to kill you and then either you kill her, or Melemizargo kills her. Either way works for me.” Fallopolis added, “Your rings will protect you from a great many curses, so you’re the best bet I have for murdering Perri.”

Erick said, “I want to avoid the Swamp and the Witch. Let’s go west and take the Center Lane.”

The Center Lane was not a proper feature of the Dead City, like the Swamp, or Abyssal Lake, but it was a general north-south aisle that could be drawn on a map from the north, to the Armory in the center of the city. It avoided most of the larger dangers, skirting both the Jungle in the west and the Swamp in the east.

“The Witch will be at the Feast, and she always aims to kill whoever she fixates on. Kill her now or be her victim later; your choice.” Fallopolis said, “But very well. We will take the Center Lane.” She asked, “Upper, Middle, or Dark?”

“Upper.”

Fallopolis promptly turned right, crossing in front of Erick, who suddenly stopped to let her pass.

Erick followed, and resumed a proper walking distance from the Shade.

“What were those flying things, anyway?”

“Skyskins.” Fallopolis asked, “What was that orb spell?”

“[Shooting Star].”

“You know…” She spoke with a joyful edge to her voice, saying, “You could make countless [Shooting Star]s with your [Greater Lightwalk], all in an instant, if you became a Shade and pledged yourself to Melemizargo. As a Wizard in tune with his power, he can break your connection to the Script and reforge your soul to allow you to experience true magical might.”

A question Erick had been wondering about for a while suddenly bubbled up. “What are Wizards, exactly?”

Fallopolis smiled wide, gaining a pep to her shadow-laced steps. “Why you are, of course! But you’ve barely done anything with your own power, so you probably shouldn’t poke around in your soul in an attempt to break yourself from the Script.”

“… That doesn’t explain anything.” But it did cause a lot more questions.

“Wizards defy explanation.”

“Can you try?”

Fallopolis breathed deep. She said, “I will try, but it won’t do you any good.” She added, “Not because I don’t want to explain, but in trying to describe the ineffable, my description would fall short. Language is a problem, in this case, for it fails in the enormity of the truth. Ideas like ‘Creator’ or ‘Destroyer’ or ‘Paradoxical’ fail to describe the wholeness that is a ‘Wizard’. In the Old Cosmology, Wizards birthed whole planes of existence with a snap of their fingers. They destroyed swathes of Reality with a wave of their hands. They recreated souls lost to the destructive efforts of other Wizards.”

“Okay… But where does the power of a Wizard come from? Darkness?”

Fallopolis said, “Darkness is just the visual expression of Wizardry. Creation, Destruction, Paradox, all wrapped in one, and purposefully unknowable to mortal eyes; even a Shade’s. I searched this whole world for an answer to that very same question, along with a dozen others. I eventually sought help from the gods. They were little more helpful than asking the same questions to children, and yet, I continued to put out fires and raise the quality of life everywhere I went, all in the pursuit of asking my questions of the highest beings in the land. For my efforts, they gave me parables and truths I could not use. I have given you those answers, just now, in a slightly condensed version, and without the knowledge that I gained when I came looking for better answers from Melemizargo’s flock.”

Erick looked to Fallopolis with a bit more care. Words tumbled out, “You’re a wizard?”

“Perhaps. Perhaps not.” She had said the words without anger, but there was a measure of steel in her voice. And then she softened. “You can ask Melemizargo about Wizardry if he shows up this year. We think he will, and if he does, he will likely want to speak to you.”

Erick felt he had touched a line in the sand. He asked no more of Wizardry.

Fallopolis fell into a silence.

