“All of them.” Fallopolis swung her arm wide, across the lights and shadows of the city, declaring, “Every single Shade needs to die. They’re all monsters. But Melemizargo wouldn’t approve. So until the day that I’m allowed total power and personal appointment of every Shade, when I wouldn’t need all the rest of these self-indulgent Shades to avoid death at the hands of the Geodes and the misguided idiots who call themselves our ‘gods’, then I will have to suffer living with these monsters.”

Erick had no idea how to respond to that.

So he didn’t.

- - - -

Erick heard something in the air besides the breeze rushing through the crystal city, or a monster dying somewhere down below. It was a pounding sort of sound. Distant, but not too distant. Water, perhaps?

… It might be a lot of smaller monsters.

“Is that the North River?”

Fallopolis said, “Yes. We’re getting close.”

Erick stopped, then looked left, to the south, saying, “Time to turn south, then.”

They were too close to the river. Killzone had warned Erick about that. ‘Don’t go to any river’ he had said. They were all occupied by Shades. ‘Soon as you hear water, run the other way.’

Fallopolis smirked, then stopped walking. A brightness filled her darkness, as though she were the figurehead for another, or she had been hiding who she was this entire time.

… Shit.

Fallopolis fully turned to Erick, and her eyes became radiance incarnate, while her skin turned black as the void. Erick’s heart beat hard. He expected a breakdown in civility sooner or later, but nothing had happened! She just turned on all her power, and faced him! What the fuck?

Erick immediately activated [Lodestar], and assumed his [Greater Lightwalk] lightform self.

The air around him became an orb of inviolable light, tainted with ruby-red, violet edges, as his own body turned to insubstantial glows. He was theoretically safe from almost everything inside his [Lodestar], but he wouldn’t know until his power was truly tested.

Fallopolis laughed like a greedy dragon as she regarded Erick’s light-orb self. She called out, “It’s too late to run, and besides, aren’t you here to make the world a better place? I’m not your enemy, but one of them is coming, fast enough. He was outside, watching the sky, and now he is here.” She adopted a dangerous pose, one leg behind the other and with her staff floating just beyond her open grip. She pronounced, “Prepare to greet Dorofiend, the Shade of Dead Waters, seldom seen and utterly insane. No one has ever managed to kill him. May you fight well and cleanse the North River of his undead taint. Watch out for that second form!”

Her words finished, Fallopolis faded; a ghostly image of a dark Shade, half-shadows, half-mist, disintegrating on the wind. Erick’s relief was tiny; If the attack wasn’t coming from her, then that was fine. Erick steeled himself, and waited for the hammer to drop. His heart no longer beat, for it was gone, turned to light, just like his eyes. But he still lived, and he still saw the world around him. With a thought, Ophiels flitted around, spreading out—

A piercing, human leg kicked through an Ophiel, turning the [Familiar] into broken bits of white glows, leaving behind a human-sized foot that had broken off in the exchange. A second leg, ten meters from the first, attempted to strike Erick’s bag. The bag, and its surrounding [Prismatic Ward], went flying away, clipping through Erick’s lightform body as it flew. That was fine; the Ophiel guarding it remained intact since he was no more than light at that moment, too. Erick had that one turn to a [Lodestar] as well and stay out of the fight. He could likely secure food and water from other sources for the next 10 days if he needed, but he would rather not.

Oh. He had turned on [Hunter’s Instincts]. 20 seconds must have passed. That’s why his thoughts were more fluid, and why he bothered to give a wonder toward his food-bag.

But there was a fight going on. So Erick refocused.

An Ophiel grabbed the next leg with a hundred telekinetic hands as the fleshy body-part attempted to kick through the [Familiar]’s feathered core. Erick got his first real look at the offender, in that moment, before the red-skin-colored limb yanked away, turning [Invisible] again—

How was it turning [Invisible]? This was a good question. Erick’s sight was already adjusted for multiple wavelengths, so it must be a non-standard sort of stealth magics. Erick widened his perceptions, looking for oddities. With his full-view of the sky, he saw it. There was an odd blind-spot covering a good 50 meter space, between two crystal towers. With a quick decision, he had two Ophiel also turn on [Hunter’s Instincts], while another two summoned [Shooting Star]s.

Erick’s giggling balls of light disappeared into the blank space, as three more limbs appeared, whipping out with all the force of a high level warrior, almost too fast to see. But Erick saw. The attacks came from two dragonkin-taloned hands, and one cloven-hoof foot. The limbs beyond those appendages were thirty meters long, perhaps. The hands and feet parts were tiny. The arms and legs were long.

The [Strike]s, for that’s what they had to be, struck at Erick, but hit the light-saturated edge of his [Lodestar] like icicles jammed into concrete; completely ineffective, and more successful at breaking themselves than the target. Bones broke. Blood sprayed.

A howl reached Erick’s ears, but cut off, like someone pressing a mute button.

The northern sky flickered, briefly. But it was enough. In that moment, Erick saw that his [Shooting Star]s were lazing around a floating thing, unsure where to go. The thing in the air, the Shade, was a collection of humanoid body parts. A monster made of meat, with face made of bodies, with hollow eye sockets, lips made of flayed flesh, and teeth made of a hundred hands and feet circling a hole into darkness, where a tongue made of a thousand tongues lapped at the air. Its ears were made of curled arms and legs. Its neck was composed of torsos, leading to a millipede body made of whatever was left from the sculpting of a human-shaped visage, five meters across.

Upon the forehead of that visage was a person. The only one looking out from the ‘face’. Their arms were the eyebrows of the body, and their eyes were brightest white, staring at Erick, with a tiny, normal-sized mouth, open in a temporary scream.

Briefly, a stench filled the air. Rot and sewage. If Erick had been in his body, he might have puked. As he was currently made of light, the scent of that brief moment was little more than confirmation of the horror before him.

And then a second passed, and the Shade returned to invisibility, taking every sign of its existence with it, save for the body parts already separated from the whole. Those broken hands and otherwise, fell to the depths below.

Erick flexed his lightform self, aiming a self-made [Force Bolt] at the place where the Shade might have been. His sphere of light snapped, like a crack of lightning shouting to the heavens. A Bolt of brilliance, easily a foot across, raced forward.

It bounced. The Bolt sailed off into the sky, arcing into the distance.

Three more arms snaked out from invisible space, wreathed in black clouds, [Strike]ing Erick’s defensive sphere of [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk] with few results except for arms breaking off at the elbow, five meters past the hands. The invisible Shade roared in agony again, briefly appearing, as it zipped around Erick, launching from one tower in the north, aiming for a tower to the south, to attack from a different direction.

An Ophiel cast, fully expending itself.

Molecular wires shredded through every part of the nearby sky; a frozen hurricane of severance. Arms carved from bodies. Legs flayed from torsos. The screams of a hundred throats wailed into the dark and the light, as the Shade stood revealed, suspended on a turbulence of hardened air. He struggled. He only managed to force himself deeper into the bloody net, every movement carving his grotesque body into more pieces. A wire broke occasionally, but there were over seven thousand of them up there, twisted into a frozen maelstrom of cutting.

Dorofiend struggled. He turned to shado—

Erick opened an Ophiel up, and inundated the sky and the ground with light, from way down below, to way up above. A [Domain of Light] came into being, a sphere kilometers wide, wrapping the Shade in brilliance, denying all shadow, imposing Erick’s will upon the world, as a lightform Ophiel flexed forward, practically blipping as he moved so fast, yet not cutting himself upon any of the remaining wires. He did set them alight, though, like thin christmas lights.

And then the Ophiel turned on another aura. Lightning coalesced, like a halo, around the space where Dorofiend lay dying.

Erick instantly knew he messed up, for the Shade had already reflected his magic before, but something had changed, and Erick saw he made the right call, if only on accident. The halo of lightning did not reflect. It became something stronger. A splendor. A mandala. A million perfectly flowing beams of light that touched upon the suspended gore for a kilometer around, ripping apart every single piece from the inside out, Chaining from the flesh of one dead and soul-mutilated adventurer, to another, to Dorofiend himself.

Erick let [Fulmination Aura] run for ten seconds.

This was longer than necessary. He had received the blue box for Dorofiend’s death after only three seconds of coruscating lightning.

Special Quest Complete!

Dorofiend, True Shade of Melemizargo, has been killed!

100% participation, FULL EXPERIENCE

+ 67,989,163,763,861,200,000 exp

Erick took a minute to read the box. He took a good five minutes to attempt to relax.

And then he looked to the box again. It was different than all the rest he had ever gotten. It was different than the one Jane had gotten when she killed her own Shade, all those months ago. Dorofiend must have been something more special, then? Perhaps.

Whatever the case, Erick was level 85 now, so that was something. He had 29 points. That was too many, but he would need to keep 10 in his pocket, just in case he had to complete the [Gate] quest and get out of Ar’Kendrithyst in a hurry… But maybe that would be blocked, anyway. [Gate] was Spatial Magic, after all. No. Erick couldn’t get out of this Feast with a portal. He would only be allowed to leave if he killed every single Shade in the city, or if they let him leave. It wouldn’t be so bad to kill them all, though. Maybe he should start right now. [Domain of Light] proved to be a good Shade-killer. Erick smiled to himself. Maybe the rest of Anhelia’s spells would work well inside this space, too. And like Fallopolis said, they all deserved to die. So why not tonight?

This was why he came here, right?

… He was still running [Hunter’s Instincts].

Reluctantly, he turned the skill off.

Time seemed to speed up, or rather, return to the normal. Erick sighed. He put five points into Willpower and five into Focus. And then he had a look around. He would have gasped, if he had lungs.

A divot of light carved out a piece of the planar illusions overhead, but that wasn’t anything special.

It was the city itself which had changed into something else. The nearby towers were crimson and purple, with no shadows at all. For kilometers in every direction, Erick only had to look, and he saw Ar’Kendrithyst as it might have been, before the shadows came. Towers made of light. Crisscrossing skyroads. Tiny garden areas, where plants could grow, and benches for people to sit upon, and see the world around them. Tiny shopping places. Grocers, perhaps. Mirrors and hairbrushes. Fountains that contained no water, but would have been beautiful if they had.

The shadows of Ar’Kendrithyst, of Dead Kendrithyst, had hidden more than he had thought possible.

With them gone, there were houses in the stone. Plumbing. Kitchens. Bedrooms and beds that were obviously beds, but they were also like bathtubs; large basins. Wrought were liquid metal after all. He had never seen Silverite or any others sleeping, but he could easily imagine them sleeping in a bathtub-like space. It wasn’t a bathtub, though, because those were by the already-seen plumbing.

Doors with names carved over the sills. Windows to let in the breezes. Other, stranger rooms, with areas and items unknowable—

Something pressed in from the south.

Erick had no idea how he had known that something was ‘pressing in’ on his [Domain of Light], but it was.

The light cracked. A spiderweb of darkness flashed across the southern hemisphere. And then the [Domain of Light] flexed, separating light into pieces, and keeping them separate; an impossible action, according to the Script. How could this inviolable space be breaking! Who could do this! How was this possible!

Like a dream fading, Light broke, and Shadow pushed away the pieces. The open households all around him turned into shadow-filled crystal, once again. Tiny courtyards became dark corners, where even more darkness bred, and spread.

Almost all of the molecular lines of [Hermetic Shredder] cracked; breaking. Only a few remained; a hundred, at most. Erick left them there. Maybe whatever was coming would kill itself on them. It was a foolish hope, but it would be nice to see.

Erick felt a pressure crush against his own, still-active [Lodestar], but otherwise do nothing. The pressure came again, but this time as a tap-tap-tapping, like a child tapping on the glass of a fish tank, testing to see if Erick would respond. He did not, save to mimic a sigh.

