“He is a dimensional terror bird, as such you may see him at various sizes.” Terry obliged by flickering about and changing his size going down to be small enough to fit in a cupped hand and up to big enough to nearly brush the twenty-foot-high warehouse ceiling. “Please do not attack him regardless of his size. It would make him cross, and none of us want that.”

There was a round of accepting nods. Terry took them in before nodding once himself and flickering to Lea’s shoulder, sized appropriately for the perch.

“Second, if we are faced with a true threat, you may see me equipped like this.” She pulled her armor to the superficial, growing a couple of inches. She also suppressed her throughspike to allow her full and true self to be exposed to the watching Mage Protectors.

Several stumbled backward in surprise and even evident fear in several cases, but each showed their professionalism in that not a single inscription activated, not even one spellform sparked to life.

Tala nodded, projecting her voice. “I don’t anticipate anything requiring myself or my husband to bring our full capacities to bear, but this is an experiment, so our experiences may prove to be poor indication of what we will face. Therefore, if you see me in this form, pay close attention to the commands sent your way, and do not delay. We are Paragons of combat, and anything that forces us to truly clash with it will be a lethal threat to the entire caravan.”

Several Mages swallowed nervously, and quite a few uncertain glances were exchanged.

“We are transporting close to nine thousand people through the wilds. There will be magical beasts attacking and often. Even with many of you being Archons, we expect you to maintain a more defensive role in any clash. Keep your assigned wagons intact, and prevent any collateral damage. There is a reason that most of you are defensive specialists.” She took a deep breath and looked around the room. “Now, I would like to meet each of you and field your questions. If any of you want to back out, this is the last time to do it. Once this meeting ends, you will all be irrevocably locked into the contract for the job.”

There was a moment of heavy silence. Tala dropped her armor, allowing her through-spike to reassert herself, and smiled at the assembled Mages.

Then, and only then, will I introduce you to my Talons.

She waited a moment more before nodding.

“Now, who would like to go first?”
