“Hmm… shall we put a number on this?”

Randall tapped on his chin. Markus shook his own head to try and dispel the dizziness, the maddening phantom sense he felt from the pain that had all so recently been present, the unshakable feeling that this was some other timeline, that he should be dead already…

“Ten thousand! Ten thousand deaths, and I’ll allow you to move on from this fight! That means you only have…”

Markus was kicked to the floor. The torch was pressed against his cheek until half his face melted.

He returned to consciousness once more, pain faded, still screaming.

“...nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-seven to go!” He shrugged. “Apologies. I hate counting.”

Markus watched as the monster moved to attack him again. He could scarcely concentrate on anything, his body was racked by so many disparate pains that he didn’t even feel like a real person, that he felt as if he were experiencing a terrible drug trip more than he did that he was fighting…

His vision was blurred. His senses were failing him…

Three more deaths went by. All of them within seconds. All of them their own eternity. All of them marking him somewhere despite the lack of blemish upon his skin as he reformed yet again before the monster, ready to die once more.

Markus could feel himself slipping. This was too much for his brain. No body was meant to endure this level of torment…

He raised his glaive. He didn’t know where he summoned the will. His body responded not to his thoughts, but to an instinct he could scarcely recognise the source of.

He parried one blow. Dodged two more…

And then had his skull caved in.

Flash back to the start. Too dazed to move…

Three more deaths before the pattern of blows was scattered enough that he could regain his balance.

He had no intention of dying another 9980 times, or however the fuck many it was. He would  figure out how this monster fought and find a way to exploit it, and he’d do it before he went utterly insa—

His head came off.

That was new.
