The rest of the sanctification was more or less standard. We spread purified sand across the grounds, including the inside of the tower, and then, when we attached small bags to the fence ropes, I wrote Evil Begone in English rather than the Holy script. Other than that, the process was mostly the same as last time, with Vena taking the lead to make my temporary sanctification permanent.

Once we were done, we sat down on top of the tower to rest for a moment.

Unlike the Sanctified Ground in the Undead Dead-Zone, I could actually feel the border of this space. I could tell exactly where it started and where it ended. The boundary extended overhead as well, reaching about two meters above the highest point of the tower.

I closed my eyes for a moment and focused on the sensation.

It was strange. I was feeling the existence of an invisible boundary through an extra sense that I didn’t have back on Earth. It was as if my aura, and by extension my soul, was resonating with the miracle.

"So are the Sanctified Grounds permanent now?" I asked.

"More or less," Vena replied. "The miracle can weaken, but as long as a cleric keeps purifying the sand attached to the fence, it should hold indefinitely."

A shooting star flew overhead. I felt the familiar surge of Star-mana spread through me.

I was relieved when that happened. Part of me feared that playing with mythic magic here would somehow interfere with the Sky-Mana anomaly that dominated the region, like how light pollution could interfere with stargazing.

I stored the sky mana inside my spear before turning toward Vena.

"We are eating dinner at Louis's," I said. "You are invited."

"Is it time for dinner already?" Vena asked. "I can't tell without the sun."

I checked my phone. I had started to develop a habit of starting a stopwatch whenever I arrived at the Sunless Reach.

"We have been working for four hours, so we have two hours left until sundown and the start of the short night."

"We have got at least an hour before dinner," Vena said hesitantly. "Would you mind teleporting us to someone who needs help?"

I hesitated. I remembered the discussion I had had with the team about the dangers of my random teleportation. There was no guarantee of safety, even when I formulated the wish carefully. But we also discussed that the danger should be manageable as long as we don't repeat the same wish multiple times a day.

I looked down at the sanctified ground beneath us, then at Vena. The girl had helped me without asking for anything in return, and even this request wasn’t something personal.

"Sure. Let's go."

I waited for another shooting star. When one finally crossed the sky, I reached over and placed a hand on Vena's shoulder.

"I wish we would be safely teleported to where Vena is needed most."

The world disappeared.

We arrived at a riverside village to what looked like a gathering of sick people. The village square smelled terrible. That was the first thing that hit me before I even had a chance to properly look around.

The air was thick with the sour, earthy stench of human waste. Some of the villagers were lying on the ground, while others leaned against the walls of the nearby houses, looking pale and exhausted. Some were actively vomiting, while others had brown stains beneath their belts.

This was dysentery, or something equally terrible.

An older woman with black hair tinged with blue was stirring a large cauldron set over a simple fire. The steam rising from it carried a much more pleasant smell than the rest of the village. Several younger people, mostly teenagers, were filling copper bowls from the cauldron and handing the herbal drink to the villagers.

Vena rushed toward the cauldron and leaned over it, taking a careful sniff.

"Chamomile, peppermint, and ginger."

The older woman nodded.

"Good job," Vena said.

She immediately headed toward the rest of the villagers, knelt, and began praying.

Golden light exploded outward from her, bathing the square in warm radiance. The villagers looked up in surprise, some shielding their eyes while others simply stared.

"Thank the Mothertree," said the tea-maker.

I examined the scene while Vena worked and noticed something strange.

The people here looked different from most of the people I had seen since arriving in Hano.

Their skin had a faint purple tint.

It was difficult to describe. It was almost as though they had been sunburned or tanned in a strange way, except the color was more violet than brown.

Then my eyes landed on their hair. Everyone except one child had dark azure hair.

I blinked. Was this what sun-kissed Soulit people looked like?

Well, it kind of made sense. Their hair color was different from the brown and blond of people from the other realms, so perhaps they had a different variant of melanin.

Most of the Soulit people I had met were descendants of nobles. Even freelancers like Ki'a probably had some kind of skincare routine.

This was the first time I had seen what I assumed was a working-class Soulit population.

Soulit society in Hano was elitist enough that hair color was treated almost like a measure of racial purity. The closer someone's hair color was to cyan, the closer they were supposedly to the original Soulit Ideal.

But now I found myself wondering. Were there pure Soulit people from the Soul Realm who naturally had dark purple skin and dark hair, without mixing with Kindred or Elemental bloodlines? And if so, were they also treated with bigotry and disdain?

Or maybe there were places where dark skin was the majority and cyan hair was the one deemed inferior.

I shook my head. Those were questions for another time. Right now, there were sick people to help. I approached the woman cooking the enormous batch of herbal tea.

"Do you know what caused this?"

"The river water, probably."

"Do you not know to boil water before you drink it?" I grimaced.

She gave me a flat look.

"We know. We aren't stupid."

"I'm sorry."

She sighed before returning her attention to the cauldron.

"But this isn't the Loria River that passes through Hano," she explained. "This is fresh snowmelt from a tributary of the Tippie Mountains. It's usually so fresh and clean that people become lazy about boiling it."

"Oh." I looked toward the river. "That means something moved upstream."

"Yeah,” she said. “And it's most likely no more than a hundred meters away."

I looked around the village again.

It was small, perhaps thirty houses at most. Unlike most of the villages I had seen, I couldn't immediately identify the industry supporting it.

"This doesn't look like a farming village," I said. "What is your livelihood?"

"This is a soul-harvesting village," the woman explained. "We mostly trap fish souls and other common beasts and send them to Hano for lazy SoulDealers to consume."

Right, I remembered Ja’a mocking rich SoulDealers, including her father, for not killing the souls they consume.

"That means you have SoulDealers in this village?"

"Yes. We started with three harems, but now we have ten children with the gift."

Right. SoulDealer men kept harems in the hope of producing more SoulDealers. I think that, more than anything else, was what had led to Soulit Culture's focus on genetic purity.

Vena returned to my side.

"They should be fine for now."

She glanced toward the woman, who had already returned to serving tea.

"Keep giving them tea, please," Vena said. "You most likely saved everyone. You staved off their dehydration long enough. Even without my healing, most of them would have made it."

"Most..." The woman lowered her head. "Lady Cleric, thank you for helping my family."

"Are we going now?" I asked.

"Sorry. I promised I would accompany the hunters while they clear out whatever is polluting the water, just in case. It shouldn't take long."

I watched as more than fifty former sick people migrated toward the river. I could clearly tell that this village was just two generations: three older men, a dozen older women, and fifty or so children and teenagers. As everyone started to strip, washing themselves in the stream and removing layers of sweat and filth, I averted my eyes.

I guess this village didn't care about public nudity. It made sense, I suppose. Why would they be concerned about modesty when everyone already knew everyone else?

Ten minutes later, the three older men and four of the women, all in their forties and fifties, joined us. They had washed and cleaned themselves and were now dressed in leather armor. Two carried spears, while the others carried javelins and bows.

Several boys and girls accompanied them, all armed with bows.

As a group, we headed upstream, following the river through the sparse vegetation, and eventually, we reached an area covered by trees.

We hadn't gone more than a few dozen meters into the forest before we found the culprits.

They looked vaguely like a herd of zebras, except their hides were covered in spots rather than stripes. The animals stood at the edge of the river, drinking from the same water that had been making everyone sick.

Or at least, I assumed they were animals. Their bodies were larger than normal horses, their limbs thicker, and their teeth were far too prominent for anything I would have considered a normal herbivore.

The hunters spread out around the trees and began communicating with hand signals. The teenagers automatically divided themselves among the adults, taking up positions of their own.

After a signal, everyone loosed their arrows at once.

The beasts reared back with a roar as they were peppered with ranged attacks.

I raised my spear and sent several bolts of lightning toward some of the fleeing beasts, stunning them long enough for the hunters to finish them with more arrows.

And just like that, the herd of creatures was dispatched in seconds. Their bodies collapsed beside the river.

The teenagers immediately approached the corpses. They examined the bodies before each one chose a specific corpse.

I expected them to help butcher the beasts for meat. But instead, each one placed both hands over a corpse and closed their eyes.

I examined the scene more closely and noticed that each youth's arrows had a different marker, a small piece of colored ribbon. The corpses they had chosen all had at least one of their arrows sticking out of them.

After a few seconds of concentration, something began to seep from the corpses.

It looked like an ember-colored liquid, thick and syrupy like glowing honey. It emerged from the dead creatures, flowing along the teenagers' arms before disappearing into their mouths.

I stared dumbfounded. Were they drinking their souls?

The older men watched them like hawks while the women kept watch around the perimeter.

After five minutes of this, one of the boys suddenly began making a strange noise. It sounded like a horse neighing.

One of the adults immediately slapped him across the face. The blow broke his concentration, and the stream of soul energy flowing into him stopped.

The older SoulDealer immediately knelt beside the corpse and placed both hands against it. The remaining soul energy was pulled out of the beast, gathering into a glowing mass before being sealed inside a small jar.

The boy who had been slapped looked miserable, and one of the older women moved to comfort him. Vena joined her, checking him with her healing miracle just in case.

The boy was physically fine. I suspected it was mostly a blow to his pride after being the only one who had failed to absorb a soul fully, especially since his siblings and cousins didn't seem to have any trouble with the task.

After making sure all of the teenagers were fine, the three SoulDealers sealed the remaining soul remnants into similar jars.

Once Vena made sure the boy was all right, she stood next to the female hunters, who were clearing the corpses. She knelt once more and, with another prayer, she cleaned the area.

One of the older men held out a soul jar toward her.

"Lady Cleric, please. Take this as a sign of our gratitude for saving our families."

"I can't accept it." Vena shook her head.

"But…"

"I did what any cleric would do," she replied.

The man hesitated before lowering the jar.

"Thank you, Lady Cleric."

"You're welcome."

And with that, we returned to the Sunless Reach, where I recharged my star mana before teleporting us once more to Louis's.

When we appeared near the pizzeria's door, we were greeted by the familiar smell of baked dough, melted cheese, and tomato sauce.

"I missed this smell," Vena said.

We stepped inside and found the shop much busier than I had expected. Lady Sana, Lady Marca, Lady Sharon, Lady Lily, Sir Gray, and Knight Ami were already seated. Even Mama Hana, the nurse maid and newly minted cleric, was there, along with Mama Dima, Silnar's mother.

What made the place truly chaotic, however, were the sixteen orphans between the ages of eight and fifteen. I could name Seth and Mosha, but I still hadn't learned the names of the others. Calr and Sara were also seated at a corner table, with the red-haired girl showing some of her translations to her younger brother.

I greeted everyone individually, even giving the younger children a pat on the head before picking a seat at the counter.

From there, I could see directly into the kitchen, where Louis and Silnar were instructing four apprentices and guiding them through some of the finishing touches.

Louis spotted us and grinned. She left Silnar with the apprentices and came over to greet us.

"You made it," she said with a smile before serving us coffee. Mine was black, while Vena received a sweet latte.

"So, what did you ask for on Wishing Day?" Vena asked.

"That the opening of the shop goes without a hitch, of course," Louis said.

"I figured as much." Vena's expression became serious. "Remember to take precautions, since you didn't ask for your normal wish."

"What is her normal wish?" I asked.

"No bloody visits from Damada," Louis whispered.

"Oh, I have some potions for that." I reached into my bag of holding and handed one to Louis.

"Those cost a silver," she said.

"Yes, but seriously?” I stared at her. “A Wishing Day miracle is worth something you can get for only silver?"

"Yes, actually," Vena said. "You can't be greedy or the wish won't come true, so mitigating a monthly painful experience is the perfect way to spend that wish."

"I see."

I extracted another potion.

"Do you also need one?" I asked Vena.

"Nope. I stopped bleeding every month once I ascended to cleric."

"Seriously?"

"Yep."

"That's bloody unfair."

“I am pretty sure I already told that fact,”

“Sue me, I keep forgetting how ridiculous your power set can get”

Our conversation was interrupted when Silnar left the kitchen alongside the apprentices, each of them carrying two plates of pizza. They began serving the guests who had arrived before us.

Louis stepped out of the way before ducking back into the kitchen. A moment later, she returned carrying a large tray of fresh pizza straight from the oven.

As we started eating, I felt a shiver run down my spine, as if someone were breathing down my neck.

I turned around and found Ja'a's face pressed against the window.

"Having a pizza party without me?" I heard her muffled voice say through the glass. "How dare you!"

Some of the children laughed at the Soulit girl's antics before she opened the door and she and Kan joined us.

Another pie was served shortly afterward. Then Silnar showed up with plates of cheesy twists and some white sauce that appeared to be a mixture of mayonnaise and some kind of dairy product, probably natural yogurt.

Everyone got to taste the appetizer for the first time, and they were amazed by its flaky texture.

Nina showed up just in time, and I managed to save the last one for her before Ja'a could steal it.

I had a feeling this was turning into a tasting party when, instead of bringing out more of the same, Louis showed up with what looked like a puff pastry quiche. But when I bit into it, the filling tasted exactly like pizza.

I stared at the pastry. I did not teach her this. Had the girl somehow figured out how to make rustici on her own?

Good girl. She had completely understood the lesson I wanted to teach her.

More food showed up, each dish different from the others. Some I recognized, while others were completely unfamiliar to me. There were more appetizers, pies, and sauces. I was also served a pizza with a white sauce instead of the tomato that tasted similar to a pizza broisée; it was simply divine.

Between each dish, Louis and Silnar would ask for our opinions and gauge our reactions to the food.

By the time I was nearly full, Louis showed up with dessert.

The tiramisu was nearly identical to what I was used to on Earth. The only difference was that the upper layer was made from roasted and ground hazelnuts instead of cocoa powder.

I took a spoonful and almost wept.

Next to me, Ja'a was in ecstasy, while Nina looked like she was having an out-of-body experience.

As for Vena, after tasting a spoonful, she stopped eating and started praying.

"Lady Laurel, I, Vena Moonbearer, your humble servant, wish for you to taste this divine dish. If anyone is worthy of tasting such a thing, it would be you."

We all paused for a second and looked at the plate.

Nothing happened.

"Vena, dear," said Lady Sana, "I am sure the Lady has better thi…"

A burst of golden light exploded outward.

I could only catch a glimpse of blonde hair before I had to shield my eyes. When we opened our eyes again, Vena's plate was gone.

"Did that just happen?" I asked.

Next to me, Kan lunged forward, catching the fainting Ja'a, who had apparently tried to see another goddess's soul with her soulseer ability, learning nothing from her experience with Damada.

As for the rest of the holy people, they erupted into discussions and prayers.

Louis showed up with a full platter of tiramisu and started praying, but the demi-goddess didn't show up a second time.

The only thing I could think in that moment was:

This was not my fault. Hopefully, this wouldn't cause the saint rumors to spiral even further out of control.

Right…?