Having spent a good portion of his life as the sole magisterial heir to Shen Yun, Young Patriarch of the Situ Clan, and eventually the number one Talent of the North, Zian had long since grown accustomed to being the focus of attention. No matter the venue or event, there would always be someone important waiting to greet him as he arrived, as well as a long line of attendants and boot-lickers hoping to catch his attention. They never spoke of anything worthwhile during these contrived interactions, merely exchanging banal pleasantries about this or that, with praise and flattery a plenty, because they weren’t there for Situ Jia Zian. They were only there to forge a connection with the future Patriarch of the Situ Clan, something to be used when he came into power a decade or two down the line. This made these social niceties boring to the extreme, but Mother insisted he behave and play along, because he ‘represented too many interests to step out of line’. Vast fortunes had been made and lost on matters of face alone, and even an inkling of impropriety from the Young Patriarch could ruin current and future business deals as allies and partners steered away from the Situ Clan out of fear for the future. Thus, despite his pleasure-seeking ways, Zian always made sure to thank his hosts, refuse any overly lavish gifts, and refrain from falling into anyone’s debt. It’d all become routine to him, exchanging meaningless pleasantries and smiling along as some old fart or another waxed on about the good old days, and he thought this would be his life for many years to come.

Had he known what he knew now, he would have done everything he could to sabotage the Clan’s future, but then again, that might have given Rang Min everything he wanted, a valid excuse to replace Zian as Young Patriarch instead of bullying the Clan Elders into accepting mediocre Gulong as their future leader.

Regardless of the reasons, Zian’s star had fallen from on high, and he was Young Patriarch no longer. Nor was he the Number One Talent of the North either, both too old and too weak to reclaim the title. Now, with only his magisterial office and play-boy reputation left to him, the only time anyone of note might care to acknowledge his existence was to warn their daughters away from him. There were no more toadies looking to make connections or lesser peers inviting him out for a night on the town, no wiley old snakes acting overly familiar or pretty young maids sent to distract and beguile. Upon arriving at the Central Citadel, he spent the night resting in his private officer’s billet attached to Uncle Yang’s suite, and this morning found no letters of challenge laid at his doorstep or invitations to events hosted by powerful factions, and not even a cursory spy wandering aimlessly about the hallways or lingering outside the building to keep track of his actions. For the first time in his life, Zian’s presence had been entirely ignored by the prominent powers that be, because he’d become a person of no consequence whatsoever, and therefore unworthy of attention.

And he loved every aspect of it.

There was a certain freedom in anonymity that Zian never knew existed, for it did away with so much of the rote tedium in day to day life. Laurels came bundled with obligations and constraints, and were he still the Young Patriarch of the Situ Clan, he would have been obligated to spend most of last night visiting various households to offer gifts and give face to his Clan’s local allies. There was nothing more dreary and tiresome than showing up at a stranger’s home and pretending like they were the closest of friends, all the while keeping a close watch for possible traps, assassins, or social pitfalls laid out by his so-called allies.

Now he was free to do whatever his heart desired, which unsurprisingly was no different from his normal daily routine. Zian woke at dawn, ate breakfast with Jing Fei, and headed out to the training field to spar with his retinue.

“Good!” he called, as his curved sabre collided against his opponent’s active parry with a thunderous clash and the impact numbed his arm to the shoulder. “Now capitalize!”

Already in motion, the older warrior’s boot brushed across the front of Zian’s robes as he skirted aside, having long since anticipated the move, but what the wily veteran lacked in speed and imagination, he more than made up for in experience. A shoulder tackle thudded into Zian’s chest and drove the air out of his lungs, sending him staggering away for three and a half steps before he recovered. Too late, he realized he should have kept retreating as his opponent’s sword whistled through the air on an arc towards his neck, and he took the only route left to him. Darting forward inside the swords range, Zian danced around his opponent to narrowly avoid defeat, but only for a few heartbeats more.

It was a game of centimetres keeping ahead of his foe, and back and forth they went. Move too far away, and his foe was free to stop and use his sword. Move too close, and another tackle would leave Zian flat on his ass, which was no place for a commander to be. Zian had to throw off his opponent without giving him time to bring his sword about, while also leaving himself enough room to bring his sabres into play. Straight lines were too predictable, too easily followed and countered, so after circling about with his opponent for a handful of moves, Zian took a risk and thought in curves instead. Sensing his opening, he feinted left, leapt right, and spun through the air, his sabres whipping around and scoring two heavy marks across his opponent’s chest and shoulder-guard before sending him tumbling across the stage.

Zian’s heavy breathing cut through the silence, which only moments ago had been filled with cheers and hoots from the gathered crowd. Most were members of his retinue, and there were a few unfamiliar faces, but all wore the same look of wide-eyed disbelief. Why, he couldn’t say, because all he’d done was use a dance move commonly seen in acrobatic operas, a triple Lu Tse jump. It wasn’t particularly difficult to pull off, just dangerous without the right timing, but highly effective when used correctly and thoroughly disorienting when done at high speeds to both performer and his foes alike.

“Hey!” one man cursed, smacking the soldier beside him on the arm. “The young master won! Pay up!”

And like that, the crowd came to life as they cheered, groaned, and settled their debts, while Zian moved both sabres to one hand and went to help his opponent up. “Well fought,” he said, unable to suppress his smile. “Well fought.”

“Almost thought I had you there, young master.” Beaming with pride despite his defeat, Junyi gratefully accepted Zian’s aid and pulled himself to his feet. “But damn me if it didn’t feel like I was facing Jukai himself, with you darting and whirling about.”

The older warrior meant well, but the reminder still stung, so Zian simply smiled and held his tongue. Truth was, Jukai would have retreated while dodging the initial kick, denying Junyi the chance to seize the momentum with his follow through, but what was the point in arguing? Like Jukai and many others of the retinue, Junyi was here because he’d served under Zian’s father, Lu An Jing, but alas, none of the older warriors were the match of the Twinned Dragons themselves. Still, these soldiers were good, loyal men who Zian trusted with his life, all qualities which were in short supply these days.

He was too reserved and distant to ever be the charismatic leader his father reportedly was, but he would do the best he could with what the Mother gave him. Calling over the next soldier in line, Zian took his position for another spar and lost himself in the match, pushing him and his soldiers to become the best they could be. This was who he was now, Lu Jia Zian, even if the world still knew him as Situ Jia Zian. He was a warrior, a Warrant Officer, a young magistrate, and nothing else, which suited him just fine. There was a simplicity in it all that he revelled in, a clarity found within these mindless spars which honed his mind and body to a razor’s edge. The Martial Path lay before him, and he moved ever forward each day thanks to these spars, and that was all he cared about. So engrossed in his progress, it felt like only a few minutes had passed before Zian ran out of opponents, having fought every single member of his hundred-man retinue without rest. He didn’t win every match, but he won far more than he lost, and more importantly, was losing more than he was three months ago now that his retinue’s skills were steadily improving. This was all he could offer them, these heated sparring matches, for Zian had no ability to teach, and these loyal warriors deserved more than just coin as thanks.

Oddly enough, despite beating most of them bloody at least once a day, none of Zian’s soldiers seemed put off by these daily matches. In fact, like Junyi, they all took great pride in their defeats, even the few who never served with Zian’s father and were here for their own reasons. Some were undoubtedly Rang Min’s spies, but despite working with this same retinue for months on end, Zian had no clue who those spies might be. It didn’t matter though, so long as he did nothing worth reporting. Jing Fei handled the politics now, with help from Mother’s guiding hand, leaving Zian to focus wholly on the Martial Path.

With the sparring matches over and done with, Zian dismissed his retinue and set to work on the Forms themselves, but as he threw himself into the first movement, he spotted Nian Zu watching from the crowd, with Han BoHai and Uncle Yang beside him. “Colonel General,” Zian said, saluting at each of them in turn. “Lieutenant General. Major General. A good morning to you all.”

“At ease, young Zian, at ease. No need for formalities outside of battle.” Smiling as if he’d told some hilarious joke, Nian Zu winked and said, “That is unless you care to follow in your uncle’s footsteps here and enlist in the Northern Army. I’m still wading through bureaucratic nonsense to have him transferred from Central and restored to proper rank, but you I can make a Senior Captain today. How about it? The army is always in need of dedicated talents like yourself, and the Situ Clan’s loss can once again be the Imperial Army’s gain.”

This wasn’t the first time Nian Zu had made this same offer, but it was the first time he’d done so in public or mentioned their shared experiences as outcasts from Clan and Society. Were it anyone else, Zian would have suspected the other party of doing this to apply more pressure, but considering Nian Zu’s infamous lack of social graces, he figured the old general was just making sure he knew the offer was still valid. “I am honoured by your consideration, Senior Zu,” Zian said, picking a friendlier title to address the Colonel General, but not an overly familiar one. “However, as I am in a transitory time in my personal life, I am not yet ready to commit to something of this magnitude.”

“Ah, to be young again.” Clapping Zian on the shoulders, Nian Zu favoured him with an approving nod. “So bold and independent, I see much of your father in you. I only hope you do not suffer the same fate. The Empire needs its new Heroes now more than ever.” There was genuine sadness in the old general’s eyes, and Zian almost demanded he share everything he knew, but then reason overcame anger and he saw that Nian Zu’s sadness was on a more professional level, rather than a personal one. The Colonel General was mourning a fallen Hero of the Empire, no more, no less. Lowering his voice to barely more than a whisper, yet still loud enough for Zian’s retinue to hear, Nian Zu said, “If Rang Min takes issue with your continued existence, then you come to me. Understood? Do not let pride or anger cloud your judgment, for your foe is a wily beast lacking in morals and principles, and you are not yet ready to face him.”

Patting Zian once more on the shoulder, Nian Zu marched away with Uncle Yang and Han BoHai in tow. “I recommend you take his offer,” Uncle Yang Sent, glancing back to make sure Zian saw how serious he was. “Your mother will throw a fit and have my hide for it, but so long as you live, I will gladly accept her rage. You must know that you will always be a threat to Gulong, and Rang Min is not one to suffer threats lightly.”

“What’s wrong Uncle?” Zian Sent, his stomach dropping out from beneath him. “Something’s happened, hasn’t it?”

“...I don’t know.” Uncle Yang looked so different these days, more tired and less confident than the Jia Yang of old who Zian had always looked up too, but he was still much improved from the jittery mess he’d devolved into after the whole debacle at the Northern Wall. “My contacts in Central were all Clan contacts, so there’s little I can learn on my own, but matters are coming to a head here in the Citadel and Rang Min moves as if he’s already won.”

“Is there anything I can do to help?”

“No. Just... tread carefully.” Winking before he turned the corner, Uncle Yang Sent, “Remember, there are two lives in your hands now, yours and mine, for your mother will not suffer my continued existence if I fail to keep you safe.”

