“Run along now, little Chiang,” Zian called, waving contemptuously for the benefit of the crowd. Truth be told, he didn’t hate Chiang, Shirong, or even Gulong. Rang Min was his enemy, and the others were merely fruits from the poisonous tree. “You know nothing of matters you speak of. Falling Rain is an Imperial Consort, a man raised to Imperial Peerage by the Legate himself. How can associating with such a fine warrior and esteemed individual be considered a betrayal?” Narrowing his eyes to warn Chiang off, he added, “Unless you see the Imperial Clan as enemies?”

Little Chiang was a clever man, but he’d never learned to consider the consequences of his actions. This whole argument was likely made at Gulong’s behest, or perhaps even Rang Min’s, but Chiang’s hatred was too strong to see he was being used. He blamed Rain and the Bekhai for his father’s death, and in truth, he was probably right to, but the Society sent Guardian Chi Lok out to kill the Bekhai, so they could hardly claim the moral high ground when their assassins turned up dead.

The bigger question was: what did Rang Min hope to gain from this pointless altercation?

Seeing his cousin struggle for words, Shirong knew to beat a hasty retreat. “Come cousin,” he said, gently pulling Chiang away. “Leave this beaten dog to his new master. It shames me to share a family name with a coward, but Zian is a defeated warrior of no consequence anymore.”

“Oh?” Approaching unseen from behind Chiang and Shirong, Ryo Da’in made her presence known to everyone watching this exchange. An alluring woman who radiated danger and menace, she strode through the Situ Family guards as if they didn’t exist, and in truth, they didn’t dare try and stop her. “So are you saying,” she began, her hand resting on the hilt of her sword while alternating her deadly gaze between Chiang and Shirong, “That my beloved baby brother, Ryo Geom-Chi, lost to a defeated warrior of no consequence? Such a bold claim from... Who are you again?”

“I – I am Si-Situ –”

Shirong’s answer was cut short as Da’in’s sword darted out of its sheath and stopped between his eyes, the tip resting ever so gently against his brow. Her second sword caressed Chiang’s neck, and it took an effort of will on Zian’s part not to look awestruck. To move with such speed and precision without drawing a single drop of blood, she was truly worthy of her title as the Sword Princess of Central. “You are no one,” Da’in hissed, her anger so palpable Zian feared she would slaughter both his cousins on the spot. “Children who have accomplished nothing of note, so how dare you insult my brother with your wagging tongue?”

“So-Sorry, Lady Da’in, I –”

“Sorry? You think a single word of apology is enough to erase this mark upon Ryo Family honour? No child. Your elders failed to teach you proper manners, so I will do so in their place.” Eyes burning with rage, Da’in pressed on her sword and sent Shirong to his knees, her subtle movements guiding him into the position she so desired. “This is how you apologize to your betters, child. On your knees to start. Do you know what comes next, or must I teach you how to kowtow?”

Unable to keep quiet any longer, Zian stepped forward and ignored Mother’s Sendings while clasping his hands in a salute. “Warrant Officer Da’in,” he began, having noted how much angrier she’d gotten when Shirong addressed her as ‘Lady’. “Please accept my most humble apologies in my younger cousin’s stead.” Bowing at the waist, he held the pose and continued to speak. “As you said, I, as their elder, have failed to teach them proper manners, so the punishment should fall to me.”

“...Tch. How boring. Away with you, worms.” Sheathing her swords, Da’in dismissed Chiang and Shirong, and they left with unseemly haste, but Zian could hardly fault them. Studying him with obvious disappointment, she asked, “Why stand up for them? Why remain loyal to a Clan which has all but cast you aside? You are no dragon among men like my little brother, but surely you can do better than Falling Rain’s lapdog.”

More political maneuvering, saying all this out loud, but Zian refused to play along. “Having seen how Rain treats his pets,” Zian Sent, favouring Da’in with his most charming smile while ignoring the question, “I’m not sure there is anything better. Who else would ship fresh shrimp a hundred kilometres to the battlefield?”

Unaffected by his charms, Da’in rolled her eyes and moved past him to go greet Rain instead, and while Zian would be lying if he claimed it didn’t sting, he knew this was for the best. Let the world believe him a defeated dog, but Falling Rain was a freak of nature and statistical anomaly. There was no shame in being inferior to him, because there were none who could match him. Not even Ryo Dae Jung himself could have killed three Demons at the age of twenty, with a shattered Core no less, and while Zian hadn’t seen it for himself and Rain wasn’t sure how he accomplished the feat, it was only a matter of time before he figured it out.

The Martial Path was one of conflict, but there was no sense comparing oneself to others. Rain would never be Zian’s enemy, and he was a better friend than most, for in these troubled times, he was the only person to make Zian an offer of assistance without expecting anything else in return.

And for no reason besides because that's the sort of man he was.

“Hey,” Rain called, pulling Zian out of his thoughts. “We’re going to an opera show later, so you should join us. I already sent someone to tell Vichear, and Fung, BoShui, and Ji Yeon said they’d meet us there.”

“You hate the opera,” Zian replied, smiling at Rain’s considerate nature. Not only did he not mention the incident with his cousins, but he remembered Zian had mentioned having difficulty getting tickets and went out of his way to secure extras for his friends.

“Yea, so I’d like some good company to help me get through it without falling asleep.” Slipping away from his mother and concubine, Rain clapped Zian on the shoulder and muttered, “Might be dangerous though, so keep on your toes.”

“Good.” Seeing Rain’s confused amusement, Zian simply smiled and shook his head, refusing to clarify his statement. “Let’s go.” Mother was none too pleased, but for once, he didn’t care. Let her glare and glower all she liked, but Zian was proud to call Rain his friend.

And if Jukai had taught him anything, it was that a good man stood by his friends, no matter what.

Chapter Meme
