Despite the dire circumstances, Zian smiled at Uncle Yang’s joke. It’d always been this way with them, and as a child, he took great delight in watching his great Peak Expert Uncle feign fear before his formidable, intelligent, but ultimately feeble-armed mother. She could Demonstrate the Forms and did so religiously each morning, but only as a means to retain her youth. Zian had only seen her pick up a sword once, and she’d almost cut her leg bringing it over, so unless she had specific need to fool her son in the privacy of his own training room, then Mother was no skilled Martial Warrior.

Then again, knowing what he knew now, Zian wasn’t entirely sure Uncle was joking. Mother might not be a warrior herself, but with her political connections and conniving ways, she could be every bit as dangerous as Uncle Yang, if not more...

“Curious, is it not?” As if summoned by the thought of her, Zian turned and found Mother strolling towards him with Jing Fei and their collective handmaidens in tow. “You were ousted as Young Patriarch some months ago, but Nian Zu ignored you completely, yet this last week, he’s made a point to be seen speaking with you almost every other day. How strange.”

“Uncle Yang said Rang Min is acting like he’s already won,” Zian Sent, reluctantly putting his blunted practice sabres away. Most Martial Warriors disdained training with anything besides their Spiritual Weapons, but Zian found it immensely beneficial, as it helped him understand the overlooked details regarding the efficiency of motion. “Perhaps Nian Zu knows something of the Patriarch’s plans that we don’t.”

“Doubtful,” Mother replied, stopping to smile at this soldier here or compliment another soldier there. She knew how to play a crowd, especially one filled with hot-blooded young men, and Zian never liked watching her work. It was... disconcerting to see men make fools of themselves to impress a woman twice their age, so he headed over to greet her and dissuade those bold fools from overstepping their bounds. “He knows something, but not about Rang Min. Nian Zu has never been shy about conflict with the Society, because he knows making a public fuss is the best way to make his problems go away. No, if he truly believed you were in danger from Rang Min and wanted to protect you, he would simply make a public declaration painting you as a fellow cast-off Clansman, a ploy even he could easily come up with.”

True. “Then why the charade?”

“I’m not sure,” Mother Sent, as Zian arrived at her side and greeted her by bowing over her hands. “Which is strange. He’s usually so easy to read. Tell me, did your uncle say why Nian Zu brought him along?”

“...Not specifically, but why wouldn’t he? Uncle Yang has more than earned Nian Zu’s trust.”

“Indeed, and the old fart has also won my brother’s loyalty, and therein lies the problem.” Seeing his confusion, Mother explained, “Your Uncle Yang used to tell me everything, but now he keeps secrets from his older sister. There is something afoot here, something that requires the presence of Nian Zu’s most trusted aides to handle, as well as his Famed Fifty and five-thousand of his veteran Experts.”

“...Veteran Experts?” Blinking in surprise, Zian studied the Imperial soldiers sharing the training field with him, who until just now had been merely faceless soldiers marching alongside his carriage. “You’re telling me every soldier here is an Expert with a Natal Palace?”

“Insofar as I can tell. Stop gawking dear boy, it makes you look boorish and uncultured.” Patting his cheek a little too forcefully, Mother met his gaze with a fond smile. “These soldiers are Nian Zu’s core strength, five-thousand loyal, Captain-level talents or thereabouts, which means he’s worried. I attributed it to Falling Rain’s plight, but Nian Zu’s heightened interest in you tells me something else is afoot. He’s bolstering your status and building you up as a promising young hero to watch. Why do this when he already has the Mother’s Miracle Child Falling Rain?”

“To take pressure off Rain while he recovers?” Zian Sent, unsure why any of this mattered. “Or maybe he wants someone to follow in his footsteps as the black sheep of the Society.”

“Perhaps.” Grabbing his chin and forcing him to look her in the eyes, Mother furrowed her brow and asked, “The boy is still crippled, correct? You’d tell your Mother if you knew otherwise, wouldn’t you.”

“Yes Mother, on both accounts.” Resisting the urge to roll his eyes, he Sent, “I told you everything he told me. Rain was not faking his infirmity, and does not know how he gained strength enough to kill three Demons barehanded. All he remembers is falling off the outer wall, and then waking up in his camp with his pets all around him and while the battle for Sinuji raged on.” Shrugging, he added, “And I believe him.”

“...And I believe you.” Fussing about with his collar, Mother smoothed his shirt and straightened his hair. “Enough politics, and enough training. You’ll run yourself ragged sparring with these sweaty men all day, so go freshen up and put on a new shirt. Fei-Fei and I are going to the market, and since your uncle is too busy to escort us, you shall have to take his place.”

Enough politics, ha! As if that were ever possible with Mother. No doubt this shopping trip was also politically motivated, else Mother would never bring Jing Fei anywhere. They worked together well enough, but they loathed one another on a personal level. In public, Zian’s beloved concubine played her part perfectly, always silent and deferential in Mother’s presence just like she was now, barely even lifting her head to smile at her husband. In private however, they went at each other like two tigresses fighting over one mountain, except Zian had no idea what metaphorical mountain they were fighting for. Probably some silliness over Jing Fei’s family, but as far as he could tell, his concubine’s brothers were treated quite well. The older one, Jing Tai, was here with them, working as a military courier and taking lessons from Uncle Yang, while her younger brother was back in Shen Yun with Jing Fei’s mother and running the city unsupervised in Mother’s extended absence. It spoke volumes to the trust Mother had in Ong Ruo Mei that she would leave her alone and in control of Shen Yun for several months instead of the two weeks Zian had expected this family reunion to last, and truth be told, it was a trip he wanted to end as soon as possible. He loved his mother, but her constant bickering with Jing Fei was starting to take a toll as he nodded along with Mother during the day and was ground underfoot by Jing Fei by night, a vicious back and forth which had him counting the minutes before Mother returned North to resume her Magisterial duties.

Zian’s suspicions regarding his mother’s motivations soon proved to be true. As soon as they set out to the market, they ‘coincidentally’ bumped into Rain and his Imperial Servant. So strange to see their positions reversed, with Zian’s twelve-soldier entourage all but swept aside by Rain’s one-hundred-and-twenty Death Corps escorts, and he marvelled at how well his friend was handling his rise in status. Back straight and head held high, Falling Rain seemed the epitome of a noble young hero as he strode down the street with Zheng Luo on one arm and his mother on the other, so stately and striking despite their noticeable height difference. Rain wasn’t any taller than before and still overly thin, but his broad shoulders and dignified bearing did wonders for his image, as did his functional Khishig leathers worn over a fashionable silk shirt and trousers.

Not to mention the crowning piece which Zian had taken to emulating, his sturdy, serviceable marching boots. Cloth loafers looked better, but they were simply not suitable for duels or sparring...

Frail, crippled, and short, but Falling Rain was a warrior still, and not only was he worthy of respect and veneration, but his demeanour showed that he expected it. Granted, it might just be that the height difference between Rain and everyone else didn’t seem so important with the Divine Turtle looming over him, but regardless of the facts, Zian was proud of his friend for having come so far.

“Zian! Good to see you.” While onlookers would see Rain’s greeting as a farce, Zian knew his friend was genuinely happy as he waved them over to join him. “Please, come join us.” As Zian arrived next to him, Rain lowered his voice to a conspiratorial whisper, an action which would have the surrounding spies cursing the noisy crowd. “Shopping is the worst.”

“Hush you.” Rain’s mother Sarnai was a stern woman, all steel and grit, but her smile showed how much she cared for her son. “It’s barely been an hour and this is only the second time we’ve gone shopping together. Is your mother’s company truly so hard to bear?”

“Well, it’s hardly fashionable for heroic young men to go shopping with their mothers.” Inserting herself into the conversation with ease, Mother patted Zian’s cheek and added, “In fact, we should count ourselves lucky that our sons pay us any mind at all. Such good, filial boys.”

Sarnai snorted. “True enough. Foolish men all around the Empire do not appreciate their mothers enough. The bar for filial piety is set so low the bare modicum of effort is enough to clear it with room to spare.”

Cheeks colouring at the loud and embarrassing exchange, Zian and Rain exchanged pained looks of shared sympathy while their mothers rattled on about unfilial children. Since it didn’t seem like their conversation would end any time soon, Zian glanced around and said, “No pets?”

“Yea, left them at home, except for Roc up there.” Gesturing at the feathery personification of greed, gluttony, and hatred perched atop the Divine Turtle’s head, Rain shrugged and added, “They weren’t too happy about the decision.”

Implying he wasn’t the one who made it, but this was for the best, since he was short of helpers to keep his curious and frankly disruptive animals in check. “Mila and Yan?”

“No change. They stayed home too. Not sure if they even realize we’re in another Citadel.”

Fascinating. For Insight to last so many days after the fact, the Bekhai were surely hiding some great secrets of the Martial Path, but Zian was too polite to ask. “Li Song and Mei Lin?”

“Also stayed at the manor. Lin-Lin was not happy about the decision.”

This time, Zian winced in sympathy. Lady Mei Lin was a charming and affable young woman, unless one managed to raise her ire. Zian had once scoffed at something she’d said, some silly nonsense about which rabbit was the cutest which made him mutter something about how they looked best when roasted on a spit. Nothing came of it except for a pointed glare, until he woke up the next morning with a painful rash across his entire body, which made him so itchy he almost clawed the skin off his stomach. Jing Fei soon identified the cause as itching powder sprinkled over his bed-sheets, but between her fits of laughter and palpable relief at having slept in her own bed, she was unable to come up with a salve to soothe his pains. Desperate for aid, Zian had sent for Rain, and not ten minutes later, he showed up with the cure in hand and head bowed to apologized for Mei Lin’s actions.

Apparently the half-hare had taken grave offence at Zian’s comments, and after thinking things through, Zian vowed to never upset the sweet maiden ever again. This time, it was merely itching powder, but he shuddered to think what other foul concoctions the Medical Saint’s daughter might have, not to mention the implications. If the sweet half-hare could send someone to sneak past not only Zian’s guards, but Uncle Yang’s as well, then itching powder was really the best he could hope for...

“What a charming sight.” Cutting through the noise of the crowd came a familiar, taunting voice, and Zian turned to see his Clan cousins Situ Chiang and Shirong marching towards them, only for them to visibly balk as the Death Corps readied their weapons. Stopping well short of those signature pole-arms, Chiang raised his voice for all to hear and said, “The Imperial Consort out for a stroll with his pet, and the Guardian Turtle to boot.” Spitting in the dirt, he sneered and added, “To think, I once looked up to you, Zian. You were the best of us all, but one defeat and you betray Clan and Society to go crawling into your rival’s camp. Disgusting.”

A clever barb, but Chiang has always been the smart one. Smarter than Gulong at least, yet not half as smart as he believed himself to be. Still, he’d been there when Gulong insulted Rain directly and temporarily lost his tongue in the process, so Chiang made this argument about Clan and Society instead. Now, Rain was merely a bystander to this discussion, but by painting Zian as a disloyal traitor, others would come to associate these traits with Rain as well, for if one often walks by the riverside, one’s shoes will eventually get wet.

Or as Rain once put it, birds of a feather, flock together. Full of strange and sometimes clever sayings, he was...

Oddly enough, Rain understood the nuances of this exchange and held his tongue, which was good because if he’d spoken up in Zian’s defence, it would be seen as taking responsibility for Zian’s actions. Not only would this lend validity to Chiang’s claim, since it would be strange for Rain to speak up on a matter he wasn’t involved in, but it would also make it seem like he was Zian’s superior, rather than friend.

How incredible. Rain was finally learning to navigate the rules of proper society. Zian was almost tempted to call it a miracle...

