Neither Luo-Luo nor the Justicar had expected this request, and she held onto the faint hope that these allegations were false, but her hopes were soon dashed. “You deny Dastan Zhandos and his retinue rebelled against the Empire? That your retinue is comprised of former bandits, many of whom had bounties placed on their heads for their crimes against the Empire? That you looted Yo Ling’s secret island hideout and kept your ill-gotten gains, instead of turning everything over to the Lieutenant Marshals so that the stolen goods could be returned to their rightful owners?”

“Let’s do this one by one.” Ignoring Luo-Luo’s silent hints to take some time to discuss things first, Lord Husband began with, “Dastan Zhandos and his retinue are undoubtedly rebels. They admitted as much during their trials in Sanshu, but Magistrate Chu Tongzu granted them clemency for a reason.”

“For his strength and talent, and Dastan Zhandos certainly has both in droves.” Sneering in disgust, the Justicar continued, “But the Empire has heroes aplenty and need not rely on traitors to protect it.”

“True, but have you looked into the circumstances of their rebellion?” Spreading his hands, Lord Husband said, “Though they stood on the side of the Defiled, Dastan Zhandos himself was little more than a pawn, one who was used and lied to since youth. He honestly believed he was fighting against corruption and for a better Sanshu when he rebelled, which was why Magistrate Chu Tongzu allowed them to keep their lives. They believed they were fighting for a good cause, and for their crimes, they now fight for the Empire.”

“Hmph. Dastan Zhandos battles in bloodless spars to accrue fame and recognition, hardly a fitting punishment for their crimes.”

“They fought plenty until I was injured, so fiercely that only one in four who survived Sanshu still draw breath.” Lord Husband’s tone could still be considered friendly, but now it held a hint of steel. “They fought under Han BoShui while I rested, and they will fight at my side when I make my return to the battlefield. Slaves and traitors they may be, but the Empire values young talents and Dastan and Sahb are both undeniably so, while their prowess serves to bolster morale in a time when it is needed most. If need be, I’ll bring them to the front lines and fight, but I can’t imagine people will be pleased to learn that a crippled hero has been drafted into service.”

Perhaps swayed by these words, the Justicar took a moment to ponder this over, but eventually shook his head in regret. “This Official still believes their punishment too lax given the crime.”

“Then I’d like to hear a second opinion.” Shrugging, Lord Husband added, “and a third, if possible. Don’t you guys gather in threes to discuss big matters? Regardless of Dastan’s past crimes, he is now a slave and fights for the Empire as my personal property. It is not the place of the Disciplinary Corps to tell me how I should treat my slaves or where to order my soldiers. What’s next? Will a Justicar come tell me my servants’ rooms are too large, or my soldiers’ armour too fine?”

A cunning move, changing the focus of the issue. Now it was no longer a matter of Dastan Zhandos the rebel living too well, but the Disciplinary Corps dictating how an Imperial Scion should behave. The facts remained the same, but the nobles of the Empire would wonder if an Official might visit them next. Seeing the issue, the Justicar glowered and said, “You have the right to dispute this judgment, but the facts are not in your favour. We have documented proof you bribed Magistrate Chu Tongzu to secure the life of Dastan Zhandos and his retinue, though for what purposes, only you yourself know.”

“Ha!” Slapping the table with a thump, Lord Husband scoffed and said, “So returning stolen goods is bribery now? Seems like no matter what I do, it’s wrong. I gave Chu Tongzu a map to a bandit hideout containing goods stolen from the now defunct Council of Merchants, one I found off the corpse of a Defiled Butcher. Considering one third of the council was proven to be in cahoots with the Defiled and another third was forcibly dissolved for crimes of bribery and corruption, I’d hardly blame the Magistrate for using those stolen resources to rebuild his war-torn city.” Seeing the Justicar’s surprise, Lord Husband shook his head. “Seems like your boss doesn’t have all his facts straight. I figured as much when he demanded I hand over the subordinates of an Ancestral Beast. What a joke.”

Eyes widening at this declaration, the Justicar stopped to consider the issue and likely inform his contacts through Sending. Having seen through Jixing’s plans, Luo-Luo used this opportunity to pull Lord Husband close and explain her findings, as well as share her thoughts on what he should do next. After a long, silent deliberation, the Justicar begrudging nodded his head and said, “In light of these new facts, this Official will convene a hearing to discuss this case and pass new judgment on the matter of Dastan Zhandos and retinue.” A small victory, but a fruitless one considering Yang Jixing could simply select three Justicars sympathetic to his cause to oversee the hearing. “And the other matters? The bandits in your retinue and looted goods?”

“I have no bandits in my retinue,” Rain declared, without a hint of a smile, and Luo-Luo was gratified to hear him take her advice. “Only soldiers, men and women who have fought the Defiled in Sanshu and on the front lines. Criminal pardons in exchange for military service is a standard offer given to Martial Warriors, so if the Disciplinary Corps intends to sentence them for crimes committed before they entered my employ, then in the future, what criminal will choose to enlist? If you mean to arrest my people, then do as you please and I will respond on a case by case basis.”

This was the crux of the matter, one Luo-Luo almost overlooked. Many soldiers had checkered pasts, and while Lord Husband’s retinue might have more former bandits than most, they shared a part in his heroic exploits, most notably his recent record of sixty consecutive days on the front lines without rest, a record which still stood to this day. Prosecuting these soldiers for past sins would not sit well with the people of the Empire, for while traitors were reviled, redeemed villains turned heroes held a special place in many hearts. It would be foolish to act against them, which meant the Justicar’s demand was merely a bluff, one meant to put pressure on Lord Husband alongside the other, more relevant threats.

As for the matter of looting, like Lord Husband often said, it was only gold and they could always earn more...

Unfortunately, Lord Husband didn’t heed her advice to admit to this last, minor crime, and instead broke into a grin. “As for the matter of illegal looting, if you have proof I have stolen goods in my possession, then please present it and I will happily return the items, alongside their value in gold.”

To Luo-Luo’s great surprise, the Justicar merely nodded and said, “For now, this Official shall suspend judgment on all of the above crimes, pending further investigation.” His piece said, the Justicar stalked out of the manor in a stately manner, leaving Luo-Luo blinking in disbelief. They had no proof whatsoever of looted goods? Impossible, Lord Husband had a warehouse full of exotic art which he gifted away like cabbage whenever he –

...

Mother in Heaven, so that’s why... having given so many of his ill-gotten goods away, if the Disciplinary Corps pushed the issue, then Lord Husband could force their hand and direct them to reclaim those priceless works of art, many of which were currently in the possession of Shen ZhenWu himself, thus allowing Lord Husband’s Patron to step in and directly counter Yang Jixing. In a low whisper, Luo-Luo passed along her discovery and asked, “Did Lord Husband plan this from the start?”

“Uh... no, not the Legate specifically, but it worked out pretty well. Gifting stuff was mostly to get rid of it, though some gifts were to say ‘thanks for keeping quiet’.” Clasping her hand in both his own, he smiled and said, “Mostly, I said what I said because there’s no point incriminating myself. Never admit to anything, you know? If they have proof, fine, but I’m not going to make it easy for them. Besides, I figured since he was bluffing about everything else, then they’re probably bluffing about that too.” Eyes focused in thought, he mused, “Hmm... you think I could use this? You know, send the Legate more gifts and drag him into this?”

And with that, Luo-Luo’s sat back in her chair in disbelief, no longer able to sit tall in the face of Lord Husband’s sheer audacity. Never before had she met anyone with such complete and utter lack of reverence for the Disciplinary Corps, and were he faced with the Emperor Himself, Luo-Luo suspected Lord Husband would behave in the exact same manner.

A fact which was both laudable and lamentable at the same time.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme2
