After nine months spent in his company, Luo-Luo thought herself well-used to Lord Husband’s unconventional ways, but each subsequent verdict issued by the Justicar sent her deeper into her churning spiral of obstinate denial and bewildered disbelief.

Falling Rain, the former Number One Talent of the Empire and first ever Imperial Consort to outrank his spouse, was a criminal. There was no way around it. Initially, Luo-Luo had scoffed at the ostensibly fabricated charges and thought it’d be a simple matter of proving Lord Husband’s innocence, but one look at his expression was all it took to change her mind. Rather than alarm or confusion, she found grudging resignation etched across his face in their place, the reaction of someone who’d predicted this outcome long ago and had no defence against the charges. How could this be? Why was Lord Husband, a prince of the Bekhai, riding around with a retinue filled with traitors and ruffians? Why was he, with all his brilliant and profitable ideas, looting bandit hideouts to embezzle the spoils? Why was he, with his shattered Core and frail body, being drafted into the army to command slave soldiers? Surely it would make more sense to just have him order Dastan and the other traitors to follow the commands of another?

Garbed in his black, judiciary robes and ornate, feathered headdress, the Justicar seemed an inhuman force unto himself as he named Lord Husband’s co-conspirators and listed their respective fines. Luo-Luo only recovered from her shock when Tali and Tate came for the bears, tempting them out into the courtyard with warm hugs and sweet treats, though aside from brother-in-law Charok who followed them out to supervise, everyone else remained where they were seated. Her formidable glare promising pain and suffering, Mother-in-law Sarnai sat with arms crossed beside Sister Alsantset, whose glare was less terrifying, but not for lack of trying. Still as a statue, Great Hero Du sat in impassive silence, his wrinkled face set in a perpetual scowl and sharp eyes betraying nothing of his inner thoughts, but a flash of concern could be seen every time his gaze drifted over to his adopted granddaughter. Clutching Lord Husband’s arm, Yan’s expression wavered between distressed and determined, but her body language spoke volumes to her true thoughts, instinctively sitting at an awkward angle to place herself between the Justicar and her beloved.

In contrast, Luo-Luo was sat to his left, but slightly back and away, not because she moved but because the bears needed the extra room to squeeze in around her. Regardless of the reasons, it painted her in a poor light, but she was too terrified to even move.

Realizing time was of the essence, she kept one ear on the proceedings and wracked her mind for a solution to this perfidious and perilous problem, but there was little she could come up with. Yang Jixing had played his hand perfectly, for not only would Lord Husband’s life be in grave danger while serving on the front lines, the reputation he’d established would become ashes in the wind once these verdicts became known, and even with all his charitable work and goodwill, it would be decades in the mending. Even if she’d known about these issues beforehand, she didn’t know what she could’ve done to mitigate these damages, for Lord Husband’s crimes were severe indeed.

Dastan Zhandos, who only days ago revealed himself as a Domain-capable Expert of the Empire, was in fact a rebel who fought alongside the Defiled in Sanshu. Even given mitigating circumstances, which they must have been considering the Magistrate saw fit to grant clemency, Dastan was still a traitor to the Empire and all the ideals it upheld, so it was unsettling for others to see him live out a life of... not luxury, but leisure. Some people might have already known, but Luo-Luo most certainly didn’t, and it would undoubtedly be the same for most from Central or South, which meant they were in for a rude awakening. Few people were as universally reviled as traitors...

Then there was the matter of recruiting former bandits to his cause. While not exactly against the law, it struck a devastating blow to Lord Husband’s standing. If one walks by the riverside, then one’s shoes will eventually get wet, so for a man in his position to surround himself with cutthroats and marauders, it made it seem like Lord Husband preferred their company to upright and honest soldiers, an impression which would not sit well with the common people of the Empire. They wanted heroes to admire and role models to emulate, so to learn Falling Rain was little more than a bandit himself would be disheartening indeed.

As for the matter of looted goods... Well, this mattered slightly less than the others, considering most in his place would do the same, not to mention how word had already spread regarding Lord Husband’s charitable works. The worst that could be said was that he gave away tools and technology, opened schools, and fed the hungry to soothe his guilt rather than out of the goodness of his heart, which was still more than anyone else ever did. Humanizing in a way, but still a crime, and many honest men and women would be sorely disappointed in Lord Husband.

Oh Mother in Heaven, how were they supposed to salvage this? The Justicar even implicated all of Lord Husband’s mercantile partners in this mess, or rather the ones who remained steadfast after his downfall, placing them all under suspicion of laundering stolen goods or ill-gotten coin and ordered to present their records for Imperial inspection...

The first matter of business was for Lord Husband to establish himself as a cooperative convict, which of course meant he did the exact opposite before she had time to advise him. “Is all this really necessary?” Interrupting the Justicar mid-litany, Lord Husband sat slumped in his chair with arms crossed, shoulders slouched, and lips pursed, the very picture of disgruntled disinterest despite the serious nature of his crimes.

Incensed by Lord Husband’s interruption and his lackadaisical attitude regarding his judgment, the Justicar’s eyes narrowed in barely restrained wrath. “You believe upholding the Emperor’s Justice superfluous?”

“No, laws are a must and punishment a necessity,” Lord Husband replied, audaciously pausing to sip his tea and give Aurie’s head a pat. “To clarify, what I meant was, why are you telling me about the crimes and punishments of parties not present? I take it there’s a reason you’re using my allies to threaten me?”

Though appalled by his lacking manners, Luo-Luo had to admit he had a point, one she’d missed in her horror over the current proceedings. Why was the Justicar taking the effort to inform them of his plans to prosecute their allies? Though these issues were tangentially related, the Disciplinary Corps were not so accommodating as to share their future plans regarding co-conspirators with prosecuted criminals. Unhappy at being questioned, the Justicar silently glowered for long seconds, but Lord Husband was not one to cower before the law, a warrior in spirit even if no longer in body. Huffing in irritation, the masked official flicked his flowing sleeves and crossed his arms, clearly displeased by his next statement. “In light of your exemplary military service record and valiant sacrifice, the Disciplinary Corps is willing to offer leniency. Should Imperial Consort Falling Rain plead guilty to the above crimes and forfeit the rights to his Imperial Peerage, then aside from the loss of his rank and title, all penalties will be waived, fines rescinded, and investigations dropped in order to spare the Imperial Clan’s pride.”

A threat? All this was a threat? How dare he? The officers of the Disciplinary Corps were Oath sworn to uphold the law and mediate disputes, so even with the Prime Minister’s son to command them, a Justicar should never have stooped so low as to use these contemptible intimidation tactics.

Lord Husband evidently shared her disappointment as he shook his head and sighed before reaching over to take her hand and offer a reassuring smile. Much as she appreciated the gesture, he was sorely mistaken if he thought they still had a choice. Despicable as it was to discover the Disciplinary Corps were little more than the dogs of the Yang family, Lord Husband and the Bekhai had been deftly outmaneuvered by the Prime Minister’s move, leaving them no choice but to accept the deal offered. The alternatives weren’t even worth considering, for it would mean outright rebellion, a crime which would see every one of their people killed or enslaved, and over what? Fiercely independent though the Bekhai might be, Luo-Luo didn’t think it likely for them to rise up in arms to shelter traitors, former bandits, and an Imperial Servant, especially in light of the fact that Lord Husband was a verifiable criminal.

Considering the Justicar made no mention of keeping this matter private, this meant the name ‘Falling Rain’ might soon become synonymous for spectacular failure, a man who rose to meteoric heights before being brought down by the weight of his sins. How disappointing, but today was a day for disappointment.

Still clinging to hope, Lord Husband kept hold of Luo-Luo’s hand and asked, “I take it forfeit of said Peerage means handing Consort Zheng Luo over to Yang Jixing? Probably along with a few other demands meant to humble and humiliate me?”

“...Yes.” The Justicar all but growled his reply, his fury hot and temper provoked by Lord Husband’s flippant tone.

“Of course it would.” Taking another sip of his tea, Lord Husband made a great show of studying the Justicar from head to toe, an audacious show of disrespect even in the best of circumstances, and doubly so considering his next statement. “I was told Justicars dedicate themselves to upholding Military Law and nothing else. No friends, no family, nothing to hinder them from their Oathsworn duty. Was I misinformed? What hold does Yang Jixing have over you?” Why Lord Husband felt the need to goad the angered Justicar, Luo-Luo couldn’t say, but she desperately wished she could Send and tell him to stop. Undeterred by the Justicar’s steely silence, Lord Husband continued, “If you believe I’ve committed the crimes I’m accused of, then how can you see this verdict as anything but a gross injustice? I shield traitors and loot from bandits, but now that I’ve been caught, all I need do is give up my title and Consort? Hardly seems fair punishment considering the crime.”

Mother in Heaven, was Lord Husband criticizing the Justicar for being too lenient?

Putting her preconceived notions aside, Luo-Luo studied the masked Justicar, but aside from enraging an official who held the power to order his death, she didn’t understand what Lord Husband was getting at. Though his black robes of office left only his eyes uncovered, they conveyed enough emotion for Luo-Luo to read, and she found scorn and resentment aplenty, but little else. Only... Why was the Justicar so angry with Lord Husband? Because of what he said? Or because he agreed with Lord Husband’s statement and thought this punishment too light?

Then again, take away the robes of office and the Justicar was still a man, one Oathsworn to uphold the Law. Only the most fervent and devoted subjects made it through the Disciplinary Corps’ rigorous selection process, and only the best of them would go on to become Justicars. The official standing before her was one such esteemed individual, and it seemed Lord Husband’s disrespect had touched his bottom line. Retrieving an unmarked scroll from his voluminous sleeves, the Justicar threw it onto the table in a fit of pique and said, “Such insolence. The demands are listed within, and you have twenty-four hours to comply. Were it not for your Consort, this Official would have seen you dragged out in chains and whipped through the streets for your crimes against the Empire. False reputation and nepotism will save you this time, but this Official expects it will not be long before you return to your wicked ways and find yourself awaiting judgment before another official.”

The Justicar turned to leave, but Kuang Biao stepped in to bar his path at Lord Husband’s silent command. Expecting the Justicar’s escort of Enforcers to come marching in and matters to escalate into outright warfare, Luo-Luo clung to Lord Husband’s hand and was ready to beg him to stand down, but none of her fears came to pass. No weapons were drawn or shouts sounded to free the Justicar, no demands made or threats offered, Kuang Biao and the Justicar merely stood across from one another while Lord Husband put down his empty teacup and said, “Excuse the discourtesy, but I’ve still many questions I need answered, and if I’m not mistaken, it is your duty to explain these matters in whole.” It took long seconds before the Justicar turned around, and the barely restrained fury was evident in his bearing. “Thank you. So, theoretically, if I were to refuse Jixing’s terms and tell him to eat shit, what would happen next?”

Blinking in surprise, the Justicar studied Lord Husband as if seeing him for the first time, his hackles no doubt raised beneath his robes. “...Then you would be stripped of rank, drafted into the Army, and sent to the front lines until your slave soldiers have served their purpose. The former bandits in your employ will be taken into custody and tried for their crimes, and all looted goods will be seized and your wealth subject to forfeiture until your fines paid in full.”

“Putting aside my many questions regarding how all this would work and the repercussions of doing so, I’d like to first ask if I ever get to see proof of my alleged crimes.”

Neither Luo-Luo nor the Justicar had expected this request, and she held onto the faint hope that these allegations were false, but her hopes were soon dashed. “You deny Dastan Zhandos and his retinue rebelled against the Empire? That your retinue is comprised of former bandits, many of whom had bounties placed on their heads for their crimes against the Empire? That you looted Yo Ling’s secret island hideout and kept your ill-gotten gains, instead of turning everything over to the Lieutenant Marshals so that the stolen goods could be returned to their rightful owners?”

“Let’s do this one by one.” Ignoring Luo-Luo’s silent hints to take some time to discuss things first, Lord Husband began with, “Dastan Zhandos and his retinue are undoubtedly rebels. They admitted as much during their trials in Sanshu, but Magistrate Chu Tongzu granted them clemency for a reason.”

“For his strength and talent, and Dastan Zhandos certainly has both in droves.” Sneering in disgust, the Justicar continued, “But the Empire has heroes aplenty and need not rely on traitors to protect it.”

“True, but have you looked into the circumstances of their rebellion?” Spreading his hands, Lord Husband said, “Though they stood on the side of the Defiled, Dastan Zhandos himself was little more than a pawn, one who was used and lied to since youth. He honestly believed he was fighting against corruption and for a better Sanshu when he rebelled, which was why Magistrate Chu Tongzu allowed them to keep their lives. They believed they were fighting for a good cause, and for their crimes, they now fight for the Empire.”

“Hmph. Dastan Zhandos battles in bloodless spars to accrue fame and recognition, hardly a fitting punishment for their crimes.”

“They fought plenty until I was injured, so fiercely that only one in four who survived Sanshu still draw breath.” Lord Husband’s tone could still be considered friendly, but now it held a hint of steel. “They fought under Han BoShui while I rested, and they will fight at my side when I make my return to the battlefield. Slaves and traitors they may be, but the Empire values young talents and Dastan and Sahb are both undeniably so, while their prowess serves to bolster morale in a time when it is needed most. If need be, I’ll bring them to the front lines and fight, but I can’t imagine people will be pleased to learn that a crippled hero has been drafted into service.”

Perhaps swayed by these words, the Justicar took a moment to ponder this over, but eventually shook his head in regret. “This Official still believes their punishment too lax given the crime.”

“Then I’d like to hear a second opinion.” Shrugging, Lord Husband added, “and a third, if possible. Don’t you guys gather in threes to discuss big matters? Regardless of Dastan’s past crimes, he is now a slave and fights for the Empire as my personal property. It is not the place of the Disciplinary Corps to tell me how I should treat my slaves or where to order my soldiers. What’s next? Will a Justicar come tell me my servants’ rooms are too large, or my soldiers’ armour too fine?”

A cunning move, changing the focus of the issue. Now it was no longer a matter of Dastan Zhandos the rebel living too well, but the Disciplinary Corps dictating how an Imperial Scion should behave. The facts remained the same, but the nobles of the Empire would wonder if an Official might visit them next. Seeing the issue, the Justicar glowered and said, “You have the right to dispute this judgment, but the facts are not in your favour. We have documented proof you bribed Magistrate Chu Tongzu to secure the life of Dastan Zhandos and his retinue, though for what purposes, only you yourself know.”

“Ha!” Slapping the table with a thump, Lord Husband scoffed and said, “So returning stolen goods is bribery now? Seems like no matter what I do, it’s wrong. I gave Chu Tongzu a map to a bandit hideout containing goods stolen from the now defunct Council of Merchants, one I found off the corpse of a Defiled Butcher. Considering one third of the council was proven to be in cahoots with the Defiled and another third was forcibly dissolved for crimes of bribery and corruption, I’d hardly blame the Magistrate for using those stolen resources to rebuild his war-torn city.” Seeing the Justicar’s surprise, Lord Husband shook his head. “Seems like your boss doesn’t have all his facts straight. I figured as much when he demanded I hand over the subordinates of an Ancestral Beast. What a joke.”

Eyes widening at this declaration, the Justicar stopped to consider the issue and likely inform his contacts through Sending. Having seen through Jixing’s plans, Luo-Luo used this opportunity to pull Lord Husband close and explain her findings, as well as share her thoughts on what he should do next. After a long, silent deliberation, the Justicar begrudging nodded his head and said, “In light of these new facts, this Official will convene a hearing to discuss this case and pass new judgment on the matter of Dastan Zhandos and retinue.” A small victory, but a fruitless one considering Yang Jixing could simply select three Justicars sympathetic to his cause to oversee the hearing. “And the other matters? The bandits in your retinue and looted goods?”

“I have no bandits in my retinue,” Rain declared, without a hint of a smile, and Luo-Luo was gratified to hear him take her advice. “Only soldiers, men and women who have fought the Defiled in Sanshu and on the front lines. Criminal pardons in exchange for military service is a standard offer given to Martial Warriors, so if the Disciplinary Corps intends to sentence them for crimes committed before they entered my employ, then in the future, what criminal will choose to enlist? If you mean to arrest my people, then do as you please and I will respond on a case by case basis.”

This was the crux of the matter, one Luo-Luo almost overlooked. Many soldiers had checkered pasts, and while Lord Husband’s retinue might have more former bandits than most, they shared a part in his heroic exploits, most notably his recent record of sixty consecutive days on the front lines without rest, a record which still stood to this day. Prosecuting these soldiers for past sins would not sit well with the people of the Empire, for while traitors were reviled, redeemed villains turned heroes held a special place in many hearts. It would be foolish to act against them, which meant the Justicar’s demand was merely a bluff, one meant to put pressure on Lord Husband alongside the other, more relevant threats.

As for the matter of looting, like Lord Husband often said, it was only gold and they could always earn more...

Unfortunately, Lord Husband didn’t heed her advice to admit to this last, minor crime, and instead broke into a grin. “As for the matter of illegal looting, if you have proof I have stolen goods in my possession, then please present it and I will happily return the items, alongside their value in gold.”

To Luo-Luo’s great surprise, the Justicar merely nodded and said, “For now, this Official shall suspend judgment on all of the above crimes, pending further investigation.” His piece said, the Justicar stalked out of the manor in a stately manner, leaving Luo-Luo blinking in disbelief. They had no proof whatsoever of looted goods? Impossible, Lord Husband had a warehouse full of exotic art which he gifted away like cabbage whenever he –

...

Mother in Heaven, so that’s why... having given so many of his ill-gotten goods away, if the Disciplinary Corps pushed the issue, then Lord Husband could force their hand and direct them to reclaim those priceless works of art, many of which were currently in the possession of Shen ZhenWu himself, thus allowing Lord Husband’s Patron to step in and directly counter Yang Jixing. In a low whisper, Luo-Luo passed along her discovery and asked, “Did Lord Husband plan this from the start?”

“Uh... no, not the Legate specifically, but it worked out pretty well. Gifting stuff was mostly to get rid of it, though some gifts were to say ‘thanks for keeping quiet’.” Clasping her hand in both his own, he smiled and said, “Mostly, I said what I said because there’s no point incriminating myself. Never admit to anything, you know? If they have proof, fine, but I’m not going to make it easy for them. Besides, I figured since he was bluffing about everything else, then they’re probably bluffing about that too.” Eyes focused in thought, he mused, “Hmm... you think I could use this? You know, send the Legate more gifts and drag him into this?”

And with that, Luo-Luo’s sat back in her chair in disbelief, no longer able to sit tall in the face of Lord Husband’s sheer audacity. Never before had she met anyone with such complete and utter lack of reverence for the Disciplinary Corps, and were he faced with the Emperor Himself, Luo-Luo suspected Lord Husband would behave in the exact same manner.

A fact which was both laudable and lamentable at the same time.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme2
