“I can't log in without it.” Ren said. “I might not need it, but... you know I don't want to make a mess for you to clean up if I do need it and don't have it.”

Denise pulled his pants down and the thin cloth of the silky underwear hugged him like a second skin. Her mouth watered at the sight, and she swallowed loudly as she eased the silky shorts down just enough to reveal some of what she needed to get to. With a little bit of work, she managed to get the foil packet's contents in position without actually touching the skin. Denise was sweating profusely from the effort it had taken to accomplish the almost impossible task, and she pulled his underwear and pyjamas back into place.

“Thank you, Denise.” Ren said softly. “That meant more to me than you'll ever know.”

Denise looked at his half-covered face and saw his smile.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren's avatar became solid again when he logged in, and he could see that all 5 maids were piled all on one side of him. He had left with 2 on one side, and 3 on the other; but, they somehow ended up in a big pile next to him anyways.

They're just used to that, I guess. Ren thought. I'll make sure to lay on the side of the bed next time and leave them the rest, rather than stay in the middle like I've been doing.

“Hi, Ren.” Teepo said. “You've got about 4 hours before breakfast, and an hour after that to meet Jen and the caravan to go out to your county.”

Nice. Ren thought. Thanks, Teepo.

“I assume you're going to sleep?” Teepo asked, and Ren nodded. “You better wake them, then.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter. “They won't forgive you if you come back early and don't tell them.”

Ren smiled and let amusement enter the shared Aura, and he could feel an answering amusement from the pile. He very gently reached over and lifted the top woman from the pile and laid her on the other side on him, then did the same with the next one.

He was glad that they weren't in a tangle of limbs like they would be with him on the bottom, and he sorted the next two out and laid them on his other side to reveal a wide awake Frikara who was on the bottom of the pile. Neither of them said anything as he picked her up and laid her down on top of himself, since that was the only spot left.

Frikara crossed her arms on his chest and rested her chin on them and looked at him. She could feel his feelings, and she was still a little surprised, even now, that he wasn't trying to hide from them or stop them from hanging all over him. Ren could feel how happy she was that he had chosen her to sleep where she considered to be the best spot, even though she'd never openly admitted it. Even if he couldn't feel her emotions like he was, her bare chest against his would have let Ren know that she was very happy to be where he had placed her.

Frikara made a small kissing motion to him, since she was a bit too far away to actually kiss him. Ren put his fingers to his mouth, kissed them, and touched her lips with them instead. She sent a warm feeling of appreciation into the Aura, then she uncrossed her arms to hug him and put her head down on his chest to sleep. Ren laid his arms out to the sides and across the upper chests of the other maids, right below their necks. He had to make sure that he was in physical contact with the other maids as well as Frikara, and went to sleep himself.
