The sickle cuts my hair, and through the flesh of my shoulder, so finely that only when I fall and jar the cut does it start to bleed. And the pain hasn’t begun yet, so severe is the cut.
“Interesting. Low-level spells have their weaknesses. I commend you.”
His finger shifts downwards towards my face. I stare at the Necromancer and know I’m about to die.
He’s—he’s not even looking at me. His other hand is shimmering with so much magic that it’s making me feel sick just looking at it. I don’t even think he’s paying attention; he’s acting on autopilot!
“Wait!”
I shout as Az’kerash’s finger glows. He makes no response and I desperately call out.
“I have a letter! I’m a messenger!”
The black glow around his fingers fades. Az’kerash pauses.
“A letter? From whom?”
“Teriarch. He sent a letter and a ring. It’s in my belt.”
I don’t feel the spider webs vanish. But they’re suddenly gone, and I scramble to my feet. I reach for my belt pouch, but it disappears from my waist and reappears in the Necromancer’s hand. He casually opens it and discards the belt as he takes both ring and letter in his hand.
For the first time he diverts his gaze from the floating collection of body parts overhead and glances down at the letter. I see his pupils only once—pale ghostly white light shining from behind two black corneas.
He doesn’t even look at me, but my heart falters in my chest. There’s something behind those eyes. Something inside that gaze, something else. It’s not Human anymore, if it ever was. But then he looks down and blinks once, and I look away, at his dark robes made from shadows and midnight.
“Let me see. Ah, yes. I was expecting this.”
I hold my breath. Az’kerash reads the letter swiftly, murmuring around.
“The usual long-winded greetings…my deepest congratulations to you…accept this small token of my esteem. Ah. And he’s sent a ring enchanted with warding and movement spells in the Silvarian dueling fashion – no, knowing him, it’s most likely an original. A nod to my passions and an expensive and practical gift. Appropriate.”
The Necromancer flicked his hand, and the ring vanished.
“How…predictable. A note and token of esteem to mark my two hundredth year of existence. He needn’t have bothered especially given our strained relationship. But Dragons are quite conscientious about such things and they are nothing if not formal. I don’t suppose this comes with a request for a reply? No, I don’t believe he would want to impose. Ah, well.”
The Necromancer looked over at Ryoka.
“Is there anything else?”
 
—-
 
Ryoka tried to work moisture into a suddenly dry mouth. What? Her mind was full of roaring static.
Az’kerash turned back towards the ever-changing monstrosity above.
“Is there anything else?”
“N-no.”
“Very well then. I suppose it would not do to kill one of his messengers. Go, then.”
Ryoka stood in place for a few seconds, but her legs wisely moved her towards the door. The static roared louder in her ears. A voice whispered in her ears.
Let’s see.
Hundreds of miles.
Countless dangers.
Two armies at war.
Frost Faeries.
Necromancer and undead minions.
For this. A delivery worth eight hundred gold pieces.
A letter. A…happy birthday letter and a token gift.
“I’ll just…be going now.”
The Necromancer didn’t even glance her way. He was totally engrossed in his project overhead.
“Ah, hm. Goodbye. Shut the door on your way out.”
She did, pausing only to pick her belt off the ground. Ryoka stared at the door, and then looked over and saw Venitra. And Kerash. And Bea. They stood around her, faces full of—
“The Master let her go? Why?”
“He is busy. His decision may be in error.”
“He doesn’t make mistakes.”
“No. But we should hold her until he is finished.”
“Agreed.”
Ryoka stared at them. Static.
She punched Venitra in her bony face and felt her hand crack. Broken bone? No, just horribly bruised. She reached into her belt pouch and pulled out a glowing orange-and-pink potion. Bea reached for her and Kerash intervened, pushing her pallid hands back with his.
“We need her alive.”
“Apologies.”
Ryoka uncorked the potion. The undead didn’t even seem to regard her as a threat. She downed the entire bottle. Wasn’t she supposed to only take a few gulps?
Venitra reached out towards Ryoka. Her fingers began to close over the young woman’s shoulders and then froze.
Ryoka blinked at the fingers. They’d stopped? No, they were moving slowly. Carefully, Ryoka moved backwards and watched as the fingers slowly closed together. The bone-woman’s face registered shock, and then Kerash moved, striking out at Ryoka, faster, but still at a snail’s pace to Ryoka.
She walked away. Then began to jog. And then run. Ryoka frowned, but her legs moved against her will. Faster, faster, faster.
“Ohnothisisn’tgoodIcan’tstop.”
Out of the castle in a blink of the eye. Ryoka’s mind was racing, but it couldn’t catch up with her body. Something in her was steering her legs, but her conscious mind was still trying to process what was happening. And then Ryoka was running—
 
—-
 
Zel’s soldiers charged towards the enemy, and the Drake [General] lifted a bloodstained claw and roared, inspiring his warriors and demoralizing the enemy army. Without either Periss or Ilvriss, their ranks were crumbling as his superior Skills and abilities turned the tide of the battle.
“Reform ranks and prepare another charge!”
This would shatter them. As Zel took his place at the head of the line, he felt tired. Too many cuts from Ilvriss’s damn sword. But he was getting old, too. Too old for meaningless battles.
The enemy was still regrouping. Zel narrowed his eyes. His troops were trying to form up, but this was the moment.
“Charge!”
He thundered across the ground, feet splashing in mud and blood. The enemy soldiers raised shields and tried to close ranks, but he could see the fear in their eyes. Zel raised a claw like a hammer and hesitated. His head turned.
“What is that?”
 
—-
 
Like lightning. Like the breeze on a summer’s day, elusive, fleeting, a breath of air and then clear skies. She runs.
A lone Human runs out of the forest, out of the place where everything died. She runs through magic, through snow and across forests and hills, her feet barely touching the ground. Her body is constant motion, and only the air holds her back. Her wake is a gale and storm; the snow blows up around her and the wind creates a snowstorm in the air.
She runs through the snow, across the battlefield, between soldiers who turn and stare at the blur of movement kicking up a storm of snow behind her.
Warriors raise their weapons and slash at the Human, archers loose arrows and mages blast the ground around her with spells. But she runs on, between charging soldiers, ducking a scything blade, vaulting over a falling soldier. On and on, ceaseless, unable to stop.
A messenger, a carrier of words and private things.
A courier for both rich and poor.
A traveler with no allegiance but her own.
A Runner.
Screaming, but in words spoken so quick only the Frost Faeries flying ahead of her can hear.
“Ican’tstop!Goddamnitstoplaughingandhelpme!”
The faeries hear her of course, and they keep pace with her easily. Perhaps they could stop her, but they’re laughing too hard to reply.
