I snorted at the childish nickname.

“Do you like them?” I asked.

“Yes! They’re nice! They’re more like you and Mistress—the mortals around here all really like them too!” Tigu said.

“And what do you think of Delun?”

“Handsome Man is my good comrade! But you know this!” Tigu said, sounding confused.

… not what I was going for.

“What would you think about them being our family?” I asked, gently.

“Eh? But I already told them I don’t want to be adopted?” Tigu asked, still puzzled.

I snorted at the confusion in her voice. Meimei giggled.

“He means marriage, Tigu,” she said, an amused lilt to her voice. “That is how they would be family.”

Tigu blinked. Then her face slowly turned red. “Ah, that's what she meant…” Tigu suddenly said, looking embarrassed.

I patted her head.  “Do you like Delun?” I asked again, this time directly.

“I… I don't know if I’m mature enough to get married,” Tigu whispered. “But when I look at him. When I see his passion for his work… I don't want to look away. I want to walk beside him. I want to share those moments with him. When you asked me if I wanted to marry him… my heart started racing.” I smiled at the emotion in her voice. It was earnest, and she was baring her heart to us. She clearly didn’t know if it was love. And yet... it sure sounded like it to me. “We have so much to do. We have so much to explore! We have the entire Azure Hills to protect! I think I might like getting married to him, but I don’t know if I’m ready to have children yet, either…”

Tigu trailed off. I tightened my hug on her, and Meiling held her too.

“Marriage doesn't mean you have to do those things right away—and you don’t have to get married immediately, either. Meimei and I… well we jumped right into it,” I said with a little smile.

“He stole my heart and had to take responsibility,” Meimei said, her nose in the air. Tigu giggled.

“Would you be fine with telling everybody, ‘I want to get married to this person in the future’? You remember Gou Ren and Yun Ren’s betrothals, right?”

Tigu thought over my words for a moment, and then tentatively nodded. “I think… I think I would like that, but does Handsome Man feel the same way about me?”

“Yes,” Mei and I chorused.

Tigu blinked at the immediate answer. Her face flushed brighter.

“Oh! Oh, that's good!” she decided. “But…how is Handsome Man supposed to kidnap me? I will have to train him hard if he wishes to succeed!”

“Well, normally it doesn’t involve kidnapping. We just talk to each other's families,” I said, ruffling her hair.  “That’s part of Hu Li’s family’s traditions, not necessarily ours.”

“Oh,” Tigu sounded vaguely disappointed. She frowned. “Can he kidnap me anyway? It sounds fun. That way we can train together more!” Tigu was starting to look excited again. She nodded to herself and then popped up from my lap, a determined look on her face.

“Then let’s go! No time like the present!” She took off, zipping from my grip. Mei and I sighed, and followed after her.

We found her, standing in front of the smaller stone manor. She banged on the door, and planted her hands on her hips.

Delun opened the door.

“Yes, Tigu?” he asked, looking a bit confused.

“We’re going to get married in the future, okay?” she declared, thrusting one finger directly towards him. “When you can steal me from my Master’s home! That is… if you w-want t-to?”

She stumbled a bit at the end. Delun gaped at her. Tigu’s resolve started to waver when he didn’t react, her face slowly turning redder and redder—

And then Delun’s Qi exploded from him. It rose like a bonfire, pure and clear up into the sky.

“Yes, I want to marry you!” he shouted. He grabbed Tigu, lifted her up, planted a kiss on her that made her toes curl, and then carefully set her down. Tigu blinked, looked quite dazed, then Delun marched right up to us and bowed at ninety degrees.

“Master Jin! Lady Meiling! I will take good care of your daughter!” he roared so loud the walls shook.

My eyes met Delan’s, standing in the doorway. The man was beaming at his son. I started laughing. This was a very Tigu proposal. Full force. No hesitation.

Just walking fearlessly into the future.
