In any case, he didn’t want to mention his association with Az. Even if Mouse was kind of adorably incompetent about following him, she was still following him. Anything she saw, she might report back to Ethan and his masters, whoever they were. Ernesto, presumably, but who knew? Like he’d just realized, he could be considered an existential threat to Purple Dawn and the Alliance if he was working to rescue Straw, the same way someone who tried to steal nukes in his world would be considered an existential threat. If he was Purple Dawn, he’d watch him, too.

The real miracle is that I haven’t been killed yet. Presumably, they take that step the second they have evidence that I’m attempting to break Straw out.

So of course, I won’t let them find that evidence.

And that included having a strange rapport with the tuxedo cat that hung out in the library and enjoying the company of a small mammal, rather than meeting Az as a friend. Between Az and the rats, his association with Az was way easier to discover. In truth, he didn’t plan to involve Az in Straw’s rescue at all. Az didn’t deserve that, and besides, the man was quite powerful enough to prevent himself from being involved if he didn’t want to be. Rhys had the sneaking suspicion that any attempt to involve Az against his will would result in his sudden and untimely death at the small claws of an unidentifiable yet savage beast. No, instead, he was using Az as a demonstration of his deep and abiding interest and strange, undefinable bond with small (woodland) creatures.

Basically, he was going to use Az as his classic princess sidekick.

It was pretty simple in his mind. Everyone accepted that Disn—classic princesses communed with animals, sang and danced with them, but why? Looking at the root of the connection, it was obvious. From the classic Grimm fairytales to the modern multicultural princesses, their connection with animals always began with an animal sidekick. Once they established that they had rapport with their small, furry sidekick, they were then given an open license to commune with any number of small woodland creatures with no further explanation. Sure, Az was a tuxedo cat and not, for example, a mouse, a rat, or a raccoon, but he didn’t want to start from the rats, when the rats were such an important part of his plan, and he didn’t know the raccoon well enough to be sure it would cooperate. Ideally, Purple Dawn would never find out about the rats at all; but in case they ever did, this moment, right here, would defend his strange connection to animals forever.

He opened the library door, looking down. “Good mor—”

“Can I help you?”

Black shoes. Skintight black leggings. He looked up, up, up, to the top of long legs and a tall, slender torso, to find the very human version of Az standing primly before him, a pile of books in one hand, the other hand carefully positioned to hide their titles. Rhys glanced at the spines, and his suspicions were confirmed. Internally, he sighed. Never change, Az.

Then again, male cats were always horny as hell, so he didn’t know what he expected. Az was born a cat. Who knew if he’d ever been taught human social norms? He at least knew to hide the titles and be ashamed of reading them, so at some point he’d figured some of it out, but…

Well, there’s mysteries to this world that I’ll never discover. Mysteries lost to the sands of time.

He nodded at Az. “I could use some books on forging.”

“Do you know they lack almost all novels in this pathetic excuse for a library? I had to raid the banned books they’d stolen from the students to find this measly handful,” Az informed him, lifting the books to show him the lower titles on the pile he held, which where significantly less racy than the upper half of the stack.

Mouse glanced around. Nervously, she cleared her throat. “Er, sir, um, excuse me—”

Az turned his head. Unblinking eyes with big round pupils stared at Mouse.

She trembled visibly, but persevered. “Um, wh-where are the ordinary librarians?”

“They took an unexpected leave of absence when the pitiful state of their collections was brought to light out of shame for their pathetic mismanagement and their all-encompassing and totally illegitimate efforts to stamp out student enjoyment in any form of literature.”

“Y-you… they… um…”

“They will survive the ordeal, but hopefully with a renewed vigor for preserving and promoting books of all descriptions, not merely musty, flavorless tomes.” Az finally blinked, one short and deliberate motion. He turned to Rhys and blinked again, but this time, it was slow. “What were you asking for, again?”

“Books on forging. Well, some fresh novels would be nice too, but it sounds like you don’t have those,” Rhys added.

“Unfortunately, no. However, I can provide you with stacks of tomes on the topic of forging.” Az turned. He waved his hand, and a half-dozen books lifted off the shelves and floated down to hover in front of Rhys. Rhys held his arms out, and the books thumped into them.

“Wh-what did you do to the librarians?” Mouse demanded. She shook, but stood her ground.

Rhys sighed silently. No, he understood. He wouldn’t just stand there if some mysterious figure had showed up in his school and took control of an institution with no explanation.

“Nothing. I reminded them of the truth of finding pride in their work.”

“Who are you?”

“A librarian. My name is Azarian.”

“I’m g-going to t-t-tell the Sc-sc-schoolmaster!” Mouse threatened, shaking like a leaf.

“Excellent. I look forward to a commendation.” Az turned and wandered off into the library, totally disinterested in her threat. He paused. “What’s your name?”

Pale, but nonetheless standing her ground, Mouse replied, “M-mauve, but everyone calls me Mouse.”

“Hmm. I suppose Mouse is slightly less challenging. Tell me, Mouse. Do you have any interest in houses?”

“I… what?”

Rhys tilted his head, playing dumb. “Er, is he… not the ordinary librarian?”

“He did something to the librarians!”

“They are unharmed.”

Rhys gestured. “That, uh, sounds fine to me?”

Az shrugged as he resumed walking away. “For the most part.”

Mouse’s eyes got bigger than ever.

Rhys put his face in his hands. He took a deep breath and looked up. “Look, I don’t know what’s happening, but he gave me the books I want, so I’m going to go chill down in the garbage pit. You go tell your Schoolmaster whatever you need to, you two figure this out, and I’ll see you later, okay?”

Mouse nodded. She backed away to the door, then whirled and fled.

Rhys looked at Az. He shook his head. “You were supposed to be my princess sidekick!”

“Don’t worry. A small sect will be grateful to have an expert of my caliber around,” Az replied, completely unworried. He reached the library desk, in the rear of the building from the front doors, and plopped down into a plush chair, already digging back into one of his risqué novels. He glanced up. “And what the hell is a princess sidekick?”

“…Don’t worry about it.” Rhys headed off, waving his farewell.

He hadn’t achieved his objective—an alibi for him speaking with animals—but he had obtained something almost as valuable: moments of freedom, outside of the vision of Mouse’s watchful eyes. And that meant that his plans had to change order, just a smidge.

It didn’t take long to reach the forest again. He wandered in deep, until he could sense no other humans around. Only then did he finally turn.

“Heyo. You ready to come out now, or do you want to wait until my tail gets back?”

A voice sounded from behind him—what would have been in front of him, before he turned. “I’ve been ready for a while, but you’re a busy man. Hard to catch alone.”

Rhys whirled. A white-robed figure stood there, wearing a pure white mask, save two dark eyeholes. “Who are you? What do you want from me, Solaire?”

The figure paused, then chuckled. “Using my formal name? How cold. I thought we were closer than that.” He lifted his hand to his face and grasped the mask.

Rhys held his breath. No way. Could it be?
