Honestly, I love the vegetarian cuisine here. From the smell, these buns are chock full of garlic, chives, and chili peppers, with a splash of soy sauce for extra flavour. Biting into one reveals its packed full of vermicelli and dried tofu as well, adding even more substance to the soft, moist buns that is simply out of this world. As the doors shut behind us and we move down the dark hallway, I notice the monks studying me with open curiosity, and I offer them both a bun as well, but they politely decline. At least one monk was won over by my efforts though, while the other is still on the fence, but so long as they aren’t openly hostile, then I don’t really need them to like me. I would like it if they did though, because I don’t see any reason they shouldn’t, as I am nothing if not pleasant and likeable.

Okay, that’s a lie. I’m an infuriating person to be around, and I have no idea why people like me, but still... these specific monks don’t know that yet.

At the end of the hallway, two more armed monks stand at the ready, but I already knew there were more people from the Sendings I sensed. The first two monks stand aside while their comrades open the door for me to pass, each of them making a mudra that offers me hope and good wishes, though I do not understand why. Mentally shrugging instead of stopping to think things through, I head into the unlit room and immediately regret my decision as the doors slam shut behind me. Waiting for my eyes to readjust to the darkness, I can sense at least one other living thing in here with me, but not through any supernatural means. No, I know there’s something here because I can hear it breathing, deep, heavy snuffling sniffs as it takes in my scent. Long seconds pass in tense silence before I can finally see again, and I find myself face to face with two, fathomless orbs of darkness, looming at me from overhead and full of promised threat and violence.

To which I respond by holding out my steamer to offer him a bun.

The change is immediate as those eyes soften in delight. A giant paw reaches in to carefully grasp one steamed bun between two deadly talons, and then another paw follows suit. Pleased with my offering, the big guy settles back on his haunches to savour the treats with relish, while I munch on another bun and study him. Though it’s difficult to make out colours in the darkness, my mind is already filling in the gaps, because I know who I’m looking at and it is taking all my self control not to launch myself towards him for a hug. That might spook him, and I don’t want that, because as adorable as this panda might be, the missing operative word is ‘bear’, and he’s a big, nearly feral one at that, with white, glossy fangs that glimmer in the darkness despite the complete absence of light.

So this is the Abbot’s Spiritual Panda Bear complete with Spiritual Fangs, a hulking, heavy-set chonker of a specimen that’s a bit bigger than your oversized minivan. With his bandit eye markings and big, floofy belly, he looks remarkably adorable without losing any of his fearsome bearish features, namely the Spiritual Fangs, razor-sharp claws, and massive body just rippling with muscles. Though not quite as advanced as Ping Ping was before her ascension, the panda isn’t too far off, or at least I don’t think he is.

I wonder what his name is. Something stupid I bet, since the Abbot has terrible naming sense. His panda fur is probably crazy soft. And there’s so much of it too, what with him being so big and all. Oh man, I could sleep on that belly with all of my floofs, so long as he doesn’t move too much. Wouldn’t that be something?

“Bwak-bwak?” Kukku’s curious clucking draws my attention away from the panda and I offer him a steamed bun as well, an offer the rooster is more than happy to accept. Wrapping my arms around him in a hug, I sink into his soft feathers and sigh as he hugs me back, wrapping me in his wings and neck. Almost falling asleep on my feet, I stumble when Kukku moves back a step and realize he wants to bring me somewhere, so I follow him to the corner where I see the whole reason he’s here.

It’s the Abbot, looking far too thin and older than I remember, his body slowly wasting away as he battles against his sickness. Clucking again in hopeful suggestion, Kukku’s gaze goes from me to the Abbot as if asking me to help him, but I wouldn’t know where to start. Lumbering over with a huff, the panda watches me from above and makes ready to strike if I should even show a hint of threat towards the Abbot, who Kukku and the panda both love dearly. Assuring them through Aura that I mean no harm, I seat myself beside the Abbot and finish the rest of my steamed buns, though the panda takes a third without asking. Just like Pong Pong, who thinks all shrimp belong to him. Rude, but he’s cute so I’ll allow it.

I don’t know what’s wrong with the Abbot, and I can’t figure it out either, but maybe it’s because I’m too tired to stay awake any longer. Snuggling into Kukku’s feathers, I make myself comfortable and take the Abbot’s hand, because somehow, I feel like this is important, so important my brain is still telling me to hold his hand even though I already am. Whatever it might be that ails him, the Abbot has held onto life for this long, so I suppose another night won’t hurt. I’ll figure it out first thing tomorrow, but right now, I’ve done what I came here to do.

I finally found Kukku, and now it’s time to snuggle him and sleep. I did it guys. Wooo, go me. A small victory, but one I find immensely satisfying to the extreme.

Chapter Meme
