The rest of my meal goes by without event, and Lin-Lin sits with me in the courtyard while we do nothing in particular. The animals wander around and play amongst themselves, while Song Demonstrates the Forms and keeps looking to me for guidance, but the truth is, she doesn’t need it. I can’t guide her on what to do, because she already knows the answer herself, she just lacks confidence. The poor girl is still trying to put together a working combination of movements, starting with her quick draw and moving on from there, but while she has a plethora of functional possibilities to choose from, she is unable to decide on one single solution. For good reason too, because there is no real answer to her question, which is, “What combination of movements is strongest?”

There isn’t one. For any specific situation, there could be one combination that would be best suited for those particular circumstances, but there is no single combination of movements that will be best in any and all situations. Song has the basics down, so all she has to do is practice the combinations until they become second nature, and then decide which one to use in the heat of the moment. Thus, there’s no need for any guidance, and though I’ve tried to explain it to her through Aura, she isn’t quite getting the message. I’m trying to tell her to persevere and keep at it, but she seems to think I mean ‘you’ll get it right eventually’, as opposed to ‘you’re already on the right track’.

On a whim, I play with the bears and teach them how to better defend themselves from Princess, who is surprisingly adept at using her smaller form to overpower them both at once. In their defence, neither Banjo nor Baloo know how to Reinforce and are timid by nature, but they still shouldn’t be getting bodied by the weasel-bear half their size, even if Princess is a bonafide Spiritual Beast. When the lessons fall through and the bears grow tired of wrestling, I leave them to snuggle with Song and go chase Blackjack and the wildcats around the monastery rooftops until they’re too tired to keep going. While I would love nothing more than to settle down for another nap and rest my tired head, I stubbornly stay awake so Lin-Lin won’t worry so much, and also because I don’t really want to nap without Kukku, no matter how tired I might be. To keep myself alert, I play with the rabbits and laughing birds in the courtyard, the former of whom have finally learned not to be too rough with their large feathered friends, all while keeping a close eye on Jorani out in the burgeoning Defiled village. The monks are too lax about letting him mingle with them, so I’ve got to look out for him just in case the pregnant Chieftain tries to eat him. By the way she studies him when he isn’t looking, I’m not sure if she’s sizing him up for the bedroom or the cooking pot, but either way, I doubt Jorani would appreciate it.

I know it seems shallow to judge solely by appearances, and truth be told, Asmani isn’t even all that hideous as far as Defiled go, but there’s just something about her and her tribesmen that is physically unappealing. It’s not like they’re all disfigured or anything, but seeing them is like looking into a funhouse mirror and seeing a distorted version of yourself. Only that mirror image isn’t you, but another person altogether, someone who generally wants to tear you limb from limb and eat your still-beating heart before it gets cold. The fact that these particular Defiled are trying to better themselves is admirable, and the presence of my Natal Souls whispering in their ears goes a long ways to allaying suspicions, but I still can’t bring myself to trust them without question, not like the Brotherhood seems to.

Before I know it, Ping Ping and Mama Bun finally wake up from their long nap and another day has passed me by, with me having accomplished exactly nothing. At least it’s time for dinner now, which I always look forward to, not just because the food is delicious, but it’s also the time when the monks showcase what they’ve been working on all day. However, while Song doles out meals for the animals and keeps things from devolving into an all out brawl, Lin-Lin hooks her arm around mine and keeps me from heading over to help out, flashing a mischievous grin while displaying the basket in her other hand and conspiratorially mouthing ‘Kukku’.

Leave it to my sweet wifey to get things done. It seems she’s gotten a bead on the rooster’s location and I can finally cuddle him to sleep, assuming the big rooster is willing of course. I’m sure he is, as he is super friendly now that he’s no longer afraid of me, though I haven’t seen him since he and Monk Happy came to pick us all up from Taduk’s garden. Lin-Lin has it all figured out though, as she skips her way out the monastery gates while dragging me behind, leaving all of the animals behind, even Blackjack who watches us go with his big, brown eyes. The other animals don’t really mind since it’s meal time, but sweet Blackjack is the youngest of the bunch save Guai Guai, and out in the wild, he’d still be in his parents’ care right up until he learns how to Cloud-Step and hunt for himself. That day will come soon, I can feel it, but for now, he’s still dependent on us for food and safety so he’s understandably upset to see us go.

It’s okay little guy. Even if Lin-Lin and I aren’t around, you have plenty of people and animals to keep you safe.

A little nudge with Aura sends him scampering over to Tawny One, who is more than happy to hug him while they eat, unlike Mama Bun who might lash out if she thinks Blackjack is trying to steal her food. The sweet girl is from the streets and doesn’t mess around when it comes to meal-time, so it’s best to give her a wide berth when there’s greens to be munched on. Bidding the rest of my floofs a fond and silent farewell, I follow Lin-Lin down the trail until Guard Leader finally sees fit to reveal herself. Handing me the basket, Lin-Lin climbs onto my back and clings tight, so excited I can feel her heart beating against my back, and I have to focus to keep my hands from wandering. That being said, I’m already cupping the back of her thighs, albeit just above the knees so it’s not so lewd, but my sweet wifey is all sorts of soft and curvy now, a not-so-subtle reminder that she’s all grown up now. Twenty years young and eager to marry me, I can’t say I’m any less enthused, even if I am a little conflicted about the whole ethics of reincarnating with the memories of my past life and marrying someone who is essentially my childhood friend.

Granted, I met Yan and Mila around the same age too, maybe thirteen and fifteen at best, but Lin-Lin is so pure and chaste, I feel wrong for even thinking about tainting her with lewdness, despite how much I want to...

Noticing Guard Leader’s unseen scowl, I quickly focus on unsexy thoughts to calm my ardour and focus on my surroundings instead, as the Arid Wastes is full of danger and uncertainty. Guard Leader has everything under control though, as she gestures for me to Conceal and follow, which I do without actually understanding how I’m Concealing or Cloud-Stepping, only that I can and it’s almost as easy as breathing. If I focus too hard on what I’m doing, I’ll falter and fall out of the air, so I turn off my brain and bask in Lin-Lin’s warm embrace and quiet delight as I carry her away into the sky. The cool, crisp air fills my lungs as we move towards the setting sun, leaving the lush oasis around the monastery to head deeper into the barren desert at what basically amounts to a crawl. Though we are both capable of travelling hundred of metres in a single Cloud-Step, Guard Leader moves us slowly over the sand dunes with an overabundance of caution, avoiding burrowing bugs, nesting birds, and vigilant rodents with the utmost of care. Considering I’ve seen her dive head-first into the open mouth of a giant shark and punch her way out the other side, this leads me to believe that the Arid Wastes are far more dangerous than I previously thought.

Right, I actually forgot about that. Even GangShu was nervous when travelling here with Jorani and Daxian, to the point where he would rather inflict pain and hardship on his sons than take it easy. The only reason our journey here was so easy was because we had Kukku’s Talent to protect us, his almost unique skill of sending his foes into a pleasant dream state with a single crow. I should figure out how he does that and try to replicate it, because that seems like something that would come in handy, especially if I can fine tune my targets like Aura, because then I could put whole armies to sleep with a single word. Or maybe a lullaby. I should learn an instrument, so I can study the whole musical Aura thing more closely, but I’m not a big fan of the zither or pipa. Flutes aren’t my thing either, but the only other option would be some type of horn, which also doesn’t really appeal. Where are the guitars, pianos, and saxophones? Now those are cool instruments, not like the weird ones they have here in the Empire.

Coming out of my thoughts to stop Guard Leader from bringing us directly over a pit of terrifying worm things, I convince her to go another way even though she still can’t sense the danger. Pragmatic as always, she simply accepts my warning without question and circles us around the worm things, which I somehow just know are bad news and don’t want to deal with. I don’t even know how I know they’re there, because I can just sense the bad juju emanating from their nest, but I also sense they’re full and sleepy, so we don’t have to go far to avoid them. Soon after the close call, Guard Leader brings us to a gated archway built into the side of a sand dune, or maybe the archway was here first and the dune formed around it. It’s the first sign of civilization I’ve seen since leaving the monastery, but the doorway puts me in mind of the Northern Wall and the concrete districts, as it’s made from a similar material. There are no markings on the archway, or the sturdy steel-reinforced doors barring our path, leaving no clues as to who might have built these. The architecture is completely different from anything I’ve seen in this world, though they put me in mind of a nuclear bunker from my past life, albeit one with a low tech wooden door instead of the customary steel vault ones I’d come to associate with that sort of thing.

Rather than knocking, Guard Leader kicks the door open and heads inside to clear the way before signalling for me to follow. Once we’re in, Lin-Lin clambers off my back and directs me to close the door behind us, her smile conspicuously absent as she peers around the dark interior with unvarnished curiosity. I doubt she can see a thing, but she isn’t missing much, as the room is empty and unfurnished save for a second set of doors on the opposite wall, a man-made cave that might fit ten people comfortably at best. Before Guard Leader can barge through the second set of doors, they creak open to reveal two spade bearing monks, aged no-nonsense types standing with weapons at the ready. The candlelit hallway outlines their lean frames as they stand with polearms pointed towards myself and Guard Leader, but with one free hand closed in a fist save for their index fingers pointed forward at the ground towards us. A warning, one I only recognize thanks to my improved ability to read body language, which raises questions as to why the monks learn these hand signs in the first place. Is it because they’ve met others like me, who have trouble understanding language, but can read body language perfectly? Now I feel better about coming to the Brotherhood for answers, though I’m a little miffed it’s taken this long to see progress.

While I muse over their hand signals, which I belatedly remember are called mudras, the two monks utter something and issue a powerful Aura of warning, one devoid of anger or reprimand. Before Guard Leader can escalate by saying something curt and rude, I butt in with the only thing I can really say. “Kukku.”

Caught off guard by the request, the monks share a silent exchange without taking their eyes off Guard Leader. Again, I somehow sense their Sendings flitting back and forth, and I feel like I can almost hear them, like a radio tuned into the wrong frequency and getting muffled noise over static. Sensing Guard Leader’s rising vigilance, I turn to her and pat her arm in quiet request to calm down, and to my great surprise, she does so after shooting me a begrudging look. Though her veil covers her expression, her eyes speak volumes and I can tell she’s saying she hopes I know what I’m doing, and I hope so too. These are definitely friendly monks of the Brotherhood, because even though I don’t recognize them, I can sense that they have no ill-intent. They’re just miffed that we’re here, because we shouldn’t be, but so long as they let me leave with Kukku, I’ll be happy to get out of their hair.

The monks say something out loud and gesture for me to follow, which I do without thinking because it just seems right. One of them stops me almost immediately and points at Lin-Lin beside me, who scrunches her adorable features into a pout before grudgingly letting go of my hand and crossing her arms in pique. Even her tantrums are adorable, so I give her a quick kiss on the forehead and hand her the picnic basket too, because if she has to wait here with Guard Leader, then they shouldn’t have to go hungry. Ever the thoughtful wifey, she pulls out a steamer of buns which are somehow still warm and hands them over to me, her smile coming back so quickly it’s as if it never slipped.

