“Kukku.”

Burying my face in Mama Bun’s soft, silken fur, I sullenly ignore whatever Monk Happy is trying to say. It just takes too much effort to parse through his words, probably because he’s almost always smiling. His body language indicates patience and forbearance while his expression is one of blissful contentment, and neither one matches with what he’s trying to say, which throws a wrench in the works when it comes to understanding his verbal message. Song’s expression also rarely matches her words, but her body language speaks volumes, as does her Aura, which she uses almost without thinking. Then there’s Lin-Lin, whose words, expression, and body language all match, alongside something that feels similar to Aura, but isn’t really Aura. My sweet wifey just projects her feelings all the time, and I suspect the reason is because she never bothers hiding her mood, like the rest of us are wont to do.

And I could learn something from this, because I’m tired of my demands being ignored. I want the rooster, and I want it now.

“Kukku,” I say again, interrupting whatever explanation Monk Happy is trying to give and adding a measure of stubborn insistence alongside the verbal demand, even though I know it’s childish. I just want to see Kukku. Is that too much to ask? It’s been... well, I don’t know how long it’s been, but at least a day since I got it into my head to cuddle up with Kukku, because I bet he’d be all soft and snuggly like a nicely feathered bed. This time, Song takes over and simply shakes her head telling me the rooster is unavailable, but I will not be denied again, not today. I want to see Kukku, and nothing will stop me, even if I don’t really know why I so desperately need to cuddle him. I mean, he’s cute and all, especially when he does his little happy dance or has the laughing birds all nestled on his head, but I have Mama Bun in my arms, Ping Ping and Guai Guai snoozing beside me, and Aurie curled up around me, so I should be all good to go for my now customary mid-morning nap.

And yet, something in me stubbornly refuses to sleep until I have the rooster in my lap.

Well, maybe not my lap, as he’s pretty big. Don’t think he’ll fit, but we’ll make something work. Where there’s a will, there’s a way, and I’ve got a hankering for some rooster snuggles. How does Kukku sleep anyways? Does he lie down on his side, or does he sit and rest his head on his own feathery floof? I can’t say I’ve ever seen a sleeping chicken, though I know the laughing birds just settle back on their haunches and lean against one another for support. Adorable is what it is, and I kinda wish they were more willing to cuddle, though I suppose they’re just worried I’ll roll over and crush their hollow bones, which I admit is a pretty good reason to sleep elsewhere. I mean, there are times when I worry about what’ll happen if Mila has a nightmare while snuggled against me, but I’ve just accepted that sleeping next to my beautifully freckled red-headed wife is totally worth the risk of inadvertent death through crushing.

“Mila.” Wait. No. Well, yes. I do want to see Mila, and Yan, and even Luo-Luo kinda, as it’s wrong to creep on Song and Guard Leader always snorts when I eye Lin-Lin with pervy intent, but that’s neither here nor there. Focus Rain, you have a mission and you need to keep to it: cuddle the fluffy rooster while you both nap. Simple enough, right? “Kukku.” Yes. Tell them. You want Kukku. No, you need Kukku. Make them understand. “Kukku."

Yes, that should do it. The rooster should be here any time now. Any time at all...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

True to form, my stubborn sleep strike fails again as my outer self dozes off long before my demands are met, but in my defence, I’ve been denying myself sleep for about four days now. I haven’t really figured out why, but visiting my Natal Palace is no replacement for sleep, even though there’s a disconnect between my body, mind and soul. I suppose all three facets of my existence require downtime, so even though my body and mind are technically asleep, my soul being active here in my Natal Palace means I’m not getting the full benefit of a good night’s rest. I don’t know why they won’t bring me to see Kukku, or why the rooster never comes to visit, but I need the rooster’s help to recover and Monk Happy just doesn’t get it. Alas, my outer self lacks the ability to explain or even understand why he needs to see the rooster, so all I can do is act like a spoiled child and refuse to do anything else before my demands are met.

Patience is a virtue, so they say, but only a real Saint can deal with me when I’m at my most stubborn. Now I just have to keep whispering in my ear and avoid falling asleep in my Natal Palace, else I’ll have to start back at square one.

“Find Kukku,” I tell myself, whispering it like my new mantra. “Cuddle Kukku. Fall asleep with Kukku in your arms. You can do this. You need to do this. There are wives to reunite with and quin pups to snuggle.”

Also an Empire to lead, but that’s best left out, as I’m trying to motivate my outer self to get his ass in gear, not discourage him into stubborn procrastination. Sometimes, I hate myself, and the rest of the time, I loathe me, but it is who I am, and I have no choice but to live with it.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Waking up and feeling no more rested than before, I rub the sleep out of my eyes and take stock of my surroundings, if only so I don’t roll onto any floofs while stretching. Mama Bun is still fast asleep in my embrace, while Ping Ping is snuggled up beside me with Guai Guai splayed out on her shell, but the rest of my floofs are gathered around Song and Lin-Lin as they beg for the scraps of their lunch. Greeting me with her bright, cheery smile, my wifey leans to one side to touch her head to mine while offering me a bite of her dumpling. Despite knowing she’ll pull her chopsticks back before I can chow down, I make an exaggerated lunge for the delicious bait and collapse against her when I inevitably fail. Her melodic giggles reminds me of happier times back in the village, of simpler times when my greatest ordeal was changing diapers for the twins, making lunch for Taduk and Lin-Lin, and learning how to write with a calligraphy brush.

Truth be told, I never really got the hang of using a brush, and I pretty much gave up on it after ordering a set of custom crafted metal pens, but having seen the beautifully artistic renderings done by Luo-Luo and the monks of the Brotherhood, I have the urge to go back and try my hand at it again. I never really understood the point of stylistic calligraphy before, but now I see it for what it is, a way to take a known constant and add your own personal flair to it. Everyone who sees it will recognize it for what it is, writing that denotes a specific term or phrase, yet if done correctly, your version will be uniquely different from what anyone else has ever done. It could be something as simple as changing the order of brush strokes, or drastic as stylistically altering the curvature of the lines, but even if the end result is instantly recognizable as your written name, it’ll be done in a way that’s entirely your own. Sure someone might’ve done something similar before, and others can copy you in the future, but that’s not important. The important part is that you’ve now left your mark on the world, because even if no one ever sees your work or knows it was you who created it, there’s no denying that it’s yours.

The monks consider this one of the Three Desires, a craving for existence in the form of self-identity and permanence. Life is suffering, and we suffer because of the Three Desires, so their end goal is to forsake the Three Desires and ascend to another plane of existence. That’s why they burn their works of art whenever they’re done with it, whether it be scrolls, canvases, carvings, or even sheet music, because this ensures everything they’ve created will disappear once the people who remember those works of art re-enter the cycle of reincarnation. I don’t know why, but it saddens me to see their incredible works of art destroyed each and every night, probably because the world is ugly and depressing enough that going out of our way to destroy beauty almost seems like a crime. There’s a lot I agree with regarding the monks and their Noble Eight-Fold Path, but there’s a lot I don’t agree with either, but then again, I never intended to become a card carrying member anyways.

Even if I agreed with everything they were laying down, I will never willingly become a eunuch. No thanks, not for me, I like my twig and berries very much. No homo.

A poke to the cheek draws me out of my tired musings, and again, Lin-Lin’s cheery smile is there to greet me, this time alongside a platter holding my lunch. Lowering her head in impish apology, she offers to feed me again and promises that there will be no more games, not until I’ve eaten something at least. A note of concern tarnishes her otherwise sweet and girlish demeanour, and I belatedly realize why; I’ve been sleeping a lot more these days, and she’s worried I’ll slip into another coma. Feeling like an idiot for not noticing sooner, I try to reassure her as best I can, with an Aura of confidence which pales in comparison to the real thing. Not my fault, because in order to project an emotion through Aura, one must truly feel it, and I can’t feel confident when all I have to go on is a gut feeling. I think I’ll be fine and that my sleepiness will pass, but I don’t know this for sure, and Lin-Lin senses as much despite my best efforts to claim otherwise.

“Kukku,” I say once more, somehow just knowing all my woes will be fixed once I find the rooster again, and Lin-Lin gets this look in her eye, like she’s scheming about her next prank, but she doesn’t say anything and sets to feeding me lunch. I could totally eat by myself, but she enjoys feeding me and I enjoy being fed, because then I don’t feel like a monster for not sharing with my obviously starving bun-buns. I don’t know how they do it, but they act like they haven’t eaten in days when the truth is they’ve eaten so much they can barely hop around anymore. Greedy little rabbits is what they are, never satisfied with what they already have, but then again, they’re practically babies with plenty of growing ahead of them, so I don’t see the harm in feeding them a bit more. Unfortunately, my sweet wifey refuses to let me share, adamant that they’ve already had enough, so they’ll all have to settle for head pats and chin scratches for now.

Honestly, it’s probably for the best. Cute as their begging may be, the rabbits are starting to look a little chonky, which isn’t great for their health.

Having long since woken to the smell of food, Guai Guai doesn’t bother to beg or steal, he simply wanders over to try and take what he sees as rightfully his. When Lin-Lin denies him, he rears up on his hind legs and raises his arms above his head in a fit of anger, only to rein in his emotions once he thinks things through. Falling back on his butt, he pulls up some grass growing between the cobblestones and munches on that instead, all the while glowering at my sweet wifey in sullen accusation. Out of all the animals, Guai Guai is the best at expressing his emotions, because he’s the best at understanding them. The bunnies want food, but they don’t know why they want it, it just smells delicious and they must have it. Guai Guai knows this food will be good for him, and while he might not be hungry, he still wants to eat and thinks there’s more than enough to share.

I still find it strange to have this little red panda here, who might well be Guan Suo reincarnated, but I’ve come to understand that Guai-Guai and Guan Suo are two separate existences, and the only similarity between them is the red panda ears and tail. Everything else is different, because Guai-Guai is a clean slate, completely and utterly distinct from Guan Suo in every way that matters. Guan Suo was a person, but Guai Guai is just a red panda, with a red panda’s thoughts and desires. He doesn’t ponder about the past, wonder why he’s different from everyone else, or worry no one will love him. He just goes about his day, not caring about anything so long as he has food, shelter, and Ping Ping by his side.

I wish I could do that, just focus on the here and now all the time, but I can’t. I would love to stay here in the monastery and idle my days away learning calligraphy and waiting for my problems to fix themselves, but I would never be able to live with myself if my family came to harm and I wasn’t there to help. Even though I was lost and drowning as Legate, the title offered some protection against the nobles of the outer provinces, but now that Shaui Jiao has refused to acknowledge Luo-Luo’s authority, I’m worried others will sense blood in the water and start pushing the envelope. Ideal as it might be, here in the monastery, I want to be whole again and stand with my family once again. I’m sick of being a burden all the time, and while I know I need to be here in order to recover, I’m not entirely sure how the Brotherhood is supposed to help me when I can’t string a whole sentence together in any acceptable time-frame.

Also, why the hell am I so god-damned tired all the time? I hate it. I bet a Kukku nap will fix everything.

Gathering Guai Guai into my arm, I cuddle him close while he angrily gnaws on his paws. Unable to resist, I hand him one dumpling while avoiding my wifey’s unspoken disapproval, but seeing the red panda politely take the dumpling in both paws and dig in is just too cute to resist, especially when he bumps my chin with his head in thanks.

