Still grinning, he said, “I think you’re the most improbable person, Miss Serrs. No one has ever said that before.”

Her smile was sweet and subtle. “I can imagine that most people would wonder why you gave it all up to be a policeman.”

“But you don’t?”

“I’m wondering how you accomplished it.”

“Being the third son didn’t hurt. My parents were willing to support my decision. They may not have understood my wishes, but…they tried.”

“That was kind of them.”

“Yes,” he said quietly. “I suppose it was.”

“Do you ever regret it?”

Haley gazed at her for a second, then turned away. “It’s harder than I thought it would be. In many ways. But, no, I don’t regret it.”

“I’m glad.”

They arrived at Second Aubrey Park Lane. The inspector jumped down and helped Eleanor to the street.

After she thanked him, he said, “Do you want me to come in with you? Maybe I can help explain—”

“Thank you, but I’d rather you didn’t. This was my doing. It would take a special kind of coward to try to dodge the consequences of their own choices.”

“Your father…”

Eleanor spoke into the space left by his hesitation. “My father will be angry, yes, but please don’t misunderstand; he’s never laid a hand on me.”

“There are other punishments—”

“And they’ll be mine to face.”

Haley did his best to check his expression. “Please let the duke know I’ll stop by around five to get your complete statement.”

“We’ll be expecting you then.”

Haley started to lift his hand, but then he remembered he wasn’t wearing a hat. He nodded his goodbye to her instead.

Lucas waited until he saw the front door close behind her before climbing back into the car. The cabby let out a whistle, waved his arm, and pulled into traffic.

“Where to now, Inspector?” the cabby called.

The car was at the end of the street before Haley answered.

“Police headquarters, please. Station Four.”

The cabby took the turn he needed. “Are we in a hurry this time?”

The series of clicks sounded especially loud since the revolver was being cocked right by the cabby’s ear. He felt the cold touch of metal on his skull.

“No, Mr. Penn. Not particularly.”
