He jumped between them, his fluidity and lack of hesitation, giving him lethal effectiveness. In many ways, it was inevitable that they would die when Hod popped up behind them.

He seemed like an entirely different person, his methods ruthless and his mentality lacking mercy. Gone was the goofy guy and his surprising empathy. A cold-blooded killer took his place, and he stayed relentless in his pursuit. It unnerved me a bit, as I understood little about his abilities or motivations.

Having a soldier that could switch on a dime like that, it was...strange.

I put it on my to-do list to ask him about the personality shift. I ignored it before since I didn't think Hod was dangerous. He was a true threat now however, and dismissing a danger to my troops was irresponsible. I was a leader now. I had to make sure they were safe.

In all honesty, I didn't like digging into the history of my allies. I knew what it was like to hide a piece of my past, and I respected them not wanting to talk about it. At the same time, that kind of personality shift would unsettle anyone, given how drastic it was.

Either way, Hod proved useful as I expected. He was a vanguard of death, selecting the right targets at the right time. It was as if he saw through the enemies, and using that foresight, he crippled their defensive forces.

That allowed Torix to collect far more substantial portions of their military under his wing. From ten thousand strong in the last battle to thirty thousand, Torix commanded a massive force. This caused utter havoc in the ranks of the Adair Family, and they shattered beneath the overwhelming pressure.

That pressure crushed them far faster than I imagined it would. Within two hours, I gawked at a devastated cityscape. Orange and red pools intermingled in the ocean's water, a surreal sight. Without anyone left to oppose us, Torix forced enemy soldiers to slit their friend's throats.

Torix explained that overwhelming someone's self-preservation was nearly impossible with mind magic. Making them kill, though? That was much simpler. If they culled each other and moved on, slaughtering them systematically wasn't so difficult.

This left a bad taste in my mouth, though I understood precisely why the lich did it. Leaving enemies alive like this was a recipe for disaster. They might dissect our tactics, rejoin the Adiar's cause, or compel others to do the same. Still, it sickened me to kill them when they couldn't defend themselves like this. If anything, it made me glad I wasn't the best at mind magic.

It might be better that way.

My ethical dilemmas aside, we finished taking over Tholosa's troops, taking the gialgathens in after settling the battle. Torix handled the logistics while I gazed at the blood-soaked shoreline. Not long after, I found Krog doing the same, peering out at the distant sunset. I turned to the guy,

"You look awful."

Krog nodded, "You as well."

I frowned, hoping to get a rise out of the gialgathen. Instead, we watched the waves wash away the blood of battle. I sighed,

"Was it a tough fight?"

"No. This was all too easy, like stealing candy from children and watching them weep. Battle without resistance is akin to a game with the winner decided. It loses its luster, and the game will no longer be played."

I stared down, understanding him completely.

Krog sighed, "This is no game, however...You know, many espens died in this place. Though Tholosa may seem like a tropical paradise, it was a dense slave center decades ago. Graveyards litter the surrounding plains, the slaves buried in mass when they died. Not even their gravestones remain. Do you know why?"

I winced, not wanting to hear an answer, "Not really."

"They have none. We didn't even think the espens worthy of a gravestone to cement their memories and legacies in this world. Slaves or not, they deserved better."

"Damn. That's fucked up."

Krog nodded slowly, "It's a grim reminder of what we did to them and their species. In many ways, I believe the evils we face today are a result of those acts. We face the sins of our forefathers. The price we pay for their misdeeds is in our blood, and that blood was paid in kind by the espens long ago."

Krog shook his head, pushing himself back up onto his four feet, "In the end, they will never forgive us. From my recollection, my own soldiers will never let go of their hatred either. The cycle must end somewhere. Who shall end it, anyone may guess. I wish for those days to come soon, however."

Krog's spill got me thinking. I didn't dwell on the espen's history. Considering what they went through, their hatred for the gialgathens was understandable. I wouldn't pretend like I could understand something like being enslaved, either. I imagined it was a humiliating, dehumanizing experience. My imagination could never simulate the real thing, however.

The Adair family used that resentment along with Schema's indifference to gain control of the espens. That didn't justify what they were doing now, however. I stared at the sand, "I won't say I understand, but I agree with what you said about killing the defenseless. It feels awful."

Krog turned towards Torix and Kessiah who tended to the cleansed gialgathens,

"Yet we do what we must. Come, this is no time to regret war. We won the battle, and that is worth celebrating."

I nodded, thinking about what he said. We passed up to the wounded gialgathens, the members already cleansed by me earlier. Torix turned towards me as he stared at the corpses along the sand,

"Ah, Daniel, I wanted to ask you something."

I raised my eyebrows, "Go ahead."

"I could raise the corpses of our enemies and use them against the living. They would rot after a few days, but even their skeletons could be reanimated. Do you think this would be a good idea?"

A glint showed itself in the necromancer's eye. Once an evil lich always an evil lich I supposed.

I pursed my lips, "Wouldn't that ruin our guild's reputation?"

Torix's shoulders drooped, "Bah, an old sorcerer can try."

Kessiah smirked, "Told you he'd say no."

I glanced at the cliffside, "Any ideas why Lehesion didn't show up or at least a few evolved Hybrids?"

Torix raised a finger, "I timed our battle during a specific rebellion they planned on enacting today. Their attention split, we rushed in and used the opportunity."

I nodded, "Good work."

He shook his head, "You may thank Althea and Hod for that. Their intel is the only reason for our successes."

Hod walked out of Torix's shadow, spectral mana ebbing from his shoulders,

"Are we finished?"

I gave him a curious glance before spreading my arms out, "Yeah, I think so. Everyone, you all did a great job. We'll be back before nightfall. Drinks are on me."

That last line got a cheer from the group. As everybody walked off, I caught up with Hod. He stared at the sea, his eyes idle. I did the same,

"I was actually going to ask you a few questions after the battle. Can we talk somewhere private?"

The darkened energy saturating his frame faded, and the goofy, stringy Hod returned. He paced up with a few unsteady steps, "Hod not in trouble?"

I shook my head, "Of course not. I just wanted to talk."

"Hod not blame you. Hod pretty good talking partner. Hod so good at talking, Hod sometimes talk to Hod. Hod just that interesting."

I pursed my lips, "Alright." I looked to Torix, "Let me know if you need me."

Torix gave me a small yet respectful bow, "As you wish."

I walked off with Hod before no one was around. I turned to him, meeting his eye,

"We've known each other for a while. I've been wondering about a few quirks of yours for a while."

Hod grabbed the side of his elbow, a bit of discomfort radiating from the birdman. I turned a palm to him, "Before battle, you saturate with mana, right?"

Hod nodded, "Hod does. Hod psyche Hod up."

"Yeah, you seem to change at that moment. Is there a reason?"

Hod stared, his blank expression unreadable,

"Hod think so."

"Well, what's the reason?"

"Hod let other Hod out."

I let my arms flop against my sides,

"Ah, so that's it."

A second passed before I shook my head,

"About that, mind telling me a bit more about other Hod?"

Hod straightened up, "Other Hod rather not say."

My eyes narrowed, "I need to know, so explain."

Hod sighed, "Hod explain. Hod not know if Harbinger like Hod explanation."
