"Are you up, sweetie?" I recoil when I hear mom's voice through my door. "You said you needed to get up early; I was just checking to make sure you rolled out of bed already."

A smile creeps across my face. “Yeah, I’m already up. I’m almost ready to leave for a morning run.” I walk over to my door and open it.

“Are you sure you have time?” Mother asks.

“I’m sure I can spare thirty minutes; I promised myself to start running again.”

"Mind if I join you? I missed our runs together." I'm surprised mom is still interested in running with me.

“I would love for you to join me,” I tell her with a smile.

The two of us head to the door and change into our outdoor shoes. Once outside, we go through a quick stretching routine, and I notice mom has improved a lot since the last time we ran.

She notices my surprised looks. “I don’t run that often, but I do your stretching routine at least once a day. Your father enjoys how flexible I’ve become without wasting any of my stat points.”

“Gross, mom,” she laughs at the sour face I make.

“I even leveled my running skill, which hasn’t happened since I was a kid.” Mother boasts about her success. “Ready, let’s go.” Mother takes off before I can say anything, laughing as she goes.

I quickly catch up to her, and we share in each other’s laughter.

We loop around the village three times before deciding I need to head to Del's place finally. "I'll see you tonight, mom." I lean in and give mom a quick hug.

"Good luck with your forging," Mother tells me as we separate.

"Thanks," I tell her and start walking down the trail to Del's house. The running helped immensely with clearing my head, and now I'm confident I'm ready to forge at my best.

When I'm out of sight of the village, I activate Mana Skin for the first time in days. I tested my mana network during our run by filling the mana obscuring amulet. I didn't feel discomfort when using my mana, so I know I can activate my skill without worry.

A part of me I didn’t know was tense finally relaxes as my skill activates. Feeling my familiar barriers surround my body and protect me from the remaining winter winds feels like I stepped into a room with perfect air conditioning.

But though the barriers feel similar, I can tell immediately they're stronger than the last time I used Mana Skin. After I survived my explosive magic, I gained two levels, making it my highest-leveled tier 4 skill, passing Inject Mana. I can’t wait to get the skill to level 60 and figure out how to improve it further. Who knows, maybe if I can safely protect myself enough with the skill, blowing myself up in the future might become a viable combat strategy.

I could already imagine the looks of horror on master’s and Ronald’s faces if I tried that spell against a chameleon spider. Let the beast try to eat me then, boom! I chuckle at the absurd idea as I make my way to master's house.

Stepping into master's clearing, I take note that Master Del already has the forge going, and he's inspecting the materials I brought back with me. “I brought back some good stuff, didn’t I,” I call out to master.

“You brought back a pain in the ass,” Master calls out, without looking up from the materials. “Kaglese is hard to work with by itself, and I've never heard or seen anything about this black rock before."

“Mr. Grey showed me a small sample they managed to forge from it, and I can say without a doubt it's the best material we've ever worked with," I reassure master.

"Do you have a plan, then?" Master looks at me, unsure about the whole thing.

“I think we need to spend today and tomorrow testing everything.”

“Oh?” Master gives me a look to continue explaining.

"We break up the black rock and turn a small amount of it into its metal form. Once we have a good sample to work with, we start testing how much mithril we add into the solution by starting small and adding more as we go. That way, we figure out a good alloy to work with for the final product. Then, we do the same thing with the Kaglese. Once we know their perfect alloy composition, we have one day to process the rest of the material and then two days to make the arrow itself.” I lay out the details of my plan.

Master nods his head, “That could work. Does that mean you want to spend the whole day only working with the black rock?”

“That’s right,” I answer master. “The black rock is the biggest unknown for us, so I figure we start with the most difficult part first.” I grin at master.

“It’s never boring with you.” Master huffs and moves to throw more fuel into the forge.

“I missed you too, master.” I smile and prepare myself for a long day.

This will be the start of the hardest thing I've ever tried to forge, and it begins now.
