“Are you sure you don’t want to stop by the village before you go?” I offer Reel the chance to rest before he returns to Drey.

“I have to get back to Kervin,” Reel quickly shoots down my offer. “Have you recovered?”

I stretch my arms across my chest. “I’m still a little sore, but I should be back to full strength by tomorrow.”

“Good,” Reel nods his head and turns around to start heading back the way we came.

"Thanks for running with me," I call out to his retreating figure. I can't see his face, but I bet he's smiling… probably not, I laugh to myself.

Reel quickly disappears down the trail, and I turn back towards the village. I’m standing where Kervin usually camps, and though I’ve only been gone about ten days, it feels like it’s been much longer than that.

Mr. Grey saved me some time having the materials ready for me to be inspected, but I lost a day in the woods after the bandit attack. All in all, I made it back on schedule; meaning, mother, father, and Master Del are probably expecting me to arrive home soon.

I stand in place, looking at the village from a distance. The midday sun overhead is pushing back the remaining winter chill, causing the snow on the ground to glisten like everything is covered in crystals.

Dilemmas are never fun, and yet I've come across so many this month. Now I have another one I need to rack my brain over, and it’s by far the most daunting one yet.

Who do I visit first?

On the one hand, master needs to be prepared for tomorrow, and he's closer. Plus, I can drop off the materials while I'm there.

On the other hand, when mother finds out I'm home but didn't immediately go to see her… a chill runs up the base of my spine.

Both mother and master will insist on hearing about my journey, and both of them will need to hear about what happened.

I guess I’ll have to drag Master Del out of his house and bring him home with me.

I cut through the forest and make a bee-line for master’s clearing. I wonder what master spent the last week and a half doing, probably napping most of the time.

Getting closer to the clearing, I'm surprised to hear the melody of ringing steel. When I finally make it through the trees, I see master working at the anvil. Instead of announcing my return, I silently watch Master Del move the steel ingot. It's always a joy to watch master work.

Del shapes a corner of the ingot into a perfect nail with only a handful of strikes with his expert hands. Master switches his hammer for an axe and severs the nail from the rest of the material. Master checks to ensure the nail falls into a bucket of water waiting below before starting to form the next one.

It doesn’t take long for Master Del to turn the ingot into a pile of nails.

“You just going to stand there and watch me, or are you going to greet your master?” Master sets down his hammer and lifts his head, looking directly at me.

“It’s rare to see you up and forging all by yourself; I wasn't sure if I was seeing things." I leave the tree line and head towards master. "Did you miss me?" I ask with a grin.

“I did, until I remembered how cheeky you are,” Master feigns displeasure.

“I missed you, master,” I tell him with a sincere smile on my face.

Master's expression turns into a soft smile, "Me too." I lean in and give master a hug, which he returns.

As we part, master eyes the sack attached to my back. "Managed to get everything you need? I need to hear all about it." He sounds like a parent who just had a child come back from their first day at school.

I ignore his question and move over to our supply shed. Carefully lowering my bag and putting it inside, I leave everything but my travel pack I started my journey with. "You come back from your first trip, and now you ignore your master?" Del huffs in disapproval.

“Sorry, but I wasted too much time watching you work,” I throw my travel pack over my shoulder and move to grab master’s hand. I start dragging the stunned Stone Kin towards the path that leads to the village.

“What’s with the rush?” Master complains.

“I need to tell my parents that I’m home,” I usher master to move faster.

"You haven't gone to them yet?" Master asks in disbelief. "Are you trying to get us both in trouble?" Del matches my speed, now understanding why I'm rushing us. If someone happened to see me outside the village and reported back to the headman that I was back, he would immediately head for my house to find me. I can't have word get back to mother that I'm home and didn't see her first.

“I wanted you to be with me when I explained my trip to my parents, so I stopped by to pick you up first.” I quickly explain to Master Del.

We both start jogging towards my house. On the way, I ask master why he was forging nails instead of napping as usual.

“Salus started on the village armory, now that the snow isn’t falling as much. After I helped him lay down the stone foundation, he started building the frame but was out of nails, and you weren't here to make him more.”

"Wait, you actually helped him lay the foundation? You didn't just give him the stone?" I ask, surprised.

"Well, he came to me asking for the stone and started complaining about how much he missed his apprentice. I felt bad and offered to help him." Master says it like he had no other choice but to help the poor man.

I look at master like he’s grown another head.

"Don't look at me like that! I was bored and decided to help, that's all." Master comes up with an excuse. Del must have gotten used to helping me every day and got restless after I left.

“I’m sure Mr. Salus was grateful,” I say with a grin.

I cut my teasing short when we enter the village, and people start noticing us.

“Aaliyah’s back!”

“Welcome home!”

“Did you have a nice trip?!”

I'm shocked how many people call out to me as we jog through the village. I didn't think people would notice that I left, let alone be this happy to see me return. As more people call out to me, I start to blush and slightly pick up the pace.

I stop when I spot Arash, one of the senior hunters that worked with me during the goblin extermination quest, walking by. “Hey, Arash!” I call out to him.

“Aaliyah, good to see you’re back.”

“Thanks, it’s good to be back. Are you on patrol right now?” I ask him.

“My shift just ended. Is there something you need?” Arash asks me.

“Did you see where my father was while on your patrol?”

"I did; he's helping clear trees along the northern side of the village. Did you want me to let him know you're back home?" Arash gives me a friendly smile.

“Please?” I give him a pleading look. “I was heading home to tell mother I was back, and I don't want to leave father out."

“Sure,” Arash agrees to help me. He changes the direction he was walking and heads to where he said father was working today. Now I just need to get home.

"Aaliyah!" I take five steps before I'm forced to stop again when I hear Camden's voice calling out to me. The headman comes running up to me. "I was told you were back; how was your trip to Drey? Did you see Sandra there?"

"Sorry I didn't. Look, I really got to go." I try to inch my way towards my house.

“Was the city everything you thought it would be? I bet you realized life in the village is better.” Camden doesn’t appear to realize I’m in a hurry.

"Listen, Camden, my family, is…" I start, but I'm interrupted again.

"It's a good thing everything was quiet while you were gone. Did you run into any beasts on the road?" He eagerly asks. A frown crosses my face as I'm reminded of the bandits. "Everything ok?" Camden notices my displeased look.

I quickly change my expression and reassure the headman, "Nothing I couldn't handle," I explain. Camden gives me a concerned look, but now that he's quiet, I can tell him I need to leave. "I'll try to find some time to meet with you, but I'm on a tight schedule for the rest of the week. I only have the rest of the day to spend quality time with my family, and I haven't even seen them yet. We'll talk later, all right?"

The headman gives me a smile, “Of course, go be with your family. Whenever you have time to talk, visit me at my house.”

I wave goodbye, and master and I start making our way back towards my house, and we're soon at the front door. I open the old wooden door and smile when I hear the familiar creek as it swings open.

“Mom, I’m home!” I call out as soon as I step in the entryway.

“Aaliyah!” I don’t have much time to prepare myself before mom springs up from her sewing station and rushes to embrace me. I have just enough time to brace myself before she tackles me, so neither of us gets hurt.

While she’s holding on tight to me, I pick her up and shift us to the side so Del can come inside too.

“I’m so happy you’re back… and with Del.” I feel her arms tighten around me. “Did you wait to come home?” Mother asks in my ear.

“No, no,” I hastily reassure mother. “I had to drop the materials I bought off at Del’s place. I figured he would want to hear about my journey as much as you or father would, so I brought him with me.”

“That’s fine, but one of us will need to go to get your father." Mother lets go of me and looks me up and down. "Sweety, why are you so dirty? I thought your skills and magic protect you?"

I do my best not to flinch at her question. "I saw Arash on the way here and asked him to let father know I'm back home, so he should be here soon."

“That’s good, but what why are you so messy?” Like a bloodhound, mother zeros in on the information I don’t want to share.

"I tried something new with my magic on the way home and overdid it. I'm already almost back to 100%, so you don't need to worry." I smile and lean in to give mother another quick hug.

She pulls apart quicker this time and continues to glance over me, looking for anything that might be wrong. There's only one way I can reassure her. "Now that I think about it, my mana has recovered more than enough to clean myself."

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

I chant my cleaning spell and finish with a grin on my face.

Mother watches almost three days of dirt and grime peel away from me. While mom is happy to watch me look as good as new, I’m gritting my teeth through the pain I’m feeling. The gaps in my mana network haven't fully closed just yet, and even though it was a small spell, it aggravated my earlier injuries.

“Alright then, come and sit down. I’m sure you’re tired from all that running. Mom gives me little time to change my shoes for slippers before she’s dragging me to sit at the table. "Are you hungry at all? I have some dried fruits if you want a snack?"

“I’m fine, mom. I bought some fresh jerky in Drey and had that on the way home.”

“Are you sure?” She presses me again.

“I’m sure,” I flatly tell her. “Do you think dad will be able to make it home soon?” I try to change the subject. I watch master take an empty seat at the table.

“If I know your father, he’ll be flying through that door any minute now.” Mother gives me a knowing look.

“Really? I can’t picture dad running home, you maybe.”

Mom brings her hand up to her mouth and giggles. “Out of the two of us, your father has been the one constantly worrying about you while you were gone. Tossing around in bed, asking when you were due back; it’s been fun teasing, I mean reassuring him you’d be fine.”

"Aaliyah, honey, are you finally home!?" I hear dad's voice coming from outside our door. "Silvia, if this is another prank, I'm going to…" The door is flung open, and dad stops mid threat when he sees me sitting at the table.

Dad kicks off his shoes and runs at me with a smile brimming with happiness. I can’t even stand up before dad lifts me into a princess carry up against his chest. Neither of us says anything as I feel the warmth of his love wash away the feeling of pain from my mana network.

At least for a few seconds.

Our loving moment has a bucket of cold water splashed over us with mom’s ominous voice. “What were you just saying, Darrius?”

Dad carefully sets me back into my chair before turning to address the vindictive banshee in the room. "I was merely joking. You know I could never be mad with the most beautiful woman in the world." Dad immediately tries to lay it on thick.

Dad moves around the table, ignoring Master Del, and proceeds to embrace mother from behind. When dad is out of mom's view, she sends me a mischievous wink before returning to her previous expression of rage. “Is that so,” She huffs after dad wraps his arms around her. "Is this how you treat me after I held you every night, comforting you, telling you Aalyiah will be fine on her own?"

"You don't need to mention that in front of company." Father hisses, while his tanned cheeks start to redden.

“Fine,” mother appears to relax in his arms. “But you’ll have to make up for it later.” Mother turns around in his arms and deeply kisses father leaving him no chance to refute her claim.

Master Del and I share awkward looks.

When my parent’s faces finally separate for air, mother tells father to take his seat. “Aaliyah was waiting for you to come home before she told us about her trip to Drey.”

“Only if you two are done,” I roll my eyes at mom.

"Don't be like that, dear. You'll be the same way when you find someone special; you're about that age now. Your brother ran away with Sandra the first chance he got.” Father’s eyes widen when mother brings up my potential love life. “Did you meet any handsome boys in Drey?” Mother teases me, but father looks at me with fire in his eyes.

"Stop! I didn't have time to meet anybody on my trip; I was too busy." Mother nods in understanding, and dad looks relieved.

