"So, tell us what did happen during your trip," Mother asks, leaning forward.

I clear my throat, “After we left the village….”

I start recalling everything that happened on the trip.

The annoying cart ride to Drey that took too long, the part about Mr. Grey being ready for us, the fantastic dinner, and our game of questions, I went into detail about everything. The only thing I didn't cover was the knowledge they had on master, that I planned to tell him tomorrow when it was just the two of us.

I talked about the deal we made for the materials and passed around my new amulet for everyone to look at. Dad almost dropped the magical item when I told him how much it was worth.

Mother praised my merchant skills, and master was impressed with how I handled picking out the materials.

I left out what happened on the way home, only mentioning Reel escorted me back, finishing up my story.

“What do you guys think?” I ask for everybody’s opinion after I finished explaining everything.

“It sounds like Silver Herd values you a lot,” Mother offers her opinion.

“As they should,” Father and Del say the same thing, making mother and I laugh.

Mother takes control of the conversation, "Did anything seem odd to you, sweetie?" Mom gives me a curious look.

“There was one thing that seemed odd at the time,” I tell her.

“What?”

“Mr. Grey asked me if I knew the Panetta family. He wouldn’t explain to me who they were and said it was a question from their headquarters. Do you think it’s code for something?” I speculate.

“Maybe people you need to look out for?” Dad hypothesizes.

“I can’t recall ever hearing the name before,” Master doesn’t know anything either.

“You don’t need to worry,” Mother draws everyone’s attention to her. “They asked you about the Panetta family because I threatened I'd contact them if anything happened to you." Mother casually tells the table.

All of us look at her with dumbfounded expressions. “Who is the Panetta family?” I ask.

“They are one of the prominent households in the Twin Serpent Trading company, one of the big trading companies of Olebert.” Mother explains like it’s no big deal.

“How do you know them?” I question mother. “Does it have to do with your side of the family? You mentioned grandpa was in charge of getting expensive materials for enchanters. Are we related to the Panetta family?" I practically vibrate in excitement. Mother had always left out details when she talked about her family; is this why?

Mother smirks, drawing astonished faces from everyone at the table, including dad. "No, I just lied to that shady looking bodyguard." The three of us nearly fall out of our seats at mother's sudden reveal.

Mom holds her sides, laughing. "That wasn't funny, mom," I complain. "What happens when silver heard finds out you lied to them?"

Mother wipes underneath her eyes like she was about to cry from laughing too hard. “It wasn’t technically a lie,” Mother cryptically tells us.

“What does that mean? You said we weren’t related to the Panetta family.” I ask.

“The Twin Serpent Trading Company is incredibly large like all the major trading companies are. There are quite a few families that make up its structure. Different families manage different assets of the company. The Panetta family is one of those families, and they were the patrons of my father's business." Mother explains.

"So, technically, we are connected to the Panetta family?” I try to clarify.

"Vaguely," mother smiles at me. "If I decided to send my father a letter asking for help, it might make it into the Panetta family’s hands, but it’s more likely to end up in his fireplace. I wouldn't know; I haven't talked to my family since I ran away with your father."

Dad leans over and sportingly takes mom's hand into his own.

“If Silver Herd can track down my family, they would realize my threat is possible. It was the best thing I could think of to give them pause and not try anything underhanded with you." Mother explains why she lied to Reel.

No wonder Reel looked scared after she talked to him before we left the village. If I learned anything from my trip to Drey, it's that Silver Herd is worried about outside interference, especially from the major trading companies. And mom threw a grenade at them, claiming she's on speaking terms with one of their major competitors. I can’t help but give mom props for being the evil genius that she is.

“Wow,” father exclaims.

“Damn, mom,” I give her a thumbs up. It’s a good thing I taught my family what the gesture meant as a kid.

"Language," Mother scolds me. "It worked out more or less as I planned," she tells the table. "Was there anything else you noticed about your meeting?" Mother questions me further.

“Not really,” I answer. “I got the feeling they were honestly trying really hard to wow me and draw me in. Mr. Grey seemed like a nice man and was very upfront with my questions."

“As far as you know,” Mother reminds me.

“I’m not a fool, mom. I know I can't take everything he said to be the truth, but honestly, I found dealing with Mr. Grey even easier than Kervin." I give her my honest opinion.

“I understand, as long as you’re careful, honey.” Mom gives me a supportive smile. “Now that you are back, what are your plans?”

I look around the table at everyone before focusing on master. "Master Del and I will be busy the next few days forging the arrow. That's what I'm focusing on for now. Hopefully, Silver Herd comes through with the hint to make engraving ink, but that only matters after completing the general's order. I'll apologize in advance, but I'll be spending most of my time at Del's place." Mom nods in understanding while dad slightly frowns.

"In that case," Mom stands up and claps her hands. "We better make the time we have together count. Aaliyah, sweetie, why don't you help me start an early dinner?"

"Of course, mom." I look forward to cooking with mom and put aside everything that happened on the trip home.

“I should go,” Del pushes out his chair to stand up.

“Don’t you dare,” Mother picks up her kitchen knife and points it at master. “Aaliyah brought you here to hear her story with us. She invited you into our house, so we’re obligated to have you stay for dinner.”

“That’s really not necessary,” Master tries to excuse himself again.

“If he doesn’t want to stay, we shouldn’t…” Dad isn’t subtle when it comes to Del, but he stops himself when mom glares at him.

She turns her gaze back to master and points her knife at his chair, “Sit.”

Master Del gives up and silently sits back down. Mother is amazing; it doesn't matter who she's dealing with or their levels; she's not afraid to speak her mind.

The rest of the day passes quickly with me helping mom with dinner, and us all sitting down and enjoying it together with friendly conversation.

Mother asked me multiple questions about Drey and whether or not I liked the city. Master asked me questions about Mr. Grey's materials, and dad asked me three times if I met any boys. He nearly had a heart attack when I faked interest in our handsome server at Alizio’s.

An average family dinner at our house, and yet, the food and company were more appreciated than ever.

Master left, reassuring me he would be up early tomorrow morning, waiting for me at the forge.

Mother and father sandwiched me with a group hug before we turned in for the night. And I collapsed face-first onto my bed and told my furniture how much I missed it as soon as I walked into my room.

Now I'm staring up at the ceiling in my dark room, smiling at the crudely drawn clouds up above. This is the first time I’ve genuinely felt comfortable in days, but I can't fall asleep for some reason.

I've already absorbed enough extra ambient mana to heal my mana network, and I was hoping to get a good night's sleep in preparation for tomorrow. I try to quiet my mind, but it doesn't help.

Plan B, if I can’t fall asleep naturally, I’ll enter my soul and let my body rest on its own.

A quick glance at the center of my soul, and the next time I open my eyes, I'm in the familiar forest clearing.

“What the hell!” I scramble to my feet when I notice I’m not alone in the clearing.

Surrounding me in a circle are eleven men. Each has their own horrible expression directed at me, but my focus is drawn to the one I immediately recognize. The bandit's leader has the same cruel smile he had on his face when he stood over me before I activated my spell. Looking closer at the other men, I notice they're the same ones I killed.

Is this a dream? Did I fall asleep without realizing it?

No.

I’ve been inside my soul hundreds of times, and I know what it feels like; this is definitely the outer part of my soul that I always appear in.

Realizing where I am, my emotions calm, and I look closer at the men standing around me.

They aren’t real.

Each of their bodies looks faded and transparent. I see now; they're made up of the experience I got from killing them. A piece of their souls is now a part of my own.

The forest around me represents the outer part of my soul, and everything is a manifestation of my experience. The more experience I gain, the more detailed the forest becomes and the wider it expands.

I've watched what happens when a living creature dies, the central part of the soul is taken away, and their experience diffuses into the surroundings. These figures are not them. "You are nothing but ghosts my mind conjured up," I say aloud to the specters. Not one of them moves.

I close my eyes and center myself.

When I feel myself enter a state of tranquility, I once again open my eyes. "Begone!" I wave my hand, and the specters dissipate into specks of light that assimilate into my surroundings.

A single tear runs down my cheek, which I quickly wipe away. As I lower my hand, I notice it isn't wet, and it doesn't feel like I ever cried in the first place. I still don't fully understand this place, and maybe I never will.

I sit down on the forest floor and enter a meditative state, pushing the bandits' memories to the back of my mind. I know I’ll need to spend quite a bit of time here before my body gets a proper rest, and I don't plan to use the time thinking about those men.

With time almost meaningless here, I alternate between meditating and hunting for the pieces of the Contract skill that formed between Mr. Grey and me. It doesn't take long; the contract was obscure, making it smaller and quicker to piece together than the one I made with Kervin.

Trying to keep track of time while I'm in here doesn't help me, so I only head for the memory sea when my gut tells me I’ve been here long enough.

Just like time, distance is also tricky to measure, but I can tell the forest has grown in size since I was last here. I slowly walk through the trees and the mountainous region until I reach the shimmering sea of memories.

I don't hesitate to jump over the edge and plummet into my past. A memory forms around me, and I frown at the familiar clearing. It's not the clearing I'm used to seeing when I enter my soul, but I'm quite familiar with it none the less.

I look at the fallen tree blocking the road and turn to watch myself from three days ago run into the clearing just like I remembered it.

“You got to be shitting me,” I complain out loud. Is this all a coincidence, or is my mind purposely trying to fuck with me?

“You can get me out now!” I yell up at the simulated sky, waiting for the eyes to blast me out of my soul.

Only this time, nothing happens. The one time I don’t want to stay here, the eyes decide not to show up.

I'm forced to relive that moment once again and watch myself cut down three people before blowing the rest to hell. I expect the memory to fade once the explosion happens, but the memory continues for some reason.

How can I relive something that I never witnessed?

I get my answer when Reel runs into the clearing, looking distraught. I'd never thought I'd see such a look of panic on his face.

I cringe when I hear coughing from the crater and watch, amazed as Reel rushes towards the noise. I watch Reel force a potion down my throat and pull me away from the blast site. I was awake!

I have to cover my face in embarrassment as loopy me talks to Reel. I end up trying to kick memory me as I start spilling my secrets to Reel. I wasn't even cryptic with what I said; I straight up told Reel how I overclocked the spell with a skill.

Stomping around the memory in frustration, I finally feel the eyes focusing on me. "About time, get me out of here!" I shout like a lunatic up at the eyes, watching them force their way through the memory.

The next thing I know, I’m sitting up in my bed covered in sweat, with the morning sun beaming through the gaps in my window.

Instead of getting a good night’s sleep, I’m waking up pissed at someone I can’t even confront.

I pace around my room until the anger I feel starts to subside. I’m forced to get ready with the playback of the bandit attack repeating through my mind.

I try to forget about the attack by focusing on getting ready for the day. After changing my clothes, I brush out my hair and marvel at how long it has gotten. My red locks travel all the way down my back; I'll have to ask mom to help me trim it later. The dark red color of my hair has become bolder the more points I put into Vitality; the shade itself hasn't changed but looks healthier in general.

Looking over my body, it's hard to think I was in an explosion a few days ago. Other than my rough hands from blacksmithing, I can't find a single mark on my skin. What will it be like when I reach even higher levels?

