Narrowing her eyes, Ying studied him while he did his best to seem indifferent, praying she would not see the bloodstains on his guard's sleeves and shirts. She stepped forward to the window to look out over the battle, and Yang held in a sigh of relief. “What are we to do about this?” She spoke without turning, but he knew her thoughts, lamenting their clan's estrangement from this dragon among men.

Pouring two glasses of rice wine, he joined her at the window. “Ai, I know not whether to laugh or cry. I underestimated his four decades of experience here and must pay the price.” Clinking his cup against hers, he drained it in a single gulp. “No matter, I will take full responsibility, likely a few dozen lashes for insubordination, he will not dare to demand my death. His mind is as sharp as ever, but age has diminished his skills in combat, else he would not be standing there on the walls, hiding behind the Justicars to keep me from taking his head.” Respect for his ability to command aside, he still believed this foray to be an unnecessary risk, Nian Zu feeling threatened and displaying his skills.

His sister drank with him, making a small sound of frustration. “If only he had not rebuffed the Society, this glory would be ours to share. The soldiers call him the Hero of the Wall, Nian Zu, ignoring his family name. If only...”

The rest of the sentence went unsaid, and Yang kept silent, knowing she wondered of a world in which she married Nian Zu, keeping him tied to Clan and Society, the dream of a foolish young maiden, nothing more. After an appropriate pause, he spoke once more. “A pity he has no child to carry on his legacy. Perhaps we should send Zian and other promising youths to serve with him, he might take one under his wing. It is base instinct to look after one's blood, a noble calling.” Doing so would also free Yang from his duties to teach his nephew, watching the young man beaten and bruised more difficult than expected. He held his tongue on his other thoughts, to send her to his side as well, still a beautiful woman and a widow.

Silence was his only answer but he could tell from the set of her jaw she was considering it. Knowing not to push the matter, he waited patiently, studying the battlefield as it unfolded, a synchronized dance which defied common logic, marionettes directed by Nian Zu's will.

Placing her cup back into his hands, Ying remarked, “My opposite number in Shen Huo has acted, sending a paltry 5,000 troops led by Man Giao, a half-beast of mediocre repute. Like I told you, Hai lacks the resources to aid the Bekhai after the attack on Shen Huo. If he makes a personal appearance, we can have him killed along with his son and take Shen Huo for ourselves. You are sure that Du Min Gyu is also a non-factor? If you are wrong, the number of allies he can call upon is not small.”

Filling the cups, he snorted loudly, still angered by the deception. “I saw his feeble shaking with my own eyes, and his panic at having been exposed. He is a relic past his prime, and should he choose to interfere, I will put his weakness on display for the world to see.” A grand title that would be, the killer of Du Min Gyu, his reputation made all the greater. “I've also looked into the other Bekhai, a formidable bunch, but we will manage. Gerel, the most fearsome one, is missing an arm, and none of the others are unhurt, not after months of arduous combat.” He had already begun to plot the match-ups, hoping to send his more troublesome peers to their deaths against the Bekhai, earning him twice the results for half the effort.

The battle continued to rage below him when he received a Sending from Bolin, and he turned to his sister for advice. “A representative from a merchant group is requesting a meeting, the Canston Trading Group. The name is familiar, but I cannot place it.”

“Ai, your memory is already beginning to fade, little brother you have aged before your time.” A sly smirk and a dangerous glint in her eyes warned him not to speak about her age. “A group based out of Yantai, the intermediaries who placed the bounty on the Bekhai youngsters during the contests.”

Seeing no reason not to at least hear them out, he instructed Bolin to keep the merchant waiting, continuing to act as a spectator in this glorious battle. The Defiled seemed out of options, moving as one to encircle the cavalry, sustaining heavy losses from the archers and catapults, whilst the soldiers began to retreat in full force, the gates opening at the last moment as they streamed through to safety. The gates slammed down with a thud, heard from his lofty perch, and the few Defiled who made it through were killed without difficulty, those outside the walls harvesting the dead for their cooking pots.

Seeing the cleanup taking place below, he instructed Bolin to bring the merchant in while he pretended to work, to keep the merchant waiting and letting him sweat. The merchant was not alone, several sets of heavy boots following him in, the march of disciplined warriors, Yang sensing his guards tense up as they readied to defend him at any sign of betrayal. Bolin had yet to earn their trust, but Yang held no such concerns, his old friend too simple and straightforward. Any betrayal would be easily seen in advance.

Shuffling his papers to one side, he glanced up and affixed his gaze on the merchant, a rotund man dressed garishly in a mimicry of nobility, but it sat poorly on his frame, his sweat stink ruining the effect. “What is your purpose here?”

Bowing neatly if not gracefully, the merchant launched into his flowery introduction. “This humble servant is called Chuwon, here on behalf of the Canston Trading Group. It is this one's greatest honour to meet you, Hero of the Central Plains.” Seeing him unimpressed, Chuwon hurriedly continued. “Relations between our trading group and the Society of Heaven and Earth have soured somewhat, a mishap due to an overeager employee. In an effort to make amends, and hearing of your upcoming trials, I come bearing gifts.”

With a flourish, he presented his slaves, large, hulking half-beasts, each one well-armed with a great sword or sabre and fully armored in heavy plate, their eyes full of determination and anger. “A dozen bristleboar slaves of varying ages, four in each group according to the trials, should you need them. While the Society no doubt holds vast reserves of skilled warriors, these slaves make excellent fodder, each one armed with a Spiritual Weapon and the best armor money can buy. No matter how skilled the opponent, this humble servant guarantees they will not be easily defeated, trading their lives at great cost.”

Bowing once again, Chuwon presented a badge of gold and jade held out in both hands. Gesturing for Bolin to bring it over, he studied the merchant while thinking things over. “And what do you expect in return?” A costly gift indeed, just the weapons alone would have beggared most.

“It is a gift, Great Hero, this humble servant dare not make demands, he only hopes to speak on issues of trade and mutual benefit, and perhaps a lessening on restrictions due to our ... misunderstanding.”

Glancing over to his sister, she nodded slightly, and he left it to her judgment. She was better suited for this bureaucratic nonsense, Yang lacked patience for those sorts of nonesense. Leaving the two of them to discuss the particulars, he inspected his new slaves closely, picking one at random. “Name and age?”

“Gorvac, 385.”'

“Gortuk, 24.”

“Gorlak, 89.”

...

Not the most imaginative of naming schemes, but it mattered little, Yang had no interest in remembering them. Pairing them up against his guards, he sat and watched as they sparred, smiling to himself at the unexpected boon. A bear for strength, a cat for speed, a wolf for ferocity, but none could compare in resilience to a bristleboar. Their level of skill was adequate, but with their natural durability and fatalistic mindset, even Zian would be unable to defeat one of the younger slaves without injury.

Like meat pies falling from the sky, these new gifts could be put to good use. At the very least, one or two could be sent to challenge the unknowns, wearing down their chosen champions and giving Yang an opportunity to study his opponents. Pouring himself another cup of wine, he sipped leisurely as he watched, smiling at his newfound fortune.

Let Du Min Gyu, Tong Da Hai, Nian Zu, and Akanai struggle for all their worth, in the end, he would stand victorious, the beginning of his own epic, his dreams finally come true. Situ Jia Yang, Hero of the North, only a step away from Patriarch of the Situ Clan. With a bit of luck and effort, perhaps he could even seize a new title, one given to none before him.

Situ Jia Yang, Dragon Master of the Society.

...

The specific title could use work, but that could wait.

Chapter Meme
