My heart is beating out of my chest. My legs are burning.
I am fit. I think. No—I know that I’m in good shape. Better than good shape. If you compared me with any athlete from my world, you would find—
My suspicions don’t matter right now. But I know this: I am at the peak of my ability in this world, despite all that has passed. It’s not that I have any Skills or classes, but it is due to the nature of this world. I am more than I was, and that bothers me.
But even if I am quicker, stronger, and healthier by some unknown margin, I am still not superhuman. I can’t move as fast as Gazi, I don’t have the ability to shatter the earth like Calruz. Hell, I only know a few spells that I can cast once or twice thanks to Ceria.
What I have is earned. Even the spells I know are things I had to learn, not things that were given to me. [Flashlight], [Flashbang], [Fl—]
Well, the last one is conceptual. But all of these spells stem from the few things I understand. You can make the [Light] spell brighter, alter its shape, and even toss the orb if you want to surprise someone. But it’s still not a strong spell. I can’t use it to kill something.
That’s the problem. That’s what I fear as I run through the night, flecks of snow stinging my uncovered face, as I stare up into the dark sky at the lights.
Frost Faeries. They glow with a shade of blue and depth to the color indescribable in the words we Humans use. And they fly through the wind and darkness as if neither exists, pausing briefly only to wait for me. They know where Mrsha is, and they’re taking me to her.
But in my heart I fear I might be too late. Or worse, that I might fail. All I get is a chance. A chance to save her life.
I have no idea where Mrsha is. She disappeared while she was gathering food. She could have gotten lost, but—no. No, if she had she would have returned. If she went that far enough away from the Gnoll she was with, it was because she was taken, or she had to flee.
A monster, then. Or something…else. I don’t know. But if that is the case, I might have to fight whatever took Mrsha. And I fear I am too weak to do that.
The faeries fly a bit higher in the sky and I see the ground shifting upwards. I have a torch, given to me by one of the Gnolls. Its flickering lights illuminate the ground in front of me. I could discard it and use [Light], but I need to conserve every bit of magic I have. Casting a single spell tires me, and I cannot slow now.
I am stronger than I was, but I am still weak. My heart is racing, and I am afraid. Not just because of monsters.
From the camp of the Stone Spears, the landscape slopes gradually upwards. They are camped at the foot of a mountain, one of the ones surrounding Liscor. If I look up I can see it, a massive wall of stone and ice reaching up into the sky.
It is vast. I am reminded of the Himalayas, but I wonder if these peaks are even higher. And I am afraid.
If I have to climb that place, will I get to Mrsha in time? How far could a child go?
Right now I’m wearing heavy clothing. Winter gear; boots, padded pants and coats that cut the worst of the chill around me. But this is no ultra-thin fabric from my world. The things I am wearing are heavy, cumbersome, and as I sweat and run through the snow and ice, they grow heavier.
Added to that, I have been running all day, searching for Mrsha. My body isn’t even fully healed from using that potion Teriarch gave me. And I am mortal. If I step into a bad spot and wedge my ankle, I could easily break my foot.
All of these things would make finding Mrsha impossible. And I must find her. I must. But I only get a chance.
Fate. That’s what the faeries mentioned. I look up at them as I run, gasping for air. My legs are burning already. I shouldn’t run so fast.
 
“Why do ye slow?”
 
One of the faeries flies down as she notices I’ve reduced my speed. I shake my head, but I need to answer, so I gasp a reply.
“Conserving energy.”
I have to. If I go full-throttle I’ll run out of gas far too quickly. And I know I’ll need a lot more in all likelihood.
The faerie shakes her head in disapproval.
 
“Strange. You mortals have strange ways. Why run slower to run faster later?”
 
I don’t know if I should talk to her. Wasting energy? But anything I can get out of the silent faeries is important.
“If you know how close I am, just tell me and I’ll run as fast as I can.”
The faerie looks at me, unsmiling.
 
“Do not ask for more than you were given, mortal. We are breaking a rule now, to give you a chance.”
 
“But is it fate? Do you know what will happen?”
That’s the question that lurks in my heart. Fate. Is this all some grand scheme? If it is—
The faerie stares at me with cold eyes and flies upwards. I watch her go, frustrated. She won’t tell me. But why would immortals tell playthings anything? If we are that simple, why bother at all with us?
I think I understand why they are so disdainful of us. The real question is why they even bother to talk at all.
Fragments of immortality. Eternal stories. Children. These are the things the fae love. So perhaps that’s why they’re helping.
But either way, the rest is up to me. So I increase my pace, just a bit.
There’s a rhythm to running. I’ve done marathons, and I know enough about running on uneven terrain to move quickly. But I am so slow compared to how I would be barefoot and without all these clothes.
The faeries fly on, overhead. They lead me around a forest, up a slope, and onwards. I recognize where we are, now. I’ve come this way earlier today.
We arrive at the place where Mrsha was last seen. A hill where edible plants hide underneath the snow. Countless feet have trampled the snow, but the faeries don’t even pause when they come to it. They fly north, up from the hill, towards the mountain.
Urksh was right. If there was a place Mrsha ran, it was up there. It’s a place where the Gnolls wouldn’t have searched that hard. Go too high up, and you’d be lost forever. No one can hear or smell you if you get buried underneath an avalanche.
I run upwards, up the slope. My legs—I run up the hill, and then higher still. I can’t stop.
Please, let me not be too late.
 
—-
 
She is cold. Mrsha sneezes and whimpers in the place she cannot escape from. She is very cold.
She has never been this cold before. The winter air is freezing her. Normally, she would be back in the camp her tribe makes, huddling with others for warmth in a tent or sitting near a fire, so near her fur would be in danger of catching on fire…
Just the thought makes Mrsha moan, but she’s too tired and frightened to make any larger sounds. At first, she had howled and cried out for aid, but no one came.
She knows she went too far up. She knows. All the elders told her again and again, never to come up this far. She knows they cannot find her here.
But she had no choice. Mrsha glances at the thing lying half-covered in the snow and shudders. She tries to move away from it, but there is no space. And she is hurt.
She sits and stares up towards the sky. It is cold. She is hungry, and desperate. She fears she will not be rescued, now. And she is growing tired. She raises her nose to the air and sniffs again.
There it is. The same scent. Not just from the thing beside her; it is in the air. Mrsha’s nose is keen, even for a Gnoll’s. She can smell the scent in the air, all over the mountain.
They are everywhere. And the thought of them makes Mrsha afraid. But she can do nothing. So she sits. And waits.
If she believed in gods, she would have prayed. But Mrsha knows the gods are dead. So she just hopes. She tries to believe.
But it is so cold.
 
—-
 
Higher. And higher still. I am following the faeries as they lead me to the base the mountain. I think they’re trying to guide me on the easiest route, but—
I climbed a mountain once. But that was nothing like this. There’s no road here, no easy path. The ground becomes vertical in places, and now I have to use both hands and legs, sometimes pulling myself up as my feet slip on the snow-covered rocks.
The faeries watch me, stopping to settle on a rock and I pull myself upwards, straining and grunting with effort. Their faces are expressionless, but their eyes are not. I think they’re pretending not to care, but they fly ahead, showing me the way with too much alacrity for me to believe otherwise.
They care. But they fear I’m not going to make it.
“How far?”
One turns back to stare at me as the others fly overhead. She says nothing. I gasp, and cough. I’m moving too fast, now. I can taste a bit of blood where I bit my tongue when I fell, and from my searing lungs.
I don’t care. Faster. I gulp air into my lungs.
“How…far? How much time?”
They don’t answer. But they fly higher. So I grit my teeth and move.
 
—-
 
Urksh waits, standing at the edge of the place where the Stone Spears have made camp. He waits, and listens.
But he hears nothing apart from the falling snow, the crackling fires beside him, and the words of his hunter, Hekra.
“More have gone missing. All to the north and west.”
He looks at her. Hekra’s face is still, but her ears and tail betray her agitation. She is worried, and so is he.
“That makes thirteen.”
Thirteen adults, hunters and warriors all who are missing. Three patrols sent out to look for Mrsha that never returned. There is something out there, and both Gnolls know it.
Yet what worries Urksh most is that there was no trace of those who disappeared. No howls to indicate enemies, nothing. Whatever happened to the Gnolls of his tribe happened swiftly and took them by surprise.
“Have every warrior ready, no? All of them. And pack what is needed.”
What is needed. In case they have to flee. He doesn’t have to say that part out loud. Hekra nods and trots off. Urksh looks back into the darkness.
Something is out there. Something. And he can catch faint whiffs of it on the air. It is a familiar smell, but odd. Twisted. He knows he smells his enemy, but there is something wrong with the scent. There is death in the air.
Urksh stares the way the Human named Ryoka Griffin had gone, following the strange, indistinct lights in the air that she claimed were living creatures. Winter Sprites. Frost Faeries.
He hopes she will be safe. But right now Urksh is more concerned about his tribe. To the east, Ryoka Griffin claimed an army was approaching. A force from the Drake cities. It has doubtless camped for the night, but Urksh’s instincts tell him to bring his tribe closer to the camp, regardless of the tension that might cause.
There is safety in numbers, and he is worried. But he dares not move his camp. If Ryoka returns with Mrsha, they will need to find them here.
So the Stone Spears wait, watching the darkness. And the darkness watches back. Silent shapes spread out across the highlands, slowly encircling the Stone Spears tribe’s camp in a vast net, waiting.
Waiting.
 
—-
 
How long has it been? I can’t tell. Hours? Just an hour? Perhaps. It feels like hours.
My hands are raw and cut and blistered. Despite the gloves I have on, they’re not enough. The jagged rock and rough handholds I can find cut into my skin, but I ignore the pain.
How high am I? High. I’ve been climbing for a while, and still the faeries lead me onwards. I can’t believe Mrsha got this high up, but the route we’re taking isn’t impossible for a kid, especially not a young Gnoll.
Especially not if she was being chased.
My feet slip, and my arms windmill as I nearly slip down the slope in the darkness. Careful. I push myself back up and look around.
“Okay. Where n—?”
The faeries are gone. One second they were ahead of me, leading the way, and now they’re not. I look around, heart beating fast. It’s dark. I had to toss away the torch the Gnolls gave me a while back to use both hands. Without the faeries, the side of the mountain is full of shadows.
“[Light].”
A ball of yellow light appears in my hand and flies upwards. I stare around, but see only rock and dirt where everything isn’t covered by snow.
But if the faeries aren’t here.
“Mrsha!”
I raise my voice and cup my hands to my mouth. My legs are exhausted, but I don’t dare sit. And neither do I dare take any more steps. The ground looks stable, but—
“Mrsha! Can you hear me?”
 
—-
 
She is going to die. Mrsha knows it. It makes her cry, but she only sheds a few tears because it hurts when they freeze on her fur.
She is going to die. She shouldn’t have strayed so far away. But she’d wanted to chase a snow hare, and then she’d smelled the thing and it had leapt out at her—
She shudders. It is so cold. Her eyes are flickering, but Mrsha knows she must stay awake. But what is the point if she’s not going to be rescued?
The Gnoll child sits with her back against a stone and breathes more slowy. She is so tired. But then her ears hear it. The faintest of sounds, and then—louder.
“—sha!”
The Gnoll looks up. There it is again.
“Mrsha! Can you hear me?”
It’s a voice! A familiar voice! It’s not the sound of any of the elders Mrsha knows, or any of her playmates. But she knows this voice even so. It’s from the Human, the one who tells stories.
How is she here? But Mrsha hears the Human shouting, and sits up. Someone came for her.
Hope. 
She raises her voice and howls upwards, desperately. With all her strength.
She wants Ryoka to find her. She wants to be saved. She doesn’t want to die here alone.
Not like that thing.
 
—-
 
I’m shouting, but I hear nothing. The wind is blowing around me, and I can’t feel my face. There’s so much snow.
Am I too late? My heart is shuddering. Is that why the faeries left? Because they’ve given up hope?
“Mrsha!”
There’s no response. I’m too late.
But then I hear it. A sound, growing louder. A wild howling, high-pitched and frantic, like and unlike any animal’s call I’ve ever heard.
Mrsha.
I stumble in the direction of the call, and then stop.
“Stop damn you…think!”
Think. I can’t blunder ahead blindly. If I die now, she dies.
I raise my hand, and the orb of light floats to it. I can control the light. So I flick my hand and toss the orb ahead. I can’t control it after I’ve thrown it, but it illuminates the ground in front of me.
There! The orb of light sails over a small crest of snow and then reveals that the crest is in fact a precipice. The ball of light reveals a sudden drop as the ground slips, a natural, concealed crevasse in the mountainside. Cautiously, I cast [Light] again and walk forwards, staring at that spot, praying I don’t trip.
The howling is coming from below. I stare over the edge. The light cast by the orb is too weak to illuminate the depths of that place.
“Mrsha?”
 
—-
 
