e more annoying things, like helping newcomers get situated, getting them adjusted, showing them how to do a proper job, that kind of shit. The last part at least could be fun, especially if they were one of the more eager ones.Heading into the brothel, I quickly found a group of joytoys standing around one of the new guys, who looked highly awkward and maybe a bit overwhelmed."Morning," I mumbled, then looked around, "Anyone need anything before I show him the ropes?"It turned out, a couple had some minor concerns such as missing or broken toys, nearly empty booze cupboards, broken furniture, the works. I noted all of that down to send it over to Vic, who'd get on it to replace all the stuff. One of the girls had some questions about some of the toys for me, so I spent a couple of minutes showing her how to properly use them.Of course, as I always did, I reminded them to take their birth control, pay attention to hygiene, the usual shit people tend to quickly forget or ignore. We had a couple of accidental pregnancies before and they always meant trouble. When a joytoy got pregnant, the clients often didn't want anything to do with it. That meant abortions, or if that wasn't in the books, another brat ending up at the foster homes nearby. No matter what way things went, there were pretty much always heated tempers, loud words, and inane discussions about responsibility. I knew some clients paid extra for pregnant girls, but that was a rarity around these parts.The most difficult situations were when one of the guys got a client pregnant. Technically there was a clause that said that anything that could end in pregnancy wasn't allowed, but since people are stupid, especially when high, drunk, and horny, that rule was so often disregarded that it might as well not exist. Problem was, someone had to fork over child support and what-have-you, and of course, since I was the person in charge, it would be my job to sort the shit out. Fucking grand.Despite the fucked up work life we had, I always made sure that at least the joytoys under me paid attention to all the important crap. More than once I sent someone home to clean up after they came in too fucked up to work. The redlight district was my home, and while it was a bit of a shithole - actually not just a bit - I wanted to make sure we were taken seriously. My goal was that one day we'd be seen as more than living onaholes, even if that was a bit of a pipedream with the current situation around the district.After I was done with all the minor stuff it was time to show the new guy the ropes."Okay, Paul, was it?" I asked as we walked."Yes, ma'am." The boy replied in an overly formal fashion, obviously a bit embarrassed."Okay, Paul. So we generally have a couple of rules around here that you should remember. The two most important for you are the following: No raw dogging. I don't care if you use a condom or if you pull out, just make sure that we don't have accidents, okay? And nothing that would hurt you or the client. I don't care how much money they shell out, that is just not something we do here. If they throw a fit feel free to refer them to me."It didn't take long before we arrived at our hallway, one of the ones on the first floor. I motioned to a door as we walked past."That is my room. I'll be available in between clients, but don't hesitate to come to me when there is an emergency.""The room over there," I pointed to one of the ones furthest down the hallway, "is yours. You should find anything you need in there. Toys can be taken home, but I recommend against it. If you forget one and ask for one from another room because you need it I will note that. Similarly all toys used should be cleaned after each client. That is your responsibility, and if I notice that you don't that will mean a whole bunch of annoying shit coming your way, understood?""Yes, ma'am!" This guy seemed to be the sort to listen closely and pay attention, which made me like him immediately."Good. I don't care what you do in your free time, who you fuck around with and what kind of shit you push into your veins, but you always need to make sure that you don't have anything infectious while at work. STD tests, blood tests, that kind of stuff will need to be done once every two weeks at minimum. We have a doc we work with who can do that, so if you need a test just ring them up. I recommend keeping a full papertrail on your tests. It's annoying, but we had some problems in the past when one of the joytoys didn't have paperwork for some of the older tests."If you stumble upon this tale on Amazon, it's taken without the author's consent. Report it."Yes, ma'am. I'll make sure to keep all the tests I do."I nodded and smiled at him, just as we arrived at his room."Now then, how experienced are you? Not just vanilla stuff, I mean in general?"He turned beet red and didn't meet my eyes."Uhm… I had a girlfriend once, who I did it with a couple times. Nothing more… uhm… extreme? Though."I nodded, "No shame in that. We can spend some time going over things now."Saying that, I opened the door and walked inside. Once in the room I quickly checked if everything was in order, then turned around to him."Let's start small. Show me how you would pleasure me with your mouth."He looked at me with wide eyes and an obvious boner in his pants.After a couple rounds with Paul, showing him some of the tips and tricks I had picked up over the years, I left him to his devices. One of the more senior guys would later show him some more, but right now they were all busy, so that would take some time.Of course, since I had helped him find his footing, I had to spend some time filling in some paperwork. Mainly, what he was able to do at the moment, what kind of clients he accepted, et cetera. He was pretty typical for a guy that had just started as a joytoy, preferring women, but he had mentioned that he was willing to entertain men later on down the line, once he got a bit more confident in the job. He was best with oral, so that was noted, but generally he was good enough at the moment that I was willing to have him train with some other joytoys and without my direct supervision.Once that was done I had to deal with another rather new addition to the roster. The girl had just started over a week ago and was already showing the telltale signs of someone who was slipping into drug abuse to cope with the fact that she was selling out her body for money. Technically I didn't need to deal with this, but I preferred to try and help them find another job, much like I had done with Sarah. Of course I couldn't force them to do anything, and if she wanted to stay, or didn't have another option, then that was just something I had to accept.I just really didn't want to end up with another body we would find behind some dumpster with seven syringes in her arm. That was something we had too often around these parts and I had seen my fair share of overdose cases in the nearly two years I had spent here.The talk with her went… about as swimmingly as my talks with Sarah usually went. She was pissdrunk and down two doses of Shiver. Shiver was one of the more widespread drugs, especially in the brothels. It heightened sensitivity, worked like something of an aphrodisiac, and basically forced the body into heat. The problem with it was that it completely disabled rational thinking, was highly addictive, and made you much more susceptible to most of the other shit, including alcohol. The end result was like something out of one of those cheap porn movies, a guy or girl who just let anyone do whatever they wanted to them, as long as they got to cum their brains out, even things they would consider deeply disgusting when sober. Of course, that did mean that once they sobered up they tended to be horrified at what they had done, and that led to a quick downward spiral that usually ended in overdose.I tried my best to give her options, gave her some recommendations about different places she could try to apply to, that kind of stuff, but I doubted that she even properly understood me in her drug induced horny haze.With a sigh I left her room and noted down a reminder to keep an eye on her.I liked my job, I really did. I got to enjoy myself, make some money, and get free drugs. These were the kind of things I could do without. I wasn't squeamish about death, I'd seen too many people die, either in gang shootouts or because of overdose, but that didn't mean I wanted to see more of that. Especially because I was pretty certain that the girl could have a proper life, if she was able to get out of the shithole she was in.After a quick trip to the shower to clean up, I made my way to the bar to grab a drink.Sitting down at the counter, I checked the time. I would be on the clock in twenty minutes. The others already had jobs, but because of my other duties I usually started a little later. The bar was still pretty empty, it was still early in the day after all, but I saw a couple familiar faces.Dax came over to me, giving me a warm smile while he finished cleaning one of the glasses. "Seraphine, how are you?" he asked in his typical, warm voice."You know how it is, Dax. How're you doing?" I replied and smiled at him. He was one of the few men I had spent some time with outside of work. Not that we were best friends or anything, but we had spent a night or two together before."I can't complain. The usual before you start?" He knew me well, so when I nodded he didn't take long to place my favourite drink in front of me.I thanked him and put it back, not caring too much about etiquette right now."I've seen you've been busy already. How's the new guy?""Eh, he's okay, pretty good with his tongue. Probably will be fully working in a couple days.""Oh? Enjoyed his service?" he smirked, knowing full well that I wasn't above enjoying myself with the new hires.I gave him a wide smile in return, shifting a bit on my stool at the memory of Paul's tongue playing around my nether regions. "Yup.""Gonna train him yourself, or leave that to the others?""Nah, he's good enough for the others to do that. I'm too busy with clients to spend much time there." I shrugged and motioned to the glass to ask for a refill.Dax of course obliged me, and soon I had another full drink in front of me, "I mean, you are popular. But I guess that makes sense considering how good you are.""Trying to rope me into another night spent together?" I asked with a smirk, then put the second drink back."Nah," he shook his head, "I found myself a potential partner. We are still dancing around it a bit, but I am pretty sure she wants me as much as I want her.""Oh? Now that has me curious," I said with a grin, "Who'd you find?""Nobody you'd know. She's from the outer edges of the inner city. We met at a club, one thing led to another, and well…""Wow, Dax is moving up in the world. Inner city, eh?" I snorted, "Don't forget about us little people in your new mansion.""Hey, you know I wouldn't!" He sounded a bit hurt, "And I doubt I'd move in soon, if at all. Inner city ain't really my style. Well, a bit early to think that far ahead anyways."We spoke for a bit longer and I had one more drink before I had to start working. By this point I was already pretty hammered, but I knew that both the first two clients would be very much into that. Really not looking forward to getting my asshole destroyed, I made my way up to my room and prepared.By the time I was done with my first three clients my ass was hurting like crazy. As if the first guy hadn't been enough, the other two also had the funny idea of trying anal. Great.Taking a small break before my next client, I stood outside in the freezing night air, enjoying the feel of the breeze flowing over my skin with a joint in hand. Breaks were a newer addition to our business, courtesy of some Samurai who apparently was very pissed about the 'shoddy treatment of working girls' (Yes, working girls! In this day and age…), and so to stop the district being blown to kingdom come the gangs relented and added breaks to our schedule. Ten minutes a day. It wasn't a lot, but I didn't complain.If I was honest with myself, I was really looking forward to my last client for the day. She was cute, not exactly my preferred looks but getting very close to it, and I could already feel myself getting excited. I just hoped that she would be more relaxed than the others.Anyways, finishing my break I went inside once more, revelling in the leering looks I got from the clients waiting for their appointment with other joytoys. As I walked past them, I grinned with a bit of a sashay in my step before I made my way upstairs to my room. I had the second room in the eastern hallway, the first vacant at the moment after poor Lena OD'd on some designer drugs brought in by a client.That had been a very hard day to deal with. Lena had been my senior and in charge before me, even if she had basically given me all her responsibilities. Mainly that was to train me up, but also because she really couldn't be arsed and was much more interested in snorting lines off of guys' dicks. In a way she had been a lot like me, really liking her job, but where I preferred alcohol and shit like that while I got bent over, Lena was all in on the hard shit. I had kind of known that she would suffer this fate some day, and I don't think she even minded too much. It had been her life, after all.To my surprise my next client was already there, waiting for me. For a moment I panicked. Did I read the time wrong? No, I still had ten minutes. She also didn't seem impatient or angry, more… embarrassed? Awkward? Probably her first time visiting a joytoy.With a sweet smile I walked up to her."Chloe, is it? I am Seraphine, it is such a pleasure to meet you," I said, hugging her tight for a moment, before I took one of her arms and hugged it, pressing it between my breasts. She was tall, nearly two heads taller than me, s