o I had to look up a bit, but I really didn't mind. Her furious blush was distracting me too much for that. "I hope I didn't keep you waiting for too long," I added, before motioning inside my room."Uh… No, no, not at all. I just… didn't know where to wait, is all." Her voice was quiet, her gaze locked on my figure.Chloe had the stature of a soldier, never quite relaxed. Otherwise she looked like any other girl you would see on the street, although she did have a bit more scanty looking clothes on than would be normal. Nothing scandalous, by far not as revealing as my own dress, but from her thin blouse it was quite evident that she was excited for something.It fit her very well, and I was already looking forward to the evening.Gently dragging her inside, I closed the door and locked it behind me, before turning back to her."Now then, honey, what can I do for you today? Any ideas on where to go or do you simply want to see what the evening brings?"Finally her eyes snapped up to mine, panic and embarrassment visible in her gaze, "I, uh, sorry, uhm… I honestly… I don't know."I smiled, she was just too sweet, "No need to be shy, you came here to admire me so feel free to do so," I said with a teasing wink, before I took her hand and led her to the little bar in my room. It was just big enough for two people, and wasn't a standard fare in other brothels from what I knew. "Would you like a drink to start off the afternoon?" I asked, opening the locked cupboard that contained all the drinks and drugs I had available."Sure, I guess that would be nice," she said, and sat down at the bar.I nodded, "Any preferences?""Not really, no. Just give me whatever."Bingo. She was cute and adorable and I already liked her a lot, but I wasn't above pulling out the most expensive drink I had to get a few more creds out of her.Pouring us both a glass I put away the bottle before I made my way over to the second barstool. Taking a seat I leaned into her, while offering her one of the glasses."You have never visited a joytoy before, have you?" I asked with a knowing smile.She chuckled, "That obvious, huh," she shook her head, "No, I haven't. This is the first time. Decided to treat myself since I just got… let's say promoted, not long ago.""Oh! How exciting!" I said and hugged her from the side, squeezing her a little, pressing my breasts into her side. "A promotion. Might I ask what you do for work?"She chuckled awkwardly, "Uhm… Not to be rude, but I don't think I want to share that yet. Maybe later.""Oh, I apologise for the question," I said, scowling at myself a bit at that faux pa."Nah, don't worry about it. You couldn't have known. Anyways, yeah, I have zero experience with… all this. Like, I kissed once, but that's about it." She seemed extremely embarrassed about that statement."Ah, well, we can change that. Just tell me when you are ready," I said with a purr, and sipped on my drink. Chloe didn't answer, just took the glass and emptied it with one big gulp. It very much fit the serious way she held herself."Y'know…," she said after a moment, still eyeing the empty glass, "And I do apologise if this is a personal question, but I am curious… How do you do it? Like doing this job. I couldn't imagine myself being here, even just getting here for an enjoyable evening is… embarrassing."She chuckled a moment later, but didn't elaborate.I sighed inwardly. It was a question I got from a lot of women who came to me, the more chatty kind anyway. Most couldn't fathom what it was to sell your body for money, a lot of them were judgmental about it. Not that they would refrain from happily using my services just like the rest of my clients."Well, personally I like my job. I get paid to enjoy myself, fool around, have fun, and get drunk on the clock," I shrugged, "It also means I can help the others, who end up here because they have nowhere else to go.""Sure, but like… don't you ever feel… I dunno… like you're worth more?" Chloe asked, looking at me, studying me. There was no judgement there, only curiosity, so I bit back on my more rude reply."Maybe… I don't come from much. Ma and da disowned me when I was still a kid, abandoned me the moment I showed even the slightest reluctance to take over the family business. Went a lot with gangs then, did most of the stuff I do here, just without pay. Nearly no night I wasn't bent over some bedframe to get fucked, high as a kite, that kind of thing y'know. Mind you, I wasn't forced to, I always had a high libido, takes very little to get me really heated. When I got old enough this was basically the only thing I could do, since I didn't want to join the military or some PMC. Not that I don't want to help people, but it just… The fact that I might need to shoot other people on a daily basis scared me off. Was enough I had to do that in the gangs. Here I can help in other ways. At least the joytoys, I mean."I realised too late that I had gone on for a bit longer than I wanted to, my mind muddled from alcohol and weed, plus some of the more esoteric things that my previous client had me take. It also didn't help that she made me feel… safe. Just having her next to me kind of reassured me about a lot of things, almost like life wasn't quite as shit as it used to be."I see…," she said, still looking me up and down, a slight bit embarrassed still, but not as much as before. "I get that feeling, I think. Didn't have it as bad as this, but we never had much in terms of money, nor did I get to grow up in the nicer parts of town. My family helped me, and I helped them, our neighbourhood was a close knit group. Did some gang work, although mostly to keep the placesafe, then joined the military. Only recently got out, to… pursue other venues," she added at the end, clearly keeping something from me, not that I minded."Sorry, I came here to enjoy myself, and now I start asking questions about your personal life and bore you with my life story," she laughed awkwardly."Oh no, don't apologise. I am here to help you relax and have a good time, and sometimes that means more than just to sleep with the client. There was a time, before I became a joytoy, where that was actually a big part of the reason people came here. Have a chat with someone that wouldn't judge them, before you got to have fun. Clear your mind, then relax. I… I'm kind of sad I didn't get to experience that time. These days I open the door and the first order is 'on your knees'. I love it, true, but it could be more, y'know?""I guess. Mind if I have another drink? Whatever you just got us, it's good," she asked, pushing her glass over to me.I smiled and nodded, getting up to pour her another drink. "Maybe something… less exquisite? That one is expensive. Don't want you to end up with too bad a surprise."I didn't know why I asked, normally I kept that to myself and just poured drink after drink to earn more money. Something about her though… I couldn't quite put my finger on it, but something deep down wanted to show her some courtesy."Nah, it's fine. I didn't come from money but in recent history my life changed quite a lot. Unless you charge like a mil I don't need to worry," she said with a laugh, "Still sounds fucking stupid to say that."I chuckled dutifully, although it did make me question why she was here if she had that kind of money. Lots of high profile brothels in other parts of town.With another drink poured I set it down in front of her, then put the bottle away and pulled out another joint, "Want one?" I asked, but she shook her head. With a shrug I lit it and took a deep pull.There was a moment of silence before she spoke again. "So… I didn't know what to expect, so I booked double, any ideas how we could… enjoy that time?" Her adorable blush was back and I smiled at the sight."I have lots and lots of ways. Do you want to keep it vanilla or are you open to experimentation? I have an entire wardrobe full of fun toys to try out if you want."That had her gulping. "I, uh… I guess, vanilla at first, but… I guess I am not too averse to experimentation?"I smiled, took another deep pull of the joint, then came back around the bar again, sitting down on her lap. "Well then…," I said quietly, my voice husky, "How about… we start… here," I said, my free hand starting to roam her stomach, while I leaned in closer to her.She said she didn't have experience, so I decided to take it slow and give her the opportunity to accept my offer of a kiss, instead of going for it myself. She seemed like she needed a bit of agency.Our lips met, making my heart skip a bit, before starting to beat faster. I could feel the heat in my abdomen, the familiar feeling of rising excitement. At first I kept it chaste, only giving her pecks, before eventually I started to slowly introduce my tongue to our little game. She accepted it, soon answering my approach with the same fervour. One of her hands came up to mine, slowly pulling it closer to her chest. But before I could start to enjoy it, undoing her blouse, the lights in my room flickered, the alarm started blasting full force, and a text appeared in my vision, big aggressive letters blinking at me in red.

"Fuck!"***
