The island nation and the arcanaeum of Oceanside were named the same, because to call them differently was only something that natives did. To all the world, Oceanside was Oceanside. To Erick, Oceanside was the home of a friend, and, in a way, his alma mater, though he had only ever spent a semester here. That semester had been enough to teach him everything he wanted to know at the time, and it had been enough to be awarded an honorary diploma years after that attendance, well after Erick had become the Apparent King, during one of the calmer years.

Everyone had attended that award ceremony, and it had been a great time, though apparently Erick had been ‘not all there’ for he had been stuck in an [Onward] for a while. Erick still recalled that time fondly. The Headmaster had decorated the tall off-white pillar towers of the arcanaeum and the lightward roadways in the air with lines of black and white, but mostly white, in honor of the Apparent King.

But privately, Kirginatharp had told Erick that he wanted Melemizargo and his Shades nowhere near the Arcanaeum for that celebration, and so Erick had sent Goldie away, and told the rest to leave. Healing from wounds 1450 years in the making was not an easy thing.

And now there were new wounds, added just last week.

The wounds of the truth of Idyrvamikor as an agent of Nothanganathor, and of how the Erased One had used Kirginatharp to shape the world to his liking, through the Dragon Curse. Because of that, Kirginatharp was already stepping down from many of his responsibilities, but he was still the Second of Rozeta. He still had pull, and especially here, at his arcanaeum, at this center of learning for all of Veird.

The sun set in the sky to the west, beyond the ocean, and yet that wasn’t the sun and that wasn’t the sky at all. It was an illusion with a weaker sort of light. The sky was not nearly as orange and gold as it used to be.

It was not how it looked that one time, long ago, when Erick had met Kirginatharp for dinner with Jane, here at the Azure Room, and discussed [Duplicate]. The sky might have been different, but the crescent harbor of Oceanside looked the same, and the restaurant hadn’t changed at all, here on the northern side of the main city.

Erick stepped into a foyer where everything was blue opulence. Sapphire chandeliers adorned with white wardlights, blue vases sitting atop cream-colored plinths. Lifelike paintings of ocean life occupied central positions on the walls, and a large staircase of blue stone led up from the foyer to the blue-crystal double doors to the restaurant. The doors were already open. Soft music flowed into the foyer, along with the scent of good food to come. It was bready and spicy and meaty, and wonderful.

A pair of Cooks stood to the left, at the top of the staircase, wearing immaculate white uniforms, while the host for the evening wore a brilliant blue uniform and stood to the other side of the entrance. Erick had [Reincarnation]ed the Cooks into their current forms 8 years ago, and the host had a request on file for the same treatment. He’d probably get that treatment fulfilled, as soon as Erick set up the automatic [Reincarnation] machines at the House.

Erick’s white and silver glowthread clothes swished around him like a proper wizard’s robes, matching the décor of the room but with a different sort of opulence, almost alien in nature. It was the best thing that Erick owned, and so he decided to wear it for the night.

Erick strode forward, up the blue stone staircase.

The goldscale waiter bowed, saying, “Welcome, Wizard Flatt. The Headmaster awaits your arrival.”

Erick smiled a little at that, and then he walked down the stairs into the next room, where almost every table had been cleared away, save one. A 200 degree span of windows showed the western sky and the northern wing of the crescent harbor of Oceanside, while blue gems encrusted the ceiling and chandeliers dripped with sparkle, and a nice, comfortable table and chair set held in the middle of the room.

Kirginatharp sat on the left chair, though he stood upon seeing Erick. He was wearing the gold and white glowthread robes that Erick had brought him; they were like his normal robes, but made of otherworldly material. His expression was one of quiet concern, hidden behind a larger joy. He was every bit the image of a Chinese emperor greeting an old friend.

Despite being a dragon, the Headmaster did not wear his horns openly, and he was only his normal 170 centimeter height. Erick had chosen to put away his own horns and height for the night, so he was only a little bit taller than Kirginatharp right now.

Kirginatharp said, “Hello, Erick. Power looks good on you.”

Erick chuckled at the ice breaker. They hadn’t seen each other in two years, and a whole lot had happened in that amount of time. More than should have happened, really.

Erick easily said, “Looks good on you, too! If you want more of those clothes I think my daughters and son are having some success weaving glowthread. The wild spiders won’t be making anything for a good century, though.”

Kirginatharp grinned softly, touching the voluminous sleeve of his robes, the glowthread moving like water before settling back down to gravity’s draw. “It is a rather marvelous thread.”

The two friends sat without one of them needing to invite the other to do so, and conversation came easier than Erick thought it would. There was lots to talk about. The food was fantastic.

Halfway through the dinner, Kirginatharp changed the subject to deeper matters, casually saying, “I can’t be [Reincarnation]ed right now, Erick, to eliminate the Dragon Curse. I would lose all of my power. My longstanding denouncement of the Forever War has angered too many of the angels and demons, and there are certain elements of their nations which have already threatened to murder me if I am weakened. There’s 4 billion of them, too. The only thing stopping them from taking over the world is their own war with each other, and the threat of Nothanganathor out there.”

Erick nodded. “That’s fine. I do want to eliminate the Dragon Curse soon, though. Whenever we can. The elimination of that Curse would eliminate one of the longstanding ways in which Nothanganathor can threaten this world, and we could use those Free dragons in Ar’Cosmos as warriors against the Red, once they are able to move around freely without desiring to kill each other on sight.” Erick added, “Whenever this can be done, I want to do it, and I will protect you afterward, Kirginatharp.”

Kirginatharp chuckled. “There’s no protecting me if I were to lose power.”

Those small words had said a great deal.

“There’s a different option we could try rather than the direct fight against the Dragon Curse,” Erick said, “You could pick an ally to become Second to Rozeta and the Dragon Curse could spread to them instead, and then I could cure it from them.”

Kirginatharp shook his head a little, saying, “There are no True Dragons out there which could threaten my hold as Second to Rozeta. You’re completely immune and outside of the running for Second because of too many ways to list. This ‘Shadow’ person is right out for a different list of reasons, with only partial overlap as your own. The only one close to Second is Solomon, and he’s half-Paradoxed, so he’s out of the running, too. I have no allies among the Free dragons of Ar’Cosmos.”

“How about someone you could take a dive for?” Erick offered, “Or someone you can raise up to Second? Anyone would do, Kirginatharp.”

Kirginatharp shook his head a little, though he was thinking…

“Something to think about, anyway,” Erick moved on, “So what’s this about the Angels and Demons threatening you?”

The topic was easy enough to slide into, for Kirginatharp readily began, “They’ve usurped the entire religious underpinning of Veird in multiple ways. The Erasure of half of our original population is a small part of the problem. Mostly, the issues stem from the introduction of a million or more thousand-year-old monsters of dubious morality, all of them with a heavy penchant for psychological, proxy warfare that they have honed through the Quiet War over their long afterlives. The basic soldiers on both sides are pretty much just people, but the ones in charge… Well you know the Viridian King of Greensoil, Darundi Raivo. They’re all like him. The current Crown of the Host was from Greensoil. Almost all of those in power among the Angels were from there, too.” Kirginatharp said, “I appreciate what Solomon did for us a lot more than the average person, but he also caused a great deal of problems in saving those afterlives.”

Erick nodded. “I hear he’s annihilated several warfronts, alongside Avandrasolaro.”

“They do what they can but it simply isn’t enough when it comes to the self-reviving Angels and Demons.” Kirginatharp said, “Solomon and Avandrasolaro haven’t engaged in any soul sundering, but the Angels and Demons are doing enough of that to each other when they can, and anyone else who steps into those wars with those weapons are rapidly cut down by both sides. I’d call the Angelic/Demonic cooperation a miracle if they didn’t go right back to trying to kill each other, sometimes right on the battlefields that they had cooperated in to kill the outsiders.”

A server dished out more wine, and brought another course. This one was braised monstrous cow ribs, each a meter long and thick with meat. They were delicious, and heavily spiced with bluebell. Erick had missed that common spice; those tiny blue flowers were kinda wonderful, giving the meat an outdoorsy, wild-ish sort of taste, that was so distinctly ‘bluebell’, and hard to put into other sorts of terms. Also kinda floral and sweet.

After finishing off a rib, thinking all the while, Erick said, “I’m attempting to get some peace treaties signed, but I have met some significant blocks. Can you get the Demon King or the Crown of the Host to actually answer your requests to talk?”

Kirginatharp shook his head. “Haven’t been able to do that in a very long time. They’re Prime Gods now, you know. 2 billion followers will do that, and then you have the other 2 billion followers of the other god, polluting the divine waters with levels of hate that inspire true zealotry. As large as this world is, it is too small for the both of them. Many of the others have gotten some power back as well, for every angel and demon was originally a person— That’s probably why Sininindi survived at all…”

The conversation moved to nuance and intrigue, and the dinner continued well on into the night.

Erick still occasionally worked as he and Kirginatharp shared a meal and conversation, but it was magic done through tiny portals to the left of the dinner and not out in the open at all. House Benevolence was rather good about bringing things to his attention without needing to actually talk to him; Zolan would just set reports onto a desk and Erick would get done whatever needed to be done. Usually it was just signing paperwork, or porting a threatening letter directly onto someone’s desk to get them to stop whatever it was they were doing. Little things.

At the end of the dinner, Erick said, “Sorry for needing to work as we spoke.”

Kirginatharp smiled softly. “You’ve come a long way, Erick. Far beyond me. I’m just some administrator, now, who is mostly retired, and by necessity. You’ve earned the right to work while relaxing, if you want.” Kirginatharp said, “When this is all over, and if you were a normal person, I would wish you luck in finding some time to actually relax, but that’s just not you.”

Erick chuckled.

Kirginatharp nodded, glad his tease had landed properly.

Erick said, “It was great to see you again, Kirginatharp. Thanks for the dinner.”

“Least I could do for all you have done,” Kirginatharp said, “And when I can give you some good news on the Dragon Curse business, I will do so.”

“It’s not your fault. You were used. I was used, too.”

Kirginatharp let out an exhausted chuckle. “That’s putting it lightly.”

- - - -

“So what is Genesis?” Solomon rhetorically asked. “It’s the solidification of possibility into reality.”

Erick looked at the man. “That tells me nothing.”

Solomon laughed in a happy sort of way. He was looking pretty good these days. With a grey beard and hair and the body of a fit 50 year old man, and yet the face of a much older man, Solomon looked older than he was by far. The stress of the changing world was getting to him. It was getting to Erick, too, but Erick was Ascended, and Solomon was not. Not really.

He was doing some sort of ‘cooperative cultivation thing’ with a bunch of side realities, but even he didn’t really understand that; he didn’t really know what he had done that Day of Genesis, over 2 years ago, when he made Fenrir and the shells of Veird. Or at least that’s what Erick had been able to piece together since he had come back to Veird.

Erick didn’t push that line of inquiry just yet. Maybe he would, soon.

Erick was finally able to sit down with Solomon a little over a week after the Shelter went around Veird and the sky stopped spinning. It was not a calm sort of meeting. Even this little bit of time would need to be taken quickly, for as soon as something resembling peace had returned to Veird there had been emergency after emergency, from ten thousand different corners of the world. Everyone had stuff that they needed done right now, because everything was falling apart. From food supplies to hospitals in need of healers to 2-year-old tragedies that no one had been able to work on until now, the world was healing just a little, and in that healing, problems appeared.

Erick’s meeting with Kirginatharp the other day had been about the only calm time Erick had had since the Shelter went up, and even that hadn’t been too calm.

Solomon was similarly busy. He was on the Worldly Path, too, and had been for a while. Solomon’s Wizardly apotheosis had certainly happened on that Day of Genesis, and he was a Wizard in truth, but then the world had clawed at him in so many different ways…

Erick was still understanding all of those different ways.

Erick was here at the Black Castle of Solomon to talk with his brother about Genesis, and probably other topics. This meeting was kinda tense. It had started off okay, but then it sort of… got here, to Solomon giving Erick a non-answer about Genesis.

It was a sensitive topic, apparently.

Erick pulled back. “I don’t think I’ve asked you how you’re doing yet, Solomon. Not truly. I’ve been busy. Sorry about that.”

