Solomon huffed a laugh as he shook his head a little. “Thank you for the concern, but I am doing fine. Destiny and I married six months ago, you know?”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “No, I did not know that!” He smiled wide. “That’s great! Congrat—” Erick’s brief happiness for the man faltered hard. “No one knows except for you two and Poi.”

Solomon laughed a bit more freely, that time. “I’m sure a few others know. Poi officiated. The wedding was small and private, but it wasn’t meant to be as small as it ended up being. We sent out a few invites, but every single one was lost in the mail and somehow all the people spying on me all the time didn’t get the memo that way, either. It wasn’t until a week later with me being furious at… at a lot of people, that we went investigating. The mail room at the House was attacked by the Red, and the letters never made it out.” Solomon waved a dismissive hand. “Destiny and I decided that we’ll have a bigger wedding when this war is over, and this time the letters won’t get lost. You’re invited, of course.”

“I will be there with the best gifts I can possibly make. I have to figure out those gifts first, but I look forward to the wedding!”

Solomon smiled softly. “Thank you… Anyway! You are asking about Genesis...”

He held up a hand. Glittering silver mana flowed like a river out of his palm, shaping itself into countless small things, from a tiny sword to a snow globe to a mirror to a thousand little items and even faces and arms and eyes, and none of that at all. The silver mana flowed over those images, briefly showing it as those things, before it flowed away into the air, to spread images and lost intent into the manasphere.

It sounded like the joy of Christmas without any of the normal sounds Erick would have associated with that time of the year, back on Earth. Maybe the tiny chime of a bell? Hard to say. It was more of a feeling than any real sound, anyway.

Solomon said, “Genesis is possibility. I have yet to find Debby in the possibility, but I had a small talk with Fairy Moon the other day.” Solomon closed his palm, and the chiming sound of Genesis winked out in the shaping of a fist. “She had some small words for me that almost sparked something... It felt so familiar, like coming back to a house and finding other people have moved stuff around and the light switch wasn’t where it had been for 15 years. I’m walking a Path I already walked, but differently.”

Erick felt his own Lightning Path moving erratically.

Many paths lay ahead.

Erick chose to simply acknowledge the surreality happening to Solomon. “Yup. You are.”

Solomon raised an eyebrow, and then he laughed. He smiled, and said, “Yup.” And then he breathed deep, and asked, “Can you touch Genesis at all, not being connected to the Script? I’d imagine not actually being passively exposed to the mana would fuck up any attempts to copy what you’ve never touched before.”

Erick raised an eyebrow.

He had tried, in a halfhearted manner, to use Genesis. Nothing had happened back in those attempts, and so Erick was here.

“Genesis is difficult,” Erick said, as he held up a hand and brought forth the lightning crackle of Benevolence. He moved his fingers, trying to Alter the Element into something else. He rapidly moved through almost every Element he knew. “As in Genesis seems beyond me.” He said, “Maybe I do need to actually be exposed to it, like you said, and Mana Siphon wouldn’t work for that, due to the conversion aspects of that Ability… I suppose I should try ambient mana gathering, too. Have you done anything with ambient mana?”

“I tried it.” Solomon nodded. “Ended up poorly. There’s been Malevolence in the air, but that is only half of the problem. The only person who actually uses atmospheric mana well is Syllea Wyrmrest, and only when she’s Raging. She and I had a discussion about this a while ago, when there were some attacks here and there and both of us needed more mana. Apparently it kills her to use atmospheric mana, but she survives because she is Raging and nigh-unkillable. There were a few others that could use atmospheric mana, and they were either all orcols who did it only as a last resort, or they only used atmospheric mana once and then never again… also as a last resort.”

Erick nodded. “Whelp. Let’s try it! Can you flood the room with Genesis?”

Solomon smirked. “Let’s start with this.”

Solomon held up his hands in front of him as though gripping a steering wheel, and then he released mana in a controlled ring of power that flowed out from one hand like silver charms, clinking and chiming as they went, before falling into the grip of his other hand, where those charms became the lightning-light flow of Benevolence. Solomon continued the circuit around the wheel, where Benevolence rejoined Genesis, and the crackling path of lightning became the flow of tinkling chimes.

The real show was happening in Solomon’s aura, at the juncture of his palms and the tube.

Erick watched as Solomon let mana out of himself, into a controlled ring of aura, where it became ambient mana, and then he absorbed that mana back into himself, before spitting it out again. Whatever was happening at the points of his hands was…

“Remarkable,” Erick said, studying what he was seeing. “This is a neat method of training how to reabsorb spent mana, too.”

Solomon breathed easy, but he looked like he was holding up a weight of some measure as he continued to cycle the mana like this. And then some shards of mana formed in his hands, inside of his flesh, like crystallized needles. Where he had released the Benevolence and absorbed the Genesis, there were tiny silver needles, like asbestos filaments. Where he had released the Genesis and absorbed the Benevolence, there were larger needles made of white crystal. He shook out his hands, pushing the crystals out of his skin. Only the largest crystals clinked to the floor. Most of the fragments merely dissipated, as mana crystals often did.

Solomon said, “That’s a lot more tiring than it looks and there’s more to it than what I appear to be doing, but that’s most of it.”

“You’re better at reabsorbing Genesis than you are at reabsorbing Benevolence.”

“I might have started off as Benevolence flavored, but that changed a lot. My dragon coloring is still black—” He brought his black horns out and tapped them. And then he put them away. “But all my mana is silver colored. Destiny likes to call it ‘platinum’. I think she heard that I like that color better than ‘silver’ once, and now she uses ‘platinum’ everywhere.”

Erick smiled. “Rather charming of her.”

Solomon laughed. “I’m not sure where the charms came from. They sort of just happened. I think they’re the focuses of all the side-Ericks who ‘collectively cultivated’ with me during the Day of Genesis. They’re the things they want the most, or even just passing fancies. Or the things they want back. Most of the charms are people. Only a few of them look like Jane. Vanishingly few, really.”

Erick nodded slowly, hearing the hidden concern in Solomon’s voice.

Erick thought for a moment.

He rapidly decided he couldn’t help Solomon with Debby, because that would be the wrong thing to do, for Fairy Moon was good at this and Erick… Well. He could try. But a lot of things were telling him that he didn’t need to help in this way, and to try to help was to test Fate too much...

Erick simply asked Solomon, “Are you happy with what Fairy Moon is doing to help guide you?”

Solomon flinched. “… Mostly. It’s concerning, of course, for a lot of reasons I am still digesting. Your curated manual cleared up a lot of weirdness with what Wizardry is, or could be, and the Day of Clouds made Wizardry available again, which has helped even more than that… But let’s move on.” Solomon said, “I assume, with billions of mana to your name, that you need to do a much bigger circle of cycling than I did in order to actually see your numbers shift in any meaningful way.”

“Oh yeah. Let’s see...”

Erick dove into himself, switched a few things around in his Status, and brought up his actual, full mana numbers. He was currently at 7,198,342,189 mana, and that number was going up by 1,505 per second. He was going to need to do a great big expulsion/re-absorption in order to see any change in those numbers at all.

Erick came back to himself, saying, “7 billion mana, so yeah. I would need to make a very large… Hmm. Have you tried absorbing with just your aura? Why do you use your flesh and the surface of Health to reabsorb the ambient mana?”

“So that the mana shards don’t go all the way into my soul. Health makes a nice barrier to add to mana.” Solomon shrugged. “But if you’re using Health as mana, it’s easier to use Blood Mana and some Healing Magics to restore extra mana. Ambient mana absorption is only really useful when you have no Health left and you can easily heal the damage.”

Erick said, “Can you do the cycling again? Explaining the whole thing?”

Solomon held his hands like he was holding a steering wheel again, and then he created a circular, solid wheel of controlled aura. He widened the center of that circle, to make it a tube, releasing mana from both of his hands to do so, creating a space of ambient mana that was already his own mana.

Solomon said, “That’s the easy part, and it looks like you got it.”

“Tube of aura that you fill with your own mana, thus removing the complication of using actual ambient mana, while still providing a difficulty of ‘intent-dead’ mana to reabsorb.”

“Yup.” Solomon said, “And now, I expel Genesis with one hand and Altered Benevolence with the other, flowing them through the tube in a circle, using Elemental Mystical at the edges of my palm, inside of my body, to direct the flow, and to absorb the flow. The Mystical is there to bridge gaps and to ‘induct’ the now-ambient mana back into my body, convincing the ambient that it is real. You can do it with some [Renew] framework if you wish, and I suggest you try that first, and concentrate only on the Benevolence in the air, but that is only useful for throwing out your own mana and bringing it back to you.

“Doing it that way is just as hard as doing it this way, though.

“Much of the Benevolence of this world is not actually yours anymore, anyway; it is what we seeded here among the other people. In a complete mana vacuum, maybe such a ‘recycled mana ability’ would be useful, and it is; like on the various low-mana-density floors of Atunir’s Glittering Depths in Greendale in the Greensoil Republic, or in space. But we’re not in a mana vacuum, and Malevolence hides everywhere.

“Maybe you can make an Ability that allows you to throw out spellwork and then reabsorb that mana you threw out there, at the cost of… resons? Or something? I’m not sure.”

There was a lot there.

Solomon continued, “Anyway, you can try to make the Renew-shape with your hand and a tube, because gods know I tried that the first time and it worked okay, but it doesn’t actually help. Or at least it doesn’t help me. Perhaps, if I was still Benevolence, it would, but I’m not Benevolence anymore.

“And you’re not trying to reabsorb Benevolence; you’re trying to get some Genesis and use that, which requires you to have experienced Genesis from taking it from the environment.”

Solomon stopped.

Erick had a long think.

Solomon watched. “Want to just Mana Siphon some Genesis from me?”

“No,” Erick said, “I want to solve this problem in a much deeper way. Not like Mana Siphon —as it is—allowed me to suck in any of the extra abilities that were littered around Margleknot.”

Solomon nodded, asking, “You didn’t even try though, did you? Didn’t you say that Margleknot gave you a vein of power in your house to draw from, and you didn’t draw from that vein?”

Erick winced… And then he relaxed. “Well. There were other powers in the air. Lots and lots of them. Pretty sure I got some experience with Elemental Fate from a friend I made, but…” Erick held up a hand and tried channeling Elemental Fate… And promptly got nowhere. Benevolence came out of his hand and then fluttered around. “Fate is Banned, so if I got Fate then I don’t know how to use it.” Erick said, “I certainly don’t think the problem is that Benevolence cannot be Fate or Genesis, but this is all very new to me, and yeah, I probably do need to take in some ambient Fate and Genesis and all the rest that I might find later, littered around the world.”

“You Siphoned Malevolence, right?” Solomon asked, “Can you do Malevolence?”

“Ha!” Erick smiled. “You know? I never even tried, and I’m going to keep it that way.”

Solomon smiled. “Yeah. Me, too. Try the ambient collection solution.”

Erick made a tube of ambient Benevolence in the air, holding it at the bottom with his gripped hand. It was an upside-down [Renew] ring, with Erick’s gripped hand at the opening.

Erick flooded the tube toward the right with Benevolence. White lightning-light rushed out in that direction, rapidly becoming nothing more than invisible, ‘dead’ mana, as it swam around the tube toward the top and then around the other side. This caused an increase in mana pressure in the tube, because Erick was both in complete control of the tube and he had a lot of mana to push.

He tried opening his soul on the other side of the tube.

… And nothing happened as the tube filled with denser and denser mana. Only a few seconds passed, and the tube rapidly crystallized, all at once, in complete defiance of the Script’s control over the land and this space. Too much mana from Wizards kinda did that. Erick released the space and the mana crystal rapidly vanished, for the Script had taken over again, though it never really stopped.

So there were some problems.

Erick suggested, “Let’s go into the dungeon? You can turn down the ambient mana in there?”

Solomon said, “Sure. It won’t help, though. You did everything correctly, just not the re-absorption part.” Solomon stood, asking, “Want to see the Black Gate anyway? I was wondering if you could help me bring some stuff out of it that was too big for me, but we don’t have to do that now, either.”

Erick remained seated, because now he really Looked at Solomon. “You’re not okay. What’s wrong?”

Solomon was about to play it off as nothing was wrong.

Erick waited.

