And then Solomon sighed. He sat back down. “My first fuckup which caused the whole world to turn against me was the loss of the Lifeblood Heart. That giant mana heart left me, zipped away through all the adamantium shells overhead, avoiding every single person who should have caught it, and then went sailing into the void. Rozeta kinda hated me for that. She wasn’t the only one. It was… tough.” He sighed, then said, “Gods, it’s so weird to be talking like this— I lost track of gravity! I swear I did, but the mana history showed my inner ears telling me where gravity was, but I aimed in the opposite direction for some stupid fucking reason. I’d blame Malevolence, since that’s so fashionable these days, but I fucked up somehow and I have no idea how. But! Even the worst case scenario was that that stupid fucking Heart should have still been in the sky doubling everyone’s mana generation for years, no matter where it went… But Nothanganathor ate it, obviously. He had to have. Pretty much confirmed-without-confirming.”

A lot of people when they poured their hearts out only wanted someone to vent to; someone to listen.

Solomon wanted solutions, and he wanted Erick to have those solutions.

“Want to make a new Heart?” Erick asked, completely serious.

Solomon’s bad mood evaporated. “Yes. I do want to make a new Heart. I was hoping that with you here, that you and I can work together to pluck it out of the Dark, even though it’s already gone. I tried for a long while to find it again on my own, but… You know how you suspected that we were only ever going to get one chance with a lot of things we take from there? That turned out to be true, and the Heart was one of those.”

Erick said, “I was thinking we could do something with the Awakening Machine stuff, actually; we can leave the old solutions in the past. You know how the Lifeblood Heart doubled everyone’s mana production within several light years of distance? The Awakening Machine turns a 1-mana-per-day person into a 50-MPD person. Whatever is going on there is some of the same sort of thing, but the scale is obviously completely different. Perhaps too different? I don’t know. The Awakening Machine is great for low-level people, but the Heart is fantastic for high levels and on a vastly increased scale.”

Erick let his words hang out there.

And Solomon had a lot of sudden thoughts, chaining off of each other. Erick couldn’t read his mind, but he could see Solomon thinking deeply. Something flickered in the man’s body, in his very soul, like a wave of invisibility sweeping through the clouds of Solomon’s being. Erick doubted that Solomon noticed, because the Script obscured that sort of thing. Erick noticed it. It was the flow of resons in a person; a golden light that was obscured.

Erick realized something himself, in that moment, about Truths and purpose and the multiplication of mana production due to better futures, and wondered if Solomon would share in his realization.

The Awakening Machine was an act of Authority demanding the waking of possibilities of a better future. This act caused mana production to rise. It did more than that, though. The Awakening Machine also helped increase reson production. All magic was linked, after all; even the magics of different universes.

That was why the people at the Awakening Machine Research Center were having such difficulty understanding it.

Erick was starting to suspect that there was no understanding it. It was magic. Yes, people would be devoting a lot of time and effort into studying it all, and there were likely some underlying principles they could discover aside from the nebulous thing that the Awakening Machine ‘awakened someone to the possibilities of More’. But it was like a fundamental principle of the universe; past a certain point, things just worked that way.

Erick grinned at that thought.

… And then he thought more.

Perhaps the underlying truth of the Awakening Machine and the Lifeblood Heart was truly rooted in Wizardry and Authority; that things worked how they worked because people decided they worked that way—

Ah.

… Was the Lifeblood Heart, perhaps, the failed Ascension of a Creation Wizard?

Maybe a dead god?

Or rather, was the original Lifeblood Heart any of those things?

Melemizargo had spoken about the nature of the Lifeblood Heart before, but it was the sort of explanation that Shadow had given about ‘what is the Dark Mark’; ‘It’s a thing that does a thing, Erick. What more do you need to know?’ Obviously neither of them had spoken exactly like that, but that was the gist of it all. Melemizargo never bullshitted anything, but he was a god, and he preferred giving people hints about deep truths, so that they would discover those truths on their own. Shadow did the same.

The fact was that the Lifeblood Heart had been a part of the Dark and Melemizargo until it had been liberated from the Black Gate, in the dungeon down at the bottom of Solomon’s Black Castle. Everything that had come out of the dungeons was like that. Were all those things taken from the Dark the original thing? Not really, and yet they were. Did they function the same as they ‘used to function’? Also yes.

How?

Well.

That’s where Wizardry happened.

Erick was reminded of the infinite density mana crystals of the Glittering Depths, upon which he had based his own Ascension to Wizardry.

When the people of Greensoil were making that Grand Dungeon, and replicating those dense crystals, they were piggybacking off of the idea of infinite depth crystals that were first made in the Old Cosmology. On that original world where the mana-diamonds came to be, the creation of the infinitely dense crystal had first required that someone have that idea, and then make that idea happen. Literally make it happen, too. Once the original idea had occurred, there was a shift in the local manasphere which made it easier to replicate the ‘impossibility’ of the original creation.

Like the world had learned something new.

Like the introduction of Renew to Veird, or Particle Physics to Earth, or any number of other large creative events. ‘The world’ had learned something new.

Solomon was learning something new right now.

Erick felt like he was learning something new, too, but it wasn’t about the Lifeblood Heart, or mana creation. It was about Paradox, and Benevolence, and Renew, and Genesis. But mostly about this ambient-mana-thing that his Genesis-conversation had turned into.

Erick wasn’t sure when it had happened, but suddenly—

Erick spoke, “I’m—”

“I need—” Solomon started right with Erick.

“Go ahead.”

“You first.”

Erick rapidly said, “I need to go play around with some spellwork, now.”

“Me, too.” Solomon asked, “Catch you around in an hour?”

“Maybe a little longer.”
