Lily split into three, each with a Grick on their back.

I know she tried to tell me to stay put, but I had to see this!

My precious little sister had just evolved, and she was on her way to test her new abilities on the fleeing human!

She really is growing up too fast!

I winced upon my first steps but ignored it and forced myself to move, pushing through the pain. I could use a potion once we were done here, and this was just too important! I couldn’t just miss one of my little sister’s big moments! That would be unforgivable!

I broke into a steady trot, following the frantic rhythm of the human’s pulse as he tore through the trees ahead. It was the erratic, blind panic of prey that knew something unbeatable was behind it.

And sure enough, hot on his trail were three shadows that darted between the trees. Lily—all three of her!

They moved in a loose arc, one staying behind him while another sped ahead and cut off his path with a snarl. As I got closer, I realized Lily wasn’t just bigger; she was more shadowy, and so was Grick! He sat atop each Lily with a set of glowing red eyes above her purple ones, their silhouettes fusing into one, and together they looked like a real nightmare!

The human screamed and stumbled, not even thinking of actually fighting the shadow monster as he scrambled to run the other way. As he did so, the other two Lilys tore through the trees around him, keeping pace on either side of him and steering him away from the base.

This didn’t seem necessary, and even with my wounds, I was catching up. I realized she wasn’t just looking to eliminate him—she was practicing! But that wasn’t the only thing I noticed.

Twigs snapped, and leaves rustled. These new Lily clones didn’t just seem like shadows—they were actually affecting things as if they were physical!

The human let out loud, desperate pants as he realized he was surrounded again. Then, as he looked over his shoulder, his foot must have struck something as he pitched forward violently.

He rolled out of the underbrush and into a small clearing, smacking himself hard against the forest floor multiple times until finally managing to scramble back to his feet. But this time, he only froze, because he had nowhere to run!

I took a front row seat just along the treeline as I watched the three Lilys prowl towards him from all sides.

He panted, shifting this way and that, and then ripped his sword from its sheath. “Stay back! Stay back, you monsters!” he screamed.

Two of the Lily’s paced slow semicircles to his sides, while the other prowled towards him, Grick sitting high atop her back.

The bandit locked up as he stared at them. “W-What are you?”

Then a voice emerged—it was Grick, but different, more rumbly, with a slight echo. “I am Shadow Grick. This Shadow Lily. We hunt nasty human!”Come on, guys! Don’t play with your food!

But then the man snapped, lunging forward with a desperate shout as he raised his sword high. He swung with all his might, but just before hitting the central Lily, she slid backward, strings of shadows trailing behind her as the other Lilys dove in from both sides, one hitting him, then the other, bouncing off him, sending him stumbling this way and that. But that wasn’t all.

A shadow Grick leapt free from one Lily’s back as the other two Gricks disappeared from atop their Lilys. A flash of steel sliced across the bandit as the Shadow Grick flew by and he was scooped up by a Lily on the end of his jump.

Then the three Lilys were running around him in a circle as the red-eyed Shadow Gricks appeared on each of their backs again. Strings of almost solid shadow followed in each of the clone’s wake, the bandit shifting this way and that, trying in vain to keep track of each of them, to defend himself against whatever next attack may come.

But his composure didn’t last long. He eventually screamed and ran at a Lily, but as soon as he did so, it retreated with a slide while the other two dove in.

Two Gricks disappeared as one leapt free, once again flying past the bandit with a slashing dagger that gouged him once again. The bandit screamed, twisting around quickly, losing his footing, and falling. Grick landed on another Lily, and this time the three clones all dove in on the downed man at once but only one had a Grick this time.

The bandit slashed his sword blindly upward, but the angle was terrible as one Lily easily avoided it and snapped her jaws around his wrist. Another Lily grabbed his other arm, and they both pulled in opposite directions, spreading his arms wide, making it impossible for him to move.

“Help me!” he screamed as loud as he could as he continued to struggle, his torso twisting, his legs kicking at the ground.

Oddly enough, the two Lilys on his arms didn’t seem to be damaging him. He wasn’t screaming in pain, and he pulled against them more like there were chains wrapping his wrists than against jaws sinking into his flesh.

The third Lily, who still had a Grick on her back, prowled forward. The shadowy quality of her body seemed to taper off and fade from both her and Grick, almost as if they were leaving the shadows behind. The goblin slid off her side, looking like his normal green little self, and he walked forward.

The human ceased his struggling and stared at them. “W-What the hell kind of monsters…”

“Grick sorry. Puppy says nasty human. Nasty human has to die. Grick and puppies do quest.” Grick pointed his dagger at the bound human. “Grick defends forest for nice empire humans.”

The bandit’s mouth fell open. “Th-The stories are true…” he muttered in horrified shock.

Lily surged forward to finish him—but I cut in through Pack Bond. “Stop!”

She froze mid-step, ears flicking as she turned toward me. I pushed out from the treeline, ignoring the dull ache of my wounds as I approached.

“Grick. Ask him what he’s talking about.”

Grick looked between the man and me, then back at the human. “What story?”

The bandit’s jaw tightened. For a second, it looked like he might spit in defiance—but it cracked instead.

“The empire…” he rasped. “Being taken over by monsters. They told us the High Regent is a demon. Said she slaughtered the noble families—replaced them. Filled the court with things like you, and they would be coming for us next.” He let out a bitter laugh. “I didn’t believe it. Not really. Not the whole monster part, anyway. Sounded like superstitious bullshit to keep us fighting. To keep us angry. To make us hate someone we’d never even seen. To justify dragging kids out of their homes.”

I told Grick to ask him who’s doing that.

Grick frowned. “Who does this bad things?”

“The priests,” he said with a cringe of hatred. “The real leaders behind the Iron March. They call themselves the Pale Covenant.” He laughed once—short, bitter. “Preach about purity. About humanity. About saving us from monsters.” His voice cracked as he yelled, “But monsters weren’t what dragged me and my brothers from our homes. Put swords into our hands. Sent us south and made us fight and kill! They’re the ones who made us into this!”

He thrashed against Lily’s grip, but the two clones tightened instantly, yanking his arms wide and locking him in place. This time, he didn’t fight as hard. Either he didn’t have the strength, or he had just given up and accepted the inevitable.

I asked Grick to translate another question.

“Why doesn’t human join nice empire instead?” Grick asked.

“Nice?” He let out another bitter laugh. “You saying I should just die for them instead? Screw that. I didn’t desert the Iron March just to change who I’m swinging a sword for. At least with the boss’s crew, I knew when I pulled out my sword, I was fighting for my own survival. Not to help win someone else's war that I never asked to be a part of in the first place!”

“But you said nasty priests lie about empire,” Grick pointed out.

“Well, turns out maybe they weren’t lying after all, huh? Either way, the empire has always been pushing north. They want the mines in the northern mountains, to tax the northern territories. I grew up on a farm, see, and my father told me all about the old emperor attacking the north for generations. In their case, they say it’s all about ‘bringing order.’ Said it was about ‘uniting the land.’” He spat weakly to the side. “It’s always about something noble, isn’t it? But it all feels the same when you’re the one getting trampled.”

He sagged in Lily’s grip, whatever fight he had left draining out of him. “Doesn’t matter, I guess. I ran. That makes me a deserter. A traitor.” His eyes flicked between the three Lilys, then to me. “And now I get eaten by monsters anyway.”

I watched him sag there in Lily’s grip, no longer fighting, no longer pretending he had any control over how this ended.

I think I could understand how he felt. He probably grew up with his brothers just wanting to live a peaceful, happy life on his farm. Just like my family living in the vale. But the world sometimes has other plans, doesn’t it?

It’s a violent world, and to say I wish it didn’t have to be this way would be quite hypocritical. I’d still have to eat, I’d still have to hunt. What about a world where nobody has to eat? A true paradise where everyone has what they need, and there’s no need to compete for it? I’m not sure I’d like that world either. I had these teeth and claws for a reason, and thinking of a life where I never used them felt rather empty.

I exhaled slowly, then pushed the thought aside. I don’t know why I always fall into thinking about these useless things. It’s not like I could decide how the world works one way or another.

The System didn’t reward mercy. And if we let him go? He’d go right back to surviving the only way he knew how. He was a bandit—a human that needed to eat.

“Ask him one more thing,” I said.

Grick turned back to him. “How many humans are back in camp?”

He tsked. “Fuck you. Just kill me.”

With the way he closed his eyes, I got the feeling even if we tortured him, he wouldn’t answer. But I would never do that anyway. Torture, at least, is one line I think I could live without crossing. At least I hoped so.

I prowled forward, closing the distance between him. Behind me, Lily tensed, letting out a low growl. She wanted to be the one to finish him.

I looked over my shoulder. “Sorry, Lily. I’m taking this one too. I can heal off of him and conserve our healing potions.”

Lily let out a low, dissatisfied whine. It’s kind of ironic. I knew she didn’t understand the nuance of this conversation quite as well as Grick and me, but it was hard to imagine cute, lovable Lily could be so apathetic. But really, there was an innocence to it. She didn’t have to think about morality. If she grew attached to something, that’s one thing, but she couldn’t really fathom empathy for prey. That, in a weird way, made her far more innocent than I could ever be at this point.

I raised my paw. It turned ghostly. The bandit’s eyes widened, teeth gritted, but then he let out a resigned sigh, letting his head fall forward, knowing what was coming.

{Soul Rend}.

Foe Eliminated! Level 15 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

Essence extracted!

160 health restored

90 mana restored

60 Stamina restored

+4 to all attributes

The two shadow Lilys dissolved, dropping his limp arms, and I turned away. Grick hopped onto Lily’s back, and she prowled alongside me.

The sky above was barely beginning to brighten. Thanks to Soul Rend, even after this night of hunting my vitals were such that I could keep going, keep fighting. But there wasn’t a stat that tracked my mental exhaustion, only my physical, and it was time to get some sleep.

“Let's find somewhere to rest. We’ll return to the empire when we wake and get our next quest,” I told them.

I figured once I hunkered down for the night, I’d give Lily’s stat screen a peek and see just what the deal with those crazy shadow moves she and Grick were pulling was.
