After putting on the unmarked robes, he stepped out and found Father staring at the crumpled scroll which read ‘Mitsue Eri’, and for a moment, Hideo wondered who this tired, pathetic stranger was. Though no great warrior of renown, Mitsue Hiroshi was still a Peak Expert in the prime of life, fifty-two years young with another two decades of life before he would even begin to slow down, but as he stood there in the courtyard, he looked older than Mentor who had one foot in the grave, a gloomy, wretched old man mired in miserable despair.

He knew. He had to know. Father was the one who taught Hideo everything he knew about calligraphy, so surely he could see the truth hidden behind those four simple characters, but instead of erupting into anger, Father merely stood and stared with anguish etched across his weary face.

“Sorry Father,” Hideo said, not bothering to make excuses, for indeed, there were none. “I... I’m sorry.”

Instead of replying, Father rolled the parchment up and tucked it away in his robes before gesturing for Hideo to follow behind. There was no carriage waiting at the gates, for Father Cloud-Stepped out of the manor and into the sky with two guards following closely behind to keep him safe from ambush. Though not yet able to Cloud-Step on his own, Hideo Lightened himself enough to follow suit with help from the two remaining guards, summoning his Domain to protect him from the harsh winds and high altitudes they would need to travel at to keep safe. Too close to the ground, and they might be attacked by their foes, or at the very least make a spectacle of themselves for the common folk.

As majestic as one would think Cloud-Stepping might be, it was an exhausting effort for all but a few true masters of Lightening, and no one could look imposing while red faced and heaving with exertion. Worse, what if they stumbled or tripped while travelling along?

With the guards rotating out to help Hideo along, they made the eight-day carriage ride to Sinuji in one and a half, and only because they had to stop every few hours so he could rest and replenish his Chi reserves. Head hung low and eyes pinned to the ground, he strode into Sinuji in the dead of night, unwilling to even look around for fear of attracting the Father’s foul attention. There was no fanfare to their entrance, as Father wouldn’t even give his name to the gate guards and instead relied on Sending for a contact to come vouch for them, claiming they were hired mercenaries here to join some Warrant Officer’s retinue. Once inside the fort, Father brought them to barge in on the Commander’s tent where Uncle Watanabe stood waiting, no doubt told to be there through Sending. “Cousin Hiroshi,” he said, greeting Father with a strained smile after the Sound Barrier went up. “What brings you here to Sinuji?”

“My idiot cousin Watanabe,” Father replied, his voice heated and unrestrained. “He seems to have lost his mind and is dead set on bringing the entire family to ruin. Would you happen to know why?”

“Careful cousin.” Dropping all pretenses, Uncle Watanabe puffed up his chest even as he retreated a step, no match for Father yet still unwilling to humble himself before his betters. “I am still the Field Commander here in Sinuji, and my word is Military Law.”

“Which is why I came in without giving a name, so nothing will be traced back to me if I’m forced to take your life.” After letting the gravity of his unspoken threat sink in, Father sighed and asked, “Why do you still insist on setting yourself against him? Even your father doesn’t approve of you meddling in Imperial affairs, but he’s naive enough to believe he still has enough influence to save you, which is why I’m here instead of him.”

“Oh? So the golden child no longer idolizes his hero? Disloyal snake.” Spitting on the ground, Uncle Watanabe sneered and said, “Father treated you like his own son, taught you everything you know and put you in charge of the family, and this is how you repay him?”

“In the last six decades, there’s not a single person who dared refuse him anything,” Father replied, staring Uncle Watanabe down. “Except me. If you go through with this foolishness, there will be a second, because even a Living Legend like Mitsue Juichi is worth less than Imperial face. The Legate will have you drawn and quartered if we’re lucky, and if not, then the entire Mitsue family will pay for your folly.”

“I told you already cousin, there will be no face lost. I have assurances from a high ranking Imperial Noble that no true Scion sees Falling Rain as one of their own.” The name shocked Hideo to the core, since the last he heard, the hateful savage had been crippled and would soon be dead or forgotten, so why was he still important enough to force Father to come to Sinuji just to argue with Uncle Watanabe? Waving at stack of reports, Uncle said, “Just read and you’ll see for yourself. He’s a doomed man, his title worth less than dog-shit. He keeps company with eunuchs, sleeps in a soldier’s tent, eats a soldier’s meals, begs for meetings with other officers, and spends hours ingratiating himself to the common soldiers in hopes they’ll take sympathy on his plight should he find trouble on the walls. A disgrace is what he is, and removing this blight on their honour would be a favour to the Imperial Clan, one they’ll reward us richly for doing.”

“You’re right,” Father replied, catching Uncle off-guard. “No self-respecting Imperial Scion would ever privately acknowledge Falling Rain’s title, even before he was crippled, but this is a public affair and the Imperial Clan must keep up appearances. Shen ZhenWu granted Falling Rain the title of Imperial Consort as reward for his accomplishments to boost public morale, but if it becomes known this title is worth less than dog-shit, then not only will the Legate lose face, but the Imperial Clan will as well, for it will be seen as forgetting favours and violating justice. Thus, even though you have assurances from his foes that you will not be charged for the murder of an Imperial Scion if you should kill Falling Rain, the Legate will have no choice but to insist on treating the savage’s death as the death of an Imperial Scion, because to do otherwise is to admit he rewarded the Number One talent in the Empire with an empty title. So tell me cousin,” Father asked, his voice dripping with sarcasm. “What is the penalty for killing an Imperial Scion, even one as lowly and disgraceful as Falling Rain?”

Nine Familial Extermination. It didn’t need to be said, because everyone and their mother knew the blood price demanded, nine generations of family all wiped out of existence. Being Mitsue Juichi’s son, Watanabe’s crime would implicate even Hideo’s legendary Mentor, and if Father was right, then the Legate wouldn’t blink twice about killing a Colonel General just to save face.

Finally understanding the gravity of the situation, Uncle Watanabe staggered back and slumped into his chair, his powdered face unable to hide the sickly pallor of his skin. Relief and horror intermingling as he considered how close he came to death, and Hideo had nothing but sympathy for his uncle and wished him all the best. He’d experienced much of the same a few hours into his first day of secluded meditation, when it became apparent how far gone he’d become, but he didn’t dare open his mouth to console uncle Watanabe while Father was in such a dark mood.

His point made, Father’s tone softened as he said, “It’s good that you listened and didn’t act directly. The savage brat’s humble demeanour almost had me fooled as well. He’s still an Imperial Scion, but he wants his enemies to forget so they’ll step out of line, which will afford his Patron an excuse to step in and set things right. The Disciplinary Corps accuse him of nepotism, so he fights back by affecting humility and allowing himself to be unfairly treated all so he can accuse his enemies of the same crimes he was convicted of and expose his plight for what it is: unjust discrimination. Do what you must to placate your Imperial Patron and let those slave soldiers fight and die, but you cannot give Falling Rain or the Legate reason to accuse you of misconduct. Remember cousin, in a battle between Imperials, it’s best to smile at both sides and do as little as possible, lest you find yourself eating shit and thanking someone for the opportunity.”

Stating that they’d be staying in Sinuji until Falling Rain left, Father brought Hideo away before Uncle even noticed his presence. Once inside their borrowed quarters, Father pointed at the innermost cot and claimed the outermost one for himself, leaving his four guards between them just to be safe. Lamenting the loss of his father’s trust, Hideo Sent, “Must you treat me so coldly, Father? Have you lost all affection for your son?”

Slumping at the accusation, Father silently studied Hideo for long, silent seconds, his eyes tearing up as if he were staring at his son’s cold, dead corpse. “If I didn’t still love my son ,” Father Sent, his voice laden with pain and regret, “Would I have gone to such great lengths to protect you? Would I have hidden all trace of your crimes? Would I have kept silent while my oldest friend slowly went mad with grief as the search for his missing daughter stretched on?”

The truth hit Hideo like a hammer to the gut and the world closed in around him as he came face to face with reality. The calligraphy scroll had been written by his hand, the conflict and detachment in his mind clear as day now that Father would no longer let him lie to himself. Eri-Hime was gone, slain by his own hand when she snuck in to see him after he returned from the front lines, and this was not even the worst of his crimes. No, the worst came after, in the form of unspeakable acts committed using her cold, dead corpse, and when Father finally found them, there was barely anything of her left. Sweet, smiling Eri, with only her head still intact, because Hideo had wanted her to see her dreams come true as the two of them were united as one.

She never should have come. He’d been living in isolation for an entire month, and the moment he laid eyes upon her, he could no longer resist. No, he didn’t want to resist, because she looked so beautiful beneath the moonlight as she ran into his arms, smelling of dirt, flowers, and perfume. A budding innocent ready to blossom into a lovely young woman, and he still remembered his first taste of her flesh, so sweet and delectable as she shrieked and struggled...

A Sound Barrier closed in around Hideo moments before a scream erupted from his throat, and he continued screaming as Father’s Sending echoed in his mind. “You are my son, and I would go to the ends of the earth to keep you safe, but I worry the man I see before me is no longer the Hideo I know and merely a monster wearing his flesh. Prove to me my son still lives, not with words or contrition, but with your actions, and only then will we be father and son once more.”

Mired in horror and insanity, a small part of Hideo wanted to tell Father he was too far gone and to end things now, but the voices wouldn’t allow it. ‘Seek calm,’ they said, ‘and walk the razor’s edge, for you still have a part to play. Indulgence will come later, when you hold the reins of the Mitsue family firmly in hand, but until then, you must be patient.’

Help was on the way, they told him, and Hideo only had to wait a week or two, for then he would have the freedom he so feared and desired...

Chapter Meme
