289

******

“Ro-den’s being a normal instructor now? Why? Is he afraid you’re going to bring the stick to class?”

“Surely not. I’ve treated him generously. He received compensation merely for undoing what he should have undone anyway. And, also, I can’t turn one of the school labs into that kind of trap.”

Stuart had called shortly after Alden woke up on Thursday. The conversation wasn’t a scheduled one, which had made Alden think something big was happening and jolted him to alertness much more effectively than his morning alarm.

But Stuart hadn’t decided to go to his first binding today, and his family seemed to remain unaware that they’d lost an heirloom and raised a son who would use ancient magic to bully a teacher. Alden was impressed it was taking so long. He wondered if Stuart had lived a life so innocent that even when important things went missing nobody suspected it might have been him. Or if it was the same blind spot that had allowed Alden to visit their house that first time without being questioned.

Stuart was acting nonchalant about the pending family drama, in either case. He’d just realized he and Alden might both have free time, so he’d traveled back to the siblinghold to use the Evul tablet for a visit. He was talking to Alden from his bedroom. A couple of the enchanted rings he’d been making for himself during their early long distance calls with each other were now finished. They floated in a cloud of display bubbles above his desk along with other small items.

“I won’t say that Superior Professor Ro-den’s behavior is normal. My other instructors demonstrate knowledge-passion, as should be expected from people in their honorable position. And Ro-den usually does, too, though it’s a personal passion in his case and not something he wishes to transfer to his students.”

Alden had put up the silencing tent so that they could talk about whatever they wanted. He’d just discovered that the walls of the tent were comfortable to lean against. His duffel bag full of gym supplies had been in hand when Stuart called, and now it was at his feet.

“Ro-den did have favorite student projects when I was there working for him,” he said. “A few. Unless he was pretending to like certain things for some scheme I can’t understand, that could be considered a sign of instructorish knowledge-passion.”

“I think he likes rarities. And chances to show off. And students talented enough to understand the showing off? But ever since you and I met with him that day, his classes have been boring.”

“Boring?” Alden asked. “Him?”

“No one has been <<tormented>> all week. Except for Eeaner, who torments himself by imagining these peaceful lab days are Ro-den’s way of lulling prey before an attack.”

“Eeaner-ket sounds appropriately cautious to me. Maybe you should listen to him.”

“My own theory is that Ro-den is giving our class his third attention.”

That was a very Artonan way of conveying that someone wasn’t paying attention at all.

“He may be heavily focused on the hide,” Stuart continued. “He’s aware I didn’t have permission to give it to him, so I think he’ll feel rushed to gain value from it. I don’t believe my parents would take back what I have promised, but he must have concerns about that. Or perhaps the hide has captured his thoughts simply because of its worth, and he now approaches knowledge too extraordinary to waste his mind on making class challenging and unpleasant for us.”

“So not only did you get rid of a contract that was keeping me from talking, you turned Ro-den into a boring instructor? Are the other LeafSong students constantly chasing you down to thank you? Because I bet they would be if they knew it was your doing.”

“I’m glad they don’t know. The event Eeaner and Bayab are brewing in their thoughts smells too crowded and focused on me as it is.”

“What’s this event?”

“The party I agreed to go to in exchange for your rings.”

“Oh…no, I didn’t know about that. You bought my rings by promising to go to a LeafSong party? That was…” He was going to say “so easy,” but then he reconsidered. “Will you be all right? You don’t like the camaraderie of celebrants there.”

“I liked the camaraderie of celebrants too much that time,” Stuart said. “This time I am wizened by my previous errors. I have made a list of things to be wary of.”

“Maybe you should take someone with you. Like Emban.”

“I have to share a student house with Eeaner and Bayab, and I have given my word; so I shouldn’t bring her. She currently has an interest in <<desiccating>> celebrations. Don’t worry. I’m prepared. What about you? How are your instructors? How is your training? I found myself wondering about what was happening on Anesidora to the point of distraction several times this week. That’s one of the reasons I wanted to talk to you.”

Stuart stepped away from his desk and walked over to stand by his wall of windows. Other Alden had learned not to run at them, so they could be left uncovered.

“I think if you lived where I could talk to you more easily I would be coming to you with my thoughts all the time,” he continued. “I’ve considered the possibilities of preservation magic more in the past days than I have in the rest of the days of my life combined. And I find myself evaluating every spell we discuss in class through your perspective…at least I try to. Would you like to learn how to call the small animals in an area toward you? Or send them fleeing? Would you like to learn the quickcrafting of wands? Or a spell that will make the paper shapes you fold as tough and flexible as thimbark?”

“Now all I want to do is skip class and go to your house to learn how to toughen up my origami and banish bugs,” said Alden. “You’ve ruined school for today. But in seriousness, that’s a lot of thought put into me. Don’t let your own work suffer.”

“It’s because I’m excited.” Stuart was still looking out into the trees. “About all this unlooked-for treasure. And I’m concerned with handling it right. What about your lesson with Instructor Warin-doyis? How did that go?”

“Um…” Alden turned his head. There was nothing to see other than the green wall of the tent, but he could picture his Artonan-made tablet lying innocently on top of his desk. Like it didn’t hold evidence of the four different scripts he’d written, translated, and discarded for his storytelling turn tomorrow.

“The first lesson was one of the best I’ve ever had,” he said. “Instructor Warin-doyis told stories almost the whole time, to show us the variety of things that could be done with his art. And they were all very impressive. I have some…doubts about doing great at it myself, though. I’m trying to modify a human fairytale for tomorrow. I’m not completely happy with the story, but finding words with the right nuance that I know I can say has been good translation practice. I think it could be fun. None of us should be able to do as well as the instructor, so it’s all right that my telling is going to be much, much less impressive than his, isn’t it?”

“Why would you be seeking instruction from Warin-doyis if you were already as capable as he is?”

“Exactly.”

“Are you nervous about it?” Stuart looked intrigued. “I’ll listen to you while you practice if you want.”

“I’m not really ready, and we don’t have that much time this morning. I do need to go to my combat class soon. That class is fine, by the way. We’re doing the same basic kinds of activities you’ve seen in videos I’ve shown you of last term. I’m taking a different approach for myself, though. Trying to focus more on movement and situational awareness. I’m using my trait a lot. You pointed out that I was stuck thinking about solo survival in the worst possible conditions, so I’m trying to shift away from that. Moving better will help no matter what you and I are fighting against in the future. I’m using simple things as shields and keeping them portable, so I have to physically and mentally perform better in the moment instead of pre-planning contraptions. Does it sound like the right thing for now?”

“As long as you’re finding improvement, it’s good. I’m sure I’ll see you use what you’ve learned in many ways we can’t anticipate yet.”

“Ideal entrustment situations aren’t easy to create in class, though.”

“They wouldn’t be.”

“I can reliably pick up a small puddle when Haoyu tells me to now, but it’s not the same as it was that time when you helped me do it.”

Alden paused and considered his next words for a few seconds longer before setting them loose: “Esh-erdi and Lind-otta have been kind to me. What do you think might happen if we told them the truth? Or even just some of the truth? What if I told them only about my skill, for example?”

Stuart’s expression twitched in momentary surprise before settling into thoughtfulness. “Is that something you want to do?”

Alden looked down at his duffel bag. It smelled like Galeblaze. Everything that came within twenty yards of the locker rooms now smelled like the fragrance Vandy had given them all for Christmas. A few people sprayed it in weaponizable quantities. “It would be good to have knights like them on our side. They could… ”

What was it I hoped they would do?

“Them welcoming me, like you have, might be the main part of it. It would be a relief, and they could help.”

“You want someone other than me to acknowledge you as a knight,” Stuart said.

Right to the point.

“Even if they just acknowledged me as an Avowed who plans to go with you to Goldbush and take the kinds of risks you will. And do the kinds of things they do. If we told them about my skill, they’d know I’m likely to be useful. And then they’d…mark me as the useful guy I am on knight tellingbush. They’d let all the other knights know I’m allowed to join in with battle things, and that they should be nice to me, and….The more I talk, the more I realize I don’t know what I’m talking about. Please save me from myself by interrupting before I have to admit this is more of an emotional decision than a practical one. I like them. They’ve helped me. Lying to them bothers me, and I want them to like the real me.”

“You can tell them if you want to,” Stuart said. “I don’t know them well enough to be sure of what they will think or do, so I wouldn’t choose to tell them at this particular moment. But it’s your truth, and if you want to share it, of course I’ll help.”

“You wouldn’t tell them?”

“I decided not to tell my own parents,” Stuart pointed out. “I’m sorry I didn’t consider that you actually know Esh-erdi and Lind-otta better than you do my parents. I like them, too. Esh-erdi supports our friendship! He told me so at the oath ceremony I attended for Welcome End. And neither of them has spoken doubt about my ability to be a knight, as far as I’m aware.”

“But you wouldn’t tell them.”

Alden felt himself deflate at the news, as if it meant something more than it really did. Stuart saying he just didn’t know them well enough to anticipate them was fair.

“It’s also because I don’t see much benefit to telling them some of the truth, which seems to be the fruit that has caught your eye. I need to think about this more, but my first worry is that telling them only about the nature of your skill will prompt them to do things that will almost immediately lead you into telling them everything else. If you’re not prepared for that…”

“Do you think they’d try to start training me or something? And then I’d end up needing to explain the wizard part so that I’m not wasting everyone’s time?”

“The ‘wizard part’ changes what you want and what it’s reasonable to expect from you. Only knowing the wizard part made me immediately more worried about what you would choose for your next binding because of how it affected my understanding of your timeframe. If I didn’t completely show the depth of my concern to you—  ”

“You showed it,” Alden said wryly.

Stuart had begun to pace his room. “You’d be doing the same thing with them but reversed. Right now, I assume they make no significant plans to aid you, or utilize your power, in the future. If you tell them the truth, they will have ideas about what should be done. If you tell them a half-truth, they can only have ideas that are wrong. And I don’t believe a half-truth will last long anyway. Hn’tyon Esh-erdi seems to have a curious nature.”

“I understand. I’ll take it slower.”

“You don’t have to just because it’s what I would do.”

“I know. I didn’t think it all the way through.”

“Maybe, when the time is right, they should be who we tell first instead of members of my family,” Stuart offered.

“Once you’re a knight yourself.”

“I’ll have a different standing. Doubts about me should fade. And you…you are still hoping to prepare yourself for a knight’s oaths, too? That hasn’t changed since we last spoke of it?”

What a thing for me to be planning on, like it will be that easy. But Alden nodded. “Yes. If I can complete the ceremony like everyone else…and if they’ll let me try it…I want to.”

“Being able to say that you’ve prepared for it and are ready should be recognized by every reasonable person. We are building ourselves a tower that is too tall to be denied by others.”

“Right.” Alden paused. “How tall do we have to build it before we stop worrying about other people forcing us to do things their way instead of ours?”

