“I don’t know. But I’m hopeful that it is only a few stones more.” Stuart stopped his pacing. “I want them all to welcome me, too. It’s not quite the same—”

“It’s similar enough.”

They looked at each other.

“Soon,”  Stuart said decisively.

“Soon.”

“Warin-doyis’s lessons will be so good for you! I was tutored in poetry performance for a year when I was younger to increase my language confidence and give me a way of socializing with simpler rules. This is the same sort of training! And I searched for his reputation. He is widely known for his art. We are fortunate he wanted to teach on Earth.”

“Are you more enthusiastic about my storytelling class than my combat?” Alden said jokingly.

“Yes, I am,” Stuart said. Not jokingly. “We’ll have chances to improve our skills every day, but we won’t find any famous performers roaming a corrupted land in search of students. And I have heard that good entertainers are welcomed in every weary group of knights. If you learn well, then people will be excited whenever they hear we’re coming to join their squads.”

“Wait…are you expecting me to entertain our way to popularity? It’s only one class!”

“One step becomes two becomes a walk around a world.”

“You would not be holding onto this hope if you heard me deliver my custom Artonan versions of ‘The Frog Prince.’ I promise you.”

******

******

“Floor on!”

“Floor on!”

Voices called the words throughout the MPE gymnasium, and Alden shouted back in reply.

Foxbolt, who was the lead instructor for this course, explained the plan for the morning.

The white floor had been divided into five rectangular slices that ran the width of the gym, and a sixth section at the end was broken into three small dueling blocks. Each student had to complete the challenge set for every one of the first five sections, and then they’d have a duel against an available classmate. After a single duel, they had to run through it all again with added conditions to make it more difficult.

They were all familiar enough with the kinds of challenges that had been set and with their own individual rules and goals, so there were few questions. Class began quickly and without much complaining.

This should be a productive one, thought Alden. Just settle in and work through the different sections at my own pace. I can push myself in several different ways.

Foxbolt’s way of handling duels so far had been different from last term. She liked to have them happening in a small fraction of the gym while almost everyone was busy with something else. On Tuesday, Alden’s interface had informed him when he was supposed to break off from the group and go duel. Only a couple of times. Not everyone would get a chance every class. It was random, but the randomness took effect after instructor interference. Someone had to put you in the mix to be chosen.

We put ourselves in the mix by reaching that end of the gym this time. Marsha will be down there waiting for an opponent before I select my shield.

He thought Foxbolt’s tiny dueling section was an improvement over whole dueling-focused classes. Hotheads might not get as angry, and hurt feelings might have time to recover when the duels were broken up by other assignments instead of flowing straight into the next one-on-one fight.

“What are you thinking about for your preserved object today, Alden? I have some suggestions if you’re having trouble choosing!”

And that cheerful voice coming from behind him as he leaned over his duffel bag belonged to one of Foxbolt’s co-instructors. Luna Plim looked as eager as usual. A question mark made of water was rotating over her red hair. The movement of the finger that was making it spin in place was so slight that he wouldn’t have noticed the gesture if he hadn’t been looking for it.

“Just a backpack I think,” said Alden, removing the backpack he was talking about from his duffel bag. It was nothing unusual, a gray one with black zippers he’d found discounted at the campus store last week. “I’ll fill it with sand.”

Alden had requested more ground this term, and he’d been pleased to get it. Fragment was another co-instructor for this class, which made it easier to accommodate him. And it didn’t hurt that Maricel was back. Sod and soil had been making frequent appearances. Today, he could see that they had one completely dirt-floored dueling block, but nothing else was available in the other sections he’d be running through.

Goldbush had a single settlement. Alden had been surprised to learn there was one at all, but settlement aside, the planet was lacking buildings. There would be ground absolutely everywhere. He needed to practice moving on it way more than he needed to practice moving without it, so when the school didn’t provide enough of the stuff, he’d haul his own.

“Excellent!” Instructor Plim said. “Let’s have you play with the way the motion of the sand can alter your own movements whenever you release your skill’s hold on the backpack.”

“You mean like running or jumping and dropping preservation so the weight shoves me forward a little more.” He’d done that kind of thing before, like when he’d used heavy bags to yank himself out of Max’s traps.

“That’s only the beginning of the possibilities!”

This is why she’s cool.

“I need to go talk to a couple more students and then wash people out of the fourth challenge,” she said. “But send me the exact weight of the sand you put in your backpack on each run so I’m clear on what I’m seeing when I review your footage. Bye for now! Be creative!”

And this is why she’s dangerous.

She wanted the exact weight of the sand, which wasn’t a big deal by itself. But on the first day of class, she’d suggested that having a Sway help him recapture the mental state he’d been in as Instructor Klein approached him and the dog crate might be a good idea.

He’d wanted to take one of her classes, but then he’d heard some things about them around campus and started to worry that he couldn’t hide from her if they spent much time together. She had students in her small courses do weird experiments to test the limits of their skills. He was afraid she might ask him to preserve something he didn’t know to be cautious about, and he’d come across as too much of a marvel.

‘Use your skill on this very ordinary rope, Alden….Surprise! It’s actually a bungee cord, and there’s an elephant on the other end. And now I’m going to write a paper on you that will reveal the true power of Rabbits!’

So he’d decided to avoid that headache, only for her to end up teaching him here in gym. But at least here she had forty other new Avowed to think about. She seemed pretty fascinated by Writher, which was nice for Lexi and for Alden.

He was glad he’d already been leaning toward a less contraptiony gym experience for this term before he found out she was one of the teachers.

When they’d asked him to choose his general tool type for the next few months, he’d actually been more interested in limiting himself than this group of faculty was. Other than Foxbolt, Plim, and Fragment, there was just Ivanova as a regular. At least one more instructor was usually around helping monitor, often but not always Klein.

Alden was focusing on easily portable shields that didn’t cover his whole body and didn’t do anything too fancy. He’d use a sharp edge if the shield had one or fill it with sand if it was a backpack, but no explosive pre-planned surprises or invisible threads glued to the shields to stab people.

For weapons, he carried a sling and a fixed blade knife Ignacio had given him when he asked for knife advice. Neither were fantastic weapons in his hands. He just liked the sling and felt like he might find at least a couple of opportunities for the knife. The more important thing about both of them was that they were stand-ins for his auriad. If he didn’t have time to put a rock in a sling and aim it at a problem, then he wouldn’t have time to put his auriad in his hands and aim it. Or so his thinking went for now.

I’m planning to fight alongside someone. I’m not the person punching tunnels through everything that threatens us. That’ll be Stuart, and he’ll be super fast at it once it’s his skill.

“Hey, Lexi,” he said, dragging the backpack full of sand toward his roommate, who’d also been delayed by Instructor Plim until a second ago. “Would you entrust me with this backpack?”

“Okay.” Lexi was frowning at the tip of Writher’s chain.

Alden hooked one arm through the straps and preserved just the bag as he lifted it. It was a fine lightweight option for a shield. Lots of great spots to grip it.

But a knight or an Avowed sent officially into chaos would have better equipment than this, he told himself as he approached the starting line. An actual shield of some sort that then gets double protected by my skill? A morphable one. Something light as air and big as a shed. So if I’m preserving some random little thing in a bag like this, I’m probably not doing it primarily for my protection or Stuart’s.

The first section they had to run through was a baton-stealing game. Each runner started with one baton almost as long as Alden’s arm, but to cross the barrier and reach the next task, they had to be in possession of two. It was already getting rowdy. He saw three different classmates shooting glances at him while he took a yellow baton from Ivanova. He briefly unpreserved, collected a fistful of sand, plunged the baton into his backpack, and zipped it most of the way shut again. Part of the baton still stuck out the top, but it was a smaller target now.

The backpack’s not protecting me and Stuart. We’re protecting it. So it must be something really important we’re in charge of looking after. I’ll only use it to shield us if that’s what it takes to survive. Dodge attacks. See everything so I can react fast enough. Reach out with my senses.

That last was wishful thinking. He could feel his classmates doing magic if he wanted, but with twenty of them racing around for the baton game, noticing something relevant wasn’t going to happen. With smaller numbers, in slower situations, he’d try to get somewhere with that.

There are moments on an obstacle course run that would be opportunities for that kind of sensing. Man, I really want Ash to accept our strategies, so I can try.

He banished that thought from his head. Coursing strategy approval was during his next class period. Runs for that class were tomorrow.

Here and now, he had his mission.

Astrid had one baton. She was trying to look like she wasn’t going to attack him when he joined the battle, but she was totally going to attack him. He brought his backpack closer to his chest.

Got to protect it from these demons.

Kon had just gotten bowled over by Haoyu. His baton was rolling for a second before Haoyu snatched it up fled with it. Almost immediately, an arrow whizzed toward one of the two batons in Haoyu’s hands.

Got to keep an eye on the fragments of exploded demons Stuart’s making, too.

I’ll keep a demon from biting off his foot while he’s not looking, keep whatever we’re transporting in this bag safe, and I won’t die myself. I’m not the entertaining one, you dork. We’ll be such great knights neither of us has to be the entertaining one.

“Going soon?” Instructor Ivanova prompted him.

“I am,” said Alden. “I’m just deciding how it’s going to be.”

She nodded and kept walking.

Kon got up and yelled after a cheering Haoyu before hurrying back to the starting line to collect another baton from Ivanova so that he could go again. Alden caught his eyes, and Kon smiled. He pointed at Alden’s baton and made a beckoning motion.

Not while I’m protecting it, you’re not.

Alden shook his head at Konstantin and ran into the fray.

******
