"There is still much you have to learn, disciple. In Schema's universe, one's status is reflected by their ability to kill eldritch. This is Schema's primary directive, and he dispenses influence depending on that one parameter. You are far better at killing eldritch; therefore, the Overseer respects you more. Quaint, simplistic, and direct, yet that is how people are."

Torix shrugged, "Such is the life we live. Though, at times, I must hold my tongue, I will endure as long as we get what we need to accomplish our goals. I'd rather not let my pride halt our progress. That would simply add to my rather long list of regrets."

I scratched the side of my head, "Well, I still think it's bullshit, but I'll keep that in mind. Let's talk about something else. How much longer before the next battle?"

Torix held up four fingers, "It will require four days of planning. This is mostly due to waiting for those healers and warp specialists to arrive. I organized the actual assault weeks ago."

I spread out my arms, "So we have some extra time?"

"I would suppose so."

I rubbed my hands together, "Enough time to for the new body thing?"

Torix leaned back, surprised by what I said. After a bit of thought, he rolled his hands, "Perhaps. It would take three days at the absolute least."

I cupped my chin, "I'll be honest, I've been curious about the lich thing for a while. How does it work?"

Torix coughed into his hand despite being a skeleton, "Ahem, well, it's a...complicated process."

I raised an eyebrow, "Why do you sound so nervous to tell me about it?"

Torix sighed and took a deep breath, "The nature of the process is rather...how to put it...ruthless, perhaps?"

I rolled my eyes, "Well, I figured that much. It's necromancy, and I'm sure you've done some questionable stuff before we met. It's part of being hundreds of years old."

Torix grabbed the back of his neck, looking back and forth. He cast another silencing spell, covering us with it. He pointed at me, "This is not to leave the sanctums of your mind, understood?"

I sat down, suspending myself with a gravity well, "Of course."

Torix sat down on a blot of dark mana, "Then, perhaps it is time I share some of my past with you. It's about time for the passing of that knowledge."

Torix lifted his hand, creating an illusion. A red star with a planet circled around it. Torix pointed at the planet,

"I was born on Xanthar, a planet tidally locked. One side faces the sun at all times, the other peering out into the depths of space, shaded in perpetual darkness."

Torix gestured a palm, "This resulted in int two primary landmasses on the planet, one molten and the other frozen. Between these two existed a strip of arable land known as Arcadia. Large mountains kept the frigid blizzards and the heated storms from reaching us. In a way, it acted as the Elysium of the entire planet."

Torix stared off into the distance, traveling towards a distant place, "I was born there centuries ago. During that time, I was a member of the Anamor Clan. Any influential Iteran was of course-"

I said, "Iteran?"

"My species."

I lifted my head, "Ah, here I always thought you were pretty much human."

Torix stared down at himself, "Our races must have a similar structure. Odd." He peered up, "Now, as with most of our species, the Anamor Clan held many alliances, rivalries, and hostilities. During my younger years, I engrossed myself in this rivalry, my desire for combat fervent. In a way, I was much like you, though more magically inclined."

I raised my fists, "Hey if it ain't broke, don't fix it."

Torix scoffed, "Perhaps. That point aside, I became curious about necromancy after my clan suffered severe losses to a rival order. They used dark magic that resulted in our forces being wiped out. During that time, I studied tactics and counter maneuvers to combat their abilities."

That must have been where Torix got all of his tactical nuances. I listened as he continued,

"No matter what I employed, we suffered severe losses. Despite the warnings from my family, I understood we would be wiped off our homeland should we continue fighting in that manner. I dived into the darker magics, my own nature well suited for it."

A bit of bitterness leaked into Torix's voice,

"Perhaps too suited for it. I achieved many victories, fighting fire with fire, so to speak. At the same time, I came close to true death many times. That fear, it soaked into my very bones and marrow. It clouded my judgment, and it left me weak."

Torix continued with a bit of delight in his voice,

"In order to transcend death and surpass my physical limits, I devised a plan. I created a sacrificial ritual sight to become a lich. To do so, I needed a vast well of vitality and life, however. Fortunately for my aims, the rival faction served that purpose rather nicely."

His tone turned cold,

"And that is what I did. I culled our enemies while giving myself an everlasting life. My family did not see it as such. They feared me, and perhaps they were right to do so. That was a dark time in my life. After I was exiled, I turned towards experimentation as an outlet for my frustration."

Torix stared down, "I...I did things that are better left unspoken."

I winced a bit at the prospect. Torix pressed two fingers against his temple,

"I devised a lair on Xanthar's moon, my phylactery safe for all time. I tangled myself with many unsightly organizations, the least of which the necromancers. While I never did something on the scale of the Hybridization program, I...I might have given a chance."

He shook his head slowly,

"And...and I would like to think I've changed. No, I know I have, but I see that darkness well up to the surface at times. When I met you, I saw my younger self before I lay corrupted by my own resentment. There are times I fear you too shall fall to the same bitterness."

I remembered the hatred I felt for Schema when he left me against Yawm. Hell, that same feeling flared when I imagined Schema leaving us against Lehesion. It's enough to drive a guy mad if it happens enough.

Yeah, I could imagine being consumed by that kind of thing.

Torix continued,

"I hoped to help you with it, and I like to think I have in certain ways."

I stared at Torix, "You have."

"Thank you. This is why I never mention my homeworld, my family, or my past as a rule. It is nothing I'm proud of. I hope to redeem myself with what we've built."

"We will."

"I would like to believe so. As far as transferring the body is concerned, I would need a vast well of mana, an enormous overflow of life, and a safe spot for a new phylactery."

I pursed my lip, "Why not just use your old one?"

"It is located far away. We would need to travel there, and that would require warping towards Xanthar. Once there, traversing towards the moon and finding the exact position would take a measure of time as well. By then, we'd have lost too much time. It's quicker to simply craft another phylactery."

"So, finding a safe place is the problem?"

"Indeed. While I have faith in a blue core's abilities to defend, a phylactery on either Mt. Verner or Elderfire could be evaporated by Lehesion. My life would be forfeit then."

I frowned, "Huh...what about putting it in dimensional storage?"

"A phylactery is considered organic matter. This creates a rejection for the dimensional storages Schema dispenses. I've crafted my own pocket dimensions as well, but they are maintained by my mana. Without an actual body, a soul struggled to use mana of any kind. Most pocket dimensions cannot be maintained. My soul would be lost to eternity if I passed."

I tapped my chin, "What about my own pocket dimension? I mean, I'm not dying anytime soon."

Torix leaned back, "Huh...That would be more than suitable, though your death would result in...Even then, I wouldn't perish forthrightly."

I shrugged, "You'd lose your phylactery, sure, but you could just resonate again with your old one. For now, it's a safer place than either base, at least."

Torix peered off into the distance, "I...I suppose that would work for now."

"What do we need next?"

Torix pulled his grimoire from his robe, "There are two more obstacles, the first of which lies with resonance. Much of the time involved with becoming a lich comes from a lack of continuity between the new body and the old mind. If overall affinity is low, then the mind will reject the body, and as such, the soul anchoring process won't take place."

Torix knocked on his old, bony body, "This is particularly a problem with Schema's system. He doesn't wish to re-invest into a new body each time a lich dies. That is why I am so frail. Fortunately, your construct is more durable than a system enhanced individual."

I pointed around at the trees in Elderfire, "Would the life from quintessence work for your summoning rituals?"

"It would, though it would be far from optimal. The best source of fuel for a lich's ascension comes from the desires, memories, and pain of the living. It takes time to manifest memories and desires which your creations have yet to develop. I would suggest using eldritch and silvers with a surge of artificial life to assist."

I crossed my arms, "Do you have any places scoped out?"

"Indeed, I have found a few excellent spots for the process. These places are isolated from interference, teeming with life, and unprepared for magic. They suit our purposes perfectly. Now for the subject of resonance-"

Torix snapped his fingers, the sound swallowing barrier dissipating. We walked back towards his lair, finding the metal construct on the ground. It crushed into the stone a bit, the rock unable to withstand its weight. Torix gestured to it,

"The runic markings you made, they assist with that process quite a bit. I would actually ask of you to carve a set of runic markings into it from my grimoire."

"Why do you need me to do it?"

Torix raised a finger, "The first reason is that these are the standard etchings I utilize to ensure resonance. They allow certain aspects of my personality to personify more easily."

Torix lowered his hand, "Perhaps more importantly, however, is that I cannot carve into the metal."

Oh. Yeah, that made sense.

Torix put his hands on his hips, "That is all it requires. I've already handled the details involved outside of those requirements."

Glancing down at the darkened frame, it dwarfed Torix's current skeletal form. It radiated with dominion magic, a hunger emanating from it. Torix leaned down and dragged his hand across a metal plate on the shoulder,

"Can you hear it? It calls for a master, its howls haunting."

I cracked my neck,

"Then let's go make this happen."
