Theological debates aside, I hope my notes will point me in the right direction to a faster recovery, but the Legate is still holding them and seemingly lost in conversation with Chief Beardy. I really hope he gives them back, because otherwise, I may go on a murderous rampage. Or you know... sulk and moan about it for a really long time, but either way, I want to go through my notes and see what I’ve written. Noticing my impatience, the Legate smirks and proceeds to do absolutely nothing about it. This is payback for making him wait, I know it is, but that’s not fair. I didn’t invite him over, nor did I ask to be Inspired, so he can’t really blame me for being distracted. He should take it up with the Mother Above, or the Heavens, or whatever. I dunno. Just... it’s not my fault.

The minutes crawl by with an agonizing lack of haste, and it feels like an eternity before someone speaks out loud once again, and to my surprise, it’s not the Legate. “You tread a Path unlike any I have seen before,” Chief Beardy begins, his tone so decidedly neutral it’s impossible to tell if he approves or disapproves. “Yet much of what you’ve written rings true. Reflect on it, improve on it, discuss it with your betters, but should you make any attempt to widely disseminate the information contained within, know that We of the Imperial Clan will put our full effort into stopping you.” Seeing my surprise, Chief Beardy shakes his head and scoffs. “You write as though narrating your thoughts to another, making it clear you intend to share this with an audience, but if your words were to spread far and wide, it would cause irreparable harm to generations of future Martial Warriors.”

Though my first instinct is to react with anger or outrage, and my second instinct is to offer a sarcastic retort, I hold my tongue and think things through before responding. “How can my words cause irreparable harm if what I’ve written rings true?”

“Because while the truth may be immutable, perception is ever changing. This is your truth, your path, and yours alone, so do not try to force others to follow in your footsteps.” Taking the notes from the Legate, Chief Beardy tosses the stack back to me, and somehow I catch them before they scatter. An intended slight, to show that my words mean nothing to him, but not in an antagonistic way. I get what he’s saying though, as well as what he isn’t saying, that my Dao is mine alone and of no practical use to anyone else. If I were to show this to others, it could cause them to question their own Path, and leave them unable to continue progressing in the same manner. It’s a little like Dumbo’s magic feather, which only works because he believes it works, except in this case, the feather is truly magic.

...I still believe magic is merely science we have yet to explain, but I suppose it would be premature to have my notes copied and disseminated all across the Empire before I have a working alternative to Balance.

Seeing that I understand, the Chief Beardy turns to the Legate and says, “I must go.”

If I blinked, I would’ve missed it, but for a brief, infinitesimal moment, the Legate’s features take on a cast of fear and uncertainty, but then he goes back to his normal, smarmy self. “Again?” he asks, which speaks volume to his surprise, since he could’ve easily switched to Sending.

Chief Beardy merely nods before disappearing from sight, so suddenly it takes me a moment to notice he’s not even there anymore, or notice the Seneschal slink in to take his place at the Legate’s side. Seeing my questioning expression, the Legate purses his lips and sighs. “I suppose you will find out soon enough. Our canny foe seeks to chip away at our resolve with empty threats of mutual destruction. The Treaty stands broken, but neither side is willing to let matters devolve into an all out battle of Divinities.” Smirking, he adds, “Pretenders they may be, but Divinities are still capable of wreaking widespread destruction, enough to bring this Empire crumbling down around our ears in a mere matter of days.”

My anxiety spikes even though I suspect the Legate is revealing this so I’ll go tell Mom and Dad, who might then convince a few Divinities to lend a hand. I have no idea how many Divinities count themselves as one of the People or Sentinels, but considering the sheer variety of half-beasts in my home village alone, that number could easily be in the double digits. Granted, the presence of a certain half-beast is no guarantee that their Ancestral Beast progenitor lives in the Saint’s Tribulation Mountains, like Mila and Guan Suo, but it’s worth considering.

...

Hang on. What if some of those half-beasts are actual Divinities themselves? Guan Suo spent thirty-three years with his parents and who knows how many years before that, but the entire time, he thought he was merely a half-beast. What if there are others like him amongst the People?

...That would be nice, wouldn’t it? Secret, super-powered Divinities lurking in our midst...

Having left me to stew in trepidation long enough, the Legate waves away my unspoken concerns as if he weren’t the one who brought them up. “Threats and posturing mostly. Even the Defiled are not so in love with death and destruction as to want the world laid to waste, and our canny foe has other intentions. We know their Divinities will not attack, but we cannot let an intrusion go unanswered, especially not after losing two, prominent Divinities of our own, and with two more so grievously injured. The Smiling Slaughterer was an elder to most in those circles, and he will not be soon forgotten. As for the Destroyer, his strength was well known and well respected, for unlike the others of the Brotherhood, he delighted in challenging his peers to Martial contests, from which he emerged with the upper hand more often than not.” Sighing, the Legate shakes his head and looks away with an almost assuredly fake melancholy. “In contrast, the Abbot is... well, he leaves much to be desired in an ally during these tumultuous times.”

Again, the Legate is telling me all this for a reason, though I have no idea why. Truth be told, it might not matter if I understand or not, since he probably just expects me to pass the message along. Proving my hunch correct, the Legate doesn’t wait for a reply as he moves over to a comfortable chair the Seneschal liberated from the living room and says, “Tell me what transpired on the evening of Guan Suo’s death.”

And here we come to the crux of it all, the reason for his patience and presence. I have Kuang Biao to thank for this probably, because he likely told the Legate the moment he knew I was awake. From the skies outside, I can tell it’s not quite dinner time yet, which means I’ve only been at this for five hours or so, which means there’s a good chance no one even knows the Legate is here, since Mom or Luo-Luo would’ve sent a pot of tea up or something. No wait, they wouldn’t have even let him in if they knew I was in the midst of Inspiration, because they know how fragile it can be. Mila was engrossed in it for weeks developing the Spiritual Guns, but it would’ve ended much sooner if we weren’t around to keep her from eating her brushes and replace all the inkwells she threw at offending visitors.

Man... how much further would I have gotten if the Legate had bothered to refill my inkwell? Shit, for all I know, he might’ve gotten bored of waiting and emptied it himself, or rather had the Seneschal empty it for him. Sounds like something he’d do...

Inwardly stewing in pique, I answer the Legate as honestly as I can, since I only have a general idea what Mom and the others told him. I felt something hinky going on, woke Mila up, and then... nothing. Not all that far from the truth, except I leave out Ping Ping’s ultimate fate and simply shrug when asked. “Mom says she disappeared,” I tell the Legate, careful not to outright lie, because I’m a terrible liar. “I want to go find her,” I continue, because I am in dire need of cuddles, “But I don’t think I can.” Since I’m busy talking to you right now. Boom. All technically true.

Like Chief Beardy said, the truth is immutable, but perception ever changing, so it’s not my fault if the Legate wrongly perceives the truth in my words.

“I have people searching for the Divine Turtle, and I’m sure you do as well.” Waving a hand in dismissal, he says, “Tell me more of this disturbance you felt, the one which caused you to raise the alarm.”

...Shit. Did he notice something? It was all over in the blink of an eye, and Mom says no one noticed anything amiss, but Zhen Shi must’ve been clued in somehow, because he was right there waiting with a detailed illusion to trick me. It wouldn’t be outside the realms of possibility to think the Imperials noticed something amiss too, so I have no choice but to quietly admit the truth. “Well... I’m not sure but... I think Ping Ping was turning into a Demon.”

It feels terrible selling the not-so-big girl down the river like this, but I’m hoping a super powerful Demon would explain away all the shenanigans which took place that night, and for once, I get lucky. The Legate’s expression is almost unreadable, but his fingers twitch ever so slightly as he resists the urge to clench his fist. He’s not happy with the news, but his anger is not directed at me, which is the best I can really hope for. “We suspected as much,” he says, with a visible grimace, which coming from him is almost too dramatic to believe. I’m getting better at reading him, though it’s more difficult than most, because you can almost never believe what you glean from his tone, expression, or mannerisms and have to rely entirely on gut feeling. I’d be the first person to call bullshit if someone tried to pass this off as reliable, but I trust my instincts on this. The Legate is playing me here, but I have no idea what his goal is. “I’m afraid it may be even worse than you believe, for it’s possible the Divine Turtle ascended to Divinity in truth.”

“...And that’s a bad thing?”

This time, his surprise is genuine, for reasons which soon become obvious. “Yes, considering your suspicions. We now have another Enemy Divinity to account for, one to replace their singular loss, while two of our own lie dead and gone. Though we find ourselves in stalemate since neither side wishes to rule over ruins, there will come a time our cagey foe finds himself unable to recover, and I fear he will not be gracious in defeat.”

“Good point.” Shit, I just told him, and I already forgot we were talking about Defiled Ping Ping. Playing along with the Legate’s game, I ask, “So what can we do?”

“Pray his allies are not so fanatical as he.” Even now, the Legate refuses to use Zhen Shi’s name, despite being wholly at ease reading his notes to pass the time. There’s a strange disparity there which reinforces my belief that saying Zhen Shi’s name aloud could garner his attention, and the Legate seems to know it, which begs the question: how? I don’t mean how does Zhen Shi do it, but rather how does the Legate know it’s possible? Because it’s another Imperial secret? Something which would also cause ‘irreparable harm’ if it became known to the public?

There are times when I wish I was less paranoid, but now, I’m not sure if I’m paranoid enough. The conspiracies are real man, they just don’t ever end.

The silence lingers for long seconds as we both contemplate the future, and I give serious consideration towards running for the mountains. It would never work, not just because the victor would most certainly come after me once the dust had settled, but also because I’d never convince Dad to go through with it. I doubt Alsantset would cut and run either, nor would Mila without an express order from Akanai, because like it or not, they are staunch patriots to the core. Not to mention Yan would most certainly stick with Grandpa Du, who would sooner die than abandon his duty, and all the other poor, defenceless people I’d be consigning to death. While I am technically not responsible for their lives, I would never be able to live with myself if I just left them to their own fate, especially after convincing so many families to start a new life on the Western Border.

And most importantly of all, I want to stand and fight, not to be a hero of legend, but because it is the right thing to do. That’s really all that matters. This is a war which must be fought, and I will not run.

Well... not yet. There are times when discretion is the better part of valour, but that time has yet to come.

The Legate resumes our conversation and informs me of what to say about Ping Ping, that she was struck with wanderlust and went ambling about in the wilds. Not exactly a great cover story, but the Legate is less concerned about Ping Ping and more concerned about making sure no one knows she turned into a Defiled Divinity. Which she didn’t, because there is no way that sweet cuddle bug is Defiled in any way, shape or form. Jury is still out on the red panda, since it’s possible the little cantankerous grouch is hiding a buttload of Spectres, but considering he slept in my bed for two weeks and even gave me a good swat, any Spectres he did have would’ve been long since Devoured. Probably. Maybe? I should find me a Demon and do some testing, right after I read through my notes a few times. I’m pretty sure I mentioned something about animals, and Spiritual Hearts too, but I cannot for the life of me remember what it was, so I’m eager to go over it once more.

