Once we have all our ducks in a row, the Legate moves to stand and go, but stops and settles back down into his chair while regarding me with a curious expression, one too genuine to be faked. “I will do something which goes against all my instincts,” he says, looking incredibly human and uncomfortable as he does. “I know you are keeping secrets, secrets which may or may not be our undoing, so I will be honest and forthright, in hopes you will reciprocate.” Clearing his throat, the Legate begins, “I came here tonight to decide if I should kill you.”

“...If it’s trust you’re looking for, that was a bad place to start.”

“True enough,” he says, smiling at my wry retort while the Seneschal glowers away. “However, once again, you’ve failed to see matters from my perspective. You now know I suspected a Demon was born on the evening of Guan Suo’s death. What does that tell you?”

“...That it’s mighty suspicious how I was unavailable immediately after.”

“Indeed. Keeping the Death Corps at arms length is not unheard of, but the timing left much to be desired.” Sinking into his seat with a sigh, the Legate shows a hint of fatigue, which is more than I’ve ever seen before. “Our foe is a brilliant man, and our knowledge of him is outdated by eight-hundred years, so I can only imagine what heights he has risen to. You yourself said he can control others, albeit in an imperfect manner, so who better to take over than you? A quirky, eccentric, but powerful young noble who is... less than a full Martial Warrior, but rapidly recovering, someone who has demonstrated intelligence far beyond his years and has a future so promising, it almost defies belief.”

“Ah.” Holy shit. He thought I might’ve been possessed by Zhen Shi? And long before what happened to Ping Ping, from the sounds of it. “...Actually, not all that an unreasonable assumption.” Furrowing my brow, I tilt my head and ask, “What made you decide not to kill me?”

Chuckling, the Legate gestures at the papers in my hands and says, “I read your notes. Yours is a unique path, admittedly with similarities to our foe’s, but your conclusions are wildly different from anything he might consider.” His piece said, the Legate stands from his chair and claps me on the shoulders. “I too look forward to your future progress, and hope I never come to regret our partnership.”

With that, he turns on his heels and heads for the door.

Only to stiffen and cry out as a Concealed assailant plunges his dark dagger into his chest, the insidious weapon piercing through the front of his golden silk robes and bursting out the back.

A Wraith, cloaked from head to toe in flowing black robes and wielding dual obsidian weapons, but even the element of surprise is not enough to kill Shen ZhenWu, the True Divine Warrior of his generation. A single blow sends the would-be assassin crashing out of the room in a spray of splinters, but more Wraiths emerge from Concealment to take his place and chaos breaks loose in my old bedroom.

Of course. I should’ve expected something like this to happen. Today was going far too well for it not to end in disaster...

Chapter Meme
