Those of you with a halfway decent memory will recall why I became a War Mage. Before all this, I was planning to be an architect, but then my brother had to do something stupid, and my entire extended family ended up getting into a dispute. Let me tell you, there's no enemy quite like kin. No enemy like your own cousins plotting against your brother, your brother plotting against you. All while you're too weak to do anything. Too unwilling to confront your own blood for the mess they made.

I'm not gonna get into the weeds, but just understand that my family effectively destroyed itself. Plenty of yours have and will do the same. But this isn't about familial apocalypses; this is about what to do when that happens, or frankly, what to do when you find yourself suffering from hate.

Hate and grief, I think, are closer together than love and hate. Love might be inverse from hate in some ways, exhibit the same traits at times, but it's not exactly the same, is it? Yeah, I guess both emotions can consume you, but love is a light feeling, or it's an electric feeling for me. Hate grinds you. It takes away the energy inside you. It's like drowning, but you don't die.

And, ultimately, the biggest problem? Love's weaker than hate, by a lot. It doesn't take much for someone to hate you. It doesn't take much to ruin someone's life. When you really, really hate someone, when that hate gets deep into your bones, well, hate practically becomes all you know.

I spent a lot of my life resenting my brother, my cousins, hells, even my parents. Even though they've been gone for decades. I resented them because I should have been cared for. I wasn't old enough to protect myself when everything happened. I wasn't powerful enough. They promised they had a responsibility to me too, just as I did to them, and they treated that responsibility like an afterthought.

So when my cousins got sick during the plague, I ignored them, even though I knew plenty of excellent Biomancers. When my brother got into trouble with the law, I ignored every letter he wrote me, week after week, until they suddenly stopped. And guess what? I still didn't care. I didn't care if he was dead. I didn't care about any of them. As far as I was concerned, Jessica and my kids were the only family I had.

But going back to hate and grief…

This was after one of my more recent campaigns. We were finishing a rotation out in the south, helping out Lone Star against the orcs. Ugly business. Everyone who came back alive was happy to get some rest and relaxation. We ended up garrisoning at Trade City New Vega—Lots of Gates there. Lots more dimensional gateways too, leading all across the Yellowstone Republic.

And it was there, after Jessica and I finished going to a show and having dinner, that I ran across him again. The guy who sent my life into hell and made me become a War Mage. Without him, none of what you've read in all these pages would have been possible. My brother. My idiot brother.

The funny thing is, even after all those years campaigning, I still imagined him to be taller than me, bigger, stronger, better looking, with nicer hair. That wasn't the man I saw on the streets that day. He was so disfigured he barely passed as human, hardly even coherent, begging for a few spare bits of mithril. I wouldn't have recognized him if not for his voice, and he didn't recognize me at all, or maybe he didn't care enough. The drugs, the pain, the alcohol, the years on the streets, they'd done things to him. Things I could have never inflicted.

And that's when I realized my hate really didn't go deep enough. I will never forgive my brother, but I got him housed, I got him help, and I talked to him. There's a lot of love lost that's not coming back, but that's fine. Hate, on the other hand, is something you gotta take responsibility for. You have to accept the burdens and blessings that hate provides, and you have to solve it one way or another. It can't be your whole life, because eventually you'll turn out like him: just a parody of a person screaming for a few more shards on the street. Offering to do anything for it.

It’s no way to be a person. No way at all.

We Pathbearers might live long, but life’s still too short to be wasted on hate.

—Memoirs of a Master-Tier War Mage

366

Reconcile [I]

For a while, Adam couldn't stop screaming.

Shiv preferred those moments to the silence that gripped Adam now. At least when Adam shrieked, Shiv knew he was still alive. There was something left of him, some indication that there was energy or some semblance of a self there. Not anymore, though. His throat was torn and raw. His body had curled in on itself like a dying insect, twitches and spasms accompanied by whimpers and maddened whispers for someone to kill him, for someone to come by so he could kill them.

And while he suffered, everyone else was tortured alongside him.

The numbness inside Shiv began to throb. It was a comforting feeling, the absence, the hollowness. If it were filled with grief or pain or regret, he would have shattered. There would have been no hope for him to survive. But the neutering of his emotions came with its own consequences. His Harbinger was weakened dramatically as its Chronomancy died to the barest flicker of gold. It couldn't even move; it remained anchored to him, its consciousness shrinking until it was barely intelligible, barely there.

Five had been summoned by Can Hu, but the instant Shiv beheld his face, he knew there was no hope of fixing Adam. Not like this.

“This technology is beyond my understanding,” Five muttered. “It's old, it's complicated, and I have little experience with pre-Integration tech. My touch just slips off.” Five’s paws and face were merged with a complex array of mechanisms and alloys. Layered lenses shifted over his eyes, and a beam was projected from his forehead directly into Adam's bleeding scalp. The wolf-man's claws became a surgical kit, so fine and delicate that they could have stolen sinew out from under skin without disturbing the surrounding tissues.

But none of his technological miracles bore fruit. The crown wouldn't come out. Worse yet, the crown wasn't even the crown anymore. It was a part of Adam's brain.

However, Shiv wasn't out of options. His numbness might have weakened his pre-Legendary Psychology, but it gave him a quiet that engendered further thought—which he put to good use.

Even enemies could be resources in the right situation, and so he used Legion of Self to speak with Evanescia and Produveral. For if Legends and Heroes were found lacking, then why not beg the Myths and gods?

The two had been watching things unfold, as it turned out, and that spared Shiv the need to offer them an explanation. But even so, he didn't get the responses he desired.

“The only thing that might be able to dislodge nanotech is another nanotech device, usually,” Produveral said after a moment’s contemplation. “But… it’s hard to even describe how complicated such a procedure is. It's like having two different smart viruses fight each other—while one has already colonized the brain of its victim. So yeah, sure, you might be able to find a nano-surgeon.” He hesitated. “I'll even get you one after you come with me, actually. But I really don't think it's going to do you much good. The Crown of the Anti-Savior is a fucking art piece of an atrocity. The goddamned One Faith got really good at those toward the end.”

A vicious scoff escaped Produveral. “We suffer the Core even now. Nothing ever ends. And his situation's worse than that. This isn't just a Crown of the Anti-Savior; this is the Crown of the Anti-Savior, magically and divinely improved by the Challenger's touch. We try to pull this thing out with magic? Well, I got bad news for you. The Challenger's a better mage than me. Hell, the Challenger's practically a better everything than me, aside from being a professional stalker. I'd like to give you better news, kid. I really would. I can see you don't deserve it, and neither does he, but… fuck. Just fuck.”

Another benefit to numbness: you couldn't get demoralized when you were already in the pit.

“Evanescia,” Shiv slurred, his words coming out of him without his full awareness. He was a ghost to himself. “Maybe we can talk about a new struggle.”

But where the Farwalker was helpless, she seemed positively excited about this turn.

“Of course! Bring him to the Watchtower. The Farwalkers are impotent as expected, but this is just another darkest hour.” She let out an excited gasp. “And a fantastic darkest hour at that, rich with narrative fuel. Before, I considered your strange friend an outside-context problem, so to speak. Someone that didn't belong in a story and kept interrupting the flow of things. Now, though, he has his own struggles, his own conflicts. And I am—”

A thunderclap shook the Fairwoods. A voice turned the world black with a haze of falling ash. Darkness fell as distant fires rose, as mists of blood spilled through the enchanted forest where they stood from seemingly nowhere. And a guttural voice, wounded but louder than ever before, sent forth its declaration:

“You are not to intrude upon this contest, Deathless. If you try to pervert the course of your friend's struggle, I will see his life ended. This is the bargain you struck. Live with your consequences, as I will live with mine.”

The God of Strife's decree carried the weight of a thousand apocalypses. It flowed over Shiv and smote both the Farwalker and Usurper-Narrator. Evanescia was blasted free from her self-inserted character with a scream of agony and tumbled through the air as her featureless silhouette. The Mythic creature she wore fared worse. Its marble-colored skin turned into a spray of blood as it was disintegrated in a half-second, and the flesh beneath fared only slightly better. Produveral’s helmet shattered as if struck by a hammer blow, exposing his face to Shiv for the first time.

He was pale—paler than even Shiv had been while he was Omenborn. His hair was a messy crop of white, and his eyes were like black marbles dotted by thin pricks of violet energy. He looked softer than Shiv expected. His skin had a supple quality to it; a strange softness that made Shiv think of rubber. But the Challenger's blow struck Produveral all the same. He doubled over and coughed up a mouthful of blood. Driven to his knees, he battled to stand and managed on shaking legs. “Shit… Fucking hate it when he does that.”

Then the Challenger's presence cut out. The darkness descending upon the world broke like the vanishing of a sudden fever, and everything returned to how it once was.

In a blink, the enchanted forest was abloom with varied colors again, filled with wonderful floral scents, with the rising aahs and oohs of its joyous chorus. But Produveral couldn't stand without leaning against a tree, and Evanescia resummoned her self-insertion, only to find her character a badly mangled mess of flesh she had to rebuild.

“I withdraw my earlier statement,” she grumbled, doing her best to mask the terror leaking out from her with frustration, though the latter was also present. “There is nothing I can do for your friend, and this struggle, this story arc, is something he has to undergo on his own.” She paused, and her terror and anger were almost forgotten just like that as more important things came to mind again. “Do tell him to survive, though. He still holds a fragment of my Watchtower's flame, and so I would like it back rather than fully perverted by that rude, arrogant…”

She stopped talking, worried she might incur the Challenger's wrath once more. “But now that you're back, shall we restart your seasonal loop? It seems now is as good a time as any!”

Produveral wiped the blood away from his chin with the back of his hand and glared at Evanescia. “You know, for someone who's got a one-track mind about reading, you're really bad at reading the goddamn room.”

“I am fully aware of the subtext. I just choose not to engage with it. It is my right as a reader. You have done the same.”

Produveral frowned. “She’s right. Shit.” Shaking his head, he gave Shiv a pitying look. “Listen, if you need a little while…”

“No.” Shiv shook his head. Everything needed to happen anyway. This made no difference. Adam was still suffering. They couldn't help him, and the Challenger would make sure of that, but he needed to keep the other problems contained. He couldn’t be responsible for another mistake. He couldn’t take it if someone else—the thoughts were pulled out of him again. Focus became Shiv. “One body will go with you to Chorus; another will stay here with her. Maybe I'll find a solution if I spread myself out…”

Produveral’s emotional core was dense with doubt, much the same as Can Hu's —but the Myth forced himself to hope. “Maybe. We’ll see what we can do. There’s a lot of extraordinary circumstances with you, Shiv. There’s going to be a lot of people willing to—”

“Can you find Udraal?” Shiv asked, another thought occurring to him. “He’s Transcendent. Maybe we can convince him to help.”

Produveral cringed. “Yeah… Well… I would temper my expectations, kid. Finding him's not the hard part. It's getting him to listen or care. He has his hands full with, uh, System knows what. But we’ll do what we can. You know, this isn't just your problem anymore. You have the Challenger's right hand attached to you. That's not supposed to happen. A Legend isn't supposed to be able to graft a piece of a god onto themselves, especially not one like the Challenger. We're going to be walking into a real shitshow with this one.”

Even with his emotions deadened, Shiv remained Shiv. “Sounds great. Can't wait for the Mythic buddies to shit all over me too.”

