“That’s the spirit.” Produveral coughed. An awkward pause to the conversation followed. The quiet was filled by the singing trees and whistling flowers. “As for our magnanimous host, you mind if I just lie down here for a while? I'm pretty sure most of my organs got pulped when the Challenger snapped at us.”

“Oh, no, help yourself,” Evanescia said, sagging slightly herself. “Would either of you like tea?”

“Yeah.” Produveral spat out another globule of blood. “And a new set of lungs… and some unbroken skills. And to nap for a year.”

***

They moved the Court Leviathan out of the Tutorial. The orcs didn't try to stop them.

Most of the grayskins were still howling, gripping their right arms as they screamed on behalf of their divine progenitor. Between their screams came bouts of laughter, and even from afar, Shiv saw flickers of golden incandescence take shape around their arms, but it wasn't the glow of Chronomancy. The Biomancers that piloted the Court Leviathan also exhibited the same injuries—the right limbs were severed, and a magical construct was forming in the absence of flesh.

After landing the Court Leviathan near Starhawk’s Perch within Piety, the orc Biomancers detached themselves from Courtney, and most of them walked back into the Tutorial without a word. The silence was uncanny, but the expressions on their faces were anything but miserable. Yes, there was pain, but also excitement and glee, and they looked upon Shiv with what he could only describe as borderline religious fervor.

“He loves you,” one of the Biomancers whispered to Shiv as he passed. “And in time, you will come to hate him too.”

Shiv clenched his fists. “I don't need time; I hate him plenty right now.”

“Not enough. Your animosity is far outweighed by his affection.”

Shiv watched the orcs walk away, made sure they crossed over, and saw the bunker placed under extreme security constraints. Most of the Umbral Sisterhood and Weaveresses within the Gate were diverted to make sure no breaches of security would follow.

Enchanter Merrielmel and his devices were also drawn back across into Piety, and his anxiety seemed higher than ever. Whatever concerns he had were assuaged by Hymn, who took him off to the side, but not before he shot an awkward glance at Uva.

She, comparatively, was less than pleased with his continued presence. “Coward,” she spat, and said no more to him.

They took Adam to the peak of the perch and called for every Biomancer they could trust—and some they couldn’t. Helix was left outside, but Tulveg was summoned. And the moment he looked upon Adam, the vampire let out a hiss of disgust. “What wretchedness has been done to him? Something not of biology festers deep in his skull.”

When he learned of what the Challenger had done, his expression turned darker and bleaker, and he genuinely seemed overcome with misery. “Vileness. Unfettered vileness. Darkness assails us from every angle.” He drew his Legendary Biomancy and Psychomancy back and shook his head. “I am sorry. This is beyond me. Though I cannot say for sure, I fear it might even be beyond my old master—this is more than just a violation of the flesh. There is a power there… and it delights in the boy's suffering.”

“Fuck the power—fuck! Gods fucking—are all of you fucking worthless?” Rose screamed, fury engulfing her in place of despair. Her eyes burned with rage, so much that she could have been confused to have an orcish skill inside of her. “So what if a god is inside him? So what? We have our gods too, right? Roland! Call him!”

But Adam's father had sunken into himself, collapsing inward in growing hopelessness. He shook his head. “He won't come; he refuses. He says there is nothing he can do. He says there is no power he can wield greater than… than…”

Rose's anger grew to new heights. “What the fucking hells does that even mean? You—Starhawk!” Her cry was shrill and deafening. “Thaen, you worthless fucking bastard! Come down, you cowardly shit! Help my son! Starhawk! Roland—”

“He won’t speak to me anymore,” Roland whispered. “His spirit is dust. He has been scarred. He does not have the power… I don’t have the—”

But Rose wasn’t done. She stepped up to her husband, grabbed him by the collar, and hoisted him up while shaking him back and forth. “Then fuck him! What about the others? What about the capital? We can still go there. We can surrender ourselves and see if they can help Adam. What about Maiden? Maiden knows—”

“No!” The growl tore its way out of Shiv before he could catch it, before Uva could stop it. “Not her. Never her. Adam’s already suffering; she’ll just mutilate him more. She did… whatever the fuck to her own daughter. What will she do to someone that's practically a traitor?”

“The… Fuck! Come up with something!” Rose shoved Shiv back. Tried to. A kitten would have better odds of knocking down a fortress wall. But when she bounced off of him, her frustration burned hotter. “You were supposed to take care of him,” she hissed. “You were supposed to watch over him. He went inside the Fairwoods to deal with your problem!” She drove a finger into his chest, and Shiv’s flesh cracked like glass under her touch, spewing hissing vitality. “You—”

“Enough,” Uva commanded. She used her telepathy to cut into Rose’s mind. “Rose. Please.”

The Lady of Blackedge looked away from Shiv, and her eyes misted as she reached a threshold of pain she didn’t want to face. “Uva… they’re not helping my boy.”

“We are. We… we will…” Uva swallowed, trying to keep her own misery contained. “Rose…”

“Why?” Rose whimpered, clutching her head as it all became too much. Too much. Roland staggered over and took her into his arms before anyone could see her sob. “Why…”

And in the bed that had been moved into the uppermost chamber of the Perch, the sheets were soaked through with blood. Blood that wouldn't stop flowing. Blood several times the amount contained in Adam's body. He was babbling gibberish now. His teeth were clattering together, chipping and shattering against each other. His eyes were wide—never blinking. “Kill… kill… kill…” he kept repeating.

Shiv had thought the Tutorial was hell when he first set foot there. He was wrong. Hell was hopelessness. Hell was looking at a part of your life that once brought you joy, now defiled and destroyed. Hell was the bottom of a well where heaven was out of reach.

***

Hours flew by and felt like an eternity.

Despite everything they tried, despite all the skills and powers they had at their disposal, Adam's condition didn't improve. They couldn't even offer him a measure of comfort. His pain was burrowing deep, deeper and deeper into his very sinews, and the only word he seemed to know now was kill. No longer did he exhibit any hints of rationality or personality. There was just one urge that filled his core: to harm himself or someone else, anyone else. To let out the sickness that was building inside.

Rose and Roland were practically bolted to their son's bedside, and Shiv waited nearby, a ghost in the room, looking at the friend he'd failed. Uva remained connected to him—monitored Adam through her Psychomancy, but she'd left to administer problems in the Gate. Apparently, there was an outbreak of mutated cholera. It was affecting the Adepts, Initiates, and former slaves more than anyone else, and on top of that, the Republic's local forces were knocking on the surface gateway again, demanding to see Shiv—demanding he answer what had happened to Longinus.

But Shiv didn't budge. He remained in place, a stone fixture in a world that was constantly changing. With every passing day, his power grew, but so did the scars he accumulated. He knew his mind would regenerate from this, just like his soul would recover even from near-total devastation, but there was a weight building on his heart and within his memories, a weight of what he could have done, the things he might have been able to fix, the problems he could have solved if he was just a little smarter, a little wiser, had a bit more patience.

And in part, Rose was right: Adam wouldn't be in this condition if they'd stayed out of the Fairwoods. If he hadn't accompanied Shiv to get rid of his Curses, he wouldn't have been burned by the Watchtower’s Flame, wouldn't have undergone his Path evolution, and wouldn't have burned the Challenger’s influence out of the Culturist.

But how could someone like Adam Arrow let Shiv venture forth into the Fairwoods alone? Shiv's mind couldn't deny what his heart was feeling, but his heart also couldn't ignore the truth his mind spat.

Only knowledge of the future could have spared Adam this fate, and even then, he might have wandered directly to his death. He would have been terrified. He would have been shaken, but he would have done it anyway, because if Shiv knew one thing for certain, it was that Adam Arrow, at the end of the day, was a Pathbearer. For all the human weaknesses he possessed, he was something more.

And look where that got him.

The thought was intrusive and insidious. And it would have nearly snapped Shiv's sense of self in two, if not for Uva watching him as much as she was guarding Adam and tearing the trauma out of his mind before it could bring him low. Lower, anyhow.

And then there was the matter of the Challenger's limb, the Hand of the Red Rider that was fused to Shiv's very soul. It was connected to his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things, chained him by a stream of Vitae, and where he went, it followed close behind—hovering in perpetual equidistance to him, burning with dormant violence.

Shiv tried to dismember this new limb before the Challenger's fetid appendage could compromise his soul or do anything else. He couldn't. His cutting aura bounced off the link between him and the arm. It was harder than anything and anyone he'd tried to cleave into before. The hand felt inevitable, indestructible, unbreakable.

Worse yet, it spoke to him.

It whispered things to him. Things he couldn't unhear. It wanted to feed. It wanted him to break things. It wanted him to kill. It wanted him to stand atop mass graves, beneath the rain of beautiful ashes, to make mausoleums out of worlds.

War is war is war is…

Shut up. Just shut the fuck up!

War is war is war is…

Shiv snarled and turned. He strode up to his new hand and faced it down. Its knuckles were colossal. It was large enough to crush his body in a single blow, heavy enough that he couldn't move it of his own will. Yet it always followed him, refused to see itself severed. The damned fist was a sleeping bomb—a weapon of mixed essence, his unique soul nested inside the Challenger's overwhelming might. And he could feel the power, the sheer unparalleled power that came with wielding the right hand of war.

But he didn't want it. In fact, the Hand of the Red Rider was one of the few powers he would outright reject, because he knew the cost. He knew the horrors that came with serving as a conduit of endless bloodshed. If he went down that path, there would be no true difference between him and the Undying Tarrasque.

“A monster doesn't ride itself. You are to be the pilot of wrath and war. You cleaved him apart. You did, or what will become of you. Take on that mantle, live up to it. Be greater than you could ever imagine. For the only alternative is this.”

The Red Rider's hand tilted on an axis and extended a long, spear-like index finger toward where Adam lay. Shiv had no idea if the hand spoke and moved of its own volition, of the Challenger's will, or of his own subconscious’ impotent fury.

“This happened to him because you lacked relative power. As fast as you have grown, know that you are no large fish at all. Legendary worlds are but small ponds. And the System dwarfs any notion of an ocean. How many other gods like the Challenger are there? How many cruel monsters greater than you lurk beyond your meager sight? Even if you were given the gift of foresight, it would only torture you, because you wouldn't have the power to change things. With this hand, you could. With this hand, you could stop the endless tragedy that is your life.”

“You are the shape of my godsdamn tragedy,” Shiv seethed at the hand. “You. Udraal. The Challenger. The Ascendants. Veronica. The world is filled with… with godsdamned bastards. Everywhere. Monsters everywhere…”

“Indeed, it is. But don't despair, little Deathless. If you want the world to be any better, then you need only be the bigger monster, eat the nightmares before they crawl out under your bed and eat your friends and you first.”

Shiv struck the Red Rider's Hand with his own. He didn't think. He just acted. His fist collided against the middle knuckle of his unwanted hand, and it rumbled with thunderous delight. The Vitae empowering the hand ignited, and the dormant concept of War wasn't so asleep anymore. It trembled with power, but little more than a drop of what it could contain.

The hand was starved. The hand was a desert. It once was a sea. It wanted to be once more. It wanted to drown reality. It wanted to break worlds.

[THE HAND OF THE RED RIDER] requires more mana to awaken.

A ripple radiated out from the Hand of the Red Rider. Cracks formed along the ground. All that was glass fractured. Shiv's arm snapped like a twig—even the orichalcum was brittle when greeted by war unending. Shiv drew his hand back with a hiss of pain, and he turned away, refusing to face this thing that brought him so much suffering, that would continue bringing him suffering.

