But as he turned, he found Roland standing, his bow blazing in his hand, already drawn. He found Rose huddled over Adam, covering his still form with her body, even though she was barely an Adept, even as he soaked her with his blood.

Shiv stared at them, and they stared back at him.

Almost immediately, it became too much. He was the one sleeping, not the hand. He'd overstayed his welcome. He'd made a mistake. He should have left far earlier. He should have… he should have…

A hand took him by the shoulder. Shiv looked up and met Valor's piercing green eyes. He hadn't even realized his mentor was still here. But Valor didn’t need to say anything. He knew. Shiv saw that he knew.

He swallowed. “I… I’m sorry. I, uh, I should leave. I’m sorry.”

But before he could flee in shame and escape from the purge, Roland called out for him. “No. Wait. Tan—Shiv. Wait. I think… I think we should talk.”

Shiv was pinned in place. A sigh escaped him, like steam leaving an automaton. “I don’t.”

“There’s never going to be a good time,” Roland pushed. “There’s never going to be the proper moment. We have now. And Adam… What he said… Please. Can we talk?”

Shiv still wanted to leave. Everything inside him screamed to run away, but ultimately it wasn't him who came to the decision to stay. It was someone else pushing him. Valor tugged on Shiv, but instead of dragging him toward the exit where the platform led down to the castle proper, he pushed Shiv to face Roland and Rose.

“Sometimes the only way out of torment is deeper in and then through,” Valor whispered via telepathy.

Shiv didn't have the strength to resist. He felt spent. Despite all the levels he'd gained, all his evolutions, he felt more spent than ever before.

But he set a foot in front of the other anyway.

Because it's what Adam would have done.

“Alright, Roland,” Shiv breathed as he drew closer to Adam’s bedside—the Red Rider’s Hand gliding close behind him. “What do you want to talk about?”

The Town Lord looked miserable when he answered. “Everything.”
