nothing. This Dungeon learned!” Mas said grimly. Serma shook her head.“No! This has been… the paths have been the same for hundreds of years! An arrow here means that… I… I know nothing,” Serma began to gasp heavily. Deno moved forward, but it was Xan who heaved her up.“Then you have a duty to your people to report these changes. Up and at it, you poor pebble,” the Dwarf urged.“The Dungeon never changes… the only massive thing it did was take my mother…” Serma said hoarsely. Deno grimaced… he knew all about the Queen who fled into the Dungeon. Poor victim or treasure-seeking wretch?He would soon find out.Mas glared at the statue of the Dungeon avatar as the group was again faced with a choice of left or right to take.“Left I think,” Serma said with uncertainty. The girl had been shaken. Deno took her exposed hand into his paw. Serma met his eyes with obvious fear.“The chance of the Dungeon making so many changes that your knowledge becomes entirely obsolete is less than 2%. Your history… your lessons are gold. Do not fret, we are relying on you,” Deno said with confidence.It was both the truth and a lie.Dungeons defied reason, and Deno had no idea what it had changed to take the Princess out of her element. He couldn’t rely on the girl to provide accurate information, but he also knew that changes took time.The Princess nodded solemnly.“Brilda is waiting for me,” she answered, as if this was a charm to ward off unknown dangers.“Yes she is. Now lead like the royal blood you possess!” Deno urged. The girl stood and rocketed off to stop Mas from opening the door with little care.“Trust nothing! The doors can be trapped!” she reminded him with that atypical calm tone of the rich and noble.Deno nodded, sharing a look with Xan as Mas cut a wooden swinging axe that Serma accurately predicted in the corridor beyond.Her knowledge was accurate to that level at least.However, Deno was ready to fight that one unknown variable. Just one could cause chaos. Like the Amsamiran problem of numbers and reality. One wrong number made a solution into a paradox. Like those sheep loving priests who worshipped the two-left-eyes god.Deno was mapping as he went and sent a prayer to the goat of the left and right. Order and numbers. His only defence against the chaos of life.---Brilda had Zane pinned to the wall of the cave with her spear glowing dangerously red to his throat.“Take. It. Back.” she hissed. Zane looked unimpressed as he sighed.“Listen, the girl is as good as dead. The boss is gonna chew her alive on the 10th floor. I’m just being honest,” he easily freed himself of Brilda’s grip. The red light turned black and Zane’s neck gained a long thin bleeding line. He blinked.“No one made me bleed in… shit… well, fuck me. You actually like that young princess?” he joked as he wiped the dripping red line.“Princess Serma will win and you will guard her with your life,” Brilda said with no room to argue, but Zane grunted as his neck healed on the spot.“I don’t need a contract runt telling me what to do,” he said bluntly and grabbed her spear head as his hand burned at the contact.“You wanna save her… should have stayed inside the Dungeon and been a good little boss,” Zane grinned. That made Brilda glare with shock.“Who…?” she demanded. There was a hand on her shoulder.“Brilda.” Lorsa was calm as ever.Of course. Brilda let Zane walk off and she glared at the cloaked figure who was eerily calm. Brilda turned her fury on the woman.“You let loose my past?” Brilda said quietly.“Things slip. Being the third oldest makes people talk. Your name was well feared back in the day, ‘Brilda of the Spear’. How many warriors you pierced and removed before you emerged to suddenly take care of the Princess… odd but fortunate,” Lorsa said calmly.There was no fortune about it. Brilda emerged to care for Princess Serma for one reason only. The woman who would command the Dungeon could easily make Brilda feel human again. She gave the woman purpose and that purpose was-“Is this about the whore Queen?” Zane said, bored.Brilda blinked and Zane was broken. His arms and torso were jutting out at odd angles. His breathing hitched and his eyes glazed over as Lorsa stood over him.Utter death given to the man in less than seconds. Less time than Brilda could react to. Lorsa stared down and spoke quietly… oh ever so quietly.“Do not… speak of the Queen without respect. I warn you once,” Lorsa said… the calm a facade to hide boiling fury.“Yye-yess Com…mander Lorsa,” Zane said in a rasp as his lungs tried to inflate themselves. Brilda tried to breathe, but her throat didn’t work. The Mana choking her was old… ancient… tired.She tried to make a noise but she couldn’t even tremble. Lorsa turned and her head tilted until she made a small noise.“Oh… I am sorry. Brilda… please forgive me,” Lorsa asked with actual shame as the air became free of Lorsa’s power. Zane glared and Lorsa eyed the ceiling.“Wait for her. I have no doubt Princess Serma will be back soon. Zane? You have a task tomorrow. Please make sure you check your mail,” Lorsa said distractedly.“You smell of wine,” Zane said as his neck snapped back into position. Lorsa paused. She sounded amused suddenly.“I saw an old friend today. Wine was the calmest part of it,” she admitted, then vanished between the seconds. Lorsa’s gifts. How Brilda feared them.How could one run when distance and time meant nothing to your hunter? Brilda just decided not to anger the leader and fear those outcomes… it was easier on her mind.---On the hundredth floor of the Dungeon, a woman looked up as Lorsa walked out of the walls.“Lorsy!” the woman beamed at her as she emerged from her bed. The hidden room was protected by three mini-bosses and one puzzle involving a king of ancient past. The woman hugged her as Yal appeared.“You’re using too much Mana. I can only fill that shell with so much,” he said grouchily... distractedly as he chiseled at a hunk of rock. Lorsa ignored Yal.Respect owed to the ancient being was easy to ignore when she herself was older. Lorsa smirked.She was also a better Dungeon Core if things came down to childish arguments. Not that she had a Dungeon anymore.Those Fairplay fools had seen to that.“Hae, how are you?” she asked as Yal filled her physical shell with Mana. With no home of her own… she couldn’t produce Mana anymore. Being kindly neighbours, she had come to Yal for help, only to find a city growing around him.That had been enough to make Lorsa curious, the rest was history.She guided his human people and he in return fed her Mana.How many kings and queens had she guided? Too many, but Hae was special. Hae had seen Lorsa for the creature she was.“I am good! How’s my babies… how are my children,” Hae demanded. Lorsa tried not to flinch. Such honest earnesty.“Serma turned sixteen…” she said slowly. Yal closed his eyes. Hae looked like she had been struck.“Six… sixteen? No… she was… she was- eight! She was only eight a short while ago! Tell me time hasn’t passed that much!?” Hae begged and grabbed Lorsa’s cloak. Lorsa let her.Lorsa would always let her.Always.“She is wonderful… so beautiful and brave,” Lorsa pulled out sketches she had made of the girl. Hae grasped at them like a drowning man at air.“My child! My baby…” Hae gasped and fell to her knees, hugged them to her chest… crumpling them. Lorsa tried not to flee... not to run from the consequences of Yal… hers… and the Sister’s actions.The words floated back to Lorsa.“-a human model. Brother wants more details on people! We need to know about people and Dungeons when they don’t kill each other!”Sister. So cheery… so monstrous.“Not so much now. Sis has learned consequences… Delta has made her see,” Yal promised. Lorsa looked up at the figure who had his carving tools idle and still.“Was this ‘Delta’ worth it?” she asked bluntly as Hae sobbed.“Yes. She has changed much, and if you were still connected… I would not have to speak. Delta has brought ambition… joy… potential. Humans make more sense… no, that is wrong,” Yal mused, and turned with a smile.“Delta has been a path we all follow. Things make sense. People have reasons... ideas! Now I see this. They aren’t just food to feed my goals, but creatures of passion!” Yal held his hands up and then eyed Hae, who looked surprised to see the man talking so much.“Hae had supplied the System information on a detailed… complicated human, for Sister to allow the data and Dungeon System to… accommodate such a being,” Yal mused. He bent down and patted Hae kindly.“Delta is our daughter in the realm of ideals. She is wonderful,” He beamed. Her face blank, Lorsa raised one foot, and the Dungeon shook as she whacked his core with a mighty kick.“Creep. Hae, ignore him. I’ll see this ‘Delta’ soon. I’ll make sure she won’t be an issue,” Lorsa promised. Hae held pictures of Serma close.“Can… I go home soon?” she asked hopefully. Lorsa’s voice failed her.A box appeared and they all eyed it with slight fear.Soon. Very soon. Delta is your key and you are needed outside.The box faded and Sister’s words were soon gone. But… Lorsa had never seen such an orange box. Hae blinked, but Lorsa tried to grab the box.“Look at me!” she demanded. Her current physical form was no issue, but the core that acted as her heart was.Sister didn’t even hesitate as it vanished. Lorsa almost screamed in frustration but controlled herself.“You’re disconnected. Sis and Bro won’t even look at you,” Yal sighed.“I’ve done nothing but help them,” Lorsa said quietly. Yal frowned then spoke up.“Can’t look at you then. You know Vers is disconnected and he won’t take it lying down. They might just be careful,” Yal offered. That name sent many emotions flying around Lorsa’s mind.Vers. Sil.Silver.That was one cracked chicken egg if Lorsa had ever seen one. A Dungeon core that escaped the rules and expected to be praised for it. It was lucky it hadn’t been hunted down and removed. Brother was not the kind, forgiving type.“He vanished. No one… no Dungeon has felt a hint from it in ages,” Lorsa pointed out.“Spooks and angry teens don’t fade away. Silver is biding his time. Bet on it,” Yal said firmly. Lorsa of the Ghost Dungeon sighed.“True,” she admitted. Yal suddenly grinned.“Hae… your kid is about to enter the first boss room,” he announced in a sing-song voice. Hae rushed over to a mirror, which she smashed her fist into. The surface rippled like water and a far-away scene appeared.The scene showed a group of two eager teens, a stoic dwarf, and a nervous Rattis versus Yal’s first boss.A giant bug.“I hate that thing. It’s like the most generic first boss creature ever,” Lorsa muttered. Princess Serma raised a hand and magic demolished one of the centipede-spider creature’s nine eyes.“Yes! Go Sermy! Make Momma proud!” Hae hooted. Yal blinked.“You had tea with Hector last week!” he accused, glaring at Hae and pointing at the confused bug as it tried to eat a stone covered dwarf. Hae eyed him with a grin.“Daughters before monsters,” she winked.Lorsa leaned back and enjoyed the show. Despite the monsters she sent to Durence and the ones she recruited into the Knights…There was something fun about seeing novices panic as the bug grew a second head.--
