It took Cale a few moments to remember where he was when he woke up. Part of it was the resonance vision, which... it was too early to think about that. The other part of him was expecting to see the same gloomy ruins he'd been sheltering in for nearly thirty years, so when he opened his eyes to gentle morning light filtering in through stained glass windows...

Well, he came pretty close to reflexively blasting them.

Mostly because he still hadn't gotten over his last encounter with glasslight motes. Nasty little creatures. They were oddly prevalent in his last realm, presumably brought through by some long-shattered dungeon. Beautiful if you knew what they were and how to avoid them, but also absolute pests.

They were a counterpart to shadelings, in a way. They existed only in the scattered beams of light that were filtered through a pane of glass, and they danced in those beams like colorful fireflies. The moment anything entered that beam of light, though?

Stripped down to the bones. The act often shattered the pane of glass that hosted them, too. Honestly, of the two, shadelings were probably the more merciful variant.

Another knock came at the door, and Cale promptly remembered what had woken him up. He glanced at the other side of the room where Damien was still sleeping and quietly put up a barrier around him so he wouldn't be disturbed, then pulled open the door.

Leo stood there awkwardly. "Good morning," he greeted, lifting a hand in a limp wave.

Cale raised an eyebrow. "It's still pretty early," he noted, glancing back at the window and then stepping aside to let Leo in. "Couldn't sleep?"

"Was it that obvious?" Leo bumped his horns against the doorframe and grumbled, ducking lower to get all the way in. "I slept, I just... couldn't fall asleep again once I woke up. Figured you were most likely to be awake."

"And you didn't want Flia to try to drown you."

"And that," Leo admitted sheepishly. "You made some pretty big promises yesterday. I guess I wanted to be sure if they were real."

"They're real," Cale said. "But it all depends on when you're ready to head in there."

He tilted his head toward the labyrinth door. It was still there at the back of the room, just as ominous as ever—more ominous, in fact, though Cale couldn't quite place what made him feel that way. He'd learned to trust his instincts over the centuries, though.

Ominous was fine. Ominous usually meant there would be something interesting, albeit potentially difficult to deal with. It was when his instincts said something was dangerous that he really became wary.

Leo glanced at the door and flinched slightly, then took a deep breath, as if to steady himself. "Can you tell me more about it?" he asked. "You said you were there, right? In Karmia, when all this... happened. You must have some idea what this labyrinth was made from."

"I do," Cale said steadily. "You sure you want that story?"

"Well, I'm less sure now that you asked me that." Leo made an exasperated sort of huff, and Cale snickered in response.

"You do want to know more about Karmia, though," he prompted, his eyes gleaming.

"I still can't believe you were there." It was almost funny how the minotaur tried to hide his immediate interest. "I mean, there's so much information we're still missing. Why was it called the Age of Distortion? I read some analytical papers on the Karmian artifacts we've discovered, but—"

"Hold on," Cale said with a laugh. "I only just woke up, you know. Let me at least get through my morning routine."

"Right," Leo said, embarrassed. He stepped back and took the farthest seat from the labyrinth door that he could.

Cale couldn't blame him for that. He went about his business while Leo busied himself with one of the books he'd brought along with him—some sort of dissertation on living mythologies, it looked like. Specifically, a breakdown of the known Named, which Cale was pretty sure was the sort of book that would normally be found in the forbidden section of a magical library.

The Named were not the sort of beings whose names could be casually invoked, after all. A few of them didn't care, but a book? That was basically begging them to intervene. But then Leo looked like he'd had this one for a while, so it was probably one of the favored copies.

Cale wasn't too worried about it either way. If one of the Named came knocking, he'd just deal with it the same way he always did. He was curious about the book, though; he'd have to ask to borrow it at some point.

"Cale?" Leo ventured after a moment. "What are you doing?"

Cale blinked, startled. He'd almost forgotten that Leo was there, and he hesitated for a moment before he answered.

"It's just... something I try to remember to do," he explained vaguely. He was standing by one of the windows and staring quietly out at Utelia's landscape, which he supposed might have looked rather odd. He gestured for Leo to join him, then tilted his head toward the rising sun. "I like to take a bit of time to appreciate the worlds I'm in. Especially if it's a place that's new to me."

"Really?" Leo glanced out of the window, brows furrowed in confusion. "Is Utelia that interesting? I guess I wouldn't know, since I've lived here all my life, but you must've seen things that're... I don't know, cooler?"

The minotaur winced almost as soon as the last word emerged from his mouth, but Cale only laughed.

"You'd be surprised. Utelia's pretty special, I'd say," Cale said with a grin. "But yeah, this isn't the coolest landscape I've seen or anything. I've been to worlds covered in rivers of light, at least one realm made out of diamond, and I remember being summoned into the middle of some sort of apocalyptic holy storm one time."

Leo stared at him blankly. Cale snickered.

"I've seen a lot of things over the centuries," he said. "But what I've learned is that once you've lived long enough, it's easy for wonder to bleed out of every little thing. Easy to forget how much the mundane matters, even in something as simple as the sunrise, or the rustling of the leaves, or the first shoots of spring pushing through the dirt."

He hummed in thought. "I've been to realms that have lost all those things," he said. "I've seen so many worlds fall to ruin, Leo. It's all too easy for those of us with power to forget how difficult it was for life to reach this stage to begin with. We think life can recover, that it can find a way, but sometimes..."

Cale shrugged, falling silent, and Leo looked at him with the sort of slow-dawning understanding that felt a little too much like pity.

"Oh," the minotaur said quietly. He hesitated, like he was looking for more to say, but before he could, Cale interrupted him with a change of subject.

"Which is why I want to learn Standard Array spells!" Cale said brightly. "Trust me, when you live long enough, it's the little stuff that matters. You know what I'd give to throw a normal fireball? Or just change the color of an object? It'd be so convenient! Not to mention I'd love some kind of laundry spell—"

A flash from the landscape distracted him, and Cale turned back to the window. His eyes went wide. "Whoa," he said, impressed. "Right, I forgot the other reasons. Sometimes, when you take the time to look, you see some really cool stuff."

Leo blinked and leaned closer to see what Cale was staring at. His breath caught, and he stared out silently, fingers digging into the windowsill.

Off in the distance, at the border between the Starfall Desert and the Petrified Sea, twin storms had begun to gather.

On the left, glittering comets fell from clouds that resembled miniature nebulae, crashing into the jagged shapes of a dozen stone trees; where they exploded, magic coalesced, turning them abruptly into piles of shining, crystalline sand.

On the right, thick clouds boiled, dense with some sort of stone-based mana. They acted almost like liquid, roiling into bubbles that popped and sent bright flashes of lightning down onto the ground. As soon as that lightning struck, it turned the sand around it to glass and froze in place, calcifying into a brand new stone tree.

"It's like they're fighting for territory," Cale said, impressed.

"I don't... I don't think I've seen both of those places storm at the same time," Leo said, a little in awe at the sight. "I guess you're right. That is pretty cool."

"Isn't it?" Cale let himself be smug about it for a moment, then turned away from the window so he could lounge back in one of his chairs. "Let me know when you're ready," he said. "You said you wanted to know more about where the labyrinth came from?"

"If I'm going to explore it, I should know," Leo agreed, though he sounded a little distracted and hadn't looked away from the storms. "It feels a little weird to my labyrinth senses. I might be able to figure out why if I know more about Karmia."

"Either that, or you just want an excuse to learn more about Karmia before Imrys can," Cale said with a smirk, and by the way Leo's cheeks seemed to color at that, he wasn't entirely wrong. "It just so happens that I think this labyrinth was created through an infection of the Karmian Well, so you're going to learn how the whole Age of Distortion came about, too. Whenever you're ready, anyway."

"Just a minute more," Leo said, still staring through the window. He was clearly torn, judging by the way he kept glancing guiltily at his notebook.

"There's no rush," Cale said with a little grin. "Still a few hours before classes start, anyway. Honestly, I'm impressed we got so much time to sleep."

Though Cale was pretty sure that the elixir the Headmaster had given him had something to do with that. Akkau knew he'd be taking it, after all, and he'd adjusted the class schedule for today... Maybe that was meant to make sure they could all get a little more sleep.

Cale wasn't exactly sure how it happened, but he found himself standing in front of an impromptu class, with a whole gaggle of interested students staring at him and eating up every word. There were a few professors in the class, too. No one he'd already met, unfortunately—something he was sure Imrys would confront him over later—but professors, nonetheless.

To think this had started because Damien had woken up and wanted to listen in. And then, once Cale restarted his explanation, Syphus had rolled up to their room and knocked on the door, along with Threek. And when he'd restarted his explanation for the second time, a new set of students had shown up, because one of Threek's clones had been in the library and started animatedly talking to other students about it...

One thing led to another, and eventually they had to find an empty classroom just so Cale could talk about this.

"Okay," Cale said. "No one else, okay? This place is full enough already and it is way too early in the morning for me to lecture you all about Karmia fifteen times."

Everyone nodded and gave him eager, intense stares. Cale groaned. This was why he never officially took up a position as a professor. Hopefully he'd just have to do this the one time and that would be it.

"Also, only Leo is allowed to ask questions," he added hastily, mostly because he could see that a few of the professors had brought entire lists of questions with them. Was this just because of his performance yesterday? Sheesh. "Anyway! If we want to talk about the Age of Distortion, we need to talk about the Karmian Well, and if we're going to talk about the Karmian Well, then we need to talk about Hugh, the King of Distortion.

"Don't worry too much about the names. Hugh just loves drama. He's just like any other magical scholar, really—he spent most of his life researching dungeons and trying to revolutionize magic. The only real difference is that he actually did. He created a one-of-a-kind spell, a twelfth-tier conjuration-transmutation spellbridge."

It was still one of his favorite memories, really. That spell had been beautiful. The tier didn't quite do it justice, but that was the nature of the tier-based system for categorizing spells. Some of the students and professors recognized this, too, because they were already muttering to themselves and scribbling notes with wide eyes.

"For context, before Hugh, the highest tier conjuration-transmutation spellbridge I know of is eighth tier," Cale added, mostly to highlight the achievement for everyone that didn't get it. Once he was satisfied that everyone was appropriately impressed, he continued.

"The spell essentially merged all the dungeons beneath Karmia into a bottomless hole right in the center of the kingdom. That one spell was what kickstarted the entire Age of Distortion," Cale said. This time, the reactions were much more appropriately impressed.

"Why was it called the Karmian Well if it was just a pit?" Leo asked awkwardly. Cale grinned.

"Excellent question!" he said. "It really was more of a giant pit. I even said it should be named the Karmian Pit, but it got voted down. Something about 'not inspiring much public faith' and 'makes our kingdom sound like some kind of dump' and 'Cale, stop trying to give things in our kingdom ominous names.'"

The class fell silent at that, and Leo hesitated before he asked the obvious followup. "Were you trying to give things in the kingdom ominous names?"

"I had a phase too," Cale said defensively. "It's not like I tried to call it the Pit of Despair. Anyway! To answer your question: the name does still work, because it does kind of work like a well. When Hugh created that spell, he created a new, unique type of dungeon—which is the sort of thing that would qualify a spell as twelfth-tier all on its own, normally—and more importantly, he also created an entirely new source of mana. Channelburn-free mana, in fact."

There were wide-eyed murmurs at that, and Cale grinned with satisfaction. A new source of mana was nearly unheard of. Things like mana potions could restore a mage's mana, but not by that much, and not without incurring the buildup of toxicity that resulted in channelburn.

The Karmian Well, on the other hand, had no such limitations.

"Which is to say you could draw mana out of it the same way you could draw water from a well, in case anyone's still unclear about it," Cale added cheerfully. "And there was a lot of mana down there. Like, more mana than the people of Karmia could ever need. So! Can you guess what happened?"

About half a dozen people opened their mouths to speak, and Cale held up a hand. "That was a question for Leo," he emphasized, exasperated. "This was a lesson for him! He's the one that wanted to let you all listen in."

Leo looked a little embarrassed at that. "I don't mind if they answer."

"You're answering," Cale said, deadpan. Leo coughed and nodded.

"I would... assume it brought the kingdom a lot of interest?" he offered. "A lot of researchers would kill to have mana refills on tap."

