"Exactly!" Cale beamed. "And not just researchers. Archmages, magical scholars, even some minor divinities started showing up so they could use the Karmian Well. It was a game changer for magical research and essentially a turning point for the magical development of the entire realm. It's also one of the proofs we have that dungeons carry magic from stronger realms to weaker ones—once the Age of Distortion really got going, the appearance of new dungeons in the realm dropped drastically."

"So that's what started the Age of Distortion?" Leo asked. "The boom in magical research?"

"Sort of," Cale said with a shrug. "People argue over when the Age started. The Well brought Karmia a lot of wealth and prosperity, but the reason it's called the Age of Distortion hadn't happened yet. That took a few months."

Leo looked a little nervous. "Were there side effects?"

"Yep! But probably not in the way you're thinking." Cale leaned back against the wall and folded his arms, grinning. "A few months after the Karmian Well was created, it started burping out what people eventually came to call distortion storms. Basically, there was so much magic in the Well that every so often, it would just... boil over. Spill out these massive pockets of raw mana. And then, through some inscrutable quirk of Hugh's original spell, those pockets of mana got transformed into these massive torrential downpours. Rain, basically! But—" he paused for dramatic effect "—magic rain."

Leo turned in his seat as if to check if everyone else was just as confused as he was. When he saw they were—and that they were waiting for him to ask—he sighed. "What exactly do you mean, magic rain?"

"Excellent question!" Cale said for the second time, beaming. "Normally rainwater can't carry much magic, but these storms did. A lot of it, in fact. Some people think it was actually just raining mana that looked like a liquid. Basically, distortion storms had a lot of magic and a lot of transmutative power; that second part is one of the reasons it's thought they were a result of some interaction with Hugh's spell."

"Transmutation?" Leo frowned. "It could transform things?"

"Oh yes," Cale said. "Started a bit of an outcry, actually, when they first started. No one likes their things getting randomly transmuted. But then people realized the transmutations were predictable and pretty profitable, so that outcry died out as soon as it started. Probably should have done a little more research before they decided it was a good thing, if you ask me, but no harm done. It actually started a whole new religion."

"It... started a religion?" Leo blinked helplessly.

"Yep!" Cale thought for a moment. "I think they were called the Leyline Stormchasers? They believed the Karmian Well tapped into the source energies that drove the whole realm, and they also believed that distortion storms were 'blessings from the realm itself.' No idea if they were right, but I mean, the storms were pretty useful. Once the scholars figured out what they actually did, anyway."

Leo flipped through his notebook a few times. "I think I saw something about this," he muttered. "It wasn't a record of Karmia, I think it was a different realm's records of Karmia? They thought that Karmians were master alchemists."

"Nope! That was the storms. They would hate being called alchemists." Cale snickered a little at the thought. "Thought alchemy was too unreliable to be useful to a real mage. They've clearly never met a master alchemist, but I mean, I wasn't going to tell them.

"It took scholars a few weeks, but they eventually managed to verify that distortion storms just shift anything the rains make contact with one conceptual degree to the right. Turns sand into glass, stone into brick, silver into gold. That kind of thing. Incredibly profitable transmutation at a moment's notice, especially if you bottle up the rain. Merchants were basically rabid for the stuff.

"That meant the Stormchaser movement just grew and grew," Cale said. "But the storms were getting stronger, too. The rains were changing more things at a time, the downpours were heavier, and things that used to be immune to the distortions started changing. Eventually, the storms got strong enough to start affecting people."

He paused there, looking out over the class. They were silent now, staring at him like they were enraptured by the story he was telling. Cale felt a little awkward about the whole thing. He was just explaining what he'd seen! It wasn't like he was giving them the secrets to the universe or anything.

"You'd think that would slow them down," Cale continued. "But it didn't. Not even a little bit. It just spawned a new faction of Stormchasers that called themselves the Acolytes. Basically they would chase after distortion storms in the hopes that they would be 'blessed by the realm' and granted new bodies, usually because they weren't happy with the ones they got. Or just because they wanted to try out something new. The storms were a lot less consistent about people than they were about materials, so it was never really a guarantee, but honestly all the Acolytes I met were pretty happy with their changes."

"What kind of changes were they?" Leo asked, leaning forward at his desk. Cale blinked.

"I don't know? All kinds of things, really. Extra eyes, extra mouths, wings, tentacles, sometimes they'd change sex or just turn into a different species altogether. Honestly, they were pretty cool to hang around with. The new bodies they got were always really interesting."

He paused again. "Which isn't related to why I liked hanging out with them. Obviously."

Leo raised a hand.

"Anyway," Cale said hastily, ignoring him. "That's a big part of why that time period is known as the Age of Distortion. Distortion storms and the rain that fell from them basically became both a driving force of the economy and very nearly a form of currency. All of which is important, but not as important as how all this relates to what was actually inside the Karmian Well."

At that, many of the people in the class sat up, and Leo stiffened slightly. This was the part that was actually important for him. The labyrinth sitting in the room Cale shared with Damien had been birthed by the Labyrinth Plague infecting the Well, which meant that the contents of the labyrinth would likely reflect the contents of the Well in some way.

From everything Cale knew about the Karmian Well, that meant the things they found in it would be very interesting indeed. Potentially, they would accelerate Leo's magical development even further, though Cale didn't want to make any promises too early.

"Like I said, the Karmian Well was conjured by merging together all the dungeons underneath Karmia," Cale said. "Which means even before the distortion storms began, the Well had elements from every single dungeon that was merged into it. All the same artifacts, traps, monsters, that kind of thing.

"Thing is, the distortion storms didn't just affect the kingdom of Karmia. They raged inside of the Well, too, a lot more frequently and far more powerful than they did outside it. The monsters in the tunnels grew stronger and more intelligent, sometimes forming entire societies." Cale winced a little bit. "Fractured societies, usually. It was a whole branch of research to figure out how to get them out—if you're familiar with the spatial lock and the temporal cycling common to dungeons, you probably understand why."

A few people looked uncomfortable as they understood the implications; Leo was one of them, judging by the way he frowned and stared intently at his notebook.

"In any case." Cale sighed, then made himself continue. "An even smaller fraction of those managed to negotiate treaties and alliances with organizations from the kingdom above, usually assisted by one of the Acolytes. Or by me. I did a few negotiation runs."

"Were you good at it?" Leo asked, blinking at him.

Cale stared right back. "I feel like I should be offended by whatever you're implying."

"I'm just saying," Leo protested.

"I was pretty good at it!" Cale said. "Mostly. Look, my methods weren't traditional, but they worked, okay?"

"What were your—"

"Anyway," Cale said, moving on. "The monsters were one thing, but inside the Well, distortion storms were strong enough to affect even the artifacts that bled through from other realms. That was the part that was really dangerous—artifact transmutations were pretty much never stable. Something about their grounding concept, maybe? But the Well got more and more deadly because of it."

Leo looked, perhaps understandably, rather nervous. Probably because they'd have to go into the Well. "What happened to the artifacts?"

"Oh, you know." Cale shrugged. "I remember there was a grail on the third floor down that was supposed to pour out pure water, but one day it started pouring out, uh, blood. Sourced from everyone in the vicinity."

Several people physically recoiled.

"There was this pack of tarot cards that was supposed to summon guardians from the major arcana to help a mage through the dungeon trials, except after one storm the deck started allowing inverted cards to be pulled. Pull an inverted card and it would summon the guardian to hunt you down and turn you into a new major arcana in the deck."

"How does that work?" someone muttered to themselves. Most of the others looked appropriately horrified, though. Leo just had his face buried in his hands.

"There was a Ring of Fireball that somehow got twisted so it would burn your organs as fuel instead of mana," Cale added thoughtfully. "Now that I think about it, a lot of the distortions were related to organs. Weird."

"Was there anything good?" Leo asked tiredly, almost pleading.

"I mean, even those artifacts weren't bad," Cale said, and then when half the class turned their horrified gazes to him, quickly amended his words. "Artifacts are dependent on their users! The first one got auctioned off to a vampire. And the second one was handed off to the local adventurers' guild so anyone with a death curse or something similar could immortalize themselves as a guardian."

"What about the third one?" Leo looked only slightly mollified. Cale had to think for a moment to remember what happened to that ring.

"Gifted to a troll," he said eventually, nodding. "She was delighted by it. No natural mana reserves, but great regeneration, so the flesh-as-fuel thing didn't matter to her."

"I can't decide if any of this is better or not," Leo grumbled. "Were there never any good artifact distortions?"

"They were rare, but they did exist," Cale said thoughtfully. "...I don't think they were interesting enough for me to remember, though. Sorry."

"I am very concerned that you remembered all the horrifying ones and not any of the helpful ones," Leo said, face buried entirely in his desk. Cale was kind of impressed. Mostly because the desk was flat and Leo had a snout.

"Anyway, that's all I've got," Cale said cheerfully. "Everyone except Leo, Syphus, and Damien, get out. Shoo."

There were a few grumbles, but surprisingly no one fought him on the matter. Maybe his reputation had started spreading through the school? That would be convenient.

"What do you think?" Cale asked Leo encouragingly.

"I think I'm screwed," Leo mumbled, depressed.

"Come on," Cale said. "Any of that explain what was off with your labyrinth senses? If we're going in, we need to know everything we can."

Leo groaned, but to his credit, he did actually stop to think. He hesitated for a long moment before eventually speaking. "I... I think so," he said. "It felt a bit like there were multiple labyrinths in there. And you said something about the Karmian Well having different floors?"

"They were sort of different layers as you got deeper into the Well, but yes," Cale agreed. "You think the labyrinth might have replicated that?"

"More than that, maybe," Leo said. He sat up a little in his desk, and once again, Cale glimpsed the mage he could be—the sort of mage that could push aside their exhaustion and hone their instincts until they knew. Until they cut through the mysteries of the realms and learned to grasp them for themselves. "Different floors, but also something moving through them and changing things. One of those distortion storms, maybe."

"Interesting," Cale said passively, but his eyes gleamed.

Now that sounded like something new. A moving storm that upgraded all the dangers and artifacts in its path, but potentially something that could be corralled, maybe even controlled. A storm naturally attuned to a labyrinth, bursting with mana...

A perfect seed for a second core.

Before Cale could say anything more about it, the scroll in his pocket vibrated in warning. "Whoops," Cale said. He pulled out his schedule scroll to open it, but apparently, it wasn't warning him because it was late—it was just letting him know his schedule had changed.

Akkau had come through, it seemed. Damien, Leo, and Syphus were all checking their scrolls, too.

Cale's next class was now Elemental Resonance: Playing with Fire, apparently? That was Graystalk's class, if he remembered correctly... which meant it was sure to be fun. Cale grinned. "Guess Akkau changed the schedule," he said. "I've got fire resonance next. Does anyone else have it?"

"Um..." Damien raised a hand again. "I do, but... why did Akkau change the schedule?"

"Reasons!" Cale said cheerfully. Come to think of it, fire resonance was one of the ones he'd need if he wanted to get something close to a baking spell, wasn't it? That gave him the perfect excuse to check on the Gift and see if he could re-evolve spells like [Burn]... and probably to see if there was anything waiting for him about the whole draconic resonance thing. He'd been ignoring it for a while.

Accidentally, and not at all because he was worried the Gift had peeked at his resonance vision and was judging him.

Then he paused. "I wonder how Flia is doing," he said thoughtfully.
