However, Randidly’s face soon crumbled in a weird mixture of confusion and vague loss. The System engaged in response to Drum’s action, humming to life to drive away the excess Nether that crowded around Drum’s body. There was some gravity to that much significance coming together, but it was nowhere near the black-hole absorption of Pine. Drum raised his poleaxe and slung it across his shoulders and already half of his plundered power was gone. “Don’t fuck with me, boy. You have no idea the sort of enemies you will make for me if you ascend now. The Sonara is filled to bursting. You will not pass.”

How cheap are lives to you…? He thought, watching the flesh of Drum’s body begin to react poorly to the Nether. It was such a meaningless display.

“I don’t want to have to kill you.” Randidly exhaled as he spoke. With the storm gone, the silence around them was deafening. The humming of Xershi’s body was the only break. Weirdly, Randidly suddenly wished he would have asked the orcs why they had switched sides.

“Heh. Do you understand what I’ve just done?” More and more significance was shaved away from Drum, leaving him with about a 20% increase over his originally dominant power. The boost vanished because he didn’t know how to protect it. And he didn’t even seem to notice. “I’ve used an ancient method to pull back the investment I made in the orcs long ago. All of their accomplishments have become mine. That first strike? It was just a drop in the-”

For a brief moment, the emotions of the Grey Creature stirred along with Randidly’s will. The lonely being cried that this didn’t need to happen. The emotional affect began to resonate. His image cut through the last of the hanging image suppression, which admittedly had already begun to fade without the orcs to prop it up.

The Wrathful Calamity Rends.

Drum swayed. His and Randidly’s face were suddenly close. Randidly looked with pity at the confusion he could see through the thin helmet opening, while he exploded with Nether and Yggdrasil into the hole Acri had drilled into Drum’s body.

Drum’s image surged to resist, but it continued to sizzle against the Nether that he had stuffed into his body. The unearned benefit had vanished, leaving him only with a massive weakness. Randidly twisted the spear. “I really would have preferred it any other way. But if you think lives should be toyed and reaped like this, I’ll do the Nexus a favor as I’m passing through.”
