After a moment, he summoned his own accolade. It materialized from thin air when he concentrated on it. He placed it next to the others, then blinked the moment he took his hand away. The room had suddenly become darker, or more accurately, his senses had weakened.

Accolade of the Everdeep Fortress

+10 Perception

So I need to be touching it, then. He pressed a finger to the plate, and his senses sharpened once more. Interesting. It doesn’t seem like the gauntlet matters. It’s probably a ‘domain of the soul’ type of thing.

He picked up the accolade once more and placed it in a pouch. The buff remained. Yup, it just needs to be on me. There’s no point keeping it summoned, though. That’s just asking for trouble. He paused. If I can summon it, then I suppose it means I can give it away. I wonder if there is a market for these things. There must be. The question is: why is this one bound to me, but not the others?

He scratched at his beard, thinking. The obvious answer was that he’d earned the Perception accolade himself, receiving it in some sort of out-of-body experience. In-soul experience? I’m pretty sure that's what that was. Can I get back there?

He pulled out the black accolade again and concentrated on it. Instead of trying to send it back to wherever it went when he dismissed it, he focused on the boundless void that he’d been whisked off to when Tallheart had broken the lair’s core. Let’s see, I saw myself as made of blue light, and the surroundings were just endless swirling darkness. His brow furrowed as he tried to will the image into reality.

After a minute, he gave up. While he could recall the scene perfectly, he remained in his body no matter how hard he concentrated. Either there was some trick to it, or he’d made a faulty assumption somewhere.

I need to talk to Ameliah again. She probably knows. It’s not like there’s anyone else I can ask...

He stared off into the distance, thoughts suddenly stalled. Whenever he closed his eyes, the bodies were waiting for him. He’d performed forty-nine funerals in total. The Watch had lost all eighteen of their sentinels in addition to twenty officers. As for the Guild, they lost eight bronzeplates, whose names he didn’t know, and three silverplates, Feddek, Pemmin, and Olani.

Khurt, the barman, was the only remaining Guild silverplate in the city that Rain knew of, and he was refusing to hope that he was still alive. He didn’t want to have that hope crushed when he found Khurt’s broken body under the rubble. There were still twenty-one more corpses buried in the collapsed tunnel. If Khurt was alive, he would ask him about accolades, but if not…

Rain shook his head, forcing down his dark thoughts. He would deal with that when the time came. Worrying about it was useless.

There is one more person I could ask, I suppose. He closed his eyes, discarding the idea. While Velika would doubtless be able to tell him how accolades worked, he didn’t want her to know that he had them. She’d take them for herself in all likelihood. That was the worst outcome. He was fine giving them up if they went to the families of their former owners, but giving them to Velika…no.

Rain sighed. The same problem applied to a lesser degree when it came to asking someone like Lord Rill. He needed someone he trusted. Of course, it would only be an issue if he managed to get out of here.

Looking back down at the accolade in his hand, he inspected it for anything that he might have missed. The lettering seemed to have been stamped into the front, and the back was blank. He couldn’t get the text to change in any way—to show the lair’s level, for example. It wasn’t like a dialog that he could manipulate. It was, for all intents and purposes, a physical object.

He summoned and dismissed it a few times, then placed it on the ground and removed his hand. He concentrated, then nodded to himself. As he’d suspected, he couldn’t dismiss it when it wasn’t in his possession. It looked like if someone took it from him, he’d have to get it back physically.

As for the person who took it, he was unsure whether they’d be able to use it. The fact that he couldn’t use the other accolades sitting in front of him meant that transferring one probably wasn’t as simple as just handing it over.

He waved his hand over the accolade, vanishing it smoothly like a magician, then picked up one of the other metal plates.

Accolade of the Southshore Rat Warren

This one came from Feddek.

Rain knew for a fact that the old adventurer had no family left. He’d overheard him say so in the Guild tavern. Feddek was—had been—a bit of a talker, to the point that some Guilders actively avoided him. He was always retelling old tales of his exploits, whether anyone wanted to hear about them or not. Rain didn’t know much else about him, but he got the sense that he’d had no strong connections with anyone in the city, for all that he was always hanging around the Guild. If there was one accolade that he felt the least bad about experimenting on, this was it.

He flipped the plate over, inspecting it thoroughly. Other than the color of the metal and the different writing, it was exactly the same as all of the others. The three lairs with creative names had come from adventurers, this one from Feddek, and the other two from Olani. Pemmin hadn’t had any, nor had any of the bronzeplates or officers. The rest came from the sentinels.

Carefully, Rain pushed mana into the plate with Mana Manipulation. The metal, whatever it was, drank it up eagerly. Just as when he’d tried this before, he got no feedback as he would have from a magical item. Slowly, he increased the flow. Normal metal would eventually saturate with mana, with a different capacity depending on the properties of the material. Once that happened, it wouldn’t explode or anything, it would simply stop accepting more. For armor, that was bad, as it meant magical spells would suddenly become able to damage the metal itself. In the case of Mana Manipulation, he wasn’t actually sure what would happen. He wasn’t pushing mana into the metal; he was just expelling it nearby and letting it be drawn in on its own.

He frowned, glancing at his HUD. The plate was like a black hole. Despite its size, it had already consumed over three thousand mana with no sign that it had reached saturation. What the hell kind of metal is this? He tried a few pulses of Detection, checking for different metals, but got nothing.

His mana was getting dangerously low, so he stopped with a sigh. He could try again later, once he put some physical work in. His body was feeling good to go, and he couldn’t afford to just sit around. He looked down at the plate, then shrugged and tucked it back into his pouch, along with the others. I wonder… If I get enough of these, could Tallheart melt them down and make some ridiculous armor? The mana saturation would be obscene for a full set of this stuff. Hell, it might be infinite for all I know. The corner of his mouth quirked up in the shadow of a smile. Now, that would be just silly. It can’t work like that. Maybe it’s like Tel alloy and breaks when damaged. Needless to say, I’m not testing that one. As awesome as accolade armor would be, that’s not what they’re for. It’s a moot point, anyway. These aren’t even mine…

He shook his head and forced himself back to his feet. They’re dead, and there’s nothing I can do to change it. I’ll be dead too if I don’t get myself out of here. I can worry about morals later.

He pulled open his menus and adjusted the ring, setting each of his physical stats to be equal to their tolerances and dumping the rest into Clarity. The idea was to get the most out of his stats without straining himself further. If his synchronization happened to improve as he worked to move the stones, that would simply be a bonus.

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

Dynamo

18

18

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

22,749

22,750

374,832

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

HP

502

940

250/d

SP

446

520

340/d

MP

497

6,157

1.5/s

Dark Revenant’s Armor

CUR

MAX

RGN

DUR

9,753

1,309

0

SAT

0

13,202

-92/s

CHG

0

14,209

0

Attributes

139/139

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

BUFF

SYN

STR

11.3

47

10

37/37

24%

RCV

10.2

25

10

15/15

41%

END

7.8

26

10

16/16

30%

VGR

13.6

34

10

24/24

40%

FCS

10

10

10

0/49

100%

CLR

247

247

200

47/61

100%

Resistances

0/?

FLAT

PERCENT

HEAT

2.6

0%

COLD

2.6

0%

LIGHT

2.6

0%

DARK

2.6

0%

FORCE

2.6

0%

ARCANE

2.6

0%

CHEMICAL

2.6

0%

MENTAL

2.6

0%

Immediately, Rain noticed the difference. His entire body felt as light as a feather.

He took a few experimental steps, then jumped. His muscles responded quickly and easily, with not a hint of soreness or pain. It was, physically at least, the healthiest he’d felt in his entire life. The contrast from the day before was startling.

He activated Purify for light and looked down at his hands, marveling at the power that he felt at his fingertips. 11.3. So this is what it’s like to be superhuman…

He walked over to the remains of the large chunk of rubble that had been blocking the door. It was still around the size of a microwave. Needless to say, he hadn’t lifted it earlier. Moving it had been more like starting an avalanche and getting out of the way as it slid down the pile of smaller stones.

Rain considered for a moment. How much does this weigh? Shit, probably more than I do. A lot more.

Determined to at least give it a try, he set his feet and crouched down, sliding his hands under the chunk of brickwork and settling his grip. Then, he straightened his legs and heaved. Slowly, and with great effort, he managed to get the stone up off the ground. He didn’t stop until his legs were straight, and he was standing upright. He held it there for a full second before his fingers gave way and it fell with a mighty crash.

Rain swore and jumped back, scrambling to get his feet out of the way of the toppling stone. He looked up at the ceiling with no small amount of concern as the impact sent a tremor through the room. Thankfully, no collapse occurred.

He panted, both from the exertion and from the adrenaline that had just been dumped into his bloodstream. He looked down at his hands in wonder as he worked to control his breathing.

Nice work, butterfingers. Also, holy shit.

He looked at the pile, focusing on the second of the large pieces blocking his way. It was around twice the size of the one he’d just lifted. He’d need to break it up first, but with the weapons he now had access to, that should be no problem. He was in business.
