Halgrave immediately upgraded his assessment of the man several notches. Whether he really was telling the truth or not, responding so calmly to such an accusation from the Warden was impressive.

[You cannot lie to me,] said the Warden, [but I will acknowledge that you may not wish to reveal tactical information when you cannot be sure of who is listening. You may tell me the truth privately at a later time.]

[I have already given you the truth,] Downharrow said. [There is no other.]

[You have given me the truth that you were told. I will have the real truth, or you will not be getting this one back.]

[Aaah!] cried a voice Halgrave didn’t recognize. [Warden, please—]

[Do not harm Citizen Magabor,] a new voice said, one Halgrave did recognize. [We will discuss this matter privately, once our business here is concluded.] It was Citizen Jarro, a former member of the Guild as well as of the Rousers. Halgrave hadn’t spoken to him for over ten years, despite the proximity of their two cities. They didn’t see eye-to-eye.

[Fine,] said the Warden. [I will wait, for now.]

[Very well. I will be in contact,] said Jarro.

“Hi Jik, you old asshole, long time. You’re here too, huh?” Burrik said merrily. “How are things in that little town they gave you? Happy playing mayor?” He laughed.

[Who are you calling asshole, asshole?] said Citizen Jarro, voice filled with mock outrage.

[Ahem,] said a new voice. A woman. [Are you two done? We’re here to talk about rescuing my niece, not to have a social call.]

[Citizen Kallias, please,] said yet another new voice. Halgrave sighed as an argument broke out. Discussions with the DKE always ended up like this. How they could keep their country together with so many different voices was a mystery—up there with the source of the Majistraal artifact that they’d pulled out of their collective asses. It was amazing that their country functioned at all.

[ENOUGH!] This time when the Warden spoke, her voice stabbed painfully into Halgrave’s brain like a hot knife. It should have been impossible for her to send an attack through a relayed connection like this, and yet she had done it anyway. It seemed that impossible things were today’s theme. Not for nothing was Vatreece regarded as the greatest Mentalist that the world had ever seen since the Majistraal Order fell.

Burrik snorted in amusement as Halgrave and Downharrow struggled to recover. The Citizen appeared to have borne the brunt of it. If the pulse had affected the Guildmaster at all, he was hiding his reaction well.

[The DKE will now share their intelligence surrounding the disposition of the Empire’s forces,] said the Warden in the silence. This sparked a few cries of indignation from the Citizens across the link.

Downharrow gestured, and the clamor was abruptly silenced. [Very well,] he said, rubbing at his chest. [As the initiator of this link, I have taken the liberty of muting all others, save for Citizen Magabor so we may maintain communication with Vigilance. That said, I will remind you, Warden, that the DKE does not bow to your commands. We offer this information freely, in the spirit of cooperation. However, before I say more, I must request confirmation via a full vote. If the motion passes, I will relate our statement as previously agreed. If it is denied, I will unmute the line, at the peril of Citizen Magabor. My fellow Citizens, I remind you of the stakes, not just for Magabor, but for the war with the Empire as well. Vote now.]

Halgrave upgraded the man yet one more notch in his mind. He might not be a fighter, but he was certainly brave enough to be one. One by one, the orbs surrounding the Citizen flickered, changing color as the others cast their votes.

Eventually, Downharrow nodded. [It is decided. I will give the statement.] He straightened his back, then continued, reciting from memory. [The DKE makes no apology for the assault upon the former Watch city of Fel Sadanis. This action was taken as a preemptive measure in the conflict with the Empire of Adamant. As both the Watch and the Guild have refused our repeated requests for assistance against Fecht, we had no choice but to act decisively. The city is now the property of Citizen Sadanis and is a full member-state of the DKE. It will not be returned to the control of the Watch under any circumstances.]

Halgrave braced himself. Vatreece hadn’t spoken, but he was feeling a growing sense of pressure on his mind as she made her discontent known.

Downharrow continued, heedlessly. [We will, however, be willing to provide the Watch with monetary remuneration for the lost territory. All members of the Watch and the Guild will be released upon the resolution of the conflict with the Empire. Rest assured that no member of either organization has been harmed by—]

[LIE,] Warden Vatreece interrupted forcefully, sending another spike of pain into Halgrave’s skull. Downharrow cried out, clutching at his chest. He almost slipped out of his chair, barely managing to catch himself.

[We have also been observing the city from above,] the Warden continued. [Citizen Sadanis entered one of our strongholds. Some time later, a large force of Sentinels, Officers, and Guilders followed her. Citizen Sadanis returned, wounded, but alive. The others did not. There is only one conclusion.]

[I do not lie,] said Citizen Downharrow passionately, hauling himself back upright. He had recovered quickly, but his voice had a hitch in it as he continued. [As I was saying, no member of either organization has been harmed by any action sanctioned by the DKE. The response of Citizen Sadanis to the presumed attack on her person was her own. Further, we cannot confirm that any deaths resulted from this incident. Unfortunately, the nature of the barrier precludes long-distance communication with her. Until it is proven otherwise, it is our position that Citizen Sadanis has merely subdued those who raised their hands against her, as she has been instructed to do. If this is not the case, then the DKE will launch a full investigation after the resolution of the war. Citizen Sadanis will face the consequences of her actions at that time.]

“Nice,” Halgrave said sarcastically. “Throwing one of your own under the wagon, eh?”

“You did the same,” said Downharrow, raising an eyebrow. It was unclear whether he had transmitted either statement to the other listeners. Halgrave was about to open his mouth in protest but closed it after a sharp look from Burrik.

[Is this all?] the Warden sent, her tone glacial.

[No,] said Downharrow, now fully recovered. [We also request the assistance of the Watch and the Guild with the counteroffensive against the Empire. Unlike the DKE, the Empire has shown no compassion for—]

Downharrow broke off as Burrik exploded into laughter. “You can’t be serious, boy. We want no part in your war. Take it as a kindness that we don’t take this insult out of your hide. On that note, we’re done paying taxes in your territory until our members are released. Be thankful that we don’t leave your country entirely. Push us any more, and we will. We’ll see how you like dealing with your own monster infestations.”

[I find myself in agreement with the Volcano,] Warden Vatreece said. [Does the gall of the DKE know no bounds? You presume to request our aid after taking one of our cities? You are trying to shift the blame onto a scapegoat and buy us off? Really?] Her voice rose in intensity as she continued. [This is an utter farce. Citizen Magabor will remain here as my guest until the city is—SILENCE, WORM!]

Halgrave winced. The pain was muted this time, clearly directed elsewhere. As satisfying as it was to see the DKE’s scheming shut down, he did feel bad for the hapless Citizen Magabor. He had probably been selected to go by vote, thus having little choice in the matter.

Downharrow attempted to respond, but Vatreece rode right over him. [The Empire is your problem, not ours. Come back to me when your cities start to fall, and you realize that returning our property is in your best interest. We’re done.]

[Warden? Warden, wait!] Downharrow said. There was no response.

Burrik kept laughing, standing to loom over the distraught Citizen. “She’s gone, boy. And so are you. Get the hells out of my Guild.”

Rain woke with a start, canceling Essence Well to release a pulse of Detection. It came back reporting the presence of three monsters, two of which were in the room, and only one of which should have been. It wasn’t his alarm that had woken him, but the pop of the monster spawning. A quick follow-up pulse confirmed that it was just another slime. Relieved, he switched to Purify. After a few seconds, a ding sounded, and he relaxed, leaving Purify running for light.

That’s the third time…

Dozer had been the first, of course. The second slime had spawned when Rain had been busy sending off the dead. It had appeared in a shadowed nook like the one Velika had hidden in before. Purify had done its work, but he’d been unable to tame it. He’d left it back in the antechamber to the Fells, not wanting to sleep in the same room with a wild monster, no matter how harmless.

Rain cursed as he looked over at the burned-out evertorch on the wall. It had clearly gone out sometime in the night, allowing this latest slime to spawn. According to his HUD, it was 5:43 AM, a little over two hours before he’d scheduled himself to wake.

He hauled himself to his feet with a sigh, raising his visor to rub the sleep from his eyes. “Dozer, come on. You did nothing. Some sentinel you are.”

The slime didn’t respond. It was still asleep, as far as he could tell; the strange sense of its emotions had faded away. Even without his HUD, however, he could still tell Dozer apart from the other slime, for all that they looked almost identical. The bond was clearly still there, just muted.

Rain walked over to the newest slime and offered it his hand. It engulfed it, just as the others had. He started feeding mana into it with Mana Manipulation. It released him after sucking up a hundred mana with not so much as a thank you, let alone a message from the system. Either he’d gotten incredibly lucky with Dozer, or the Tel were more important than he thought. That or there was a limit of one pet per person.

He made a note to check the third tier skills of the Monster Taming tree later. He was curious, but even if a skill to allow multiple pets did exist, he had no intention of trying to unlock it. It wasn’t like he had a pile of free skill points just lying around.

No zookeeper build for me, I guess.

He watched the newest slime with mild curiosity as it oozed toward a corner. That settled it; feeding slimes made them tired, and they preferred confined spaces to sleep in. That was two more slime facts for his memoirs.

Yup, I’m losing it. I need to get out of here, and fast. He shook his head. Well, since I’m up, I might as well get going on that.

With a thought, Rain pulled his training dialog forward. Before he could even read it, he let out a strangled yelp. His body felt as if it was about to burst like an overripe berry. No sooner had the pressure appeared than it vanished, leaving Rain gasping for breath. An icy shiver ran down his spine as if he’d been dunked into freezing water.

Well, that was new…

Training Overview

Skill Experience Earned

Mana Manipulation: 28

Aura Compression: 52,502 [Rank Up] [Rank Up]

He blinked, staring at the dialog. He hadn’t wanted to use Winter with Aura Focus overnight, unwilling to be without his senses in a dangerous environment. Naturally, he’d decided to leave Essence Meditation running instead. It looked like he’d found another flavor of soulstrain in the process. He sat down, dropping Purify and reflexively activating Winter to replace it.

Well then. I know not to do that again. Essence Meditation = Dangerous.

He shifted uncomfortably. The feeling had been extremely unsettling, for all that it had only lasted a moment. Was that from the excess experience? I was at the cap when I went to bed, but in theory, Essence Well should have gotten me some stupidly big number. At least 170k…

Shit, I take back what I said. Essence Meditation is insane. I’m going to need to be careful with this. I don’t want to stack up so much experience that I explode into chunks the next time my alarm goes off…

With a sigh, he shook his head. Yeah, I am totally going to do that again, aren’t I? Some controlled experiments are in order. I need to know exactly what caused that feeling, so I can figure out what not to do in the future. Later, though. For now, I’ll take it as a warning to give it a rest for a little while.

He lit a replacement evertorch and got up to replace the one that had burned out. Then, he dug out a ration bar and started grinding away at it with his teeth. Neither action caused him any pain. His muscles felt surprisingly good, all things considered.

My Vigor soulstrain seems to have worn off completely. I’m practically back to normal, at least for now. We’ll see how long that lasts. I think today is going to be a rock-moving day. I’ve got tools, now. I saw a pickaxe-thing and a few war hammers back in the other room.

Rain paused as he wrestled with his dark memories. I need to sort through all that stuff…

He shook his head and resumed chewing. He didn’t like the idea of stealing from the dead, but at the same time, he couldn’t afford not to. He’d broken all but one of his pitons, and if he was going to tunnel his way out, he’d need tools of some kind. The only things he’d taken so far were the plates—both Watch and Guild—and the accolades.

He frowned as he took another bite of the ration. Those were even more of a moral quandary than the equipment was. On the one hand, they represented a significant amount of power—once he figured out how to activate them. On the other hand, he felt like he shouldn’t use them at all. They were the kind of thing that should be returned to the family of the deceased. Their legacy. Taking them for himself felt wrong, and yet…

With a sigh, he opened the pouch that he had tucked them into, then arranged them on the floor carefully.

Accolade of Ander’s Copse

Accolade of the Southshore Rat Warren

Accolade of the Hoarfrost Labyrinth

Accolade of Badlands Heat Lair 3057 2 8

Accolade of Badlands Heat Lair 3057 2 8

Accolade of Badlands Heat Lair 3057 2 8

Accolade of Badlands Arcane Lair 3055 4 19

Accolade of Badlands Arcane Lair 3055 4 19

Accolade of Badlands Arcane Lair 3055 4 19

Accolade of Badlands Heat Lair 3059 9 2

Accolade of Badlands Heat Lair 3059 9 2

He’d found eleven of the small metal plates. Unlike his own accolade, the buff wasn’t listed on them, only the names of the lairs that they had come from. They appeared to be entirely mundane as far as he could tell.

