Rain was tired, both mentally and physically. Breaking up the fallen piece of archway had turned out to be a long and tedious process, even with cryofracturing. The mortar was old and hard, a challenging opponent for the blunt pitons. Additionally, he’d often needed several rounds of Refrigerate to wedge the bricks apart. That meant that he’d been forced to go fetch more water several times. The lingering effects of soulstrain had made the trek across the room feel ten times longer than it was.

It was worth it, though. He was through. He’d spent hours chipping the large piece apart, then, once it was at a more manageable size, managed to drag it down off of the pile. He’d almost crushed himself in the process, but now he was left with quite a sizable opening.

Rain reached through the hole with both arms and dragged some of the smaller bits of rubble toward him. The shattered bricks tumbled down the pile, bouncing off of his legs. Fortunately, his armor protected his toes better than any steel-toed boots could have.

He cleared out as many of the smaller stones as he could, then stood back to survey the results of his labor. There was still another large piece of rubble blocking the bottom of the door, but the hallway to the left was now open. He would be able to fit through the gap that he’d dug easily enough. It wouldn’t let him get to the surface, but it gave him access to the entrance to the Fells. That was all that he’d been after. He had a job to do there.

Slowly, he walked to where he’d piled his possessions. He retrieved his helmet and slipped it on, pressing firmly to get the damaged flange to lock. His armor was scratched and scuffed from the battering it had received as he’d worked to clear the blockage. Purify had dealt with the dust, but it couldn’t do anything for the metal itself. Even his ring was damaged, scratches marring the otherwise flawless band of gold.

Rain wasn’t concerned. He concentrated, sending mana into the armor. He gave it a few seconds, then deactivated Purify so the Dark Regeneration Rune could go to work. When he activated it again so he could see, the scratches and scuff marks had vanished completely. The damaged flange would take quite a bit more mana to fix, but he’d get to it eventually.

He held up his hand, inspecting the ring. It, too, had been healed. The surface of the gold shone as if it had been freshly polished. Tallheart’s Subordinate Metallic Unity Rune allowed the ring to piggy-back on the armor’s enchantments. If the ring was damaged significantly, he’d need to find more gold for it to use to repair itself, but it wasn’t an issue for just a few scratches.

He dropped his hand with a sigh and walked back over to the door. He glanced at Dozer, making sure that the slime was still asleep, then slowly and painfully started lifting himself through the hole that he had dug.

Once he was through, he dusted himself off unnecessarily, then dropped Purify. He started using Detection to navigate through the darkness instead. All this time, he’d been careful not to let Purify reach too far beyond the room he was trapped in, and he wasn’t about to stop now. There was a good reason to wait.

He halted after a short distance, letting himself slide down the wall until he was seated. Still in complete darkness, he reached to his right, grabbing the unlit evertorch that he’d sensed lying there. He placed it on the ground in front of him, then reached into his pouch to retrieve his flint and steel.

The magical chemical that the torch had been soaked in caught easily. The flame quickly grew until the tunnel was filled with flickering light.

Rain got to his feet, muscles still trembling from overuse, then resumed plodding down the hallway with the torch in hand.

The first of the bodies wasn’t far. It was a man. Sammel had been his name. Rain had never spoken to him, but he remembered his face. The officer’s body was lying propped against the wall in the middle of a pool of congealed blood.

Rain stopped and knelt, activating Purify. He watched somberly as the man’s body dissolved, not trusting himself to speak. There were no words that he could say that would make one whit of difference to this man now.

Once the spell had finished its work, Rain reached down and retrieved the man’s bronze plate.

This was just the first of many. As Rain continued down the hallway, he stopped three more times, repeating the process for two more officers and a Guild bronzeplate. He kept the radius of Purify tightly controlled, making sure to give each of them a private sendoff.

It was the best he could do.

When he reached the antechamber, he almost fell to his knees. He’d known what was waiting for him here, but seeing it with his own eyes had a visceral impact that Detection couldn’t match.

Bodies covered the floor, strewn about like broken toys. Blood and entrails were splattered across the walls and ceiling amid the overpowering scent of blood and feces. Lamida’s corpse stood out, staked to the wall through the chest by Velika’s massive sword. Talasa was lying nearby, shield sliced neatly in two, along with her torso. Phoss was there as well, still holding his broken spear with one shattered arm. Rain fought not to gag as he surveyed the scene.

His gaze snagged on one particular form lying amid the carnage, and an icy hand gripped his heart. He dropped the torch and started moving toward her.

Melka. His friend.

He let himself collapse next to her body, knees striking hard against the stone. The pain of the impact didn’t even reach him. Melka’s dead, clouded eyes were all that he could see.

Carefully, he reached out with a hand and attempted to close her eyelids, but failed. It wasn’t as straightforward as they made it seem in movies. Tears in his eyes, he laid his hand on her shoulder instead, squeezing tightly as he activated Purify.

His voice cracked as he finally spoke. “I’m sorry.”

Halgrave raised his head from the conference table as he heard the door open.

“Finally,” said Burrik, speaking in common. “Now, can we begin?” His deep voice had a bit of a rasp to it.

“My apologies,” said the man who had just entered the room. “My lateness is in no way inten—”

“Stuff it,” said Burrik, pointing at a chair. “Sit.”

Halgrave grinned. Burrik the Volcano was one of only three or four people in the world who could just tell a Citizen to shut up without fear of repercussion. As the leader of the Guild, he was not only a magical powerhouse but a political one as well.

Burrik was old, looking perhaps seventy, and he had a level to match, more or less. Despite how he looked, Halgrave happened to know that the Guildmaster’s real age was almost twice that. Though Burrik was a mage, he was powerfully built, with tough, leathery skin that spoke of years spent under the sun. His hair was as red as flame, despite his age, cut and styled neatly. He was wearing a plain blue Guild tunic, the same type as any desk clerk might wear. Burrik was not one for ostentatious shows of status.

On the other side of that coin was Citizen Downharrow, the man who had just entered. He practically jingled as he walked. His long black hair had been plaited through large rings of gold and silver, and his ears and nose were studded by numerous piercings.

The man’s hands, however, were free of jewelry. Given the rest of his attire, the conspicuous lack of such was a dead giveaway that Downharrow was a powerful mage. Without Dislocated Casting, most spells were launched from the hands, and even so much as a brass ring would cause enough of a disruption to make hitting a target difficult. Wands and the like could be used to guide a mage’s mana and bypass this issue, but only to a point. At the level of a DKE Citizen, equipment capable of withstanding the forces involved was practically unheard of.

Halgrave frowned as Downharrow took the chair that Burrik had indicated. For all that the Citizen was dressed for the part, he carried no sense of danger with him. Unlike Westbridge, this particular mage was nothing to get excited about.

Citizen Westbridge was a skilled and devious fighter, likely on par with Burrik in terms of experience, though fortunately not raw power. Downharrow looked like he’d never seen a battle in his life. He had no presence whatsoever.

Burrik grumbled unhappily as the Citizen arranged himself on a cushion. He turned to Halgrave and spoke in Zeelada. “Remember, keep your mouth shut and let me handle this. You’re only here as a witness for the Guild. I can’t have you doing anything stupid, like that stunt you tried to pull at the brothel in Tarrow.”

Halgrave snorted. Burrik was the same as he’d always been. The incident that he was referring to had happened when Halgrave was only fourteen, and Burrik still hadn’t let it go even now, over forty years later.

Halgrave’s father had been friends with Burrik since before Halgrave had been born, both men having been members of the same band of adventurers. Their team, the Rousers, had gone on to become somewhat famous. However, as most teams did, it had broken up eventually when they reached their limit. Only Burrik had managed to increase his level further since then, though he’d never said how he’d managed such an impressive feat alone.

Halgrave had gotten to know Burrik well over many years of trailing along in the wake of the Rousers. With his father dead, Burrik was the closest thing that he had to family, other than his daughter. Of the two other surviving members of the team, one was a Citizen, and the other was an asshole.

“I am forming the connection now,” Downharrow said in common, interrupting Halgrave’s thoughts. He turned to watch as the Citizen summoned the glassy orbs that allowed him to contact the other leaders of the DKE. They did far more than a simple mindcaster and had no limitations that he knew of. However the Citizens did it, they were all able to communicate with each other instantaneously, regardless of distance. The link was, perhaps, the single greatest logistical tool held by any government the world over.

[Citizen Magabor, is the Warden ready to begin?] asked Citizen Downharrow, telepathically.

[I am,] said a female voice. Halgrave could feel the strength behind those words, despite the Citizen’s link stretching between him and the speaker. Even seated next to Burrik and being secure in his own power, that voice had his lizard brain screaming for him to run. This was Warden Vatreece, the leader of the Watch. She was, perhaps, the strongest person in all of existence. The other contenders for that title were Potentate Fecht and High King Kev, the ruler of Ter’karmark.

Vatreece and Fecht had fought each other, once.

They’d had to stop or risk the wrath of the gods. Even if you didn’t believe in divine intervention, the cracks that had been left in the fabric of reality were warning enough. They had taken years to heal. Not easily was the damage limit broken, and not without cost.

“Well then, let’s get going,” said Burrik. “I’ll start.” He slid a piece of paper in front of himself and cleared his throat before beginning to read. “On behalf of the Guild, I formally apologize for the actions of a rogue member that resulted in the devastation of the city of Westbridge. I disavow any allegations that this action was taken at my command. Further, while the Guild is not in the business of issuing bounties, the criminal Lavarro is now wanted for high crimes against the interests of the Guild.” Burrik looked up from the paper. “That means you’re free to kill her if you think you can manage it. Based on what happened to the city, you might not want to try that in a populated area.”

Halgrave gripped the table, stopping just short of splintering the wood. Several of the orbs started flashing, a polite indication that the Citizens controlling them wanted to speak. That wouldn’t last. They’d begin interrupting each other in no time. For now, Burrik ignored them, looking back down at his prepared statement.

“To be clear, the Guild is not requesting aid from any external organization. We will deal with our own problems. Rest assured that I will personally suppress the criminal Lavarro once her location is determined. Any information you have in this regard is most appreciated.”

A new voice cut in angrily as Burrik set aside his notes. [You haven’t found her yet? Preposterous. You are sheltering her, aren’t you?].

Halgrave blinked. He didn’t recognize the speaker, neither by voice nor by his appearance, visible within one of the orbs. It was a Citizen, clearly, but not one that he knew. He had made sure to familiarize himself with all of them prior to this meeting, but this man didn’t match any of the descriptions that he’d read.

[Citizen Westbridge, stand down,] said Citizen Downharrow.

Ah. Halgrave nodded. They hadn’t wasted any time. This was the new Citizen Westbridge. That meant they’d found the body.

“So, he’s dead, then,” Burrik said. He peered at the orb containing the new Citizen, then huffed in amusement. “Where’d you find this upstart?”

[Upstart?! Why—]

[Stop this pointless noise,] said the Warden, cutting him off. [We are here to discuss the assault upon Fel Sadanis, not Westbridge. Burrik, do you have any information relevant to the city?]

Burrik frowned unhappily. “Not much. We’ve been watching from our branch in Jarro via scrying pool since the day after the barrier went up. We saw the army appear from thin air, then hide themselves once more. It shames me to say it, but we have no idea how they got there in the first place. Even for an Illuminator, what they are doing should be impossible. Blocking magical detection with Obfuscate is one thing, but complete invisibility…”

Halgrave nodded along. Scrying was a purely visual link. The pool itself could be blocked from forming, but that wasn’t what had happened here. He was confident that if he was standing above the city, his eyes would show him the same thing that their Diviner in Jarro saw in his pool. The army was invisible. Truly. There was no skill that he knew of that would have been able to do that.

“The bombardment has continued for a full day now,” Burrik continued. “The spells appear to the south of the city, then strike the barrier in waves. There has been no sign of it failing. At this point, I’m not sure that even I could take that thing down. I will ask you plainly. How have you done this?”

Halgrave’s eyes widened, and he shifted his gaze to Burrik. The man could level mountains. If even he wasn’t sure that he could breach the barrier…

[It is a Majistraal artifact,] said Citizen Downharrow. [One of a kind, and single-use.]

[Lie,] said Warden Vatreece. Halgrave shivered.

Downharrow didn’t react. [Truth,] he said coolly.

