“That shtick died three days ago, move on already. And, sure, I’ve clearly been outvoted,” the worm said, continuing to tunnel beneath the sand towards whatever was at the center of the desert. Apparently, it was a lot colder beneath the sand than above it, making the worm feel more comfortable. Jake was also pretty confident that Sandy just wanted to relive their days as a sand worm.

During this time, while traveling between points of interest, Jake had plenty of time to work on his alchemy, allowing him to noticeably improve his repertoire. He had even remade some Dragonsbane Poison and a few other more general Bane Poisons, though he definitely had the most progress with his good old necrotic and hemotoxin poisons.

While complexity was an important facet of alchemy, especially as one improved through the grades, there was also something to be said about the more basic poisons. Jake was by far the most experienced working with necro- and hemotoxin, and he had always been the type to prefer keeping things simple.

Necrotic and hemotoxic poisons had the issue of only working on biological lifeforms, but Jake reckoned those would be his principal opponents during this event, even if summoned creations from the Territory Beacon did lean technological. He also made some poisons that would work against anything, such as ethtoxins – soul poison – but most of his time was spent refining his tried-and-tested creations.

The only real downside to doing alchemy inside Sandy’s stomach was Jasper having to be far away, as he didn’t like breathing in the toxic fumes created by the whole concocting.

Like so, with Jake doing alchemy and Jasper doing... stuff... the three of them quickly moved towards the center of the desert, ignoring everything on the way. No levels were gained during this time, but Jake did have a good stock by the time they noticed something in the distance, with Sandy being the first to pick up on anything.

“Sensing some serious spatial distortions straight ahead of us. Could be another point of interest, but it feels too much to not be anything super important,” Sandy said. “I’ll head topside so Jake can go out and check things out using those eyes of his. Should I get eyes? Nah, sounds like a good way to introduce an unnecessary weakness.”

As the worm said, they headed up through the sand and flew into the air, stopping just beneath the layer with the scorching wind that would push them away from the center. Jake felt the pull of space immediately after and appeared in the sky.

He was instantly struck by an intense heatwave, making him recoil and want to be eaten again immediately, but he tried to ignore it as best he could while scouting into the distance, and... yeah...

“That definitely qualifies as a palace.”
