Erick said, “I’m not a Seer, but I know a bit about the painting styles of this world, and I have a few more that I’d love to show you that come from a different sort of world.” At that, the woman lost some of her annoyance. She turned questioning, but Erick didn’t give her a chance to speak whatever revelations were going through her mind. He quickly grabbed some rubber erasers from a bucket of them on the counter, and taking one in his hands, said, “Feel free to [Dispel] these if you want, but there’s a lot more out there than realistic painting.”

With the work of an intense second, recalling some of his favorite paintings he had ever seen back on Earth, Erick conjured a lightward of impeccable quality, reproducing something rather close to what a master painter had made many years ago.

Blues tumbled into whites, which swirled around yellow stars and a bright moon, while the sleepy countryside continued to sleep, and a spire of black bushes reached up toward the sky. Or at least Erick thought they were bushes. They could have been something else.

“This one is Starry Night, a Post-Impressionist painting by Vincent Van Gogh, made about 150 years ago. That description is on the bottom of the painting. It’s very famous, and I think I’ve done it justice. Hopefully.” He moved the eraser, and moved the lightward, too, adding, “And it’s linked to the eraser, so it’s mobile— and also permanent.”

The woman looked at the lightpainting, her eyes going a little bit wider at the casual display of perfect lightward control. Or maybe it was at the lightpainting itself. Or maybe it was because of Erick, himself.

Erick set that painting aside by setting the attached eraser aside, and conjured Van Gogh’s Irises; a painting of blue flowers on green stems and leaves, growing in the dirt. “This one is another bit of non-realism painting.”

Then he conjured The Kiss; A man draped in golds of black and white surrounds a woman of gold and color, they are in love, they are framed by a darker gold and supported by rising flowers.

Erick said, “Art Nouveau. ‘New Art’. This is another broad category. This one is called ‘The Kiss’.”

He conjured an image of a woman reading a book that almost looked like stained glass, but highly stylized, and very close to realism. He said, “Alphonse Mucha’s Daydream. Also Art Nouveau. Also one of my favorites. Actually, I like that whole style, a lot. Most of what I remember comes from that art period.”

Erick conjured several more paintings done in the same style, of people, of advertisements for soft drinks that didn’t exist (yet, maybe), of flowers, of animals. “This whole style is very easy to play around with. It’s been copied a lot back on Earth, but I haven’t ever seen anything like it on Veird.”

By now, the saleswoman had gone pale, and quiet, as she realized who she was talking to. Erick tried to be as nice as possible with his tone and his words, but realistic painting was rather stale, in his opinion. If this helped to liven up the art out there that he had seen, then this was good, right? The people in the audience were certainly interested in his display, with most of that interest eventually shifting toward the paintings Erick was conjuring.

A skinny young orcol man, dressed in clothes that were stained with hundreds of paints, looked upon ‘Daydream’ like he was seeing the face of a goddess. His jaw held slack, his blue eyes sparkling with an inner light.

Erick conjured some of Picasso’s work, explaining, “Another abstract style. It’s called Cubism, and I remember a lot of it, and I like it, but there’s a lot of cultural stuff that just is not in the paintings that you have to understand in order to understand them. This particular one is called Guernica, by Pablo Picasso, and it’s about the horrors of war.”

A lot of eyes focused on that painting.

Erick moved on.

His next set of paintings were of things right next to him, but taken a magnitude higher; crisper, sharper, more more. He said, “These are just examples of Hyper Realism of things I see around the room. It’s a nice style. You probably already know this one.”

There were more people in the audience now. Maybe double as many as had been in the shop before. With a glance through Ophiel that he had left outside, and small, Erick saw that more people were rushing down the street, coming this way.

Oh. This wasn’t what Erick wanted.

He stopped himself there, saying, “And I am terribly sorry for throwing all of that on you, but there’s a lot more to art than Realism. In my experience, anyway.” He gestured to the books on the table, asking, “How much for these?” He gestured to the lightboxes in the back, asking, “And one of those? A medium-grade one.” He had spied the inner workings of many of them with a casual blink of mana sense and his [Greater Lightwalk] while he was talking. They were all about the same, as far as he could tell. He said, “Maybe that one?”

The saleswoman steeled herself, and said, “I am terribly sorry Archmage Flatt, for treating you like I have.”

“I’m sorry, too. I probably took that a step too far.” Erick asked, “So let’s just let bygones be bygones? How much for the stuff?”

Professionalism took over, as she looked to the lightpaintings, and said, “Boxed Light could never accept money from you. Take the books and whichever lightbox you wish. With deepest politeness, I would simply ask if you could grace us with one of your lightpaintings, if you could.”

It was a deal that favored Erick in a way that he was not entirely comfortable with accepting. But she was trying to save face, and Erick could respect that. He said, “You can have them all. I made them permanent because I was hoping to give them to you, anyway, if you liked them. I cannot claim credit for what others have done. Except for the Hyper Realist lightwards. That style is not mine either, but those particular images did come from me.”

The woman bowed, then reached back, and grabbed the lightbox Erick had indicated before. She handed it over, saying, “Thank you for coming to Boxed Light, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick took the head-sized ‘lightbox’, saying, “Thank you for being here.” He glanced behind him to see Teressa and Poi flanking him and the entire shop filled with people. He turned back to the saleswoman. Saying, “Pardon us, but we will be taking the quick exit.”

The woman nodded, as Kiri grabbed the stuff, and Erick grabbed his people with a light touch.

- - - -

“I didn’t know you knew art!” Kiri exclaimed, when they arrived back in their room.

Erick shrugged, saying, “I hadn’t thought to try recreating anything from Earth before, so that was a surprise to me, too.”

Kiri set down the lightbox and the books, asking, “Could I get a copy of that Arat Nervo stuff?”

“The translation is just ‘New Art’.” Erick said, “I’m pretty sure there is something similar to it on Veird, right?” He felt a sudden stab of embarrassment. “Ah. Shit. Was I talking trash? I barely know anything of the art styles of Veird.”

Kiri said, “Me either, but Realism is the main one, right?”

Poi said, “Nature Art is a big one. Other than Realism, Nature Art is probably the largest art style on Veird at the moment. And for a long time, too. I think you’d know them as ‘Landscape’.” His voice took on the air of an easy lecture, as he said, “Then you have Monster Horror, which is a niche style depicting the casual violence of the adventuring life. A lot of emotion in that one. Fantastical is a look to the ancient past, with people imagining what the universe was like pre-Sundering. That one has never been too much in favor, but you can find it in some places. And ‘Realism’ is a truly broad category.

“There’s ‘As you see it’ Realism, which is from the point of view of a person watching a scene. There’s Hyper Realism, which is one or a few objects or faces drawn out to massive proportions, with every detail visible. Very similar to the one you showed in there, Erick, with the lightpaintings of paint brushes in bottles and tubes of paint, done with an unnerving eye for detail. Coincidentally, it’s the same name, too. Then there’s Flowing, which is a Realism style similar to those Van Gogh lightpaintings, but much more based in real objects and people. Then there’s…” His voice trailed off.

Erick smiled, as he listened to Poi. Kiri and Teressa just looked at him like he was suddenly naked in front of them.

Poi suddenly paused. He reluctantly said, “… I like art.” He shifted the subject back to Erick, saying, “You probably started a small cultural revolution with what you did, just by virtue of the ease at which you popped out those light paintings, the breadth of style, the audience, and recent world-wide events.”

“Maybe I did!” Erick found himself taking a great deal of joy in that, as he added, “Did you see the face of that one kid when I popped out Daydream?”

Poi said, “When I spoke of a cultural revolution, I was not exaggerating.”

Kiri and Teressa gained some odd looks, and Erick did too.

Erick said, “I thought you were being dramatic?”

“Not at all.” Poi frowned a little, then said, “You are very famous, and… Your skill at creating those lightpaintings cannot be undersold. You probably handed that shop a good hundred thousand gold.”

Erick waved him off, saying, “They weren’t my art, anyway.”

“Two hundred thousand gold,” Poi said.

Erick winced a little.

Kiri smiled though, as she shrugged. “It is what it is.”

Teressa added, “You did say that you liked those styles a lot, too. I wouldn’t be surprised if we get solicitors looking to sell you art.”

Erick asked, “That’s all it takes, huh?”

Poi added, “The Headmaster is fond of Fantastical, so despite a lot of people never knowing what the Old Cosmology used to look like, that style still survives to this day. It is said that he buys whatever he sees if the art remotely resembles something he saw from before the Sundering. Sometimes he commissions pieces, too. Sometimes the gods commission Fantastical art.”

Kiri said, “Oh, yeah! You can make a lot of money if your personal Fantastical style is any good.”

“Huh.” Erick thought for a moment, then turned his attention to the lightbox he had ‘bought’. “So you know how to use these, Poi?”

Poi said, “If I did, I would have said something.”

Erick teased, “It’s hard to know sometimes!”

After giving a perfunctory nod, Poi stepped away, back to his book he had left sitting beside his seat. Teressa signed off as well, heading back to bed for a nap, while Kiri stayed with Erick, and they began playing around with the lightbox.

Not half an hour in, and with a good two dozen ‘pictures’ taken of the room and his people, which were mostly just sepia-toned flash-shadows burned onto the paper attached to the backplate, Erick declared, “This is not what I want, but it has all the moving parts.”

Kiri pointed out the problem, saying, “You just need to invent a non-magical method to record light.”

“A way to record green, red, and blue light, which can each form a different image, which can then be transferred into some… other… medium…” Erick lost his train of thought, then regained it, saying, “And then I need to combine all of those into one coherent whole! Easy.”

Kiri pointedly glanced over to the recorder, saying, “This one might be easier, for now. One technology at a time?”

Erick agreed, “One technology at a time.”

And then, when his soul finally felt better and he wasn’t wincing after casting too many spells, he’d get back to making magic. That was the plan, anyway. Erick hoped nothing too horrible would come up in the meantime.

- - - -

The seventh iteration of the record player was likely as good as it was going to get. The base rotated at 35 revolutions per minute, with each record having a theoretical run time of 20 minutes. They hadn’t recorded anything that long, but Erick had let one run for that long just to time it all, even though Kiri said that she calculated the time from the angles and the surface area at being 20 minutes; they didn’t have to actually run that test. But Erick ran that test anyway. The 10 centimeter band of playable space on the 30 centimeter diameter glass seemed to be at the sweet spot for recording and playback purposes. Any closer to the center of the disk and the sounds became unintelligible.

Erick listened to the words he had recorded, and replaced the needle on the arm with the previous needle. The thirty-eighth needle sounded slightly worse than version thirty-seven. Then he set it into the starter groove, and cast [Control Machine].

The record player soundlessly began to turn.

‘Music’ erupted from the horn above the player.

“Bum da bum da bum tish tish tish bum da bum.”

It was a nothing song, made by Erick and Kiri and Ophiel each contributing to the recording. Erick got the medium sounds, Kiri got the highs, and Ophiel supplied the deep bass. And it all came through.

Kiri said, “I can’t really tell the difference between 38 and 37.”

“I can,” Erick said. “And yet...”

Bah! This wasn’t great. It wasn’t perfect. But he would have to settle for this mechanical sound. This thing was a purely analog machine, though, so this was as good as it was going to get.

Kiri said, “I thought the last three machines each sounded good, too.”

“Yeah…” Erick said, “It’s not going to get better than this. Not with the level of what I know, anyway. I’ll have to experiment with magnets and electricity another day.” He looked out the window. The sun was a few hours till setting. He asked, “What does everyone want for dinner— Oh wait! Teressa? Teressa?”

After a few moments, Teressa poked out of her room. “Dinner?”

“Yes. Your great-aunt’s place. Is it open? Want to go?”

“… Yes.”

She did not sound very sure of herself.

Erick asked, “Is it actually her place?”

“Yes.” Teressa said, “I checked. It also isn’t very popular because… It’s not.” She offered, “How about I just go say ‘hi’, and then we pick somewhere else to actually eat?”

Erick said, “That’s fine, too.”

- - - -

