"Great. I'll assist you too, so don't worry—" Ashlock was cut off as the bell connected to his trunk was rung. "One moment," he said as he was called back to the mountain peak where he found Tiberius waiting for him.

"Celestial Warden, this is unexpected. What is the occasion for your visit?"

"I sent a report to Diana but received no response, so I came to give it to you in person," Tiberius replied.

"A report?"

"Yes," Tiberius said, his tone serious. "Diana has been mobilizing the Ashfallen Trading Companies' funds quite aggressively recently."

This was news to Ashlock, and he had a sinking feeling. "On what?"

"You weren't aware?" Tiberius said, raising a brow. "She has been making extensive use of the Pavilion's vast coverage to hire anyone willing to keep watch over your expanding borders, track down spies, and has purchased more information on the noble houses and various forces within the Celestial Empire than anyone in history." He chuckled. "Dare I say, she has effectively bought the wilderness branch of the Eternal Pursuit Pavilion at this point for the Ashfallen Sect's personal use."

Ashlock was in disbelief. Since when had Diana been this crafty? Here he was trying to get the Covenant off the ground; meanwhile, Diana had basically bought one for him. Why hadn't he thought of that in the first place, and why hadn't Diana told him?

"Since when was this a thing?" he asked.

"Around a week?" Tiberius said after pondering a moment. "Definitely before you went and killed Faelorian."

Ashlock wasn't surprised that the man was aware of what had transpired in the Celestial Empire, and if Tiberius had some feelings regarding it, he didn't show them.

"I see," Ashlock muttered. "And what was the report?"

"Oh yes," Tiberius got back to business. "It's quite urgent, hence I came here myself to ensure you heard it. There's a fleet of airships heading here from the Celestial Empire bearing the insignia of Umbraholme."

That didn't sound good... or did it?

"Coming to me, heh?" Ashlock looked over at a bloodstained Moros docked just off the mountain. "I think I should give them a warm welcome."
