Ah. No. He should be doing this outside, in case he was throwing around too much power and he accidentally broke something. But there was no need to actually go outside, was there? Erick looked to the south, to the window that showed the waterfalls behind the Palace District. With a push of light and the shaping of his auras, Erick remade his shield on the other side of the window. He also had a shooting angle on that shield, from that very same air outside the window.

And since this experimental area was outside…

Erick aimed a 2000 point [Blood Bolt] at the shield, this time. With that much power behind the Bolt, it should translate into something like 40,000 damage, with all the various reductions he had to mana costs.

He let the Bolt fly.

The white Bolt detonated against the shield like a tube of TNT, exploding outward into great, ripping white sparks. But for all that damage, the house was already protected by Erick’s [Prismatic Ward]. The house was fine. The shield was fine. Some of the plants out there were… not exactly fine, but they were okay. Looking over them again, Erick would need to replace some of the ones directly against the house. Those were… Not fine. That area was more crater than wild grasses.

A sigh sounded at the doorway to his room. Erick had seen the man already, but at his sigh, Erick turned to face the music. Quilatalap stood there, on the other side of the doorway, beyond the dense air of the room, frowning at Erick.

Erick smiled at the man, saying, “Hello!”

“At least you did it outside.” Quilatalap looked to the window, adding, “For a certain definition of ‘outside’.”

“Yup!” Erick asked, “Are people giving their presentations yet?”

“You’ve still got a few hours. I was setting mine up when your butler and my people alerted me to an explosion here.”

“Got any places to practice some spells? Or I could just step out of the Brightwater District?” Erick thought for half a second, and decided, “It would be stupid to step too far away, but it could also be smart.”

Quilatalap eyed Erick. “You just gained all that Intelligence, and you’re going to fight, right now? Really?”

“Sometimes fighting is the smart thing to do.”

“You should take some time and learn some things from all the sources on display, today.” Quilatalap said, “Or, I could teach you some necessary skills before you go out and get yourself ambushed.”

“Oh! Sure!” Erick touched the belt around his waist, saying, “Let me remake this— Oh? Do you want one of these rings?” He held up his hand. “Have you unlocked all the Stats, yet?”

“… You would do this for me?”

“So you haven’t unlocked them all? That’s weird. Oh. Is it because you don’t want to accidentally become a shadeling? That has to be it. Or is it the danger of altering your Intelligence?” Erick looked away, saying, “This 81 Int is doing a number on my psyche, for sure.” He added, “Oh! But I didn’t turn shadeling, did I? I just got a question mark on my Status. No Shadeling Curse with unlocking them this way! Well isn’t that interesting.” He looked to Quilatalap, and knew he hit the mark with that last one. “It’s that last one, isn’t it?”

Quilatalap grinned. “Maybe.” He lost most of his grin, saying, “Maybe you shouldn’t remake the belt. This Intelligence is doing odd things to you.”

Erick waved that concern away, saying, “I’m remaking the belt, and then I’ll pick up everything you’re putting down. I’m eager for a lesson, teach!”

Quilatalap gave a small, nervous laugh. “Sure. Let’s talk. Come out when you’re ready.”

Quilatalap walked away from the doorway, while Erick sat down on his bed and took out some supplies from his bag.

Ten minutes later, Erick had crafted a second, 3-sphere, Deep Sky Silver belt, just like the first, but this one was a true All-Stat magical item. He also made a ring for Quilatalap. The orcol would probably have to wear it like an earring, or something, but that would likely still work.

Erick strapped the belt around his waist. The world shifted just a little bit more into focus. It was not the shift that had occurred yesterday, when Erick gained Perception, and he could count the threads on his bedsheets from three feet away, if he wished. It wasn’t like when he gained his Boon of Recovery, and his body shifted younger, and he could count his individual eyelashes in the mirror. It was something lesser, and yet greater at the same time. Like finding a new setting on a television set, or a computer screen, that made the picture just a little bit better.

Diminishing returns, for sure.

Erick felt at home in his body, like he could move however he wished and all would be easy. He felt his mind expand, and all the failed math lessons he had ever had percolated underneath everything else he already knew. He felt safe, as his skin and bones and flesh felt stronger, somehow, in some magical, Constitution way.

And yet, he recognized the diminishing returns of these untested, False Stats, which were surely going to get nerfed sooner or later. But for now, he was going to use them to get what he wanted, and what he wanted was knowledge.

Erick found Quilatalap in the living room, sitting on one of the couches. He enthusiastically said, “Ready! And: here!” He tossed the man a ring.

Quilatalap caught the ring with magic, holding it suspended in the air. “It’s not a smart thing to throw items around when you’re around people of power.”

“Phhhbtt!” Erick said, “You got a recommendation from a source I trust.”

Did Erick truly trust Rozeta? Ehhhh. The jury was still out on that one. But he trusted her enough, and that meant he trusted Quilatalap enough. For now.

Quilatalap startled at Erick’s words, briefly, then he locked that down, his emotions turned to something deeper. His eyebrows scrunched over narrowing eyes, as he spied the ring in his magical grip. With a flick, the ring vanished; gone, somewhere, to some pocket on his person, no doubt. Quilatalap asked, “Where would you like to start? It all starts as one, then flows into ten thousand variations, but in the end, it’s all the same.”

“You say that, but…” Erick took a seat on the other couch in the living room, asking, “I feel like the height of magic is actually soul magic?”

“No, actually.” Quilatalap said, “There are multiple magics that can each take you very, very far. If you wanted to harm others, I would suggest any of the Elemental Magic branches, or even your own Particle Magic. Soul Magic is mostly defensive. There are very few outright harmful soul spells, for most Soul Magic must first pierce the Shroud in order to affect the person. For this reason, most Soul Magic is directed inward, or along non-living angles. These non-living angles include spells such as ancestor summoning, or non-sentient necromancy, or elemental conjuring. Sapient necromancy and sapient elemental conjuring is an order of magnitude more difficult than the lower versions of those spells, simply because it affects a sapient soul.”

Erick scrunched his face. “I expected more offensive uses. Curses and Blessings and such.” He said, “What you said doesn’t make sense, because everyone I know says it’s the most dangerous out there.” He shook his head, adding, “Let’s begin at the beginning. Defensive spells? Or whatever? Sure.”

Quilatalap smiled. “There are harmful soul spells, and they are some of the worst things that can happen to a person, but those workings are compounds of all that comes before. So, yes; let us begin at the beginning.”

Erick nodded, and listened.

Quilatalap said, “Back in the beginning, when magic was not constrained to the Script, it was different, but most magics are still the same at their core.

“Magic is possibility. This much is known, and this much is still true to this day.

“But possibility is not the same from one person to the next. Ideas are not the same. Power is not the same. It is here that the Script has flattened much of the nuance of magic, removing variation and creating a coherent whole, accessible to all.

“But back before the Script, and in a way that remains true against all the more horrible Soul and Mind Magics, but not true in the case of Blood magics, consent is key. You must keep this in mind going forward. Against the worst Soul and Mind magics, consent is needed. But against Blood Magics, consent is not strictly necessary. We are getting a little off track, but some mages will use Blood Magics to fool the biology of a person and guide them into giving consent for the more awful Soul and Mind Magics out there.

“But back to the basics:

“The first technique I can teach you, that will help you against the stronger, terrible magics out there, is to run the constant thread of ‘No’ in your mind, and direct this feeling out toward everything that might touch you. It sounds simple, but it is not. It will make you cranky. It will make you mean. It will cut you off from the rest of the world. But you can eventually get this thought of ‘no’ into your mind, and you might be able to live a normal life from then on, secure in the idea that you will not be fundamentally changed by some stray attacker you never saw coming.

“Back before the Script, this ability to deny the magics of others from affecting you was the most important part of being a mage. Since magic is possibility, the ability to deny possibility is also the ability to automatically [Dispel] all harmful magics. This was the basis for the creation of [Dispel].

“But with the advent of the Script, you can no longer simply ‘disbelieve’ a fireball to the face. You must actively [Dispel] such a thing, using as much force as the original caster put into their belief.

“And now we come to an example: [Teleport], and [Teleport Other]. What I speak of now, is how you went about making those spells in the first place. Not in the spells as they are in the Script; this is a major difference.

“It is here, in creating these spells on your own, that you met one of the greatest examples of where magic starts; the beginning of it all.” Quilatalap asked, “Can you give me a run down of how you made those spells, so I can better teach you? All I know is that you have them.”

Erick obliged, giving Quilatalap a short rundown on how [Teleport] and [Teleport Other] happened. He even spoke of [Teleport Monster], because Quilatalap felt it relevant.

When the explanation was over, Quilatalap said, “With [Teleport], you had to have the consent of yourself, or rather, your Ophiel, in order to [Teleport].

"With [Teleport Other], the Myriad Citrus allowed you to move it, so that doesn't count for this discussion.

“With [Teleport Monster], you needed to find the ‘in’, on those Crystal Mimics. They attacked you, and that gave you your ‘in’. From there, you exploited this break in their armor to then encompass the whole mimic, to then have it [Teleport] itself.” Quilatalap asked, “Correct?”

“Correct.”

Quilatalap nodded, then continued, “The break in the armor that was required to enact this [Teleport Monster] is what we call Breaking the Shroud. The Shroud, as we call it, is the normal area of subjective reality around a soul. Finding the break and then breaking it to affect the actual soul inside, is called Breaking the Shroud.

“As an aside, the stronger the Shroud, the harder it is to break. It is the density of the Shroud that determines the categorization of a thing as either object, a monster, or a person. Objects have no Shroud. Monsters are not in control of themselves, and like all insane beasts out there, their Shroud is already heavily compromised. Consider this type of Shroud to be as air, and easily moved around. The Shrouds of sapients is stable, and varies anywhere from air, to water, to rock. We will speak of personal Shrouds at another time when you can actually see them.

“And to that end, I suggest you work on gaining a second technique: you need a mana sense. This is among the most necessary skills that any great mage would have.” Quilatalap added, “But an easy workaround to this requirement would be to gain [Mana Sight]. One of the easier ways to gain that skill is either from one of Tania’s shadow spiders, or from any number of other monsters that have this skill elsewhere in the world. Mana Slimes are perhaps the easiest ones to find, as they go up for auction in Eidolon every now and then for a few million gold. Elsewise, you would need to find an aberrant monster that has accidentally and miraculously developed [Mana Sight]. You would need to be [Polymorph]ed into those monster forms to use those skills, though. So that is the downside to those possibilities. Elsewise, you could work on your mana sense. It might be easier for you now that you have all those new Stats.” Quilatalap eyed him, saying, “You seem to have understood every single thing I have said, and that is slightly disconcerting. Talk to me. You seem like you might be having strange thoughts.”

Erick sat back in his chair, and was, indeed, having strange thoughts.

Quilatalap watched.

Erick said, “Okay.” He narrowed his eyes at nothing and no one in particular, saying, “Can I do this ‘no’ with a [Personal Ward]—” A flash of inspiration struck. “Oh. Shit. Can I do that with a [Personal Ward] tied to defense? I’ve never tried to make a [Personal Ward] outside of the normal [Personal Ward]. Oh. Shit. Why haven’t I tried that? I should try that. It should be easy enough to make a ‘[Soul Protecting Personal Ward]’, right?”

