It was out of love. Few fighters trained the day after the climactic battle. Most idled at the private section, getting over some killer hangovers. The inventors worked out of respect for their craft though. Why take a day off when you love what you do after all?

As we paced by the inventors, we found Diesel grinding away at a prototype rifle. He was an engineer who designed Althea's guns for me. I crafted the weapon using his blueprints. He looked up at us, wearing a pair of black goggles and a grease-smeared jumpsuit.

He smiled at us. It looked like he and Althea knew each other now.

Althea walked up to him, their heights mirroring each other. Diesel looked at us both, shock spreading over his face.

"Well, I'll be damned. You actually did it, sir."

I shook my head, gesturing to everyone around us, "Trust me when I say this. We killed Yawm."

He walked up, two or three heads shorter than me. Diesel looked up, putting a hand on my shoulder,

"We do our part when we can...Heh, here I thought I got taller because of your legacy. You're a giant, sir."

I patted his shoulder, making sure not to put too much force behind it, "If anything, I think you're catching up. What level are you now?"

He looked up at my level while lowering his hands, "Only 677. You're already over 5,000." He turned towards Althea, "And it looks like the lovely lady is 5,000 dead even. I'm glad we have monsters like you two on our side."

Althea shrugged, "I hit the level cap. I have to get a class if I want to advance any further."

I turned towards her, raising my eyebrow, "Really?"

She glanced up at me, "What? You're over level 5,000? How the hell did that happen?"

I waved my hands back and forth, "It's a long story. I got two trees called Obliterator one and two. After Yawm died, I unlocked and finished Obliterator three for some reason. It was probably a gesture of goodwill by Schema or something like that. That's what I'm guessing at least."

Diesel shook his head in disbelief, "I wish I had the same problem as you, mam. Being too high a level, well...It's a hell of a problem to have."

She walked up, inspecting the new model Diesel was working on. She ran her hand down the polished steel, "How much longer till you finish it?"

Diesel tapped his chin, "Oh, this beauty...If I had to guess, about three months."

Althea bit her lip. She sighed, "That sucks, but I get it. I've tried redesigning my rifle too. It's impossible for me."

Diesel turned back to his rifle, "Speaking of redesigning, I gotta get back to work. It's good to talk to you both, but this cannon isn't going to finish itself."

He grinned, putting back on a pair of goggles,

"Besides, I don't want to interrupt your reunion. Go and enjoy each other's company. You're only young once."

I frowned. Diesel had a crush on Althea last time we talked. It looked like he learned that Althea and I were dating after I left. He moved on, though an inkling of bitterness lingered in his voice. Althea waved as we left him to get back to work.

After pacing past all the tech, Althea walked back up to the central area of the base,

"Don't worry, the tours almost over."

We entered the elevator and rode back up to level three. After pacing through another vault door, we reached a training camp. The last floor involved research and development. This area designed itself around learning.

The same reinforced cylinder sat at the center. Bookshelves lined the pillar at the center of the hall, making a study. A circular set of rooms laid outside it. People in all garments, from military uniforms to dresses, walked from place to place.

They paced into rooms of all kinds. Obstacle courses, lecture halls, and dueling areas spread out across the circular study. The dueling rooms were lined with glass, letting spectators watch from the library.

Inside the room, two magicians covered in power armor cast spells at each other. One of them specialized in earth magic, molding stone to his advantage. The other mage focused on teleportation combined with energy blades.

The earth mage stood still, firing condensed clumps of stone at his opponent. All the while, the teleporter phased across the room, striking from all angles. The earth mage kept molding stone right before the energy blades landed on him.

The stone melted into magma when the energy blades touched. The earth mage pooled the magma under the concrete arena. As the blade mage sliced through the earth mage's barrier, he sliced one last time. Instead of landing, the earth mage plummeted them into the magma pit beneath them.

They both fell in. I walked up behind the crowd, entranced by the battle. They both exploded from the pit of mana, each of them wrestling with each other. Covered in molten rock, the blade mage swung his blade at the throat of the earth mage.

The earth mage swung his arms out, the magma on the blade mage condensing. The blade mage froze in place, covered in stone. The earth mage rolled backward. As he stood up, he lifted his arms. A pillar of stone lifted up, striking the chin of the blade mage.

The pillar stopped right before contact. From out of my vision, Torix walked onto the arena. Torix clapped his hands, the rock and blade magic disintegrating. He turned towards the mages, giving them pointers while congratulating them.

He looked like a natural principal, that's for sure.

The spectators burst into a frenzy of chatter. I made out a conversation,

"Damn, that fight was amazing."

"I know right? Didn't it feel like everything was getting heavier halfway through it?"

The other student nodded, "Yeah, the weight of situation felt so real."

I laughed a little, everyone looking at me. The students gawked and gasped. One of the students turned towards the other one,

"Ahh, that's why it got heavier."

We walked past the students, pacing into the arena. As we did, Torix turned towards us. He spread out his hands,

"Ahhh. It's good to see you both. I see you brought company?"

I analyzed Torix. He was at level 5,000 as well now. Everyone was level capped. I pointed at Amara,

"This is Amara, the Lost One. She's a sentient eldritch that saved my ass versus Yawm."

Amara stayed sleeping, my gravity well suspending her. Torix nodded,

"She's a heavy sleeper I presume."

I shrugged, "Eh, she hacked into the world tree somehow. That's probably why she's tired."

Torix walked up, his long robe giving him a noble bearing. He leaned towards Amara,

"She's quite powerful. She's the highest level eldritch I've ever see at level 5,000."

I pointed at her, "That's because she can hack into Schema's system. She even gained experience from helping us kill Yawm apparently."

Torix's jaw dropped, "H-h-hacked Sc-c-hema?"

I grinned, "Eh, I told you she saved my ass."

The crowd of onlookers crowded around us, looking at Ajax and Amara. Torix turned towards the students. Some of the onlookers wore power armor. Others covered up in simple jeans and t-shirt. Torix looked around at them. He raised a hand as if an idea popped into his head.

He pointed the raised hand towards a student in the back of the pack,

"Alexander, come here."

An orange headed teenager walked up. He looked at me like I was Godzilla. Torix pointed at us both, "If you wouldn't mind Daniel, could you duel Alexander for us?"

I looked at the poor, tiny guy sitting in front of me. He didn't seem frightened, so that was a plus. I pointed at him,

"Uh, why?"

Torix pointed at those listening, "Because many of the students could use a demonstration of what a human can become."

Whispers spread throughout the crowd.

"He's human?"

"What? No way."

"He's about as human as Torix."

I shook my head at Torix, "I don't think they need a demonstration though. I think looking at me is enough."

A few of the students nodded. Torix shook his head, "No, that simply will not do. A few of the students have been slacking off on some of the more uncomfortable training. Alexander happens to be one of those students."

I looked down at him. I lunged onto one knee, still taller than him,

"This guy?"

Alexander looked up at me. He had defiant, blue eyes with orange hair. He wore a loose, black robe and was shorter than most of the other teens, making him minuscule. I frowned at him,

"Ah...ok."

I stood up, walking over towards the arena. Alexander paced off towards the edge of the stage. I looked at Torix. I spread out my arms, waving my hands back and forth. Torix grinned at me, raising a finger,

"You'll see,"

I rolled my eyes, looking over at Alexander on the other side of the arena. He pulled up his sleeves, revealing several tattoos on his forearms. He channeled mana, the runes glowing a violet color.

Torix grinned at me, "You both may begin."

I stood there, waiting for Alexander to prepare himself. After a few more seconds, he lifted his hand. An arcane bolt of lightning appeared over his head. He chunked it towards me. I raised my hand, the flash landing against my palm.

With true damage in tow, it bore a six-inch hole into my forearm. In other words, it did nothing. My flesh reconstituted in seconds. I walked up, gripping my hand. A well of gravity lifted Alexander off the ground. He squirmed in the air as I pulled him towards me.

I made my hand out like I was about to flick him. Instead of making contact, I let the wind off my finger brush his forehead. He flopped backward, tumbling across the ground. He skinned his elbow, and he broke one of his fingers.

He howled out, so I rolled my eyes yet again and walked up. With a pinch of telekinesis, I snapped his finger in place. He grimaced as I lifted him up off the ground towards Torix. I turned towards the lich,

"Does he not even have pain tolerance unlocked?"

Torix shook his head, "An apt observation as usual. In fact, no. He doesn't."

I spread out my arms, "It would've been nice letting me know that beforehand."

Torix turned towards the students, "But you see students, in an actual fight, a broken finger is the least of your worries."

Alexander whimpered while floating in the air. Torix raised a hand, turning towards the students,

"Do you see the gap between these two?"

Torix pointed at Alexander, "Even the most gifted duelist among you all stood no chance. Can any of you describe why exactly?"

No one replied. Torix pressed his fingers into a single point,

"It is less the difference in power and more so the grit of their minds."

Torix pointed at Alexander, "He is gifted with an affinity for arcane magic, and he refined his offensive prowess. At the same time, he never tempered his mind."

Torix pinched his fingers together, "Even after having his hand blown off, Daniel didn't even so much as flinch. After having a small finger broken, Alexander was brought to his knees."

Torix walked up to Alexander. He waved a green light over the talented teen, healing his injuries. Torix continued,

"I use Alexander as an example since he is the only one among you that could even injure Daniel. He also refused to train his Pain Tolerance. Even if Daniel were one percent of his strength now, that crucial difference would be decisive in real combat. When you fight against eldritch, that will be your kind of combat."

Torix looked around, getting as much eye contact as possible, "It's the might of your spirit that makes you different from your peers. Remember that, and you will go far. Not just in class, but in life."

Torix chuckled as he gestured to himself, "And in death."

The class laughed, and Torix clapped his hand twice, "You are dismissed."

The class buzzed with chatter, friends chatting away with each other. Some were amazed that I beat Alexander so easily. Others were amazed that Alexander even put up a fight at all. Two friends of Alexander walked up, to him, asking if he was alright. He replied in a high voice,

"He just grabbed me, and I was done...never felt anything like that before."

I walked up to Torix, "I still don't know if that was necessary."

Torix waved me concern away, "Bah. I will leave the leading and fighting in your capable hands. You lead the teaching in mine."

I shrugged, "Eh, alright." I held up a hand, looking at Alexander,

"Give me a second."

The poor student bit his lip, frustration etched all over his face. Being thrashed in front of a class and used as an example was probably humiliating. Taking away the sting, I walked up,

"You're Alexander, right?"

He looked up at me, his expression shocked, "What? Oh, uh, yeah. That's me."

I offered a handshake, "It was a good fight."

He reached up, grabbing my hand. He held two of my fingers, but he grinned up at me,

"Heh, I got destroyed. You really are the guild leader for a reason."

I grinned, "Who knows. Maybe one day you could lead a guild too. Arcane magic is powerful. Don't waste it."

I turned away, waving at him, "Cya around."

He gave me a salute, "Uh, yes sir!"

After an internal wince, I walked up to Torix. Sir made me feel old.

I pointed at Ajax and Amara who I kept floating the entire time,

"So any plans for these two?"

Torix rubbed his hands together,

"I may have a few."

An evil grin grew on his face,

"If you'd enjoy hearing them, that is."
