“He probably just exhausted his game body.” He said. “Otherwise, he'd have logged out himself.” Doctor Hobbard put a hand on Barbara's arm. “Let him sleep. If he's not awake by morning, we can log him out ourselves and see if anything's wrong.”

“But... shouldn't we do that now?” Barbara asked, concerned.

The doctor shook his head. “We have to wait for them to move him to a safe zone.”

“A what?”

The doctor chuckled. “I know more about this game now than I know about my children.” He said. “That's one of the reasons I've allowed his unlimited use of the VR system. If he's not in a safe zone when he logs out, he can be hurt and possibly die; but in a safe zone, nothing can hurt him.” He looked at Barbara. “You should know all of this.”

Barbara sighed. “Sorry, I guess I'm not thinking straight.” She said and looked at Ren. “Okay, doctor. If you think it's best to wait.” Barbara said, worry in her voice.

Doctor Hobbard smiled. “He just needs rest, and he should get plenty of it in there.”

*

Lucy didn't come back to the table after several songs, and Stella was getting worried. She'd lost sight of Lucy only a few minutes ago, then looked at Lucy's purse and coat on the chair and sighed. Stella picked them up and searched the whole bar, both bathrooms, and even asked the bouncer to check out back. Stella took out her cell phone and dialed Lucy's phone, and cursed when Lucy's purse rang.

“Dammit, Lucy!”

********

“I'm out of healing.” Nathalia said, concern in her voice.

“What should we do?” Wohrum the House Neram Guard asked. “We can't let anything happen to him.”

Narhilda stepped forward. “Let's get him inside.”

“How?” Dorcot asked. “I don't want to risk carrying him if he's hurt.”

“Me, either.” The guard said.

“The cart!” Angeilin squeaked and pointed to a cart that came off the road Ren had made.

“Great idea, Sugarplum!” Dorcot waved to the driver and she pulled over.

“By the gods! What happened?”

They all pointed to the tiny house.

“He built the house?”

Dorcot laughed for a moment, then stopped. “No, he... he... carried it here.”

“He WHAT?!?”

Nathalia concentrated on her Command Aura. “Let's get him loaded in the back and take him to the house.” She said. “Dorcot, his chest and arms. Wohrum, his legs.” Nathalia stood and glared at them. “Be. Careful.”

“You don't have to tell us that, Ma'am.” Dorcot bent down and gripped Ren under the arms, and Wohrum grabbed his knees. They lifted together and Ren sagged between them. He was gently placed in the back of the cart and the driver walked the pony all the way over to the house. A group of sad people followed it. When they entered the courtyard, Nathalia had an idea. They got Ren into the house and settled him in Narhilda's old bedroom. Everyone left Nathalia alone with him, and tears came to her eyes.

“Oh, Ren.”

********

Gloria waited for an hour and the search came up with nothing. She thought that was odd, considering there should be some record of him on it somewhere. Ren plays the game. There should be an account of his posts and comments! She closed the VR server window and looked at her internet browser. Maybe I'm over-thinking this.

Gloria opened her browser and just typed 'Ren' into the search bar. There were several thousand results, and she shook her head, and clicked the 'pictures only' option. Her screen was filled with different images that had nothing to do with what she wanted, and she scrolled down several pages.

“Ugh... nothi-” Gloria stopped talking as she saw his face staring back at her. She clicked on the picture and it opened in a new window. His hair wasn't as fluffy, but it was definitely him. There wasn't any information on the image except his name, Ren Haddon.

I can't believe he used his real name in the game! Gloria shook her head and closed the image. She went back to the browser and typed in his name. When the results appeared, her eyes widened.

“Oh, my god.”
