Wait until you see what I'm picking up next. Ren thought and ran back inside the house. He came to a stop in the main room and walked into the kitchen. “Sorry for interrupting.” Ren said. “Nathalia, can you bring out the french toast to Barnar and his crew?”

“Of course, Ren.” She said and stood.

“Thank you.” He said and tried to give her a quick kiss. Nathalia had a different idea and held on to him instead. They kissed for a full minute, then Nathalia broke the kiss and let him go.

“You're welcome.”

“I sure am.” He grinned and took off running.

*

“That was so sweet!” Angeilin said, and turned to Narhilda. “Is it always like that?”

Nathalia chuckled as she piled the warmed up french toast onto several plates.

Narhilda nodded. “Yes, it's getting to be a regular thing.” She said as her daughter left the kitchen. Once she was gone, Narhilda leaned in close to Angeilin. “I nearly walked in on them yesterday.”

“You didn't!” Angeilin squeaked.

Narhilda smiled. “He nearly had her laying across the counter, right there.” She said and pointed.

“I wonder....” Angeilin said. “...was it because of him?”

“What was?” Narhilda asked.

“Oh, Dorcot...” Angeilin squeaked. “...he got... frisky last night.”

“Let me guess.” Narhilda chuckled. “It was right after he left here.”

“It was!”

Narhilda smiled crookedly. “I take it he was... ah... more...”

Angeilin let her teacup go, as she was shaking too much. “Like we were teenagers again!”

They both laughed.

*

Ren arrived at the spot where the house was supposed to be. “You have got to be kidding me!”

In front of Ren was a tiny little house, squeezed between two really large buildings. There was a tiny yard and a small white fence. Ren walked all the way around it in about 15 seconds.

“They live here?” He shook his head. “Oh, well.” He took out his mining pick and dug all around the tiny house and down far enough to see if it was attached to anything. It wasn't, and Ren looked in one of the windows to see where the kitchen was, then dug along underneath the house to see where the pipes to the sink went. He didn't hit anything, so he knew it was all self-contained. Ren went back to the front of the house and dug up the fence. He selected it and stored it in inventory.

“I'm tempted to take the lawn, too.”

“Go ahead.” Teepo said. “Anything on this lot is theirs.”

Ren grinned, took out a shovel and pried up the edge of the lawn, then rolled it up and stored it. Remind me which way it goes, Teepo.

“Sure.” Teepo said.

“It's a good thing I barely have anything left in inventory.” Ren said, touched the building, and selected 'store in inventory'. The house disappeared and Ren fell to his knees. “Dammit... that's... really... really heavy.” He took a deep breath and stood up. The house had taken only a single slot, but it grayed out 4 dozen others. It's a good thing no burden will slow my speed. Ren thought. That doesn't mean it's not freaking heavy, though!

“You could have hired movers or something.” Teepo said as Ren started walking.

I could have, but how would they have moved the house without destroying it? Ren thought. I think... I think this is different from a normal burden.

“No, really?” Teepo chittered in worry. “Ren, you're carrying a house!”

It's okay, Teepo. I can do this.

“I know you can, Ren.” Teepo said in encouragement. “I know you can!”

Thanks, buddy.

Ren walked normally, but there was no way he was going to try and run. It took him about 20 minutes to get back to the main road, and he'd gained 2 points in Strength and 1 in Endurance. Ren took the corner to go up the long road to get back to House Neram, and sighed at the long distance yet to go.

“It's only a few miles, Ren.” Teepo said. “You can stop and take a break.”

Actually, I can't. Ren thought. My Stamina is still dropping steadily, even when I stand still.

“Oh... well, you better hurry up then.” Teepo said and Ren chuckled.

I would if I could. Ren thought and trudged along at a slow walk. I would if I could.

*

The driver of the cart stopped in the spot for deliveries to House Lodur and parked there. “I was told to wait and bring you back.” Dorcot and Wohrum hopped out of the back and picked up a large sack each.

“Thanks.” Dorcot said. “This shouldn't take long.”

Dorcot and Wohrum carried the heavy sacks into the Main House of Lodur and stood in line. When it came to their turn, a clerk at the end motioned for them to come over. Dorcot shook his head.

“We're waiting... for him.” Dorcot said in a mean voice, and pointed to the clerk that has insulted his wife. The dwarf behind them went to the free clerk and Dorcot waited patiently. Three more dwarfs were served before the clerk in question had finally finished with the dwarf he was trying to serve. Dorcot stepped up to the desk and looked at the clerk in the eye.

“Get. Your. Manager.”

The clerk left the desk, and came back a minute later with the manager.

“Is there a problem?” The manager asked, then he saw the old House Guard standing behind Dorcot, wearing a color of uniform he hadn't seen before. The manager rubbed his forehead and sighed. “Please, don't do this.”

Dorcot smiled and pointed to the clerk. “This idiot insulted my wife, right here, in the House that she loves.” He said. “She's worked for you, for years, and never once complained! Then this fool literally gave her no choice but to leave!” Dorcot snarled. “I want to wring his little neck as hard as I can, and then laugh when it snaps.” He said. “I want to step on his arms and legs, just to enjoy the sound of his crunching bones.”

Silence filled the Main House and everyone was looking at Dorcot.

“Please, don't do this.” The manager said, as the clerk shook in terror.

Dorgot looked with scorn at the manager. “Thanks to a very convincing argument, by both my wife and my new House, do you know what I'm going to do?”

The manager shook his head, but glanced at the clerk.

“Nothing.”

“W-w-what?!?” The manager exclaimed.

“I won't reduce myself to his level, or cause a duel between House Champions that would only get yours killed, for no other reason than he's an idiot.” Dorcot said and motioned to the clerk. “I won't sully my hands with either him, or this House any longer.” He said, then turned to address the crowd staring at him. “My wife has more Honor in her little pinky finger, than he has in his whole body.”

Gasps were heard, and Dorcot ignored them, and turned to look at the clerk.

“If you ever... ever... come near my wife again, or say anything bad against her... for any reason... I'll throw away all of my Honor, and grind you into dust.”

“Witnessed.” “Seconded.” “I wanna see that!” “Me, too. That guy is an idiot.”

“I've said my piece.” Dorcot smiled. “Now for the main event.” He stepped aside and Wohrum stepped up.

“I'm here to arrange payment of my gold penalty.”

The manager moved the chair from the desk, that the clerk that was sitting in, out of the way. “Here's the mandatory indentured servant form...”

“No, I said payment.” Wohrum said. “I'm here to pay it.”

“But...”

“I want to pay it. All of it. Right now.”

“But... everyone works it off!”

“Not anymore.” Wohrum said to several more gasps.

“W-w-well, then.” The manager said and took out another form. “That will be... 200 gold coins.”

Wohrum grinned and hefted his sack onto the desk. “Here's a hundred.” He said and turned to let Dorcot drop the other sack. “Here's the other hundred.”

A short scream was heard, and then a thud soon after. The manager looked at the sacks like they were playing a joke on him. Wohrum untied one of the sacks and the gold spilled out onto the desk.

“You can count it if you want, but it's all there.”

The manager stared at them in shock as he handed over the form. Wohrum signed it and handed it back. “Have yourself a good day.” He said then turned to Dorcot. “After you, sir.”

“Thank you.” Dorcot said and the pair left the Main House, and were followed by the eyes of everyone that was still conscious. Dorcot and Wohrum climbed into the cart, and it took off at a fast trot, back to House Neram.

*

“Al... most... there.” Ren huffed as he slowly stepped along the road. His Stamina bar had run out 20 minutes before and his Health had steadily dropped ever since. He'd gained 3 more points in Strength and another in Endurance, though.

“Come on, Ren... you can do it!” Teepo nearly shouted. “It's right there!”

Ren struggled the last few feet, as he reached the spot where he had decided to put the house. I just hope they like it here. Ren thought, then looked at the spot. “Dammit. I forgot to clear it out.”

“Just put it on the road for now. No one's coming.” Teepo suggested.

“Good... idea.” Ren said and took the house from inventory and let the system place it, so that it was on a flat surface, then collapsed to his knees in relief. “Holy crap.” Ren said and let his Stamina bar recover a little bit. He stood up and pulled out his hammerpick.

“I have to do this quick.” Ren set the plow end into the ground about a foot from the edge of the road, and ran back and forth until a lot big enough to hold the house was dug up. He took out the shovel and used up his Stamina bar again, clearing the lot out to be flat. “Whew.”

“Ren there's a cart coming!” Teepo said.

“Crap!” Ren ran to the road and stored the house again. “Teepo, remind me to never do this again.”

“Ren, never do this again.” Teepo said and tried not to chitter in laughter.

Ren laughed and nearly fell down. “Geez, don't make me laugh.” Ren huffed and stumbled to the dug up lot. “Here goes nothing.” Ren took the house out and set it right in the exact spot it needed to go. Ren knelt and took several deep breaths. His Stamina bar started to slowly refill and he took out the rolled up lawn.

“The other way, Ren.” Teepo said.

“Right, right.” Ren said and walked to the other side of the house and unrolled the lawn. It just fit in the last bit of space he'd dug up. The cart drove by while Ren stamped the lawn down into place.

“By the GODS!” Dorcot shouted as he stared at the tiny house.

Ren didn't hear the shout, and took out the fence to put it where it needed to go. He used the end of his hammerpick to poke holes in the earth for the fence posts, then slid the fence into place. Ren walked to the road and turned back to look at it.

“I think that's perfect.” Ren said, then his vision went blurry, and he sat down. “Teepo, I'm kinda tired.”

“Ren, don't lay down!” Teepo said.

Ren looked at his Health bar and it was just about gone, with only a couple of points left. “I'm just going to rest here for a while.” He said and tried to lay down, but sprawled out on the road instead.

“Ren! Not on the ROAD!” Teepo shouted, but it was too late. Ren didn't respond to his plea.

*

The cart stopped at House Neram and Dorcot and Wohrum got out. Dorcot knocked on the door first, then ran inside the house and into the kitchen.

“Sugarplum! You've got to see this!” He said.

“What is it?” Angeilin asked and she wrapped her arms around Dorcot's neck as he picked her up. He ran back outside and out through the gate. Nathalia and Narhilda walked out behind them. When they got outside the gate, however... they ran, too.

********

“Oh, Ren!” Barbara said. “What were you thinking?” She looked at him laying in bed and his breathing was nice and steady. She'd checked his vitals and everything seemed to be normal. Barbara shook her head. “You're trying to do too much!”

*

Lucy was sick of staying at home all day, and decided to go out. She hadn't been to a bar in months, but it didn't take her long to convince Stella to come along. She put on her best party dress, a bit of perfume that only had a slight smell of vanilla, and 3 inch high heels. She heard a horn outside and grabbed her coat and purse.

*

Stella sat in the taxi and waited for Lucy to come out of her house. I hope she doesn't do what I think she's going to do. Stella thought. I'll try to stop her, if I can.

*

Gloria sat at her computer and growled. I can't believe I only got a 75% on that engineering exam! She looked through the answers for 20 minutes, and grimaced. I did really well on the math questions, but that rat bastard professor red marked every single one of the written answers to the essay questions... and I can't even complain about it, because he's the one that sets the questions and the answers!

She looked at her VR headset and frowned. As Elerlyth, I searched every corner I could find in the starter city, and I didn't find a trace of that Mitchell guy anywhere. She sighed. If Ren had been there, I'm sure I would have found Mitchell easily... or at least had fun while I searched. I hope Ren is having fun, wherever he is.

Gloria looked back at her computer and had a thought that she hadn't had before. She typed up a search pattern macro in about 15 minutes, and set it to look for 'Ren', 'VR' and 'Game', logged into the VR forum server, and let it go. I could have used one of my old search macros, but I like redoing them for the practice.

*

Lucy was having the time of her life. She'd forgotten how fun it was to just go out and do something. Stella on the other hand, was having a hard time trying to reign Lucy in.

“Lucy, you don't have to dance with every guy that asks!” Stella said.

“Why not?”

“Lucy, you're a nurse. You know why.”

Lucy laughed. She'd had quite a bit to drink. “I haven't been a nurse since I started working in the lab.”

“Lucy...” Stella sighed. “...you're still a nurse.”

“Not for another week and a half, I'm not!” She said and then someone caught her eye. “Hey, I know him!”

“Don't call him over!” Stella said.

“Hey! Over here!” Lucy said and waved. The big burly man walked over and stood by their table.

“Hey, Lucy. Howarya?”

“I'm good! Wanna dance?” Lucy asked and stood up.

“Always.”

Stella grabbed her arm. “Lucy, who is he?”

“It's okay, Stella. I've dated him before.” Lucy said. “Stella, this is Clint. Clint, Stella.”

“Ma'am.”

Stella nodded to him, and Lucy danced away with Clint hot on her tail.

“Oh, crap.”

*

“He's fine.” Doctor Hobbard said. “Look at the screen.”

Barbara turned and saw the feed was still coming through. Several figured were standing around Ren. The screen hadn't gone black, and no popups had appeared. According to the game, nothing was wrong.

