“That's great!” Ren said, let her hand go, then looked around. “Where's Dorcot?” He asked as the carts he'd rented headed to the mines, and Barnar's workers uncovered everything.

“He's not here already?” Angeilin asked. “He said he'd be coming here... oh!” She said. “He was going to visit the farm first!”

“I'm sure he'll be here soon.” Ren said and smiled, then looked up at the guard beside her. “I know I might be a little intimidating sometimes; but, was it necessary to bring a guard with you?”

Angeilin chuckled, and Ren could swear it sounded like glasses tinkling together.

“I didn't bring a guard... okay, I did... but he wasn't escorting me... no, I guess he did...”

Ren chuckled. “Relax. Take a deep breath.” He said. “Start from the beginning.”

Angeilin took a deep breath, and started over. “It all started this morning when Dorcot and I argued...”

Ren listened to her story, nodded slightly several times, and then frowned when she told him about her encounter at the Lodur Main House. When she got to the part about how the manager had handled things, or hadn't handled things, he scowled. Ren didn't say anything, and Angeilin told him how the guard had tried to defend her Honor and then resigned in protest. Ren gently put a hand on her shoulder.

“I'm terribly sorry, Ma'am.” Ren said and sighed. “If I'd known paying your husband would cause so much... trouble... ah, dammit.”

“What is it?” She squeaked.

“It's nothing.” Ren said. “Just a little recipe that keeps biting me in the ass.”

Angeilin covered her mouth with a hand to try and stop herself from snorting in laughter.

“Thank you for telling me all about this.” Ren said, stood up from his kneeling position, and held a hand out to the guard. “Thank you for keeping her safe and trying to protect her, especially from your own House.”

The guard took the offered hand and Ren shook it.

“I'm Honored to meet a man with both fortitude and courage.” Ren said, and the guard's eyes widened.

“Sir... you... you didn't have to...”

“Yes, I did.” Ren said and let the guard's hand go. “I'd like to hire you right away.”

“Sir, I'd greatly appreciate that.” The guard said. “But... I've got a large debt now with House Lodur... that has to be settled by the end of the week.”

“I know.” Ren said and looked down at Angeilin. “I hope it's going to help me with your situation as well.”

“H-how?” Angeilin asked.

“I'll wait until Dorcot gets here to explain.” Ren said and motioned down the road. Angeilin and the guard turned around and didn't see anything.

“What are you...” Angeilin started to say, and saw a figure appear in the distance. “Is that...?” She looked back at Ren. “Is that Dorcot?”

Ren nodded slightly. “He'll be here in a couple of minutes.” Thanks for spotting him, Teepo. Ren thought.

“You're welcome.” Teepo said.

They waited patiently as Dorcot came close enough to see his wife standing there, and he ran the rest of the way. He stopped when he got to where she was and knelt down, slightly out of breath.

“What... are you... doing here?” Dorcot said between gasped breaths.

“You shouldn't run like that, Sugarbear.” Angeilin said and clapped her hands over her mouth. She turned to look at Ren, who had his head turned away before she'd seen him, and he started to whistle. She then turned the other way and looked at the guard. He'd taken Ren's not so subtle hint and had his head turned away as well. Angeilin smiled and looked back at her husband.

“It might take a while to explain.” She said, and they listened to her story. Dorcot's face flushed red when she got to the clerk's insult; when she talked about the manager, he visibly shook. When the guard's part came, Dorcot relaxed slightly, but his face stayed red. Angeilin finished her story, with Ren's accepting them, and Dorcot stood.

“I'll be right back.” He said and turned away.

“Wait!” Angeilin shrieked. Dorcot stopped and dropped his head slightly. She turned to Ren. “Sir, you have an idea?”

Ren stepped forward and put a hand on Dorcot's shoulder. “Dorcot, I'm just as... enraged... as you are over your wife's treatment.” Ren said, and Dorcot sighed at the truth of Ren's words. “I've got a better idea than starting a House to House challenge, though.”

Dorcot turned to Ren. “You do?” He said surprised. “What is it?”

“Come inside, and I'll explain to everyone at the same time.”

Dorcot nodded, took his wife's hand and Ren led them inside the house after switching his Command Aura back to his main Aura. The group met in the kitchen, to keep everything informal, and Angeilin's story was relayed to Narhilda and Nathalia. They reacted even more strongly than Dorcot had, and it took Ren several minutes to calm them down. Once everything was out in the open, he told them his idea. Dorcot wasn't happy with it, as it didn't involve beheading the clerk, but after some convincing, he agreed.

Ren gathered everyone in the main room and they went to their proper places. Narhilda sat in her chair, as was right for the Lady of the House. Nathalia stood on her right side, since she was the Princess, and Ren stood on Nathalia's right as he was her courter. Dorcot, Angeilin and the guard stood before them. Ren stepped forward and knelt in front of Narhilda.

“My Lady.” Ren said. “May I present to you, the first subjects to petition for residency in your district.”

“You may.”

Ren stood and walked over to Dorcot. “This man was offered a job as a general laborer. Near chaos ensued.” Ren tried not to sigh, and continued. “His petition to leave his old House was granted, and he now has nowhere to live.”

“Is that all?”

Ren smiled. “My Lady, I'd like to amend the job offer, if I may.”

“What job does he qualify for?” Narhilda said.

“Royal Gemcutter, My Lady.”

Three gasps were heard, and subsequently ignored.

“Very well.” Narhilda said. “I've seen his skill. Your job offer is amended.”

“Thank you, My Lady.” Ren stepped next to Angeilin. “This woman is his wife. She's supported their family for decades. Her House garnished those wages, but they raised a substantial family from her hard work. She has nowhere to live.”

“Continue.”

“She currently works at House Longore as a receptionist. Her current contract states she must tithe 45% of her wages to the House.”

“That just won't do.” Narhilda scowled. “What do you recommend?”

“Alteration of the contract upon your acceptance of her into this House.”

“Agreed.” Narhilda said and gave a stern look to Angeilin. “This House demands a full 1% of your wages if you work for someone else.”

“WHAAAAT?!?” Angeilin squeaked, then clamped a hand over her mouth. “Sorry.”

Narhilda smiled, turned to Ren and nodded slightly. He stepped over to the guard.

“This man showed outstanding Honor in verbally defending a woman he didn't know, against a member of his own House's Main Family, and at the cost of his job. He also has nowhere to live. I'd like to offer him a position as a House Guard. It's only at the front gate for now, and as a possible escort when needed.”

“We do seem to be expanding rather quickly.” Narhilda said. “House Guards are definitely a necessity.” She looked at each person in turn. “Kneel, please.”

They three petitioners knelt and Narhilda stood. “Joining a House is no small task.” She said and approached them. “This is a new endeavor for all of us.” Narhilda smiled. “Recite the Pledge.”

Dorcot, Angeilin and the guard spoke together.

“I renounce all ties to other Houses, and all contracts to them are null and void. I devote myself entirely to the well being of this House, and will strive to help it in any way I can; until such time that I am dismissed for cause, taken away by circumstances beyond my control, or feel unfit to fulfill my duties. Our breath, our blood, our very lives, are yours. We swear this upon our Honor.”

Narhilda held her hand out to each person, and they placed a quick kiss upon her fingers. She stepped back and looked at them.

“Rise, citizens of House Neram.” Narhilda said. “Dorcot, Angeilin, and Wohrum.” She grinned as they stood. “Welcome home!”

********

Stella was at the corner store again, and trying to decide if she should get the XL or XXL prophylactics. Without actually seeing how big it was, I'm kinda flying blind here. She thought, perplexed.

“Hey, Big Sis!”

Stella turned around and saw her younger brother coming towards her.

“Scott!” She said and took him into a quick hug. “I haven't seen you in ages.”

“Yeah, it's been really busy at the garage.” He said and smiled. “You should pop by and see the place.”

Stella laughed. “Uh huh. Like I'd be caught dead around all that grease and dirt!”

Scott smiled. “Hey, it's not that bad.”

Stella grabbed his hand and held it up to his face. “It's not?” She said and chuckled. The tips of his fingers were nearly black.

“Okay, you got me there.” Scott said, then looked at the shelf his sister stood beside. “Oh my god.” He said and covered his face. Stella laughed and led him by the arm to another aisle.

“It's alright, Mister Delicate Sensibilities. You can open your eyes now.”

Scott smiled as he dropped the hand covering his eyes. “What were you doing there?”

Stella rolled her eyes. “Take a guess.”

“Stella!”

She laughed again. “Come on! You can't tell me you don't buy them.” Then she looked at him closely. “You'd better tell me that you do buy them!”

“Yes, I use protection.” Scott said. “I'm not stupid.”

Stella smiled and put a hand on his arm. “I'm glad.”

“Well, this just became super-awkward.” Scott said and grinned. “I really don't want to talk about my sex life with my sister, for Pete's sake.”

“I'm a nurse, so Pete's okay with it.” Stella responded and Scott groaned. She hooked an arm through his. “That reminds me... how's it going with that girl you told me about?”

“It's not.” Scott laughed. “Gloria turned me down flat.”

“What?” Stella said, surprised. “Why?”

“She gave me this weird excuse about how I was just trying to 'play on the wild side' with her, and wasn't really serious about it.”

“Were you?” Stella asked.

“W-what?”

“Were you just playing on the wild side, or were you serious?”

Scott looked at his sister with raised eyebrows. “You know you're supposed to be on my side, right?”

Stella laughed. “I am; but if you weren't serious, she'd pick up on that right away.”

He opened his mouth to defend himself, and Stella shook her head and smiled.

“She saw right through you, little brother.”

Scott closed his mouth and smiled. “Yeah, she did.”

“Don't worry, there's plenty of fish in the sea.” Stella said. “Some even have their natural hair color, too!”

Scott laughed. “Thanks, sis.” He said. “I'm just gonna grab a snack before heading home.”

“Okay.” Stella said and gave him another quick hug. “Make sure it's healthy!”

“Nachos and cheese are healthy.” Scott said. “It's got both the bread and dairy food groups in it.”

“I could argue with you about the nutritional value of rib-sticking cheese.” Stella chuckled. “But I won't... not tonight.” She grinned. “See you later.”

“Bye, Stella.” Scott said and walked down the aisle to head over to the counter. Stella went back over to the aisle she was in before, looked at the options, and grabbed a pack each of XL and XXL prophylactics.

“My 'extra expenses' report this month is going to be a doozy.” She said and grinned.

*

After the formal indoctrination, Ren made a new cloth guard outfit for Wohrum, in House Neram's style, and red in color. He commandeered one of the rented carts and sent Dorcot and Wohrum to House Lodur.

I wonder how surprised they are going to be at Dorcot's old House when he shows up. Ren thought as he went outside to the courtyard to build 10 more crates, the same size as the other one he'd made.

*

“I'm so glad that you accepted us into your House, My Lady.” Angeilin squeaked and drank some of the tea she'd been offered. I'm drinking tea with a Lady and a Princess! She thought and tried not to shiver from happiness.

Narhilda smiled. “Please, it's Narhilda... in private, at least.”

Angeilin's eyes widened. “Yes, My La... ah... N-N-Narhilda.”

Narhilda chuckled. “I've only been called 'Lady' over the last few weeks.” She said. “And that's all because of Ren. Before that, I hadn't heard that title since my husband died 12 years ago.”

“I'm sorry to hear that, My L... Narhilda.”

“What are you planning on doing now?” Nathalia chimed in.

“I'm going to keep my job.” Angeilin said. “I'm really good at it, and I practically run the place when Lady Longore isn't there.”

“That's great.” Narhilda said. “I'm glad you're doing something that you want to do.”

“So am I.” Angeilin said, then lowered her head. “You didn't have to reduce the garnish on my wages by so much, My... Narhilda.”

“By law, I can't go lower than 1%.” Narhilda said. “Otherwise I would.” She put a hand on Angeilin's arm. “Your money is yours. The 1% will be used for maintenance on your house.”

“My... my house?”

Narhilda had a shocked look on her face for a moment. “Oops.”

*

Ren filled the crates up with diamond crystals, and stored them in the same slot. He now had nearly half of his slots open, and looked at all the gold ore he still had. Ren ran over to his workshop and piled it all inside, right next to the forge. There was quite a lot of it, but at least he had cleared several more slots.

I'd better smelt it soon, though. Ren thought, then walked over to the far corner of the workshop. He unloaded nearly everything extra that he carried. All of his portable workstations, the 2 dozen springy trees, the woodworking toolbox, the box of knick-knacks he'd bought, all of his extra clothes, the spare stone bricks he'd enchanted back at the campsite by the mountain diamond mine, and anything else that wasn't essential. Ren walked over to the paving stone floor and unloaded the 180 stone bricks he still had in inventory. He then went outside and dropped off the campsite tent. When he was done, Ren felt absolutely buoyant.

I didn't realize how much weight I'd been carrying all this time. Ren thought.

“The only time you put anything down, was when you handed things off to Ruck.” Teepo chittered in laughter. Ren grinned.

