Thomas opened his backpack and took out one of the mantis heads. Luckily, greed and extra backpack space meant he had saved an extra.

Cautiously, he slid the edge of the scoop between the eye and the skull and pressed forward, waiting for a crack.

The crack never came.

Instead, there was a sickening swoop sound, like a vacuum seal breaking. A perfect, glittering eye popped free. He barely caught it and held it up to the dim light.

It looked like a multifaceted gem.

If he hadn't thought to bring the heads along, he would have had to run the dungeon again in three days since the National Guard wouldn't allow immediate repeats. But he had thought of it.

Now he had extra eyes.

The tool worked perfectly, and he was able to discard the heads—though they had continued to leak green ichor into his backpack, which now stank like rotting bug blood. He was going to have to replace that backpack.

The egg chamber held no more rewards, so he continued to the exit.

The reward chest contained another B-grade brown crystal and three C-grades. Not the best reward, so he was doubly glad he had gone for the boss.

With a satisfied grin, Thomas exited to find the sun slanting into late afternoon.

Guard Jacobson was still there, looking like he was struggling not to fall asleep on his feet. He jerked back upward to full alertness. "Oh, hey, you made it out—" He stopped, staring at Thomas, who must have looked rough—coated in dust from head to foot, visibly scraped, and splattered with green blood. "Uh... do you need medical attention?"

"Nope," Thomas said. "I just had a good time in there." His grin widened.

His phone buzzed angrily in his jeans pocket like an angry wasp.

"Uh, sure..." Jacobson said, still looking at him oddly. "I'm supposed to log all of it on the way out for the loot table."

"Yeah, just a second."

Thomas started digging out crystals from his jeans pocket. He had a feeling this was coming and had pulled a few out in the exit room. He just hoped Jacobson wouldn't insist on searching his backpack. Though... he didn't seem to be the type to go that far.

His phone kept buzzing. Thomas paused, pulled it out, and saw twelve text messages. No signal in the dungeon meant everything was coming through now.

There were also two missed calls and a couple of voicemails.

"What the hell?" he muttered.

One call was from Derek. The other was from Ashton—listed as "Twerp #1." His eldest nephew had finally gotten a phone for his last birthday.

Quickly, he opened the voicemail transcription.

"Oh, shit," he said, looking at Jacobson. "Family emergency. I've got to go."

"Wait, I need to log your loot—"

Frustrated, Thomas grabbed a B-grade crystal and a C-grade from his pocket and shoved them toward him.

"Here's a dungeon reward. Keep it or report it—I don't care. I've got to go."

He took off at a limping sprint down the hill toward where his car was parked.

Jacobson called something after him, but Thomas didn't care. The National Guardsman didn't try to stop him.

His brother, Derek, was in the hospital.
