In an arena pulled up from the sands of the Crystal Forest, under the bright sun and layered with an [Absorption Ward], stood two mages. One of them was a green dragonkin wearing loose clothing, and wielding a staff. She was barefoot; her taloned toes gripped the sand of the arena. The other was a human man wearing a similar outfit, with a similar weapon. His bare feet slipped across the sand; he had lost his footing more than once. He was flagging. But she stood strong, breathing slightly faster than normal. Dragonkin did not sweat, but they did breathe flames when they got worked up, so the tiny flames that licked out from her mouth should not have surprised the man, but they did.

Erick leaned hard against his staff, breathing heavily, gasping out, “You breathe fire?”

Kiri barked a laugh, twirling her staff. She said, “Seems you breathe excuses!”

“I’m old!”

“You are not!” Kiri said, “You purport to have a balanced build, and yet you cannot stay strong in the fight, let alone land a hit.” Kiri shouted, “You have a massive [Personal Ward]! This [Ward] around us is worth fifteen thousand damage! Poi is waiting there with a rod of [Treat Wounds]!” She leveled her staff at Erick, and demanded, “Ready your staff, and hit me.”

Erick firmed his grip on his staff. His arms felt like jelly, but he could power through. Kiri hit hard, now that they were in a real training situation and each of them used as many melee skills as they desired. This was so much more compared to Draz’s remedial classes. This was rather close to actual combat.

Erick gripped his staff, the wooden five-foot length feeling rough in his already blistered hands, and readied to strike. The sand of the arena gave slightly, forcing Erick to compensate, adding more physical power than otherwise, as he launched forward, [Swift Movement] active. Staff forward, Erick struck.

Kiri easily deflected the obvious strike; her eyes tracking Erick the whole time, except for one small moment where she saw him, looking at her, and she purposefully gazed at his incoming staff, and oh so easily, flicked it away with her own.

Erick went spinning through the air, as Kiri flipped him, in some unknown way, over and over. He landed, two meters from where he began his attack, having sustained about a thousand points of damage as a result of the brief exchange. He rolled to his back and laid on the sand for a moment, staring at the sky. He took brief stock of where he had been struck, and tried to recall how Kiri had hit him. Erick felt his chest. She had struck there, for sure, as well as his neck, somehow, all while he was flipped through the air. If it weren’t for all his defensive layers, he would have died.

And this was normal training.

In fact, it was pretty light training.

Kiri said, “Had enough, yet?”

Erick stepped to his feet. He wiped the sand off of his face, and off of his arms, saying, “Again.”

Jane called out from the sidelines, “Your form is all wrong, Dad. You’re not improving.”

His daughter was sitting beside Poi, on the raised stone seating of the arena, wearing her midnight blue [Conjure Armor]. She looked perfectly at peace, watching from the sidelines.

Erick paused. He asked, “When did you get here?”

Jane laughed. “Five minutes ago.”

Erick ignored Jane, and asked Kiri, “How are you a mage? Are all mages at your Tower Arcanaeum trained like you?”

Kiri chuckled. “I would have easily been near the top of my class, but I had to put some idiot noble boy in his place one too many times. That was the start of Quel gunning for me.”

“Ah!” Erick stood straight, and smiled, “I knew you were good, but this is great! I picked a winner.”

Kiri smirked, angling her staff at him, saying, “More talk? Or shall we continue?”

Jane interrupted, “At least teach him properly, Kiri.”

Kiri dropped her stance and slammed her staff into the sand. She stared at Jane, telling her off, “This is how I was taught. Besides! He’s still scared of getting hit.”

“I am?” Erick asked.

Jane and Kiri said, “You are.”

Kiri said, “You flinch.”

Jane said, “All the time.”

Kiri said, “The only way to get rid of it is to get hit.”

“You can train that out later,” Jane said. “Form and function is important, too.”

“He needs to train it out now,” Kiri countered. “Flinching in a magical fight is just as bad as in a melee fight.”

Jane almost said something, but then she just nodded, saying, “Can’t fault that.”

Kiri laughed once, then said, “Of course you can’t! Because I’m right!”

Jane said, “There are better ways to train out a flinch.”

“How?” Kiri asked, disbelieving.

Jane leapt down from the stands, landing softly on the sand, saying, “I’ll show you.”

Kiri frowned at Jane, then mocked a bow. She backed up to the edge of the arena and let Jane take center stage. Jane conjured a hundred-pound. meter-tall black punching bag attached to a wooden support that held the bag in the air. She then conjured a pair of boxing gloves over her hands. She looked down at Erick’s hands. Erick didn’t have to be told something this obvious; he dropped the staff to the dirt, and conjured his own set of boxing gloves.

Jane stood beside the bag, and said, “To train out a flinch response, you hit the person. But a better way is to let them focus on attacking the punching bag, and to gently punch them back during the normal punching training.”

Kiri frowned slightly, but said nothing.

Jane looked to Erick, saying, “Go ahead, Dad. I won’t hit you hard, and you’ll see it coming. That’s the point, after all.”

Erick hadn’t trained with a punching bag in… Ever. Even when he was in his twenties, he was a free-weights kinda guy. Not the punching and kickboxing kind. But he stepped up to the punching bag, and… Punched it. He supposed.

Jane frowned at him. “Really?”

Erick slammed his fist into the bag. It moved a little.

Jane smiled. “You can do better than that, Dad. Take a stance. Punch the bag. I’m going to tap your core, so keep your abs tight. I’m also going to tap your head, and your arms. You need to punch the bag, and keep your face relaxed. This is the exercise.”

Erick took a stance, and punched the bag. Left hook. Right hook. Maybe those were the names; he didn’t know. But he punched, and then Jane tapped his stomach. He wobbled as his eyes automatically shut on their own.

Dammit. He was flinching. Was it really that bad?

The answer was ‘yes’, it was that bad.

Jane said, “Tighten up that stomach. Punch that bag. Relax your face; you’re scrunching.”

Erick silently did as he was told. Jane tapped his stomach. Erick tried to relax his face, but the taps and the thrown punches quickly had stress pulling his face rigid. He focused on open eyes, as he punched the bag. He focused on maintaining composure. Left fist. Right fist. Stomach tap, tap, tap. He blinked. He scrunched. He took a moment to relax, and then he started again.

Jane tapped his head—

Erick instantly pulled away.

“It doesn’t work if you pull away like that,” Jane said.

“Just… Give me a moment.” Erick said.

Kiri had moved nearby, for a better view. She said, “It seems to be working. Or at least it would, after a while.”

Jane smiled, saying, “Yup! It does.”

“What do you call this bag?”

“A punching bag.”

Kiri mocked a frown, saying, “Of course you do.”

Jane said, “I have a lot more training tools than this. I tried to get Liquid and Sargent Nanark interested, but they were having none of it.”

“… I would like to see these other training instruments,” Kiri said.

Jane smiled, saying, “Sure.”

Jane walked to the side of the arena, and conjured a vertical spinning log with several smaller wooden poles sticking out from the log. Next came a head-sized punching bag, that dangled at head height. The last thing she created was a man on a curved, weighted base; punch it, and it would roll backward, then come back at you. Erick knew of all of these items, but he did not know what they were called.

Jane said, “There’s more, but this is the basic stuff. I’m not even sure what this log-thing is called, but it hits back every time you strike the logs. You can make a more complicated one if you want, but you get the basic idea.” She added, “Back on Earth, the focus was on fighting other people, but here it’s all about monsters. So this stuff is useful, but not that useful.”

Kiri said, “It’s so simple. But… I can see how this would be effective. Simple is best, almost always.” She added, “And yes. Monsters are the focus. Besides sparring, people just go out and kill monsters. Sparring is only really useful for those expecting war, and to train out unwanted habits. There aren’t many humanoid monsters out there.”

Erick said, “That’s enough training for now, now that you’re here, Jane.”

“Did you make your skills yet?” Jane asked.

Erick shook his head. “I’m just gonna try to make the skills, and see what I get.”

Jane smiled, waiting. Kiri looked to him, also waiting. Poi glanced at him, but kept his eyes on the surroundings. Erick looked up the skills, first.

[Swift Movement] and [Silent Movement] made:

Lightfoot, 2 HP per second

Move quick and silent.

[Ultrasight], [Perfect Hearing], and [Scent Tracker] made:

Tracker’s Instinct, 1 HP per second

Hunt clearly.

Erick said, “Running Health through the skill doesn’t work like mana does with spells.”

Jane smirked, saying, “I know.”

Kiri nodded. “I tested this, too.”

Erick added, “So I have no idea how to combine these.”

Jane smirked wider, saying, “This was my problem, too.”

Kiri said, “They combine with the same method that normal mages use to combine spells: with circular Ancient Script.”

“Just try it, Dad,” Jane said.

Erick plowed forward, feeling his well of Health in his body, trying to piece together the components to [Lightfoot] in his mind. And then he just went for it.

[Swift Movement].

[Silent Movement].

Fast step, 6 HP per second

Move quickly, with less noise.

Erick hummed. He immediately tried to make [Tracker’s Instinct].

Tracker’s Hunch, 4 HP per second

Hunt, if you can.

Erick frowned, saying, “Sooo... Something went wroooong.”

Kiri frowned. “How bad are they?”

Erick showed them the boxes.

“Ouch,” Kiri said. “Might as well rip those apart.”

“Oh hey!” Jane smiled. “Those are worse than what I made! I don’t feel so bad anymore.” She added, “I just went and bought up to [Hunter’s Instinct]. No one is able to make a good one of those.”

Kiri said, “That’s almost true, but it’s not.”

“Huh?” Erick asked.

Jane went, “Eh! I’m 95% correct.”

Kiri elaborated, “Pretty much across the board, the Script versions of HP skills are vastly superior to mana based spells. They’re very well made; near perfect in most cases. The Script was invented to prevent the abuses of the Old Wizards, after all.” Kiri said, “Warriors got a leg up on everything, including skills to buy. But they cap out at tier 4 for good skills. Everything past that is a waste, according to every warrior I ever talked to. They always go for more Stats after they get the skills they want.”

“No worries.” Erick destroyed the abilities, and felt the corresponding skills go slightly numb and distant from each other. At least that disconnected feeling was the same. He said to Kiri, “I’ll work on these and then [Hunter’s Instincts] after I understand the process better.”

“It’s time to hunt wyrms, anyway!” Jane dismissed the equipment she had summoned, saying, “I saw three of them while I was hunting fire essence in the Firemaw Mountains. Three wyrms, all over the course of a single day. But all three of them dove directly into the lava. They didn’t come back up.”

Kiri said, “If only they would all do that.”

Erick clawed [Stoneshape] through the stones of the arena, tearing it back down to sand, saying, “Teressa and Rats should be awake soon enough.”

- - - -

The sun was a blazing ball of fire, beating down from the western sky, as the group traveled south, across the sands of the Crystal Forest. The Wyrmridge Mountains loomed to the north, a grey white-capped wall of jagged stone, and deep green valleys. Practically impassible to all foot traffic, and too cold for Crystal Mimics to tear into. But that didn’t matter to wyrms. They came down from those mountains, insane with hunger, eager to eat the mimics that lived in the Crystal Forest.

Teressa pointed to the barren land all around them, leading the way, as she continued her narration of the normal wyrm lifecycle, “And once they get down here, the insanity really takes hold. They eat so many rads inside so many mimics that they truly become monsters. The ones you see north of the Greensoil Republic are level 30 to 50, with a few Cannibal Wyrms growing to 60—” She added, “They’re all cannibals, of course. So the moniker is redundant. But the Cannibal Wyrms will only eat other wyrms, and they usually stay in the forests and the mountains. That is, until they grow so large that everything looks delicious. At that point they venture out into inhabited lands. Anyway. The wyrms you get in the Crystal Forest are level 50, at least.” She swept her arm across the land, saying, “Up here, they’re level 50. If they last long enough to get to Spur, which almost never happens, they can get to level 70. Those things are true monsters.”

Rats trundled alongside Jane, his feet sinking slightly into the sand, adding, “Mog usually goes out and kills ‘em if they get that close. Or Killzone, if he’s available. Opal has killed a few, too, when Mog or Killzone couldn’t go for whatever reason. No one ever sees Opal’s fights, though. We just hear about them after the fact.”

Poi walked beside Erick, looking to him to say, “You might get called to provide such a service, occasionally.”

Erick hummed, and nodded, as he strode across the cool sands of the Crystal Forest, his feet gently sinking into the sand.

Jane gripped the straps of her backpack, adjusting the load, as she asked, “Why not let the adventurers do it? Surely someone would want to kill a level 70 anything. That’s a major boost.”

Poi said, “Because by that time, the wyrms have usually killed dozens, or a hundred people.” He added, “And besides: There’s a limit to allowing a monster near Spur. As soon as anything above a five star threat gets within twenty kilometers, a decision is made between Silverite, Mog, Killzone, and Merit. That decision sends the Army or the Guard out to kill the threat.”

Rats deflected, “Level 70 wyrms are super rare, anyway. Maybe once every four years?”

“About that often, yes,” Poi agreed.

