“It’s basically a trail of treats the whole way.” Erick said, “I’ll know it’s working when he can do it without the treats.” He added, “Or at least that’s what the book says.”

Ophiel got two thirds through Erick’s flight plan before he stopped and looked around. He spotted Erick by the platform and immediately flew for him. Erick let Ophiel land on his shoulder.

He said, “We’re learning, aren’t we, little guy?”

Ophiel recognized that Erick was talking to him, and trilled out violins, as eyes blinked open and shut across his body. Erick put Ophiel back onto his perch, against Ophiel’s objections, and proceeded to lead Ophiel through the obstacle course again. Flying was great fun, anyway.

Erick didn’t touch down on the platform again for the next two hours. This was great training for Erick, too. Flying was just about the greatest thing since [Cleanse]. Erick whooped and laughed, chasing Ophiel through the stone rings, as Ophiel chased him. Erick bumped into the rings about fifty times with his Handy Aura, but he easily remade them. Ophiel had no such problems.

They only stopped flying around because it was time to rain on the farms.

- - - -

Erick read Eduard’s training manual while platinum rain fell all around, and Ophiel sat on his shoulder.

After the rain, and after lunch, Erick went back out to the training area.

Ophiel hadn’t improved, but Erick sure did. Flying was fun.

Like… REALLY fun. Butterflies in his stomach, the sky below the ground, gravity pulling him down but his momentum shoving him left and right. Corkscrews and barrel rolls through rings of stone, while Ophiel led the way, or followed. Erick laughed as he chased Ophiel. Ophiel squeaked in delight as he chased Erick.

Ten minutes into it, Erick called to Poi from ten meters up, saying, “Poi! What’s your flight spell like? Want to join us?”

“My stomach is not as robust as my spell, sir.” Poi said, “I prefer the ground, thank you.”

They flew around for hours. Erick gave out before Ophiel did; the [Familiar] was a being of mana, a machine, able to go on forever with zero rest, or need for food or water. Seeing that fact play out before him was a bit of a wakeup call. But Erick still thought of Ophiel as a pet; a companion. A defender. Hopefully, Ophiel could become all of that, and more.

But that was enough flying around, for now.

Back home, Erick burned through most of a wand of [Rejuvenation], healing himself as he burned through HP to level his skills. None of them were level 10 yet, and Erick wasn’t capable of pushing himself like Jane could push herself. The second he started to feel stupid with Health Fatigue, he stopped.

After a day of middling progress, and easily imagining a scenario where doubling the length of time he could use [Hunter’s Instincts] would keep both him and those around him healthy and alive, he decided to go ahead and buy Precision.

Precision 1

Reduces HP costs by 5%

Requirements: 10 Vitality

Exp: 0/100

He didn’t want to spend the point, but he did. He was down to 17 extra points after buying Precision, and though he probably needed all of those, [Hunter’s Instincts]’s base cost was 10 HP per second. He thought he would have been comfortable with that, but talking with Jane and seeing what she saw, and seeing what she could do… It was the responsible thing to take Precision. It was the responsible thing to train properly. Who knew how much he would need to rely on these skills in the future?

On the plus side, Precision enabled him to spend a lot less HP for the same amount of experience gained for his HP skills; just like how Clarity let him gain so much more spell experience with the same amount of mana spent.

- - - -

Kiri was off on her own, the whole day. When Erick finally saw the greenscale girl around dinner time, Kiri spoke of practicing her magic, but she didn’t ask Erick any questions. Erick didn’t really have any questions for her, either.

- - - -

The next day, Ophiel was much better about following the pattern of stone rings Erick set out, and Erick was much better at controlling his own flight. Erick also burned through thousands of HP in leveling the rest of his HP skills. He was closer to capping all of them out, but it would still take him at least one more day before he could start combining. Precision helped him to go much further than before, too. He felt pretty good about that buy, now that he was using HP abilities like this.

Jane messaged in that evening that Flame Essence hunting at Firemaw Mountains in the Wyrmridge Range was going well. So far, she had eaten dozens of Flame Slimes. She had even danced across lava flows, as a flame slime herself. Those little guys were practically immune to fire. She was already up another level of the [Fire Body] skill line. [Flame Touch] was no more; now she had [Flame Strike]. Which was basically the same thing as [Strike] with a fire augment, but still: Progress!

Flame Touch, touch, 1 MP

Burn a tiny part of your surroundings.

Strike X, 10-40 HP

Level 1: Deal 1.0x damage with your weapon

Level X: Deal 2x damage, + 2x <Piercing Force> damage

Flame Strike, touch, 1-50 MP

Strike with a weapon made of fire and mana for 2x weapon damage

That <Piercing Force> could easily be fire damage, according to Jane. She just went with Piercing Force because it was the cheapest option.

The next day went much the same as the previous day, except for the fact that the farms were scheduled for six hours of rain, two days in a row. While it rained, Erick read from the training manual, or worked on his HP skills. [Ultrasight] capped out, alongside [Perfect Hearing] and Precision. Precision capping out also gave him four instances of Favored Ability, that he could apply to four HP draining abilities, for yet another 25% less HP cost. Precision was the same as Clarity, in almost every way.

Ultrasight X, 1 HP per minute.

See clearly

Perfect Hearing X, 1 HP per minute.

Hear clearly.

Precision X

Reduces HP costs by 50%

Requirements: 10 Vitality

[Scent Tracker] and [Silent Movement] would cap out tomorrow. He would try to make the secondary skills and then [Hunter’s Instincts], before they went out to hunt wyrms.

After the rain, Erick took Ophiel back out to the stone rings for flying and training lessons. Ophiel was learning quite quickly, too.

- - - -

Erick occasionally sent an Ophiel over to Odaali, to see how things were going.

The country was as war torn as Erick remembered, though parts of it were looking repaired. Odaali itself was mostly dry, though there were still some icebergs melting in town squares here and there. The [Force Trap]ed black words on the white walls of the Kingdom City, ‘Kill and Exterminate: Humans!’, was gone. Erick smiled at that. He was glad to see that gone.

He had Ophiel buzz the small white palace next to the battlefield. Soldiers waved to him, but when Erick had Ophiel get closer, they backed off. They said nothing. They had nothing to say? They were just waving. Ah. Odd, that. Ophiel waved at them, and then flew away. Erick watched as the soldiers visibly sighed with relief.

Erick asked Poi, “No word from Odaali, about helping them with farming, or the recovery effort?”

Poi said, “No, sir. We’ve sent inquiries on your behalf, every day, as well.”

Erick frowned. “What’s up with them? Some soldiers waved at Ophiel and I went to talk to them, but they backed up all scared.”

Poi shrugged, offering, “Different cultures? Spur is very cosmopolitan. Not everyone is comfortable being near people who could kill them in an instant.” He added, “Portal could have embargo’d them from trading with us. They don’t actually need you to recover, so they probably capitulated. But that’s just a guess, sir.”

Erick felt like he sank into himself. He sighed. He asked, “Should I just go grow some potatoes or something next to a hungry looking town?”

Poi frowned. Tendrils of [Telepathy] arced from his sapphire scaled head. “No.” He added, “That would be an international incident that Silverite does not want to deal with.”

“That fucking toady, Caradogh.” Erick said, “If I find out he’s stopping aid… I don’t know.”

Poi just nodded.

- - - -

Erick woke up bright and early. Today they would go to the Crystal Forest again, to hunt wyrms to preemptively save lives, or to rid the world of killer insane dragons. Today, he would also try to combine his HP skills into the higher tiers.

Erick did his morning routine with Ophiel scratching at the door, then he left the bathroom, and with Ophiel on his shoulder, he went downstairs to make breakfast.

Kiri was up and flipping pancakes over the stove when Erick walked into the kitchen. Rats and Teressa were already eating. Erick smiled, as he walked over to get some coftea. The room smelled of bread and sizzling meat, though if there was sausage somewhere, Erick didn’t see it.

“Good morning,” Kiri said.

She sounded different than usual. Maybe a bit perkier? No. That wasn’t it.

Erick poured coftea into a mug, saying, “Morning to you, too. You’re up earlier than usual.”

“Actually I’m up very late.” Kiri asked, “We’re still leaving this afternoon, yes?”

That explained her edge. Erick said, “Jane should be back by noon. We can leave after that.” He added, “I’ve got to cap two skills before that, then I’ll try combining them all. I can work on [Defend] out there. How about you? Made any good spells lately?”

Kiri flipped a pancake, and then, happily said, “Nope! All failures!” She amended, “Well. No. That’s untrue. They’re failures, but only because of numerical values. I’ve been re-reading how to reduce the costs of higher tier magics. I already employed all the methods I knew of, but there’s actually some after-the-fact methods, too.” She slid the golden brown pancake onto a plate, then slid that plate to Erick, saying, “One great method— The Monks of Rozeta at the Splinter Mountains? The Protectors of the Ancient Orrery. Those ones. Give them five years of your life as a monk of their order and they can give you the tools to ‘purify’ your spells, adjusting them to lower costs or more damage or whatever. They will actually enact those methods for outsiders and spells that Rozeta declares as necessary.” She shook her head. “Won’t work for me, but it worked well for every Champion of Rozeta that ever came along. So I know the process exists, but I also know I’m never going to get it.”

Erick ate his pancake as he, Teressa, and Rats listened.

Kiri made more pancakes, saying, “The method everyone uses though, is to remake your spells. I knew this beforehand, but only now—!” She looked up at the ceiling, at nothing in particular, then back down to her frying pancake, saying, “Only now do I understand that I need to learn a lot more before I try to make the spells I want to make.” She blurted out. “I fucked up a tier 6!”

Rats went, “Ouch. That’s horrible. Sorry, Kiri.”

Teressa said, “That’s why I don’t do magic.” She pointed at wild-eyed Kiri, saying, “I can’t handle that stress right there.”

Kiri shouted at herself, “It’s my fault! Entirely! Twenty seven years to try again!” She held in a breath, and then she let it all out at once, saying, “Shit.” She spoke to the pancake, sizzling in the pan, “I shouldn’t have tried. I know I shouldn’t have....” She gusted, “But I was so close.”

Erick asked, “What happened?”

Kiri explained, “I was too eager. I reached too far. The tier 5s came out… Okay. I was using your harmony method and I guess my hearing must be fucked up…” She said, “Fifty thousand mana. That’s the price of my hubris; the cost of the spell. [Death Spiral Fire]. Sinister name, sinister spell. But it’s a wyrm killer. Cast one spell. Kill one wyrm. End a threat as soon as it appears from the forests to threaten the Republic. Become a power that can’t be taken advantage of, because they need you.”

She went silent.

Erick thought, as he ate his pancake. After a minute, he finished, and grabbed one of the many more pancakes Kiri churned out in silence. Rats and Teressa finished breakfast, saying small condolences as they left the room. Soon, Erick and Kiri were alone. She was still making pancakes in silence. She had a stack of twenty of them, and a full tub of batter left to go. Erick couldn’t possibly eat another, but he finally had a question to ask Kiri.

Erick offered, “What was your thought process in making the spell?”

Kiri paused, staring at her frying pancake. Then she stood straight, and turned to Erick. She said, “Thank you, but this is my burden to bear. I just needed to vent.” She happily went back to her pancakes, saying, “I’ve fine. Thank you for your concern.”

“Okay.” Erick smiled, asking, “Have you tried to make a Particle Spell yet?”

“Yes.” Kiri laughed at herself, saying, “After the failure, I tried to remake the exact spell I wanted as Particle magic. Molecules moving faster is heat. Molecules moving slower is cold. That information is already out there— Anyway. Failed to make it out of Particle Magic, too.” She said, “Error message yesterday, laid me out for hours.”

“You can use the rod of [Treat Wounds], you know?” Erick looked to the kitchen table. One of the rods still sat in the bowl at the center of the table, alongside two smaller grand-rads; the rod wouldn’t lose charges while it was ‘stored’ like that. “That’s what that rod is there for.”

Kiri’s greenscaled face darkened a shade. “I did. Still had to take a nap.”

Erick asked, “Then crush the spell and buy it from the Script for a point?”

Kiri shook her head. “Even if I wanted to, I can’t. Once you fail a tier creation, you must destroy the spell and wait for them to be available for combination, before you’re even able to spend a point on the higher tier spell. I’ve already destroyed the spell...” She added, “And all of the bad ones before that. I gotta wait 27 years to try again.”

“Ouch, Kiri.” Erick said, “That’s not great.”

“… I know. I think I might have been too hasty.” She added, “The Script version of [Death Spiral Fire] is horrible, like all the rest. Once you get up past tier 4, every Script version of every spell is, like: 10 damage, lasts one second, sort of bad.” Kiri smiled, small and sad, saying, “If you can’t make it yourself, you’re fucked!”

“Live and learn. You’re still young.” Erick realized he had a question about life on Veird, that he never thought to ask before. “Right? You are still young, right? How long do people live on Veird? Eighty was old back on Earth. Pretty routine age, though. Barring accidents and disease, of course.”

