Rats said, “It’s 3000 kilometers to Spur from here. Vindin kills almost every wyrm that manages to come through these parts.”

Teressa laughed, staring forward, saying, “But we are at the headwaters! They will come through here, and we will fight!”

Kiri strode across the sand beside Erick saying, “Isn’t everyone here over level 50, though? We get no benefit from this. Others would. We are denying easy kills to young warriors and mages.” She quickly added, “I see the benefit in killing monsters, of course. But… Well. You get what I’m saying, right?”

Teressa said, “A valid criticism. But here is where the breaker wyrms begin. We might find easy targets. We might find rookies in danger. We might find an easy target killing rookies, which then becomes a difficult target. Wyrms still gain levels. They are insane, monstrously hungry dragons, but they are still dragons.”

“I get that. I really do.” Kiri said, “Wyrms are pouring down from the forests north of the Greensoil Republic, right now. Some of them are evading towns and wyrming through the empty spaces, hitting central lands.” She paused. She said, “I guess what I’m saying is that shouldn’t we have some rookies with us, or something, and power level them? One percent Participation is still a lot of experience at level 20.”

Poi shook his head, saying, “No unknowns. Not at this time. Maybe not ever.”

Teressa glanced back as she walked forward, but quickly turned to face the path ahead, saying, “Poi is right. Wyrms are dangerous the world over, but the ones that make it through the Wyrmridge mountains are a tougher breed. Vindin is the major wyrm hunting town, and they do not allow anyone in to adventure there who is not already level 40.”

Erick trudged across the sand…

And so did everyone else.

Except for Ophiel. Tiny Ophiel flew just above Erick, with his eyes wide open, gazing across the Crystal Forest, looking for threats. Erick sniffed the air with [Scent Tracker], smelling greenery and cold, and not much more.

Erick looked around at his team. Jane wore her midnight blue [Conjure Armor], looking like a woman on a mission. Kiri and Rats trundled along under the weight of their backpacks. Poi stood strong at the rear, eyes alert, nostrils flaring occasionally, tendrils of thought coming off of his head, fading into the manasphere, like invisible strands of air.

And Teressa took point, leading the way, walking with a spring in her step and an obvious joy in her heart.

Erick looked to the west; the sun was hours away from setting. “So… How about ten Ophiel to speed this along?”

Teressa laughed. “As long as you don’t fight the wyrms all yourself!”

Jane said, “Go for it, Dad.”

The other three gave non-committal answers, but Rats suddenly looked more nervous than before.

Erick summoned three Ophiel, creating a flock above. Ophiel instantly moved to fly in formation with himself, as Erick asked Rats, “Want one to stay with you to [Teleport] you out of danger, if needed?”

Rats said, “Yes. Thank you.”

One of the Ophiel landed on his backpack, an extra tiny weight for Rats to carry. Ophiel trilled out a violin song as he settled into position.

Rats walked a bit taller, saying, “That’s a lot better.”

After several minutes of walking, Erick summoned another. And then another. Teressa occasionally glanced up with anticipation in her eyes as she gripped the straps of her backpack, causing the leather to squeak under her fists. After half an hour, Erick was up to the full ten. Eight flew in the sky, while one each rested on Erick’s and Rats' shoulders.

The Ophiels puffed up to full, three meter height, as they fanned out, flashing brilliant white wings and eyes in the afternoon sun, singing a song of violins and flutes. Erick told them they were hunting wyrms, and they seemed to understand. Maybe they actually did? All of the last few days training with Ophiel seemed to have stuck some knowledge into the [Familiar]. Hopefully it was the right kind of knowledge.

Erick asked anyone who could answer, but mainly Teressa, “Anyone know a wyrm hunting song?”

Poi said, “Please no singing.”

“Not on your life, Poi!” Teressa said, smiling wide, flashing her fangs as she looked up at the Ophiels. “I know one! It goes like this—”

Teressa sang, a deep, resonant song in some other language. Her words carried across the land, carried with the wind. Like a woman praying for fortune, and then going out to make her fortune. At least that’s the impression Erick got. Looking around the group, Rats and Jane walked almost the same as before. But Kiri and Poi strode across the sand, listening; Kiri hearing something primal, for sure, while Poi seemed to just enjoy the song. A slight smile alighted upon Poi’s lips. He was enjoying the song, now that it was actually in the air. Erick enjoyed the song, too, though he had no idea what it really meant.

Ophiel, though... Ophiel took up the song, the second Teressa had finished, booming out a semblance of her words, but without language, out across the Crystal Forest. Words turned to vibrations, and those vibrations harmonized into feeling.

Teressa laughed, saying, “They cannot say the words, but they understand the song.”

Erick sent them out, each in a different southern direction, along with a greyscale image of the yellow wyrm Erick had killed the last time he was out here. Their song changed, as a goal materialized across the chorus. Teressa laughed louder, saying something in another language, waving at the scattering Ophiel.

The song receded as Ophiel flew into the sky, south, hunting for wyrms.

Teressa said, “They’re going to find at least one. And it’s going to happen soon.”

Erick imbued them all with [Scent Tracker] and [Ultrasight], along with his recollection of the smell of carrion. The instructions were set; Ophiel was on the job.

After ten minutes, with no false positives, Erick felt that Ophiel might have actually understood what Erick wanted.

- - - -

Ophiel hummed Teressa’s song on Erick’s shoulder, as they walked across the sand—

“One of them vanished.” Erick stopped. The group stopped. Erick checked with a [Scry]. “Yup. Wyrm sighted.”

“Yes!” Teressa called out. “Where?”

Erick had the remaining seven Ophiel [Teleport] back to the group. They appeared by the group in ten foot tall blips of white. Kiri inhaled, readying herself. She dropped her bag. The others quickly followed, depositing their bags in the pile Kiri started.

Rats asked, “We’re really [Teleport]ing to the wyrm?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “But a kilometer away, like Teressa decided.”

Jane flashed out a long sword. Erick looked at the sword. It was three meters long, slightly curved, and dark blue. Jane tilted the sword so the edge pointed away from Erick, and the sword almost disappeared. It was thin. Super thin, actually.

Erick asked, “Is that strong enough?”

“If I use it right,” Jane said.

Teressa scowled, looking at the sword. “This is not being a proper defender. You must deflect the monsters from your group. Cutting them does not help with this task.”

Jane looked down at her sword, saying, “I’m usually on my own… Want me to play the proper warrior?”

“… No.” Teressa summoned a two meter long club. It was Erick’s height, but on Teressa's three meter frame, it looked appropriate. “This is fine. Do what you must.” She asked Erick, “Seen a special ability yet?”

Erick checked back with [Scry]. The wyrm had moved on, but it was still within sight. It was grey, and racing south, directly at an agave. The agave moved, it was a mimic, it tried to get away but the grey wyrm snapped it up. The wyrm’s head had been the same size as the mimic, so the whole monster was roughly the size of the yellow wyrm, if a bit smaller.

Erick watched as the grey wyrm tried to snatch up another mimic, but the mimic dodged. Jaws snapped shut across half of the mimic’s crystal spines, cutting the mimic in half, leaving the mimic with smoking wound—

No. Not smoking. Melting.

The wyrm ate the rest of the mimic, spilling green fluids across the sand as it moved, leaving melting, noxious puddles in its wake. Erick understood at least one part of the grey wyrm.

Erick came back to himself, and said, “A Decay wyrm, I think.”

Tendrils of thought connected from Teressa to everyone in the group. She sent, ‘Show us.’

[Telepathy] passed around, connecting every person to everyone else, and then to Poi, who took the tangled mess and made it something solid.

Erick sent to her, and then to everyone else, an image of what he had seen. ‘I did not see any spells, but it left a mimic melting before it ate the whole thing. Puddles of melted green sand left behind, too. It’s grey, and slightly smaller than the yellow.’

Poi sent, ‘I agree with this statement. The Decay ability means it likely has nothing else, besides the usual [Blink] and otherwise.’

Teressa smiled. ‘Full armor. Complete coverage. Don’t get splashed unless you’re me or Jane.’ Teressa flashed with grey magic, fully covering her body in thick grey armor, with a slit left open for sight. ‘I agree with Erick and Poi, but I disagree that the wyrm only has one trick. Decay is a lesser alteration. It might have more.’

Erick made himself as ready as he could be, layering a white [Conjure Armor] over his clothes. It looked terrible, like a skinny hazmat suit; but today was not the day for dressup. Hopefully all stray liquids would slide off of him. Everyone else did the same, with their own variation of whatever armor they thought was best. Jane glanced at Erick's armor and made a face behind her faceplate, but said nothing; it was time to work. Erick made Ophiel touch each member of the group.

Erick asked, ‘Ready?’

‘Ready,’ came the group reply.

In a blip of white, all of them moved two hundred kilometers south, south east. The Ophiel instantly transformed to their small bodies, and moved to Erick’s side, like a flock of inquisitive cats; each of them looking past the other to get a better view of what was happening in front of them.

The wyrm tore up the land in the distance, undulating across the afternoon sands; a grey sidewinder snake 70 meters long, its body barely touching the sand, its head moving to a point of stability until its body caught up, and then the head moved again.

The grey wyrm stopped. It whipped around, its milky white eyes latching onto Teressa; the largest morsel on the sands. It had seen them arrive.

Teressa raced forward, Jane at her side. The wyrm, silent as their kind always were, mimicked the silence of Teressa and Jane’s pounding footsteps. Teressa lifted into the air, a foot, then two and three. Not much, but enough to make a flying target. The wyrm’s grey eyes went wide, crazy, as the beast raced to meet Teressa, a kilometer distance still yet to cross.

Jane’s footfalls turned silent. She dipped low to the ground, her long sword trailing behind her. She darted right, preparing to strike from the side. Teressa hung there in the air, two meters off the ground, her mace pulled back behind her legs, a similar-sized shield appearing on the wrist of her other arm.

The wyrm came on, slamming across the sand, silent. Its body was a corpse in different states of decay. Clawed arms popped out of the body here and there, desiccated and dry, or wet and rancid. Its hide was half scaleless. Gore dripped from open wounds. Bones jutted out here and there, while its grey eyes glittered green—

That was a change.

Brilliant green mucus poured from the corners of its mouth, from the gaps in its skin. It was salivating. It was destroying itself from the inside out. It was hungry.

‘[Ward]s,’ Poi sent. ‘Like we planned.’

Erick [Blink]ed beside Teressa, then threw out a 2050 point [Crystalline Air] around her, like they planned. Yet another aspect of coming out here and hunting wyrms was to test abilities, and [Crystalline Air] had a very interesting one.

Crystalline Air, instant, short range, 24 hours, Solid Ward, 50 MP + Variable

...

You may increase or decrease the size of your Crystalline Air for an increase or decrease in Variable cost.

...

Decreased cost, meant 100 mana produced a 50 point [Solid Ward], but that 50 was then multiplied by four, because a Large spell had been transformed into Small. Meaning that Erick’s 2050 mana spent, after Clarity yet again doubled the effectiveness of his mana spent, materialized a 16,000 point sphere of sized-small, solid air around Teressa’s hovering form, briefly hiding her behind a storm of fractured light, as the very air turned hard. Teressa could still move through the space, though. She smiled, as the edge of her mace trailed a disturbance of fractal air through the [Solid Ward].

Erick [Blinked] back to his Ophiel, to Rats. Poi stood ten yards away, with Kiri. Jane hid in the shadows of the sand beside the path the grey wyrm would take to get to Teressa. As the spell turned clear, revealing Teressa still hovering, still taunting the wyrm, the wyrm had gotten much closer. Erick’s heart beat hard. His mind raced. He hoped the plan worked.

The wyrm reached the party. Its head was the size of the [Crystalline Air]. Teressa blinked backward, to her secondary position, as the grey wyrm chomped—

It tried to chomp.

Its head broke as it swallowed the four meter wide pearl of solid air, down its gullet, distending the body, breaking something inside of itself in order to swallow the magic. The crystal [Ward] did not break, but the wyrm did. It crashed around the sphere like a garden hose thrown against a tree. Somewhere in all that, the side of the wyrm’s body broke, releasing the locked-in-space [Crystalline Air]. The [Solid Ward] came out of the wyrm, intact; dripping with green slime. That didn’t stop the wyrm, but it did rob the monster of all momentum.

Which was enough for Jane to descend upon the beast like it was a lamb and she was a butcher. Her long sword flashed as the monster whipped around to strike the suddenly airborne target near it. Jane carved off three decayed limbs, then [Blink]ed away. The wyrm caught nothing but air. Jane had already [Blink]ed twice more; she was thirty meters away, and striking at another part of the monster’s body.

It couldn’t catch her, and there were other, larger threats right in front of it. Teressa launched at the monster, her mace swinging to catch the wyrm upside the head. Teressa connected. The wyrm did not. Its head went flying backward, splashing green goo from every wound along its body as the entire beast shook with the power of Teressa’s strike.

Teressa laughed loud.

