Kiri launched a speck of fire at the body of the wyrm, not aiming, just trying to hit something. The speck struck an arm and ignited the body. Fire crawled across the beast. It didn’t get far, maybe only seven meters in every direction, but it burned the beast, and it kept burning.

The stench of carrion wafted over Erick like a passing dumpster. A dumpster that was on fire. Rancid, burning barbecue, was all Erick could think about. It was a horrible smell, but there was also something otherworldly and delicious about the stench. Erick almost puked.

Rats fired off healing spells. Erick saw him glow a faint white, almost pink, in rapid fire, like a strobe; five spells at once. Teressa, or Jane, or both of them, repeated Rats’ light, but much dimmer.

Erick, for his part, first dismissed the [Crystalline Air], then—

Jane leapt into the monster’s side, carving a great chunk from its body—

Carving through the monster. A third of the grey wyrm stopped moving and crashed to the ground, inert. The grey wyrm whipped around, eager to start devouring the largest thing in the area: itself. Jane moved again, faster this time, then cut off another ten meter length, while it tore into its own rancid flesh.

Teressa just watched the carnage, and Jane carved off yet another ten meter section, this time just behind the neck. The body flopped, and Jane cut again.

And that was almost the whole fight, done in a few cuts from a ten-foot sword by an accomplished warrior.

The wyrm stopped moving completely; the front half had been carved from the monster’s grand rad core. Jane leapt at the still wiggling section of the body, cutting deeper, severing meter sections from the body at a time, while the wiggling mass tried to recreate a head, to eat all of itself that had been scattered across the bloody, melting ground. But Jane got to the cores —three of them— and pried them out of the monster, one after the other, out of the flesh that enabled the cores to keep growing, severing the dragon’s corpse from its grand rad masters, who had driven the beast to an all-consuming insanity.

Jane [Cleanse]ed herself, spilling thick air into the sky, erasing green goo from her full-body coverage. She telekinetically picked up the three grand rads, [Cleans]ing them too, as she walked away from the carnage, throwing her sword back into the ambient mana.

Erick was the first to speak. He exclaimed, “Wow! Jane! That was amazing!”

Teressa dismissed the helmet of her armor, grinning as she said, “That’s why they made you a team leader so fast.”

Jane dismissed her helmet, too, smiling as she said, “Those things have a lot of HP, don’t they?”

“Regeneration and defense, is more like it.” Teressa said, “Getting through that defense is tough— and you move way too fast!”

Jane asked her, “Do you have [Polymorph]? It’s helped me get in touch with my physical existence in a way that I never thought possible...”

Rats was the first to ignore Jane and Teressa’s conversation. He moved to the corpse; the rest of the party soon followed.

An hour later, the corpse had been dissected and combed over with [Telekinesis] and [Metalshape] for any telltale signs that it had killed and consumed people. There were no badges inside of this one, nor chest plates, or coins, or enchanted gear; there was no sign that the beast had consumed any unlucky adventurers at all. After a while, Teressa commented that this was how a hunt was supposed to go.

Erick asked, from upwind of the carrion pile, “Did the [Crystalline Air] help?”

Teressa stared at the wyrm corpse, saying, “It was very good for stopping a charge and starting the fight."

Rats said, “Much less terrifying than what you did last time.”

Teressa smiled at Rats, saying, “I like it; if you want to keep fighting this way, I would not object.”

“Yes, please.” Rats said, “The [Solid Ward] makes a better blocking target than a person who could get bitten in half.” He shivered. “That’s never nice to see.”

“I have [Greater Treat Wounds],” Jane said. “Don’t get yourself killed and we’ll be fine.”

Kiri, Poi, Rats and Teressa, all stared at Jane for a moment.

Rats yelled, “How! I’ve been working on my quest for three years!”

“And the rich get richer,” Kiri droned.

Poi said, “Here for three months? And already with [Greater Treat Wounds]? Hard to believe.”

Teressa laughed, saying, “We shall hunt wyrms without worry!” She sang a line of her hunting song, and Ophiel instantly joined her. She said, “This is great!”

Jane glanced down from Ophiel, to Rats, asking, “What’s your quest like?”

“900 more terribly injured people!” Rats demanded, “What the fuck!”

Jane scoffed, “Oh my gods, Rats. What version of the quest did you get?”

Rats emphasized, “Uhh!” Then went, “The normal one!”

“The normal one sucks,” Jane concluded.

Rats said, “Yes. It does.”

“Do you want time to go volunteer at the church, Rats?” Erick asked.

“No.” Rats said, “It’ll take a while, that’s all. Don’t worry about it.”

Kiri glanced at the sky; twilight was near. Soon, the sun would set in the west, turning the heavens to pink and red. She said, “We’re about an hour from sunset. Another hunt? Or dig in for the night? And are you ready for me to burn the body away?”

Teressa said, “This was a good start. We can hunt more tomorrow. Don’t burn the body.”

Kiri said, “I have [Cleaning Flame]. It won’t cause a Feeding Frenzy.”

“Oh?” Erick asked, “[Cleanse] and altering to fire?”

“Yes,” Kiri said.

Teressa hummed, then said, “I was thinking a [Scent Ward] over the flesh instead, and then to burn it with actual fire, tomorrow, to attract more wyrms—”

Kiri asked, disbelieving, “Do you want to start a feeding frenzy?”

Teressa smirked, saying, “Yes.”

“Oh.” Kiri paused, then said, “Well. Okay. We can do that? Uh.” She narrowed her eyes at Teressa, asking, “You sure?”

Teressa smiled wide, saying, “Yes.” She added, “Look at us! Archmage, Jane, Poi and us! We can do a Feeding Frenzy. Easily.”

“You’re talking about attracting wyrms, right?” Erick asked.

Teressa answered, “Many wyrms.”

“I think we can handle it.” Erick said, “Then I’ll do the [Scent Ward]. Or—” He imbued [Scent Ward] into Ophiel, and sent several of them to layer the spell across the body. “They can do that.”

Five Ophiel flew across the land, to the piled body, layering [Scent Ward]s across the decaying corpse of the grey wyrm.

Kiri asked, “Are you sure we can handle a Feeding Frenzy?”

Teressa said, “Jane and Erick can both kill one of them on their own. That leaves the four of us to take care of the rest. It’s the middle of the season, so we should get about four.”

Kiri turned to Erick. “Are we really doing this?”

All eyes turned to him.

Erick decided, emphatically, “Yes. We are. Worst case scenario, we all [Teleport] away, and I set Ophiel at them.” Erick patted the Ophiel on his shoulder, saying to the group, “Camp a ways away? Come back in the morning?”

Poi said, “Yes, sir.”

Erick had Ophiel turn tiny and move, one to a person, to rest on their shoulders. “Please keep your arms and legs inside the vehicle at all times.”

Kiri stared at her Ophiel, and Ophiel stared at her. “What is that supposed to—”

The group vanished in blips of white.
