Kiri paused. She stared at Erick, and said, “Oh my gods? Eighty? That’s…”

Erick sighed. Of course people didn’t live long on Veird. Monsters and everything else. No real medicine. Healing magic, sure, but parasites probably killed a lot of people, too.

“That’s horrible!” Kiri said, “That would mean Great Aunt Risal would be dead twice over.”

Erick guffawed, then said, “Twice over!”

Kiri said, “Granted, if you lead any sort of dangerous life at all, you’re lucky to make 25. But 120 is a good, old age. You’re still moving around like you were at 40, at 120. People start to deteriorate fast around 150. Great Aunt Risal is still going strong, though.”

Erick laughed. A weight fell from his shoulders. He could enjoy life here for a long time. He smiled, and a happy tear fell. He laughed again, saying, “You’ve got lots of time!” He felt a sudden chill, as another thought entered his mind. He quickly asked, “Are humans the same?”

Kiri waved him off, saying, “Everything except Wrought and Dragons has about the same life span. If you pick up some dragon essence you can live a lot longer.” She kept making pancakes, as she said, “Those types are immortal. But they also eat each other. So. There’s a trade off.” She added, “27 years is still a kick in the head.”

“Well yeah.” Erick offered, “You know? I gave a talk about atoms to the world, after I made [Call Lightning]. The information is already out there, but if you want that lesson from the source, I can give it to you, too.”

Kiri smiled, saying, “Yes. I would like that.”

Poi walked into the room, saying, “Good morning. Sir. Kiri.”

“Good morning,” Kiri said, a smile.

This time, Kiri sounded actually happy, and not just faking for the sake of propriety. She was still, obviously, dead tired, though.

- - - -

After a quick nap, Kiri was up and ready for that lecture.

Back up on the third floor, with the windows covered in [Distortion Ward]s, Erick conjured three chalkboards. Kiri sat at her table in the center of the room with a blank journal sitting on the table in front of her and several ink pens. The journal was real, too; not some [Conjure Item] journal, but something Kiri could keep lasting notes within. Poi stood in the room to the side, lines of telepathy coming off of his head, but with his eyes focused on the chalkboard.

Erick picked up his chalk, and started drawing water molecules: hydrogen and oxygen, protons and neutrons, electrons and electrical charge.

He turned to Kiri, and indicated what he had drawn, saying, “So this is an atom...”

Kiri asked questions, and this time, Erick clarified. He wasn’t able to answer all her questions, and he didn’t answer when she asked about proton and neutron count being intrinsic qualities of what made an element an element. But he didn’t need to answer, anyway. His silence on certain subjects told her more than enough.

Erick still gave her the lecture.

This was Erick’s first real test of anyone’s character. He gave this lecture about atoms and water to Zago and all those other people because inertia demanded it of him; he had no doubt, weeks and weeks after the fact, that if he had not given that information away, he would have been torn apart by dozens of factions. From the incani to the humans to Oceanside and the Headmaster. Everyone would have wanted a piece of him. By giving it all away to everyone, all at once, they were able to work on their own particle magic and focus on each other, instead of on him.

That’s what he told himself, anyway.

It was probably true.

Kiri, though… For Kiri, who had been vetted by Spur’s Army and Jane, this would be a test for all of her future as his secretary-slash-apprentice-slash-student. From Kiri’s look, all focused and attentive, and from her precise questions, Kiri was fully aware that all of this molecular information was a lesson, and also a test.

- - - -

After the lecture and the questions, Kiri smiled wide, saying, “Thank you, sir.”

Erick sat down in a conjured chair, saying, “Probably best not to mention that you got the extended, answered version of this lesson.”

“I wasn’t planning on it.”

“I wasn’t planning on any of this, either. But it happened.” Erick added, “But in addition to not giving out potentially damaging information about how this universe works, I would like it if you could make something useful for civilization with this knowledge. Everyone seems to be working on stuff that hurts other people in some way.” Erick said, “From [Gold Grab] to the daydropper. Maia made some harmful fire spells, while I made the mistake of making [Wintry Sea] for Eduard. I hope Rozeta nerfs that one; it’s way too chaotic. Everyone is making something harmful. I can only hope that people start making something useful, instead. Or at least in addition to what is needed to kill the monsters out there.”

Kiri was silent for a moment, before asking, “What sort of positive things did this sort of knowledge create on your planet?”

Erick smiled, then said, “Everything. From medicine that inoculated us against disease, to putting people on the moon, to sending probes past the Solar System and into the rest of the universe, and having those probes return to us images of other planets.” Erick glanced up at the chalkboards, filled with the barest fraction of high school physics homework, and said, “This is nothing compared to what it took to make all of that happen, but it’s a start.” He looked to Kiri. “I don’t think you guys have the luxury of living in peace long enough to make some of these discoveries, nor the need. Magic does almost everything you need in life, does it not?” He added, “I’m not complaining; I love it. But it does negate a lot of the need to improve or die, I think.”

“… Did you all not have wars?”

Erick scoffed, then backtracked, “Sorry. I gave you the wrong impression. Yes. Wars. Too many of them, concocted over too little resources or a bit of land or differing ideologies… or a myriad of other reasons.”

“… How did you know the age of your universe?”

Erick paused. Then he thought. He said, “I have no idea. Some people took some measurements, somehow. Pointed some tools at the sky and did some math, I’m sure.” He asked, “How old was Veird’s universe?”

“Millions of years.” Kiri added, “Measured through the spells of an esoteric field of magic called ‘Manasphere Archaeology’. Through some specialized [Scry] spells and hundred upon hundreds of ambient mana measurements, some mages have found that the oldest age of some parts of the manasphere measure between four and seven million years old.” She said, “The hardest part of those sorts of measurements is keeping those numbers in mind. Some people are capable of grasping ‘a million’, but most people are not.”

Erick smiled. “That’s a lot more precise than my answer.”

“Veird itself is a created world about 250,000 years old. We know that number because the same mana tests have been done near the Core of Veird, with samples taken from that core proving to be only 250,000 years old.”

Now it was Erick’s turn to be impressed. “Only 250,000?”

Kiri added, “Parts of it are much older, but the age of the planet is determined by the age of the Core.”

“… Older than the rest?”

Kiri smiled, saying, “Dead gods and forgotten lands gathered in the Mana Ocean, creating a core and a surface, 250,000 years ago, birthing the first remnants of life onto Veird, shaping the very stone into most of what it would eventually become. The Sundering magnified the size of Veird, many, many times over, as the deities and people who survived that cataclysm struggled to gather and save what they could.” She added, “That’s just the most accepted theory, anyway. Ask a different immortal, get a different answer, though most are just variations on a theme.”

Erick hummed in thought.

Kiri glanced over her notes.

Erick asked, “Ever combined an HP skill?”

Kiri looked up, and said, “No, sir. I bought them.”

“… Were you using [Hunter’s Instincts] on me when we sparred?”

Kiri smirked, saying, “No. You’re just bad at fighting.” She quickly added, “Uh. Sir.”

Erick laughed.

Kiri said, “I bought [Evasive Stance], but only after I got into Ar’Kendrithyst and discovered a lack of ability in myself. [Swift Movement] and [Perfect Hearing]. The monsters or the maniacs in this world usually always alert through sound, first.” She added, “But if you’re going for [Hunter’s Instincts], that’s far better than [Evasive Stance]. I just don’t have the points to spend.”

Erick scoffed again, “Are you low on points? Didn’t making your tier 6 give you five?”

“I have plans, and they demand what I have. There is no room for...” Kiri frowned at him, asking, “You’re not spending points without a plan, are you?”

“Of course not!” Erick lied. He deflected with, “I’ve just gotten, like, twenty extra points from particle magic?”

“… Leveling past 50 is incredibly difficult, sir.” Kiri added, “Though Ar’Kendrithyst is stronger now than it was before. A lot of monsters killed each other; feasting on the unprotected realms of those Shades killed in Yetta’s passing.”

Erick stood up and dismissed the conjured blackboards, as well as the [Distortion Ward]s across the windows, saying, “Levels don’t mean much, anyway. They’re just points. You should be getting some of those extra points, soon, after you start making Particle magic.” He looked to Poi, still standing silent in the corner of the room, and said, “Thank you, Poi, for providing the security for this.”

Poi relaxed, tendrils of thought pulling back into his head. He spoke to Kiri, “That notebook is a bomb. You need to protect it.”

Kiri touched the notebook, saying, “I am aware, sir.”

Poi just looked at her.

Erick said, “I hope you were able to learn something, too, Poi. If you wanted, anyway?”

Poi smirked, saying, “I know my magic, sir, and it is not this. But thank you, anyway.”

Erick smiled, then walked away. It was time to make some magic of his own. There was a problem with that, though. One he had never encountered before.

- - - -

Erick reclined on a plush conjured chair on the rarely used second story of his mage tower, thinking, with a cup of coftea next to him and the stone planets of the Solar System hanging above and to the right, over the central empty space of the tower. It wasn’t a large space up here, on the second floor. It was basically just a jut from the wall, attached to the side of the tower, just enough for a chair and a small table. This area was only accessible with a flight spell, anyway. Erick had made this small space, thinking he would like a somewhat hidden space in his tower.

He looked up and to the right, at the hanging stone spheres of the Solar System, and at the bright sunward he had cast into the center of that diorama.

He had a problem. It was not a new problem —he had realized his failing the same day he had thought to go for [Hunter’s Instincts]— but he just didn’t want to think about it too much. Now, faced with all of the necessary skills at level ten, the problem stared him in the face, demanding an answer.

Erick looked at his hand, and tried channeling Health through [Perfect Hearing]—

Screeching, screaming, pure unadulterated noise, filled his ears. Erick cut the flow of health. He sighed. He tried channeling through [Ultrasight]; the world turned to static and light, as brilliant flashes blinded him. He tried [Silent Movement]; his body locked into position, completely immobile. He cut that channeling fast; he couldn’t breathe doing that, and he was pretty sure that his heart had briefly stopped. He tried [Swift Movement], and almost launched himself out of his chair at the tiniest gesture, like he was having a seizure. [Scent Tracker] was awful. He almost vomited at the smells of his clean body.

And now he was down to half HP. Erick was used to channeling a lot of mana, without regard for how much it actually cost. Scion of Focus was amazing, after all. But he had no such ability when it came to channeling HP.

Erick briefly considered just trying to combine them and seeing what happened, but he knew the result would be bad. He needed these skills out there, while he was hunting wyrms and saving lives. He needed Ophiel to have [Hunter’s Instincts], too, so that he could hunt for all the monsters on Mog’s list, and save even more lives.

This world was dangerous. Shadowspiders stole people in the middle of the night, for Shades to play with in the morning. Wyrms rampaged down from the mountains, eating everything in their path. Crystal Mimics were a plague that had turned an area the size of Africa into a desert, where only one kind of plant was allowed to exist, and everything else was hunted down. Daydroppers murdered a nation. Demons and Angels drove their sons and daughters to kill those on the other side.

And assassins wanted Erick dead.

Erick didn’t want the power to change the world, but that power had been given to him, and he was good at it, so he would step up to the plate and make Spur just that much safer.

This was his goal, now that this was his life.

And since he could get more points through the creation of previously-unknown magic, Erick would do everything he could to make his part of the world a little better, but that required him to be better in body, too. But all these HP skills worked on a completely different system than his mana skills…

… That was it, wasn’t it? Health worked differently than Mana.

It was a simple concept that Erick hadn’t really understood, or even noticed…

… Except when he looked back. Obviously Health and Mana were different. They were related, but they were different. Mana was the stuff outside of the body. Mana was communicating with the world, and the world responding. Health was the integrity of the body; the ability to resist outside forces.

… Maybe.

Higher Strength certainly made Erick feel magnificent, and a higher Vitality was like a sexual drug. Willpower and Focus left Erick with an expansive feeling. Like touching and becoming a part of the sky.

Erick sat up in his chair. He Handy Aura’d down to the center of his tower, then went to find Kiri.

- - - -

