After a couple of days setting up in the capital it was time to go once more. Dras would, for the time, be staying with the gate there to monitor whilst Selene and I were off. First we had to head back to the portal hub to pick up the other end of the portal then on towards our destination, the city of Linden. "So... you know anything about Linden? Like, what's it like?" Selene asked. "Dunno, nobody really talks about it," I responded, which was the truth. "... It's run by the Orders right?" "Far as I know," Selene sighed, "Didn't you spend a good part of your childhood with them?" "A few months." "So, did they tell you anything about it?" "Nope. I heard of it during school, and in passing, but not much." I could kind of see where this was going, but it wasn't really helpful. "Honestly our briefing packet has more than I've ever learned." We'd been given a small overview of our destination, its general location, some basic rules which were just universal, and what we'd be doing. "That's weird," she finally said, giving up. "Perhaps, but the priests seem to focus more on the here and now. Far as I can tell it's one of their central training locations, but even then is just administrative, not like, some place to visit." I shrugged. While I, and a number of bards in general, traveled a lot, that was very statistically rare, most people would either only travel for war, trade, or to their nearest cities. "Might be after we go through though..." "Perhaps, maybe that's why Emperor Durin is trying to build relations with them. Then again it could just be a move for expansion. I bet he wants to grow the empire in this direction in the next few years," I said, theorizing. "Think he'll go to war with these folks then?" "No Selene, I don't think he will. I think he'll leave them as an independent, or semi-independent city. Everything he's done so far has been by their rules, and nobody, and I mean nobody wants to go to war with the orders as a whole, which invading their central training area would definitely start up." Priests were generally neutral, but those that had seen them fight wanted nothing to do with that nonsense. "Is it that bad?" Selene leaned over as she spoke. "Never seen one go off on somebody have you?" I asked. "Nope." She shook her head. I sighed, "I've seen it once or twice. It's not pretty, but they've got spells that just, like, kill you. Flesh melting off and stuff. There's probably shields to stop it, and magic resistance of course would help, but when I was young I saw my friend Kala just end a few guys." While she contemplated that I briefly wondered how Kala was doing. I'd not heard much as she had a lot of duties to attend to, and her own life now, but I should catch up with her when I got back to Lithere, assuming I could. We were a few days into the trip, which would take several weeks, as most overland travel tended to. It was a good chance to work on some of my more known spells though. I was in the back of a carriage with Selene, one we'd been given for just the two of us. It slowly bounced down the road, the curtains and storage all secured in place by well hidden catches and ties. Below all of this, in a well hidden compartment, was the gate that we'd be putting up. For this particular trip we would need to pass through several cities that were not openly hostile, but probably looking very carefully at our empire. We'd grown fast and strong, and had a decidedly military bent, for anyone on our border there would surely be worry. That was why the gate was in our things. Nobody sane would try to search the personal effects of what appeared to be two young foreign noblewomen, it would be a national incident. The fact that we didn't have nobles as such wasn't important, it was the implication that was. On a bit of a whim I decided to go for a walk. From what I'd seen the weather outside was lovely and clear, so there was no real reason to stay cooped up. The bright sun shone down on us as we moved, the caravan going every so slightly slower than average walking speed. We had over a dozen carts in all in this group, all well maintained and flying the flags of The Empire of Shadows. I'd counted almost a dozen knights as well, they appeared weak at casual inspection, but all were suppressing their power. Even then, a dozen physical magic users, even weak ones, would be a terrifying show of force for any of the city-states along our path. It wasn't enough to count as a military attack, but it would certainly draw eyes. There were multiple ways to hide something. You could try for straight subterfuge, making it invisible, or avoiding things. You could also hide it in plain sight, a slip in past by making sure you were seen, but your motives unknown. The gate was important, and big, so after much discussion with the higher ups it had been decided that it would be hidden among a 'diplomatic delegation' to the city of Linden.Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on the original website. Emperor Durin's good relationship with priests in general was well enough known that it should be no surprise that we were sending someone, in this case several someones of import to talk to the leadership of the orders. Marks and letters detailing our trip and ostensible intent were acquired, and messengers to each of the cities we were passing through were dispatched. The administration of Linden had even gifted us with paperwork detailing that all members had sworn to make no aggression towards those whose lands we were passing through during our trip, which we'd had to do before a priest of the Shield. The final protection came into view as I made my way to the very front of our line. It wasn't a long walk from the center where my own accommodation was, but enough to give me some fresh air. Here was a carriage, shining bright in whites and blues, a stark contrast to the ever present black of the empire's carriages. Its flag was different too, an old symbol I'd first seen long ago, on a medallion around the neck of the man sitting on one of the benches here. "Good afternoon Rost. Or should I start calling you Father Rost now?" I asked as I came up to the man. Rost had aged since our first meeting, I supposed I had too, though it didn't really feel like it. The once young priest who stood strong was now a slightly more grizzled looking man, with the faintest hints of gray seeping in on the edges. He still had a kind smile, and the bearing of someone dedicated to his fellow man, age had done him well. "Just Rost is still fine, though after I'm finished with this trip, I will have earned the latter title. Should I be giving you one too then? Lady Alana, or something like that?" He joked. "Please no, I'm nothing special," I said. "Oh that I highly doubt, but that's neither here nor there. Care to join me?" He indicated an open spot on the bench beside him. "Certainly," I answered as I climbed up. "I wanted some air and the morning is lovely." "It is indeed," he agreed. We sat in companionable silence for a bit, letting the birds chirp and flutter about. "Do you expect any problems?" I finally asked, breaking the silence. "No, not as long as everyone behaves." He gave me a look like I was some kind of miscreant. "Pfft, like I go about causing trouble." That got me a laugh. "We've come a long way haven't we?" I asked. "From what? You singing in a tavern to feed your starving village? I suppose so. I do regret some of what was lost on this path though." I nodded to the priest's words.  We weren't friends as such, but it was nice to meet old acquaintances from times long past. "Mind if I ask you something?"  I asked. "Not at all," "Did, did you come along because we've met before?" Rost laughed.  "I do believe a certain Bishop assigned me to join this expedition for just that reason.  Not that I wouldn't have needed to come this way on my own eventually anyway." "Meddling jerk," I muttered under my breath. "I know you two dislike each other, but in this case I don't believe he meant ill by it.  Merely that I was around at the right time, and he knew we'd interacted before.  He may even be trying to repair the bridges you two so thoroughly burnt."  I was still thinking on his words when he spoke again.  "Ah, I may have been mistaken." I looked up in confusion, following his eyes down the road.  I didn't see much of note, but apparently I was the one missing something.  The guards perked and closed ranks. "Er..."  I looked about. "Cloud of dust Alana, look there.  We have incoming riders, a lot of them." I followed his eyes again, and there certainly was a haze.  "We're not in the our own territory, we should be near..." "A small city-state, Westwood, perhaps three hours from the city proper," he rattled off like it was memorized. "An attack?"  I asked, humming a bit to put up some shields. "We shall certainly see.  Remember your promise to my order Alana, cast nothing aggressive unless attacked first."  He must have noticed me casting. "Don't worry, just shields," I responded, a bit of acid in my voice at being spoken down to again. "Ah, apologies then.  Shields are a rather good move." As moments passed I watched the little cloud of dust get closer and closer, eventually coming together as a line of mounted men approaching us.  There were quite a lot of them.
