Bi De nodded to Shao Heng and they both took off. Bi De sent a transmission to Nezan as well; and soon enough they were all assembled again.

Yushang pointed at a trail. “It goes off further than the other ones,” the woman replied tersely. Normally bubbly Yushang was grim, her eyes hard. To Bi De it seemed the trail terminated, but Shao Heng gave it one glance and nodded.

“Good eye, Yushang,” he praised.

They set off together, following the trail; or rather Yushang and Shao Heng followed the trail, as it often broke completely, and then Shao Heng or Yushang spent several minutes searching before one called them over again.

They followed the trail for half an hour—until Bi De felt something. He was casting his Qi out, searching, trying to help his companions… when he touched something that made his guts roil.

He stepped off the path towards an unassuming patch of snow. Carefully, Bi De pushed the snow away and revealed a patch of darkness.

A drop of black sludge, buried and frozen, yet emitting a demonic taint. Bi De swallowed at the sight of it. His Qi shuddered in his body, revulsion sweeping over him.

“It is concerning that our enemy is so thorough in removing traces of themselves,” Nezan said as he approached Bi De and pulled out a vial. He then broke off a piece of rock and used it to push the drop of frozen sludge into it.

They continued their search before they came to a ravine that had been filled in by a rockslide… but some of them had clearly been moved, dug out of where they had fallen, before whatever had been digging had clearly given up.

“Lode Iron,” Shao Heng stated. The same weight increasing metal Yushang’s sword was made of. “A normal rockslide is largely ineffective against most in the Profound Realm, but Lode Iron is a different story. When each rock weighs as much as one a hundred times its size…”

Bi De glanced to Ri Zu, who nodded. Her little helpers squeaked and shot off into the shadows of the rocks.

Five minutes later, one returned.

“There is wicked-evil sludge at the bottom,” she narrated as the little shadow beast squeaked. “The only solid piece is one off to the side. It's like a dark beetle, but sharp. Should we try to dig it up?”

Nezan shook his head. “Unless Shen Yu does it, this will take weeks. Lode Iron is difficult to shift at the best of times.”

“Then we keep searching,” Bi De replied. “Perhaps the ones who brought down the Lode Iron still live?”

And so they did. For an hour they searched to see if there was another trail.

They were just about to give up when Shao Heng let out a shout of triumph.

“They doubled back,” the man reported, pointing at the snow and at something Bi De did not recognise. “It's an old Outrider gambit—to double back upon one’s own trail and get closer to the enemy before breaking off into another direction. It's a move of desperation, but…”

“They were clearly desperate,” Han muttered. The portly man looked ill.

Thus they reversed course, back along the trail, and began to search again.

It took another hour, for those that were evading their pursuers had some skill, but Shao Heng eventually found their trail.

A trail that led partway up to a mountain… until that too disappeared, as the mountain had been covered by an avalanche.

Bi De was ready for another few hours of searching when Nezan put his ear to the ground and simply waited for a few moments.

“Breathing. This way.”

=========================

And so they dug. The snow was deep; but it did not take them long to excavate enough so that Ri Zu could start to smell them.

“Blood. Lots of it,” Ri Zu reported and she began to fish out her bag for medical supplies.

Soon enough even Bi De could feel weak, flickering Qi.

And then they broke through into the mouth of a cave.

Bi De jerked his head to the side, dodging a weak lightning bolt.

A roar sounded out as a body surged towards him. Bi De nearly reflexively struck the creature moving towards him before he realised it was not a creature at all, but a man with half his face missing. Burned and blackened bone was visible through flesh, and his eyes were wide and delirious as he made a desperate charge.

Bi De gently caught his arm and let his Qi flow into the other man. Demonic poison that had been festering within the man’s blood was destroyed.

“Hold! You are among friends,” Bi De said, his voice strong and commanding. “We are here to aid you.”

The man, who had been on the verge of madness, suddenly calmed. He gaped at Bi De, before a smile spread across his face.

“Thank the Heavens,” he breathed out.

Ri Zu was on him in an instant, but the man shook his head. “My brother Disciple is more injured than I. Tend to him first, Lady Healer.” Ri Zu squinted at him, but nodded and brushed past them, deeper into the cave.

The man sighed and collapsed onto his rear, a smile coming to his face. “Am I ever glad to see you lot—” He suddenly froze as he laid eyes on Yun Ren. “—fox?!”

Yun Ren blinked. “Fenxian?!”

Bi De blinked, suddenly recognising the man. He was one of those that had been with Zang Li.

The man gaped at Yun Ren… until his eyes rolled back into his head and he fainted.

Yun Ren and Bi De stared at each other.

“Small world, eh?” Yun Ren asked, trying for some levity.

Bi De was about to respond when Ri Zu came back out of the cave, her face grim.

“You will wish to see this,” she commented.

Bi De did as she bid, and laid eyes upon a twisted, corrupted arm.

==========================

They retired to the camp, taking both survivors, Yingwen and Fenxian, with them. Moving the arm had been harder, and required the sacrifice of a few sets of clothes to the ugly-looking thing.

Ri Zu worked her skills on the two injured Disciples of the Shrouded Mountain Sect, while the rest of them were silent.

Shen Yu returned not long after, his face like stone.
