Dayo did not answer. Her hands were at her sides. The gauntlets were still on. She was standing the way she stood when something had hit her that she could not redirect with her body.

"You have been treating my healing as a net," Miriam said. Still quiet. Still precise. The words arriving with the unhurried inevitability of someone who had been watching a pattern for three floors and had decided to name it. "A net beneath whatever fall you decide to take. Without asking whether I can be that net at every distance and in every configuration you choose."

The chamber's blue-green light pulsed. The spores drifted. Solenne stood with her staff in both hands and watched and did not speak.

"The party has been working around your forward momentum because it is too fast to interrupt and because it mostly works and because the outcome is mostly fine." Miriam paused. The pause was not for effect. It was the space she always left before she said something true. "Mostly fine is not the word I would choose for a forty-five-second solo hold against an Elite Queen."

Solenne felt the words land. Not in herself -- in the chamber. In the quality of the air, the way the silence rearranged itself around what Miriam had said. She looked at the party.

Tomas was watching. The Clearvoiced Aspect's full attention was focused on the space between Miriam and Dayo, reading the exchange with the precision of someone who perceived that what was being said was exactly true and that it was being received. He did not add to it. Slowly, deliberately, he reached behind his shoulder and unclipped his bow from its carry position and lowered it to his side and set it on the ground.

Nadia was still. Not performing stillness -- actually still, the way she was still when something was happening that she understood was not hers to make lighter. Her Pattern Break had saved the fight at the critical moment, three drones redirected, the convergence shattered. She did not mention this. She filed it somewhere behind her eyes and she stood and she was quiet.

Vesper had already begun counting. Solenne could see it in her expression -- the mental inventory, the resource calculation, the Artificer's mind running the numbers on what their options were for the Ironjaw Sentinel without Defiant Last Stand. Zero charges remaining. Floor 10. Major Boss. The number was zero and Vesper was already building a plan around the absence and she did not bring this up because the chamber was holding something more important than logistics.

Solenne did not say "I told you to wait."

She did not say it because she was looking at Dayo's HP at eight percent and what she felt was too many things at once -- relief and anger and the particular ache of watching someone you are responsible for survive something they should not have had to survive -- and none of those things could be reduced to "I told you so." She felt too many things to make the feeling small enough for that sentence.

Dayo did not argue.

She did not explain. She did not say "I had it" or "it worked out" or "I won't do it again." She did not perform contrition or deflect with physicality or redirect with humor.

She sat down.

On the root-covered floor of the chamber, next to the Queen's body, with her gauntlets still on and her armor still scratched and her HP still at thirty-seven. She sat down. Her legs folded under her and her back rested against a root-mass and she was still.

Solenne watched it happen and understood what she was seeing. Dayo sitting down was not defeat. It was not collapse. It was the first time -- the first time in nine floors and three months and every fight Solenne had watched her fight -- that Dayo had stopped moving because she should, rather than because the environment forced her to. The root chamber had not knocked her down. The drones had not knocked her down. The Queen had not knocked her down.

Miriam's words had reached the part of her that the Tower couldn't touch, and Dayo had chosen to stop.

```stat-screen
[PARTY RECORD UPDATE]
Harmony Skill (Steadfast: Anchor)
Intentional use confirmed -- full party range
Status: Active / Conscious direction: full party
```

The notification flickered at the edge of Solenne's vision and she let it fade. The System had noticed Dayo's deliberate Anchor deployment. The Anchor that had reached for all five of them from thirty meters up, that had known exactly where they were and known they were not close enough. The first time Dayo had used it intentionally as a location skill rather than a passive comfort.

The System was updating its records. Solenne was not interested in the System's records right now.

---

Miriam crossed the chamber to Dayo.

She did not hurry. She walked with the measured pace that was her working pace -- the one that said *I am here and I am not panicking and neither are you*. She knelt. She placed her hands on Dayo's shoulder, the one where a drone's mandible had found the gap in the composite plate, and Mending Touch activated. Level 9. WIS twenty-eight. The Warmhearted Aspect burning underneath. The heal was warm and it was close this time -- not thirty-five meters away, not attenuated through root and stone. Close. Full strength. One hundred and forty-two HP flowing back.

Dayo's HP climbed from 37 to 179.

Nature's Veil followed. The regeneration settled onto Dayo's body like a second warmth, less immediate than Mending Touch but persistent, WIS-scaled HP ticking back second by second. Miriam's hands moved from the shoulder wound to the forearm where the armored wrap had held, checking the tissue underneath, reading the damage with the same attention she had given the Sillfin lacerations on Floor 8.

She did not say "you're okay" or "you're going to be fine." She healed. That was the sentence.

Dayo sat still for it. She did not redirect. She did not say she was fine. She sat against the root-mass with her gauntlets in her lap and her HP climbing and the tally marks on the inside of her left bracer catching the blue-green light, and she was still in a way that was not exhaustion but choice.

Ten minutes passed. Miriam's heals brought Dayo to 327. Seventy percent. The HP would not fully recover until the rest node -- the Nature's Veil regeneration had limits, and Miriam's MP was not infinite, and the distance healing she had pushed through the root-wall during the fight had cost more than the standard formula. But seventy percent was functional. Seventy percent was enough to walk.

Vesper placed the Toxin Filter Bracelet beside Dayo without speaking. Not for Dayo -- for herself, later, because Vesper was most exposed during crafting. But she placed it near Dayo because that was where she was, and proximity was its own kind of language.

Nadia did not make a joke. She sat against the opposite root-mass, cleaning a throwing knife, and did not make a joke. The silence she held was not the silence of someone who had nothing to say. It was the silence of someone who understood that the space in this chamber had been shaped by Miriam's words and that the shape needed to hold.

Tomas picked up his bow. He reslung it across his back and walked to the chamber entrance and began scanning the corridor ahead with Eagle Eye, because the floor was not cleared and the party was not safe and someone needed to be looking forward while the rest of them looked at each other.

Solenne opened her notebook. She did not write. She held the pen over the page and she looked at Dayo sitting on the root floor at seventy percent HP with the Last Stand charge spent and Floor 10 ahead of them, and she felt the weight of the sentence she was not going to write yet because the sentence needed more time to become itself.

Dayo's hand went to her bracer. Her fingers found the row of tally marks -- Floor 7, Floor 8, and now she scratched a new one with her thumbnail. Floor 9. The mark was shallow and uneven because her hands were not quite steady.

She did not stand up.

She sat in the blue-green light of the Deep Root Labyrinth with her party around her and the Queen dead beside her and the Last Stand charge gone and Miriam's words still in the air, and she did not stand up because standing up was what she always did and sitting down was the harder thing.

The fungi pulsed overhead. The spores drifted. Somewhere ahead, on Floor 10, the Ironjaw Sentinel waited in a chamber they would have to enter without their strongest defensive skill.

Dayo sat still.

The party waited with her.
