She was counting. Not seconds -- intervals. Shield Rush intervals. Eight seconds between each use, six shield rushes in her MP reserve, and she had used three. Three remaining. Fifteen MP each. Her MP was at 140 of 185. Math she was doing with the part of her brain that processed field geometry while the rest of her fought.

Eleven.

A drone's mandible caught her forearm -- the same left forearm, the armored wrap Vesper had made after the Sillfin Hunter, and the wrap held, the composite absorbing the mandible's crushing force and distributing it across the bracer surface instead of through the gap. Vesper's work. The wrap she had made in silence and placed in Dayo's reach without ceremony.

Twelve.

Her HP was at 312. Sixty-seven percent. Three drones on the root network and five more climbing. Below and behind: the Queen shifted, her crystalline bulk realigning, the eye cluster tracking Dayo's position with eight-point precision.

Thirteen.

Miriam's third heal arrived. Weaker still -- the distance was not changing, but Miriam's MP was not infinite and the heals at this range were costing more for less and Dayo could feel, through the Anchor bond, the specific quality of Miriam's effort. Not frustration. Something worse than frustration. The focused precision of someone working at the edge of their capability who knew the edge was not enough.

Fourteen.

Shield Rush. Fourth use. Into a drone climbing the root above her, driving it upward and off the network. Her boots slid on the root surface as she returned to the junction and Iron Stance re-engaged and her legs found the anchor point and held.

Fifteen.

Her HP crossed the threshold.

Ten percent. Forty-seven of 467. The number where Defiant Last Stand stopped waiting and made its offer. Unbroken Line would have triggered it earlier -- at twenty-five percent, with Miriam in range -- but Miriam was thirty-five meters away and Unbroken Line required fifteen. So the skill waited until the base threshold, and the base threshold was ten percent, and ten percent of four sixty-seven was forty-seven, and Dayo had forty-seven hit points left.

Defiant Last Stand activated.

The world changed. Not the visual field, not the root network, not the seven drones converging on her position. The contract changed. Between her body and the damage that was being done to it, a new clause appeared: fifty percent. All incoming damage halved. She could not drop below one HP. For thirty seconds, she was the thing between the drones and the end, and the System had decided she was not allowed to fall.

She had one charge per floor. One. She was burning it on Floor 9, three hours into the labyrinth, alone on a root network because she had moved before the plan.

Sixteen.

A drone hit her. The damage was halved. She felt the difference -- not less painful, less consequential. The number that should have been thirty was fifteen. Her HP held at 32.

Seventeen. Eighteen.

Two more hits. She was counting drone geometry now the way she had counted defenders on a pitch -- not individually but as a formation, the way six attackers running at a defensive line created overlapping threat zones that could be managed by positioning rather than by facing each one. She could not face each drone. She could manage the angles. Turn here. Buckler there. Gauntlet into the nearest mandible. Shield Rush would be back in three seconds.

Nineteen.

Her HP was at 98. Twenty-one percent. Last Stand's damage reduction holding, the numbers arriving halved and survivable, and below her through the Anchor bond she could feel them -- all five of them, closer now, the party breaking through the ground-level approach, Solenne's Ley Conduit channeling with the specific vulnerability that meant she had opened herself to the Tower's arcane current to push more power through her Arcane Bolt, clearing the corridor, and she was doing this without being able to see the frontline, without seeing Dayo, firing into ground-level drones based on Tomas's targeting data alone, and Solenne did not like it and she was doing it anyway.

Twenty. Twenty-one.

Shield Rush. Fifth. Into a cluster of three drones that had converged on the root junction from the same direction -- she hit the center one and the knockback scattered all three and one fell and two caught themselves on adjacent roots and she was breathing hard now, really hard, the kind of breathing that came from fighting at the limits of what a body could do while the System held the line between her and death.

Twenty-two through twenty-six.

The seconds blurred. Not in her perception -- she was aware of each one, counting them the way she counted Shield Rush cooldowns, the way she counted drone angles, the way she counted the weakened Miriam heals arriving through thirty-five meters of root and stone and distance. Three more heals. Each one smaller than the last. Each one arriving.

Her HP fluctuated: 82, 91 after a heal, 74, 86, 68. The drones were thinning -- she had knocked seven off the network and three were down on the chamber floor, their crystalline carapaces broken or cracked, and the remaining ones were having to cross dead zones where their fallen siblings had been, which slowed them, which gave her seconds, which was what she needed.

Twenty-seven.

From below -- not a heal. A sound. The sound of a root-wall barrier shattering under concentrated arcane force, and through the Anchor bond five signatures flooded closer, not thirty-five meters but twenty-five, then twenty, then--

Twenty-eight through thirty-two.

Tomas was the first one Dayo saw.

He came through the ground-level entrance of the chamber at a dead run and his bow was already drawn and the first arrow was already leaving the string. Three arrows in rapid succession -- not Precision Shot, not the aimed single-fire he had used to kill the Tidebreaker. Fast shots, utility shots, each one hitting a drone on the chamber floor with enough force to pin it in place. He was clearing the ground approach for the others.

Nadia was next. She came through the gap Tomas had opened and she did not stop -- she was moving across the chamber floor with the Jester's agility, twenty-two AGI, reading the drone formation the way she read every formation, finding the pattern in the convergence.

Four drones were closing on the root junction from four directions. A convergence. A pincer. The Queen's tactical logic expressed through twenty-four sets of legs.

Nadia's Pattern Break fired.

Solenne felt it through the Harmony Conductor -- not as a visual effect or a damage number but as a disruption in the ambient Mana, a hiccup in the signal, like a record skipping. Pattern Break disrupted the ongoing Mana construct that was coordinating the drones' converging movement, scrambled the signal between Queen and swarm, and three of the four drones redirected. Not randomly -- toward each other. Their own convergence momentum carried them into collision, mandibles and carapaces meeting at the intersection point where Dayo had been, and Dayo was not there because the drones had veered and the geometry was broken.

Three drones hit each other. The sound was crystalline and ugly.

Thirty-three through thirty-eight.

Solenne was in the chamber now. She could see Dayo -- thirty meters up, on the root junction, Last Stand's golden shimmer visible at the edges of her armor like a second skin. Dayo's HP was a number in Solenne's Harmony Conductor feed: 56. Fifty-six out of 467. Twelve percent.

Vesper.

Vesper was at the edge of the chamber with a Reinforcement already prepared -- not a standard application, not a walk-up placement on a stationary target. A throw. Thirty meters, upward, to a moving target on a root network who was fighting four remaining drones while a Tier III defensive skill counted down its final seconds.

The throw had to hit Dayo's armor specifically. It had to land at the moment Last Stand dropped. It had to be the thing between Dayo and the next hit.

Vesper threw.

Thirty-nine.

The Reinforcement hit Dayo's shoulder plate. Solenne saw it land -- the protective layer settling onto the composite armor with the specific shimmer of an Artificer skill connecting to a target, and it connected, and it held.

Forty.

Last Stand expired.

The golden shimmer faded from Dayo's armor. For one half-second, she was standing on a root junction at twelve percent HP with no damage reduction and no floor-saving mechanic, just composite plate and Vesper's Reinforcement and whatever Miriam could push through thirty meters of root and distance.

The Queen charged.

Not the drones. The Queen herself, moving for the first time, her crystalline bulk surging up the root network with a speed that should not have been possible for something her size. The root surface cracked under her mass. Her mandibles were open.

Forty-one.

Tomas fired. Not from the ground this time -- he had repositioned during the fight, finding a formation in the chamber wall, and his angle was clean and his distance was twenty meters and his AGI was thirty-three. Three arrows into the Queen's eye cluster. Precision Shot, all three. The arrows hit the crystalline plates around the eye cluster and two deflected and one found the gap between the plates and the eye cluster's flesh and the Queen's charge faltered.

Forty-two.

The party was there.

Solenne's Arcane Bolt hit the Queen from below -- INT doubled through Ley Conduit, the channeled skill burning five MP per second and leaving her vulnerable and she did not care. The bolt struck the Queen's underside where the crystalline plates were thinner. The damage was real.

Miriam's Thorned Ground erupted on the root surface beneath the Queen -- the roots splitting into sharp formations that caught the Queen's legs and held, the Warden's anger expressed through the ground in a way that was not gentle and was not meant to be.

Nadia's second Pattern Break -- she was out of Mana for the Harmony skill, but she was there, throwing knife in hand, one of the Daves finding the Queen's mandible joint with Stumble's activation window open, the defense debuff dropping twenty percent.

Dayo used her sixth and final Shield Rush.

She fired it downward. Off the root junction, along the root surface, directly into the Queen's exposed face where Tomas's arrow had opened the gap and Nadia's Stumble had dropped the defenses and Miriam's Thorned Ground was holding the legs and Solenne's Arcane Bolt had cracked the underside.

STR thirty-one. The gauntlet hit the Queen's fractured eye cluster with every point of damage the System could calculate from a Vanguard at twelve percent HP who had been holding a position alone for forty-five seconds and had just used the last Shield Rush in her reserves.

The Queen went down.

She fell sideways off the root network the way the Tidebreaker had fallen off the central platform -- slow, enormous, the crystalline carapace catching the bioluminescent light as it scattered and fractured and came apart. The chamber floor shuddered when she hit. The remaining drones -- four of them, disorganized without the Queen's coordination signal -- scattered into the root-walls and did not come back.

Forty-five seconds.

---

The silence lasted thirty of its own.

The chamber was still. The bioluminescent fungi pulsed their blue-green light and the scattered spores drifted down from the ceiling and the Queen's body was motionless on the chamber floor and the four surviving drones had vanished into the root network and the only sound was breathing. Six people breathing in a root chamber on Floor 9 of a Tower that was not done with them.

Dayo was on the root junction. Still standing. Iron Stance had disengaged when the last drone fell and she was standing on the braided surface of three converging roots with her gauntlets at her sides and her breathing coming in long, controlled draws that were not calm but were disciplined, the breathing of someone who had trained her body to recover under pressure because the pitch did not stop when you were tired.

Her HP was at 37. Eight percent.

Solenne read the number through the Harmony Conductor feed and did not say it out loud. She did not need to. Everyone with a Status Window could see Dayo's HP in the party display. Everyone could do the math: 37 out of 467. The number sat in the chamber's silence like a stone dropped into still water.

```stat-screen
[ELITE DEFEATED]
Crystalback Queen -- Elite Mini-Boss (Lv. 14)

Party XP Earned: 350
Loot:
  Crystalback Plate x3 (Rare crafting material)
  Toxin Filter Bracelet (Uncommon)
    Grants immunity to contact venom effects
```

The notification appeared and faded. Solenne processed it and felt nothing about it. Three hundred and fifty XP. Crystalback Plates. A bracelet that would go to Vesper because Vesper was most exposed during crafting. These were facts. They were not what mattered.

Dayo climbed down.

She descended the root network slowly -- not injured-slowly, deliberately-slowly. Each handhold found, each foothold tested. The kind of descent that happened when someone who had been moving at combat speed chose to stop moving at combat speed and the choice itself was a new thing, unfamiliar, a skill she did not have a System entry for.

She reached the chamber floor. She stood in front of the party. Her gauntlets were scratched, the striking surfaces marked with crystalline residue from a dozen impacts. Her armor was intact -- Vesper's work, Vesper's Reinforcement, the armored wrap on her left forearm that had held through eight seconds of mandible pressure.

Nobody spoke.

The Defiant Last Stand charge was gone. Once per floor. The charge that would have been available for Floor 10 -- for the Ironjaw Sentinel, the Major Boss that stood between them and Class Selection -- was spent. Burned on an elite encounter that had happened because Dayo had moved before the plan.

Everyone knew this. The knowledge sat in the chamber's silence and took up space.

Then Miriam spoke.

"You knew I couldn't reliably reach you from that range."

Her voice was quiet. Not the quiet of someone who was angry and containing it, not the quiet of someone who was about to cry. The quiet of someone who had been holding something for exactly as long as she could hold it and had stopped holding it. Measured. Precise. The words chosen with the same care Miriam used when she placed her hands on a wound -- not rushed, not tentative. Placed.

Dayo looked at her.

"I knew you would try," Dayo said.

The silence after this was not comfortable.

Miriam did not break it quickly. She held it the way she held a diagnostic assessment -- letting the information develop, letting the space around it clarify what the words alone could not.

"That is not the same as knowing I could," Miriam said.

