The human part of my mind wants to wait longer, and observe the life in the galaxy below at this slow and steady pace.

Yet, the perfect pattern recognition tethered to every law, particle, mass, and wisp of energy in the universe can tell exactly what would happen if I did so.

Maria and I would die of old age over and over. In a matter of rebirths, we would be too weak to even make it outside of the Upper Realm's ceiling again.

Every moment reminiscing is detrimental to the potential future.

It does not take long for us to come to this logical conclusion. I focus on the soul ties bound to me, and with two outstretched hands I grab the entire collection of soul ties connected to the seal around the Lower and Upper Realm.

Maria holds her hands out and grabs on as well.

Our Immortal Emperor forms both flicker in the Membrane. Both our swords that look like a metallic river of fire, and an icy liquid mirror slowly rotate around our bodies as we are their central points of gravity.

Large fluctuations of laws, pure red and blue Emperor's Essence, and system commands that interact with reality as perfected Realm Waves travel down into the isolated portion of the Origin Plane.

There are no large-scale shockwaves or gravity fluctuations. Even the most powerful generals and commanders cannot feel the surge of power that surrounds and infuses with all of existence.

It is as though nothing out of the ordinary is happening, yet, through my connection to the many spectate feeds, I see that time is beginning to speed up faster and faster.

I think about the memories I absorbed from Noctus, as he attempted to create a fractured and imperfect version of what we're creating now. Mixed feelings rush through me, as I am almost doing exactly what I condemned him for.

In just the first few seconds, a full decade in the Origin Plane passes by.

It makes my heart made of silver threads and the condensed energy of the universe beat faster.

The passing of time holding the memories of everyone's lives flickers through my eyes, and I can't help but send another drop of Emperor's Essence down into the Upper Realm.

A drop of icy blue essence follows, and we're greeted again by all of the prominent figures we met before.

This essence dissolves back into the Membrane, and with it, I feel the flow of radiation of pure ether coming off the outside of the Origin Plane's seal.

It is an extremely subtle white mix that enters the Membrane.

Most of it travels up the soul ties that tether us to the life of this galaxy.

Larger amounts of this ether travel up and assimilate with our immortal forms when someone dies in the Upper or Lower Realm.

Whether that is from facing old age, battles within dungeons, wars over planets, or even smaller disputes over counties or states on worlds; every death releases an incredibly small amount of flawless-grade ether that is siphoned out of the Origin Plane.

The majority of the energy dissolves back into the Origin Plane for future eras to manipulate and use, but an almost untraceable amount makes its way out into the Membrane where we reside.

Every small particle of ether that flows up these invisible streams and assimilates with our forms makes the laws beneath the system fluctuate closer to the last bottleneck they're attempting to break through.

Just as I'm digesting the memories of my avatar's second return, a hundred years pass by again. The passage of time is speeding up as we pull harder.

I feel the need to inject another drop of Emperor's Essence down into the Upper Realm to physically check in again. This time, all of the leaders and later generations feel more and more detached.

They are all aging at a rapid rate, and the infrastructure throughout the Lower and Upper Realms becomes more intricate and crowded. The dungeon technology becomes more and more advanced, allowing for some to train pure mana control, craftsmanship, glyph weaving, and many other skills than just pure mana-based leveling.

Far more skills and unique system paths are summoned into existence throughout the entire construct, and the families of the commanders and generals cement their roots into the Lower Realm and Green Zone as the true elites that manage the new era's growth in the shadows.
