around a sour core. She may be helping me with training, and I appreciate it, but she goes way too far. I'm willing to be beaten by wooden rods to get stronger. She wants me to switch to lashes. Says I need to toughen my skin as well. She's fucking crazy.   “If you go, you could get a Heart for a new weapon.” I perk up, hearing that. A Heart. I do want one. I've been doing research on different spiritual weapons, and they get way more fancy than just swords and spears.   “What kind of Heart?” The heart is the base upon which the weapon is made. Can't do much if the heart is something like a small plant or a fang, but a kilogram of ore? Or something like horns or claws from a 5,000 year old Defiled beast? Those would make great weapons. Fighting animals with a short sword is my #1 cause of resetting the count. I still suck with a bow, and you can't kill what you don't hit.   “Let me explain.” Alsantset looks happy at my interest. “Akanai wants to take you, as well as several of the more prominent youngsters, to go visit the Society of Heaven and Earth.” My quizzical expression elicits a smile. “They are a prestigious group, made up of many great clans and sects in the region, each of whom contribute greatly to the defense of The Northern Bridge.”   No, no, no. I'm not going to the forefront of the war against the Defiled. Pass. Hard pass. Not worth. I break eye contact and go back to eating, turning aside so we no longer face each other.   Charok laughs uproariously, slapping his leg. Alsantset continues when he finishes, ignoring my apparent lack of interest. “Don't be silly, little Rain. The Society is located almost 2500 kilometers from the Bridge, 25 days of travel by good horse, 20 by quin. So a total of 24 days of travel from here, maybe with some rest in between. Plenty of time for you to escape if the Defiled break through to overrun the province.” She sounds a little sarcastic and Charok snickers a bit. Okay, so I'm terrified at the thought of war. Gimme a break.   Not my problem. I don't need to know any of this. I'm just going to finish my dinner, and go play with the twins and the pups. Awkward silence ensures, only the sound of my chopsticks and bowl to fill it. Finally, Tate tugs on my shirt and asks, “You bring back more toys, ya?” Little traitor. He wants me to risk my life for toys? Tali is sweeter, she grabs onto me, asking me not to leave. I know who my favorite is now.   “Well? You have no questions?” Glancing up, I'm met by Alsantset's plaintive look. That's not fair. She never really asks me to do anything, and this seems important to her. Unless it's just because Akanai is blackmailing her into it. Ya, that's probably it.   “Why do I need to go?”   She brightens at my question, happy and girlish. I've been manipulated. Dammit. “There's a contest being held, a hunt and a tournament, in order to display the strength of youngsters with talent, ones from ages 16 to 20. You were specifically mentioned in our invitation. It is quite an honor, you must go. Groups from more than 8000 kilometers away will be coming to test their skills, and you will beat them into submission.” She beams at me. That fucking fight against DuGu Tian Yi. Every time I overhear the story, it gets more ridiculous. Last time in the city, I heard someone say I cut him with a hunting knife, leaving my name carved into his chest before he could blink. That's not even possible. My name takes 11 strokes to write in Common. “There will be prizes, and this year, they claim they have five weapon Hearts to gift to outstanding youths, as well as other treasures, so there could be even more people than normal. Your victory would bring glory to the People.” Her eyes are wide and hopeful. It's sometimes easy to forget just how bloodthirsty she is, but she is true to her more animal-like nature. A veritable tigress.   Sighing deeply, I try to think of any possible reasons to decline. “There won't be any fighting to the death right? No cage fighting with monstrous animals, no blood debts to be paid, no inter-village rivalries I need to be wary of?” She shakes her head quickly, Charok snorting at my questions. What, it could happen.   She stands up and grabs a box from the corner, opening it and showing me the contents. “I know you are worried about danger, but we'll be escorted by Papa part of the way, and Akanai for the rest. We also had this armor made for you, from carnugator skin, ones you slew so heroically.” I left my arm inside it too, can't forget that. Unless it was the other gator, in which case I left a foot. I wonder if they found it when they skinned the gator?“You'll look so dashing and gallant in it, and you can show all those at the tournament the strength of the People.” She's talking like it's already decided.   I barely even glance at the beautiful armor, resisting the obvious bribe. Well... I do want a Heart for a new weapon. If there was only one, I wouldn't be too confident. Sumila is probably going, and if she doesn't win, I'll have to re-evaluate my perception of strength around here. It probably won't even be a fair fight, plus she already has two spiritual weapons. Wait. Why do they even need me to go? I'm being used. They want me there to take attention away from Sumila! That has to be it. I can get a weapon some other way. Slowly and steadily build up my standing with the Sentinels, until Akanai decides to help me find one. I can wait. I'm patient. Sumila can take care of the tournament on her own. “I decline. As much fun as it sounds, I couldn't possibly separate myself from these two little sweet children again, especially for so long. I'm so distraught every time I'm in the city, away from them. Besides, I have my Sentinel duties to attend to, can't go running away for pleasure trips.” I lift Tali into my lap, my new favorite. I give Tate a kiss on the head as well, because I still love the greedy little scamp. I smile at Alsantset, safe in my denial.   “O no problem, little Rain.” Her smile sends shivers down my spine, at odds with her sickly sweet tone. “Your duties are fulfilled simply by going, and of course, I wouldn't send you off on your own. We will all go, together as a family, to watch and support you. Your friend Fung will be there as well, representing his city. It will be a grand outing for us all.” No, wait, no. This isn't right. The twins hop off onto the ground and begin running around, shrieking and laughing in delight at the prospect of a trip, traitors, the both of them. Alsantset has already turned away, the discussion over, and begins talking to Charok about things they need to pack, and chores to be done before we leave. I can't stop this. It's impossible. The decision was made before I even stepped foot inside the manor. I never stood a chance.   Resigning myself, I continue eating my dinner mechanically without tasting it. Nothing good ever happens when I leave home.
