The extra preparation had salvaged the mission and possibly saved their lives. Not only that, they ended up benefiting in the end. His human body losing an arm was a bit troublesome, but it would regrow soon enough. Still, the positive outcome couldn't disperse the gloom in Zac's heart. No matter what, Verun was still wounded.

Zac's heart clenched as he watched his old companion inside [Purity of the Void]. The purification domain had already expelled the hostile Dao lodged in his companion, but the deep crack remained. While it wasn't irredeemable, it would take [Verun's Bite] years to recover on its own. Even then, it might retain some hidden weakness.

It was his fault.

He'd known for a while now that his progress was outpacing his Spirit Tool, yet he'd never done anything about it. Verun had followed him into battle after battle, never complaining despite its opponents growing further and further out of reach. The Peak D-grade sword wasn't the reason she was wounded; it was simply the drop that made the cup overflow.

Verun had already been exhausted after they killed the C-grade Rapture Beast, yet Zac didn't stop there. His poor axe had to keep fighting in the depths of the Rapture Observatory, suffering the ambient death and pollution of Rapture Beasts. It was a miracle she'd endured this long.

'I should have found a temporary substitute long ago,' Zac thought with reproach.

Finding opportunities to accelerate the growth of [Verun's Bite] wasn't easy with Zac's pressed schedule as he'd rushed to complete his missions, but that was never the only option. Finding a Life-Conflict Axe that perfectly suited his path would be difficult, but getting any decent-enough Peak D-grade Axe to use in the interim was by no means impossible.

There were plenty of weapons available for exchange in the Outer Courts, and he could have bought something in Transformation Docks or the many other cities they'd passed. He'd held back because of a mental hang-up. He'd been afraid that he'd betray his own convictions, discarding Verun for an easier upgrade path. And look where that led him.

As the minutes passed, the self-reproach slowly transformed into a burning flame of purpose. He'd fix her, no matter what. Zac had been hesitant about returning to Hollow Court after killing Emir, but now he saw no choice. There was a decent chance some court elder could help repair [Verun's Bite], or perhaps there was some treasure that could achieve it. He had plenty of Longanimity to spare after igniting two more halos, and most of his enemies were already dead.

If that failed, he'd immediately head on to the Left Imperial Palace. Zac refused to believe that the Theomore Dynasty didn't retain some top-tier blacksmiths. He was even willing to spend the sole Limitless Merit he inherited from Kristvan Theomore on giving Verun a chance at revival, even if it meant delaying his attempt at Monarchy.

Only moments after Zac settled on his next goal, there was a shift in the Rapture Observatory. A powerful wind had begun dragging the vast amounts of Apocalyptic Death toward the observatory's center. Moments later, even Zac could feel a powerful pull on him through Tavza's protective domain. Something big was brewing in the observatory's center.

Going by their luck thus far, Zac couldn't imagine it was anything good.
