Clearly, the dude has some serious anger issues. Also, how’d Ping Ping relieve the pressure like that? It wasn’t Aura, but more like a metaphysical weight pressing against my organs.

Man, I wish she could speak...

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, such anger, such sin. This one has shown brother SanDukkha a shameful sight,” the monk Sends, shaking his head in self reproach. “And to think, only hours ago did this foolish monk warn another to let go of his anger. It seems this one would do well to reflect upon his own teachings. Such hubris, such sin.”

Too nervous to keep my mouth shut, I give Ping Ping a thank you pat and quip, “Always good to practice what you preach.”

Lighting up, the monk chuckles and nods, Sending, “Practice what one preaches, this one will take brother SanDukkha’s words to heart.” Palms together once more, the monk bows and Sends, “This one apologizes for his error, but brother SanDukkha must not share his Dharma name. Such an action is forbidden by the precepts of the Penitent Brotherhood, as you should well know.”

“Yea, except I don’t know. I’m not a member of the Penitent Brotherhood.”

The monk answers out loud, but this time he’s much quieter than his previous heart-stopping roar. “Impossible. You were acknowledged and admitted by the Abbot himself, your Dharma name added to the wall by my own hands. You are a brother of contrition, plain and true.” Frowning, the monk tilts his head and Sends, “This one was told brother SanDukkha accepted our missive in Sanshu. All of this was all explained in great detail inside.”

Hmm... now that he brings it up, the name does sound familiar... Oh right, the vegetarian monks who whip themselves. Ew, no thank you. “Ah, yes, sorry, now that I think of it, I did receive a letter, and uh... thank you for the invitation, but I have no interest in joining.”

“Your interest is irrelevant,” the monk says with a smile.

“Err... Kinda seems like it is...”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the monk utters, sounding aggrieved and discouraged. “It appears there’s been a misunderstanding. Our missive was not to invite you to join but to inform you of your admission. Although you have yet to forsake the Three Desires and take up the Four Noble Truths, you are a brother of high standing in the brotherhood, second only to the Abbot himself and equal in standing to a handful of others..”

Well whoop-de-doo, I’m the second-highest ranking masochist. Still don’t want to join up with a bunch of vegetarian hermits. “Uh... Pass.” Maybe I should ease up on my training or at least try a different approach. I’m sending out all the wrong signals.

“Pass?”

The monk’s frozen smile shows signs of slipping, but I refuse to be bullied into joining. Guan Suo is here, albeit sleeping in his yurt, and Guard Leader is also probably around somewhere, hopefully. Plus Ping Ping still totally has my back, already crouched and ready in siege-mode while Aurie lays in place with a goofy smile and a horde of bunnies beneath him. Drawing courage from Mama Bun’s soft, silky fur, I stand tall and say, “Look sir, I’m trying to be polite, but I don’t want to join your monastic order, not now and not ever. I like having hair and eating meat too much to ever give up either of them. Now, I apologize for the misunderstanding which brought you so far from home, but in my defence, your missive didn’t have a return address so I didn’t know where to send a reply.” Plus, the scroll was like ten meters long, there’s no way I was gonna read all of it.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Gazing into the heavens, the monk sighs and says, “Such ignorance, such pride, but life is suffering, and in suffering, we find life.” The monk’s devilish smile settles on me and a chill runs down my spine. “Again, your interest is irrelevant. You have been accepted into the Brotherhood and this one is to serve as your Dharmapala.”

Oh even better, they're sad, mopey, 'life is suffering' monks. “Why me?”

“Because you were chosen by the Abbot.”

“And why did he do that?” Silence is my only answer as the monk smiles and ignores the question, no matter how many times I repeat myself. Growling in frustration, I decided to move on. “Setting your strong-arm tactics aside for a second, what’s a Dharmapala?” If it’s something non-intrusive, then I suppose I can just ignore him and carry on with my life.

“In layman’s terms, this one is here to protect your Dharma.”

What the fuck is Dharma? First Dao, now Dharma, what’s with all these confusing terms?

Reading the unspoken question from my demeanour, the monk sighs and mutters a string of nonsense, his hands back in his pouring anger pose. I suppose I have that effect on people, but it’s his fault for conscripting me into monkhood. After a few seconds of silence, he says, “Explaining Dharma in totality would require several lifetimes of effort but in the simplest of terms, it is the principle of cosmic order which makes everything around us possible, the natural law of the universe. This one is here to protect you from anything which deviates from Dharma, including yourself.”

Whatever... I still don’t understand what he’s jabbering about and I don’t like that last bit, but it doesn’t sound like he has any malicious intent. I’ll ask Akanai to sort this out in the morning. The good thing is I rarely throw anything written away, which means I’m pretty sure the letter they sent me is somewhere in my yurt. Guess I should pull that out and give it a read.

First Guan Suo, now this guy. Why do I keep attracting the weird, hobo experts?

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2
