Phagar sat for a moment, then said, “When we made the Script, we culled most of the higher levels of power that were possible in the Old Cosmology, while giving some of that power to everyone. From our perspective at the time, it was the equivalent of handing everyone a refrigerator and a house and the power to make their small parts of the world a bit better.” He said, “And we succeeded. From your perspective of 8 billion people on a world a quarter of the size of Veird, it might appear that we have failed. It might appear that we could have a much, much larger population, and that we have failed to conquer the natural world as your people once did. But the half a billion people currently living on Veird is still crowded by the metrics of all of our shared, Old Cosmology History.

“Power is not the problem, Erick. Power has never been the problem. Power in the right hands, is.” Phagar said, “By all metrics, you’ve done well with the power you have created for yourself.”

“… It’s not right.”

“Of course it’s not right. But a just universe is impossible to create, for some will always rise, and some will always fall. So accept that Class Ability for the Quest Board and let us help you make it that much better, or at least point you in the right direction so that you can help where we cannot.” Phagar said, “That is another reason that the gods are here; to help mortals make the world a better place.”

Erick had no response to that. He had the responsibility to use his power correctly, didn’t he? By that same token, he didn’t have any right to complain about abuses of power if he wasn’t willing to do his fair part. He wasn’t some guy just trying to make his own way in the world. He hadn’t been that guy for a long time. He already knew all of that, instinctively, but having it pointed out was something new to consider.

Phagar said, “I hope you’re prepared to keep this level of power, Erick. You’re probably going to get grandfathered-in to whatever comes next, just like all the people who already have Charisma.”

And that was a whole new problem to land on his plate. Erick said, “That’s disconcerting. You can’t… you can’t fix that?”

“These new Stats were created by Melemizargo’s power. Their effects are deeper than the Script is capable of fully fixing. Unless you’re willing to deal with the Dark Dragon to have him undo what has been done, then you should accept that you’ve fundamentally shifted who you are.” Phagar said, “All those orcols who came in to Ar’Kendrithyst, and had themselves reverted, are doing well. But all of the people who gained a Stat and then had it removed at a Registrar… They complain of ‘lost limbs’ and phantom pains, for removing a part of the soul always has repercussions.”

And that brought Erick to his next question. He asked, “Am I even human, anymore?”

“Yes, because that is one of the races recognized by the Script, and that’s how we made it work. But you’re not truly human. Not really.” Phagar said, “Question marks upon the Status happens more often than you would suspect. Blood Magic is the most common cause. The outcomes of this transitional state varies from monsterfication, to automagic stabilization back to the original race, to the creation of a new species.” Phagar waited, as though for Erick to ask a question.

Erick rapidly obliged, “What’s happening to me?”

“A change. A choice. A destiny, I suppose, if you want to call it that. But Time is not a straight line. It curves and changes and transforms based on the smallest of details, and the interactions of impossibly large events occurring well out of sight. I travel those paths, all the time. I know what you could become. But that doesn’t mean I know everything that is possible. Here: let me show you a little of what I have seen:”

For a moment, Erick saw Phagar, but he also saw the world shift around the god, and his mana sight go wide. A dozen paths into the past and future collided into sweeping vistas of destiny and promise. A million choices made by people well out of Erick’s circle led to a billion outcomes that affected everyone.

A future filled with green planets, and Earth hanging in the far distance, while spaceships traveled the stars. A future of desolation and deserts, where cities crumbled and oceans dried. A nebula of tree roots and branches. A dozen grandchildren and even more great grandchildren, and dying in a hospital bed far, far away. Collapsing on a battlefield with one hand little more than shards of bone, while the other dug into the chest of a downed man, bursting light out of the man’s ribcage, killing them both. Of making love to the most wonderful woman he had ever met, on a towel, on a private beach, under the night sky while waves lapped in the distance.

Of holding on tight to a walnut the size of a head, and then releasing that first Seed of the Season into the air, to watch it drift away on the waters of the manasphere, to touch the roof of the world, and pluck off a piece of the whole, to carry What Had Come Before as it journeyed to Elsewhere to bring forth What Will Be. Erick turned, and saw Yggdrasil behind him. The World Tree had grown into a mountain of roots and trunk, topped with another mountain of branches and leaves. Its shade provided homes for hundreds of thousands of lives, while ten thousand seeds hung heavy on its branches. All at once, those seeds released, then carried on the wind and mana, up to the roof of the world, where they too, pushed through the Script, plucking off tiny balloons of power, carrying that power with them as each seed conjured a [Gate], and then floated through.

Phagar’s voice drew Erick back to the Near Past, as he said, “Nothing is set in antirhine. Everything could change at a moment’s decision. Your future is up to you to decide, and then make whole.”

Erick said, “That last one. With Yggdrasil…”

Phagar said, “One of the larger possibilities. It was a faint, barely-there idea, when you first dropped to Veird. It remained as such until four hours ago, when it became something much, much more solid.” He added, “Still might not happen like that. There are other versions that I left out of the viewing. Viewings where Yggdrasil is made of blood, and tumors released to the air. Fragments where Yggdrasil turned to shadows, and drew Darkness across this universe.”

“… Oh.” Erick stared out at nothing and everything, all at once.

Phagar stood up from his chair saying, “Good luck with Shadow’s Feast, Erick.”

Erick felt something solidify in his heart and mind. He said, “Thanks for the visit.”

Phagar smiled again as he said, “You’re the one that visited me.”

“Right. You said that… Already...”

The kaleidoscope of the past churned into moving action and never-happeneds, as Phagar vanished into the mana like the turning of a perspective. And then he was gone. Time resumed.

Erick decided to leave more [Witness]ing to another day. A pulse of intent, a flowing back to himself, a concentrated restriction of vision, and Erick was back in his own body. He gasped. He breathed. He saw out of his own eyes, heard the world with his own ears, and felt the bed under his butt with his own fingers, clutching at the sheets. They were soft, good sheets.

Violet spoke from past the door, where the dense air prevented her from entering, “Are you well, sir?”

Erick blinked a few times; adjusting. He said, “I’m fine. Thanks for asking.” He hopped off the bed, and glanced to Violet’s feet, where he knew unseen shadows roiled inside her shoes, and under her soles. He still didn’t get Shadow. Maybe he should have asked Phagar about that? Eh. The god said to call him up any time he wanted. But… Erick wanted to figure this part out on his own. He asked Violet, “What does Shadow mean to you?”

Violet briefly flinched, as though physically struck. Her voice was perfectly professional, as she said, “I am unsure what you mean.”

“Don’t worry about it.” He barreled on, trying to compartmentalize all that he had seen, saying, “We got time for breakfast before the presentations, yeah?”

“We do, sir.” Violet stood tall, as she asked, “Do you have any requests? I am here to serve.”

“Scrambled eggs, pancakes, some meat, and some of that coffee I brought with me. Actually!” Erick walked toward the door. Violet moved aside, as Erick said, “I don’t have much of that coffee. I need to copy it, first.” He decided, “And that’s what I’m going to bring if they ask for a presentation.”

Breakfast was good.

Violet was a great cook. Erick had rarely ever had eggs as good as the ones she made, and while the pancakes were pancakes, the jams and jellies and honey that Violet paired them with turned those pancakes up to 11. The sausage was pretty great, too. Kinda spicy.

Erick ate while he thought of Laplace’s Demon, determinism, Free Will, and what he had just witnessed with his near-[Witness]. Now that some time had passed, he could honestly say that all of that was interesting stuff! It was beyond nice to know that Free Will was a real and true thing. Maybe Free Will was a high dimension, soul-aspect, kinda thing? Or maybe a time-thing?

It was also interesting to think of time and decisions.

The ‘present’ that people thought of as the ‘now’, was actually a few hundred milliseconds. People naturally existed over a small slice of temporal displacement.

Mana Sense provided the ability to see further into the past than was normal, and even into the future, according to Phagar. But it also allowed a person to see the mana, or the soul. Maybe, mana sense was just a step off of causality, and the ability to see the river of time? Mana was ‘liquid’ possibility, after all, and possibilities were endless in the mana.

Was mana…

Was mana, the drawing down of a higher dimension, into this dimension?

Was the Sundering… The ‘sundering’ of a higher dimension? Was the Old Cosmology actually Vacuum Decay’d, like he had feared? Or perhaps, a narrowing of dimensions, from, like, what, five? Down to three? Four, for gods? Phagar was clearly a fourth dimensional being. Maybe all gods were.

Eh! Those thoughts were too deep for now. Best shove them aside and focus on current events. With a glance and a listen through the Ophiel around the house, Erick heard and saw people of all sorts moving around the Palace District in groups of three or four, while rainbow streamers were billowing from the tops of certain towers and buildings, here and there, all around the tiered castle city. Those people certainly seemed like students, but they were quieter than any students Erick had ever seen before. Mostly, they kept their eyes forward, and their mouths shut, as they walked down white lines in the road that wound around the whole district, from one rainbow-streamer building to the next.

Erick exited Quilatalap’s house, saying, “You know, I wasn’t expecting a Science Fair when everyone spoke of ‘presentations’.”

Violet closed the door behind them. “I am unsure what you mean, sir.”

“A magic fair? Where people show off the stuff they’ve accomplished that year?” He looked to Violet, saying, “Those exist, don’t they?”

Violet nodded. “Truedark Arcanaeum is having their Graduate Presentations all this week, except for today, when those of the Clergy present some of what they’ve done this year in order to further Melemizargo’s goals for this world.”

“And they’re presenting to the students? That’s a twist I wasn’t expecting.”

“While the Shades are presenting their projects to the students, the students are here to present themselves to the Clergy. The hope and the plan of many today is to find like minded individuals in order for all to rise to new heights.”

“Ah.” And then Erick had another thought. “Ah, shit. I’m not taking apprentices.”

Violet frowned a little, but she banished that expression as fast as it appeared.

- - - -

Every place where a rainbow streamer lifted from the Palace District, was a presentation. From one presentation to the next, were white lines engraved upon the right sides of the roads of the Palace District. Every place there was a presentation, and upon every line, were people in the black robes of Truedark Arcanaeum. Most of those people were in groups of three or four. Erick had initially suspected the students to be of college age, but with the few Ophiel fluttering around him, and with most silently Handy Aura’ing around in the distance, Erick saw that only half of those students were in their 20s or early 30s. Many were much older. There was more than one heavily wrinkled man or woman among the quietly moving crowds, but none of those individuals wore anything that set them apart from the others; they probably weren’t teachers.

The students walked on the white lines. Erick left them to that. He took the center of the road, staying out of their way, and not letting them be in his. Some of those students gasped as they saw him. All stopped as he walked by, and though some stopped and bowed, some just stopped in wonder. Some even looked like they were about to open their mouths and speak to him, but a glare from Violet, or a hard grip on a shoulder from someone with them, stopped words from ever leaving their lips. Erick wasn’t a mind reader, but he could tell a lot about what those who almost spoke wanted from him. Some had greed in their eyes, or academic questions left to rot on their lips. Some wanted something special, and were willing to do anything to get what they wanted from him. There were hate-filled eyes, and hate-filled faces. Some were scared. Others tried to act as if nothing special was happening.

