In one well-attended room, Erick found a dozen people all reading from huge chalkboards that had been set into the walls. Notes adorned those chalkboards. Notes on atoms, and the molecular makeup of water, and a large number of other things Erick had spoken to others in confidence…

Just…

All out there.

Hanging in the open.

Erick left.

He hadn’t noticed anything on those chalkboards about light, though. For a moment, he was hopeful that they didn’t know any of that. But then that moment passed. They knew about light. Why not display those private talks with Kiri? Why not expose all of what Erick chose not to expose to the world? Were they scared of light?

Possible.

- - - -

A room of scattered blood and viscera was contained behind solid shadows. Guts slithered on the floor. Bones undulated on the walls. A young man stood in the back of the room, untouched by the gore all around him. Where he stepped, blood flowed away. When he stood up from his chair, lumps of cancerous flesh moved to retake the space, but when he went to sit, those lumps of flesh moved away from the chair, leaving the seat pristine, and his for the taking.

Some students stood outside the space, but none dared to move inside, though the man inside was quite amicable to such things. He smiled, and spoke in a friendly manner using words that seemed anything but friendly, “Come on in, if you dare, if you’ve skill with Blood Magic. My master won’t take anyone that isn’t capable of keeping away small monsters like these.”

Erick watched the man talk to the students, and then he walked forward.

The four students who were watching, backed away, fully.

Erick stopped at the edge of the gore.

The man on the other side, in the sea of blood and body parts, and yet not touched by any of it, brightened. He bowed, “Welcome, Fire of the Age. I am the humble servant of Crimsonair, the Shade of Blood. How may my master help you?”

“I have no idea how he could help me.” Erick looked to the moving walls and floor and ceiling, asking, “But what’s with the horror show? And why are you calling them small monsters?” Erick looked around the room with multiple sights, saying, “I can see the soul in that thing, and though it’s spread out, it’s a single monster.” Erick pointed behind the kid, to a particularly bloody patch of gore, saying, “The core is right there.”

The guy smiled, as he sighed a little. He made himself stand tall, saying, “A subtle ruse to knock out those incapable of [True Sight], [Blood Sight], [Soul Sight], or [Mana Sight]. Any one of those would have sufficed.” He added, “As for assistance, Crimsonair is working diligently on adaptability spells, to change a person to survive in harsh climates, in ways that would not need the Script to hold them all together. If you were amenable, he would like to speak to you of your own experiences or knowledge of the dangers of void travel. You might not have personal experience with that, but he would like to speak to you about ideas, either way. In exchange, he could help you with any number of Blood Magic spells that you might be interested in.” The man bowed again, saying, “Please let me know if you are amenable to any of this, Erick Flatt.”

“… Maybe.” Erick was a little freaked out by the blood monster, but not that much. He repeated, “Maybe.”

And then he walked away.

He walked to the next presentation, checking on the various ‘sights’ he had heard mentioned. He had a few of them available for purchase.

Mana Sight 1, instant, close range, 5 mana per second

See the truth of mana all around you.

Purchase [Mana Sight 1] for 1 point? Yes/No

Blood Sight 1, instant, close range, 5 mana per second

See the blood all around you.

Purchase [Blood Sight 1] for 1 point? Yes/No

Soul Sight 1, instant, close range, 5 mana per second

See the souls all around you.

Purchase [Soul Sight 1] for 1 point? Yes/No

No.

He had not unlocked [Future Sight] or [Witness], or even [True Sight]. The first two were understandable; Erick had not gone very far with seeing into the past, or the future. Teressa had needed to see hours into the past to qualify for [Witness]. It would make sense for a similar restriction to exist with [Future Sight], though the future was not written in antirhine, so perhaps [Future Sight] worked rather oddly compared to the solidity of the past, and of [Witness].

[True Sight] seemed like it would be a combination of all of the ‘Sight’ skills out there; that one didn’t seem like Basic Tier at all.

Someone around here probably knew the combination to get [True Sight].

“Excuse me,” said no one to an Ophiel on the far periphery of Erick’s walk.

That Ophiel was currently sitting pretty on a street corner five blocks away. Erick ignored whoever had spoken, for people were praying to all of his Ophiel, everywhere, when they weren’t falling down in front of him and suddenly kowtowing like he was some great king. Erick was not a fan of this worship. It was downright strange, and wrong, and weird. But it happened, and he did nothing to stop it.

After all, Jane had once joked to him, ‘If someone calls you a god, say yes!’ and that seemed like the prudent thing to do, in this case.

“Could I have a moment of your time, Archmage Flatt?” said no one, again.

Erick paid the least bit of attention to the voice, speaking through that Ophiel, “What’s up, stranger who doesn’t want to appear?”

Erick could see the speaker, of course, now that he tried to see them, anyway. He had figured out how to work a mana sense through his Ophiel with the barest attempt at the skill. It was a little odd, but no odder than the usual dozens of eyes and myriad of viewpoints common to his [Familiar].

The speaker was a human man nine meters away, cloaking himself against the side of a building, and looking ready to flee at a moment’s notice. Erick wouldn’t have noticed him for all the magics wrapped around him, except that his Shroud was torn and tattered like a broken sail on a ship, and that he was using some sort of voice-projection spell that connected his voice to the air inside Ophiel’s feathers; that was why Erick had noticed the intrusion more than most.

The mystery man spoke like he wasn’t currently keeping a frantic eye out, viewing everything around him in a way that was worse than Ophiel’s usual habits, “Sorry to intrude, sir, but I want money and power, and I am willing to do some awful things to get it, including work with the Shades. I would prefer to work with you, though. Could I bother you to please make me a few dozen All-Stat rings, and for you to leave them somewhere of my choosing?”

Erick laughed, then said, “No.”

“I am afraid I am going to have to insist. The guy speaking to you right now is controlled to say this to you, so don’t go murdering him, please. We’ll do that for you, if you insist on doing this the hard way.”

Anger, like a raging storm, flowed through Erick, all at once.

Erick had a sunform Ophiel cross hundreds of meters in a flashing moment, to stand before the guy, enveloping him with his power. Erick had kept his own body walking down the road, prepared for the other shoe to drop and for some direct attack to happen, as he split a good ten percent of his focus to the now-trapped patsy. The guy dropped to his knees, crying, yet still under his intricate illusion.

The voice said, “I have people on the outside that will do this to your daughter and apprentice if I don’t get what I want. Please keep this in mind during further negotiations.”

Erick was already working his spells through the man. He found what he wanted to find: A packet of light magic strung through the guy’s whole spine, and inside all of his bones. Erick spent 10,000 of his own mana on a [Dispel], targeting the guy.

Four things rapidly happened.

The guy turned visible, stripping away what was likely dozens of wrapped spells that were far beyond a simple [Invisible]. The guy was a kid, maybe 17 or 18, and wearing rags.

A bolt of light came from well out of view, into view, and attempted to impact the kid. Instead, it splashed against Ophiel’s sunform and suddenly summoned shield, turning parts of the street into rubble, but otherwise achieving nothing.

A bolt of light came out of the sky, descending on Erick’s own body, but he wrapped himself in his already-cast sunform and summoned his own light shield, negating the attack.

A third bolt of light impacted Violet, directly behind Erick. She had grabbed the bolt, holding the vibrating, illuminated missile in a wrap of shadows. With a violent smile, she held the attack in the air, and crunched it under her fist, yelling out to whoever might be listening, “Have to do better than that!”
