Meditation didn’t actually increase ones Mana Regen; it just opened one up to the mana—

No no. Go away, stray thought.

Stray cats. Erick wanted a cat. That was the reason he started making his first [Familiar] in that direction, but cats were all murder machines, and this was even more true on Veird than on Earth—

Stop that, mind. Focus on nothing.

Nothing. The void. The Void? One of Sirocco Zago’s cat [Familiar]s was named Void.

No. Stop that.

Now what were Erick’s ‘shadow magics’ doing when he tried to cast [Shadow Bolt]? Was he fucking up that understanding with Void? Or was that the nascent outcome of his own Wizardly Path manifesting—

Nope. You can flow away on the breeze, too—

OH! There’s a breeze!

Ah. Now it’s gone.

Hmm. Becoming one with the wind. Now there’s a thought. Might as well go for it.

Erick breathed in, and in the dark division of Meditation, where body and mind were no longer strictly connected, he recognized his breath. He saw his lungs move under an illuminated breeze. And then it was gone. But yet…

He felt every whorl, every flutter, every brush of mana. That mana came into him, and then left through his skin.

His skin! He could see his skin—

Oh. No. Gone again.

Erick breathed out, and he pushed those whorls away.

A spark caught in his chest. A drop of light in the darkness all around. Erick saw his heart beat and felt a sense of hope, but then the light died, and darkness returned.

Too much thinking. That was his current problem. Thoughts were not necessary in this initial process. The only thing that mattered was the experience; being in the moment, and letting the moment shine.

A spark took hold. Erick breathed deep. The spark turned into a light, dim and small; an ember in the endless sea of darkness all around. But it was him. It was a part of him, anyway.

Erick knew this, somehow. He saw with this spark. Erick relaxed into the spark.

And the spark grew.

A sudden flash, concentrated stadium lights turning on! Light encompassed his entire body, and nothing else.

He saw himself from the inside out. Blood vessels like roots and branches all throughout. Heart pumping. Bones resting. Brain pulsing with electricity. He watched as breath flowed into his lungs, to brighten the whole. He watched mana flow from his skin, out into the world, sending out streamers of illumination into his surroundings, like glowing inkstains that caught on nothing and everything all at once.

And that’s what mana was. Nothing and everything, all at once. There was no ground. There was no sky. There was no person or object; not to mana. All was the same. It only looked different to fleshy people, but to mana, it was all just a part of the Greater Whole.

Erick opened his eyes without opening his eyes. He breathed in a storm without breathing in a storm. He exhaled an ocean of illumination, without doing any such thing. He became a part of the whole, there, on his bed, in the middle of Quilatalap’s house. He was a small part, compartmentalized to his few rooms of dense air and a little ways beyond, but it was still a lot, and his vision was still growing, as he understood more and more, and became part of the Greater Whole.

He saw himself smile, but he was separate from his body, by just a little bit. Enough to matter. Enough to understand. Whatever [Mana Sight] was, from Jane’s shadow spider, it had nothing on this. This was like viewing the world through his sunform, but even that paled in comparison to this real mana sense.

For [Greater Lightwalk] just couldn’t capture the sense of wind whirling at the littlest movement, or the warmth of the body, or the solidity of the ground below the house, or the moisture on the air above.

Erick looked to himself, and saw a brightness upon his body that had nothing to do with any physical medium. It might have been his soul. Or maybe it was something else. Whatever that particular glow was, it demanded more experimental data before he started drawing conclusions upon what he was seeing.

With a sense of dissonance, but with a willpower strong enough to ride it out, Erick used his fleshy voice to call out to Violet, his butler for while he was here at the Palace District. In moments, the incani woman appeared at his doorway, and spoke to him asking what he wanted, while at the same time, she looked him over, and kept down the panic happening in the back of her mind. Erick heard her words, certainly, but those words were again similar to the difference between seeing the world through his sunform, versus this new mana sense. Words paled in comparison to actually seeing someone, inside and out, while they were talking.

And he saw her, alright. Not too deep, though, for her Health and her soul, perhaps, kept him out of most of her. But there was more to it than that. Her body glowed with a layered density of spellwork. Something was active in her muscles and all of her sensing body parts, such as her eyes and her skin. But there was also another layer of defenses just atop her skin. That last one was a similar glow to Erick’s own [Personal Ward]; he matched that spell up to his rather easily, and if he were to guess, her body spell was probably [Hunter’s Instincts], or something similar. She also had pools of shadow mana active all over her self. [Shadowalk]; had to be.

But there was something else to her, that Erick noticed that he had, too: A density, just atop her skin. Erick held a similar density atop his own skin. Violet’s density was slightly stretched into the shadowy mana at her feet, and wasn’t that interesting!

Erick activated his own lightform, and sure enough, he saw what had to be his ‘soul’ shift toward his new aura, exactly in the way that Violet’s own aura shifted into her shadowy magics. Elemental Forms were shortcuts to aura-work, which itself seemed a shortcut to soul manipulation. So you cast spells with your soul, then?

Ah. No. That was too reductive.

The soul was the self.

The self manipulated the aura to manipulate the mana to cast the spells.

Aura control or Elemental Form control was what made the spells.

The difference was thus: When baking a cake without magic, you did not use your mind to move ingredients into bowls and then into pans and then into the oven. You used your mind to move your body to do all of that lifting and sorting. Souls on their own couldn’t do jack shit. Souls inside bodies could do everything.

Conversely, being reduced to a soul without a body meant that you couldn't do anything.

Which… Of course that was true. Duh.

Violet said something else, and Erick responded with words that said he was fine. He was fine. But Violet did not seem to believe this. She said something about the time in order to get him to drop his mana sense. Erick still had loads of time, and he told her so, but there was no need to make her worry, after all, it was her current job to worry over him, and it could be possibly that Queen would not be pleased if Erick was hurt on Violet’s watch. Or maybe it was more that Queen wouldn’t be pleased if it came back on her that Erick had been hurt while under her ‘protection’.

Erick told Violet that he would be done soon; he just wanted to mess around with time a bit.

Violet was understandably worried, but she stepped away anyway.

Now, how to do this? Erick thought for a moment, then took the plunge in the most obvious way: tracing the mana to where it had been in its previous moments.

The world split, as though Erick had crossed his eyes. One set of perception remained with him. The other moved into the past, to where the mana had been in the previous moments. Perception split again, into a broken kaleidoscope of happenstance and never-happened. Violet spoke. But yet, Violet yelled. And yet, Quilatalap showed up instead. Or no. Fallopolis showed up, and congratulated Erick on his accomplishment. Or, not that either.

Erick faced himself, standing in front of himself. The second Erick was a spot of calm certainty in the center of a broken continuum of possibility; an anchor, a solidity—

Oh.

“Oh,” Erick’s voice reverberated the world, and yet only himself. “Hello, Phagar. You’re here, then?”

Phagar’s voice calmed the world, or maybe just Erick, “I’m always here.”

“That would be appropriate for the End to always be nearby, and yet just out of sight.” He asked, “Are my eyes really that white these days?”

Phagar gave a tiny, knowing grin, as his white, white eyes seemed to glow, ever so faintly. “You still have the pupils, but yes, they are.” He said, “I was expecting you to come calling a lot sooner than this.”

“I was unaware that I could contact you like this!” Erick said, in a lighthearted manner.

Phagar sat down at a chair that was not there, until it was. The world stabilized from a shifting kaleidoscope into a solid stained-glass structure. Time stopped, and was yet allowed to happen uninterrupted. The God of the End and Time, said, “I meant that I was expecting a call way before you gained a mana sense. You’ve had a lot of questions bubbling on the stove.”

“Well. Yes.” Erick said, “Truthfully, I didn’t even know what I was going to say the next time we met. Where would I even start? Questions about this plan for sundering souls and accepting Melemizargo’s plans for new worlds? Or perhaps I would ask you about Wizardry? Or Time Magic? Or about Melemizargo trying to claim me as a Shade, or something, but then you went and already had a claim over me? The true cycle of life and death of Veird? The nature of the Infinitesimal Ban as a measure against Wizards? Or how about the Atomic Ban; is that real? Have I been conflating it with the Infinitesimal Ban, and that was just allowed to happen? And— Oh yeah!” Erick had trouble keeping his voice even, as he said, “And what about the Forgotten Campaigns and all that genocide?!”

Phagar held up a hand and rattled off, “Here and now is a good place to start. That plan is decades long before we even start to believe Melemizargo. Ask someone who is not a Shade and who doesn’t kill Wizards on sight; for example, the Headmaster would be a poor choice to ask about Wizardry. Ask me about Time Magic, first, and then we can go from there. That was for your own protection. People are born, creating a new soul in the process of birth, then they live, they die, and the souls move on to wherever they wish, or wherever they do. The Infinitesimal Ban was against Wizards, yes, but there was overlap with Particle Spells; you broke through that slight barrier, though, and probably only because you are a Wizard. The Atomic Ban remains; we put it on after the Atomic Cult came along, but they were never known by that name, and their name has been erased from history. You have been conflating the terms.” With a slightly darker voice, Phagar said, “And you’ll never know what we have done to ensure the survival of this world.”

“… Well. Okay.” Erick thought through Phagar’s various answers, then said, “That was… More succinct than I thought it would be.”

Phagar waved a dismissive hand, saying, “Gods help their followers. I’m not too sure if the ones that originally made you fell out of reality, or whatever happened there, but I and the rest of my kind exist to help those who ask.”

There was a lot to unpack in that tiny statement, and Erick might eventually pursue that line of questioning with other parties, but here and now… “But it’s not that simple.” Erick said, “If it was, then you wouldn’t appear before me. Teressa never mentioned meeting you in this space.”

“Well… We’ve already gone over all the big ideas in your initial flurry of questions. That was my main reason for showing myself.” Phagar said, “But I must correct you on this idea that I have appeared before you. You have it backwards, Erick. You’re the one that journeyed into Time. You stepped into my home.”

“Ah…” Erick frowned. “Is this a problem?”

Phagar laughed a kind laugh. “Not at all. Most accomplished mages and otherwise get to this point sooner or later. Looking costs nothing and changes nothing. It’s not true Time Magic, so I usually let viewers travel however they wish without letting myself be known. But you’re almost my Champion, so it would have been rather rude to not make an appearance when you came along into my space.” Phagar smiled, saying, “Good luck with the [Witness], or whatever other magical sight you desire. You seem skilled enough with that new Perception to go for any of them. [Soul Sight]. [Mana Sight]. [Future Sight].”

Erick said, “Oh. Oh! Oh? Uh.” He inwardly frowned, as he asked, “Are these new Stats getting nerfed?”

“Nerfs? Not exactly. But if Melemizargo becomes involved in magic again, then everything is going to change, Erick.”

“How so?”

“You’ve poked great big holes in the Script with both Particle Magic and these Stat enchantments. You’ve turned small, temporary improvements into necessary, permanent improvements that the powerful will use to subjugate the powerless. Some would call you a prodigy; an example of what anyone should be able to achieve if they begin with enough resources and have enough drive and smarts and good chances. Others would call you the coming ‘normal’.” Phagar said, “That second one scares people.”

Erick imagined people like Bulgan gaining all of these new Stats. He said, “No one should have this level of power. Aren’t you going to remove them when this latest lie of Melemizargo’s is over?”

