Then, in 2028, an anon burned thousands of tokens to add them back in.

The film saw a second Renaissance.

“... right,” Eppie looked to the heavens, wondering why her [Script Analysis] had activated upon a cat’s butthole. Perhaps the [System] wasn’t infallible after all.

She followed the tabby because she had nothing else to do. Her goal for the next week was to visit museums, hit up libraries, watch some movies, listen to music, and simply immerse herself in the art of this world to see what “good” she could do to earn some life. She was also thinking of surprising her “father” at the Sony building. She certainly wasn’t thinking of mooching sushi. Absolutely not.

The tabby took her to an old man sitting on a bench.

Unlike her, who wore K-Mart, he was a homeless man. He was not a transient, as Mayor Holt sometimes called them, for they were not going away. They merely survived in the world's most expensive cities.

Had the tabby not stopped, she would have walked right past him. In the cold December light, against the drab bench, he was almost invisible, as if he were part of the landscape. The clothes the man wore were primarily for survival, consisting of a massive military surplus greatcoat, US ARMY issue from the Cold War. The buttons were artistically mismatched deliberately, hiding the layers beneath: a puffer, a sweater and a flannel shirt. He wore thick trousers, torn here and there, tucked into thick, double-layered socks, into oversized leather steelcaps.

The man’s head was almost entirely buried in the coil of scarf that wound around his throat and chin. He wore fingerless gloves. He wore a Russian ushanka that covered his eyes.

“Meow!” the tabby purred.

Two more cats, a calico and a snowshoe, emerged from behind the old man.

“Meow!” the tabby commanded its servant.

Eppie quickly supplicated and brought out more cat food.

The cats came.

By god, they came, a dozen of them, cats of all colours and sizes, emerging from where the old man rested, as though the man was some kind of feline mothership.

Without acknowledging her, the old man took out something, a piece of… a cereal box? He had a fist full of ballpoint pens. Using his knee as a stand, he began to furiously sketch.

Eppie returned to her task of feeding the cats, ensuring that everyone had enough to eat. She wasn’t rich, but she had a Sony card while in NYC, and surely Curon wasn’t going to question a few hundred bucks in cat food spent at Duane Reade.

“Excuse me,” she took up the space next to the homeless man, and allowed the cats to clamber over her K-Mart coat. Very soon, she was covered in cats and living in bliss.

The cats lost interest after about 20 minutes, leaving Eppie to clean up the mess. Full and warm, they went their separate ways, returning to the feline dimensions from whence they came.

She still had cat food left and was pondering whether her homeless friend would take it when the man finished his sketch.

He extended the cereal box to her. It was folded inside-out, and on it was a drawing of a cat at rest. “Motte iki na,” a gravelly voice resounded beside her. Take.

Eppie saw the man’s face for the first time.

He was old, very old, a man who could no longer age without perishing. He had the darkest eyes she had ever seen, and sharp, bushy brows that had never been kept. He was skinny, too skinny to be in good health, and he spoke perfect Japanese with an archaic accent.

She thanked him for the gift. “Arigatou gozaimasu.”

Oh, that’s nice. She thanked the man again, this time for the Karma.

“You speak Japanese?” The man asked, again in that outdated accent. It was very strange that the man did not speak English while being homeless in NYC, but she chose not to judge. The city had all kinds of people.

“I can't speak like a native, but I have spent some time working with Japanese clients,” Eppie replied, then almost slapped herself. Clients? What kind of client would a fifteen-year-old LAPA student have?

The man gave her a quizzical look, but chose not to judge. In NYC, one met all kinds of people. “You speak very well.”

There it was again, that accent. She couldn’t quite place it, but it sure as hell wasn’t Tokyo-coded. It sounded archaic, regional, Western Honshu. He sounded like an actor in a Kurosawa movie. Speaking to the man felt like she was speaking Californian to someone from the Edwardian Era.

“My Japanese is still raw,” Eppie confessed, unsure if she used the right raw.

The man pulled out another piece of cardboard and began to draw.

Was the conversation over? Eppie looked around. That’s it?!

“Are these your cats?” She asked, not wanting the conversation to end.

As if in answer, the orange tabby reappeared and settled against the old man’s leg.

“Sumimasen,” Eppie said. “My name is Eppie, what’s your name?”

“Henry,” the man replied.

“This one is Kimi.” “Kimi,” Eppie repeated. A grey cat sauntered back into view for the roll call. “Meow?”

“Nobu,” Henry kept drawing, his hands moving faster now, “older brother.”

A calico came back. “Sachi.”

“Haru.” “Kuro.”

“Tanaka.”

Eppie snorted. Tanaka was such… such a normal name. “Ichiro.”

“Saito.” “Goto.”

Eppie felt a strange chill in her spine. The names were getting more and more… human.

She stroked the cats one by one.

Behind her, Henry’s scritching stopped. “Take”

He had finished another drawing. “You can leave the cat food. I will feed them tomorrow. Not good to eat too much.”

He held the drawing out. This time, it was a calico.

Eppie took it.

"Merry Christmas," he said, in English, with a heavy accent.

“Merī Kurisumasu,” she replied, in Japanese-English.

Seeing the system notice, Eppie confirmed with certainty that the Karmic transactions were tied to the artwork the old man kept giving her. As previously verified, a [System] built on Karma did not gift away currency for free. It was nudging her, but why?

Her eyes scanned the three or four nylon bags beside where Henry sat. They were full of artworks. She still had about $500 in larger notes in cash.

“Henry,” she licked her lips. “Could I buy those?”

The homeless man—the artist, Eppie reminded herself, looked at her with suspicion. “Why?”

Because the [System] told me to…

“Fate?” Eppie fluttered her very pretty eyes at the man, hoping her gaijin [Comeliness] worked across generational and racial barriers. She opened her wallet. Her K-Mart wallet.

“Not for sale.” Henry’s mood soured, and Eppie knew in that moment that she was no longer welcome. He pulled out a piece of cardboard, and he began to draw. His hands shook. Whether it was from the cold or the anger, she didn’t know.

“Could I…”

“No charity.”

“I am so sorry,” she bowed from the waist. “I… I’ll be back!”

For some reason, she knew just what to do. She had read about this once, in a book by a lady called Banana Yoshimoto. The way to the isolate heart, Yoshimoto had taught her readers, lies in Katsudon.

Katsudon was a mother in the kitchen, calling you for dinner.Katsudon was human warmth. And for an underweight homeless Japanese person, it was a bag of warm cats in winter.

Eppie ran like the wind, driven by guilt and a newly acquired [Causality]. North of Central, there were no Japanese joints. She sprinted like a snow sprite, her legs pumping and her body heat clambering, until she found a place on 3rd, ordered two bowls, extra large, extra rice, extra katsu, then sprinted back, all within thirty minutes.

When she finally stood before Henry again, there was literal steam pouring from her K-Mart coat, and the katsudon was still warm.

“O-hirugohan, issho ni dou desu ka?” Eppie asked in a register that cracked the grimness of Henry’s face. She even pulled a strand of wild hair from her sweaty face and tucked it behind her ear. Could we eat lunch together?

There was the obvious sincerity of her running for thirty minutes to get katsudon. Then there was the fact that she had asked in the exact register of a high school girl speaking to her Tokyo crush.

No red-blooded Nippon man, even an old, grouchy artist with the pride of a samurai, could resist that.

She popped the bowl for him and passed over the chopsticks. And so, a schoolgirl and an artist sat at Central Park and ate katsudon together, joined by a dozen cats.

The soy sauce was savoury and sweet. The rice was still warm, and the katsu juicy and fatty. The bench was cold enough to penetrate her skirt, and the two ate steadily in the way of hungry people hankering for food.

Across from them, the city burned with the effervescence of industry.

Here, it was just the cold, the cats, and the katsudon.

“My name is Henry Kiritani,” Henry said suddenly. The katsudon had drawn too much blood from his head and made him drowsy. “Thank you, Eppie-san.”

He slipped her two more pieces from the bag, folding the pieces into her LAPA tote.

Then they continued to eat their katsudon.

藤揺れる 鳩二羽舞い降りて 猫が見てる

Wisteria sways—Two pigeons land on the rim. The cat watches on.

AnonymousEating Katsudon in Central ParkWinter, 2007
