“I don’t plan on dying today,” Lyn said, laying a hand on Mahria’s shoulder as she rose. She smiled, then darted forward to kiss her on the cheek. “Just in case things don’t go to plan.”

Mahria snorted. “At least make it count, then,” she said with a smile, then kissed her back. On the lips. When she pulled away a moment later, it was to offer her her weapon. “Ready?”

“Ready,” Lyn replied, fighting not to blush. She hadn’t thought they were there yet. She took the staff as the entire ship shook with a massive clang. “Come what may.”

“What was that!?” Bluewash shrieked, her shrill voice cutting through the ringing that filled Tallheart’s ears.

“Step aside,” he said calmly, pushing past her to spread his hands against the wall. Her expertise in the past few days had been welcome, but it was of no use here, not with metal. He frowned, feeling the broken enchantments. Whatever had struck the ship had done so at the damage limit. Given its position, the engine room benefited from the protection of the original hull, but that protection wouldn’t last long under this kind of attack.

Another blow shook the ship, and the plate under his right hand was dented inward with enough force to launch his arm behind his back.

“Oh, gods, is it a Whale?” Bluewash asked.

“No,” Tallheart said, returning his hand to the spot only for it to be blasted back again. The brief contact told him the enchantment on the entire section had failed. It was not a Whale, but it was a problem.

Another clang resounded, and a silver-blue, chitinous spike punched through the metal a few centimeters to the left of his head. Without flinching, he diverted his fist into a sweeping haymaker, striking the spike just where it had punched through the titanium. The spike didn’t shatter as he had hoped, and the rent in the hull was torn wider, a high-pressure spray of water blasting him in the face. The monster—whatever it was—attempted to pull its weapon free, but that was not allowed. Grabbing the spike with both hands, he braced his legs on the hull, then pulled. The water stopped. Metal twisted as he drew more and more of the creature through the tiny hole. A health bar appeared, followed by armor-like scales and the corner of a gigantic eye. A Chivalrous Carp, the system named it.

“AHHHHHHHHHHHHH!” Bluewash shrieked. “L-l-l-level fourteen!”

Tallheart rumbled, pulling harder. Scales shattered. The monster’s health began to drop precipitously. It was clear the fish was suffering from essence starvation, to be wounded from just this. It was also clear that Bluewash had never seen combat. No one else in the compartment was screaming.

Stiffening his fingers into a blade, he punched them into the monster’s eye, now fully through the rent in the hull. It took four hits before the gelatinous flesh yielded, the creature’s health dropping to zero as he found its fleshy brain. He grasped, twisted, then pulled, whipping his arm free and painting the wall with a spray of steaming blood and gore.

“How?!” Bluewash screamed.

Ignoring her, Tallheart slapped a hand on the wall beside the fish’s head.

Planarity

Metal shrieked, barely hot enough for the skill, but knowledge of titanium’s rune and his Strength made up the difference. The hole slowly irised closed, biting through the dead Carp’s neck and snipping its head off completely. The repaired plate was perfectly flat and did not match the concave interior of the compartment, but perfection could come later. He looked down to inspect the creature he had killed, then frowned. It did not look much like a carp, really.

Bluewash screamed again as another clang shook the compartment. “We’re all going to die!”

“Be helpful or be silent,” Tallheart rumbled, again placing his hands against the wall. Dimly, he felt impacts of increasing strength all over the ship. He couldn’t do anything about them, though, not from here. Not like this. Not without the ability to see.

“Help how?!” Bluewash yelled back. “I’m just a crafter!”

“So am I,” Tallheart rumbled. He closed his eyes, knowing what he was about to do would take everything he had, perhaps more. Not concerned about disrupting enchantments that were already failing, he pushed.

Soul of Metal

Knowledge exploded in Tallheart’s mind, and with it, pain. The Metalworking capstone allowed a crafter to feel what they were working on as if it were an extension of their own body, be it a sword, a piece of armor, or something as honest as a plow. With the perfect knowledge it gave, he would be able to target any of his skills on any part of it without having to move from this spot.

Though only if he could endure.

Temerity grew in his mind; more than just his creation, it swelled to encompass the entirety of his being. The skill was not meant to be used on something remotely this large or complex. Anyone would have said it was impossible. He did it anyway. The pain continued to grow, and not just from the wounds inflicted upon the vessel. He ground his teeth, listening to the metal’s wants, knowing its needs, feeling its aches and stresses. Already, the skill had begun exacting its toll on his body, though his armor was intercepting the bulk of the damage. It would protect him. For a time.

Removing one hand from the wall, he reached for his hammer.

Temerity would not break.

He would not break.

Not ever.

Impact after impact shook the ship, and Rain rode with them, clinging to the flagpole atop the roof of the bridge with one hand. The engines were screaming, pushed beyond maximum as wind whipped Ascension’s flag above his head. The battle on the deck behind him raged hot and hard. Ascension was doing well, but it wasn’t enough.

The gamble had failed. He had likely doomed them all.

Off the stern, a plume of water exploded high into the air. The waves swelled, breaking as the back of a colossal gray form breached through. Though it was still over a kilometer behind them, a name appeared. The health bar that accompanied it seemed to span from horizon to horizon.

Whale - Level 43
