Ceria’s heart beat faster. The gold coins she and the others had so carefully used to buy their supplies—how many coins would this lump of fused metal make? She couldn’t imagine, especially because she knew the gold coins traded across the world weren’t pure gold. This probably was.
“Let’s get Pisces and Yvlon. They have to see this.”
As they went to leave the room, Ceria found something else as her foot landed in a pile of ash. She saw a flash of brown and snatched up a small bag, drawstrings tightly fastened. Ksmvr peered at it as Ceria lifted it up.
“What the…?”
“It is a bag, Captain.”
Ceria eyed Ksmvr. He ducked his head and shut up. She stared at the small satchel and remembered it, vaguely. It had been on the desk next to the staff…
“It’s not even burnt.”
“It is clearly magical. Should we open it and see what it contains?”
It had to be a bag of holding. It probably held…Ceria’s mind spun at the implications. But her internal warning bells all went off at the thought of opening it.
“No. It might be trapped. We’ll take it with us, but no one opens it or even drops it, okay?”
“I understand. Let us find the others and convey this good news.”
“Sure.”
Ksmvr and Ceria made three trips up and down the ivory staircase, twice to haul up the burnt remains of the treasure, and then to help Yvlon and Pisces make their way up. And after the two had gotten over their initial dismay and relief at the treasure obtained, they made a proper survey of what they’d found.
“This sword is clearly magical. I wouldn’t risk using it in combat, but perhaps it could be repaired?”
Pisces murmured to the others as he lifted up the broken sword. The pommel had cracked while the actual blade looked only scorched, but that could well have been part of the spell matrices, and no one dared to separate it.
“A cracked shield. Not good. Can we still use it?”
Yvlon showed the buckler to Ceria. She nodded as she stared at the small bag and the adventurers’ pack, the only two wholly unburned objects.
“It’s magical too. We have to try.”
“We have quite a bit of gold as well.”
Ksmvr had helped lever up the metal and gems and then saw the pieces into manageable chunks. Now he was attempting to cram as many pieces as possible into their packs. Ceria eyed one bulging rucksack. She doubted she could carry the extremely dense gold, tired as she was. Yvlon and Pisces?
It was a hard thing to say out loud, but in one respect, their adventure wasn’t over yet. Ceria didn’t beat about the bush as Ksmvr awkwardly tied the weapons—sword, buckler, dagger, and another sword, of which only the blade remained—into a bundle to be carried.
“We’ve got to get back to a city, everyone. I know we’re tired, but we’ve got practically no rations and we’re sitting ducks out here. Yvlon’s injured and her armor’s gone—”
“As is my sword.”
“—Pisces is out of mana, I’m nearly tapped, and Ksmvr is going to have to carry most of the treasure.”
Ksmvr looked up.
“I am? Hm.”
“I hate to say it, but you’re the strongest of us and no one else can bear the load. Do you think you can handle it?”
She didn’t want to suggest burying the treasure. It was a risky move if people got wind of their haul and decided to backtrack to find anything they’d left behind. But Ceria didn’t want to overburden the Antinium either. To her surprise, Ksmvr shook his head.
“It is no problem. I can drag all that we have collected if need be. I would have simply organized the distribution of weight differently if I had known I was going to be the sole carrier.”
“Oh.”
Pisces, still looking quite gray and weary, sat up slowly, groaning with what seemed to be genuine distress for once.
“I can summon—one or two undead aides. They can help lift—”
“No.”
Yvlon interrupted Pisces. She shook her head and lifted one of the packs, stumbling slightly at the weight.
“No undead. We can carry it ourselves.”
She looked at Ceria, and the half-Elf nodded.
“You heard her. We’ll get back ourselves.”
“Where to? We’re far from all the cities.”
“But we’re nearest to…ah, Remendia I think. Once we hit the main road we can catch a ride.”
“If we don’t hit bandits.”
“Dead gods. Don’t speak like that, Pisces. Let’s just get—”
Yvlon took a few steps and stumbled. Instantly, Ksmvr and Ceria grabbed her shoulder before she could fall. The taller woman smiled gratefully at them. Pisces heaved himself up with a groan and picked up the smallest pack.
“If we must persist, let us do so with dignity. Onwards, then.”
He lurched forwards, ignoring the look the other three gave him. But he was right, and soon enough Ceria and Yvlon and Ksmvr were stumbling up, out of the tunnels, out of Albez. They had seen the dungeon and retrieved the treasure.
But none of them were smiling.
 
—-
 
“Cold.”
Ceria gritted her teeth as she walked through the snow. Pisces sneezed; Yvlon made a face.
“How’re your arms, Yvlon?”
“Just the same as when you last asked, Ceria.”
“Sorry.”
“No—I apologize.”
“Got another spell in you, Springwalker?”
Pisces chattered as he stumbled forwards in the freezing drifts. Ceria grimaced, but made a flame in her palm, feeding it as much mana as possible. Yvlon and Pisces crowded around, warming their hands.
Somehow, after all their battles in the dungeon under Albez, the Horns of Hammerad had forgotten that it was, in fact, the middle of winter above. It had been a nasty surprise to all of them to emerge into a light snow shower, but at least it hadn’t been a blizzard.
Pisces sighed as his hands grew warmer, and Yvlon grunted. She was trying to warm the metal stuck to her arms, and Ceria knew she had to be coldest since the metal lost its warmth faster than bare skin.
“Sure we’re going the right way?”
“I think so. The mountains are that way—we’ve got to be close. Maybe it’s over that incline over there?”
“Damn snow makes everything invisible. I can’t even see the forests—just white.”
Yvlon grumbled, swearing out loud for one of the first times in Ceria’s hearing. Pisces grunted. He glanced over his shoulder and called out.
“Ksmvr! Are you okay?”
“I am…well…thank you…Comrade Pisces.”
The puffing, slightly out-of-breath reply was at odds with the way Ksmvr diligently kept his steady, unfaltering pace. He slowly trudged forwards, dragging the bulk of their goods along the ground. The one good thing the weather had given the Horns of Hammerad was that they’d been able to make a makeshift sled for Ksmvr to drag along.
“You sure you don’t need help?”
Ceria and Yvlon eyed the Antinium with some concern. He shook his head, although his voice was no less strained.
“I am…designed for heavy labor. I will not…let the team down.”
“You won’t. Just let us know, okay?”
“Affirmative.”
Ksmvr walked past the others, gaining a few feet before they stopped huddling around the fire and kept walking. He didn’t stop. He was like a machine, like any other member of his kind, Ceria supposed. But it was different with Ksmvr. He was working for the sake of his team, not the other Antinium. Somehow, that made him feel that much more valuable to the others.
“Let’s keep moving.”
Ceria let the flame fade from her hands and Pisces and Yvlon dropped their arms with a sigh. All three staggered slightly before the momentum kept them going. Ahead, Ksmvr slipped on a patch of snow but regained his footing and took another step forwards.
They were all reaching the end of their physical endurance. Ceria had already passed around the hard biscuit and dried meat in their packs—the only rations they had left—and now the only thing keeping the adventurers going was the thought of food and rest.
No one was smiling. No one really talked, except for Ceria, and only then to make sure no one else was freezing. The Horns of Hammerad moved in…if not depression, something reminiscent of it.
Yes, they had found treasure in Albez, among the ruins. Yes, they had gone through traps and against all odds survived. But what had they for their trouble?
One burned spellbook, some damaged magical artifacts practically leaking magic, a backpack full of dead adventurer’s gear, and a small bag that was almost definitely trapped with magic way above their ability to dispel. Oh, and nearly eighty pounds of gold and fused gemstones.
It was a win, and it would have been cause for celebration for over a week in the old Horns of Hammerad. But in Ceria’s weary mind, there was more than a bit of regret and failure she couldn’t shake.
She remembered the glimmering staff and the personal arms and equipment of a powerful mage of the past, one capable of creating magical traps and a summoned construct that could last for hundreds or thousands of years.
“But we’re alive.”
“What was that, Ceria?”
“Nothing.”
They weren’t a proper Silver-rank team, not yet. Individually they were all better than average, but together they still had their differences. But they’d come through their first adventure, their first dungeon alive and in once piece.
That had to count for something. It did count.
“There’s the city.”
Pisces called out as he crested the incline. Ceria raised her head and smiled in relief.
“Remendia?”
Yvlon peered at the city and shook her head.
“Nope. Too small. We must be at Ocre.”
“Close enough. It’s got walls and a gate. That’s all I want.”
“Okay, let’s get in there.”
“Should we plan out where we go once we get in the city? In case we get separated?”
Confused, Ceria looked at Yvlon.
“What? Why?”
The woman gave Ceria a weary grin.
“We’re entering  the city with a fortune in gold and treasure, Ceria. If we don’t get this stuff under guard quick, it’ll be gone before we get to the market.”
Ceria muttered a half-Elven curse word involving flowers.
“I forgot that. You’re right. Ksmvr, Pisces, we’ve got to get the treasure to the Adventurer’s Guild the instant we get through the gates.”
“Will it be safe there?”
“Should be. And if it’s not, the Adventurer’s Guild has to compensate us. Just don’t stop, don’t drop the bags—Ksmvr, spread it out so we can all carry it—and don’t promise anyone anything, okay?”
Pisces nodded as Ksmvr began dividing the treasure. He grunted as he lifted his pack, but there was a smile on his face. The Antinium nodded.
“Got it.”
“We will heed your instructions.”
“Okay.”
Ceria took a breath. She didn’t know what to say. Here they were, at the end of their quest and—well, what should she tell them? She was their Captain, even if they’d elected her in a second. But hadn’t it been that way with Calruz? He’d always made his team feel like they were a success, even after the hardest of missions. What had he said?
She couldn’t remember the words, but Ceria remembered the feeling. She called on that now, and looked the other Horns of Hammerad in the eye.
“Heads held high, everyone. It’s been a long journey, but we did it. We found treasure in Albez—probably the biggest haul in over a decade! If that’s not worth a bit of pride, I don’t know what is.”
She saw three pairs of eyes on her, and three people smiled. One, a young woman, grinned and grimaced in pain, but her eyes were steady. The young man with haunted eyes and an expression more used to sneering than honest emotion gave her a true smile now that reminded her of the past. And the Antinium opened his mandibles, his face foreign and to some, a face of nightmares. But he was smiling too.
Ceria pointed towards the walls of the city. The guards at the wall hadn’t spotted them yet; there was a bit of foot traffic navigating the frozen road into the city, but she was sure they would stand out the moment they got close. Gold had its own glitter.
“It’s going to be Humans crawling all over us when we get in, so let’s stick together. If you get lost, shout and we’ll be along. Don’t drop anything and remember, we’re adventurers. We stick together.”
She led them down the hill, towards the gates. Her legs were exhausted, but Ceria put more energy into them. They were here, safe! She smiled up at the guards on the walls, never happier to see a Human in her life. She heard a shout as they spotted the armed warriors approaching—not too warily—adventurers were a common sight. She raised a hand to wave up at them, waiting for them to notice the gold—
“Antinium at the gates! We’re under attack!”
“What?”
Ceria heard the panicked shout and with a shock, realized the guards were raising their bows and calling the alarm. She shouted desperately and waved at them—it was just Ksmvr! How could they not tell he was alone and with them? But then she saw the arrows at the strings and screamed.
“Ksmvr! Watch out!”
The Antinium had been waving up at the wall, copying Ceria. As soon as he saw the bows he dropped his pack and tried to take cover in the snow. He dove out of the way as a rain of arrows thudded into the ground next to him. The Antinium stood back up and staggered as an arrow sprouted from his right shoulder.
“Stop! Stop, damn you!”
Ceria shouted up at the wall, but no one was listening. The [Guardsmen] were preparing another volley. She saw someone run past her and then saw Yvlon. The woman threw herself in front of Ksmvr, holding the remnant of her plate armor and her pack filled with the gold. She crouched in front of the Antinium as arrows rained down on them again. Her protection wasn’t perfect, but the hail of arrows mostly bounced off her pack and armor. Ksmvr hissed as an arrow struck his leg and another glanced off his lower back, but he didn’t move.
“Cease fire!”
This time Pisces took up the call. He raised his voice and then Ceria remembered she had magic. She touched her throat and then bellowed.
“Stop shooting you damn Humans! We’re adventurers!”
Her voice bounced off the walls and she heard confused shouting. The Humans lowered their bows for a second, and then someone who looked like an officer was running, pointing at them. Ceria and Pisces ran over to Yvlon, watching the [Guardsmen] warily. No more arrows flew down from the walls, and after a second, Ceria saw people rushing down the battlements.
Yvlon crouched beside Ksmvr, still shielding him. The Antinium was trying to get up and she was holding him down.
“Don’t move. They might loose another volley. Ksmvr, are you okay?”
“I am fine. Captain, permission to return fire?”
“Do you have a bow?”
“…Permission to throw things?”
“No. Just hold on.”
Ceria watched as the people on the wall shouted. Then, one of them stood up and raised a flag. It was white. Pisces snorted at it.
“Is that supposed to mean they surrender? Or that they’re not going to try and kill us?”
