“However, the fact of the matter is Dungeons release purified mana into the air that all lives benefit from, the process isn’t known to me exactly, but there is a difference between the mana a Dungeon ‘owns’ and mana they ‘release’. When the mana coming out of a Dungeon entrance no longer is neutral, no longer wild and free, but akin to a virus, I would say would be when a Dungeon is truly considered an Abomination,” the saint concluded.

Lian suddenly had a daring idea as he raised his hands.

“Then, can we just collect some of the ‘released’ mana and make it bigger? See what it looks like?” he asked and Delta stilled, looking like she was both suddenly nervous and alarmed.

“I’m not sure that’s possible,” Lawyergon said but Caline interrupted.

“It is possible of a sorts, not exact enlarging of mana per se, but we can project their image onto a large surface for examination, I believe Fairplay’s own head scientist, Jeina Visp, is here with us right now,” Caline gestured the woman who looked extremely indifferent to everyone turning their eyes to her.

Lian thought she might start collecting any lingering eyes into jars and store them for later use. She had that vibe. Visp turned to her leader who nodded and she merely stood up and began gathering mana around her like she was a conductor and anyone not following the music sheet to the absolute note would be cut from the program.

Before them, the air shimmered as orange motes were moved under a strange glass-like surface that appeared, causing dirt, fluff, and other unseen things to suddenly become superimposed on the glass. A ladybug flew by and the once cute little thing now looked like a Dungeon monster under the magnification. Visp flexed her hands and the other items began to fade away, removed from the field of view.

She was doing this all with sheer will and control which, given Lian worked with a mage and a necromancer? He knew that was not merely impressive, it was scary.

Then the mana came into sight and Lian’s jaw dropped.

A mote of mana looked a lot like a drifting piece of dandelion, with its cotton wispy sides replaced with spikes and moving tendrils. It, and three other motes, were moving around like wild dogs in the air, looking ready to throw down and beef with anything it saw, like a middle-age couple after one too many ales and chicken wing snacks.

“Introduce something so we can see if it infects,” Wollom said without any emotion in his tone and Lian knew this was a big moment. This could change everything. Visp pulled out a strand of her own hair and tossed it into the area where under the magnifying glass, the hair glowed with smaller green motes of Visp’s own energy.

At first, the orange mana reacted in surprise, huddling together and making puffing gestures to assert dominance. Once it saw there was no threat, the orange mana swarmed forth, pulling the greenish mana off the hair before it began to form clubs and folding chairs out of their own energy to assault the hair.

The green mana seemed lost and confused, but unharmed as the thugs went to town on the hair.

“This mana belongs to a being who brute-forces everything and boldly goes forth or simply cannot find the way to reverse their course,” Visp reported, “but I am seeing no signs of mana vampirism or conversion,” she added.

“That’s one example, how about a virus? Anyone here caught a cold?” Zane asked, growing excited at the sight of superimposed microscopic violence. Japes simply held out a jar and tossed it into the ring where ugly looking, almost alien, pathogens began to emerge.

“I have almost every virus in existence somewhere on my body,” he said kindly and Lian thought that was... concerning, but he wasn’t a potter so maybe he didn’t know enough to comment.

The virus was drawn instantly to Visp’s exposed mana, closing on it like a predator who was smelling fresh meat.

“Most infections or diseases have evolved to infect us through contact points, wounds, or transfer, and now via mana. Unlucky idiots have caught terrible diseases from touching magic scrolls with no gloves or protection,” Visp said and Yattina nodded in agreement, snapping her own work gloves.

Just as the cold virus loomed over the unaware green mana, the orange thugs turned and charged, letting out a warbling cry and dive tackling the virus to the ground where it formed human-like fists and pummeled the virus to mush, using the virus’s ooze as war paint to make demonic masks.

They decided the green mana was too weak so they tied it to a pole of their orange energy and carried it like a prisoner, chanting as they went in search of more fights.

“This looks terrible...” Delta moaned and Visp continued to test the mana in different ways, showing it was aggressive to almost anything that sought to consume mana or attack mana belonging to people or plants. More often than not, they formed crude weapons or traveled on mana-made bicycles with obnoxious loud chants.

There was one... odd thing that happened.

Fairplay was setting up a small area for the director to sit and watch the event unfold, first setting up chairs, then a table with tea and snacks, and to protect the upper officers of Fairplay from potential wind or sun, they constructed a freestanding, open-sided structure to cover them.

“Something is happening, Dungeon mana is gathering in alarming numbers,” Visp called out as the screen expanded to show the flighting roaming squads of biker punk motes had turned, as one , to the Fairplay gazebo.

In seconds, an orange flood covered the structure and it was simply gone, reduced not to wood splinters or sawdust, but something even less than that.

Everyone turned to Delta, who crossed her arms with an expressionless look.

“Pavillions or rotundas are superior,” she said by way of explanation which didn’t explain anything at all. Wollom hummed.

“Weird, but still not a sin against humanity,” he declared and Caline turned purple with anger. Director Ripdoy merely poured himself a new cup of tea as he shot Caline a look. Nodding, as if hearing some command, Caline turned to Delta and Lawyergon.

“It seems you are indeed a new existence, a special sort of being,” he began and Lian suddenly had a strange sense of worry. Caline sounded like things were going as they should despite the setbacks.

“So, for the ease of all here, would you confirm you are a Dungeon who learned to be human or a human forced to be a Dungeon?” he asked and the clearing went silent.

“Do I have to?” Delta asked and Wollom thought about it then shook his head.

“No, your accusation was being an Abomination, nothing else. I’ve seen no evidence of any corruption. Your mana is... interesting! But it isn’t a virus... just excitable,” he proclaimed and Delta exhaled.

“Oh, is it already over?” Lian asked and Kemy bit her lip, still looking nervous.

“No, if Delta is simply a smart Dungeon then it's fine, but if she has been fed a human soul and mutated, that is breaking different laws, many of which are not under the jurisdiction of a saint,” Caline explained with a smile that looked cold.

“Since we’ve already assembled this gathering, we might as well use it to kill two birds with one stone and avoid a lot of poor communication. So, Delta, were you born a Dungeon or were you something else?” Caline asked and Delta stared at him, her focus so narrow it was hard to ignore how the mana in the area grew agitated.

It looked like Caline might soon become a gazebo in theory.

“Let me be clear, even if you were human... you cannot be charged with a crime, you are a victim, not a criminal,” Caline added and Delta blinked.

“True,” Kemy spoke up.

“And who would be charged?” Delta asked quietly.

“Whomever did it would be forced to adhere not only to many kingdoms’ laws and state laws, but also an ancient law put in by the very Siblings themselves! To mess with a Dungeon core is to risk losing all your wealth, power, influence, and more. So, Delta, before you were a Dungeon, did you exist as a human?” Caline pressed and Lian felt a little nervous, like something was pulling a noose tight around all the gathering.

Delta blinked and surprised them all with a smile.

“Nope! I honestly can say I have no absolute proof that I was human before I was a Dungeon other than memories I absorbed over time but those could be anything. Dungeons absorb a lot and I’ve always avoided thinking about it cause I desperately want to be human!” Delta said and Kemy sat up.

“True!”

“Also, I’m still not a Dungeon. I suck at being a Dungeon by all measurements you folks have!” she added.

“T-true! Sorry...”

“I only have four floors and not even one proper chest that isn’t a mimic!” Delta continued with a grin.

“True!”

“I don’t even have loot set up! It’s all pre-generated by things I can’t work out and anytime I try, there’s always a big ‘random lotto’ button and I just push that!” Delta stood up, glowing now.

“Absolute truth.”

“I’m just Delta, friend, new goddess, sort of lame dungeon, amazing artist-”

“Lie.”“Moderately good artist-”“Lie.”“I try!”“Truth!”

Lian felt his heart skip a beat as Delta put her leg on the table and looked at ease.

“And I don’t want to kill anyone, I just want everyone to have a good time,” she finished and wobbled as the table fell over and she toppled back into her chair.

“Absolute truth,” Kemy said, eyes closed with a smile on her face.

“Lame,” Zane said and huffed.

“This court is over,” Wollom said and the way he said it was so absolute that it made Lian shiver, like some decree had passed and even Caline didn’t dare speak out in protest.

Lawyergon turned, sniffling with blotty snotty tears.

“The only time a lawyer can cry is when it's all over." he wailed as Delta patted his head with affection.

Lian couldn’t wait to send a letter home to tell people he was involved in a court case. He could almost feel the A4 plain white crisp double-lined paper already.

Maybe Lian would even go wild and pay for next-day shipping!
