"Is it actually important?" Flia asked dryly, and when Cale gaped at her in mock outrage—it felt good to be able to move the conversation to something less serious, and she knew that—she laughed. "I understand why we need to know, don't get me wrong, but I don't see why we need to make a whole thing out of it. It just affects how we're going to try to integrate the divine intent in our mana, right? But it's not an indication of our personality or strength or future or anything like that.

"You and Akkau are kind of acting like it's some great ritual," she continued, reaching out for her orb. It flickered slightly as her hand approached, then more brightly when she injected some of her mana into it. "But it only has meaning if you assign meaning to it, right? Otherwise, it's just a name. It's not like I'm going to enter the service of this god or it's going to reveal something shocking..."

Flia trailed off, staring at the orb, her brows furrowing slightly. Damien, Leo, and Syphus glanced at her and her orb, then reached for their own orbs, injecting a bit of their mana in turn. None of their results came out any different.

"Is there," Flia said carefully, "perhaps some ambiguity in how the results from the orb could be interpreted?"

"Not really," Cale said sheepishly.

"And the orb simply writes down the name of the entity to which our mana is aligned?"

"That would be correct, yes."

Flia exhaled. "Okay," she said. "Now, as far as I know, you aren't one of the divines, and you're definitely not from Utelia. So please explain why all of these orbs say our alignment is Cale Cadwell Cobbs?"

"Uh," Cale said. "I have a lot of intent?"

"Try again, Cale."

"I have friends in high places?"

"No."

Clearly, there wasn't any getting around this. "In my defense, I didn't actually know this would happen," Cale said. "In fact, I was pretty sure it wouldn't. Normally it only happens if people hang around me for more than a year. I'm just as surprised as you are."

"I highly doubt that," Flia said, although she seemed to take pity on him immediately after. "We're not angry with you. We'd just like some answers."

"I'm a little bit mad," Syphus said. "But mostly because I wanted to be Astiviya-aligned."

"I thought you didn't like her?" Leo glanced at it in askance.

"I don't." Syphus paused. "But she is fierce. Like a rock. I admire her hardness."

"Just for future reference," Leo said, "probably don't tell her that. Or actually, don't use hardness as a compliment in general."

"I think we're getting off topic, guys," Damien interjected.

"Well, on the plus side, that makes a lot more sense now," Cale remarked, gesturing to the orbs. "How do I put this... Okay. Intent, like anything else, is a power you can cultivate. Normally, the extent of intent cultivation goes only as far as creating darkwood. Divine intent is just a fancy term for intent that has a life of its own—all divinities are like that, after a fashion. They're ideas given form, which is what makes their intent special.

"Turns out the same thing can happen if you live long enough, and I've done exactly that, so my intent is a little bit alive in the same way divine intent is. And if it decides it really likes someone, it can, uh, expel the original divine influence inside the mana and replace it with itself. Normally this takes a long time, but if the host mana is particularly receptive, it can speed up the process. A lot."

Flia processed this for a moment, then grimaced. "Oh, by the infernal realms, you're saying we're becoming too much like you."

"I never said anything about too much," Cale objected.

"I know. I did," Flia said flatly. "I think I'm going to need to go outside more. Touch the sand, bask in the sun. Do those things you keep forgetting to do."

Cale paused. "You're just making fun of me, now, aren't you?"

Flia grinned at him. "A little," she admitted. "Honestly, it's kind of sweet you care about us that much. Or that your intent does, I guess."

That was one way to put it. Overprotective was another, and probably the more accurate one.

Not that there was anything to be done about it now. Cale shook his head. "Well, we're done here," he said, resigned. "Might as well see how the rest of the class is doing. I'm kind of curious about how divine intent is distributed in this school, to be honest. Might tell us something about what the dark lord is up to..."

He trailed off. "Akkau?" he prompted. "I finished my explanation. You can let us out now."

Silence.

"Akkau?" Cale glanced around, but the old dragon didn't respond. The silence felt rather pointed, though, so he doubted Akkau was unaware of them. He frowned. What did the old dragon want now?

Flia raised a delicate brow pointedly toward the still-unused orb in front of him, and Cale stared at it for a moment. "Oh. Right. I forgot he wanted me to use that."

"Why are you so embarrassed about it, anyway?" Damien asked. "Based on the explanation you gave us, there shouldn't be any traces of divine intent in your core."

Instead of answering, Cale sighed and reached down to inject a puff of his mana into the orb. He didn't miss the fact that the one he'd been given was different from all the others—this one had been specially built to withstand his mana by Professor Imrys, he suspected. Where she'd managed to find the time for that between all her other new projects, he had no idea.

It was encouraging that this was even possible for him, but the fact that this was how Akkau had chosen to reveal it...

His apprentices stared down at the orb in front of him, baffled. Syphus, of all people, was the first one to voice the question they were all thinking.

"Who the fuck is Colin?"
