“Where are you going little fellow? Practice has ended, right? We don’t want you getting hurt before your game with Esthelm in two days!”
One of the big [Guards] at the gate stopped Ekirra. He pointed.
“I forgot my belt pouch at the inn.”
The [Guardsman] glanced at his companions.
“Ah. Hm. Why don’t you use the door instead? Safer that way. We patrol, but there’s always the Razorbeaks who’ll go after kids—and the Shield Spiders.”
“No chance of a Razorbeak with Bird the [Hunter] watching the skies.”
One of the Drakes snorted. The Gnoll shrugged.
“You want to explain to Captain Z? I’ll take you to the magic door. Ekirra, isn’t it?”
The little Gnoll nodded gravely. Guards were always right, or so his parents told him. It would take longer, but then they asked for his autograph.
“If you score in the game, we’ll all buy you a treat! Best of luck!”
They were nice. Ekirra took the big Gnoll’s paw and they hurried to the magic door. By the time they got there…Mrsha was gone. So was Visma.
“Miss Visma has gone back to Liscor. I don’t know…where Mrsha is.”
Ishkr frowned around. He was responsible since Miss Erin was hurt. Up to a point; he let Mrsha ‘play’ with Ulvama and kept regular tabs on her as Lyonette had asked, but Mrsha could evade everyone but Erin when she wanted to. Ekirra nodded gravely. Ishkr sighed.
“I will go look for her. Here are your belongings.”
He handed Ekirra the belt pouch. Ekirra thanked him as the [Guardsman], satisfied, stepped back through the door.
“Good luck in your games!”
“Thank you!”
Ekirra waved. He was going to go back—but now he needed to pee.
Three minutes later (it was poo), Ekirra opened the door of the outhouse and padded out. He sneezed a few times; it was always stinky. Then he headed back for the door to Liscor. He would have gone straight home, too.
But for Joseph. Ekirra smelled him first, naturally. He was about to ask Joseph if there was anything he should practice and how good he’d done! His tail wagged as he pursued Joseph towards the magic door, now placed in the portal room just off the side of the long hallway with the secret spying holes Mrsha had showed him.
“Coach J—”
Joseph didn’t hear him. Ekirra stopped as he realized Joseph had changed clothing. He’d washed himself, and changed out of the jersey of the Liscor Flood Crabs, which made sense.
…So why was he wearing another jersey? Yellow and black, like Apista?
Ekirra came to a halt. Joseph headed through the open door, into a sunlit city that smelled like a thousand things. Broad streets, amazing architecture. Ekirra recognized it at a moment’s glance.
Pallass. The little Gnoll stared at Joseph. It could not be. It wasn’t—he saw Liska move to close the door. Without a moment’s thought, Ekirra ran after Joseph. He leapt through the closing checkpoint gate, opened for Joseph, and heard the shout from the [Guards]. Then he was in the street, following Joseph, running from the angry Watch. It couldn’t be.
It couldn’t be, but he had to know. Not the most heinous thing. Not Coach Joseph. He couldn’t be…coaching another team?
He ran a total of five steps before a claw caught him, of course.
 
—-
 
The great betrayer walked through the streets of Pallass. Joseph, the sellout! The traitor! The—
“…Coach of Liscor’s team. I don’t think we need to introduce him.”
“Of course not. Good to meet you, er—Mister Joseph. Sir.”
They called him sir. The Drake [Strategist] had even asked for his autograph. But then, she was not Chaldion, far younger.
“It’s a pleasure to be here.”
Joseph mumbled. He felt bad. Mrsha had given the Pallassian jersey a dirty look before she went through to Invrisil. Wait—was she allowed to do that? Liska hadn’t cared.
Thoughts of Mrshas vanished as Joseph was introduced to two more players, and three financial backers, all of whom had been part of the group convincing him to teach Pallass’ team.
“We’re delighted you accepted our invitation to educate our team, Mister Ortega. What can we expect from you today?”
A Gnoll adjusted a monocle, much like Sir Relz. Joseph wondered if he was staring at his levels, but thanks to Erin and Ryoka, he was covered from appraisal and scrying. He seemed impressed with Joseph’s reputation at any rate.
“I don’t have a set plan, er, sir. I need to see where they’re at before I can improve them. Also, there are some new rules I need to bring to Pallass’ attention.”
That seemed to impress the cohort. They nodded; the [Strategist] consulted her notes.
“Ah yes, the aerial rule amendment.”
“You know about that?”
Joseph eyed her. She had the grace to look embarrassed.
“We intend to win the upcoming championship, Coach Joseph. Pallass won’t make the same mistakes again.”
“Especially not with Joseph the Soccer Player giving Pallass’ team his expert advice!”
Another Drake chimed in, and Joseph winced. For multiple reasons.
“Just remember, I’m also advising Liscor and Invrisil’s teams.”
The other faces fell. The Gnoll audibly whispered to a companion.
“We didn’t manage to get an exclusive deal?”
Joseph sighed. If you were going to sell out, you might as well do it so multiple groups had an advantage. Also—it was a lot of money.
A lot of money.
As in…a lot of money. As in…Joseph probably exceeded Solar Cycle’s income at this moment. As in…he just wasn’t as principled as Kevin or Erin, he guessed.
He was so swept up in all of the hustle and bustle as they took him to meet Pallass’ team; handpicked twenty three, some former adventurers, with dedicated family apartments, a huge salary, personal trainers, weights room, everything Liscor could dream of, yet they’d still gotten their asses kicked, that Joseph didn’t have time to really take in Pallass. He only looked around from the people asking him for autographs, a ‘game plan’ for Pallass’ unique strategy, his take on the upcoming Liscor-Invrisil match, when he heard the commotion behind him.
“Let me go! Let me go! I’m a Little Crab! Joseph is my coach! Not your stupid city’s!”
Joseph’s heart sank through his shoes. He turned and there was Ekirra. The little Gnoll stopped, stared at Joseph’s jersey, and looked like he was about to cry.
“J-Joseph?”
The sheer look of betrayal hurt more than it should. Joseph opened his mouth—then noticed the wall of muscle holding Ekirra.
“This little Gnoll slipped in past you. Joseph, isn’t it? We clearly need to update the security system, although I’m pleased the ward spells didn’t blast him to pieces. So there is that.”
Grimalkin of Pallass held Ekirra by one huge claw. The [Sinew Magus], the most built Drake that Joseph had ever seen, looked down at Joseph, face impassive. Joseph looked at Ekirra. The little brown Gnoll stared at him. He looked at the bemused backers of the team, the [Strategist], two of the players, and bellowed one word.
“Traitor!”
 
—-
 
Joseph sat in the office Pallass had given him, even if he was splitting his time between three teams now.
Ekirra hit him. Joseph didn’t move. Ekirra punched his leg. Joseph let him. Ekirra opened his mouth—and someone stopped him from biting.
“Listen, Ekirra, is it? There’s nothing wrong with this young man teaching multiple teams. He is not a player.”
A Drake with wings tried to explain to Ekirra. He let go of the Gnoll as Ekirra twisted to bite; the football player backed off as Ekirra spat, looking at Joseph.
“He can’t teach you! He’s Liscor’s coach. It’s not right!”
“Listen. Let’s try to be mature about this…”
Good luck with Ekirra. Joseph rubbed at his aching leg as Ekirra spat, keeping the other players from grabbing him with the power of expectoration. Besides which, ‘be mature about this’? If Joseph heard a coach from his favorite team was teaching a rival on the side…
He understood how Liscor would feel, that was the point. Loyalty. It was just…
…A lot of money. Joseph didn’t have a bigger reason than that. However, ten thousand gold pieces for a month? And that was from Invrisil.
“I’m sorry, Ekirra. I’m not taking sides. Nor am I coaching during the games. It’s just—a career. A really good deal.”
“I thought you liked us.”
Ekirra stared up at Joseph. His eyes were round. Then hurt. Then—he sat down and began to howl and cry.
Joseph would have preferred being stabbed. That was how it felt. Imagine if his heroes had just sold out like that in front of him?
“We should get this little Gnoll back home. The secret’s out, but that won’t compromise much more than the shock value…”
The Drake [Strategist] was trying to speak over the howls. She gestured and a Pallassian Guard reached for Ekirra.
Joseph stopped the Drake. He bent down and picked Ekirra up. The Gnoll instantly went back to punching, but Joseph turned him around.
“I’m sorry, Ekirra. I am. I do like your team and I like Liscor. I hope you win and become a great f—soccer player. I am teaching your team as best I can—but Pallass offered me a lot of money.”
“B-but…don’t you like us?”
The Gnoll was snotting on Joseph’s jersey. The young man didn’t mind. He let Ekirra sniff.
“I do. Er—but it was a lot of money.”
“Like…a thousand gold coins?”
The [Strategist] snorted. Joseph just nodded.
“Something like that.”
Ekirra calmed down a bit. He knew money mattered. He still looked hurt. Joseph looked at him. If this was home? He wondered if he had to worry about being jumped in a back alley. That…might actually be an issue.
He sat there, as Ekirra sniffed and blew his nose on the yellow jersey made with silk. Joseph looked at the waiting team, the [Strategist].
“It’s the game, Ekirra. I can’t be on the Liscorian team. I’m not that good.”
Several incredulous snorts. Ekirra looked up at Joseph and the young man’s heart twisted as he admitted it. Then—he made his peace with that fact.
“I’m not that good. I do love soccer, though. Which is actually called football. Do you like the game?”
Ekirra nodded, wiping his eyes. Joseph smiled. Suddenly, he knew what he had to do. Back home…on Earth, you could really like your teams. Enough to brawl or kill people during games. Those were the fans.
Perhaps, if there was something else to change, it wasn’t just the rules. Joseph set Ekirra down and knelt.
“Well then, if you want, why don’t you help me train Pallass? Then you can see I’m not helping them more or less than Liscor.”
Ekirra hesitated. He sat there, looking up at Joseph. The young man offered him a hand. The little Gnoll slowly took it. Joseph looked up. He felt an Erin-feeling in his chest. Was this how she got to feel? Certain?
“Is this young Gnoll going to be accompanying us? I would hate for this to interfere with Pallass’ first training session, Coach Ortega.”
The [Strategist] looked skeptical. Joseph met her eyes.
“This little Gnoll played the first game of football in Izril with me. He might be able to teach your players a thing or two. He won’t slow us down. I’m ready to teach the team. Just one thing though—I have a condition.”
She glanced at the other players as the team stood there. Joseph smiled.
 
—-
 
“—just a sterling amount of silver, aha, pardon the pun. Now, I can assure you, Sir Relz, that the quality of the silver won’t appreciably depreciate—another little pun—for at least the next f—”
The droning voice of the [Merchant] over Wistram News Network was fascinating. If you liked economic talk.
Some people did, which was why they’d allocated the hour to business talk with Sir Relz and his co-host.
Usually Noass, but since Noass was sick…Drassi got the job. She was slumped, her chin resting on her claw.
Clearly falling asleep. She kept jerking and trying to look interested, but her eyes were literally drooping, and Sir Relz had given up nudging her. The Drake with the monocle was leaning forwards as if to make up for her lack of enthusiasm.
This was the news. Or rather, the 24/7 broadcast from Pallass. The most fascinating thing looked like it might be Drassi literally starting to snore on air.
…Right up until the Drake [Reporter] glanced up, blinked, and leaned over as someone whispered to her. She broke into the [Metals Merchant]’s diatribe with a bright, overly-loud voice.
“Excuse me! I’m so sorry, but we have a breaking news report!”
Someone began playing a horn in the background, a jaunty tune as the words flashed around the magical ticker tape running across the bottom of the broadcast. Sir Relz blinked, and Drassi began speaking rapidly as someone held up the cue cards.
“This one’s a Pallassian exclusive. If you’re just tuning in…”
The viewer count began going up, as people were notified of the breaking news via their scrying devices. There were categories of news alert.
This was the lowest-level, which meant dramatic news, not wars or cataclysm, which were reserved for the highest-level alert. Even so…it was the news.
Ishkr stopped looking for Mrsha as the scrying mirror lit up. Ulvama, chewing on food, sat up, excitedly.
“…It looks like we’re in for sports news! I’ve just been given word that an upset is coming to the world of soccer!”
“Ah, yes.”
Sir Relz interjected, clearly trying to be part of the moment. He adjusted his monocle as he spoke rapidly.
“We’ve broadcast six games around the world, and there’s talk of bringing teams together to play a world-wide championship. Er—what’s the news, Miss Drassi?”
“Well—no, this can’t be right. Do we have a live-feed? Show me! According to this—”
The image shifted. The viewpoint became a [Mage]-on-the-ground. The city of Pallass and the steps stretched below the viewers, and there, in front of them, was a young man.
And a little brown Gnoll. Ishkr spat out his drink of water. So did a number of Liscorians including Lism.
“Joseph?”
Drassi was just as shocked as everyone else. She stared, then began reading the news.
“It says, Joseph the Soccer Player, whom we all know is…coaching Pallass’ team as well as Invrisil’s? He’s been contracted to coach both teams and—that dirty rat!”
She shot up, shrieking as the copper penny dropped. Sir Relz looked most amused.
“Come now, Reporter Drassi. Let’s be professional—”
“Professional? Professional my tail! He sold out! He’s supposed to be Liscor’s coach!”
“There’s no rule saying one cannot teach multiple teams—”
“What about loyalty? That double-dealing—this just in: I’m going to kick Joseph’s butt! Excuse me! I’m going to cover this one in person.”
Drassi tossed her papers and stormed out of the studio. Sir Relz took over. Yet there wasn’t as much commentating to do, because the image soon became just the feed from Pallass, not the news room.
 
—-
 
