Rabbiteater had been giving it a good think himself, game to help these nice people. However…he had to admit he wasn’t that smart.
He didn’t have some unique way to blend Skill and talent such that Wistram would have no choice but to showcase the Order of Seasons. Perhaps a smarter person would have. Like Chieftain Rags. Or…Erin.
Rabbiteater missed her. He thought about it, as he sat in the grass. Then he had his idea. He trotted over to the Fall’s Sentinel and made a request.
“What, Ser Solstice?”
The older [Knight] looked surprised, but he was perfectly content to put Rabbiteater’s slightly-audacious plan into action. The Spring’s Warden and Summer’s Champion glanced up, slightly hopeful. Rabbiteater smiled.
Where the Empress of Beasts had found a clever solution born out of her understanding of, well, people, the Goblin had taken a different tack.
He just cheated.
 
—-
 
The event was winding down. Joseph was tired, and Ekirra was falling asleep on his feet after working out so hard twice. But the little Gnoll was smiling.
“Do you know his parents, Coach Joseph? Pallass might want to make them an offer of citizenship…we could always use strong players for a junior team.”
The Drake [Strategist] was looking at Ekirra appraisingly. Joseph had no idea how to respond to that. He was almost snoozing himself as he waited to go back to the inn. Drassi had returned to the booth, ejecting Noass.
“It’s been a great day of submissions. I think we’ll be playing more all night that were recorded, but we have a few more live ones to get to…”
Joseph’s head nodded as he and Ekirra sat down, sweaty, exhausted, despite the stamina potions. He drifted off for a second.
 
[Conditions Met: Kicker → Football Player Class!]
[Football Player Level 14!]
[Skill – Fast Feet obtained!]
[Skill – Second Wind obtained!]
 
Not so vast. But new. Joseph smiled as he opened his eyes. He’d suspected that would have happened. He began to get up with Ekirra in his arms as the door opened. Yet he’d done so too soon.
The second notification hit him loud as, louder than the first. And—odd.
 
[Coach Dr—ob—!
[Coachm—obtai—!
[Radiant Coachdr—]
[Coach Class Obtained!]
[Coach Level 16!]
 
Joseph walked into the wall. Yet it wasn’t done. The voice in his head kept shouting, as if it was as amazed as he was.
 
[Conditions Met: Coach → Famed Coach Class!]
[Conditions Met: Famed Coach → World-Renowned Coach Class!]
[Skill – Eyes of Talent obtained!]
[Skill – Unveil Potential (Magical) obtained!]
[Skill – Legendary Reputation obtained!]
[Skill…
 
Joseph felt Ekirra wake up. He saw the little Gnoll yawn. Wide-eyed, Joseph looked about.
“Oh my god. I broke it.”
He practically ran into The Wandering Inn, holding up Ekirra, wanting to stare at the news. It had to be that! How many people had seen Joseph? How many people had treated his advice as a lesson? It was the class. Teacher to the world. He held Ekirra up as both stared at the scrying mirror. Ekirra’s eyes widened as it flicked to another viewpoint. Joseph blinked. He forgot about his new class for a second.
Two seconds later, he tossed Ekirra out of the common room.
 
—-
 
Empress Nsiia of Tiqr, or at least, what they called her on the news, did a juggling trick with a soccer ball. Then she kicked it.
It bounced off Armsmaster Dellic’s face. Nsiia laughed as he jerked in surprise. No one else was really fielding the ball, either. So she just ran.
The [Scrying Mage] tracked her with his eyes as she ran. Incidentally, Nsiia knew she was live.
General Vasraf was summoned from his tent by a shout. He stared at the scrying orb, and his eyes nearly popped out of their sockets.
Salii, letting the [Martial Artists] continue their training exercise despite the cameras not being on them, looked up at the shout. The citizens who had fled Tiqr were staring at one of three scrying devices that all of Pomle had. Some were staring. Others…laughing. Or cheering.
Why? Salii glanced at her orb. She blinked, checked her spectacles.
“Oh. How clever.”
“Scandalous!”
Sir Relz lost his monocle. Drassi was blinking, half-using her notes as a shield. She turned to the Drake.
“Uh—who decided to show this?”
“Not me! It’s indecent! There are children watching it!”
“Wow. So someone in Wistram is a pervert.”
Drassi smiled. Then amended her statement.
“I suppose it’s topical. Er—this is almost definitely Empress Nsiia, formerly of Tiqr, the Empress of Beasts. Is this how she normally exercises, or do you think it’s special?”
“Why are you asking me?”
Sir Relz snapped. Drassi gave him a look.
“Well, I wouldn’t know.”
She gave another glance at the scrying orb, which was getting a lot of angry [Message] spells. Eldavin strode into the scrying room.
“What is wrong with you people?”
But it was too late. Someone had indeed decided it was exceptionally topical to feature Empress Nsiia running around the walls of the city. She wasn’t doing anything special or running particularly fast. A few Golems were chasing after her, with blankets, as Magus-Crafter Femithain realized what she was doing.
Yet she had gotten herself on television. The only way she knew how.
Nsiia was not topless. Because that implied there was other clothing on her. She was running, laughing, waving an arm at the [Mage] keeping her in view as Armsmaster Dellic and some of the soldiers followed. They seemed uncertain of what to do. Nsiia had begun removing clothing and, well, gotten a lot more attention from the [Mages] screening the submissions.
General Vasraf stared at the Empress of Beasts evading a chasing Golem trying to insert a modesty-blanket into the scene. Sir Relz and Drassi were arguing—Sir Relz actually to keep it up.
“Er—well—she’s clearly making a statement, so if we’re showing her—”
“What if it was a naked male Drake! Gah! You’re disgusting! Noass, get in here! I’m leaving!”
Drassi frowned as someone approached her with a [Message]. Chaos in the studio.
Vasraf saw Nsiia’s head turn. She looked at the viewer. Across the world, people got a good view of…everything, as she stopped and faced the viewers.
Was it sheer vanity, madness, the King of Destruction’s desire for attention that had prompted it? Certainly, it had an effect on a number of people.
Including the Siren of Savere, whose eyes narrowed dangerously. Reminded of her nemesis. Queen Yisame delicately averted her eyes, but both glared.
That did not look like a miserable prisoner under Femithain’s aegis, did it?
It was not for either one that Nsiia did this. Not for attention. She looked into the scrying mirror, and the world’s second nudist on television’s smile wavered.
The [Wild General] felt like…she was staring at him. The warriors who had been looking at their leader looked at her eyes. Everyone else didn’t notice her expression at first.
“Get me a recording.”
Ieka whispered to a [Maid].
Saliss of Lights just rolled his eyes.
“Amateur.”
Then he saw Nsiia lift an arm. Her tanned skin glistened in the fading sunlight. Surely some [Poets] were already composing verses about curves and glistening and whatnot, as they did.
They were welcome to it. Nsiia had stopped smiling. She lifted her hand up and clenched it into a fist. For this moment, she had abandoned modesty, as if she needed it. She looked into the orb, at Vasraf, at her citizens who might see her wherever they had gone.
“People of Tiqr!”
Nsiia shouted, as loudly as her lungs could fill with air. The [Mage], Dellic, and the others stopped. Even the Golems hesitated. The woman went on.
“I am no longer your [Empress]. I have failed you time and again! Even now, some of you labor in chains, stolen from your homes. The herds have fled, our mighty friends lie dead. I am a prisoner in a cage made of kindness.”
Femithain looked at the scrying orb, hearing the voice shouting, then a delayed copy coming from the orb. Nsiia’s eyes shimmered with tears.
“Yet this I swear: while I live, while our people still fight for our home, Tiqr has not died! While my heart beats, I will find you wherever you have gone. So—live.”
“Shut it off!”
One of the [Mages] turned to adjust the spell. This wasn’t casual nudity, which Wistram could condone. This was—
Eldavin calmly kicked the [Mage] behind the knees. Down they went. Eldavin looked around.
“Let her speak. This is news.”
He looked at the [Empress]. She was still speaking, knowing her time was running out. Eldavin gave her the moment. Brave girls. He saw her, like so many, point at him. At…
“Vasraf! Don’t you dare die until we meet again. I command you.”
She spread her arms, unashamed, and shouted. Crying, thrusting an arm back up in the air.
“Tiqr falls! And Tiqr stands! Never forget! And give them no quarter! Tiqr stands! Tiqr—”
The image went blank. Then, turned to the two stunned Drakes in the studio. They said something—Vasraf didn’t hear them.
He was laughing. Tears running down his face as he laughed at his silly [Empress]. So too were the people in the tent. In Pomle, wherever they were.
Empress of Beasts. She wiped the tears from her eyes. Nsiia knew that when she slept, they would give it back to her. It was not a burden she craved. Yet for them, she would bear it again. She accepted a blanket from the Golem staring down at her. She saw Femithain walking out of the gates.
“You have quite made a mess of things, Empress Nsiia.”
That was all he remarked when he looked at her. Nsiia wiped at her face, and smiled.
“Would you expect to easily cage the Empress of Beasts, Magus-Crafter?”
He gave her a rueful look.
“I suppose I was quite arrogant.”
 
—-
 
“Okay, I feel like I have to issue an apology here since no one else will. I didn’t authorize that. Someone did.”
The image had stayed on Drassi and Sir Relz in the booth. Although the other Drake seemed too embarrassed to come on set for the moment. So Drassi had command. She was sorting through [Messages] printed in-studio as she spoke.
“I think this message puts it best—‘While I am aware some viewers may find this sight full of attraction, I must complain on behalf of my subjects about the indecent nudity expressed on Wistram News Network. Younger audiences may have been inappropriately subjected to the indecency of monarchs displaying less than appropriate grandeur’…wait a sec. That didn’t go where I thought it would.”
Drassi frowned, checking the sender.
“Er—that’s by the Ruler of Khelt, Fetohep, of whom we can all agree with. Less than appropriate grandeur. Right. I see this one wants more naked people on air. Well, ‘Oney Eminith’, I don’t agree. [Merchant] in Izril, incidentally. That’s right, I’m calling you out!”
Drassi slapped down another [Message]. She glowered, putting peril into the flood of [Messages] coming this way. Drassi checked another one, frowned, blinked—and then glanced up.
“Wha—no way. That’s not—”
She stared at the [Message] in silence until Sir Relz hurried onto the set.
“Something inappropriate, Miss Drassi? I am assured Wistram will not be broadcasting any more nudity, and we will in fact warn and perhaps set up a channel for indecent—”
“Shut up, Relz. I…hey. Get me in touch with Wistram. There’s something you need to show. Here—here’s coordinates I guess. Just do it. Why? Because I’m your [Reporter].”
Drassi looked rattled for a second. Then she went back to speaking.
“I think this day has given us all some things to think about.”
“Indeed. Quite.”
Sir Relz colored as she stared at him.
“Not what I meant, Sir Relz. The football practice?”
“Er, quite.”
“Not to mention the wonderful displays of amazing talent around the world. In fact, we may be showing them later. I don’t know, my time’s up and I’m going to relax on my time off. However…someone’s sent in a rather unique training montage.”
“More so than all of what we’ve seen? Drassi?”
Sir Relz adjusted his monocle. Drassi nodded slowly. She stared ahead, waiting. And her tone was suddenly distant.
“Yes indeed…ah, here they are.”
At last, so they were. The Order of Seasons appeared in the scrying mirror. Waving, kicking the ball around.
“This is the Order of Seasons, no doubt. Around their keep, running, passing the ball—I see nothing extraordinary, Drassi. They are a renowned Knight Order, but what is the extraordinary event that prompted you to select them, may I ask?”
Sir Relz looked skeptical. He turned to Drassi. She was searching the [Knights] running about as the aerial [Scrying] spell moved.
There he was. Rabbiteater saw himself, delayed on stream, waving up at the sky, turning to look at the orb, as the Summer’s Champion beamed and slapped him on the shoulder. The Spring’s Warden saluted, and the Fall’s Champion looked quite delighted for their moment in the waning sun.
“Oh, it’s more symbolic, Sir Relz. You see, I’m being told that someone’s issued a…challenge? A commendation? ‘From Liscor to Terandria, here I am.’ You were there, weren’t you? I don’t think you played soccer. Definitely baseball the first time it came here.”
Drassi was speaking quietly, looking into the scrying orb. Sir Relz glanced at her.
“You mean, the first game of baseball? Wasn’t that around—”
“The Wandering Inn. Yes. Celum, if you want to be more accurate, but he was there. So was I. This…viewer…is calling in from Terandria. They made it all the way there, or so I gather. A guest of the inn. A personal friend.”
Joseph’s head rose as Ekirra banged on the door he’d propped a chair against, demanding to see. He looked around. Ishkr turned, blinking, confused.
“Who could that be? There’s no way…”
“Who is our mystery caller? That [Knight], there, in the unadorned armor? I don’t see a crest.”
“It’s…a Ser Solstice. Although he gave me a different name. He—the name’s secret. But he—he likes eating rabbits. There’s your hint.”
Drassi was breathing heavily. Her eyes were sparkling with tears. Sir Relz looked at her uncomprehendingly, not sure what had set this off in his co-host.
Ishkr dropped his cleaning dust rag. Joseph looked around. He didn’t see—
He ran to get Numbtongue. He never made it to the door; Bird smacked straight into him, bowled him over, and ran, all four arms waving, into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
The Hobgoblin ran out just in time to see ‘Ser Solstice’ raise an arm. Numbtongue’s eyes were wide.
It could not be. Yet—he remembered Erin receiving the ransom notice. There he was.
His armor hid his face. But look: the crimson cloak swung around his shoulders. He still carried Headscratcher’s axe. Numbtongue reached for the mirror.
Drassi was hiccupping. She managed to stifle it. Because there was another layer to this.
