“A fish dances on the line less desperately than you. What fear you, Erin Solstice? You have died. What is there left to fear?”
Another [Witch] commented, her voice bubbling, hat concealing half-aquatic features. Erin looked around.
“I’m just not um—[Witch] material! I like your hats! It’s just—”
“As stubborn as teaching Dragons manners. You said as much, Califor. I wonder why.”
Yet one more [Witch]. She crackled, sitting opposite the [Witch] of trees. She wasn’t exactly fire. More like the memory of it. Thus—charcoal skin. Ash, as if she were flaking apart as Erin looked at her. This ash-witch leaned forwards. She had one eye; the other was a socket.
“What do you fear? Not the power of it, I think. Yet something holds you back.”
In front of the nine stares, Erin Solstice hesitated. Why did she resist? She was dead. The world was in danger. She had always wanted the power to help her friends. Dreamed of it. Longed for it in those dark days. Why…?
The answer slipped out of her.
“What if I’m not special, though? What if I can’t live up to those expectations? I don’t think I’m capable of changing things. If you give me all this knowledge and put me in that place where everyone counts on me—what if I fail and they all suffer and die because of me?”
It was her great fear. A true answer, perhaps one of the truest she had ever given. Erin hung her head as she stood before the dead women.
“Ah.”
The Drowned Witch sat back. The others looked at each other. Two hats nodded. Then, almost as one, the coven began to laugh at her.
Bubbling chuckles, laughter like crackling wood. A hearty, booming laugh from the oldest among them. They laughed at Erin.
“Hey. I was being heartfelt there. This is hurting my feelings.”
The [Innkeeper] protested. Yet, the [Witches] just guffawed in her face. The one made of wood spoke. Her tones were hollow, like that of Giants.
“SO SAYS THE CHILD WHO STOLE FROM THE ___S THEMSELVES. WHO STOLE THE BLADE OF KINGS!”
A leafy bough lowered, holding a hat made of leaves. The [Witch] looked Erin in the eye, not unkindly. That was just it. None of them were incapable of kindness. They might refuse to offer it, but it was in them.
Great kindness. Terrible wrath. And a desire…two vast eyes fixed Erin with a knowing look.
“IF AN ARMY STOOD BETWEEN YOU AND A SINGLE FRIEND, WOULD YOU LET IT BAR YOUR WAY?”
The reply came out of Erin.
“No. But I wouldn’t fight them. I’d—”
Another [Witch] interrupted. The Gazer blinked at Erin.
“If a wrong exists, will you not right it, if it is within your power? Do you let injustice walk before you?”
“That’s not—no, but—”
“I see foolhardy bravery. Burning passion. Cunning—so deeply hidden it fools even herself! All she lacks is the courage to admit what she is! I see all that is a [Witch].”
The others nodded. Erin felt like they were running over all her protests and objections, which of course was exactly what they were doing. She spread her hands.
“—What if I fail, though?”
Califor stood up. The [Witch] adjusted her hat, and looked Erin straight in the eye.
“To be a [Witch] is to try. You need not even bother to try. Do you think we would leave it to chance? You can struggle or protest or run. We will make you a [Witch]. Yet we will ask. Will you give it your all?”
The [Innkeeper] met her first teachers of the dead. She looked from gaze to gaze, ancient beings, terrifying power.
Women, people who had once been like her. None of them had forgotten it. That was the difference between them and Belavierr. Between them and the six…gods.
They waited. Erin sighed. Not in denial…just letting go of something. Excuses, probably. They drifted away in the land of the dead. It did not change her in any visible way, or who she was.
Perhaps, though…slowly, Erin relaxed her shoulders and straightened her back. She nodded.
“I guess I can try.”
The [Witches] smiled. As one, they nodded their pointed hats. Erin slowly sat as her lessons in the land of the dead began. She had already received her first one.
 
—-
 
A game of football. That night, Joseph relaxed in his bed, feeling more secure than he ever had before. Oh—Liscor’s people weren’t happy. Several had come to shout at Joseph, including Lism.
However, it could have been worse. What truly mattered though, was his class.
[Coach].
He was no great football player, for all he was the first to get the class. Joseph could accept that. However, he would try to become the world’s best football coach. He’d fight for that, especially with the head start he had.
A day in the sun and shine with consequence all around.
 
Geneva Scala was missing, and her disappearance threw Talenqual into chaos, not least her allies.
Empress Nsiia had regained the attention of her enemies. Tiqr fell, Tiqr stood.
The Grand Magus, Eldavin, prepared to shake Wistram’s foolish ways apart.
Mrsha had gone to Invrisil with a friend.
Rabbiteater, Ser Solstice, awoke to learn the world had ended.
Erin Solstice studied in the lands of the dead.
 
More, of course. Yet for now, the last thing to happen of any note was the little broadcast that most had missed.
The tearful words of a Drake to the Goblin who had not known. It played the world over of course, but aside from making some people sad, it had no impact, no connection with most who saw it.
Those that had known had already known. Except for those who had known wrong.
Even the skeleton had known. Even the Goblins and Antinium. Even Healing Slime, and the blind [Emperor] and little rats in a Minotaur’s enchanted cell.
The last person in this world to learn the truth watched and listened to the broadcast, chuckling, making comments. Then choked, sprayed the noodles out of the bowl he was eating after his shift.
The stall owner objected, but the person didn’t react. He sat there, holding the bowl until it cracked—then tossed down money and left the stall, shakily.
He walked the unfamiliar streets of a different city, attracting indifferent looks as he walked to his temporary apartments.
Senior Guardsman Relc stopped to lean against a building. He was fumbling at his belt pouch. He—his clawed hand was shaking. He yanked something out.
How could it be? How? Had they forgotten? Had they—
The letter was neat, printed from the Mage’s Guild, and now he looked at it, too sparse in details. They detailed the war, which he’d been worried about. But in each one, now, he saw the truth the Drake had carefully written around.
His daughter’s neat handwriting, just above her signature on the latest letter, stood out to Relc Grasstongue.
 
Everything is fine over here.
 
Relc slowly slumped down the wall. All lies eventually bore out, even the best-intentioned of them. He sat there, processing what had happened long before he had known, that everyone else had gone through before him.
It changed nothing for Relc. He sat there for a long time. In a city far from the inn where he should have been.
What came after that was a different story, for another day.
