Joseph grinned, and the players nodded. They had a lot of respect, even the ones who were older than Joseph by nearly a decade. He’d been worried, but again, Erin Solstice had laid down the path for this.
“Looking good! How about a game?”
Two hours in, the teams looked up excitedly. They were tired, but stamina potions put them right back in the mood for a game. Joseph selected teams, trying to balance them, putting substitutes against regular players, mixing up the standards.
Testing out new Skills, too. Ekirra wasn’t the only player who got new Skills regularly. Ush was a main striker for the first game, then a winger. Ekirra got to take main striker and scored six times in the first game.
“I’ll goalie.”
Joseph took over for the poor Drake boy who had to try to block the overpowered kicks. Not only that; the football curved as one Drake booted it towards Joseph. He dove—caught it.
“Not bad! What is that?”
“[Homing Kick], Coach!”
“That’s great. Let’s see you do that after a pass in, though. Don’t just run at me; surprise me! Even if it curves, I can get it. Who’s got [Flash Kick]? Let’s set up a combo!”
That was fun. Yes, it did feel a bit…overpowered. Especially when Joseph had to block an Ekirra-kick that hurt. It was like someone ten years older smashing the ball at him!
It made the game more fun, though. Joseph glanced up as a roar came from the other pitch.
“Coach! How are we supposed to stop that?”
Ush bellowed, pointing angrily up. Joseph saw the Human goalkeeper, a brawny guy called Elmoin, angrily punch the wooden goalpost. It looked like four goals from Team A on Team B…all due to a single player.
“Lemiss! Over here! Both teams, take a break! Drink some water—and get a snack! Menua, take over as goalie for me? Little Crabs, don’t kick the ball into her face! I’m looking at you, Ekirra!”
The others did just that. And the main striker, the MVP of the Flood Crabs…flew down to talk with Joseph.
Lemiss was an Oldblood Drake. She was one of two fliers on the team, and had just enabled her team to score four times in a row, kicking the ball in from the air.
“It’s not that she scores, Coach. But how are we supposed to stop her when someone passes to her in the air?”
Ush complained. Joseph saw the problem. Honestly…aerial passes were not a problem that occurred on Earth. Yet he’d brought football to this world, and now the fliers wanted to play.
How did you stop a pass to the air? Lemiss had cheerfully shot the ball down to her teammates, effectively letting them cross the field without a chance of interruption.
“It’s bad enough when half the team are fliers. They just pass from air to air and we have to make sure they never get it or bet on our fliers intercepting. But with Lemiss and Rells…and no one else with us…”
Joseph’s arms were folded and he was nodding. Both Oldblood Drakes had been on Team A, a miscalculation on his part.
The rest of the Flood Crabs drifted over, with water and snacks in their claws, paws, or hands. All provided courtesy of Liscor’s [Shopkeepers] of course. They wanted to support their team. They wanted to win. This was something for Liscor to be proud of. Best soccer team in Izril. And they were playing other cities too! Joseph felt a pang…but concentrated on the issue.
“We took Pallass in the first game.”
Everyone nodded proudly at that. Broadcast across the world! Over three hundred thousand gold pieces’ worth of bets, or so Joseph had been told. A lot of money made because Liscor had hosted the game, and merchandise sold? Not to mention being the stars of their team. All of it was great.
It hadn’t been easy, though. Joseph pointed out the obvious he’d gotten from his post-mortems.
“We won that game because Pallass had far worse technique than ours. They had great Skills and team players—no cohesion. Their aerial game let them score, but if we kept the ball on the ground, we ran circles around them. The tradeoff with an aerial team is they have to take off and commit to the air. They mess up, they expose themselves.”
Literally. It was 17-6; a slaughter. Ush and the others nodded, smiling, but Lemiss raised a claw.
“Coach…what if they get better, though? Rells and I can actually pass across the field if we do it right. With Pallass in the air…they could strike on the goal without ever touching the ground.”
That was true. Joseph hesitated.
What’s the solution here? Get your players Rings of Jumping? Have them do some kind of trick where two of them throw a third up to intercept?
All those ideas sounded impractical. Unbalanced towards a flying opponent. In the end, Joseph exhaled.
“I think I know what it has to be. This is uh, a Human game mostly. So fliers weren’t ever something we really considered. We…banned flying spells and magic, of course.”
The other players nodded. Casual pickup games could use magic, but any real game was only Skills, no artifacts or enchantments. Joseph went on, uncertain, but feeling his way through.
“For a flying opponent…it’s totally unbalanced if they can score with impunity.”
Lemiss and Rells looked worried. Did they think they were going to be cut? Joseph hurried on.
“So I think the way it should be is this: limits on passes. Only one aerial pass is allowed; not consecutive passes from air-to-air players. Also—we’re implementing a rule from another sport. No aerial player can be passed to or shoot ahead of a ground player. It’s not much, but it means they can’t just skim around and use that to their advantage.”
“What about shooting on the goal? Rells just hovered next to the goal and kicked it in.”
“…Then we’ll have a minimum distance on flying players.”
That seemed fair. Joseph saw Rells and Lemiss nodding in relief. He clapped his hands.
“Let’s try it out! Give me Lemiss and Rells on one team again, and pass to them! Really try to drive an edge over a ground-based team. Go!”
 
—-
 
It worked. Of course, they had to tweak things, but the new rules radically limited the edge flight could give a player. It was also still risky to shoot to a flying player; if you prevented them from ‘juggling’ the ball in the air, they had to instantly pass it down to another player like a ping pong ball, which meant interceptions were far easier.
Ultimately, it added to the sport, not detracted. Joseph was smiling as he and the Flood Crabs analyzed the game.
“I think these rules work! We’ll practice under them, but remember—those aren’t the rules for the games. We need to see if the other teams agree to adopt them.”
“What? Why do we have to do that? Coach?”
Lemiss stared at Joseph. He hesitated.
“They might not agree.”
“But you’re Joseph. You introduced the game! Just tell them the new rules—I bet there are those spies watching and passing them on as we speak!”
So saying, Ush gestured with one paw towards a hill in the distance. Joseph looked and saw someone duck down. He stood there, and felt it again.
Joseph the Soccer Player. Thanks, Erin. Yet still. Joseph. He wasn’t the person who’d written the rules on the game. He was the game. The young man looked around.
“…Well, I guess those are the rules.”
His team cheered him. The [Kicker] felt his back itching. Presently, to get rid of it, because he’d been watching the game he loved, he made a suggestion.
“Why don’t we play a game? I’ll join Team A, though. I want to try my new Skill.”
They cheered that. Joseph grinned, and his team began wrangling to play with their coach or against, depending on their personalities.
That was his first, real, mistake of the day.
 
—-
 
Joseph tried his [Pinpoint Distance Kick] and watched Elmoin’s eyes go wide. He heard the epithet even across the football pitch.
A longer pitch, incidentally. Nearly twice as long. That was due to Skills; players like Ush meant it was justified. As well as a goal one point five times larger. Harder to defend? Oh yes.
Still, the Human [Blocker], who had actually been a [Shield Warrior] before changing careers and coming to Liscor, had the time to activate a Skill.
“[Static Shield]!”
A light, azure force field blocked the upper-right corner and the hammer shot Joseph had launched from across the entire field at commendable velocity—bounced. At the same time, the [Static Shield] broke.
With a surprisingly crisp shattering sound. Elmoin’s Skill—the reason Joseph had taken him as a goalkeeper—created a shield that stayed in the air wherever he wanted. His was about as tough as thick glass, though; it could block a strike or a few arrows, but it wasn’t as strong as higher-level Skills.
Great for football. Joseph groaned as Elmoin booted the ball to another player.
“Cheap shot, Coach!”
Lemiss laughed as she flew out on defense. Joseph grinned. He ran across the field. No [Quick Movement], but [Accelerated Sprint] was good—even if he was tired. Still, he had [Lesser Dexterity], [Lesser Endurance]. If he had Ekirra’s Skills?
He found himself coming up against Rells, on the ground. The Drake had dodged two players. Joseph slid in, snagged the ball. He began dribbling it forwards, looking for a pass. He wasn’t going to grandstand like the first game where he’d been the ace. H—
“Sorry, Coach!”
Ush stole the ball in a blur. Joseph cursed, but aborted the pithy words when he saw Ekirra and the Little Crabs watching the adults, learning. The little Gnoll’s ears were perked and he stared at his hero.
“Nice job! Get back here!”
Ush laughed. So did the other players vying for the ball; Lemiss got it in a diving kick that caught the Gnoll by surprise.
They loved the game. They took it seriously, they liked to level and they knew this might be a career for life. Ekirra’s parents had high hopes in him, which was why they’d enrolled him. Ekirra, leveling up at his age? They were beyond proud and encouraging.
“Coach!”
Lemiss passed. Joseph spun, caught the ball, headed towards Elmoin for a rematch.
He never made it. A second player, Maun, a female Gnoll, snagged the ball. Joseph lashed out—
“[Flash Kick]!”
At least knock it out of bounds, despite the kick. Or someone else would get it! Maun—
“[Evasive Maneuver]! Whoa! Scary, Coach!”
Dodged. And took the ball with her! It jumped Joseph’s foot. He sprinted after her, snagged it back. He was running in the clear now, as other players blocked Team B. He saw Ush coming from the side, but Joseph adjusted his body. They were going to vie for the ball and he was nearly ready to score.
He had [Power Kick] waiting. Joseph took the ball around him. He juked, feinting left—
Ush stole the ball again. He zoomed past Joseph, looking delighted. The young man slowed. Then he felt it.
I am outmatched.
It was a realization. Not a question or suspicion. He’d gotten the ball thanks to being passed to, but even as he ran back to position, he saw it.
Felt it. Joseph lost the ball six more times. He shot twice on goal. Both times blocked.
It was like the one time a college player had decided to bully the high school team. He’d walked onto the pitch and stolen every ball, scored with every shot. Faster, stronger—
More than that, better at the game. Talented enough to win a scholarship. It was that last which Joseph felt now.
Ush was one of twenty three players in Liscor, male and female, chosen for the team. Joseph had picked him during the try-outs for his ability to snag the ball like that. When he’d been teaching them, Joseph had run rings around an amateur. Now?
It was like trying to dodge a hurricane which snagged the ball each time. Trying to steal the ball back? Like trying to kick a spider dancing on a silken thread in the wind. The ball disappeared left, or right, and Ush grinned at Joseph as the young man slowed again.
“Stop taking it easy on us, Coach! Or we’ll get big heads!”
“Aha. I—”
They were moving too fast for Joseph to finish. Which was good because he didn’t have anything to say. That was what hurt most, by the by.
They thought he was better and holding back. The Flood Crabs looked at Joseph, teasing, admiring, after the game ended. Team A won despite Joseph, and they laughed.
Look at that. Taking it easy on us to show us it’s a team effort. Joseph could almost hear their thoughts as Lemiss joked with Ush. He smiled, unable, afraid to tell them the truth. He stood there, Joseph the Soccer Player.
“I think that’s it for today. Good hustle, team. I—oh?”
Some of the audience who’d come out to watch had flooded the field at this. Joseph saw an excited young woman, Human, thrust out something towards him.
“Excuse me—I’m a huge fan. Can I get an autograph?”
“Hey! You can’t just bother the coach! No civilians on the field!”
Ush looked outraged. Joseph saw the young woman’s face fall. He took the quill.
“It’s fine this time.”
“Sorry, Coach. We should really get security. You’re too popular. We are going to crush Invrisil in the next game!”
A player grinned at Joseph as the lucky autographee was escorted away with the other civilians begging autographs or wanting to talk. Joseph stood there. Trying to smile.
And they wonder why I drink. Damn me. Why do I have to be so jealous? So petty?
“I’ll see you all tomorrow. Hope you all level.”
He turned to the team. Ush grinned.
“I just did yesterday. But here’s hoping. Level 17 [Kicker]!”
The Gnoll of Joseph’s age offered a paw to high-five. Joseph…felt his petty evil welling in his heart. So he betrayed them before lunch time. He was sorry.
Yet he was a Joseph. Not a Kevin. Let alone an Erin.
 
—-
 
“Of such rank and injust betrayal of all I held dear, my heart could only twist and break and grieve for the goodness now wronged before mine eyes.”
            –Mrsha the Grieving, in regards to the time Numbtongue ate her lemon tart.
 
Little Ekirra loved soccer. Soccer was fun. Soccer was life.
He got to level because of soccer. No one had higher levels than he did! Mrsha said she did, but she lied all the time about stuff.
His parents were really happy about it too. They’d bought him his jersey, and Coach Joseph was great. He was bouncing his personal soccer ball with his team as they chattered on the way through the south gate—then Ekirra’s eyes went wide.
“I forgot my belt pouch!”
He’d left it in the inn when he went to practice with Mrsha before practice with the team! He’d been so nervous that Coach Joseph would be mad. He looked around.
“I can take your ball, Ekirra.”
One of the Gnolls who lived on his street offered. He handed it to her.
“Thanks! And my jersey? Don’t get it dirty!”
Sweat didn’t count, or dirt from the pitch. That was good mess. His teammate, Cheka, sniffed at him. She knew that! Ekirra scampered on all fours back the way he’d come—then remembered and began to jog on two legs.
