“Ser Solstice writes—‘I am playing this fun game. Challenging the [Innkeeper] and inn when I get back. Very nice [Knights] here.’”
“Ser Solstice. The name is familiar. The [Innkeeper] has to mean…”
Sir Relz looked at Drassi.
Rabbiteater saw the Drake’s anguished face at last. He slowed his waving and smile behind his helmet. Because, of course, she had realized something.
He didn’t know. In this world, the guests of The Wandering Inn had gone far and wide. His last ‘message’ from Erin had convinced Rabbiteater she was fine. He didn’t know.
Today, the news reached the second-last person to hear it. Drassi’s tears were trickling down her cheeks.
“I’m—so glad you’re okay, Ser Solstice. I thought you died. There’s something you should know, though.”
Magnolia Reinhart said nothing. She sat, watching in silence, genial mood lost again. The third-last and fourth-last people, Magnolia and Ressa, listened to the news as Drassi broke it.
Tried to break it.
“The thing is…Ancestors, I don’t know how to say it. I thought everyone knew. Erin—she helped bring baseball here. She’s—was—the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. Famous in Liscor. Pallass too, if you don’t know. I’m sorry. It’s just. She’s…”
Rabbiteater stared blankly at the orb. The Spring’s Warden, Summer’s Champion, Fall’s Sentinel, and Knight-Commander Calirn had all halted.
They knew from cadence and tone, just Drassi’s face. It was not something Rabbiteater could imagine, though. He stared, confused. Until it hit him.
It was not Drassi who delivered the news at last. She couldn’t get the words out. Sir Relz, almost callously, spoke, finally snapping his fingers.
“Erin Solstice. Yes, I recall her. The proprietress of The Wandering Inn. She is…dead. Isn’t she? Killed during a raid by the city of Hectval in…oh.”
Drassi looked at him. Sir Relz scrambled to clarify.
“A terrible tragedy. Hectval—to inform our viewers, the city of Hectval launched a raid that—I understand measures were taken to preserve her life and Liscor and Hectval are in a state of war—but the [Innkeeper] known as Erin Solstice passed away roughly…”
He went on. Rabbiteater didn’t hear it. He had dropped the scrying orb.
“Ser Solstice?”
The Spring’s Warden said something. Greysten turned to Rabbiteater, mirth forgotten. Ser Calirn reached out. Too slowly.
Rabbiteater felt the world sinking around him. He realized it was not the world—he was.
He fell backwards, darkness closing in. He had never passed out, not in battle, not when he was wounded, bleeding. For the first time in his life, he let oblivion take him.
Rather than face the truth.
 
—-
 
It was the last note of Drassi’s broadcast. She left, unable to continue recording and Sir Relz took over to apologize.
It was a sad moment to interrupt all the entertainment of the day. Too much reality, interjected into television.
That was the distinction between life and media. Uplifting, depressing, pure melancholy, slice-of-life—each to their own moment.
Silly and grand. Action-packed and trivial.
“So. Another one of us is gone.”
Rémi Canada slowly exhaled. He slowly crossed her name off the list. He had worked so hard to uncover it. Yet like so many…they were gone when he looked for them. Like the group he had parted ways from at A’ctelios Salash.
A cruel world. A realistic one. He slowly turned back to what he was working on. He would pray for Erin Solstice later, if he could find the words and belief.
Today? He turned to the head of the broadcasting studio. Not—Wistram’s, but the elegant Stitchwoman, Silk-caste, of Nerrhavia’s Wonders, the Chandrarian-broadcast studio.
“Bad news, Journalist Canada?”
She attempted to look properly contrite for his loss, but Rémi just shook his head.
“No one I knew personally, Emir Elanna. Is everything prepared?”
The woman flicked her fingers slightly as she replied, a refined gesture with multiple layers of meaning.
“To a modicum of satisfaction. Such a barbaric game. Yet you assure us that Wistram will find it of note. I can well assume the spectacle will attract such event. Such that Nerrhavia’s splendors will acquire their deserved place in the spotlight.”
That was a ‘yes’, which Rémi interpreted after a moment. He nodded, and the Emir gestured elegantly.
“Let us begin the spectacle.”
She intoned, and into the air, the [Journalist] looked.
Of course, he knew Wistram was making an event of football. The Canadian [Journalist] was also aware people who met with Wistram’s agents tended to disappear, probably to Wistram. He had watched the [Popstar]’s performance, after all.
Well and so, Rémi had mixed feelings on how to influence global events, if at all. This? This was more in giving Nerrhavia and by extent, Chandrar, a bit of fair ground in the war for attention.
For Earthers, a hint that not everything came from Wistram.
…And mainly because it was a lot of fun.
“Grand viewers of Chandrar and the world over! I am Emir Elanna of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! It is my delight to introduce you to another new ‘sport’, that has not been showcased before on live broadcast!”
At least this woman had the right stage presence for the job. As her broadcast came to life, Wistram News Network itself began to lose viewers as Nerrhavia’s Fallen literally bought attention.
Also because it was new. Trey Atwood nearly choked to death as the competing broadcast came to life. The Earthers of Wistram looked up, confused at what sport they’d had left to introduce? Basketball? Hockey? They saw Rémi Canada of course, and Elena was out of her chair, pointing. The [Mages] in a furor.
“Him and that Joseph! Why are they at large? How could High Mage Merzun have lost against Montressa in Liscor?”
Naili hissed at Beatrice. Eldavin, listening in past their shoddy spells, frowned. He hadn’t excluded Liscor from Wistram’s greed. He’d forgotten there were more.
A reckoning would have to come. He drummed his fingers on the table, then glanced at the scrying mirror set against the banquet hall’s wall.
“Am I to take it from your reaction that this is another aspect of Earth?”
Archmage Valeterisa eyed Elena with interest. The [Beautician] was spluttering.
“Yes! No! It’s—sort of, but we can’t play it!”
“That madman. That genius!”
Aaron stood up and applauded Rémi as the young man explained.
“This is a game dearly, dearly beloved in my homeland, Emir Elanna, and I can only thank the munificence of Queen Yisame that she has graciously recreated it for me here. To anyone who recognizes this—the game is known as the famous, nay, renowned sport of…”
Trey’s jaw dropped.
“What is it, Troy?”
Goelv asked, the Gazer’s eyes curious. The [Sand Mage] breathed the answer as his fellow students stared at him uncomprehendingly.
“Quidditch.”
The carpets rose into the air, and two actual broomsticks. Nervous Stitch-People holding bats, the enchanted balls, and of course, the golden object of possession all hovered higher. An enchanted sphere zipped about as Rémi explained.
“You see, this is a [Mage]’s game. I am surprised Wistram didn’t know about it.”
He raised an eyebrow. The Emir, clearly enjoying the ribbing at Wistram, laughed politely.
“Yet, as I understand it, players may hit these dangerous objects at each other? Even knock each other from the vehicles? Which is why all are warded with falling enchantments, of course. Such a violent game. Barbaric, even.”
“Ah, Emir Elanna, you know [Mages]…unconventional. However, I thought it would be lovely to showcase. Perhaps Wistram lacks the artifacts to field their own team?”
“We have to play! How did none of you think of it?”
Aaron bellowed as he left the table. George pointed at him.
“How come you didn’t?”
A barbaric game? They were laughing, clamoring to play! The first game of the fictional game from Earth that had never been realized in actuality took place as the [Mages] susurrated. Hardly barbaric! Trey shook his head. It was amazing! He realized he’d given away his cover, though, and was scrambling to explain to his friends—
…Right before the first fatality. A novice [Carpet Rider] lost control of her carpet.
She was of the String People, yes. Yes, she had enchantments. However, hitting the ground at nearly a hundred miles per hour meant none of that mattered.
The audience, Rémi, and the Emir all went quiet. Eldavin snorted quietly at his table.
“Fools.”
The Quarass did likewise, as she watched the same broadcast. The reason no one played that game was that flying was incredibly dangerous.
 
—-
 
There was a benefit to the death, however. Not to the grieving fiancé, the family, or the broadcast, which had to be terminated and all the hard work ended by the fatality.
However, there was a benefit. Just not for the living.
The bewildered ghost arose where she had died. Correspondingly, as the reality of her death set in, she was not lost to shadows, consumed. In fact, she was welcomed by the lines of ghosts, practically dragged before a council of royalty led by Khelt’s dead.
“Tell us what is happening in the world, child.”
The First of Khelt spoke, staring down at the little [Carpet Rider]’s ghost. For how else would the dead know what was happening in the world?
There were very few ways, Erin had learned. Séances, summoning rituals to bind dead to the living, were out of fashion because of course the ghosts had been fleeing the…things…all this time.
Now, it would be impossible in Izril, or virtually. Plus, the living had to make the effort in most of the ways. For the dead to call on the living?
Only a few methods remained, and the easiest—via Khelt, wasn’t working.
“Fetohep has left Khelt!”
One of the rulers cried aloud, frustration clear on his face.
“To give it life and expand the borders. We understand the reasoning, if not condone it. Yet the timing is ill indeed. Perhaps our enemy commands luck itself. Fate.”
“Take heart. Now—explain to us once again. What is ‘soccer’? We understand Wistram’s broadcast.”
The half-Giant ruler bent down and boomed to the quavering [Carpet Rider], staring at the dynasties of Chandrar’s greatest rulers and heroes.
“So as before, now again. Mass-communication spells link this world. In my era, it was naught to be surprised at.”
An Archmage sneered, as some of the rulers looked mightily impressed at the phenomenon. A [Sage] prodded her in the back.
“Your era was marked by the end of magic for nearly three hundred years, due to the experiments your academy conducted.”
“That was an accident!”
“Accident? Countless millions died screaming from what you unleashed! Magic ended.”
“It came back!”
Ghosts argued and bickered, silenced only when the greatest among them restored order. It was a sight to see, the conclave of the dead. If Erin could have watched, she would have.
However, Califor dragged her away from the ruckus to the eight.
Eight. An auspicious number, but Califor made nine, and Erin made ten. So…less auspicious. They didn’t care.
Eight [Witches] sat or stood in a former throne room of old. They looked at Erin.
[Witches]. Each one far greater than Califor had been in life. The greatest of their eras.
First [Witches]. Later—[Sages], [Heroes], [Monks], [Mages], and all the others who were vying to teach Erin Solstice. However, Califor had convinced the Rulers of Khelt to let [Witches] be first. How she’d managed that, Erin had no idea. Perhaps the First of Khelt simply agreed that their classes shared common ground.
“Ah. The living soul walks among us.”
One of the [Witches]’ souls was so old she had forgotten what she looked like. She was more wisp than person, and kept coming back into focus. When Erin did look at her, she saw a grand woman, reclining with fur instead of robes, legs crossed, a smile like mischief itself on her lips, and a feather in her witch’s hat.
All style, in short. Another [Witch] had eyes like a storm front itself was contained in them. Yet another was tall as two floors of Erin’s inn. Her skin looked like bark.
Legends. They sat, waiting, as the [Innkeeper] halted in front of them. Faced with the greatest of witch-kind that had ever died on Chandrar, Erin Solstice stopped.
Then she walked over to the nearest [Witch] and held out a hand.
“Erin Solstice. Nice to meet you. Wanna hamburger?”
She offered the [Witch] of trees a hamburger of memory, Imani-style since all the ghosts liked that. The [Witch] stared at her. Califor made a strangled sound in her throat.
After a second, fingers like twigs took the burger. Erin went around the circle, smiling and talking.
“Hi, I’m Erin. Have a hamburger. Hi, I’m Erin. Hamburger? Erin—burger? Um—spaghetti?”
She conjured the memory of a good spaghetti with alfredo sauce. Califor reached out and smacked it out of Erin’s hand. The plate hit the ground, shattered, and vanished.
One of the remaining [Witches] looked disappointed. Another, who sat in the center, did not. She raised one eyebrow and spoke.
“We did not come here to gorge ourselves on memory and regret, girl.”
Erin looked at her. Even the [Innkeeper]’s cheerful bravado wilted for a second.
An eye stared back. A vast eye, joined by smaller ones, opening and closing, shrouded by a single, vermillion witch’s hat. Each iris a different color.
That was all Erin could make out. There were…limbs…yes, but the [Witch] beneath the hat was shrouded by darkness. It wrapped around her, yet Erin saw the flash of sharp teeth as the mouth spoke.
“You are everything Witch Califor says. More and less. The courage to face down what we will not name. The arrogance to make nothing of your talents, to be satisfied with mediocrity.”
Erin Solstice stared at the [Witch]. The things Erin had learned were these:
Gods were petty, ghosts were chaotic, and [Witches] were rude.
“…But you’re dead. It’s just a burger. Don’t you want—?”
She was about to say that the [Witches] might never get a second chance to remember food or the joys of the living, but the [Witch] snapped back a reply.
“We are dead, with the infinity of the afterlife before us. Yet somehow, you still manage to waste time.”
Erin hesitated. Califor took her place, and the nine [Witches] looked at her.
“You must learn something, Erin Solstice. We believe your nature matches ours. Will you at least listen to what we have to teach you?”
The [Innkeeper] bit her lip. She fidgeted in front of the [Witches], glanced around.
“Me? But I don’t really fit in. Are you sure there are no legendary [Innkeepers] or, like, amazing [Bartenders] I can learn from? Really, that’s more fitting than…”
She trailed off in front of the stares of the [Witches].
