It was far from over, but the cure was out there. Geneva was busy packing. It was the first step, although she had to go to Daly and Paige right after this. Perhaps they’d be upset.
Idis certainly was.
“Right, right! But you promised! What about my people?”
Geneva hesitated. The Selphids who had come to Talenqual had beseeched her to help with the sickness afflicting their kind. The wasting of their species.
“…I’m aware and I will do everything I can, Idis. However…”
She closed her eyes. Her medical self weighed the ethics of her choice. An entire species versus one person?
“…The Wasting disease has not killed Selphids over this many generations. It may be callous, but there is a patient who needs my direct supervision now. They have already failed to revive her and they might well kill her before I arrive. More than that?”
She stared at her personal scrying orb, which she seldom watched for recreation. Yet…Geneva looked at Pallass, Joseph bouncing the ball with Ekirra.
It looked safe. Safer than Baleros, the continent plagued by so many bloody battles. Perhaps it was petty, wrong of her. Yet for once, she had done as Okasha always wanted. She was putting herself, or rather, her company ahead of her class.
“I will return. The United Nations Company might not go. Yet…we might be able to journey to Izril relatively quickly.”
“It’s too dangerous, Geneva. It will take weeks! Look, please talk to Calectus! You can’t just decide this!”
“I’ve made up my mind, Idis. I am asking you not to stand in my way. The Bodies of Fellden can join us, of course.”
Geneva’s hands were steady as she packed up her equipment. The truth was she wasn’t sure this was the right move. What had forced her to choose was a number of decisions.
The first was Luan. It was one too many lives lost. Geneva could—would—save lives here, as many as she could. Yet the other Earthers didn’t deserve this.
“A bounty. They killed him over a bounty.”
“Geneva…”
The second reason was Erin Solstice. Geneva could not help Erin beyond formulating strategies without being there. Not to mention a Potion of Regeneration might save countless lives if she figured out how it worked!
The third reason was contradictory with her medical teachings. Yes, one person, even from Earth, did not outweigh the needs of a species afflicted by this Wasting disease. If Geneva measured by the QALY quotient—quality-adjusted life years—her decision was clear. Like a triage or other measurements a medical professional had to make in choosing who to help, Selphids as a people required assistance perhaps only Geneva could give.
…It would have been easy to rely on that. Except for Idis. Except for Okasha. Except for Calectus and the Bodies of Fellden, the Selphid mercenary company, however well-meaning they were.
If one tenet of Geneva’s practice was to ‘do no harm’, and to save as much life as possible, another was not to endanger her patients. She felt now, stronger than ever, that Baleros, and this Selphid company which had come here for her interfered with that second clause.
It had taken a lot of time, making Idis her friend. Establishing the rapport she should have truly built with Okasha. Now was the moment, though. Geneva breathed out. There were actually few valuables the United Nations Company could not grab and run with. Their lease? They’d lose it anyways. Gold? Possessions?
She stopped as she put it all into her bag of holding. Not her choice. Geneva Scala’s heart was beating fast, yet she felt the Selphid slow it reflexively. The [Doctor] spoke, as persuasively as she could.
“Idis. I am asking you to help me. I know what your orders are, and your company. Please. Assist me.”
The Selphid hesitated. Geneva Scala stood there, unable to move her body. For a moment, a long moment, she feared that she had failed, even after all her hard work getting Idis as an ally.
Then her hand moved up and grabbed the doorknob.
“I—Geneva—”
Idis didn’t say anything. Yet she did not stop Geneva from twisting the handle. The [Doctor] actually smiled, knowing Idis sensed it.
“Thank you, Idis.”
She had to tell Daly and Paige, and then move now. The United Nations company was not the Bodies of Fellden’s target, anyways. That was why—
 
—-
 
“Huh. You know, there’re not many Drowned Folks here. I suppose it’s hard to play this game on the water. Always feels a bit land-biased to me, though, don’t you think, Erek?”
“Ook.”
The orangutan looked at Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier. It was the second time that Seve had been here in as many months and he knew he was attracting attention. His tattoos stood out across his body, and he smiled, but declined to chat. He was waiting for his passenger.
She had prevailed on him, and of course the Hundredfriends Courier had answered the call. He understood there was some trouble, but Geneva Scala did not have to explain. She had to ask and he would answer. That was the debt he owed the Last Light of Baleros for saving so many selflessly.
To wait, he checked the scrying orb, watching, while keeping an eye on the harbor docks. Geneva had told him it might be another hour or two, so he was game to wait. The trick was not to draw attention to her plans; he pretended he was waiting for a delivery, not intimating who the cargo was.
Seve waited, watching the splendid little diversion on the scrying orb with Erek, the glowing orangutan bound to him by magical tattoos.
He waited.
And waited.
…After three hours, Seve sensed something was wrong. He threw caution to the winds and made his way to the United Nations Company, then Geneva Scala’s clinic.
Of course, by then he was too late.
 
—-
 
Geneva Scala, Last Light of Baleros and [Doctor], opened the door. A tall Dullahan, still bearing the body’s death-wounds, blocked it.
“Calectus. What a surprise. Are you injured? How can I help—”
Geneva stepped backwards. She was not a good actress. Nor, as it turned out, would that have helped. The Selphid looked down at her, smelling of the faintly formaldehyde-analogous preservatives Selphids used.
Calectus, [Honor Guard] of the Selphids looked down at Geneva in silence. His features were dead and though he mimicked his host-species’ naturally less-emotive states, he was plainly disapproving.
Reproachful, even. He adjusted the loose Dullahan’s head attached to the body and spoke.
“Geneva. I had hoped that the actions of my people earned us more trust than this.”
The [Doctor] fell silent. He knew. Calectus was not alone, either. A group of four Selphids stood behind him. However, she still made the best attempt possible.
“What, I’m sure I have no idea what you’re talking about. I—”
“Izril is too far. Too dangerous. Did you not promise me you would help me save my people?”
The [Honor Guard] stood there, stiffly. He was disapproving. The other Selphids—less so. Geneva hesitated.
The truth was impossible to hide. So she stood, straighter, and faced him directly.
“Calectus. I intend to fulfill that promise. However, a patient needs my care in Izril.”
“One Human? You cannot risk your body, your life when we need your abilities here!”
A Selphid she did not know the name of scoffed. The [Doctor] met his gaze.
“It is not your right to tell me who I must treat. I am aware of the suffering of Selphids. However—”
She hesitated, but it was time to say it. She looked at Calectus again, then slowly touched her back, indicating the wound that had left her paralyzed. Then her chest.
“…This is not an equal relationship, or an unbiased one. Calectus. Okasha was proof of that.”
His eyes flickered. Some of the other Selphids exchanged glances. The [Honor Guard] inclined his head slowly.
“Nevertheless, Doctor Scala. My people die and suffer. Will you not reconsider? The Bodies of Fellden and I have orders regarding you. Orders which I must carry out. However—I would like to cooperate.”
Geneva hesitated.
“Do I have a choice?”
“Let us provide escort to your company. Perhaps act in your stead. If you wished the rest of your company to journey to Izril…”
“Calectus, that is not within the scope of our mission.”
“It could be.”
The Selphids were not united. Calectus’ head swung around to address a Selphid behind him, looking irritated at the lack of unity in front of Geneva. The [Doctor] peered at him, trying to gauge his reactions.
“If I promised to return? If you went with me…?”
Calectus frowned. Again, the Selphid in robes, one of the [Mages], answered for him.
“The Minds will not allow this. Need we ask for instructions, Calectus?”
The voice was warning. The [Honor Guard] shook his head after another second. He met Geneva’s eyes, looking torn.
“I am sorry, Geneva. Hollow words though they are.”
She exhaled, slightly. Lifted her hands; they were sweaty.
“…Then I will abide, Calectus. I will remain here. Perhaps if the United Nations company were given escort instead of me—that would be amenable.”
He began to nod. The other Selphids hissed. Calectus held up a hand and stepped back.
“A moment, please, Geneva.”
They began arguing, one of them deploying a [Silence] spell. Geneva saw Calectus began to speak—then gesture more emphatically. The angry [Mage] retorted—Calectus lifted two fingers. Then lowered one.
The other Selphids went quiet. Geneva’s skin prickled as she felt, as she had on the battlefield, the propensity for violence or…
“Calectus. I will stay and treat the Selphids. Do no harm. Any of you.”
He looked up and nodded. Geneva looked at the other Selphids.
If only it could have ended at that. However…the [Mage]’s eyes narrowed. They put a hand to their temple, and their eyes widened, then became triumphant.
“That is no longer a possibility. Calectus. The Hundredfriends Courier is docked at the harbor. She plans to escape with him! Do you think our company can or should clash with a Sea Courier of his reputation?”
Oh no. Seve! Geneva saw Calectus’ face change. He gave the other Selphid the same look—then his face was anguished.
Then resigned. He straightened and sighed.
“It seems you are correct, Magus.”
“Calectus, don’t—”
Geneva looked around. The window? She began to edge over. And her feet abruptly stopped. She tried to make them move. Yet…the [Honor Guard] was looking at her now. He spoke solemnly.
“Doctor Scala, I respect your desires. However, the Minds of Selphids gave me clear instructions. Idis.”
Geneva’s body had already stopped moving of course. Now, it straightened, with a [Soldier], a [Warrior]’s precision. Even saluted the other Selphid. Geneva heard a whisper from within her.
“I’m sorry. I warned you!”
They had known from the start. Geneva was helpless. The Selphid [Mage]’s eyes were triumphant. Yet—even as Geneva struggled against her own body and knew she would never win, she wondered how they had known she was leaving to begin with!
The answer became apparent as Calectus looked around and glanced over his shoulder, his head rotating a hundred and eighty degrees.
“It seems we must engage our contingencies. Make the company ready. Doctor Scala is mostly prepared, which aids us. Grab any additional tools. Prepare to move out.”
“Yes, commander.”
Selphids moved into the clinic, smoothly grabbing additional supplies. Geneva tried to move her mouth.
“This is a mistake. How did you even…?”
She saw Calectus gesture. One of the Selphid [Mages] walked over to a wall. He rubbed at the blank plaster—and a glowing rune appeared.
A listening spell. They’d bugged her clinic! And Idis had known—that was why she’d been arguing out loud—
“I’m sorry.”
Geneva stood there, at military attention as Calectus looked at her.
“Doctor Scala, your level has risen high enough. I must insist you accompany us.”
It wasn’t even hard. Idis moved Geneva’s body so there was no struggling. No fight to give. She just sat in the coach after leaving the clinic, lying to her staff’s faces. Only when she was given her tongue back did Geneva look at the Selphids.
“Do you think you can force me to help you?”
The Selphids looked at her. Calectus looked slightly ashamed, yet he was still direct. He spoke, quietly.
“Frankly—yes. I’m afraid your moral convictions are clear, Doctor Geneva. We are desperate. We cannot risk you dying on Izril. We…I am sworn to defend my people. Thus, my class. Even if I must cast aside honor to do so.”
He exhaled, though it was an unnecessary gesture. Geneva saw him turning, and felt her pivoting to walk with him.
“Don’t do this, Calectus. Please.”
The Selphid [Honor Guard] looked at her. Then he gestured.
“Your company will be untouched. They will not be able to follow us. We are taking you to one of our bases. The Minds await. Move out.”
That day, the Last Light of Baleros—
Vanished. Straight out from under the noses of all the observers, Niers’ students, and her company.
 
—-
 
It was football. Or soccer if you were weird. Really, it depended on perspective. The point was…was it coincidence, or was it football that caused this kind of day?
This…Empress Nsiia had gone through the worst days of her life. Yet the problem was, it was never a single day.
It repeated. So, she shed a few tears. Armsmaster Dellic and some of Illivere’s fittest warriors hovered, uncertain of why she was crying.
Surely not vanity? It was not that.
She just wanted them to know she was alive. Yet she couldn’t get onto the stupid news. Nsiia sniffed. She would cut off a finger to give them something…some of the cheer pervading the news.
In fact, the news, which often gave no truth to tragedy. When it was happy, the ‘world’ was happy. When some arbitrary people decided everyone should grieve, that was what you saw.
How quickly they had stopped saying Tiqr’s name. How fickle the world was. Nsiia saw it as some vast, ever-changing thing. Not like an animal at all, but some hive which could be capable of great good, or wrath, but forgot faster than anything.
Not like elephants. Not like Thef. A glorious and petty thing.
So how did you get its attention? Nsiia wiped her tears away just outside of Femithain’s mansion, in the streets. She looked at the [Mage] and realized, ironically, the sight of the Empress of Beasts bawling her eyes out might have gotten her the attention.
…It might have, indeed. Nsiia came to a sudden realization. Her eyes widened. She crouched and before Dellic could react, started running. The [Mage], who had been yawning, snapped his head up as Nsiia put into action her plan.
 
—-
 
Her conclusion was the exact opposite of Rabbiteater’s. The frustrated Order of Seasons hadn’t figured out how to top the displays on television. Aura blades and so on couldn’t match the magic now sprinkled into these viewings.
