Perhaps it was teaching [Cooks]. Perhaps that was who Imani had been before trauma and Crelers. The inn had given her back her life and confidence.
Plus, a boyfriend. Palt nodded at Joseph, eyes knowing. Joseph felt it odd that he was used to seeing a giant Centaur trotting about and giving Imani a peck on the cheek.
“Hello, Imani, verdant bloom of the jungles.”
“You told me all of Baleros’ most vivid flowers are poisonous, Palt.”
“Er, so I did. Late night, Joseph? Need a pick-me-up?”
The [Illusionist] and [Smoker] could definitely tell. Joseph grinned lamely.
“I have a potion, thanks.”
“Cigar?”
Imani swatted it down. Joseph hadn’t been sure he’d have taken it.
“I told you, it’s unhealthy, Palt.”
“And I told you, that’s what [Healers] and potions are for.”
The Centaur was unmoved. Also, Joseph knew everyone save for Galina had tried or used Palt’s cigars from time to time.
“At least not when you’re eating. It ruins the taste! I have to go.”
“Who’s looking after Mrsha?”
Joseph hesitated, pointing to the three playing kids in the open door. Imani glanced at him quizzically.
“Ishkr.”
“Oh, right.”
That was that. Imani left, briskly, not unfriendly at all, with Palt in tow. Joseph looked at the food, headed for the door.
“Going somewhere, sir?”
A surly Gnoll greeted him. She was shorter as Gnolls went, and had the barest attempt at a smile on her face.
“Er—Liska? I’d like to go to Esthelm.”
“Right away, sir. Will you be returning soon? I will check for you in ten minutes, then. Have a lovely day.”
She said it in the tone that indicated her older brother had been lecturing her about proper service. She was in charge of the door, though, and Imani and Palt were already in Liscor. Joseph trotted through, thinking.
Imani had made it and seemed to have no regrets. Erin and Ryoka were the examples to look up to. In the same way…
Kevin was indeed asleep at his desk. He sat up as Joseph opened the door to the back room of Solar Cycles.
“Your Majesty, I’m aw—oh. Hey, Joseph.”
Joseph would have laughed—but that was the eighth time Kevin had done that. Joseph offered the covered plate and Kevin’s eyes widened.
“Is it breakfast already? Dude, thank you. I must have dozed off and…”
He lamely indicated his desk. Lamely, but not to Joseph. The sheets of orders tacked to the walls, the schedule Kevin had drawn up, not to mention the fact that he was keeping inventory, working on new blueprints for the bicycles, and essentially starting a business by himself with international clients was…amazing. Joseph handed Kevin the tray and saw how hungry the young man was.
“No problem, Kevin. How’s business?”
“We’re getting more [Smiths] to work on the mundane bikes. This is so good. Imani’s like, a saint. Sorry, I haven’t eaten all day! I mean, yesterday.”
“No problem.”
Joseph rubbed at his head, repeating himself. He was definitely out of sorts today. Perhaps it was the comparisons.
It was a bad idea to compare yourself against people. Especially in this inn, but in general. Even after Erin had…well, it was comparisons that haunted Joseph, he realized.
“I can take your other plates and stuff.”
“Dude. Appreciated. I can get them though…I just have work and a meeting in like—uh—what’s the time?”
“It’s not a problem. Do your thing.”
Joseph grabbed a stack of six plates and cutlery. Kevin gave him a grateful look.
“You’re awesome, man.”
No, you are. Joseph saw Kevin gobbling his food. He had a meeting with Pelt in a few minutes, and he’d be negotiating with a [Merchant] later today.
Kevin’s strengths were his ability to get along with people, his knowledge of how to run a shop, write a ledger, and frankly, knowing how a bicycle worked. The fact that he could get along with Pelt, the Dwarf [Smith] who was cantankerous as any old man Joseph had met, was amazing.
A bit of Erin in him. By the same token, Imani’s skills were managing a kitchen’s supplies, cooking of course, teaching, and having sex with horse-guys.
Joseph thought about that last part. He slapped the side of his head in an unfriendly way. That hurt. Seriously though, how did…?
As he trotted back through the doorway, Liska wrinkled her nose at him.
“Better put those to be washed. I guess I have to do it. Don’t eat anything off them until they’re scrubbed, though. One of them has mold on it.”
“Oh. Thank you, Liska. Er—thanks for getting the door, too.”
He only remembered to thank her this time. She growled.
“You’re welcome.”
Yet she looked a bit mollified. Joseph wanted to remember to do things as mundane as thank people for making breakfast and so on.
…But he was not a Kevin. Not an Imani, either.
He was not a Leon or Troy, he was pretty sure. That was a low bar, though. However, Joseph could look at himself and find less amiability than Kevin. A bit more xenophobia, like seeing Palt and Imani together and wondering…did they have sex? More envy, oh yes. Less control with things like drinking.
Less of being the good, or decent person he’d thought he always was.
 
—-
 
Imani had put out food for Joseph. A very fine…Joseph’s face fell.
It hadn’t occurred to him as Kevin ate to note breakfast. The [Engineer] had made it vanish instantly, anyways.
Breakfast was pincho, pincho de tortilla, a potato omelette from Spain. Nostalgic, and Joseph realized he must have mentioned it to Imani. Thus, the [Chef] had taken the time to make it for him.
He ate it, savoring each nostalgic bite and felt worse. Comparisons haunted Joseph. For instance, as mentioned, it wasn’t just Imani or Kevin that made you feel bad about yourself.
Feeling proud of being able to bench a hundred and eighty pounds? Stare at the weight room list, or just watch Bezale work out in the mornings.
Think you were good at chess? Play Bird or half of the Antinium. Bird had somehow evolved to the point where he had once beaten Joseph while never looking at the chessboard. He’d learned it from Erin, of course.
Think you know misery? Mrsha, Ryoka, and half the inn could tell you about real trauma.
Of course, all this was a futile effort to begin with. Everyone had their strengths and weaknesses. Each person was able to do something the others were not, and etcetera, etcetera, value yourself. Joseph knew that.
It was just…Joseph finished his breakfast, excitement turning to glumness again. He could wait no longer, though. The sun was rising, the morning begun…he stood, stretched, and saw the little Gnoll race into the common room. Ekirra had smelled he was here, of course.
“Hello, Mister Coach Joseph! Are we going to practice?”
Joseph tried to smile. He fooled Ekirra as Visma and Mrsha watched. The little Gnoll boy, like Mrsha, disdained clothes. Yet he had on the jersey of Liscor’s Flood Crabs and his number, 3, hand-stitched to the back. He looked excited, as a member of the Little Crabs team should be.
The young man sighed, and nodded. He and Ekirra got to work. The [Kicker], Joseph Ortega, headed outside to start his day.
 
—-
 
Joseph was a Level 11 [Kicker]. Here were some facts for you: he had [Lesser Dexterity], [Lesser Endurance], [Power Kick], [Accelerated Sprint]…
And his latest Skill was green.
It was nothing special as green Skills went. At least, Joseph didn’t think so.
[Pinpoint Distance Kick]. As the fabled new Skills went…it was not an [Immortal Moment]. However, it stood out to Joseph because it was new.
Thus, no one had ever needed or gained a Skill like this before. A Skill for a game, not battle.
Football. Which made sense when you thought about it. [Pinpoint Distance Shot] was probably some [Archer] Skill that combined range and accuracy, very necessary. Who needed to kick a rubber ball that far, though?
A good player, that was who. Joseph was proud of that. He greeted both teams. Forty six players stared at him.
Twenty three per team. Adults and children, made up of Gnolls, Drakes, and three Humans not including him.
Yes, only eleven players on each team could take to the field at one time. However, substitutions were important and the standard from Joseph’s world meant he’d suggested a limit of twenty three.
Because he’d said it, it was now law. The [Kicker] saw children and adults staring at him, all wearing the jerseys, all ready to start practicing.
It was eerie. Joseph had been a dedicated part of his football team. Yet if he thought high school and middle school dedication was one thing—these players were even more driven.
They were never late. He had to tell them to go back if they were sick or worn out. They’d play even if they really injured themselves and they trained without complaint. Because they were leveling. Because—this was a career.
Football had come to Liscor. They were practicing on the vast, flattened land that Hexel had smoothed for them, kept clear of monsters by the Watch. Liscor’s Council had even paid Viceria to regrow all the grass for a proper turf instead of waiting.
“Good to see you all. You know the drill! Let’s warm up!”
Joseph was not an expert. He had cobbled together team’s training menu from memory. Thus, each day, the Flood Crabs and Little Crabs warmed up the same way.
Jog, first. They ran around Liscor, even the kids doing a lap. The adults were encouraged to run in their own time. Not just run, though; they did all the exercises that an athlete had to perform, which had elicited sniggers the first few weeks.
Not now. Now? [Guards] waved down at the players, shouting encouragement. Some civilians did the same, and kids copied the pro-team, looking envious or hoping Joseph would see talent there.
Ekirra ran with the younger players, having learned to walk on two legs just so he could jog along. Forwards, backwards—and that was the start.
After the lap, they did side shuffles. Skipping, kicks, high knees, hops…exercises designed to build flexibility and muscle. Joseph made everyone stretch, and only after nearly thirty minutes of warming up did they even get to the practice.
“Okay, Flood Crabs—relays! Little Crabs, let’s start with passing.”
There was only one Joseph and since Kevin and Rose were now busy, he alternated the physical training with technical. The adults knew the score and set up; they ran from one line to another, turning around and racing back the way they’d came.
Suicides were another word for the exercise, although the first time he’d used that term, Joseph had caused a small incident, so he called it ‘relays’ instead. Meanwhile, the Little Crabs were practicing passing. They’d long since graduated from just kicking the balls back and forth. These days, they had to dribble and pass between each other, faster and faster, over longer distances.
Joseph watched approvingly as the Little Crabs practiced. They were good. Better than he’d been at their age? Well…not in control.
Ekirra kicked a bit too hard and a Drake ran off after the ball. However, he’d had only a month or two to play! His ears flattened and he shouted.
“Sorry, Coach!”
“It’s fine. Don’t worry, that’s why we’re practicing.”
That was what Joseph thought was ‘too serious’. Ekirra looked afraid he’d be kicked off the team for one mistake! Joseph knew there were tough coaches; he’d had one for middle school. He didn’t want to be that.
He watched with half an eye, then turned to the Flood Crabs.
“Ush! You’re going faster.”
A Gnoll about Joseph’s age stopped and grinned. He was sprinting the relays and Joseph knew he couldn’t match that.
“Thanks, Joseph. Got [Quick Movement] last night.”
“You don’t say? That’s great. We’ll see how this changes you on offense.”
Ush was a second striker, but given his new Skill, Joseph might have to try him in a winger or the main striker position. Skills changed how football was played in so many ways.
In more ways than one. Joseph let the Flood Crabs build their muscles; Skills changed things, but they could multiply hard work rather than just replace it. He watched the Little Crabs go from passes to trying to score on the goalkeeper gamely blocking their shots.
Something was apparent, though. The Little Crabs were behind the Flood Crab team because they were children and the adults could practice longer and picked up advanced techniques, despite the motivation and enthusiasm of kids. Coordination was lacking; that was fine. They’d play against kids their age.
However, Ekirra kept messing up. Eight times, he missed a pass, and a Gnoll or Drake or the only Human girl would go running after the ball he kicked too hard.
“Ekirra, take a break. What’s wrong? Are you trying to kick less hard?”
Joseph flagged him down after the last cycle, where Ekirra’s kick had actually missed the goal and gone off nearly a hundred paces—too far right.
“Sorry, Coach. My aim’s bad. I wanted to practice with Mrsha, but I can’t hit the goal. Please don’t kick me off the team.”
Ekirra’s ears were flat and he looked like he’d cry if Joseph did. The young man squatted down, patting Ekirra’s shoulder reassuringly.
“I wouldn’t do that. You’re fast, you work hard…you pass really well!”
Besides, Ekirra had helped start football in this world. Joseph wouldn’t cut him no matter what, and if that was favoritism, so be it. He looked at Ekirra. The kid didn’t take the game lightly…
“Has something changed?”
“It’s…my Skill.”
Joseph blinked. Ekirra glanced up with one huge, brown eye and kicked the ground.
“You got a Skill?”
“Yep. I’m Level 5 now. And I got [Lesser Strength]. But I can’t—”
Joseph stared as Ekirra babbled nervously. He looked at the ball Ekirra had blasted past the goal. Then he started laughing. Ekirra looked terrified until Joseph ruffled the fur on the top of his head.
“That’s not a problem. Say it earlier! You just need more practice. Come on, we’ll have you get your aim back in. Flood Crabs! Let’s do our practice! Little Crabs—relays! Metas, you and Ekirra will do some passing practice!”
 
—-
 
How fast they improved. Joseph felt better as Ekirra brightened up and he was soon working with the adults.
Now they were good. No basic passes with them; Joseph was teaching them tricks. Proper headers, how to evade someone trying to steal the ball while dribbling…was it too soon for two month players?
The answer was no. Joseph had the ball stolen from him twice when he ran demonstrations despite his best attempts.
“Skills!”
Ush grinned at him; Joseph had lost the ball despite trying to show off the evasive trick where the ball seemed to stick to your feet as you rotated around someone.
“Just do that in the game.”
