She opened her eyes in the still cosmos. Surrounded by nothing, feeling nothing, she…

Screaming and crying filled the air. Piety blinked a long blink and felt unsteady on her feet.

The screaming meant nothing. The dead meant nothing. There was only here and…

“Mother.”

Tobias’ strong hands steadied her and lifted her. He carried her in his arms and she rested her head on his chest. Carefully, Piety unwrapped herself from the cosmos. It was a feat of concentration, pulling from the embrace of all and naught. Only a small insistence between grit teeth allowed her the ability.

“The vhamps?”

“Dead.”

“Temperance?”

“She has things well in control.”

“Temperance?” Piety tried to struggle out of Tobias’ arms but he held her tight.

“She’s fine, Piety. You’re the one whose health is in question. Again.”

Piety blinked and squinted through watery vision. She focused on his eyes, hazel with a dark, almost black ring at the outside. “You have pretty eyes,” she said. And she blinked again, this time for longer.

Piety sat with Temperance and Lillyfield in the Mother Superior’s chambers. They sat in comfortable chairs around a low table in the outer chamber, which was set up as both an office and a place to receive guests. Temperance had made a fire and then brewed tea on the small stove next to the fireplace. Tobias, after checking the windows and the adjoining rooms, stood silently beside the door, hands loose at his sides.

Lillyfield absently touched her hair where the magic had brushed her. It was the umpteenth time she’d done it since Piety had woken up, and every time she did so, a look of gentle wonderment took her eyes. Even so, she was still trying to protest her recent promotion.

“Sweep, I don’t know how to be a mother.”

Piety shrugged. “You’ve read the Scriptures, haven’t you?”

“Sure, but...” she gestured around herself at the office. “I have to… I don’t know… manage things.”

“Really? Did Willow actually run the day-to-day activities of the church?”

Lillyfield paused and looked thoughtful.

Temperance handed around cups of tea and Piety took hers with a smile. She took the time to inhale the herby scent of the tea and let it fill her. The fight against the vhamps was almost two days old now. The remains of the undead creatures had been removed from the church and burned in the street. All while Piety had slept. But Piety didn’t feel like she could afford to relax. Vharamp was out there still and she didn’t know what to tell Isabel about the changing nature of vhamps.

Temperance sat and said, “It seems to me Mother Willow really only gave sermons. Sister Clarice is the one who did all the running of the church in addition to being the healer.”

Piety sipped at her tea and watched Lillyfield nod. She shot a quick smile at Temperance before she said, “You’ll leave the running of the church to those who know how to do it. Your job will be setting the tone of the church. You’re a nice person. Focus on that.”

Lillyfield swallowed hard. “Sweep, I can’t do this by myself.”

“We’re not asking you to. Do you have a friend here, someone you’d do anything for and who’d do the same for you?”

Lillyfield pursed her lips. “Um… yes.” She nodded. “Renee. She’s young but we’ve been friends for years.”

Piety nodded. “Keep her with you. Ask her opinion. Listen when she disagrees. She’ll help keep you from getting too full of yourself.” She glanced at Temperance who blushed, pleased.

“But—”

Piety cut off the next objection. “Would you rather I woke everyone up and named Lana Weaver Mother Superior instead?”

Lillyfield blanched and swallowed hard. Piety could sense her nervousness. “God, no. She’d be even more awful than she is now.”

“If all else fails, think about what Lana would do and then don’t do that.”

Lillyfield laughed and it seemed to put her at ease. She took a drink of her tea, and for several minutes they sat in companionable silence, enjoying Temperance’s tea-making skill.

It was just barely dawn and the people of Appledel, all of whom still took refuge in the sanctuary, would wake soon. Though she’d slept, Piety felt tired, a deep tired that made her eyelids sticky and her joints watery.

Someone knocked on the door. Tobias drew his sword and put a hand on the doorknob.

“If it were a vhamp attack, do you really think they would knock?” Piety asked and almost giggled, her exhaustion making her giddy.

Tobias ignored her and opened the door slowly. At a shouted curse, the door slammed open and in the next moment, Tobias had a well-dressed man with a smooth, pale face, pinned against the opposing wall with his sword. It hadn’t been a heart thrust and, though stunned, the vhamp smiled and held his hands up in surrender.

“I mean you no harm,” he said. “I’m here to see Mother Churchstep.”

Piety stood and approached quickly; Temperance followed, but Lillyfield stayed by her seat. Piety put her hand on Tobias’ shoulder. Though she had twice seen mercy to a vhamp repaid in violence, she couldn’t ignore a plea of good faith.

“Just a moment, Tobias.” She looked at the man, careful to guard against mental tricks and waited for him to plead his case.

“Do you not recognize me, little mother?”

And she did, though his face was smooth of wrinkles, and his hair was dark, nut brown. It was Father Hirrom Berek, the man who had taught her powers at the High Temple in Kinswell.

“You’re a minion of Vahramp.”

Hirrom spread his hands. “So I am. Vharamp couldn’t control me as well as he liked, so he starved me, then pointed me in this direction. Your telepathic blow brought me back to myself. It is good to see you again, Piety. You can release me from this hell.”

Piety sighed.

“Hirrom, I…”

“I could do it,” said Tobias grimly, and Piety felt his shoulder tense under her hand.

The vhamp turned his attention to Tobias. “That you could. I came here this morning in hopes that Piety’s power would be enough to obliterate me. But death at your hand would be acceptable.” He returned his gaze to Piety. “What you did, protecting these people, was beyond anything I’ve seen before. You’re a vision out of Scriptures, Piety.”

“Speaking of which,” said Tobias, “It’s morning. Since when can vhamps wander about while the sun is up?”

Hirrom nodded. “A fair question. I believe that those of us who have recovered our personalities are beginning to develop different powers, different weaknesses. I cannot walk in direct sunlight; I must stick to the shadows, but I don’t sleep while the sun is up. I don’t sleep at all.”

“But you hunger,” Piety said. “I can feel it.” She tapped her temple. “I don’t want to kill you, Hirrom, and I don’t want Tobias to kill you. But you hunger.”

“There are few other options.”

“What are they?” she asked.

Hirrom looked at her. “I’m sorry?”

“What are the other options?” Piety pressed. “You said there were a few, what are they?”

Hirrom chuckled. “I’m afraid I spent the last of my self-control coming here. Your young man with the sword is the only thing holding me at bay. Should he release me, my bloodlust will come to the fore. Better to just kill me now.”

But Piety grabbed on to the bit of hope her former teacher implied, and a peculiar idea took root at the back of her mind. “If you were fed, would you be able to restrain yourself?”

“Mother, no!” said Tobais, his shoulders tensed, prepared to strike. “We cannot show these creatures any mercy. Remember what happened at the farm.”

“Swear to me that you’ll restrain yourself.”

“Piety, your guardsman is right…”

“But you said there are options.” Piety knew she sounded desperate, she didn’t sound like the powerful, confident mother people told stories about. But she didn’t want to kill him.

Hirrom shrugged. “There are.”

“Give me your oath that you can and will restrain the bloodlust.”

Tobias shifted his stance, keeping his sword in the vhamp’s chest and his body at the ready. “You’re taking an unnecessary risk, Mother. Whoever he was, he is no longer.”

“Quiet,” snapped Piety. She reached behind her with her power, tugging at the large tome she knew to be on the former Mother Superior’s desk. The large book dropped gently into her outstretched arm. It was an old copy of the Scriptures with illuminated pages, some coated in gold gilt. The cover was supple, white leather with gold inlay depicting the sunburst of God.

“Hand to God,” she said. “Promise me, Hirrom. Please.”

Slowly, with wary attention on Tobias, Hirrom raised his right hand and placed it on the book, his palm covering the gold sunburst.

“I promise to control the bloodlust. But Mother, if I don’t feed…”

“Again.”

Hirrom swallowed hard, all his attention on Piety now. “I swear to you, I can control it. But even if I do, this other option…”

“Again.”

Hirrom straightened as much as he could with a sword pinning him to the wall behind. “By my hope of salvation, you have my oath that I can and will control the bloodlust.”

Piety sighed while Hirrom took his hand away from the book with a wince and the smell of burned flesh. Piety shook her head and snorted the smell from her nose.

“What was that?”

Hirrom held up his hand, palm out. “Vharamp’s undead are allergic to gold. Didn’t you know that?” the image of a sunburst stood out in angry red upon his palm.

Piety shook her head. “Let him go, Tobias.”

“Mother, I don’t think…”

“Let him go, please.”

Tobias jerked his sword free, and Hirrom fell to his knees. Piety knelt before him.

“Piety, Mother, though I can control myself, if I don’t feed soon, I’ll lose myself. I’ll become like those creatures you slew. I tried to tell you.”

“I know. Hirrom, look at me.”

The vhamp met her gaze, his brown eyes sunken in his face, which, only moments ago, was smooth and ageless. “I’m going to feed you now. You’re going to get some rest, and then I’ve got some questions for you, including these options you mentioned.”

He blinked slowly. “You’re going to feed me?”

Piety took a breath and opened herself to her power. First, she took his pain, his hunger, and saw him slump in relief. The hunger knotted her stomach. The area below her eyes to her teeth ached, and she had to fight the urge to bite someone.

With a breath to steady her thoughts, she pointed to her left forearm and, with a sharp application of telekinesis, slashed the skin so that blood welled quickly. She realized then that she had no vessel in which to collect the blood.

“Temperance?” she said, though her voice was faint. “Temperance, I need a cup.”

Piety blinked a long blink, and when she opened her eyes, Temperance knelt beside her, a yellow-glazed bowl in her hands, held beneath Piety’s arm. Piety looked down at the bowl and the splatters of her crimson blood against the yellow. It reminded her of the sunburst. She had to resist the urge to bow her head and lick at her own spilled blood, the hunger she had taken ached for a taste of it.

Temperance’s hand on her back was a steadying presence, though for a moment the touch made her aware of Temperance’s closeness, her warmth, her living essence, and she wanted to bite at her neck to release all that living warmth.

Returning to her task, Piety focused on her self-inflicted wound, grasped at her healing power, and encouraged her blood to flow more freely. She turned her arm over the bowl so that the blood dripped steadily until it filled half the vessel.

“Piety, that’s enough,”

Piety nodded, but it was still several seconds before she could summon the will to stop the blood and heal the wound. She took the bowl from Temperance and offered it to Hirrom before she could raise it to her own lips. She slowly closed herself off from his pain, his hunger, and he reached for the bowl eagerly, though steadily, so that he pulled at the offered blood as though it were strong drink and he wanted to escape the world.

With Hirrom safely ensconced in a cellar and Lillyfield seeking her friend, Renee, Piety decided it was finally time to check in on Willow. They were standing near the entrance to the refectory where Lillyfield had left them when Piety asked Temperence where the former Mother Superior had been placed.

“I’m not sure where she is,” Temperance said. “Who do you suppose we could ask?”

Fortuitously, Alice Walker was nearby.

“Alice.”

The sister jumped at her name. When she saw it was Piety she quickly bowed her head, folded her hands at her waist, and took several steps back.

Piety sighed. “You don’t have to bow to me, Alice. And you don’t have to be afraid. I’m not going to hurt you.”

“Yes, Mother.” But Alice didn’t look at her.

Piety sighed again. But there was nothing for it. It would take time before Alice knew Piety wasn’t cruel as Willow was. Piety thought it unlikely she had that time.

“Alice, I’d like to look in on Willow, the former Mother Superior. Do you know where she is or where we might find her?”

Alice admitted she didn’t know and recommended they ask Sister Mullan who was in charge of the supplies who sent them to Sister Casey in charge of matching acolytes to dormitories and who’d been given the job of finding a place for those citizens of Appledel who were too afraid to go home, which had been everyone.

But when asked where Willow was, Sister Casey was at a loss. “I don’t see her on my roster. She must have been taken to… She’s not still lying on the Sanctuary dais. Surely someone put her in a bed…” But Sister Casey seemed uncertain.

A thorough search of the church later revealed that Willow was no longer at Sacred Heart.
