I counted a third finger, "And finally, clearing out the dungeons draws less attention to us. The followers don't seem to care about the dungeons at all. If my assumptions are right, they're letting the eldritch proliferate so that they have material for experimentation. That might be one of the primary reasons that Yawm does this whole world tree thing."

I raised a hand, "I think he's trying to kill off most of the present species so that he will create another fringe world. He'll use the eldritch as raw materials for his experiments while gaining more strength. That means clearing out the dungeons slows him down too."

Torix cupped his chin on a bony fist, "Wow...Those are...wild, crazy...and, what I believe, are eerily correct assumptions. Did you think of that yourself?"

I shrugged, "Uh, yeah. For the most part. The ideas popped into my head when I started talking about it."

"Good ideas for popping up out of nowhere then." He turned towards the chalkboard, taking a few seconds for thought. He turned back to me,

"Your plan sounds excellent in all honesty. I never even considered it. Good work, Daniel."

I pulled back the armor on my face and scratched my nose, "No problem, no problem. Glad I can help."

Torix nodded, "I'll speak of this with the others as well. I believe they'll agree with your judgment in this case. I'll make a route towards a nearby dungeon. There's no reason for you to stop while the other's sleep. Of all people, I understand how boring it is to wait on others to wake up."

I propped my weight onto one leg, "Yeah, being a lich means you don't have to sleep really...Before I go, I was wondering how the time system worked over messages. It's accurate, but I don't understand it."

"When Schema assimilates a planet, he discards arbitrary metrics for timing. He resets the world's clock, and replaces it with the time since he took over. Earth hasn't even cycled the sun since Schema has taken over. Is that all?"

I nodded. Torix grinned, "Excellent work, disciple. I'm updating the data feed to your obelisk as we speak. Until next time."

"Cya."

Torix closed out the intercom before I closed mine. As I waited on my minimap to update, I practiced using my ascendant mana. Learning a bit defter control wouldn't hurt anything after all.

In the middle of trying to juggle three rocks with telekinesis, my minimap shifted. A new red line appeared, so I rolled my shoulders and set off. I sprinted through the school before meeting another SoulKeeper. With the same scythe and ominous eyes in his palms, I wasn't worried.

He stood at the opposite end of a hallway. I charged him. When he swiped his scythe, I channeled my mana and tweaked his swing with some telekinesis. The slight change in the angle was enough to make him miss.

Two times later, and SoulKeeper seemed frustrated. Good. I reached him. He swung his scythe. I grabbed the handle before the blade touched me. Like meeting a wall of stone, the blade stopped before I pushed on its chest.

I gripped my fingers, digging them through its skin. My ascendant mana surged, filling me with strength. I pulled the SoulKeeper with me before slamming the monster into the wall. The cinderblocks crumbled as the SoulKeeper was blasted through the wall. As it tumbled on the ground, I charged it once more.

The monster met the other side of the room with a vicious tumble. I dashed forward, knocking school desks aside before tackling into the monster. The wall detonated as I crushed through it with ease. As we passed through the rock, I slammed into the monster with all my weight.

The thing popped underneath me like a stockbroker's ego during a market crash. My armor absorbed the blood and bile on me as I picked up the scythe of the thing. Sucking out the energy in the weapon, I noticed I broke through the wall into another classroom. To my right, a SoulKeeper glanced at me in confusion. Behind me, the other SoulKeeper already reared back its scythe.

I ducked down under the sweeping slice of the blade. As I stood upwards, I turned around with a sweeping left uppercut towards the SoulKeeper behind me. My fist hit the stomach of the monster, catapulting it upwards. Before it flew out of reach, I grabbed its legs with my right hand.

Turning back around, I dragged the SoulKeeper in my right hand like a ragdoll. The rightmost SoulKeeper dashed towards me, swinging its scythe like the other. Before it touched me, I hurled my ragdoll SoulKeeper into the incoming blade.

It tore the monster in half, blood spraying in every direction. My hand kept moving forward. The blade of the scythe pierced through my hand until my palm hit the hilt of the weapon. I gripped it, and the only SoulKeeper left tried dragging the blade from my hand. It couldn't even make me budge.

I pulled the blade towards me with my pierced hand, the SoulKeeper dragging with the scythe. I palmed the monster's face with my left hand, gripping my fingers around the skull of it. I shoved the monster's head downwards while pushing upwards with my right knee.

Like an exploding watermelon, the skull ruptured in between my knee and palm. Even after squashing the skull, my hand clanged against the metal joint of my leg. It was overkill. I grinned at the fact with my armor.

The ascendant mana flowed like a raging river. The ecstasy of battle flooded my veins. My armor absorbed the corpses in a few seconds with long spikes. I picked up the scythes before continuing down the red route on my minimap. I would make sure that red route lived up to its coloring, with the blood my armor happened to miss.

It was time to move forward. On to the next dungeon. On to the next body.
