If he ever got caught, they were going to assassinate him in the media even if they didn’t actually kill him.

Alden circled “cat to Anesidora” some more. He wasn’t going to try to insist that Boe register, but he was going to ask if Boe actually had some extraordinary goal that required him to live in Chicago, Illinois. Because now that Alden had given himself permission to doubt his friend’s reasoning, it seemed to be full of giant holes.

Today I’ve developed a clearer and stronger set of worries about someone else’s life…this is not the progress I was hoping for.

He was going to need to accelerate his efforts to get information on secrecy contracts.

Stuart suddenly spoke up.

“Putting together enough evidence against Olget-ovekondo, without relying on my parents or others who have more important concerns, will be tedious,” he said. “It will take days and upset several people, at least. Doing it without the bors finding out what happened and being hurt by it will add difficulties to my quest. But even if I must tattoo half the travelers in the Here-to-There to accomplish it, I will make sure he doesn’t have the opportunity to do something like this again.”

Alden stopped thinking about his page full of yells. “You’ve made your decision? That’s good.”

“You took care to ease your classmate Kon’s fears.” Stuart was talking toward the window beside him. “Because he was nervous. You are afraid of being summoned and cast carelessly into battle. I explained why that shouldn’t happen to you. However…I will stand in chaos someday, with some Avowed, and order them toward something that will kill them.”

Alden’s stylus clattered against the tablet’s surface, and he caught it again just before it could fall to the floor.

What the hell, Stuart? he thought, staring at the braided side of Stuart’s head. I was about to offer to help you collect info so that Olget can be fined or forced to do community service. Then you come at me with that.

“I’m able to imagine myself giving such a command,” Stuart continued, “but maybe I should say I probably will do such a thing instead of speaking with so much confidence. I won’t know for sure until a day like that comes. I hope when it does, I will make the best possible choice.”

“I don’t understand what this has to do with Olget-ovekondo.”

Stuart turned. “Are you angry?”

Alden realized he might have sounded that way. “I’m…surprised you said something like that. It seemed to come from nowhere. Uncomfortably surprised. Not angry.”

“I’m sorry to be confusing. It all feels closely woven to me, but that might be because I’ve been contemplating on my own.”

Alden made himself relax. “I understand. I just drew a smiling human organ on this tablet, and even if it makes complete sense to me…”

“May I see your artwork?”

Alden shook his head. “Not today.”

Stuart watched the tablet go into the bag like he thought Alden was hiding a Monet from him.

“We live in a <<decadent>> time,” he said after his gaze had turned back to meet Alden’s. “I had heard it, but not with ears that understood it until I went to LeafSong. Some really do think it’s acceptable to be a wizard who serves no one. As if we live in a vast <<paradise>> instead of a fortress surrounded by danger and <<torment>>. At least ambition still drives many such people to climb, even if they do it only for themselves.

“But those who are happy to sit and pleasure themselves with spells while everyone bows to them…I can’t stand them. And one like that, who also turns his magic on the people he’s supposed to protect? Will I ask an Avowed to die for us all one day, after I have let a wizard like that go along as he pleases?”

Okay. “I see how you connected your thoughts now.”

Stuart exhaled. “Another wizard might arrange something with the ovekondos personally or demand a contract from Olget. Some might say the trouble wasn’t trouble because it was fixed. I haven’t had to deal with anything like this before. At my age, I would normally have told Leeter-zis and let him do what he chose. But as votary, I will act as an adult wizard. And I am a wizard who thinks that Olget-ovekondo’s crime is serious enough to be written upon his future, for him to overwrite if he can.”

He sounded sure.

“I’m glad you know what you should do. About this,” Alden said slowly. “But since you brought up the other subject, can I ask…how a knight just decides who lives and who dies?”

“As if countless lives are threatened, as if I have great power, and as if everyone including myself must endure the outcome of my choice.”

Alden hadn’t been expecting him to spit out the answer like it was so easy.

“That’s what Father said when I asked a similar question,” Stuart explained.

“Oh.”

“I’ve contemplated those words extensively. I think they mean that the right decision can be unique to the knight who is forced to make it.” He raised his eyebrows a little. “How would you make such a choice?”

“Me? I’m the Avowed in a scenario like that.”

“You’re worried about being the Avowed in a scenario like that, as unlikely as you ending up in that situation is,” Stuart said. “So you must have thought deeply about what decisions a knight working with you should make in different cases. I would very much like to know your beliefs so that I can <<hone>> my own against the strength of them.”

Wait.

Stuart looked earnest and attentive. He was ready to receive a lesson he would no doubt contemplate until he was triple digits old from his human friend, the weirdass B-rank Rabbit who was slightly hung-up on the idea of dying on a summoning. The human who’d specifically questioned him more than once about power dynamics.

Who tried to use knight privilege stuff to get himself out of dying to a massive wave recently. Who’s having a choosing season, one possible outcome of which is the nifty uniform with the metal studs and all the Intensity 99.9 that goes with it.

“I’m… ”

Stuart leaned closer. Why did he have to lean closer?

“I’m a little stupid about this,” Alden blurted. “I just realized how stupid thanks to your question. What an appropriate question that was.”

Stuart blinked.

“I’m going to think about this,” said Alden. “Hard. And I will let you know my thoughts someday soon.”

“You used the wrong word for effortful thinking.”

“Thank you for correcting me.”

They stared at each other.

“Do you mean that you don’t have an opinion on when it’s acceptable for the Triplanets to send Avowed of your own species into a lethal—?”

“I have opinions. Of course I have them about something this important. But I haven’t ever approached them from the direction you just asked me to with the…the seriousness of someone whose opinions will actually matter to anybody.”

Why haven’t I?!

Stuart returned to his starting position. “I understand.”

I’m glad one of us does.

“You weren’t raised to be an Avowed, and you’ve been one for less than a year. Humans haven’t been frequently called to serve in battle compared to many other species. And then Ro-den paid you to go to Thegund with an accessory.”  Stuart glanced at Alden’s messenger bag. “And you were too busy surviving for months to think of much else. It would be strange if you’d contemplated everything about the roles wizards, Avowed, and Knights of the Mother Planet have in protecting the universe.”

“I didn’t go to Thegund for a bag,” Alden said. “Ro-den didn’t…no. Even if it hasn’t been long, I should have thought about this from the knight’s perspective, in addition to my own. Because I know you. I’ll do it.”

“You don’t have to make it a priority. You have many other things to consider.”

“This one just shot past about a hundred other concerns on my list.”

Stuart smiled.

“I’m going to keep thinking over here,” said Alden. “Let me know if I can help with Olget-ovekondo somehow.”

By “thinking,” he was pretty sure he meant freaking out about Hero Type Knight: Allowed to Summon Warriors from Other Worlds, Including Every Single Person I Know on Anesidora (Minus Kon and Maybe Lute) to Die When I Deem it Necessary.

“Thank you, Alden. I will spend some time studying how I should begin the process of gathering evidence. And I need to send messages to my instructors, letting them know my duties will keep me away from school longer.”

They went back to their separate problems for an hour. Two. The car looped around to a familiar street for a second time, and Alden asked if he could get out for a little while. He needed a bathroom break, and they were near the shop where one of the salespeople had thought it would be exciting to have their wares taken to Earth. Stuart said it was no trouble, so Alden took his time complimenting ink brushes and scented pencils before he bought a few of them and a stack of paper from one very nervous man and his very delighted twin sister, who had a blue tooth that showed every time she smiled.

When the car came around again, he hopped in.

“I’ve been making a list of people to question,” Stuart said. “I hope they won’t feel intimidated to be placed between knights and the children of their former village master.”

Alden frowned. “That is difficult. By the way, I know how Olget-ovekondo’s auriad looked when we passed by on our way to the bors. So if that helps, I can draw it for you or something.”

He waited for the car to start moving forward again. When it didn’t, he looked over and saw Stuart’s fingers hovering over the controls.

“You saw his auriad?”

“I did. He was manipulating it when we walked past.”

Stuart peered at him. “When we walked past…in the moments before the spell was cast.”

“I’m not sure he was in the process of casting it yet.”

“But you saw his auriad. And he was forming a casting shape with it, not just wearing it on his hand?”

“He wasn’t just wearing it.”

“Alden!”

“You think it will be useful?”

“Do you really remember exactly what it looked like? Exactly?”

Is it too suspicious for me to say yes?

“Yes… ”

“Alden!” Stuart sounded exasperated.

“I should have told you earlier?” Alden asked.

“I just sent eight formal absence requests to my instructors,” Stuart said. “And I might not even have needed to. Depending on what you saw.”

“Oops.”******
