They had killed the two dragonlords in front of them a total of thirteen times each. Thorn had counted. Neither dragonlord would stay down, and it was beginning to wear on them. Graystalk and Adam were both low on mana and had taken on multiple curses each; they'd dispelled them, of course, but not before those curses had done some damage.

Thorn himself hadn't taken any hits yet, but he was beginning to run low on wyldfire, and that was never a good sign.

Neither was the fact that Adam didn't seem to know what was going on. This was new, he said. Dragonlords from past storms didn't get up again once they were beaten, but these ones were treating death almost like it was a game. It pissed Thorn off, if he was being honest, but then most things did these days.

Except Cale now, apparently, which was a fact that also pissed him off.

It took two more kills before Thorn finally figured it out.

They had two cores. One was the ancient-era mana core, the one Cale had pointed out these humans had, and the other seemed like a prototype for the modern-era mana core. The old mana core acted as a link to the Dragonstorm, allowing them to regenerate from virtually any injury, and the new one gave them resistance to the symbolic storm that was suppressing all these ancient-era mages.

New problem: he needed to get this information to his future tournament team so none of them got themselves killed.

Thorn could feel the heart of the University beating in time with the Dragonstorm, trying to fight against it. It was an incredible thing, that heart: it felt similar to the Everroot that guarded his own home. Like the Everroot, it had tendrils that stretched out through the entirety of its domain, supporting all those that lived within it. Like the Everroot, it felt true pain when any of its charges were hurt.

That was what it felt now: pain. Nothing but pain, even as it tried desperately to keep the students and instructors safe. Thorn didn't need to scry to know that it was failing. Whatever the Dragonstorm had changed about the world when the barrier fell, it had also somehow suppressed the heart. It could do nothing now but watch, no matter how much it tried.

And it was trying. It was trying so terribly hard. He could sense it the way he could sense most forms of plantlife, and this one was continually attempting to grow back into the University and hurting itself in the process. The blood of the Dragonstorm was caustic to it, and ate away at more of its branches every time it attempted to grow them in.

Yet for every moment it didn't, more were lost. That, too, Thorn could feel through its branches. Each time a human died, each time a human was even hurt, he could feel a different part of the tree crying out, trying to shield them. It wanted badly to shelter them, to do what it thought a tree was meant to do.

Thorn could help it along, just a little bit. It couldn't pierce the Dragonstorm on its own, but his magic was less vulnerable to the symbolic chaos it enforced. He could imbue its branches with his power, grant it some measure of protection and ask for its aid in this fight.

Hello, Thorn spoke with an uncharacteristic gentleness to the University's symbiotic heart. I know you're in pain, but I need your help. If I lend you some of my power, will you help me send a message?

From the heart of the University, Thorn felt a weak pulse of assent.

So he knelt, felt for the roots threaded throughout its walls, and offered to it a small ember of his dwindling wyldfire.
