He hoped that was enough to get him a general answer. He didn’t want to sound like he was prying into whatever specific issue had made Esh-erdi think the votaries should be dunked.

“That connection was my fault,” Esh-erdi said after a long pause. “I encouraged the two of them to get along.”

He examined Alden. “When you see Stu in person, tell him Hn’tyon Yaril-honn’s brother went missing on Goldbush. If he hasn’t already heard, he should. So that he doesn’t wonder. If she’s behaving differently than he expected her to, that will be the explanation.”

Damn. For her brother to go missing immediately after she became a knight…

“That’s awful. He’s one of the two who went missing recently? Not a new missing person?”

“One of the two. You know about it?”

“I was at the siblinghold when they got the news.”

“I found out tonight about the relation of one of them to Yaril-honn, from overhearing that man who I offered to help into the river.”

“You were just being courteous.”

Esh-erdi laughed, short and quiet. “Lind would have scared them more. She’s tricked this whole Rapport into thinking she’s supremely dignified simply by being very old when most of them were born.”

“I liked hearing more about your bond,” Alden said.

“Did we make it into your notes?”

“Yes. Are all knights who share inesvul as happy as you two?”

“I think our bond is superior to all others. But my thoughts on that are biased. All who manage it feel that they’ve been enriched beyond their imagining. I thought I wanted too much, but I found even more. Add that to your notes. My words are worthy of record.”

“I will. I had a lot of fun at the pitcherhouse. I sent Stu so many pictures. Thank you for showing me part of your home.”

His messenger bag was stuffed with snacks to share with his roommates and Natalie. Each person he’d played Three-fingered Thief with had given him a few game pieces to start his own set.

“We talked of home earlier, didn’t we?” Esh-erdi said. “It’s a precious thing.”

The interior of the flyer was comfortable. Alden could easily have settled into it and enjoyed the ride.

“You said we had no trees here, but there’s a spectacular one near my house. Do you want to see it?”

“Did it come from beside a parking lot in Tennessee?” asked Alden. “Because if it’s that one, I’d like to see it for sure.”

******

******

******

Nearly twenty pictures from Rapport III. Far too many cups, bowls, and unknown wizards in various states of inebriation. Far too few words of explanation for any of it, except for a wildly effusive message about what kzkzzt spice was like and how much of it he’d like to eat!

His auriad isn’t visible in a single photo. His auriad isn’t visible.

All is not well. A truly well person wouldn’t make up some of those metaphors about kzkzzt. But there’s no disaster yet.

Hn’tyon Esh-erdi wasn’t being helpful in his responses to Stu’s questions either.

Why is he not being helpful? Have I not expressed myself correctly? I need to know what Alden is saying and thinking of saying.

Stu fanned himself more furiously than their spell practice called for. He needed fresh air. Surely insight chambers weren’t meant to be this stuffy.

Another message came. He had to hold his voice in his throat.

[I can’t send you a picture of my birth tree. I’ve just seen it myself, and you really need to see it in person. Soon. I’ll show you. Esh-erdi and I are going to have a talk now, so you won’t get any more pictures for a while. I hope you’re having fun at school.]

There’s really no good air left in this chamber at all, thought Stu. What’s he going to talk to Esh-erdi about? If it’s that…I must be ready to protect him from whatever comes of it. I must be.

It’s not too much. I’ll be ready.

His fan was waving so hard that Jel-nor finally reached over, when the instructor’s eyes were both turned elsewhere, and pinched his arm like she was trying to take flesh. An older student behind them made the faintest sound of approval.

I can’t even blame her for this, thought Stu as she returned to her proper posture in an instant. But much blame lies with Alden. And Esh-erdi.

His arm throbbed.

******
