"Listen, are you two going to tear into each other, or are we going to be actual Pathbearers and deal with our real issues?" Shiv interjected. Kura and Cripple snapped around to stare at him. He didn't flinch. "We'll have all the time in the world to kill each other, but we're going across now. Cripple, you stay, we're back to being enemies, and I'll mourn whatever I knew of you and the other Ascendants. They'll carve up your mind or stick all your Avatars in a cage somewhere. Maybe they'll let you out only to fight me or Udraal. Kura…" Shiv barely held himself back from attacking her. "I'm leaving. You want to stay here and get your pound of flesh? Fine. But you know you're probably not getting out of this prison without me or Adam."

He turned and walked, and after three steps, he heard the loud thumps of the Avatar’s footsteps and sensed the movement of Kura's Chronomancy. The weight settled in his chest, but rather than feeling like a rock had sunk to the bottom of a pond, it was a body surfacing and bobbing up and down along the waters of anxiety.

A thin, small hand gripped Shiv's leg as he entered the dimensional pathway. He saw then that Gone was holding onto him. He stared at her, but she placed a finger over her lips and then she tapped her head.

“What?” Shiv asked.

“Psychomancy,” she muttered.

The Deathless wondered what she was playing at, but he decided he wanted to find out.

"Don't react too much," the goblin's voice echoed inside his head. "You intend to resolve the elf?"

"Why? What got you thinking that?" Shiv wasn't sure if he trusted Gone either, but so far the goblin had been nothing but helpful. Ultimately, that didn't really mean anything. They were all prisoners here. Who knew what Gone did to deserve her cell? Or if she was planning something with Kura on the side?

"I know you don't really trust me—wouldn’t be so trusting myself," Gone said. There was no offense in her mind, but there was a lingering urge to commit violence. Shiv had been around enough minds to know that feeling by now. "But if you do go for her, I want in."

And that surprised Shiv. Of all the things Gone could have asked for, this wasn't one he anticipated. "Why?" he replied.

"Because child killers should die. Don't need a bigger reason than that." The goblin released Shiv, and he watched her accelerate ahead in a burst of Chronomantic lightning. She vanished into the guard cube where Adam and the others were waiting.

Halfway through, she called out from behind him. "What did she want?"

Shiv looked over at Kura. She was trailing close behind him, and at the very end of their group was Cripple, looming large and covering the entrance to the rift with its body. "Same thing you did earlier," Shiv said. "We all got our histories, and we all got our vendettas. And right now, I feel real popular with how many people want my help.”

The elven Chronomancer studied him for a moment and then offered a throaty laugh. Something told Shiv that she bought it.

We need her alive, he reminded himself. For now.
