The bulk of the temple-tent was laid out like the symbol of the five gods. Roughly half of the space within was occupied by a raised platform housing the altars dedicated to each of the five great gods. In the back of the tent was the altar to Seira, decorated with polished brass, perfect cubes, and other such orderly things. To the left was the altar to Aion, an altar adorned with hardy plants that could easily be maintained, even inside the tent. To the right was the altar to Thanatos, a place of tranquility with peaceful forms and, somewhat surprisingly, actual human bones. In the center was the altar to Papilion, covered in clever shapes and forms that seemed to shift and move just because of the angle from which they were viewed. And, in the front—the first of the five primary altars anyone would see once they entered the temple-tent—was a grand statue of Xaoc. Specifically, a sculptor’s reproduction of Ranthia’s description and careful sketches of the statues she saw in the world within. The statue held the grand altar, which Ranthia directed the sculptor to craft “as your whims desire.” And the result was beautifully lopsided and unpredictable.

So Xaoc’s altar was slightly bigger and grander than the others. Statue aside, the altar itself was barely twice the size of the others, which was practically minimalist! And what did it really matter if His likeness almost completely hid Seira’s altar from view until someone bothered to walk back there? Frankly, He deserved an altar twice as large and grand! But still, even the modest result was worth every contribution credit that it cost; Ranthia was quite pleased with how it came out.

In addition to the space for people to gather for formal services in the rest of the tent, there were three other altars not placed on the platform. There was the unaligned altar for anyone that needed or wanted to pray to a god or goddess that wasn’t otherwise present. Herculix, the (human) god of (human) conquest, had a dedicated altar adorned with reliefs of battle—he had become somewhat popular ever since his active role during the formorian’s final assault. And along the opposite wall, a shrine bearing antique weaponry, armor, and tools that Ranthia had sourced from her friends amongst the dwarves had been built: a place for the dwarves to commune with and pay respect to their ancestors.

Because there was no way that Ranthia would tolerate the temple being intended strictly for human use.

“Blatant and brazen unevenness aside, this place is looking great. When will it be ready?” The base commander finally asked, once he completed his uninvited walkthrough.

“I plan to lead a service for Xaoc tomorrow evening. Priest… …One of the [Priests] will be leading a service to the five great gods in general starting the next morning. The other plans to lead two separate services, one after nightfall for the deities not aligned to any specific altar, such as the sun goddess, and the other at noon for the god of conquest. I haven’t heard yet what the third [Priest] plans to do.” Ranthia smoothly answered, skillfully hiding that she had no idea what the names of either man were, nor where the third [Priest] had disappeared to while the rest of them worked.

“Uh-huh. Very well then, carry on the good work.” The base commander shook his head slightly and made his exit, muttering quietly to himself about how he needed to attend the morning services to apologize to Seira, Aion, Thanatos, and Papilion.

Ranthia could respect that. She had actually already offered her own (barely apologetic) prayers to Aion, Thanatos, and Papilion at their altars. She genuinely respected the three and their roles. Papilion was the balance that allowed chaos to influence a world without being stifled by order. Thanatos… well, Ranthia had swiftly learned proper respect for him ever since she met White Dove. And Aion was life itself, without her there could be no chaos.

Seira, of course, could get bent. Had she been able to get away with it, Ranthia would have been content to exclude the goddess entirely—they had a general use altar!

But even if Papilion, Thanatos, or Aion were annoyed with her, Ranthia was willing to accept that burden. Her devotion—and whatever mana He needed—was eternally for Xaoc alone. She owed Him everything, and thus He deserved the best altar that Ranthia could provide.

Out of a sense of obligation, Ranthia set out to locate the missing [Priest] after the initial consecration and set up was complete. Her efforts resulted in a frustratingly convoluted chain of witness reports that led her throughout Remera until she, at last, returned to the temple-tent and was told that the missing man was inside! Which meant the problem had solved itself, but Ranthia was nursing a grudge by that point. Seriously, what in Xaoc’s glory the man had been doing instead of helping the rest of them?! He might have been the oldest of the [Priests] by a wide margin, but he could have at least assisted with consecration!

Yet when she stepped into the temple-tent, it was quiet and seemingly empty. The other two [Priests] were watching the sun set while they relaxed just outside the tent they had labored in all day, which meant they would have seen it if their erstwhile colleague had wandered off again. Feeling inexplicably wary, Ranthia ventured deeper within the newly anointed place of worship.

She found the man squatting behind Xaoc’s statue, trying to peer up the god’s garments. For a man of Remus, he was unusual. Few Remans (except cultural rebels like Hunting) wore beards, yet the man had more wispy hairs on his chin than he did atop his head. To say nothing of his trousers, boots, and the lack of anything akin to a tunic—which left his wrinkly, sunspotted back displayed to the world.

“What are—” Ranthia tried to ask, only to get cut off.

“Did you know that few statues of any deity depict the buttocks? Sculptors seem to go out of their way to omit, obscure, or otherwise hide the divine cheeks. It’s especially baffling because it’s not exactly uncommon to depict other anatomical features. Throughout the divine likenesses that I have seen, there have been many nipples affixed to the likenesses of gods and goddesses alike. Statues of Herculix, in particular, are often carved with impressively erect penises and it isn’t entirely uncommon to see Aion’s spread vulva as a somewhat obvious manifestation of her domain of life. Yet rare is the statue that includes even a hint of a deity’s butt.

“There’s an obvious explanation, of course. Clearly, the ass is where true divinity lies.” The man concluded his monologue with a cheeky (ugh) wink.

“Uh-huh, and—” Ranthia was more than ready to tear into the man for disappearing (and for general weirdness), but he interrupted her once again.

“Which probably explains why you’ve always had quite an ass, god-fondled girl.” He offered the creepiest grin she had ever seen on a [Priest] as he finally looked her way.

Ranthia opened her mouth to protest that the man absolutely hadn’t seen her ass—her tunic wasn’t that short!

But she closed it before more than a brief strained noise could escape her lips.

She knew that insulting, innuendo-laden way to refer to the god-touched!

No, oh no, it can’t be…!

“It’s kind of creepy that you’re still basically a kid after so many years. Is that what Xaoc’s into these days?” The asshole priest she’d met in Ariminum—almost a century ago, before she ever even became a Ranger—continued to insult her god to her face.

…Wait, no, their god! What the actual fuck was even going on?! All three of the [Priests] were supposed to be generalists, but for all that man’s stunning irreverence, he was still a [Priest] in service to Xaoc!

“I don’t even know where to begin with this…” Ranthia admitted—lamented, more honestly—while she buried her face in her hands.

“At the bottom, of course.” The man from her past willfully continued his efforts to convince her to murder him.

…She did know a good place to stash a body.

The turnout for Ranthia’s first time leading the prayers was, only mildly surprisingly, standing room only. Fixture of Remera or not, Ranthia was still Sentinel Grace, and her piety was a side of her that no one left in the military base (that was starting to feel more like a proper town, albeit a canvas one) had experienced. And nothing motivated bored people to show up like a spectacle.

But the fear of performing in front of a crowd hadn’t really bothered her since she’d been forced to dance through it at Fausteo’s Musical Theater a very, very long time ago. Ranthia greeted the assembled with a performative flourish, before she pirouetted, seamlessly transitioning to her knees in the process.

“To Xaoc, the god of chaos, I offer greetings on behalf of those that have gathered here today. In chaos, there is life. In chaos, we progress and find new sources of happiness and new experiences. For that, we owe you our eternal gratitude. But for the moment, we offer you our mana, so that you may continue your works for the sake of all of Pallos.”

[*ding!* Congratulations! [Harbinger] has reached level 217! +10 Free Stats, +23 Strength, +199 Dexterity, +200 Vitality, +198 Speed, +27 Mana, +95 Mana Regeneration, +86 Magic Power, +24 Magic Control from your class, +1 Free Stat for being human, +1 Strength and +1 Magic Power from your element.]

[*ding!* [Magic Metal Authority], [Adamant Commander], [Unbreakable], and [Adamantium Symbiosis] have reached level 217!]

What!? In the space of an instant, Ranthia struggled to parse the new data point for her inexplicably impossible-to-level class. And by the next instant, she gave up. She set the half-baked theories and what-ifs aside. She had a prayer to lead, and she refused to let anything interrupt it, especially not her own thoughts!

With System notifications silenced, Ranthia continued her prayers. Ranthia freed her mind and let her whims carry her words wherever they landed. Sure, the prolonged aside about the different textures of cat fur probably strained her credulity with those following her lead, but they felt like words she needed to say. That or she just really lamented the lack of cats in Remera. Either way, Xaoc didn’t seem to mind, and that was all that truly mattered.

“Thank you all for coming, I’ll be here most evenings. Unless I’m not. But I’m certain I can convince one of the other [Priests] to run it if I’m unavailable!” Ranthia cast a sideways glare at the aged [Priest] that had slept through her service to their god.

He remained entirely unfazed and continued to lean against a broom, as if he would ever sweep anything—his latest Sand and Wind [Priest] classes only enabled him to add more of a mess. As if buckets worth of conjured sand was somehow preferable to dust.

Ranthia just sighed and checked her condensed System notifications while she watched men and women make their way out—often after a visit to the donation box.

[*ding!* Congratulations! [Harbinger] has leveled from 217 to level 226! Per level: +10 Free Stats, +23 Strength, +199 Dexterity, +200 Vitality, +198 Speed, +27 Mana, +95 Mana Regeneration, +86 Magic Power, +24 Magic Control from your class, +1 Free Stat for being human, +1 Strength and +1 Magic Power from your element.]

[*ding!* [Magic Metal Authority], [Adamant Commander], [Unbreakable], and [Adamantium Symbiosis] have leveled from 217 to level 226!]

[*ding!* [Ranthia’s Covenant with Xaoc] has leveled from 281 to level 285!]

[*ding!* [Sexy] has reached level 597!]

…She had so many questions.

Every report from Spearpoint continued to call the ongoing conflict “a stalemate,” as though such a passive term could possibly encompass the lives of men and women being lost each and every day as the majority of the Coalition’s forces clashed against the combined might of the shimagu’s last stand. The twins and the Coalition’s heaviest hitters continued to stay out of the fighting though, which left the armies unable to gain any meaningful advantage against one another.

No matter how many years of casualties accumulated.

Beyond the site of the conflict’s deadlock, the vast territory that Ranthia was responsible for remained quiet. That wasn’t to say that she never had any calls to action. Missing scout teams, overdue caravans or convoys, unreliable sightings of potential shimagu forces, and reports of ogres and other potentially infected beings being cut down reached her. Sometimes a season would pass without anything calling her beyond Remera’s reach, other times she was forced to deploy to locate wounded scouts, dislodge predators from the paths that messenger birds took, or assist with getting a Legion convoy or [Merchant] caravan moving again after loss of beast or severe damage to a wagon.

The rarest of events were the two times she came into conflict with small teams of shimagu—groups that were half-starved and barely a threat. Yet they still chose to end their lives on her blades, despite her efforts to open a dialogue.

“<We are already dead.>” A shimagu-infested human boy, scarcely in his latter teenage years, offered her an explanation as he lunged for her with a sword he could barely lift.

The worst thing was that so long as the parasite lived, there was no true way to take them alive. Even if she managed to force the host to lose consciousness, the parasite was usually able to keep fighting. And no [Healer] was willing to accompany her into the middle of the wasteland, just to ‘save’ a host that would inevitably fail to return to usefulness—or worse, someone that had already retreated into their world within and would just wither and die without the parasite maintaining their abandoned body.

