Day 5
 
The Humans came with the dawn. They blew war horns, waking the Goblins of the Flooded Waters tribe from their sleep. But the Goblins knew the Humans were coming and so many were already awake. They surged out of their camp as the Humans appeared in the distance. Only, this time there were no [Fireballs], no spells or arrows loosed. The Humans let the Goblins begin their march in peace.
That was something. A very little something, but every Goblin noticed it. And they debated why. Unlike the last four days, today the Goblins of the Flooded Waters tribe gossiped as they ran. Some, the smallest or wounded or most tired, sat on wagons pulled by some very fine looking warhorses. And they talked.
If it was characteristic of Humans to play power games and for Drakes to bicker amongst themselves and for Gnolls to form packs, then chatter was endemic among Goblins. Not gossip or talk, but chatter.
As Drassi might have put it, gossip was a product of cities, of largely peaceful populations who had to coexist with each other. Sometimes gossip was about the most dire of worldly events or politics, but other times it was mundane, petty. Silly. A social activity that existed to let people relax and insult their neighbors’ cooking behind their backs. But Goblins had no time for that.
They had no [Gossips], but every Goblin communicated. Not talked. They were masters of sign language and interpreting body movement and posture. They relayed information about dangers, opportunities, and so on as a way to survive. So they chattered about what had happened yesterday.
About Rags. Of course the Goblins had all seen the forest fire. And they were quite impressed. Rags had turned her [Burning Blades] spell from a rather useless enchantment into a real and deadly weapon to use against the Humans. All the Goblins were rather proud about that. That was what you expected of your Chieftain. They had a smart one. The real issue of contention was the battle in the forest, though.
Again, it was an impressive battle. Only three Goblins had perished, and they’d taken down a number of Humans. More importantly, they’d gotten the horses and equipment. That was a real win. But Poisonbite had openly shared what she’d seen. Rags had cornered the Human lordling, the one who’d killed Twofeather. And she hadn’t killed him.
The reaction from the Flooded Waters tribe was mixed. Many Goblins, especially those in the more militant groups like Tremborag’s former Goblins and the Redfang Warriors, were annoyed. They wanted the Human’s blood and as much of it as possible. The other Goblins were just confused. Some wondered if Rags had done it to avoid the Humans getting angrier. If so, that was a fair decision, but Rags hadn’t said that.
They’d all heard her. And by ‘all’, one Hob had been listening to Rags and Pyrite talk while he bandaged his arm. But he’d obviously told everyone else, so it was the same.
Rags had said it wasn’t just about not angering the Humans. She’d said it was something else.
Maybe. Maybe something will change. And it wasn’t the Humans that would necessarily change, but the Goblins. That made no sense to the Flooded Waters tribe as a whole. Several poked their chests, feeling no different. Why would they need to change? And why would Humans ever, ever try to stop killing them? Unless there were too many Goblins, the Humans would always attack.
It was a mystery. Their Chieftain’s mind was strange. Most of the Goblins had no clue what Rags had meant. And she was prepared for that. As her tribe began their march on the fifth day, Rags was prepared for angry Goblins to question her decision. She was prepared for fights as she watched the Goblins chattering without speaking more than a few words. Most of her tribe did not understand. But some of them did.
It surprised Rags. She saw a few smaller Goblins and a single Hob push their way into the conversation, signaling with their hands and arms dramatically to get the attention of the Goblins around them. They pointed at Rags and made complicated gestures. The other Goblins turned and listened.
This is what the few said. Not in words, but in action. In deed. Showing the other Goblins, patting their stomachs, smacking their lips. They told a story, a simple message.
 
Yes, of course the Humans would kill them. Of course they would not change from a single spared life. Of course they still harried the tribe.
But there were Humans that mattered. There were Humans that changed. And there was a reason to save some.
They had met her. A destroyer, the one who killed their old Chieftain. But he had tried to kill her. And when she killed him, she had not killed Goblins. She gave them food. She had been kind.
There was a reason.
 
The other Goblins looked askance. They ridiculed the few Goblins and then fell silent as they were made aware of another fact. The few Goblins who argued with the rest and told the story weren’t strong or quick or exceptional. In fact, they were overwhelmingly mediocre in terms of Goblin quality. The tribe they had come from was tiny, and it only had one Hob. But it had been the Flooded Waters tribe. The original tribe that Rags had taken over.
They had known Erin. They had been in her inn. Long ago, or so it seemed to the Goblins, they had walked fearfully into the inn and seen the strangeness. The wonder, too. The games of chess, the skeleton who served drinks. And the smiling [Innkeeper] who served them blue juice and pasta.
It sounded like a fairy tale to the other Goblins. Of course they had heard rumors of Rags’ past. But this was the first time the stories of Erin Solstice became public knowledge. Some were fascinated by the tales, others scornful.
The first Goblin to approach Rags was Noears.
“Is it true?”
Rags glanced at the [Mage]. He was riding Olli, the white mare that had been taken from Gilam. No one else objected; Noears looked worn from shooting animals with lightning for rations. But he grinned at Rags and raised his eyebrows.
“What true?”
“Chieftain knew Human? Good…Human?”
“True.”
Rags shrugged. Noears blinked. He rode back to tell the others. After a while, Pyrite jogged over.
“Chieftain.”
“Is true.”
The little Goblin sighed and looked ahead as her Carn Wolf paced forwards. She patted it on the back, feeling its exhaustion. Pyrite shrugged his broad shoulders.
“Not question. Chieftain, Goblins are tired. Hobs. Bad thing.”
“Oh.”
Rags looked around. Of course her tribe was tired, but Pyrite was pointing out a new development. Some of her Hobs, who’d been unwavering as they carried supplies and even other Goblins, were finally reaching the limits of their stamina. She could see them faltering, grunting with the effort of keeping up. She frowned.
“Put on wagons. Trade off.”
“Hobs are heavy.”
That was obvious too, but also important. Rags gritted her teeth and glanced behind her. She could see a group of Humans keeping a wary distance to her right.
“Can’t slow down. Humans not that kind. Trade off.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
Pyrite moved away, signaling some of the most exhausted Hobs to take a break. Then he jogged back.
“So. Kind Human.”
“Yes. Gave name. And helped learn magic.”
“Really?”
Pyrite looked very interested. He peered up at Rags. She nodded absently, remembering.
“Not her. Pisces. She—taught me chess. Became [Tactician]. Gave me food.”
“Hm.”
The Hob grunted with clear interest. Rags stared ahead. Oh yes. How much simpler it had seemed then. She’d liked Erin. And hated her too, sometimes. For being too nice, too naïve. As if making friends would bring back the dead. But she missed Erin now.
And now—Rags’ head snapped to one side as she saw a ripple in her tribe. The jogging Goblins parted, and she saw something that made her heart lurch. A fallen Hob. He’d tripped and was too exhausted to get up. He lay on the ground, panting. Pyrite pointed at him.
“Get to wagon! Keep moving!”
“No.”
Rags leapt from the back of her Carn Wolf. She ran over. The Goblins parted for her, and Rags saw that many stumbled as they moved. They were more tired than she’d thought. The Hob looked up.
“Chieftain. Leave behind.”
He was breathing hard, and his bare chest was covered in sweat. He was a fat Hob, like Pyrite, but younger. It wasn’t hard to see why he’d collapsed. Pyrite and several Hobs came over. They wanted to lift the Hob, but Rags waved them back. She knelt, thinking hard.
They couldn’t keep on like this. This Hob was the first, but the wagons were already overloaded. Even with the horses they’d acquired, the Goblins were hitting a wall. But what else could she do? She had the bag of holding, but Noears had told her that it could not hold living beings. Or if it did, the people inside would quickly become not living.
All the Goblins had stopped. They watched as Rags knelt by the Hob. They were waiting for her to have a good idea, Rags knew. Only, she didn’t have a way to beat sheer exhaustion. She didn’t have a plan.
But she was a Chieftain. And maybe that was enough. No, it had to be enough.
Rags looked around. The Hob was lying on his back, resigned, unable to move. He wasn’t prepared for Rags to leap onto his broad stomach. He grunted and then looked up. Rags was standing on his gut. She looked around at the Goblins. Tired faces stared back.
“Why are you tired?”
The Goblins looked at each other as Rags shouted. They scratched their heads. The answer was obvious. Rags pointed behind them.
“Humans chase us for five days! Only five days! Not even throwing fireballs anymore! Why is hard to run?”
She leapt from the Hob’s stomach and landed on the ground. Rags looked around and then slapped her chest.
“Follow me! Is not hard!”
She took a few steps forwards and turned. The Hob lying on the ground stared at her. She gestured at him.
“Up! Why is Hob with big legs slower than small Chieftain?”
“Tired. Carry lots of things.”
He grunted at Rags, almost indignantly. Rags sneered at him.
“Big Hob can’t even walk another step? Can’t even stand?”
The fat Hob glared at Rags. He shifted and sat up as if to prove her wrong. He pointed at his back.
“Chieftain not carry club.”
Rags saw the Hob had strapped a huge club to his back. It was a monster of a weapon, the kind you’d use to hunt bears or [Knights] in full armor. It had to weigh a ton. But Rags just sneered. She struck a pose and pointed to her shortsword hanging at her side.
“That because Chieftain smart. Uses sword. Sharp. Better than wooden club. Only good for firewood.”
The Hob huffed as the other Goblins laughed.
“Not if fight Gargoyle.”
“You fight Gargoyle?”
Rags paused. The Hob nodded proudly.
“Not Redfang. But fought one once.”
The other Goblins murmured in appreciation as he showed them a large scar on his stomach. A few of the Redfangs nodded, acknowledging the deed. Rags smiled.
“Can kill Gargoyle, but not stand up?”
“Can stand! Not run. Too tired! Heavy club!”
The fat Hob shouted at Rags. She shook her head dismissively. She switched to the common tongue.
“Only heavy club? In that case, get bag of holding! Noears!”
The [Mage] rode over. Rags pointed at the bag of holding he’d been entrusted with.
“Take club. Then Hob run. Too lazy otherwise.”
Noears glanced at the Hob. The fat Hob blinked and stared at the bag of holding. He opened his mouth to protest, then realized he’d been tricked. Silently, he unfastened the club from his back and handed it to Noears. The club vanished into the bag of holding.
“Now, up!”
Rags looked at the Hob. He hesitated and then stood with a groan. Rags smiled. She looked around.
“Other Hobs have heavy weapons? Give to Noears! Give armor, too!”
“But armor for fighting!”
One of the other Redfang Warriors protested. Rags glared at him.
“Where fighting? We run! Come! Humans following! Follow! Not hard! Chieftain can do it, and she smaller and younger than you.”
Rags jogged forwards. The Redfang Warrior flushed as the other Goblins laughed and shrugged off his armor. He tossed it at Noears as he easily caught up with Rags. She grinned at him.
“Redfangs supposed to be strong! You ride wolf too much.”
“So does Chieftain.”
“Not today.”
The Redfang Warrior grunted thoughtfully. Rags turned.
“Follow!”
She began to run. Not quickly, but at a lazy jog. The Goblins watched her. Rags wasn’t moving fast. Not at all. Why, you could sprint three times as fast easily. Four times as quick if a monster was chasing you. A few of the children ran after Rags. They waved at the adults. Look! Look, we’re following Chieftain!
Rags smiled. She moved through her tribe, reaching the front. The Goblins in front watched as she jogged past them lazily. She waved and then heard a thumping pair of steps behind her. She turned her head and saw the fat Hob had caught up.
“Tired!”
He complained loudly, but he was running, matching her shorter strides with his long ones. Rags laughed at him.
“Chieftain run too fast for you?”
A spark entered the Hob’s eye.
“This fast? Easy. Can run for hour. Without club.”
“Good! Hey! You, follow!”
Rags grinned. Her tribe watched her as the children, the fat Hob, and the Redfang Warrior jogged after her. They looked at each other.
A female Hob was next. She grinned as she tossed a dented helmet at Noears. She ran forwards, her long legs easily catching up. A pair of smaller Goblin females followed her. And then a dozen Goblins. And then hundreds. And then all of them.
“Follow Chieftain!”
Noears pointed and shouted. He was being besieged from all sides. The Goblins were throwing armor and heavy weapons at him, and the Goblin [Mage] was swearing as he tried to collect it all. He leapt from the back of the mare and began to run, stuffing objects into the bag of holding. All the Goblins were running now. Pyrite grinned as he ran next to Quietstab and a group of Hobs. They’d found a second wind during the short break. All the Goblins had.
“This fast is easy! Slow! I swim faster than this!”
Rags shouted at the Goblins behind her. They hooted, and some shouted back insults. After all, Rags had rode this far! What did she know?
But now she was running, and all the Goblins could see. Rags hadn’t abandoned her shortsword or her belt. She declined to give it to Noears. And she was running faster now. Not too much faster; it was easy to keep up. So her tribe did.
They spread out behind her, Hobs and Goblins. Most couldn’t even see her; Rags was so small that she was eclipsed in height even by a lot of regular Goblins. But they knew she was there. And if she was running, why couldn’t they? She made it look easy. Because it was. It had to be. So the Goblins began hopping off wagons and copying the rest. They had the energy to run for another hour! If it was this fast.
