The largest camp was arranged in a tight circle. Large tents were set up, and Goblins moved in lines, eating, using the latrines, sleeping, and so on. And not a stone’s throw away was a mess of tents and Goblins sleeping out in the open. They were cheek-by-jowl next to each other, but the two sides were clearly sides.
Hobs and armed Goblins stood at the edge of each camp, glaring at each other. But they didn’t fight. There was no fighting in either camp, except for squabbles over food. Rags had been on guard, but none of the Goblins had tried to start anything with her tribe either.
Strangely, there was peace there, despite the separate factions. The threat of the Human army made infighting a stupid idea. Plus, the [Mages] would actively bombard any group of Goblins that fought against each other, discouraging conflict even more. So the camp was at peace. But there was an undercurrent, a tension running throughout all the Goblins. They weren’t one people. They weren’t united.
There were factions. Rags could sense it, a confusing tug-of-war between the various sides. It was like being trapped in—in a current. Like the ones Liscor had when it rained. Rags had never seen the ocean, but she had swum in those waters. They were constantly being sucked downwards, disappearing into the earth. Every Goblin learned to read the currents when they dove or be drowned, sucked into some deep crevasse. The camp felt much like those waters.
The Goblin Lord was obviously the biggest pull. Rags could feel him nearby, like a bonfire’s heat just out of sight. But the pull from Tremborag was very strong too. She could even sense Garen’s presence and some of the other Chieftains. A lot of them were with Tremborag, and they were holding the Goblin Lord’s pull at a stalemate.
Still, the balance was fraught and ever-changing. As Rags stood in her camp, she could see Goblins scurrying around. Reiss’ war camp was organized, rows of military tents set up like a Human army. Tremborag’s faction was a mess by comparison, but very Goblin-like in that regard. Armed Goblins stood watch on the edges of both camps, but a surprising number of Goblins went back and forth between camps.
“Lots of Goblins moving between camps. Some come to ours.”
Quietstab’s voice made Rags turn. Their camp was on the edge of the other two, like a strange new growth. As of yet, it wasn’t part of the entire hubbub, so Goblins had yet to readily enter their camp, but Rags could see several groups looking at her neat setup and cooking Goblins with clear interest. She pointed to the outskirts of her camp, which was marked by a clear stretch of grass about four feet wide.
“Keep some Hobs on edges of camp.”
Quietstab nodded. He’d figured out what Rags had.
“Not to let Goblins go?”
Rags turned her head.
“No. To not let them come in.”
The Hob blinked. He looked questioningly at Rags, but she was already moving past him, waving at Poisonbite. Quietstab scratched his head, but went to do what Rags had ordered. And she was right.
Before their camp had even been fully erected, the Hobs on the edges of the camp stopped several groups of Goblins varying in size—one a family of four, another nearly a hundred strong—from entering the camp. They seemed confused why they couldn’t enter. Some tried to bribe the Hobs with food they were carrying or showed willingness to do tasks, but they were turned away in the end.
It was strange behavior. Definitely odd for Goblins who usually lived and died by their tribe. But so many competing Chieftains and a Goblin Lord had created the most unusual of circumstances. Noears summarized it best as he ate with Rags and her officers. Today’s dinner was horse. Not all horse, but that was a definite component. Rags felt slightly bad, but the white mare had broken a leg in the chaos, and that was that. Noears nibbled at his fried meat and gestured at the Goblins still trying to get into the camp.
“Those are not-loyal Goblins. Bounce between factions. Want best food, most protection. Caught between strong Chieftain. And Goblin Lord.”
“Not loyal. Cowardly. Run to biggest Goblin to hide behind.”
Poisonbite scowled darkly. She’d been wary all day, especially given how many of Tremborag’s Goblins were marching around her. They’d recognized their friends in Rags’ tribe and not been happy. Only the ban on fighting had prevented some unpleasant confrontations.
Redscar nodded. He was feeding his Carn Wolf. He paused as he stared past the aimless Goblins being blocked by Hobs. A few of the Goblins waiting in the back looked like warriors. They had red paint on their bodies. He pointed at them.
“Some are Redfangs. Want to talk. Should let in.”
“Garen’s Redfangs.”
Quietstab corrected Redscar. The other Goblin glowered at him.
“Redfangs are Redfangs. Not like other Goblins.”
He glanced around for support and got only a brief nod from Pyrite, which was probably only for politeness’ sake. Rags saw Noears gulp down his meat and then look at her curiously.
“Why not let other Goblins in, Chieftain? Get more food, supplies. And hands. They help, do things for tribe.”
She grunted irritably.
“And spy. Let none in. Not even Redfangs.”
Redscar looked indignant.
“Goblins do not spy. Redfangs do not.”
“Then talk outside camp. Or will you go to Garen camp?”
Rags looked up and met Redscar’s eyes. The Goblin paused, and the others froze as they stared at him and Rags. Redscar glanced at the other Redfang Warriors behind him and slowly shook his head.
“We chose you. Chieftain.”
He met Rags’ eyes. She nodded slowly, not apologizing. She had to know. She glanced back towards her Hobs and then stood up.
“Uh oh. Bad thing.”
The other Goblins looked over and then stood up. A group of Goblins had gathered outside the edge of the camp. And these ones weren’t opportunistic Goblins. They were Tremborag’s Goblins. A few of the high-ranking Hobs and their warriors were facing off with Rags’ Hobs. And both sides were armed.
“Traitors!”
The Goblins of the Mountain City tribe howled and raised their weapons. They were angry, pointing at their former comrades. One threw a rock at Poisonbite. The others stepped forwards, brandishing their weapons. There were a lot of them, and they looked ready to attack. Rags instantly snapped an order.
“Crossbows!”
The Goblins from Tremborag’s tribe didn’t look afraid. They outnumbered the Goblins around Rags. Then they saw hundreds of Goblins behind Rags grab crossbows and aim at them. The Goblins turned and fled back towards their camp.
“No shoot! Get crossbows behind Hobs! And keep other Goblins back! No Goblin gets in, no Goblin goes out!”
Rags shouted at the Hobs, who grunted and nodded. Pyrite looked around, eying the other camps.
“Have to talk sometime, Chieftain.”
“Not now! Not to them. Will talk soon. We wait for him.”
“Him?”
Poisonbite looked confused. Rags glanced at Pyrite. The Hob nodded. Of course he would be here soon. Tremborag? Possibly not. But Garen Redfang wasn’t patient. Or afraid of confrontation.
Sure enough, it was only an hour later that Rags heard a commotion again. This time, she didn’t get a chance to get to the front. Garen Redfang ignored the Hobs standing guard. He rode his Carn Wolf down on a pair of them and kicked the female in the face while his Carn Wolf knocked over the male. He rode straight into the camp with his warriors spreading out behind him. Goblins backed up as Redfang looked around. He bellowed one word that made both camps go silent for a second.
“Rags!”
And then she was there. Rags strode forwards, unarmed, Pyrite, Redscar, Quietstab, and Poisonbite at her back. Noears was having violent diarrhea somewhere else. Garen stared down at Rags. His eyes narrowed.
“You betrayed me.”
Rags sighed. It wasn’t like Goblins did small talk anyways. She looked up at Garen and raised her voice.
“I betrayed no one. I took my tribe from mountain. It was bad place. Not-Goblin place!”
Garen snarled. His Carn Wolf growled loudly, and the smaller Carn Wolves backed away as the alpha wolf bared its teeth.
“You stole my warriors! My Redfangs!”
Rags folded her arms.
“They came with me. Your fault. You let Goblins rape Human women. You gave tribe to Tremborag. I was your Chieftain. Not him.”
“They were my warriors!”
Garen howled. He had a hand on his sword. The Goblins around him tensed. But Rags just shook her head. She felt…bad. Not bad as in scared or upset. Just disappointed. She’d wondered what Garen’s reaction would be. And it was everything she’d thought. He was just how she remembered. But she was not.
“You lost them, Redfang. Not me. They followed me because you were poor Chieftain. Ask Redscar.”
She stepped to one side. Garen turned his burning gaze to the Goblin who was studying his feet with interest. He growled a word, a note of betrayal.
“Redscar.”
“Garen.”
At last, Redscar looked up at Garen. The two locked eyes. Garen leaned forwards over his Carn Wolf. Redscar’s own wolf, Thunderfur, slunk over, growling at Garen’s wolf. The two stared at each other for a long moment. The Redfang Warriors behind Garen and the ones in Rags’ camp stared between the two Goblins. At last, Redscar spoke.
“That was not Goblin. You told us.”
“I told you to obey. We fought Goblin Lord! Tremborag’s Goblins are them. We leave them be. Deal with it!”
Garen shouted at Redscar. The Goblin gritted his teeth and shook his head.
“What about pride? What about Redfangs? We are warriors, not—that!”
He pointed scornfully at Tremborag’s camp. Garen growled.
“You betrayed me. You are not Redfang.”
Redscar’s eyes blazed. He slapped his chest and raised his voice.
“I am Redfang! I led tribe! I fought! What did former Chieftain do? Hide in mountain? Hurt Human females? Chieftain was coward! Not-Goblin! Rags was better Chieftain than Garen could be!”
The Redfang Warriors roared. The ones around Garen surged forwards. Garen unsheathed his blade. His Carn Wolf crouched—and then stopped. So did Garen. He stared down at the glowing, fiery battleaxe whose edge was inches away from his Carn Wolf’s nose.
“What?”
“This is an axe.”
Pyrite casually held the battleaxe in front of Garen’s Carn Wolf. The Hob stared up at Garen. Then he pointed a thumb. Garen turned his head.
Dozens of Goblins with crossbows were aimed at him. And Goblins with pikes were set up, ready to pincushion Garen and his warriors. Garen looked around and saw Rags.
“Beat you once. Strategy or not.”
She shrugged.
“Try again. Go on.”
Garen didn’t. He glared around, hand tight on his blade, but slowly sheathed it. He looked down at Rags in disgust, completely ignoring Redscar.
“This is your fault. Humans chased from mountain. Goblin Lord here. Should die.”
“Didn’t look bad to me.”
Rags countered, although that was half a lie. She still shuddered to remember the Goblin Lord’s unnatural eyes. And she’d seen more undead lurching around in his army. But Pisces had been a [Necromancer]. And his Goblins didn’t look any worse for wear than Tremborag’s forces. She glared up at Garen.
“You told me Goblin Lord was evil. Used undead. Treated Goblins bad. Was that a lie?”
“He is a slave. He betrayed kind.”
Garen hissed at Rags. He seemed serious. And he was a bad liar. Rags considered this.
“Didn’t look bad.”
“You know nothing! He is slave! Ask! He raises undead! He has master! He is not-Goblin!”
Garen shouted at Rags. He pointed to the camp, and his voice was loud enough to be heard by everyone.
“The Goblin Lord is a traitor! He betrayed kind!”
“Like Garen betrayed his tribe?”
Rags stared up innocently at Garen. His eyes bulged. He made a strangled noise and nearly drew his sword again. At the last moment, he caught himself. He stared at Rags and turned.
“This is not over.”
He turned and rode his Carn Wolf out of her camp. His Redfang Warriors followed, glaring at their comrades in Rags’ camp. Rags watched Garen ride back to Tremborag’s faction. She could see the Great Chieftain sitting there. His face was turned to her, but as she looked over, he turned away and began eating.
“Fun.”
Poisonbite scowled and sheathed her poisoned daggers. She stomped away now that the threat of violence was done with. Rags just wiped her forehead. She looked at Redscar, who was scowling at the ground.
“Alright?”
“No.”
He looked up at Rags. There was pain in his eyes. Rags nodded. She left Redscar behind as the other Redfangs clustered around him. The other Goblins dispersed, clearly shaken by the confrontation.
Noears staggered towards Rags, clutching his bottom. She wrinkled her nose and backed up. The [Mage] gave her a pale grin.
“Chieftain, bad? Fight?”
“Not now. You go poo there.”
Rags pointed back to the latrines. Noears nodded gratefully and shuffled off. Rags backed away and decided to check the horse meat again. She was just finishing and wondering if it was time to sleep—after all, they’d be marching tomorrow—when she heard the sound of Goblins chanting. She turned.
“Redfang!”
The Goblins in Tremborag’s faction were shouting. Not many of them—barely a thousand or so. They were shouting one word. Redfang. Rags didn’t hear Garen’s voice, but the Goblins shouted again and again.
“Redfang! Redfang!”
It was clearly a provocation. Rags saw the warriors in her camp stir. They formed into their own group and began shouting back.
“Redfang!”
The same word, a different meaning. The Carn Wolves began to howl as Rags’ Redfang Warriors shouted and stomped. Redscar led them, shouting angrily at Garen’s warriors. The Goblins fell silent for a second and then came back with another chant.
“Ga-ren! Ga-ren! Ga-ren! Redfang! Ga-ren!”
The Redfang Warriors in Rags’ camp faltered. They stopped chanting. The ones in Tremborag’s camp kept shouting Garen’s name until a [Mage] from the Human camp threw a ball of air that exploded overhead. Then all the Goblins slept in silence.
Rags lay down and slept uneasily. She didn’t know what to make of Garen. Or Tremborag. She didn’t feel safe, but she didn’t want to be the first one to attack. And she could still sense it, practically on top of her now. A roaring flame. A burning sensation. Fire, bright and beautiful, close enough to touch. Alluring in the darkness. But—putrid? No, not entirely. But something foul mixed into the flames. A foul smell that was feeling rather than scent. Rags wrinkled her nose. But the fire was still glorious. She raised her head and looked across the camp. She could not see him, but she knew he was there. And he knew her.
The Goblin Lord.
 
——
 
Day 7
 
