“I’m glad I didn’t grow up here,” Alden said. “Even if I wasn’t in your situation. Everyone wants magic when they’re little. Most of us still want magic when we’re pretty big. Having it in your face all the time, wanting it and not knowing what type or how much of it you were going to get…even if you take out considerations about being summoned, it would be hard.”

The fireplace emitted fake crackling sounds while Alden reached for his toes. The color of the glowing logs was set to shift, and they gradually went from green to a more normal shade of orange.

“I wanted it,” said Lute quietly.

“Magic? Or Chainer?”

“Shaper.”

Alden stared at his socked foot. “Oh.”

“At the time, I did and I didn’t. My head said it wasn’t the most sensible for me. If my family had been willing to give me anything I asked for, I might have ended up with Rabbit like Roman did. I might have taken the same skill even. Because I could see a lot of practicality in it. I was in damage mitigation mode, you know?

“Selection took my whole vision for my future and my self-image from me in a second. And it felt like everything else would be lost if I wasn’t careful. I thought all of my time would vanish if I picked something like Healer or Natalie’s Cook of the Moment. I thought my life might end if I picked a combat-oriented subclass. My privacy would go if I chose something that would put me in the public eye. I assumed I would never have the chance to make friends again if I became a Sway. Shit, I thought my Mom and Dad would disappear if I dared to question how I’d come to exist.”

He heaved a sigh.

“And I didn’t realize I was that scared of me and my parents being more mortal than my other relatives. Until all of that other stuff piled on me, and I suddenly couldn’t let it go. I had this recurring nightmare the week I was chosen, where I was in the mansion and the whole family was there around the dining room table, looking just like they do now, and I was trying to find my mom, and then I had this thought… ‘Oh, that’s right. She’s been gone for a hundred years. It’s just me and the rest of them now.’”

That’s a bad one, thought Alden.

“It was a short dream. Nothing else happened in it. But I kept having it over and over…” Lute trailed off. “They tell you to be sure to take a class you’ll enjoy for the rest of your life. When they’re talking about career planning with future Avowed. We had guest speakers, and peoples’ parents came in to tell us about what they did for a living. I can remember a few of them being clear about how you need to focus on what positive things you’ll be able to do with your new powers and then make your choice.”

“Neha talked about choosing things for a lifetime, too,” said Alden. “Talents that make you proud and bring you joy.”

“You know one of the first Rabbits already?”

“She was my intake councilor.”

“Sweet. I think I heard about her doing that on occasion. Anyway, I had heard adults say that. Pick powers you can be proud of…only I felt like I’d taken damage by being chosen. Dreams over. Trapped. Banished from the rest of the world. I was so worried about preventing more losses, I couldn’t weigh my decisions properly.” He swallowed. “I swapped Wright for Shaper of Water—”

“Without your family knowing?”

Lute nodded. “I wanted to get something as high up on my list of classes as possible before the news came out, so that my family wouldn’t have as much leverage to make me do things. I thought if I could get something I didn’t hate the idea of, then I’d be able to say no to any unreasonable requests on their part. Do you have any idea how hard it is to secretly trade a class here?”

“No privacy options?”

“Officially, the trading posts where you go sit at the cool tables and swap with Avowed all over the world are confidential institutions. But even if the guards and authorized witnesses aren’t allowed to tell others what you did there, the buildings aren’t in secluded locations. Any kid of high-ranks heading to the trading post for the first time gets noticed, and it’s not just my family who collect that kind of information.”

So something like Skiff spying on the consulate is just normal behavior here. Although it wasn’t like the Anesidoran teens had the same risks. Or the same options. Being unregistered didn’t really come into play for them unless they did something extreme to get off the island.

Lute sat up and faced him.

“It was so odd to suddenly be personally invested in the trading process. I got the Meister trade info for Lexi from Uncle Corin, and I kept buttering him up until I learned a few more things. Then I stalked the ninth and tenth graders in my school for the rest of the week, listening to them.” He frowned. “I heard someone call me Lute the Lurker at one point, so I wasn’t as subtle as I thought I was being. But you know…they never suspected. Not even when I worked myself up to ask questions about it. Nobody ever thought, ‘Lute Velra is surprisingly interested in matters like this all of a sudden. Maybe he’s been chosen, too.’”

It was Thursday. Lute had known he would become an Avowed since Monday. He had gotten about twelve whole hours of sleep since then, most of them in class.

It was break. He stood in the hall outside the tenth grade rooms, sharpening a third colored pencil with a hand sharpener into a trashcan between two blocks of lockers. As if that was a good way to go about sharpening an entire pack of pencils and a normal way for him to spend his breaks.

Look at me. Not lurking. Just sharpening. I have never heard of electric sharpeners, and I have business with this waste receptacle.

A group of ninth and tenth graders were standing around a couple with pins, and they were all talking about how hard it was to swap the more common Brute types for anything else.

Listen, Lute, he told himself, you’ve just got to insert yourself into the conversation. It will be fine. Just walk up to that giant of a tenth grader—what have his parents been feeding him?—and ask. You heard what he just said. Go do it.

He still didn’t think he really wanted any of the classes. But he was sure he didn’t want Wright now. Shaper sounded better. Shaper sounded good enough that he could withstand his family trying to pressure him into who knew what if he had it in his hand.

He could manage this selection stuff. His classmates were going to have to manage it one day. So what if they’d had fifteen years advanced notice? What was a lifetime of preparation in comparison to a can-do attitude?

I shouldn’t have gone to stare at the Departures sign in the TC yesterday. I don’t think that was as good a way of solidifying my resolve as I planned.

He’d had to blow his nose in the bathroom afterward, and when he’d stepped out, he could have sworn he’d heard someone else dramatically blowing their own nose right beside him even though there was nothing but a PostDrop around.

I need more sleep.

His pencil had gone past the point of getting sharper. Now it was just getting shorter. He gripped it tightly and headed toward the group of upperclassmen.

“Excuse me?” he said.

Nobody turned around. The older students weren’t engaged in shunning him. It was just that he’d spoken in a whisper accidentally.

“Excuse me!”

Too loud this time. A girl with her hair in small braids whirled to face him. The group fell silent.

“I heard you say you know somebody trying to free trade an S Shaper.” He addressed the boy who’d said it. “One of my cousins has a friend who just got Wright and wants to trade for any Shaper.”

This sounded like a glaring lie to Lute. Part of him was sure they were about to point at him and say, “Aha! You’re the ‘friend’ yourself aren’t you?!”

But after a couple of blinks during which they were all apparently absorbing the new input, the guy said, “Oh really? My friend wants Adjuster though. That’s why I was saying he’s hopeless. Trading up from Shaper to Adjuster at S, with only a month to go and no bonus to add? He’s going to have to hope some globie jumps on it.”

“Okay,” said Lute. “Just…checking for my cousin’s friend. Because they can’t add much of a bonus either.”

“Wright to Shaper should be easy,” said the girl he’d scared. “Shaper’s more popular, but Wright’s rarer. Someone’ll want it soon enough if they just post it to the exchange.”

Can’t post it to the exchange. Corin’s got people watching. Lute gave them all a pained smile. “Yeah, I’m sure that’s true. They’re just worried about it because they don’t know if their family will be fans of the trade.”

“I hate parents like that,” she said. “As if it’s not hard enough to make up your mind! Then you finally do, and suddenly they start saying things like, ‘The Enviro Brutes? When we said would support you no matter where you wanted to go in life, Miranda, we meant on this planet! Glacial Brute is just a gateway to some icy wasteland on the backside of the universe.”

Her friends were all nodding. Lute wasn’t sure if they were agreeing with Miranda or her parents.

Break ended a few minutes later, and he thought the whole conversation was a dead end. But the next morning, when he was stepping out of the Language Exchange room with a group of his classmates, there were some tenth graders waiting their turn to enter.

“Hey! Hey, Velra boy!”

Lute saw the big guy from yesterday stepping away from his own peers and waving.

“My friend doesn’t want Wright, but he said he heard about another Shaper who did. A girl at Nilama Middle.”

Lute’s heart skipped a beat. “That’s just a few blocks away from here.”

“Haha,” said the guy. “Well most of the schools are in family neighborhoods, right? I didn’t get a name, but it probably won’t be hard to find her. The NilMid people will know who it is.”

Lute wanted to run over there immediately. He would have, if he’d been one hundred percent sure about the tip. But he didn’t want to blow his cover by tearing off in the middle of the school day only to find the Shaper didn’t exist or had already traded.

The other eighth graders were giving him odd looks.

“Why are you talking with them about trades?” someone asked.

“Probably running errands for his family or something,” Carlotta answered before Lute could. “Do you know how much they pay their friends’ kids to hold those S and A Chainers without taking them? My mom says pausing an ultrarare like that costs them millions every year.”

She brushed past Lute with that same nose-in-the-air look she’d worn around him since fifth grade.

Her dad is a B. Her mom is a C. Her sister is a D.

Lute knew everyone’s parents and siblings’ ranks off the top of his head. Every other person in the grade was the same. It was just the thing you knew about people.

Carlotta would probably be a mid-rank. B or C like her parents. To feel like she belonged up in the sky with the people she wanted to be friends with, she looked down at Lute and the few other low guessranks.

Declan’s reasons were similar. Lute had always known it.

He had also always known their reasons were no excuse and they were slimy creatures who should be tied to rocks and sunk.

So why, all of a sudden, did he pity her? Just a little.

Fine. I’ll give her one chance.

“I’ve been asking my uncle about the trading business lately. He gave me some info on Meister. If you’re curious…”

It was info about the interesting Meisters currently changing hands among the high ranks that he’d gotten for Lexi, not useful at all for Carlotta. But she still loved Meister. This was as much of a peace offering as Lute was willing to extend to satisfy this unwelcome emotion.

She would be excited if someone else told her this.

A couple of other people were interested. A few paces ahead of them, Lute saw Tuyet actually turning around to walk backward and hear the conversation. She must have still been thinking about weapon Meisters. Lute didn’t know what she planned to do with one of those.

Not superhero school, surely? She hates public speaking. I can’t imagine she’d love doing hero PR.

“Why would I want to talk about Avowed jobs with you?”

“I see,” said Lute. They were almost at their classroom. “Just thought I’d offer.”

It was so satisfying to open his notebook when he got back to his desk and scratch Carlotta’s name off the list he’d made inside it.

He would be leaving this school. He wasn’t quite sure when yet, but even if he stayed through the end of the year for some reason, he wouldn’t be able to return for ninth grade. So he was taking one last look at them all this week. Like a private goodbye ritual.

If they treated him like a person in even a small way, they got underlined. If they were jerks after he tried to be nice…

He enthusiastically scribbled out “Carlotta Sullivan” some more.

Now I never have to think about her again. Even though we’ll both be stuck on this island for life. Bye, Carlotta. You don’t exist for me anymore.

At the end of the school day, he ran as fast as he could to Nilama Middle School. It was freezing, and students in heavy winter clothes were pouring out the doors. He looked around for interface name tags. Almost every selectee seemed eager to give themselves one right away, unlike him. Most of them were flashing their current classes, too, so that people would know.

Shaper, Shaper, where’s the Shaper? He could only see two people with the tags right now, and both were holding Brutes. Nothing for it. Got to ask.

Lute wove through a throng of younger students then headed toward one of the Brutes over by the bike racks.

“Hi,” he said.

