The other boy looked around. He took in Lute’s uniform curiously.

“I’m looking for someone at this school,” said Lute. “A girl who just got Shaper?”

The possible-Brute brightened. “For trades?”

“I’m helping a friend track her down,” Lute said. “He heard she might want Wright.”

“Aw, man. I was hoping you might be a trader with Morph. I’m trying to find one right now. Anyway, yeah! That’s Isabel. She was going to grab snacks before she headed over to the trading post.” He shook his head. “…new selectees. So unprepared.”

He gestured at the huge duffel bag on his back. “I’m packed and ready to spend the weekend at the post. I’ve got enough caffeine in here to stop a speedster’s heart!”

“Good luck?”

“Thanks! Isabel’s probably at the convenience store on the corner. A lot of people go there after classes let out. You want me to call her for you?” He grinned. “I can do it through the System now!”

Ten minutes later, Lute was standing in front of a convenience store’s hot food case, waiting for a brown-skinned girl with big glasses and a mechanical pencil stuck through her bun to finish selecting her favorite from an assortment of pizza slices.

“Let me get this right,” said Isabel, squinting at a bell pepper-covered option. “You’ve got a cousin who’s got an S-rank friend who wants to trade Wright for any Shaper. Without their family knowing they’ve been selected. And you heard about me from a tenth grader at your school, and you’re trying to schedule an appointment for me to meet your nameless cousin’s nameless friend so we can swap in the presence of an authorized witness without going to the trading post. Why can’t your cousin’s friend arrange this themselves?”

“They’re under a lot of pressure. And…my school is really close to yours. So I knew I could get here first.”

“This sounds like one of those suspicious situations they warn you about,” said Isabel. “‘Don’t go off with strangers. They’ll have someone Sway you, and a bad witness will authorize a trade that ruins your life.’”

“There is nothing suspicious! You can even pick the witness! And the location as long as it’s not too public!”

“Uh huh…” She turned to peer down at him. “Are you the friend?”

Lute’s breath caught.

“Wow. You look really young for someone our age,” said Isabel.

“I will buy you a thousand argold worth of anything,” Lute hissed. “That’s all I’ve got right now.”

“That makes you sound more suspicious, rich boy,” she said. She stood up. “But I was expecting a free swap or for the money to go the other way, so this will work. My parents haven’t saved up enough for S trading. Let’s go to a Wright shop. An Apex one. I already know what I want. And then we can do it. You provide the witness.”

She pointed at the case. “And buy me this piece of pizza.”

******

I am pretty sure I am a sucker, thought Lute, his arms shaking from the weight of Isabel’s shopping bags as they walked toward a seaside tower full of luxury apartments.

They had somehow agreed that Lute owed her three thousand more argold, for refusing to share his name. And another six, for depriving her of the joys of the trading post experience. And another one, for the risks she was taking with her future by consenting to go to a private location with him for the trade.

They were only handshake agreements, but she’d recorded video of them making the handshake agreements so that he could be “shamed by all the S’s of our generation if you go back on your word.”

“This is the place,” he said, nodding toward the magic doors at the building’s base.

“You live here?” Isabel asked as they walked through the entrance and the ‘glass’ pane shattered and disappeared around them only to reappear as soon as they were inside. “Fancy.”

“No. The witness who’s going to help us lives here.”

I hope.

He tried to adjust the bags again so that they weren’t cutting off circulation to his fingers. “Let me talk to her for a few minutes before we do it, okay?”

Isabel shrugged. “If it takes more than an hour, you owe me five hundred more argold.”

“For what?!”

“Depriving me of homework time.”

******

Lute dropped the bags onto the white tile floor the second the two of them entered Aimi Velra’s apartment. After saying hello and giving Aimi a wave, Isabel started rummaging through them.

“I’m just going to get to know my new equipment,” she said. “While you talk to this nameless lady, nameless rich boy.”

Aimi’s eyebrows lifted, and she looked at Lute with interest. He grabbed her by the hand and dragged her toward the balcony. She slapped the controls for the wind shielding as they passed.

“Lute!” she said. “Are you hitting on a girl!? You’re old enough for that? I’m so imp—”

“I’m not hitting on her! I think she’s robbing me.”

“Are you sure?” Aimi asked. “Because your text messages were very suspicious. ‘I need your help. I need your support. Don’t call Mom.’ Then you brought a girl to my apartment, and you’re carrying shopping bags for her and—”

“They’re full of weird screwdrivers, and there’s a dead alien rat in a vacuum-sealed pouch.”

“Don’t be bound by tradition. It’s important to give a girl what she really wants!” Aimi said. “If my ex had understood that…”

“Aimi,” Lute interrupted, “are the Artonans okay?”

He stood looking over the balcony railing. The waves were high today.

“They control the known universe,” said Aimi in a perplexed voice. “Last I checked they were doing fine.”

She was wearing a short, spangled gold dress. Her hair looked half brushed. Probably she’d been getting ready to go out for a fun Friday night before he started texting her.

“No,” he said. “I needed…I wanted to know if they were friendly? The people you work for. I’ve only ever seen Artonans here and there. We’ve had several come visit us at school. Grandma invited that one to dinner. It’s not like I’ve ever thought about what it would be like to deal with them much.”

Because I wasn’t supposed to have to.

“What’s this about?” Aimi asked.

Lute wanted to hear her answer before he told her. So he just shrugged in reply.

“Welll,” said Aimi. “I like them fine. They’re weird. Just between you and me, the ones we Chainers usually work for are kind of nonstandard. When I was sixteen, I thought they might be more representative of the species, and then I realized…no, noooo…they’re really peculiar. So I guess I might not know that much about how things work for other Avowed. But my job’s fine. I go for a day or so, do my thing, meet some people who want to…uh…cheer me on and provide me with moral support?”

She touched her hip when she said that. So it’s one of those things Aulia locks behind the tattoo?

Lute took a deep breath.

His cousin wasn’t telling him anything very new. He was just delaying.

“Aimi, you’re an authorized witness, aren’t you?”

Hazel had become one recently, so it would be odd if Aimi, who’d been working as a Chainer for years, wasn’t.

“Yes!” said Aimi. “But I will not witness some kind of Artonan-law union with the dead rat girl. Sorry. I’m all for it, but not until you’ve graduated from high school.”

“Our family’s insane,” said Lute. “You know that, don’t you?”

“Is Grandma bothering that cab driver again?”

“Probably. That’s not…I want you to help me keep a secret from them. For just a little while.”

“Sure!”

Lute narrowed his eyes at her. “Really?”

Aimi shrugged. “As long as it’s not the mangled body of one of the good relatives…. It’s my cousinly duty not to betray you to the old people! Those are the Velra survival rules.”

Aimi refused to acknowledge that there was a generation of cousins younger than her who saw her as one of the old people.

Lute trusted her. Mostly. She wasn’t the most responsible adult he knew, but she seemed to drift along under everyone else’s radar. She could spring up at gatherings and be included or disappear and not be missed. Flighty B-rank Aimi—one of the family, easy to get along with, not important enough to worry over.

For the first time, Lute wondered if Aimi wasn’t something of a genius.

It took him a minute more to get the words out of his mouth. Once he said it, there was no going back.

There’s no going back anyway. This is happening to you. You just have to respond to it.

“I want you to witness a class trade,” said Lute.

Aimi turned to look back through the sliding doors at Isabel, who had helped herself to one of the kitchen knives so that she could open the packaging on a multicolored flashlight that she’d told Lute wouldn’t burn out even if she used it every day for the next twenty years.

“The cute nerd needs help with one?”

“We both do.”

Aimi faced him with a look of dawning comprehension.

“I got selected as an S-rank on Monday,” Lute said, shoving his hands into the pockets of his blazer. “So…you know. Hi?”

He waited.

And waited.

“Oh shit,” Aimi whispered. “How old are you again?”

“You were invited to my birthday a few months ago,” said Lute. “You got me a trampoline because you wanted to jump on one yourself.”

“But maybe I remember your age wrong…”

“You don’t. I’m fourteen.”

Aimi grinned, and then started snorting with laughter.

“Don’t laugh! This is serious!”

“I know! It’s so bad!” said Aimi, laughing even harder. “It’s so, so bad!”

“Aimi!”

“Everyone just got tired of fighting over Roman! His dad kept calling him a ‘young titan’ every chance he got. He’s a normal age for an S, but the way they were talking about him! It was like he’d just emerged from the crib. And now you! You…”

Aimi was doubled over.

“You’ll help, won’t you?” Lute asked frantically. “I want Shaper before anyone in the family finds out. I kind of like it? I’m not sure, but I want to have something other than Wright. Even their stores are intimidating.”

She flapped an arm at him. “Yes! Yes. I want to be a part of this historic moment. Go get your girlfriend!”

“Trading partner,” said Lute, stepping quickly over to the door. “Isabel! Let’s do this!”

“She insisted on doing it with wedding lingo,” said Lute, shaking his head at the memory. “‘Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to behold a miracle in the form of my Cousin Lute!’ Isabel thought we were nuts. Then she saw my last name on the trading notification, and she was like, ‘I should have demanded more money.’”

“She totally should have,” Alden agreed from his spot on the rug. “But not demanding enough money from Velras is an honest mistake. Anyone could make it. It’s not a sign of foolishness. Nobody should be judged.”

“I know you’re talking about yourself right now. Don’t worry about Isabel. She was confident about Wright. She affixed standing right there on the balcony, and Aimi transferred a ‘celebratory’ amount to her in honor of the special occasion.”

“What—?”

Their apartment doorknob made a lot more noise than it usually did when it was being opened, and they both sat up in surprise as Haoyu stepped in.

He was wearing his windbreaker and an odd smile.

“I thought you were staying at home tonight?” Lute said.

“No, I was just having supper out with Mom until late.” Haoyu wasn’t quite meeting his eye. “All my comfy pillows are here. What are you guys doing?”

“Just talking,” said Lute.

Haoyu nodded. He was still smiling weird.

Guilty weird, thought Alden. He studied their roommate.

“Were you listening at the door?” he guessed.

“No! I heard Lexi’s name, and I wondered…are they talking about him? What are they saying?”

“So you were listening at the door. The act you’re describing is eavesdropping.”

“No! Because it’s my door, too. You can’t eavesdrop on your own door can you?”

“That depends,” Lute said. “How long were you standing there?”

“Not long!” Haoyu said. “Just ten or fifteen minutes or so.”

Lute looked startled

Alden stared.

“What?” Haoyu’s tone was defensive.

“That’s not how you confess to eavesdropping, man,” said Alden. “You’re supposed to say, ‘Not long. I was only there a second.’ Even if you were there for way longer than that.”

“Yeah. Standing out there for fifteen minutes with your ear pressed to the door is spy territory. Not friendly eavesdropping,” said Lute. “I haven’t been sharing state secrets. Why didn’t you just come inside?”

Haoyu’s nervous smile grew more nervous. “I thought…”

They both waited silently for his answer.

“I just thought you might mention me?”

“Why?” Lute asked. “I mean…I can mention you if you want. Alden, Haoyu tried to grow his hair out long when we were in fifth grade. It made him look like a completely different person. It wasn’t bad, but he cut it all off after one of our tour guides on the trip to the Grand Canyon thought he was a girl from behind. I bet Kon has pictures of the look.”

“Don’t mention me like that!” Haoyu said in horror. “I was just waiting to hear where I was on the list!”

“What list?” Lute asked.

Alden laughed. “He means your ‘People I Hate Forever’ list. The one you made with all your classmates’ names on it.”

Alden had wondered where everyone he was familiar with had ended up, too.

“You were naming people who’d been crossed off for life!” Haoyu said. “And you were naming people who’d been underlined for being nice to you. And I needed to know if you crossed me off. I don’t want to be crossed off.”

“You weren’t crossed off.”

“Well, did I get underlined?”

