“It doesn’t matter if you got underlined or not,” Lute said. “I was telling Alden about the list to explain my mood at the time. Not because the list is actually important now.”

“I didn’t get underlined!”

“You were underlined.”

Haoyu groaned. “I should have kept eavesdropping. Now I’ll never know if you’re just saying that to make me feel better.”

“You were underlined. If the list still existed, I might have to erase your underlining. Since you’re a spy.”

“But he’s a really honest one,” said Alden. “That counts in his favor.”

“Does it? Honesty is a bad quality for a spy.”

Haoyu unzipped his jacket and sat down in one of the chairs. “Can I listen?”

“You just were.”

“You’re telling selection stories! They’re always so much fun. And I haven’t heard yours.”

Lute fluffed a cushion and laid back down. “Well…mine is actually my entire life story, delivered to Alden because we saw my mom earlier this evening. And he didn’t know she was non-Avowed. So he’s getting a download from me before anyone else can poison his mind.”

Haoyu looked down at Alden. “You thought his parents were high ranks?”

“I hadn’t really thought about it. It was just an assumption.”

“I was telling him about school,” Lute explained.

“Tell him about the talent show,” Haoyu said immediately.

Lute rolled to look at him. “I told him about that.”

“He played for ages!” Haoyu reported. “And when they went up to drag him offstage, he gave Mr. Fretch such a scary look that he took a step back.”

“I didn’t.”

“You did.”

“I’m sure not. I was very composed.”

“Lute looked out over the whole audience,” said Haoyu, “and I could feel him staring right at me—”

“I wasn’t staring at you! I don’t even know where you were sitting.”

“Everyone could feel him staring,” Haoyu continued, pointing at his eyes for emphasis. “And then he said, ‘I’m five times more talented than all of them.’”

“Don’t repeat it. It sounds worse when other people say it.”

“You said it so loud! It echoed through the whole room.” He paused. “People made fun of you for weeks.”

“Refusing to get off stage was a weird thing to do. And then I backed it up by saying something like that. I didn’t expect anyone to like it, so I couldn’t really blame them for that one.” Lute glanced away, then added, “I told Alden about the dice, too.”

“The die dice,” Haoyu said mildly. “Yeah that was another memorable day.”

“I’m sorry.”

“You don’t have to apologize. You’ve already tried a couple of times.”

Alden had nothing to add to that minefield, so he stayed quiet.

Haoyu threw his legs over an armrest and sat in his chair sideways.

“I think you think it was some big shock to me,” said Haoyu. “I’ve been looking up that kind of statistic ever since I got my first tablet. Every time my mom gets summoned, I go look again. Even though it’s stupid. She’s not a statistic. She’s usually working with and for people she knows. She seems to feel like it’s important. I’m sure she’s smart and careful. Or when my dad gets a sudden call to supplement a team in a new city…I run to check and see if any heroes have died there. That’s stupid, too. Some other hero having an accident five years ago doesn’t mean he will today.”

“Still,” said Lute, “I shouldn’t have just thrown it at you all like that.”

“It was kind of mean,” said Haoyu. “Everyone else thought it was really mean. I just figured most of them didn’t have parents who talked with them about serious stuff like that a lot, and they felt like it was harsher. Or like you didn’t have the right to point it out because of who you were.”

“They think I was a crazy, jealous whiff who couldn’t take a condom joke, and I laughed when Avowed died.”

Haoyu didn’t answer.

Awkward, thought Alden, wondering if he should try to cut the tension. So awkward.

“I’m not that,” Lute muttered.

“It hurt your feelings,” Haoyu said, watching him. “When everyone expected you to give up the dice bag. You usually acted like you didn’t care at all about that kind of thing. But you were so upset that day. Then Vandy made it worse by telling you it would only be okay for you to keep the dice if you actually wanted to be Avowed. You looked like you were about to…you looked miserable.”

Lute swallowed. “I didn’t realize you noticed.”

“I noticed. I just didn’t know what to say. Then Declan was disgusting, and everybody focused on him. I helped Kon yell at him.”

“Thanks.”

“It was easy to yell at Declan,” said Haoyu. “But the second I saw the death dice, I remembered how bad your face looked. And I felt like I should say something to you, but I still didn’t know what. So I didn’t say anything at all. I never said much to you, and I always made excuses like that. I’m sorry.”

“It’s fine. But I’m really not that hard to talk to,” said Lute. “Ask Alden.”

Alden cleared his throat. “Lute’s great. The second time I met him, he forced me to guess what happened to his eye over and over again, and I wasn’t even sure it was really missing at the time because his sense of humor was so weird.”

“Hey!”

“He tried to make me wear a ski mask against my will earlier today. He called me Cottontail.”

“That’s terrible, Lute,” said Haoyu. “Don’t be mean to Rabbits. They’re the sweetest class.”

“Alden’s a confused Rabbit. He’s in school with all you fighty people.” Lute yanked off his eyepatch and tossed it at the foot of the couch. “I was supposed to weather the bad luck half of the Gloss in a safe location. As safe as anywhere can be when Aulia’s fate boomerang is coming in for a landing, anyway. It landed too soon. Or I made it to the safe place too late. I was standing right outside it, and a drone crashed into the car I’d just arrived in. One of the propellers flew off.”

He touched his cheek below the prosthetic eye. “It was fast. I just thought, ‘Shit. I’m hurt.’ It was a minute before I understood I was really hurt. Afterward, my family acted like it was going to be no big deal for me to get a new eye.”

He swallowed. “I found out they were lying about that. No surprise there. Healing it was going to be…expensive and complicated. And not for them. I decided I couldn’t afford binocular vision after all.”

There was a long silence.

“Eyepatches are badass,” said Alden.

“They are,” Haoyu agreed quickly. “And most people can’t get away with wearing them if it’s not Halloween.”

“I like the one with the big red X on it.”

“The leather one is my favorite.”

Lute smiled. “I’m making one that says, ‘Look away, Lexi.’ We can put it on the polar bear after I’ve worn it a few times.”

Lute had Shaper. It was there below his name on his selection notice now.

And not just any Shaper—Isabel had been in possession of Shaper of Water.

He was at his Dad’s place this weekend, and he stared at it through dinner. In the bath. In bed.

This, he thought, this doesn’t feel like Wright did.

His brain was full of all the reasons it was wrong for him. On paper, other things were still better. But this class felt like it had a bit of a shine to it, didn’t it?

It makes all of this feel a little less like a disaster.

Most importantly, it made him feel like he could move forward with everything else that needed to happen. At some point, he had to tell everyone instead of just Aimi and a newly minted Wright.

I need advice from some people who know more than me about the classes that I don’t hate. Career counselors?

Isabel had been rattling off a twenty-point plan for the next three months of her life when they parted. It had made Lute feel his lack of preparation more acutely than ever.

If I do want something like Rabbit or Adjuster, I’ll need help to get them. Mom could probably pay for it if Aulia wouldn’t…but negotiating for a popular or rare S class takes time no matter who’s after it.

He had more than eighty days still. He would be able to calm down, figure out whether his family was going to help him or not, and make rational choices before the timer ran out.

How to kick over the first domino?

Lute stared up at the glow-in-the-dark stars he’d stuck on the ceiling in this bedroom when he was nine. He made his decision.

Monday, he thought. It happens on Monday.

He’d need to stop by the mansion first and get something he’d left in his closet.

What will it feel like to be one of them? I can’t imagine it at all.

Guess I’ll find out.

******

Lute arrived at Narcissus House when the morning was so early it still felt like night. A car put him out at the front gate, and his cellphone and handprint gave him access.

That’s something that will change, he thought as he walked down the drive with the cold air stinging his cheeks.

Anesidora was the only place on Earth where the System had agreed to make itself useful for even some of the tiny details of daily life. The gate would open with an interface command for Avowed family members, and that would include him once Aulia knew about him.

Since the last time Lute had been here, the landscapers had come. The planters by the front door were bursting with pale hellebore flowers and those dark red plants with the tendrils that luminesced every time the wind stirred them.

I wonder if I’ll ever end up on the world where those things come from.

Inside, he found signs that his grandmother had unexpectedly chosen this weekend to make her return from life at sea. One of Hazel’s favorite scarves was in the coat closet. A pile of miscellaneous cases and bags waited by the door for daylight, when someone would unpack them.

He headed upstairs. His room was exactly as he’d left it. He had school uniforms here, just like he did in all his other residences, and he grabbed the one that looked like it had never been worn. He put it on with an unusual amount of care, then chose a black cashmere topcoat to go with it. Climbing onto a step ladder, he reached for one of the highest shelves.

A small wooden case with his name carved into it was there.

Was it this heavy the last time I held it? he wondered, looking down at it. He distinctly remembered thinking it was worthless to him. He remembered rolling his eyes as he stuffed it away to wait for its one and only appearance on sugar cookie day.

His fingers hovered over the lid.

Not yet.

He slipped it into his blazer pocket and threw his coat over his arm.

When he made it back downstairs, he heard murmuring in the kitchen. He’d been hoping to grab something from the fridge, but never mind. He would just go. Quiet. No confrontations. One day, he would leave Anesidora forever, and he could be as loud as he wanted then.

Lute froze in the foyer, just a few steps from the front door.

How long will it be before I stop having thoughts like this?

How many times have I skipped meals or left rooms, just so that I wouldn’t feel like the adults were erasing me with their inattention and the cousins were watching me for vulnerabilities.

I wonder how they’ll all look at me today, how they’ll look to me today. On this morning right before everything changes.

For better or worse.

He turned back to see which Velras were up so early in the morning, talking quietly and filling the house with the smell of coffee.

Aulia, Corin, Cady, Hugh, Hazel—the usual suspects, all in their robes or pajamas except for Corin, who had probably been born in that boring three-piece suit. Then there was Aunt Diana, her husband, and their two adult children—unusual additions, but predictable in this case. They liked to inhabit the mansion whenever it was mostly empty and pretend that it was theirs. They must have been caught here unawares last night and now they were breakfasting with everyone else to make it seem like they were guests instead of serial house thieves.

The Diana family was smiling and nodding mechanically while the others all talked.

When Lute stepped into the room, absolutely nothing changed at all.

Aulia continued stirring brown sugar into her coffee with a tiny silver spoon. Hugh and Corin kept leaning toward her, peppering her with words delivered in tones that implied the conversation was very serious, though it probably wasn’t. They both talked to her like that no matter how trivial the subject, as if they could force their opinion to mean more than everyone else’s just by vocal inflection.

“I want a new stylist,” Hazel was saying to her mother. “The way the last one braided my hair before I left was ridiculous.”

Oh. Hazel must be heading off to do whatever it is she spends her time doing with the Artonans. And Aulia would naturally be going with her.

In that case, it wasn’t strange for them all to be up this early. Time differences between planets meant Avowed, and Hazel, could be found prepping to travel at all hours.

Lute studied all the faces. None of them studied him back.

“Good morning,” said Lute.

There were nine people in the room besides him. Cousin Becky, with Aunt Diana’s group, made a grunting sound over her coffee mug that could have been taken as a miserable sort of “good morning” in reply.

Hazel glanced at him then away, not stopping her conversation with her mother.

Nobody else responded at all.

Lute went to one of the two steel refrigerators in the huge kitchen and searched it for breakfast. He was reaching for a yogurt when he thought better of it.

No. Something more conspicuous than that.

