Lute had to figure out what he could live with, and then do everything in his power to position himself for it before they started to get ideas and cut him off. They could really help him or really hurt him.

S was too freaking rare.

Welcome to the one percent! Good luck clawing the class you want away from the other members of your tiny trading pool without a seven digit argold balance and a lot of handshakes being exchanged by everybody’s extended families.

How do globies do this?! Do they just take random stuff and think ‘Guess that’ll do?’”

He could sympathize. His family could buy him almost anything, but they wouldn’t do it if they got it into their heads that he needed to be something else. And if they were really serious about forcing him into some random class, they could even go so far as to pay other teenagers to take the classes he’d prefer off the trading table. The only security net he could be sure of having was whatever class was in his possession on the day his grandmother found out.

Let’s not panic yet. Let’s make a list.

By three in the morning, he’d sort of done it. He’d ranked all the classes in order, from top to bottom, only leaving off the very rare ones. Except for the obvious…

1. Healer

2. Rabbit

3. Adjuster (spell paths tbd before affixation—not combat ones)

4. Shaper (preference: water, object, life, ground, sky…rares?)

5. Wright

6. Meister (non-combat tool)

7. Chainer (what exactly does my family do with the aliens?)

8. Brute (vocal, sensory, maybe morph?)

9. Meister (ranged weapon)

10. Brute (the other ones)

11. Meister (close weapon)

12. Sway (should this be higher? i wouldn’t mind a next gen one. but i don’t want everyone to think i’m a creep. if i’m going to high school with people who don’t know me yet it would be better not to start out as a perceived creep.)

This looks wrong, thought Lute, staring at his notebook. None of this looks like me.

He was trying to make it work, but something was flawed with all of them for him. Even Healer at the top—he’d picked it because of the lifespan and because it was easy to get work off the island. Everyone loved a Healer. And, most importantly, he could take care of his parents with it.

The family had just spent three months trying to get S-Healer for Roman and failed, so it was a very distant possibility. If they were supportive, though, they could give it a try again.

It’s not like Grandma would object to having another one on-call.

But even if he got it, Healer was such a life-consuming class. You couldn’t take Healer and not expect to spend pretty much your entire working life healing. Unless you were really amazing at telling sick and injured people “no,” and Lute didn’t think he was.

I just want it because I’m scared of dying and I’m scared of my mom and dad dying. I think I’m more scared of that than I ever realized.

Maybe it wasn’t just about his youthful looking relatives. Maybe it came from always knowing in the back of his mind that the kids he’d grown up with would be able to kill him with a slap, a word, or a gesture when they were older.

Not even a lot older. Starting next year.

It wasn’t like Lute was afraid of it happening in a realistic way; it was more like an under-the-bed monster. You knew it was stupid, but the idea still made you feel like you had to be careful not to let your feet dangle over the edge of the bed.

Or maybe me being so hung up on death after finding out I’m going to be one of them is just karma.

For the dice.

He rubbed his eyes.

Rabbit—they didn’t get called to do dangerous stuff like fight. They made lots of money, so Lute could be independent. And the kind of Rabbit Roman had picked was actually pretty neat. Lute’s cousin may have been furious, but it seemed like he’d chosen a nice situation for himself. The finder skill he’d selected wasn’t the kind of thing that would keep him on alien worlds for most of his life, like a lot of the high-rank Rabbit skills. Supposedly, he would get tons of summonses, but those summonses would almost all be very short.

From what Lute understood, Roman would roll out of bed in the middle of the night when he got called, appear somewhere where some wizard—in a fit of frustration—had decided to pay out the nose for an Avowed to find the thing they’d lost. And Roman would activate his skill and say, “Oh, yeah. Your grandma’s favorite drinking bowl is by your cauldron. You filled it with something that looks putrid. Good luck with that.”

Job done. Pay given. The wizard would be relieved to have their lost item located and Roman would be back in his own bed before the sheets got cold.

I can only get Rabbit if the family helps me like they did him.

He could ask. Maybe they would do it.

As for Adjuster, it had some spell paths that seemed both safe and lucrative. It would also be hard to trade for on his own unless he was lucky.

Shapers…were so very useful. The Artonans summoned them for all kinds of things. It could be a landscaping project or, at the high ranks, it could be a real corruption field assignment.

Those are rare. I really shouldn’t be scared of getting one.

He was. That was why his list had the safest things above the one class he actually liked to imagine himself playing with.

Liking the idea of artistic telekinesis isn’t a good enough reason, Lute, he told himself. But pride wouldn’t let him put the thing he admired below the other items, either.

You could be totally safe as a Wright, but you could also end up as a really highly paid drudge. Oh look, you took all the talents necessary to make a very valuable kind of bomb! Guess what the Triplanets would like twenty thousand of? Have a great decade building nothing else!

The tool Meister was similarly suspect. The System offering a specific non-combat tool at S-rank implied that someone had a use for that tool already in mind, didn’t it? You could certainly expect jobs being the best magic pipe wrench wielder in the world. But how many jobs? Who could say! What if they needed you to spend a single month doing an incredibly important thing that would enrich thousands of lives, but then your magic pipe wrench was purposeless thereafter…and you just kept getting better at using it for no reason and having nothing to do with it ever again?

Or it could be more like, We’re gonna need you and that pipe wrench until the end of time, buddy! Settle in!

Risky.

Chainer was sitting at number seven, instead of dead last, because although Lute was sure he would loathe having a perpetual connection to and attention from most of his relatives, he had noted some very valuable features. His Chainer relatives almost all worked on schedules, which was an uncommon set-up for Avowed. They mostly seemed to know what days they would be away from home months or even years in advance.

And it wasn’t a ton of days, even for the S-ranks. Aulia and Hazel were off all the time, but Lute had the impression that Aulia instigated a lot of those trips. They weren’t all summonings.

For the other family members, it seemed more like they had appointments they went to two or three times a month. He didn’t know what they did, but it couldn’t be anything too hard. None of them ever seemed stressed or unhappy about going. They rarely seemed super excited about it either, so Lute was thinking their tasks on the Triplanets, whatever they were, were probably kind of neutral.

Grandma always has a stylist come in to do her hair right before she leaves…

Lute couldn’t glean anything from that other than the fact that the aliens didn’t have her enhancing herself with chains so that she could face danger or do heavy lifting.

Honestly, I think all the S’s just go, use Mass Bestowal a few times to spread around whatever chains the Artonans want wherever they want, and then they come back home a little richer. I don’t see how it could be anything else.

They all acted like they were very grand and mysterious. Aulia’s supporters thought she knew hidden truths about magic and had two hundred wizards on her priority contacts list, eager to solve her every problem. Her enemies thought she went to the Triplanets to eat puppies and gain dark powers that would help her steal luck from her political opponents.

But Lute had grown up around them. Aunt Hikari was an S-rank Chainer, and she wouldn’t let any kid in the family ride the rooftop-to-rooftop rollercoaster that had opened last year until she’d interviewed the Wright who’d designed it.

She wouldn’t be trying to make sure all her children got the class if it involved anything too crazy.

So he was sure the job was safe, easy, not too weird, and it involved casting lots of wordchains and using the skill Mass Bestowal around. I guess I could choose another skill when I actually saw my options. The S’s probably all took that one because Aulia did and they knew it was good, but I could pick something of my own.

And you get to learn special chains the Artonans don’t share with everyone else. And your own unwanted debt is reduced. Chainers get more than they pay for. Everyone knows that.

Plus, the versatility was pretty good. Wordchains were like spells you had to pay for, right? Chainer made it easier to do them, so you could learn more of them and you could learn them faster. So an advanced Chainer had access to lots of magical effects instead of just a few spell impressions.

As for Mass Bestowal, it wasn’t the most interesting magic. It was boring, actually, now that Lute was seriously considering it. The premium Chainer skill was just passing something over to other people as far as he could tell.

Valuable. Other Avowed definitely wanted access to enhancements they couldn’t get themselves. It just wasn’t exciting.

Having a decent summoning schedule and a safe job sounded positive, though. And Lute was pretty sure his relatives all worked for the same group of wizards most of the time, so he presumably would, too.

It seems to me like Chainers have a long-term assignment with none of the drawbacks of a long-term assignment.

If not for his family, it would be higher on the list. If not for his family, it would also be completely impossible to get.

He dropped his pen and stared at his work.

Everything below Chainer on the list was going to be too useful for combat at S-rank. Lute thought of those members of his class at school who were aiming for the superhero life. He couldn’t imagine doing what they wanted to do.

And if you didn’t want to be a combatant or a celebrity version of a combatant, what were you supposed to do with a lot of the Avowed talents? Like ranged weapon Meister—so popular because they looked so cool.

But if you had a bow and arrow, what did you have besides a bow and arrow? How often did you really want to shoot something?

I know you can also have good vision and stuff with classes like that. But why do the Artonans give us so much fighting magic?

He knew the answer.

It’s a Contract saying Avowed can be used as a fighting force. We’re all used to thinking of it as just “the System” and we’re all used to the Artonans not asking many of us for too much.

But they can.

What if, one day, they do?

“You do know Shaper’s perfect for combat, right?” Alden asked. “At S-rank, it’s even pretty amazing at level one once they’ve put in the practice to figure it out. Their talents aren’t so straightforward that they can master them the day they get them like some classes, but the Shapers in the hero program are getting better really fast.”

Lute was lying on the sofa. Alden was sitting on the rug in front of the infrared fireplace, doing stretches because he figured he might as well be productive if they were staying up late to talk Velras. He got the impression Lute was telling him so much about himself partially so that he didn’t have to go to his room and be alone to think about the fact that his mother was helping Aulia do something with Manon.

It would be like if I found out Aunt Connie was involved. We don’t understand what it is they’re up to, but we know it’s not wholesome.

Alden would be upset to think someone he cared about was using people to that extent for profit. Hurting them. Probably doing something illegal or at least being aware that Manon was doing something illegal to get the job done.

He doesn’t want to close his eyes on it and dwell, Alden decided.

“Shaper’s just awesome.” Lute tossed one of his crumpled foil flan lids from earlier into the air over his head and caught it. “It can’t help that it’s good for beauty, utility, and murder all at the same time.”

“I haven’t seen all that much artistic Shaping in person,” said Alden. “There were some people making rangoli patterns in the air on Diwali.”

“We should go to a performance sometime,” said Lute. “They have this event every year called Theater of the Sea. The audience sits on a platform out on the ocean, and some of the best Shapers on the island build the show all around you and above you. They use all the elements. It’s so cool. It only runs for a couple of weeks, but Mom took me almost every day when I was four because I got obsessed with it.”

He caught the foil ball again and then held it to his chest.

“Some of the Shapers are assigned to play with the young children in the audience. They teach you gestures, and if you do them during the show, they’ll make it look like you’re controlling the element yourself. So you wave your hand a certain way, and streams of water flow around you.”

“Yeah. That would probably have given anyone an interest in it.”

“Not to brag, but I was adorable as a kid. And I was sitting in the premium seats,” said Lute. “One of the Shapers humored me for the entire show no matter how many times I made my little hand gestures.”

