“Lute? Lute, are you all right? LUTE VELRA.”

Lute realized he was in class. He was standing up at his desk. His pen was clenched in his hand.

He was breathing hard.

Every face was looking at him in confusion. The chemistry teacher, Mrs. Sharma, had a frown line between her brows as she examined him.

“I…” said Lute.

“Are you all right?” she asked again.

“I feel sick,” he blurted. “I need to leave. My head hurts. And my stomach.”

Should he say that more things hurt? He really needed to…to do something. Move. Get out of here. Think. Something wasn’t right.

Maybe I really am sick? Maybe I’ve gone crazy?

Mrs. Sharma’s first name was Saanvi. It was floating on a lighted name tag over her shoulder.

“Okay,” said the teacher, her voice businesslike now that the problem had been identified. “Tuyet, walk with Lute to the nurse’s office. I’ll let them know you’re coming. Lute, go ahead and take your backpack in case they send you home.”

Lute’s selection notice was still floating in front of his eyes. His hand moved toward it then stopped. If I…if I swipe something out of the air in front of them, they’ll all know what that means. Adults do that. Avowed adults.

He pretended like he was sweeping his hair away from his forehead instead.

He was sure he walked to the nurse’s office beside Tuyet after that, but it was a blank. He might as well have been teleported there for all he could remember of the trip.

“You do look like you’re not feeling too well.” The nurse was pointing a thermometer at his head. “But you haven’t got a fever. You say it’s a head, stomach, and backache?”

Did I add backache in there too?

“I feel sick,” Lute repeated. “I think I need to lie down.”

“If you really think you might be sick, we’ll take you to a Healer and have them use Diagnosis on you. Just to be on the safe side. How does that sound?”

Lute was gradually regaining his senses at that point. His primary concern now was time. Everything was blowing up inside him. He didn’t know anything about anything anymore. If he ran through the school screaming, “I’m either Avowed or insane!” things would start blowing up outside him, too.

He had to figure out the internal explosions before setting off the external ones because…a thousand reasons.

They were all crowding together in his head so that he couldn’t quite make out any of them, but he knew they were there and they were massive. He needed time. What he would like was to ride the train or the bus around and around for the next year, never stopping, until he’d finally calmed down.

That wasn’t going to happen.

He couldn’t even leave campus until the end of the day. This was a family neighborhood. One of the watchers on duty would pick up the wandering student and put it back in the school where it belonged.

The nurse leaned toward him. “Lute,” she said in an even voice, “are you really sick? Or are you having trouble with your classmates again?”

Lute’s troubles with his classmates were so irrelevant at that moment that he didn’t even edit his answer.

“Most of them think they never did anything to hurt me all these years, and then I repaid them by making fun of Avowed being killed. So now they’re consciously shunning me instead of accidentally doing it. But the bullies have switched to shunning, too, so that they fit in with the crowd. It’s much better.”

“Fine,” said the nurse. “You can do your homework in here for the afternoon. I’m only letting you because you’ve never done this before. Don’t make a habit of it.”

If Lute had known the nurse had a soft spot like this, he would absolutely have made a habit of feigning illness last year. He sat quietly in a chair, pretending to read on his tablet.

Instead, he was staring at his interface. It took almost an hour before he really started to accept the fact that this was not some trick or mental break. Nobody had managed to stick a pair of high tech contact lenses in his eyes.

This was the System interface.

And it was his. Whether he wanted it or not.

What has happened? thought Lute. I’m Quadruple Decimal. I’m not one of them. I don’t get magic.

This text floating in front of him—that he still wasn’t swiping away because touching the interface felt like too much of a commitment—said he did. It said he was ninety days, or one button press, away from being a Wright.

A Wright? I mean…Wrights exist. They have Wright jobs making Wrightwork here on Anesidora. Magic stuff. Fireworks, guns, equipment, infrastructure, toys, bombs.

Lots of people really want to be Wrights.

He could call to mind the names and faces of every person he knew who’d ever gone through a Wright phase and all those who were currently close to deciding on the class for real.

This is kinda weird.

Like someone had just walked up to him in the street and said, “Will you come over to my house in a few months to fix the dishwasher?”

“Oh no, you must have mistaken me for someone else. I’m not a dishwasher repairman.”

“You will be then. And every day after that. See you in September.”

He kept working on the word ‘Wright’ like it needed deciphering.

It didn’t belong to him. He was not a Wright. He was practicing and preparing for the day when he became a professional harpist. That was what was keeping him sane while he waited to get away from the Avowed.

Get away from the Avowed? I’m going to be an Avowed.

The thought kept hitting him like a blow to the gut and then fading. Lute wondered if the substance of his being was just too stubborn to let something so antithetical stick for more than a few seconds.

I’ve got to try to let it in. Get a grip on it. I can’t just wander around with these words in front of my eyes for three months until the big thing happens to me. I’ve…I’ve had the lessons with everyone else. I’ve watched them plan for selection for years.

This was supposed to be go-time. Right?

You get picked. You trade for the class you’ve been planning on. Go to meetings with grown-ups who have it before you finalize everything. Professional career coaches. Make sure you’re not screwing yourself up forever.

Applications. Affixation. Acceptance letters come. High school.

Wait, thought Lute. Waitwaitwait.

No.

I don’t want to do any of those things.

Could he hide it? Globies hid it sometimes. Unregistereds. Criminals.

He could do that! And then it would be like it hadn’t happened.

You idiot, Lute. You’re Anesidoran. There’s no benefit at all in your case.

For a human born here, getting your citizenship transferred to another country was so easy. It was one of the things he’d been looking forward to ever since the class trips. At twenty-one, you just filled out some forms and had an interview with a Sway verifier, who would confirm for everyone that even though you’d been born in superhuman territory you weren’t one yourself. And then you could make your home anywhere on Earth.

Lute wouldn’t be able to pass that exit interview anymore. He was stuck here.

That hit him and faded as well.

He was still absorbing facts, still so busy trying to understand what was going on that he wasn’t feeling a lot other than shock and confusion. And then one of his thoughts came through a little louder than all the others.

So it’s Wright. And it’s an S. That’s good. All Avowed want to be S-ranks because that’s the best…one…

An S-rank?

Lute stared so hard at his new rank that it actually expanded. He’d somehow enlarged the image mentally by overfocusing. Now there was a giant semi-transparent, golden letter S blotting out most of the nurse’s office.

“I’m fourteen years old.”

The nurse looked over from her desk. “What’s that?”

“Sorry!” Lute shook his head. “Just thinking out loud.”

He clamped his mouth shut. The thought in his head was loud enough that it might as well have been echoing through the room anyway.

I’m fourteen. He made sure the nurse had her back turned, then he hastily swiped the giant S away so that he could see clearly. He pulled up a calendar on his tablet. I am fourteen years, one hundred forty-nine days old.

I’m a pre-fifteen S-rank.

Very pre-fifteen. Not even fourteen and a half.

The System didn’t tell people why it chose them when it did. It didn’t explain its outliers. “It has plans within plans,” some wannabe sages said. “And we can only glimpse a few of them.”

But if you shoved the small number of Uniques into a box and tucked them off to the side to be all batty, secretive, and potentially hyperbolic away from the ordinary Avowed…one of the System’s more obvious plans or directives was to pick powerful people younger.

If you looked at the birthdays of every registered Avowed, it was all perfectly clear. The S’s and A’s at fifteen with a few B’s for good measure. Then a giant pile of mid-ranks with some highs and lows mixed in at sixteen. Then the D’s and F’s with some mid-rank stragglers along for the ride at seventeen.

It was almost as bizarre for an S to be picked at seventeen as it was for an F to be chosen at fifteen.

And far more bizarre than either of those…

Unless this is one of those plans within plans, thought Lute, it implies I’m likely to be powerful.

Not everyone started out exactly the same, even if the System slapped them with the same letter. If he remembered correctly, that fourteen-year-old S who’d gone to school here a couple of years ago was supposed to have gotten more foundation points than normal for a beginner S of her class.

A few less stats, a few more, an additional spell impression or two, a special offer when you started to affix—the System seemed to play around with those things.

So Lute, at fourteen, might not be just an S. He might be an S that got something extra on top of it.

None of the faculty are S ranks, thought Lute, still gazing at the calendar on his tablet. There’s one in ninth grade right now, about to graduate. Three more in tenth.

If Lute Velra agreed to the Contract right this second, took Wright, and affixed…he thought he might walk out of the nurses’s office as the most powerful person in the entire school.

******

“Why are you sitting on your hands?” asked the nurse. “You’re supposed to be doing schoolwork.”

‘They were cold,” said Lute.

More like they were three seconds away from pushing buttons just to see how much crazier the day could get.

I do not want to be a Wright. I don’t think. They’re definitely in the middle of the pack for me, not at the top, right? As far as Avowed classes I like go.

He hadn’t had a favorite class since he was on the playground playing superheroes. It would have been like having a favorite sports car out of a lineup of them covered in plates that said NOT4LUTE.

I’m not sure I like any of them.

His mind went straight to the instrument Meisters then ditched them. They weren’t really subclasses for high ranks. More C’s and sub-C’s. The couple of S-rank ones he’d heard of had instruments that doubled as sonic weapons. Even if one of those rarities cropped up, that wasn’t what he wanted.

Musical instruments were for creation. Not destruction.

Shaper.

Shapers were extremely useful, and they could be artists. Shaping performances set to song were popular and exciting. All the elements were good.

But Water’s the prettiest.

He almost groaned out loud at himself. His taste in magic hadn’t changed since he was four. Maybe because that was when he’d last truly thought he could have it.

It’s not my fault I haven’t prepared at all! I wasn’t supposed to have magic. Lute’s brow furrowed. Uh…so why do I?

This question was urgent enough to temporarily knock the ten thousand others he had away from the single braincell that was still capable of normal function.

I’m the kid of two regular people. I’m supposed to be a regular person, too.

There wasn’t a lot of data on children with two sets of superhuman grandparents and a pair of plain human parents, but it wasn’t like he was the one and only. There were others. And there were those who had gotten the heck off of Anesidora, like Lute had planned to, and married regular people.

All evidence pointed to whiffs being garden variety human beings that the System had no interest in playing with.

Garden variety human beings didn’t make superhumans very often. Every globie was a little statistical miracle.

I could be a miracle.

But before he started introducing himself as Lute Velra— first ever fourteen-year-old S-rank born of non-Avowed parents on Anesidora, he had to consider the much more likely reason.

If I’m not the biggest miracle ever, then at least one of my parents…isn’t.

He realized his lip was trembling and he bit it, squeezing his eyes shut and shaking his head. That’s not…don’t be a baby about it, all right? It’s not a big deal.

It was a huge deal.

Your parents are even divorced. Like a lot of peoples’. You didn’t think they had some beautiful connection. Dad was probably into Mom because he’s insecure about his own height and not being Avowed and the family’s rich. And Mom liked Dad for…

Actually, his mother had never admitted to liking anything specific about Cyril. But Lute assumed it might have been an insecurity thing with her, too. She’d never dated someone else since the divorce.

If I’m being less of a doubter, they might’ve just had the one huge thing in common and thought it would keep them loving each other forever.

It was hard being the only non-Avowed in every room. Lute knew. If another kid like him had walked into the school, he would have been completely fascinated by them even if everyone else thought they were the most blah person on the planet.

I’m pitiful. And whether they loved each other or not…

