There was a lie somewhere. He was either a miracle or a lie, and he just couldn’t bring himself to seriously believe the first one.

They’re my parents.

Mundane Explanation: Jessica had cheated on Cyril with an Avowed and never told.

How could she? Was it a horrible mistake? Is she too embarrassed to admit to it even though it’s really important information for me to have?

Anesidoran Soap Opera Explanation: They had been in a polyamorous relationship, Artonan style, with a powerful S-rank who had betrayed them. They’d hated the asshole so much, they’d agreed never to mention him to Lute.

That would require them to be way different people than I think they are, but since something way different is going on anyway, can I really rule it out?

He probably could, but he liked this scenario. It would mean his parents were both in on it together and they both knew Lute might have been fathered by the S-rank betrayer, and when his selection came out his Dad wouldn’t…

He won’t stop being my Dad. He wouldn’t. Right?

Superhuman Breeding Explanation 1: One or both of his parents were like Hazel’s. They had wanted a baby stronger than they could make themselves and they’d…done something to make that happen. With or without the other person’s knowledge.

Superhuman Breeding Explanation 2: Lute could be—

I don’t care! He shook his head again. Most of these are horrible. They’re not horrible people! They’re not perfect, but they’re my parents. I don’t want other ones!

Jessica, even when she was busy, was Lute’s best friend in the entire world. They were a team in a family full of crazy Avowed. They took care of each other.

Cyril, even though he was kind of bitter and a bum, was Lute’s second best friend. They still saw each other every other weekend. Sometimes more if there was a heavy cousin population wherever Lute was living. They played video games together, badmouthed Cyril’s awful parents and most of the Velra family members, and went for walks around the neighborhood where he lived in the evenings.

These were the people who loved Lute. And whom he loved.

These two.

If he lost them, he would be alone.

So I won’t lose them. Hugh and Cady are Hazel’s parents. Mom and Dad are mine. And screw everyone who’s going to say otherwise!

There. That was better. Now he could pay attention to the really important stuff, which was literally everything that was happening right now.

Okay. One good thing. If I can’t leave Anesidora without smuggling myself away on a boat, then I just…oh god I’m trapped here!…no. Focus, Lute.

If I can’t leave Anesidora then I won’t have to convince Mom and Dad to come with me. We’ll all be together for sure.

What’s another good thing?

He was an S. He was having some trouble wrapping his mind around it, but if it was going in a column it had to be the “pro” one, didn’t it?

Another good thing?

There was something he had known he couldn’t have. And now he probably could.

I might not have to die.

No matter how logical and mature he had tried to be about it since Hazel had dropped the bomb on him, the normal human lifespan had been a horribly painful pill to force down after a childhood spent in an environment that had made him assume it would be otherwise. The fact that he and his mother weren’t on the family’s re-youthening plan had put him into something like a fugue state at twelve, and he’d wandered through F-city with sticky toffee puddings for who knew how long before he came out of it.

He was fourteen now. Death was still a long way off, so he didn’t have too much trouble shoving it down. Only it came back sometimes, and when it did, it came back with a vengeance.

It was there whenever some relative pranced through the house ten years younger than they had been the month before. And he ground his teeth against it whenever he noticed that his mom, always by Aulia’s side, was starting to look more and more like she could be Aulia’s mother instead of her daughter.

He’d told himself it was all right. He was extraordinarily privileged in so many other ways. It was true, he’d reminded himself, that Avowed got magic and they got things regular people didn’t. But they also paid a price for it other people didn’t have to.

Lute could remember the sound of dice rattling against each other as he stuffed them one by one into the bags.

I might not have to die…of old age, he corrected himself.

He spent the rest of the afternoon thinking about his parents, the Velras, the dice, the cost of things. Leaving the nurse’s office that day, he was exhausted, as if he’d run for hours instead of sitting on his hands having thoughts.

At the bottom of the building steps, he spotted Haoyu. He had one foot on a skateboard and was putting on his helmet.

Haoyu didn’t want to be chosen this year, thought Lute. He said he wasn’t ready. And he’s had ages to get ready.

I’m doomed.

“Do you feel better, Lute?”

Lute had stared for too long, and now Haoyu was looking at him.

“I feel completely normal,” said Lute quickly. “Totally like myself. The same as every day. Why wouldn’t I?”

Haoyu blinked. “Because I heard you got sick in class?”

“I’m better now,” Lute said. “It was a very short virus. See you tomorrow!”

He hustled away.

What’s with all this eyeball clutter?!

Some people had name tags floating beside them. Buildings had labels. Since when had the Nilama neighborhood had so much signage?

There’s some way to turn most of it off right?

He had recollections of adults idly mentioning that they were adjusting things like that, but for him to adjust things like that, he’d have to wave his arms around and he didn’t want anyone to know yet.

When he got back to the yacht, it was a relief to have everything looking normal again. He could pretend it was an ordinary afternoon for a while. Maybe that would reset his head.

On an ordinary afternoon on Libra, he went to see what the baked good of the day was in the galley. Then he took it to his cabin and ate it while he hid from Hazel and did his homework.

“Chicken à la King for dinner,” Chef Kabir said while Lute stole a piece of coffee cake from under a glass dome.

Aulia’s stressed, thought Lute.

Chicken à la King on toast was one of her not-so-secret comfort food dishes. He wondered if she’d tried to make up with Roman again.

Ha! That’s not happening anytime this year.

He hoped Roman had more self-respect than that at least.

He might not. The brainwashing in this family seems to be really potent. When I finally get out of here—

The thought hit him like a punch once again. And this time…this time, he thought it might be sticking. The bite of cake he’d just taken sat in his mouth, unchewed, getting soggy on his tongue.

I don’t get out of here. I’m Anesidoran forever now. Even if I try to get a job off the island in the future, this is where they’ll make me come back to. Always.

Lute swallowed the cake. He was sure it didn’t really taste like dust. Kabir was a great cook.

“…do you like being a Brute?” Lute asked.

Kabir was pulling a bottle of cream out of the fridge.

“I’ve been one for more than twenty years,” he said lightly. “I hardly ever think about it to tell you the truth. It’s just who I am.”

Kabir was a C-rank Longsight Brute. He wasn’t much of a leveler. He was fast with a kitchen knife, and he liked it when Aulia wanted to do a chef’s table for special guests, so he could show some flare while he worked. He had a spell that would let him set up a viewpoint somewhere, but it didn’t last very long. He occasionally used it to monitor pots and pans when he was busy with something else.

“Would you rather be something other than a Brute? If you could change classes right now, would you?”

“We all find ways to be happy with the road we’re on, don’t we?” Kabir said. “Asking ‘What if I had a different life?’ just distracts from the one you’re living.”

Okay, that’s nice and all, thought Lute as he left the galley. But what if the System is currently asking you, “Which life?”

When he went back to get a second piece of cake, he heard Kabir murmuring with one of the crew members.

<<Some longing was inevitable at his age.>>

<<I know, and his mother’s sending him to what’s basically prep school for becoming a high-rank. It can’t help. But it was sad to hear him ask about being Avowed. He never does.>>

<<I feel sorry for him. Did you hear Orpheus got caught trying to break into the engine room yesterday?>>

<<To steal equipment? Or did he think it was the bathroom again?>>

<<Who knows with that one? Can I have this piece of toast you burned?>>

<<That’s not burned. And get away from that cake! I need enough to go with after-dinner coffee service.>>

Lute’s first thought was, Wow! Translations!

His second was, I wonder how often adults I know have talked about me in languages I couldn’t understand?

His third was an indignant, I’m not longing to be an Avowed! And now look what I’ve got. It’s the opposite of longing. I’m a fourteen-year-old S who wants to be a member of the Vienna Philharmonic! Does everyone think I’ve been kidding about that my whole life?! I have anti-longing!

He had half a mind to march in there with a name tag turned on for himself: Lute Velra— not jealous you’re Avowed!

As he was heading back to his cabin, without any cake, another question knocked insistently on his crowded mind.

Why did Mom send me to Paragon?

In primary school, it had made more sense. He’d been happy. In sixth and seventh grade? This year?

Why did she keep sending me there after I told her how much I hated it?

It was one of the only real fights they’d ever had, that evening when he’d told her he’d cleaned out his locker and wanted private tutoring instead of school.

She said it was important for me to learn to face difficulties instead of running away from them.

It sounded like a thing a grown-up would say, but not a thing his mother would say to him, and it still felt like a burning criticism he hadn’t deserved.

There was no reward for facing the difficulties at Paragon, no better destination at the end of the journey. Just day after day of being treated like an empty spot in the room, if he was lucky, or like the pitiable butt of a joke, if he wasn’t, all resulting in an education that didn’t apply to him as well as a more personalized one could have.

Lute had long since forgiven her for it and gotten on with his life as an unwilling student. And yet…

It’s basically a prep school for becoming a high-rank, but it’s not like I actually prepped for it well. They were even giving me alternative assignments for tons of things. She knew that.

He didn’t think it really meant anything. Jessica must have wanted him in school so that he wouldn’t be a recluse. Or so that he wouldn’t grow up to be someone like Hazel, who probably thought the whole world worked like the Velra web. And Paragon was an expensive school where he could get to know future “somebodies,” as Aulia had put it before she sent him off on his very first day.

If you wanted someone to prepare for Avowed life, you wouldn’t tell them so clearly and completely that it was impossible would you?

Lute flopped onto his bed in his cabin and clutched a pillow shaped like a fried egg to his face.

When you got selected, you either ran to tell your parents or your best friends. Lucky him, his parents were his best friends! No choice to be made.

Less lucky…

Though he loved them more than anyone else, he didn’t quite trust them right now.

And this was the rest of his life.

He couldn’t mess it up.

******

First, Lute thought, staring at his notebook, you pick the class you want. Come on. You know them all. This should be easy. There aren’t that many.

The laptop on the desk in front of him and the two tablets beside it all showed notes. Avowed careers—he wanted none of them. Summoning likelihoods, talents, satisfaction surveys, all those ugly statistics he’d found for his classmates last year…

It was midnight. He’d been at this for seven hours. Libra creaked and rolled in the waves because Aulia said she slept better when the yacht wasn’t so stabilized that it felt like just another house. Lute liked it when the boat felt like a boat as well, though he wouldn’t admit it.

Somewhere in the galley fridge, his serving of the Chicken à la King was probably beautifully plated and waiting for him. But he couldn’t pull himself away from this task.

Time wasn’t on his side. One little mistake, one slip, and his family would involve themselves.

I can’t believe it took me so long to realize that.

Lute was so used to being beneath everyone’s notice, the truth had taken its sweet time to land. Being an S-rank at fourteen meant he would suddenly become interesting to his own relatives.

Will they want me for…?

He didn’t know. He just didn’t know about the S-rank Chainer slot. They’d kicked Roman, a good and loyal Velra scion, off a cliff because of Hazel’s psychic quirk.

I’m a lot younger than Roman. I’m the first Velra ever to be selected before fifteen.

And coming right on the heels of Aulia rejecting Roman?

Grandma might think it’s some kind of sign, and then who knows what she’ll do?

The thing was, it didn’t matter if they wanted him for Chainer or not. Even if he was out of the running for that, they’d still want something from him. Chainer was the Velra signature class, but it wasn’t like Aulia was going to ignore all the other high ranks.

Roman had taken a Rabbit skill that allowed him to locate lost objects, and Lute had already heard his grandmother brainstorming different helpful things he could do with it for the family—when we aren’t having a little spat anymore!

