He opened the freezer and found a pint of black cherry ice cream. He spooned it all out into a bowl. Then he covered it in cornflakes, chocolate chips, and walnuts and sat cross-legged on top of the kitchen island to eat it with a serving spoon. He made sure to crunch aggressively and occasionally bang his spoon into the side of his bowl.

This is actually better than I realized it would be. Ice cream and cereal really works.

Not a word from any of his relatives as he worked his way through the strange breakfast.

Hazel was aware of him, though. He could tell she was because of the occasional annoyed looks. But she was in I’m-too-important-for-you mode, and all she did was increase her volume as she talked about appropriate footwear for a long day spent on her feet with the aliens.

Lute ate as much ice cream as seemed reasonable given the time of day then set his bowl on the white marble beside him.

“Roman,” he said.

At the sound of the name, conversation stopped. Heads turned.

“How’s he doing?” Lute asked. “Is he feeling better?”

“Like you care,” Hazel scoffed.

People shifted. Chairs scraped lightly against the floor. Aulia was looking at him with a neutral expression on her face—not upset, not happy, just a look that said, “Yes, there’s the child who has lived with me his whole life.”

“I was just wondering,” said Lute. “He was so excited on the day he got selected. I do feel bad for him.”

Hazel opened her mouth.

“We all feel bad for him, dear,” said Aulia. Her smile was faint but not particularly annoyed. “I would have Chainer waiting for every member of this family if I could. Maybe one day.”

“Roman’s fine,” said Corin. His eyes swept the table. He was directing his words to the rest of them instead of Lute. “He’s better off even. Rabbit suits his personality much more than Chainer, if you think about it. He’ll settle in and be happy as a clam!”

Cady and Hugh were both nodding. Nobody else agreed. Not even Aulia.

“I guess he was only eight months younger than Hazel,” said Lute. “Eight months isn’t a lot really.”

It was absolutely a lot, when one of the people involved was sixteen and the other was fifteen. And everyone in the room knew it.

Lute slid off the island and reached for his coat. “It was so nice to have breakfast with you all. Good luck on your travels, Grandma. Hazel. I’ve got to go.”

Hazel’s eyes were narrowed.

Aulia’s smile now warmed the room, as if to banish any remaining mentions of poor Roman. “Thank you, Lute! Have a wonderful day at school!”

“It’s going to be interesting,” said Lute as he left the kitchen behind. “I’ll tell you all about it when you get back home.”

******

He opened the box for the first time on a bus as it drove the length of the Span. The sun still hadn’t risen, and to his left and right, the dark ocean might as well have been endless. The graduation pin was right there, nestled on a bed of blue satin.

The titanium symbol glimmered as it caught the light of streetlamps. The bus was full of adults conversing at early-morning volume. Lute heard bits and pieces while he stared at the pin.

<<I hear they’re finally making plans to connect the crescent to F-city by rail. Took them long enough.>>

“I’m heading to Milwaukee for the 4th of July. My old man cooks a beer can chicken every year.”

<<They summoned me for moving their expedition’s supplies up and down a mountain in the middle of nowhere. It was more interesting than it sounds.>>

“I’ve always liked that symbol.” It was the middle-aged looking woman in the seat beside him. She was looking at the pin. “A beginning and an end at the same time.”

“It’s a pin they give to students at my school,” said Lute. “The principal gave a speech about it.”

The woman smiled. Her eyes were such a perfect shade of aquamarine there was probably some magical assistance involved, and she was wearing a shirt for a Brute diving club under her jacket.

“Did they tell you it’s sometimes used to remind a person to move forward? It can be a way of saying that no matter how beautiful or painful a moment in your life is, it’s still just a waypoint. You can’t hold onto it, but you can have the next moment.”

“She didn’t put it like that.”

“Well that’s my favorite thing about it,” said the woman. “So now you know.”

Lute touched the titanium logogram with a finger, just like he’d seen so many of his classmates doing a few months ago.

Later, in the bathroom of a shop near his school that sold otherworldly imports, he finally put the pin on. Then he played with his System name tag.

Lute Velra

Lute Stellan Velra- S rank

Lute Velra - Harpist

Lute Velra - Pre-affixed Shaper of Water

Stellan Velra - No, not that one

Enjoy Eleventh Grade, Carlotta and Declan

It really will let me put anything I want.

He tried the “harpist” tag on several times. He liked it best. It was the one he thought he would wear most of the time. But for today…something a little different.

Mind made up, he hid the tag and left the bathroom with his coat on over his blazer.

Walking the final block to school was surreal. The sun still hadn’t risen. He felt like the journey took a long time. People he saw every day passed him on bicycles or on foot. Their breath made puffs of fog around their faces. Chattering groups of friends, older students, younger ones. Primary schoolers in their winter sweaters, holding onto the hands of parents or arriving in cars.

He spotted Tuyet grabbing the back of her little brother’s coat. And there was Vandy, chasing a windblown chip bag down the sidewalk. She leaped and smashed it under a loafer, then picked it up. Lute stopped to watch her.

If I was going to say something to her, what would I say?

An apology would go a long way with Vandy, but he wasn’t going to give her one. Not her. Not until she gave him one, and he didn’t see that happening. She was very stubborn. Even if he wrote a ten-page essay baring his soul, she wouldn’t think she’d done anything wrong.

From her point of view, she hadn’t.

From everyone’s point of view, maybe. Except for mine.

Was it really so hard to make out the ground from your place in the sky?

Well, it went both ways. He hadn’t felt very sorry for the people who’d cried at the end of the class trips, had he? They'd all been dealing with knowing that they were seeing things they might never be allowed to see again. Everly had been particularly devastated on the last day.

Salar de Uyuni, right after a fortuitous rain.

Lute sat down on a bench and called his father on his cell phone before entering the middle school building. Cyril was still asleep. He had to place the call twice before he answered.

“Hey, Lutey,” he said in a gravelly voice. “You okay at school?”

Lute pressed the phone to his ear. "I’m good. Sorry for waking you up.”

“It’s fine.” Cyril yawned.

“Dad, I wanted to tell you…good morning and have a nice day and…um…love you.”

That wasn’t what he’d called to say. But the other words wouldn’t come. They exchanged pleasantries, and then he hung up.

Lute tucked his phone away and climbed the stairs up to the building. He stopped at the doors. People were still arriving, but not as many. It was almost time for the first bell.

The halls would be full of students lingering to talk to friends before heading into their classrooms. There would be some ninth and tenth graders keeping an eye on the entryway, eager to be the first to report a new graduation pin sighting to the rest of the school.

Now? wondered Lute, holding his hand over the place where the pin was hidden beneath his coat. Here? Or later in the classroom?

Rapid footsteps behind him, shoes bounding up cement steps. Then Konstantin was passing him like a whirlwind, yanking open the door, insanely eager for a Monday morning as usual.

He took three steps inside then stopped and spun back to grab the door before it could shut in Lute’s face.

He’d been holding doors and saying unusually loud good mornings all week. Lute was pretty sure he was upset that he’d been deemed less socially observant than Lexi.

I didn’t mean it like this, thought Lute while Kon waited with the door. He doesn’t understand at all.

Though his misguided efforts had earned himself the highest number of underlines on the list this week.

I know how I want to do it.

“Good morning, Lute,” said Kon as Lute walked through the door.

“Morning, Kon.”

They walked into the building side-by-side. Lute strolled through the entryway at a leisurely speed.

Kon, no-doubt vibrating with the need to go talk to twenty people before the bell rang, slowed down to match his pace.

“How was your weekend?” he asked politely.

Lute was going to have to underline him again. He kept missing the point, but a wrong-minded effort was still an effort, Lute supposed.

“It was okay. I’ve had a really stressful few days, but I ate ice cream for breakfast this morning with my cereal. I recommend that.”

They had passed through the entryway, and as they entered the hall that held their classroom and their lockers, Lute stopped walking. It was crowded. People were milling around. Locker doors banged, and voices filled the air.

No new selectees today, thought Lute.

You could always tell by the atmosphere. It didn’t matter which grade they were in, there would be an additional buzz in the air about whoever it was. People would be talking about the class the latest lucky person had been assigned and snapping photos with them.

Kon stopped beside him. When Lute didn’t move for several seconds, he asked, “Did you leave something behind?”

So many things. I don’t even know what’s going to be left after this.

“I’m just going to take off my coat.”

Lute’s fingers touched soft cashmere. He shrugged his shoulders free of the coat. Then he reached up to activate the name tag, so that people with the necessary apps, or interfaces of their own, would be able to see it:

Lute

Nothing else. He had decided to let the very existence of the name tag speak for itself.

He turned to face Kon.

He watched brown eyes fix themselves on his lapel. The graduation pin shone there. Kon’s brow furrowed. He opened his mouth, probably to ask Lute what exactly it meant, and Lute said, “I got my S-rank selection on Monday.”

The silence between them stood in stark contrast to the bustle of the other students in the hall. Nobody else had noticed yet. Lute knew it would only be moments.

“You’ve never seen me before,” he said, staring into Kon’s eyes. “Maybe you’ll be able to now.”

**********

**********
