The islands were still there, floating atop the flames. Zac eagerly flew over, only stopping short just as he was about to step ashore. Another missive was sent to the other side. Zac’s human half had been making final preparations while his Draugr half was busy relocating. For its other drawbacks, the Hollow Court was undeniably more convenient when it came to travel.

Zac flew into a grand palace titled ‘Myriad Realm Repository.’ After paying 6,300 Longanimity, a realmgate was directly opened. Zac exhaled with relief upon seeing what awaited on the other side. There was darkness, but not the desolate death outside the memory. It held the mysteries of deep night, the secrets of the lower planes. There were also strong fluctuations of Void Energy.

Curious, Zac stepped through, finding himself in a sprawling mountain range. Each mountain was covered by a barrier shimmering with Imperial Faith. The environment outside was an unstable mix of Life and Death that were whipped into a frenzy by streaks of Void Energy bursting from cracks in the ground.

This world had no demarcation of a memory domain, yet it was clearly not the present. A few grand palaces towered on neighboring mountains. Far in the distance, Zac felt a hair-raising yet familiar aura—the reality-inverting Heavenly Territory of Margrave Wartorius. Zac froze in place when a barely discernible perception brushed against him.

Had he noticed? If so, did the Margrave remember the things he screamed in desperation when facing Mox?

Zac only exhaled a minute later, worry turning into jubilation. He laughed out loud, knowing he’d been worried for nothing. The mountain range had to be the location of Fuxi Halls. Judging by the stable streaks of Void, Fuxi Halls might actually be built on the Lowest Plane, the same realm that Daoist Hidden Earth used to siphon Void Energy. If not, it had to be another Lower Plane with similar attributes.

Others would have to return the way they came after borrowing the Core Formation Arrays on the mountain, but Zac should be allowed to freely navigate the area. If he returned to the central region, he would still be able to make it back. Of course, he would have to avoid that as much as possible. Paying over 6,000 Longanimity every time he traveled wasn’t sustainable.

“Can you hear me?” Zac asked into a recently purchased communicator.

‘Loud and clear, buddy. How is it?’

“I’m here,” Zac said and described the surroundings.

‘I’m guessing you’ll stay a while longer then?’ Ogras asked.

“Most likely.”

‘Well, have fun, and try not to blow up the place. I’ll keep things running up here.’

Zac put away the communicator and began inspecting his own mountain. It had seven peaks, one of which called to him. Just like with Dome Lake, Zac’s perception twisted when his feet touched the mountain. The mountain grew to an unfathomable size, with Zac a giant on its slopes. Its veins were filled with boundless Faith.

Reality inverted as Zac began his ascent. He was climbing, yet he was simultaneously moving further away from the prime dimensions. It was like the Faith-imbued mountain had become the Void Mountain itself, increasing his distance from the Heavens to the limits. The experience created a poignant feeling of unprecedented distance to his other self. One stood atop of the universe while the other hid in its absolute depths.

Soon enough, Zac reached his mountain peak. It had been carved into a hollow surrounded by seventeen spikes. A densely engraved platform was placed in the middle of the hollow, and Zac quickly counted at least thirty different arrays engraved on the spires. Seeing the exquisite arrangement made it seem all the more real.

He was really about to become a Peak Hegemon.
