“Every Elder that was in Closed Door Cultivation has returned to the land of the waking! The Verdant Blade Sect, the Misty Lake Sect, the Grey Water Sect and the Hermetic Iron Sect have all joined forces and march under one banner! The might of the entire province gathers! But for what, do you ask? I’m afraid even I don’t know what for, but I do know upon whose request! They march at the demand of the Azure Heroes!”

“The ones that broke the slavery ring?!” one person demanded.

“The very same! The heroes whose names resound throughout the province!” Tao the Traveller raised his arms, regaling the crowd.

“Rou ‘The Tiger of the Peaks’ Tigu! The ferocious tiger who sniffed out thousands of slavers, and clapped them in irons!”

“Liu ‘The Heron of the Misty Lake’ Xianghua! She fought all of her Elders in a row to seize her position as Sectmaster, without using her Heavens Shaking Artefact!”

“Tie ‘Ironskin’ Delun! Young Master of the Hermetic Iron Sect! He has rediscovered every secret of his ancestors, and can repair all the ancient formations!”

“Dong ‘Rags’ Chou, leader of ten thousand men from Grass Sea City! Men who bared their fangs at the City Nobles, men who brought them all to their knees!”

“Zang ‘Rising Dragon’ Wei, whom not even a destroyed dantian could stop! In less than a year he ascended to the Profound Realm!”

“Liang ‘Sun Fairy’ Yin! A peerless beauty matched only by a peerless strength! She's a Wrecker Ball in human form who smashed open ten fortresses, each with a single punch!”

“Zhang ‘The Rooster’ Fei! A boy who came out of nowhere and can already hold his own against cultivators fifty years his elder! A hunter without compare!”

“And of course their Leader, the Demon-Slaying Orchid, Cai Xiulan! Cai Xiulan the Hero! These are the people who called for the conclave! These are the people whom the Sects march at the request of!”

Tao the Traveller grinned at the people who were listening raptly to his words.

“Remember these names well, People of the Azure Hills! The winds of change blows! The Heavens are watching! What happens at the Duelling Peaks will surely change the course of this province forever!”
