Mostly, Alden was passing the time trying to guess what was going to happen to that line of stuff Stuart had made. There were several blocks of wood, one of stone, and something called a sackfruit that looked like a giant jellyfish full of red goo that he’d picked “because I want to see how it works on this.”

The line was twenty-seven paces long. Stuart had walked it several times until he was satisfied. And it started and ended with a bean.

Just two normal alien beans. They were small, brown, and bean-shaped. Stuart had put one on the white stone where he stood and the other was sitting on another wooden block on the other side of the fruit.

What if everything in between the beans turns into more beans? That would be a neat spell.

It was about the twentieth option he’d considered so far. And he was still thinking of ways for it to be useful when he spotted someone heading through the woods toward them.

Stuart had started the chant again. His auriad was flowing smoothly through his fingers. He was far enough along that Alden hoped this might be the time he completed it.

Don’t interrupt now, whoever you are, he thought.

They wore a knight’s coat in a soft cream color with only a few of the metal stud patterns on the sleeves. Matching ribbons were laced through a crown of braided hair the color of grape jelly. Alden was trying to examine hip width as unobtrusively as possible while also paying attention to the spell, when they reached him.

Female, he decided.

“Hello,” he said.

She sat right beside him. He wondered if he was supposed to scoot over to give her more room.

“So you’re the alien who held my cousin down while some <<prey-animalish>> girl <<processed>> one of his legs like a <<meat and bone sausage>>. Just because all of those kids thought their lives would end if they didn’t get into the fancy jungle school their parents partied at.”

Oh God, thought Alden, his polite smile freezing. She knows the whole story, and she made it sound so bad.

When he didn’t answer, one of her eyes turned toward him. It was a gray-flecked pink.

Alden cleared his throat. “Yes. That was such a bad day for everyone. I’m Alden.”

“Emban-art’h,” she said, eye turning back to Stuart. <<Definer of Grooves.>>

At least she’s on the cheat sheet already.

Emban was Stuart’s first cousin once removed. Her parents were regular wizards by choice, but they’d come to Rapport I for a visit when Emban was younger, and she had decided this life suited her better. She was the nearest to Stuart in age, just a few years older, and she was the latest art’h to become a knight.

Definer of Grooves? Is that a title of some kind or is she introducing herself by her skill name?

“It’s an honor to meet you, Hn’tyon Emban-art’h.”

“Do you think he will succeed?” she asked, still watching her cousin.

“Is it safe for us to talk? I don’t want to distract him. He’s been working on this all morning.”

Emban-art’h snorted. “If two people talking nearby breaks his focus for this spell, that would be more his failing than ours.”

Alden would still be trying to limit it to strictly necessary exchanges if she stuck around. “I’m sure he’ll succeed,” he said simply.

“So confident. Can you even understand what he’s doing?”

Alden didn’t reply, and she didn’t ask again.

After a few minutes of quiet observation, she took a small paper bag out of her coat pocket. Alden caught a whiff of the burnt sugar smell that had filled the air around the house when he’d arrived yesterday. She pulled an amber-colored oval wafer out and bit into it before holding the bag toward him.

He weighed the possibility that flatseed candy might be poisonous to humans against the risk of offending the first knight in Stuart’s family who had extended a greeting since he’d arrived.

Then, he thanked her and took a piece.

It was crunchy and sweet. The large, paper-thin flatseed in the middle tasted like toasted bread.

“I think he may be able to do it, too,” Emban-art’h said.  “But it’s hard to celebrate that possibility when the price for failure is so high.”

Are we talking about the spell he’s casting now or his future?

She licked sugar off her index finger. “And Stu is gifted enough to become a wizard of rare worth to the family. He ignores that too much. I could try until I wept and still not cast a spell like this one. Even if he is <<imperfect>> with it still.”

A moist finger pointed at the line of objects in front of them.

Stuart’s voice was rising in pitch and volume.

“That’s all I’ll say about it. But they shouldn’t have asked him to agree to another delay,” Emban-art’h said. “Not after Granduncle Jeneth has given permission.”

Alden didn’t know how to respond to any of this. The last bite of candy he’d taken was melting on his tongue.

Emban-art’h rose to her feet. “I’ve probably made him angry enough by talking to you when he wasn’t in a position to comment. And they’ve decided he’s supposed to act as my votary next week. I’d rather not have a bad-tempered votary who needs soothing. It’s quite backwards. Try to put him in a good mood for me, Alden Ryeh-b’t.”

Stuart’s eyes narrowed. His voice lifted another octave.

As Emban-art’h walked away, past the line of objects, Stuart’s chant became a breathy shriek that made the hair on Alden’s arms stand up.

That sound wasn’t just his voice. There was something else about it.

It’s happening.

Alden watched. It happened too fast to really get it, but at least he saw and heard it.

The wood block closest to where Stuart stood broke open with a crack that was followed by a series of cracks and pops from the other wood blocks in the line. Then the stone one shattered and the sackfruit exploded gloriously, spattering Emban-art’h with red goo.

Silence reigned for only a second.

“Ugh! Stu, you rushed that on purpose to hit me!”

“Where’s the bean!?” Stuart shouted, racing along the line of minor destruction. “Did it make it? Alden, did you see? Come here!”

“I’ve just decided my fake votary needs to do my laundry next week.”

“It did make it!”

Alden was on his feet, jogging over to see what Stuart was gesturing excitedly toward. He was already trying to explain before Alden even reached him.

“With the skill, I wouldn’t have to send a bean to a bean, although I could. And the route I made for it would match the size I intended perfectly. My casting of this spell is actually too messy, but for demonstration purposes that’s good because it shows the potential.”

Alden looked down toward where Stuart leaned over the final wood block. Instead of one bean, there were now two, resting innocently side by side. Neither of them had a scratch on them.

Stuart was watching him eagerly.

“Did one of these go through all of that?” Alden asked, looking at the splinters and rubble and exploded jellyfish fruit between them and the place where Stuart had been standing to cast.

“Actually it traveled through a kind of <<tunnel>> I created with my spell,” said Stuart. He stood and clasped his hands in front of him. “That’s going to be one of the things I can do with my skill—The Maker of Narrow Ways.”

******
