“Apparently, everyone thought I was taking years to announce because I liked the rituals and sense of camaraderie that comes with being one of those who are choosing, which I very much do, of course. But I was taking so long for the same reasons almost everyone else does. Because the adults all said it was a special time of life that shouldn’t be rushed away from and because I didn’t want to embarrass myself by formally announcing and then later have to say I’d made a mistake.

“That kind of <<vacillation>> makes people more likely to worry about you. My family spent so much of my youth worrying about me. I didn’t want to give them another cause for concern.”

“That didn’t go as you planned,” Alden noted.

“There was a significant difference in how I understood my situation and how they did. When I was younger, nobody I loved ever said I didn’t have the ability to become a knight. It didn’t need to be said. It was obvious even to me, as soon as I was old enough to know a little about it. But I thought that, over the past few years, we all realized I had become strong enough to do whatever I wanted.”

He scowled. “We talked a lot about how well I was doing. Everyone told me how proud they were of the adult I was becoming. They treated me like nothing about me was delicate anymore. And it never occurred to me that they were being liars.”

Alden was surprised by the vehemence.

“When I realized I was completely confident in my choice, I was so excited to tell them. I knew they’d be surprised, but I expected them to be happily surprised. Especially Father. It is the path of highest onus, after all, and there is a love and a <<communion>> that can only be shared with those who walk it with you.” Stuart closed his eyes and shook his head. “I told them the night before that I would be announcing the end of my season of choosing in the morning. And so everyone was there for first meal in the big dining room.

“The change in their expressions when I told them…”

He fell silent.

“Bad?” Alden prompted after a while.

Stuart’s eyes opened again. His voice was suddenly gloomy. “If one of my grandparents had teleported back from the grave, hauling chaos with them like <<one who yields to perversion>>, and <<shat>> in the wevvi boiler, I’m sure my family would have been less horrified.”

“Nooo,” said Alden, moaning with vicarious embarrassment. “I’m so sorry.”

“It was terrible,” said Stuart.

“It sounds like it was. What did your father say?”

“He couldn’t speak.”

“Oh no.”

“He just left the house.” Stuart’s expression was distant. “He was gone for almost a week.”

Alden cringed.

“That was about half a year before I met you,” Stuart said. “I’ve had an <<astounding>> variety of arguments with everyone since then. But actually, right after the mishnen, when Father came to see me, we talked for hours. About the mistakes I’d just made, but also about my future. And he told me to choose as I thought best and said he would trust me whatever the choice was.”

He smiled. “I will repay his trust by <<thriving>> in every way. And someday soon, he will be glad he gave it.”

******

******

“I’m willing to consider the idea that you’re not less mature than me,” Alden announced, peering through the translucent barrier that kept people from falling out of the elevator. It was carrying them rapidly down below ground level to the place Stuart called the supply library. “I’ll tell Lute I was wrong when I get back to Earth.”

“I enjoy your company very much,” said Stuart. “So please don’t feel that I’m insulting you. But you’re so strange.”

“I’m strange!?”

“Yes.” The elevator stopped, and the barrier disappeared. As soon as Stuart stepped out, a golden glow warmed the massive room he’d just entered. The lighting came from the shelves, racks, and cabinets in the space.

Aisles full of them.

This is not a basement, thought Alden, craning his neck as he hurried after his host, who was striding forward purposefully as if there was nothing at all special to see in this part of the house. This is like the organized version of a treasure room in an animated movie.

But instead of in mounds, the jewels were in boxes with labels like “Worshipped in a Fetuna Temple for at least Three Hundred Years” and “Fossilized Resin Drops with Stinging Oons Inside.”

They walked past a rack covered in loops of Artonan hair. Well, no fantasy treasure room I ever saw had that.

But he was pretty sure if he were a Wright he would have fainted the second he set foot in here. They had enough of that powder Everly Kim used to cast her ice patch spell to fill a bathtub. There were metal ingots in piles. One cabinet had a sign on the front that said, “Don’t let me out without asking Evul.”

Alden was so overwhelmed that he forgot to joke around about how Stuart was the strange one.

Of course he hadn’t forgotten exactly where he was. He was an invited guest in the home of the people who were ranked first and fourth most important in the known universe. But the art’h residence was so cozy for an alien siblinghold. Cooking dinner on a rock and watching Stuart try to get a zipper away from his pet had made his impression of Rapport I lean toward the homey.

Now he was having a moment of clarity. And magical eye strain.

“The floor below us is also part of the supply library,” Stuart said, apparently unaware that Alden was trying to calculate what that bin full of sand over there must cost if it was the same stuff that was inside his temper spheres. “And the one below that is for items that should be kept safe but that rarely need to be accessed. There are some interesting weapons down there. Above us is the manuscript library. And a lot of portraits.”

They passed a shelf full of bottled snowmelt, labeled by year. And then they walked by a tree root thicker than Alden’s whole body. It pierced down through one hole cut in the ceiling and another in the floor.

Alden found his voice as Stuart led him to a series of slots carved into the wall. “There’s so much stuff here.”

“Do you like it?” Stuart paused with his arms half-lifted as if he were about to cast. “I always have. Rel spent a whole winter down here with me one year, teaching me the names of all the things, how to care for them, and what they were for.”

“I do like it. You managed to memorize them all in a single winter?”

“All the more common and useful things,” Stuart clarified. “But I still know more about the library than a lot of my older siblings do. And Emban’s very familiar with it now, but the first time some of my brother and sisters brought her down here, she accidentally got left behind. The lights cut off because she hadn’t been introduced to the spell yet, and half a day later, I found her crying behind a basket full of <<blood cakes>>.”

Alden pulled up his cheat sheet. “That sounds sad. Who’s Emban?”

******

An hour or so after sunrise, Alden found himself sitting with his back to a tree, waving off apologies from Stuart, who was acting like the lack of a magical cushion might do Alden’s rear end a permanent injury.

“I’m very comfortable,” Alden insisted. “And if casting a spell right now might make you mess up the one you just spent so much time preparing for, I’d be disappointed. I want to see what your skill is going to do.”

The Primary’s son had been explaining about the spell the whole time he set up the casting zone for himself. It was, he said, the most difficult thing he could achieve with magic. He’d only managed to make it work in the past couple of months, which had been the final goal on his personal to-do-before-I-affix list. Because it was a spell that showed him “the humblest version” of the skill he’d decided would be his perfect match.

Alden had no idea what to expect, and he was getting excited at the thought of seeing not only a cool new kind of magic but a cool new kind of magic that Stu-art’h thought was worth…well, worth sacrificing a portion of himself.

But the wizard who’d just spent part of the morning talking about how great his special spell was and exuberantly choosing expensive supplies to match the occasion was now having what looked an awful lot like a crisis of confidence.

“You understand that this is just a part of what I’ll be able to do with my skill?” he said for the second time, leaning over to brush a few grains of soil from the top of the circular slab of white stone they’d hauled out here with mover discs. He was going to stand on it and cast, and something was going to happen to the line of random objects he’d placed in front of it. “It will be more impressive in the future.”

“I know.”

“And if I make a mistake and it fails, that won’t mean that my skill will fail in the future.”

“I know.”

Stuart opened his mouth again.

“Listen, I’m an easy audience,” said Alden. “And if it doesn’t work, you can try again this afternoon, can’t you? Or in December…if you’re still planning to invite me then. I know it might not be worth another argument with your family.”

“There won’t be any more arguments about that,” said Stuart. Now he was checking the tie on the end of his braid as if that might be the one thing that undid all his preparations. “I can have you over whenever I want to. They promised.”

“You didn’t have to give up something you wanted in return, did you?” Alden asked. “I don’t want to be—”

“I think it all concluded in my favor. They asked me to delay my first binding for a while longer and do a few other things.”

“That’s not fair to you,” Alden said, anger rising swiftly. “It’s so stressful, and if you’re ready for it now…”

“It can only be a small delay. And a few of them made points about why a delay might be good. And I did talk them into giving me several other things. Don’t worry. Are you sure you’re fine without a seat? I could run back to the house.”

Alden pointed at the white circle. “Stop delaying. I want to see a spell!”

Stuart took a deep breath. “Yes. I will stop and start over a few times. It doesn’t mean anything is wrong. The process will help me build the spell more gradually and tighten my focus.”

When he said significant-sounding things like that, it gave Alden crazy urges. Begging for a magic lesson would be a really strange thing for him to do, but if Stuart already thought he was strange…

It would still be a terrible idea.

“And you don’t have to watch the whole time. You can watch videos on your tablet or do your own work. It will take a while. You’ll know it’s about to happen when I hit <<urgent pitch>>.”

Alden gave him two thumbs ups.

Stuart paused for half a minute to research the gesture. Then, he returned it and raced over to start his spell.

******

He hadn’t been kidding when he said it would take a while.

An hour and a half into it, Alden winced as Stuart stopped the chant again, took a sip of something from a flask in his pocket, and did the same series of finger stretches that he always did when he restarted.

He never looked upset. In fact, since he’d started casting, his focus was intense and intent in a way that made Alden want to pull out his own auriad and lose himself in trying a spell, too.

The silky string slid an inch down his arm, and he sent it back toward his shoulder where it belonged.

He definitely wasn’t about to start doing CNH homework when he had a live wizardry demonstration taking place right in front of him.

I’ll probably never be able to do what he’s doing, but here I am watching like he’s giving a class.

Stuart would have begun casting spells when he was years younger than Kibby. And Alden didn’t know how powerful he was, but…he was the Primary’s son. Alden seriously doubted it was a B-rank equivalent situation over there.

It had occurred to him that he could reach out with his own authority to peek. Not a friendly student-to-student pat even, just a drawing closer to see if he could sense what Stuart was doing at all. But that was even crazier than whipping out the auriad. For all he knew, any deliberate action on his part other than skill use would be noticed.

Casting a spell on Anesidora, where millions of Avowed and quite a few wizards were also doing it in their own ways, was one thing. Deliberately poking and peering with his authority sense here at the art’h house was another. What if everyone here had the equivalent of a magical voice that the others could recognize? Knight and wizard family life was a mystery.

So he held very still and stayed very quiet and contented himself with observing the world through his boring old human senses.

The braziers positioned around Stuart were sending up smoke that spiraled tightly around his stone circle and up before disappearing. Alden had only gotten one whiff of it before it started spiraling well, and he could have sworn it smelled solid. Like it was prodding his nose and lungs.

Whenever the chanting was in progress, he admired the variety of sounds Artonan throats could make. He wondered if Stuart’s speaking voice was what came comfortably to him or if he’d selected it for himself. They could do that fairly easily if they wanted…just decide they were going to develop a different everyday voice like a human deciding they were going to learn a new accent.

I doubt he’s had the time to think about something like that, considering everything else he’s been thinking about.

