He couldn’t help but wonder if Aran’s seeming non-reaction to Ryota’s news was real or not. After all, if Fifteenth really did mean to attack, Aran couldn’t run. If he gave up this fortress, Fifteenth could simply destroy, poison, or trap it. He had to defend it, and if he couldn’t defend it, then his path ended here.

That’s why I’m feeling trapped, Rhys realized abruptly. This wasn’t about Aran at all. No, this was a dead end in the truest of senses. Usually, Ryota could just walk away or flee if things got too tense, but here was different. Ryota wouldn’t simply leave Aran. He knew as well as Rhys did that Aran couldn’t give up this home without dying. If Fifteenth meant to destroy Ryota, then this was the best way to corner him: attack Aran in front of him, and force him to stand his ground. If he couldn’t or didn’t want to outright kill Ryota, then he could forcibly pin him here while he did whatever it was he wanted to do without Ryota’s influence.

No—in fact, he told Ryota that Aran was in danger. He told Ryota to come here. And Ryota, the idiot, took the bait, so here we are. Now all he has to do is attack, and we’re stuck here until Fifteenth decides we can go, or until we fight our way out.

All this time, he’d been extending his senses the wrong direction. There was no trap here. Rather: here was the trap. Aran’s life was the trap, and they’d stumbled right into it.

Rhys stood abruptly. Aran and Ryota both looked at him, mildly surprised. Lira’s seat still stood empty; she hadn’t shown up.

“What is it?” Ryota asked.

Rhys smiled. “Aran, so nice to meet you, but I remembered something Ryota and I need to do right now.”

“You did? What is it?” Ryota asked, deeply confused.

Rhys grabbed his arm and dragged him on. “Yeah. So, sorry about this, but we’ve got to run, okay? I hope you have a good time. We’ll come and visit later.”

Aran smiled wanly. “If it’s so urgent, then there’s nothing I can say, is there?”

“No, sorry. I’ll explain later. Ryota, come on.”

“Rhys! What is so important that it can’t wait?”

Rhys grimaced. “I’ll explain later. Come with me, please. Don’t resist.”

A shadow loomed over the surface of the water, casting the entire palace in darkness. Oppressive mana signatures loomed, pressuring the entire palace. Ryota pulled away from Rhys and drew his sword with a valiant shout, and Rhys grimaced.

Dammit. Too late.
