Even as she looked up, she saw a glittering being flying overhead, bearing some large object through the skies with ease. For a second, Yvlon saw the half-avian, half-mist being from overhead. She saw the bored face, the magic leaking from every aspect of the Djinni—
And the shackles on both arms and legs. Like hers.
This was a city of Chandrar. Of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. It had a population to dwarf that of Celum’s, rivaling even one of the largest cities in Izril.
It wasn’t even the capital. The [Weaver-Chancellor] completed her listening and stepped back. She glanced at Merr—then focused on Yvlon. And at last, someone recognized her. The woman eyed Yvlon’s arm, did a double-take, locked onto her hair, and rounded on one of the [Guards].
“You sand-blasted fools without eyes! Do I need to have each one of you report to a [Stitchmistress] to have your pupils resewn? Do you know who you’ve just brought into my city? Has not one of you looked at a scrying orb?”
She pointed at Yvlon. The [Guards] looked at each other, a bit hurt and confused. They were tired, they’d been on the road escorting this prisoner train all across Nerrhavia for the last two days—who had the time or money to look at a scrying orb?
The [Chancellor] looked at Yvlon, then beckoned her forwards. Two [Guards] warily watched Yvlon as her gag was undone. The first thing Yvlon did was cough. Then spoke.
“You know who I am?”
“Yvlon Byres of the Horns of Hammerad, or may I pluck out my eyes and return them as worthless pieces of cloth.”
Desais Cotton spoke crisply. Yvlon exhaled. At last. She nodded, smiling.
“That’s right. I’m innocent. I was falsely accused by a Magistrate—Ducaz—who abducted me and—”
Desais blinked rapidly as Yvlon tried to speak. She opened her mouth, lifted a hand.
“Stop!”
Yvlon’s flow of words halted, via some Skill. The [Chancellor] looked at her and had to step back.
“Someone find me her records.”
She pressed two fingers delicately to the bridge of her nose. Yvlon saw her sigh, with the realization of someone who finds that their normal, boring work day has suddenly developed the kind of complication that might take weeks to sort out.
Yvlon had little sympathy. She’d been having a bad day.
 
—-
 
“Did you kill…let us say, over eight [Guards] and over twenty—no. For the sake of simplicity, let us ask this: did you kill anyone in the alleged incident as it occurred two days prior in your recollections?”
Yvlon Byres listened carefully as the small circle stood in the street. She watched the stone.
“No.”
It glowed…orange. Desais Cotton eyed it as the [Guards] murmured, looking at Yvlon.
“You aren’t certain.”
“I am!”
Orange again. Yvlon bit her tongue.
“I was…in the middle of a [Berserker’s Rage]. It—I can’t remember fully, but I am almost certain no one was killed.”
The orange shifted towards blue. Desais frowned, although the mention of [Berserker’s Rage] made a few more hands go to their swords.
“For clarity, then. You do recall injuring over fifty [Guards] in a city-wide battle?”
“It wasn’t city-wide. And it wasn’t—”
“Do you recall injuring [Guards] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
“…Yes.”
Pure blue, edging towards white. Desais sighed and closed her eyes. Yvlon worked her mouth.
“—Because that Magistrate—”
“Yes, Magistrate Ducaz, of whom you have made claims of kidnapping, extortion/blackmail, threats against your life and that of your team, theft. I am noting this down again. You say he has possession of your gear and relic-class items?”
Yvlon nodded. The stone didn’t glow since there was nothing said. Desais looked at it pointedly.
“He took my gear.”
Blue. Not as vividly white, but blue nonetheless. Desais glanced at a harried [Scribe].
“Look into this. Ducaz did register a number of artifacts after your arrest. However—no relic-class items. Which, if he is concealing them…”
Yvlon bit her tongue. Desais glanced at her, frowning slightly. She went back to her interrogation. The other criminals were standing, unable to sit, having to endure this delay.
“The truth in question seems to be your truth spell account of what occurred versus Magistrate Ducaz’s. Both register as true statements. I wonder…”
“He could have lied.”
One of the [Guards] slapped the back of Yvlon’s head. Hard. The woman staggered.
“How dare you accuse a [Magistrate] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen of corruption!”
The words were bellowed into her ear. Yvlon felt her temper rise. She—controlled herself. Barely.
Desais glared at the [Guard] until they stepped back. The woman sighed.
“The truth will be found. I have lodged a formal inquiry with an [Arbiter of Law], who will look into this.”
“But what about my team? My…?”
The [Chancellor] silenced Yvlon again. She looked harried, annoyed—and worried.
“Your team will be found, Adventurer Byres. However, in the interim—we have established your slaughter of innocent civilians and guards is in doubt. What is not is that you did, by your admission, attack a [Magistrate] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and injure dozens of [Guards]!”
“Because he—”
Yvlon raised her voice. Desais glowered at her.
“You have broken the law. And that…yes, that is the fact. Which makes my task simple. I will inform my superiors you have been found, and notify the Adventurer’s Guild of your location and the crimes. Which is my task. An [Arbiter] will investigate the truth of your guilt.”
She was speaking to herself, and Yvlon did not like the way Desais’ tone sounded more reassured as she went over her course of action.
“You can’t just ignore what I said! The [Magistrate]—”
Desais winced and licked her lips. Yvlon realized some of the [Guards] were looking worried.
“A [Magistrate] is a very high-ranking official. I, personally, am only taking down your account. An [Arbiter] is better positioned to investigate…claims.”
She was afraid. Yvlon ground her teeth together. Afraid of Ducaz? Or maybe however he had managed to break the law and lie. She was going to pass on the responsibility! Which meant ignoring Yvlon!
“You can’t do that. I am a Gold-rank adventurer. I—am a [Lady] of the House of Byres. I demand to speak to…Prince Zenol of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! I w—”
She went silent a third time as Desais slashed her hand and Yvlon’s mouth closed. Yvlon’s third mistake was threatening the [Weaver-Chancellor] with the immediate consequences of not helping her. Desais looked at Yvlon and came to a speedy decision.
“Submit the request. As for this prisoner—we do not treat foreign nobility any different than criminals of our own. Place her there—”
Yvlon shouted through her gag, but it was too late. The [Guards] herded her over and her brief thought to burst her bindings again was put to rest. Where would she go? The city was full of [Guards] and Yvlon had no bearings, no gear.
She glowered like a storm cloud as the [Chancellor] spoke, inspecting the criminals as a whole. The Stitchwoman ignored her, rapidly pointing and speaking. Yvlon had no idea what was happening, until she realized this was what should have happened had she not been identified.
“Mines. Those men. That woman—and that one. Wait. Are they [Bandits]? Then…only those two. Have those six…assigned to river work. They need more. Are there any extant bids via Roshal?”
One of the [Scribes] consulted a list.
“For a [Bandit Lord] or [Bandit Lady], yes.”
“And the price? I see. Then—the [Bandit Lady], Merr the Storm, is to go to Roshal if they agree. Next!”
The prisoners were being shuffled away. Some to mines, others to…Yvlon realized they were all being sent to different places to work. Prisoner labor. Except for the [Bandit Lady], who began to struggle futilely as she was dragged towards another location.
[Slavers] of Roshal. Yvlon knew only a bit about them. As she was halted in front of Desais and the [Scribe] and the [Head of Guards], they consulted quickly.
“And this one? We could inquire, [Chancellor]. Roshal would almost certainly have a bid.”
Desais looked uneasy. She glanced at Yvlon.
“As her case is ongoing…no.”
“Put me in jail or let me talk to someone who will hear me fairly!”
Yvlon tried to say that, but only muffled words came out. Desais glared at her, but she was drumming her fingers on her side.
“Until such time…the mines?”
One of the [Guards]—and Yvlon realized some were in charge of each spot—immediately protested.
“Chancellor, you do us great credit with your concern, but we would be…forced to spend more time watching such a dangerous prisoner! She broke four restraints! How are we to hold her? I would rather chain and force a nest of Sandvipers to work than this one!”
The others nodded fervently as Yvlon glowered at them. Desais clicked her tongue.
“Then she is strong enough to break rocks barehanded! Come now. Then—river work. Let her dig a correction for water! She won’t—no?”
The other [Guards] looked just as nervous. One protested.
“By Queen Yisame and the royal courts, [Chancellor], how are we to let the other inmates feel safe? If we let her loose to work, she might slaughter us all! Even without a gag—you heard what she did with her teeth!”
They hadn’t corrected that lie. Yvlon tried to speak again as Desais rubbed at her face.
“Shackling her might be too dangerous. Preventing her escape, [Chancellor]? If she can do to metal bars what she does to her shackles, even the prison might be…”
One of the [Scribes] whispered uncertainly. The [Weaver-Chancellor] sighed. And then she had it. She snapped her fingers and smiled.
“I know of the place. This one—and all the [Storm Bandits] save for Merr. They go to the arena. If anywhere can hold one such as this, it is there. Let it be done! I am going to retire for a…rest.”
Yvlon looked up, eyes narrowed. The [Storm Bandits] looked resigned, some even happy—until they glanced at her. The [Guards] likewise brightened up. Yvlon’s head turned until she saw a rounded wall in the distance. She began to shout, but it was done.
One lie, many truths. Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Chancellor] of Caardefelt did launch a formal inquiry into Magistrate Ducaz’s claims, where it slowly began to work upwards in the system of law. Meanwhile, one of the coliseums of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, known as the Arena of Rust—received a new gladiator-prisoner.
Yvlon Byres found herself unshackled, put in a cell with stout metal bars, amid the company of other [Gladiators], prisoners, and so on. She wanted to shout for Desais. Protest her innocence! This was injust! Unfair!
The woman with a metal arm and jagged stump for another turned as the jailors left. The [Gladiators] and prisoners turned to see the newcomer. They eyed Yvlon Byres, the fresh sacrifice for the Arena of Rust, the newcomer, easy pr—
Easy prey…?
Easy…?
They decided not to bother her.
 
—-
 
Two prisoners. Three, if you counted one [Necromancer] in a caravan heading to the west. Growing more distant with each day.
One of the Horns of Hammerad jerked awake. A figure scrambled back. Ceria Springwalker looked up, finger pointed, and saw a Human boy. She registered dark skin—a surprised expression.
“You are awake!”
The [Villager] boy exclaimed. The half-Elf had been passed out for over a day! The [Elder] thought she might not make it.
[Villager] and [Elder]. Catchall classes for a particular type of culture, just like [Peasant] was an actual class some people got in Terandria. The [Elder] was no [Healer], but he had a [Healer]’s Skills, and a mix of others.
A [Villager] was a community-class, stronger when there were more. If…only by a bit. It suited Nerhs, the village with nothing much. It was a humble place built in the lee of a hill, which survived in this arid region mostly because the buildings were inhabited and maintained by the people, who were here because the buildings were here.
The half-Elf finding them was one of the most exciting things to ever happen to the village. Which, given the unsettling stories of [Bandit] raids and monster attacks by other villages nearby, was just as well.
However, the boy, Luaar, was just excited she was in their house. His father, the [Village Head], had volunteered for the dubious honor because he had to. Luaar had been tasked with giving her some precious water, which there was little to spare. Nerhs was not rich, and the much more well-fed towns and cities Luaar dreamed of going to and settling in had water aplenty. Not so for the single well here, enough to sustain the small village.
He was ready to explain all of this to the blinking, blonde half-Elf who sat up, her remaining wounds tended to, her skeletal hand raised and aiming at him. He wanted to know her name! Would they be friends? She was clearly a [Mage]; would she teach him magic and start his career as an adventurer?
The boy had been playing out scenarios since the moment she’d collapsed. He began to speak, rapidly touching his chest.
“My name is Luaar. You are in Nerhs—you fell down right outside our village and we saved you from the scavengers! Are y—”
“Food!”
The half-Elf shouted. Luaar stared as she lunged, grabbed the plate he’d been carrying, and snatched it.
The glorious half-Elf stranger…grabbed the earthenware plate, saw the Yellats, and began to wolf them down like the starving Needlehounds who had been following her. Luaar stared as she crammed six of the root-vegetables with the spicy tang that grew everywhere into her mouth. Her bulging cheeks chipmunked to contain the food as she tried to swallow—then began to choke.
He slowly backed away from her, dreams ruined.
 
—-
 
Ceria was so hungry that she didn’t even notice the boy except to register him as a vague impression. She scarfed down whatever she was eating; it could have been bug paste for all she cared.
Only when that was done did she look around, blearily. Now her stomach and throat hurt. She saw a wide-eyed boy staring at her.
“Where am I?”
Luaar stared at the [Cryomancer].
“In Nerhs, my village. You—you are awake? I am Luaar, my father—”
Ceria slapped her hand to her head.
“Ceria to Montressa. Hello? Nerhs. Nerhs! Ceria to Pisces. Pisces? Where are you?”
She began firing [Message] spells off. However, she recalled she’d barely reached Montressa. Ceria pointed at Luaar, who was staring at this rude stranger.
“I’m in Chandrar, right?”
“Y-yes?”
“What part?”
Luaar stammered.
“Nerhs isn’t in a nation. We aren’t claimed, although sometimes—”
“Damn. No nation. Got any more food?”
“No. My name is Luaar—”
Ceria’s head hurt. Her stomach was trying to regurgitate so many Yellats downed at once. She looked around, gave up on the [Message] spell; she hoped the first one had gone through.
“Okay then.”
