Femithain’s head lowered, but not out of shame. He regarded Nsiia. His voice was…more dispassionate. Not without passion, but with it carefully controlled. Disappointment was what Ksmvr heard in his tones.
“Illivere cares for Golems as much as people. Perhaps too much, Empress Nsiia. But if we are at fault—and we are—what of you?”
“You would reproach me for saving a life over a thing, even if it were precious?”
She scoffed. Femithain’s voice grew colder. Harsher.
“You could have stopped Domehead any number of ways. Do not obfuscate, please, Nsiia. You are a skilled [Warrior]. You could have damaged his legs, his arm—even protected the Antinium. You struck the dome on purpose. Was it to make your point? Or punish us?”
Her silence was long. At last, the woman looked away.
“It seems Illivere believes things are worth more than lives, in the end.”
She turned towards Ksmvr, and Femithain grabbed her. The two looked at each other. The Magus-Crafter spoke, his voice deceptively soft.
“Is there nothing in this world we can shatter that will hurt you, Empress Nsiia? You act as if only what breathes has value. What about the Spear of Tiqr? What about its crown, the palace, the nation itself? You are unkind. I thought better of you before this moment.”
“And I of you.”
Then she pulled away and bent towards Ksmvr. He let the world dwindle, then. Alive. He was…alive. That was all.
The other machine-man, man-of-machines lay broken. The one who lived was grateful. He realized he had been afraid of death.
They both had been.
 
—-
 
That was how Ksmvr came to the Illivere Federation. Of course, he did not learn this for a while. By the time he woke up, he found his wounds had been tended to. He was lying in bed.
In a kind of…well, captivity. But also as a dubious ‘guest’, in the Magus-Crafter’s residence. Also under guard—actual guard—was the [Empress of Beasts].
Femithain sat in his study, head in his hands. Outside, the first demonstrations against the political prisoner, demands for her execution, were still taking place, blocked by the line of living guards and Golems.
Domehead was undergoing repairs in the arena. Less easy to mend were other things. Trust. Friendship…harsh words had been said. He thought of her words, but was aware he was in no fit state of mind to reasonably discuss or even entertain the concepts they’d thrown at each other.
He just didn’t understand. Didn’t understand Nsiia. Did she think nothing died when the lights went out? That even if his body was mended, Domehead wasn’t…wasn’t…?
Femithain thought he had seen something glorious in the glowing lights of the Golem’s ‘head’ a moment before the end. Something that had been lost. Which he feared, even if many more of his kind were made, would never come back.
In the privacy of his study, the Magus-Crafter removed his spectacles and wiped at his eyes. Then fumbled for a handkerchief, because the tears kept flowing forth. He had never really desired a son, nor thought of Domehead as one. He was not Femithain’s alone.
Yet the Magus-Crafter was convinced he had just seen a child die.
 
—-
 
Ksmvr, the Gold-rank adventurer, murderer of Hammera and many innocent Golems, survivor of the raid on the Village of the Dead and member of the Horns of Hammerad lay in the bed, unable to move.
He was the first Antinium to ever set foot in Chandrar. He knew there would be consequences. He did not know where his team was.
Ksmvr was alive. He would take that. The Antinium stared at the ceiling.
“I am alive.”
He lay his head back and listened to the voice inform him of his levels.
 
[Conditions Not Met: Skirmisher → ??? Class Denied.]
[Conditions Met: Skirmisher → Brave Skirmisher Class!]
[Brave Skirmisher Level 30!]
[Skill – Knuckles of Iron obtained!]
[Skill – Surpass Limits obtained!]
 
The Antinium was confused. He had never heard that kind of phrasing before. Ksmvr wondered why it had happened. Then it became obvious when he thought of Yvlon, his team, his wounded condition.
“Ah. I am a disgrace.”
He had let them down again. Ksmvr nodded and lay there, wishing he could close his eyes. After a while, a cat crawled curiously onto his chest, her Golem-legs clicking against his carapace. She paused. Then curled up as the hand came up to pet. Then all three.
That was something, at least.
 
—-
 
Ironically, the fates of Ksmvr and Yvlon Byres became known before that of Ceria and Pisces—although neither was able to be scried. In fact, the only scryable member of the Horns of Hammerad was Ceria. Wherever she was.
However, within days, friends of the Horns would know that Ksmvr and Yvlon lived—just not how to immediately affect their return for reasons owing to more than mere geography. Ksmvr’s issue was due to his species, the politics of what had happened, and the issue of justice, exacerbated by his savior, the Empress of Beasts.
Yvlon’s issue was just as complex, but the root of it lay with truth and lies.
 
—-
 
Truth and lies. Such things mattered greatly in any nation. In the greatest of nations, an empire of lesser kingdoms, with more royalty in one nation than other kingdoms had in their aristocracy? Truth mattered more in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the greatest of the Stitchfolk nations.
In this case, truth was bureaucracy. A [Watchman], [Guardswoman], [Judge], [Bounty Hunter], or any number of the law-abiding classes in Nerrhavia’s Fallen relied on truth as a foundation of their work.
Let lesser nations ‘establish’ the truth. If you had the wealth—and Nerrhavia did—why not cast truth spells every time? Justice became faster, and the vast superpower of Chandrar endured.
So when the [Magistrate] Ducaz of the Ishiz-silk region of Nerrhavia’s Fallen announced that he had found one of the Horns of Hammerad, there was much rejoicing and interest, for one of the lesser [Princes] of the nation had himself been involved in the Village of the Dead’s raid, and his good word combined with her natural fame and wealth would see her well-equipped to wherever she wanted to go.
Indeed, she might even earn a rare invitation to come to Nerrhavia Fallen’s courts in one of the capitals—with the understanding it wasn’t as much an invitation—perhaps to even meet Queen Yisame herself, or certainly the many people who wanted to see a minor celebrity in person or ask her for details of the inner city within the Village of the Dead, or make offers on the wealth now claimable by her team. Regardless, Yvlon was set in the best position to find her team.
…Or she would have been. If truth had prevailed throughout the systems of government, that was exactly what would have happened, the truth being the pillar upon which all else stood.
It only took one lie. That one lie was from the [Magistrate] Ducaz to his immediate superior, a [Regional Administrator] whose reputation was less-than-stellar, although nothing to merit investigation. They were friends, which was discouraged for obvious reasons between officials, but the conversation was nevertheless quite formal.
“I regret to tell you a—an adventurer, a Human woman—appeared in my city, quite disoriented. When my guards tried to take her into protective custody and ask how she came to be here, she became violent! I regret to inform you, Administrator Vebrynthe, that no less than eighteen of my guards are—”
“Dead?”
The [Regional Administrator] was aghast. Ducaz’s face was pale and sweaty. The Stitch-man of the Satin-caste amended his words.
“Not dead, Administrator! Wounded! Eighteen wounded…four dead. A terrible thing. Civilians hurt too! Bodies everywhere. If we were not String Folk and thus superior against the perils of cuts and even limb displacement, it would have surely been a massacre unlike any other in the memory of my provinces! I can only thank luck, the bravery of my guards—whom I led to subdue this violent Human—that we managed to subdue her with fewer casualties. She was…quite peculiar, having an ah, unique coloration to her arms and powerful Skills.”
Administrator Vebrynthe listened carefully. He was not a stupid man, and was in fact, formerly of the Cloth-caste, but had been elevated due to his ability to manage a region. As well as his ability to create beneficial friendships.
He listened to what Ducaz said. He read the man’s face, his pale, nervous expression, the look of guilt, and what Ducaz was not saying.
Claims about his personal heroism aside, Vebrynthe was highly suspect about ‘unique coloration’ of a Human woman’s arms. He was quite capable of investigating, asking questions, or doing any number of things.
What he did do was produce a powerful truth crystal and raise it.
“Well, I trust you will improve security, valiance of your militia or not, Magistrate. As for punishment…this woman will be faced with Nerrhavia Fallen’s wrath. If what you say is true, of course? Just a formality.”
He smiled at Ducaz’s expression, but the [Magistrate] went through the lengthy confirmation that nothing but the truth had been said. Vebrynthe added his seal to the confirmation—then promptly passed the entire business to a lesser [Scribe], [Clerk], or so on to deal with.
The administrator could have investigated the Human woman who’d caused all this mess. Looked into the issue. And, at the very least, he could have done a double-test of Ducaz’s claims, which would probably have foiled the [Corrupt Magistrate]’s [One Good Lie] Skill.
He did not. Vebrynthe was quite happy to have Ducaz in his debt. And it only took one lie. For, when Vebrynthe’s [Scribe] submitted it along with a series of reports to a [Judiciary] for the entire area, who was in another branch of government not superior, but not inferior to the [Regional Administrator] and who could have stopped injustice or at least, reported it—there was no need.
All the [Judiciary] saw was the truth, taken down by Vebrynthe’s people and certified. Vebrynthe had written Ducaz’s statement down, received a correct truth spell.
So when the [Judiciary] made a ruling and submitted it to the capitol for a quick review, then down to Bounty Hunter’s Guilds, law enforcement, and of course, all the relevant places for the punishment to take place—everyone saw the [Judiciary] had been truth-certified as having made an unbiased ruling to the best of his ability, which he had.
The [Guards] executed the order, as did the [Scribes] in the Bounty Hunter’s Guild who registered the criminal’s record—in case they escaped or it came up later—and the entire system worked perfectly on the assumption that truth had held all the way through. It had to. Or else everything that happened next was based on faulty ground.
That was how Yvlon awoke to find her trouble with Ducaz and ill-timed rampage with her new Skill had landed her in even more trouble.
 
—-
 
The first thing she remembered was not killing anyone. Yvlon remembered that distinctly. She had sliced and cut—but only on idiots with stitch-marks. Even in her haze of fury at that man, she’d had that amount of morality.
The second was realizing she was never going to fight out of the city, seeing hundreds of [Guards] running at her—and blockading herself in the very same place Ducaz had been interrogating her in. Yvlon had looked at the artifacts on the table, at the door—
…And surrendered. There was no point using one of the damned scrolls taken from the Putrid One’s lair. If she could even activate it, and she’d doubted she could, Yvlon would have no idea what it did, or probably done it incorrectly.
Stuff like that was how the [Historians] came to write, ‘the giant crater eighteen miles wide’ in the history books. Yvlon had done her best, though. She’d surrendered after five minutes, just as they were preparing to rush her.
Well. Ducaz hadn’t dared get close, but he’d ordered his people to strip Yvlon naked and search the place. Which they had, right before [Sleep]-spelling her into the next world. She had just enough time for them to find the artifacts she’d hidden in the floorboards, the bag of holding she’d tried to toss out of the window just to spite them, and everything else.
Not much else to search after you were naked; at least some of the [Guards] had been female; the ones checking her hair. They’d taken everything, except her highly-magical arms, and used a [Detect Magic] spell to find the rest.
So in short, as Yvlon woke up, the first flashes that hit her were the recollections of her rampage, the events in the Village of Death, the knowledge she had no idea where her teammates were, and that Ducaz had all her gear. As wakeups went…it wasn’t a great one. Topped perhaps only by the day after the Liscor dungeon raid.
At least then she’d woken up in an actual bed. Yvlon realized she was waking up in this ‘worst morning ever’, her good arm cuffed to her left leg by what felt like three manacles, and another with her legs together. She was hunched over—wearing some kind of clothes, thank silver—bruised, in motion—oh, and someone had put an actual hemp bag over her head.
It was hard to breathe. Yvlon cursed and struggled and a bump—like the one that had woken her—made her slump over. She realized she was in a vehicle, being transported. Someone else grunted; shoved her.
Another hand awkwardly dragged the bag off Yvlon’s head with some of her hair. She was then blinded, hit in the face by some dust caught on the wind, and after cursing, blinking, trying to rub her face to no avail, able to see.
She was in a damned wagon. Being transported with a group of other people—all in chains, if not as clearly magical as hers were—along a road, perhaps a trade road. A grimy Stitchfolk woman sitting across from her let the hemp bag fall to the wagon’s floor, with the others from the nine or so passengers. She stared at Yvlon. Yvlon stared back, realizing she was one of two Humans in the entire lot.
The Stitchfolk woman eyed Yvlon, perhaps a bit surprised to see her, or expecting someone else more war-torn than the daughter of House Byres. The others were silent, appraising, and Yvlon was just looking towards the front of the wagon-train and the drivers when her fellow passenger decided to speak.
“Hey, you. You’re finally awake. You were trying to cross the border, right? Walked right into that ambush, same as us. And that [Thief] over there.”
Yvlon stared at the woman. She tried to get her arm to her ear, but gave up.
“What? No. What are you talking about?”
The Stitch-woman blinked.
“Oh. My mistake. I thought you were someone else.”
Her gaze locked onto Yvlon again, this time searching for clues. She noted Yvlon’s golden hair, smudged, but distinctly lighter skin, her metallic arms…and clearly had no hints.
“You. You’re…part-Dullahan? A [Sailor] from one of the ports?”
