She nodded at the boy. He inhaled, to demand what was going on—and Ceria promptly fell back onto the pillow, unconscious. He saw the frost creep up around her bedding again. Luaar swallowed his immense, just—sky-shattering disappointment—and ran out of the house.
“Father! Father, the half-Elf woke up! But she didn’t say anything! She just ate the food—and tried to contact her friend and then fainted!”
The [Villagers] turned. They had stopped from their work in the fields where they grew Chandrar’s famous yellats, herding the small flocks, and sifting the sand-nets, which was their life. Luaar’s father, Novether, or ‘Nove’, looked up.
Nerhs was just a nothing-village, informally abandoned by the nation it was closest to. In an arid desert-patch of land. It did have ways to survive. The well and groundwater fed field and animals, even if water was the lifeblood of Chandrar.
For extra profit, they had sand-nets, which were set up to catch things blown by the sometimes-frequent sandstorms. Sometimes it could be something very valuable. Entire villages along the Zeikhal—the Great Desert—just survived on scavenging items from older civilizations as the sand changed.
Nerhs wasn’t that, being far too far away. However, it did have sand-nets, fields, herds, and even a pair of kilns. The [Villagers] could make pottery; some even knew a secret of glassblowing carried from the coasts. They were good at a multitude of tasks; not [Farmers] or [Herders] or [Crafters] in any one capacity.
The half-Elf was the most interesting thing that had ever happened to them. The village she had landed in was poor, small, yes. But she was a welcome guest and Nove just nodded, despite his son’s clear disappointment in their guest’s temperament.
“Let her sleep, Luaar. She is welcome to her rest as long as she may stay. For now…we will welcome her with all hospitality.”
His smile was generous, and the other [Villagers] nodded with equal contentment. Luaar was disappointed, but he saw his father turn back to the others holding a clear, green-glass cup he himself had blown, one of the few trade-goods of Nerhs.
They had survived [Bandits] demanding tribute, occasional monster attacks, and yet the half-Elf was still more interesting. More important. Novether was sure the half-Elf had some grand story to tell, or might be off as soon as she recovered. Well, he would offer her sanctuary so long as it cost little more than water and food.
He swirled the precious water in his cup and sighed. Yes, it was pure generosity from the good people of Nerhs. He heard a lovely clink-clink sound and hesitated.
…Okay, not exactly. The people of Nerhs were as interesting as dirt, it was true. They weren’t stupid, though.
The [Villagers] all had glass cups as they stood by the well on their break. Sipping from the cool, chilled water and the lovely ice cubes. Luaar stomped back to the hut, where buckets of water had been set to freeze around the half-Elf’s aura.
And where half the village’s perishable food had been put. He wanted the guest to wake. The adults were in no damn hurry to let the free cold air and ice cubes walk off. Ceria Springwalker slept, an honored guest.
Half-Elven air conditioning. She didn’t wake up as someone came in to shave ice into a bowl. Ceria Springwalker didn’t dream. However, she did hear a voice that woke her in time.
It said:
Murderer.
 
—-
 
Chandrar was filled with momentous events. Changing fortunes. Schemes and war, such that four adventurers, even Gold-rank, were swallowed up, not even worthy of a footnote. Not even punctuation in the grand scheme of things.
After all, they were only Gold-ranks. What did that even mean these days? It used to be different. As the nameless Drake had once said—the Gold-ranks of his era could have challenged him.
Then again—they did. So perhaps there was something there. Even so. They had once been greater. Once been pettier. Time had rolled on, like a wave, it had become a circle.
So the Drake, who had been unsurprised for countless years…opened his eyes. He saw not the angry half-Giant, so small, the Drowned Man who had touched him.
He saw the world change. He looked down.
“Where am I?”
He stood in the lands of the dead. Then, the [Dragonbane Swordlegend] looked up and saw a man walking his way. He reached for a sword he did not have, not in death. He uttered a Skill that had no power here.
The ghost looked at the too-real figure, the bearded man walking his way in this faded land. He laughed, even as he turned, wavering between flight and pride, only to realize he was too slow to even run properly.
At the end of it all, he realized his arrogance had let him believe he had seen every foe. Beheld each truth of the world. He vanished, not understanding where or why he was. As helpless as the others.
Izril was lost. Six walked the continent, moving across ocean, under waves, into the sky.
The world was not entirely theirs, though.
Not yet.
From the shores of Chandrar, sunlight shone. A shadow stared at the giant who held aloft a champion who bore the umbrella. A [King] held a sword and dared it to come close.
Rhir was already lost. No—it was different. None of the six quite dared stray there. Nor did they stray close to The Last Tide. They walked, assailing different places.
Yet they had only a foothold on Terandria. Two fled Baleros. Drath was untouched, greater in death than it was in life.
It was a war the living world woke and slept in ignorance of. A desperate battle of ghosts and memory.
Perhaps they smiled, though. At last. After so long. They had a struggle once more.
Smiles. That was all. No treasure left. No nation to hold. No people to fight for but all or none. All that remained was pride, knowledge. Defiance in the face of oblivion.
So he flew, crossing the ocean out of safety. Alone. One of the six fleeing Baleros saw him and gave chase. Not her. The one who whispered with each scrap of power she acquired. Kasigna—
Any one of them could best a single ghost by now. So he flew rather than give battle. Flew with his kin for a second before they split, alone, vulnerable, but determined.
To see if there were any others left. He flew, over ghostly seas, hunted, pursued—until he saw something in the distance that even he could not believe.
The light from afar, like a lighthouse in the land of the dead. The Dragon flew towards it as shadows gave chase. Wondering how it could be.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice’s first lesson of [Witches] wasn’t showy. She sat on a hill with three of the coven who had gathered to teach her.
One was the ashen-witch, who looked burned. Her voice was like crumbling dust. Yet she glowed from within. Somillune.
The next was Califor, straight-backed, stern, the most junior of the [Witches] here by far. In age, and in power. She had been one of the greatest in her time. The others were the best witches that had ever been.
The last [Witch] had a more appropriate name. Vexcla—which was an abbreviated version of a longer one with apostrophes and whatnot. The [Innkeeper] stretched out on the grass, reflecting upon the land of the dead.
Day ?? of Living In the Land of the Dead. Wait, that sounds awful. Day ?? of Death. Or is it ???; unclear. I have not had to deal with my monthlies, so that is something. I have also not had to poo, or eat. Keeping track of time continues to be an issue…
“Erin.”
The young woman went on.
As there is no real paper except memory-stuff, it is difficult to keep records.
“Erin Solstice, stop this at once.”
“I must narrate my journal entries since I can’t write everything down, and I forget what I narrate all the time. I continue to be bothered by this rude [Witch] who’s mean and never lets me rest, even if she did save my life. So yeah…”
Califor grabbed Erin’s ear and yanked. Erin actually floated as she yelped, a new power she’d realized she had. She looked around guiltily.
“Sorry! I’m paying attention! What are we doing?”
Califor glared. Irked by Erin’s natural—okay, deliberate—silliness. However, it seemed her fellow witches were up to the challenge of teaching the [Innkeeper]. Perhaps that was why these two had come.
The ashy Somillune…laughed. Parts of her body flaked away and reformed. Beneath the hat and shadows from which dozens of eyes blinked, Vexcla revealed a pointed smile.
Erin looked at them. This was the height of witchcraft, perhaps the inevitable result of pursuing their magic. They weren’t Gazer or…or whomever Somillune had been. They were more like ideas.
Fire and vision.
She just wasn’t sure if she wanted to be—that. Erin had agreed to take lessons because they were right. She was just nervous.
“Sorry! I’m not meaning to goof off. I just…okay, that was on purpose. I’m listening. What’s my first lesson in being an amazing [Witch]?”
She sat down, facing the three. Califor sighed as the [Innkeeper] visibly tried to look and be attentive. That was what the [Witches] saw. The woman opened her mouth—and Vexcla nudged her. Califor fell silent and the Witch of Ashes raised her head.
Somillune spoke.
“We know you are nervous, Erin Solstice. That part of you does not want to learn. Your stubbornness, ah, but even a great [Witch] would have trouble with you.”
She smiled and Erin grinned despite herself, a bit guiltily. The woman went on.
“You have told us your story. From your life on Earth till now. Goblins and inns. Loss and sacrifice and triumph. Fire.”
“Are you going to teach me new flames?”
Erin sat up. The [Witch] tilted her head.
“Perhaps. But first: witchcraft. To learn our class, you must know your craft. You understand the basics of what a [Witch] is.”
The young woman nodded dubiously. Craft and the power of emotions. Which might be her thing? Potions too.
“How do I do that? I mean—what’s my first step? I can’t level or use Skills here, but…”
“Hush.”
Erin fell still, but her leg jiggled, even though her body was elsewhere. She was nervous. She didn’t know if she could be what they wanted. Somillune met her gaze.
“You told us of many moments in your life, Erin Solstice. I ask you to remember one. As vividly as when you told it. No matter the pain. When you held the boy, the Goblin who followed you against the Goblin Lord, Reiss.”
“Headscratcher.”
Suddenly, Erin’s levity was gone. She thought of her dear friend. The brave Goblin. Whispering…
The witches looked at an [Innkeeper], blood smeared on her face, holding a Hobgoblin lying on the ground. The blood almost looked like the war paint on Headscratcher’s body. He was grinning. She leaned down.
…But she never heard what he whispered. No matter how many times she—
Erin Solstice looked up, holding nothing. Tears in her eyes. Memory—in this place, it was just a thought away. Somillune looked down at her. Her eyes were embers in dying ash.
Not unkind. They saw Erin, even now. Even after so much about her had changed.
“I don’t know what he said. Will magic help me know? My…my craft?”
Erin swallowed. The [Witch] shook her head.
“Perhaps you may never know. You will grow and age if you live, Erin Solstice. You will forget that moment.”
“I will never—”
“You will forget. Not him. But the feeling of the grass upon which you kneel. How you held him. How you sat. Each moment of forgetting will hurt. Yet he will never leave you.”
The Witch of Ashes stood, and she was taller now. A giant, pointing down at Erin. Her voice was no louder, but it filled the world like the whisper of dust.
“That question will follow you to your grave. If you cared. The guilt will tear you apart some nights. You will weep for that boy. Wonder what might have been. You may forget him for hours, days, weeks, months, years. But you will remember him.”
The young woman looked up at the witch and knew it was true. Simply true. Even if she was old and gray—how could she forget her friend? She did not want it to be, but she feared she would forget.
“So. Then. Knowing this, and if you could—would you ever forget? Erase the pain? Take a balm to soothe your mind? Free yourself of that burden?”
Vexcla leaned forwards. The shadows under the brim of her hat revealed the many eyes of different colors, blinking, shifting, each one watching Erin. Califor as well, a hand on the brim of her hat. They looked at her, all three.
The [Innkeeper] looked up. She rubbed at her eyes.
“…What? No. Never. Why would you even ask that?”
She grew angry, just thinking about it. Forget Headscratcher? She met Vexcla’s gaze, angry. Clenching her hands. The [Witch] saw the [Innkeeper]’s eyes flash.
She smiled. It was a broad, sharp smile that spread within the darkness. Somillune smiled too. The Witch of Ash sat back down, her dress glowing like embers. She raised her hat, revealing paler strands of hair.
“Then, Erin Solstice. You are a [Witch]. Remember that moment. Know your craft.”
Somillune pointed down at Erin. The [Innkeeper] blinked up at her. Vexcla laughed. Without a word she rose and began walking down the hill.
“We are done.”
“Witch Vexcla! Witch Somillune, you can’t be serious!”
Califor rose to her feet. She gestured at Erin, who was as bewildered as she was. The [Witch] turned to the Witch of Ash.
“What of establishing exactly what her craft is? Teaching her the fundamentals of magic?”
Two ember-eyes met Califor’s vexed stare equally.
“Witch Califor. We respect your craft and talent. You have taught many witches, I have no doubt. But remember: we are the [Witches] of our eras. Perhaps we see this student more clearly than you.”
She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] raised a hand.
“But I’m willing to learn! I am! I need to find my craft, right? Don’t I need to at least figure out if I’m happiness or silliness or something? Or—oh no. I’m loss. Pain? I don’t want to be that!”
She began to panic. Somillune laughed.
“You are not any of those, Erin Solstice. Unless you choose to be. We have not found your craft, as Califor says. That is why she objects. But think: you know what it is to be a [Witch]. Is there anything else you truly need?”
The [Witch] looked from Califor to Erin. She addressed Califor.
“What could we teach her, the nuance of every craft? Have we time? When she wakes, if she remembers—she need only pursue the core of what we are. She will find herself. That is enough. This is what magic is made from, Erin Solstice. Do you understand?”
Erin thought of Headscratcher. Holding him…her voice trembled.
“Not exactly. Can you say it another…another way?”
Somillune nodded.
“Remember. Simply remember every frustration, every cruelty and injustice and wrong.”
She gestured, and Erin saw the heads of two Goblins held in a grinning Drake’s claw. A dying Antinium stabbed by countless daggers, shielding her. Stared down at her open palm, slashed by a knife.
