“I am Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad. A Gold-rank adventurer of Izril. I request immediate parlay with your local governor and/or leader. I mean you no harm. I was merely defending myself from your Golems.”
He paused as thousands of eyes stared down at him. This was a local broadcast in Illivere too. Ksmvr had spread his arms properly like Kevin showed him, and he debated declaring war. In the end, he decided to assert a tiny bit more dominance.
“Please do not attack me. Your shoddy creations are not capable of defeating me.”
That was his mistake. The fear, shock, and uncertainty turned to wrath in a second. The audience rushed back the way they’d come, and now hurled insults, even tried to throw objects down at the Antinium.
“Someone tell the Magus-Crafter!”
A level-headed [Official] shouted. One of the [Mages] raced to obey. He shouted, trying to restore order.
“No one go down there! Confirm it’s the same Antinium—do not—”
Too late. An enraged [Golem Artificer] had already activated another command scroll. Ksmvr turned. He reflected that he had established too much dominance, perhaps.
A Golem armed with two huge shields and a central orb stomped out of the gates. It began shooting massive bolts of magic at him as it set the spiked shields in guard mode. He began to run, taking cover.
 
—-
 
Magus-Crafter Femithain was working below when the urgent summons arrived. Nsiia sat up and listened, her ears as sharp as a cat’s.
“There is an Antinium in…where? How did it arrive? Are you sure it is the same adventurer from the…I understand identification is difficult. Is it contained?”
“Contained in the Testing Grounds—but it is killing Golems, Magus-Crafter! It’s slain five of the contenders so far!”
Femithain had to actually digest this as Nsiia swung down from the balcony in one motion. He raised his spectacles, rubbed his ears.
“Killing—do you mean there are Golems in the arena?”
The [Messenger] hesitated.
“No, Magus-Crafter. The—the handlers are sending them in. You see—”
“What?”
The Magus-Crafter seldom raised his voice. He did so now, looking incredulously at the [Messenger].
“Do you mean to say that Illivere’s Golems are attempting to murder a Gold-rank adventurer who just participated in a worldwide event?”
The [Messenger] gulped as Nsiia’s eyes widened, realizing what was happening. Femithain was already looking around, touching his finger to his temple to send a [Message].
“No, Magus-Crafter. Not exactly—the entire arena is out of control!”
“Restore order, now! I have summoned a Golem-coach—I am on my way. Do not let the Golems kill that adventurer!”
Femithain was already hurrying out of his apartments. Nsiia ran after him, and the [Messenger] tried to explain. That wasn’t exactly the problem!
 
—-
 
“Haliclaw! Haliclaw!”
The arena was rocked by cheers and shouting as the Golem, nicknamed ‘Haliclaw’, charged at the Antinium. He was bounding, always on the move, avoiding the long, slashing claws of metal attached to its arms.
It insulted Ksmvr. It had six arms, as if that made it better, and it was a whirl of blades. The people of Illivere were cheering, as it pursued the [Skirmisher] in a hit-and-run battle.
“Kill it! Kill it!”
The Golem’s handlers were watching. Ksmvr reflected that this may have been his fault. His insult had not been calculated; rather than unnerve, it had provoked.
The consequence was this: the Golem was trying to kill him. In theory, the handlers might order it to stop once it had ‘won’.
Ksmvr wasn’t willing to take that risk. Like a mob of angry children…or Golem fanatics, the crowd was now out for his blood.
It dripped onto the arena’s floor, green. The audience cheered as Haliclaw scored another narrow blow, but even the enchanted metal couldn’t easily destroy a carapace enhanced by [Barkskin]. Moreover, the cheering had a desperate edge. Vindictive, but also uncertain, so louder and more desperate because of it.
Ksmvr slid under the guard and slashed at last. His Flamecoat Dagger struck the whirling arms and half the Golem burst into flame. It kept coming, but the flames interrupted whatever vision it had. It began to slow, uncertain of its target.
“No, no, stop—”
Ksmvr heard the myriad voices pleading for him to stop. He did not. He leapt onto the back of the Golem and fired three crossbows straight into the armor.
He hit the Golem’s heart and the creation fell. The audience screamed as if he were killing actual heroes—or children. Ksmvr straightened, panting.
Seven Golems lay dead already. This last fight had taken nearly fifteen minutes. He gulped his last stamina potion and tried to raise his voice.
“This is pointless. I am a Gold-rank adventurer—you are in defiance of the Adventurer Guild l—”
The roar of anger drowned him out. Seven Golems? All killed by one Gold-rank?
This went beyond just loving Golems. This was the pride of each state of the Illivere Federation, carelessly trampled by Ksmvr. It would be one thing if a Golem did it. But a single Gold-rank?
He had to be defeated. The [Golem Artificers] in the back of the arena ignored the Magus-Crafter and other orders coming in to stop. They had to see the Antinium bleed.
 
—-
 
Femithain and Nsiia clung to the coach as the Golem-horse raced across the ground at top speed. Femithain felt like he would lose his glasses if he didn’t hang onto them. This was far beyond normal speed. He kept sending orders, but he was watching the broadcast.
It was local on Illivere’s channels, but Nerrhavia’s Wonders—their channel—had already begun to pick up on what was happening.
Someone from Wistram was hammering him with a [Message] a second. Femithain ignored it all.
“I will revoke the Licenses of Creation for every [Golem Artificer] participating! Desist at once!”
Too late. Femithain saw the gates open and the Antinium turn warily, sensing something.
The crowd’s cheering drowned out everything as Nsiia perched, eyes narrowed, looking ahead as they sped across the ground. She looked back as she heard him curse. Her heart began to beat with…anger.
This was not a game. How dare they?
 
—-
 
Thump.
Ksmvr heard the pounding footstep that quieted the arena for a moment. The audience held its breath. They knew what was coming next.
A clanging impact. A horrible blow to one of the walls. It was followed by a growing sound. An inhuman roar of noise.
Like the times before, the programmed showoff-cycle made the Golem strike the walls with each step as it advanced. The huge maul of a weapon glowed in Ksmvr’s gaze. He saw the Golem, twice as thickly armored as the others he’d killed, raise its weapon as it stepped into the light. Ksmvr muttered an oath.
“Tree rot.”
Hammera strode into the arena to a deafening sound. She raised her hammer overhead, then set herself. Her ‘gaze’ locked on Ksmvr. He had only one second to take in the former champion of the arena before she charged.
 
—-
 
Nsiia watched, sick at heart as Hammera charged. Femithain was shouting at one of the officials, cursing himself. But it was too late.
Her first programming order was a running charge followed by a two-handed blow. The same move that had killed over half her opponents in the arena—missed.
Barely. Ksmvr leapt back, but wasn’t prepared for the algorithm that let Hammera reset her strike and try again. He still managed to propel himself away in time, but the crater the blow made clearly let the Antinium reconsider blocking, even with his magical shield. He switched it out and loosed an arrow with two arms.
The magical arrow burst into flames on the armor and Hammera swung her hammer around in a whirling motion, dispelling the flames. The audience was on their feet.
“Femithain!”
Nsiia snapped, but she knew better than to interrupt the man. She watched. This was the same Antinium from the raid, she could see it. The brave warrior who had fought with the [Prince] on the rooftop and gone into the heart of the city.
She did not know what strange road had led him here, but it was not to die at the hands of a Golem for fools! Nsiia’s eyes were slits, mimicking the cat in her lap. Yinah, was hissing, sensing the tension in the [Empress of Beasts].
All they could do was watch as Ksmvr fought for his life.
 
—-
 
[Piercing Strikes] had their limit. Ksmvr shot his crossbows again and saw the arrows sink into the Golem’s metal…for all the good they did. She was too thick.
He tried to jump on her back, and nearly died. The creators had programmed her to block everything coming at her and her hammer was deadly. Every impact shook the ground around him.
I feel manifestly as if Ceria’s Frostmarrow Behemoth or Pisces’ undead might fare b—
Ksmvr dove and the hammer switched directions. It hit his back, but he was already leaping so it just hurled him across the arena.
He hit a wall and the audience mocked him. Ksmvr would have liked to tune them out, but he couldn’t.
Perhaps he was the foe for this after all. Only Yvlon might have survived hand-to-hand and Ceria’s ice walls and Pisces’ undead were a poor match for Hammera.
Then again, I cannot hurt it. And it will eventually strike me. Ksmvr looked around. He’d been using the other Golems as cover, but Hammera was able to even account for them.
His Flamecoat Dagger could not burn her sufficiently. His shortsword was too short and arguably too weak. His Forceshield? Ksmvr suspected it could endure one hit before needing to recharge.
What he needed was an opening to reload his crossbows. Crossbow Stan’s crossbows, plus his bow, plus the other ones Ksmvr had bought meant eight shots. That might be enough to pierce the armor.
Especially since he had a new Skill. However, Ksmvr had to reload and he had no t—
The Antinium ducked and the hammer hit the wall where his head had been. He looked at the cracks in the stone, then the cheering Golem’s handlers behind the gates.
“I will die and this will be a crimin—”
Ksmvr gave up as Hammera came at him. They weren’t being logical. He ran, keeping ahead of Hammera as it chased him. At least she was too slow to…
Logical. Ksmvr had a sudden thought. He looked back at Hammera. At the glimmering mage-walls of the arena, forming a complete barrier hemming him in. He had no real footholds but the walls to keep jumping from.
Hammera was too fast. Too strong. However…she was still a Golem. An Antinium Worker was more creative than her. Ksmvr halted. He felt in his belt pouch. He was almost out of everything. A single healing potion, a quarter left, a few magical items—
If he’d had a single acid jar, he would have tossed that, but he’d used them on the Liches. Still—Ksmvr found the item he was looking for and sighed.
“Excellent.”
The [Spiderweb] Scroll in hand, he turned. Hammera charged. Ksmvr estimated the spell might actually slow it…for about two seconds, if she didn’t tear through it on momentum alone. The carved head of the female Golem was tracking him. It turned up as Ksmvr jumped.
Past the jeering faces who recoiled. Higher, higher, above the arena’s participants in the lowest row—but not too high. Ksmvr saw them recoil before they remembered the magical walls.
Well, good for them. He saw Hammera’s weapon rising. Ksmvr waited until he was just over the tip of its swinging arc—then he cast the spell.
“[Spiderweb]!”
The magical bindings of sticky silk emerged, wrapping around its target.
Him.
The webs lashed Ksmvr to the wall and magical barrier. He was stuck, like a literal bug in a web. The audience stared. Then laughed as Hammera charged him. The weapon rose—
And thudded into the wall right below Ksmvr. He saw it rise, strike—another place right below his foot.
The Antinium’s mandibles opened in a smirk. He was right!
Golems might be programmed with many attack routines, but none of the gladiator’s creators had anticipated an enemy might just hide. There was no ‘jump and swing’ routine in Hammera.
She began to smack the wall, furiously attacking the area right below Ksmvr. He happily pulled his crossbows out and the last two enchanted bolts he carried. Let’s see…
“Hammera! Stop! Return! Return!”
The handlers realized what Ksmvr was doing too late. They shouted and Hammera’s head swiveled. She began to march back to the gates as the audience shouted.
Too late.
Ironically, if the handlers hadn’t recalled her, her dodge-routines might have saved her. Instead, she presented her back to Ksmvr as she marched back. He took aim, maneuvering to half-crouch in his cocoon of webs, his improvised perch.
“Hello, my free levels. Goodbye. Blame your insufficient creation. [Weapon Art – Aggregate Volley]!”
Three crossbows fired. Even Ksmvr had no idea what would happen as the Skill activ—
 
—-
 
Femithain saw the Skill activate as he cried out. Hammera, glorious Hammera—didn’t deserve this. It was too late. He cursed their hubris as the Antinium’s weapons glowed.
Three crossbows, one per hand. All fired in a single sound. Two glowing bolts, one steel-tipped.
However, it seemed to Femithain that the image of Ksmvr firing was just…translucent. Superimposed with another, of him firing from a slightly different angle with three more crossbows. Then—him firing one more crossbow and aiming a bow.
Four Ksmvrs, each holding ranged weapons, loosed in unison.
[Aggregate Volley].
Eleven projectiles hit Hammera in almost the same spot in the back. [Piercing Strikes], combined with [Power Shot]. Femithain nearly covered his eyes as the single volley did what only one other force had ever done.
The impact tore open Hammera’s back. Something shattered within her and the Golem froze. She dropped her hammer and fell to her knees, arms still outstretched. Like a living being, she fell, and the wail was real. The mighty Golem fell, felled by the limitations of her being. Foolishness of her masters.
The audience was speechless. The Antinium sat in his loft, reloading the last of his bolts, daring them to send another Golem at the logical loophole in their routines.
“Those arrogant…Hammera is dead.”
Femithain couldn’t even finish the sentence. Nsiia, watching, breathed out. He looked at her and she shrugged.
A Golem was dead. She could be remade, better. She looked at the clever Antinium, smiling. Femithain glanced away from her.
It was done, then. He raised his head, to tell the Golem-horse to slow. He was at least relieved the Antinium lived. Femithain settled back until a horrible feeling struck him.
The audience had been weeping. Now—the voices were picking up again. But why? Short of a ranged Golem, and Ksmvr had defeated the last Champion, there was no w—
“No.”
Nsiia’s eyes opened wide. She turned her head in horror. Ksmvr, who had been relaxing in his web-hammock, looked up in confusion.
