They said the name. They chanted it. The great legend of the Testing Grounds.
Femithain’s lips moved in horror as his creation walked forwards. Nsiia just looked on Illivere, petty Illivere. She looked at the Magus-Crafter, but he seemed helpless. She clenched her hands.
The current champion emerged as they called his name.
 
—-
 
“Domehead. Domehead! DOMEHEAD!”
Ksmvr heard the name. He didn’t understand. What was a Domeh…
The Golem strode forwards. Ksmvr saw a huge, rounded head of enchanted glass holding sparkling crystals inside. An armored body.
It had no face like Hammera. It was not fully separated from the Human form, but the unique ‘head’ was the difference.
Summoned by their chanting, unleashed by the wrathful [Golem Artificers], the Golem stopped. In the shadows of the entrance. The glowing lights in its ‘brain’ winked on and off.
It turned slightly, and seemed to regard Ksmvr.
Regard me? The Antinium…didn’t like the way the Golem paused. He had been calm this entire time, if tense. Now…a prickle of unease ran through his body.
“DOMEHEAD. KILL IT.”
The greatest Golem of Illivere’s Testings walked forwards. It had a huge battleaxe on one shoulder, a match for Hammera’s weapon. It swung it down as it strode forwards.
Ksmvr took aim with a crossbow. He shot a steel bolt—
The Golem blocked it with the flat of its weapon. Ksmvr stopped. Not even Hammera had been able to do that. Nor…
“Did they teach the Golem to do that?”
Ksmvr checked his perch. He was well out of Domehead’s reach and it didn’t look like it had ranged weapons. Take your time. Let your Skills recharge. One more volley would work. Did he have to wait ten minutes? Thirty? He—
Domehead slowed, and raised its battleaxe. It did not swing as it stood just below Ksmvr. He fired again—it jerked, and the crossbow bolt glanced off the shining dome.
Not a scratch. It backed up, axe raised and shielding its head. It seemed to realize the issue.
Ksmvr…really didn’t like that. He waited, counting his crossbow bolts. Enough for only one last volley. He had to save them. Arrows?
He was reaching for his shortbow when Domehead stooped. It picked up a broken piece of the Spitfire Golem. Then it straightened, looked at Ksmvr—and threw the piece of armor at him.
Ksmvr tried to dodge, but the webs tangled him. He felt an impact—and then was blown free. He hit the ground, sat up—and Domehead was on him.
“Silver and steel!”
Ksmvr got up and his Forceshield flashed to life. He blocked the strike and lanced out; he slashed at a knee and his sword barely cut into the armor. Domehead whirled his axe down and across. Ksmvr leapt; saw the axe reverse as he landed. It wasn’t a calculated program. He saw the Golem’s head sparkle as it saw the opening and took it.
“Imp—”
The blow threw him across the ground. Ksmvr looked down at his torn carapace. He fumbled for a healing potion. Domehead strode over to him and swung the axe down. Ksmvr rolled and got to his feet. Now—
Fighting for his life.
 
—-
 
A multitude of sensations assailed him. Input. Touch, taste, sound—but he couldn’t filter it. One hit him at a time.
Cheering. A roar of sound in his ears.
Pumping blood. Not in his ears, but his body. His hearts, reminding him he was alive.
Leaking. He was leaking blood.
The sound of air cutting. Thump. Vibration through the ground. Step, avoid—
Too late.
Crack. The sound of his outer shell splitting. Another impact, hurling him. Pain. Hurled across the ground by a far larger force. 
What did they say to describe situations like this? Like a bug hitting…
A wall. Ksmvr slid down, leaving a smear of green. He looked up and ducked the axe that left a mark in the stone. Ksmvr slashed, leaving a trail of flame on the Golem’s body. It pivoted—kicked.
Clipped him. Ksmvr bounced, rolled to his feet. The [Skirmisher] looked up. His mandibles opened, trickling blood.
“Ah. This feels familiar.”
This thing fought him. It didn’t ignore him like the undead half-Elf had. But his blades…Ksmvr looked down.
His shortsword had begun to chip. Had the magic failed in the City of the Dead? Or…
His Forceshield flickered as Domehead brought the axe down in a two-handed blow. The audience groaned. Ksmvr staggered upright.
Look at it. A proper warrior. Not a Golem. Not just a Golem. There was something there. It fought with less experience than Ksmvr. But it had the reflexes, the body to triumph.
“Not yet.”
He whispered. Domehead whirled the axe down—then cut sideways in the actual blow. It was learning. Learning from him. It had failed to finish the [Skirmisher] in nine long minutes of fighting. Barely—Ksmvr had barely leapt away, but it had learned to catch him as he fell. He survived this time by tricking it; he hopped up and before it got him, kicked off Domehead itself.
A reprieve of seconds. The Golem would never let him do that again. It was a slow learner. It picked up one trick at most each time. Then—it was never tricked again.
“Enough. I surrender.”
Ksmvr raised his arms, appealing to the jeering crowd. He spun; tried to roll.
The fist hit him and this time he thought his inner organs were damaged. Ksmvr slid down the wall. He looked towards the gate. The [Golem Artificers] were watching him.
“Please stop.”
They pointed.
“Make him suffer, Domehead! Then stop!”
One of them called out, her arms augmented with Golem-prosthesis instead of flesh. Ksmvr looked at them, then the Golem. A light flashed in reply. Ksmvr looked up. The First Crafter of Elbe had overridden the Magus-Crafter and she had control of Domehead with the others in this place. She would not relent until Ksmvr had paid for destroying her beloved Hammera.
The Antinium’s head rose.
“Very well.”
Domehead charged, axe raised. A superior Golem. The beloved child of Illivere. Ksmvr had not wanted this.
You are a superlative foe. But you are still—young. And there is one more thing you lack.
His arms rose. The Antinium had dropped his shortsword, his Forceshield. The audience’s cheers caught in their throat. The [Golem Artificers] stared. Surely not—they cried out a warning.
Ksmvr’s crossbows aimed up. Domehead saw it and began to evade. However, it had been baited into the charge.
It learned one thing at a time. It never made the same mistake twice.
If it got the chance to learn.
“[Aggregate Volley].”
Ksmvr fired. He felt—saw himself loosing the other crossbows, the arrow. The last of his ammunition.
He hit Domehead square-on. The shriek in his ears was more than the rending metal. The audience watched as the Golem stumbled back and…the axe fell.
The Antinium had missed. Or rather, he had shot slightly off-target. The blow had eaten through Domehead’s right arm, exposing the inner logic of its body. The arm hung, armor torn, unable to hold the axe!
Domehead’s lights…went dark. It sagged, then stood there.
Magic circuits broken. Ksmvr had observed the flaw of Golems; if their command matrices broke. These gladiator types had them everywhere, so just one large wound did them in. Even if not, he had gotten the arm.
He sagged back, reaching for another arrow. Worst-case scenario: the audience and handlers came after him. He might have to fight his way out. If he did—he’d steal a healing potion. He was out. He—
—Saw the lights begin to flicker in the Golem’s crystal dome. Ksmvr stopped. He searched for another Horns-style epitaph and gave up.
“This is ridiculous. I object.”
The Golem was moving. Its ‘mind’ was damaged. But the secondary, backup command spells began activating. Domehead rose a second time, just like before. The audience was cheering, howling. They knew.
The Golem checked the axe lying on the ground. Its damaged arm it couldn’t move. Then—it raised its good arm. It made a fist.
“Fffffff—”
Ksmvr began swearing like Ceria. The Golem walked forwards. Now—it cut the air with the one fist. It moved like—
A living warrior. With all the agility and speed of the woman it had learned from. A better style for fighting an Antinium too.
Ksmvr slowly got up from where he was sitting. His shortsword and Forceshield rose. He raised the shield—
The magic shattered. The impact threw him against the wall. He blocked with the flat of his shortsword.
The fist hit him in the chest anyways. His blade shattered.
Ksmvr pushed off the wall, in a jumping lunge through the legs of the Golem. He landed. His blade!
“They gave me that after Albez. Because I helped.”
The Antinium was muttering. Domehead whirled. Began to stride over. Ksmvr pushed himself up.
“That. Was my sword.”
He looked at Domehead. Reached for his bag of holding.
Missing. His belt was gone. His cape had been torn away. Ksmvr was all but naked. Bleeding.
Am I dying? He wasn’t sure. Domehead paused, assessing him. The audience was cheering him.
They didn’t cheer Ksmvr. The Antinium knew he was outmatched in every way. His vision was hazy. It—flickered—
Then he was back in the Village of Death. In the cathedral, watching as the undead tore apart his team. Ksmvr heard his own voice.
“Stop. Stop. Why do you not touch me?”
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer appeared instead of Domehead for a moment. Holding Yvlon. Pulling at her arm.
“Because this hurts you.”
Ksmvr saw it. He saw himself, attacking, doing nothing. He looked up at Domehead. The Golem, with its superior body.
My body is so weak. He only had a Worker’s body. Not even the ones of the other Hives. This—was not fair. Rather than being afraid, though…Ksmvr felt it rising in his chest.
He was getting—angry. Furious.
The Antinium did not hear the worried [Golem Artificers] and handlers calling for Domehead to stop. That last attack had frightened them, brought them to their senses. They did not want to murder an actual Gold-rank.
Much less someone on television. They were trying to order Domehead, use the spells to call him back.
However, his inner command spells were broken. He was running on his secondary mind.
Domehead could still hear. However, all he heard was the audience’s orders.
“Kill it! KILL IT.”
Illivere’s citizens were screaming at Domehead. So the Golem obeyed. It raised its fist, waiting, checking the Antinium as it advanced, seeing where it would dodge to.
Ksmvr didn’t move. His three hands were opening and closing. Then the Antinium looked up. One of his antennae had been torn. It hung by a thread from his head. He reached up—pulled it away. Looked at it. Tossed it down.
Green blood ran from his wounds. The [Skirmisher] looked up at Domehead. The Golem hesitated.
There was something off about the Antinium. Something in Domehead, a burgeoning understanding told him…
Ksmvr lifted his fists. He leapt at Domehead, crashing into the Golem’s chest.
Domehead barely moved. However, the lights in its head flashed furiously. If it was anything, in that split second, it was confused. This was not a sensible move. So why…?
It reacted instantly. The Golem swung a fist and Ksmvr dodged, kicking a knee. Then he jumped—a foot kicked Domehead’s ‘face’, hitting the crystal dome so hard Domehead sensed Ksmvr’s shell breaking. The Antinium grabbed hold of Domehead with one hand and punched.
His fist met the dome and his body cracked. His carapace was weaker than the enchanted glass.
Yet Domehead felt the impact. No danger. Even so, it was aware of the weakness. Domehead swung its body around. An uppercut caught Ksmvr—he lost his grip, went flying.
He landed and stood up, within seconds of falling. Domehead charged, but again—the Antinium jumped at him, rather than retreat. A bloody fist hammered Domehead’s face in the exact same spot. It left green in the impact.
Domehead hammered the Antinium down. However, it didn’t manage to stomp Ksmvr to paste. The Antinium whirled, leapt up. Struck at Domehead’s face again.
Futile? Domehead was aware of what the Antinium was trying to do. But the odds of success were remote. It was confused by the [Skirmisher] not seeking another weapon. Not retreating. It was being damaged by the exchanges.
Yet it kept fighting. Something odd flickered in Domehead’s understanding of the battle. Everything told the Golem that it was winning. Except for how the Antinium was behaving.
It was winning. How was it said again? Like a bug fighting a wall. That was the difference in their sizes and strengths. Domehead knocked Ksmvr down. Each blow sent the Antinium staggering, [Barkskin] the only thing keeping his body together.
The [Skirmisher] kept coming. He broke his fists on the same spot. He jumped, trailing blood. The enchanted crystal never so much as moved.
The Golem…was winning. With every move. Learning from the exchange of blows how to fight such a nimble enemy. Domehead could calculate victory.
If it were another Golem without the new understanding, it might have done better. For Domehead began to think. It began to know.
It began to wonder if Ksmvr could be killed. The Antinium kept getting back up. Domehead was almost certain that one full-force blow would end it. But Domehead could think.
Uncertainty formed in the Golem’s mind. Even…it looked at the Antinium. It was making sound. Screaming at him. What was this sensation? Domehead began to try to swing faster, more aggressively.
Then Ksmvr’s bloody fist cracked the Golem’s head.
 
—-
 
The Magus-Crafter arrived too late. Too slow, panting, the guards fighting through the press of citizens. He heard the screaming, the shouts. From the top of the arena, he looked down, far too far to reach them in time.
The Antinium had cracked Domehead. The crystal dome developed a stress-fracture from the insane Antinium’s blows. The barehanded strikes—
Both Antinium and Golem reeled back as Ksmvr landed on the ground. He wanted to jump again, but he stumbled. Then—sat down.
He was losing consciousness. For a moment, Ksmvr just saw white, as if the sands of the Testing area had engulfed the world. His mind went clear, and he heard a voice.
 
[Conditions Met: H—]
 
Ksmvr’s head jerked up. He ducked a fist ready to end everything. Looked up.
Domehead stumbled backwards, the spider web crack on its crystalline dome. It was damaged! The Antinium had done this. It was…in danger. Of being destroyed.
Of…dying? Domehead processed that. The Golem realized something, as it saw the Antinium lift its fists.
No. It did not want that. Domehead wanted. Domehead was afraid. In desperation, it shielded its face as Ksmvr leapt again, screaming like a thing from the depths of Rhir’s nightmares. Its arm rose.
It didn’t want to die.
The blow knocked Ksmvr back onto the sands. He lay on his back shell, feeling something break that was also him. The voice was trying to speak.
 
[Her—]
 
