Ceria to Montressa: Alive. Find Pisces. Ksmvr. Yvlon. Can’t tell where. Teleported. Lost. Chandrar.
 
Chandrar. The desert continent? How had they gotten there? Where were they?
In the hours after the [Message] reached Montressa du Valeross, she tried to contact Ceria nearly three dozen times. She notified friends and family of the Horns, and [Scrying] spells were redirected; although only a dedicated [Diviner] had the range to do a mass-search from another continent away, let alone narrow in on a single person, even with their true names.
They knew, though. Chandrar. The search began again, with hope—certainty at least one of them was alive. That was an effort of days, though. Within seconds, within hours, the Horns of Hammerad—each one of them found themselves in a nation apart.
 
—-
 
Ksmvr stepped into the light. The dusty arena floor beneath his feet was scattered with fragments from past fights, however much it had been raked over, reformatted.
Detritus of fallen combatants. Sprays of torn armor. Bone bits, pieces of those who had fallen not quite cleaned away. The crowd roared as the terrified prisoners, criminals, were sent out as sport, to be destroyed for the amusement of those watching.
Was it ill-luck that he had been sent here? There were more dangerous places to be sent—like ten thousand feet straight up above the ground—or below it.
Or into the sea. All things considered, Ksmvr felt lucky. Still…he glanced down at the ground as the first gladiators entered. The prisoners screamed up at the crowd, the overseers of this arena.
“Stop! There’s an Antinium-thing! Take it! Stop! Don’t open the gates—”
Too late. No one saw him at first. Ksmvr bent. The bones of past gladiators…
Bones? He saw bits of torn metal, wood, ceramics, which he’d mistaken at first. The Antinium’s head slowly rose. They were bones. For a unique type of…
“Ah. That complicates things.”
The Antinium checked himself as the first Golem strode out of the waiting room to cheers from Illivere’s citizens.
 
—-
 
The Testings of the Golems had been a huge success, if only in the country. The Golem battles had established a champion.
Yet they continued, due to popular demand. Now, each Golem was being calibrated, from battles with each other to their intended purpose: as weapons of war.
Criminals had been procured, armed with a few weapons, to test the killing efficacy of the gladiators against them. The [Golem Artificers] loved their creations, and to test them against animals, ‘real life enemies’ like prisoners as if they were [Soldiers]…
It wasn’t a fair fight. Of course it wasn’t. The prisoners were underfed, barely had any armor on, and most weren’t dedicated [Warriors], just [Thieves] armed with rusted weapons.
Nsiia did not watch these Testings. She understood the mentality of the Golem’s creators; she just thought it was like a high-level [Warrior] bullying low-level ones to make them feel better, only with their creations as the proxy.
It was almost refreshing to see such mortal flaws in the odd culture of Illivere. So she did not watch, more pensively sunbathing on Femithain’s rooftop. The Crafter-Magus himself was hard at work, setting up more Domeheads now that the possibility of mass-manufacturing them existed.
Pet Golems, Sentience-class Golems…it was a good time for Golem-lovers. The Testings were just for the bloodthirsty citizens.
 
—-
 
At first, they didn’t even notice the Antinium standing there in the shadow of the cells. He watched, not dispassionately so much as coldly observing. Aware of the peril he was in.
The Golems came out, three of them with kill-orders in their programming. Each one was one of the gladiators.
One Golem was from Unst, squat, armed with a spear and shield. It rotated on its torso, and spat oil at the terrified [Merchant], who loosed a crossbow bolt—and missed. He had no idea how to properly reload it. As he tried, the oil hit him.
The man knew what was coming and tossed his crossbow aside. He ran, screaming—too late. The magical gout of flame caught him and he turned into a flailing, wailing ball of fire which quickly fell and died.
The crowd cheered as the Golem rotated, searching for a new target. Another was using a rapier created for it, stabbing in a flurry at a [Mercenary] who tried to grimly block and roll—before he was caught by another Golem who diced him with eight limbs of cutting blades before hammering his dead body with a club in its single, oversized limb on the other side.
These were the repaired losers of the Testings. Each one defeated—and for good reason. The Golem with the club on one side and daggers on the other was unbalanced despite the best efforts of its creators. Magical fire and the spear didn’t stop the heaviest Golems like Hammera.
The rapier Golem just sucked. It had been inspired by the King of Duels, but it was fighting on a program, not with the sheer inspiration of a true fencer—and it was holding a copy of a rapier, scaled up, not the precise, balanced instrument.
As Nsiia had once observed, [Golem Artificers] sometimes followed the most fun idea, not the most practical.
The crowd loved it. They had no pity for the prisoners, each one a criminal who had earned their death sentence by repeated actions or terrible ones. The Golems were their heroes, and the citizens of each respective state cheered their Golem on the hardest.
Rejects they might have been, imperfect, flawed—but three versus even seven times their number was not a fair fight. Ksmvr watched the [Bandit] fleeing the spear-wielding Golem, screaming.
“Stop! The Ant—”
He died as the rapier-Golem sprayed him with what looked like little projectiles of some kind. Ah—magic bolts.
“Observed.”
Ksmvr felt pity for the prisoners who had to stay in the open as the collars forced them forwards. However, he had to see.
He was still disoriented from the spell. He still saw Yvlon. He still felt himself trying to hold on—and losing her.
She had lost her arm. She needed him to help her! Ksmvr had lost an arm before. It was not fun.
He had failed them. Ksmvr had watched the Horns killed by the half-Elf. Tolveilouka. He had tried to stop the monster, but his weapons had sunk into its body.
The [Skirmisher] couldn’t even touch the thing without being corrupted. He had tried to distract it, hurt it with all his artifacts and Skills and cunning.
He had failed. They had been healed, but the memory was burned into his mind.
I let go. I should have held on until my arms were torn away.
Ksmvr breathed in, and out, calmly. He would have given into that knowledge a day ago. That despair, the blame. But Ceria had told him this:
“If you stay, we stay. Get it right. Never say that again.”
He was their [Teammate]. Ksmvr would find them wherever they had gone. He could not die.
Yet he was in an arena, without his adventurer friends, and he was an Antinium, enemy to all. Ksmvr could have remained in the cells and taken his chances the Golems wouldn’t target him without the prisoner’s collar, letting the rest be cut down for sport.
He could have. Should have.
Would have. However, there was something about an oversized monster slaughtering helpless people unable to fight back that bothered him. Ksmvr could have said why.
He didn’t bother. As the Golem with the oversized right club-arm and scything left ones pursued a screaming man, Ksmvr walked into the light.
“First: testing. [Piercing Strikes].”
The Antinium jumped. The screaming man was cornered against the cell, his collar blazing with heat. He saw the Golem raise its club.
Ksmvr landed on its head. He paused, waiting—but the Golem didn’t even have instructions to switch targets. Nor for if someone landed on its head. He felt a moment of disappointment.
Inferior to undead? Ksmvr lifted his shortsword. Then drove it down into the thing’s head.
[Piercing Strikes]. He carved into the metal with the first blow. Then the second. It wasn’t—smooth—yet Ksmvr felt his blades cut deep before slowing. The enchanted shortsword sang three times. Ksmvr struck again, and the Golem malfunctioned. It swung an arm around—then lurched back. He saw something glow inside and stabbed that.
The Golem’s Heart shattered. Ksmvr felt the huge thing collapse. He held his position as the metal giant of eight feet slowly collapsed into a kneeling position, the arms falling, the club and blades dropping from its hands.
The cheering crowd had been focused on the other two Golems, and then—they didn’t know what they were seeing. A bug-man, leaping onto the Golem’s head? Stabbing? Why was the Golem collapsing? Why was…?
The screams of excitement caught in throats. People began to point, or stand up. One of the Golems was down!
The handlers of the Golems looked around, shocked. Every eye in the crowd fell on the Antinium calmly standing on the fallen Golem’s head. Ksmvr spread his arms.
“Assert dominance.”
He waited. An arena of stunned faces greeted him. Some people wrestled with the image. What was…
“Creler?”
The word made some shudder. Then someone finally had it.
“Antinium. The Antinium of Izril! It’s an Antinium!”
The scream that rose from the comprehension took even Ksmvr aback. Some of the spectators heard the dread word—and then nearly a hundred people shot to their feet and began running for the hills, screaming as if all of Rhir had suddenly opened up under their feet.
For some, just the name was terror. However, the stupefaction and confusion of the others stopped it from becoming a deadly stampede. In the arena, Ksmvr had no time to watch the reactions of the spectators.
Nor could he easily flee. He’d seen one prisoner trying to climb a wall with a climbing Skill. Despite the smooth stone they’d gotten up, only to run into a magical barrier protecting the audience from just that—or shrapnel from the fights.
There was only survival. So Ksmvr was already turning as another Golem spotted him.
The Spitfire Golem waddled at him on all six ‘legs’, its cylindrical torso holding the oil it was spraying at him making it look like a deformed spider. It jabbed with the spear, with commendable accuracy, rotating to track him. A shield protected it from attacks.
It was a Golem, though. So Ksmvr just took cover behind the dead Golem as oil sprayed it and caught fire. He had a theory…
The Spitfire Golem began stabbing the first one’s carcass. Ksmvr peeked his head out—then hopped back as a spear tip went through the other Golem’s metal and nearly hit him.
Yup. The Golems had been told not to target each other, but his killing of the first one meant that the Spitfire was reading two combatants. It was stabbing at the dead Golem, spraying oil on it and Ksmvr. It rotated, edging around as Ksmvr bolted left.
[Swift Rearmament]. Ksmvr changed from the sword to one of the crossbows in his belt with commendable speed. Less than half a second to change weapons! No feeling around in the bag of holding—he just reached down and the weapon’s handle was in his grip. Ksmvr rolled, and came up with the crossbow the [Merchant] had grabbed. He tsked, and reloaded it swiftly.
The Spitfire Golem was still stabbing the first Golem’s carcass. The handlers were shouting at it, directing it at the new threat. It finally turned, a gemstone ‘eye’ glittering as it locked onto Ksmvr.
Too late. The Antinium raised two crossbows and fired.
[Piercing Strikes] plus the power of a crossbow were enough to penetrate the hard armor of the Golem’s torso. He’d taken careful aim; both shots hit the mark. One scored what he knew was there.
The oil reservoir. The Spitfire excreted more, and the handlers began to shout. The Golem of Unst never noticed the liquid running down its body, and the exposed oil tank. It projected a gout of flame as Ksmvr raised his magical cloak.
He didn’t catch flame. It did.
The citizens of Unst wailed as, for the second time, their Golem died. This time by its own hand; it caught fire and began to melt as the magical oil ate into its body, damaging the magical commandments…it slumped.
Design deficiencies. Ksmvr knew the Antinium weren’t perfect, but the Queens did a better job than whoever had made these ones. He turned.
The last Golem charged at him, rapier raised. Ksmvr raised his Forceshield, readying his shortsword and dagger. Should he use…?
No. Curses and whatnot, as unlikely as it could be. Ksmvr nodded to himself. Intelligence dictated fooling the enemy. He would have to survive…like this.
It wouldn’t be too hard. The Golem had a fast attack-program, but it cycled through moves. Pisces was unpredictable. Ksmvr’s Forceshield hummed. The transparent edges distorted the air as Ksmvr met the attack.
Block, block, block—he swung his shortsword and was rewarded with an impact. The Golem pressed the attack, without fatigue. Ksmvr’s Forceshield trembled, and he watched the artifact. No—it was holding off the weakly-enchanted rapier. He struck again, but he was far too far from the Golem to hit it. Still, he connected.
“Antinium have appeared in the Testing Grounds! It—keep calm! It cannot defeat the proud Golems of Illivere!”
One of the announcers was shouting. Control reasserted itself as the people in the arena turned. Yes! That was true! The great Golems, the gladiators, would not be defeated by a single Antinium. In fact, some of the ones who owned scrying orbs were staring down at him.
Could that be the same Antinium they had just seen…?
The Antinium was retreating, just staying in range for the tip of the rapier to keep striking at it, but he’d blocked every hit with the Forceshield so far, occasionally slashing. He’d lose endurance before a Golem, though. So it was just a matter of t—
Snap. The sound of the rapier breaking was loud and metallic. The handlers cried out as half of the weapon just—broke on impact with Ksmvr’s shield.
That was what he’d been doing! Ksmvr had seen the poor excuse for a blade, enchanted, but nowhere near as flexible or strong as Pisces’ weapon. He’d attacked it while stressing the blade. It had snapped like the cheap thing it was.
Now, he lunged forwards. The rapier-Golem kept fighting, but it didn’t realize it had half a weapon. It struck him twice by the time he carved into its torso. Then it began to stutter; he found its heart and broke it.
A groan went up from the audience. Cries of pain from the Golem’s beloved fans. Some of the handlers were screaming in fury, not expecting their creations to break twice so quickly.
The Golem Hearts were shattered! That was as costly as the Golems’ frames! The perpetrator of this…this outrage, the unwelcome, unexpected guest, stood in the arena.
