Ksmvr raised his arms. Tried to move. He rolled to his feet, hopped sideways. He was losing his strength. The second punch clipped him and he stumbled. Everything flashed.
 
[H—]
 
A little voice in Ksmvr’s head wondered what new level he was getting. If I lie down, I can hear what it says. He wanted to. But—he twisted as a fist lashed the air. Domehead was lashing out, flailing, no longer mimicking a trained warrior, just swinging like a terrified child.
If he lay down, if one fist struck him, he would never know what it said. End this. Ksmvr leaned out of the way of a punch.
Domehead saw the Antinium coming, moving forwards, ducking its wild swings, looking for the moment to jump and break its head.
Kill it. The Golem’s attack routines were too erratic. It couldn’t hit Ksmvr, not with one arm, no matter how it swung. The Golem saw the [Skirmisher] tense and realized it had opened itself up with a wide, unbalancing swing.
Weapon broken! Arm insufficient! Do not want to die! The Golem processed each fact, struggling. Searching for—for—an answer.
It found one. Ksmvr saw the Golem’s body twist. The arm, swinging wide—he was only focused on it. Ksmvr saw a foot rise and had a flash of thought.
It did not know how to kick, though—
The kick was a copy of Ksmvr’s. A fast blow. Not a punch.
Ksmvr staggered and heard a crunch. Something hit him in the leg. He began to jump to end this.
He—could not. Ksmvr tried again, but now he was swaying. Falling over. Why?
The Antinium looked down. His right leg was bent inwards. The Golem had kicked him.
“No.”
Ksmvr fell down. He fought to rise, scrabbling at the ground with his three hands, to push himself up. Balance on one leg.
He saw a foot in front of him and looked up. The armored body, the Golem made of metal…Domehead, stood over him, intact arm raised.
The Antinium went still. His flickering mind became clear again. He realized he was out of time. He looked up and saw Domehead. It had fought like a person. Did it…have a mind?
They had fought, two warriors created by the greatest minds of their people. Two machines, designed to improve. Learning to improve themselves.
The younger one looked down on the older. The Antinium stared up, mandibles moving without making actual sound. Ksmvr felt—a bit bitter.
If he’d had one more weapon. Two more levels…
More time. A second to sleep. Ksmvr looked up and stared into the flashing crystals of the Golem’s face. He murmured, from one learning machine to another. Was this what Ksmvr had been like, before he met the Horns?
“Well done.”
The shadow fell over his head. Ksmvr waited, staring up at those beautiful lights.
 
—-
 
The audience of Illivere saw the end of the duel and screamed their triumph. Only a few realized the implications of what was happening. Now, [Golem Artificers] were trying to enter the Testing Grounds themselves, to deactivate Domehead before it was too late.
Too late. They should have stopped it before it even began. A voice filled with anger and frustration screamed from halfway down the stadium’s seating. He cried out to his creation, but his voice was lost amid the thunder of voices.
“Stop!”
Magus-Crafter Femithain bellowed at Domehead. He was too far away, though, and even as he fought to shove oblivious citizens aside, they knocked him backwards, not caring who he was, only intent on watching. Femithain lifted his wand—and lowered it, realizing he’d been about to attack his own citizens! He ground his teeth, furious, but unable to fight forwards. He was no [Warrior].
She was.
A figure burst through a throng of people pressed together, on their feet, pushing to see. A [Warrior]—a woman—an [Empress] leapt, knocking citizens of Illivere aside with wild strength.
Nsiia of Tiqr. Like a beast herself, she leapt, from all fours to two legs, knocking people aside, using the arena’s seats and even the crowd to launch herself closer. Femithain saw her approaching the glittering magical boundary of the Testing Grounds. She wouldn’t make it through, though. Not without—
The Magus-Crafter touched a bracelet hanging from his wrist, and one of the runes attached to it flashed. The [Empress of Beasts] saw the magic fade and leapt.
Nsiia landed in the arena as the Antinium fell. Domehead was striding forwards, raising its arm.
“Domehead! Enough!”
The [Empress of Beasts] shouted, raising her hand. She began to run forwards, and the Golem whirled.
Domehead’s arm raised to attack the second combatant—then it recognized Nsiia. It hesitated, recalling other commands made by its creator.
Nsiia. Protect. Observe. Learn.
She had taught it how to use its hands. Domehead did not attack her. It turned back to Ksmvr. The shouting from the crowd hadn’t died down, and it echoed Domehead’s simple thoughts.
“Kill it.”
It did not see the Antinium looking up at it, unable to dodge. All Domehead saw was danger. Death. Destruction!
“Domehead, stand down! The Antinium can no longer fight! He is an adventurer! Enough!”
Nsiia shouted. She saw something on the ground and snatched it up as she ran, skidding in front of Ksmvr and Domehead. The Golem ignored her, raising its arm for a blow until it saw the [Empress] standing there.
Femithain’s breath caught suddenly. He saw Nsiia raising her arms, blocking the Golem as it raised its arm. She was holding something. Snatched from where it had fallen.
Domehead’s axe. The [Empress] lifted it with an [Elephant’s Strength]. Putting herself between the wounded Antinium and the Golem. The cheering, the blood-crazed demands for death, hesitated as the people saw the Empress of Beasts holding the axe.
She was facing down the damaged Golem. It was hesitating, between the threat and her. It tried to strike past Nsiia and she raised the axe, pivoting to shield the prone Antinium. The woman looked up as Domehead’s arm stopped—then rose once more.
Protect Nsiia. Kill the Antinium.
Two thoughts warred in Domehead’s mind. It did not understand what she was doing. It was afraid. Domehead registered a threat. The Empress was holding an axe. Its axe. But she would not attack. She was designated as—
“Do not do this, Domehead. I will do what I must.”
Threat? The Golem looked down at her. It saw the Antinium stir. Domehead lifted its arm. The Antinium had to die or it would.
 
 
“Nsiia! Stop!”
Femithain was fighting down towards her. The First Crafter of Elbe, the other citizens realized what she was planning on doing. They began to shriek at Nsiia too.
“Stop! Do not hurt Domehead! Stop!”
The Empress of Tiqr’s head slowly rotated, taking in the arena, the distant Magus-Crafter—the [Golem Artificers] rushing into the arena. She looked up at the terrified Golem. The First Crafter of Elbe.
All of this, and all their eyes on the precious Golem. None for…she looked down at the Antinium. Was he smiling?
“Well done.”
Ksmvr murmured again. In front of her, Domehead raised its arm. Nsiia looked up. Her arm rose as the Golem’s fell.
The Testing Grounds were filled with a shriek. Shouting. Gasps. A single memory burned into Femithain’s eyes as Nsiia saw Domehead charging, swinging its arm down.
The axe rose. He was throwing himself forwards, disbelieving even as he saw. She couldn’t be intending…? The sheer madness of it—not Domehead! Not the first—
The same woman who would crush a Golem for a cat stood in front of the valiant, wounded warrior. She cared not for his species, and took careful aim as her weapon rose.
Domehead brought its arm down. Nsiia swung the axe first. She never looked away from the Golem. Domehead did not understand. It beheld her sadly smiling fac—
The axe smashed the crystal dome. Ksmvr saw it break the delicate crystals. Shatter Domehead’s…
A spray of crystal and metal landed around the Testing Arena. Some shards cut open the Golem handlers, wounding one badly enough to send her to the ground. The rest just stood, paralyzed, slowing to a halt. Falling to their knees.
Femithain fell down. He lost strength; slid down the steps. As if his strings had been cut. He saw Domehead lying there. The audience stood, unable to believe what they had seen.
Domehead stood there, swaying, as the magical lights shone. Then—it fell forwards. The first Sentient-class Golem collapsed without a sound, armor broken. Head shattered.
In the new silence, Nsiia bowed her head for a moment, standing over the fallen creation. Then, the [Empress of Beasts] turned to the living. She tossed the axe aside and bent.
The sands had turned green with blood. She uncorked a healing potion, reached out, fingers hesitating to touch the alien ‘skin’—the smooth carapace. She looked into the lidless, multi-faceted eyes, astonished by his appearance up close. Then she spoke, as she offered him the potion.
“Brave warrior. Adventurer. Are you alright?”
A trembling hand took the potion. Then—the [Skirmisher] felt his body healing. Death receding. His head rose, and there she was.
The [Empress of Beasts] knelt amid the horrified wail and shrieks of fury, ignoring them. Her arm was outstretched; her hand towards his face. Offering to pull him up.
The first such face he had seen since arriving. A rare sight wherever he went.
Ksmvr looked up into the smiling face. The outstretched hand. He raised his weakly, and took it.
 
—-
 
The Magus-Crafter descended, in the silence, as the First Crafter of Elbe sank to her knees, looking at the fallen Golems. Hammera and Domehead. Both…
Dead? The First Crafter’s tears ran down her face. Femithain could not look at her; could not spare a thought or else his anger would consume his normally-rational mind. Her fault. Her fault—
But also hers. She stood, supporting the barely-conscious Antinium, looping two of his arms around her shoulders, slightly stooped so she could support him. Nsiia stood in front of Domehead.
“Call for a [Healer]! A good one—one that can tend to other species! Send word to the Adventurer’s guild! To the…”
She was trying to order one of the Golem handlers in the Testing grounds, but everyone was just gathered around Domehead. Nsiia hissed, turned her head—
Met Femithain’s gaze. The Magus-Crafter slowed. He saw Ksmvr, but he could not help but look at Domehead. Broken. Armor deformed! The killing blow dealt with its own weapon. The crystals were shattered across the entire arena.
His killer stood there. Femithain’s horror-struck gaze slowly moved upwards and met hers. The [Empress of Beasts] and the Magus-Crafter of Illivere’s looked at each other. For the first time—they beheld the gulf between them.
 
—-
 
“—stop standing around. Summon—summon every [Golem Artificer] and [Craftsman] over Level 30 at once! Keep the others back!”
“This warrior needs treatment, Femithain.”
Two voices were speaking. Ksmvr was not unconscious. Nor could he really see. He was alive. He heard them arguing.
One was female. Shorter by a bit than the tall, distraught one with the precise voice. Hedault-like? Oh—the glasses. Ksmvr’s impression was of two blurry figures, standing in the arena as he lay, propped up against something.
A furry thing was nudging his face. Something licked his cheek, decided his blood was not edible, and began gagging. Ksmvr was distracted by this, but listening. Trying to make sense of it.
“Stand back! All of you! I will not allow—[Bubble of Displacement]! Stand back! Domehead may yet live! His heart is still there!”
A babble of voices as the man spoke, casting a spell. They were gathered around the ruined form. The woman’s voice was irate.
“Of course it can. Did you think I destroyed it entirely. Femithain! A Gold-rank adventurer lies wounded and all you can think about is the tool that injured him? Who will be held to account for this?”
“Held to account? You—you should be hung! You monster!”
A woman flung herself at Ksmvr’s savior. Some others dragged her back. The [Empress] stood alone, facing a wrathful crowd and their leader. The man spoke to one, urgently.
“No one else is to be allowed into the Testing Grounds. Move the crowd back. Set up barriers, magical and physical. Sand, wind—nothing must damage his heart! We will perform the reconstruction here, import the entire team if need be—Nsiia. Stand back. You…a trial must be held for this. Someone—you—summon Armsmaster Dellic. Have an escort formed.”
“To arrest her? Magus-Crafter, did you not see what she’s done?”
“I see, First Crafter. Empress Nsiia is a guest of the nation, a prisoner of war. She will be placed into custody with an escort—for her safety. The adventurer, Ksmvr, I believe, too.”
The arguing crowd was interrupted by the angry woman.
“Femithain! Have you gone mad?”
He turned to her. She was gesturing to Ksmvr. The Magus-Crafter’s voice was cold.
“Have you? You destroyed Domehead, Nsiia. What…what possessed you? The Golem was modeled after you.”
“I did not destroy its heart, as you said. Look around you, Femithain. This madness! Will you not arrest the First Crafter and these fools for nearly slaughtering an innocent adventurer?”
“Innocent? He killed the Golems here! Hammera—”
Nsiia spun, and someone fell silent. Femithain hesitated.
“There will be a trial. Judgment for all parties responsible. This is a disgrace.”
All those around him—the blurry, fading shapes—looked worried. Ksmvr tried to smile. However, the [Empress]’ fury wasn’t diminished at all. They stepped closer, voices growing quieter as the crowd was forced back—but more intense.
“Nsiia. I believe it would be best if you removed yourself. With the adventurer. I…cannot…contain my emotions towards you at this moment.”
Her voice was wrathful.
“Your emotions. Look around you, Femithain. Look at what these fools did!”
“I am aware of their incredible display of—punishment will be administered.”
She shook her head; he did not understand.
“That is not the problem. This would not have happened. These idiots would not have defied you, ignored your direct orders, not if you ruled them. Look at how they kneel before the Golems when there are dead people, criminal or not—lying on the sands.”
She pointed furiously at Ksmvr. Femithain turned; Ksmvr tried to wave at him and ask if his vision should be turning on and off every second. A furry thing was also on his chest. Nsiia hissed.
“They are children! Little bullies whose pride could not bear one true insult from this warrior’s lips! Surprised when a victim fought back!”
Her contempt knew no bounds. Ksmvr felt, hazily, that there were good points here, and he would like to listen and participate—but could he have another healing potion, please? And maybe a [Healer]?
