Past a different entrance to the Void Temple than the one Ezekiel had first entered, the experience of the Void Temple was much changed. There was no line at this entrance; there were simply pews and people praying toward the bell in the center. Those people were separated from the bell area by several meters, and also by the crowd that still walked single file around that central location. This secondary area was much less congested, though; it seemed most people just wanted to get as close as possible and then get out, and so they came in through the other entrance, following the crowds.

The sounds of the Void Song was still as strong here as it had been in line, though.

Xue silently handed Ezekiel off to a silent woman in white robes, standing beside a staircase that went up to a semi-private second level. There were no introductions, or words uttered, either telepathically or verbally, in the hand off. After that, Ezekiel recognized that there was no sound in the Void Temple except for the Void Song.

But up on the second level there were suddenly voices, and the Void Song was slightly muted. This area was a cloister, with the courtyard of the Void Song to one side, and offices, workspaces, and small meeting rooms to the other side. That was just what Ezekiel saw, though. There were likely many hidden places in the bright white stone of the very large Temple.

Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, filed in behind Ezekiel as their guide stepped inward, toward a large alcove past the top of the staircase. Their guide was an aged human woman of pale skin and blond hair, with bright red eyes. Unless Ezekiel was mistaken, it seemed a great many people of the highlands were demi.

In a no-nonsense tone, she began, “Scion Ezekiel. Welcome to the Void Temple of Eralis. I have heard some of what has brought you here, but I would like to hear it in your own words.”

Ezekiel gladly stated, “I have been making magic in unorthodox ways since I learned of the craft. Usually, I listen to what the magic tells me about itself, and then I—”

“That is enough.” She said, “You may call me Sister Kaffi. We will continue this discussion in a more private setting; in one of our practice rooms.” Kaffi turned, and started walking.

Ezekiel kept up with her.

In less than a minute, they had gone up a wide, curving set of stairs, where the sounds of the Void Song vanished completely. They entered into a long third-floor hallway that was open in the middle, with doors on both sides. Normal-sized stairs on both sides of the room led up to a fourth floor that was a repeat of this third floor. There was an opening in the stone between both floors, where bright sunlights held like glowing pillars from the third floor to the ceiling of the fourth, illuminating all.

Over half of the doors were closed.

The structure of the hallway reminded Ezekiel of the practice rooms of the Mage Guild of Spur, for that was what they were. With his mana sense, Ezekiel saw the nearby people practicing magic behind closed doors, either on their own or with an instructor.

The Void Song might have been gone, but it had been replaced by the hum of those people beyond those doors, each practicing their magic, either through incantations or otherwise. There were so many odd methods on ‘display’, from people using instruments to cast, to others singing, to others who were chanting with others in the same room as them. Instructors were in many of the rooms, but not all.

Some of the rooms were ‘dark’ to Ezekiel’s mana sense; no mana entered or left, and the sounds of those spaces were cut off from the rest of the world. This fact, combined with the fact that there were small benches in the center of the room and people sat upon those benches, listening to the people beyond, led Ezekiel to believe that any practitioner in any of the rooms was able to shut off their own displays, if they wished, but most people didn’t.

… Or maybe there was something more complicated going on. Probably nothing too nefarious, though, since Ezekiel neither sensed nor saw any bloodlust upon any of the faces in the grand hallway.

Kaffi said, “These are our various public song cells. Every day, we teach music and the arts to those who wish to pay. We also teach our versions of magic, but unless a person shows aptitude for the Song then that sort of training is canceled, no matter how much a person can pay. We have long discovered that the talent for Song is not present in everyone, and while the talent can be uncovered with extensive training, we will not engage in such endeavors unless there is something to be uncovered. Either way, a payment is expected for our time and knowledge.

“These rooms are usually one-way boxes, wherein the sound escapes, but does not intrude overmuch. Many people can come and listen to the Cacophony of the Hallway if they wish, but most do not. Some say it helps to unlock the talent of Song. Others say there is no benefit. But, mana is possibility, and so, some people do achieve the Song by spending their time listening to the Cacophony.” She gestured forward, saying, “Pick a room and we can discuss more, either with the blocking active, or not. If one of your people wishes to join us, they can, otherwise they may wait out here.”

Ezekiel glanced to Paul, then to Julia and Tiffany. The girls shook their heads. Tiffany tapped her bag, which held a few books that they had gotten at the bookstore on the way here.

Paul said, “We will wait for you on the benches, Scion.”

Ezekiel turned back, and picked an open room to the right, saying, “That one appears fine.”

They went into the room and Kaffi closed the door behind them. Exterior sounds mostly vanished; the room was not fully silent inside, but it was close enough to be minorly maddening. Ezekiel could deal with the silence, for now.

The room was a five-meter wide cube with a dome at the top and a sunlightward in the dome. Control runes glowed by the side of the door, on a rotary dial. The room was currently on the ‘open’ setting, but he could turn the dial and set the room to ‘closed’, which seemed rather self-explanatory. Chairs were stacked to the side along with fold-out tables.

After a moment of adjusting with those tables and chairs, Kaffi sat across a table from Ezekiel.

Kaffi said, “That [Scry] eye behind you and the [Familiar] on your shoulder will both dislike what happens when the room is set to ‘closed’. Keep that in mind after I ask this question: Do you wish to give me the full story of your magics, or do you wish to keep certain things hidden? I am oath-bound to not reveal anything told to me, but that does not mean these rooms are not spied upon by others. The quality of the lessons you will receive might be dependent upon finding a personal Truth, which you might not want to do without the privacy activated.”

“I’ll keep the room open, for now. I rather think I know my own personal Truth.”

“You are familiar with the concept, then. Very well.” Kaffi said, “Next question. What is your worth? We charge on a sliding scale.”

“We’re going to have problems if that is how you charge. Can you give me a price, instead?”

Kaffi did not bat an eye as she said, “Five thousand gold, a thousand mid-grade cores, or five grand cores. Such is the expected patronage of a Scion for one month of instruction, which is all we give to outsiders.”

With reluctance, Ezekiel said, “Normally… I could pay that, but not as I am now.”

“We can apply this cost to your Clan, through your permanent record at the Records Office. You may pay this price within a year of the completion of instruction. Failure to pay will result in harsh penalties, but not of the accruing interest-type. The penalties of which I speak would be of the sort which would prevent your ability to do business in the Highlands. Such a failure of payment would be a black mark upon your record.”

Ezekiel said, “Then I will go with that option; deferred payment. We’ve gained hundreds of gold in a few days culling mist stone gluttons. I can dedicate some more time to that and have a full payment ready for the Void Temple soon enough.” He added, “If the instruction is as good as I hope it will be.”

Kaffi said, “Then we shall continue with a base reading, and if you should choose to continue after today and if we choose to teach you, then your debt will be added to your record, Scion Phoenix. Some of the balance of your bill will be expected sooner rather than later. A good amount is ten percent within the first week.”

Ezekiel nodded. “This is acceptable.”

Kaffi said, “If you are gaining outside help from your [Familiar] or from whoever is watching through that [Scry] orb, then you are doing yourself a disservice. This test that I will now conduct is a baseline reading of capabilities. All other lessons which might come your way will depend on the truthful outcome of this reading. Understood?”

“Understood.”

He had been looking for anything untoward this whole time, but Kaffi seemed completely on the level.

Kaffi said, “We shall begin.” Kaffi held up her left hand. “Can you hear this?”

Ezekiel looked to her hand, and then rapidly reevaluated everything he had thought of Kaffi, for she wasn’t doing anything. No mana channeled through her hand. No song echoed from her soul, which was rather stable. She seemed to truly believe that something was happening on her hand, and yet… Ezekiel saw and heard nothing. Was she a phenomenal liar? Was she lying to him about the sliding scale of payment, too? Had he just agreed to be swindled?

“Were you lying about the sliding scale of payment, too?”

Kaffi’s face broke into a tiny grin. “No.” She continued, “How about this?”

Still nothing came from her.

Ezekiel narrowed his eyes.

Kaffi lost her grin, turning completely professional. She held her left hand in the air and a hum entered the air, but not from her hand in the air. Her right hand, currently resting on the table, was humming, and only from her ring finger. She wasn’t quite channeling mana, but it wasn’t aura control either, or at least it wasn’t any aura control Ezekiel had ever seen. He saw no difference as he blinked on his mana sense…

She was truly just ‘humming’ the air from her right hand’s ring finger, giving a sound to the air that was similar to the sound of the Void Song, but different.

Ezekiel decided to answer her question, saying, “Your right hand, that finger there.”

Kaffi’s eyes went wide. She couldn’t help but grin again, and then she wiped that expression away, and held up both her hands, fingers splayed. “From your left to right. Numbers one through ten. Tell me what you can hear.”

Kaffi proceeded to play a song to the air, through her fingertips, without moving a single part of her body, or her mana. She did not go slowly. The notes had no variation, except for location. She repeated her aura play three times, then she waited.

Ezekiel said, “One, five, nine, nine, three, four, three, eight, ten, seven, six, two.” He added, “Can people actually follow that? I could barely follow that.” His first lie of their interaction; he easily followed her overlong sequence. He was more than fine lying to this lady, though; she was lying to him about something, for sure.

Odin chirped.

Ezekiel nodded. “Yes, it was difficult, Odin.”

Kaffi, wide-eyed, smiled, as though basking in the afterglow of fulfilled anticipation. Then she sighed, but she was still happy as she returned to professionalism. “I apologize for the rudeness of my test, Scion Phoenix. I was informed of your capability and gave you the hardest version. I also apologize for asking this next question: But could you retake this test in a closed room, without your [Familiar]s?”

“No.” Ezekiel explained, “What I just did was all me, and I am not willing to let my guard down in such an unknown location, just yet. I am sorry if this offends you. Please believe me: my [Familiar]s are not helping me with your test. Odin has helped me to make magic before, but has not helped me here.”

Kaffi said, “Then we will move on to the rest of the test.” She held up a hand, and with the same sort of control which was neither aura, nor the channeling of mana, inundated the air with the idea of [Force Bolt]. “Name this spell.”

Ezekiel did so, eliciting another quickly-vanishing smile from Songstress Kaffi. And then he and Kaffi ran through every other basic Force spell, many of the utility spells out there, and all of Mana Altering, even hitting some esoteric elements like Mercy, Void, Holy, and Vile. As for her spells, though, if those were all of Kaffi’s spells she knew, then he knew more base spells than her. Soon enough, the test was over. Kaffi crossed her hands onto the table between them.

“You’re a rare talent.” Kaffi could not fully keep the grin off of her face, saying, “Let us continue that introduction you almost gave me, before we came to this room. Tell me why you have come here.”

“I have come here to learn from the Songstresses of the Highlands, for I heard that their magic was similar to mine. I have heard that you use incantations and song in order to make your magic, and to influence how your magic behaves after it has already been crafted; to heighten or lessen certain parts of spells beyond the functionality described in the blue boxes of the Script.”

“This is all true. How do you make your magic?”

“By channeling mana through my hands to hear the spells therein, and then I combine those sounds into a cohesive whole, which is then cast into the world.”

Kaffi nodded. “Do you use any of the standardized methodology popularized by any known schools of thought?”

“I have learned of gridwork recently, and that has been useful in understanding the shaping of spells, but aside from that, most Arcanaeum teaching has not been useful and I don’t do magic like the rest of my Clan, anyway. Mostly, when crafting a new spell, I imagine my desires for a particular spell to the fullest of my ability, and then I chant out those desires to the mana. The mana responds with what I want. The only difficulty I have had with this method was when I created [Prismatic Ward]. That spell took me a few months of trial and error and ritual.”

He could have left out the part about [Prismatic Ward], but to claim to have no problems about any magics he had made would mark him overmuch. Everyone had problems making [Prismatic Ward].

Kaffi smiled wider, then banished her smile from her face. “I haven’t heard of gridwork in a long time. Do you know of the Remake Quests?”

“Yes. I’ve remade several basic spells so far.”

A bit quicker, she asked, “Aura control, or Elemental Body?”

“The second.”

“Are you aura capable, at all?”

“… I assume that means to have competency with aura control enough to remake spellwork, or cast magic, or otherwise?”

“Yes.”

“No.”

His lack of aura control was likely his biggest flaw. If Kaffi was asking about it, though, maybe she was able to solve that problem, so it was better to be truthful, there.

Kaffi sat back in her chair, relaxing into the pose of a teacher. “Do you have any spells you are working on right now?”

“Yes. I considered making a Rift the other day, but I realized that I should wait and do so here, to see how you do it.”

“We can make a Rift some other time.” Kaffi asked, “Do you play an instrument?”

“No. And I have little interest in learning one.”

“The aura is an instrument, too.”

“Uh.” Ezekiel’s eyebrows scrunched together. “It is?” He rapidly added, “I never considered it as such.”

“Of course it is. Do you know the spell we use to sing the Void Song?”

“Not exactly. But I have heard people speak of it as a simple spell that doesn’t seem like it should be able to lock out all the magic that it does lock out.”

Kaffi gestured. A blue box appeared.

Song of Annihilation, instant, super long range, aura, 50 mana per second + Special Cost

Call to the Void.

Multiple singers can join together to lessen the cost of this magic.

Kaffi said, “My [Song of Annihilation] is just one of several variants of the Void Song. The spells that other Singers create might not match mine exactly, so depending on which song a Singer unlocks, they might prefer to go to a different city of the Highlands where their talents better match those there, thus the costs of their magics will be lowered. Eralis, Alaralti, or Holorulo, or even one of the smaller suburbs with their own Singers; there aren’t many extra places for Singers to go, but they do exist.

“Or a new Singer might end up a Wandering Singer, if their song is one of the more useful and stranger variants. Either in war or protection, depending on their own predilections. A new Singer might even rise to become a member of High Clan Void Song itself, located primarily in Holorulo.

“Any potential Void Song, whichever version a person gets, doesn’t do that much. On its own, my [Song of Annihilation] is capable of rather devastating magical disruption, but it will not hurt a person, and it will only [Dispel] any targeted magics after I spend just as much mana as I would need to spend with a normal [Dispel] method. Void Songs are useless without all the other training we can give you.

“But! With the knowledge and training that we can give you, you can turn any similar spell you might create under us into a power similar to the Void Song that you hear out there in Eralis. With the control I learned here, my [Song of Annihilation] can [Dispel] for fractions of the cost, affecting entire warbands. With what I learned here, when I sing out there under the Grand Coil Bell, my power helps to protect the entire city of Eralis from threats without and within, making my fair city one of the safest cities on all of Veird. All it took me was five years of training, thirty years ago, and I have never once regretted this decision.” Kaffi asked, “Would you like to become a Singer, too, Scion Phoenix?”

Ezekiel most certainly did not want to do that. Not right now, and maybe not ever. Except... There was a conviction in Kaffi’s voice that made him wander down that path of thought. He took three metaphorical steps down that path, then turned right back around, and said, “Not this year. Not right now.”

Kaffi bottled up her disappointment, and said, “Then the knowledge I can give you will be not as much as you could have, otherwise.”

“Thank you for the attempt to persuade me to join your Temple. I am honored that you would ask. But I cannot give any promises regarding any lengthy terms of service that I am sure you would require of—”

“It is a five-year course, but the majority of the training is in the first year, and you are free to leave after those five years. We have a 90% retainment rate after that five-year course and our mortality rate of those who go out into the field is less than 1 percent. At the end of those five years, you will be given staff under your command who you can integrate into your own staff as you wish. You are protected when you become a Singer, and you will have the power to protect others, too. We will work with your needs.”

Now that was surprising. “It sounds like you are creating minor Clans all over the place.” Ezekiel asked, “What do you get out of offering such good terms?”

“We are creating minor Clans, because the Highlands expand. Four hundred and forty years ago the Songli Compact was signed by the now-High Clans Void Song, Devouring Nightmare, and Severing Crescent. Every year we bring more and more people into our aegis of protection and prosperity. Every year we expand from Holorulo, Alaralti, and Eralis; the three cities founded at our beginning.

“For we are Empire. We are charged with the holy duty to protect those who need protecting, and to empower those who seek power. We are always looking for new Singers to come to the Highlands, to join in our cause, and to put down roots in our great land.” Kaffi said, “With our ability to link to each other and cooperative cast, us Singers are like archmages to the rest of the world. What say you now, Ezekiel Phoenix? Do you not wish to become unto an archmage? Do you truly wish to pass up this opportunity?”

Ezekiel said, “I have opportunity already. I have obligations already. I cannot accept this option. I will accept the lesser training, please.”

Kaffi breathed in, then slowly released that breath. She was angry, yes, but mostly she was terribly frustrated. “Very well.” She took another breath and banished all irritation. “We have a few avenues of instruction open to outsiders. The mundane options are to learn an instrument, of which we have teachers for every instrument. Aura Song is not covered in this. This option is considerably cheaper than magical training. Are you interested in this?”

“No. I want the magical training.”

“Very well. It sounds like you are well versed in the normal functionality of much of what we do, so past a preliminary course, which should last anywhere between a day to a week and will be where you are assisted in making your Rift, the magical options are thus: Learning aura control, which then leads to Aura Song, which then leads to Cooperative Casting. This is the largest option. We also have Tier Work and Remake Quests, which sounds like something that you are already able to do. Then there are incantations and the molding of currently possessed magic into avenues of power that aren’t fully listed in the spells which you already possess.” Kaffi said, “Pick a path, and I will get you a teacher. You will have a month of instruction for your 5000 gold, and then you are cut off. Should you change your mind and choose to become a Singer, or should you choose to become integrated into the Clans of Eralis in some other, deeper way, we can reevaluate your continued education at that time.”

His choice was immediate. “Aura control.”

“This is the hardest of the paths. Are you sure? You might consume your entire month of lessons and not learn anything.”

“It will be a month well spent to learn whatever I can from the Songstresses of the Highlands.” He had never gotten far with aura control at all, and if the Songstresses had methods he could learn, then he would darn well learn them. He was glad he had been truthful about that part of his deficiencies.

“Very well. Your first lesson will be tomorrow at daybreak.” Kaffi stood, saying, “And we call each other Singers these days; ‘Songstress’ makes some men in our institution uncomfortable.”

Ezekiel stood, saying, “I will be here at dawn with the proper words upon my lips. Thank you.”

Kaffi said, “Show up at the eastern entrance. Good luck, Ezekiel.”

Ezekiel gave a tiny, half-bow.

Kaffi left the room first, walking away without another word.

- - - -

A scroll sealed with white wax waited for them at the Sour House, under the care of the proprietor and a runner in a white and blue tunic.

Ezekiel took the scroll up to the room and read it there. Plans were made because of what was written on the paper, but those plans would happen later. The team relaxed with some tea and some books and some weaving, while they spoke of what had happened in the meeting with Singer Kaffi, and if they would actually be in Eralis for a full month.

Ezekiel doubted that they would be here for a full month for something was sure to draw them elsewhere. But… if they were here for a month, if the world was peaceful for that long, would that be so bad? Caizoa hadn’t left a single message asking for his help with the Converter Angel, after all.

Julia thought Eralis a grand diversion, and was fine with staying here for a while.

Tiffany was having fun. Paul was doing fine.

Paul glanced to the opened scroll, adding, “But whatever happens there will likely change what happens to this decision.”

“Probably,” Ezekiel said.

They spoke a little of Loremaster Xue and his wife Enforcer Sikali, and postulated what Clan Star Song wanted from Clan Phoenix, exactly.

Julia said, “If all they want is thread in exchange for the Nacreous Weaver, then that’s suspicious. The Nacreous Weaver is a Variant of the Light Weaver, which is the usual result of a Dun Glint Weaver becoming a monster in an area full of Light Essence, which is already a rare combination to find anywhere in the world.” She added, “Such a trade would be incredibly beneficial for me, but they’d be losing out on hundreds of thousands of gold. They either have no intention of giving me the beast, or, they want you that much, dad.”

“… Well.” Ezekiel said, “That puts a few things in a few different lights.” He asked, “Would it be difficult to make the Nacreous Weaver work? From a Polymage perspective?”

“Yes.” Julia said, “Which is another angle. Maybe they’re so expensive that they’re actually priceless, and they won’t give them to anyone except those who enter into long-term contracts.”

Tiffany said, “They’re after you, Boss. Kaffi was, too. No doubt they’re plotting every way they can to get you to move to Eralis.” She eyed him.

Paul eyed him, too.

He sent, ‘I’m not leaving Spur.’

Tiffany sent, ‘Might not get that weaver, then.’

‘Eh. That’s fine,’ Julia said, ‘Just get some Dun Glint Weavers and throw them into the Headmaster’s Light Dungeon. Maybe in a year, one of them will be a Nacreous Weaver.’

‘I haven’t checked in on that place in a while.’ Ezekiel asked, ‘Paul? You heard anything?’

‘They expanded it a bit. Nothing too large, though.’ Paul sent, ‘I can make inquiries if they added new monsters or not, but that would announce that you are looking that way. The Headmaster will likely want to speak to you if you do this.’

‘… Not this week, then. Maybe next week, if things go well tonight and tomorrow.’ He said, “Anyway! We’ve got time for naps, if anyone wants to take one.”

Everyone took naps, for no one wanted to be low-energy tonight.

When Ezekiel awoke, he was the last one to wake, and it was an hour till sunset; the perfect time to leave. Ezekiel covertly dabbed his eyes with his magenta potion and reapplied some long-term buffs, for no one knew exactly what the night would bring.

There were some hints, of course. The scroll was a big one.

They had been invited to a gathering to welcome Tadashi into Clan Star Song, so Ezekiel was pretty sure that he would get to see the alchemist tonight, but he likely wouldn’t be able to see if the man was truly okay. If the 5 point Quest wasn’t enough of a clue, the very existence of such a party, and such an open change of Tadashi’s Clan allegiance, was yet another example that many Clans were still after the man.

Ezekiel openly wondered why.

Tiffany said, “An [Immortality] potion would start a major war.”

Ezekiel paled. “Let’s hope it’s not that.” He added, “And they wouldn’t invite us to a party with Alchemist Tadashi and several other Clans unless they were either planning on killing us there, or playing nice, and most of the people we’ve seen are trying to woo, rather than murder.”

Paul said, “They’re trying to woo you; this is known. They’re not sure they would survive the collateral damage from a murder attempt.”

Ezekiel grumbled, “Let’s have some… more positive thoughts than me killing them all in retaliation, please.”

“[Immortality] would have been my first guess, too. But now…” Julia thought. She offered, “It’s something to do with our reasons for being here.”

“Oh.” Ezekiel stood straighter. “There’s a thought.”

“Either a potion or a magic,” Tiffany guessed.

“A potion.” Julia said, “Has to be.”

Tiffany said, “There’s lots of precedent for this being about a magic considering that we’re here to gain magical understanding for Scion Ezekiel.”

“Maybe it has something to do with spiders,” Julia guessed, sarcastically.

“Ha! No.” Tiffany, suddenly sure, said, “It’s potions of the New Stats! Hundred gold, bet.”

Julia’s eyes glinted as she said, “I think they’re after Tadashi because he’s related to someone powerful. Or there’s a connection there that will be made public tonight. Hundred gold, bet.”

“No bet.” Tiffany laughed, then said, “You can’t get anywhere in Nelboor without knowing or being related to someone powerful. Tadashi is no different.”

Julia went, “Meh.”

Ezekiel put out there, “Alchemists use spells to craft their potions, just as much as any other magical profession does. But those bandits inflicted Tadashi with the Antirhine Elixir and there was a whole building of alchemy supplies back in the bandit hideout. They had taken most of the things out of there when they fled, but I noticed an Alchemist’s Friend in the corner.” At Julia’s odd look, Ezekiel explained, “It’s a psychedelic plant that feeds off of almost all potions, and it especially likes the toxic ones; a garbage pail for potion failures.” Julia nodded. Ezekiel continued, “They inflicted the Elixir upon Tadashi thinking that this wouldn’t harm him in being or doing whatever it was that… he did, or was doing. And that thing involved potions, for sure, and—”

Julia rounded on Tiffany, accusing, “You saw the potion house in the bandit hideout! That’s why you bet on potions!”

Tiffany burst out in laughter. “Yup! Not sure what kinda potion, but it’s a potion. Got a bit of a glimpse at the place in the past, too, but nothing conclusive. Tadashi destroyed the mana’s memory rather completely. I didn’t see any Stat Fruits, either, but I’m still going with the bet that Tadashi invented potions of New Stats.”

Julia said, “Then I change my bet to a potion of [Immortality]. Dad’s been after that for a while.”

“Oh!” Tiffany glanced around. “That’s a good counter. I forgot about that. Ohh. Maybe...?”

Ezekiel said, “[Immortality] is too dangerous. No… This has something to do with Antirhine, for sure.”

Paul held back a smirk throughout their entire conversation, saying, “I’m sure we’ll find out tonight.”

- - - -

Magenta light resolved into the forms of Ezekiel, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul. They appeared at the Teleport Square nearest the bridge to the Alluvial District. Nearby guards were plentiful and on edge, and other small parties blipped in all around Ezekiel. Everyone wore nice clothes. No one seemed to care about the guards. They just walked on, toward the bridge, which is exactly what Ezekiel did, too. His people followed him.

There was no need to show off papers, or anything like that. The people between the Teleport Square and the bridge were already scanning everyone, and scanning them even more as they walked past, toward the arching bridge that connected Eralis to the Noble District, the island in the center of the Wanzhi River’s delta floodplain.

Ezekiel brushed off the danger in the air with an imperious attitude and his finger on the [Animadversion] button. He walked with an even gait, matching that of the people around him, though he was much more nervous than everyone else. Perhaps he was seeing danger that wasn’t there.

The four of them walked under a small arch of the Void Wall, the stone body of Rozeta arching overhead, and onto the first meter of a kilometer-long, white stone bridge. The first thing Ezekiel noticed about the bridge was the size; wide enough for a company of men, twenty by twenty wide, to march across it without impairing their stride. The gentle rise and craftsmanship was superb, but the view was more impressive.

The Wanzhi Delta was a magnificent orange and gold, with cold waters snaking between sandbars, turning deeper here and there. A dark chill flowed through the air outside of the bridge, but upon the bridge, was light and life. Wardlight lanterns shoved away the oncoming night, while small fires lit upon the bridge drove away the chill. The people upon the bridge were cast in a myriad of shadows and light, and they, too, drove away the darkness with their happy voices and their good cheer. Most of them seemed to be coming from some other, earlier party, to hear them speak.

It was easier to hear them speak, out here, past the Void Wall, where the Void Song was already fading in power as they left it behind them.

The second thing he noticed about the bridge, now that he was truly on it, was that he was walking faster than normal, even though he did not seem to be expending much effort, at all. In a minute, they had reached the halfway point of the kilometer-long bridge. The bridge was enchanted for speed of travel, obviously. It was a subtle enchant; impossible to notice unless he really looked with both [Mana Sight] and his normal senses.

He would have liked to have studied the bridge more as they walked toward the Noble District, but Ezekiel put on his game-face. He heard a potential problem approaching from behind. Tiffany’s reaction was a scowl, hidden under her veil.

It was the green man who called Tiffany a ‘fair giantess’. He was already slightly drunk, but not drunk enough to miss Tiffany, tall as she was. She wasn’t hard to spot, but still… Ezekiel didn’t want her bothered, and the man clearly bothered her.

‘Do you want me to get rid of him?’ Ezekiel sent.

‘Nope!’ Tiffany said, ‘I want to beat him into the ground, please and thank you.’

Paul snorted a tiny laugh.

“My fair giantess!” called the man, once he was five meters away.

In an act of simple grace befitting her dress and station, Tiffany rotated on her heel and faced the man. A few nearby people paused their walk to watch. A few smirked, wondering what was going to happen. Others kept going, wishing for some people to have better manners; that particular emotion was directed toward both the green man, and in one case, toward Tiffany.

The green man wiggled his bushy eyebrows at Tiffany, saying, “We missed out on our spar.”

“I’m sure I missed out on less than nothing.”

The green man’s party caught up to him. They were a woman and another man who both wore clothes of slightly lesser quality than the green man’s shimmering silk robe, but they also wore veils, similar to Tiffany’s. Behind those veils—

Oh. Odd.

But. Huh.

They were half-orcols, maybe.

Both of the green man’s people had outsized lower fangs, like Tiffany, but smaller. One of them had a green cast to their skin, while the other had a red-brown cast to theirs. And then Ezekiel noticed something strange about the green man. His skin was barely brown, but it was brown in a red sort of way. He was a half-orcol, too, but... None of the three people were much larger than any other tall human?

Ezekiel had never seen a half-orcol before. He didn’t know what to make of them, or if there was some cultural thing going on between him and Tiffany. Or if this was just normal harassment. It seemed like normal harassment.

The man laughed, then said, “I’ve got rings of [Alter Size]. My ‘nothing’ can be anything you desire.”

People on the bridge gasped at the impropriety of it all.

Tiffany stared down at the man, her eyes turning red behind her veil as her voice turned calmer. “Step off before you hurt yourself.”

The man stepped forward, one step. He looked up, saying, “We’re both going to the same party. Maybe you should teach me how to behave.”

Tiffany stared for a moment, all hard-edged and hateful, and then she blinked away the red in her eyes. After another moment, she calmly said, “No.”

The man eyed her, then frowned. “Sorry for bothering you.”

And then he walked around Tiffany, continuing on his way across the bridge, toward the Noble District. His people followed him. The veiled man bowed to Tiffany, quickly, but said nothing and then rushed to catch up to the green man. Ezekiel still didn’t know the green man’s name.

He didn’t know what to make of that whole event.

Tiffany breathed deep. Then she turned back to Ezekiel.

The four of them resumed the walk across the bridge.

They reached the Alluvial District without further incident, except when they stepped off of the bridge and truly entered the land of the nobility of the Highlands. They gawked. The other people on the bridge walked around them.

The mountains that stood up from the Wanzhi Delta and formed the Noble District of Eralis were not mountains at all, but mansions, towers, lands of forest and enchantment, some with castle architecture and some done with less solid style. Only one thing was constant: every mansion mountain seemed like a maze. Gazing down from the sky above showed this place as simple mountains and expensive houses. But the view from the land—

Ezekiel recognized what had happened. There was an enchantment in the air that changed how it all looked unless you were actually here.

The bridge led to a white road that wound through the district like a circling river, giving space to each monstrous mountain mansion but also unifying them all. Overhead, bridges spanned that ‘river’, connecting ‘houses’ at multiple levels. Lights adorned everything. Shadows and color were part of the decoration.

Ezekiel walked forward, off of the white bridge and onto the white road, and found the road similarly enchanted for speed as the bridge. His people followed.

Not ten meters into the district, past hidden guards and beyond several layers of [Ward]s, their guide for the evening appeared, along with his wife. Xue and Sikali wore matching red and black robes.

Xue gave a half-bow, then said, “Greetings, Scion Phoenix. Welcome to the Alluvial District of Eralis. I trust your time with the Songstresses was successful?”

“I will need to be killing some mist stone gluttons soon enough to pay their bill, but yes, it was successful.”

“Glad to hear it.” Xue gestured back the way he had come, asking, “To the Clan House, directly to the gathering? Or would you like a tour of the District? It’s much more impressive from the ground.”

Ezekiel went along with recognizing that he had spied on them, though not as much as they had spied on him, saying, “Seeing sights with your own eyes is always more impressive than seeing them through [Scry]s. Tell me, though: Are you here as a representative of your Clan, or are you here individually?”

“For Clan Star Song,” Xue said.

“Individually.” With professional cheer, Sikali added, “Enforcers try not to get political.”

Ezekiel allowed himself a small smile, for there was nothing more political than the threat of violence, and Sikali was making a joke with an edge. He said, “I would like a quick tour. This seems like a wonderful place you have here.”

Sikali spoke up, “It is. Welcome to our homes, Scion Phoenix.”

He walked with them, upon the white roads that wound through the Alluvial District, their speed quicker than should be, as Xue spoke of the mountainous mansions here and there, naming them for who they belonged to. Clan River Walker, with their power built upon the fishing trade, and their house on the edge of the Alluvial District where waterfalls cascaded from on high to join the Wanzhi River outside. Clan Gentle Judge, who oversaw lawful operations for many smaller Clans outside of Eralis, with a no-nonsense mountain crafted with grandeur on the inside of the district.

Xue continued to list Clan mansions and speak of exports and spheres of business, likely to get Ezekiel interested in trade and power and all of that. It was a good tactic, Ezekiel admitted. He was thinking of exports and trade, but likely not how the people here would be willing to trade. Candlepoint was full of shadelings, after all. Ezekiel had only heard the name of the Dark God of Magic once, while inside this land, and it was from a child to another child. That first child was quickly beat to a pulp by the second, and also a third and a fourth. The first kid was okay, of course. [A Child’s Protection] kicked on after the rest of the kids left, and the first kid was physically whole.

Until his mother got to him, then he got a rather red behind.

They did not like Dark Magics here.

Anyway. Clan mansions!

There were so many different mountains of which Ezekiel would likely never visit, but which he marked mentally. And then they got close to their destination.

“Here we have Clan Diligent Scribe.” Xue gestured to a mountain made of houses with green, curled-corner roofs and stately plazas. “With their power given to them by our own Clan Star Song, Clan Diligent Scribe is in charge of the education programs of Eralis and the surrounding villages and towns. They also have a thriving potion trade, like many other Clans of the Highlands.”

Well that was nice to hear. Education programs, eh? Maybe he missed those, since Darzallia was a party town.

Ezekiel stared up at the mansion mountain where Tadashi had lived until recently. “Is Alchemist Tadashi doing better at your Clan? Or was he moved to some less-[Ward]ed location?”

Sikali answered, “He is doing well in a specialty-made potion house of Star Song. We’re taking good care of him, Scion Phoenix, but you will be able to see that for yourself at the gathering.” She gestured to the left, at one of the few mountains which had not been mentioned yet, saying, “The home of Clan Star Song, and our destination for this evening.”

Xue rapidly said, “Our relationship to Clan Diligent Scribe is still holding as strong as ever; you can see as much by the sky bridges that connect our two houses.”

Ezekiel saw those bridges, but he saw a lot more than that, for Star Song was one of the most powerful Clans in the land, and their mountain mansion reflected as much.

The sun set in the west, past the city of Eralis, painting half of the mansion in orange and the other half in purple, while the sky above was awash in a million glittering stars. Some of those stars seemed to have descended to Veird and placed themselves in lamps upon crenelations, in the trees that adorned the white road ‘riverside’ that wound between each property, and upon the many, many curled-corner roofs of the many twisting towers and structures of Clan Star Song’s home. The only normal structure to the whole thing was a many-sided pagoda-like structure at the top composed of several floors. A few bridges connected that top pagoda to smaller pagodas, separate from the main one, located on separate peaks of the same mountain mansion.

It was quite beautiful, and Ezekiel let his approval show on his face.

Julia said, “I’m really loving the architecture around here.”

Xue smiled at that, and much of it seemed as genuine as Ezekiel’s own emotions, as he said, “Thank you for the compliment.” He turned to Ezekiel and indicated the near-empty white road ‘river’ they walked upon, saying, “That concludes the tour, and it looks as though many people are already off the roads and have arrived at the gathering. Shall we also proceed to the gathering?”

Ezekiel consented, saying, “Lead the way.”

Xue nodded, and taking Sikali’s hand in his own, they led the way past Diligent Scribe’s home, toward the large gate that denoted the entrance to Clan Star Song. The six of them almost made it toward that gate, but something important caught Ezekiel’s attention, just to the left.

The white road wound around the entire Alluvial District, encircling houses and providing fast travel while one was upon them, but the mansion mountains were not perfectly organized. This meant that the ‘river’ grew wider and smaller in some parts, and especially wide at crossroads. To the left, directly in front of Clan Star Song’s mansion, was one such crossroad. Many such crossroads had sculptures or trees or even a little babbling spring, in one case. This one had a sculpture, and it was also the largest crossroad Ezekiel had seen at maybe fifteen meters across.

‘Sculpture’ would be a poor word, though. The island held an art installation. The main part was a perfectly normal pagoda-like structure made of air and stone in the center of the island, rising several meters into the air. The secondary part was the inclusion of four silver obelisks, half the size of the pagoda, that each stood equidistant from the pagoda, surrounding the pagoda like a square of silver. The third part was in the form of small bridges between each silver obelisk that arced from the white road, toward the pagoda in the center. This here was almost the same sort of structure as the Void Temple, with its four bell towers surrounding a much larger central building, except here, the bridges led inward, instead of from bell tower to bell tower.

And it reminded him...

Ezekiel tried to follow Xue and Sikali toward Clan Star Song’s gate, but he stopped and stared at the art installation.

From a certain angle…

The art piece was missing the full square of silver metal, but the obelisks did a great job of giving the impression of something that was only half there, and this way, one could see the art from any angle and they’d know what they were looking at. The main thing here was the pagoda made of air and stone in the center of the island. It had a distinctive shape. It was seven-sided, and there were no walls. Just curling roofs and plain pillars and many same-sized levels. This was a shape and style that Ezekiel had only ever seen in one place.

It was exactly like the pagodas of air and stone that he had seen beyond the Gate inside the Green Labyrinth, the Twisted Vision which held the only stable dragon culture on Veird. This art piece was missing all the people milling around at the market, but the structure of it all was exactly the same. This pagoda was entirely non-magical. Ezekiel already had his mana sense fully open and—

Xue’s voice brought Ezekiel back to the moment.

“What?” Ezekiel said as he turned to the man, more startled, than angry. “Can I help you?”

Xue was sweating. Why was he sweating? Sikali looked equally curbed, though less worried about the moment than her husband. Oh. Xue knew what this art installation meant. Sikali might be aware, or maybe not. Or maybe both of them had only heard part of the truth. Maybe they knew nothing?

Maybe they knew everything.

Xue said, “Apologies, Scion. I was commenting on the stone garden.”

Ezekiel asked, “How long has this been here?”

“Hundreds of years. The Elders refuse to have it changed seasonally, as we change all the rest.” Xue said, “I could ask around if you wish to know more.”

“Another time.” Ezekiel said, “Let us attend the gathering.”

Xue bowed, and this time it was a true bow of deference. His wife gave Xue a strange, appraising look, before she followed his lead. When they both stood, Xue led the way forward, into Clan Star Song.

The gathering had already begun. The scents of cooked rice and a hundred delicacies from savory to sweet drifted on the breeze as the sounds of stringed instruments filled the night. Odin sang in soft harmony upon Ezekiel’s shoulder.
