That’s… He lost the thought, lost himself in the rush of sensation. Harker stopped trying to make sense of it all. He let it flow.

Jolts of awareness rolled through him. The taste of the night breeze. The birds that wouldn't quiet their slow chirping. The creatures moving in spiraling lines around him.

There!

An Aberrant leapt out. Harker swung, and this time his knife found purchase. Wet warmth gushed over his fist, and the creature dropped to the ground, its eye and part of its skull ripped through by his knife.

Dead.

The survivors didn’t like that. They snarled, a watery burble that keened in pitch as they rushed his legs. He fumbled through their attacks, but the dizziness was too hard to shake. He stomped, nearly slipping on one Aberrant’s hide, and opening himself up to a slash on the back of his thighs.

You’re thinking again! Stop it!

Harker threw himself into familiar movements. He’d trained for combat, if not for this sort of foe, and it rolled through him like high tide. The Aberrants leapt and bit, slashing with their curled claws, but Harker stayed on the defensive. He caught glancing blows off his bracers, earning himself heavy slams from silvered tails, but he shed no more blood.

Abandon defense, son. Everything has a weakness. Law 4A—Seize Their Minds!

He stepped back, the ring of his Talent moving with him, and the Aberrants followed. Yet they no longer spiraled around him freely.

The cliff? It loomed behind him, but the monsters swam up its stone face just as easily as the rest of the ground. Yet their pattern of attack changed. Why?

His senses snagged on it, refusing to budge despite his insistence on flow…there was strangeness in their movement. They only attacked twice on the left, then straight ahead, then behind. They avoided the right entirely.

Not just the right. He could feel them divert their path again and again around…something.

The stone. They’re avoiding certain kinds of stone!

A second Aberrant leapt from behind, and Harker was already twisting toward it. He thrust up, knife catching the thing in its soft underbelly.

It screeched and writhed, ripping the blade from his hand, and dropped to the ground. Harker scrabbled after it, but the last Aberrant cut across his path. It slashed at his boot, forcing him back, before diving deep.

It vanished.

Where’d it go? Is it…No, stay near the rock it can’t swim through. Harker released his breath. He let his Talent roll through him and the jagged flow of it straightened for just a moment as details pressed to every one of his senses all at once.

Deep beneath his feet, the earth rippled.

Harker jumped straight up, heavy boots falling back toward the earth just as the Aberrant crested. It had no time to react as he crushed its face, snapping its body in half across the stone.

“Wrack and ruin!” His ankles twisted on the bulky body, his landing nearly throwing him on his rear. Still, he had presence of mind enough to stab his knife into the beast, cutting into its chest, and stopping its writhing.

It died.

He’d won.

A slow, pointed clap sounded from across the cliff.

"You." Harker breathed through his dissipating disorientation. He glared at Stillwater. "You called them."

"I did." The little bastard pulled at his suspenders, rocking back and forth on his heels. “You're welcome."

"Why would I thank you for this?" Harker asked, standing up with his knives.

"Because this is me, saving your life." He snapped his suspenders against his chest. "I needed to see how you fight and use your Talent. Now I know a great deal."

Harker swallowed a thousand biting remarks. They would get him nowhere. "Explain."

"Your soul is broken, that’s clear. It will break further if I don't step in. You're lucky I found you."

"Yes, I feel quite lucky."

Stillwater tilted his head as if eager for something, but his expression faded to disappointment. "Ah, well. Now that I've seen the damage in you through your Water, I can advise on a solution to save your measly life. One that will fix your insides and open up a whole new set of options for you."

Harker was coming to hate that grin. "A solution.”

“We need to find a town…and you need a Current."
