Zac had given Helisent many pieces over the years, but this one needed to be special. His troubles faded into a distant murmur, replaced by compositions and ideas. A walnut-colored piece in the corner resonated with his current state, and Zac’s smile widened. He’d eventually see the light so long as he kept walking forward with conviction and determination.

Even if a path didn’t exist, he’d open one in his Heart.

----------------

The final routes were drawn, and the trembling mesh of pathways immediately stabilized. Exhaling, Zac brought the Skill Fractal into his body, where it settled in its old position. Successfully upgrading [Conformation of Supremacy] to Late Mastery meant having another combat form and another tool in his belt.

His gnawing anxiety made it hard to cherish the achievement. [Conformation of Supremacy] was quite a complex skill, and he’d been forced to pour all his care and attention into the upgrade. Now that he was done, the unwelcome thoughts came creeping back stronger than ever. After all, his self-imposed deadline would arrive within the day.

Nearly a week had passed since receiving his Draugr half’s urgent message. There was no update and no other clues to draw from. Zac could normally get a hint of what his other half was up to, even while they were inside a memory. They still shared a Soul and Cosmic Core, so he could sense when his other side cultivated or fought.

There’d been none of that since they embarked on the [Peregrine Gondola]. If his strength didn’t remain intact, Zac would have assumed he’d truly entered another Temporal River. More likely, they were trapped in an extraordinarily powerful illusion. Understanding that didn’t change anything. It wasn’t like he could help in case something went wrong.

Reaching the Transformation Docks by foot would take him years, and Zac couldn’t rely on his experimental idea to immediately reach his other body. His Draugr side needed to be able to receive the [Fuxi Mountain Gate] for the plan to work. Zac sighed and got to his feet, turning toward the memory domain in the distance. It was too early to panic about his other half, and no news could even be considered good news.

That wasn’t the case on this side.

There was still no word from Ogras or Ventus and no signs of activity inside the domain. Unfortunately, this one was much like the Joyful Garden’s memory domain. An array or a Natural Formation hid its interiors. Zac didn’t want to enter, while the fate of his other half remained unknown. But as he told Esmeralda, he didn’t have much of a choice.

Having delayed this long was already pushing it, yet Zac spent the next five hours recovering his Mental Energy and optimizing his state. The clock would start the moment he stepped through, with Mox getting closer to pinpointing his location by the second. He needed to hit the ground running, or he’d die before he could extract Ogras and implement his half-cooked plan.

A few hours before he planned on setting out, Zac suddenly sprung to his feet. The silence of the barren mountainside he’d stayed shattered as a vibrant forest sprouted. It barely had time to cover the slopes in green before an enormous sphere of darkness swallowed all Life. Zac was blind when he emerged from a tree with axe in hand.

Zac didn’t try to break the domain, nor did he teleport away with [Apex Jungle]. He welcomed the familiar Abyssal darkness, a weight suddenly off his shoulders. Zac had only vaguely noticed someone drawing closer, only now realizing it was the one he’d waited for so long. He still took out Kator’s tracker when the Abyss retreated and his senses were restored.

“It’s not broken. I didn’t bring mine,” the familiar Draugr calmly said as she stepped into view.

“Then how did you—”

“First, I’d like you to explain where Arcaz Umbri’Zi is and why you have Kator’s Tracker.”

The two faced each other in silence for a few moments before Zac exhaled.

“You came at the right time. Let’s talk before we set out. Things are a bit hectic on this end.”

Tavza An’Azol scrutinized Zac a few more seconds before nodding. “I expected nothing less, Chaosbringer.”
