“The fact that you have to walk or hop with things is part of the original design, but it’s not meant to be a permanent feature.”

Alden lowered the card to meet her eyes. “It’s not?”

“It’s more of a geas placed on the new bearer. It would naturally break down over the next few years, but you can speed the process with effort. It’s designed to help you understand on a deeper level what the skill is, so you’ll possess the right mindset by the time you start using it on things harder to grasp than bits of gravel or balls of putty.”

“What exactly is it helping me understand about—?”

“You’ll figure it out if you try.”

Alden sighed. “It’s to make using the skill more inconvenient.”

“That wasn’t even much of a try, and you’re right.”

“To make me more consciously burdened even when I’m carrying something really light.”

“Yes. Part of the skill’s potency comes from the fact that you must sacrifice some strength of your own in order to preserve your burden. Up until now, your burdens have been simple for you to understand—objects. You were aware of them weighing on you bodily. And you were aware of them weighing on your authority…moreso sometimes than others.”

Alden looked back at the card. “You will wholly preserve that which you have mind, strength, and will to bear,” he said. “Earth just translated that concept as ‘tangible item’.”

“It’s not a bad description for a beginner. Your skill doesn’t yet have the necessary facets—” she gestured at the glowing windows filling the room, “—to expand your definition of the tangible and allow you to carry the sorts of things that will make you The Bearer of All Burdens, instead of just ones with an obvious physical shape for you to hold onto.”

No way. Alden thought he knew where this was going, but if he was right, it was overwhelming.

“My friend Boe,” he said. “He assumed the skill would be different, before I chose it and we read the description. He wondered if it would work for things like taking pain or stress away from people.”

“Those are over there,” she said, pointing all the way toward the tiny television and tree at the far end of the room. “With the other enhancements I recommend you avoid for a long, long time.”

“Holy shit,” Alden breathed.

“That’s what you’ll be saying if you decide to carry someone’s pain for them.”

“You mean I’d feel it?”

“You feel everything you preserve in some way,” she pointed out. “You’ve noted it many times before. With roots in sacrifice and symbolism, how else would the skill expect you to hold the burden of another person’s pain?”

“Ah.” Alden stared at all the different options around him in shock. Then, he shook his head and tried to bring himself back down to reality. “Let’s not pick from the bad side of the room.”

There was self-sacrificing, and then there was being a summonable repository for the suffering of any rich wizard with a medical condition. And Alden had no idea whether or not the human morality clauses in the Contract would protect him from that.

“It would be a terrible choice now anyway. That’s quite a heavy burden. Magically. Even though I could create the new facet for you, your skill would be too weak to serve that particular function for more than a couple of minutes. In fact, I would like to suggest that you let me bind most of your free authority back into the skill simply to bolster its strength, rather than spending much of it on new facets.”

Alden blinked. “You mean…adding levels of power to the skill directly? Instead of new features? Is that an option?”

He hadn’t heard of the System doing that for a reward. You leveled up, and then you got a magic prize. But the prize wasn’t extra levels on the skill. Or maybe that was a thing, but not for most skills because they topped out at lower levels?

Well, whatever. It’s an option for me now.

“Until you come up with the positive and artistic metaphor you promised me—it’s like we’ll be giving the whole machine more fuel. Some of these additional functions I’m showing you would require almost all of your skill-bound authority to even activate. They’re not useful to you yet. But you wanted to see everything.”

She gestured at him as if to say, Go look.

So Alden did.

And he finally understood how developing a single skill could be the pursuit of a lifetime. If this wasn’t all some dream he was having in the moment before his death, then he could preserve…anything.

A memory, a disease, a sound. He drifted through the room, trying and failing to understand what some of these new facets would even involve.

He stopped in the far corner in front of a window that said “A Temporal Instant” and wondered, How?

It was grayed-out, in the way many of the options were, to indicate he couldn’t have it right now even if he wanted it. But just the fact that it existed…

Who could even entrust something like that? How would they have one in their possession? And how would I bear it?

In my mind? With my body? Would I have to live in a time loop?

The options that were grayed-out often listed other facets he’d have to choose alongside them to make them work. And some of them were focused not on what Alden would bear but on enhancing him in some way that made it possible to bear it.

“This is so insane.” He’d been wandering for a while, and finally he stopped at a particular option that seemed to be required by a huge percentage of the other facets in the room. It was right beside the sofa, too, which meant it was highly recommended.

[Divide From Whole]

[Aids the bearer in the division of a burden from its source.]

“It’s extremely complex if you want to know how it works, but if you just want to know what it does…it’s the facet of the skill that will allow you to hold certain types of burden away from the bits of reality they are a part of. It goes with this one—”

[Sensitivity]

[Gives Alden the ability to sense the thing he’s trying to divide from the whole.]

Oh, they’re getting personalized now, Alden thought, smiling at the description.

He didn’t mind it. It was pretty much the opposite of the ultra-vague skill definitions Earth had used.

“This sounds like it makes me psychic.”

“Only for specific qualities of the thing you’ve been entrusted to carry.”

That was way less overpowered, but Alden didn’t see any reason to be greedy.

“So I have to take both of these before I can even use the skill on the foggier conceptual stuff?”

“It’s the defogging package,” she said. “You’re going to want it if you ever want to try most of the other expansion options.”

Alden took both of the windows. “So if I take these, and we pour whatever amount of authority you recommend into the core of the skill—”

“Most of it.”

“What’s left to choose from?”

“It depends. Do you want me to assign part of your authority to foundation points for you to enhance yourself physically and mentally?”

Alden resisted his initial urge to shout, Make me STRONG! I want things not to be heavy anymore!

It would have helped to be more physically capable when he was stuck on Moon Thegund. He’d really felt his limits, and even if he’d ultimately made things work, it had been by narrow margins…

Probably that’s not enough to justify something like doubling my physical strength right now, though.

If he was being realistic, it wasn’t like he planned to haul whole people over long distances again anytime soon. He thought he was owed a ton of time off from summonings—

“You’ll be on leave for several months,” she confirmed. “Mental health time for being involved in a disaster beyond your qualifications. On top of that, I’ll be adding additional weeks for your post-affixation recovery.”

He nodded. “I think it would probably be a waste to pump myself up like a Brute, but I do want at least a few points…just to make life a little easier.”

“How about you choose one from these options, then?” she said.

Almost all of the gold and gray windows vanished, and Alden was left with the defogging pair in his hand and four more to pick from.

[Burden of Enchantment]

[Burden of Spell]

[Burden of Wordchain]

[Burden of Secret]

“Only four?”

“Only four that are likely to be useful to someone as weak as you…unless you want to start delving into the darker burdens already?”

“I’ve had enough dark for a while.”

Alden read about the options. They were pretty self-explanatory just from the titles. [Secret] said it would transfer a secret from his entruster to him, though, and he just didn’t see a way for that to work.

“Do they just tell it to me, and then they…forget it?”

“As they speak the secret, it leaves their mind. As long as you are using your authority to maintain preservation on it, it will not return to them.”

“But it does return to them? Like, I drop it somehow? Or forget it? And it just bounces back?”

How? Just how?

“How does your current skill work?” she asked with a smile.

Alden had no idea. But at least he could hold a thing between his fingers and understand that it was working.

“You’ll have to gain a less physical notion of the universe and the way things exist in connection to each other if you really want comprehension. You don’t need comprehension, by the way. I promise the new facets of the skill will work their magic wonderfully and you’ll eventually figure out all of their functions and quirks through trial and error. And yes. The secret bounces back. To an extent. If you hold something like that for long enough, even though it is perfectly preserved, the entruster will no longer be a natural home for it. You would need help from a wizard with quite a lot of esoteric knowledge to reattach it to their mind. It would be much easier to just tell them what they’ve forgotten.”

Alden didn’t get it. But he’d grown up just accepting magic at face value, so he guessed he could put up with it for now.

“So every option works a little differently,” he said. “Depending on what the burden is. And I get to figure it out as I go along.”

She had said the skill’s designers admired it for its versatility. It was a good thing really. It would be pretty boring to keep binding his magic into the skill until he was old and gray, with no variety in function. Just picking up things and holding them better might be useful, but it wasn’t thrilling.

He dropped [Secret]. The main thing it would be good for, he thought, was helping other people hide information they wanted to keep private from mind readers. Which was a neat trick, but he couldn’t imagine finding a lot of opportunity for it right now.

Next, he flicked away [Wordchain]. Taking peoples’ wordchain debt onto himself would make him super popular with everyone and super miserable and super interesting to a certain family on Anesidora.

The Velras would be circling him like flies. He’d go to sleep one night and wake up the next morning to find he was married or adopted.

I wish I could keep whatever I chose to myself.

He looked at the remaining two options. He was surprised that [Spell] and [Enchantment] were different burdens. It seemed like they should go together. But [Enchantment] made it possible for Alden to remove and preserve only the magical enchantments on an object while [Spell] was for unattached spells.

“Can I pull the enchantment off one thing and put it on something else?”

“You’re going to need to study individual enchantments if you want to get fancy with it. They’re all different. The main one on that ring you’ve stolen, for example, could be transferred with minimal loss in efficacy. But only to a nearly identical ring. And only after you’d destroyed the original.”

Okay. So doing that with any degree of certainty was going to take a lot of research.

At first, this one would mostly be good for making something temporarily non-magical. Or I guess…if I held the enchantment away from its ‘natural home’ long enough…outright breaking it?

It sounded like it would be great for busting open magical locks. Or destroying peoples’ really expensive armor. After they entrusted it to him. That would be a fast way to make enemies.

He looked at [Burden of Spell]. “If someone gives me a spell, can I hold it and then cast it later?”

“Again, it’s going to depend on the spell. Yes, in some cases. Many spells have specific targets. Others are more general. Some would harm you as soon as you stopped preserving them.”

Study and practice for either one then, Alden concluded.

“I want them both.”

“That’s good. Eat your vegetables, grow your authority big and strong, and come back for more.”

He groaned.

Finally, he chose [Burden of Enchantment].

“That’s not the one you like the best,” she pointed out. “You’re picking it because you think it will be easier to steal enchantments from items people hand you without them realizing you’ve done anything at all.”

“I’m…not sure how quiet I need to be about myself when I get back to Earth. Being a Rabbit with the ability to preserve things and carry other peoples' spells would make me look awesome. I think it’s awesome anyway. But people are going to ask a lot of questions about what the new talent is and how I got something that powerful that fast at B-rank. And I don’t know what I’m allowed to say. Or what I even want to say.”

Pulling enchantments sounded more subtle.

