“With regards to the corruption incident on Thegund, no official request for your silence has been issued by the Triplanets so far. It’s largely unpublicized on Earth, but not a secret. Avowed are fully aware we face a chaos issue of some kind. The more powerful among you are sometimes called to assist with such matters. It was an unfortunate accident that you were caught in that kind of trouble while peacefully collecting berries.”

Alden rolled his eyes.

“But there’s no reason, from a political perspective, for you not to reveal it.”

“That’s good to know.”

“Your discretion in other matters would be wise, though. For your own happiness.”

She stared pointedly at the auriad on his wrist.

He touched it. “It is a problem, then? Like…legally?”

“It’s not illegal for you to have it. Or use it. Or learn magic. It would deeply gratify some to know you are pursuing your course. And it would mortally terrify others. It’s not something you should reveal lightly if you want to enjoy book clubs and live on Earth for a while longer.”

A while longer.

“You don’t think I can keep it a secret?”

“Not for your entire life,” she said. “And even in the short-term you would benefit from assistance. Gaining as much power as you have in half a year is quite noteworthy. I’ll give you an option to think about later. For now, you need to choose the last part of your affixation.”

With a quick mental command, Alden pulled up his enhancement list and examined it.

[Foundational Enhancements]

Sympathy for Magic +4

Appeal +1

Dexterity +0.5

Stamina +0.25

Processing +0.25

- Visual Processing + 1

Agility + 2.5

- Proprioception +1.5

Speed + 1.5

Strength + 0

“What does Sympathy for Magic even do?” Alden stared at the numbers. “I never have figured out what’s good about it, and it’s the biggest boost Rabbits get.”

The expression on her face was full of pity. “You don’t need that one.”

“Why?”

“It makes it easier for you to use magical objects. Lots of Ryeh-b’ts working in all-wizard environments on the Triplanets need to use tools. This helps them see some of the features in the same way a wizard would, without having to possess an authority sense.”

It’s literally for making magic buttons glow brighter, thought Alden, feeling devastated. He’d known that was part of it, of course, but he’d hoped there were other hidden benefits. If those four points had gone into anything else…

“It’s actually borderline detrimental in your case,” she said. “It’s like slapping on a pair of glasses when you already have perfect vision. All it’s doing is giving you attention issues.”

Alden wondered if he was too old to whine about the unfairness of the world.

“Of course not! I know some very old people who would sob if they were forced to eternally waste part of their authority on bad glasses,” she said in a comforting voice. “Look, here are some points for you to spend on better things!”

A glowing number 8 appeared in the air just in front of him.

“That’s all I have left?”

“This is the maximum number I think you should spend here. You can have more if you want, but I’d put all the rest of it into your skill.”

Alden side-eyed her and then tapped on the plus sign beside Processing. It jumped a quarter of a point. He tapped it again. And again.

“I’ll start the affixation process for that point,” she said dryly. “But you’ll still have to wait for it to come fully due. Gradual increases in mental capacity are the way to go.”

“How long?”

“About an Earth year.”

“Still…worth it.”

“Go ahead and add an extra half if you like. If you give me permission, I can even divide it up in ways that will specifically support your skill use and your wizardry.”

Feeling smug about his future as a smarter, faster-thinking Alden, he added the full point and a half.

“How much Dexterity would I need in order to improve my use of the auriad?” he asked.

It was a massive perk to have personalized advice from the one who’d be doing all the modifications to you, instead of just a list of obscure options and the opinions of random people on the internet. Alden assumed most of his future affixations would take place on Earth, so he ought to make full use of this resource while he had the chance.

“How good do you want to be at the auriad?”

He pictured Jel-nor’s fingers flicking rapidly through the patterns right before she blew up Stuart’s foot.

“Quite proficient then. Take two. And at least half a point in Speed. If you confirm that you want it just for the hands, I can make sure everything aligns to support that.”

“Two in Dexterity for the hands. Half in Speed for the hands. Another half in Speed for general purposes.”

“You have three and a half left.”

“Why do they go so fast?”

He divided the remaining points between the things he had wanted more of recently. A point and a half to Stamina, a point and a half to Strength, and the final half in Agility.

He stared at the list now that it included all the changes, trying to imagine what life would be like with it for however long he had to wait until his next affixation.

[Foundational Enhancements]

Sympathy for Magic +4

Appeal +1

Dexterity +2.5

Stamina +1.75

Processing +1.75

- Visual Processing + 1

Agility + 3

- Proprioception +1.5

Speed + 2.5

Strength + 1.5

“Whoever decided human Rabbits had to have Sympathy for Magic and Appeal should be punished.”

“It was a very large committee that settled on that.”

“Lots of punishment then. They can all have those stats, too.”

A moment later, the room disappeared, and Alden found himself standing face to face with her in a patch of light surrounded by an impenetrable darkness. Windows with his choices on them floated in front of his eyes along with the auriad.

“Are you sure about all of these?” she asked.

He took them all in. The stats. The psychic defogging package. Burden of Enchantment.

“I feel good about them.”

She nodded, and they disappeared. “Then it’s time for us to finish you up. Any questions?”

They both knew what his question was going to be, but she waited for him to speak it anyway.

Swallowing hard, he asked, “It’s going to hurt, right?”

This time. And every other time from now on.

“That’s right,” she said.

“What…what will it be like?”

“I will be taking a very dear and essential part of you and twisting it into a new shape. I will be severing its limitless futures for the sake of a single purpose. You will fight back, and you will lose. You will beg me to stop, and I will not. When it’s over, there will still be pain. You will not want to use your power for a while, and it will take some time for you to find your new normal.”

I can still back out.

“You can,” she agreed. “Just this once.”

“No. Don’t listen to that part of me,” he said. “I’ve made the decision, so let’s do it.”

“Yes?”

“Yes. And thanks. For not letting me die. And for the advice. And everything.”

“You’re welcome, Alden.” She leaned forward and kissed him on the cheek. He wondered why it didn’t feel like a strange thing for her to do at all. “For what it’s worth, I think you’ll be a great superhero.”

*
