CHAPTER SIXTY:

Mother, pt. 2

“This is fun,” she said, waving a hand to make the sigil that represented Alden’s skill disappear from the television screen. “Normally, even if you were learning to use your authority, I wouldn’t talk to you about the original Avowed skills. I would have to violate some rules to direct you toward them these days, and you haven’t yet earned an extraordinary measure like that. But you already have the skill and know what it is. And a very naughty wizard has gone so far as to tell you outright that you can develop it for a lifetime.”

Alden was sure there was a picture of Joe somewhere in the universe with the words Very Naughty Wizard scrawled over his face.

“You would have figured out that the skill had no ceiling. Probably. Eventually. But how many decades of your life would it have taken I wonder …with so many other delightful talents tempting you to become something else?”

She grinned at him.

“So! Now that you’ve chosen to make your life harder by moving forward with full-knowledge of your authority, it’s time for the simpler choices. Would you like me to tempt you with a multitude of options, Alden? Shall I bring up the Ryeh-b’t skill list for you? Do you want some points in Appeal? Interested in a shiny new spell impression? Or are you in the mood for something a little…older?”

Oh, right, thought Alden. This is what happens next.

He had known. He just hadn’t been all that focused on talent selection. Finding out he was going to live when he and the Quaternary had both thought he wouldn’t had eclipsed it in importance. And besides that, he hadn’t realized he’d have to start by choosing to keep something that seemed as fundamental to him as his authority sense.

“How many levels did I get anyway?” he asked. “What was the tipping point that made me start to fall apart?”

“If you want to be all human about it and calculate what you know is authority growth in levels…” she said, “…then you gained eight.”

“Eight?” said Alden, stunned even though he knew the number was going to be larger than it would have been under normal circumstances. “Wait. I don’t quite understand how it works, though. The skill itself is stronger already, so some of the authority is already bound into it, right?”

“As long as a skill isn’t complete and sealed—which yours will never be—then the bound authority you have grows stronger within its confines and the free authority you have grows separately. The second at a faster rate than the first. Eight levels is your total improvement overall.”

“Got it. So I’m a level nine now. If that’s measured as excess authority on top of a level…something…skill and my trait and my stats?”

“If I’m forced to work with these terms, then I think the current power level of your skill should be called three, but Earth says round up to four. It strokes egos to make humans more manageable it seems.”

Well, that’s a nugget of truth to worry over when I have less going on, Alden thought.

Gaining three total levels had once been his ambitious goal. For a year. A year in which he’d imagined himself training full time at one of the best hero schools in Apex.

Alden wouldn’t have aimed for level nine overall until he was well into college.

“It’s even better than you’re thinking,” she said, after giving him a moment to process it all. “Learning to ‘press all the buttons on the skill machine’ is an excellent way to train and grow your authority. But can you please come up with a more elegant metaphor when you have a moment? This one pains me. And my children generally cope better when they see their skills as worthwhile artistic instruments to master…not ugly, tedious devices they must poke at so that they don’t die on a demon moon.”

“Is the way I think of it really that imp—?”

“Do you want to hate your skill more than you have to?”

“No,” Alden admitted.

“Then do better.” She paused. “You asked about the tipping point. It should have been all the way back around level six or seven. At the rate you were growing your free power—practicing with it constantly and stretching it against both the chaos and the skill—you ought to have been dead weeks ago. Your friend really did refine you into something I usually only see in gifted young Artonans. I imagine he possesses the ability to do it because having authority of that quality was the requirement for becoming a member of his…priesthood?”

Alden shrugged. “If you don’t know the right word when you’re looking at my memories, then I don’t see how I can tell you anything.”

“I never had the opportunity to join with one of his kind and come to an understanding.” She smiled at Alden. “Anyway, congratulations on your swift advancement! I’m very proud of you. Even if you did almost kill yourself.”

“Thanks?”

“Normally you and Earth would have had a back and forth at each of its preferred milestones, with it offering you rewards and you choosing from them. Or, in your case, refusing them. Instead, you now have no option but to pick everything all at once.”

The presents disappeared from beneath the tree and reappeared scattered across the floor at Alden’s feet.

“I’m sorry,” she said. “As you now realize, you yourself are paying the largest portion of the gift’s price. But it should still be satisfying to rip off the wrapping paper.”

That’s an entertaining way to do it. Alden grabbed the package with bulldozers on it and tugged off the yellow ribbon. When he tore into the box, light filled his eyes. For the first time in months.

He laughed. “I almost forgot what the interface looked like!”

“That’s what you get for running around beyond Contract reach for so long. Try it out.”

Alden reached up to touch the button for the Wardrobe.

“With your mind,” she clarified.

“I never had the chance to master mental commands.”

“I’m doing quite a lot of work on you right now. There’s no reason I can’t speed up a little process like that.”

Alden focused on the Wardrobe, and it expanded readily.

“Thank you. That’s really easy. Wait a second…are there more options than there used to—”

The Wardrobe window shut and disappeared.

“That’s for later,” she said. “Something to keep you entertained while you’re recovering. Open the next one.”

Alden grabbed a gift bag, and when he reached inside, the Rabbit skill list appeared. Only it was called the Ryeh-b’t skill list. Obviously she didn’t approve of Earth changing the name.

“You can have another skill,” she said. “In fact, you have accumulated so much free authority that you can have another B-rank skill affixation if you want it. I’m sure you know—”

“That’s not something people get until they’ve been a successful Avowed for ages,” Alden said.

It was usually lower ranked skills for add-ons. Because of the way authority accumulation worked, he supposed. If you were taking rewards every time they were offered, you would have to be pretty far along in an illustrious career before you started getting enhancements the size of your original skill for a single upgrade.

“What is a level anyway?” he asked. “Is it like a recommended percentage of growth compared to your total power prior to re-binding it?”

She sniffed. “Recommended. Yes. A poor recommendation in my opinion. Don’t listen to Earth, Alden. Take your affixations in the largest doses you can stand. Not as large as the one you’re about to get. But in general. Patience is a virtue.”

Alden blinked.

“I mean…I was going to anyway since I want to actually get to use my free authority for spells for as long as possible.”

“Good boy.”

“But why? For normal people I mean?”

“The tension between your free authority and your bound strengthens your power. The more equal they are to each other, the greater the benefit. This is much more applicable to you than to a regular Avowed since your very awareness of the tension increases it substantially. But it applies to a smaller extent universally.”

“Like they’re arm wrestling each other all the time,” Alden said. “And by doing so they’re forcing a constant state of reassertion?”

She sighed. “That’s as bad as the machine metaphor, but you may keep it.”

Alden glanced down at his auriad. “I’m not…the only human Avowed with an authority sense, am I?”

It was an awkward thing to ask since he thought the answer should be something like, Of course not. Just how arrogant are you?

But he wanted some confirmation so that he wouldn’t feel like he was trying to do the Avowed thing completely differently—and therefore possibly wrongly—compared to everybody else on Earth. Knowing some other humans were on the same path would be a big comfort.

“You’re currently running so far ahead of a very small pack that I see no point in you considering the other racers.”

He shook his head. “That can’t be right. I’ve only studied magic for a few months.”

“Doggedly. In an environment with just the right amount of corruption. With a dedicated training partner. After receiving an ideal boon from a member of the only other species Artonans have ever encountered that could be said to have true natural talent for magic. It’s not even a replicable experiment.”

“But there are people out there who are hyperboles. Who can control weather systems! They can do such crazy stuff.”

“You do realize the way you’ve begun to train and use your skill isn’t the lone possibility for achieving strength? Many humans are naturally much more powerful than you at their first affixation. Some among them are also talented in developing their skills through other methods. A few of them achieve mastery through vast amounts of practice. A few just have a subconscious knack for it. People who set out to develop their power and refuse to give up generally find the means.”

She added, “I believe Worli Ro-den was trying to lead you down such a path. You’ve gained more than you realize from his lessons. Don’t discard them.”

Alden nodded.

“But the route you’ve chosen is faster!” she said brightly.

“I kind of figured.”

“You still don’t understand how much faster it is. When you have an authority sense and you bind a skill, your power can rapidly snowball. Especially if you work at. It’s why even Artonans can’t affix without swearing oaths that prevent them from harming the Triplanets.”

He considered that. “Cool.”

“An image of you running across Moon Thegund fearlessly and with ease just came to your mind. You are underestimating your future potential.”

Alden blinked.

“Now you’re picturing yourself slicing Earth’s moon in half. With a preservation skill. That’s overestimating. And what did the poor thing ever do to you?”

“I don’t have many middle-ground frames of reference,” Alden said defensively. He looked at the presents. “Which one has it in it?”

“Has what?”

“I know you know I want to look at it.”

She stretched her arms over her head. “But you also claim to want your life to proceed at 'Intensity Level Four.' I’m not sure if I should listen to your actual desires or your stated ones. If I were Earth, I’d be obligated to do the latter.”

A moment later, the present with the superhero sigil wrapping paper floated into his lap.

Alden should have known. He dug a finger under the tape and peeled the paper away slowly.

“It comes with a lot of options,” she said. “Do you want me to limit it to the smart choices? Or do you want to see everything?”

“Let me see everything. But…don’t let me make any more dumb decisions today.”

The living room expanded until it was larger than a football field. Startled, Alden stood up from the sofa at the center of the suddenly vast carpeted room. The television was so far away he couldn’t clearly make out the image on it, and floating at a convenient eye-level were hundreds of semi-transparent golden System windows, with what looked like skill names and descriptions written on them.

“No. Not skills,” she said, still sprawling across the couch. “They’re more like seeds that can only grow in the soil of what has already been established within you. These are designed to give your existing skill new facets, but there is nothing here that will alter its fundamental nature.”

Alden stared at the golden window nearest to him and reached for it. He found that he could grab onto it and hold it like a card.

[THE BEARER OF ALL BURDENS]

[You may bear that which has been entrusted to you by the one you choose to serve. You will preserve that which you have mind, strength, and will to bear. You may not lay your burden down.]

“This is your skill. Along with a better translation of what it was intended to be at its heart,” she said. “You have questions.”

Alden held the card, studying the description on it. In a way, though the words left out what he’d been thinking of as important technical details about the skill’s function, they resonated more because of it.

“It’s pretty symbolic.”

“You’ve already noted that magic tends to be. Especially if it’s older.”

The taste of Kibby’s vaguely acidic blood filled Alden’s mouth, and he wrinkled his nose.

“It does kind of make it easier to grasp, I guess, even if some of the rules seem to be left out. For example, there’s no mention of the autotarget for summoners.”

“That’s a newer convenience added on top of the original skill. A largely System-directed bauble. It relies on the fact that by responding to a summons under contract you are on some level choosing to serve that person.”

Alden nodded. “The rule about having to carry things around for them to be preserved is missing, too”

