“Yes!” Lisa said and they stepped into the elevator and she hit 2. “We were kind of rushed, and we'd just...” Lisa's face flushed even more red.

“For me, that last kiss was like stepping into a warm bath.” Ren said. “I felt like I just wanted to bask in it all day.”

Lisa's face went dark red as the elevator went up to the second floor.

“We could do an experiment with two identical kisses, one in VR and one out; but, I think you're right. Each kiss is different, especially in different environments.” Stella said a little sadly.

“Lisa? Would you like an actual tour of the place?” Ren asked and pointed. “How about a bit of bowling to start?”

“Wait, you weren't joking about that?” Lisa asked, and Ren shook his head. She opened the door and saw the 4 lane bowling alley, a counter with racks of shoes behind it, a small canteen full of candy, candy bars, and fountain pop.

“This is unreal!” Lisa said. “Do you really want to play?”

“I'll have to sit this one out.” Ren said. “I pushed myself a little too hard this morning.”

Lisa put a hand on his shoulder. “You just want to watch my butt when I bend over to throw the ball.”

“I can't believe you found me out so easily.” Ren said and she laughed.

“You're lucky I wore pants, then.” Lisa said. “I wouldn't even think about doing this with a skirt on.”

“Me, either.” Ren said. “I don't have the legs for it.”

Lisa and Stella laughed, and they went over to the counter.

“Everything is brand new.” Lisa said and went behind the counter. She found a pair of bowling shoes for herself and left her own sneakers in it's spot, then she looked at Stella.

“Size 9.” Stella said and passed over her own sneakers.

“I never realized you has such big feet, Stella.” Ren said. “Geez, you think you know a person.”

“Quiet, you!” Stella said and shook her fist at him. “They're women's 9.”

“There's a difference?” Ren asked.

“There sure is.” Lisa said and took the sneakers. “You don't think women buy men-sized clothes, do you?”

“I... ah... never really thought about it.” Ren said. “You show up looking pretty like you do, and I'm too busy staring at you to wonder where you bought your clothes.”

Lisa turned around so he wouldn't see her face as she blushed again, and exchanged Stella's shoes with bowling ones. She took a quick breath to calm down, and turned back around to give the shoes to Stella.

I don't know why Ren saying stuff like that makes me embarrassed. Lisa thought while she put on the bowling shoes she had picked for herself. Maybe... maybe it's because... he wasn't actually complimenting me. She thought and walked around the counter towards the lanes, then her face went red again. He thought he was just stating facts.

Stella pushed Ren over to sit at the score-keeping table, and Ren moved from the wheelchair to the seat. He looked over the thing in front of him, and it was a big pad with several pencils, and a control panel at the top. Ren hit the 'START' button, and television screens lit up at the ends of the lanes and showed the pins from above, and he could hear the machines in the back.

“Cool.” Ren said and wrote down the names of the two competitors on the sheet. “All right! This is it!” He said in a deep announcer voice. “It's time, once and for all, to decide who will be the ultimate victor!”

Stella and Lisa looked at him with wide eyes.

“Will it be the supreme cuteness of Lisa that wins the day, or will it be the smouldering sexiness of Stella that will prevail?”

“Are you saying I'm not sexy?” Lisa asked him.

“Of course not.” Ren said. “But... look at Stella. Tell me she isn't sexy.”

Lisa looked at the taller woman. “Okay, I have to grudgingly admit that you're right.”

“Ren...” Stella started to say.

“Stella, you yourself said Lisa was really cute, correct?”

Stella smiled and looked at Lisa. “I did.”

“You did?” Lisa asked, and Stella nodded.

“Play to your strength's ladies!” Ren said. “You can both be cute and sexy, but you're competing now! It's an epic fight! Tooth and nail! A battle for the ages!”

“You're really milking this, you know.” Stella said, and Lisa chuckled.

“I know!” Ren said and grinned. “Leave no skill unused! No trick is taboo!”

“Oh, geez.” Lisa said and tried not to laugh as Ren raised both hands in the air and shook them.

“LET IT BEGIN!” Ren yelled and cupped his hands over his mouth and made crowd noises and screaming fans. “LET IT BEGIN!”

“I think he's losing it.” Stella said and laughed.

“Oh, definitely.” Lisa said and pulled her pants up even tighter than they were. “If he's losing his mind anyways, we might as well give him a show he'll never forget.”

“I knew I liked you.” Stella said and unzipped her top halfway. “Let's do this.”

Both women walked over to the farthest lanes, which were candle pin bowling lanes and only had bowling balls the size of softballs. They didn't have holes for fingers and were just solid weights.

“Oh, these balls might be too heavy for me.” Stella said and bent over to pick one up from the ball return trough. Her top bulged open to show off her chest and her bra. Ren stared at her chest because it almost fell out of her top, and it was a quite unexpected treat.

“Oh, Stella!” Lisa gasped and knelt on the other side of the ball return. “Let me get that for you!”

Lisa's gasp had caught Ren's attention and he stared as she kept her hands on one of the balls, then she straightened her legs. It raised her backside up into the air, and she swayed her butt from side to side, almost hypnotically.

“You're right, they might just be too heavy!” Lisa said and looked over her shoulder to see Ren's reaction. She almost laughed at his shocked expression. His eyes flitted from one sight to the other, and the pencil he was using rolled off the table and fell to the floor. He had involuntarily let it go because a lot of his brain processing power had suddenly disappeared and it left him dumbfounded.

“I'll go first.” Stella said, lifted the bowling ball easily, and threw it down the lane. It knocked down 9 pins, so she picked up another ball and knocked down the last one. She walked back to the ball return and put her hands on her hips, which pulled her top open even more.

“Did you get that, Ren?” Stella asked.

“Wh-what?” Ren looked at her face. “Get what?”

“I knocked 9 pins down, then picked up a spare.” Stella said.

“Um... right.” Ren said and tried to mark the sheet with an empty hand. “Oh. I think I dropped my pencil.”

“I'll get it.” Stella chuckled and knelt down beside him to pick it up. She looked at Ren's face to try and catch him staring at her chest, and she saw that he was staring at her face instead. She handed him the pencil and stood up.

“Thank you.” Ren said to her, and Stella knew he wasn't just thanking her for the pencil. She nodded and went back to stand beside Lisa.

“My turn.” Lisa said and picked up a ball. She wiggled her butt a little to show off, took two long strides, and whipped the ball right down the middle of the lane. It smashed into the pins barely 2 seconds later and scattered them all. “Yes!” She said and jumped up and down several times, and her tight pants highlighted her backside wonderfully. When she turned around, Ren saw that her pants were quite tight on the front, too.

“Oh... oh my.” Ren whispered.

“I got a strike!” Lisa said excitedly, and Stella took the cue and gave her a hug. When they both started to jump up and down, Ren dropped the pencil again.
