“Your Highness.” The youngest girl said, and Princess nodded to her. The girl giggled, and Princess brayed softly. Ren took out the small padded cart, and attached it to Princess. He helped the girls climb into the back, but there wasn't enough room for all of them to fit. Ren picked the oldest girl, because she took up the most room, and asked her to get out of the cart. She climbed out, and it made just enough room for the others to fit in. Ren looked at the girl, and saw her face start to crumple. He quickly gave her a hug.

“I'm not leaving you behind.” Ren said, and she looked up at him with wide eyes. She was about the same height as Nathalia at 4 foot even. “You get to ride in the saddle.”

The girl's face lit up and she beamed a smile at him, and Ren helped her climb up onto Princess' back.

“Ren!” Teepo said. “There's a group of dwarves coming this way!”

Ren touched the staff to the wall, and concentrated on making a passage all the way through. It opened up, and the dwarf in front came around the corner.

“The prisoners are escaping!” He said, and drew his sword. Two dwarves behind him loaded crossbows.

“Go!” Ren said to Princess.

I won't abandon yo- Her thought was cut off as Ren slapped her backside and she started to run on instinct.

“You're not abandoning me, you're saving them!” Ren said. “Take them to her father!” He closed the passage and two crossbow bolts bounced off of the stone where Princess had just been. Ren snarled and turned to face the enemy.

*

“Send them out!” The head of the Thieves Guild said once they knew the direction the shots were coming from, and the main gate opened as the drawbridge lowered. The troops marched out through the gate quickly, and then all hell broke loose. Bolts rained down on the poor souls and tore the formation apart.

“How many of them do they have?!?” The head of the Thieves Guild asked as 10 bolts hit his men, then 10 more, then 10 more. “They can't reload a single machine that big so quickly!”

*

The dwarf that fired the Automatic Ballista was having the time of his life. He'd never seen so much death and destruction caused by a single weapon before, and the Influence he was gaining was nothing to laugh at. He thought about Ren, and spoke.

“I'm almost out of ammo.” The dwarf whispered. “I see your mount. Abandoning position. Thank you for rescuing my daughter.”

There was no response, and the dwarf didn't really expect one. He knew Ren was busy.

*

Ren had equipped his hammerpick and swung at the dwarves that ran at him. They had never seen such a weapon before, and it made them pause. It gave Ren the time he needed to equip his armor and shield. He turned it towards the group and activated the Illumination enchantment. It blinded the 3 dwarves in front, but the others flipped up hoods and it covered their eyes.

Dammit! Ren thought, then used an underhand swing to smash one of the dwarves in the gut with the hammerpick. It crushed the armor on the dwarf, and then the armor shattered from the shock wave. The dwarf was thrown into the air several feet and landed in a heap behind the group. Unfortunately, this didn't deter the other dwarves one bit. They charged in and Ren fought for his life.

Unlike television shows and movies, and despite the dwarf Honor Code for fighting one on one, the 4 dwarves in front swung their swords at Ren at the same time. Ren blocked three of them. One with the shield and two with the hammerpick; but, the last came in too low for him to deflect. The blade jammed up towards his abdomen, right under the shield, and Ren grunted as the sword hit the bottom of his chest plate and left a small dent. Thankfully, the sword was only short and the dwarf hadn't stepped in to follow through with his full strength, so Ren only took minor damage.

Forgive me, Earth! Ren thought, hefted the hammerpick over his head before the dwarves could swing their swords at him again, and slammed the hammer end of it into the stone floor. Since the hammerpick was enchanted with a glyph of Antiearth runes that caused extra damage to earth-based defences, there was a loud bang and shock wave as the earth shook. All of the dwarves around him fell to the ground as a 30 foot area around the impact site collapsed and dropped several feet. With Ren's Amulet of the Spider combined with his Rock Steady and Unstoppable abilities, he was the only one to remain standing.

While he waited for the ground to settle, he exchanged the enchantment on the shield with the stored enchantment he had saved from the chest plate of Charles the tech guy. The shield started to vibrate and glow, then changed it's shape. Ren watched in wonder as it grew from a small 2 foot oblong shield to a 4 foot wide circular shield. One of the dwarves regained his footing and tried to swing his sword, and Ren backhanded him with the shield. There was a loud clang as the shield moved through the dwarf as if he wasn't there. The clang had been the armor the dwarf wore and his weapon being knocked away. The dwarf and Ren stared at each other, surprised beyond belief that the dwarf now stood there in plain clothes, both armorless and weaponless.

Another dwarf started to stand up, so Ren swung the hammerpick across the unarmed dwarf's face that stood in front of him, stepped back and hit the next dwarf in the chest. Unwilling to let a golden opportunity pass, Ren held the shield out and ran around the depression to hit each of them with his much larger shield. Every piece of armor and weapon was knocked away from the dwarves, and Ren followed through with a hammerpick blow to their heads to finish them off.

What the hell kind of enchantment is this? Ren asked himself as he looted the bodies. I know some enchantments can be enhanced by the shield, but one that removes someone's armor and weapons?

“More dwarves are coming, Ren!” Teepo warned, and Ren ran out of the depression and to the building close by. He switched the hammerpick for the staff, and made a passage into the building. He stepped through and closed it just as the other dwarves arrived to see weapons and armor scattered around a 30 foot wide depression in the ground, but no bodies. Teepo stayed outside to tell Ren where the dwarves were.

“Now what do we do?” Teepo asked. “They aren't going away, and there's no more distractions to help us.”

We'll do what we always do. Ren thought to his friend, and generated elemental grenades as he opened another passage in the wall 4 feet off the ground. He tossed the grenades out and closed the passage, and smiled at the screams. He opened a passage in a different spot and threw out more elemental grenades. Now that he wasn't scrambling from a surprise attack, Ren remembered the Web and Fireball wands attached to his armor.

We're going to kick ass. Ren grinned as he opened a passage in front of himself and fired all 24 of the wands at the same time at the recovering dwarves that had no clue what was happening.
