Were it not for Mila’s distress over not being able to find Rain’s sword, Song might never have noticed its absence, nor would she have noticed how Monk Happy left his weapon by the main doors. Prior to today, she didn’t even know the monk possessed a Spiritual Weapon, as she hadn’t seen him holding one at any point in time, not even when he joined them in Sinuji or when he travelled with them from the district manor. This raised an interesting question regarding how Monk Happy had the weapon in hand so quickly in order to fend off Rain’s attack, but having seen the cheerful, portly monk’s prowess, Song assumed he just kept it Concealed at all times when outside the monastery so as to keep others from judging him as a threat.

A strange folk, these monks of the Penitent Brotherhood, and Song was curious to see if they were truly as odd as the rumours would have her believe. Considering all the fanciful things she heard spoken about Rain, she was skeptical about the rumours, to say the least.

“This red panda,” Monk Happy asked, nimbly hopping back on his heels as Guai-Guai glowered at his intrusion. “It was not present when we last met, shortly after the Abbot returned from his conflict against our wayward Wisdom and Zhu Changzui.”

Unsure how much to give away, Song merely nodded and said, “His name is Guai-Guai.” And he was quite possibly Guan Suo reborn or his reincarnation. Hopefully the second one, as then it would be less strange, since a reincarnation meant it was not actually Guan Suo himself in a smaller, furrier form, but rather a whole new individual who merely shared the same soul, like a flower growing in a field was not the same flower that bloomed last year, or the year before that, despite sharing the same roots. “Mama unexpectedly brought him home one night, where he soon attached himself to Ping Ping’s side.” All true, if not the entire truth, but let someone else judge if the Brotherhood needed to know more.

Except who would make this decision if not Song herself? Naaran was lurking nearby, as Mama said he would be coming along for the journey to look after Rain, but other than that, Song might well be the next most responsible member of their little party, seeing how Guard Leader and her ilk had completely removed themselves from the conversation. They were here to ensure Lin-Lin’s safety, while Song and Rain’s safety were merely afterthoughts, and though Mama said she could trust them without fail, Song was unsure what to make of them. That being said, she was even less certain of the Brotherhood, so she hoped Monk Happy would not question her too much, but the man was quick to move on after studying Guai-Guai a little longer. “The Divine Turtle,” he began, and Song took him to mean Ping Ping as opposed to Pong Pong who she assumed was nestled in Mama Bun’s arms as the bunny slept in Rain’s lap. “She communicates with you via Aura?”

“In a limited fashion, yes.”

“And you respond in the same way?”

Song nodded, since there was no use hiding her ability to use Emotional Aura. Anyone familiar with the concept would be able to piece things together with a cursory examination of events during the withdrawal from Castle JiangHu, and she knew the monks were capable of using Emotional Aura themselves. In fact, she’d hoped to learn more about her Aura and how to properly utilize it, the same way those Demons terrorized Imperial soldiers and Irregulars on the battlefield. The use of such an Aura was clearly not widespread, for the Enemy kept it well hidden and unleashed it at a time when they thought they could use it to maximum effect. Were it not for the Heavens bestowing the secrets of Emotional Aura unto her there upon the battlefield, then those Demons most foul might well have overrun the battlefield and slaughtered Rain, Sister Mila, Sister Yan, Sister Alsantset, Sister-in-Law Sarnai, and many, many more.

Thankfully, the monk’s interest was not in how Song acquired her ability, but rather to confirm what she was doing, because after a moment of quiet concentration, Ping Ping responded to what Song assumed was Monk Happy’s introduction through Aura. Looking up from her head pats, the sweet girl let loose with a friendly squeak before ambling a few steps towards Monk Happy, whose smile widened in child-like glee as he offered her a handful of ripe berries, which she gobbled up with unrestrained relish.

An offering which then drew the attention of every bicorn bunny in the area, who proceeded to stampede in his general direction.

Though clearly not expecting the reaction, Monk Happy dealt with it gracefully and calmed the bunnies down with little more than a stern look. No, there was more to it, Song realized, for he’d used Aura to subdue them, not by scaring them into submission, but by promising that they would all get a share. It was clear as day to anyone who understood the rabbits as well as she did, for they all gathered in close and waited, with a few like George and Peanut even pressing their paws together and waving them up and down in supplication. Furry little beggars, as Rain put it, and Song found it adorably apt, for the little bunnies knew there was something delicious and that they lacked the strength to seize it for themselves. Thus, the only thing they could do was beg, and while Lin-Lin initially taught them this trick intending for it to represent a clasped fist of thanks, the bunnies shook their little paws so quickly it seemed more like pleading than anything else.

Song was hardly surprised by how quickly they responded to Aura, as even before sinking into this strange condition, Rain liked using his Aura to teach his pets. In fact, the first time he revealed his abilities was when he used it on Jimjam to correct him, an act Sister Mila and Song thought was monstrously cruel considering the wildcat’s inability to defend himself or even comprehend what was happening. Of course, Rain would never do such an inhumane thing and Sister Mila’s response was merely the knee-jerk reaction of someone who didn’t know there were other types of Aura. That being said, Monk Happy’s use of Aura on the bunnies was suspiciously fast, even for a Warrior as deceptively strong as he. It lacked any and all hesitation whatsoever, used with almost no thought put into the action beforehand, and seeing how he did not strike her as a cruel or inhuman man, it stood to reason that he’d used his Aura on animals before.

Likely Kukku, though apparently there were two more similar such beasts, a tiger and a panda bear. Glancing at Princess wrestling with Banjo and Baloo, Song idly wondered how a regular panda would fare in a match against the weasel-bear, as despite being about one-third their size, Princess was clearly the strongest bear out of the bunch, with sweet Guai-Guai ranking dead last.

“You see much and say little, Sentinel Song,” Monk Happy intoned, doling out handfuls of berries to the bunnies as if they were grains of rice rather than what she assumed were Spiritual Fruits. The Brotherhood had their own secrets, which Song was happy to let lie considering they had yet to ask anything about Healer Taduk’s bamboo grove. “A useful trait in most circumstances, but this monk would ask for your thoughts, if you would so care to share them.”

A trap with which to trick her into revealing more than she should? Or was he wondering if he’d done something wrong in feeding the bunnies? Some people seemed to think Song’s lack of expression signified displeasure, and while she thought Monk Happy knew her well enough not to make this mistake, one could never be too sure. Even Mama and Sister Mila couldn’t always shake this same suspicion, something they each separately revealed to Song in passing while remarking on how often she expressed herself through Aura.

It was the only way she really knew how, because Aura was a part of the Martial Path, which until recently was the only constant in Song’s life that she could rely on.

“The Abbot mentioned a panda,” she said, a small smile slipping across her face as Monk Happy’s widened in amusement. “May I meet him or her?”

The first time they truly spoke with one another, she asked to meet Kukku, but unfortunately, the rooster was not so willing. She suspected the panda was the same, but it didn’t hurt to ask, and Monk Happy shook his head and bowed in mock apology, just like he did the first time. “Apologies Sentinel Song, but we of the Brotherhood do not keep the animals as pets so as not to unduly affect their Path.” Glancing at Kukku who was trying to entice Rain to play hide and seek, Monk Happy sighed and added, “Though I fear that ship has long since set sail.”

Having discovered the generosity of these bald, robed strangers, Ping Ping, the rabbits, and the laughing birds set off to introduce themselves to the monks of the Brotherhood, all of whom had some gift or another for the darling animals. Not everyone had Spiritual Fruits to share, but even a greeting Aura was enough to set the bunnies feet to hopping, the darling creatures jumping straight up while turning left or right as a show of happiness. A binky, Rain called it, though he had no explanation for what the strange term meant or how he came to come up with it, but it worked well enough for Song’s purposes, for the bunnies were binkying about the courtyard without restraint while the Brotherhood smiled and laughed in sheer delight. Some grinned and pointed while others crooned and pet the rabbits and laughing birds, with a select few even lying down on their bellies to better greet the animals. It was a strange sight to see monks acting in such an unrestrained manner, especially with how reserved Monk Happy and the Abbot had been throughout their long visit. This didn’t seem like something out of the ordinary either, for the monks shared their joy as naturally as the animals, none of them even the least bit ashamed to be seen taking delight in such simple pleasures as they discussed how soft their fur was or how adorable their ears were.

Noticing Song’s muted disbelief, Monk Happy winked and said, “Life is about Balance, but there is no shame in taking joy wherever they might find it. This, young Rain has right, for he cares not for the opinions of others when it comes to his love of animals. And why should he? His love is pure and given without expectation, which makes it a wonderful source of joy and merriment, and even the stress and hardship that comes with it is not without benefit. Balance is difficult to find as is, but almost impossible without support, for we humans are social creatures by nature. Rain, however, is by nature exceedingly anti-social, and to say he lacks trust is an understatement at best. In fact, were it not for his love of animals, I wager he might well have long since succumbed to the darkness, and I suspect you would agree if you only considered it for but a moment, though I wonder if you will see the pitfall that lies before him.”

Monk Happy wasn’t wrong, but he was also trying to say more than his words might otherwise imply, which was the impression Song got from his subtle Aura. The monk was saying Rain’s love and devotion to his animals was his way of dealing with his darker nature, and if so, then the depths of his love also reflected the gravity of his trials and tribulations. The monk also believed that there was a flaw to this Path, but what that flaw might be, Song could not quite say. Perhaps they were worried about what Rain might do if one of his animals were to be harmed, or if his love of animals could no longer keep his darker nature in check. Either one was possible, as Rain was currently dead to the world as he sat on the courtyard floor, emanating a burdensome Aura of guilt and shame as he quietly reflected on his actions, actions Song saw as completely reasonable.

What was he being so hard on himself for? He found Defiled, and moved to kill those Defiled. That they had children with them changed nothing, for a young Defiled child was merely a soldier in training, one who was all but sure to take up arms for the foul Father.

It was shocking how far Rain went to place blame on himself, and while everyone knew he had a tendency to do so, no one truly understood how hard he took it, not until recently when he began inadvertently sharing everything he felt through Aura. It was strange, because Song thought his love, joy, gratitude, and all his other positive emotions came through loud and clear, but his guilt, contrition, despondency and general depression felt... muted in some way, as if she were only feeling the aftereffects of those emotions, rather than those emotions themselves. Even this dampened sensation was enough to shock and dishearten her, and she imagined he knew this and reserved the worst for himself, for she suspected that if he were to weaponize his negative emotions like the Enemy had, his Aura would grossly overshadow what the Demons unleashed during the withdrawal from Sanshu.

After all, didn’t he admit that he sent Ping Ping spiralling into grief and Demonization after sharing his grief with her? Such a weapon was almost too frightening to unleash, and she worried what it would do to Rain’s soul if he should ever wholly give into depression. She herself knew the struggle all too well, because if it were not for her Oaths, she would have long since thrown herself from a window or hung herself in despair, but she was grateful she hadn’t, because then she would have died never knowing what love and joy truly felt like.

Like the warm embrace of the Mother above, but even better, because for all Her power, She lacked the arms to hold Song like Mama could.

