“What a fascinating individual, a true paragon of creation.”

“A chance of a thousand lifetimes, to study someone like this. Truly we are blessed by Heaven.”

“This marks a new Path, one unlike anything we’ve ever seen or discussed...”

“All Paths are new, this one simply operates by different parameters.”

“Let us stay the course rather than squabble about semantics.”

“Agreed. Let us take a look at the similarities, such as physical symmetry and superiority.”

“Better if we focused on the differences, to better understand how this Path diverges from that which we know.”

“Plenty of time for that later. This discovery opens up a myriad of new avenues to pursue, though it begs the question of how we never encountered anything like this before.”

“And how exactly are we to quantify what ‘this’ is? We only see the end result and know nothing of the process itself.”

“A shame the subject lacks the ability to communicate... Imagine the headway we would make if not for –”

“Exercises in imagination do nothing to further our knowledge, only bolster pride and foster delusion. Reflect on your mindset Brother, lest you stray too far from the Eight-Fold Path.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Sitting on a stone bench with Sarankho laid out across her lap, Song felt her hopes wane as she listened in on the Brotherhood’s discussion. When Monk Happy approached Mama to make his presence known and prepare for this eventuality, Song had hoped the Brotherhood would provide all the answers Rain needed to recover from his peculiar condition, but thus far, the monks had done little to live up to expectations. Putting aside the absurdity of sheltering an entire village of Defiled just outside the monastery gates, the monks didn’t even seem interested in questioning Rain, Lin-Lin, or anyone else who’d come with them. After showing them to their rooms, they were largely left to their own devices while the monks gathered outside in the stone courtyard to gush over the ‘fascinating paragon of creation’, Ping Ping.

Not to say she wasn’t an impressive and appealing creature; Song loved Ping Ping’s adorable expressions and her tiny form made it that much easier to hug her, but there was something about her previous appearance that seemed so much more... natural. Even without accounting for her lovable personality and miraculous powers, there were no other turtles quite like Ping Ping in the world, not physically at least. Lin-Lin even remarked on Ping Ping’s appearance at the time, declaring that the Guardian Turtle wasn’t pretty, with lumpy flesh and a pointy, scary looking head. This didn’t stop the daring half-hare from directly hopping onto Ping Ping’s head when the big girl came to investigate their camp, but Lin-Lin’s words were true. Ping Ping was an impressive beast, majestic and awe-inspiring in her glory, but few would care to call her beautiful.

More importantly though, no one expected her to be, not if they’d seen other examples of her species like Song had on the way to Ping Yao. An alligator snapping turtle, Rain called them, and there was no mistaking Ping Ping for anything else, as she had the same characteristics, albeit in far more menacing fashion. She had two tiny, beady eyes, a curved, hooked beak, rough, bumpy skin, and an irregularly spiked shell, all of which was magnified by the sheer mass of her ponderous bulk.

This was no longer the case however, not after her transformation, for Ping Ping was no longer immediately identifiable as an alligator snapper. Most of those defining features were gone now, and had been replaced with more... aesthetically pleasing ones, which made for an overall improvement in Song’s eyes, but also marked Ping Ping as a Divine Beast at first glance. Her beak was still there, but blunted and non-threatening, and her eyes were proportionally larger now making her pupils more evident within those golden pools of light, changed from the dark, almost black-brown shade they’d once been. Gone were all her rough edges and jagged spikes, leaving naught but smooth skin and rounded protrusions across her body and shell. The latter even lightened in colour, or perhaps the markings underneath were brighter and more visible now, because when the light hit her just right, it revealed a pleasing pattern of golden-brown symmetrical striations running through her seemingly solidly coloured shell.

She even had little fingers and toes now, albeit ones that were appropriate for a turtle, as opposed to the solid mass and jutting talons her hands and feet used to be, fingers she used to gently scratch the other animals at times or clutch a rabbit close to snuggle. Add to this the subtle shape of her mouth that hinted at the existence of lips without actually having any, and Ping Ping was a truly adorable creature, but far from a natural one despite not looking unnatural in any particular way. She was clearly still a turtle, but a unique variant one rather than the alligator snapper she used to be, one that almost seemed too cute to be real.

Perhaps sensing Song’s unease or fretful from all the strange attention, Ping Ping ambled over with her merry little gait, another marked change from her previous self’s trundling shuffle. Stopping in front of Song to raise her head in question, Ping Ping squeaked and unleashed an Aura of comfort overlaid with a bedrock of quiet anxiety intermingled with a hint of doubt and concern. “Should I be worried?” She seemed to ask, but it could also be, “Are you alright?”, or it was even possible Ping Ping was asking both at once. A marvellous thing, this Aura of emotions, and Song was slowly but surely beginning to understand the complexities behind it.

Responding with a focused Aura of calm and reassurance, she tried to convey that all was well, but added a light touch of vigilance at the end. All was well, but one should never let their guard down, not when visiting unfamiliar places. How much was lost in translation was difficult to say, but Ping Ping seemed to understand well enough as she turned about on the spot to take in all the monks, pulsing bursts of minor suspicion to ask which one of them she should be wary of. In answer, Song simply responded with the same suspicion, but not until Ping Ping was facing her again, so as not to implicate any singular monk. “Be wary of all of them,” Song wanted to say, but she was also unable to provide any feeling of justification, so she followed up with a sensation of relaxed comfort to add, “But no need to worry yourself too much.”

Suspicion was fine, but hostility a tad much, and Ping Ping struck the perfect balance in between. Casting one last questioning look at the monks, all of whom had quieted down to watch her in action, Ping Ping huffed and turned back to rub her chin against Sarankho’s furry neck, a gesture which the sweet wildcat leaned into. Patting both sweet girls on the head to complete the circle, Song belatedly noticed the smile sneaking across her face, an incident which happened more and more often of late. It used to be that her smiles felt awkward and unnatural, but she was getting used to the feeling the same way Ping Ping’s adorable appearance seemed strange and abnormal at first, but was now the new normal and it was the other alligator snapping turtles who looked strange in Song’s eyes. How she managed to keep all emotion out of her expression seemed like an impossible feat, because the moment she felt happiness stirring within her chest, she wanted to share it with her loved ones so that they might all be happy together. So she did, utilizing her Aura to express her feelings, a far more useful tool than words or actions, and seeing how everyone else responded to her Aura, she realized she’d been doing a terrible job showing her family how much she loved them.

There were so many things they did that made Song feel loved and appreciated, she hardly knew where to begin. Mama brushing her hair and making her breakfast every morning, Papa patting her head and checking to be sure she made it back to her room safe and sound, Sister Mila’s casual hugs of greeting and the way she leaned into Song for comfort and companionship, she loved all these things and more, yet it came as a complete surprise to everyone else to learn just how much she loved them. This Emotional Aura was a Heaven-sent blessing, far better than any Elemental Blessing she could have received, because while the increased Martial might would have been nice, sharing just how much she loved her family through Aura meant more than the world to her. Words just seemed so... inadequate, but after thinking it through these past few months, she concluded that while the Aura was convenient, she should also put more effort into showing her love through actions in order to reciprocate how Mama, Papa, and Sister Mila made Song feel.

Her foray into cooking ended in disaster, even though Papa ate every last bite of her terrible congee, and Sister Mila hated sitting still long enough for someone to properly brush her hair, but Song kept trying to show her love and appreciation for the both of them. As for Mama, it seemed strange to say this, but she seemed happiest when given the opportunity to do something for someone she loved, like brush and style Song’s hair, pick her outfit, or offer advice regarding the Martial Path. Mama had everything worked out in her own life, and derived joy from helping others do the same, so while Song worried she might be asking too much of her, Mama always insisted she was more than happy to do anything for her ‘precious daughter’.

Not to call her a liar, but Song very much wished Mama could use Emotional Aura as well, if only to confirm that she really meant it...

Glowering at her from below, Guai-Guai wrapped a furry paw around Song’s fingers and gave it a little tug, so weak and dainty it wouldn’t budge a teacup. Though the black and white markings on his face lent him a general air of irritability, the red panda was truly aggrieved this time, jealous that Sarankho was getting so much attention while he received none at all. There was a time when his tantrum would have been directed towards Ping Ping, but those days were gone now and Guai-Guai was fast becoming one of the most spoiled animals in Rain’s menagerie. His point made, he clambered up onto Sarankho’s back and stretched out by her neck, with his chin resting on top of Ping Ping’s beak while eyeing Song in expectant disgruntlement. “My head is here now,” he was saying, waiting on her response. “I demand you scratch it.”

It was amazing how perfectly Guai-Guai could convey his message without need for words or Aura. The other animals were able to do the same, but none, not even Ping Ping, were as adept as the red panda.

“How intriguing.” Squatting down to get a closer look at Guai-Guai and Ping Ping, Monk Happy studied them both with a critical eye. The man was clearly a Warrior of great skill, but he left his weapon by the monastery doors rather than carry it with him at all times. Granted, a polearm with a head reminiscent of a rounded shovel was hardly the most effective or awe-inspiring weapon, but much like Luo-Luo’s tendency to leave her sceptre behind, Song was at a loss to explain how the monk could just place his weapon aside like that. If she were to leave her sabre in the other room, she wouldn’t feel right, not because she didn’t feel safe necessarily, though she didn’t, not with so many Defiled living nearby. No, she needed her sabre with her at all times because only then did she feel complete, and even putting it out of arm’s reach left her shifty and uncomfortable. Even when she slept, she kept it leaning against her bed frame, resting in the side of her cot, or even laid out right beside her sleeping bag if camping out in the field.

Mama and Mila were the same way, and even Papa kept his staff handy at all times despite having had little chance to use it in the last fifty-odd years. Sister Yan, Teacher Du, Niece Alsantset, Charok, Tursinai, and Tenjin, all of them kept their Spiritual Weapons close to hand, and only Luo-Luo could be so forgetful as to leave hers behind, or so Song thought until recently when she noticed Rain forget his sword all the time. First, he left it in the field after his battle against the Wraiths, and though he visibly smiled when Mama returned it to him, he proceeded to barely pay his sword any mind for the next day. Sister Mila was worried he wouldn’t like leaving it out of sight, but she spent more than an hour making sure the hilt and pommel were perfectly attached, weighted, and wrapped while Rain wandered around the bamboo grove throwing Blackjack high into the air and catching him again. Everyone felt it when he finally registered what Sister Mila had done, as he emanated fond reminiscence and forlorn longing for long hours after she placed the finished weapon in his hands. However, upon returning to the District manor, he placed his sword down in the courtyard while playing with Aurie and somehow forgot all about its existence, a fact no one noticed until they were returning from the bamboo grove again the next day.

