Monk Happy was still watching Song with expectant eyes, wondering if she understood his meaning, but she didn’t know what he wanted from her. It was very possible that Rain was losing to his darker nature, not anger and hatred but despair and depression, yet what was Song supposed to do? Lin-Lin was better equipped to deal with this, always able to cheer him up with a smile and a hug, but even the bright and lively half-hare seemed affected by his mood, quietly resting in his arms with a distant look in her eyes, contemplating something or another inside her enigmatic mind. Perhaps Rain even sensed himself losing the fight, as these last few days, he did seem intent on befriending the groundhogs living under Healer Taduk’s garden, a last ditch effort to cheer himself up with new furry friends, perhaps.

The problem was, no one knew how to cheer him up, not Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo, Niece Alsantset, or even Sisters Mila, Yan, and Sarnai. Every day, he invariably sank down into the depths of depression, and there was nothing anyone could do to raise him out of it. Returning his sword worked for the span of a few hours, and so did playing with Blackjack for a little bit, but then he always went back to brooding in silence. Lin-Lin’s repeated attempts to rouse him only worked occasionally, much to the poor girl’s frustration, but if his family, friends, and floofs could not rouse his spirits, what did Monk Happy expect Song to do?

Since she couldn’t come up with an answer, she simply asked, and Monk Happy’s smile softened as he shook his head. “Alas, this monk does not know him well enough to answer this, though he does have a question for Sentinel Song. You see, this monk is a student of human nature, one who spent the last few days studying young Rain and his family. All of you are aware of the severity of the situation, can sense the conflict going on inside him, and even the bright and optimistic Lady Mei Lin fears for the worst.” Gesturing at Song, Monk Happy cocked his head in question and added, “But not you. These last few days, you have paid no special attention to him, while others fret and fuss over his every move. You worry not for his fate, yet you care about him, enough to direct the animals away from your bed and over to his side. This you have done every night since this monk arrived, yet nothing more, and while others might think you cold and aloof, this monk sees faith and conviction guiding your actions. You are not worried because you do not see any point in worrying.” Seeing the truth of his words in Song’s lack of expression, Monk Happy nodded and asked, “Why?”

Struggling to come up with an appropriate answer, Song merely shrugged and said, “Because he is Rain. Everyone worries he will succumb to the Father, but when has he ever been so obedient? He will argue the sky is green or the sun rises in the west just to be contrary if the mood strikes him so. This trial is a difficult one, but he will overcome it, and if he cannot, then he will ask for help, even if he has to swallow his pride to do so.” Giving the monk a knowing look, Song implied that was why Rain was here, because he knew he needed help that his family could not give him, and thus far, the Brotherhood had all but ignored him. When were they going to bring him to the Abbot? Or at the very least, ask about Rain’s condition and discuss how to best aid him?

Catching on to her meaning, Monk Happy very deliberately stifled a sigh and kept his eyes on Song, doing his best not to glance around and give away the culprits. “Not all of the Brotherhood are so keen on aiding young Rain,” he Sent, his smile faltering for all of an instant before returning in full force. “They worry he is too bloodthirsty and will forever be unwilling to walk the Noble Eight-fold Path, and his earlier actions lend much weight to their arguments. You see, our first belief is to do no harm, and this monk’s brothers fear that by aiding young Rain, they will be bringing harm to others, the same as if they were to forge a weapon. The same can be said of our inaction, but this monk fears his words hold... less weight in the eyes of his brothers, for he has stood firmly on young Rain’s side since the beginning.”

And just like that, Song understood what Monk Happy wanted her to do, even if he wasn’t entirely sure he wanted it. “You worry Rain will not accept your ideals,” she said, loudly for all to hear, “And for this, you will deny him your assistance and watch as he succumbs to darkness and despair? What if by your inaction, he were to surrender to the Father’s lies and turn against the Mother’s light? Would you not still be responsible for the harm he would then cause? Judge him by his actions if you will, but if you mean to judge him by what he may or may not do, then you should do the same for the Defiled living outside your walls.”

Monk Happy was not the only one surprised by her outburst, but it was far more pronounced in the other monks. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” one intoned, bowing his head in contrition. “This one was blind, but now he sees. Our worries still hold merit, but the same can be said of anyone we assist. Would we deny a shepherd aid for fear of what he might do to his flock?”

“From the mouths of babes.” Though this second monk only looked five to ten years older than Song herself, his youthful features bore the weight of years far beyond what they might suggest, a solemnity that spoke of years of hardship. “Out of selfish concern for our own future, we have all failed to abide by the Right Effort. Regardless of the Abbot’s intentions or this young man’s future actions, he comes here in grave need and we cannot in good conscience leave him to suffer, else to do so would be to condone his suffering.”

“Of course, of course,” another monk said, slapping his own cheek none too lightly. “To think, this one let his own pride almost keep him from helping a soul in dire need. To save a life is better than building a seven story pagoda, and as fine as the monastery might look surrounded by dozens of such structures, its beauty would be sapped away by the reminder of our own failings.”

“Come Brother,” a third monk said to Happy, one much older than the rest, yet still taking a seat on the hard stone ground like an eager young student. “Tell us what ails him so that we might discuss how to best proceed from here.”

Flashing her a grateful look, Monk Happy started telling his Brothers all about Rain, starting with his life in captivity and how he was found by the People. Song would have thought the Brotherhood already knew this much, but from the looks of things, they knew nothing about Rain or his accomplishments and had trouble believing Monk Happy’s claims. Song was asked to chime in several times to corroborate the story or clarify a situation, but she was more than happy to do so. After all, Rain usually knew exactly what to do in order to overcome his trials and tribulations, for there was no man more blessed by the Heavens or beloved by the Mother Above.

In fact, Song was beginning to suspect that if the groundhog had been more amenable to friendship, then they might not even have needed to come all this way to ask the Brotherhood for help. A shame really, for that groundhog was an adorable creature, but stubborn and unwilling to stay above ground for long. No matter though, Rain was already feeding it at regular intervals, so it was only a matter of time before it came around and learned just how wonderful a backscratch could be.

Patting Sarankho to wake her from her nap, Song picked up Guai-Guai and brought them both to sit with Rain, Lin-Lin, and the silly bears who were still shaken from the harrowing journey here. “Don’t worry,” she said, unsure how to show support and opting for a pat on Rain’s head. “The monks are discussing how to best help you, so I am sure it won’t be long now.” Rain didn’t stir, nor did his Aura change, but Song hadn’t expected her words to enact any meaningful change.

Instead, she radiated an Aura of her own, one of careful optimism and determined perseverance to remind him of something she learned late: even on the darkest of nights, the dawn would never be too far off. One only needed to survive and persevere, two things Falling Rain did best.

Chapter Meme
