Up above, Callan was floating ahead with his eyes carefully fixed forward. The kid hadn’t relaxed at all since they’d started moving again, and her pointing out that he couldn’t get hit by the lightning hadn’t helped his nerves at all. He was muttering to himself, but between the distance and the loud storm, Pyre couldn’t make out the words. She assumed he was theorizing about the lightning’s source.

Now then, how long would it take for another one of those bolts to show up? The demon was almost excited to see.

The answer, it turned out, was less than ten minutes.

That burnt, metallic scent once again seeped into the air, and Pyre was already ducking down before Callan had even yelled out the warning.

Pure white lightning streaked violently down the pass, illuminating the sides of the mountains in a blinding light. Pyre gritted her teeth and pressed herself flatter to the earth, but this bolt wasn’t going away like the first one had. It kept going, electricity crackling in a constant stream. She smelled something burning, felt a faint stinging, then pain as the lightning finally reached her.

The demon’s muscles seized, but she kept her eyes open. Through the pain, she could see that the lightning still wasn’t stopping. The bone armor was dispersing some of it right now, and her high constitution and magic resistance meant she could probably take a few bolts, but it couldn’t last forever. She needed to get away from here.

“Pyre!” Callan’s panicked voice drew her attention to where the ghost had drifted over, hovering over her while the lightning passed straight through him. “There’s a cave opening!” he yelled over the roar of thunder and wind, gesturing wildly to the left.

The demon’s eyes shifted to where he was pointing, spotting a hole in the mountainside a few feet above the ground. She couldn’t see what was inside it or where it might lead, but it was her only option at this point.

Pyre half-crawled, half-slithered to the cave entrance. Lightning continued to crackle, burning itself into the edges of the surrounding mountains. The demon shot out a bone and used it to climb up to the cave. She hadn’t thought it was possible, but the lightning bolt grew in size, and she just barely managed to heave herself into the cave before it filled the entire pass.

Blinding light poured in from the cave entrance, but the demon didn’t stick around to see the damage. She quickly moved deeper inside, only stopping when she no longer felt the buzz of electricity on her skin. Finally, she released a long breath.

“Next time, we’re taking a different route.”

Pyre leaned against the cool stone walls, allowing [Regeneration] to work. She hadn’t sustained too much damage, thankfully, but she probably would’ve if she’d stayed in the pass much longer. Callan grunted in agreement beside her.

The demon scanned their surroundings, focusing through the eyes with darkvision and the one with thermal vision. The whole cave was noticeably cooler than outside, and the sound of thunder was muffled by layers of stone.

The cave itself seemed to extend deeper into the mountains—less of a cave and more of a tunnel, really. Considering it was apparently the one place safe from the random lightning bolts, it seemed like the perfect place to stop and rest.

Or it would’ve been, if not for one thing.

Slowly, Pyre’s eyes shifted upwards. Deeper within the cave, half-hidden by the uneven, rocky ceiling, she could make out a distinct red splotch with her thermal vision. The shadows moved, and she narrowed her eyes.

It looked like they had company.
