He spoke with Poi for a good thirty minutes. It was a nice conversation. Erick missed Poi, and he sent as much, to which Poi reciprocated, but he also spoke of how it was nice not to be so close to Fate Magic. It was easy to tell when he was on the Path, for the problems steadily got larger. Now, the problems varied per day, with long stretches of nothing to do and with great strides made toward… Something that he wasn’t willing to share.

There was one thing Poi was willing to share, though. ‘With the power Spur has managed to amass thanks to you and the power Kiri has managed to inherit, we’re actually in a holding pattern because now politics have gotten involved, and people from all over the world are coming in to hunt the larger— Uh. We’ve got a lot of guests in Spur, and— Oh hey. You want to talk to Jane, now?’

Erick had been smiling this whole time, for this was nice, and, ‘Yes! I do want to speak to Jane. It was nice talking, Poi. See you when I see you, and hopefully not with a war at my back! Send everyone my love.’

‘Teressa, Kiri, and Nirzir all want to talk to you, too.’

‘Yes!’ Erick sent, ‘Hand me off to Jane first, please.’

The connection shifted.

Jane’s voice came through loud and clear, ‘Hey, dad! So you let Rozeta put a kill spell in you, eh?’

Erick froze. The disapproval in Jane’s voice was loud and clear, but he had only recognized it after the fact. Erick thawed fast enough, sending, ‘It’s more complicated than that. In exchange, she helped me sort my species from question-mark-human to something else.’

‘… Uh.’ Jane’s voice turned from worried to inquisitive, ‘Uh? What? I guess that’s good? What are you now? No wait… Why?’

‘I have a few defensive abilities now that I didn’t have before, that’s why.’ Erick added, ‘And I needed the change because it was going to happen sooner or later, so I got some help. I have Perfected Body now, too, so that’s gre—’

‘Bahaa!’ Jane laughed. ‘It’s pretty great, isn’t it!’

Erick smiled. ‘Yeah. It is. But I found out that it doesn’t help against long term usage of Blood Magic, so I was going to steal your idea for a Blood Magic [Personal Ward], but that won’t work.’

‘Ah? Damn… I guess I should abandon that idea. I wasn’t getting far with it, anyway.’

Erick dove right in, saying, ‘I did learn of [Steadfast Ward]s, though. They provide absolute damage reduction that works after everything else, including [Defend] or a body’s natural hardness. Made one of those for 250 absolute defense—’

Jane’s excited voice barged in, ‘You can do what!’

Erick smiled, sending, ‘[Steadfast Ward]s are the [Personal Ward]s that wrought use all the time. With it active, I’m immune to all damage under 1000 points. But there’s a problem with that, as I’m sure you can already guess.’

‘… Oh… Yeah.’ Jane sent, ‘Oh. I see. The large hits get through. No. That’s not good enough… Damn.’

‘There’s apparently something called a [Gloom Ward] that makes a person ignore a percentage of the damage they take. I’ve thought about that, if to just get another 5% out of my [Personal Ward]. There’s also an [Illusion Ward] which makes anything less than ‘Unerring’ or too large to not hit, not hit.’ Erick added, ‘That one is annoying to live with, though, and makes it hard to be precise with your own attacks. I think the best possible [Personal Ward] will have to be one that allows your normal defenses to reduce the damage you take, but I haven’t figured that one out yet. I’ll let you know when I do.’

‘Eh. It’s fine.’ Jane sent, ‘I’ll figure it out. I’m glad you looked out for me, but… Eh— Tell me more about the Underworld, and the wrought Geodes. What’s happening down there besides solving [Gate], or whatever— Actually. What’s up with [Gate]?’

Erick had a lot to say about all of those topics, so he started right in, sending, ‘So you know of the fae, yeah?’

Jane gave a tentative and unsure, ‘Oh shit?’

Erick began laying it all out there, from top to bottom, from Ar’Cosmos and the Houses of Fae, Carnage, and Death, to what it might mean to be a planar, to how ‘Fae Space’ was apparently its own thing, and how ‘the Flowery Murderess’ was apparently one of possibly two remaining true fae living on Veird, inside the Twisted Vision that they never got to explore in the Forest of Glaquin.

‘… And you’re sure you didn’t enter into any agreements?’ Jane asked again, for the fifth time, but in a different way than before.

‘I did not.’ Erick sent, ‘Don’t you let her get to you, either, okay?’

‘Of course not!’ Jane sounded almost offended, but she pulled that back, sending, ‘And don’t you let her get to you, either. I can’t recall what fae she could be, exactly, but I’m pretty sure this persona she’s adopted as the Letter Killer isn’t real beyond the fact that it’s useful for her to pretend that it is real. She’ll shed it like a snake skin the second it benefits her to do so.’

‘I think you’re discounting the depth of true reality inherent in Fae Magic, Jane.’ Erick sent, ‘The Letter Killer is probably a real person to her, in this moment, and in this reality of Veird.’

‘Okay. Yeah. I probably am.’ Jane sent, ‘Say… When you get back from Stratagold and your inquiry, will you teach me some of this fae stuff?’

Overflowing joy!

Jane rapidly added, ‘Assuming that you won’t call down a Wild Hunt on us, or any shit like that.’

‘Assuming that, yes.’ Erick happily sent, ‘Yes, I would love to.’

With a relieved and rested tone, Jane sent, ‘Okay. Then… I gotta go. I love you, dad. Talk to you lat— Kiri wants to talk.’

‘Love you too. Put her on.’

‘See you soon!’ Jane’s voice faded away.

Kiri’s voice came through, ‘Hey, Erick. I’m glad you’re okay. We’ve heard some concerning things.’

Erick trailed a hand through the water next to him as he lounged in his floaty tube. The only thing missing was a margarita and maybe an actual sun overhead. Erick sent, ‘I’m doing great. Right now I’m floating in a very large lake, underneath Yggdrasil, near Stratagold, so I’m doing a lot better than before. Things have calmed down and I expect to go to some cultural stuff today and then I’ll try to secure Stratagold’s support for all future endeavors from now until our goals no longer align, but I don’t see such a misalignment happening unless they pull back first. I haven’t heard anything about Spur, but I assume you’re all okay.’

‘In the middle of a quiet night, right now.’ Kiri sent, ‘All the spellwork you gave me through Poi has helped a lot and Sunny lets me take care of— Uh. Not supposed to say anything at all. Huh?’ She said something to someone else that came through like a whisper, but then she came back all the way, sending, ‘Anyway. Nirzir is here providing Singer support, which is something that I still find amazing. I must confess it was a novel experience to find out that there are other people out there that can hear the mana like you can; that you weren’t just making it all up.’

Erick laughed a little, sending, ‘So I had this conversation with Rozeta a bit ago. She said that people who can hear the mana generally end up becoming archmages, but not always. It’s just a support structure; not a real cheat.’

‘… The casual nature with which you talk about talking with gods. I had forgotten that.’

Erick grinned to himself as he relaxed in the lake waters, mana sensing a school of rainbow flits thirty meters below as they darted through long tendrils of kelp-like plants. He asked, ‘How’s your search for a Domain going?’

‘Ugh!’ Disgust flowed through their connection. ‘Not good. I’ll get there, though. Seeing Nirzir with her Domain and you with yours and finding out that apparently, every single high-level person around here has one, too— I had thought Domains were a lot rarer. Mythical-level rare. But apparently everyone has one— Well. That's an exaggeration. I’ll figure it out, eventually. Right now I’m learning mana sense; That seems to be the most important thing right now.’ Kiri sent, ‘I started off with aura control, but with the Sight spells locked behind sensing them, I really should have gone after mana sense, first.’

‘The Sight spells are super important, especially since you can run so many of them at the same time with Sunny.’ Erick sent, ‘As for a Domain, they’re pretty complicated. I have a book on Domain interactions inside the library but it doesn’t say anything about how to get a Domain, itself. You should read up on that anyway, because high level combat is about a lot more than Script-assisted exchanges. I’ll want to talk to all of you about Domainwork when I get back, but I can talk a little bit about it if you have time.’ Erick added, ‘I know we already talked about it, but… More talking never hurt, right?’

‘I would love to hear what you know about Domains.’ Kiri sent, ‘Got an overview?’

Erick began, ‘Basically, Domains are putting your intent out there in such a way that you automatically deny everyone else the ability to put intent into the manasphere; you put your magic out there and in that action, deny magic to all others. There are a few ways to do this, and some work better than others. Void Song’s [Void Song] uses Elemental Void to nullify all magic that they choose to nullify. I suggest you stay away from Void, but you already knew that. You were there for the creation of my own [Domain of Light], and we went over that, but I didn’t know exactly what I was doing until now. By my extensive Shaping of Light to make it pervasive and permanent, what I was actually doing was inundating the local area with my intent, leaving no room for any other intent.

‘Domains have… I suppose Poi would call them magnitudes— Which reminds me that I should find out what that means. Do you know?’

‘Not really.’ Kiri sent, ‘I’m on the Mind Mage watchlist, but not a member. I’m rather sure that magnitude is just the overall strength of a spell, but I am learning that ‘strength of spell’ is a very nebulous concept.’

‘Magic gets strange at higher levels… I’ll ask someone down here what ‘magnitude’ means and tell you later. Anyway. Domains have varying levels of strength, and a stronger Domain can usually break a weaker Domain rather easily. ‘Strength’, in this case, I believe, refers to solidness of control.

‘I would say my [Domain of Light], since it is very thorough and made at tier 8, is about as good as one can make a Domain; it’s quality all around. The [Void Song] gets to that same level at tier 4 or 5, not sure, because Elemental Void is very good at disrupting other magic. My [Domain of the Withering Slime] is probably as weak of a Domain as one can make, because practically anything strong can simply ignore it and it doesn’t stop magic use inside its area of effect, at all.

‘My [Physical Domain], which you haven’t seen… Is a strange one, because it can do certain things very well, like harm and nullify, but I have to work it hard to make it as protective as [Lodestar] and it will likely never get to that good of a level of protection. [Physical Domain] has a range of kilometers, though, so that makes up for its weak defensive nature by a lot. I’ll show that one to you when I get back; it’s fun, and you might be able to make it, too.’

‘I heard about that spell.’ Kiri sent, ‘Large magenta explosions.’

Erick sent, ‘The [Physical Domain] is about vibrations. I was trying to make a Domain to make two places vibrate at the same harmonic frequency, but I now believe that was an improper avenue of research. The true secret to [Gate] is probably deep in the overlap between Elemental Fae, Spatial location-probability Magic, Fate Magic, and Domainwork. Physicality might not have much to do with it at all. I warn you not to get involved with fae, though. Ask Jane about them; she knows more stories than I. Maybe Teressa would, too.’

‘I’m not even sure what a ‘fae’ is, but I’ll talk to Jane, and— Ah.’ Kiri sent, ‘Looks like we got some problems to take care of. Uh. See you later!’

‘Take care!’

Kiri’s connection faded.

Poi came back, sending, ‘Stuff is happening here. Teressa and Nirzir wanted to talk to you, too, but duty calls. Good luck on the inquiry, Erick, and also: Magnitude means the depth to which the manasphere is shifted by magic or personality or otherwise.’

Erick smiled, then laughed, saying, ‘Ha! I was right!’

‘Most people’s magic falls between magnitude 1 to 4. Mag-7 is archmage-level. Everything above mag-9 is disallowed by the Script. None of your stuff is actually mag-9. [Lodestar] is barely mag 8. The Red Dot was mag 9. Other people have much stronger Domains than you, Erick.’ Poi sent, ‘Be careful out there.’

‘… Suitably humbling.’ With a sudden heaviness in his heart, Erick sent, ‘I will be careful. Thanks, Poi, for everything.’

Poi was having none of Erick’s fatalism, though. He sent, ‘You’re coming back and we’ll still be here and this problem will be gone by then. Have fun at your Tea and Inquiry. Don’t speak too openly but don’t lie either. You’ll be fine. Good luck.’

Poi cut the connection; he had things to do.

For a long moment, Erick did nothing. He just breathed, feeling the world around him. The massive body of Yggdrasil above, the waters all below, and the cool air flowing across the lake, coming in from the waterfall area. It was nice down here. A bit cold, but that was fine.

Eh. It wasn’t that cold at all. Erick was just nervous about the coming day, for he had made a decision. The very next Bright Tea? He was going to be there. That ceremony happened twice a week so there had to be one coming up soon.

He dismissed his [Fairy Item] raft and flew back over to Yggdrasil’s base, drying himself off along the way to where Ophiel had folded and set down his clothes, then placed the Crystal Star on top. With some quick sunform movement, Erick was once again redressed with his artifact once again placed over his own heart.

