He stepped back into his [Fairy Stronghold] to see Tasar still hard at it, still causing constant green glitters among the black shadows all around as she blipped herself and her toys throughout the scattered pocket of her Domain space. She had already told Erick that she knew how to work her Domain so as not to disturb the Fae Space, but to make sure… Erick reached over to the shiny platinum ‘nail heads’ that were exposed near the door, and pumped another 10,000 mana of [Fairy Stronghold] into the runic web of the house. Nothing changed, and Tasar never stopped blipping or writing down her numbers, but the house felt more solid to him, and there was no harm in that.

Erick conjured a chair, using normal [Conjure Item] magic so as not to disturb Tasar, or to find his chair suddenly popping out from under him (which had happened once already), and then he sat down, and watched Tasar work. There was learning to be had here if he could get through all the impenetrable math, and even if the math continued to escape him, he could still learn by watching.

- - - -

An hour later Erick had gotten nowhere with any of the math but he had learned a lot about manually blipping things. Tasar was very good at Spatial Magic. Erick already knew this, but to see how effortlessly she was able to move things around and then to understand how those things had been moved, was another thing entirely. For Spatial Magic wasn’t actually ‘move something around’ magic. It was ‘This thing was actually over here the whole time’ magic, and inside Fae Space, that sort of possibility-determinism was also able to change how an item was, after it moved.

Properly-made Spatial Magic did not do that. It was only when someone used improper Spatial Magic that objects changed in the transition. The most common [Teleport] accident was when a person was first learning to use that spell, and they blipped to another area and ended up midair, or a meter away from their intended space. All people who used [Teleport] naturally learned to fix those problems, though, and [Teleport] had a lot of failsafes to prevent disaster, like blipping into a wall, or on top of a monster.

Manual cast [Teleport]s had none of these safeguards.

But even perfectly manually cast [Teleport]s were only as good as the base spell already in the Open Script, and a perfect [Teleport] moved someone from one area to another, setting the person down exactly how they had gone into the spell with very little adjustment to form, at all.

The blipping of items in Fae Space fucked with that natural order. Spatial Magic inside this [Fairy Stronghold] changed how [Teleport] operated at a basic level.

Dice got flipped. Water turned to ice. Ice turned to water. The spinning top suddenly stopped, but after another blip, it was whirring around at full speed. An hourglass flipped from one area to the next, causing sands to fall through the glass once again. All of these things were impossible through standard, properly cast [Teleport].

Some of these transformations made Tasar suddenly giddy, but then she blipped the item again and the item shifted again and Tasar’s emotions crashed; she had not meant for the item to transform the second time. She had only meant to move it. In some ways, Tasar was figuring out the differences between Fae Space and normal space, but in other ways, she had no idea what she was doing.

Aside from the math which seemed too strange to ever be real, Erick mostly understood what was happening here. Probability got wonky in Fae Space because of course it did, and it likely had something to do with Fate. Tasar couldn’t control the transformations how she wanted to, though, because this space wasn’t her Fae Space.

Either Fate Magic, or being inside her own Fae Space, or maybe a Fae Domain, was likely needed to direct probability in a purposeful way. She could ride the grooves in the Fae Space cast by Erick to produce certain outcomes —as Erick had witnessed Tasar blip a cube of ice back and forth between a specific location, making it water and then ice and then back to water, rather precisely— but to make those grooves, one needed to cast the Fae Space themselves…

Or something else. Erick wasn’t sure.

One other, perhaps major thing that Erick noticed and did not know before, was that [Teleport] left echos in the manasphere. Normally, it didn’t do that.

It took Erick a half dozen viewings to actually see it happen, but it was most noticeable in the ice/water, as it switched between phase states and locations. Every time Tasar actually made the ice become water, or water turn to ice, as the object left its original location, an almost-invisible green shimmer expanded through the shadows of the room like a suddenly expanding bubble. And then the bubble collapsed into its new location, and the water/ice reappeared, transformed into its other state, where Tasar had put it.

Erick had no idea what the green shimmer bubble was, but he suspected that it was an effect that happened all the time in Spatial Magic. He just couldn’t see/feel/mana sense it before now, and he had certainly never heard of it...

Oh. This explained why Tasar had thought that no one could evade her Spatial Domain, because as soon as they moved through it, in any way, she should have felt the echoes of that movement through her Domain. Those green shimmers were how Tasar knew that something/someone/anything was happening around in her Spatial Domain. She even noticed the lines of power connecting him to Yggdrasil, and all other effects that stretched across distance, or which connected one thing to other parts of a person’s power… or something. Her Domain was likely honed over at least a few centuries, so it probably had a lot of functionality that Erick could only guess at.

He wondered if she could feel the lines of connection between him and all the other magic he had left out there, that he could send a cancel command to with a bare second of concentration? Maybe. There were some implications there, but Erick didn’t really care to think too deeply about those at the moment.

Erick simply watched Tasar work and wondered if she was making actual progress. For a while, it seemed she was, but now...

Tasar looked to be getting less and less sure as time went on. Her chalkboards were messes of crossed out and newly-circled equations, and she had conjured more boards to have more space for more failed equations. Multiple lightwards held in the air; each representing blipping experiments that had gone right, each of them individual identified ‘grooves’ in the Fae Space of the house—

Tasar stopped blipping to stare at one of her lightwards, sighing. She was having trouble understanding why the ice/water was transforming how it was transforming; what made it shift when she moved it along that specific diagonal she had found.

Erick spoke up, “You found a groove in the Fae Space caused by the locations of the nodes in the runic web of the house. The runic web isn’t a complete stretching of magic into a larger space, but instead a collection of power held together in unnatural ways.”

Tasar jolted with terror, turning to face Erick, but as Erick’s words washed over her, she relaxed, and turned back to her lightwards. And then she frowned, and spat out, “Ah. Slag. That’s exactly what’s happening, isn’t it—” She gasped. “Oh! But if that’s really what is happening then… Hmm. I lost it...”

Moments passed.

Erick spoke up again, “You’ve been at this for over 12 hours now and I want to go to Bright Tea today. When is the next one?”

Tasar paused, staring at her chalkboards, then she realized she had other priorities than figuring out Fae Space. That shit was going to take 20 years, at least, and for her to make her own [Fairy House]. She looked to Erick, saying, “Right. There’s stuff to do. Uh. What day is… it...” She glanced up, thinking— “Oh. Today— Bright Tea should be 4 or so hours from now.” She looked to Erick, then she looked at him. “I hope you’re not thinking of wearing that, are you?”

Erick smirked. “Of course not. Any suggestions on what I should wear? I can make practically anything with [Fabricate] and the materials I have on hand.”

Tasar nodded, then she glanced around the room, at all the little things she had strewn about. With a flicker of magic all the objects and the chalkboards moved to the side, neatly stacked or sorted on the ground, or on a table, and then the green-glittering shadows vanished. “Fashion for Bright Tea is rather specific, but it’s never that hard to throw something together…”

- - - -

A nervous jitter propagated through Erick’s chest as he stepped down onto the beach, near Yggdrasil. He had just [Renew]ed his Other Self inside a Privacy not twenty minutes ago so he would be good for at least 12 hours. Bright Tea was a big deal.

This was a big event.

And he was ready.

If Bright Tea turned out to be half as involved as he suspected it would be, then while there would be breaks, he would not be able to be alone for at least 12 hours. Possibly longer. At least the fashion of Bright Tea was nice.

He had not expected togas, and certainly not only a toga. No underwear was a bit odd, but he could deal, for ‘nothing but the toga’ was the preferred style at Bright Tea. The whole point was to show off the ‘body that Rozeta gave you’, but, when Erick joked about orgies, Tasar simply said that only the youngest of wrought were into that sort of scene; Bright Tea at the White Palace was strictly political, relaxing, and ceremonial. Then she made a comment about how Erick had a ‘body from Rozeta’, too, but he should keep that under wraps for now; it was a toga joke, Erick was sure, so he appreciated Tasar’s moment of levity and told her as much.

And now they were here.

He didn’t quite like going commando, but he could deal. Of the various designs possible, Erick opted for a knee-length skirt and to bare one shoulder, with extra fabric forming a drape down his back. The whole thing was bright white, as all Bright Tea clothes were, but with fine details of stars and lines done in platinum thread, turning the edges of the toga into a masterpiece of nuanced embroidery. With a platinum-thread belt cinched around his waist, the look was complete, and Erick was very happy that he needn’t ever be embarrassed about the state of his aging body ever again.

He looked fucking fine and that was great.

Erick had thrown his outfit together in half an hour. Tasar’s own outfit was much the same, but she had grabbed hers from her office back in the embassy, fixed up some of the embroidery to match Erick’s, and slipped it on. It covered both shoulders and draped down to her feet. She looked quite nice with the bright white fabric over her black-green adamantium body, and her hair done in braids in a bun.

She seemed nervous, too.

Erick was nervous enough for both of them, but he didn’t expect Tasar to be the same way.

Erick stared at the t-station sitting on the sands in front of them, and asked, “Got any idea what to expect?”

“It’s usually the same thing, all the time. Mainly talking of goings-on inside Stratagold; rumors and such. Then there’s the tea ceremony itself, and then the dancing. Some people might wear undergarments in the more vigorous dances, but you probably shouldn’t attempt those… I don’t know.” Tasar stood straight, saying, “All throughout you talk to people and make plans to make business connections later. No actual business takes place at Bright Tea… Though I suppose that will change based on your presence. And it might go over the allotted 4 hours, for the same reasons. Feel free to ask people about magic, if you wish; that’s always a safe topic and I’m sure people will want to ask questions in that direction, too.”

Erick nodded. “I’m ready.”

Tasar rambled off some final instructions that she had also already told him twice already, “You can keep your spells running, too, but Ophiel will have to remain outside. Most people will be running some sort of magic. We don’t get attacked often, but it has happened before; it’s a major, bi-weekly political event, after all. And…” Her voice trailed off. “We’ll be fine.”

Well!

No time like the present.

Erick stepped forward, and Tasar instantly followed at his side.
