“You thought what?”

“That it would be enough to push my ability up to the limit.”

“By the gods, Elerlyth!” Ren said. “Are you really that heartless, that you'd hurt me just for experience?”

“I thought I was.” She said, and laid her head on her knees. “I... I guess I'm not.”

“Of course you're not!” Ren exclaimed. “How you could believe that you were, after everything we've been through and talked about...” He shook his head. “If you are so desperate for a bigger flood of emotions, then get ready.”

Elerlyth looked at him with wide eyes, because she could feel something build inside of him.

“Wh-what are you doing?”

“Something bad happened to me in the game, and Nathalia helped me get through it.” Ren said. “I haven't had the chance to tell you about it.”

“What... what is it?”

“Oh, no.” Ren said, grabbed her arms and pulled her to the center of the bed. “I'm not telling you anything.” He said, and held her still.

“Ren, let me go.”

“No.” He said. “By the gods, you are going to feel what I felt, and what Nathalia did for me!”

Elerlyth could feel an enormous wave of emotions being held back. “D-d-don't...”

“Open your ability, Elerlyth.” Ren commanded her, and he felt it open, almost against her will. “There we go.” He said, laid his forehead against hers, and stared into her eyes. “Relax. This will only take a moment.”

“Ren... I...” Elerlyth swallowed. “I'm sorry I did that.”

“No, you aren't.” Ren said. “But you will be.”

Elerlyth felt his deep sorrow, and then he unleashed everything he had felt when Nathalia had caused him to relive all of his deaths. Her eyes nearly bulged out of her head as she drank down everything he'd felt. Nearly every emotion was contained within the flood; fear, hate, sorrow, joy, happiness, and every flavor Elerlyth had ever tasted. The one thing that went through them all, however; was love. It was all thanks to Nathalia, who had been there through it with him. She'd lived through it all, just as Ren had.

“Oh... oh, god!” Elerlyth said, and her ability's final level filled up at a constant rate. It hit the cap that the game had set, and it went from Expert to Master. Something clicked inside of her, and she stopped breathing. She no longer felt full, because she was so far beyond that feeling now. Ren felt that his emotions were no longer being siphoned off, and he stopped remembering how he felt when he died all of those times.

“Ren.” Elerlyth said when she started breathing again, and her eyes went completely black. “Run.”

“What?”

“RUN!” Elerlyth said, then lost consciousness and started to convulse. Ren tried to hold her still; and because they were still sharing Auras, he felt something deep inside of her activate.

Notice!

Trouble Recipe ingredient: 'Elerlyth' has been completed.

“Oh, crap!”
