I hit level 74 earlier than I expected, cleared Grey’s contract out of my soul, and even earned some extra experience from crafting engraving ink and…

Why did I get fighting experience? I didn't practice with Tabitha today, let alone kill anything.

Or did I?!

Did Grey kick the bucket after I absorbed his experience?

Suddenly a lightbulb goes off in my head; that’s why it suddenly became easier to absorb the plaque! Grey died while I was absorbing the experience, and it lost its connection to him. That must be it! The experience still wanted to escape my soul, but that's why Soul Devourer suddenly had an easier time absorbing it.

"Grey is dead," I say out loud, almost as if to make it official.

But the question is, did me absorbing Grey's experience kill him, or did something else cause his demise? Depending on the answer, I'll have to be even more careful with my tier 6 skill.

Either way, I’ll have to let Giovanni know in the morning. I’ll tell him I’m not 100% positive Grey is dead, but I’ll tell Giovanni I got some extra experience and what I think that means. I’ll leave it up to him to decide what he wants to do with that information.

I know I shouldn’t be happy that I’ve technically killed another person, but I can’t bring myself to feel bad. Grey did awful things to people, and the world is better now that he’s gone.

Despite thinking that, I bring my hands together, bow my head, and offer a short prayer. “May you be better in your next life.”

I feel like I'm being watched for a split second, and I immediately look up at the moons hovering over my soul. None of them have turned into eyes, and the feeling of being watched is already gone.

Was that all in my head? I shake my head and chose not to dwell on it. Even if one of the gods were watching me, I couldn’t do anything about it. At least not as I am.

Maybe in the future, I can figure out how to shield my soul, but until then, I need to worry about my real-world problems first.

I have a sparring session with Tabitha in a few hours, and I have status points to distribute after all.
