Lennard Grey’s Point of View:

"I don't think I can go on for much longer," I wheeze to Max. "I'm not physically built like you are."

“I don’t think the goblins will accept that as an excuse,” Max stares into the darkness behind us.

“What!” My already pounding heart speeds up as I rush to Max’s side. “I thought you scared them away?” I ask, peering into the void behind us.

Max shakes his head. “They were only pretended to flee after I killed most of the big ones. They’re keeping their distance, but I’m sure they’re still following us."

“Fucking, goblins!” I spit into the dark. “Can’t you just kill the rest of them?” I turn and plead to Max.

"It would be a waste of time and energy," he says as he shifts his pack to his side and places it on the ground, taking a seat on a nearby boulder.

“What are you doing?” I feverishly ask Max, nervously glancing down both ends of the tunnel.

“You said you needed a break, so take a break,” Max motions to a smaller boulder protruding from the wall across from him. Max adjusts his pack in front of him, so the magic lantern strapped to the top of it illuminates as much of the tunnel as possible.

“You just said,” I hiss in displeasure.

"I said they're keeping their distance for now," he smirks at me. "We should take this opportunity for you to recover some of your stamina. Gods know I don’t need it.”

“Go ahead and make fun of the weak merchant,” I roll my eyes. “Let’s see this attitude when it’s time for me to pay you.”

Max chuckles at my hollow threat. “Forgive me, it’s just that I’m carrying over ten years’ worth my salary at the moment,” Max pats his pack. He’s the one carrying all the gold we stole from the branch office along with our heavier supplies. My pack is considerably lighter, filled with enough water for the both of us for a few days, along with plenty of dried meat and biscuits.

It hurt to leave almost all of my worldly possessions behind, but we had to travel light. Of course, that doesn't mean mine and Max's pockets are empty by any means. The light from Max's backpack illuminates the rings on each of my fingers; some doubled up on my fatter digits. We planned to travel light, prioritizing the lightest and most expensive items, so we made sure to grab every piece of enchanted jewelry we could get our hands on.

All we had to do was stop by one of the warehouses before we left the city. No one second-guessed me when I said I wanted to bring some of our best items to Teeburn to sell to Scholl's military while I was in the city. The fifteen rings on my fingers are worth over 750 gold coins, and that isn't even counting the bracelets and amulets I'm wearing.

Max is wearing his specialized armor and other gear, and between the two of us, I'd say we're carrying over 5,000 gold coins worth of stuff. More than enough for the two of us to live in luxury while we resettle in Olebert's capitol.

With all this money and information at our disposal, the two of us will indeed be accepted into one of the major trading companies. From there, It is only a matter of time before my talents are recognized and I'm given a position I deserve. No longer will I slave under that weak family that chooses to play each of its deals safe. Only the bold grow strong in this world!

"How much farther does this tunnel go for, Boss?" Max's question drags me out of my daydreams.

“Let me check,” I pull out the map. “If everything written here is correct, then this tunnel goes for another 300 feet before we’re outside again.”

Max nods and hums in thought. “We’ll have to be careful once we’re outside again.”

“I thought you hated the tunnels?” I ask with a smirk.

“I do,” Max rubs the back of his head. “But I hate the idea of being ambushed more.”

“Ambushed?!” I exclaim.

“Shhhh!” Max hisses at me. “Keep your voice down. No need to draw the goblins closer to us. And yes, we need to be on the lookout for ambushes once we leave the tunnel.”

“Do you think we were followed?” I nervously lean forward.

Thankfully, Max shakes his head no. "The sun was setting when we entered this tunnel system, and it will be pitch black outside once we leave. Who knows how many goblins are in these hills or what else might be lurking about?"

“Why are these goblins so persistent?” I ask. “I’ve never heard of goblins hunting people down like this unless it was a horde.”

"It's probably the environment," Max explains to me. "There's little life in these mountains, and I'd bet everything here is a scavenger. Once the mountain range was stripped of everything of value, I doubt many come up here any longer, and it's anyone's guess as to how many monsters have spawned since then. For all we know, there could be a starving goblin horde in these hills."

“Really?” I nervously ask.

Max snorts, trying to hold back his laughter. "Calm down; I was exaggerating. I'm sure there isn't a horde up here. When that many goblins get together, they need way more food than this barren landscape could provide. Goblin raiding parties would've been spotted along the roads and have had a force sent to deal with them by now if there was a significant population up here. I was just saying we need to be on the lookout for packs of goblins that are looking for food, like the group we ran into earlier."

I let out a sigh of relief; as long as it isn't a horde, I'm positive Max could slay any number of goblins we might encounter. And with all these defensive magic tools, I won't have to worry about getting caught up in the fighting. They were all manually charged, so as long as I don't get myself into a situation where they'll activate, they should be good for the rest of our trek through the mountain.

However, there is one thing I need to worry about. “What are we going to do about sleep?” I ask Max. “We made it a good distance into the mountain, but at the rate we’re going, it’ll take us another two days of straight travel before we’re out the other side.”

"You'll just have to endure," Max informs me with a look that says this wasn’t something I could negotiate on. "We can't stay in any one place that long, or it will be dangerous. Remember, tomorrow, both Giovanni and Scholl will be sending people to track us down. We have a head start but depending on who's sent after us; we can still be tracked down. You'll have to make do with only short breaks now and again."

“I know,” I sigh and hang my head. “Give me five minutes to catch my break.”

“Five minutes then,” Max agrees.

I can do this! Struggling for two days is nothing compared to what’s waiting for me on the other side of the mountain. Fortune, prestige, it’s all there, waiting for me to take it!

My heart starts to pound in excitement while my palms start to sweat.

Wait, it’s not just my palms sweating! My entire body starts to turn clammy, and I start hyperventilating.

“Boss!” I scarcely hear Max call out my name as he rushes to my side. “What’s wrong?!”

“My chest,” I manage to pant. Ripping my vest open, I dig my fingers under the many amulets hanging from my neck and try to massage the pain radiating out from the center of my being.

My joints and muscles start locking up as it feels like two icy hands are trying to force their way through my ribs.

The deeper the invisible hands go, the more the pain increases until I'm screaming on the rocky floor. Max tries to muffle my screams with his hand, but my cries echo in the dark tunnel.

What is going on?!

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

“You’re not getting away,” I growl as Soul Devourer’s ghostly appendages fight to hold onto the plaque.

As soon as I activated my skill, Grey's experience shards tried to flee my soul as if knowing what I was trying to do. Even now, Grey's experience is desperately trying to flee Soul Devourer's grip. But it's all pointless because I just about… got it!

There it goes!

After five minutes of trying to break down the contract plaque, my ghostly appendages start dissolving the experience mass.

Flakes of experience are torn from the plaque's edges, absorbed by Soul Devourer, and channeled through my soul's avatar into the ground below me. My soul continues to tremble as I feel it slowly growing beneath my feet.

I'm used to a quick shake, like whenever Soul Manipulation levels, but that's just a single quick boost of experience. It will take time for me to devour all of Grey's skill fragments, and my soul will continue to grow as I do so.

I can't help but start grinning as I feel more and more experience ripped from the plaque and turned into my own, my ghostly hands refusing to release their prey.

“Why did I wait so long to do this?” I cry out, wrapping my real arms around my body. Each pulse of experience brings with it a wave of pure pleasure. I never thought I could feel this way outside of my body.

Closing my eyes, I savor the feeling. Gods, I haven't felt this good since I killed the soul devourer!

And as if being struck over the head with a hammer, I’m suddenly reminded of how I acted back then. I lost myself in these overwhelming feelings and almost lost my humanity. But I’m stronger than I was then!

Sitting on the ground, I fold my legs and take up a meditative pose. As I calm my mind, I can better feel Mental Resistance trying to help me combat Soul Devourer’s overwhelming influence. It’s a hard feeling to hate because it resembles the natural high people get from leveling.

To feel yourself growing stronger!

The feeling of endless growth!

It makes you just want to keep…

Devouring!

“No!” I shout out in defiance of those thoughts. “I use the skill; the skill doesn’t use me!”

I can't let myself fall into temptation. Such low-hanging fruit does taste delicious, but can it compare to something you've grown yourself?

Thinking back, I remember the feeling of accomplishment I had after completing the arrow for the General. The boost of experience I felt that day was just as gratifying as this experience is; no, it was better.

Soul Devourer can mimic that feeling of accomplishment, but it comes at the cost of turning me into a monster. The skill allows me to absorb experience, and based on what the goddess hinted at, using Soul Devourer is a slippery slope to tread on.

All this begs the question, is the skill worth it?

The skill is undoubtedly helpful in certain situations like this one, but I'm not sure if the risk to my psyche is worth it? I'm already stretching the skills use by using it on the experience of somebody still alive. It was much easier using Soul Devourer after I killed the monster, while I'm still fighting the plaque of experience to keep it from fleeing.

If I tried using Soul Devour before I gathered all of Grey’s experience fragment’s I’m sure they would’ve fled my soul before I could’ve done anything. It’s only thanks to my other skills that Soul Devour can be used like it is.

There is just too much I still don’t know about my tier 6 skill. It’s still a mystery whether or not the mental effects will decrease or increase as Soul Devourer levels. There is no telling if Mental Resistance will ever be able to fully combat or not.

I pause my train of thought and let out a small sigh. I can sit here for hours speculating what might happen with my skill, but the only way I’ll figure anything out is if I practice using it.

And for that, I'd need to kill something. Earlier in the year, that wouldn't be a problem, but things are still quiet around the village, and that’s a good thing. Only an idiot or a monster would wish danger on their family and friends just to further a skill. I have no intention of seeking out violence, but I won’t shy away from it either.

Maybe I could join Tabitha on a few of her patrols around the village or ask the hunters if they’d let me tag along on a hunt?

The only problem with those two options is that I might go a little crazy using my skill, and I wouldn't want either group learning about my tier 6 skill.

No, if I want to practice Soul Devourer, I'll need to do it by myself, and that would mean I'd have to go out and look for something to kill. So much for not seeking out violence; I'm such a hypocrite. I hang my head in shame for a little bit before looking up at the plaque still held in the air by my ghostly tendrils.

It's funny; spending all this time worrying over my skill has actually helped me block out its mental effects a bit.

As my focus returns to Soul Devourer, eating away at the plaque, I once again feel the pleasure of using the skill. But whether because I've gotten used to the sensation or because I've already broken out of its effects once already, my mind isn't overwhelmed by the feelings.

And also, I look down at the still trembling surface of my soul, I felt a larger tremor a minute ago.

Yep, I think Mental Resistance gained a level while I was brooding over Soul Devourer.

I should focus more and worry about my skill after I've finished absorbing Grey's contract. Soul Devourer has only eaten away at a third of the plaque, and there's still a lot more to go.

Maybe if I create more soul tentacles as the soul devourer had, I can speed up the process?

Concentrating, I try to form a third ghostly tentacle-claw-thingy without affecting the two already eating away at the plaque. Am I really going to have to refer to them as soul tentacles? Soul tentacles sounds like something a demon lord in a questionable anime you wouldn't tell people you watch would use.

Soul Devourer already affects my mental health, and I don't need to use weird terms in my head on top of that. Maybe soul chains would work; no, that doesn't fit.

Soul claws?

Yeah, I like that! Soul Devourer uses soul claws to gather up experience. That sounds much cooler and a lot less creepy. Right?

