My third soul claw dissipates before I can direct it at the plaque, but I’m not put off by the failure; practice does make perfect after all. And if I'm stealing experience from an asshole like Grey, why not level a few skills at the same time.

**********

Lennard Grey’s Point of View:

“It feels like there’s a hole in my chest!” I scream.

Max is trying to hold me down and keep me from thrashing about, but the pain is overwhelming. It feels like someone is ripping my soul from my chest!

"Open your mouth, Boss!" Max forces another healing tonic down my throat. And just like the last one, the warm glow in the pit of my stomach fails to combat the sheer pain I'm feeling.

“It’s not working,” I hiss through my teeth. “Give me a stronger one!”

“That was our strongest tonic,” Max frowns down at me. “What can be causing this?” Max grabs my left hand and pulls it close to his face, "Which one protects against curses?"

“The one with the amethyst,” I hoarsely reply.

"It's still charged but isn't activating. This is either a powerful curse or something else entirely," Max ponders out loud while I'm rolling in agony. “Can you tell me what you’re feeling, Boss?”

He dares to ask how I'm feeling! I try to throw a punch, but my body feels like it's deprived of all its energy. Max easily stops my feeble attack and pushes my hands to the rocky floor.

“Focus, Boss!” Max raises his voice. “I can’t help you if you don’t tell me what’s wrong!”

“I don’t know what’s wrong,” I whine with tears in my eyes. “It feels like someone’s hands are digging into my chest and slowly ripping me apart!”

Max’s face turns utterly pale as he releases my left arm and brings his hand to his chest. “Does Giovanni have access to someone who knows such dark magic?” I can see it in Max’s eyes that he’s afraid that he’s next.

Is that what this is, soul magic, one of the taboo magics thought lost to the world? How could Giovanni, a man who’s never left this small corner of the kingdom, possibly have someone proficient in such dark magic?

I would’ve heard rumors of such a person, whispers in the dark. And why would Giovanni wait so long to have his revenge if he had someone capable of targeting me this far away?

No, this isn't Giovanni's work; this is someone else entirely!

But then who was it?

Could Giovanni have contacted Pacore and ask he have this done to me?

I doubt it, I might not be an expert in magic, but I know a mage can't target someone they've never seen before. Whoever is doing this to me has to be someone I've personally met, most likely someone I’ve made contact with!

Working backward through the pain, I try to remember the faces of everyone I've come in contact with over the last year.

It can't be anyone from Silver Herd, and I've only met a handful of Scholl officials, so I don't have to worry about them. Every face that comes to mind is either a known merchant or mercenary, none of which could be responsible for such magic.

And then it hits me.

Just as it feels like a third hand is reaching into my chest, the face of a village girl pops into my mind. Oh, gods, her willingness to sign a contract with me without reviewing it!

Gritting through the pain, I try to feel for my active contracts. And just as I feared, I can no longer feel the link I formed with Aaliyah. In fact, the pain feels like it's radiating from where our connection used to be. This should be impossible! Aaliyah is from a backwater village and too young to have gotten her hands such a rare form of magic. It should be impossible, but I know it to be the truth.

Was this her plan all along? Did she somehow cast a spell or put curse me when we met?

My tears continue to pour down my face as my throat turns dry. The three hands digging around my chest are so painful I can't even move, and each second that passes makes me feel weaker and weaker.

I can only imagine this is what dying feels like!

I can’t even mouth the words to warn Max that it was Aaliyah who did this to me.

Suddenly, I hear the sound of dirt shifting, and out of the corner of my eye, I see glowing eyes appear down the tunnel we came from.

The goblins are back!

Not being able to speak, I look at Max and plead with my eyes that he saves me.

Max looks me over before nervously glancing down the tunnel, probably counting the growing number of eyes. He’s probably figuring out how many he’ll need to kill before dragging me to safety. Max appears to get an idea, and he pulls my pack closer to us. Is he going to throw some of our food as bait?

Max opens the pack, but instead of pulling anything out, he grabs one of my hands and starts pulling my rings off my fingers.

What is he doing!?

I'm too weak to protest as he removes every ring on my left hand before switching to my right. After removing each of my rings, he rips open my sleeves and forcefully pulls off the bracelets I was hiding under my clothes. Max then proceeds to take off each amulet from around my neck.

He throws every piece of magic jewelry into my pack before frisking my paralyzed body for anything else I might have hidden. Max quickly finds the bag of gems I was concealing in between my trousers and undergarments. He refuses to look me in the eye as he strips me of all that I'm worth, all while keeping a watchful eye on the goblins slowly creeping closer to us.

Once Max has everything loaded up, he ties the two packs together and swings them over his shoulder. Finally, after adjusting the pack's straps, Max looks down at me with a sorrowful expression. "I'm sorry, Boss, but this is where we part ways."

This son of a bitch! I want to get up and lunge at the man, but I'm still paralyzed in pain, and it doesn't feel like it will stop anytime soon. The most I can do is glare up at Max.

“I truly am sorry,” Max has the gall to repeat himself. “By the looks of it, you won’t be able to move anytime soon. I could drag you, but if the goblins don’t eventually pick us off, those sent after us surely will. It was a pleasure working for you, Sir,” Max bows his head and backs away from me.

He’s going to leave me behind to be eaten by goblins!

“How… Could… You… Our… Contract,” I manage to stutter through the pain.

Hearing me, Max’s expression of sorrow hardens into a look of resolve. "I'm sure you, of all people, appreciate how someone can interpret a contract. I have to do my best to protect you while never harming or betraying you. Strong yet simple terms I've followed for over two decades now. I can say without a doubt in my heart that this is the best I can do."

Bullshit, I scream with my eyes, my heart pounding so hard I think it will burst out of my chest.

"Whether I leave you here or drag you deeper into the mountain, I’m certain you’ll die,” Max bluntly tells me. “I’ve done my best to protect you, even when you decided to make Scholl and Giovanni your enemies. I don’t know what’s happening to you, but it’s sealed your fate as well as what I must do.”

Despair starts to overwhelm the pain I’m feeling, but even though I feel the need to cry, my body refuses to produce any more tears.

“Allow me to help you one more time,” Max offers, seeing me start to break down.

Is he offering to save me? Please, I'll do anything; I try to convey nonverbally, latching on to this last ray of hope.

“Terminate the contract between us,” Max instructs me.

Why, how is that going to help me?

"Terminate our contract so that I can put you out of your misery." Max's offer is the final nail in the coffin. I'm going to die here in this tunnel, abandoned by the only person I've ever trusted.

How can I die when I was so close to reaching my goals, and not even at the hands of Giovanni either, but at the hands of a village girl who pretended to fall into my trap!

“Boss, you need to make your decision now. I need to leave,” Max looks down the tunnel again at the eyes that seem to remain just outside the light cast by the magic tool.

Bastard is still calling me boss! Slowly, I manage to raise my head and look Max in the eyes. “Fuck… You,” I manage to spit out.

“So be it,” Max shakes his head like he’s disappointed in me.

Like I would let him off the hook for his contract. If I remember correctly, he agreed that he would forfeit his life should he break our agreement. As soon as he starts to walk away, the contract will eat away at him until he shares my fate.

“Farewell, Lennard,” Max turns around and starts walking.

Any second now!

Any second!

I want to see him drop to his knees in pain before I die. There's no way our contract will justify his reasoning. You can't fool your skills; that's why Contract type skills are so strong. No matter how you try to justify your actions, your skill will still know that you're trying to weasel your way out of it.

The light around me grows dimmer as Max walks further down the tunnel. I can hear the goblins breathing in the darkness.

Why is he not collapsing?

Does the asshole honestly believe he's done all that he can?!

I curse you, Max.

I curse you with every fiber of my being!

"Max!" I shout as he rounds a bend in the tunnel, as the last bit of light vanishes.

*********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

"What the hell!?" Out of nowhere, Grey's contract suddenly became a lot easier to absorb.

Where once my soul claws were struggling to rip apart the manifestation of experience, they’re now grabbing large chunks of experience and devouring it like it’s nothing. And at the same time, I feel a sudden influx of experience like I just advanced multiple skills at once.

Why did absorbing the experience become so much easier? My speed had already increased earlier when I managed to form my third soul claw, but nothing compared to this.

I want to pull up my status page and check my skills, but I still have to finish absorbing what remains of the experience. There was still a quarter of the plaque left, but now, as if the settings were suddenly switched to easy, it should only take me a few minutes to finish up.

The trembling of my soul's surface increases as more large chunks of experience are quickly absorbed and made my own.

And then, just like that, I finish absorbing Grey's contract.

Nothing remarkable happens when I absorb the last bit of experience, other than mentally feeling free again.

"Now, let's see what leveled," I finally pull up my status page. It’s harder to conjure inside my soul, but once I do, I can only yell, “Oh, shit!”

LV: 74 Experience: 34,230/ 1,004,619

Health: 2,430/2,430

Stamina 1,650/1,650

Mana: 797.38/1,020

Vitality: 243.00

Endurance: 100.06

Strength: 152.04

Dexterity: 150.05

Senses: 62.48

Mind: 65.35

Magic: 102.90

Clarity: 78.90

Status Points: 10

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV79), Running (LV78), Blacksmithing (LV73), Hammer Skills (LV63), Axe Skills (LV60), Cleaning (LV53), Chanting (LV50), Mining (LV50), Drawing (LV46), Trading (LV45), Cooking (LV41), Sword Skills (LV40), Dagger Skills (LV34), Acting (LV33), Wood Carving (LV31), Sewing (LV31), Alchemy (LV14), Dancing (LV13), Pugilist Skills (LV8), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV79), Double Step (LV64), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV47), Hammer Arts (LV44), Axe Arts (LV39), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV31), Steady Hands (LV26), Increase Price (LV21), Lower Price (LV20), Sword Arts (LV17), Dagger Arts (LV13), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV3),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV63), Mana Manipulation (LV62), Weighted Strike (LV41), Precise Strike (LV40), Double Strike (LV40), Flash Step (LV29), Contract (LV21)

Tier 4:

Mental Resistance (LV59), Mana Skin (LV56), Inject Mana (LV54), Extract Mana (LV36), Magic Blacksmithing (LV31), Air Walk (LV15), Magic Threads (LV15), Empowered Spell (LV14), Ironclad Agreement (LV8), Appealing Deal (LV3)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV40), Soul Manipulation (LV16)

Tier 6:

Soul Devourer (LV4)

Increased Skill Levels

Alchemy (LV12-14) 1,950exp

Contract (LV15-21) 18,900exp

Mental Resistance (LV58-59) 29,250exp

Ironclad Agreement (LV1-8) 9,000exp

Appealing Deal (LV1-3) 1,500exp

Soul Manipulation (LV14-16) 22,500exp

Soul Devourer (LV3-4) 7,000exp

Skill Experience: 90,100exp

Crafting Experience: 8,641exp

Fighting Experience: 1,883exp

Total-experience Gained: 100,624exp

It's been a long time since I checked my status page twice in a single day, and I can say without a doubt that this is some of the most experience I've ever earned in a single day. Minus the day I crafted the general's arrow and the soul eater battle, of course.

Seven skills went up in level, and each is crazier than the last.

I'm happy to see Alchemy jump a few levels after all the work Sandra and I put in, but right now, it's the least exciting part of my status page.

It looks like Grey’s experience successfully merged with my own and not only bumped up Contract's level, but also gave me levels in the two skills I noticed earlier. Judging by their names, Ironclad Agreement makes a contract harder to break, while Appealing Deal nudges a person to accept the contract. Both would've been nice to have when I struck my deal with Pacore, but I'm sure they'll be helpful in the future.

Overall, I stole 29,400 experience from Grey. Not a lot of experience considering our levels, but seeing how it directly impacted my skills rather than just giving me random experience, I’d say it was worth way more than then that.

If all that wasn’t enough to be happy with, Mental Resistance went up two levels, Soul Manipulation went up by three, and Soul Devourer went up by two as well.

I’m happy when one of those skill levels, but all three! I can’t help but stand up and awkwardly dance around my clearing.

