Malika had said her goodbyes, but as the billowing smoke of the recall potion yanked her body out of Toria, dumping her in the receiving room at the Novaspark Academy of Magic, she knew it wouldn’t be goodbye forever.

She settled her teleportation fee quickly and headed out into the sunshine and the familiar bustle and ever-present undercurrent of suspicion, anxiety, and fear that made up the unique atmosphere of the streets of Myrin’s Keep.

But she didn’t let it intrude on the calm serenity of her mind. She had gained so much from her short stay in Kezda. When she had left Myrin’s Keep, she had scarcely been able to pay attention to anything, wholly reliant on her friends and struggling against the onslaught of the pain of her bloodline consuming her body and soul from within, but somehow Ali, Mato, and Ryn had found an Elder and she had been healed. Now, she was back on the streets of Myrin’s Keep with an awakened bloodline, an active Soul Sight skill, and the ability to dodge magic. Much more even than that – she had Rezan’s mentorship and an Ancestral Name.

That Street Rat with a target on her back seemed more than a world away. Her old tormentors were gone, but Kieran Mori still lived…

Standing there in the ruins of Bakahn Village, staring at the blackened foundations that were all that remained of her old home – the resting place of her parents – Malika had finally made peace with her past. For so long, she had borne a heavy guilt, blaming herself for surviving when they had not. Her memories of that time would always be rough, but seeing Sabri, just as bright-eyed and filled with excitement as she had once been for the martial artist she might become had triggered a startling clarity. Without her class, and the progress she now enjoyed, she had been powerless – just like Sabri was now. With this new perspective, much of her guilt had faded.

Her steps were light as she reached out to open the door to the Adventurers Guild, eager to see her friends after so long – Ali’s studious manner and unpretentious brilliance, Mato’s easygoing humor, and Calen’s shy tactical genius.

I wonder if Calen is back already, she thought as she stepped into the guild hall, but the only people present were Mieriel and Vivian, both of whom raised their heads from a pile of paperwork at the sound of her entrance.

“Oh, hi Malika, welcome back,” Mieriel greeted her with a cautious smile. Things had become much easier since she had come clean with her class and abilities and had played a big part in helping them with the Town Council trial. However, she still sensed an undercurrent of uncertainty.

“Hi Mieriel, do you know where Ali is?” Malika asked. She had already decided to forgive the Elf, figuring that if she held a grudge against someone who genuinely seemed to want to be better, then she didn’t deserve the friends she had. It didn’t hurt that she had a lot more wisdom now. She made a point of returning Mieriel’s smile.

A flicker of relief and happiness creased Mieriel’s eyes and she said, “I haven’t seen her today, but Ryn stopped by a few hours ago with an egg-sized chunk of light-affinity magicite for Weldin, so I assume she’s probably still down underground.”

Malika glanced at the empty guild store, realizing that Weldin had probably dashed off to the Novaspark Academy to negotiate the best price – he did love a good haggle, after all. Light affinity was not the best for value, but all magicite was extremely rare and an egg-sized piece would fetch a handsome price. I hope Ryn bargained properly.

Vivian got up and strode across the carpet to join them, powerful flickers of stamina coursing through her muscles as she moved, strangely twisted and tangled as if her body were at odds with her energy. “Welcome back, Malika. It seems you’ve grown stronger.”

“I trained in Kezda under Elder Rezan,” Malika said.

“It shows. I overheard you asking Mieriel about your friends – I was at the shrine earlier today with Mato,” Vivian said, her expression turning grave. “He uncovered an undead abomination that spreads the Blight and wanted to show me without infecting the whole town. Aliandra was there with him.”

“Ok, thanks.” It seemed everyone had been busy while she was training. She knew Mato cared a lot about the land and the destruction of the forest had hit him hard. It didn’t surprise her that he had continued working against the undead at the core of the blight.

She would probably never fully forgive Vivian for what she had done, but the Guildmaster had been a model of good behavior ever since – and Malika was not above using her and her vision to grow her friends and further her own goals.

“By the way, while I was in Kezda, I invited the Elder to bring one of the girls from the village here to use Ali’s class shrine. I told him to look you up if he couldn’t find me or Ali. I hope that’s ok.”

Vivian’s raised eyebrow signaled a little surprise, but she didn’t otherwise show it. “That’s not a problem,” she said. She paused for a moment as if hovering in between a decision and then continued. “Malika, can I ask a favor? Recruitment is not going very well at all–”

“Maybe recruitment is bad because you keep kicking people out?” Mieriel said with a wry smile.

Malika ironed a smile off her lips. Blunt as the backside of a cart.

“Well, we’ve only lost the unmotivated and the weak so far,” Vivian said, acknowledging Mieriel’s point. “But it’s also hard to get people who are interested in taking combat classes – and so many of those want reliable, less risky jobs instead of the guild.”

“Why is it so hard to get people to sign up?” Malika asked curiously. It seemed obvious for the people of Kezda, given the ridiculous cost, but Ali refused to take money for the service, even if she had a pretty good idea why her friend might be hesitant to do it again.

“There are not enough people in the town, only a few are ready, and most are crafter applicants,” Vivian sighed.

“That’s not true, this town is enormous, there are lots of people. I think you’re just not looking in the right places,” Malika said, suddenly realizing the nature of the issue. Class shrines cost money that most people couldn’t afford. If Vivian was pitching the guild and the shrine to those who showed up to the mayor’s advancement ceremony, she would only be looking at a small fraction of the potential – those who could afford it. Or those who have Pickpocket, she thought wryly remembering her own class unlock. Right. Still, that’s the barrier I see.

“What do you mean?”

“The slums and the poor quarters have tons of people. Desperate… people.” She cleared her throat awkwardly. “After the perfect advertisement, courtesy of the Town Council trial, many people know that Ali’s shrine is free. You simply need to let them know to contact the guild if they are interested.” For people like her, screwed over by the circumstances of life or birth, opportunities were hard to find. Something unheard of, like a shot at a good class, would be life-changing for many people and their families. Even though Ali’s shrine was probably public knowledge, most people either didn’t know how to get to her – or maybe even thought it was a scam. On the other hand, if it were backed by something a little more credible, like the Adventurers Guild…

“It’s a good idea, but people train hard for the combat class trials. I can’t send the unclassed against monsters with absolutely no preparation – they will just die,” Vivian answered firmly.

Oh, now we have a conscience? Malika seethed inwardly. What’s with you, woman? Suddenly, she wondered about Vivian’s background, the stiffness in her manner that she had simply taken for age or world-weariness. Her eyes flickered briefly between the two.

Mieriel prompted, “You have an idea, Malika?”

“Train them. Invite them to the guild, give them a sword, and get them some basic training. Then they will be ready for Ali’s sewer monsters.” To her it seemed obvious – she had been trained rigorously from birth, but basic dagger or sword skills were not that hard – certainly not with expert instruction. At least to the level required to kill a toxic slime in a group of five. For someone as experienced as Vivian Ross, it should be a matter of a week or two to get a motivated person ready, and who would be more motivated than someone facing a life of poverty and crime?

“I…” Vivian closed her mouth with a frown upon her brow. “That’s a very good idea.”

“Some of the nobles will be pissed off,” Mieriel countered.

“You couldn’t pay me to care,” Vivian growled, but with a thoughtful expression that suggested an undercurrent of excitement. “Part of the long-term mission of this guild is to be a stabilizing force for the town. Giving the poor opportunities for powerful classes and training to those who have little hope of anything is a great way to turn this town onto a much better path.”

“And likely a substantial boon for the guild,” Malika said, driving her point home. Against her expectations, the Guildmaster’s delivery sounded genuine rather than condescending. Again, she wondered what secrets the powerful warrior might be hiding.

Vivian’s brow furrowed. “I asked Aliandra if we could use the shrine for more people, but she seemed quite hesitant. Would you mind asking her about it, Malika?”

“I’ll chat with Ali. I think I can convince her,” she answered. “I don’t mind helping to train the initiates or whatever you decide to call them.” It wasn’t just that she didn’t mind. There was no way she was letting this opportunity slip her by. Training was a way of life for her, and for most of the Ahn Khen, and this would be an important step to achieving the kind of life she wanted to live. Nobody deserved to be forced into being a Street Rat, to become entangled with the likes of Kieran Mori, or that girl Tala – whatever had become of her?

Her hands tightened into fists by her sides. Yes. Helping people claw their way out of poverty by giving them proper training, a chance at a good class, and a place to belong would be something she could certainly be proud of. And with any luck, their growth would reduce the crime and corruption that plagued this town.

Ali pottered around within Mato’s broad aura, letting the soothing regeneration of his Vitality Rejuvenation slowly dissolve the Blight that had infected her when she deconstructed the abomination. Ridding the world of that horrific thing had been worth the few moments of discomfort, and while she recovered, she busied herself planting more of the gentle white soul-affinity peacebloom flowers. She wasn’t bothered by the fact that she couldn’t talk to Mato in his Tree Form – rather, it felt much like sharing a couch with a friend while reading a good book.

Well, a friend who is the couch? She giggled inwardly.

Ali bent down toward her new batch of flowers and inhaled deeply, calming herself. The scent was beautiful, and she wasn’t about to let Lyeneru Silverleaf discourage her from growing flowers simply because they weren’t useful for defenses.

As the last remnants of the Blight finally faded, she turned to study Mato’s huge form, growing near the shrine. He still had patches of rot and ugly twisted black mana infecting his trunk and branches, so she let him be, heading out toward the flower garden Basil had helped her with. She stepped out over the edge of the threshold of new mossy growth and felt the regeneration of Mato’s powerful Sanctuary fade.

The flower garden doesn’t have enough peacebloom yet, she decided, considering whether to widen the garden or simply interleave the new tiny white flowers.

She was halfway through sprucing up her flower garden when an unusual vibration impinged on her senses shared almost constantly with the slime that she kept by her side. Immediately, she sensed another, and then another, and a fourth. Her head snapped up and her mind reached out to the eyes of one of her Timber Wolves, just in time to see a flare of flame and feel the reservation supporting her minion snap as it died.

Gasping, she cast her attention wider, reaching for several more wolves, and found a trio of figures tearing their way through her minions, magic flaring brightly as they shouted to one another.

Mage – Human – level 63 (Fire / Arcane)Warrior – Human – level 53Hunter – Half-Elf – level 56 (Ice)

She froze. The hunter and the warrior were in front, but the mage flew behind them wreathed in a nimbus of flame, firing a continuous stream of firebolts at her minions, killing most of the wolves with single shots.

“There she is!” the Half-elf invader shouted, launching a powerful, coruscating bolt of bluish ice from his bow.

Ali snapped a barrier in place just in time to intercept the bolt, causing it to shatter into thousands of pieces right in front of her face. Her heart thumped loudly in her chest at the sudden aggression and violence directed at her, shattering her peaceful mood like the shards of ice that rained down to the ground.

A firebolt sizzled and crashed into the barrier but it held, bolstered by the power of her domain magic. Her mind raced, trying to catch up from the surprise attack.

There were four. She could only see three of them, but her slime had most definitely sensed four distinct vibrations. Four – it’s an assassination team!

Ali cast about briefly. Where’s the rogue? It had to be a rogue.

Fear chilled her bones as she realized just how far she was from Mato’s Sanctuary, and the fact that he couldn’t sense anything beyond it in his Tree Form and would therefore be unable to help her. She was on her own out here.

“Come! Now!” she called, reaching out to every single minion. Her barrier popped into place, lifting herself and her two Kobolds into the air while she fended off arrows and firebolts with a second barrier. She fled toward the giant tree and the safety of his Sanctuary.

Suddenly, the barrier beneath her feet vanished, and she found herself falling headlong toward the ground.

What?

She summoned another barrier to catch herself, but nothing happened, her skill failing with a fizzle of unused mana. Desperately, she tried again, her eyes fixated on the rapidly approaching ground, a boulder-strewn patch she definitely did not want to visit at high speed. At the last possible instant, she switched skills, exchanging positions with a Moss Creeper almost twenty meters away using her Minion Teleport skill.

