Race: Forest Guardian – Wood ElementalActive Buffs: Raid, Respawn, Elemental Vitality, Regeneration AuraClass: Forest Guardian – level 40- Maul – level 27- Trample – level 22- Bark Armor – level 28- Elemental Combat – level 23- Regeneration Aura – level 25- Rampant Growth Aura – level 29- Self-Heal – level 31- Elemental Vitality – level 21- Life Sight – level 14- Monstrous Defender – level 4Domain Magic- Damage Multiplier: x2.5 to all attack and spell damage- Minions: 8- Summoning: Bats- Enhanced Attribute (Strength): +50% to base StrengthAptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Nature- Damage Absorption (Racial): Nature and Poison damage is absorbed as healing- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from FireAttributes- Vitality: 335 (+147) - Strength: 610 (+268) - Endurance: 312 (+137) - Dexterity: 67- Perception: 94- Intelligence: 81- Wisdom: 107Armor: 1528Physical Damage Reduction: 57.7%Resistance: 400Magical Damage Reduction: 26.31%Health: 33500/33500Stamina: 31200/31200Mana: 4815/10700 (5885 Reserved)

Rezan knelt quietly under the shade of the old peach tree, watching Basir and Hala spar in the ring. Somehow, the two of them had both been individually inspired by Malika’s exquisite command of her fundamentals and had both made significant advances in their understanding of their martial arts technique. It was quite clear that Malika had had exceptional instruction in her youth.

A little off to the side, so as not to disturb anyone, Sabri practiced. Even she had picked up some of Malika’s martial arts movement from the short opportunity she had had to observe it. It made him proud to see her so diligent with her practice.

His attention shifted back to the match in the middle of the ring, but suddenly he caught a powerful shift in Sabri’s energy, and his head snapped around to see her standing still, staring off into space. As he watched, her expression crumbled, and he knew with a chilling certainty what had just happened.

“Class?” he asked.

She nodded, holding in what looked like an imminent flood of tears. “Laborer,” she whispered, and then turned and fled.

***

“She hasn’t moved since she came home. Is there nothing that can be done? Maybe I can go to Vertias and beg for an exception? Do you think they will take the farm as payment?”

Sabri’s mother was almost as distraught as she had been. For her to offer to sell the family farm to cover Sabri’s shrine fee was a testament to just how desperate she was. He didn’t have the heart to tell her the farm wouldn’t even come close to covering the fee that Vertias had started demanding.

Laborer.

The word had landed like a gut punch from a Dragonkin Brawler, and Sabri’s reaction had crushed his heart in an instant. Sabri loved martial arts. She spent every free moment studying it. For someone like her to be stuck for life as a farmhand because her natural class was Laborer was an affront to the Ancestors themselves.

“I’m sorry, Seyah, there’s nothing we can do.” He simply didn’t have enough money to pay the fee. In fact, the entire town probably didn’t have enough money. But as he said it, his mind recalled Malika and her unthinkable offer, and his heart squirmed at the thought of leaving the untruth spoken.

“What is it, Rezan?” Seyah asked, clearly clutching at anything, desperately hoping.

“It’s just something Malika said before she left. Her friend Aliandra has a shrine, and she offered to let Sabri use it for free.”

“Why didn’t you say that before, Rezan?” she exclaimed.

“Because Aliandra is in Myrin’s Keep. And she is a dungeon.”

Seyah’s face blanched instantly. But it was Sabri’s teary voice that called out from the house.

“I’ll go.”

She heard. It can’t be unheard… yet, those two words gutted him. Dungeons were fickle and dangerous, way worse than monsters. But in the back of his mind, his conscience prickled, a sensation he had long learned to respect.

“Sabri!” Seyah exclaimed.

“I trust Malika, Mom,” Sabri said, emerging from the doorway, her face a mess of smeared dust and tears.

Aliandra’s image sprang unbidden to Rezan’s mind, a small Fae who, even supposedly being a dungeon, had traveled across the kingdom to find help for Malika. A person who, with absolutely no chance of winning, had still interposed herself between him and Malika when she had believed he would kill her.

And she was also less than level fifty, he thought, chiding himself for being afraid of her simply because she was a dungeon. Am I willing to waste Sabri’s life because I’ve become so rigid in my old age that I won’t risk going up against a baby dungeon?

“I can’t afford the teleport cost…” he said.

“I’ll walk,” Sabri said instantly.

“Don’t be silly, you can’t walk to Myrin’s Keep in a week,” he countered. “But… I think I can afford to rent a fast mount. If we go now, we can make it with a day or two to spare.”

“You would go with her?” Seyah asked.

“I won’t let her face an unknown town in another kingdom, and a dungeon, by herself. I can’t promise there is a shrine or a class, but I will protect her,” he said, and then turned to Sabri. “We will need to leave immediately. Go get your things.”

“I’m ready,” Sabri said without moving. But it was the joyous smile on her face, the radiance of hope he could feel from her that told him he was making the right choice.

I will trust you, Malika, he thought as Sabri made her hasty goodbyes with her mother.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
