She fled, running toward the far too distant green glow of Mato’s sanctuary, ever thankful for the accelerated mental reflexes provided by Arcane Recall. She pulled up the description of Barrier, desperately urging her minions to fly, run, or crawl faster, and discovered that her skill had inexplicably gained a thirty-second recharge.

What the fuck?

Her frantic mind suddenly registered the laughter from above and the flying Fire Mage shouted, “No mage can win against my Disruption!”

Why are they always laughing when they try to kill me? His attitude, and entirely inappropriate violence, triggered the fury deep within her breast. As the warrior activated a rush skill toward her, she reached out and teleported again, but complex formations of purple arcane magic flickered about the flying mage and her teleport failed, leaving her stranded thirty meters from Mato’s Sanctuary with Sage of Learning drawing heavily on her mana.

Not now! It was literally the worst possible moment; she was already almost out of mana and there were four of them – one still invisible – charging toward her. Whatever the mage had done had given Minion Teleport a forty-second recharge instead of the ten seconds it was supposed to have.

Separated from her minions, and with neither her Barrier nor her Minion Teleport available, she used the only option she had – she sprinted, running as fast as she was able while the warrior and the hunter closed in. A heavy thump detonated heat and flame behind her, knocking her down, and her reservation to her nearest pair of Kobolds snapped as they both died. Instantly, her intelligence and wisdom dropped – and with it, her maximum mana plunged, well below the total she had reserved for monsters. Throughout the cavern, screeches and howls broke out as dozens of her minions were forcibly severed from her mana, instantly going wild.

She scrambled up and sprinted forward, but a bolt of ice pierced her right arm, shattering the bone, and sending her sprawling in pain. As she rolled over and over, spitting dirt and moss from her mouth, she felt the presence of one of her Kobold rogues sprinting into range. At once, she reached for it, swapping it in as her Empowered Summoner target, and her dexterity jumped by nearly one hundred and thirty.

With unexpected agility, she sprang up from the dirt so fast that her feet cycled in the air before she landed and sprinted off at multiples of her usual speed, feet barely making contact with the ground. Desperately recalling how Calen sometimes ran, she tried to emulate his zigzagging and felt the whoosh of a near miss from the ice archer caressing her cheek. Where’s that rogue? He was the one she most feared.

A moment later, a second detonation slammed into her, knocking her flying through the air, searing her skin, and filling her nose with the stench of her own cooked flesh. At the snap of her reservation breaking, her body suddenly felt like she had been plunged into molasses.

But the brief burst of speed and the detonation had knocked her across the threshold and into the vast ring of thicker moss. Sanctuary. Instantly, the surge of Mato’s regeneration kicked in, and the burns on her back began to slowly heal as she landed on them, the wind knocked from her lungs and the pain still gripping her mind.

But her fury kept her conscious despite the pain.

She drew a little mana from the orb still strapped to her wrist and connected with the senses of a Giant Bat soaring in from the north of the cavern, dodging the wild monsters that tried to attack it. With the first click of its echolocation, she saw him. The hidden rogue loomed large right behind her, dagger raised to strike downward at her prone form. Aloft, flying nearly close enough to bathe Ali in his flaming nimbus, was the mage who had disrupted her magic, currently completing the mana formation of a massive fireball. He was still laughing like a maniac.

Mato, I sure hope you have my back.

She drew on her orb once again and stopped time. She would have sighed in the suddenly still gray world if she could have breathed, but the pain of her burns and shattered arm was mercifully gone, if only temporarily. She opened her Grimoire, judged the maximum distance, and then summoned a Forest Guardian several meters above the flying Fire Mage.

Let’s see you disrupt this.

Time restarted, and she made her Giant Bat unleash its stun attack, the conical sonic weapon striking both herself and the rogue behind her. There was no other way, he was already too close to her to avoid it, and she had no more time. The bat screeched. The air shimmered and she blacked out.

Ali’s vision shuddered as she came to with a jolt, a tremendous headache slamming through her brain. The splattered remains of something that had possibly once been human were churned up into muck beneath the feet of an enormous, and very angry Forest Guardian. Behind her were the charred remains of the rogue, tightly bound in the brambles and roots of Mato’s Rampant Growth spell. Shakily, Ali clambered to her feet, careful to summon a barrier to protect herself from any stray shots from the warrior and the ice archer who still clashed with her powerful Forest Guardian.

Absently, Ali wiped something from her face, and then almost threw up when she realized it was a piece of the Fire Mage. With a roar that echoed through the cavern, Mato barreled into the fight in his Bear Form, slamming into the hunter and knocking him down where he became pinned by the double growth of her Guardian and Mato’s magic and was immediately trampled. Ali winced at the loud cracking of bones.

She fired a barrier shard into the fray right as a burst of petals filled the entire area, blinding everyone. But Mato had Survival Instinct, and she was using the senses of the bats that were now arriving in droves. She quickly gave up on her shards, relying on the bats to dive-bomb the remaining intruders with their claws and teeth, and adding the occasional stunning attacks.

Your group has defeated Flame Disruptor – Human – level 63 (Fire / Arcane)Your group has defeated Dark Assassin – Human – level 52Your group has defeated Kinetic Sword – Human – level 53Your group has defeated Ice Archer – Half-Elf – level 54 (Ice)Grove Warden has reached level 51.+10 attribute points.Arcane Recall has reached level 7.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 30.Minion Teleport has reached level 11.Identify has reached level 14.

Mato shifted out of his Bear Form. “Ali, you’re a maniac!” he exclaimed.

“What?”

“You shot yourself with your own bat, and then took a Fireball to the face while stunned, just to take out that rogue.”

“Yes… I guess so?” she answered, looking down at her heavily burned robes, splattered by gore and blood. It was a gruesome sight, one that churned her stomach. But the feeling passed quickly as she recalled the mage’s insane laughter as he tried to kill her.

“And you squashed that mage…” His eyebrows waggled expressively.

“Aah…” She had no desire to look at whatever was left of him. Instead, she pulsed a little mana into the self-repair enchant Lydia had put on the clothing that had no doubt helped her to survive the abundant magical damage from the Fire Mage and the Ice Archer – and her own bat.

She glanced up and blushed at Mato’s expression of open amazement. “Respect, little one,” he said.

“I’m not little, you’re just…”

“Big,” he finished for her. “You’re pretty big yourself. But next time warn me before you decide to tank a level sixty-three Fire Mage, a Giant Bat, and a Dark Assassin simultaneously–”

“Too busy swallowing Fireballs.”

“Yes, but that was more damage than you could have survived on your own,” he said softly.

“Thanks for having my back,” she said, as the reality slowly trickled in. It had been very close, and she was not nearly as prepared as she had thought she was. One mage with a fancy disruption skill and suddenly she had been left stranded and vulnerable, unable to defend herself. Mato had always been the one telling her to make minions to protect herself, and she suddenly realized she hadn’t made nearly enough.

“You’re welcome.”

“I just hoped you weren’t asleep in there,” she said, trying to lighten the mood a little.

He chuckled. “For reference, I can’t sleep in Tree Form. It’s more like how Malika always describes her meditation. I’m always aware of what’s going on. Come, let’s collect this stuff for Malika to sell when she gets back. Or maybe Calen would like a new bow? This one looks decent.”

Ali braced herself for the gruesome task of cleaning up, deconstructing the remains of the attackers, and the monsters she had lost when she had run out of mana, now dead, killed by the remainder of her minions.

I need to get stronger. A lot stronger. I wonder who sent this team? Bet I can guess…

She would never be able to pull it off without mana. For one thing, she was vulnerable to losing her minions and therefore her Empowered Summoner buffs, and as she had discovered, she would lose minions if she didn’t have enough reserved to cover them all. She resummoned her Acolyte and her mage, so she could reactivate her buffs when the recharge expired.

Stronger minions should be a priority. But it wasn’t something she could fix immediately. Instead, she dropped all her free attribute points for level fifty-one into wisdom and then called her Forest Guardian over while she waited out the full duration of her recharge. When she had summoned it using the stored mana from her orb’s mana battery, the reservation had bumped several other lower-level minions out of her reservation. She wasn’t sure if it was based on level, a queue, or some other system, but she wasn’t that keen on needing to find out in the middle of combat again. While she waited, she ran over several ideas to test it with the minimum of risk. It was just fortunate that her Guardian and the nearby bats had remained under her control – things would have gone horribly wrong if one of those had been released forcibly.

Finally, her recharge expired, and she added her Acolyte to her Empowered Summoner targets, feeling the welcome surge in her wisdom and mana pool. Then she turned to her enormous minion.

Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 40 (Nature)

She reached out, resting her palm against the bark on its foreleg, and activated Domain Mastery.

Choose Domain Enhancement Level: Domain, Boss, or Raid.

“Raid,” she said, directing her will into her skill. She had a very clear idea of what she wanted for this boss, and it was likely to become the most powerful creature in her entire dungeon.

Domain Respawn applied to Forest Guardian.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Forest Guardian.Select additional Domain Magic skills for Forest Guardian.Choose up to three:Attribute EnhancementMinionsSummoningEnrageNova StrikeAffinity AuraTwin Binding

She immediately chose Minions for the first ability.

Select or create minions: 160 levels remaining.

She called over four Floral Menaces, and three Spore Spreaders, did a quick bit of math, and summoned one more Floral Menace to fill out the one hundred and sixty levels she could use.

Minions assigned.

For her second ability, she chose Summoning.

Choose an imprint.

She opened her Grimoire and paged to the Bat imprint. She could tell her customization would allow her to restrict the summons to specific level ranges and variants, but she chose the entire imprint, deciding that random bats would be fine.

Summoning (Bat) assigned.

And for her final enhancement, she selected its strength attribute. Forest Guardians had enormous power – already having twenty attribute points per level. She wanted something that provided an overwhelming force to guard the forest cavern and the shrine in particular, and doubling down on strength would leverage one of its innate advantages. She had already tried to be thrifty with her limited mana, but this surprise encounter had violently disabused her of that notion.

Attribute Enhancement (Strength) applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +2146.

There was a powerful surge through the mana of her domain and the Forest Guardian drew it into itself, growing even larger, legs thickening, torso broadening, and bark armor growing until it was fully twice the size. Its minions grew too, huddling in the shadow of the behemoth of wood and bark.

“That’s sure impressive,” Mato exclaimed. “What does it do?”

“I copied the synergy between the Floral Menace petal attacks and the bats. This thing will summon bats while the Floral Menaces will make it impossible to see.” She could again see the weight of the enormous enchantment straining her domain mana throughout the broad area around them. It was abundantly clear that this boss was nearing the limits of what her domain would be able to support and, if she needed to make another, she would need to do it outside of the range entirely.

“And the bats can use echolocation? Clever…” Mato said. “And the Spore Spreaders… wait, don’t tell me…”

“Yes, they will fill the air with Dreamcloud spores and put anyone to sleep – like the one that got you and Malika,” Ali said. “The Guardian can heal its minions, and it has the roots to trap people in the spore cloud.” This boss even had Life Sight, which would be a potent asset in detecting rogues and assassins.

“That sounds pretty vicious.”

“After facing the guys that came after us, I’ll take that as a compliment.”

She had guessed approximately how much it would cost, and with the loss of her lesser minions and her additional wisdom, she could barely afford the cost. But it was still a steep reserve, over two thousand mana for a single monster, and she was unlikely to be able to afford another like it for a while.

“Defend the shrine. Oh, and me,” she instructed, setting her monstrous raid boss to patrol along the shores of the lake and around the grove. It raised its head and rumbled, making the ground shake, before it ambled off with its little minions following like ducklings after their mother leaving a trail of mushrooms and flowers in its wake.

***

