[Val, it’s Nails. Careful, possible Adamants hiding in city. Details follow. Encountered local man, stabbed…]

No longer using Transparency, Val made to wave away the serving girl, who was rushing over after he’d choked on his drink. Undeterred, she began dabbing at him with a towel, but he ignored what she was saying, focused on hearing the rest of the Mentalist’s Message.

[…silverplate left. City attacked by Adamants three days ago. Enormous metal ship from fog bank. Battle followed, Adamants were winning, but then ship cut in half. Details unclear. Empire survivors suspected hiding amongst populace. Bounty issued. Hold for Message refresh.]

[Message continues. Strongest local awakened is non-Guild: ‘Barge King’. Silver-level pirate. Other Sea Kings—silver—left before attack or died in fighting. Rumor that the DKE has fallen. Doubt. Going to Guildhall to find knowledgeable source. Guild is third tier, central north. Barge King is third tier, south, at cliff base. Rain says investigate. No contact. Be careful. Message ends.]

“It’ll come out in the wash, you’ll see,” the serving girl chattered, still blotting at Val’s shirt as he returned his attention to his surroundings.

“I told you, it’s fine,” Val said, gently pushing her hands away and looking down at his shirt. It most assuredly was not fine, an enormous purple blotch marking where the wine had dribbled down his chest. However, seeing as it wasn’t his shirt to begin with, he couldn’t bring himself to care. It wasn’t even the same shirt he’d been wearing as a part of his original disguise.

Walking invisibly through the streets of the third tier, it had swiftly become apparent that his workman’s disguise wasn’t going to cut it. Even the servants here dressed well. Fortunately, he’d found a tailor’s shop. Unfortunately, he’d only learned upon entering this wine house that the outfit he’d pilfered was a bit too fine. When he went back for a new one, he’d have to leave a bit more money. Clearly, he’d underpaid.

“Oh, please don’t be mad,” the serving girl said, wringing her hands on the cloth, having grown increasingly anxious during his long, contemplative silence. “I’ll just…I’ll just go get you another cup. Free of charge.”

“Stop,” Val said sharply, and she froze. Quickly, he softened his expression. “I’m not mad at you. I’m mad at myself. I’m the one that tried to breathe my wine instead of drinking it. You don’t need to be afraid.”

Instead of a reply, the serving girl looked down, releasing a nervous laugh.

Val sighed. Just who does she think I am? Stupid outfit. “Seriously, relax. I’m new to this part of the city, as you’ve probably noticed. What kind of clients do you normally get to be so nervous?”

“I…uh…” the serving girl said, looking over her shoulder toward the back room. The wine house wasn’t empty, but the handful of patrons were at least polite enough not to be watching them openly. The young server was the only staff member present, and as she returned her attention to Val, she fixed him with a shy smile with just a hint of a blush. “I’ve been told not to say bad things about our customers, so...”

Val smiled back, laying on his own charm. This was more familiar territory. The serving girl was pretty—probably why she was working the front room of a place like this—but he had little interest in her beyond what she could tell him. “Tell you what,” he said. “As much as I’d like a free cup of wine, what I’d really love would be some conversation. I’m a hopeless gossip, you see, and I promise I won’t tell the owner.” He gestured to the seat across from him. “Please?”

Surprisingly, the serving girl shook her head. “I really can’t. She could come out, and I’d get in trouble.”

Val’s smile froze.

Have I lost my touch? Is it the scars, or is it this damn outfit?

He did his best to recover smoothly. “Well, if you can’t, you can’t. At least tell me one thing. You ever seen anyone really important in here? The Barge King, for example?”

The girl surprised him again, this time by laughing, covering her mouth with a hand. “Oh, him? Of course not. We do get Sea Kings occasionally—or did, I guess, until they come back—but never that one. I don’t think he’d fit through the door.”

Val bit off a follow-up question that would have immediately outed him as a foreigner, covering the awkward pause with a smile. “You know, I missed most of the battle. I’m not ashamed to admit I spent most of it cowering under my bed. Still, I’d liked to have seen those Kings of ours take down that ship. The Barge King’s the only one left, right? Was he the one that sunk it?”

The serving girl shook her head. “No, not him. He actually came out of his stronghold to fight for once, if you can believe it, but it wasn’t him.”

“Who then?”

“Nobody knows,” she replied, leaning in to whisper conspiratorially. “Argle Thrast from the Guild is claiming the credit, but everyone knows that’s a lie. The ship just got sliced in half, like that!” She snapped her fingers. “The spray reached all the way up here, and I’m sure you heard the crash of thunder! There’s no way Thrast, the Barge King, or anyone else from Three Cliffs could have done that.” She lowered her voice further. “I’m saying it was a Citizen.”

Val’s eyebrows shot up. “A Citizen? Here? Don’t they have their own problems to deal with?”

She nodded. “Sure they do, but I’m telling you, that’s what it had to be. I say they Scryed that ship from Barstone, then sent someone to take it out while it was busy fighting us. Whoever they sent must’ve flown right back. War’s not going well, you know.” She lowered her voice further, leaning in so close that he could feel her warm breath on his cheek. “I heard yesterday that another city fell. Besides Southguard.”

Val choked again, whipping around to look at her. “What? Which one?” Southguard? Holy shit. That’s a border city, and Citizen Southguard is one of the strongest in the DKE.

“Don’t know,” the serving girl continued, pulling back with a blush. Val realized then that their lips had been very close. “There haven’t been any ships since before the harbor burned,” she continued after taking a breath to recover. “No ships means no news, and our news is always late anyway.” She leaned in again. “You know what I think… I think—”

“Peli!” A new voice screeched, so shrill that Val almost crumpled his wine glass.

The serving girl—Peli, clearly—jumped as if struck by Arcane lightning. She spun to face the doorway to the back room, where a wrinkled old woman was holding aside the curtain, glaring at them.

“What did I say about flirting with the clients!?” the woman demanded.

“Sorry, Miss Natrin,” Peli began. “I wasn’t, I was just—”

“I don’t want your excuses, girl!” The older woman pointed at one of the other tables. “I see empty cups! Gods, what do I pay you for? Slacking off in times like these…” Without waiting for a response, the woman’s face disappeared back through the curtain.

Peli cringed, turning to face Val once more. “Sorry. She’s like that.”

Val smiled, rotating a pinkie in his ear. “Quite all right. I hope I didn’t get you in too much trouble.” He glanced around, hiding a grimace. The other patrons had stopped pretending and were now watching him openly, speculative expressions on their faces.

I’ve made a hash of this. Time to move on.

He made a show of looking down at his shirt and heaving a dejected sigh before reaching for his purse. “I suppose I’d better go home and change. I know I already paid, but here. For the gossip.”

“No,” Peli said, shocking Val by placing her hand atop his before he could offer her a tip. She smiled. “I’m off work at seventh.”

Val smiled back, not having to fake it. Still got it, after all.

He cleared his throat regretfully, then stood, taking her hand and flipping it over gently to push the copper tile into her palm. “I’m flattered, but I’m afraid my girlfriend would murder me.”

Gus heaved a heavy sigh, the numbers on the page seeming to swim before his eyes. He was tired, hungry, and had a headache that the bedlam out in the Guildhall wasn’t helping to soothe.

I never should have gotten on that ship…

After the evacuation of Fel Sadanis, he’d ended up in Barstone, not having had much say in the matter. At first, he’d been optimistic. Barstone was a port city, and it saw a lot of traffic. It saw ships from both the lanes to Bellost and from upriver, the two types meeting in the harbor to trade cargo. With that many people coming and going, the Barstone Guild was enormous compared to the one in Fel Sadanis, but, as he’d discovered, its prosperity also meant it had no use for a coward like him.

Not only had they refused to hire him on as a clerk—dulls filling that role quite nicely, thank you—they’d also refused to let him take any work from the board. His Guildscore was too low, they’d said, but that wasn’t the real reason. He’d seen the way they looked at him the moment he’d mentioned wanting to work there.

And the prices in that city…

He could have gotten a menial job elsewhere, he supposed, but he wasn’t about to live in squalor like some peasant, grubbing in the dirt. And so, when he’d seen the posting for an awakened clerk in Three Cliffs, passage paid, he’d jumped at the opportunity. Nobody had told him the city was ruled by pirates, not just home to them. Nobody had told him the harbor would get smashed by the Empire not two weeks after his arrival. And—though this discovery paled in significance to the others—nobody had told him the last clerk hadn’t cross-checked the ledgers in years. And he’d been sloppy about it, too.

Perhaps that was why he’d been stabbed.

Gus shivered, hearing a commotion from the room overlooked by his tiny office. The Three Cliffs Guildhall was all one large room—tavern, quest hall, and dueling arena, all rolled into one. He was safe enough in his cubbyhole, thanks to the bars screening his window from the main room. Short of a scream from someone getting stabbed, he couldn’t be bothered to look up just because there’d been a little noise. Commotion was the norm.

Gus pulled his thin cloak around himself, shivering again. The Three Cliffs Guild hadn’t even given him a uniform. His own clothes were threadbare, and with the weight he’d lost, he’d been feeling cold often of late. He’d probably be losing more weight, too, especially if someone didn’t fix the brineway. Food was expensive enough, though not quite as bad as in Barstone. If he suddenly had to start paying for water, too…

The chill seemed to deepen, tickling at a half-forgotten memory, but Gus ignored it, cinching his cloak tighter and gritting his teeth as he focused once more on the numbers in the ledger.

Stupid city. I’ll finish this page, then I’m taking a break by the fire.

There was a clunk of metal footsteps on stone, and a shadow fell across the ledger as a person blocked the light from the hall. Gus sighed, reaching up to rub his eyes as he spoke in a defeated tone. “Welcome to the Adventurers’ Guild. How may I help you today?”

There was no response.

Gus suppressed another sigh, forced a smile onto his face, then looked up.

Memory crashed over him like a frozen wave.

A man stood there, wearing steel-gray platemail of an unusual design beneath a brilliant white coat. His eyes were hidden, not by the darkness within his helmet, but behind a line of silvery…glass? A sword was belted at his waist, but Gus’s eyes were drawn instead to the man’s gauntlets. The metal was different, but the craftsmanship of those joints…

Before the man spoke, Gus already knew what he would say.

“Hi Gus.”

“You!” Gus stammered, knocking over his chair in his haste to get to his feet.

Rain smiled, letting Winter fade and replacing it with Force Ward. As the bedraggled clerk’s mouth worked, Rain considered the merits of removing his helmet, as he had the last time he’d acted out this scene. He decided against it. Dropping Force Ward for a moment or two was one thing. Leaving himself completely unprotected was something else entirely.

In fact, Force Ward’s probably not the best choice in here.

Rain glanced over his shoulder as he shifted to Arcane Ward instead. Jamus and Nails were there, watching the muttering crowd of seedy adventurers, who were watching them right back. The majority appeared to be Mages, but there were plenty of Warriors, too. About three dozen people in total, and all bronze by Detection’s read on their plates. Much to Rain’s displeasure, an offensive haze of tobacco smoke hung in the air, stinging his nose and clouding the light. Resisting the urge to Purify it was taking a heroic act of will, but Rain still wanted to maintain his Warrior disguise.

He and Jamus had both tucked their bronze Guild plates away prior to entering, wanting to leave people uncertain about their strength. Argle Thrast—the silverplate they’d encountered—was apparently the only one in the city right now. Others did come through from time to time, though, so without their plates showing, they hoped to be taken for such.

Gus licked his lips, his eyes flicking momentarily to Jamus. “If you’re here… How are you here?” Excitement was creeping into his voice, along with more confusion. “Was there a ship, or…no, wait. Weren’t you two going to Vestvall? You and that rescue squad or whatever? Did you come to your senses and get out before the city—?”

“You know these guys, Gus?” someone shouted from the crowd, interrupting him.

Rain glanced at the speaker, then back at Gus, who didn’t seem interested in answering. He cleared his throat. “Yes, we went to Vestvall, and then we came here, overland. We’ve got the whole city with us. Refugees from the rank shift. I need your help, Gus. And the Guild’s.”

“The fuck’d he just say?” a different voice from the crowd shouted.

Rain ignored the voice, fighting off the wave of unease that had come with revealing their presence. He had been in communication with Vanna on the walk over here, using Nails and Ameliah as relays. They’d collectively concluded that the threat from the city was manageable compared to the cost of delay should the Empire launch another attack. Already, Vanna would be dispatching teams to the deserted lumber yard to get set up. The sooner they could get a ship built, the better.

“You…want to run that by me one more time?” Gus said after a long pause. He started feeling behind himself for his stool, and when he didn’t find it, looked to see it lying on the ground.

