“Now that’s a lie.” Kydyr said, “Riivo knows not to tell people what to expect all the way, for part of our agreement is for me to get some fun out of all this, too. So tell me how you knew! I know for a fact that my reactions are not too perfect! I played the part of a hermit archmage just fine! No. What’s more likely is that you’re lying to me about what gave me away. People’s complaints often reveal what they really care about, and you caring about me lying means that you are the liar! Not me.”

Erick frowned at the man.

Kydyr happily said, “Illusionists never lie! We just tell different Truths!”

“Oh.” Erick understood, now. “That’s what you meant when you said you weren’t a liar.”

Kydyr looked at Erick for a moment longer. Then he decided, “I guess if you made a World Tree you probably have some redeeming qualities.”

Erick smirked. “I have many redeeming qualities.”

“… Is the Librarian truly dead?”

Erick paused. “I only know of seven remaining Shades and six of them are Blessed into Empathy. If the Librarian survived then that is out of my purview.” He looked up and down Kydyr, asking, “So how deep does this lie go, and do you have a form that is more… whole?”

“What’s wrong with this one!”

“Okay. So. I’ll tell you what truly gave you away.” Erick said, “Every single one of your forms carried the same wrought arrogance that you’re untouchable, even though you don’t look wrought at all.”

“… Perhaps you’re a Mind Mage in disguise? Those bastards are always ruining my fun.” Kydyr asked, “Are you attempting to ruin my fun, mister Mind Mage?”

“I’m not a Mind Mage; you already know who I am.” Erick said, “The world is changing, Kydyr. I killed Ar’Kendrithyst. I invented new magics. I made a World Tree. I’m near the end of my Worldly Path and I’m going to make [Gate] the normal way, because I want to open up new worlds and expand civilization to other planets. After this Stratagold stuff my next stop is Oceanside because there’s some Quiet War shit going down there. Perhaps the Headmaster will ask me to help him enact his plan to destroy the moons of Hell and Celes, to end the Quiet War once and for all, to help permanently end yet another threat to civilization. Or maybe he’ll simply ask for my help to bring both sides to heel, like I did for all the Shadow Sects of Nelboor just by threatening them from afar. I won’t know until I get there.”

Kydyr’s skin was white but he paled all the same as Erick’s words hammered into his head like revelations from a god. And then some sort of dichotomy happened. Erick wasn’t sure what he was looking at, exactly, as he saw Kydyr’s eyes flicker to rainbow as his heart beat hard. He scowled. His face twitched. He huffed—

And then his incani disguise burst into rainbow motes of light, falling away to reveal rainbow metal in the shape of a human man. But not fully human. His hair was made of feathers and his eyes were twice as large as normal. He was an Owl Shifter. It might be his original form? Maybe another trick, though. Erick was pretty sure the pixie form was his original form, but this one seemed more solid.

And as Kydyr remained silent, lightly staring, thinking, Erick began to imagine that this form was his original. All his other forms had been free of magical signatures, but this one had magics running inside his chest and along the surface of his skin. Could be yet another trick, though.

Illusion magics were not Erick’s forte, at all. He only really knew how to see through most of them, and only thanks to mana sense and [True Sight], but according to those two senses everything he had seen here in Kydyr’s property had been real.

Erick broke the silence, saying, “I gotta say, your illusions are fantastic, but what happened there?”

“You destabilized my Hot Incani.” Kydyr said, “I’ll have to work for months to get that one right again.”

“If it makes you feel any better I thought he was very attractive.”

“… It does.” Kydyr sighed, then he exclaimed, “Ugh! I hate reality. Fuck you— Okay.” He brushed a hand through his feathered hair, then said, “I know who you are, Erick Flatt of Earth. This is as real of ‘me’ as you’re ever going to get to see, so I’d appreciate it if you don’t push too much further, and I won’t be forced to sneak out to Yggdrasil to see what you do under those Privacys.”

“… Fair enough.”

“Good.” With a deeply exhausted tone and fallen shoulders, Kydyr gestured to the left, to a small fire pit and its four surrounding stone chairs. They hadn’t been there till the man pointed them out. “Let’s sit and talk.”

Erick went along with Kydyr to the stone chairs. Kydyr took one, and Erick took the one to his left, two meters away. He wasn’t too worried at that moment, and he hadn’t been since they got here. Kydyr was an archmage, so he surely had more tricks than Illusion Magic, but the Illusion magic wasn’t a problem; Illusion excelled at two things, and neither of those things were outright damage.

… And yet, the Mirage Dragon had certainly turned the top of Devouring Nightmare’s main clan mountain into swiss cheese with her Illusion Magic, but no one had actually died to that attack. Though, apparently, that was ‘Fae Magic’, according to Aisha. Erick wondered where the split was.

Maybe Kydyr had spellwork of that level, too, but Erick wasn’t too scared of physical damage. His paranoia was completely focused on the threat of people discovering his Wizardry. At this juncture, the threat Stratagold represented was only a threat in the grand, fully unveiled sense; not on an individual basis.

And only if he fucked up any of these talks.

Kydyr asked, “What do you know of Illusion?”

“Illusion can do two things well: Hide or obscure, and be versatile. It is not good for damage. Any damage inflicted by an Illusion spell is only an eighth to a half as effective as a true spell.”

“… A measured response, and mostly true. Let me give you a high-level overview, and we can talk about specifics afterward.” Kydyr said, “Once a person begins to interact with an Illusion spell, either passively or because you’ve forced them to, Illusions tend to break down. I have read that Illusions used to be a lot stronger in the Old Cosmology, with some master Illusionists able to trap others behind worlds of fakery, but this is no longer the case, and this is for the best.”

Erick was a little bit surprised at that statement for multiple reasons, but only the first one came out of his mouth. “This is why Melemizargo thinks this world is fake.”

“Yes.” Kydyr said, “The Script stopped this grand use of this type of illusionwork, though, but it didn’t stop the lesser uses. They should have stripped out Elemental Illusion completely. It’s a shit magic, only worked by shit people, for shit uses, like killing people or worse: tricking them to think they’re eating full meals when they’re actually starving and dying of thirst.”

“… It’s kinda odd to hear an Illusion-based Archmage say this.”

“I got into Illusion Magic because I hate this shit. It’s my fool luck that I turned out to be good at this shit, so here I am, a hermit, because living out there is difficult. Illusions masters often find themselves fooling their way through life and leaving heartache and horror wherever they go, and when reality finally catches up to them they fold like castles of sand, or, people think they lie just because of their chosen focus!” Kydyr said, “I’m not a godsdamned liar, Erick. Not about the big stuff, the stuff that actually matters, and don’t you forget it.”

Erick nodded.

Kydyr stared at Erick for a moment, then continued, “Illusion Magics are terrible for defense. Shit for damage. Awful for practically every single scenario where subject A directly confronts subject B.

“But Illusions are very good for when subject A needs to get through a wall between them and subject B, and they don’t want to make a door the violent way. Or when subject A wants to trick subject B to walk off a cliff. Or when A is hiding from B. Illusions are fantastic for indirect confrontation.

“Illusions are the best for hiding objective reality behind a layer of Subjective Reality. You want to protect something? You put down Illusions as your first line of defense. If the enemy can’t see you they can’t hit you. If that defense should fall then everything else can be backed up with the swords or spells of others, but if you can hide the door, then that cuts down 90% of all intruders.

“And that’s the goal; less people attacking you.

“The first level of working in the school of Illusion Magic, therefore, is common misdirection. In the case of runic webs, if you want people to be aware that they are in a runic web area —which is good for letting people know that they are being watched and judged— you inscribe that web with some illusion magic that projects a false web outside, into the open, while you bury the real web into the wall, where it is unreachable. By having your web out in the open, and if you have inscribed it properly with other runic signatures, then you can catch those who try messing with that runic web while simultaneously ensuring that your actual runic web is secure.” Kydyr added, “In the other direction, if you simply want people to leave your runic web alone and not know they’re inside a runic space, then you hide the web itself beyond layers of Illusions, fooling mana senses and [True Sight]s, if you make it well enough.”

Erick sat back in his chair, thinking. In retrospect, what Kydyr was suggesting was obvious. Perhaps beyond obvious, and bordering on making Erick feel a bit of a fool. Obviously Illusion was very good at hiding things, but Erick had simply never gone this deep into that sort of magic. For his [Sealed Privacy Ward] Erick had simply manually hid himself, through the use of anti-[Scry], anti-Sight, and falsified light protections. But that sphere of changed magic still showed up to [True Sight] as an opaque sphere. What Kydyr was suggesting was that the proper use of Illusion would hide even that opaque sphere.

And so, Erick could only honestly say, “I like that a lot, but how do you trick [True Sight]?”

Kydyr smiled a little, a bit of his depression seeming to lighten. “Tricking [True Sight] is perhaps one of the hardest things to do because there’s not a single Open Script spell that gives a good base upon which to enact this different Reality, so we have to use several spells, all together. The good news is that replacing reality with Reality is all magic truly is, so once you know a few tricks, you can get pretty far with that replacement. Not all the way, of course, and the end result is fully dependent on your own skill, and Truth.

“This reliance on Truth is both a problem and a boon for illusionwork.

“A Force Mage can make true barriers that could last long after that Force Mage has left the area. A Water Mage might be able to make real water, instead of having their [Water Bolt]s splash and turn back into motes of mana. But the second a Force Mage or a Water Mage, or any other Mage, steps outside of their own Truth, every Subjective Reality they try to enact upon the world is less True; less real.

“So there is only one true way to turn Reality into reality; you have to have a knack for it. A desire for it. A yearning to be something other than what you are. This is hard for most people to achieve, and for you, it will likely be extremely difficult. Your Truth of Growth is anathema to a Truth of Deception.

“There are workarounds, though.

“What you do, is layer Force, light, shadow, and color, with enough skill that no one is able to tell the difference between Subjective Reality and objective reality. To gain this skill, you must study how the world works through mana sense, and you must mimic that falsity through pure skill, for the Elemental Illusion magic I teach you will only bridge maybe 5% to 25% of the gap between Real and real.” Kydyr said, “Once you get skilled enough, and to overly simplify the end goal: I will have you bury a runic web and then that runic web will copy the stone around itself, onto itself, but without actually hindering its own functions, simultaneously hiding itself from mana sense as well as allowing it to work as intended. This might be difficult for you. We will go over this method of true hiding, and the other way with decoys after we get true hiding down and workable. Obscuration and misdirection; both are needed to make a truly secure runic web, or any good illusionwork at all.”

Erick took that all in, and asked, “Where do we start?”

“The primary tools in an Illusionist's arsenal is a damaging spell, and a suite of defensive measures.” Kydyr said, “Since I don’t care to teach for damage and you’re not here for that anyway, we will focus on the small actions of stabilized obscuration and misdirection, meaning illusionwork that doesn’t move. This demands [Invisible], [Conjure Item], [Force Wall], Mana Shaping, and wardlights. Elemental Illusion will be used at the very end; personal skill comes first.” Kydyr added, “I’m imagining we can skip quite a bit of that beginner illusionwork, but I’d like to get a gauge for your skill, anyway. To that end, we start with [Conjure Item]. Please make me a stone sculpture of a bird, a doll of a bird, and an anatomically correct model of a bird, limiting yourself to 250 base mana for each.” He gestured to the side.

Erick glanced to the side at three stone pedestals, each waist-high. They hadn’t been there before. Not too surprising, considering where they were and what Erick was trying to learn. But whatever.

Erick looked up [Conjure Item].

Conjure Item X, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create an item of up to large size. Skill with mana manipulation determines final creation. Lasts until suffering 50 points of damage.

It was one of the Variable Cost Variable Effect spells available in the Open Script. Erick already had a lot of experience with the spell, mostly in the form of conjuring beds or other assorted useful items. Those items gradually took damage as they existed and rarely lasted more than 24 hours, but Erick had gotten pretty good at making items that were more than their appearances. Mattresses with foam cores that held up to the pressure of people sleeping on them. Cloth that felt and moved like real cloth. Pens and paper that worked, though whatever was written would need to be copied down before the conjuring degraded.

A simple stone bird would be easy.

