“You can’t work on adding those odder effects until after you’ve made [Illusionary Item], though, and gotten a hang of using that spell to its fullest. So try to make [Illusionary Item], now; [Conjure Item] plus Mana Altering for Illusion plus [Shadowshape] and [Lightshape]. Try to recreate your success with [Mysticalshape] because you’re going to need to repeat that success a few times for other illusionwork.”

Kydyr stopped speaking, then he stepped away to give Erick room.

Erick stood upon a white tile in front of Kydyr’s house, with one Ophiel on his shoulder and another four flitting around the yard. Three of those four Ophiel came to him, to hold in the air around Erick as the Ophiel on his shoulder started to sing a tune of Illusion. It was a good sound, and it was completely understandable compared to all the nonsense shadowork they had done yesterday.

He held out one hand and channeled [Shadowshape] and heard that discordance of Shadow again, but just like as he had done when he made [Mysticalshape], he channeled [Lightshape] through his other hand and found the harmony between the two. [Lightshape] pulled sensibility out of [Shadowshape], creating the sounds of Reality Shaped into something real. He handed those sounds off to two hovering Ophiel, and then he listened to the sound of [Conjure Item].

It was the simple sound of an imaginary world; hollow, without substance, breaking at a touch. But with the other sounds...

Here now was a harmony.

Illusions made the imaginary more solid. More real.

Erick smiled as he fell into the moment, and the rest of the world dropped away. He added in a bit of Permanency thoughts right there—

And suddenly, everything sounded perfect.

Erick held in the moment, listening as his Ophiel sang all around him, experiencing the rising crescendo of sound and feeling and Reality, waiting until the perfect moment to cast, when everything aligned into the perfect moment—

The world darkened. Eyes flickered in the shadows. Kydyr yelled something unintelligible as vibrations flickered outward, and sparks flew from the ground. Magic-filled wires broke underneath, but Erick paid no mind to that. Kydyr couldn’t reach him, either. Nothing could stop the revelation to come. The instantiation of something real into a space that was false.

Erick cast.

A bird doll appeared.

And the world rearranged around that doll like a bomb exploding, shockwaves of unreality tearing at the veil of untruth all around him, ripping up the ground and shattering whatever runic web lay underneath. The house blasted apart. The apple tree shredded into wardlight and Force. The garden tore, dirt fountaining into the air. The vegetables had been real, apparently, but almost nothing else was.

And air rippled away from Kydyr. The owl shifter vanished in small pieces, his feathered hair going first, replaced by scales and curving horns. His body went next, rainbow metal clothes transforming into overcoats and long, long pants that twisted together, becoming a long and sinuous body made of pure rainbows, wrapped around a pile of books where the house had been. Arms became meters long, with long white claws. A tail slapped the white tiled ground, breaking stone like a living I-beam smashing down and then curling back around the books.

The summertime cottage and property vanished, almost completely, though the garden remained, tucked into a corner of the open floor plan.

Erick found himself in the largest room of a large stone mansion made of many such rooms, with the owner of the house on the other side, wrapped around a large pile of books, while neatly-stacked piles filled up the rest of the space. There were bookshelves and organization systems underneath all of the piles, but those systems had long been abandoned in favor of just more books, placed wherever they could fit. Neither Kydyr nor Erick cared much about the books right now. Dragon Kydyr stared down at Erick with hateful eyes and an open mouth. His fangs were only about the size of Erick’s own forearm, but they were very visible.

So.

Kydyr was altogether not the largest dragon Erick had ever seen. Rather on the small side, actually.

But he was the angriest.
