Erick and Riivo stepped down through the open air of Vibrant Falls, with the eponymous waterfall bathing the world in glowing light, all the way. Down, down, down, to a level where the mists of the falls spread out in every direction, plunging the world into illuminated fog, and the rushing, raging falls crashed into a lower ocean, and all that water spread out into the vast under oceans of the Underworld.

In those misty depths, down one of the deeper-set daggers of stone carving out into the center of the cavern, there was a house. Theoretically, anyway. Erick had no idea where the house was, for he certainly didn’t see any structures. All he saw was moss-covered stone as far as his eyes could see, which was not very far down here in the fog. Ophiels, moving around like lanterns in the fog, fared little better.

Riivo seemed to know where he was going, though, for the old iron man just walked forward, the carpet of moss under him absorbing all sound. Erick followed—

“Oh. There’s no monsters here.” Erick said, “I just realized. Nothing dangerous at all. No rats or bats or snakes, either, though. But there are slimes.”

One small green slime plopped across the moss in front of them. Slimes were everywhere down here; they were practically ubiquitous monsters in this moisture-rich, plentiful food environment.

“Quite right.” Riivo glanced at the slime as it plopped along, saying, “Unless one is invited here by someone who already knows the way, then the passive enchantments in the area keep all other lifeforms away. Slimes do grow rather well in the lower levels of Vibrant Falls, though, but while they might be born here, if they should happen to fall out of the enchantment zone then they won’t be back.”

“How does an illusion keep people away?” Erick said, “I would have thought that to be Mind Magic.”

Archmage Kydyr’s house was still somewhere up ahead in the deeper fog.

“This particular use of illusion is a secret which you shall learn while you are here, but not from me, and showing is better than telling.” Riivo said, “Watch the path we walk. Orient yourself with your Ophiel in the air.”

Erick took stock of their area. They were upon a flattish jut of stone about twelve kilometers long that stuck out from the side of the cavern of Vibrant Falls. At their current position, they were three kilometers from the tip, which was itself about a kilometer from the falls. The flat area under Erick’s feet was about half a kilometer wide. In the distance, the base of the dagger connected to the cavern wall, were countless juts of stone stuck out from the side, forming a deep shadowed place, while the falls themselves were full of light. Shadowed and glowing fog filled the air. Thick stone formed the ground. And everywhere, there was moss.

They walked from the falls toward the wall while—

Wait.

Somehow, they had gotten turned around? When did that happen?

They were walking toward the falls again.

“We turned around?” Erick frowned a little. “I wouldn’t have noticed without Ophiel.”

Riivo smiled. “Usually it takes the second turn for a new person to understand what happened, but you caught it on the first. Watch what happens when we take the second.”

The two of them fell back to silence, or at least as silent as the rush of the falls…

The falls were quieter. Like they were somehow more distant and yet they were right there; same as they had been.

Riivo turned. Erick followed.

And suddenly, the air changed. Less foggy. More bright—

Riivo’s silent footfalls were suddenly audible as he stepped onto a wide, white tile. The tile was overgrown with too much moss, but it was a tile, for sure. Erick had paused to reorient himself, but he resumed following fast enough—

Another turn; the third. They were headed back toward the cavern wall, now.

And the tiles underfoot became cleaner.

Erick had an uncomfortable realization that he wasn’t sure how to put into a question, so he spoke the unvarnished thought, “This is almost like Ar’Cosmos.”

“Ah. Not quite. Illusions can accomplish much, but this place still exists whether you can see it or not.” Riivo said, “This path we walk is the key to actually gaining access to this place, though.”

Erick had some thoughts about just how wrong Riivo was, but he withheld those thoughts for now because Riivo stepped off to the left and Erick almost missed the turn. He had no idea how he had almost missed the turn, but he had.

Riivo enlightened him, saying, “Glad you kept up there. Most people fall off the first time. We’re close now.”

The tiles went from unkempt to manicured, showing off their white brightness while a short stone wall began on one side, and then a matching stone wall appeared on the other side. They were upon a garden path, and the air fully cleared of fog. Three more steps, and Riivo passed over a white tile with the rune for ‘reveal’ embedded in it in deep, black metal. Erick followed—

He stepped into a land of summer, with a massive apple tree growing on one side of a medium-sized cottage, while a vegetable-filled garden lay on the other side of the property. An ankle-high wall of white stones surrounded the whole place—

An incani man of about 65 appeared at the door of what had to be his house. His white skin and red eyes marked him as an incani from somewhere within Nelboor’s Underworld. His deep frown marked him as deeply unhappy. “What sad slop have you brought me this time, Riivo?”

Riivo strained to put on a happy face, like he was used to this man’s foibles yet those foibles were still tiring. He walked forward saying, “You should read some newspapers instead of books every once in a while, Kydyr! This is Erick Flatt, of Spur— of Earth, technically.”

“If I cared about current events I would allow you to send me that trash, but since I don’t, you don’t!” Kydyr stepped forward, meeting Riivo, and also Erick, on his front lawn, asking, “What’s the deal? If it’s not good enough then I don’t care who this young idiot may be.”

Riivo had briefed Erick a bit about Kydyr. The man was a recluse in the extreme. The only thing he cared about was reading stories about places he had never been. It had to be strictly feel-good fiction, too. Nothing real. Nothing dangerous. Archmage’s Rest sent Kydyr at least two books a week as part of the deals he had made with the Rest. That deal included Kydyr teaching lessons when demanded, though, and right now Riivo was demanding those lessons.

Riivo strongly said, “I want Erick to learn how to make a secure runic web. You can test his Illusion Magic knowledge without me, but you will allow him to prove that he is capable before you call it quits, Kydyr. I will not have you mucking about with this particular joint venture. I want Erick to become a firm part of Archmage’s Rest, and you are but one of the benefits of joining, so you better remain a benefit.” He stared at Kydyr...

And Kydyr scowled, breaking eye contact first. He spat, “Heard and understood.” He inclined his head at Erick. “What do I get out of it?”

Riivo was merely the facilitator so he stood to the side and remained silent.

Erick asked, “What do you want?”

With a happy, devious smile, Kydyr exclaimed, “I want Ripper’s Lot volume 23 and Fowled Egg number 14.”

Erick asked, “Some novels?”

Riivo spoke up, “They’re being edited, Kydyr. They might be ready next month.”

“Then maybe I’ll feel like teaching next month.” Kydyr sneered.

Riivo frowned.

“Maybe there is something physical I can get you?” Erick asked, “Perhaps some new vegetables for your garden? Stuff you’ve never had before? Or maybe I could tell you some stories from where I’m from? You probably don’t have any of those.”

Riivo glanced from Erick to Kydyr, waiting.

“Bah! Stories from— Where’d you say? ‘Arth’? Some new settlement by Spur? Bah.” Kydyr said, “That whole Crystal Forest is a broken civilization, kept that way by Ar’Kendrithyst. Ain’t never produced any good stories in centuries! That Librarian keeps it that way, and I hate that woman. Fucks up all authors everywhere, bending them to her whims! Now there… There’s an evil that needs deading... Heh.” Kydyr got another wicked smile, saying, “I got a bargained task for you: Go kill the Librarian and save all good authors everywhere! I’ll teach you anything you want if you can do that.”

Riivo blinked a bit, unsure how they had gotten here.

Erick had much the same reaction as Riivo, then he said, “Ah. She’s dead. I didn’t kill her myself, but yes. She’s dead.”

Kydyr frowned. He glanced from Erick to Riivo, then back to Erick. “Huh. You truly believe that, eh? You might do well with Illusion Magic. You’re probably not as young as you look, either, and that Silver Star on your chest looks to be real, too.” From one moment to the next, Kydyr changed. He was no longer an aging white-skinned red-eyed incani, but instead, he had shrunk into a floating metallic pixie, a decimeter tall. His body seemed made of rainbows, while wings barely beat and yet he remained aloft. “Or at least you’re good at hiding your hate; both are good for illusionwork.”

Erick studied the ‘pixie’. Kydyr wasn’t celesteel; he was too rainbow for that. Bismuth, maybe?

Which raised a new question.

Pixies were only about 300 or so years old. This fact that Kydyr was a wrought of a relatively ‘new’ species had Erick questioning when a ‘protean’ would pop out of the ‘wrought birthing vats’, or however they did it. Maybe one already had. Wasn’t that an odd thought. While Erick was thinking—

Riivo didn’t miss a beat, saying, “Archmage Kydyr. Normally, I wouldn’t want to intrude upon how you choose to interact with the world but you simply must get out of the apple tree sometime, and soon. Visit some places. Learn of the recent news spiraling the planet. But before you do that, you will teach Archmage Erick about Illusion Magic and primarily how to hide and secure a runic web.”

Kydyr scowled with his tiny face and relatively large eyes, as he looked to Erick, demanding, “Tell me what makes you so great. One sentence. Go.”

There were so many things to say to that.

Erick chose the one he thought would work best.

“I made a World Tree.”

Kydyr froze, then transformed into a human woman of rainbow metal, quickly sputtering, “Like a big tree means shit to me!” She turned straight to Riivo, shouting, “What the fuck, Riivo! You tell people about me, now!” She transformed into a male orcol made of rainbow metal, looking down on both of them, saying, “This is rude, is what it is!”

Erick wondered if any of these forms were real. He had said ‘World Tree’ because of the pixie form… but was that wrong?

Riivo held his tongue.

Erick went for it, assuming that Kydyr’s pixie form was ‘real’, or whatever, and said, “I made a World Tree and his name is Yggdrasil. He’s by Stratagold, as well as by Candlepoint in the Crystal Forest on Glaquin, and also beside Holorolu in Songli in Nelboor. He’s young and hasn’t separated from me, and he won’t for quite a while, but he is a World Tree.”

Riivo added, “Yggdrasil is in a cavern next to the embassy, at t-station ‘ygg’.”

Kydyr stared at both of them. In a flash, the rainbow wrought was once again a white-skinned, red-eyed incani man, but this time he was 24, and looking… Rather uncomfortably handsome. Square chin. Muscles. A nice… All the rest of him. Had he pegged Erick that fast? Maybe he had.

Kydyr said, “I’ll be checking up on this new information. I don’t appreciate lies.”

Erick burst a sudden laugh.

Riivo glanced at Erick.

Kydyr glanced at Erick, too.

Okay. So maybe there wasn’t supposed to be a joke there. Erick deadpanned, “Oh come on. An illusionist who doesn’t like lies?”

Kydyr tilted his head at Riivo. “You brought me a dullard.”

“That’s hardly fair,” Erick complained.

Riivo said, “I’m sure you two will get along, but before I go I will need to make sure that some sort of bargain has actually occurred.”

Kydyr waved the old iron man off, saying, “Yes! Yes! Fine fine. I’ll teach him. Dump off some raw platinum for a web later but go away now.”

“Good.” Riivo turned around and walked away. In seconds the old iron man had stepped down the tiled path, his form beginning to vanish into the swallowing mists that surrounded this land, but which did not pass the short stone wall all around. The old iron man’s words were mostly drowned out by the distant rush of falling water, “Good luck, Erick.”

And then he was gone.

Erick turned back to Kydyr.

The two men stared at each other for a long moment. Erick wasn’t sure he felt safe being around an illusion-focused Archmage, but Riivo seemed to feel the man was fine, if a bit odd.

So Erick went for it, asking, “Where do we start?”

Kydyr demanded, “Do you have [Illusionshape]?”

“[Mysticalshape].”

Kydyr narrowed his eyes. “Have you Remade up to there? Or did you make that from the bought [Lightshape] and [Shadowshape]?”

“The second.”

“… I can already tell you focused heavily on Light due to the auras at your back, but have you done much Shadow work?” Kydyr scowled, as if realizing a whole new problem. “Do you have a problem with Shadow? Being from Spur you probably do.”

“I’ve never gotten Shadow magic to work properly, actually, so you are right in a way, but wrong that I have a ‘problem’ with shadows.” Erick pushed back a bit, saying, “Being so aligned with Illusions, do you forget your own prejudices? Or do you invent new ones depending on who you’re confronting?”

“I make new prejudices all the time!” Kydyr said, “The best ways to make good illusions are to base your various personas on perceived cultural norms; it’s basically exploiting other people to reach a shortcut in the mana.”

“… I don’t know how I feel about that.”

“Yeah. You seem like you’d be a shitty illusionist.”

“We’ll I’m certainly no liar who pretends to not know what’s going on in the world.” Erick said, “I know you know who I am.”

Kydyr frowned a bit, looked like he was about to deny everything, but then he reoriented. He pulled back, saying, “I know I gave no physical clues, so it was something I said. What was it— It was the bit about Spur, wasn’t it? With the Shadow Magics.”

Erick said, “No. The people back home don’t like Shadow Magic; this is true. No. The problem is that your reactions are too perfect and there’s no way that Riivo didn’t tell you we were coming and what to expect.”

