Erick did so, conjuring out of the manasphere a small bird about the size of a raven, with two eyes in the normal locations, and two wings folded up on the body where they should be, while the bird itself stood tall on two legs, with the tail acting as a third leg so it wouldn’t fall over. The bird was white alabaster, and just a bit transparent. Other than that it was solid all the way through.

Ophiel cooed upon seeing the creation and then he transformed to match. His eyes were not contained to the normal locations where eyes should be, though, and he had three sets of wings to act as his tail, his wings, and his legs. And then he decided to hold that form for a while, for whatever reason.

… The stone bird was very much a conjuring. To [Magic Sight], mana sense, and [True Sight], the stone bird was a conjured item. Erick had gone pretty far with his 250 limit, though, so to all normal senses the stone bird seemed real… Except for perhaps one. A real one would have weighed in at 25 kilos or more. This thing only weighed half a kilo, at most.

“I assume adding weight is a part of illusionwork?” Erick added, “Either with Elemental Illusion or with [Gravity Ward]?”

Kydyr seemed to approve of the bird, glancing it over with a critical eye as he answered, “Elemental Illusion will give an item its proper weight, and also its expected warmth, or cold, or any other sense you can think to name. Continue.”

Erick conjured a bird doll on the second pillar. It was a fluffy thing that was the same shape as the stone bird, but made of fluffy white fabrics, bright red thread, and bouncy cotton on the inside. As Erick’s magic finished, the bird plopped onto the pedestal and sat there like a nesting dove. It was pretty cute, with its white cotton exterior and red accents. Ophiel fluffed up and trilled a bit, extending a wing and showing off his feathers. The conjured bird didn’t have feathers, so Ophiel was probably complaining a bit.

And he wasn’t the only one.

Kydyr said, “You didn’t make the feathers.”

“… No? Do you have bird dolls like that? Want me to redo it?”

“Never mind. Continue.”

Erick continued, probably because Kydyr didn’t need to see feathers on the doll when the next one would get all those same feathers, and more.

But creating all the anatomy of a true bird with only 250 mana was simply not doable. It was easy to tell the mana to ‘make this item all one item’, in the case of the stone bird, or ‘make this out of these twenty different items,’ like with the doll. But an anatomical bird has individual feathers, layers of skin, eyes of twenty parts, blood and muscle and bone, nervous systems capped off with a brain, lungs and all the other internal organs, and all the messiness of a digestive tract…

Bodies were complicated.

So Erick pared down his requirements, but he kept in mind what a mana sense would see. He decided could skimp on the nervous system and most of the digestive system and internal organs. He could put the shapes of those systems in there, but actual connections and otherwise were unnecessary. The eyes could be simplified. The feathers could be repeated patterns instead of actually different feathers, like they were in reality; that would save a great deal of complexity. Muscles could make the conjured bird hold its shape, but functionality was not necessary. The bird would blob onto the pedestal and sit there, like a dead thing.

Erick lined up his spellwork and cast. The fake bird plopped onto the third pedestal. It didn’t actually fall over, which was a bit of a surprise. It just stood there, like a bright white, fluffy-feathered pigeon, daring the world to make it move. If anyone actually tested the thing it would fall right over, though. Erick had technically failed the test, too.

He came clean, “That was technically 260 equivalent mana.”

The test was for 250 base mana birds, but Intelligence cut his costs down to 5%, so he had used 12 mana per each the stone bird and the doll, but on the third one he went over, spending 13. You couldn’t spend half a mana, after all.

Kydyr blinked a bit at the third bird, then dismissed Erick’s worries. “250 was a rough target. This is well made for your first try. This is a skill you should master, eventually, in case you have to leave a body lying around for whatever reason.”

Erick blinked. “There would be a reason to fake a body somewhere?”

“Sure.” Kydyr said, “You can erase these conjurings, now.”

Erick did so.

“For the next test, I want you to shape a [Force Wall] into the shape of a fully anatomically correct bird. Three times, if you please.”

Erick did so. Shaping Force to the correct anatomy was considerably easier than doing the same with [Conjure Item]. And now, there were three fully translucent birds, like three glass sculptures, where the previous three birds had been.

Ophiel seemed to approve of the new birds. He fluttered a bit. One of the Ophiel hanging in the air far outside of this space, keeping Erick apprised of everything in the surroundings, decided to try transforming into a ‘clear bird’. He had mild success through twisting around his sunform, but he failed to get even the broadest stroke correct. Erick took a moment to personally help Ophiel achieve the proper general shape of a real bird, but he kept most of his attention on his current surroundings.

Kydyr’s mouth opened a bit as he stared at Erick’s Force birds. He said, “Make a human out of Force.”

Erick did so.

Standing on the ground next to the firepit was now a human male of about two meters tall, of average build and musculature, nude, and with as much detail as Erick could pack into the thing. It cost him 25 mana.

Kydyr sat back in his chair, looking surprised. “Have you done illusionwork before?”

“Read about it. Never went for it.”

“I know you’re good for wardlights but I have to test your skill, anyway.” Kydyr said, “Make some wardlights of some people you know, then some wardlights of people you don’t know but have seen, and finally some people who you have never seen before. Three of each should be enough; nine total. Just the outsides; no organs or anything inside.”

Erick started casting.

Poi in his armor. Teressa in her [Conjured Armor]. Kiri in her normal clothes. Each came out pretty much perfectly, for Erick was very good at making wardlights.

The next three were fine, too. Intelligence and Perception carried a lot of weight as Erick cast light into the shapes of a common man from Songli, a soldier from Spur he had seen on the walls, and a shadeling from Candlepoint.

The last three were difficult, because Erick knew where everything was supposed to go, but every face he tried to make turned out to be someone he remembered. The first one was a farmer but dressed in clothes from Earth. The second came out better, as Erick realized he was taking images from people he knew and shifted toward blurring together all the women from an office building back home, and then he made that woman. The final guy was a teenager of dubious origins with a knife strapped to his waist.

Kydyr said, “Okay. So your skill is unquestioned. But they don’t look real. They look like lightwards. The lightsource is coming in from the top left on every single one.”

Erick looked to the people he conjured. “The light is coming in from the top left.” Erick gestured to the air over Kydyr’s house, saying, “There’s light up there, somewhere.”

“I mean…” Kydyr gestured to the lightward of the commoner from Songli, saying, “If I moved him around, then the light wouldn’t respond normally. Here.” He cast a ball of light into the air, which then moved around the space, casting light through the lightwards; The actual image presented didn’t change as the light moved around. “Do you see?”

“Yes. I see...” Erick frowned. “But this is just a lightward and all lightwards are like this. If you dropped this place into shadow then they would remain illuminated based on the initial conditions I took into account when I cast them. What you’re asking for is an illusionward.”

“No, I’m not asking for an illusionward.” Kydyr said, “The cultural norm is to make lightwards that illuminate their surroundings, or that fit into their surroundings, but the actual text and ability of [Ward] is stated thusly: ‘Special Ward: Eschew all other effects in order to shape, color, and illuminate a ward however you wish. Skill level at Mana Manipulation determines final outcome. Variable Cost.’ It’s not actually called ‘lightward’ at all.” Kydyr added, “And so, not to crit the [Strike] too hard, but you have been exposed to certain ways of thinking which limit how you use magic, like with Spur and its hatred of Shadow Magic. Most places hate Shadow Magic to a certain extent, so this is not a new problem for me to encounter. I almost always run into this problem when teaching new people. And now, we will work to correct it.”

Kydyr’s criticism seemed to be given in good faith, but…

Erick decided to take the lesson as it came. He shoved his complaints to the side, and said, “Okay. So. You want me to make a physical surface with light that will react to outside light sources as though it were physical.”

“I do.”

Erick ignored the impossibility of such a thing, asking “How do we do that?”

“I have you conjure black wardlights until you can make a wardlight that is actually black. From there, we shift to greyscale. The point is not to perfectly mimic the shapes and the physicality of anything. Flesh tones, in particular, are very difficult. But what we will work toward is getting you to make colors that can properly shift and change depending on all other light sources in the area; from [Fireball]s whizzing past to [Force Bolt]s splashing directly against your illusion.”

Erick conjured a thin pillar of pure black ward‘light’. It wasn’t as dark as his [Luminous Trap], but it was matte black. He asked, “Is this good?”

Kydyr sat a bit straighter. “Yes! That’s actually very good. Not many people can get true black. Do something greyscale now. Try to make it responsive to outside light.”

Erick conjured a dappled grey apple the size of his head in the air above the firepit…

And he already knew it was a failure.

Kydyr whipped a ball of light around the apple and the apple didn’t shift under the light, at all. He put the ball of light away, saying, “Try again.”

Half an hour later Erick was still stuck on making a lightward respond properly to outside light. He had dismissed all his other conjurings and was now focused completely on making a grey apple that hovered above the center of the firepit.

Kydyr, firmly back to his depressed self, called it off, saying, “Okay. This isn’t working. Let us attempt to diagnose the problem.” He conjured a tree stump to the side of the area. “Shoot that with a [Light Bolt].”

Erick did so; a Bolt of light smacked the stump and broke apart at the touch, sending motes of light all over the place, causing light to shift and play across everything like all these conjured items around Erick were real, when he knew they were illusions. Erick was a bit perturbed at Kydyr’s mastery of illusion, but he knew that was an irrational anger. Kydyr was a master; Erick was just starting.

“Good. Fine.” Kydyr said, “Didn’t expect any problems there, and I was right. [Shadow Bolt].”

Erick… Hesitated. He breathed. He pointed. He did not actually have [Shadow Bolt], and he had never managed to make the spell, so he tried Mana Altering for it right then and there. He cast.

A Bolt of utter blackness launched from him to strike the tree stump and sail right on through, into the ground beyond and bury itself into the garden soil where it promptly ate through a meter of dirt until finally stopping, ending. The tree stump cracked and shattered like the illusion it was. The soil of the garden slumped downward to fill the vacancy formed by the [Shadow Bolt].

And Erick still hadn’t actually managed to make [Shadow Bolt]. No blue box. No confirmation that he had made the spell right. And now that he saw Kydyr react…

Kydyr’s owl eyes were wide open. His feathery hair poofed up a bit. The bismuth wrought started smiling, then he started laughing.

Erick found no joy in his failure, as he said, “I have never managed to actually make a [Shadow Bolt]. Not a single Shadow spell, actually.”

Kydyr’s laugh died down to a chuckle, as he said, “You’re conflating Shadow with Destruction. That’s your problem.” He laughed again.

“What the fuck is shadow supposed to be?”

“Not Destruction!” Kydyr stopped laughing, but retained his smile as he said, “They’re close, but they are not the same.” He conjured another stump, then said, “Look.” A Bolt of shadow Shadow —obviously— sailed from his relaxed figure to strike the stump. “That is Elemental Shadow, and this is about as good a Bolt as you can make with the base spellwork.” He handed over a blue box.

Shadow Bolt, instant, long range, 15 mana

An ethereal bolt of shadow inexorably strikes a target for 4x WIL damage.

Kydyr said, “If this problem of yours is a problem, then there’s a way around that, too. Since you already have [Polymorph] you then need a Shadow-capable Familiar Form —I’d recommend a shadow slime— and then you can work on getting [Shadowalk] and experiencing Shadow from there. Or you can just buy the essence armor for the skill and skip the eating-monsters ordeal. With [Shadowalk] a part of you, you can learn what makes Shadow different from Destruction.”

Erick asked, “Can you channel Mana Altered for Shadow through your hand?”

“Yes!” Kydyr happily held out a hand and channeled shadows out of his rainbow palm. “Now this is very unorthodox, but I heard you can—”

Erick sighed at the guy.

Kydyr smiled, then said, “I’ll shut up.”

Erick listened.

It was the sound of something misty and hidden. A truth that had failed to launch. Something stuck...

In the middle…

Erick wanted to make the sound go one way or the other, but then that wouldn’t be ‘Shadow’. It was actually quite frustrating to listen to Elemental Shadow. It was like being stuck in a doorway, or in a traffic jam. He didn’t like it at all.

And yet, Erick tried to mimic that sound by holding up his hand and Mana Altering for the same.

A plume of white radiance shot from his palm, but that was wrong. That was Light.

Erick shifted the sound and the feeling and the Alter.

A plume of pure black shot from his palm, and that was wrong too. That was… Destruction? No. Not Destruction. It was something Other. It was what Erick expected Shadow to sound like, but this was apparently not ‘Shadow’.

Erick tried mixing the two sounds, of Light, and Other.

