And that was Shadow. A shitty, in-between sound. An impurity.

He targeted the stump and cast. Wispy shadows Bolted from his hand and impacted the stump like so much splashing greyness. A blue box appeared.

Shadow Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of shadow unerringly strikes a target for 2x WIL damage.

Kydyr nodded sagely, saying, “I’m glad to see that you didn’t need to go the long route because that was surely a [Shadow Bolt]. And now, we can continue.”

Erick frowned. Something weird had just happened. Something explainable.

What was that Other sound?

… A mystery for another day; one to pursue when he was on his own, and not next to a wrought who was trying to teach him how to make reality appear as something it wasn’t.

Erick was pretty sure that this lesson wasn’t some sort of elaborate trap by Riivo, or other people, but Erick wasn’t going to be sharing any deep thoughts with Kydyr about Shadow and how it related to the Dark. Perhaps the man would simply tell Erick that his thoughts were academic, and that ‘Shadow’ was not ‘Dark’, and that no one could wield the ‘Dark’. But Erick wasn’t willing to broach that subject today.

So Erick continued with his ‘half-Light-half-Dark’ working of mana into ‘Shadow’, and hoped for the best.

They got back to making wardlights.

Twenty minutes and some repeating of the same information, but in different ways, Erick had managed something of a success. An apple hung in the air, larger than life and looking exactly like an apple should. Kydyr swung a glowball around the thing, and the shadows inside made the color on the outside act normal, with some light from the glowball seeping into the object and then diffusing back out, like normal objects normally worked.

He hadn’t actually put any Elemental Shadow into the working, but then again, he had never put any Elemental Light into his wardlights, either. This wardlight was truly just a Special Ward used in a way different from how almost all of Veird used that magic; different on how Erick usually used this magic, too.

Kydyr laughed, happy and proud, “There! You see! You got it! Just like I was saying. It’s all about the shadows on the inside that allow the light on the outside to be like it should; no need to use any Mana Altering, either! One can use Elemental Illusion to get to this point, but that is a shortcut. It is only through developing skill first, and then using Elemental Illusion second, can one truly reach the pinnacle of Illusion Magic.”

“I still don’t get Shadow.” Erick frowned, saying, “I understand that Shadow is a Primary Element, but all shadow is the void cast by a light source. Shadows aren’t real.”

Kydyr waved him off, saying, “Bah! This is a weak argument against the existence of Shadow. I can go out right now and find a shadow monster, kill it, harvest the Shadow Essence from it, and show that metaphysical object to you. Shadows are real; it is your own mindset that is working against you, causing you to have a problem with Shadows, conceptually. Most people do, and it’s only because of how much shadows are vilified out in the greater world.”

“Light makes sense, though.” Erick said, “Light is—” He stopped. He had been warned against sharing the secret of light, as wavelengths of electromagnetism and as discrete particles. “Light is real. Shadows are the voids cast by Light.”

Kydyr paused in thought, looking at nothing in particular for a short moment, then turned back to Erick, saying, “Now… I’m not one to assign emotions or feelings to the Elements, because that way lies madness and improper magic, but perhaps that is your problem?”

Erick looked to the man, waiting for more.

Kydyr continued, “Historically, people have seen Shadow as greedy, evil, selfish, hiding in plain sight and waiting to strike. All the monsters live in the shadows. All the death in the world comes from the shadows. The Dark God lives in the shadows, after all. But the Elements are just the Elements. It is only when a mage assigns emotions and feelings to them that they start having problems working in those elements.”

Erick frowned a little. “I’m not assigning an emotion to it. I’m just… Shadows as Void or Destruction or something like that makes sense. I don’t see how a void is supposed to be a thing, in and of itself.” He admitted, “But I suppose I have no problems with Elemental Mercy or Starlight or Lightning— Well. I do have some small problems with Elemental Lightning, since it has nothing to do with Light at all.”

“Ahhh. I see, now. The problem is you have a different framework.” Kydyr nodded, saying, “That framework excels in certain ways, and is bottlenecked in others. Every single archmage I have ever met is the same way, with all of them doing well in one area and terrible in another. This is what it means to have a Truth. But that's fine, because you at least seem able to work past this particular bottleneck. Maybe you’ll never get far with this skill, but it seems like you could eventually be ‘good enough’ to pass all of Riivo’s requirements for runic web clearance.” He shrugged. “So focus on the goal, and ignore the problems you’re having with the material.”

“… I suppose so.”

Erick stared at the latest, perfect apple he had created and felt conflicted; mostly because it was illusionwork without any actual Elemental Illusion (or any other magic to it at all) so this felt like half a lesson, at best. Physically, the ‘shadows’ were mostly solid black ‘backlights’ to make the surface ‘reflective lights’ act more real. What Erick had done was a complicated mess of surface effects and some deeper depth effects to prevent light from coming in the other side.

So physically Erick was progressing, but conceptually…

When he had gone truly far with lightwards with all the colors of the rainbow and a few wavelengths beyond, he had gotten the spell [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] out of that working. He had ‘succeeded’ with this working, and yet he did not get a new spell.

Erick was confused. That was the actual problem. He didn’t often get confused, but it was what it was. And yet, he was still making progress. The wardlights came easier now, as Kydyr asked Erick to make something, and then to the other archmage’s delight, Erick made a perfect recreation of a potted plant, or a spike of crystal, or a child in a crib, or anything else.

Erick was successful in constructing these strange wardlights, but less successful in silencing that voice in his head that told him that he was doing something wrong. That he was missing some great big piece to a great big puzzle.

Kydyr certainly seemed happy, though.

Another hour later, Erick had gone through a hundred more lightsculptures. Kydyr had shown him how to make people, and objects like chairs and doors, and how to lay a wardlight over himself to appear as someone else. That last lesson was just a primer, though, for layering a wardlight over oneself just produced a lightsculpture that didn’t move when you moved. Rigging such a disguise would come later, but maybe not even then, as rigging disguises was not the purpose of this lesson. So what would actually come later was learning how to properly obscure and misdirect, which did require Elemental Illusion.

“But that’s for tomorrow!” Kydyr happily said, “You’ve made more progress in a single afternoon than literally anyone I have ever seen, ever before. If I cared to teach people, I would only want to teach people like you. But I don’t! So~” He pulled a piece of paper out of the air as he added, “Here’s a list of books I want you to get for me, dear student. You will find them…”

The list was long, but the day was over.

Back at Yggdrasil, Erick sent Ophiel out to gather the books on the list. Erick was pleased to find that the various subcities of Stratagold were quite capable of filling the full list, but less pleased to find out that such a fulfillment would take about five to ten months, when the books were scheduled for publication.

Erick would have to report back to Kydyr tomorrow empty handed, which was fine. There was no way that guy didn’t know that he had sent Erick on a fool’s errand.

So instead of fretting over that, Erick went to a fresh [Sealed Privacy Ward] down at the water’s edge, switched over to his Other Self, and had a meal of mana. After that came a swim.

Actual dinner was taken at the embassy, alongside Otaliya and Tasar, at a nice restaurant at the world diner’s market. They spoke of politics and individuals that might appear on the inquiry board, if Erick should choose to take his inquiry sometime within the next three weeks. Three weeks seemed like too much time, though. Erick had goals outside of the Underworld, and he wanted to get back to those goals as soon as he could.

“I’m hoping for a single week with Kydyr. Maybe less.” Erick said, “Whatever it takes to clear Riivo’s demands, and then it’s Bright Tea and the inquiry, and then I’m moving on.”

Tasar shrugged, saying, “A week to learn how to hide a runic web seems too hopeful to me, but you’ve already proven yourself capable of learning quite quickly.”

“After you secure Riivo’s vote then it is time to take Bright Tea.” Otaliya said, “We’ve been talking to the Golds and they’re very interested in whatever sort of Gate Networks you create, but beyond that, they’re also interested in clearing the Crystal Forest of mimics. Reclaiming the land. That place used to be one of the most fertile lands of Glaquin, until Ar’Kendrithyst breached the surface. They’re interested in opening that land back up to habitation.”

That reminded him…

“I heard there used to be a Quest to kill the mimics.” Erick asked, “Was that true?”

“Oh yes.” Tasar said, “Defunct Quest now. The problem of the mimics has changed into a new biome, replete with life and cycles all their own. The Crystal Mimic Quest went away when that happened.”

Otaliya added, “When people started harvesting the mimics for [Polymorph] potions; that’s when the Quest went defunct. People wanted those potions. A lot of people.”

“That’s…” Tasar said, “Probably more true than what I said.”

“I don’t particularly care about maintaining that particular ecosystem.” Erick said, “The goal will eventually be to kill all the mimics and take the land back, and I might have enough power to do that myself, over a large timescale. Some help would be appreciated, though.”

Tasar nodded. “We’re eager for that, as well.”

“This is what the Golds want to see.” Otaliya said, “Actual, proven capability, and an actual problem that can be solved, will do a lot to get the Golds on your side. Riivo would be another pillar to support your inquiry. The Church of Rozeta is rather quiet, but we think Kromolok supports you— You should find out what he truly thinks at Bright Tea, or at least figure out which way the wind blows. And speaking of wind, I heard that Second Prince Sitnakov might be wishing to join you and Tasar on your Worldly Path.”

Erick almost spit his wine.

Tasar dropped her fork.

Otaliya kept right on going like nothing was wrong, saying, “If you allow him to come with you you will directly gain the support of the Heavies. If you move to block him, or simply refuse him, then he might move to block the Heavy vote.”

Erick sighed.

The rest of dinner was nice.

- - - -

Erick woke up well rested upon the boughs of Yggdrasil. A morning swim woke him right up, and then he was off for the day.

- - - -

Erick stood on one side of a fire pit at Kydyr’s house, while Kydyr stood on the other side. The man hadn’t cared about not getting his books today, for he knew it would have been a longshot for them to be published yet. The two of them got to work, with Kydyr testing Erick, to see that he had truly understood the lessons of yesterday.

An hour later, Erick had created hundreds of fantastical items that truly demonstrated his skill with [Conjure Item] and wardlight and [Force Wall].

Chairs with an exterior of pale skin, with wrinkles and hair and that caught the light with all the complexity of normal skin. Feathers of a thousand types growing from a constantly twisting torus. Trees with reflective gold skin that shined like magical metal; brilliant and yellow and glinting off of a thousand different surfaces at once.

For many of these lessons, Erick shaped [Force Wall]s to mimic the interior structures of those chairs, and those feathered donuts, and the gold trees. Veins and hair follicles, hearts with arteries, heartwoods alongside sapwoods with rough bark covering them all.

Creating the same items through [Conjure Item] required ten times as much mana as creating them through wardlights with an underlying [Force Wall], but the conjured items could actually bend and move like normal, though they couldn’t float midair like the wardlights with their [Force Wall] backings.

Tradeoffs were everywhere.

There were two branches of the path of Illusion Magic, here.

The [Conjure Item] spellwork they would be making today would be useful in certain areas where complexity and movement were necessary to maintain the illusion. Like with plush cushions, or anything that moved, really. The [Force Wall] and wardlight spellwork would be useful for all aspects where solidness and immutability were necessary, like with runic webs. Wardlights were only truly useful with the [Force Wall] variety, though.

“[Conjure Item] plus Illusion makes small, mobile items that are expensive to cast. [Force Wall] plus wardlights plus Illusion makes large, simple, immobile items.

“The trick is to make most of your illusions immobile so you can use the cheaper spellwork.” Kydyr ran his hand over the golden tree, with its [Force Wall] structure providing a false surface for him to touch. He smiled wide as his fingertips caught on flaking bark. The bark didn’t actually flake, though; it was Force, and therefore immutable until broken. He pulled away, saying, “Illusionary [Conjure Item]s are for small things that move, like for a bouquet of flowers, or for a plush toy.

“Another thing that Elemental Illusion can do is add scents and taste and otherwise. An [Illusionary Item] gong or an [Illusionary Force] gong can both actually ring like a real gong, instead of breaking under the vibrations. The first could cost a thousand mana, while the second costs 250, though.

