Balconies and overhangs crowded out the sky. Soltic could barely see the clouds in some places, where riotous greenery grew and overflowed overhead, between the cracks of houses. Vanya led the way down a known path, following little metal signs shaped like storm clouds affixed to walls here or there. They weren’t the only ones going this way, following the stormy path from the harbor to elsewhere, for this, too, was a touristy part of town. One of many.

Soon enough the streets carved back and forth, and up. Soltic and Vanya left the city behind, headed north, following a road that ran along a cliffside. It was one of many small roads that came this way, all of them emptying onto this single path.

It was a populated path to the north, but it wasn’t like a major road. It was for pilgrimage.

On the left was a sheer drop down to a rocky beach. Soon, the beach was left behind, and the cliffside rapidly gave way to deeper drops into the ocean itself. Waves crashed upon that cliffside, sending up plumes of saltwater, or carving deep holes into the mountain below. On the right side of the path was a windswept plain with hardy grasses, layered with little white and grey flowers that almost looked like snow, from a certain angle. Sheep, all fluffy white, grazed upon that field, while a herder stood under a distant rocky outcropping. The man fiddled with a knife and a piece of wood, more than he watched his sheep.

There wasn’t much to watch for these days.

Even the walls of Storm’s Edge had become unmanned in the years following the Dungeon Exodus; Soltic and Vanya had gone through a checkpoint back there, but the checkpoint had been empty, the walls open and free, for there was no need to guard the city from this approach anymore.

In certain, easy to corral places like Storm’s Edge, almost every single monster that appeared on this island was only trying to get to one of the dungeons. Now those places were well-guarded, and well-tended. Monster highways, they were calling them. Or monster roads, or thoroughfares. ‘Whirlpools’, in some places, and amongst some academic texts.

Walls on most sides, and then great big thoroughfares that only allowed things to go in one direction; inward. Monsters flowed inward, but so did mana, into each dungeon. It was that flow which ensured that monsters moving in from the ocean, or out from the interior jungles of the island, would not meet a single person on their way to the dungeon; they would simply follow the mana, and leave the people alone.

If a dungeon was tuned right, then there was very little outflow, for the production of mana actually occurred in the Core of Veird, and from there it was given back into the bodies of every single sapient that used mana under the Script.

Still, though, even the most well-made of dungeons produced some sort of off-gassing, usually in the form of thick air, like from a [Cleanse].

Soltic raised his mana sense a little more, to see if he could spot the local highway, or sense any nearby dungeons…

And no. He could not.

Mana moved with the wind and the waves, crashing against the rock underneath, and trickling through the grasses to the side. The current was strong here. Even inside the stone, and inside the water, the current of mana was quick and solid. But it was natural. Not a dungeon nearby at all.

Soltic mana sensed the people on the path with them. Inside those few souls and bodies, the mana flowed just the same as it did around all normal people. The other pilgrims to the Blue Temple weren’t wearing any magic at all, which was normal. They were also talking softly about this or that, which was also normal. Soltic and Vanya both had incredibly strong mana on them, but even Soltic couldn’t see that spellwork because it was so well made.

Soltic and Vanya, like everyone else on the path, were just walking along, companionably. Normally.

Nothing to see here.

Soltic ventured to speak, “Where’s the Highway, you figure?”

Vanya shot Soltic a beaming smile, then she turned back forward. She had been waiting for him to talk, it seemed. She said, “I hear it’s on the other side of Everbless, along with all the dungeons on the island. There’s about 7 of them, all within a kilometer of each other.”

Erick had done some research before he came here, but it had honestly been the last thing on his list before he and Quilatalap left for Storm’s Edge. He was a busy guy, and he would learn everything he really needed to know on the ground.

Plus, knowing too much would make it harder to act out like ‘Soltic’ would act, when confronted by new information.

Soltic had to do a bit of acting now, because the shape of the dungeons of Storm’s Edge wasn’t that widely known outside of the Dungeon Guild, or other in-the-know polities. Like, for example, a bumpkin warrior from the Underworld, out with his girlfriend of several years on the Surface for the first time.

“… That doesn’t seem right?”

“Correct! It’s not very good for the dungeons at all.” Vanya gazed ahead, at the ‘cloud’ hanging low on the horizon, and not moving at all. “They shouldn’t be that close to each other, because once they are, you sacrifice possible depth and richness of each dungeon for the safety of the exterior world, and even that’s not that safe, for you get breaks every other week.”

The two people ahead of them, an old human man and old human woman, were going a bit slow, so Vanya and Soltic had gotten close enough for them to overhear Vanya’s words. The old man turned around suddenly and glared, but his probably-wife stiffened. She reached out for her husband, to calm—

The old man wasn’t having it, though, because he spoke up, “Dungeons are tools of the Darkness; not something you should ever try to use. I bet you two are delvers, aren’t you!”

Vanya smiled, saying, “We are delvers.”

“How many times you been brought back by the Darkness? Are you even you anymore?”

The wife grabbed the old man by the shoulder, saying, “Stop it, Lou.”

The two old timers stepped to the side of the path and stopped, the old woman whispering for the old man to calm down, and to think about what they were doing here, on pilgrimage.

Soltic walked past them, while Vanya stepped past, but she stopped, and turned.

She said, “I’ve died more times than I could ever count, and I’m still me.”

The old man frowned in a sad, angry sort of way. “I pray for your wholeness, then, young woman.”

“May all the gods smile upon your life, as well,” Vanya said.

The old man stiffened, and then the old woman reciprocated Vanya’s blessing.

Vanya caught up to Soltic.

Soltic whispered, “I think I see the shape of our first difficulty with the dungeons.”

“Oh yes,” Vanya said, “I’m prepared for it, but first comes finding out what the duty actually is.”

“Did you try a prayer again?”

“Still no answer.”

Soltic had nothing to say to that, so he just hoisted his backpack into a better position on his back, and kept on walking with Vanya, toward the north. Their destination lay beyond the path, but they could already see the first major sight of the trip, hovering far beyond the next rise in the mountainous path.

Soltic and Vanya crested the hill, and they could finally see Everbless, Yggdrasil’s twin, sitting inside his goddess-made home.

Beyond a long cliffside trail, down the mountain, kilometers still away, there lay the start of a wide, wide, crescent harbor, sized even larger than the massive city behind Soltic. Rocky and vast was that watery space, and inside there, there grew a tree superficially like any other. It was all variations of white and blue, and it was also a kilometer and a half tall. It was massive, but it was also undersized, when compared to the harbor. Everbless almost looked like a single planting inside a garden of water that had yet to be filled with anything else. Eventually, though, Everbless would fill that space, and then some.

Where Yggdrasil had been oak-like, with roots that arced in and out of his various lakes, Everbless was more a mangrove, or a banyan, with a grandeur of arcing anchor roots reaching out of a multitudinous trunk, and a plethora of roots reaching down from a canopy made of fiery grey leaves that resembled a storm. And then there was the lightning crown.

He was a perpetual storm, and also a peaceful tree, growing tall in saltwater.

Erick had never seen Everbless in person like this before. He almost dropped his disguise, to go to the twin of Yggdrasil that the gods had made, and then taken from him. It was a fatherly instinct, Erick knew, so he crushed that down. Everbless was not his son. He was the son of Sininindi. The Goddess of Storm and Sea had made that clear a few times over the years.

Soltic breathed deep the stormy air, felt the brush of saltwater upon his face, and took another step forward, down the path, to the crescent harbor of Everbless, and the large Blue Church of Storm’s edge, located on the western edge of that crescent harbor. From this far away, Soltic thought that the church was decent looking. He appreciated Everbless more, though.

He must have been standing there too long. Vanya was smiling softly at his side.

And the old man and woman from before had caught up.

The old woman smiled softly, too, saying to Soltic, “I was just telling my husband that you two were good people, and see! Here you are, looking all Storm-struck. You don’t get that look in your eyes when you take in Everbless unless you’re a good person.”

Soltic gave a rare smile— And then he crushed that smile away. “Ah. Hmm.” He faked a cough. “… Yeah.”

Vanya wrapped her arm around Soltic’s arm, saying to the older woman, “He’s scary sometimes, but he’s also a good guy most of the time.”

Soltic felt his face flush red.

The older woman smiled brightly, chuckling a little, as she led her husband toward a bench set to the side. “You two youngsters go get some blessings! Us old folks have a harder time going all the way, so we stop up here.”

Soltic nodded, and he and Vanya continued down the path, toward the Blue Church of Sininindi.

- - - -

Soltic walked across salt-crusted rocks, following the path to the Blue Church, as waves crashed on the breaker wall to the left, far out into the rough ocean waters. To the right, the crescent harbor offered some protection from the greater ocean, but not really, but then again it didn’t need to; Everbless was the storm. All the grey stone in sight was crusted in white salt, just a little, making this spit of land look almost cloud-like, but not at all.

The Blue Church itself loomed ahead, like a grey stone edifice of protection against the roughness of the world beyond. The largest parts were massive; fifty meters tall in some places. The smallest parts were so short that the waves lapped over them, endlessly. The main structures actually looked like they might be below the waterline.

Soltic could see the design of it all from where he stood.

It was like a stone building had splashed down, creating concentric walls of uneven stone waves, spreading away from the building itself. Further out, the walls were short enough for waves of water to crash over them, while closer, those walls were tall enough to form true fortifications. The actual church was solid; made of thick grey stone, and composed of several towers and several keeps. The main structure was half as big as House Benevolence, while the outermost walls extended at least a kilometer out there, into the waves, breaking those waves before the waves could break them.

Not much about it was ‘blue’, but Soltic guessed it was called ‘The Blue Church’ because, when he looked closely, he saw a blue shimmer in the air over the concentric walls. And if he looked with mana sense, the whole place was thick with Elemental Water, like it was at the bottom of the ocean. As Vanya and Soltic got closer, it was easy to see what all that Water did, for Soltic breathed easier, as though he had [Water Breathing] active. Which he probably did. It did a lot more than that, though.

It was quite an ingenious, yet simple design as far as defensive measures against the strength of the seas; Soltic suspected that this place likely went underwater in big storms, but if you could breathe underwater, then everything was probably fine. Just had to try not to get dragged away by the waves. But then again, the whole place looked like it could fill with water and then you’d be safe from getting washed away because of all the concentric walls.

A weird thought occurred. What about documents? Furniture? Stuff? And then that thought completed. Soltic doubted that there were very many important documents here, or anything like that. Maybe there were, though? And they were kept dry through other types of magic—

Soltic emptied his head of magical thoughts. He was under cover; not here to investigate magic…

But he could probably break that self-imposed restriction if he saw something really interesting.

Anyway. ‘Soltic’ turned his attentions back to his surroundings.

Several ships were docked on the crescent harbor side, with two of them being tended by clergy members, two of them headed out, and a few more ships already out there, on the calm-ish waters of the harbor, floating toward Everbless. Soltic was pretty sure it was part of the tour of the place, for many pilgrims came this way, just like he and Vanya were doing, right now.

Salt crunched underfoot as they walked atop the barely-dry road, and the crowd began to thicken.

People of all kinds were here, moving to pray or give thanks to the Goddess of Storm and Sea. A lot of people were here to see Everbless, though. Ever since Yggdrasil had gone up, and things had calmed down after the Teleport Exodus, a lot of people started to go on a world-wide tour to see all of the Wizard’s largest [Familiar]. Other people just wanted to see really big, magical trees. Orcols were the larger portion of that last group, and a group of those people had come down here to see Everbless, too.

A whole group of orcols, tall and strong, with most of the women veiled and some of the men, too, stood as a group, up ahead, getting onto one of those boats. They were undoubtedly Treehome natives.

Just up ahead, above the path, a priest in ocean-blue robes with white trim stood on the edge of a wall, and only a few meters above the crowds. He held out a censer that trailed a cloud, speaking in a forgotten language, while an acolyte sprinkled salt on any who stepped close; a benediction for the parishioners. Soltic and Vanya passed by, but most people stepped off of the path to take a benediction.

