Vanya led the way, beyond a great open archway of grey stone, covered in salt-crystal, into an open cathedral that was riven in half, with the ocean flowing left to right, through the center of the room. Water crashed and salt sprayed onto people who kneeled near the waters, praying. It was an austere cathedral. Utilitarian. Scary, really. All that power, all that rushing water, right there in the middle of everything.

But it was also beautiful.

A song of saltwater flowed through the space, gushing here and there, crashing back down. It almost sounded like an ever-singing song.

It was magnificent.

It was also a tourist attraction.

The main church of Sininindi was actually back at Storm’s Edge, at the harbor, at the end of the piers, where sailors gave a quick prayer to the Storm Goddess for a good harvest, or for easy transport at sea. This place was where land-livers came to commune with the Sea, and the Storm.

With that thought in mind, Soltic suspected that, even with the lack of monsters on the ocean, Sininindi’s worship had probably grown a lot due to the Teleport Exodus, even with the Gate Network up and running. The ‘Last Mile’ problem remained firmly in the hands of people outside of House Benevolence, and that meant sailors and other ocean-goers still cared for her benedictions quite a lot. Ships plied the nearby waters of Archipelago Nergal just as much now as they always had, and sailors wished for good travels now, just as they always had.

And the wives and husbands of sailors continued to wish for the safe return of their loved ones.

Soltic breathed a little, taking it all in, and then he pretended to be slightly surprised when an important-looking priest came out from a hidden-ish side passage in the main cathedral, and headed right for him and Vanya. The man was an older sort, with salt and pepper hair and deeply tanned skin. He looked human, but his eyes were pale red, so maybe he had some incani ancestry somewhere deep in his family tree.

The man whispered, “I have been informed by Her Most Holy that you are here at Her request.”

The man was not disturbed by who he was talking to. He looked a little miffed, actually. Soltic could easily believe that he was completely unaware that he was speaking to Erick Flatt, and Quilatalap. That much was expected. Sininindi seemed to be playing this whole thing, whatever it was, rather quiet, so… That was fine with Soltic.

It was fine with Vanya, too. She did a small curtsy, then said, “This is somewhat correct, priest. There wasn’t an official Quest, though I had expected there to be one. I haven’t been able to get a second audience, either.”

Looking slightly less miffed, the man said, “Please follow me, so we might talk in an easier location.”

Without waiting for confirmation, the priest led the way back to where he had come.

Vanya and Soltic followed.

- - - -

“I’m Sailor Asmus,” said the priest, Sailor Asmus. “And you two have been sent by Sininindi to deal with the dungeon problem we’ve been having. How much do you know of the issue?”

Soltic and Vanya had been taken to an upper room which was almost as austere as the cathedral down below, but it did have a nice view of Everbless to the east, the ocean to the west, and a small collection of personal stuff set upon a shelf, and the desk which separated Soltic and Vanya from Sailor Asmus. The desk looked like it was carved from coral, and it had some paperwork inside of some of its drawers. All in all, the Blue Temple was either suffering through hard times, freshly recovering from hard times, or they liked it this plain.

But really though… This place had to flood every so often, and until recently there were likely monsters everywhere out there, so they likely kept nothing of true value at this location.

“We’ve only just arrived and haven’t done much in the way of research. We haven’t even been to the local Dungeoneer’s Guild. We are aware there is some sort of issue, but we have no specifics.” Vanya asked, “Have there been many people to respond to Sininindi’s Quest?”

For a moment, Sailor Asmus looked uncomfortable, then he said, “The problem has been years in the making, but it’s not the most pressing problem for a great many people, because the dungeons are mostly doing what they’re supposed to be doing; they’re taking in monsters and leaving the rest of us out of it. But they’re doing a shit job. We get dungeon breaks every other week, and every few months the break is actually bad. The problem is the Dungeoneer’s Guild— Or Dungeon Guild. Whatever they want to call it these days. I take it they call it Dungeoneer’s Guild… Wherever you are from?”

“Underworld, near Bluite,” Vanya said, “Some people just call it the Adventurer’s Guild.”

Asmus nodded, then continued, “We call it the Dungeon Guild here, and yes, we have had a few people come in off the streets, sent here by Sininindi over the years. They’ve mostly met the same ends: dead in the dungeons, revived a few times, and then kicked out of town by the Storm Priests of Storm’s Edge, or the Dungeon’s Guild, or the Adventurer’s Guild, or the Regency. There are a lot of different factors at play here, miss…?”

“Vanya Silver; sorry, Priest Asmus.” Vanya gestured to Soltic. “And my boyfriend, Soltic Cross.”

Asmus nodded, then said, “You likely won’t deal with me much going forward, for we here at the Blue Temple try to be neutral in this situation, but I will act as a keystone for you. If you get in trouble, bring up my name with any people you talk with, and it might open doors that were otherwise shut. It’s ‘Sailor Asmus’, though, not ‘priest’. We’re Sailors here at the Blue Temple; the practical arm of the Church of Sininindi. The Storm Priests are at the temple at Storm’s Edge, to the south. A lot of people get us confused, but we’re not the same; sailors are a lot calmer.” He stood, saying, “A pleasure to meet you, Miss Silver, Mister Cross. Do you need directions to the dungeons, or anything like that?”

Vanya and Soltic stood, as Vanya asked, “Down the crescent harbor, and off the other side, right?”

“That’s correct. Takes you a couple of hours to hike there unless you [Fly] or something similar, but politeness demands you do your magic outside of public places.”

Soltic asked, “People we should watch out for?”

Asmus eyed Soltic for a fraction of a moment, then rattled off, “Storm Priestess Tiza Nindi is an owl shifter who is generally in power among the storm priests, though you’ll probably end up dealing with some rambunctious acolyte until they catch wind that you’re here under Sininindi’s request, then you’ll move up the chain. I suggest you try to keep out of the storm priests’ sights as long as you can.

“The Dungeon Guild has their guildmaster Larro Tizet, and he’s a decent incani man. A former adventurer, that one, but most delvers are former adventurers, or at least the overlap is rather large.

“The Regency will likely remain uninvolved unless you try to do something as crazy as install a new dungeon master in any of the seven dungeons, but considering the shape of your probable goal, the Regency will get involved. That’s a whole thing, but you’ll likely deal with a human man by the name of Aroido Tidewalker; he’s a part of the main family of Tidewalkers.” Asmus asked, “Any other questions?”

“The quest was rather light on details, in that we don’t even have a blue box for it, so it’s not even a Quest.” Vanya asked, “Is there anything specific we’re supposed to actually be doing, here?”

Reluctantly, and hiding that reluctance rather well, Asmus said, “Sininindi rarely talks to any of us directly unless there’s a big problem, so it’s enough that you’re here and pointed in a direction, and that you don’t have some overly-preconceived notions of what you need to do. I suggest you ride this storm to wherever it takes you, and make the most of what you find; it’s the best way I have found to live, and this quest given to you is no exception to that guidance.”

Vanya nodded, grinning softly. “Fair enough. I can work with that.”

“Why are you so eager to get us out of here, Sailor Asmus?” Soltic asked, turning a minimally-polite conversation suddenly cold.

The three of them were all standing because Sailor Asmus had stood a few minutes ago, and not even a few minutes into the meeting. He wanted them gone, and Soltic needed to know why.

Vanya’s smile grew strained.

Asmus frowned. Without rancor, he said, “Ever since That Damned Wizard upended the world a lot of people have gained a lot of different ideas about the best ways to protect Storm’s Edge from all the new threats and changes sweeping our way. Things have mostly settled down, but a lot of conflicts just got buried, to fester. The Blue Temple wishes to remain neutral in that conflict, and so I’m rushing you out of here before I accidentally chum the waters and get involved in whatever new-catastrophe your arrival heralds. I’m sure I’ll get involved soon enough, though.” He looked like he really wanted to say something, and he was having second thoughts, but he decided to speak anyway. “The last time someone tried messing with the dungeons we had a break that cost the lives of 76 people. If the damned fool hadn’t been killed in that break, then he would have been killed for gross negligence. It’d take a trial to figure out if he was actually guilty, though we all knew how that trial was going to go anyway. Whatever you do, don’t go making changes without clearing it with everyone else...” Asmus paused. He decided he had said enough. “Begone, and may waves carry you to good harbor.”

Soltic did a small bow, Vanya did a curtsy, then they left.
