The man’s eyebrows went up. “Have you tried any of the Grand Dungeons? They’re—”

A teller called out for the next person in line, which was the man in front of Soltic and Vanya.

“—OH! That’s me.” The man walked forward, saying to Vanya, “The name is Golariz Poloi. It was nice to meet you…?”

“Vanya Silver.” Vanya gestured to Soltic. “And the silent one is Soltic.”

Soltic nodded. “Goodbye.”

Golariz smiled a little as he turned and walked away to the teller, his bag floating at his side.

A teller called out for the next group.

Soltic and Vanya found themselves standing before a goldscale dragonkin with a book sitting in front of him that was not a book at all. It was more a sculpture of a book, made out of base iron, with a bunch of runic letters on it, and enchanted with a bunch of normal enchantments that were all fed by the local Node Network. You couldn’t tell that from the outside, though. Back in Candlepoint, Erick had strung his Node Network through the sky, but here at Portal the Node Network was buried in the walls and the ground.

With his fingers hovering over the runic book, with little rubber stoppers on his talons, the goldscale asked in a dispassionate voice, “Spell your names, please, and state your purpose of visit.”

“Vanya Silver. Soltic Cross.” Vanya spelled their names, then added, “Pleasure and Delving.”

A tiny light flickered blue above the iron book; the truthstone returned ‘true’.

Vanya could fool a truthstone. Soltic could, too, but Vanya was more comfortable with lying, so Vanya took the lead.

The teller barely cared. He tapped away at his book, lights flickering upon every rune as it was touched, magic filtering through the local system and then all the way back to all the rest of the Network, checking their names against established files. And then the teller flicked a button at the side of the iron book, and the light came on again, turning blue.

Now that whole thing right there was a rather insidious travel safety mechanism.

All names were logged in the Gate Network, through the Node Network, and if ever a dangerous name popped up then the system would get a log, and that log would be reported to House Benevolence itself. The light would turn red if it was a minor infraction that needed clarification. If there was a major problem, then the light would remain blue, but someone at the House would be alerted. Or, since this was Portal’s Local Area Gate Network, someone here in Portal would be alerted.

They’d also be alerted if this were the very first time that Soltic or Vanya used the system, but since they had used the system over in Candlepoint, that particular foible of security didn’t touch them. Still, though, there were so many ways to evade this system. This way of doing things didn’t catch everyone, but it did catch most normal people, and that was enough to scare away most everyone from trying shit. If Vanya had spelled their names differently, for instance, then that’d warrant a look-see from the local powers.

There was an easy solution to all that, though; a way for someone to evade the system and go unnoticed. But it required the inside help of someone from House Benevolence, which wasn’t that hard to achieve. Bribes, coercion. Whatever.

The system was a sieve, and Erick hated that for so many different reasons. Mostly, he hated that he needed to make the sieve at all.

It wasn’t that difficult for Soltic to look like the disgruntled man he was.

All this security was absolutely necessary for the safety of the system, but it smacked of Big Brother. Erick did not like that this was his life now; that he had made this happen this way. Even years later, he still didn’t see any other alternatives to this system, though. They had tried so many different ways, and when the system had been completely open… Bad things had happened.

And so, they had adopted this system that the various Guilds and both Geode and Mage Bank used to keep things in order, though their systems were considerably more secure. All in all, this way of doing things was probably fine.

… Probably.

Right on cue, Erick’s paranoia sprung up, demanding he check over himself and his surroundings and go over every possible way in which he could be discovered, and all the ways in which he had secured himself.

The first layer of defense was simply not being ‘Erick Flatt’, in Form. ‘Soltic’ was a solid Form, rather well-removed from his usual human form. Erick had even run through a few different cleaning situations, while he also kept his Forms separate, so DNA evidence wouldn’t get cross contamination’d from either of his Forms. All the rest of Erick’s defenses were conscious choices to leave behind all the truly magical things he usually carried around with him, that usually provided some modicum of defense but which stood out like beacons to any proper mana sense. All he really had on him right now were his dual [Personal Ward]s; the normal one that provided absolute damage reduction, and a secondary one around his core, which hid his core from all observers, among other things.

‘Soltic’ mentally came back to the moment—

“Anything to declare?” asked the teller, giving a half-bored glance to Soltic.

Soltic ignored it, and let Vanya speak.

“Just personal stuff; no goods for sale, or stuff like that,” Vanya said.

“Two silver,” said the teller, as he tapped the hole in the stone counter in front of him. “Right there.”

Vanya put two silver down into the coin slot. The silver coins rolled down the internal tubes, down into the counting systems of this LAGN, and a green light flickered on; they were good coinage.

“Proceed to Gate Left, inside Departure Square,” said the teller.

Vanya led the way and Soltic followed, as the teller called out ‘Next!’ to the people standing in line.

Soltic frowned a little, and not for any reason he could really discern; Soltic was simply a dour sort of guy.

They stepped into the Departure Square, where 3 different Gates sat around the courtyard-like space, each of them 5-meter-sized glowing-white squares, each with a different sky beyond. Rain fell heavily atop a [Weather Ward] beyond the right-side Gate, as lightning crashed overhead. The middle Gate held storm clouds. Gate Left, their destination, held a cloudy sky and a sparse courtyard in front of a city filled with people.

A few [Force Wall]s held in front of every single [Gate], though, preventing anyone from leaving until they were called to leave. That calling would come from the guards at a central control room, in the middle of the Departure Square.

Vanya led the way to the center of the courtyard, to the control room, which was basically a squat tower with three different runic controls and people operating those controls. She stepped up to the teller which controlled Gate Left and began to open her mouth—

The teller simply pointed over to Gate Left.

Vanya and Soltic saw glowing letters holding above Gate Left, saying ‘Storm’s Edge’.

Vanya smiled brightly, Soltic was stoic, and the two of them walked over to Gate Left, where the sky beyond was full of white clouds, and the land beyond looked like a city. The [Force Wall] in front of the Gate temporarily went intangible.

And they went through.

Just like that.

Easy as could be.

Behind them, they saw Departure Square briefly, before the connection between their lands flickered, and vanished. The people over at Portal’s control bank had switched the Gate to another location, severing Portal’s connection to Storm’s Edge as the [Gate] moved to some other destination; some other Local Area Gate Network. Portal actually had a whole collection of LAGNs these days.

Ophiel had not followed them through, though. He had taken off of Soltic’s backpack. He would rejoin them somewhere up ahead, because the Gates had ways of counting people and [Familiar]s, even if those [Familiar]s were invisible and intangible.

Soltic turned his sights back to Storm’s Edge.

The sky stretched overhead like it was Rozeta’s domain. The courtyard had dozens of other people walking through, coming in from other Gates, hurried on by a few guards in the center of the space, saying for everyone to move along.

Vanya led the way through the Arrival Square, into the city of Storm’s Edge, right into the tourist trap.

People came out of the Gate Network in one location, and so the people of Storm’s Edge had built the surrounding lands into one of absolute security, and also sales.

Everywhere people spoke of sales on jewelry or clothes or fruits, or to call out for tours of Everbless, or other places. ‘Buy this!’ ‘Buy this’! ‘Island tours here!’ ‘Hotel rentals here! Cheap!’

The air smelled of salt, but also of barely-[Cleanse]d life, and with a whole lot of spices thrown in for good measure. Cumin and turmeric. The colors were stone-brown and blue and white, with oranges and reds in smaller measures. Kids ran around everywhere, laughing and playing, with a few of them trying to steal from the newly-arrived. One of them even tried to steal from Soltic, and though Erick would have allowed it, Soltic gently grabbed the kid's hand as it darted into his pocket. The kid was absolutely terrified for a brief moment, but then Soltic narrowed his eyebrows at the kid and let him go.

The kid ran off, cursing all travelers, before Soltic could even say a word, not that he was saying many words these days.

Vanya did speak, but she had to talk loud to make her voice heard over the crowd. “Should have let him take it!”

“We need the money, too, Vanya.”

“We can make more!”

Vanya laughed loud, but it wasn’t nearly as loud as the crowds, as she led the way forward, into the dense streets of Storm’s Edge, here at the central ‘edge’ of Archipelago Nergal.

The Archipelago was roughly divided into East and West, where a major water channel flowed between two of the largest islands in the chain. The East side was anchored to the continent of Nergal by Eidolon, while the West side was anchored to Nergal by the Freelands. Storm’s Edge was on the Eastern half of the Archipelago, right at the dividing channel, where storms played havoc above the waves, and the waves themselves crested a hundred meters high on Sininindi’s more stormy days. There was a sister city on the other side of the channel, but it wasn’t anything special.

This land held some of the best fishing in the world, and if you could withstand the storms, it was damned safe living, for storms and lightning had a way of affecting the monsters in this land a lot more than the people. That was Sininindi’s blessing, of course. Back when there were lots and lots of monsters in the world, for a good 1440 years until Melemizargo made the dungeons, the Goddess of Storm and Sea brought a great deal of protection to her people in the form of lightning and rain.

Now, though, with most of the monsters inside dungeons, Soltic would have thought Sininindi’s worship would have stalled out a little, since a great deal of her worship had been people asking for safety from the monsters at sea, but from what Soltic was seeing, her worship had only grown. Probably because now she and her clergy could truly control the weather, through Everbless. Before now, Sininindi would have overstepped the God Pact if she were to directly control the weather all the time, for that would be her interacting too heavily in the world, and giving out too much magic. She, like Atunir with [Exalted Rain], had been able to go around the God Pact, thanks to Erick Flatt’s donated magic.

And Storm’s Edge had thrived for that. A million people lived in this mountainous land of stone and rain and dense rainforest. Even more lived on the surrounding islands.

As Vanya walked down a slightly less-dense road, onto a main thoroughfare, Soltic saw, for not the first time, the bounty of Sininindi, growing on the horizon.

Everbless was a grey tree, with a canopy of storm clouds and a crown of lightning. He was kinda small, though. He barely poked up above the buildings ahead, and once Vanya and Soltic walked down the road, into the main city, they wouldn’t be able to see him at all.

They’d get there soon enough, though.

As Soltic held the straps of his backpack, he followed alongside Vanya, down a nicer street, down to the wharf. The smell of salt intensified, and with it came the scent of fish and the sounds of sailors—

And finally Ophiel fluttered down from the sky, to land invisibly and intangibly onto Soltic’s backpack.

Erick felt himself relax a little. A quick check through Ophiel showed him that nothing was on fire here, and nothing was exploding back at the House, though a lot of people were freaking out in a lot of ways back there at Candlepoint.

The news of Erick’s actual absence would be getting around due to him missing some meetings and Kiri showing up in his place, but most people would assume he was off doing something important and that he would show when he needed to show. Kiri hadn’t taken her chair up to sit on the throne-dais of the House yet, but that was only days away, once Zolan and the other Overseers couldn’t hide the truth any longer and answers were demanded by allies and others. Erick hoped to have at least a week before—

Vanya glanced backward to Soltic and saw that he was worrying over everything. Instantly, he was more embarrassed than anything. He was the Apparent King, dammit. He shouldn’t be this nervous about anything.

But he was.

She didn’t say a word as she took his hand into hers.

That simple connection was divine. It was more than enough. Soltic let himself enjoy the simple warmth of Vanya’s hand, the sun on his face, and the freeing experience of simply being a person in the crowd. This was what he wanted by being incognito, wasn’t it? To get lost in the world. To just be himself for a little while.

Eventually he would go back to being the person that a lot of people the world over needed him to be.

But for now, he was just here, simply being ‘Soltic’, while Quilatalap was ‘Vanya’, and…

And Erick was happy.

- - - -

Soltic lost the sun beyond the clouds, past the tall buildings all around, as he stepped into cool shadow, and the wardlight that was there to keep those shadows at bay. The sounds of city life filled the air. Apartments, financial places, restaurants, and small corner stores stocked with anything anyone might need, but not as much as most people would want. Storm’s Edge was a cacophony of life on narrow streets, but also inside courtyards here and there, out of sight of the public. A child laughed somewhere nearby, and an argument took place between two men on a roof over there, while some old women talked about plants on the other side of the street.

