

“If I may impose on you for a moment.” Ren said and took out the All-Seeing Mirror. “Can you put your hand on this and remember the last time you saw monocerus in that province?”

Tatya closed her eyes and remembered the last time she had seen them, and the All-Seeing Mirror changed to show a wide pasture and 6 unicorns. Ren took out a large piece of parchment and reproduced the image, which made several people around them catch their breath in surprise.

Ren dismissed the quest popup and stored the mirror and parchment, then gave Tatya a quick kiss. “Thank you very much.”

“You're welcome.” Tatya said, and Ren liked that she wasn't flustered by the kiss, and she liked that he liked it.

“Come on! Let's go!” Teepo exclaimed.

Ren turned to Princess Diana and walked backwards towards the portal. “Bye! I'll come back and show you pictures of the baby!”

Diana waved to him, then Ren stopped walking and locked gazes with every single one of the representatives of the Pervaria Kingdom and ended with Kenkoth.

“That's twice now.” Ren said. “None of your people gave me Respect for my duel with Meccis or with Tatya.”

Ren felt their shock and he gave them a teeth-baring grin. “You're lucky I'm busy, or just like Meccis, I would challenge you all to a fight over the perceived insult.” He said, then he and Artemis stepped through the portal and it disappeared.

“Why did he warn us?” Tatya asked.

“So we can prepare ourselves to say no.” Kenkoth responded.

“Wh-what?”

“You saw what he did to Meccis in only a few seconds.” Kenkoth said.

“That wasn't deserving of Respect.” Meccis said, fully recovered. “He didn't prove his fighting skill at all.”

None of the representatives said anything in response, because Ren had shown that he didn't have to fight at all.

The healer stepped over to Kenkoth and held out the wand and the bracelet Ren had given him. “What do I do with these?”

“Until he returns, you should keep them.” Kenkoth said.

“He won't take them back even if he does return.” Diana said and they turned to look at her. “He gave them to you, so you should use them.”

The healer looked at her with wide eyes. “But...”

“He knows you will use them to help people.” Diana said. “He would be insulted if you didn't keep them or tried to give them back.”

“I... all right.” The healer equipped the bracelet again and stored the wand. “At least the wand should last a while before the charges run out.” He said and started to walk away.

“They won't run out.” Diana said.

The healer stopped and his head whipped around to stare at her. “Wh-what did you say?”

“It's rechargeable. Just add some Mana to it and it will refill the spells.”

A hush fell over the room as the healer took the wand back out and poured a little bit of Mana into it and the wand refilled the few charges he had used out of it.

“Good god.” The healer said and held the wand as if it was the most expensive thing in the world.
