I send another arrow at him, this time enhanced with two of my skills, Empowered Shot and Piercing Strike. A louder ring resonates through the air when it strikes his invisible armor, and Pacore is even forced to take a step back. That was a good hit!

But my enthusiasm is quickly doused by reality. Pacore recovers with no sign that my arrow did anything to him or his armor and continues to try and make this a close-quarters fight.

I usually would be Pacore's perfect counter because of how hard I can hit when I have time to prepare. A close-range tank against a powerful archer, the archer wins 99.999% of the time.

*Bang**Bang**Bang*

A loud noise behind me draws my attention. I see Scholl has started focusing their siege spells on the fort's main gate. Oh no, I need to hurry!

“Don’t look away from me!” I turn back to Pacore in time to see him activate a movement skill, possibly Double Step. He rapidly closes the distance between us and swings his sword at my head.

I lean back, avoiding the strike, only to watch Pacore twirl in place like an awkward dancer and bring his sword back around for a second strike.

I use my Dexterity to flip backwards, narrowly avoiding his second strike. I draw and lose another arrow at the man, but at this point, it's just a token response. I've hunted lesser dragons that were easier to wound.

I jump back, expecting another strike from Pacore, but he doesn't pursue me. "This is becoming disappointing; he says with a sad look on his face. I gave you time to recover, but it looks like you aren't a challenge without your special arrows." He stops down on one of my arrows at his feet.

"When I was dispatched by my king to deal with you, I was so excited. But after listening to Tellis describe how you killed the previous commander and dealt with our forces, I questioned if you had any more of your special arrows. After the fight with our assassin, it became clear you don't."

“I can still kill you!” I gnash my teeth at him.

“No, you can’t.” My anger further erupts when I see he has the gall to actually look sad at my weakness. "You should surrender. I stand by my previous promise, surrender, and I'll spare you and your men. They won't be able to hold out for much longer, this force was assembled to take the fort, and that's what we'll do."

I scoff at the old man. “Do I appear so weak to you? Just as you were ordered to take the fort, I was sent to defend it. I’ll stop you here and then kill your men before they ever step foot past our walls,” I boldly proclaim.

A sad smile forms across Pacore's face. "As you wish. It was probably foolish for me to ask such a question. Show me your resolve General Pitz, draw blood if you can; then I'll lay you to rest.”

Pacore starts walking towards me with a blank look on his face.

Like I’ll die that easily.

If he wants me to hit him so badly, I won't disappoint him. I nock another arrow and fire it straight at his head, looking for any disturbances in his skin or hair.

I dodge one of his strikes and then aim for his chest.

I again hit him square in the chest and study the reaction his armor has on his body. His armor and sword are still brimming with magic, and I don't think they'll run out soon. When I hit his head, the hair on top of his head and his braided beard moved as one, meaning his helmet is tightly hugging his skin with small holes for his facial hair to pass through.

But when I hit his chest piece, there was a moment before his clothes moved, meaning there’s a gap between his chest piece and the cloth I see through his armor.

I need to finish this, and I only have one option left. Jumping back, I rapidly extend the distance between us. I'm far enough away that he'll still charge at me and not draw me in by reactivating his attraction skill that draws in attacks.

I take up my full stance and draw the enchanted arrow from my quiver.

Pacore isn't stupid, he sees I'm trying something big, and he's all too happy to play along. Sick bastard.

I hope Norah enchanted this arrow to be strong enough.

I start activating my skills; Steady Hands, Exceptional Aim, Enhanced Perception, Strong Bow, Perfect Draw, and Reinforce Arrow, a new skill I recently picked up after working with weaker arrows than usual. I’ve been passively using it since our fight began, but now, I can use it to its full potential.

Pacore pays no mind to what I’m doing and continues to run straight at me.

Wait for it, I repeat to myself.

Thirty feet.

Twenty feet.

Ten feet.

I wait until the last second before I activate Instantaneous Strike when Pacore is right in front of me.

A sharp wailing sound pierces my ears, as I release my bowstring.

My Mana and Stamina rapidly drop as my arrow disappears as soon as my bowstring snaps back into place. The arrow only teleports a few feet before a black arrowhead materializes right up against Pacore’s clothes.

Everything happens so fast, Pacore doesn't realize I bypassed his armor until the hole where his heart should be, starts gushing blood. The red liquid that flows from his chest is more akin to tree sap than human blood, clotting to the naked eye.

Pacore starts to buckle forward.

I did it!

I…..

Pacore looks up at me with blood dripping from his mouth with a smile of ecstasy. He steps forward, and with a flick of his wrist, he runs me through with his sword before I can react.

I helplessly look down at the blade that’s skewering me through the stomach and collapse to my feet.

“That was a good hit,” I barely hear Pacore’s words.

I channel my remaining mana to the healing bracelet on my wrist. The two remaining magic gems shatter, and a large wave of healing mana washes through my body.

I can still fight.

I move to stand up and pull the blade out of myself, but my body doesn't respond. The healing energy released from my magic item is trying to heal the damage, but it's being drained into Pacore’s sword instead.

The small amount of healing mana that my body does absorb is only enough to push the feeling of death back a bit and clear my head a little. I fall back on the stony ground, looking up at Pacore, who's still bleeding from his chest.

“Healing item, huh. I never cared for them; alchemical solutions work slower but aren’t as easy to counter.” I watch, unable to speak, as Pacore reaches up and flips an invisible latch on the side of his head and peels his face guard open. He grabs two of the vials at his side and quickly drinks both. His flesh around the hole I put in him starts to wriggle and slowly mend itself back together like a mass of worms wriggling as one.

I want to shout for Cristopher to pepper the area with siege spells now that his face is open, but my lungs don't want to comply with me.

“Then again, it’s only because of my stats that I can heal like this,” Pacore takes the time to explain to me.

I feel the world becoming darker as my hands and feet become cold. So this is how I die.

"When I fight, it's hard for me to hit my opponents, and when I do, I quickly learned they always had a healing magic item on hand for emergencies. My scouts saw you using yours during the fight with Zekil. To bypass that pesky problem, I long ago commissioned a Dwarven sword enchanted to absorbed healing magic. Of course, that means I can’t use it myself, but that hardly matters to me.”

The sounds of the battlefield fade away to the point I can only hear Pacore.

“Thanks for not giving up. It has been a while since someone was able to make me bleed.” Pacore stands over me and yanks his sword out of me. I can’t even feel it as the blade leaves my flesh.

"Sleep well, general; it was fun while it lasted." Those are the last words I hear as I go to meet the Goddess Ebeon.
