I feel a different wave of mana enter my body and feel my arm closing. "You're not completely healed; I only removed the poison." The healer tells me with a sober expression. A quick check reveals half my Health is gone. "I noticed your body was recently exposed to a concentrated form of healing magic. Because of that, your Health will be slow to recover for the rest of the day.” Great, more good news.

Healing magic is truly a blessing, but it can't perform divine miracles. Each time a person is exposed to large amounts of healing magic, the body becomes slow to recover. Not the ideal situation with an army at your gates. "Is there anything you can do to speed up the process?"

The healer has the gall to actually frown at me. “I can put you to sleep? Studies have shown people heal faster while they’re sleeping.” I can’t help but frown myself. Did Scholl plan it this way, reducing my fighting capabilities before they even start their attack?

The healer raises her hands and chants a spell under her breath. A massive wave of white light cleans up the bloody mess I left behind, including the stains on my clothes. "Is there anything else I can help you with, general?" The healer stands up and dusts the black flakes from her clothes.

“What is your name?” I ask her as I slowly stand up.

“I’m Senior Healer Elease, general.” She promptly tells me. No last name meaning she joined the army as a commoner.

“Thank you for saving me, Elease.”

“Your high Vitality saved you, I mealy did my job. If the general is better now, may I return to the infirmary? I have a feeling we’ll be busy soon.” She asks in a no-nonsense voice.

“You may go,” I dismiss her.

She moves over to the stone steps leading to the courtyard but stops at the foot of the stairs and turns to me. “Please be careful, general. Few people openly say it, but it’s your presence here that gives everybody hope.”

Elease doesn’t wait for me to answer and makes her way down the steps. “Cheeky girl, does she not know I’m over double her age? If anything, I should be worrying about her, not the other way around.”

I put her out of my mind and stand up towards Scholl's camp. Scholl's entire base is shifting; the fortifications they've thrown up the last couple of weeks are being laid down in sections, being transformed into leveled campsites for their reinforcements. How could I have missed that?

I lean up against the stone watchtower and watch Scholl’s forces slowly gather as the fort around me becomes an ant hive of activity.

I won't say it out loud, but we're at the mercy of Scholl's forces, and all I can do is watch.

The fort's mood begins to plummet as people spread word of how many more Scholl soldiers arrived. We've bolstered our numbers through recruiting locals but our forces only near three thousand.

It will be a miracle if Scholl simply doesn’t charge our gates with their numbers.

I lean back in my chair in my office. I am looking between my captain's and squad leaders nervously shifting their feet during an impromptu morning meeting.

“What are they waiting for? It’s been almost sixteen hours; why aren't they attacking us?" A squad leader says what's on all of our minds. Maybe Scholl’s forces were more tired from their journey than I thought possible.

“Anything important to report, Cristopher?” I ask my steward.

He shakes his head, "I'm sorry, general, but there is nothing to report. Their army has long settled in. They didn't so much as test our defenses yesterday."

"Maybe we can wait them out until our reinforcements arrive?" A captain, hopefully, remarks. There’s no possibility of that happening.

But why are they waiting to attack? I've nearly recovered to my full strength. After all the effort they put into trying to kill me, I'd thought they'd charge the gates as soon as they settled. What can they be planning?

Everyone in the room has their head snap up when we hear the signal bell being wrung. I stand up from my desk, “Everyone, take up your positions.” The captain’s and squad leaders rush out my door to their battle stations.

I take the faster route and hop directly out my office window and onto the nearby ramparts. My Stamina and Health are hovering around 80%, but at least I've gained full motor control back.

Leaping over soldiers hurrying to their positions, I make my way to one of the central towers that looks over the canyon.

In the distance, I can see Scholl’s entire forces are mobilizing in mass.

They’re forming two ranks of soldiers with a large divide separating the two.

With my visual skills, I can see that they've adopted their previous style of organizing their forcers. At the front of the two forces are individuals with feathers adorning their uniforms. Some wear their feathers in hats while others have them clipped to their chests.

One, two… eight people are sporting feathers. Eight individuals above level 80, fuck me. And judging from that assassin earlier, I doubt they're in the low 80’s either.

Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

“Tellis, are our forces ready?” I ask the nervous commander as I stretch out my old joints.

“Yes, Master Pacore, our men are in formation and waiting on your orders,” he tells me.

“Good, any sign of General Pitz?”

“Our scouts place her on top of one of their towers.”

“Tell me, Tellis. Does she look ready for battle?” I look over at the man with a smile on my face.

His face loses a bit of color. “She has her bow and looks to be standing strong.”

“That’s excellent!” I can’t help but laugh.

Tellis looks like he swallowed something bitter until he works up the courage to ask me what’s on his mind. “Master Pacore, if I may, why didn’t we attack after the general was injured? We could’ve taken the fort soon after our reinforcements arrived."

“We could’ve,” I casually remark.

“Then why didn’t we?” Tellis asks, disbelief written all across his face.

“Because that wouldn’t have been sporting of us, now would it?” I tell Tellis with a savage grin plastered on my face.

“But Zikeil, he was one of our strongest men; why send him to kill the general in the first place?" Tellis stutters.

I slowly walk over to the inexperienced commander. He visibly cowers as I near him, until I'm standing over him. "I told you I would take you under my wing, so let me explain something to you. During the war, you don't have to just worry about your enemy; you have to worry about who is standing with you as well. You weren’t officially appointed as a commander, meaning until I showed up, your allegiance was in question."

“I would never turn on Scholl!” Tellis cries out.

"I never said you'd betray Scholl; I said your allegiance was in question." Tellis gives me a confused look, so I explain. "You should know our countries customs, the strong stand over the week and lead. Our king is the highest leveled person in our kingdom, but he is old. That may sound funny coming from someone as old as me, but I was around when the previous king passed. Different fractions centered around the highest leveled people in our kingdom are readying themselves for when the king passes, regardless of the problem our kingdom is facing.”

“When you took over the forces here, people started to notice you. Whoever was appointed by his majesty would meet with you first and pull you into their fraction.” Tellis finally realizes what I’m saying. “Zikeil was sent by another fraction to silence you during our siege on the fort. So, I sent him to test our opponent. If he succeeded, taking the fort would be child's play, and when he failed, it was simply one less person I had to watch during the fighting.”

“So, now I’m in your fraction?” Tellis hesitantly asks.

“You can say that.”

"Then, does that mean you wish to be the next king?" He asks wide-eyed.

I scoff at the idea. “Do kings get to step onto the battlefield?” I shake my head in disgust at the idea. “I serve the same king I’ve served for over a hundred years now, and I'll continue to serve his bloodline until I finally experience death. Serving under me means you serve the king's oldest son Kaliks Ven Heltan future leader of Scholl. Do you have any objections to that?" I ask, Tellis, not concealing my bloodlust.

“May the Heltan family forever rule Scholl,” he proclaims, dropping to one knee.

“Good, now go get everything ready while I make my final preparations,” I order him.

“Right away, Master Pacore,” I watch my new subordinate rush out of the tent.

There is one more reason I waited to take the fort; I think to myself as I adjust my equipment. General Pitz was able to kill Zekil and escape my hex mage proving she could put up a decent fight. When I make my entrance, she'll be forced to confront me, and I want her at her best.

I had Tellis spread the word that I wanted everybody rested for our big push today, which should’ve bought the general enough time to recover from her injuries, at least I hope so.

Now that I’m here, the fort is all but guaranteed to fall under our control. And it’s been so long since I had a decent fight, someone capable of making me bleed.

Pitz didn’t use one of her specialty arrows against Zekil or take a shot at our approaching forces when she had the chance. Most likely, she's out of her expensive arrows. The one we recovered from the soldier's corpse was amazing at channeling magic but wasn’t on par for someone like General Pitz.

I hope she proves me wrong.

Throwing my special cloak over myself and activating each of my magic items, my body starts to turn translucent before disappearing completely. I slip through my tent flaps, heading for my position at the front of the army. "Let the fun begin," I chuckle to myself.

General Emily Pitz’s Point of View:

“They’re moving closer,” Cristopher mumbles.

“I can see that,” I tell him in an even tone.

“Your orders, mam?” Cristopher looks at me like he’s expecting me to pull a miracle out of my ass.

“Send word to our best archers and the mage divisions to target the feather wearing bastards at the front. They'll be protected with magic and other defenses, but each we manage to kill will deliver a serious blow to the enemy. And contact Norah, tell her I want my arrow, whether it’s done or not.” I confidently rattle off some quick orders.

Cristopher is happy to revive my orders and quickly runs off to complete them. If only he knew how bleak I thought the situation is.

I don't have the heart to tell him I'm not confident in repelling Scholl this time. I'm not entirely recovered yet, and I'm out of my special arrows. I might score a lucky hit on the weaker soldiers, but even I won't be able to punch through the feathered commanders’ defenses with Aaliyah's regular arrows.

The only way I'll be able to do any significant damage is to leave the safety of the fort and challenge their higher-level forces at closer ranges, which is, of course, the worst way for me to use my skill set.

The world appears to slow around me as Scholl’s forces slowly march towards the fort in their weird formation. At some point, Cristopher returned with my enchanted arrow, but I sent him off to coordinate with the other units. I can feel the nervousness radiating from my men increase as Scholl's army's full size becomes apparent.

I’ve already given out my orders.

Everyone knows to hold their fire until after the first few of Scholl’s ranks enter our range. I myself have already picketed my target, A middle-aged man wielding two swords with a red feather pinned to his chest. As Scholl approaches, I notice their smiling faces.

Even as the feathered individuals enter our range, they continue strolling confidently forward. If I had just one more of my special arrows, I could wipe those smirks clean off their faces.

If they think this fort will fall without a fight, then they're sadly mistaken.

More and more of their faces get closer to our fort, only stopping when their mage units are in range to return fire on us.

A silence falls over the fort and is mimicked by Scholl's army. I notice most of the feathered individuals leading Scholl's army are watching me like they're waiting for me to make the first move.

“So be it,” I say to myself.

I raise my left hand straight up into the air and point at the invading army. A horn signals behind me, and every one of my soldiers on the walls release everything they have all at once.

In one motion, I draw and knock my first arow, only activating two of my skills as not to obliterate the projectile. I draw my bow back halfway and release my arrow with everybody else.

As a storm of arrows and magic sail across the open sky, I watch closely, hoping to pinpoint their barrier mages to target later.

Only Scholl's armies remain steadfast in their positions, and not a single counterspell comes to life.

What are they?

Suddenly I feel something shift in the air, and every arrow and siege spell we fired starts to turn mid-flight.

All our projectiles are drawn to the front of the gap, separating Scholl's forces.

Over a thousand arrows converge on a single spot, followed closely by a rain of fire. The resulting explosion rings in everybody’s ears. “How did they!?” I curse out loud. Is it a spell formation or something they secretly buried there?

I stare at the resulting crater, mouth agape.

My trained eyes pick out a ripple in the air.

In the crater's center, a man removes a cloak that now has multiple holes in it. It must have been a magic device meant to make someone invisible. I was so focused on the feathered soldiers; I didn’t inspect the divide.

My heart starts beating rapidly as I take the measure of the man that just tanked our first volley singlehandedly.

