General Emily Pitz’s Point of View:

Like a specter, I glide across the rocky ground, hugging the canyon wall. The loose terrain doesn’t slow me down in the least as I climb the steep canyon walls.

I’m nearing Scholl’s camp as I come up to the first lookout position I scouted before they arrived. I personally searched for the best vantage points for our scouts to use while keeping in mind they might need an escape route should they be discovered.

Our scouts and Scholl’s have had multiple run-ins with each other, but even though their scouts out leveled ours, it was thanks to my planning that our scouts were always able to escape entrapment.

This isn't good; I bend over and inspect the ground.

It’s faint, but I can see traces of someone approaching from the side and which direction they came from. The whole area has been swept clean, but my skills can pick out the minute details they missed. Whoever attacked did so without our scout having time to react. There wasn't a struggle, and based on the hidden drag patterns, they removed the body when they were finished.

I move onto the next spot and the next only to find the same hidden signs as I inspect each of vantage in turn.

If Scholl thought it needed to move against our scouts like this, they must be planning something big.

As a general, I should turn around and assign a unit to investigate rather than risk proceeding further by myself, but as someone used to acting as the scout, I know I’m the only one fit to figure out what Scholl has planned.

I activate Silent Footsteps and Hide Presence before I move forward. Thanks to my family's resources, I've always had a higher level than people my own age, so I've never had to be stealthy, leaving both of my skills at a low level. The only reason I have these two skills is so I can approach magic beasts that have already tried to run away from me.

I slowly creep along the canyon wall, scanning Scholl’s camp for anything new. I spot a few new fortifications they’ve slowly been building up but not much else.

Pushing farther into the canyon, I reach our scouts farthest vantage point that overlooks the first significant bend. The canyon isn't one strait ravine; it twists and turns through the rock.

“Shit!” I immediately curse. “That’s why they killed our scouts.”

Steadily moving across the canyons rocky floor is an army of Scholl reinforcements. I spot at least twenty thousand soldiers filling their way closer to Scholl's camp. That’s double the size of the forces they first sent to take the fort!

If we knew they were coming just an hour ago, we might have been able to send a small magic squad to ambush them, but they're too close now.

The fortifications Scholl has been constructing were only a front to make us think they were digging in for a long fight, while their reinforcements were on their way the whole time.

Turning around, “I need to get back to the fort and ready…”

My Danger Sense rings in my ears, and I immediately throw myself to the side. My keen eyes track a steel blade as it flashes inches away from my throat.

The assassin that materialized out of nowhere doesn’t let up just because his first strike missed. His figure blurs as he activates a movement skill and tries to flank me from my left. His duel daggers held in a reverse grip are aimed at any of the seams in between my armor.

I can tell just by his movements that he’s around level 90, someone even I have to be wary of.

Assassins are known to employ poisons, and even a single nick from his blade can be troublesome for me.

He expertly closes the distance between us and keeps me on my back foot, trying to keep me from drawing one of my arrows.

This is why I prefer to hunt magic beasts; they don’t have strategies to deal with me the first time we meet.

The assassin uses his movement skill again to keep pressuring me, not caring how quickly he’s burning through his Stamina. If he gives me a single opening or hesitates for a moment, I’ll be able to hit him with an arrow.

Unfortunately, my wait-and-see approach is quickly discarded when my senses pick up three more people rapidly approaching us from all directions. And I highly doubt it’s my missing men.

Even if the assassin’s backup isn’t as high leveled as him, having to deal with another three close-range fighters isn’t my specialty.

I’ll have to pay a price to kill my opponent before this becomes more complicated.

Continuing to dodge his whirlwind of blade strikes, I activate Fast Hands. In one flawless motion, I'm able to retrieve an arrow from my quiver. The assassin presses harder, not giving me the chance to nock my arrow.

All I need is a single opening.

I shift my stance to my back leg, but the ground underneath shifts from my spontaneous movement. My stance crumbles as I start to fall backwards.

The assassin doesn't miss the opportunity and swings his left blade at my exposed neck. I bring up my bow and deflect his first strike, only to have him attack a second time with his right blade. I try to block his second strike with the arrow in my other hand, but I can't…

I feel the assassin's dagger rub up against my neck.

Quickly channeling my mana, a cracking sound like shattering glass rings out from my arm. One of the three gems on my right bracer cracks and crumbles to pieces, instantly sending a healing wave of mana throughout my body. Before his dagger’s blade even leaves my neck, the wound is already closing.

Using the arrow in my right hand, I copy the assassin's strike and jab my impromptu weapon into his own throat. With my Strength, the arrowhead slices through his neck, and the tip pokes out the back. I rip the arrow back out, opening up a wider hole in the assassins’ throat.

I watch as panic quickly flickers through my opponent's eyes. His high stats ensure he remains alive just long enough to realize he’s going to die.

Even though I dealt a mortal blow to the assassin and everything went according to my plan, I’m still falling backwards with more enemies soon to arrive.

Taking my bow and stabbing it into the ground, I use my Strength to reorientate myself. I flip backwards and land on my feet in time to watch the assassin fall to the ground in a bloody mess. With a quick tug, I yank my bow out of the rock and knock the bloody arrow.

I release my shot as soon as the first Scholl soldier appears around a corner. His level doesn’t match his deceased counterpart, and my arrow easily pierces his chest, bulls-eyeing his heart.

I don’t wait for the other two approaching soldiers to show up, choosing to rush back to the fort immediately.

Through the corner of my eye, I see a few of Scholl's battalions setting up to launch siege spells and arrows in my direction.

And here I thought I wasn’t noticed.

I draw in a huge breath of air and push my body to its limit. My limbs are slowly going numb, meaning the assassin was using a poisoned blade, and it's strong enough to bleed through my Poison Resistance skill.

I watch the first siege fireball spell sore through the air and explode behind me. Even suffering through the poison, I'm still too fast for them to lock on with such slow-moving spells.

The next fireball is already on its way, but just like the last time, I'll…

All at once, I feel a quarter of my remaining Stamina being drained away, causing me to slow!

“Shit, I know this feeling!” I curse.

I activate a magic ring on my left hand, and the stamina drain stops. The fireball is closing in on me, and this time it’s close enough that the blast will hit me. Activating my movement skill, Long Leap, I make it out of the spells blast radius just in time.

“Who brings a hex mage on a military campaign?” I protest.

The same people who brought an assassin capable of harming me, that’s who. Hex mages focus on debuff magic that works with line of sight. Even the highest leveled hex mages can only cast small area of effect spells, making them worthless in a siege.

That means they’re here solely to deal with me. If I were any slower killing the assassin, the hex mage probably would've had time to curse me during the fight.

I keep running, but I scan Scholl's forces again, looking for anyone sporting a feather like the assassin or commanders I saw leading their reinforcements. A hex mage able to curse me at this distance is definitely over level 80.

But sadly, no one stands out.

A few arrows from high leveled archers reach up the canyon walls, but I easily dodge them.

Once I have a generous distance between me and Scholl's camp, they stop wasting their mana and arrows, knowing they won’t be able to hit me.

Racing back to the fort, I feel my limbs become heavier and notice they aren’t responding as they should. My bracelet has three; no, now two charges left. Each can send a strong wave of healing mana throughout my body instantly but only to close wounds. I wish I had an artifact to cure poison, but Poison resistant artifacts are rarer than their healing counterparts because poisons vary to such a degree. You could be covered in head to toe in artifacts, and you could still be affected by a poison you weren't prepared for.

I've fought many magic beasts that use poison, and my resistance skill is pretty strong, yet my body is still shutting down on me.

I see the walls of the fort growing bigger as my vision starts to become fuzzy. Using the last of my Stamina and Strength, I launch myself up onto the ramparts.

I vaguely hear voices around me, but I can't make out what they're saying. "Poison! Get the medical corps," I wheeze out.

Remaining still, I enter a meditative state. The more I can reduce my heart rate; the less the poison will spread.

Scholl was more than enough prepared for me, ambushing me with such a potent poison and making sure I struggle to run away.

I feel a prick on my forearm and targeted healing magic applied to my body. Healing magic for poisons is a nasty business. The foreign healing magic subverts my mana network and gathers all my infected blood in my body, and pulls it to the opening in my arm.

Because I had to move so much after being stabbed, the poison spread through most of my body, and if it wasn't for my high Vitality removing the poison itself could kill me.

I start to feel my arms and legs again, and my head becomes clear enough to listen to the people gathered around me.

“General, are you alright!?” Cristopher’s panicked voice rings the loudest in my ears.

“Will you be quiet! I’m trying to work,” the healer sitting next to me berates my steward.

“That’s a lot of blood.”

“Do you think she’ll be alright?”

By the sound of it, more than one soldier is close by.

My vision is the last of my senses to return.

“General Pitz!” Cristopher exclaims when I finally open my eyes again.

“Will you stop yelling, you’re giving me a headache,” I snap at him.

“How do you feel?” The female healer asks me.

She has a mage’s star on her chest, meaning she's one of the fort's senior healers. "I'm light-headed from the blood loss," I tell her.

"That's to be expected. It's amazing you're alive in the first place." She says, remaining focused on the incision on my left arm. A nearby bucket is filled with black blood, and a second is close to filling up as she drains more from my system.

“Cristopher, is the fort on high alert?”

“General, you should remain still. I haven’t finished your treatment yet,” the healer urges me.

I ignore her suggestion and stare at Cristopher until he answers me. “Yes, general. The fort and the supply corps in Teeburn are on alert. What happened to you?” He nervously asks.

“Scholl has reinforcements marching through the canyon, maybe twenty thousand strong.” Everyone around us gasps at the news. “They must have assumed if they took out all our scouts, I would be the one to investigate. They had a high leveled assassin and a hex mage for support.” I watch traces of fear flicker across everybody’s faces, even the healer losses control of her magic for a moment.

“How far are they out?” Cristopher inquires.

"Maybe an hour or two. I don't know if they're well-rested or not," I tell him.

“That means they can attack us in as little time as four hours or any time after that.” He darkly remarks.

“Scholl isn’t known for their patience. I’d say they’ll attack sooner rather than later.” I inform Cristopher. "Go double-check everything around the fort and send word to the supply corps and our reinforcements. We need them to pick up their pace."

Cristopher sends me a worried look before taking off.

“How much longer until you’re done?” I ask the healer.

"Would the general prefer it if I rush the process?" I'm a little taken back by her blunt attitude, but I can respect it. It’s been a while since someone hasn’t cringed at the sight of me. I wonder if it’s because she could use her magic to siphon the rest of the blood from my body that she’s not scared of me?

I look away from her, not answering the superfluous question. The few other soldiers standing around me do flinch when I meet their eyes. "What are you all standing around for? We're on high alert; get back to your posts." My lips form a small smile as they trip over one another to rush back to their posts.

Only one soldier remains because he’s supposed to be stationed where I collapsed. He walks over to the wall and watches Scholl’s camp, trying to distract himself from his bloody superior lying on the ramparts behind him.

