“I did say that. I wasn’t about to risk good warriors if the ruins were infested. But if you lot survived, my guardsmen can clear out the rest. We’ll be confiscating all the treasures we find in there, along with anything else left behind.”
So they could take all the treasure before Erin’s group could come back for it. In theory. Ryoka hoped Erin wouldn’t mention the empty treasury just so Zevara could choke on dust for an hour or two searching. But Erin wasn’t concerned about sticking it to the man. She was more concerned about Ceria and Olesm. She pointed at them indignantly, raising her voice.
“Hey, we’ve got injured—well, starved people here! They need food and rest! Why don’t your stupid guardsmen help with that?”
Zevara shook her head impatiently.
“I’ve got no time for those fools who unleashed—”
She paused and stared past Ceria at Olesm. She frowned, took one step forwards, and then gasped.
“Olesm? You were down there?”
Olesm waved weakly at Zevara.
“Hi, Captain Zevara.”
“So that’s where you slithered off to! We were wondering what happened to you!”
Relc laughed and strode forwards. He slapped Olesm on the shoulder, so hard the other Drake fell down. Klbkch helped Olesm back up on his feet.
“Oops. But I kept thinking that a zombie ate you during the attack. But you were down there the entire time? How was it?”
“Hello, Relc. Um, it was—”
“Move aside, you idiot!”
Zevara shoved Relc aside as she moved towards Olesm. Her tail twitched anxiously as she inspected him.
“You’re a mess. But I am glad you’re okay, Olesm. If I’d known our [Tactician] was down there I would have sent help. But now that you’re here we’ll make sure you make a full recovery.”
He blinked at her a few times.
“I am quite grateful, Captain.”
Olesm was still clearly out of it. Zevara looked at him with genuine concern. She turned and started shouting, which made both Olesm and Ceria wince and cover at their ears.
“Get a mage and healing potions for him right now!”
“And for Ceria! She needs help too!”
Erin glared at Zevara. The Drake glared back.
“The adventurers who caused all this can eat dirt for all I—”
She hesitated and glanced at Olesm and bit back her words.
“—That is, we will discuss this later. For now, we’ll treat them. Both of them.”
Guardsmen approached quickly, holding healing potions. Zevara turned towards Erin and Ryoka, and began snapping orders.
“Now, I want you to tell me how many undead you saw, and how many are left. If there are any traps I want their locations. Better yet, one of you two humans or Ksmvr will come with me and show me—”
“Excuse me.”
Zevara ignored the soft voice. But Relc turned his head and tensed up. He grabbed at his spear and stepped back and Klbkch put his hands on his swords. Zevara was too busy arguing with Erin to notice, but when she realized Ryoka was staring right over her shoulder rather than at her, she turned around.
“Who in the name of Dragons is—”
She stopped. The angry words were sucked out of Zevara as if by a sponge made of sound. The guardsmen around her stared. There was something about her, some quality that attracted attention.
Perhaps it was her mottled brown armor, or the curved sword that looked expensive as it was deadly. Or maybe it was her unique appearance, or her status. It might have been all these things or nothing, but everyone stared at her. They couldn’t help it.
The person they were staring at stared back. She was quite good at that.
Gazi, the half-Gazer Named Adventurer smiled at the collection of guardsmen and the party led by Erin and Ryoka. Her main eye focused on both Erin and Ryoka longest before it swiveled back to Zevara. Gazi inclined her head politely.
“Good day to you, Watch Captain, guardsmen.”
Ryoka stared at Gazi. She barely remembered the adventurer’s name, but the place she had met her stuck in her memory. The dead Gnoll bodies, each one beheaded neatly, flashed before her eyes.
Erin had no such memory, and she smiled at Gazi, albeit with confusion. But the others were transfixed. The guardsmen and Olesm were in awe, Relc and Klbkch were in suspicion, and Ceria was suddenly in deep trepidation.
Gazi nodded at Erin and smiled again.
“Erin. It has been a while, hasn’t it?”
“Um. Yes?”
It took even Zevara a second to regain her voice. But when she did, she glared at Gazi. She didn’t quite shout or snap at her, but her tone was brusque.
“Gazi. This is official business of Liscor. We don’t need any adventurers. Please remove yourself from the area—”
“Hm. You are quite annoying.”
Gazi cut Zevara off. It took the Drake a moment to blink at her, but then she spluttered in outrage. She raised her voice, and Gazi unsheathed her sword.
Ryoka saw the blade flash out of its sheathe in slow motion. Slow motion, but Gazi still moved like a blur. In less than a second it was in her hand. She unsheathed it, seemed to pause and smile at Ryoka, and then turned towards Zevara.
Gazi raised her sword and stabbed Zevara in the stomach. The curved blade exited Zevara’s back and Gazi twisted the blade as she pulled it out.
“What do—”
Zevara choked on the words, as the shock of what had happened caught up to her. She stared down at the gaping wound in her stomach, blinked at Gazi, and fell down.
Shock and silence reigned. Everyone stared at the fallen Watch Captain, save for Gazi. She turned back to Ryoka and Erin. Something was in her hands. A scroll, marked with shining golden letters that glowed even brighter in the light.
“Greetings, Ryoka Griffin and Erin Solstice.”
Gazi smiled even wider.
“I’ve been looking for you.”
