“Rags did.”
Pisces choked on one of the sandwiches and coughed as he stared at Rags. The Goblin scratched at one ear and looked around defiantly.
“A Goblin and an [Innkeeper].”
“Lots of Goblins, Workers, and Klbkch and some Soldiers too.”
Ceria shook her head.
“Ha. Course. It’s just—”
She began to giggle, and then to laugh. Ryoka blinked. Ceria started laughing hysterically. Erin reached out and steadied Ceria as the half-Elf laughed until she choked and began to cry.
“I’m—I’m sorry. It’s just…”
She laughed again, a short barking exclamation. Ceria stared wide-eyed ahead, face caught in a taut grin.
“I know. He nearly killed me. And he killed almost all of my friends. And a lot of the City Watch.”
Erin held Ceria as the mage began to shake again. Ryoka felt helpless. She wasn’t the type of person to reach out and comfort someone. But she wished she was.
“He’s dead.”
“Thank you.”
Ceria said it quietly as her tears leaked into Erin’s shirt. She looked at Ryoka.
“Thank you so much.”
Ryoka shook her head.
“I didn’t do anything.”
“You came for us. Thank you.”
“Yes, thank you.”
Olesm bowed his head at Ryoka. She nodded back, feeling like a worthless piece of trash. She hadn’t done anything. In a very real way, she was even more of an outsider to this moment than Ksmvr and Toren, who were watching silently as they stood guard. They’d fought the undead and this Skinner. All she’d done was get here too late.
“Ahem.”
Pisces cleared his throat noisily. When Ceria looked at him, he flashed her a condescending smile.
“I believe part of that thanks belongs to me. I did receive your message, after all. Without my urging, we would never have gone looking for you. I also eliminated quite a swath of the undead during the battle.”
Erin and Ryoka both frowned at Pisces. Erin opened her mouth to scold him, but Ceria nudged her very gently.
Ceria turned to Pisces and bowed her head deeply.
“Thank you, Master Mage.”
She said it without a trace of irony or sarcasm. Pisces blushed and looked away.
“Yes, well. We Wistram students must stick together, mustn’t we?”
“If we’d brought you along in the expedition…”
Ceria shook her head. Ryoka wanted to know what happened, but she wasn’t sure now was the time to ask.
“What happened?”
Erin looked at Ceria, concern in her eyes. The half-Elf closed her eyes and for a moment Ryoka worried it would be too much to ask. But then she began to speak.
“It started when we got to the second floor. Everything had been going fine before that. We’d run into a nest of Shield Spiders, but nothing besides that. But then we met a group of zombies…”
Ryoka listened to an abbreviated version of all that had happened up to Skinner emerging from the treasury doors.
“It must not have been locked. That thing was just waiting inside for the right moment. He killed Cervial, Gerald, and half of us in moments. And then when we arrived and tried to make a stand—”
Ceria closed her eyes and shook her head. Another tear formed unshed in her eyes.
“He killed them all. Gerial, Sostrom…he tore off Calruz’s arm. I couldn’t even fight back while he was staring at me.”
She looked at Erin.
“You avenged them. Thank you for that.”
Erin shook her head, but not in denial. She looked at Olesm.
“And what happened to you?”
Ceria smiled at Olesm.
“He saved my life.”
The scales around Olesm’s face turned a light red as everyone looked at him. He demurred.
“I didn’t do much. I just ran when that thing appeared and dragged Ceria into one of the coffins. It was all I could do.”
“He saved my life.”
Ceria said simply. She showed the others her frostbitten hand.
“I could barely move and a Ghoul was savaging me. He stabbed it from behind and used a healing potion to mend the worst of my wounds. If he hadn’t been there, I would have died.”
Erin reached over and patted the Drake on the shoulder.
“Good job, Olesm.”
He blushed and shook his head again silently. Ryoka looked at Ceria’s hand and hesitated.
“Is that how you lost…?”
Ryoka indicated Ceria’s hand. The half-Elf looked down and laughed. The fingers didn’t move, but she seemed to be able to move the blackened stump just fine and without any pain.
“This? No. I—well, I used a spell above my level, that’s all.”
Pisces peered at Ceria’s hand, frowning at the blackened skin.
“I can sense the magical residue. Frost spell? [Glacial Spear]?”
“Nothing so fancy. I just used up all the magic in my wand; that’s all.”
“You idiot.”
Erin glared at Pisces again, but Ceria just nodded.
“I had to create an opening for the others.”
She paused.
“The others. Yvlon was trying to get away. Do you know if she…?”
Erin exchanged a glance with Pisces and shook her head.
“I uh, didn’t ask. Some adventurers survived.”
“Yvlon did.”
Ryoka nodded at Ceria. The half-Elf hesitated, looking at Ryoka’s face.
“Is she…?”
“She’s catatonic. She doesn’t speak or move.”
“I see.”
Ceria bowed her head and closed her eyes. Again, Ryoka didn’t know what to say. Saying ‘at least she’s alive’ seemed crass even to her. She cleared her throat and looked around instead.
“This Skinner. How do you know his name?”
This time Olesm explained. He pointed at the writing on the wall Ceria had translated and everyone looked up. Pisces frowned and cast the same spell Ceria had, while Ryoka stared at the engraved symbols.
“Now how’d we miss that?”
Erin asked indignantly, and Ryoka echoed the question in her head, only with more self-rebuke. They’d completely missed that detail. And it was a damn important one, if this Skinner had had siblings.
“Huh.”
It was completely incomprehensible to Ryoka, but the writings reminded her of Arabic or another Central Semitic language. It was flowing and elongated, which put her in mind of Drakes. That was jumping the gun of any hypothesis though.
Ryoka hesitated and looked at the others. Should she…? But Pisces had already heard too much and Ceria had seen it already. She took out her iPhone and switched it on.
The screen glowed to life. Ryoka looked at the battery level. 24%. Surprisingly high, given how long she’d been using it, but Sostrom’s [Repair] spell must have restored the failing battery as well.
Sostrom. Ryoka’s heart hurt, but she pushed the feeling aside. She raised the iPhone as she switched to camera mode.
Ryoka’s iPhone lit up the inscriptions for a moment and emitted the classical shutter closing sound. Rags stared at Ryoka’s iPhone as if dumbstruck. Pisces blinked and frowned and Olesm gaped.
“What was that? Is that some kind of magical object?”
“Something like that.”
Ryoka put her iPhone back in its holster as Pisces stared at it covetously. She noticed Rags staring at the device as well and resolved never to drop it or leave it unattended.
“I’ve never seen anything like that. Is that steel and glass?”
Olesm paused. His eyes widened and he turned to Ceria.
“Oh. She’s the crazy violent Runner girl you told me about? The one with no levels?”
Ceria laughed and coughed at the same time. Olesm blinked, and then realized what he’d said. His tail lashed the ground nervously as he held up his hands.
“I didn’t mean—what I meant by that was—”
It wasn’t how a rescue was supposed to go, Ryoka was certain. But it was real, and reality beat a fairytale ending every time. They still had to get out of the ruins of course, and Erin had just realized Pisces ate the last sandwich she’d packed. There was confusion and anger and dust and empty coffins and the still-present smell of feces, but…
Ceria was still alive.
Ryoka was saved.
 
—-
 
And when she had a spare moment, Ryoka walked away from the others. The wide passageway was still empty of any moving corpses, but that wasn’t what Ryoka was concerned with.
She walked past rotting piles of…muscle. Organs. Bone. It was impossible to really say. She had no wish to disturb the dead, and the shapeless mounds sickened her.
But she looked anyways. Ryoka paused next to a piece of armor covered in redness. She squatted down and tried not to vomit on the remains.
Was it him? Ryoka could barely remember what armor Gerial had been wearing. And Calruz—how would she even tell? She could look for bigger bones, she supposed.
It wasn’t right. This wasn’t right. She couldn’t even bury them, even if she knew which ones they were. She could—put them in a coffin? How? Lift up the entrails and guts with her hands? Use a shovel? A bag?
It was all wrong. All so wrong. And Ceria was alive—Ryoka had to prioritize her. But her heart hurt.
“Too slow. And too weak.”
Far too weak. She hadn’t even killed a zombie coming down here. Of all of the people who’d come to save Ceria, Ryoka had been the most useless in the end.
“To be fair, I do not believe anyone expected much of you.”
Ryoka looked up and turned around. Pisces was standing behind her. He raised his hands as she stared at him.
“I merely followed you to ensure your safety. It would not do for something to ambush you.”
Was that the reason? Ryoka stared at Pisces and then mentally shrugged. She stood in the corridor and stared at the dead remains. After a while she turned and began walking back. Pisces followed her.
“It occurs to me that we have little to discuss.”
“That’s about right.”
They didn’t speak for several more minutes. Now this, this was what Ryoka was used to. Awkward silence and trite conversations. She searched for something to say.
“Thanks for your help, though.”
“Think nothing of it. For my part, I am…relieved Ceria is alright.”
“You know her?”
Pisces hesitated.
“We have a history. Not so much a relationship as a passing acquaintance, but once—suffice it to say that we were students in Wistram together, and that we were once…friends. I felt the world would be poorer for Springwalker’s absence, that is all.”
“I see. It’s good you came.”
“Yes. I agree.”
More silence.
“That artifact you used…it is quite interesting.”
“It is, isn’t it?”
“Might I see it? I promise to be quite careful.”
“Mm. Maybe someday.”
“Ah. That would be a polite way of saying ‘never’, would it not?”
“Yep.”
They walked on. It was quite far to get back to the room with coffins, but Ryoka felt running and leaving Pisces behind would be a faux pas. She was tempted to do it, though.
After an interminable amount of time, Pisces spoke again.
“Would you consent to letting me inspect that device if I told you there is a strong trace of magic on it?”
Ryoka stopped. Pisces nearly ran into her. She stared at him.
“You can see that?”
“Yes. It’s quite obvious to me. I suppose Springwalker was distracted, but I can…sense something. Was some sort of [Message] spell cast here, by chance?”
Ryoka hesitated. Weigh the options. But it might be worth the risk.
“Yes.”
“And it was linked to that device somehow. Well, I may be able to recover that conversation if you should wish it?”
“You can do that? How?”
Pisces smiled enigmatically, or in a way he probably thought was enigmatic. It looked smug, to Ryoka.
“I was a student at Wistram. That spell uses their methods as its base. Any older student learns to pick apart the incantation to see what is spoken. Hence the unique version of the spell Ceria and I know.”
“It won’t damage…whatever that is. And I can be trusted to be discreet.”
Again, Ryoka hesitated. Think. If he learned the details of the conversation…well, was the cat out of the bag already? But he was offering to restore the conversation, which would be extremely helpful.
Ceria could do it. But after how many days? More importantly, what was the real risk? If he knew…
The world would soon know. And far more dangerous people than he had already figured it out. Ryoka handed him her iPhone.
“Here.”
Pisces held the slim phone extremely carefully as he studied it. But after a cursory glance at the construction of the device, he seemed to peer at something else, some invisible substance hovering in the air around it.
Ryoka wished she knew what he was looking at. She was able to cast magic…or one spell to be exact. But even though she tried to focus her eyes, she saw nothing.
“Quite astonishing.”
“You can see what was cast?”
“Yes—an odd messaging spell. Some kind of written communication system? It’s very…bright.”
Ryoka realized he must be looking at the chat log, the magical screen that had appeared when she answered the call.
“I didn’t realize it would still be visible.”
“Yes, well, the magic cast for this spell is several magnitudes greater than…almost any spell I’ve seen before. It must originate from Wistram. I would know that even without the spell signature. Only they would be this moronic.”
He rolled his eyes and shook his head in disdain. Ryoka looked at him. It was always nice to meet someone who liked to talk if they had something worth hearing.
“What makes you say that?”
He gestured to the iPhone. The air seemed to shimmer at his fingertips.
“It’s the nature of this spell. I—have no idea how it was done, to be honest. I can only speculate that a high level mage, or several of them used a [Far Speaking] spell combined with some kind of location spell and this…thing. I imagine a [Message] spell accounts for this, but it would require an insane amount of mana.”
“Why?”
“If one person were to ah, write in this discussion, everyone who received it would necessitate a [Message] spell. It’s a complex bit of magic and the cost would be multiplied by the number of participants. So many messages…only those fools at Wistram would have the magic to cast such a spell.”
Ryoka thought she understood Pisces’ disdain. If what he was saying was right, the conversation she’d taken part in had an exponential cost with each user that joined.
Sixteen times…at least fifty, possibly a hundred messages in the chat. A thousand and six hundred spells cast? No wonder voice chat was out of the question.
The air was beginning to waver. Pisces frowned and his hands began to glow even brighter, shedding tendrils of blue light that flowed together to form the screen again.
Ryoka blinked as the chat log came back into focus. It hovered in the air over her iPhone, a blue screen with white text. Pisces was sweating.
“I ah, seem to have miscalculated. Even restoring this log seems to be taxing me quite unduly.”
“I’ve seen most of the details. Here. Give me that.”
Ryoka took the iPhone from Pisces as he frowned and more magic flowed out of his hands. Ryoka quickly scrolled down the chat, pausing a few times. Pisces’ eyes darted left and right, trying to read. She didn’t give him much time, though.
