Ryoka got to the end – where she’d signed off as batman, and suddenly stopped. She saw the notification for her logging out, but there was more text below it.
Pisces peered over Ryoka’s shoulder as she read the conversation between [Kent Scott] and [twinTrouble_53]. Her mind was spinning, and that was before she read the brief message in Japanese at the bottom.
“Now that is interesting.”
The chat log abruptly vanished. Pisces lowered his hands and mopped at his brow.
“You okay?”
“I am fine. Just…taxed.”
Pisces took a few deep breaths, steadying himself. He pointed at Ryoka’s iPhone.
“More importantly, I fear your desire for anonymity might be in vain, Miss Griffin. That short conversation contained more import than the rest of your fascinating…discussion. There is a name to frighten those fools at Wistram.”
“You mean twinTrouble?”
“…Yes. This twin trouble character revealed himself to the other one, did he not? After you had ah, closed the connection. The name he called himself. Flos.”
Ryoka nodded.
“I’ve heard of him. Flos. The King of Destruction.”
“None other.”
Pisces exhaled slowly and wiped the rest of his sweat away with the hem of his dirty robe.
“Flos. If the sleeping king has indeed awoken, it means this world is about to change. Quite dramatically too, if I’m any judge. Well, even the meanest [Soothsayer] would be able to predict that.”
Ryoka frowned. She’d read about the King of Destruction in a list of contemporary world powers. The entry had been short and intriguing, but all the details had been recorded in another volume she hadn’t bought.
“Tell me about him.”
Pisces shrugged.
“What is there to say?”
He caught himself and glanced at Ryoka.
“Ah. Well, to one who might not…know of him, Flos is a king who was once poised to rule over nearly half of the civilized world. He abandoned his kingdom however, and for twenty years he has slumbered in his decaying capital. Until now.”
“Sounds dangerous.”
“Quite.”
They didn’t have the rhythm that Erin seemed to generate in her conversations. Pisces politely picked at his robe while Ryoka stared at her phone. The mage seemed to think for a second and added a second casual detail.
“The mages at Wistram were quite afraid of him, even inactive as he was.”
“Oh, really?”
“Yes. I suppose you don’t know that the greatest mages living gather every ten years to deliberate on the future?”
“I did not know that. Do tell.”
“They gather together to ponder recent events and plan for the future.”
“Like. A think tank?”
“A what?”
“Nevermind.”
“Yes, well, one of the things the gathering did was attempt to predict what calamities might befall the world. They created a list of the most likely disasters that might destroy civilization or eradicate life as we know it. Flos was named the eighth likeliest candidate so long as he lived.”
Ryoka paused. She opened her mouth, closed it, and tried again.
“Really?”
“Oh yes.”
“One man?”
“Well, his kingdom would follow him wherever he went. Say rather it was his potential the mages feared.”
“Why number eight? Is there any special reason for that?”
Pisces shrugged indifferently.
“The mages speculated that it is far more likely he would conquer the world or be stopped. Destroying everything is an outside chance, as it were.”
“But still the eighth most likely chance.”
“Yes.”
Ryoka pondered that for a moment.
“Did this gathering determine how likely it would be that he’d actually conquer the world.”
Pisces smiled.
“They did.”
“And?”
“He has a 30% chance depending on a number of factors.”
“I see.”
“Quite. I imagine all those able to retrieve a log of this message would be quite alarmed. Word is probably spreading by spell and letter as we speak.”
What was Ryoka supposed to say to that?
“Mhm.”
Pisces stared at Ryoka. Ryoka stared at Pisces. There didn’t seem to be anything more to say. After a moment, Ryoka coughed in a fake way into her fist.
“We should probably get back to the others.”
“Quite. I trust Ceria and Olesm are well enough to walk by now.”
They were.
 
—-
 
“We should talk.”
“About what? Aren’t we talking already?”
Erin wondered why Ryoka was trying to corner her in one part of the massive coffin room, but the other girl seemed insistent.
“I know we don’t have time now, but we need to have a long conversation.”
“About what?”
Ryoka gave Erin a flat look, but Erin wasn’t sure what for. After a moment, the Asian girl shook her head.
“About us. About this world, about how we came here and what’s happening.”
“Oh. You mean talk about everything.”
“More or less.”
“Well, now’s not the time. Ceria thinks she can walk so…”
“Of course not now. Once we get back, I mean. At your inn, or somewhere private.”
“My inn’s pretty private. I can lock the door if that helps.”
“Maybe.”
Erin waited. Ryoka seemed pretty intent, but she really had no idea why.
“Is that it?”
“I suppose. Just—don’t say anything you don’t need to until then, alright?”
That was easy enough. Erin didn’t think she had anything that didn’t need saying…if that even made sense.
“Okay. We talk later.”
“Right.”
“…Right.”
It was one of the more awkward exchanges Erin had been privy to, and she’d met a lot of awkward chess players.
Her stomach rumbled. Ryoka and Erin both looked down and Erin covered her stomach.
“Are you hungry? I saved you a sandwich.”
“Pisces ate it.”
“The soup?”
“Ceria and Olesm drank most of it and Rags took the rest.”
“I’m sorry about that.”
Olesm grinned weakly as both Erin and Ryoka jumped and turned around. The Drake was on his feet again, although he seemed unsteady.
“I truly didn’t mean to steal your lunch, Erin.”
Erin exchanged a glance with Ryoka.
“You know, a missing meal isn’t going to hurt me. When we get out of here, I’ll cook up a feast, and you’ll all be invited, how’s that?”
Erin caught Ryoka’s eye and amended her statement.
“—And um, make some nourishing broth, too. Maybe postpone the feast for a while?”
“That sounds good.”
Ceria was on her feet. She seemed a little better. There was more color in her cheeks, although they were still deathly pale. But she managed a smile.
“If it means I can get out of this hole, I’ll eat my right hand. It wouldn’t be too hard at this point.”
Erin laughed politely while Ryoka awkwardly avoided looking at Ceria’s hand. Pisces approached and Rags followed, dragging the wreck of the crossbow behind her.
“All is clear.”
Ksmvr nodded at Erin as he and Toren walked over. Erin looked around. Everyone was present, but no one said anything. She cleared her throat.
“Um, shall we go?”
They began the slow ascent back towards the surface. It was slow going, even with Erin helping Ceria and Toren supporting Olesm. The Drake and half-Elf were stiff and their feet dragged with every step. But they were just as eager to return as the others.
“Why didn’t you leave after you realized the other undead weren’t there?”
Erin asked Ceria that after they paused for a break. The half-Elf’s face was pale as she sat on the floor and took a few deep breaths.
“We thought they were waiting to ambush us if we got out. They did that to us the first time. We thought they were just being silent.”
Olesm nodded.
“I kept my coffin open so I could see the undead moving around. Once they all left—a few came back, but the rest never did. I thought they were all destroyed or…or still out there.”
“And then of course we ran out of strength and couldn’t move the lids even when we tried.”
“Got it.”
Erin nodded several times, but then frowned.
“Come to think of it…where did all the undead go?”
Ceria paused.
“Weren’t they all destroyed?”
Erin shook her head.
“There were still hundreds of undead after that thing died. We thought they were going back to the Ruins. But they didn’t go there. In that case, where did they go?”
Everyone looked at Pisces. He raised his hands defensively.
“I didn’t do it.”
Olesm scratched at a flaking patch of dead scales.
“Could the Crypt Lords have commanded the undead to leave?”
Pisces shook his head.
“Doubtful. Those creatures, while intelligent, cannot control a large mass. Even if there were enough Crypt Lords, they would still separate into a thousand groups. No, something else called them away.”
Ryoka frowned. She was sitting next to Ceria, picking caked….stuff from the soles of her feet. Erin looked away.
“Could that have something to do with the empty treasure room?”
Ceria looked up sharply. Erin explained about the missing magical items Pisces had sensed. He rubbed at his chin and nodded several times.
“The treasure room. Of course. Something or someone came here and looted the place…and perhaps called the undead away as well.”
“That’s a pretty big someone. Who?”
Pisces shrugged helplessly.
“I can think of several [Necromancers] powerful enough to command a small horde like that. Any one about Level 30 might manage to direct them in a general sense given time. But to have them leave without fighting or splintering off?”
He began to count names off on his fingers. Ryoka wandered off – to pee, Erin suspected – while Pisces began to pontificate.
“The Krythien Sect, or perhaps the Magnus Corpsus could do it en masse. But as for individuals, it would take a mage like Az’kerash or The Putrid One to perform such a feat. Of course, there are quite a number of small-time cabals and covens that might—”
Pisces broke off when he realized his audience had left him. Erin raised her eyebrows.
“So you don’t know.”
“Not as of such, no.”
“In that case, there’s no use wondering. We can tell Zevara that and warn her once we reach the city.”
Ryoka had returned. She tugged at her pants and nodded at the others.
“Come on. We’re nearly out. Just a bit longer and we can all rest.”
They got up and began walking again. After a few minutes, Erin muttered to Ryoka.
“I sort of wish you hadn’t said that.”
“Why?”
“Well, now it feels like we won’t get out of here, you know?”
Ryoka did know, and she wished Erin hadn’t brought that up. She shook her head.
“Murphy’s Law.”
“Whose law?”
Ryoka explained. Erin nodded in agreement.
“I mean, I’m not saying that’s what’s going to happen. But it just feels like…you know those movies? Or those stories where the hero’s almost out and then the really bad thing happens?”
“I know.”
“Did you watch The Evil Dead? Remember the final scene right where Ash is about to get away and then that thing—”
Erin paused, ignoring Ryoka’s irate look.
“—Well, we don’t actually know what happens but I bet it wasn’t good.”
Ryoka eyed Erin. She was completely lost on how to properly respond. After a moment, she shrugged.
“I never watched that movie.”
“Good. Don’t. It gave me nightmares.”
Erin shuddered and glanced around the dark corridors nervously. Ryoka looked at her.
“Why’d you watch it, then?”
“Oh, one of my friends insisted we watch it when I had a sleepover. I think I was fourteen. Boy, my parents were not happy when they found out why we were all screaming at midnight. But then they watched the rest of it with us which was totally cool.”
Erin trailed off for a few seconds and then regained her thread.
“Anyways, my point is that something bad is going to happen. Some evil monster’s going to jump out.”
That was ridiculous paranoia, and Ryoka almost said so. That sort of thing never happened in their world except by complete coincidence, and it wouldn’t happen here.
…Unless of course this world worked off of the same rules fantasy books and Hollywood movies were made of. If that was the case, they were all dead.
“And if that were the case, everyone would have plot armor.”
“What?”
Instead, everyone had vulnerable skin which cut and bled easily. But maybe they weren’t the main characters. If this were a story, it would be Erin and Ryoka and all of the people who came to this world who were the main characters.
That was right. Somewhere, out there, a scrawny white boy would appear out of nowhere and be crowned the chosen one. He’d probably get the [Hero] class, a magic sword, and a scar just to be on the safe side. Add in a female lead and a plucky side-character and you had a series.
More thinking like this and she’d go crazy. Ryoka shook her head again. She knocked at it with her fist to get her thoughts in order—
And nearly went blind as she walked into the sunlight.
“Ow! My eyes!”
Erin cried out and Ryoka heard Ceria and Olesm gasp as the group suddenly emerged from the ruins. She couldn’t see anything, but she felt the welcome sun on her skin, and the feeling of the wind on her face. It blew away the musty stale air of the ruins and made her feel alive again.
They were out.
When Ryoka could see, she looked up and saw the verdant green plains surrounding her, patches of wildflowers still blooming even in the beginning of the winter, and two ranks of guardsmen from Liscor facing them with weapons drawn.
Ryoka paused. Pisces immediately backed up and Rags stepped quickly behind Ksmvr. The Antinium regarded the group of guardsmen warily, while Ceria and Olesm only blinked in bemusement at the welcoming committee.
Erin was the last to recover her eyesight, but when she did, she treated the armed guardsmen as if they weren’t dangerous. Ryoka’s first thought was that Erin had clearly never been arrested before or hassled by any kind of law enforcement. Although of course in Ryoka’s case the hassling and suspicion was quite justified given some of the things she’d done. Blowing up a chemistry classroom tends to get you put on a list for the rest of your life.
“Hey, Relc! And Klbkch! What are you guys doing here?”
Erin smiled and walked forwards. That smile vanished as soon as she saw who was leading the group of guardsmen.
Watch Captain Zevara strode forwards as the Gnolls and Drakes around her lowered their weapons. Klbkch and Relc followed closely behind.
Zevara halted in front of Erin and pointed into the ruins.
“How many undead are down there? Are there any traps?”
Erin blinked at Zevara.
“What?”
“Tell us what we’re facing in there.”
Ryoka looked at the guardsmen and things clicked. It took only half a second longer for Erin to figure it out and then her eyes narrowed in outrage.
“Wait a second. Now you’re going in? You said you didn’t want to risk sending anyone in!”
Zevara dismissed Erin’s statement with a flick of the tail.
