Ryoka closed her eyes and knew she was happy. It was such a rare feeling she savored it.
Happy.
Ceria was alive. One of them was alive. That the others were not—
She could focus on that later. But one person remained. They weren’t all dead.
She was saved.
It was just a moment. And then Ryoka blinked away her watery eyes and got to work.
The catacombs were still dark, and they were still in danger. Ceria slumped as Erin held her, and Olesm was leaning all of his weight against a coffin. The air was foul and smelled like crap in a literal sense. It was also dusty, and Ryoka felt an overpowering sense of claustrophobia after being down here so long.
“We need to get you out of here.”
“We need to feed them first.”
Ryoka frowned at Erin.
“With what? I didn’t bring much. I’ve got some dry rations in my pack, but we’re in the middle of the ruins.”
“So?”
“Is now really the time to eat?”
“There’s always time for a meal. Besides—”
Erin nodded at Ceria. Ryoka looked at her shrunken frame.
“Ah.”
But Ceria was shaking her head. She tried to stand upright, her eyes determined.
“If there’s danger I can make it to the surface. The other undead—”
“Haven’t seen them. Here, sit.”
Erin guided Ceria to another closed coffin and gently helped the half-elf onto the stone bench. Ryoka hesitated, but Erin was already unslinging her pack.
“We should set a watch.”
“I will be vigilant.”
Ksmvr nodded to the others and he moved towards the door. Toren stood with his sword drawn, looking around the room.
Erin was busy pulling out flat, squished objects from her pack. They’d been lying underneath her supply of rocks and other equipment. Ryoka stared as Erin began to unwrap them.
“You made sandwiches?”
“I thought we’d be down here for a long time. I’ve got soup, too!”
“Soup?”
“It’s food. Why? Do you not like soup?”
Ryoka opened her mouth and closed it. She waved away the proffered water flask filled with soup. And nodded at Olesm and Ceria. The two were sitting down, swaying slightly and blinking around. They seemed dazed, which made sense.
“Four days. Or maybe three. And they were in the coffins the entire time?”
Erin shuddered as she assembled her meal. There was a terrible stink in the air, but both she and Ryoka were hungry enough not to care. She looked over at the Drake and half-elf and shook her head.
“I go crazy if I have to sit on a plane for more than an hour. How’d they do it?”
Ryoka paused.
“You can go through a lot in order to survive. Here, give me the soup.”
“Oh, you changed your mind?”
Erin smiled and handed Ryoka the soup flask again.
“It’s good stuff! Beef broth and chopped up veggies so you can drink it.”
It was the soup Ryoka gave to Olesm and Ceria, with instructions to only have a small amount at first. When Erin and Pisces protested, Ryoka overrode them.
“Remember the people rescued from concentration camps? A lot of them died from overeating when soldiers gave them candy bars and too much food.”
Pisces looked blankly at Ryoka, but Erin understood.
“You can die from overeating?”
“Something like that. Your system goes into shock. It can’t process the food so suddenly.”
“What?”
“Ryoka says that the food is too rich for their stomachs. They’ll get sick and die.”
“I see.”
Pisces looked at Ryoka for a second, and then took one of the squashed sandwiches and bit into it. He made a face.
“Tomatoes.”
“If you don’t like it, don’t eat it!”
Erin scowled at him while she handed Ryoka another sandwich and Rags one more. Ryoka’s sandwich turned out to have fried fish in it. She found she was suddenly ravenous and devoured her meal and another sandwich in seconds.
While Pisces and Rags were devouring their food and Ksmvr was nibbling at another flatwich as Erin insisted on calling them, the innkeeper went over to Olesm and Ceria. They were sharing some of the soup Ryoka had given them, but they didn’t seem to have much of an appetite.
“I feel full. Should I be feeling full after only a few sips?”
Ceria smiled weakly at Erin as the girl approached. Erin’s eyes were drawn to Ceria’s skeletal hand, but she looked back up at her friend’s face and forced a smile. She also ignored the terrible stench that was coming from Ceria.
“That’s what Ryoka says. Your stomach hasn’t had anything to eat, so it shrunk down. You won’t be able to handle much food for a while.”
“Oh, good. It’s so hard to stay thin, the way I eat.”
Erin smiled at Ceria’s joke. Her eyes moved to Olesm. The Drake was very pale. His light blue scales had turned even lighter, and dead scales flaked off every time he moved. He smelled even worse than Ceria did.
“Olesm?”
She reached out towards him, but the Drake flinched away. Concerned, Erin looked at him.
“Are you okay?”
“I’m fine, Erin. Really. It’s just—”
Olesm looked at Ceria for help. The half-elf shrugged.
“Um, we might need some water if you have it. And some clean cloths?”
“I can get that. But why…?”
For the first time, Erin studied Olesm. He looked just as desiccated as Ceria, but he was also doing his best to stay as far away from her on the coffin’s seat as possible. He’d been wearing leather armor, but something had torn it mostly to shreds. Parts of his scales were scratched, but not badly.
But his clothes did seem rumbled, and the area around his leggings were…brown…
Olesm caught Erin’s eye and turned pink. Ceria coughed into her good hand. Erin noticed that she was crossing her legs, too.
“We could use something to clean ourselves with. Rather urgently.”
Erin backed away from them. The smell searing her nose suddenly intensified now that she was aware of its origin.
“Oh. Oh. I’ll uh, I’ll—”
She half-dashed to her rucksack, where Ryoka was eating her third sandwich. The other girl had saved Erin some soup and a squashed sandwich from Rags and Pisces, but Erin ignored that.
“What’s wrong?”
“Oh, nothing. Um, don’t go over there just yet.”
“Why?”
Ryoka always wanted an answer, especially if the reason was ‘because I said so’. Erin paused for a second and tried to say what she meant without Pisces figuring it out. Rags had clearly already made the connection because she was sitting several meters away.
“Um, you know how you were talking about survival and all that? Well, just imagine the coffins as one big…diaper.”
Ryoka’s face went blank for a fraction of a second, and then her eyes widened.
“Oh.”
“Yeah.”
“Do they need water? I’ve got a flask and some bandages that might—”
“Don’t worry, don’t worry! I packed all of the essentials!”
One of those essential items was one of Ryoka’s water flasks and a clean bit of cloth from Erin’s pack. Ceria explained as she used one of the stone coffin lids as a privacy screen. Not that there was much need to hide; only Pisces and Olesm had to look away. Ksmvr was clearly indifferent.
“The first few days I cleaned up after myself with spells. It was a waste of mana. But I thought the undead might smell. After that…well, you don’t have much of a problem when there’s nothing to eat.”
It was an aspect of living in a stone coffin neither Erin nor Ryoka had wanted to ponder or wished to dwell long on. At least Ceria didn’t smell too bad. Olesm on the other hand—
“I had the same problem. And I don’t have magic, okay?”
Everyone stayed clear of him until Olesm had finished thoroughly washing himself down. Pisces even provided magical assistance. At a distance.
Olesm grumbled as a fine spray of water misted him. He twisted his head to glare at Pisces as the mage studiously looked away.
“Can’t you give me more water? All you’re doing is making everything wet.”
Pisces sniffed, which turned out to be a mistake.
“I’m no [Hydromancer], and I specialize in ice magic. Besides, the air is dry around here. This is the best you’re going to get.”
Erin stared at Ceria as the half-elf finished scrubbing herself. She made to hand the cloth back to Erin, looked at it, and then tossed it back in one of the coffins. Erin offered her another clean roll of linen – Ryoka’s emergency bandages, and Ceria finished wiping with that.
“How’d you survive so long without water? Or did you have supplies?”
“Olesm did. A few of the dried rations, but we lost our packs during the—the attack.”
Ceria coughed and took another small sip of what was left in the flask after her impromptu bath.
“But we didn’t have any water. I burned up all the mana I had left creating ice for us to suck on.”
She shook her head.
“Another day or two and we’d be dead. We couldn’t even move the lids from the inside anymore. I really thought this was it. When I heard your voices and realized you couldn’t hear me—”
“It was Ryoka who figured out where you were hiding.”
Erin pointed to Ryoka. The barefoot girl was alternately avoiding stepping in any of the runoff generated by Olesm and Ceria’s baths and staring none-too-covertly at Olesm’s private…parts. Ceria smiled.
“Ryoka. And you met her? The world’s full of surprises. Or maybe it’s fate.”
She laughed, coughed, and grimaced weakly. Erin sprang forwards to help her, but Ceria waved her away. Her skeletal hand—
Erin saw that Ceria saw that she was looking and turned away. Ceria shrugged, and the two were silent. In the end, Erin spoke again.
“Well, I’m glad you’re okay. Really glad.”
Erin had said that before several times, but this time Ceria seemed recovered enough to respond. She smiled at Erin.
“I am, too. But I never would have imagined the group that came to get me.”
“Yeah, it’s sort of weird, huh?”
Ceria raised an eyebrow.
“To put it lightly. I recognize the little Goblin and Pisces, but that Antinium…that’s not Pawn, is it? They all look the same. Did he regrow his limbs or something?”
“No. That’s um, Ksmvr.”
The Prognugator looked up at the sound of his name. When he saw the two were looking at him, he turned away. Ceria shook her head.
“Huh. You’ve got a lot to explain to me, I can tell.”
“And me.”
Olesm rejoined the group at last. He smelled a lot better than he had, but he still exuded a personal bubble no one was willing to breach. He bowed at Erin clumsily, nearly falling over as he did.
“Miss Solstice, I am in your debt again. What you’ve done for me and Ceria—I can never repay. I joined this expedition to change myself, but in the end…”
Olesm stopped and shook his head. He wiped at his eyes.
“I’m just lucky to be alive. I won’t forget this, I promise you.”
Then he looked up and hesitated.
“I’m grateful, I really am. But why didn’t anyone send the Watch in after us? I mean, I understand they were nervous, but I have friends! Didn’t they want to save me?”
Erin exchanged a glance with Ryoka, although she got more of the glance. She turned red and fidgeted.
“Um, well, we spoke to Zevara, but she didn’t want to send anyone to help us. She said she didn’t want to risk sending anyone on a wild goose chase.”
Olesm looked shocked. His tail thrashed the ground in agitation.
“Zevara? But she knows me! I’m sure she would have sent someone—she’d at least have hired a mage to cast [Detect Life] or something!”
“Well, I’m sure she would have…if…she knew you were alive.”
“What? Didn’t you tell her I was with the others?”
Erin avoided Olesm’s gaze.
“I, um, forgot you were with the Horns of Hammerad. I don’t think anyone else in the city knew you were going, either.”
Olesm wilted.
“I…see.”
“I’m so sorry, Olesm! It’s just with the attack on the city and the bad news and the giant skin creature—”
“The undead!”
Both Olesm and Ceria broke out of their happy reverie in horror. Ceria unconsciously grabbed for Ryoka’s arm with her skeletal hand and stopped.
“What happened? Did anyone make it out? Rot, we should have asked earlier. But if you’re here, the undead—”
Ryoka tried to reassure Ceria without looking at her maimed hand.
“Don’t worry. They’re not out there anymore.”
“But what happened?”
That was a question Ryoka couldn’t answer, but the others could. Erin broke in, talking excitedly.
“It was crazy! A bunch of undead came out of the Ruins and started attacking the city! I was in my inn so I didn’t see everything, but Krshia says they got into the city before the north gates got closed. The entire city was fighting in the streets!”
Olesm groaned aloud. He grabbed at Erin.
“How many died? How many…?”
“Skinner.”
Ceria interrupted Olesm. She looked sharply at Erin.
“Did he come out? Is he still out there?”
“Who?”
“The monster—”
Ceria’s skeletal fingers twitched. Ryoka stared in horror at them, but only Rags noticed. The Goblin edged away from Ceria as she tried to explain.
“It was what was leading the undead. A horror made of skin. He guards this crypt. He killed the others. Did it get out? Is he still alive?”
Ryoka had no idea who or what Skinner was, but the others did. Erin’s smile faded. Pisces glanced around the ruins and shook his head.
“Skinner? Yeah, I saw it. He’s dead.”
“You’re sure?”
“Very sure.”
Ceria and Olesm both sighed in relief. But then Ceria looked up.
“How? That thing had some kind of magical ability. It projected fear.”
“I know. I felt it.”
Something. Ryoka glanced at Erin. She had that unsettlingly vacant look on her face again, that expressionless glimpse into something far away. Pisces and Rags were looking at her too. Just what…?
“He attacked my inn. Him and a bunch of undead. They tried to kill me, but all of the Workers—the Antinium I played chess with—they came to help. And all the Workers fought and—”
Erin broke off. Ceria and Olesm were staring at her, but no harder than Ryoka. Workers? Antinium? Chess? She’d fought the thing that killed—
“And he died. Rags killed him. Her and the other Goblins, I mean. He was this large worm underneath all the skin and we—he died. The Goblins ate part of him and then burned the rest.”
Ryoka had run through the High Passes and lived. She’d done something no Runner in the area had done in years. She was the fastest Runner in perhaps a hundred miles. Maybe that made Ryoka special, but Erin was different altogether.
Erin had fought monsters.
And though it was silly to look at the young woman and imagine her fighting some kind of flesh monster that even Calruz and the others couldn’t defeat, part of Ryoka had no doubt that she’d done it. With help, yes. With luck and chance, perhaps. But she’d done it.
Ceria stared at Erin for a second. Olesm was open-mouthed, eyes bulging. But Ceria was just quiet. She met Erin’s eyes.
“You killed it. You.”
Erin shrugged uncomfortably. She pointed at the Goblin sitting behind her.
