"Does it actually matter if you max out the skill before skill fusion?" Ben asked, genuinely wanting to know if his recent paranoia had been justified. "Or can you just smash them together the second you can get the synergy notification?"

Alice scoffed loudly, lifting her chin back into that signature haughty position.

"Only an absolute idiot would fuse skills the moment a synergy appears, unless they genuinely don't know better. Which could be the case. Among Noble Houses though, everyone knows to wait."

Good to know I am not an absolute idiot.

Because the synergy had appeared long ago.

"The level of the base skills directly dictates the foundation of the resulting fusion." She lectured smoothly, tracing a completely arbitrary circle in the dirt with her expensive leather boot. "If you fuse underdeveloped skills, you get an unstable result. It could pay off, sure, but it could also mean your fused skill is worse. It's not typically a concern at early Tiers though, mostly difficult when the skills grow too complex."

"So it affects the rarity?"

Rolling her eyes, she crossed her arms firmly over her chest.

"Not necessarily the rarity, but absolutely the potency and the efficiency. A level 10 common skill inherently holds significantly more dense essence than a level five. When they fuse, that accumulated density permanently shapes the new skill."

So squeezing out every last drop of levels was exactly the right play.

Ben couldn't stop the smug little smirk from creeping onto his face, only for his mood to come crashing down when he recalled [Mana Reinforcement] was uncommon.

Nevermind, I am indeed an idiot.

A lesson well learned, he supposed.

"What?" She narrowed her eyes suspiciously.

"Nothing." He waved his hand dismissively. "I'm just glad my basic instincts are better than four centuries of Vane family records."

Alice physically recoiled, gasping in offense.

"You absolute brute!"

Smiling even wider, Ben just went back to pushing raw mana out of his fingertips.

"Keep talking, Lady Alice." He kept his focus entirely on the buzzing energy in his hands. "I'm sure the grand archives have more to say."

Letting out a very unladylike groan, she kicked a small pebble straight at his shin.

He didn't react.

Yeah, she was definitely just a kid under all that aristocratic snobbery.

He focused back on the fuzzy awareness in his chest.

"So, what happens if the common skill hits level ten?" Ben asked, pushing the wriggling raw mana out past his knuckles. "Does the system just force evolution, or can you just sit on it and max out the other skill before fusion?"

Alice let out an incredibly exaggerated sigh, leaning back against the boulder.

"Obviously, you can just not accept the evolution and keep it at bay. You can still use the skill, you just can't level it up until you either accept the evolution or fuse."

The buzzing awareness instantly sputtered out of Ben's fingers as he froze.

"You can decline it?"

Alice blinked, looking genuinely confused at his sudden reaction.

"Well, yes. If you reject the prompt, the skill simply remains at level 10, completely maxed out and ready to be fused or evolved whenever you wish. It just doesn't level up."

You can just say no.

Ben slowly lowered his hands, staring blankly at the dirt.

I panicked and fused my skills early for literally no reason.

He could have squeezed out more levels from [Physical Conditioning]. He could have leveled up [Mana Reinforcement] way more, too, before slamming them together. Sure, [Mana Reinforcement] turned out to be uncommon, but [Physical Conditioning] wasn't. To him, both of them had been common. He'd thought if they hit level 10 he'd be forced to evolve.

But that wasn't the case.

A groan escaped his lips. He let his head thunk down against his raised knees.

My precious levels…

Seeing his sudden misery, Alice's eyes immediately lit up with glee.

"Oh my." She leaned forward, resting her chin on her hands. "Did the solitary hunter perhaps make a minor miscalculation?"

Ben refused to lift his head.

"Shut up."

"Did you perhaps panic and fuse your skills prematurely?" Her tone was absolutely dripping with haughty satisfaction. "Because you were ignorant of basic system functions? Don't worry though, it doesn't matter much at this point, especially if you got a higher rarity skill out of it."

"I said shut up."

She let out a distinctly villainous little giggle.

"My, my. It seems natural instincts don't quite measure up to the grand archives after all."

Gritting his teeth, Ben suddenly pushed a tiny burst of fire mana straight into the ground by his feet, not realizing what he did. The dirt puffed up, sending a small cloud of dry dust drifting directly toward her pristine dress.

Alice shrieked, instantly scrambling away from him.

"You savage!" She furiously batted at her clothes, coughing as the dust settled over her skirt. "My dress!"

Finally lifting his head, Ben flashed her a wide, entirely unrepentant smile.

"Oops. Basic instincts misfired."

Glaring absolute daggers at him, she stomped her foot angrily in the dirt.

"You are the most aggravating commoner I have ever had the misfortune of encountering!"

"And you're the most helpful noble I've ever met," Ben shot back smoothly, turning his attention back to his open palms. "So tell me, helpful noble. Can you fuse a skill that's already been fused?"

Alice's face twisted in outrage.

I've definitely pushed her past her limit.

"You will not have any more answers from me! Not a single one!"

"Are you sure? I still have a lot of silence to trade."

"You are incredibly childish! And incredibly petty!"

Well, she isn't wrong.

He just shrugged lazily.

Breathing heavily, her face turned an even brighter, furious shade of crimson.

"You cheeky brat!" She took a threatening step forward, her hands balled into tight fists. "I should have your head for that!"

Ignoring her completely, he just focused back again. She was just like that, lashing out at the tiniest of things. This wasn't the first time she was being like this, either.

"You can certainly try." He didn't bother looking up from his hand. "But then who would listen to you complain?"

She let out a frustrated, strangled noise that sounded halfway between a shriek and a growl.

Whirling around dramatically, she marched right back toward the center of the camp, furiously brushing dust off her skirt.

"I am never speaking to you again!"

Sure you aren't.

He knew for an absolute fact she would be back tomorrow to complain about something else entirely. But for now, he finally had some peace and quiet.

So he focused on the fuzzy awareness while his mind wandered to something she'd said.

Am I really that petty and childish?
