He was merely at the controls, pressing a switch on a system that had been made for him, which he had had no part in its creation—

Suddenly, the clouds revealed themselves once again as twisted streamers of dust, of light, infinitesimal in their size, intricate in their arrangement. Like nerves in a brain they all connected to each other, and yet they were not connected to each other at all.

Erick found himself standing on the edge of the glade, in the East, like the sun. Fairy Moon stood on the West, like the moon. Rozeta was to the South, grounded as all ever, though she had been on the North side until now, while Melemizargo had moved to firmly stand on the North side of the glade, in his dragon form, but only ten meters tall. He had absolutely crushed the trees that way, like the force of absolute change that he was. A breeze flowed from his direction, rustling the trees.

The Ritual of it all reminded Erick of the time he had bargained for a ceasefire among all those involved, to open them all to the possibility that more could happen, if only they all cooperated.

This was the first time they had gathered like this since then, wasn’t it?

No time for those sorts of thoughts.

That Ritual demanded Erick continue, and so he did.

Erick zoomed inward, into the nerve-like universal strings of this New Cosmology, trillions upon trillions of stars, as dust, passing out of the glade, brushing against Erick, Rozeta, Fairy Moon, and Melemizargo, like the passing of countless tiny lights. A minute passed as Erick went forward, reaching for the end of this journey—

The universe suddenly focused as individual super clusters appeared out of the dust, and those gave way to clusters, and then individual galaxies.

Erick zoomed in on a galaxy that was not the Milky Way.

It was a disk of light most firm around the edge, except in one spot to the north of the circular-like galaxy. That spot held a break in the circle, but not a full break. It almost looked like a natural lessening of the density of the circle. Perhaps someone had caused some ancient, awful magic to sunder that space? Hard to know what had happened there.

All Erick knew is that it looked like the rune of [Renew].

Erick’s breath hitched, but the magic was not over. He zoomed in on that split, because that’s where the magic took them. And right there, in that space that looked empty but which was not empty at all, between the open ends of the rune of [Renew], were countless other stars…

And one star in particular.

There was the sun, up above, and also in the lightward display between them. There were the planets of this system, and Veird, the fourth planet from this sun.

Erick zoomed in more, and the map expanded until it showed the Dungeon Island southwest of Quintlan, and then Ascendant Mountain, and then this very glade itself, with Erick on the East, Fairy Moon on the West, Rozeta to the South, and Melemizargo to the North.

The spell overlapped all four of them, and then it broke, a brilliant whine of light and power washing outward, like a beacon lit.

The magic ended.

For a moment, no one said a word.

And then Rozeta softly said, “I knew I shouldn’t have said I was comfortable with Wizards.”

Arguing started.

Fairy Moon proclaimed, “They’ll never find us! We must find them and tithe to them puzzles and power and purpose and people! They must surely be more secure in their truest trues than us! They will extinct our existences if we are not wily winsome!”

Melemizargo just chuckled, mumbling about gathering worlds of his own, and how much bigger this hoard was going to be than the last one. To which Fairy Moon said stuff about how they mustn't overstep, and Rozeta mumbled about Wizards again.

And then Rozeta said to her father, “We require mana, father. None of those worlds have mana. None I can see, anyway.”

“A problem to fix, Rozeta,” Melemizargo said. “Nothing more than a problem to fix.”

“Not one you could fix, though,” Rozeta asked, “Unless you could?”

“Oh no no. I cannot…” Melemizargo turned his white-eyed gaze outward, and considered. “I don’t know of anything in my vaults that could help us, either… Maybe… I will have to think on this.” And then he looked down at Rozeta, saying, “It’s just a matter of time, though, and we were already planning on expanding from this world, anyway. This gives us a map, of sorts. A plan. A purpose.”

Erick interrupted, “Is no one going to comment on the rune of [Renew].”

Fairy Moon dismissively said, “You were influenced by incarnations outside of ourselves to reach this [Renew] that you did, no doubt. This is all a plan of the planners who we have not yet witnessed!”

Melemizargo nodded. “A Wizard still on a Path.”

“Always on a Path, it seems,” Rozeta said, resigning herself again. “I must go and check on Fate’s box now.” And then she vanished.

Melemizargo grinned, chuckling. “I have plans as well.” And then he vanished, becoming a shadow that briefly seemed full of stars and giggling, and then he was gone.

Fairy Moon exclaimed, “The Other Outsiders must have seen the spectacle! I must make merry in case they come calling!”

She vanished in a splash of springtime.

… Erick stood there for a moment.

And then he moved on, too, walking back into the dungeon to see what Solomon was up to with Guile, and to ask them what they thought of… All that had just happened, and which they had conveniently missed.

“Fate’s out of its box, for sure,” Erick mumbled, as he stepped into darkness.

A minute later he approached Solomon, Poi, and fox-form Guile. All three of them stood upon a white stone platform raised up from the dungeon floor, where Guile was speaking with Solomon and drawing diagrams of human bodies in the air. A lot of the diagrams had colored parts swirling inside of them. They were Old Cosmology techniques to accrete, and the discussion had been about their validity.

Poi noticed Erick last, though he was the only one with a visible reaction. He paled as much as a blue dragonkin could pale, his eyes going wide. Solomon instantly noticed Poi’s reaction, though he remained confused. Guile fared no better.

Erick, meanwhile, had a little bit of schadenfreude at Poi’s mind reading, and finding everything out without needing to be told. Erick smiled, and exaggerated, “Oh come on, Poi! How bad could it be?”

Poi cursed.

- - - -

Erick, Solomon, and Guile, stood upon a large white stone platform, well out of reach of the slimes below, on the main dungeon floor. A no-Script space held on the other side of the platform. Darkness loomed in the distance all around, except in the north, where Dreams stood revealed as much as they could be, looking like an ever-riotous flow of color and memory and black clouds.

There had been a discussion about what had happened out there in the glade in front of the dungeon. The girls had shown up for all of that, and Poi had had a bunch of specific questions. It had taken a good half hour for all of that happenstance to calm and it ended a lot sooner than Erick assumed it would, for Fallopolis had shown up, looking concerned. A short conversation later, the girls rushed out to do a bunch of their own investigations at the Well of Darkness. Fallopolis had her own concerns to follow, too. Poi was currently holed up at the house in the dungeon, talking with a bunch of other people, including Teressa and Aisha at House Benevolence, to see if they could see anything in the Benevolent Sky.

Erick had checked that; there had been nothing.

Everyone seemed a lot more worried than they needed to be, in Erick’s opinion. If something happened, they would solve it. In actuality, Erick knew he should probably be panicking more than he was…

But…

Everything seemed to be falling into place.

Erick had no idea why he felt that way, but he did. Perhaps because he was going to learn about True Wizardry alongside Solomon, from some sort of fae-hybrid kinda person, whom everyone trusted, and who had a list of good deeds following them across the entire Old Cosmology. Erick had never heard any of those stories before, but Rozeta and Atunir and others seemed to know those stories, and that was good enough for Erick… The ‘eating people’ was a bit much for him, to be fair. But that was fine… Probably.

Guile pawed forward on the platform, toward the no-Script space, saying, “We have gone over the basics, and now it is time for proper accretion. I am likely going to die many, many times in this process, so it is a good thing that this dungeon and you possess [True Resurrection]. There might be an issue with my natural mana generation, but if it remains how it was at the time of the Sundering, then this should be fine. If it is not, then we will go kill some monsters inside other dungeons. But, for now, I will accrete a core, and then try to crystallize. This might take weeks.”

The golden fox stepped into the no-Script bubble, face first, and already streamers of yellow light were flowing away from his body. It was the color of a daffodil, and completely different from his normal golden hue. The little fox winced as he pressed onward, and soon his entire body was misting with sunshine-yellow light.

Guile breathed in the yellow air, eddies forming as he moved, turning around to sit down on his haunches. He looked to Solomon, his tails waving like ten very large streamers of power. “I can already tell that I have lost a great deal of power. I cannot accrete to True Wizardry like this, so we will have to go into the dungeons. I can, however, show you a few things.” With a twist of power the yellow flow calmed, sticking to Guile’s body like a controlled aura, and then soaking into his core, near his heart. A dollop of sunshine collected beside his tiny fox heart; the beginnings of a core. Soon, that core began to grow. Guile said to Solomon, “I will be forming a core in the next few hours. While I am doing that first step, please join me in this space. I would see how you handle your body, and then send you on your way to come back later.”

Solomon stepped forward. A soft, white mist spiraled off of his body even before he breached the edge of the space with his core, tiny streamers of his power naturally forming phantom crawling jolts of power, joining him to the white stone platform, like he was the center of a plasma ball that you’d find in a mall back on Earth. And then his core passed through the edge of the no-Script space, and he radiated glows.

Greenery began to spread underfoot forming a carpet of thick moss. Tiny Benevolence crystals grew within that moss, like drops of morning dew.

Guile watched that growth, his eyes going fractionally wider. “So this is Benevolence, then. I heartily approve of your beginner Element, Solomon. It will make a good cushion for me.” Guile gestured with a paw.

Solomon smirked as he stepped away from the greenery he had made, though more greenery appeared under where he moved.

Guile took a seat on the moss, like a cat finding a spot in the sun. “Soul sight, aura control, and a preponderance of self-actualization are the main tools that one uses when guiding one’s transformation from one body into the next… And there are about a thousand lessons we should be having before we get to this point, but I will assume that you have had most of those lessons, and rely upon you to tell me if there is something you do not understand.”

Solomon nodded.

Guile continued, “Wizards are the pinnacle of self-actualization possible in… the Old Cosmology. That is what makes a Wizard a Wizard. They are who they wish to be, and most of them are unending and never dying, unless they wish to end their lives. That is the common end of most Wizards. They reach the final point of what they want to do with their lives, and since they see no point in continuing, they break apart, becoming one with their Element.

“Everything from these ‘particles’ in this New Cosmology… Well actually, I do not know if they will interfere. But they shouldn’t.

“Starting over.

“Everything from these ‘particles’ to all these bits and bobs implanted within you by the Script, should be subsumed in a Grand Act of Self-Creation. You take your Alpha and your Omega and you combine them into one. Your creator over there, Erick, Is Benevolence Itself, and as soon as his [Familiar]s mature and he realizes various deep truths about himself and his place in this universe, he might have an easy time ascending to True Wizardry.

“But he is not you.

“You are just a man with some power and a few good tools on his own Path in life.

“To get to the point where Erick is, and then beyond, we first prime the body with our mana, seeing depth within ourselves. This is usually done through controlled meditation. Like this.”

Guile’s aura had been flexing as he spoke, as he accreted his core inside of his tiny chest, but now his sunshine yellow aura calmed, filling his body. That core began to grow by leaps and bounds. That core had been gradually increasing in facets as he channeled more and more mana into his core but it would be at least an hour before he gained a true, spherical core; the end point of most every dragon or accretor or delver in the world.

Erick and Solomon and Guile would eventually go beyond that, to full crystal.

Guile stopped his focused accretion, opening his eyes to say, “Just like that, but more time spent doing it. If you aren’t in possession of a full core this sort of meditation has the side effect of growing your core most strongly, and it will be the method I use to grow to fullness soon enough. Now you try, Solomon.”

“… I’m not sure what you did, exactly.” And then Solomon took total control of his aura, focused it, and did some basic accretion. Visually it looked the same as what Guile had done, but… “Is that the same?”

“Ahhh. No. It’s not the same.” Guile said, “What I want you to do is meditate on yourself and your path in life. Let the possibilities of your future float up from your mind and rest upon your soul, and when you find one that resonates with your soul, causing a resonance, then you should write that down, and continue meditating. You will come across several ideas, usually accompanied with phrases, that resonate with you. These are future paths that you might take, or they might be corruptions in your soul that you need to purge on the way toward self-actualization.

