“Becoming a True Wizard is all about finding your Path, and these phrases… Or ‘Phrases’, said all special like… These Phrases that pop up while meditating can be your guiding signs toward the best possible you.” Guile said, “Once you collect enough of them, and firmly discard enough of them, then you will pull forth your power into yourself, and become a True Wizard, all in a flashing second.

“You will likely go through a period of crystallization at that point in time, exploding in a thousand different directions since your mana generation will absolutely destroy your body, but those phrases will bring you back to yourself.

“I have simplified the steps of it all most terribly. But that is the idea.

“And that’s all there is to becoming a True Wizard… As long as you have the mana generation to start with and you don’t die in the final crystallization part. Coming back from death is no easy feat, which is why I will be making judicious use of the [True Resurrection] measures in this dungeon in order to try to regain my previous power. Rest assured that my Wizardry would be toward making myself invisible to most, for I do not appreciate being seen by many. I prefer my greatness to go unnoticed.” Guile finished with, “I will likely die a few times before I get my own phrases sorted. Nothing quite like a ‘Sundering’ to make you question everything you thought you could count on!” He yipped in tiny laughter, like the fox that he was. His gallows humor didn’t last too long, though, for he calmed, and frowned, as he looked at the ground.

Solomon frowned a little, too, thinking deeply. While Guile looked perhaps sad, Solomon was angry.

Erick was kinda mad, too. “That’s it? That’s all there is to becoming a True Wizard?”

Guile huffed, “That’s all there was. I have no idea how particles affect this natural process or this Script, for that matter. It’s all way too much interference— divine interference, too! The divine nature of the Script is one thing, but this world has too many divines as well. Gods keep to their corners, Wizards keep to theirs; that’s how it should be. Crossing those two domains is useful in many, many different ways, and gods and Wizards should work together most of the time, but Wizards must go alone on this particular journey.

“When a person is adorned with Power wrought from tools and from themselves, and when they are anointed with Purpose wrought from Wizardry, that person is a nascent Wizard. To complete their Path, they must seek themselves among the multitudes, and become who they are meant to be.

“There is no trick.

“There is only doing.”

Solomon said, “Sounds like a trick with extra steps.”

Erick laughed.

Guile hummed, then looked to Erick, “Don’t you have politics to be doing? Shoo.”

“I’m on sabbatical.”

“Bah! Spy on my lessons with Solomon if you must, but please leave already. You’re too far down your Path for me to help, and any help I could give you might inhibit the progress you have already made. All that you need to do is actually do it.” Guile looked to Solomon. “My servant has to tear himself down and build himself up a great deal.”

Erick said to Solomon, “I’ll let you know when things get started to rescue Avandrasolaro.”

Solomon nodded, and went back to meditating.

Guile did the same.

Erick left, stepping on the light, a bunch of thoughts on his mind as he cast one final glance toward Solomon and Guile, toward their auras, and their souls. Solomon’s power was the same as Erick’s right now, and so was his soul, but all that would change eventually. Guile was an odd little critter. Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about him, but he seemed trustworthy, and nothing he said had been too different from what everyone else had said regarding Wizards. And even if he did accrete to True Wizardry… Well. All the gods trusted him, right?…

Hmm.

Erick looked at Solomon and Guile’s souls, even as he lightstepped away—

He stopped.

Their souls looked like souls always did. Like mist, contained within the body, ever dense and yet ephemeral as fog. Zooming in on the soul didn’t help to clear that mist, either; it just made the soul look like more soul. It took a very skilled Soul Mage in order to suss out what was inside a person’s soul, and they didn’t use [Soul Sight] by itself to achieve that. They frameshifted their reference viewpoint in order to categorize what they were looking at, but that sort of shifting always lost things in translation.

… In ‘translation’? Huh. What a curious thought.

Anyway. As it was, 90% of the soul was impossible to see without proper tools, because it was just so complicated, like billions upon billions of… dust… stars...

Erick blinked a bit.

… Why was he standing in the middle of the air—

Oh, right. Guile was instructing Solomon on Wizardry.

Erick lightstepped into the house of the dungeon.

Poi was there.

Poi stared hard at Erick… And then Poi relaxed. He asked, “So is that all there is to Wizardry? ‘Just do it’?”

“Just keep on keepin’ on,” Erick summarized. “Heard anything about Avandrasolaro yet?”

“I have. Some people from the Church of Peace will be here in 5 hours to help set up. You remember the woman who took over Songli’s clergy after Terror Peaks bombed every house of peace, to stop the pre-Chelation War talks?”

“Oh! Yeah. I remember her. Lorizal Ex, the Head Priestess of Koyabez for the Highlands region.” Erick recalled the woman as a dark ruby incani who had shaved their horns down to nothing. “I haven’t seen her in a long time, not since she requested ‘control’ over that [Undertow Star]...” Lorizal couldn’t actually control the Star he had put up there, north of the Highlands, but Erick had set down some rules and Shapings on that Star at their requests, and those Shapings should still hold.

Erick had to be sure, though.

He glanced through Ophiel, then looked outside the dungeon, and then all across the world, his sight traveling far, through his own [Gate Network], as Ophiels carried his gaze to the mountains north of Ooloraptoor, far north of the Songli Highlands. There, among the mountains, sat a Grand Church of Peace, underneath one of Erick’s own [Undertow Star]s and a scattering of a node network. It was one of the oldest Stars Erick had ever cast, looking like a white point of light surrounded by shadows and tendrils that reached out for kilometers. Except for the node network which had been added later, the Star looked rather like Erick had left it, still doing what it was Shaped to do, gently feeding off of the people looking for the salvation of Peace from war, while violently feeding off of monsters, and anyone who stood in one space directly under the Star; people who wanted to be ‘cleansed’. Seemed like that tradition was still going strong. Some people went into a pool of water at that heavy-draw point, ducking themselves under crystal waters as they passed below the Star, light trailing away from their bodies. All those people were supplying power to an entire mountainside and valley filled with houses and farmlands, but Erick hadn’t been the one to make that change.

Erick came back to himself. “That Grand Church seems to be using that Star well.”

Poi nodded. “Under Lorizal’s direction, the Church of Peace is recovering well all throughout the Highlands, between the South Central Tribulation mountains and the South East Tribulations. Blood-On-Hell has taken direct notice of all that growth, but only recently, and only because of their own failure to thrive under your rise to power. That is why they want Lorizal Ex back into their fold, but she’s a firm believer in Peace.”

“… Oh.” Erick realized, “Lorizal is a descendant of House Blood-On-Hell.”

“Something like the 17th generation. We’re not sure. Our records show that she’s still heavily in debt to them in some unspecified way, but that’s true for all incani with any demonic ancestors who have any power at all in Hell. Blood-On-Hell is trying to recover power, and they seem to be cleaving hard toward Koyabez, and an end to the Quiet War. This Avandrasolaro-thing is to try and tie both her and you to the interests of Hell as deeply as they can.” Poi said, “They’re making big moves to make this work.”

Erick had mixed feelings about all that. “Going from Forever Warmongers to Peace, eh?”

“We think they’re trying to survive.”

“That’s usually what it takes to change people; sure.”
