Guile breathed deep and padded forward two small steps before he dropped to his butt. He craned his neck up toward Rozeta. “I perished in the Sundering. It was not a joyful time. I believe I was trying to prevent the Sundering as it happened… I was on the other side of the universe from Veird at the time. One day, I and my servant at the time saw a bolt of Lightning pass across the sky, far, far in the mana ocean. It left ripples of death and sparks of annihilation as it passed. One of those sparks touched down on that world… I think I died then.” Guile frowned at himself, as much as a fox could frown, and then he narrowed his eyes upon the ground. He looked at his paws. “These particles are strange. I feel as though I should know of them. They are certainly clouding my… memory. My everything. Hmm. The mana of this universe is well… organized, but... simple? Yes. Simple— Oh.” He startled. And then he looked back up at Rozeta. “I apologize for my lapse of decorum, Goddess of Veird.” He bowed.

He had a lot more to say, but all of that would come later.

Rozeta moved on, too, saying, “I’m glad your story continues here on this small life raft we call Veird.” She gently turned her gaze from Guile, to Solomon. “I believe I will mirror Koyabez’s words, Solomon, and say I am taking a half-step toward you, to respect you as your own person. I look forward to working with as many Erick-Wizards as you all feel like making, but each one will be their own person, without connection to any who come before.”

Erick chuckled at the idea of ‘Erick-Wizards’ as a category of being.

Solomon merely grinned. “Thanks, Rozeta.”

Rozeta nodded, then she looked to Erick, and said, “I would speak with you for a moment.”

Solomon and Guile both knew that meant without them.

Guile instantly said to Solomon, “It is time to train accretion, servant. From the foundation!”

Guile did not wait for Solomon to agree to anything. He just walked over to the dungeon once again.

Solomon grinned as he followed.

After the two of them vanished into the dungeon, Erick turned to Rozeta. “I understand why Atunir suggested Guile, now.”

“The little fox has more stories about him than could fit in most personal libraries. I’m glad to have him back.” Rozeta said, “Though he is a fae.”

“I noticed that.”

Rozeta shrugged. “He’s a good one, as far as I know. He tries to stay out of the spotlight as much as he can, but his goals always further the spread of life… Partially because he likes to eat that life, but he produces more than he eats, so… You know.”

Erick nodded. “Fairy Moon visited earlier.”

Both of them waited a beat for the Fairy in question to show.

She did not.

“She spoke to you about New Cosmology fae, I assume.”

“She did. How valid are her concerns?”

“Adding Guile to the list of approved fae right now helped me to check the Script and the systems we have in place. I am now 99% sure that New Cosmology Fae either don’t know of Veird, or have never been here before.”

“… That’s different from what you said the last time,” Erick said, worriedly.

“It is, isn’t it!” Fairy Moon said, standing in the glade with them. “You told me you never managed to meet one at all!”

Rozeta quickly said, “Now look here, Fairy Moon. That was —and is— still a true statement. This New Cosmology is huge. I don’t feel that you quite understand that. And no one is ever fully sure of anything; don’t blame me for hedging my bets.”

Erick understood all of that. When he first fell to Veird, he was amazed that there was another source of life in the universe at all. Later, had even met a few old planars over the years, and each of them were also amazed that other life existed. Or at least that emotion had been expressed in their writings that they had left behind.

Fairy Moon wasn’t getting it, though. Perhaps her scale of stuff was way different from Rozeta’s and Erick’s?

Fairy Moon shouted, “They should be seen and be here! I harbor no naysaying against your arguments of size, but seriously. Where the fuck are the other fae?”

Rozeta had no words.

Erick asked, “I want to check if we have the same sensibilities with regard to size.” Erick held up a hand, and conjured a small spiral galaxy out of light, while he also darkened all the space around them, plunging the grove into a semblance of night. Some of that Darkness out there moved, but that was fine; Melemizargo could watch if he wanted. Erick lifted his hand up, carrying the spiral galaxy with it. “This could be representative of my home galaxy. It’s not a real representation, because I don’t feel like putting down a hundred billion stars into my hand… or more. Not sure about that number.”

Fairy Moon lifted her head a little, in a questioning sort of look, directly at Erick. Then she lowered her face again, and looked at the galaxy. She turned back toward Erick. “What are you wishing at, Wizard?”

Rozeta watched Erick, but she also watched the Dark all around.

“I’m trying to understand our senses of scale, and if we’re both way off, or not, because Rozeta is correct and this universe is huge.” Erick said, “Assuming we are in my universe, and not in some completely different Cosmology, then…”

Erick enlarged the galaxy in his hands, and stars spread outward in a jumbled, 4-armed swirl, filling the darkened glade along a single plane. Points of light illuminated the Shadow of Melemizargo, hiding in the edges of the black, his form swirling in Darkness. Erick ignored that for now, as he was focused on adding stars and shifting around the ones he had made, to better resemble the night sky he had seen for the first 48 years of his previous life. It took him a moment, and then several more moments after that. Now that Erick was thinking about it this deeply, and actually constructing this display, he realized there there were only maybe 5,000 stars on one side of the glade, and 5,000 on the other, all of them altogether representing the whole sky that one would see throughout the whole year; Only 10,000 stars out of 100,000 visible stars.

Most stars in the sky were invisible from Earth, by the naked eye.

“This is what the night sky looks like from my home planet. Mostly,” Erick said, “Pretty sure I got it mostly right. There’s Polaris up there, and over there are the Seven Sisters. And down below us are some of the brightest stars, including Alpha Centauri, a triple-star system and the closest other stars to Earth, at around 4.5 light years away. That’s the distance light travels in a year, by the way, so when we’re looking at those stars, we’re seeing them as they were 4.5 years ago.”

Rozeta was deeply interested in the night sky. So was Melemizargo.

… Erick had never shown them this before, had he? No, he had not. Well they certainly wouldn’t know of Earth, now would they? They were both gods, and Melemizargo was the Dark, but both of them were something like 5,000 years old for Rozeta and 25,000 for Melemizargo.

But Fairy Moon was different.

Erick realized, or maybe hoped, that as he showed this land to Fairy Moon, in particular, that maybe she might know this night sky.

But.

No.

Rozeta and Melemizargo merely cataloged what they were seeing.

And Fairy Moon squinted her heterochromatic eyes at the darkened glade, with points of light everywhere, and said, “… I know not this lost land.” She looked to Erick, “You sure you secured the stars truly?”

Erick tried not to sigh. He had never been hopeful of returning to Earth, and he certainly never tried to head that way, or even think about it too much, but for one shining moment, Erick had thought that maybe Fairy Moon would know of Earth. Erick said, “I have set them in the sky as best I could.” He held up his hand, and placed a tiny blue and green marble in the center of the glade. “That’s the point of view of the starfield. That is the angle to properly view the stars.”

Fairy Moon stared at the replica of Earth. Then she moved to stand beside it, and cast her gaze outward. “… Nope. This is new land to me.” She stepped away from the replica, saying, “I never needed nor envisioned a vacation outside our Old Cosmology anyway. I will let my people know of this knowledge, and if one of my people perhaps knows of this land, then maybe they’ll mention that miracle to you later.” She waved a hand, saying, “But what of this scale you seek to secure?”

Erick moved on, saying, “For our purposes, Earth is practically the same size as Veird, though Veird is actually about 8-ish times Earth’s size, or something like that. It really doesn’t matter.” And then Erick pulled all the stars in the sky to that singular point that was Earth, adding countless points of light at the edge of the field as he pulled inward. “What we’re seeing as I’m zooming us outward is my home galaxy, the Milky Way.” Soon, the Milky Way filled the glade, like a gently swirling whirlpool. Erick pointed to where Earth lay, saying, “Every single star in Earth’s night sky has already collapsed down into this small area. The Milky Way itself is over 100,000 light years across, and we don’t see most of the stars in the Milky Way at night, because most of them are too small and weak to see.

“Keep in mind that this is just an approximation past this point.”

The starfield crushed downward, once again becoming a glob of pinpricks that was the Milky Way.

“And this is that galaxy, back to being small. It takes light 100,000 years to travel from one end of this galaxy to the other… Or was it 104,000? Might have been 104,000. Anyway. The speed of light is the speed at which the universe is able to act on itself… or something like that. I don’t know exactly.”

Erick added a bunch of tiny clusters around the Milky Way. “These are satellite galaxies. There are a lot of them, and they’re all kinda small.”

At about 7 Milky Ways away, he added another galaxy and a bunch of smaller ones, saying, “This is the nearest major galaxy to the Milky Way and its satellite systems. This is Andromeda. This whole small collection of galaxies, contained inside this glade, is about 10 million light years across at this point, meaning it takes 10 million years for light to travel this distance. This is the local cluster.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes were a little wide at this point. She seemed to be getting it for the first time.

Rozeta looked reserved. She was getting it, too, and it was worse than she feared.

Melemizargo’s shadow, though, seemed to be positively brimming with excitement, as Erick continued to fill the glade with stars upon stars. The God of Magic’s shadow darted from galaxy to galaxy, from major swirl of light to minor whirlpool of dust-like stars.

Erick zoomed out some more, adding a whole lot more points of light, all across the glade, while the Milky Way shrunk down to the size of a single dot in the center. “This point of light here is the local cluster; I kept it in the middle. All of these other lights have all of what was in the local cluster. Every single point of light out there is billions of points of light.”

Melemizargo was giggling as he darted around.

Rozeta’s look changed from ‘reserved’ to ‘resigned’.

Fairy Moon huffed, “Well that’s wishful wishes. No way is this real.”

Erick said, “I’m not done yet. This is only 500 million light years across.” And then he zoomed out more. The glade was filled with light, like illuminated dust hanging in the dark, clustering around itself, forming universal strings of dust, like dust devils made of light and frozen in time—

And it became easier to add more and more illuminated dust.

This simple illumination was not a spell; it was not magic. Erick had put no real intent into any of this, as he simply carved light and shadow from mana.

And yet, it became a spell. It became magic.

Erick felt a magic pulse from his very soul, unbidden and uncalled upon, but presenting itself nonetheless, as the entire glade turned into a light-strewn emptiness. Rozeta seemed to vanish, as Fairy Moon’s pink and green eyes faded into the black, to become part of the universal dust, and Melemizargo crawled in the depths between everything like a fish taking to water.

Erick’s body had vanished into the depths of everything, but his voice remained, “We’re at 3 billion light years across right now, and you can see how ephemeral forces like gravity and time have guided everything into clustered shapes. It’s been about 14 billion years since the start of this universe, and it might be 100 trillion years till it ends, though those are just guesses.”

Erick zoomed out even more.

And magic, ancient and wanting, filled all the gaps which Erick could never hope to even visualize.

It was a field of light and dark, like static.

“At this distance it is impossible to make anything out. We’re at almost 100 billion light years across. This is the observable universe.”

Erick zoomed out 250 more times, faster and deeper than he could ever hope to contain within his own mind, even as bolstered with Intelligence and Perception as it was. Static became simple grayscale, which became nothing but a sea of perfectly even grey. And yet, there were nuances to it. Nuances which Erick did not put there, but which existed anyway.

Tendrils in the grey.

“This is the theorized size of the actual universe,” Erick said, ignoring the tendrils. Melemizargo must have been doing that. “Though I’ll never know, because I lack the time and the power to see any of it. Or at least that was true before magic came along into my life. Now, who knows what wonders and powers you or I might see, or how magic might get us there.

“And now, we return.”

Erick began zooming back in, falling forward fast. Static turning to more static turning to more static, in a never ending flow, because the size of it all was truly that vast.

Going inward was easier than going outward.

Going inward… Everything was more nuanced. Everything was more solid. There were parts of the lightshow that Erick had not put down there which now appeared out of chaos, like he had always put them there, and not like he had made it all up on the spot. Spiraling clouds of various density, but only seeming that way because the human mind sought to make images out of anything it could, to find patterns in the chaos; that’s what it all reminded Erick of.

And then he got further inward, zooming all the way down, going fast as he could, but all he saw was more and more static. One minute, two minutes. Five minutes of inward diving. Zooming inward, time passed on, as more and more of the universe came into view.

He was not zooming in on a magic he had made.

