“Hello, Fairy Moon,” Erick said, as though greeting an old frenemy, because he kinda was.

The friend-enemy spectrum usually landed on ‘friend’ more often than not these days, but more than once Erick had needed to [Fairy Banishing] her to remove her from whatever it was she was doing wrong at the time. She was the whole reason Erick went about making that spell in the first place, both for his own use, and for Quilatalap, who needed a little bit of Wizardry to be able to make a proper version of that spell himself. Erick usually waited till Fairy Moon made a nuisance of herself before Banishing her, but Quilatalap Banished her on sight. He had even included automatic Banishing in many of the dungeons he made.

Erick added, “I was wondering when you were going to show up.”

Fairy Moon looked about the same as always. Short, pale, with one eye blazing pink and the other emerald green, and wearing clothes that Jane once described as ‘pastel goth’. She also wore a concerned expression. “I heard my name overmuch and have come calling on this gathering of old ghosts.” She looked to Guile, wrapped around Solomon’s right arm, like a bracer. “You’re looking poor, dear Guile.”

In complete contrast to the last two hours of talking with Guile and explaining the world, and Guile sometimes-vehemently disbelieving Erick, Solomon, and Poi, this time Guile’s voice was completely deferential, “I apologize my glorious Queen EverStar, King of all Fae, Perfect Ruler and Magnanimous Life After Death For All Who Believe, Mladfawb. Please excuse my form. I appear to be affected by a manaminer that is beyond my capabilities.”

Erick had never heard those names before, and he might never hear them again considering he already heard a soft whine in the air, which had to be the Script trying one of its Silences. Erick had never heard of Fairy Moon formally referred to as anything besides ‘Fairy Moon’, until now, but he certainly remembered Melemizargo trying to call out Fairy Moon’s Other Names, that one time near Stratagold, and getting nothing from that naming but unheard static and bleeding orifices. Apparently this dungeon was beyond that, thankfully; that’s what they had made the anti-Silencing rules for, and those rules had worked.

Erick looked to Fairy Moon. “Mladfawb?”

“An ancient trifle of a name. What of it?” Fairy Moon asked, not even looking at him.

Erick almost wanted to try to be personable to Fairy Moon, to ask small questions, like ‘what’s in a Name?’ and ‘are more of your Silenced Names acronyms?’ and ‘were the names I gave the others bad, or good?’. But Fairy Moon seemed unusually peeved.

Did she not like Guile?

“Never mind the names.” Erick asked, “Was the artifact meeting I granted House Carnage not enough? Do you wish for something pulled out of the Dark, too?”

… Fairy Moon looked to Erick. And then she looked back to Guile. “I am here for Guile. I felt a fae fall into this dark dungeon, into this languished land, and I needed to nose around anyway since all of you were avoiding naming my names.” She said to the golden bracelet, “You need to request a requisition of allowances of existence from Rozeta’s strangling Script. Erick can cause that happening to happen… Probably pretty promptly.” She looked to Erick. “You and I need to talk about New Cosmology fae.”

“I’ve heard about them, yes. Rozeta spoke about them to me, and about your talk with her and Kromolok about the warning for otherworldly fae to appear on Veird.” Erick said, “I trust that Rozeta hasn’t seen any other fae. Do you not trust her in this particular way?”

Fairy Moon distrusted Rozeta in many different ways, but not when it came to big things, and this seemed like a big deal to her. Honestly, the idea of New Cosmology Fae was a big deal to Erick, too, but he had never seen any of them, either. They seemed to be a problem beyond current problems, and therefore they were nothing.

Fairy Moon frowned a little. And then she intoned, “Hear me now, my Wonderful Wizard of Benevolence: The Old Fae are out there always. I fear you are not feeling the fullness of my complete candidness.”

“… Your warnings are heard loud and clear, Fairy Moon, but there’s not much I can do about your warnings or to prepare against Other Fae.” Erick asked, “Unless there is something in the Dark we should be looking for as defense against them?”

“… No, there is nothing in the Deeper Dark that can conceal or create a ward of perfect protection against Those Other Outsiders.” Fairy Moon frowned a little more, and then she sighed, and said, “I hope the Sundering Search does not uncover those uncouth Other Outsiders. That would be a disaster of deadly proportions.”

Everyone paused at that.

Erick asked, “Could these Other Fae be the true cause of the Sundering?”

Fairy Moon tilted her head a little. “… Doubtful, but definitely possible. Many possibilities are possible.”

Erick stopped being concerned about Outsider Fae, for he mentally ticked off ‘not going to search in that possible-Sundering direction until we’re ready for it’. Poi and Solomon seemed to have the same thought process.

Fairy Moon turned and looked at Guile again, and then at Solomon. “You’re on the Worldly Path once again. How weird. Well. Whatever. Your Wizardry is yours to wrestle with this time. Guile! Guide him well to grandness for all Good Gains.”

Guile instantly said, “I will do this decree, my Kind King!”

Fairy Moon nodded, then stepped away, vanishing from the kitchen dining room, in the house in the dungeon.

Solomon looked at Guile. “Want to try and get your body back?”

“There’s no time for that nonsense now. I am not leaving you until you ascend to Wizardry to rival all that has come before. We are making a powerhouse of you one way or ten thousand others!” Guile said, “It is good that you have already stolen enough Darkness from others to bump up your mana production as high as it is; it will make the next steps a lot easier.”

Erick had a lot to say about that, from Guile’s implication that it would take long to get Rozeta to add another Fairy Band… Well. Actually. It might. Anyway! Stealing Darkness, eh? That old taboo subject that was made unimportant because of the dungeons?

Solomon paused in a lot of questions, too. “You mean the Darkness that makes me produce mana?”

Guile’s tone turned full of implied frowns. “Yes, I mean that! A good bit of ruthlessness is always nice to see in an aspiring Wizard; makes all the rest of it easier.”

Erick asked, “What makes you think he stole Darkness?”

Solomon had the same question, but he left it unvoiced.

“… Did…” Guile asked, “Did people give you their Darkness?” He rapidly added, “I suppose you are a grand power in this place so that sort of makes sense— Do the people here not know what they were giving up when they gave you their Darkness?”

Erick said, “That’s not what happened, either.”

Solomon said, “Dungeons, like the one we’re in right now, can make big monsters or official Trials of the Dark, and when you kill one of those or complete one of those, you get base mana production. It’s a whole thing, and it’s rather new, as far as we know. Before, in the Old Cosmology, this simply did not happen. I’ll take you on a dungeon run later with the girls and you can see what all that’s about.”

“… Ah? Well…” Guile’s voice fizzled out. “Well… I’m not sure how to actually approach this increasingly complicated and dangerous dimension. I keep increasing my expectations of what you might have available to you, for your use, while simultaneously striving to come to terms with how little you have here on this planet. You have no Radiant Depths to which you can reach, to align your soul and system in a Great Cleansing. You have no Grand Wizard’s Tower to visit, where people might help you prepare your power —which is filled with these ‘particles’ which make very little sense to me, but which I think I know of, a little— There is no Goddess of Knowledge! I should have been able to point you at her parishioners at least so that we could learn all of these missing pieces of this universe, and how it fits together with mana!

“And yet!

“And yet! We have all of an entire world’s resources at our disposal, and you won’t have to fight for any of it. You know the gods. You have clearance to ascend to Wizardry within the sphere of this ‘planet’ —which is another new concept for me. And perhaps the most important thing is that you are on the Worldly Path, which will smooth out and bring to us untold ultimatums for advancement, and since you already have all this power within you, Solomon, since you come from another Wizard and have all those memories, I have little doubt that you can ignite your core into something brilliant! All it will take is a little bit of time, and talking to the right people! We’ll have to search out some non-manaminer spaces, but that shouldn’t be too difficult.

“And, most of the Elements that existed in the Old Cosmology but which do not exist here, which I would have pointed you at for inspiration, means that you can choose who you want to be! You have complete choice! You don’t have to compromise on anything at all, as you would have to do if you chose something unimaginative yet easily trod, like Peace or Security.

“We are on a paradise island made of natural treasures.

“This is the best possible start I have EVER HAD for any of my servants… And yet… And yet… It might be the most difficult.”

Guile fell to silence.

Erick and Solomon and Poi joined him in that silence. Moments passed as Erick considered both the full breadth of how Guile used to live his life, and how much had been lost. If Erick had fallen to the Old Cosmology with Jane, then Jane would have for sure left her starting planet already, to try and seek her fortune in the great beyond. Erick probably would have been found by some higher power of some sort and used for their own ends. Or perhaps a kind Wizard would have found him first. Either way, there would have been no way to hide his natural mana generation outside of Veird…

But Erick had never noticed his natural mana generation on Earth?

… Did Earth have a manaminer? Because Erick was still a Wizard back on Earth, right? Wizards and every other sapient person generally developed their mana generation at the end of puberty.

… Earth did not have a manaminer. No way. That’d be crazy.

Erick held that crazy thought inside, strangling his laughter to ensure nothing escaped and ruined the deep moment that Guile was having right now. He distracted himself, and considered that maybe, in a natural manasphere, he wouldn’t be spewing mana crystals everywhere, like he did whenever he entered the no-Script space inside this dungeon. Maybe he would have naturally learned to control his power in a normal, no-Script space. That’s probably how it worked in the Old Cosmology.

No way to really know, though, because they weren’t in the Old Cosmology at all—

Solomon broke the silence, asking, “Where would you start with training me to become a True Wizard, Guile?”

Erick added, “We could probably get your fae body back, if you want.”

Guile glinted on Solomon’s bracer for a moment, then he easily said, “I’d start with getting me a body of my own so that I could show you what to do, directly. If I am understanding everything correctly, this means a talk with Rozeta? Even if bureaucracy takes a while, bureaucracy should still be done as soon as possible.”

Erick stood from his seat, saying, “Let’s do that, then.”

- - - -

Surprisingly, Rozeta had been okay with increasing the bands of acceptable Elemental Fae by 1.

In the glade outside of the slime dungeon, Rozeta stood atop the grass, saying, “Of course, Erick. I was waiting for you to ask.” And then she looked to Guile, wrapped around Solomon’s right wrist. “You will have to be quick and dense with regard to taking that extra slot, Guile.”

Trying to keep his surprise out of his voice, and failing, Guile said, “Understood, Goddess of Veird.”

Rozeta grinned a little. “In 4, 3, 2, 1—”

The air changed, ripples flowing out from the bracer upon Solomon’s arm, filling the manasphere before fading into nothing among the trees and the sky. Guile’s bracer form slipped off of Solomon’s arm, plopping onto the ground and instantly taking on his small, golden fox form once again, his ten tails spreading out behind him like prehensile feather boas. His head only reached Solomon’s knee, but his tails were longer—

And then the world seemed to relax, and breathe.

Guile transformed from golden fox, to a fox with blonde hair and bright amber eyes. From unnatural, to natural. He shook himself out, and breathed a little.

Rozeta sighed in contentment. “Glad to see that it worked how I wanted it to work. Welcome back, Guile.”

Erick caught up quickly, and so did Solomon. Poi was back in the dungeon, but he’d find out what happened as soon as they got back in.

When fae died, they returned to Elemental Fae, only to be born again in a new form, with a fraction of the memories of their old selves, like shadelings coming back from the Dark. For the longest time only Fairy Moon had been reborn, over and over again, alone each time. When Rozeta relaxed the Fae bands of intent to 10 a while ago, it allowed 10 more fairies to be reborn. Those bands had been quickly filled, and now when any of those 10 fae’s corporeal bodies met its untimely end, they were reborn inside Fairy, like normal. They’d carry memories of their old lives which would inform their new lives, but most times any death at all was rather traumatic, forcing a personality reset. Fairy Moon was the only one immune to this sort of change.

Now that Guile was connected to Fairy once again, he had regained something in that rebirth. Some of his old memories, no doubt.

