Dorcot shrugged and made short work of them. Ren took out the cloth that held the other diamond dust, Dorcot swept the new dust into it, and Ren tied it up again and stored it. He picked up the half dozen diamonds and handed them to Dorcot, who added them to his pile and then handed all of them back to Ren.

“You better take these.” Dorcot said. “I can't sell them, either.”

“I'll use them as accents or something.” Ren said, and handed him 20 gold.

“By the gods, what's this for?”

“You just sold me those diamonds.” Ren said. “Less 10%, of course.”

Dorcot opened his mouth to protest, then changed what he was going to say. “You're crazy.”

New title!

You have impressed enough of the locals with your eccentricities and have earned the title: Crazy Like A Fox

Ren laughed. “I've been hearing that a lot.” He put a hand on Dorcot's shoulder. “Wait here for a few minutes, will you?”

Dorcot nodded slightly and Ren handed him a 3 inch diamond crystal. “You can play with that until I come back.” He said to Dorcot's surprised face and left the workshop. Ren walked back towards the house. “Show info for title: Crazy Like A Fox.”

Crazy Like A Fox

Everyone knows that extremely intelligent people are a little crazy. Some believe that crazy people are actually wise. Your ideas have changed the way people look at things, which makes you a rare combination of both. This title grants you:

Intelligence: +20

Wisdom: +20

Ren walked to the front of the house and saw that Narhilda was now showing the workers how to use the icing bag. Ren had made a half-dozen yesterday, after Barnar had asked him if he had any other ideas in his 'big brain'.

Narhilda is busy... I better ask Nathalia.

“Ask her what?” Teepo asked.

About offering Dorcot a position in our House.

“Well, it's not without precedent.” Teepo said. “Are you offering it to just him, or to his whole family?”

I don't know. Ren thought as he walked through the gate at the front of the house. That's why I wanted to talk to Narhilda. She's the Lady of the House. Accepting Dorcot as a retainer is something she should have the final say in.

“I agree.” Teepo said. “I wonder what she'll say.”

I'll talk to Nathalia and get some idea. Ren opened the front door and smelled something delicious. He took a deep breath in through his nose and exhaled through his mouth; then creeped through the main room and into the kitchen. He came up behind Nathalia and slowly slid his arms around her to catch the bowl she had in her hands.

“Is that vanilla I smell?” Ren whispered in Nathalia's ear.

“AH!” She exclaimed and dropped the bowl.

Ren caught it easily and set it on the table, then hugged her from behind.

“REN! You scared me!” Nathalia said and punched one of the arms holding her.

“Sorry.” He said and grinned. “I've still got Sneak on.”

“You're not sorry at all.” She said, then leaned back into him. “You don't have to sneak up to get a hug, you know.”

“I do if I want to do this.” Ren said and kissed the side of her neck. Nathalia giggled and shivered.

“Don't... don't.” She said, and tried not to laugh. “I'm trying to make pastries.”

“I'm not stopping you.” Ren said and rested his chin on her shoulder.

“I can't reach the cookie sheet now.” Nathalia said and put down the spoon she was using, and turned around in his arms to face him. “You're going to have to reach for it.” She said in a sultry voice, then smiled.

Ren started to reach for the cookie sheet, but since it was now behind where Nathalia stood, she had to lean back over the table as he leaned forward. She snaked her arms around his neck to hang on, and then one of her legs wrapped around his to keep her balance. Ren's finger touched the cookie sheet and he hooked it with a fingertip.

“Ahem.”

Ren and Nathalia looked to where the voice was, and saw Narhilda standing there with her arms crossed.

“I'd ask you what you think you're doing, but it's pretty obvious from where I'm standing.”

Ren looked down at Nathalia and saw that she was practically laying on the table, and had her leg and arms wrapped tightly around him; and he was leaning on top of her, with an arm around her back.

“You're cooking.” Narhilda said and snorted a laugh. Ren started to laugh and stood up, and dragged the cookie sheet over. Nathalia held on and stood up, then laughed as well.

“That's right, Ma.”

Narhilda came over to the table and looked at the bowl. “Pastries.” She said. “Are they for the workers?”

Nathalia nodded slightly and turned around to roll out the dough. She did, folded it over, and rolled it out again.

“You've got perfect timing.” Ren said to Narhilda, and Nathalia chuckled.

“That could be argued.” She said as her face flushed a little red.

Ren kissed Nathalia's cheek and walked around the table. “I meant for what I had come in here for.”

Nathalia looked at Ren in surprise. “You came in here to do that to my mother?!?”

Ren laughed. “No, I actually came in here to talk.”

“About what?” Narhilda asked.

“What does it entail to have someone from another House to either work for, or join, another House?”

“I take it you want to offer Mr. Gurihm a job?”

“I do.”

“His current House can issue a temporary work order, and until a job is finished, they can work for as long as there's work.”

“What are the strings?” Ren asked as he watched Nathalia cut up the dough into squares. She added a spoonful of apple filling, folded them over, and crimped the edges.

“The what?”

“Strings.” Ren said, turning back to her mother. “Conditions set by the House for allowing the work order.”

“Oh.” Narhilda said. “Yes, there's conditions. The House gets a large percentage of any wages paid, usually up to 40%, and they have to live in the House's district and commute to the new job.”

“Geez, 40%?” Ren said. “That's kind of ridiculous.”

“It can be higher, but most Houses want the income from outside jobs, so they usually drop that to around 30%.”

Ren thought about it for a minute. “What about transfering or joining another House?”

“That's a little more complicated.” Narhilda said. “You'd have to petition the House, stating the job required to be filled, then pay an amount equal to a year's work that they would have done if they'd stayed.”

“He doesn't work, except for some odd jobs, so that's no problem.” Ren said. “What about his family?”

“If it was a woman, she automatically takes the family with her.” Narhilda said. “If it's a man, he'd have to petition his House for her to go with him. Then they can choose if any children go with them.” She said. “Houses really are like small businesses. You can have members of the same commoner family in different Houses. It's not the same for the royalty, though. Only men can marry into a family there, royal or not, and they take the family's last name.”

Ren smiled. He knew that part. “With your permission, I'd like to offer a job, and a possible transfer to House Neram.”

“Are you sure?” Narhilda asked. “We've never had anyone who wanted to come and live in this district before.”

“I wondered why your lot was 2 square miles and nothing else was on it.”

Narhilda chuckled. “What was it my husband used to say, Nathalia?”

“Being a tailor wasn't as flashy as all the other professions. Who wants to live next to a tailor?” Nathalia said and put the pastries in the oven.

“I do.” Ren smiled. “Actually, I bought the building right behind a tailor back in Aurora.”

“You did?” She asked.

“It was her old storage space.” Ren said. “It also cost 50 platinum.”

Nathalia's mouth dropped open and she stared at Ren.

“By the gods!” Her mother exclaimed. “50 platinum! That's... that's...”

“Outrageously expensive.” Ren said and smiled. “I could buy a good chunk of the countryside here for that.”

Neither woman said anything and Ren took out the large diamond oval that Dorcot had cut for him. “Or I could buy this.” He said and held it up. The gem gleamed in the sunlight, making multiple colors fly across the room.

“Is that real?” Nathalia asked.

“It sure is.” Ren said and handed it to her. “Dorcot cut it for me.”

Narhilda leaned in to look at the gem as her daughter held it. “This is what you want to hire him for?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I've got all these diamond crystals, that I can't do anything with until they're cut. I'm too busy right now to do anything with them myself.”

“Then go ahead and invite him.” Narhilda said and took the gem from Nathalia. “His skills should not be wasted.”

“That was my thought, too.” Ren said as she handed him the diamond. “I'll go and ask him.” He said, stored the gem, then bowed to Narhilda. “My Lady.” He turned to Nathalia and bowed. “My Lady.” Ren left the house and ran back to the workshop.

*

“How many of those does he have?” Narhilda asked her daughter.

“His inventory is full, so he has a lot.” Nathalia said.

“Oh, my.” Narhilda fanned her face with her hand.

“That's not counting... what did he say? Oh, right.” Nathalia said. “A mountain full of them.”

“Oh... my...” Narhilda nearly collapsed into the chair.

*

Ren entered the workshop and walked over to the workbench he'd made for Dorcot.

“Finished already?” Ren asked and Dorcot handed over the cut gem. Ren appraised it at 10 platinum, stored it, and smiled.

“Dorcot, after your help building my workshop, I'd like to offer you a job as a general laborer.”

“I'm sorry, but no.”

Ren blinked a few times. “Can I ask why?”

“House Lodur is the richest House on this side of the water. I thought joining it would have been the best thing for me, and it was for a while; but, look how it turned out.” He said. “They're already taking 35% of my wife's income, because they 'couldn't find her a job' in her own House. She's been a receptionist for years now, and we're barely making ends meet. I won't give them 35% of what I'd make if I worked, too.”

Ren looked at the 6 small diamonds on the workbench and smiled. “What if I offered you more than that?”

“I told you, they're already-” Dorcot started to say, then stopped speaking when Ren raised a hand.

“I meant, I'd like to offer you a position in House Neram. As in, I want you to transfer here.”

Dorcot's mouth fell open. He didn't say anything for a full minute, shook his head, and smiled. “You're kidding, right? There hasn't been a transfer out of House Lodur in as long as I can remember.”

“I'm not kidding. I was just discussing it with Lady Neram. That's what took me so long.” Ren said. “She told me to go ahead and make the offer, because she didn't want your skills to be wasted.”

Dorcot sat in silence for another minute. “She really said that?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I told her that I had the same thought, too.”

“But... what about my wife, and her job?”

“You'll have to petition for her to come with you.” Ren said. “She can keep her job, but we'll re-negotiate her contract. 35% isn't good for House Neram.”

“And what amount would be good?” Dorcot asked, with squinted eyes.

“Somewhere around 1%. I don't think I can go any lower than that.”

Dorcot stared at Ren like he was crazy, and Ren laughed. “You've seen this.” He said and took out the large diamond oval. “I don't really need to garnish your wife's wages for the House, do I?”

Dorcot smiled. “I guess not.” He said. “What about the kids?”

“You can choose if you want them to come along or not.” Ren smiled and stored the gem again. “If they have good paying jobs with the House, or marriage prospects, or kids of their own...”

Dorcot nodded slightly.

“Or I could approach your wife and petition for her to join, and the rest of the family will have to come along.” Ren said.

Dorcot's eyes widened and he shook his head. “No, no... you're right. If I do this... it'll be me, and possibly my wife. Not the kids. They have lives of their own.”

Ren smiled. “You don't have to accept right away. Go home, discuss it with your wife, and let me know.”

“How long do I have to decide?”

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “This isn't a decision to make quickly. Take your time.”

Dorcot nodded and stood. “I'll go and talk to my wife, and see what she says.”

“That's all I can ask.” Ren said.

“By the way, how many of those diamond crystals do you have?”

“Are you sure you want to know?” Ren asked. “I don't want to influence your decision.”

Dorcot nodded slightly. “It will influence my decision; but, if you only have a few more hidden away...”

“Well, okay...” Ren said and took out the crate he'd filled with diamond crystals. He opened the crate and it was filled to the top. “...I have a few.”

“BY THE GODS!” Dorcot said and picked up a 4 inch wide diamond crystal in each hand. “By the gods...” He looked at Ren with a maniacal glint in his eye. “I'll be back in an hour.”

Ren followed Dorcot to the door and watched him walk down the paving stone road. When he got to the main road and took the corner into the city, he was passed by 6 carts, that carried 2 women each.

“It must be close to supper.” Ren thought as the carts pulled up in front on the workshop. The women all helped to empty the carts and then they all stood by their carts. “Shovels, please.” Ren said and they held them out for him to inspect and repair. He did so, and as he walked along, he examined their clothes as well. He took out the Master Tailor's Sewing Needle and used Repair all of the clothes. They oo'd and ah'd as their clothes repaired themselves, and had smiles from ear to ear when Ren was finished.

“I saw that you all did a wonderful job today.” Ren said, and beamed a smile at them. “Do you see the pile there?” He said and pointed. “Nearly 200 cart loads in just 8 hours.” Ren could almost feel it as pride filled the women. “That's outstanding!” Ren exclaimed. “I'm glad that you listened to my advice, and took your time.”

“It was easy, sir.” “I work harder in my kitchen.” “He has nice hair.” “You're still married, Mari.” “Dammit.”

Ren chuckled and approached the first cart. Ren handed the driver 2 gold coins, and she gasped.

“Sir! This...”

“Oh, right! Sorry.” Ren said. “Just a minute.” He ran back to the house and into the stable, and stored one of the bolts of cloth. He ran back to the group of women, and they had surprised looks on their faces.

“What?”

“How... how fast can you run?” One woman asked.

“You can get to town in about 5 minutes.” Teepo offered.

Thanks, Teepo.

