She did? Seve couldn’t tell good clay from crap clay, but apparently this was nice clay. Cognita studied the pot, then glanced up.
“How much is it worth?”
“A meal in Khelt, I was told.”
“I see. Then—if you wish a suitable exchange, should I procure the gold or simply an object?”
“An object would do.”
Another nod. Cognita delved into her bag of holding and produced something. It was…a Yellat.
It was three feet long and the largest damn Yellat that Seve had ever seen. It had an oddly glossy skin without the dirt he was used to seeing, and it had a huge stalk.
“This is a Yellat acquired from the fields I have been managing. It is too large to sell at established rates, and Nerrhavia does not respect Yellats. Will you take it?”
“…Yes.”
If nothing else, Seve was tired of the pot, and that looked like food. He took the Yellat gingerly, and Cognita rose.
“Ook. Ooke…not interested in your advances, but thank you…ok-ook.”
She took Erek’s hand as the Orangutan’s mouth dropped open and turned. Cognita looked rather pleased with herself. She strode off, and Seve stared at Erek.
“She didn’t actually say something, did she? That’s impossible. Even for…”
Erek fell over backwards in a dead faint.
 
——
 
Northwards with Yellat in tow. This time, Seve passed through Nerrhavia faster, owing to his desire to leave by a northern coast.
To do this, he used the help of Russivec, the Bicorn of House Walchaís. A charging fellow who ran north. He had a bifurcated, huge horn, and he was half-bull, half-horse. Bethal Walchaís, after the success of her initial horse-breeding, had tried to import stranger horse-breeds still.
But the Bicorn had been too temperamental for even her. He had a habit of playing ‘chicken’ with wagons or oncoming traffic. In that he’d race straight at a wagon and dare it to keep going. He didn’t care if they hit each other. He never had, even before he’d agreed to become Seve’s companion.
Part of the reason that Seve’s animal-companions joined him was for the ride. They got to experience the world and have longer lifespans than he did. Even if they were tattoos, they stared out of his body without fearing hunger or predation.
The other reason was because they had needed help. The huge Nelgaunt whale-creature that Seve called his friend had been wounded and dying when he rescued him. Russivec had been herdless, close to being put down for being a menace.
Aside from apologizing to people on the road north, it wasn’t hard to make good time, and it took him only eight days of hard riding to get to the northern border.
Seve was soured on Nerrhavia for a bit, and he hadn’t found what he, personally, wanted. Oh, the desert land appealed to him, and the Stitch-folk with their great fashion and the milling cities were, to him, wider and grander than many other continents’ cities.
He could call Chandrar home proudly. But Seve always left, as well, because he was a seeker and Nerrhavia had nothing for him.
“Especially now. Sorry. I doubt you lot will find what you want in Reim, or anywhere else. Khelt, perhaps, once we earn King Fetohep’s respect, but I didn’t want to ask. Jecrass?”
Russivec grunted and tossed his head, and Seve patted him on the flank.
“A deal.”
The Bicorn actually picked up speed at that, and the tattoos shimmered as his friends silently danced over his flesh with excitement. But first they had to get through the warfront, so Seve grew watchful as he closed on Nerrhavia’s northern borders where fortresses dotted the land.
There he saw the war with the King of Destruction first-hand.
 
——
 
Who had said that Reim was having trouble with the forts? Oh, a [Magistrate]. That was what it looked like on paper, but the [Soldiers] seemed disturbingly relaxed to Seve.
The war camp was filled with [Soldiers] that Seve could only describe as ‘veteran’. Despite the magic flashing from the fort in the distance, they sat or even slept, their armor worn by battle, but in good condition.
Unlike a rookie [Soldier] who polished their spear until it was sharp, a [Soldier] of Reim, a man, checked it twice with a whetstone, put it next to him as he relaxed, and sat there, laughing and joking with his squad. Of the two—he looked far more dangerous.
They were confident. Even the half-Giants, who waved at Seve as they sat around, had the air of people who had broken armies before them.
It made Seve feel intimidated himself as he approached the huge tent where the King of Destruction lay. The legends of the King of Destruction had manifested in this eternal campaign, and he held court in a simple tent as his army besieged Nerrhavia’s forts.
Casually. That was the thing. They were facing a fortress, one of the Bastions that Nerrhavia’s Fallen had on their northern border, enchanted spires hurling magical bolts through the air, a killing trench dug around the old blackstone walls.
Seve had heard this was a relic from the age of Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant herself, and even if it was faded, the magic mostly gone, Reim’s army just parked outside of it with a cheerful indifference that the Stitch-folk didn’t share.
Perhaps it was because, for all they were up against a great nation of Chandrar—it was only one nation, not dozens. They were on the offensive, and for once, Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction, had no more enemies gnawing on his sides.
He was building trebuchets. And his ‘trouble’ was mostly Flos putting his feet up while Nerrhavia sweated and watched more and more of his armies coming south. And his Seven…
When Seve found Flos Reimarch and was granted an audience with him, the King of Destruction was playing a game. It was no less than Gazi the Omniscient and the steward, Orthenon, who escorted him.
They were the ones building the trebuchets. Amazingly, both had apparently memorized how to make them from the first wars of conquest, so the secret of Drakes and Minotaurs was turning into an unpleasant surprise for Nerrhavia in their magical forts.
Mind you, they still had wall enchantments that were hurling magical bolts at Reim’s army from vast distances. But the walls were also exchanging fire with the Archmage of Chandrar, and she had lit up an entire wall with lightning and sent the Stitch-folk running as Seve rode towards Reim’s lines.
“Your Majesty, a Courier to see you with a story to catch your ear.”
Orthenon announced loudly, and Seve heard Flos Reimarch laughing before he met the King of Destruction face-to-face.
Seve had seen Flos Reimarch before. He was too young to remember the original, but he remembered a hollowed man on his visits to Reim, a tired, quiet city, snuffed out of ambition.
The huge figure laughing as he swung around a fan like a mace was a completely different person. He was dancing around a huge…sandbox in the middle of his war tent. Everything else had been shoved to the side, and even the war table had been flipped over and a bunch of sand pushed onto the ground. There were actual little miniatures of forts, rocks, and things that Seve suspected were meant to go on said war table and map.
But they were being used as a young man sat across from the King of Destruction, nervously giving orders as Flos bellowed his.
In the background, another young man, Trey Atwood, had his face in his hands. Elena watched, rolling her eyes, and half the Earthers were with Flos, the other half clearly wondering what the hell was going on with their lives.
“Forwards the left flank! Forwards the—stop the cavalry there! Damn!”
Flos was energetically shouting, but he was in trouble. Waves of his [Soldiers] were charging left, but a wing of horses in a wedge formation literally plowed into them on the left.
“Heidec Formation! Heidec—”
“They don’t know what that is, Flos. I don’t.”
Trey shouted at last, and Flos threw up his hands.
“Fighting retreat! Dead gods, they’re getting slaughtered!”
He pounded the floor, watching as his soldiers were being hacked to pieces. But he was still smiling, despite the carnage. Dozens of them were dying! Their sand bodies slowly falling to…
Sand?
Seve had thought he was watching some kind of battle being broadcast via sand magic or something, but he realized it was literally just sand.
Sand Golems. Hundreds of them, vying for dominance across a literal sandbox. It was the strangest thing he had ever seen, and he instantly saw the appeal for the King of Destruction.
“It’s a little war in the middle of a big war.”
Gazi rolled her eyes as Flos Reimarch looked up. The King of Destruction burst into a smile, and he rose.
“Seve-Alrelious. The Hundredfriends Courier! Come in! You have it in a moment. Isn’t it fun? People do this all the time where Trey comes from. All the battle, none of the bloodshed. I quite enjoy it, though I prefer actual war. War should have meaning…but I am hooked by the strategy. Though every time I lose, it’s because the little Golems can’t obey commands. And it doesn’t follow real life.”
“You can’t have one super-powered Golem. That’s cheating.”
Trey answered, sounding peeved. Flos scowled.
“Give me Minizi for half my army. That’s more fun to me, and that’s how my Seven fight. Didn’t someone have a system for points? I could use a half-Giant, too.”
“This is so stupid.”
Elena buried her face in her hands, and Seve was amazed by the informality of this ‘court’. Flos just started laughing.
“It may be! But there is something to seeing how the soldiers move…ah, nevermind. It is a game. But I am hooked for now, and it beats watching the trebuchets go up. And we have a guest! Is this the famous monkey I’ve heard of?”
He was taken with Seve. Taken with Erek, and he insisted on having a banana without even checking for poison. The only thing he wasn’t taken with was Seve’s background.
“A’ctelios Salash. I have a grudge against that place, you know. Terrible deeds have been done there. One of my vassals, Trey there, has a rightful blood feud against that place, and so does the Quarass. She, I trust, and Gazi herself has said A’ctelios has become corrupt.”
Trey Atwood had frozen up when he realized where Seve was from. The Courier bowed politely to him as he sat cross-legged with Flos, drinking wine.
“So I have heard. I intended to return to set things right if I could, but this project has taken my time.”
“Set things right? How? With fire? With an explosion?”
Trey broke in, and Flos paused with his winecup raised.
“Careful, Trey. The Hundredfriends Courier is a guest—and an honorable man.”
“He’s different from the rest of Tombhome, then.”
Seve bristled as he and Trey locked eyes. The young man had a scar on his throat, and he looked—odd. He was clearly a talented [Mage], and there was a five-foot-tall figure behind him. Made of red sand? She looked like—
He gave Gazi a quick glance, and the Gazer had a complicated expression on her face. Seve addressed Trey politely.
“I understand you have seen something dire in A’ctelios. But I am from Tombhome, and it is my home, Magus Trey. Not everyone there is corrupt. Though if it is corrupt, it should be dealt with. By good people of the city, as well as outside powers.”
He nodded to Flos, and the King of Destruction nodded back reasonably. But Trey’s eyes flashed.
“Nothing in that city should remain. Do you know what pakheil are? Do you know they’re changing guests into them?”
Seve’s skin crawled.
He shouldn’t know about—changing guests into them?
“That has to be untrue. Or—did they have a choice? Because that would be inconceivable to A’ctelios Salash.”
“Inconceivable? It almost woke up! Flos, don’t eat with him. If he’s really from there—”
Seve’s hand tightened on his goblet at the assertion.
“I would never offer someone A’ctelios’ flesh without great reason. I would have you take it back. And if you say there is rot in Tombhome—”
He looked at Gazi, and she nodded seriously.
“—Then I acknowledge it. But my people and I are products of the Carven City. Great things can bloom amidst rot. Every field and farm rises from fertilizer.”
“Poetically said.”
Flos smiled. Trey just snarled.
“You’re crazy. Great things? You’re all addicted to the flesh. I can see it on you. It’s in you. That—monster. A plague of people. Don’t talk to him.”
Seve slowly rose as the tent grew still.
“I have only changed as I pleased. But I dislike being called a monster, even in your court, King of Destruction.”
Flos waved a hand.
“Oh, no. State your mind, Courier. I do not often make it a policy to be rude to guests, let alone Couriers. But I am pleased Trey is stating his mind. I will not interfere.”
The Hundredfriends Courier nodded and faced Trey.
“Whatever you saw in Tombhome does not define all of us. Or do you serve a murderous king who only knows war? People are more complex than—”
Trey pointed a finger at Seve.
“You, like Roshal, are one thing. One thing defines you. And one thing is all I need to understand. One owns slaves. The other are monsters.”
Flos stiffened slightly, then sighed. Seve paused, then knocked the hand down.
“Roshal and Tombhome are not the same. Recant that.”
Trey’s eyes were like bright swords, digging at Seve.
“Both cities would be better off as smoking craters in the ground.”
“Children and all?”
This time, Seve was the one who stepped forwards. Trey jerked, and before one could throw a punch, cast a spell—Erek put his hands on both’s chests and pushed.
“Ook.”
Seve and Trey went flying. A huge woman coming into the tent with the most unrealistic proportions Seve had ever seen—let alone armor with literal breasts—caught Trey with a laugh. Seve stumbled back, and Orthenon steadied him.
“Enough! Mars, welcome. You’re just in time to play some games. We’ve heard you speak, Trey. Now—listen. If you can’t, step outside.”
Flos Reimarch put his cup down, clapped his hands, and Trey stormed out. Seve sat down, shaken.
What had that boy seen in A’ctelios? More and more, Seve felt the need to return home—and more and more, he began to realize it was as well he hadn’t gone.
Perhaps he needed backup.
 
——
 
“A gift? And Fetohep was the first one?”
Flos had the most disgusted look on his face when Seve told him about the trades. He was entirely reluctant to do anything Fetohep had started.
“I don’t think I’m interested in Khelt’s Eternal Glorious Haughty Majesty and his ‘taste’, which is just anything expensive. I regret to say that unless you find a buyer, I do not wish t—is that a Yellat? It’s the largest one I’ve ever seen!”
His eyes lit up the moment he saw the three-foot Yellat. Flos almost snatched it from Seve, and he held it up.
