“Look at that skin! It must be decades grown; they shed layers of skin and refine, you know. The taste. Orthenon! Do you see it?”
“That’s a Yellat, Your Majesty.”
The Steward was unimpressed by the Yellat. Flos stared at him.
“You fool, Orthenon. This is no Yellat. This…I’m almost tempted to re-bury it and keep it growing. The roots are trimmed, but they’d regrow. This has to be sixty years old! Most monsters dig these up because they’re magical at this stage. This is a prince of Yellats, and Cognita Truestone just handed it over?”
“She claimed Nerrhavia doesn’t value Yellats, even old ones.”
“Fools.”
Flos whispered. He held the Yellat up and struggled—then turned.
“I must have it. How much for it? No, you need a gift that exceeds the value of this Yellat, don’t you? Mars, give me one of your swords.”
“Eat shit! Even for you, Flos, a sword for a Yellat?”
She protectively held onto her sword at her side, appalled at the notion. Flos looked around.
“Where’s Amerys? She can enchant something for this Yellat.”
Seve was beginning to get into his task, so he coughed dramatically.
“Your Majesty, I have to leave soon. I do not have time to wait for an enchanter as this is bound for Izril.”
He was hoping it would pressure the King of Destruction, and sure enough, Flos began pacing back and forth.
“I could give you swords, arms—is a trebuchet ready? No, that’s a silly gift, and they’re inconvenient. What would serve? What would—”
He was pacing around his war-tent when his eyes fell on something.
The Sand Golems. Flos seized a handful and watched them try to form a phalanx in his hands. His eyes lit up.
“Trey!”
 
——
 
The [Sand Mage] was not happy about Flos’ idea, which was to buy the super-Yellat for the price of one hundred Sand Golems.
“They’re not easy to make! It took me a month to make this entire amount, and you want to sell them?”
“Trey. Trey. Trey, I well understand your complaint, but I have two responses. First—you can make more. Second—this is a magnificent Yellat. They’ll last for a long time, won’t they?”
Trey barely looked at Seve as he shoved his hands in the pockets of his robes.
“…A week or two and their bindings decay, but any [Mage] can strengthen them.”
“Well, Seve?”
A hundred Golems to fight little wargames. Well, why not? Taking the Golems from the annoying [Mage] also tickled his interest, and the Yellat probably had an expiration date, so Seve agreed.
A hundred Golems lined up for his bag of holding, and Flos proudly told him how they could simulate arrows, hold shields, and actually fight a little war.
“There’s room for improvement like Skills and such, but Trey might be able to sell them—if they weren’t made of sand.”
“They’re for fun.”
Trey sighed. Elena raised a hand.
“They’re for nerds. This is the lamest thing I’ve ever seen. Please don’t bring it into this world.”
Flos and Trey stared at her, both hurt. Elena pointed at the figurines.
“That literally. Literally. Makes me respect you both less. I’m telling the Quarass.”
“She’ll see the value in these.”
Elena threw up her hands as Flos dismissed the threat. Seve just raised his brows as Trey glanced at him.
“Nothing to say to me?”
“So long as you’re not doing anything? No. I’ll save whatever I have to say for A’ctelios itself.”
Flos’ eyes lingered on Trey when the young man said that, and they lit up with approval—and Seve shivered.
The King of Destruction, for a second, had looked exactly like his legend.
 
——
 
Nothing would do but Flos ‘show’ Seve how to use the Sand Golems, which involved six games until Orthenon finally dragged him away. The irony was that Flos was a poor player. So was Mars, because despite their ability to correctly judge how to send the Golems into a fight, they tended to get mad when a ‘good’ Golem didn’t hold the line. And they pestered Trey to create super-Golems to better reflect reality.
One of the strange young men and women was very good, owing to what he called ‘experience’ in the game. That was who Seve had seen playing Flos, and he assumed they were a [Strategist], although the fellow doubled over laughing when he asked that.
Another good player? Erek. He beat Flos Reimarch with the novel trick of arming each Sand Golem with ‘rocks’, which let him win a tense siege.
Seve hated to admit it because Trey had made them, but the Sand Golems were clearly the product of a high-level [Mage]. They were very responsive to commands, which made sense when he heard that Trey was also a [Schemer].
Class synergy. It fit him, too. Seve moved on, passing by Khelt again on his road north.
 
——
 
Jecrass was where the trade exchange got interesting. Seve was already surprised to see Khelt-Jecrass, the third that had been annexed by Khelt.
It was already looking fairly odd; undead supervised by Kheltian officers were everywhere. Not on the streets, although there were a number of laboring skeletons avoided by most Jecrassians, but they were in force at the borders.
Apparently, they had been hacking up monsters and bandits, and hundreds were tilling fields or rerouting parts of the rivers to irrigate farmland.
Khelt had big plans. By contrast, Jecrass seemed impoverished by the war. The great grasslands and rivers felt luscious to Seve, and he admired the actual trees and countless rivers that fed the land of famous riders.
Russivec loved it too and galloped around, braying at his cousins, who regarded the magical Bicorn with bemusement. Seve’s heart hurt, but he realized that this was it.
“Are you sure?”
Russivec bowed his head after the third day of riding through Jecrass. He had been pacing left and right, thinking long, and his scarred head, glowing with magic, dipped sadly.
But Seve had known it. The [Worldtraveller Inkfriend] closed his eyes.
“After a celebration, then. Erek, break out any snacks we have. We’ll halt before we get to Jecrass’ capital. Come out, everyone.”
His tattoos shone, and everyone except for the water-based friends appeared. Yowling cats, two of them, an alligator from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, flying birds—and more.
They flew around as a traveling [Shepherd] and herd turned to stare. Half the sheep walked into the river in amazement as a menagerie glowed around Seve.
Unlikely friends. Carnivores and herbivores, climbing all over Russivec, who grunted and dipped his head and then looked to a herd of wild Bicorns. Seve stood there, and Erek poured a cup of beer. He gulped down half, and Russivec gulped the other half.
“You won’t get anyone feeding you drinks after this. Try not to raid a bar.”
Heh. The Bicorn grinned, and Seve knew he’d remember a lot of tricks. Seve was no [Beast Master], but his friends learned a lot.
“Are you sure? Jecrass is full of people who love to ride Bicorns, and it’s been at war.”
Russivec hesitated, but he stared at the Bicorns, and the lonely bull-horse from Izril pawed the ground and then nodded at Seve. So the Courier asked nothing more, and he just smiled and talked about the past.
Then—as dusk was falling and the Bicorn herd was warily sniffing at him, Seve produced a magic dagger. He slowly drew it across Russivec’s tattoo, and the glowing lines of magic slowly parted as Seve weakened the magic line by line. The bull, glowing with magic, stood there, and his fur slowly changed from emerald green, spectral light, to ordinary, blue-black fur.
He inhaled, then, and the Bicorn pawed at the ground. He danced a few steps, stumbled, and looked around, blinking as if waking from a great, gentle dream. Then he stepped forwards, and Seve embraced him.
Erek had tears in his eyes. So did Seve.
“My friend. We’ll check on you when we come back. Alright?”
Russivec nodded. Water leaked from his eyes, and then he turned. Seve wiped at his face, and the Bicorns surrounded the now-mortal member of their herd. The largest bull looked wary as Russivec jerked his head at him.
“If I were him, I’d back down.”
Russivec was huge, mean as hell, and he had fought on three continents. He was now mortal, and Seve hoped he’d see him again.
A few curious Bicorns were eying Seve, but the Hundredfriends Courier held up a hand.
“Sorry. No one to join us. Not when we send someone off.”
He met most of his friends by chance. If the Bicorns understood—they whuffed at him, and Seve raised his head. The other animals inspected Jecrass, but not a one asked to go.
Few had ever stayed more than a decade. Erek was one, Arveil another. Most would go when they found somewhere they wanted. That was his pact. If he found them wounded or lost—he would carry them to a new home.
It was half the reason Seve travelled. And it was good and bitter and made him feel alive, so he waved at Russivec, and the Bicorn brayed back. Then Seve set out on his journey, and another friend, another place, was forever defined by the Bicorn he knew, here.
Small stories a Courier shared with no one. Jecrass’ capital itself was full of tamed horses, riding high and fast, and celebration that the war was over, even if uncertainty hung in the air. But there were hundreds of proud, swaggering [Duelists], half of whom challenged Seve.
Erek was so gloomy that he only cheered up after beating three with a sword. The threat of losing to an Orangutan cleared them away, and Seve then headed to the modest palace, full of balconies and a huge orchard of orange trees, where the Queen of Jecrass graciously granted him an audience thanks to his connections with Khelt’s king.
It was here that Seve made a third trade.
It was important to note who didn’t trade with Seve. After Cognita had broken the ice on the first trade, he had gotten semi-constant offers for the Yellat from [Chefs], but nothing had seemed better than it.
Gold obviously wouldn’t do. When he got the Sand Golem soldiers, Seve and Erek had to admit…they might have refused a lot of trade offers because they were hooked on the tiny soldiers.
Each night, they’d play a game, and every [Innkeeper], [Strategist], and so on had made an offer on them. Some of the trades were actually tempting, like five rolls of Sand Worm hide.
But Seve didn’t even start getting bored of the Sand Golems until Jecrass. And the only other person who had the means to make an offer—the [Prince] of Hellios’ fine, quarried stone was too heavy—was the Quarass.
She took one look at the Sand Golems and rolled her eyes. She was polite, but more interested in Erek and Seve’s thoughts about A’ctelios.
Jecrass was where a buyer emerged. Only, the [King] and [Queen] weren’t interested in all of them. And they weren’t married.
Queen Jecaina and King Raelt of Jecrass were in an odd position. Both had the class—both were now ruling Jecrass—and both were clearly not at home with the other.
They liked each other, but King Raelt walked in halfway through Jecaina greeting Seve and sat down on the other throne crammed onto the dais. But apart, because again, not a married couple.
“Did I hear there were some fascinating Sand Golems around?”
“Fath—Raelt, this is Seve, the Hundredfriends Courier.”
“Greetings on behalf of Jecrass. What brings you here?”
Raelt nodded at Seve, but he was actually far less formal than the Arbiter Queen. She was holding court like, well, a [Queen]. He was staring at the Sand Golems fighting gladiatorial-style on a table.
Half the Riverwardens were clustered around, entertained, but Jecaina sighed.
“We may trade for them for the novelty, but I cannot think that we can offer you something commensurate, Courier Alrelious.”
Commensurate? Raelt and Seve had to frown at that word, but Seve bowed.
“Would a handful suit, Your Majesty?”
“Mm. Perhaps. But aside from the novelty of watching them bash each other…perhaps you would care more to see the project of Jecrass? My father, His Majesty, could attend too.”
Jecaina’s waspish tone made Raelt start, and they stepped away from the Sand Golems to…a map of municipal plans. Or rather, a small city.
“Oh, is this a city? Looks good, looks good.”
Raelt nodded at the streets and even miniature sewers, houses—it was a fascinatingly complex thing, and Seve marveled at it.
“It’s Khelt’s city, which they are willing to reconstruct for us. One of their artisans worked on reproducing this—it’s too well-made. But we are redesigning it. You have been to more cities than most, Hundredfriends Courier. Did you have an opinion on the sewers?”
“Sewers?”
Seve was confused, and Raelt shrugged.
“We have never had them. We could run a river through the city.
“And then we must worry about contamination, and I have heard there are sewer monsters and how much they need to be cleaned. Let alone Nerrhavia Fallen’s current woes. But it might cut back on disease, too.”
Jecaina was stressed. Raelt gave his daughter a concerned look.
“Isn’t this something for an advisor to worry about?”
“It’s something we should worry about.”
She hissed at him, and the two eyed Seve and dropped the matter, but if that didn’t speak to a difference in styles, nothing would. Seve did his best to think of something novel.
“I would say, rather than sewers…clean wells and hot water, Your Majesty.”
“Hot water and clean wells?”
She was perplexed. Seve explained.
“I have been to places beset by plague and even been honored to meet the Last Light of Baleros.”
“I’ve heard of her. The Dullahan?”
“N…not quite. At any rate, she claims hot water, soap, and clean wells cut down on disease and infection a thousandfold. Chandrar often lacks for wood. Even Jecrass. Hot water might do well, and access to wells.”
“Access to wells. Hmm. Here’s one. And here. And here. I wonder.”
Jecaina flitted over the map of the proposed Kheltian-style city. It was built like some of Fetohep’s cities, but she was right to be skeptical. His cities relied on, well, magic and undead labor a lot of the time. This city?
She peered at each well, then had a sudden idea. The Arbiter Queen strode back to the warring Sand Golems and, to the displeasure of the audience, scooped up twenty. Then she dumped them in the miniature city.
“Can I make them fetch water? Or pretend to?”
Seve was fascinated by the idea. He thought it over and told Jecaina that while they didn’t make-believe well, if they put a colored pebble in each well, the Golems could use that as water. Jecaina watched like a hawk as the Golems each brought pebbles over to their ‘homes’. Then she pointed.
“There. Those Golems take far longer to get from the well to their homes. And there’s only one thoroughfare, and they’re getting stuck here.”
