Some of her court gathered around as the mindless Golems, who often tried to take the most direct route without the benefit of an aerial view, began smacking into each other while trying to move around the city.
“That’s true. What a fascinating use for these things, Your Majesty.”
One of her Riverwardens was amazed. Jecaina smiled proudly. Seve had never considered using the Sand Golems for that—and neither had Raelt.
But he had sourced a trade good for the twenty Golems.
“I have…oranges. A rare fruit in Jecrass. We do not have many goods after the war, but I will offer you royal oranges. All of the ones we have. A terrible loss as they are my favorite fruit, but I can offer you three hundred of them. Which I have been treated to since my return and recovery.”
Oranges? It wasn’t exactly Khelt’s fruit bonanza, but they looked pretty good. Jecaina gave her father an exasperated look, but Seve did some math.
“Three hundred for twenty?”
“I could take fifty—”
“Twenty will do.”
With a sigh, Raelt admitted that the twenty Sand Golems were probably enough for small-scale engagements. Plus, maybe they could make more, and Jecaina could use them for her architectural planning.
So. Three hundred oranges up, eighty Sand Golems remained. They were both perishable goods, though, as the magic would run out on the Golems and the oranges would rot.
…Actually, a lot of them were slightly mushy. Actually, that seemed to be the defining trait of these oranges. And they stained.
So Seve was exceptionally glad that he found a new buyer for both items in his final destination on Chandrar.
Glorious Medain.
 
——
 
“These Golems are a genius invention! I only wish I had another nine hundred and twenty of them! Fetch me every [Mage] in the city! Let’s make them tiny bits of armor and bows! Why, we could simulate entire wars with enough! I only wonder why eighty. It’s just not a nice, round number.”
King Perric of Medain was agog with the Sand Golems, and Seve wisely refrained from telling him he’d sold twenty to his enemy—or where he’d gotten them from.
“You intend to use them for wargames, High King?”
He stood in the throne room, and Perric gave him a mystified look.
“What other purpose could there be? Chess pieces? Hah! This is far more engaging…the Titan should have invented this. Wait. This could be Medain’s national game. Excellent! And your price shall be—”
A chest of gemstones. Rather to Seve’s surprise, Perric offered him a casket with no less than thirty gems, some as fat as robin eggs. Cut sapphires, a fat topaz, onyx…
“Your Majesty is exceedingly generous.”
He murmured. Erek had long-since wandered off, not keen on Perric. The High King smiled as Seve wondered if he could object.
“Of course I am. A [High King] should be no less. If anyone can better my gift to this ‘Nanette’, tell them it was I who made the best gift of it.”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
Well, there went objecting to the gift. Seve sighed heavily and thought Fetohep would have some choice words to describe Perric’s elevation of the trading.
Similarly, it occurred to him that Perric was acting rather like Flos, a comparison the High King might like…but the Quarass might have smiled at Jecaina’s use for the Sand Golems.
Perric had already left, so Seve went to find Erek. There he found a far more interesting trade taking place.
“Ooh. It stains so badly. And it tastes…decent. Oranges. They come from his lands, you said?”
“Ook.”
A Djinni dressed in a rather revealing outfit was sampling an orange that Erek was offering her. She was laughing—but she stopped when she heard the footsteps. When she saw it was Seve, she relaxed again.
She was floating in the air, a grey-skinned woman with two small horns jutting out of her head, looking like, well—a Demon.
Yet she was also clad in silks and fit the look of the High King’s palace, which was the richest place that Seve had been to yet.
Fetohep’s own palace was grander, make no mistake. The ancient stone and work of his predecessors gave the King of Khelt an air of majesty, but the sheer monetary value of Perric’s own abode stood out.
Silk everything. Silken drapes, rugs that were tributed to him, paintings, many of himself, gilded with gold, or great adventurers he considered friends. Seve had the feeling that he was lowering the value of everything he touched.
The Djinni was yet another proof of the High King’s wealth. She addressed him lightly as she turned from Erek.
“Oh, Courier. Have you been entertaining His Great Majesty of Virulent Girth?”
“Virulent…?”
Seve had to stop a second, and the Djinni winked at him.
“He demands I only speak of him in the positive. I am Maef, one of his concubines in his harem. Are you selling oranges?”
A Djinni as a concubine seemed incredibly risky to Seve, who knew exactly how dangerous they were. But he was wise enough to know there were eyes everywhere in the palace, so he bowed.
“I am. Are you…interested in them?”
He doubted a Djinni needed food, but then again, she looked bored and had to pass the time. For an answer, Maef took a greedy bite of the orange, peel and all.
“Mm. Bitter.”
Orange juice ran down her cheek, her arm, and somehow, coincidentally, onto the expensive silk rug. Seve winced. The oranges did stain so.
Carelessly, Maef tossed the peel and some of the orange down where it continued to drip.
“I litter so. No orders against it. How many did you say you had? Three hundred?”
She batted her eyes at Seve, and he raised a finger.
“A few parts to this. You didn’t buy them from us. Also, you must exchange them for a good. Money won’t do.”
“No? Damn.”
The Djinni floated upside down, frowning—something dangled from her ears, and she brightened.
“Oh! How about this? Here.”
Then she unhooked two platinum earrings with big pearls, and she presented them to Seve with a smile. He gave her a long, long look.
“If I’m accused of theft from the High King—”
“No, no. I sold them to you. I’m the only one who gets in trouble. And while I dislike jewels because I’m just adornment myself and His Mightily Spontaneous Eruption gifts them to me like water—someone else may love them more. At the very least, the pearls are pretty and pure. Purer than the gems he gave you.”
“Hm.”
The oranges wouldn’t last, and Seve saw Erek was nodding. The Orangutan would throw an unholy fit if he didn’t make the trade it seemed. So he quickly dragged out six crates of oranges, and the Djinni made them vanish by literally engulfing them with her body.
She winked.
“You may wish to set sail fast, Hundredfriends Courier. Oh, but beware the docks. Some pests have apparently been causing trouble in Medain.”
Seve tucked the earrings into his bag of holding.
“Thank you, Lady Maef. Brigands?”
She pursed her lips.
“Not…quite. But they do most of the same thing, even if they claim to simply be citizens of another power. They fight well, though. They’ve beaten King Perric of Indeterminable Stamina’s precious guards in multiple fights. Even a Gold-rank adventurer.”
Strange. Seve thanked her, but he was not afraid of most bandits anyways. As it turned out—they were an odd people.
 
——
 
“Renounce Khelt! Renounce undeath! Hear the Prophet’s words or—”
That was when someone hit the shouting man with a club. Seve, setting up his ship at the docks, hadn’t realized that the people of this…‘Prophet’ were so widespread.
He’d heard some comments from Roshal to Nerrhavia about a Prophet causing trouble, but it was louder in the north.
And apparently—this Prophet was in Medain right now. They called themselves the People of…the People of G…
The People of God. Seve winced and put a hand to his head and wondered why their name rang so. Perhaps it was just their voices.
But while he expected the shouting pilgrim to go over as High King Perric’s [Guards] tried to knock them off the podium at the harbor’s mouth where they where exhorting passersby—he was not prepared for the bleeding man to get up, eyes shining with wrath, and clap his hands together.
The shockwave knocked everyone for a hundred paces around him flat. Then the People of God started fighting the Watch—and began winning.
Seve watched with Erek, open-mouthed, as one raised an ordinary buckler, caught a [Light Arrow] spell, and bounced it like they had a magic-shield.
“Dead gods, they fight well!”
He exclaimed, and someone spoke.
“Not dead. Not Him. But this city is awash with fear. The High King down to the ordinary folk. There is no use wasting more time here. Recruiting will swell our numbers only slightly; if High King Perric will not listen, then we must go to the root of evil. It was not the Pharaoh’s underlings that Moses strode against. It was he himself. This is all part of a greater plan.”
Then Seve turned and saw a hooded man standing and watching the fighting, flanked by several members of that group that looked—sharper than usual.
The difference being that of angry pilgrims armed with strange power—and warriors. Each one was wearing armor, stylized with odd…elongated crosses. They hung around their necks, and they had on enchanted gear.
Dangerous. Erek had frozen in the act of tying the sail onto Seve’s boat. He peered at the man who’d spoken and saw white robes, a beard…not much else. Pale skin for Chandrar.
Deep voice. It had a bit of an echo, and Seve nodded.
“Are you the Prophet of these people?”
“I am the first of many. You are a Courier. I have heard it said you gained entry to the High King’s palace in a day, where he had been deaf and blind to my coming for this last week.”
The Prophet sounded annoyed. His followers looked angry. Seve glanced at a woman armed with a mace, who was watching the fighting.
“Prophet, should we…?”
“Leave them. Faith will heal all wounds, and this is not our chosen battle. Men should not fight men when a truer enemy will gain the attention of all. There are broken [Knights] here, two kingdoms knelt, even if the half-Elves will not listen. A coming revelation will show all the true path.”
They nodded respectfully, and she took her hand off her mace.
Okay, they were mad. Something in Seve itched at the way the man spoke. It reminded him, a bit, of Baosar, the last leader of A’ctelios Salash.
“It is said that you were also gifted a great treasure by the High King.”
The Prophet turned to Seve, and the Courier exhaled.
“Yes. A gift for a gift. I am on a journey, trading it for something better. Do you have something to trade with me?”
The Prophet’s guards did not appear to like his casual tone. One spoke harshly.
“You do not know whom you speak to, Courier.”
“I apologize. I speak to everyone this way, from [Kings] to [Beggars].”
The man bristled further, but the woman who’d spoken up addressed him sharply.
“Izreal. That is how Couriers work.”
The warrior-pilgrim hesitated and then shot back at Seve tightly.
“Well, know this. If you speak with some deference to the monarchy, you are speaking to someone above that.”
That was an interesting claim. Seve felt his skin tingling, and he hoped Erek could get the boat ready faster. He had a sense of what was coming next. Because the Prophet interjected.
“We are on a mission that requires, of many things, mundane coin. Sustenance is no issue.”
“It falls from the heavens.”
One of his followers murmured. The Prophet tilted his head.
“Yes—but coins do not. Would you, Courier, care to donate some of that wealth bestowed on you? I can offer you a blessing in return.”
Seve casually let his hands lower towards his belt and hooked his thumbs into it. The guards noticed; they were experienced warriors. Converts?
“—I’m bound to give this to my client. I can’t give something for nothing.”
“Have you heard of our faith? Do you know of it? Perhaps we should speak at length.”
The Prophet seemed keen to get his ear, and Seve had a keenness to leave right now. But the sail needed to go up, and Erek was fumbling the knots. He nodded to his craft.
“I’m afraid I must leave right away, Prophet. With respect, a Courier stops for no man.”
“Would you stop for ___?”
His ears hurt. Seve froze—and the Prophet was stepping forwards. He reached out, and Seve saw that cross-like amulet rise.
“Let me show you something you have never dreamed of. A miracle—”
And then Seve’s flesh began to burn. He shouted in pain, stumbled back—and flames erupted from his skin. The guards leapt forwards, and the Prophet—
Jerked back as Seve leapt into the saltwater of the harbor. His skin was burning!
The flames went out, and Erek reached down. He yanked Seve out, and the Courier rolled around on the dock.
“My skin!”
It was burned. It was in agony. It hurt worse than any wound he’d taken in—a decade! And the Prophet had—
“I did not attack him. Was that—who is this man?”
The Prophet himself seemed shaken and turned to one of his followers. He didn’t know Seve, but when he heard the words ‘A’ctelios Salash’, his expression changed to one of disgust.
“Ah. That city I deemed profane.”
Then he backed up a step. Seve, panting, rose.
“If that was an attack—”
“No attack. But it seems you are beyond redemption. For now. A time will come when everyone will be saved, but you…perhaps not. But I would still ask if you would consider donating these riches.”
Now, Seve was worried because the guards were tense, eying him like some kind of monster—and he was in genuine pain. He had thought he could tangle with them with ease—but if that happened again—
The woman who had spoken up earnestly was watching the fighting People of God with concern. Now, she turned to the Prophet.
“Your Holiness. What if we offered him a few things to trade? A blessing is ephemeral, and you have often said that ‘the people of this world must see first, then believe’.”
With that, she drew several old, raggedy looking scrolls out of a bag of holding. She had seven, and the Prophet hesitated.
“Hm. We have articles of faith. It would not do to be accused of—theft.”
He sounded incredibly displeased, but the woman approached with a huge smile.
“Please, Courier. Take these and believe me when I tell you they are worth more than a casket of jewels.”
So they knew what he had and wanted to give him—spell scrolls? They had not a whiff of magic about them, but Seve was eying the Prophet’s guards and fairly certain he was going to get kicked and beaten down if he didn’t accept right now.
Erek was growling—and the woman held up a hand.
“Please, we are on a great mission against evil. Please be reasonable.”
Erek made a fist to show her how reasonable he felt, and Seve whispered.
“Erek. Not now.”
