They had sent some of their own with scavenged material.
They had worked hard.
The Land of Colors had been a good place that few otherfolk wanted to live near. This unexplained disaster…no one had seen the missing clan.
The tower would, again, fail to be built. Perhaps it was time to give up on the dream. If only the voice would stop telling them to try.
 
——
 
The Gazers of Baleros were not affected by The Dyed Lands. Or the local ape tribe. They were superior to both threats, and the other Great Companies were addressing the matter.
What they were not happy about was…Jungle Tails. A Great Company re-emerging. Seve-Alrelious was right to wonder why the Gazers hid in the heartland jungles.
It wasn’t entirely by choice. But the Gazers, and the Great Company that so few ever encountered, were here for a reason.
Even if the rest of the world had forgotten it.
Yixef did report that the Courier was unlikely to be a spy. Seve-Alrelious had visited Baleros a number of times, as his friend Erek proved, but he was no known friend to the Nagas.
“No trespassers. Not even for sweets.”
He was reprimanded, if not harshly. But the Eyes of Baleros company was very wary of late.
Thieves were appearing around the world, searching for great artifacts. Searching in particular for something. One half of a whole.
The Jungle Tails company had been defeated by Niers Astoragon, and for that, he had the Eyes of Baleros’ gratitude. After all, if Jungle Tails returned to power, they would come here next.
They could not, could never be allowed to reclaim what they thought of as ‘theirs’. Too many had died and sacrificed everything to stop them, and they tried again and again. Whenever they succeeded—
The Lightning Thief’s sacrifice could not be overturned so soon. They had lost one, but the Eyes of Baleros, the Relics that the Eyes of Baleros company had been founded to hold?
The Nagas couldn’t have them back. The great concern to the Gazers was that if they only had one—where was the other damn one? No one had found it, and the hope was it was in the depths of the ocean.
 
——
 
Time had been bought. At great, great cost.
Aaron Vanwell didn’t know how. He didn’t know who had done it, but he was grateful.
Eternally grateful. Sending a flashlight into the world might be treasonous to some, but his perception had changed markedly since he had first agreed that sharing Earth technology was bad.
Wistram had it. It had Eldavin, and so it felt fairer to share. The Earthers were everywhere.
He was in Wistram, and perhaps he should have left. But Aaron was back to pursuing what had attracted him from the start. Technology and magic, fused.
He was working late at night on a new concept, trying to marry software and magic now, and he knew it would require him to actually further his studies under Eldavin’s new methods.
Linked rituals, spell circuits…magic was evolving. Aaron was yawning when he heard the voice.
“help.”
It was so faint he missed it. Then he heard it again.
“help.”
Aaron froze. His blood ran cold, and he started from his chair. He looked around—and the voice whispered.
Three times. A plea—and Aaron didn’t know where it was—until he saw something.
He had a map of the world on one side of his room, tacked up. And there was a little dot…
Aaron stared at it.
Impossible. He was gone! But the voice had called, and Aaron was sure—
He listened for almost an hour after that, unable to move or think, but the voice never spoke after that. Only then did Aaron jerk, so tense he was hurt, and stare at the dot. Was that…?
He stared at the map and then reached down to his desk. Slowly, Aaron lifted a wand and spoke two words.
“[Flame Spray].”
He hit the map with fire, so much that it caught the entire piece of paper ablaze, and the smoke and flames nearly set his bed on fire too. Aaron had to conjure water to douse it, then threw open a window. The smoke flew out, and he sat down, dizzy and sick, and only rose to tell his neighbors he’d accidentally started a fire.
Then he sat there, staring at the scorch mark on his wall. Aaron Vanwell exhaled.
“Eat shit and rot there.”
Shakily, he got up. And like that, he was back to it. Only this time, he was now thinking about how to stop something from happening. He’d never asked for this.
He’d been tricked. But if it meant his freedom or not—Aaron pushed designs around, trying to think. Trying to fight to keep something lost.
Or—
How did you kill it?
 
——
 
The Goblins remembered the Eyes of Baleros and what they did. They were neutral parties, unless the Nagas attacked them.
Goblin Kings. Eyes of Baleros.
Every species had their bad moments. Drakes had made Draconic Empires. Selphids had controlled everyone from the inside out. Gnolls had Doomslayers.
The point was seats of power. Havens like the Isle of Goblins. Ways to rebuild or grow stronger. The Nagas got too strong if they got one or both eyes, and no one had managed to destroy the damn things. Well, they were also valuable, or else Izikere was sure someone would have just chucked them over the edge of the world.
She sat on a rock, listening, monitoring her home, and feeling the ocean currents sweeping her island through the ocean in a new path. Knowing it and knowing the dangers was her mission right now.
She was a protector. Greydath was the one who was too impatient to stay. He was a seeker, a hunter of his own kind. Izikere would have preferred to keep things as they were.
…But the world was moving too fast to hold still. One of the [Shamans], whom even Izikere considered ‘old’, was shouting at someone.
“Shut up! Shut up! I changed your poo when you were small!”
The person she was shouting at did not like the reminder. The old [Shaman] listened and sneered.
“Higher level? I’m so scared. Anazurhe, you used to suck on your thumb and come crying to me when you saw bats. Want me to say it louder? That’s what I thought.”
The Goblin Lord was smiling. She liked hearing the younger children play, and few things annoyed her. Even the tamborines were just good to hear, because it meant her people were occupied. The [Shaman] listened to the chagrined [Witch]’s reply.
She wasn’t using a [Scrying] spell. Izikere employed other means, not trusting [Mage] magic. The old [Shaman] speaking for her finally got the upper hand.
“Good. Now shush. You send back more sweet things. Don’t say ‘is expensive’! You greedy little Goblin. We are sending Goblins. To Izril.”
The [Witch] fell silent, and the [Shaman] smacked her lips.
“Yah. Yep. Too many died. Strong Goblins going. Get ready. No, no lying silent. No hiding. They’re coming. Get ready.”
She lowered the conch shell she’d been using and shrugged.
“I told her.”
“Good. We have to move. Something’s changing.”
Izikere was restless. Greydath was restless, and his advocacy had turned out to be correct after all. He had seen no ghosts, been visited by no spirits…but he had seen the New Lands rise. His sword felt like it was talking to him. It had called him north, and she didn’t know where he’d gone, but some glory-seekers had gone with him, despite knowing how dangerous his journeys were. It had to be.
They needed more Goblin Lords. They needed a King. It was too soon, but they needed one. Perhaps it was time to—push one.
Izikere sat, wondering how many Goblins might die, how many she was sending to their deaths. That was what Greydath wanted. Push and push until they were one day free of this madness or the world broke. Was there a third way? If so, their people needed to find it.
She felt…uneasy. The Goblin Lord was concentrating her magic. She had not levelled in an age, but she was practicing, refocusing herself. It had been a long time since she had the feeling of dangerous foes on the horizon. They had to be stronger than anyone else. Or if they died—let the next Goblin Lords be even stronger.
 
——
 
Not everyone had such momentous encounters with Seve, or even correlated it in their heads.
Oh, Adetr Steelfur definitely appreciated a working model of a flashlight, even a magitech one, and how the wiring and battery seemed to work. But aside from the shame of stealing a video of the object and not paying for it—the Gnolls paid it little mind.
In fact, the [Shaman] who had traded the Whistle of Friendship, a Gaarh Marsh trinket, to Seve barely thought about the pillow at all.
It was not exactly a fashionable pillow to him. He completely forgot about it for about a week. That was, until he ended up dicing with a bunch of guests.
“Roll them bones! Let’s not do gold and make it more interesting.”
A half-Elf cackled as the Named-rank adventurer, Colth, and several Wild Wastes Gnolls joined the Horns of Hammerad to play.
Gambling was a terrible thing. At first, they played for snacks and small things, and the [Shaman] got a bag of cookies. Then Ceria Springwalker, the [Prankster], decided to make things interesting.
“I’ll bet—my underclothes that I’m wearing right now. Colth?”
“I’ll bet my underclothes.”
“Stop it.”
Yvlon was trying not to throttle both of them. The Ice Squirrel got a bit too many excited wagers, and so did Colth. As the game progressed, a lot of weird things changed hands.
“I bet someone else’s gold tooth and, uh—someone else’s silver tooth.”
Berr slapped down two teeth, and Yvlon, who had been dragged along to learn something, or just to enable his habit, stared at him as she fumbled around.
“Why do you have that many teeth?”
“Hm? Well, they’re free. You just have to punch them out of people’s faces and then pick them up. It’s good money. What do you have?”
“Uh…how about some silver dust for ‘well cleansing’? My brother gives it to me.”
“Silver dust?”
The Gnolls muttered, but Yvlon shrugged.
“I’m not going to use it. You could—throw it in someone’s face?”
“It’s worth something. Okay, that’s a good ante. Ceria?”
“My underwear—”
They chased her off because it was the third time she’d tried it. Not everyone had had a good betting run. On the other hand, Ksmvr had gotten fifteen Gnolls to sign an agreement saying they’d plant a tree and dedicate it to him, and he was wearing Colth’s pants.
Pisces was performing dental work, which was actually fairly in demand.
The Gaarh Marsh [Shaman] had been losing a lot, but the game called to him, so he ran back to his tent to find anything he could trade. When he found the pillow, he raced back, and Ceria laughed at it.
“What’s that?”
“Some pillow I traded a Courier for. Is it good?”
“I love the design. I think it goes.”
It went into the pot, and everyone rolled down. The [Shaman] covered his face as he was kicked out, and the winner was, to her own surprise—
Yvlon Byres. She re-collected her bag of dust, Colth’s pants, and the two teeth with a look that said she really loved winning this particular hand.
“Colth, want your pants back?”
“I’ll win them back. Another round?”
Yvlon just tossed the pants at Colth and sighed. She did take the teeth because Pisces was shouting he could use them—and she took the pillow too. Ceria smiled appreciatively.
“It’s a nice pillow, Yvlon. Don’t toss it. We don’t have any high-quality travel gear.”
The woman felt at it with her metal hands, and it was soft. She tucked it into her bag of holding with a sigh.
“I know, I know. I don’t have a pillow either, and my bag of holding is big enough. Who puts a Goblin on a pillow?”
Ksmvr raised a hand.
“Erin would love it. Perhaps we can keep it to give to her if you do not like it.”
Yvlon shrugged. It wasn’t the worst idea, and it did feel nicer than sleeping on a pack. That was how she got a free pillow, but she really, in hindsight, could have used some context for it.
 
——
 
So that was the outcome of Seve-Alrelious’ journey across three continents. Gifts spread around, stories at their turning point, or long tales that might soon find new developments.
A world in motion.
Oh, and there was one last thing, wasn’t there? Seve’s final trade had Az’kerash puzzling over the mystery.
“I understand the magic, but this?”
“Oh my. What could that be. I have no idea.”
Nerrhavia’s deadpan tones made the Necromancer look up from his inspection of the strange flashlight.
“You know what it is.”
“What should I ask for this time? What favor? Hmm.”
She made a show of thinking as the Necromancer began to lose his cool again. He was sick of her secrets! But somehow, Nerrhavia kept holding all the cards. She gave him a huge smile.
“Your problem, Archmage Perril Chandler, is that you fail to plan ahead.”
“I have agents in every part of the world!”
She tsked and corrected him.
“You have puppets. I have followers such that millenia after my death, some of them are good enough to send me my possessions. I wonder how I should reward them? By the way, that is what loyalty means. I’ll have you prepare a suitable reward, then I’ll give you a hint. Though how you missed this with Wistram being as subtle as a knife in the leg is beyond me.”
He stormed out of the room, and Nerrhavia watched him go. Taking him down several pegs was not just fun—but hopefully humanizing in the right way. If he kept humanizing himself in the wrong way?
“Even I have my limits to those I can control. I need vassals. I always had decent ones. I ever had an eye for quality, and he would have been a poor one.”
Nerrhavia murmured to herself. She wasn’t controlling a puppet, just waiting. It was abundantly clear to her that despite their inequitable relationship, power was also in the reach and breadth of their abilities, and she lacked that.
It was the quality of the gemstone, even uncut, that defined the worth of a person to her. Sometimes they shattered, but you had to risk it. And even then, you had to know how to strike them just right to turn crude ore into a shining blade she could drive into her enemy’s throats.
She’d been doing her homework and researching and planning, and she had options, but she had needed to get everything in order first. Now?
 
——
 
A little box and a letter appeared on someone’s desk in the winter. The note was very simple, and the entire thing had come, very normally, through a City Runner.
Though if you asked Fals how he’d gotten the delivery, you’d go to the Runner’s Guild, very normally, and they’d say it was a Drake sender in another city.
Only, the Drake didn’t exist, and if you tried to find anything else out—you’d get nothing.
Chaldion of Pallass had tried, mind you, and so had Manus. ‘Azzy’ and ‘Nerry’ and two suspicious Drakes meeting a Courier had prompted an investigation, but a local agent who had gone after them had never reported back.
