“I take your point. Intriguing. Then you have contributed twice to Khelt in a single day. Yet I am glad to have caught you by chance before you returned to A’ctelios Salash. Tell me, Seve-Alrelious. What is the…second stage of a citizen of A’ctelios? My Scourgeriders claimed to have fought them in the deeps. What does that mean? Is that beyond the pale?”
Now, Seve’s skin was erupting in goosebumps. They’d reached a second stage? He swallowed hard.
“If—any citizen reached a second stage, a true awakening, it would be cause for great joy. And alarm. Some would send them deeper. I believe the correct course would be to announce it quietly to our allies in the other Shield Kingdoms. The last time, I think the Quarass was asked how best to use one.”
“And in this case? If I told you there were multiple, perhaps dozens of them?”
Seve inhaled and exhaled slowly.
“I would say…that is a very, very bad sign. I would ask the current leader why they were not killed or divided up. I—would want to see all this myself.”
“I see.”
Neither man spoke for a long while, and the luxurious throne room of Khelt’s king, despite the marbled floors and great throne chair gleaming with gold—seemed tarnished, as if the air itself had a pall over it. It was Fetohep’s hand that rose first, before he spoke, and his rings flashed.
“Here is my order unto you, Seve-Alrelious. It is mete that you came here, if only to chase a child’s whim. For you did not know the scope of Tombhome’s change. Few do. I have commanded the mortal armies still present at A’ctelios Salash to allow no one but the necessary [Traders] to recover flesh from the city. It is to be blockaded until I am satisfied by the answers given to me.”
“That seems wise, Your Majesty.”
Tombhome would never starve, but they did want the outside world for what it held, alchemy and other goods if nothing else. Fetohep nodded slowly.
“Another time, I would pry those answers out myself even if it took a million soldiers. Today—though it pains me, I shall not press A’ctelios Salash beyond that. I shall hope the madness abates. But I say to you, Seve-Alrelious: do not go home. Take this contract. If needs must, I will match any price you wish, but do not go home yet. Not until I know what lies within. I would not have the great Courier and only man to know the Carven City well—lost. What say you to this?”
Seve considered it, and he nodded slowly.
“I think—I think this is well, Your Majesty. I ache to return and ask my friends and family what has happened. I need no further payment, but if I could beg your indulgence to send a note?”
“I shall have it conveyed within. Tell me, Seve-Alrelious. Can you withstand the desire to return home?”
Another pressing question. Seve had to think.
“I can purchase enough flesh from home for another year. Tombhome does not call loudly as long as I eat enough, and I will make sure I do. Yet it will always call me in time.”
Fetohep exhaled, or made some similar sound since he had no working lungs.
“Hsst. A year will do. Thank you, Seve-Alrelious. When you next return, I will have answers or a better understanding and you will not enter alone.”
Seve could only bow, and the conversation switched to the delivery, to both’s relief.
“This job might be a good distraction, regardless. I confess, I did think I was about a great task, Your Majesty.”
Seve shrugged, calming down now it seemed they were back on firmer ground. To that, Fetohep chuckled, and his mood grew lighter and calmer.
“You are. Do you not see it, Hundredfriends Courier? What a poor gift and challenge it would be had I offered you a Relic-class item or a chest of gold. What a disservice to your story. You are the famed Courier. Do you not see the value of offering this humble pot? It comes from Khelt, and you may inform your next host it is a gift from Fetohep. But it is still a pot worth a single meal in Khelt. Do you understand?”
Seve’s head rose with a great frown, but it was Erek who clapped his hands in delight and ooked a complex series of syllables. Then—Seve got it. Fetohep nodded at the ape.
“A worthy mind, your companion.”
It was a challenge. One that the Hundredfriends Courier suddenly grew excited about. Because—of course.
He didn’t just have the pot. He had the story. He had Fetohep’s name. He sprang to his feet.
“I do see it, Your Majesty. I apologize! I have a plan, now…though I may not head to Izril right away.”
“Doubtless, Witch Nanette would prefer you to take the long route. I understand she was slightly dismayed by my great gift.”
Fetohep was full of laughter today. He gestured at a map being held up for him.
“For my own amusement, where will you head first?”
Seve had to think.
“I think I will take any Courier contracts without a time limit that lead to Izril. But I think…I must head south first, to Tyrant’s Rest. It’s the only place I can find the flesh of Tombhome. Then I’ll bounce north to Reim.”
“The capital of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And the King of Destruction. Oh well.”
Fetohep heaved a huge, dramatic sigh. But he was already following Seve’s course.
“I advise you to stop in Jecrass. My name will at least open doors in Nerrhavia to begin with. Will you trade it, one object for one?”
Seve shook his head. His lips quirked.
“Given the value of the pot, anything I can trade it for, any object, will do. If I trade parts of whatever I get, I’ll think myself fortunate.”
“Very wise. Then our business concludes. But I offer you at least the refreshments of the palace before you leave. I would speak to you about your adventures, Seve-Alrelious. Let it not be said that I was a poor host. Does your monkey have an end to his stomach, incidentally?”
Erek had eaten an entire bunch of bananas. Which was fifteen. Seve grimaced.
“Unfortunately, the pact we struck means he’s part of me, Your Majesty. Anything he eats just becomes his energy later on. So he can eat without end, or until he gets bored. I’ve never seen any drawbacks.”
“Ah. A challenge. Bring me a thousand bananas for Erek. Pewerthe, you shall dine with us too. Do you have any dish in the world save the flesh of your home you would enjoy?”
Seve and Erek’s eyes grew round, and the Orangutan checked his stomach. Then Seve rose with a huge smile and a twinkle in his eyes. And his great journey began.
 
——
 
It turned out that an Orangutan could get sick of eating bananas. Not physically sick, but Erek had gone through eighty-four before he’d decided even the taste and novelty of them wore off.
He was a good companion, though, and Fetohep had gifted Seve the rest of the bananas for the road. By the time the two reached Tyrant’s Rest, they had begun giving the damn things away.
They spoiled slowly in the bag of holding, but Seve thought he would throw up bananas after fifteen days on the road of eating them for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. He decided to make use of inns instead.
He was a slow land-Courier, he had to admit. He was best on the small, agile boat that had an enchanted sail and cut the water fast enough for him to travel between continents if he took currents.
It was a precariously small ship for someone—except Seve. He had packed it up into his bag of holding, and he was enjoying having actual space thanks to Fetohep’s gift.
Nerrhavia seemed…well on his journey south. But then, Seve kept to the western edge, crossing into it along Zeikhal, the great desert. The largest kingdom of Stitch-folk was vast, thriving, and yet even here, it was touched by the King of Destruction’s war.
Mind you—the signs were everywhere. Prices were up, and Seve was a welcome guest in many cities starved for trade or foreign visitors from the north. The bananas didn’t hurt, either.
“It isn’t just the King of Destruction’s war, though the levies of soldiers are striking even here. Normally, it’s just the closest cities…but he has not advanced far yet. He’s been besieging the forts to the north, and even the mighty King of Reim cannot take them without bleeding.”
A [Magistrate] confided to Seve over a banana pudding. Magistrate Oireikol was actually more concerned about the western front than north.
“Pomle has been destroyed.”
“Pomle has?”
Seve dropped his pudding, and Erek flipped over his plate, which made Oireikol’s daughter scream. Neither had heard about it, and Oireikol was almost as appalled as them.
“General Thelican used a great weapon to—it was disavowed by the Court of Silk and Steel, but it is done. Now, the martial artists are attacking without stop. They have sacked three towns, one city, and two forts! They do not often attack settlements, but their numbers are growing.”
“Disastrous. I visited Pomle—I liked Pomle. Orjin must be unstoppable.”
“It’s not him.”
Even the Strongest had changed? Seve was shaken by this; too long at sea and away from home had left him missing headlines. He had debated heading to Pomle first, actually. It was a long detour, but if anyone needed a pot…
 
——
 
The issue of Fetohep’s first gift was actually bigger than Seve thought. Here was the issue.
Everyone liked bananas. Seve could give one to an urchin on the streets, a Hemp boy, or a Silk noblewoman and get a smile most of the time because fruits from Baleros were hard to acquire.
But the pot? Many people were interested in it, but Fetohep’s name closed as many doors as it opened. When they heard it was a pot from Khelt, they asked if it had gold, a story, or some powerful effect.
When they heard it didn’t really break, it looked nice, and things you put in it got a bit cooler—they lost interest. And, Seve suspected, many of them didn’t want the damn pot because they were afraid they might offend Fetohep if they broke or resold it.
His hope was that it would attract attention from someone who coveted ties with Khelt, and he’d begin his trading journey like that.
The problem was, Seve really had forgotten that each nation’s history mattered a lot to them. In that Khelt had not only stolen Alked Fellbow, one of their Named-rank adventurers, but they’d also sent the Scourgeriders of Emrist at Nerrhavia recently, during the battle at Pomle.
They were polite about it, in the Court of Silks, in an obvious way. Queen Yisame herself was fascinated by the pot. She spoke to him directly, a rare honor, but one a Courier was allowed.
“So it truly is a humble pot? A strange gift, but it has some charm. I would purchase it—but I fear it is not germane at this time to accept Khelt’s small gifts.”
She sat upon her throne, talking to him as he knelt before her, and his heart sank. One of her chancellors jumped in very quickly.
“Not least because it is upon Khelt to be munificent—or not be present at all!”
A great murmur arose from the Silk-caste Stitch-folk, many hiding their expressions behind fans or murmuring in the lounge-type court. Yisame lifted a hand.
“You have my permission to seek a worthy trade, Hundredfriends Courier. I have some passing interest in how your journey continues, as I like the…tale of it. But I cannot purchase this pot, I regret to say.”
She sounded genuinely regretful, so she was either a master of disassembling or seriously upset she couldn’t buy the pot. Her court certainly seemed to think Yisame was playing up her pot regrets.
After three dozen offers and the prospective buyers backing out at the last moment, Seve was so sick of the Court of Silks that he left the palace entirely.
He did manage to foist fifty bananas he had off onto an oddly friendly Great Sage Etrikah. She rewarded his generosity with a peculiar flask of bright blue liquid.
“I can give these to my relatives. You may have this, Courier, if you report on its effects.”
“What is it, Great Sage?”
“A restorative draught. It has herbs, salts, and other edibles to refresh you as you sweat and journey. Drink it at sea or after a long day and tell me if you feel it helps. That is all I want.”
He noted what looked like chopped up seaweed or something in the brew and wondered if it was as nasty as it looked. One sip confirmed it was bad—and unpleasantly salty.
“Is this for…”
“It’s for annoying [Soldiers] who complain about lack of water and for this musclebound fool who begged me for a recipe. The taste I can improve, but this is made of common ingredients.”
So it wasn’t something valuable. Still, it was free, so Seve asked if she had more he could trade for a pot. Her reply was a blank stare.
“I don’t need a random pot.”
 
——
 
Staying in the city of Tyrant’s Rest was horrible. Seve resolved to leave after one day, damn the trades. He only stayed the one day so he could find the flesh of Tombhome he needed; he was almost out.
He had bugs in his room! Little metal ones. Erek, who had vanished once he got two metal ants in his fur and discovered they weren’t fun to eat, was replaced by Kithru and Emigege.
Kithru was a cat, one of those sleek, black ones, and he had the power to generate black fog like shadows and blend into it. He was often called upon when Seve needed a scout, but he was also a cat.
Emigege was a lizard with a long tongue. He was eight feet long, and his main power was a tongue that could roll out and strike a target. Neither one was a great fighter, but that was fine. Seve didn’t need fighters as much as friends.
The two helped fight off the literal infestation of metal bugs as Seve slept, but neither could stomach the bugs, just smack them around. A frustrated Kithru, meowing as he tried to smash a beetle to death only to discover it was metal all the way through, woke up Seve from a very bad night of sleep.
“Is there a plague of insects in this city?”
The [Innkeeper] barely apologized for the bad service. He had bags under his eyes and took a hammer to the insects that Seve’s friends had gathered up.
“You have to…smash them…to bits! They’re everywhere. It was just a few—then the palace swept the city, destroyed them, uprooted the very sewers! They vanished for a while, and we thought that was that. I heard the Great Sage was behind it, and she did a very good job! Even now, the Fox-folk have less of these things in their district.”
“What changed?”
The sour look said it all.
“They came—from the west! Dozens of cities were infested with them, and they came back as a storm.”
No one could quite tell how the bugs had spread so far beyond Tyrant’s Rest, but Great Sage Etrikah had a theory that involved every outbreak and a map that charted where General Thelican had stopped on his way towards Pomle.
Anyways, the bugs aside, finding the flesh of Tombhome was another expensive proposition. It cost Seve nearly sixty gold pieces to buy a huge chunk of it.
