Chaldion paid attention. Manus did not. Yet even the Grand Strategist’s best paranoia couldn’t have found the delivery that had been made from another city, through innocuous channels, to end up here. It was always hard playing defense when there were a thousand cracks in half a continent.
That was why Nerrhavia was all offense. The only question was how to procure the right tools in this day and age. Quality was one thing. Potential another. Placement? She had chosen a very appropriate person to send the gift she had waited so long for.
The letter was simple. It read, after the brief greeting:
 
I hope you will accept this small trinket from me as a sign of potential patronage. It is quite valuable, and I hope it serves you well in your endeavors. Consider it a sign of good faith; I will be in touch, and I have always had an eye for talent.
You have had other fine inspirations and mentors who had seen your worth, but never a patron. The Titan of Baleros has a thousand pupils, but he should have looked twice. I have great expectations for you, Olesm Swifttail.
We shall speak soon.
—An Interested Observer
 
The puzzled [Strategos] looked down at the black velvet box and flicked it open. He blinked and murmured as a strange wristband that looked ancient caught the light.
“A patron…?”
Just who was interested in him now? Ilvriss, the Titan, Maviola…he closed his eyes, and then he frowned.
He wasn’t stupid enough to put on a random artifact. He’d better have this tested and ask Fals who this had come from. Oh—and his eyes strayed to the bottom of the letter.
He was very suspicious, but the end of the letter made him think he had better be serious.
 
PS. Prepare your army well. Your beaten foe in Hectval’s Alliance is about to show fangs. They will begin from the skies. Find some caves and disguise where the bulk of your army lies.
 
If true…he’d been getting an uneasy sense on the quiet front as well. Olesm decided to call in Wing Commander Embria and ask Belgrade to check on the foothills. If this was a trap, it was a stupid one, and it wouldn’t hurt to have a fallback point.
“Things are about to change. As ever.”
Olesm sighed. Then he wondered what next month would bring.
