The doctor snatched the potion, opened it, sniffed it excitedly, then poured a few drops on the wounded member’s front. Instantly, quills began popping out of the flesh, and the doctor ran off, screaming, to find more patients.
That won Seve a lot of friendship. The Jungleclads definitely knew potions, and after a day, Erek helped Seve interpret more of what they were saying.
There was definitely a language barrier between the Orangutan and Gorilla, but they knew how to overcome it. Seve…Seve was lost. He’d picked up some Drathian, but the notion of learning another language was incredible to him. But Erek was gesturing expressively with his body, and then he’d translate back to Seve in writing.
No Lizardfolk. They hunt Jungleclad. Jungleclad hide. Steal from their farms.
“Oh, flesh below. No wonder they have problems with the locals if that’s going on. Do they know it’s causing trouble?”
Erek shrugged expressively.
Lizardfolk hunt. Sometimes they are hungry. Jungleclad mostly too far to hunt. Need healing. Lots of needle-things.
“Like needledogs? That’s a deterrent for an ape, I bet.”
The Jungleclads were immensely strong, and with their axes, they could chase off even Stelbore, but needles and porcupine-type monsters were their nightmare. Not just because it hurt like hell to be quilled a hundred times, but because the quills almost always caused infections.
Apparently, the Jungleclads lost more to that kind of infection than anything else. Erek self-importantly gave them some lectures on heating water and cleaning wounds from Geneva as Seve demonstrated for them, but the lack of healing was apparent.
So Seve decided to hand over all but two of his potions to the leader as thanks. Then he remembered his ‘gift’ from the Prophet.
“Erek. Ask them if they have anything to trade for this.”
He had a mission, after all, and the Jungleclads grew instantly excited when Erek told them what the scrolls did.
Six healing scrolls? They rummaged all throughout their village to find something worth trading for. Seve tried to tell Erek that they didn’t have to beat the scrolls; he’d match the price for Nanette.
But this was a point of pride, and after two attempts, Erek got mad at Seve calling the Jungleclads poor and slapped him on the shoulder. An Orangutan slap hurt like hell.
And the Jungleclads did have something worth selling. Even their leader’s axe wasn’t much value to Seve, but when they had him for supper that night, eating hot fruit that they roasted over the fire to kill any parasites before peeling, one of them brought out an instrument that made Seve spit out half his food.
“What is that?”
A grinning Gorilla was tuning a huge…guitar. Only, he wasn’t a one-man performance. Or woman. It was hard for Seve to say. There were several other players, one with a drum made of a huge piece of hollowed wood of some gigantic nut or something, another holding a tambourine—filled with clattering bits of wood—and another had a flute!
But the guitar was insane. Seve had seen all kinds of variations of it. A gitar, a now-common guitar like that Hobgoblin in The Wandering Inn had, two-stringed instruments, one-stringed variants, violin-combos…
The Gorilla had a thirty-six string guitar. It had three ends, and the strings criss-crossed over each other so that he could play on multiple octaves, and if he plunked one string or used the pick, the vibrations would make the other strings strum too.
It gave his instrument the craziest, most haunting sounds that Seve had ever heard, and he could hit amazingly high notes with what Seve suspected was salvaged fishing lines lashed tightly across the instrument.
When the Jungleclads saw how taken Seve was with the instrument, they decided to offer it to him. Seve almost objected, but the guitarist was very proud to pay for his clan’s healing. And he seemed confident he could make another one.
In the end, Seve got the thirty-six string guitar and four tambourines filled with clattering nutshells that made such a racket that it sounded like the forest exploding when you shook them. He thanked his hosts and resolved to come back this way if ever he passed along Baleros’ coast.
They spread out in their treetop village, built into the side of a vast redwood like a ring of mushrooms, green-coated Gorillas raising their arms overhead and shouting, waving and smiling in their way as Erek waved and danced, and the Hundredfriends Courier lifted a hand in farewell.
A people so few in this world knew. Tucked away, hidden in Baleros, a sea of green, colorful plants and slinking animals shying away. All set across the placid, deceptively calm azure sea lapping at the pale beaches.
Seve didn’t stop smiling until the shouting had long since echoed away and they were bushwacking towards civilization.
“Erek. Just how many ape and monkey tribes do you know of in Baleros?”
He asked Erek as they set out to find civilization. The Orangutan gave him an innocent look and scratched his head.
“Ooke? Ook?”
“Yes, you. Don’t play dumb.”
“Ook?”
“Alright, keep your secrets. See if I care.”
“Heheheh. Ook.”
The Orangutan chuckled, and Seve paused one last time as he looked back.
“Did you want to stay?”
He seldom asked. Erek looked back once at the Jungleclad village, and then patted Seve on the shoulder. He shook his head, and Seve smiled, relieved.
This was almost what Seve had been searching for himself. Jecrass had been well, Medain a failure, and Roshal not to be even acknowledged. But the Jungleclads had no notion of A’ctelios Salash. It was simply…a good place to stay. But Seve?
He was searching for something himself.
 
——
 
Seve was a world-class Courier. A fearless fighter, able to navigate the sea and survive incidents like the storm, and he could literally be an army with his friends.
…He didn’t do land. Survival situations with Seve were usually him walking one way and trusting in the flesh of Tombhome to feed him as long as he needed. Erek, exasperated, was the one who had to scout with Seve’s aerial friends and try to navigate for him.
Fortunately, Erek did find civilization. Unfortunately—it wasn’t the friendly sort.
“You have trespassed in the territory of the Eyes of Baleros. Close your eyes. Draw your blade and die.”
Gazers. They appeared out of nowhere as Seve headed for what Erek had claimed was a ‘structure’ in the deep jungle. He’d evaded most monsters and thought he’d been lucky that no nasty, Gold-rank types were around.
As it turned out…he had missed the Gazers, who literally de-cloaked their invisibility spells. They had no bows. They were armed with long spears, and their weapons trained on him were their eyes.
“I’m a Courier! I’m lost—”
Seve raised his hands, and they shouted at him.
“Close your eyes.”
He did, squeezing them shut, and then they relaxed. But he felt, even saw through his eyelids, their own eyes blazing at him.
Gazer eyes were of every color, and some had dozens of eyes on their bodies. Seve had heard that Gazers were the least-similar species in the world, in that a Gazer could look radically different from another member of their species.
When they finally calmed down enough to let him explain and open one eye, he saw they were very dissimilar.
For instance, one of them had eyes all around her head. Her hair was cropped only to the very top of her head because otherwise it would fall and cover the eyes facing in every direction.
Whereas their leader had three central eyes, the middle of which was so bright and painfully purple that Seve saw it even through his closed eye. It had the power to turn anything he stared at invisible.
“You are not permitted within the Eyes of Baleros’ lands. If you are lost—we will send you away.”
“Thank you. I don’t mean any harm, I swear. But I am curious. Am I in the deep jungles? Gazer territory?”
They only had one main settlement that he knew of in the heartland jungles. The Gazers were unhappy with the questions, but their leader, Yixef, responded after a moment.
“You are somewhere there, yes. This is the land of one of Baleros’ Great Companies. No one is welcome. The Forgotten Wing Company acknowledges our territory. They will escort you out. Until they arrive…do not open your other eye.”
Gazers apparently felt like staring hard, or opening your eyes widely, was dangerous. Given the fact that they attacked with their vision, Seve holding one eye closed seemed to be the equivalent of having his hands raised.
Squinting also made them relax a bit. It made it harder for Seve to get a good look at them, but they actually did let him head towards a settlement. They did have needs, and they were direct in asking him.
“Do you have healing potions? It has been claimed there is a shortage.”
“…Only two. And I’ll need more myself. None to trade, I’m afraid. But I am a Courier. Do you have messages for me to take?”
They had no Runner’s Guild, so arranging payment was informal, but the Gazers did have requests for goods to come to them, and a few had letters and packages. When he was done with that, Seve thought to offer them Nanette’s trade.
They were not interested in the guitar. Gazer hands were often clumsier and sometimes had eyes, and so they were largely unskilled, and the tamborines were too obnoxious, apparently.
The mountain of sweets from Roshal, on the other hand, got over a hundred Gazers staring at Seve. So many eyes actually lit him up like a [Light] spell, and their leader had to shout at them to stop staring when they set one of the sweet boxes on fire.
“These…are hard to get here. Forgotten Wing gives some. These are new. We want them.”
Yixef looked put-upon by the very-insistent Gazer who actually had a blindfold over his eyes—they were so powerful he had to mitigate the effect. Seve smiled.
“Do you have anything to trade?”
His thought was to get a Gazer weapon or some curio of their people that would do very well outside of their homeland. But when they were asked for something to trade, the Gazers seemed to have an easy answer.
“This. One of these for the six boxes. Only one. It is more than fair.”
Yixef offered Seve a huge opal the size of Seve’s hand. It was cool, round, and it had the most iconic striations that Seve had ever seen. He peered at it and thought it looked like…
“What is it?”
“A Gazer’s Eye.”
Seve dropped the eye, but Erek caught it just in time. It was a petrified eye!
“Are you sure?”
“It is an eye of a dead Gazer. A powerful one. Not all eyes turn to stone. Forgotten Wing trades for them, and they are valuable across the world. We know the value of our eyes. Take it in trade. It has magic already.”
This trade for Roshal’s sweets made Seve as uneasy as the last one, so he felt it was slightly appropriate he give over Roshal’s succulents for a damn eye. It felt like it swiveled to stare at him, so he hurriedly put it away.
When the Forgotten Wing representatives, a band of Centaurs, warily came to escort him back to civilization, Seve was glad to leave the Gazers behind. They were secretive, protective, and refused to answer any questions. Half glared at him as if they thought he was a spy.
So that was one of the Four Great Companies? They were insular, clearly powerful, and…Seve had no idea why they lived in the center of the jungle like that. They clearly loved sweets, but few Gazers ever emerged from their home.
What were they doing in there?
 
——
 
The Forgotten Wing Company brought Seve back to civilization—well, another type of it—and he made a beeline for the coast as he delivered the Gazers’ goods or arranged for them to be sent onwards.
Despite the storm and despite having to buy healing potions at an insane markup, Seve was making a profit. Few people could risk his voyages, so Sea Couriers were making their weight in gold charting new routes or taking on risk.
In this case, he accepted a charter instead of a ship to bring a wagonload of goods to another place desperate for trade—Wistram Academy.
“They keep saying they’ll teleport it over, but they’re screaming for fruit and sugar and everything else until they finally create a teleporter. Here’s me holding my breath!”
The Lizardfolk [Harbormaster] laughed as Seve set out from a city with his bag of holding loaded up. He even had a chest of holding that he’d have to stay away from, bobbing behind his repaired craft.
Seve was sad not to go to Talenqual, but he couldn’t justify the long journey there, even for Paeth. He would have had to bounce all the way south along the coast, and he really was trying to make it to Izril to meet the two-month deadline.
What would Fraerlings have traded for? With a sigh, Seve accepted the rush-job and was almost about to go to sea when someone approached him.
“Hey! Are you the Hundredfriends Courier who ate the flesh of A’ctelios Salash?”
Seve-Alrelious turned as an excited Lizardman hurried over.
“That’s me.”
The small crowd of Lizardfolk gathered around as the [Harbormaster] turned. The Lizardman cleared his throat.
“I think—I want to have some! Do you have some of that meat? I’ll pay! It makes you stronger, right? And you heal? Sign me up!”
He gave Seve a huge, toothy smile.
“I’m a Bronze-rank adventurer, and I’ll visit Tombhome every now and then if I get stronger.”
Seve stopped in front of his craft, and Erek put a hand over his face. The Hundredfriends Courier turned and looked the Lizardman up and down.
“You want to eat the Carven City’s flesh? Do you know there’s no going back?”
His face was suddenly stony, and the Lizardman faltered in front of the Hundredfriends Courier’s stare.
“I—yeah, of course, I know. I’m not stupid. But everyone needs a leg up, right? I’m an adventurer. I’ll take that risk. If I eat a bit every few months, I won’t have to leave, right? I did my research.”
He had done some research. The words were almost right, but the intent…Seve looked around.
“Is this your family?”
The gaggle of Lizardfolk shook their heads. They were just curious. Seve’s face darkened further.
“I see. Then are you alone?”
“No, I’ve got parents. My father’s a Naga, even. Why?”
The Lizardman looked askance at the questions. Seve’s eyes flashed.
“Then where are they? If you’re serious about joining Tombhome, then where are your family and friends? Where is the grieving?”
“G-grieving?”
Seve took a step across the docks, and the Bronze-rank adventurer stepped back. Because now, Seve was intense, like he had been when he faced the Crelers. His tattoos shone brighter, and his voice rose as the Lizardfolk’s smiles grew uncertain.
“Yes. Where is the year of grieving? The celebration? Where is your resolve and the knowledge you will never be the same? Failing that, where is the cause?”
