He was lucky; it was bound for Rhir, but the [Merchant] agreed to sell him enough for a long time. But the price was ridiculously high.
Here was the thing. The meat of A’ctelios Salash didn’t cost that much. It wasn’t that far from Tombhome to here—a good ways, yes, but the meat never spoiled. You could literally leave it out in the sun or drag it on the ground behind you and, apart from dirt, it wouldn’t go bad. Nothing would eat it, not bugs, not most animals.
If you bought this cube of three-by-three from A’ctelios, you’d pay…two copper coins, probably. Let alone the huge, quarried chunk of flesh that was sitting by the [Magistrate]’s office.
The cost wasn’t that, or just the expense of shipping it. Although the [Merchant] would make a vast profit by taking it to Rhir.
The cost was the tax each city levied on the flesh of A’ctelios Salash. Namely—the cost for bringing it through the gates and the inspectors who gravely wrapped the huge piece of meat.
They had cloth on every part of their body and a mask on. They used bright, waxed paper with huge, red and black symbols.
‘Proscribed.’ Until it left the city, it had to be kept in the wrapping. There were also sixteen men. Eight for the [Merchant], eight for Seve.
“We will accompany you until you leave the city, Courier. We have all signed the Pact of A’ctelios. Your coin has been received. Your name, noted. Will you be dining at all until you leave?”
They meant ‘normal food’. Seve shook his head.
“No. Just a visit to the Runner’s Guild, and then I leave. I have snacks, but I will not eat them until I go.”
“Very good.”
The scarred man was a [Guard] who was taking this job for the coin. But he looked more serious and more alert than most bored members of the Watch. Mostly because of the package, bound up, that Seve put in his bag of holding.
Seve hated the customs in Chandrar, even though he understood the need. Paying to have the meat wrapped up or inspected was a pain, but a single bite meant you were hooked upon it. He took great care himself never to make that mistake. It was the greatest sin of Tombhome to share that flesh without asking.
The [Magistrate] was patently uneasy about even having the meat around him, for all he had probably had to do this before. The sixteen men that Seve and the [Merchant] had hired were a large part of the sixty gold coins.
They were paid well. They’d stick with both Seve and the [Merchant] until the flesh left their city. Oh—and they had all signed a magical contract.
If someone were to eat the flesh of Tombhome in the city without their consent while under their guard, all the ones assigned to Seve or the [Merchant] would be put to death.
That was the Pact of A’ctelios. The likelihood was honestly almost nonexistent, especially in Seve’s case, but it was the rule of most Chandrarian cities.
If that was all, Seve would be fine. But it was the disgust on the [Magistrate]’s face, and even the other people, that made him feel nettled. He knew what had happened with his home…but they looked upon him, a known Courier, with distaste.
“What is it like, if I may ask, Hundredfriends Courier, to have to rely on this…food? I have heard children are allowed to leave the Carven City rather than partake of this. Who could, in their right minds, choose to stay and eat it? Or was there no choice?”
The [Magistrate] shuddered, and Seve exhaled slowly. It was just as well Erek wasn’t here, or he might try to punch the magistrate’s foot. He bowed around to the others.
“I have always had a choice, Magistrate, folk of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. If you have heard rumors that people are tricked or there is no choice—there was for me. And I would damn anyone who broke that rule to the Pact of A’ctelios in a heartbeat.”
He got a few nods, but the pale-faced Cotton man covering his nose still shook his head.
“Even so. What possessed you to eat…?”
It smelled good. That was what turned your stomach. Even if he did not need it—it was sweet, a mouthwatering scent like rare meat. It was a perfectly huge, reddish pink cube of meat you could grill up until it ran with juice, sweating in the sun.
It had no visible veins, no innards—it was just flesh. Because the being it was carved from was so vast that a single organ could be eaten and eaten for ages. What made the others shudder with horror or grow nauseous and pale was that part of them wanted to eat it.
And Seve? He stood there, smiling, angry, eyes flashing even as his tattooed friends swam across his body, some snarling, others making silent, insulting gestures. The Hundredfriends Courier was polite, though, and he responded simply.
“From the day I was old enough to think, Magistrate, I beheld the adults who partook of the meat of Tombhome. I was disgusted by the frailty of my own flesh. I bled, and the wounds did not close before my eyes. I jumped and did not soar. I was alone—and now I am part of a throng who takes part in a single communion.”
They did shudder at that, as he intended them to. But why? He saw his guards look at him, and Seve answered for them.
“Perhaps it’s cowardice. But a Sandworm of the Great Desert can swallow multiple men whole in a single bite. I have seen Crelers thronging, great monsters, and, yes, simply war. Standing against them with frail body and a single life—is hard. When I walk against great monsters now, another is behind my eyes. And it terrifies them. If you have ever railed at the weakness of your body—Tombhome calls you home.”
A great silence arose at that, and the voice of the old [Merchant] broke in.
“Enough. Enough. You go too far, Hundredfriends Courier.”
He was a Stitch-man, and he had never eaten of the flesh, though he made his living by it. He looked at Seve’s youthful, stronger body and shook his head.
“It is a choice. I have been tempted, but the cost is too high.”
Seve nodded. He felt at his belt pouch, anda picture was there. He turned and gave the magistrate and his guards a polite smile.
“Yes. It must be. But if you ask why—I have stared down deep into the vein-wells of A’ctelios Salash. I was once a boy, not a Courier. I wanted to be part of a great mystery. And we eat our old foe and home. It does not rot. It grows back. If not us—then who?”
His eyes were alight with the profane and with that insanity all Couriers and Named-rank adventurers shared. Someone murmured.
“Nerrhavia and A’ctelios should have fallen. Let both be cast into oblivion’s sands.”
To that, Seve turned so fast and fluidly he seemed a different being, one that was a next evolution of his kind—brighter, stronger—and made the Stitch-folk start with unease. But all he did was smile wider.
“This kingdom brought down Nerrhavia, and the Immortal Tyrant died at last. Even when it was ascendant—it was too weak to destroy Tombhome. If ever that great force shall appear once again, I will watch it try.”
 
——
 
The Hundredfriends Courier was not all sunshine and smiles. Rather like someone who was a great friend, rather than just a ‘good friend’, he would be on your side and sail through a magical hurricane to deliver medicine for you.
But he was also strongly—him. He would not apologize for being part of A’ctelios Salash. He took pride in it, despite what it did and had done.
It was complicated. He was complicated. But he was also a Courier, so he stopped by the Runner’s Guild, despite his burning desire to leave Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Stitch-folk had such opinions on someone who had changed their flesh, as if it were any different from how they could change their thread.
“I have…a Courier-level delivery for you, Hundredfriends Courier. Non-priority. But it is close to, er, Liscor.”
To his vague surprise, there was something he could take. He wasn’t going straight to Izril, so Seve had sort of thought there wasn’t much work for him. But rather like a City Runner got bulk deliveries of letters, there were people who were willing to pay for goods to go via a Courier—at their own pace.
“I have a bag of holding full of space. If the client wants that—”
“I can check. Will you give me five minutes?”
Seve was prepared to wait only an hour, but to his surprise, three minutes was all it took for a rather fast reply.
“The client is pleased and prepared to wait. You are a very trusted Courier, Hundredfriends.”
“I try.”
“Ook.”
The [Receptionist] was very taken with Erek, who climbed up into a chair and bared his teeth at her. He offered her a hand to shake, and she hesitated before handing Seve something.
“You will need to collect the item—and they want a private handoff.”
The guards were not happy about that. But Seve convinced them to hold onto his bag of holding, and he left Erek to guard it too. The Orangutan was apparently trying to flirt with the Stitch-woman with a banana. He often tried his luck, and over the years, he’d never had any success. But he could understand what everyone said, perfectly, and often surprised people by playing ‘dumb’.
He could forge Seve’s signature and write too. And that really surprised people, but Seve kept the secret for Erek. In truth, there was a reason Erek was often ‘out’ of his tattoo and not hiding. He was intelligent, strong, and functionally immortal so long as Seve lived. Seve had often thought Erek could easily be a Silver-rank adventurer even without Skills.
 
——
 
His handoff was weird. It raised all kinds of what Seve would call ‘suspicions’.
For one thing, the woman who came to the door he knocked on clearly didn’t live there. She invited him into the living room, and she was dressed very well. Silk—and this was a back alley Hemp neighborhood.
She was trying to dress in nondescript clothing, but it was expensive. Oh—and there were three people watching him from upstairs.
“Is this something illegal? Because if it is—I’m being paid to keep it covert, but how I react depends on how much trouble I’ll be in.”
He asked her cooly, straight up, and she wavered.
“Illegal? No. No, not as such, I believe.”
That was an evasive answer. It didn’t pass any truth stone, and Seve eyed the wrapped package.
“It is spelled not to open without the correct code-phrase. It will destroy itself if anyone attempts it—though it will be impossible to trigger the effect just moving it around. You are being trusted not to open it.”
“I am an exceptionally reliable Courier. How dangerous is the protection?”
He was. He never opened anyone’s packages. The woman’s voice was husky as she spoke.
“Very. We appreciate your delivery of this. You will be paid more upon receipt. Time is not of the most critical essence so much as integrity.”
They must really not trust this with another Courier. Given how shady this all felt…Seve eyed the black package, but it was just big enough to hold something two hands big and wrapped up with black cloth and glowing wax seals, so it could be anything. He slowly put it in his pack, then took the gold she offered.
More than enough to cover his A’ctelios purchase. Suspicious, suspicious, suspicious.
Oh well. It was entertaining enough, and he did like a good story. If someone came after him because of this—he’d play it by ear.
He was hard to kill. He gave the woman his best smile.
“I understand. If you are an underworld gang or some kind of cult, conspiracy, or cabal—”
She started, and he glanced meaningfully upstairs.
“—I don’t care. I’m paid to do this delivery. So long as it isn’t going to directly kill lots of people…? I need a yes or no on that.”
“No. Not kill people.”
She replied slowly, and Seve nodded.
“Then I’m your Courier.”
She regarded him and pulled the veil over her lower face tighter. She had, Seve noticed, very old thread. Hand-me-down cloth? Down-on-her-luck nobility?
“I knew you would understand something about loyalty. That is all it is. Loyalty. You must love your city, even if it is now changed.”
Seve gave her an odd look, and somehow, she understood more of him than the magistrate.
“Yes. We are a Shield Kingdom of Chandrar. For all we have been fools and nuisances and corrupt—when they call, if we are true, we will be that army without end. Nagas under the Eyes of Baleros. Terandrian Crusades. Even Dragons leading armies of Drakes have been pushed back by us.”
Not Khelt. Not just cunning Germina or the power of Merreid’s Djinni or Qualvekkaras’ Garudas in the sky. But by the army without fear, who threw themselves forwards with fury to match any of the King of Destruction’s armies.
“To legends.”
She whispered, that stranger. Then she bowed—and he left the house. He smiled, because he did like being part of stories.
 
——
 
When he got back to the Runner’s Guild, Seve realized that Erek’s flirting could have consequences.
Dire ones.
Not in that Erek was overly pushy. He was a good sort. But while he was waiting, he saw someone come into the Runner’s Guild and approached them.
Because he wasn’t in danger of getting hurt. And because he was Erek. He offered her a banana, and they got to talking.
“Ook. Ooook. Okrh. Gerrook. Ook. Hae! Hae! Hae!”
That last part was a monkey’s scream. He slapped his chest—then eyed his companion, who had the banana in front of them. The rest of the Runner’s Guild, including the guards for the meat, were sitting still. Seve just stared as the nine-foot-tall woman made out of stone tilted her head left.
“I do not follow. But you are speaking to me, aren’t you? How strange. I noticed it the last time I was in Baleros, but my master did not believe me.”
“Ook?”
Cognita Truestone sat there, and Seve strode forwards as Erek, ever-helpful, pulled something out of the bag of holding.
He offered her the pot, and Cognita inspected it.
“It is a pot.”
“Ooke.”
“I see.”
“Cognita Truestone!”
She glanced up. Her eyes were cool emeralds, and he stopped when she regarded him.
“Seve-Alrelious. We meet again.”
“What are you doing—”
No, wait, he knew this one. But Cognita was busy with the pot.
“This comes from Khelt. The clay there is good. A lovely, blue fire. I believe your companion is trying to sell it to me.”
“I—yes.”
He had to explain the basics of his job to her, and Cognita sighed when she understood, which was halfway through the explanation.
“Of course. There is a Drake story about the same thing. Trading one good for another ever-upwards. Only, Drake society tells it backwards, which is a parable about never giving anything away. Including affection.”
She moodily peeled the banana and took a bite. Seve had no idea she could do that.
“Can you taste it?”
“No. I convert it to energy. As for this—I like the clay.”
