Well, a dubious Goblin pillow wasn’t going to appeal to this Nanette. The whistle would. Seve was glad to make the trade, honestly. He was closing in on Liscor, and the snows were falling thick and heavy now. He’d been spared it in Baleros and Chandrar, and the sea had been rainstorms, but now Seve was ready to fulfill his contract.
Oh, right. Both of them.
 
——
 
The Bloodfeast Raiders struck when Seve was almost at Liscor. He paused, grimacing, and Erek balled up a fist, but they were far too far away to do anything, even if Seve thought he could have made a difference.
“Scum.”
The comment came from across the table at the pub where a man and a woman were sitting to receive a delivery.
Seve’s mysterious package from Nerrhavia’s Fallen had almost been forgotten, but Erek had reminded him to make a stop before Pallass. Now, he was a bit let down because he got no more answers from the recipients.
One was female, the other male. They were both Drakes, and they were either pretending to be a married couple or actually married.
Either way, they were the most dysfunctional pair that Seve had ever met. The male Drake had murmured that, his eyes flashing as his clawed hand strayed towards his side, though he had no weapon there. The female Drake rolled her eyes expressively.
“Yes, yes, shut up, dear. Scum. You are one to talk.”
“I have principles.”
“So does everyone.”
He bridled at this, but the female Drake was the one who was checking over the parcel that Seve had delivered. She opened it without letting him see what it was and smiled.
“Oh, in perfect condition. Pay the good Courier, Azzy.”
Now that was an odd name. The huffing Drake glared at his wife.
“I resent paying for your affairs.”
“My dear, you couldn’t afford to pay for my affairs. My business? That you pay for to keep me in your good graces.”
Either they were pretending to be married or they had three children and had been together for twenty years. Seve was really having a hard time figuring out which it was.
“Ook.”
“Yes, yes, Orangutan. I’m charmed.”
The Drake dismissed Erek, and he sulked, his charm lost on her. As for Azzy, he sighed as he counted out a sizeable bonus.
“Your discretion and efficiency are appreciated, Courier.”
“Not at all. It was just part of my job on the way here. To be honest, I apologize for the delay. I meant to go to Liscor directly, but I was blown off at sea.”
“Liscor?”
Both Drakes seemed interested, and suddenly, nothing would do but for Seve to give a shorthand of his adventures.
“You’re from A’ctelios Salash. I recognize your flesh.”
The female Drake gave Seve a sudden, intent look, and he thought she had just remembered his name. But she looked knowing—and Azzy glanced at her.
“Nerry—”
She kicked him so hard under the table it jumped. Azzy spoke through gritted teeth.
“My. Darling. Love. Things do seem to end up the way you say.”
“Everything is connected. A seamstress once told me to look for connections like that.”
The woman tapped her lips and gave Seve a searching look.
“May I ask what you’re taking to Liscor? Perhaps we could make a trade.”
Nerry and Azzy were an odd duo. Seve could see why the female Drake hated being called ‘Nerry’ if she had ties to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Not many people in Izril would see the connection. As for Azzy, well. That was just unfortunate if the Drake had been named before Az’kerash came to Izril.
They inspected the items that Seve laid out, and his annoyance over wasting his time quickly became a realization that he might have found his final trade partners. Because, without having to be told, both knew exactly what he carried.
“Oh, a Whistle of Friendship. I suppose that’s good for a child. Pass.”
“Stones of the Elements? Who makes those anymore?”
“Archmage Eldavin.”
Both Nerry and Azzy chuckled at that.
“Is he wasting his time on…? Well, they are worth a good amount, but I would pass on either item. Perhaps for Ijvani…”
The stones were tempting Azzy when Nerry saw Erek produce the flashlight. Then she pointed at it.
“Buy that. Now.”
Azzy looked over and stared.
“What is that?”
Neither one knew what it was, but Nerry was intent, and Azzy inspected it for only a minute before glancing up.
“I would like to make an offer on this, if you please.”
“Certainly. Can you sell me anything for it?”
Azzy checked his pockets. He had to stand up and go to his rooms, and Nerry quizzed Seve on how he had found Nerrhavia’s Fallen and other countries in Chandrar. When Azzy came back, he had an endless amount of goods.
Most of them never reached Seve. Nerry intercepted them all and discarded them one after another.
“No, no. No. Are you stupid? Are you trying to be…no. That’s too expensive. You shouldn’t have this. No, no—honestly, Toren would be more agreeable company.”
“I should have sent him. This is demeaning.”
Azzy grumbled, and Nerry shot him a cool look.
“You’re the one who wanted to ‘know what I was up to’. No. This is ridiculous. Are you some kind of hoarder without taste?”
“I acquired all of this.”
“Yes, and you have no idea what a child would like or how to trade properly. You can’t haggle, you can’t cook, you can’t raise children—”
Erek and Seve were giving each other long looks as the other Drakes in earshot gave Azzy a sympathetic look. The henpecked Drake was staring down at his feet, and Seve wondered if he should tell the Watch that one of the two was going to try to murder the other soon.
But Nerry did spot something in his collection of items that finally made her smile.
“Oh. This? This will do for a child like Nanette Weishart.”
Hm? How did she know Nanette’s name? Seve sat up, but then he relaxed and pretended not to notice. If there was one thing he had learned—this trading voyage had been all about knowing when not to get himself in trouble.
Nerry gave him a huge smile as she came back with what she considered an acceptable item. Seve was curious; for all Aaron had up and downplayed the flashlight, it had come from Wistram. What Nerry offered him in return was…
A key.
It was bone-white and had a tiny skeleton’s head on the top. The teeth looked simple, and she laughed when she waved it at Azzy.
“Of course you have one. This will do nicely.”
“Is that…?”
“A skeleton key. Perfect for inquisitive girls. I had one, you know. Will it do?”
Seve thought about it. A flashlight that produced light or…
“Thank you. A pleasure doing business with you, Miss…?”
“Nerry will do. Thank you, Courier. You have been a delight. But do take care when you go home. A’ctelios goes through periods of great triumph and downfall, you know.”
He stiffened at that, but unlike before—Nerry seemed knowing.
“I know that. We know that.”
“Yes, you do. But you don’t remember how far you can sink. You seem to be an example of Tombhome’s best. But you don’t know its worst. Bear it in mind.”
She made him shiver all over. Azzy rose and merely shook Seve’s hand.
“Travelling the world is a great joy. I wish you all the excitement, Courier. If only I could return to those halcyon days.”
He smiled sadly, and Seve thought, of the two, he was the one wearier and sadder. They were a bad couple. Seve was glad to see the back of them.
 
——
 
The Hundredfriends Courier arrived in Liscor as it snowed after a great battle had taken place. He walked into an inn from Pallass, and the Gnoll at the door raised a paw.
“No entry to the inn. Just trans—what is that?”
“Ook.”
Erek waved at Liska, and she opened and closed her mouth. Seve raised his Courier’s seal.
“I have a delivery. If this is a bad time…”
Liska gave him a long look, from tattoos to Erek, and shook her head.
“No…you’re that guy who delivered Tyrion’s kid and the cure to Baleros, right? And that’s a thingamajig. A whatsit.”
“An ape.”
“No, a monkey.”
Erek slapped his forehead and ooked angrily. Liska shrugged.
“Sorry. You definitely fit the bill. You’re an Erin-thing. Go on through.”
She pointed him down the hallway and had to get up and unlock the door to let him in.
“Ishkr! Courier for Erin! He’s got an ape!”
A Gnoll appeared, scowling at his little sister, and when he saw Seve, he smiled.
“Hundredfriends Courier? You’ve been expected. And you’re a welcome guest. Anything you want? On the house.”
Seve smiled tiredly, and the weight of his journey of months seemed to hit him—and fade away as he took in the inn.
It was humbler than he expected, to hear people talking about it. No one was exploding—but then, the air had the feeling after an explosion.
There were just core guests here, talking quietly, focusing around several people who looked—changed.
[Knights]. The Order of Solstice glanced up as the Hundredfriends Courier walked forwards, and someone pointed.
“Hey. That’s an Orangutan. Am I dreaming?”
Joseph stared at Erek. The Orangutan waved, clambered into a seat, and read the menu. Seve read the sign next to the menu and smiled.
“No Killing Goblins.”
“Hey, hey, hey! Someone can read!”
A slightly tired, warm voice called out, and Seve felt like he had a lighthouse at his back. He turned as he had so many times, when meeting the Gazers, Eldavin, Nerry, Azzy, the King of Destruction, Raelt—and knew Erin Solstice before he even laid eyes on her.
The inn itself smiled at him, and she walked slowly forwards, supported by a man who was all burns wearing blue armor.
“Normen, stop. Lie down already!”
“I’m fine, Miss Solstice. It’s just a burn.”
That man could have used Tombhome’s flesh. He had one eye, and he looked half-dead. But proud. Proud and weary and…he had a gravity about him that he had lacked yesterday.
The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice and Erin herself approached the table, and Erin held out a hand to Seve.
“Hello. I owe you a big debt for both this delivery and delivering the Yellow Rivers cure. And hello. Are you an Orangutan? Can you speak?”
Erek, surprisingly, shrugged and mimed writing before gently shaking her hand. Erin turned to Seve, and he coughed.
“The pleasure is ours, Miss Erin. We owe you for helping get that cure to Baleros. It saved one of my friends’ lives.”
“You delivered it. Let’s call it a mutual debt of respect. And you are…?”
“Erek.”
Seve and Erin knew each other already. It was Erek who introduced himself, trying to kiss Erin’s hand and ooking. She laughed, then called out.
“Mrsha! Get over here! And where’s Nanette?”
“In Liscor, shopping with Lyonette.”
“Well—someone go get her! Mrsha? Let me try—aha!”
A door opened, and a little white Gnoll, who had been reading a book upstairs, fell through it as it opened under her. She went skidding across the floor and looked around wildly.
“Hey! How dare you! Damn you!”
She slapped a stone dangling from her side, and a pre-recorded note played. She waved her fists as Erin frowned at her.
“Hey, Mrsha, watch the language, or I’ll tell Lyonette. Do you have a spare notecard and quill? Erek here can write.”
The Orangutan and the white Gnoll girl stared at each other. It was hard to say who was more surprised by the other. Mrsha scribbled on a card as Seve watched, fascinated. She was very fast, and then she held it up.
Forsooth! A talking, orange Human who writes? It cannot be!
Erek delicately took a quill and wrote on a spare card. His handwriting was less polished, but he scribed the words big and handed the card back to Mrsha.
I can write. Double forsooth on you.
Her mouth dropped open, and Erin began laughing. She had to sit down, and Mrsha the Outforsoothed and Erek began writing as Seve explained his journey.
“I ran into trouble at sea, which delayed my trip.”
“You’ve been to two continents? All for Nanette’s little trick. Are you sure she paid you enough?”
“It was a fun adventure. I think I’m close to levelling from it.”
In fact, when he slept…Erin’s eyes twinkled at Seve.
“I think this might be it. It’s always at the end of a great journey when you level up, and you’ve brought treasures from kingdom to kingdom, haven’t you?”
“Yes. Is Miss Nanette here?”
“I’m here! I’m here!”
The girl came skidding into the inn, so excited she clomped snow into the room to the horror of Silverstache, who picked up a mop with a long sigh.
Ishkr took the mop from him.
“Oh, sir. A paying customer could never clean the floors. Please sit and allow me.”
Ishkr handed the mop to Peggy, who passed it to Inkpaper, who did sigh authentically. Nanette was bouncing up and down, but she bowed to Seve.
“Courier, thank you so much for taking my request. I hope you feel it was worth it?”
“It was more than I bargained for, honestly, but it was a grand adventure. Should I present…?”
Seve wasn’t sure how to do it, and Erin had a suggestion. She looked around.
“Let’s get you something to drink, first, and food. Calescent! Some of your fried rice for Seve and Erek! Not too hot, but it’s fricking cold out! You don’t have a problem with Goblins, do you, Seve?”
The Courier saw a Goblin in the kitchens and did a double-take. He turned to Erin and saw her expectant gaze.
“Not…that much, Miss Solstice.”
He would have to lie about the Isle of Goblins, even here. Not because he thought Erin Solstice would object, but rumors spread, and a Courier had to keep some secrets. But the rest? Soon, he had a plate full of hot rice, fiery flakes of pepper, and hot beef and a drink in front of him, and Erin called for the fire to be stoked.
“Alright, I suggest we let Seve tell his story and say what he traded along the way. Then Nanette can see what the flower became. Deal?”
That sounded like the best way to do it. So, Seve found himself sitting as the witch and Mrsha ran over together, excited, and Erin called over a Hobgoblin, a Stitch-girl, a [Princess] and her [Knights], a Drake [Spearmaster], and more.
Was this what he’d been searching for? He hoped it was. He checked, you see. Seve waited as Erin made the introductions to him, of countless species, and he laid eyes on the Antinium for the first time and tentatively shook a hand.
“I am Seve.”
“I am Bird. You must have seen many birds, Courier Seve? And you have birds on your skin. Therefore, you are a man of excellent taste, and we must become friends.”
“So soon?”
The Courier eyed the Antinium up and down, and Bird tilted his head.
“Erin makes friends faster. Plus, there is a very annoying boy whom you saved, and I am assured it is a good thing.”
“Sammial Veltras? He’s here?”
“Ryoka’s running around, but he’s here! Bird, don’t bother Seve, he’s telling stories. Do you want anything to eat? Oh, and Mrsha—no stealing his food. He’s from A’ctelios Salash, and you don’t wanna eat that.”
