That Prophet made him uneasy. The Orangutan hesitated, and Seve brought out the casket of gems. He heard a murmur, from the Prophet himself, when he flipped the lid.
“Thank you.”
The seven scrolls were handed to him, and Seve snatched them. Without a word, he pushed himself up and got onto the ship.
“If that’s all?”
“Go, with my blessing. I shall pray for your speed and fortune, Hundredfriends Courier. Remember this—you have met with the instrument of fate this day.”
The Prophet bowed, and his servants looked like they thought Seve was getting a great blessing indeed. But when the Prophet put his hands together—Seve felt nothing.
If that’s a Skill, it’s not working, or he’s full of shit. Seve almost spat into the water, but he just grabbed the tiller of his ship. He only spat into the water long after he was out of range of the Prophet and the People of God had vanished into the docks.
“Ook?”
Erek was concerned, and Seve shuddered as he felt at his skin.
“Sorry, Erek. I know you wanted to hit him—but he set me on fire without even touching me. We might have been in trouble, and I remembered the earrings.”
He fished them out, and the Orangutan folded his arms, clearly thinking of the chest of gems. That…had been worth more.
But Seve wasn’t willing to die over them, and he fished out the seven ragged scrolls.
“I know. At least they gave us—I was about to chance a fight and hope the Watch or Perric could help us, but the scrolls made my hands tingle. Like that bastard, but less. What is this? Garbage?”
His hopes quickly turned to disappointment as he checked the scrolls. They were bad lambskin or parchment—but clearly old, recycled parchment.
Some had huge tears, and that was artistic and cool if it was an artifact from a dungeon—dispiriting if you were hoping it was actually valuable. Each one was also not a spell scroll.
He knew magic, and this wasn’t it. It was, in fact, written tightly with…weird words.
“And lo, unto a new world was sent the Prophet, into the Great Desert in which he was cast to refine his spirit and find the first People of G__, and preach faith anew into this empty land of spirit.
On the eighth day, as they lay suffering of flies, the Prophet walked amongst his people and put his hands upon their sores—what is this?”
Seve hurled the scroll down with a curse. It was just text! He covered his face and snapped.
“Erek, get me a [Message] scroll. I’m lodging a complaint with the Runner’s Guild and sending a missive to the High King. Are they all…? Yes, they are!”
Some were different, but they were all oddly written texts. One kept referencing a ‘Lazarus’, another was about a blind man…they looked like stories, but Seve was in no mood for it. He picked up the first scroll, ready to hurl them into the ocean, and then his eye caught one thing on the bottom.
The entire thing was written like a parable, a story, aside from a single word at the bottom. Seve’s eyes flickered down the scroll, and he read the bottom.
“…so unto you who weep, whose flesh bleeds, who lieth sick and with pestilence or infection, I sayeth unto you: [Heal]?”
Just healing? What kind of Skill or stupid spell was th—
The scroll flashed. Seve shouted, and Erek whirled. He saw his companion, skin burnt, tattoos flitting about with worry for their friend, flash—and Seve’s shout was panicked.
“Erek! What happened to me? Er—”
Then he reappeared as the golden light vanished—and Erek’s jaw opened. The Orangutan pointed.
“Ook! Oke—hae?”
Seve stumbled around, feeling at himself. Erek pointed, waved his arms, and then Seve realized what Erek had seen.
His burns were gone! Seve had been burnt by whatever fire the Prophet had conjured. But the scroll had just healed him.
“What the—I thought his magic or whatever hurt me! Profane. He’s been to A’ctelios Salash or seen it. He scorched me like nothing I’ve felt. But this?”
He was healed. It was like a healing potion! Suddenly—Seve noticed one of the scrolls floating in the water and leapt after it.
“Erek! Secure the scrolls!”
Suddenly, his trade goods were back and a lot more valuable. A lot more. But Seve was left with huge mysteries.
What the hell was the Prophet’s power? How could he make a healing scroll? Was he a [Mage] with ancient magic? Or was it something else?
And where was he going if Medain didn’t have what he wanted? Well, Seve would have been happy to ponder the question at sea while heading to Izril—but as luck didn’t have it, he never made it the way he intended.
 
——
 
“Damn you, Prophet! Damn you and your blessing! [Steady the Ship]!”
“Oook!”
Storm at sea. Seve ran into it as he tried to head east and north, along his usual route before Izril’s New Lands.
Unfortunately, the current was against him. The tide ran west now, and Seve couldn’t make it to even the House of Minos.
“The current’s changed, Erek! We have to go west! To Baleros! Arveil! Turn!”
The Nelgaunt, the huge, friendly guardian of the sea, stopped laboring in the lashing water and turned. Seve, water soaked and cursing, saw Erek haul on the tiller.
It was a cold winter storm, and he’d been fighting it three days, trying to make headway—but it was not to be. In fact, he suspected he’d been swept west despite his best efforts; he tried to orient himself with a compass.
The compass swung wildly, showing him what it was aimed at—Wistram. There were compasses tuned to certain cities, using lodestones. In this case, Seve cursed when he saw the needle swinging east and compared it to one tuned to Cenidau and adjusted to give him a rough ‘north’.
“We’re already heading towards Baleros! Dead gods damn it! Igawiz’s Jet nothing! Can Chandrarians even get to Izril directly?”
If so, maybe they needed new routes because this new ocean was all topsy-turvy. Seve clung to the lashing deck of his small skipper, feeling them pick up speed. He was almost glad of giving up on Izril despite the delays. He could always find work and trade more before heading to Liscor. He fixed his gaze on the water, and that was what saved him.
Seve saw the bobbing…mass of what looked like seaweed at first in the storm-churned oceans as a faint thing. Then he noticed the orange glow, and his blood ran cold.
Arveil noticed it next, and Seve’s hesitation turned to fear and then a cold dread as the Nelgaunt howled, geysering water. He tried to turn—but it was too late. Erek looked up and began to scream as well, and Seve whispered.
“Crelers.”
Then he shouted as the bobbing mass of hundreds of Crelers, all fused together like bugs did to make a living raft, noticed him at last. Thousands of legs began to move, and they broke apart, arcing into the water, wiggling forwards. It was Crelers at sea!
Every sailor’s nightmare. Seve began summoning his companions as fast as he could, nevermind that not all were able to fight in the water. If they died—they’d become tattoos until their power recharged.
“Everyone! Get ready! Crelers! Watch out for—”
He was hoping it was just babies. Right up until he saw a huge, shark-like shape, and a Juvenile Creler arced out of the water, biting, landing on Arveil and tearing into the Nelgaunt, who stopped dragging the boat and turned to fight.
There was no outrunning Crelers in the water with both of them caught by the storm. Seve knew it. They were amazingly fast in the water.
Those long, spindly legs? Their wiggling, translucent bodies? They ‘swam’ in the water, both like fish and using their feet like oars. And they attacked you from all sides, from everywhere.
Hundreds. And one Courier. Seve drew a sword and stood on the deck. His tattoos were blazing with magic. His friends leapt into the surf or fought. A tiny cat, launching himself into the water and biting, clawing at a baby Creler erupting up. Erek pounded the first down with an oar, splitting the fragile body and revealing glowing orange innards, which oozed onto the deck.
But more were coming, and they were balls of mouths and razors. Seve was shouting, sword swinging, as his friends started vanishing.
This was a Sea Courier’s trial. Worse than land Couriers. He was alone, deep at sea, with no help coming. And still—he began howling at them as they rolled over his ship. They were everywhere, biting, their venom piercing his flesh.
Then he began laughing as they took the first bites from his flesh. 
“Salash! Salash’s blood runs in me. Tombhome is in my marrow. A’ctelios in my veins. Come, horrors of Rhir! [Cleave the Earth]! [Friends: Primal Awakening]!”
He split one with a sword. Stomped another into the deck so hard that it buried its fangs in his legs, began biting—and somewhere in the Creler’s mind, it realized he wasn’t flinching.
Seve ground the Creler further into the wood until it stopped moving. Then he kicked it off the boat. His foot burned with agony, and he screamed with it. But his flesh didn’t mortify as the poison raced through it.
Even as the Creler bit…he began healing. Slowly. Not like lightning, but their poison? They took a bite out of him—and the Crelers did something they had never conceived of in their vicious lives.
They spat his flesh out. They, who ate seaweed and fish, great beasts of the sea, and [Sailors]—avoided biting him. His summoned friends laid about them, howling, and when they were bit—they just vanished.
And the ‘mere animals’ fought with far more ferocity than the Crelers had dreamed. Kithru grew twice as large, and his ability to create shadowy fog began wrapping tendrils of smoke that ensnared his enemies as he savaged two Crelers. They tore open his side, and he vanished, becoming a silent, yowling tattoo, egging the others on.
Erek whirled an oar left and right, like a swordsman himself, punching Crelers hard enough to rupture their internals. Birds dragged Crelers into the surf, fearless of water or their tearing bodies. The Hundredfriends Courier and his companions had no fear!
No sustenance either. Seve-Alrelious stood in the rain, and the swarm hesitated. It attacked him, clawing, biting, but his presence unsettled it. They tried to kill him. Not as food, but as a strange, dark rival.
The one thing in this world they were afraid of eating. 
They still wanted him dead, though. Seve drank one potion, then two. His friends began vanishing. Arveil went down with a wail, and Erek howled. He vanished, throwing himself into the sea with as many Crelers as he could attract climbing over him. But his eyes were desperate as he looked back at Seve.
This could be it. The swarm—wasn’t breaking. The Juvenile Creler kept smashing the boat from below, hitting it with its huge body and refusing to fight. If he went into the water, they’d tear him apart in seconds. Seve wondered if that girl would wait for months. Would they know? His friends would appear in the water when he died.
He had to give them a chance. He seized the tiller of his ship, reaching for a Scroll of Northern Winds. They were on him, and one bit half of his right ear off. He ignored it as he swung his sword around.
“Tombhome! Call me home! Call me—”
Light in the darkness. A yellow beam, so bright he thought he’d run into a lighthouse at first. A cone of it, shining from above.
Then he saw the warship. It towered above his tiny, beset craft, and Seve howled.
“Crelers! Crelers in the water! Warn ships!”
If they didn’t see it—but then he heard a voice from above.
“Crelers in the water. Scorch the seas until they’re dead. Open fire—[Lances of Perdition]. Fire.”
Then the first burning bolt of lightning hit the water, ionizing it, and set fire to everything in its path. Seve threw up his hands, and more arced down into the nest of Crelers. They screamed, and some popped from the heat, but he was beset on the deck as the warship fired. Ironically—he was still—
“I’m going down.”
“Sir! Wait for—”
Someone cried out above, but the figure who had spotted Seve and spoken launched from the deck like a harpoon. He dropped, swords drawn, and landed like an explosion on Seve’s boat. The tiny vessel nearly capsized as the second figure began slicing Crelers apart. They turned on the figure as Seve tore the one on his face off, losing the rest of his ear in the process. He began laying about him, a fearless, howling fighter.
The other figure was waterlogged, fur soaked, and the Crelers leapt at him. But he swung his sword around him in an arc, knocking them back before they could touch him. Then he inhaled.
“Hold onto something, Courier—[Howl of the Plains]!”
Seve grabbed onto the mast right before a shockwave lifted his feet off the ground. It hurled most of the Crelers into the water, and the stabbing lances of magic rained down around him.
Then it was done. Seve staggered upright, bleeding, half of a potion in his mouth. He swallowed, gulped for air, and turned.
“Thank you! Dead gods, you saved me!”
“Saved you?”
The stranger looked at Seve. One ear was missing, he had literal chunks taken out of his flesh, and his tattoos had gone dark, recharging mana. But he had the poise to thank his rescuer—and his eyes were bright.
Even at his end, he hadn’t been afraid. So that was a warrior of A’ctelios Salash. It impressed even the Gnoll, who sheathed his blades. He nodded to the ship.
“Lower a ladder! Come aboard, Courier. We need to scour any eggs from the waters if I know maritime law right. No Crelers left to live.”
“Maritime law. You must be a landperson. But no ship will let Crelers live, be it Drowned Crews or [Pirates]. The least we’d do is tip off the nearest armada. I’ve seen shark packs kill Crelers then swim to the Last Tide to throw themselves off because they’re infected.”
“Everyone hates Crelers.”
The figure grabbed a ladder and offered Seve a hand. The grateful Courier climbed as figures congratulated the Gnoll.
“Head Slave Iert, that was risky—”
“I don’t answer to you. Shut up and get us a towel and something to eat. Someone else grab his boat before it goes under.”
Seve paused, panting, as he heard the voices and finally placed the accents. His head rose—and the Gnoll accepted a towel. His eyes flickered to Seve, and the Courier inhaled.
“Ah.”
Then, Seve looked around and recognized the flag in the storm. He looked up, sighed, and nodded.
“Roshal.”
 
——
 
The warship cut the waters like a warning. It was made of old wood, enchanted, of course, and painted with an innocuously calm blue on the hull. But the trim of the railings was a royal Terandrian red, and the seal of Roshal stood out like a brand on the ship’s side.
