He made a show of looking the Lizardman up and down.
“Where are your missing limbs, the sickness in your body? Are you a warrior facing an impossible foe? An avenger, a last resort of people under siege? What beast will you slay that you would sacrifice this life for?”
“I’m an adventurer. I just meant—listen. I’m serious.”
Seve walked across the docks. He had something in his belt pouch, and the Lizardman tensed when Seve pulled it out. But the Courier just showed it to the Lizardman, and the crowd went silent.
“Then you know what this is? This is what happens when you lose control. Are you prepared to become—”
“What is that?”
Someone screamed. The adventurer blanched, and several Lizardfolk became sick to their stomachs.
“W-w-what is…?”
The mage-picture was proscribed by A’ctelios Salash itself. It sullied their reputation, or so Baosar had claimed. But Seve had kept it.
“That is a future. Do you want to eat, now?”
The Bronze-rank adventurer backed up. Seve tucked the picture away as the [Harbormaster] stared at him.
“That’s what I thought. Tombhome’s gift isn’t light. It isn’t easy. Rhir’s people know what they face, and even there, few of the Blighted Kingdom are willing to embrace my home. Get lost.”
 
——
 
He fumed for four days at sea about the encounter until Erek grew tired of Seve’s sulking and kicked him into the ocean.
Seve just wanted some respect. The fear, the wariness, the condemnation, even, he accepted as fair, especially now. But at least respect what it meant to be of A’ctelios Salash.
Flos Reimarch and Fetohep respected A’ctelios. For all either might abhor it—neither had tried to invade or bring it to ‘justice’. Even the King of Destruction, even Eternal Khelt, knew the strength of the Carven City.
Wistram, at least, was polite, and the [Mages] liked Seve as a Courier more than anything else. In fact, Wistram was far different than he remembered.
It felt—new. There were more [Mages] running about, casting magic, than Seve remembered. In fact, on his way in, there had been a damn windstorm.
“Isn’t Wistram always sunny? And why were there dozens of students jumping off the balconies? You can get hurt if you land wrong.”
“Sorry, Courier. We’re letting the [Aeromancers] practice today. Wistram’s changing.”
The [Bard], Mena, who greeted him at the docks, was all smiles. She introduced herself.
“Bard Mena Alstren, Terras faction. We have a few deliveries for you to Izril if you’re headed that way.”
“I am. Terras. So Archmage Eldavin is back from Terandria? How different is Wistram?”
Her response was a laugh.
 
——
 
Wistram was filled with magic. It had always been filled with [Mages]—but magic? They had learned, in the past, low-tier magic.
Tiers 1-5 were accessible, and an Archmage or the highest-ranking [Mages] were studying Tier 5 magic. You could reliably get a good education above the average non-Wistram [Mage] here, and the academy essentially churned out [Mages] of that level.
But that was not…magic. These days? A novice, Year 2 [Mage] might be practicing levitation.
“I’m doing it! I’m doing—aaaah!”
Aaron Vanwell winced as he heard the scream outside his window. Said student bounced off something, hit a balcony two floors down, and broke their arm.
“Someone call a [Healer]!”
“No, wait! Someone call a bone-magic specialist! Or physical magic!”
Aaron peered out the window as the unlucky student was taken to be treated…by [Mages] practicing magic to strengthen limbs or actually repair bones. The fact that a second-year student had even cast [Levitation] for a second was amazing.
“They’re working hard.”
He was smiling today, as ever. He’d been happier of late. Despite a lot of his friends having left—Eldavin was still furious at him and the other conspirators for it.
But Aaron smiled. He was getting back to the basics. He sat at his workbench, using a fine-tuned wand that Viltach had made to solder components into place.
Components from a laptop and two iPhones. Thanks to [Repair], Aaron could break pieces off hardware and replace them. It was a terrifying thing to do because too much damage could destroy an object beyond [Repair], but Eldavin had managed to completely reconstruct the things Aaron had damaged for good.
“[Repair]. Alright. I think that’s good. Battery, battery.”
A simple lithium battery was Aaron’s biggest want. He could repair a computer all day and harvest parts from it—but the battery was a separate beast.
He had this odd situation where he had incredibly, incredibly advanced components for free and pre-industrial era tech to combine. Magic made it all fun, though.
“Aaron? Aaron? My guy, you have to meet the Courier who just dropped in! He’s got an Orangutan, and he’s trading goods from Baleros. There’s a thirty-six string guitar!”
Flynn skidded into Aaron’s rooms, and the [Magictech Engineer] lifted his newest creation.
“A thirty-six string guitar? No way. I want it.”
He was instantly taken. He loved guitars, and Flynn was about to run with him and Pokey, his Needlehound dog, when he stared at what Aaron had made.
“What’s that?”
“My newest creation. I’m back to engineering with magic. Guess what it is?”
Flynn took one look at the broad top, thinner base with several exposed copper wires, and the bulb set in the center and snorted.
“You made a flashlight? [Light] spells exist, Aaron.”
“Yeah, but this one’s magic and tech. Listen, I’m experimenting. It’s essentially a flashlight, but the ‘lightbulb’ is a crystal. And it runs on mana.”
“Is it bright?”
“Yep. Before you ask, it’s just a flashlight. I was trying to make sure I understood how to convert mana to electricity and wire things up.”
Flynn shook his head as they trotted down the hallway. Aaron wasn’t invested in the flashlight as much as the joy of creation.
“I still don’t get how you called everyone’s iPhone after like a week. Were you some kind of technical wizard back home?”
Aaron waved it off, embarrassed.
“Oh, that. I did make things for fun. Built computers…I got an award when I was a kid, but that was actually different. It turns out software and hardware interact with magic in stupid ways here. We were actually experimenting when we found out you can cast a [Resonance] spell. It’s some kind of Tier 5 magic like linking scrying orbs. So the way you do it is—”
“All iPhones are alike.”
“Exactly. Then Viltach helped me set up the chat box. It wasn’t so much us using the iPhone’s software as faking it. But that’s not engineering, you see? This is wires and actual soldering and conversion of mana and electricity.”
“…Can you make me a pair of night-vision goggles or something?”
“Don’t you have Eldavin for that? His super-armor means you can fly, cast magic—what else is there for me to do?”
Flynn looked sideways at Aaron and hesitated. Eldavin’s soldiers of the future weren’t fighting in any wars—yet—but he was still making more armor slowly. He was the greatest [Mage] in Wistram bar none, and he had asked Aaron to create things to take the load off him having to do it himself.
Well, until he trained enough [Mages] to do what he did. That would take some time, but in the moment—Terras was ascendant.
And Aaron was happy. Not about Eldavin, necessarily, though he was glad he hadn’t killed the Dragon. He was happy because he was free, and this flashlight…
 
——
 
Seve-Alrelious had fun in Wistram. Mostly because the [Mages] were all over his guitar. At first, they chuckled over the simple design and refused to believe Gorillas had made it. But then, when [Bards] like Mena or ‘good musicians’ picked it up, they discovered that playing a guitar with overlapping strings was…really hard.
“Hold on, I’ve nearly got it. Give me another five minutes.”
“You sound like a dog passing water. Allow me! This is h—uh, well, it’s harder than…hm…”
[Mage] after [Mage] was taking turns with it, refusing to admit that they had no idea how to take advantage of the overlapping strings or multiple sets of strings you could play on. Erek looked incredibly smug.
Seve noticed there were a lot fewer Golems than he remembered. Most were just doing day-labor, and the lack of Cognita…well.
“Are you selling it? It’s amazing. Someone made that in the jungle? Apes?”
A young man pushed forwards, and Seve smiled as Aaron Vanwell’s head swung from Erek to Seve to the guitar. He had dreadlocks, looked earnest and excited, and when he took his turn on the guitar, he did better than most.
“What will you take for it?”
There was no end to offers for it. When Seve casually took the Gazer’s Eye out of his bag of holding, even several Council [Mages] came running.
“Is that a Gazer’s Eye? And you’ve been trading goods across Chandrar? Where are you bound?”
“Izril. Liscor, actually. I might not deliver this—but it’s meant to go there in the end. I’ll only take something better than these two items. Better, and I’m not interested in anything you can just buy for gold.”
The [Mages] dashed off to find items to bid, more interested in the Gazer’s Eye than the guitar. But Aaron, hearing that, blinked and looked at Seve.
“Liscor, you said?”
“That’s right. A girl there asked for me to do a bunch of trades, and it’s been an adventure so far. I’ll see if anyone has anything better to sell once I head up—I’m planning on going through Zeres because I can swing around the New Lands. I’ve had enough of storms at sea.”
The coastal route would be slow and boring, but he’d be able to get an eyeful of the continent’s newest addition, and he figured he could buy wind spells for the journey. Aaron bit his lip, then he pulled something out.
“How about this for the guitar? Sell it to whomever you want, but tell them not to mess with the wiring. I think it’ll be…valuable.”
His eyes glinted as he held up—an artifact? It looked like a tube with an elongated end. The object in the center glowed, and it projected a beam of light far longer than any [Light] spell. Seve was fascinated and turned to Aaron.
“What is it?”
The young man looked quite pleased with the reaction.
“A flashlight.”
“Strange. I’ve seen magical lanterns, but this one is shaped completely differently. Does it run on magic?”
“Yeah, you can either power it here—see the magicore grip?—or you put in a mana stone here. It’s very simple. I built it as a proof-of-concept, but I don’t really need it, and it’s not useful in Wistram.”
“So why would I want it?”
Aaron gave Seve a serious look.
“Because, no one’s made it before. See that metal, here? This thing runs on a battery and a lightbulb I yanked from…it’ll be really interesting to some people. Illuminating. Why don’t you take it and—”
Something about the way he said it made Seve think that Aaron was selling something he shouldn’t, rather like the Djinni, Maef. He thought about whether a girl would like a guitar or this and decided Aaron probably wasn’t scamming him, at least.
So he tucked it into his bag of holding just in time, because a figure came striding down the banquet hall, and Aaron quickly shielded Seve with his body to hide the trade. The huge man—no, half-Elf—didn’t notice anyways.
His eyes were all on the Gazer’s Eye that Erek was waving around.
“That is a Gazer’s Eye. Excellent. Who is the owner? Ah, young man. I would like to purchase this Gazer’s Eye. It is just the thing I need, and good components are invaluable in this day and age.”
“Archmage Eldavin. It’s an honor to meet you.”
The half-Elf stopped, and he was every bit as extraordinary as Seve thought. A true [Mage] in this age.
“Is it? Well, I’m quite flattered even Couriers think so. Seve-Alrelious?”
He knew Seve’s origin and shook his hands calmly, without flinching. Then he went straight to business.
“I would like that Gazer’s Eye. How much?”
“It’s not for sale, Archmage. Only trade.”
“Trade? You could buy anything in Wistram for the right price. How about four thousand gold pieces? I’m a busy man.”
Seve sighed.
“It’s not for sale, Archmage. Offer me something better and I will happily trade for it. But it’s the form of how I do this, not mere gold. You understand? I have traded this across Chandrar, Baleros, and now Wistram.”
“Oh. I know that!”
Aaron got excited as he recognized the form of the story, and Eldavin’s eyes flickered.
“Oh, commendable. I think I remember…”
He put his hand to his head for a second and looked uncertain. Then he glanced around at the other [Mages] queuing for their offer.
“I do need it. Gazer Eyes are first-class magical items that you can use for all kinds of artifacts or magic.”
“Surely the Archmage of Memory has something to trade?”
Eldavin felt in his bag of holding.
“Absolutely I do.”
Aaron and Seve gave him an expectant look. Eldavin cursed, turned to fumble around, and muttered loudly.
“Let’s see. Not that, not that, a Helm of Waterbreathing? No, no. What about…aha!”
Seve had the distinct impression the Archmage began casting magic as he pretended to ‘pull something out’. He raised his eyebrows, determined to not be impressed.
Even an Archmage couldn’t just pull something worth the Gazer’s Eye out of his pocket. But what the Archmage of Memory presented him with a huge twinkle in his eye was…
A stone.
It was a flat skipping stone, polished from lying on a riverbed or somewhere, and Seve felt absolutely nothing from it when he picked it up.
“This is…what exactly, Archmage?”
“This is a very valuable object, young man. I note the skeptical look. I intended it for some promising young [Elementalists], but I am willing to part with one for a Gazer’s Eye. In fact, I’ll give you the entire class’ supply.”
He had a bag of river-rocks. There were sixteen in all, and each one seemed mundane as hell. Seve raised his brows.
“What are they, Archmage?”
Eldavin was really trying to make this sale. There was, Seve noticed, a very energetic pair of Archmages heading his way, Verdan Blackwood and Feor, and Eldavin wanted to close the deal. The half-Elf leaned forwards, looking only a bit sweaty.
“Trust me, young man. In terms of monetary value, this exceeds the Gazer’s Eye, especially because making these damn stones is a headache. I’d probably not even recreate them, and the elemental class can damn well do without. It took me four weeks because you have to bind them…well, nevermind. These are Stones of the Elements. Do you have any magical training?”
“No. I can do [Light], but that’s about it.”
Eldavin frowned.
“Well, go ahead and try to cast [Light] without casting it.”
