Then Seve hesitated, though he kept a smile on his face, and he wondered if he was wrong. But the wary look the girl gave him was just curious, and she began asking what kind of powers she’d get. Erin shooed Mrsha away.
“Don’t be annoying, Mrsha. Seve’s just like an anti-vegetarian. And he’s a great guy. He delivered the cure to Baleros.”
She smiled at him, and there wasn’t a hint of fear in her eyes. Just—curiosity.
Ah, at last. Seve’s smile grew until it was genuine, and Erek ooked again and clapped his hands. Was this it?
Another spot where he was not the monster of Tombhome? So he hoped. Even in Reim, with the fearless King of Destruction, they had treated him like another potential foe. In Medain, he was a curio, in Baleros, a fun new thing for the Lizardfolk.
But here he felt like a person in the world, because they did ask him about it. And he responded…
“It’s a great change. A great weight. I chose to eat Tombhome’s flesh.”
“Ew. I get it, I think, but ew. Does it—does it taste like organs?”
Erin shuddered, and Seve laughed.
“It’s the most delicious thing in the world. But it does look—odd. Would you like to see it?”
“Maybe later. We are putting food out, and you’ve gotta be careful. Relc would probably take a bite if you left it lying out without thinking twice.”
“Hey! Keep the hamburgers rolling, and we won’t have a problem. Tombhome, eh? I met a guy like that in the war who took the flesh or whatever you do. Scary as could be. Half the company debated doing it after they saw him walk out of a grinder, but…he had a picture and, wow, I am not hungry any more.”
Seve turned with sudden fascination to the Drake, and he thought he had found it. Another fine place, another point on his map worth returning to time and time again.
After all, if he was always the monster of A’ctelios Salash to everyone, why would he travel? His friends looked for homes, and so did he.
People to befriend. People who would understand. People who, rarely, needed what he could give them.
Perhaps, someday, someone to love. For now, Seve relaxed, well and truly, and fell in love with the inn a bit. He smiled as Mrsha finally spotted the gifts that Erek was placing in front of the [Witch].
Mrsha threw an instant tantrum.
No fair! No fair! How come she gets such amazing stuff and I don’t? You have to share!
She reached for the whistle, and Nanette smacked her hand down. The [Witch] looked proud and delighted.
“It’s all Courier Seve’s doing, Mrsha. And because I asked. What are these stones? They’re magical. And this key!”
“Uh oh.”
Erin spotted the key, and her face fell, like any parental figure who realized that a child had just been armed for mischief. But Nanette’s face was shining, and she turned to Mrsha proudly.
“You can’t just let everyone gift you things, Mrsha. I’m arming myself for my own adventures. But—what is it, and how did a flower become all this?”
She turned with eager eyes to the Courier, and he did laugh then and eyed the cup of blue juice he was served.
It looked disgusting, but he took a sip, and it was sweet. So he settled back as Nanette played with a stone in her hands, and everyone gathered around.
Then—he told them how he got here.
 
[Worldtraveller Inkfriend Level 46!]
[Skill – Vessel: Stormrider’s Blessing obtained!]
 
[Title – Trader of Fortunes obtained!]
[Title Skill – Trinket Trade: Something Better, Something Worse obtained!]
 
It only occurred to Seve after he woke up in The Wandering Inn with a smile the next day and stretched.
“Wait. Does that mean I’m not a good trader?”
 
——
 
The story was called, in some cultures, the Straw Trader story. And it was a classic tale of a man who started with a piece of straw and, by a series of increasingly convoluted deals, traded his way into fame and fortune.
Nanette knew this, of course, and her scheme paid off. A bag of magic stones, a whistle that called animals to you, and a literal skeleton key?
That was the sort of stuff that any growing girl wanted. However, there was a part of the story that was often forgotten—and it was the people Seve had traded with.
In some cases, it was just a new flower growing in Khelt’s gardens, to the satisfaction of their king. Just a single flower, and Seve’s presence had been but a small moment in each story he crossed paths with.
Inconsequential.
 
——
 
Cognita Truestone liked her blue pot. It was hers.
Like her hat, she had now acquired it, and she now owned three things in this world. Her hat, a blue pot from Khelt, and Wistram Academy.
She did take a second though, after Seve had headed off on his long journey, to take the pot to her room. There, she admired it for a moment, debated putting something in it, and then reached into the pot with a sigh.
It took her less than a second to peel the folded bit of gilded paper out, and she admired the penmanship.
“…The bearer of which shall be granted access to Khelt by order of His Majesty of Khelt, King Fetohep, at least once in the next thousand years.”
The hidden ticket was a one-time access to Khelt. Cognita Truestone wondered if Seve had known. If he had, he’d let the value of the pot speak to any prospective clients. Which had been her and only her.
Cognita rolled her eyes with a sigh and tucked the ticket into her bag of holding. It might be useful.
“Idiots.”
No one realized that the King of Khelt never sent mere pots out.
 
——
 
The King of Destruction, for his part, had the prized Yellat conveyed to his own gardens where it was buried in hopes it would continue to mature.
Then he convened his war tent and, in good humor, remarked it was well that Seve had taken the Sand Golems away from him.
“We have a war to conduct. I am not minded to push in far. I would rather take Nerrhavia apart as I did the west. Last time, they acquiesced more gracefully. This time? Pomle bothers me. Tiqr bothers me.”
“Yet it stands. So what is our order, my King?”
Mars smiled, and Flos Reimarch pointed a finger.
“We push. Are they still hunkered down after the last assault, Amerys?”
The Archmage was smiling placidly, and Gazi was checking her cracked armor. Orthenon buckled his sword into place as he picked up a spear, and Takhatres tilted his head up.
“Yep. And they’re watching us build those damn trebuchets all down the warfront.”
Flos Reimarch rubbed his hands, and he turned to his Seven. Orthenon plus Mars, Amerys, Takhatres, and Gazi. Five legends all gathered in one place. In the old days…
“Good. You five—take the fortress. As soon as you disable the wall spells, my armies will press forwards with Venith at the head. Zamea splits left, I go right. Time for a rampage.”
His vassals looked up, and Gazi exhaled. Mars rotated her shoulders and grinned. Amerys started giggling, and they left the tent.
Six hours later, the Bastion Nevekeh Fortress fell, and the King of Destruction’s forces entered Nerrhavia properly. And all the while, Flos Reimarch kept pointing out to Trey that he definitely knew how to conduct a battle.
Like that. You did it like that.
 
——
 
Jecrass was at peace. But what a tenuous peace. A third of the kingdom was gone and two monarchs ruled.
Medain was at peace, but it was under Khelt’s sway. Neither nation could be called whole, but their fates were intertwined.
It wasn’t just the feuds. Raelt…no longer felt like a [King].
He was less formal, more distracted, and felt like his pretense at being a [King] had been worn away by his captivity and torture, so he couldn’t even pretend to be head of state. Yet still.
Jecaina as [Queen]? She wasn’t ready. Or if she was, she shouldn’t have to be. He walked around his palace, something of a hero, something of a martyr to his people, and all of a failure to himself.
In the end, he had not been a great [King]. But what could he give Jecrass now?
He did not know. The King of Duels was good, no, he was overwhelming in one thing alone. And that was dueling. A poor thing for a [King], unless you were like Flos Reimarch.
Something caught Raelt’s eye as he passed by Nerrhavia Fallen’s news channel. They were broadcasting Chandrarian news, though they didn’t have the personality of Drassi or Noass or Sir Relz yet.
They should hire that Rémi Canada fellow. Raelt liked the newspaper more, but both stories were the same thing, actually.
This morning’s headlines were of oranges. Raelt stared.
Lots of oranges. Oranges, which, he happened to know, had that amazing staining quality even if you just got juice on your hand. It’d turn your skin, well, orange for a day or two even if you washed it right off.
Imagine what it did to expensive silk. Apparently, the palace of Medain had been covered in rotting oranges when High King Perric was hosting a bunch of dignitaries, even Terandrians who hadn’t left yet.
Hugely embarrassing. Rotting oranges everywhere. In the soup, in your bed, staining the toilet seat…
The mystery of the oranges wasn’t a mystery to Raelt, who smiled in great satisfaction at the orange on King Perric’s face. But…how had they gotten everywhere?
There was only one person who could move that fast. Raelt’s eyes opened, and he remembered her.
“Maef.”
One of the few people who’d helped him at all. No friend to Perric either. His ebullience at Perric’s humiliation turned to…painful memory. Then Raelt lowered the newspaper.
“She’s a prisoner too. No one ever rescued her. That man…”
His hands tightened on the newspaper, and then Raelt tried to stop himself. But should he? Perric had kidnapped his daughter. He had always been a threat to Jecrass, and now?
There was something Raelt could do for Jecrass after all. The only question was—how? He slowly began to think, and Jecaina, chancing upon her father, stopped a second, because the light of determination had come back to her father’s gaze.
But still. Was this a good king’s decision? Or a good man’s? They were not always one and the same.
 
——
 
The Prophet was not just interested in the gemstones for the sheer lucre. He had intentions, which was to create a crown inlaid with the jewels. It was—symbolic.
Many things were. His people left Medain, and they had never been welcome in the Claiven Earth, but despite their inability to gather support from the High King, they had still gained numbers.
It was time. Death had rolled over Chandrar once, and for every good thing some people said of Khelt, they were still ruled by an immortal tyrant. Their land overflowed with hoarded riches, and if there was any symbol to prove the might of faith—
It would be there. Faith moved mountains, and so the People of God marched. Not just for material gain. Not just for fame or to grow their numbers.
God existed. Miracles rained down, and classes came to the People of God. If he existed, then those rules, those commandments, were true laws set in stone. If the Prophet feared one thing, it was that the power he had been granted was also in hand with the punishment for failure.
Divine wrath would fall upon Khelt. Or him. He still woke, sometimes, remembering the hands of the wrathful corpses-spirits reaching for him. Dead men and women rotting and reaching for his very soul, or so it felt. Twice they’d come, both times on a Solstice.
Whispering lies. Demanding fealty.
Faith had saved him, and they had fled. He had yet to hear his own revelation in pure terms, so perhaps he was unworthy.
But those wretched corpses who terrified him? That undead king had to be the culprit. He would scourge all of Khelt to destroy…destroy that. One had even whispered allegiance to King Fetohep as he fled.
The Prophet had never seen a worthier foe of God than them.
 
——
 
Some would call the Prophet’s power an omen of everything this world should strive against. The Antinium would, if they could see his miracles. At least, the old Antinium would.
Others might say the same of Roshal.
But Roshal had always been self-serving. That was it. They were honest about the fact that what they did, they did for their own nation, their own people. Every nation and organization did that.
Roshal just differed on what defined ‘people’.
Oh, and they were good about being preemptive. Hence Iert’s departure from Roshal. Hence the warship.
They still did business, and the belowdecks were unpleasant to be in. The Gnoll didn’t care for it, as it was far different from how the Naga ran things.
The Courier, Seve-Alrelious, had not appreciated the one time he’d gone below. The Slavers of Roshal had not appreciated him.
Even if he was stupid enough to want to, Seve couldn’t have liberated a warship. They were ready for battle, and the top Masters of Roshal, new and old, had armed this crew very, very well.
In the holds, the new [Slaves] and the ones not trusted to go above were oddly quiet of late. A rarity.
It was not a lack of tears that held them at bay. It was not that things were better. But at least one group sat very, very silent.
Thinking. They were fed—enough—unless someone was disobedient, and things would rot fast in this swaying hold where daylight was so rare. Most things rotted.
But that Courier had remarked that Roshal knew A’ctelios. No one could easily escape slavery. Not Djinni. Only the Death of Chains was any hope, and she was in Rhir and, sometimes, just a dream you wished for in dark hours.
He could not offer them that. But as he had said—
‘It will not break your chains. But if you do eat—they will be afraid to touch you.’
Like the Last Light of Baleros, they hid it away. Pondering their choice. Seve-Alrelious had always offered the choice to those who needed it.
 
——
 
The Jungleclad Clan of Baleros had less worries than those Roshal touched. Yet they had some.
Death, predation, hunger.
They had great joys like music, like meeting their cousin, like all people, but even the apes of Baleros had one great depression, at least. One great sadness.
The scrolls of healing were too valuable for their clan to hold onto. They kept two and sent scouts out on a dangerous trek. If they shouted, they would be met and trade could occur.
They could fish. They could make homes. They could scavenge, and yes, the monkeys who took one scroll could communicate and trade.
To varying levels. But they lacked magic. And they lacked one more thing.
The news from the Land of Colors was bad. Monsters had forced all the local clans to flee, and there were otherfolk everywhere. They might have to resettle in the heartlands, and it was already pushing them against Lizardfolk. The Beastkin were friendlier up north, but there were limits to how many could be in one place.
It seemed everything had failed. The dispirited Jungleclad Clan realized that, once again, all their work had been for naught.
They had sent precious metal axes.
