Seve didn’t quite know what that meant, but he obligingly began to cast the one spell he knew—and the Stone of the Elements in his hand changed. It turned into a glowing substance, like solid light, and lit up in his grip.
“My eyes! Damn it! My flashlight isn’t half as bright as that!”
Aaron shouted, and Seve himself had to shade his eyes and release the spell. Eldavin, with a smirk, held up another stone, and it turned into a blazing rock.
“Look. It can also do—argh! Hot!”
He swore as he burned his hand and skipped the stone straight into a huge jello that High Magus Telim was about to steal. The swearing Eldavin shook his hand out, but the demonstration sold Seve.
“Do they run out of power?”
“No. They’re very pure bits of stone. Don’t let the look fool you. How about it? I doubt anyone has Stones of the Elements these days. They only last a hundred years—which is quite a long time and valuable. I shan’t make a second offer!”
He gave Seve a desperate smile, and the Hundredfriends Courier had to think on it. Wistram might have a lot of [Mages], but they weren’t exactly good at coming up with things that would appeal to a girl.
Verdan had a bar of pure gold, and Feor had an entire jewel-encrusted hand mirror. Other [Mages] wanted to trade for various artifacts like a Wand of Fireblast, a Scroll of Invisibility, or sets of magic.
If Eldavin was telling the truth, then something only an Archmage could make was a lot more valuable. In the end, he walked away with the Gazer’s Eye and Seve took the stones.
“Dude. Eldavin makes all kinds of amazing bullshit for nothing. And you can’t even call him on it because no one else can do it.”
Aaron sighed longingly as he eyed the stones. Seve was moved to offer him the one that had been in the jello.
“How about you take this one?”
“Are you sure?”
“I have fifteen more for Nanette. Besides. The flashlight’s worth a lot, right?”
Seve watched Aaron’s face change from delight to a serious look, and the price of the Stone of the Elements was worth confirming it.
“Definitely.”
 
——
 
From Wistram to Zeres, around the New Lands of Izril. Seve told the dockmaster that he’d had an uneventful trip when he reached the City of Waves.
He lied.
He made one pit-stop along the way to the City of Waves. Unintentionally. He hadn’t realized that the unpredictable sea-currents meant he was able to run into all kinds of people at sea.
Not just Drowned Folk. Nombernaught had appealed to Seve, and he’d been about to angle towards it to make a trade when his intuition had pinged him.
[Sense Opportunity].
He’d sent one of his bird-friends to scout a blip in the distance. Then, Seve swung away from the Drowned City and sailed south, into the deep sea, pursuing a very slow, very…unique place.
The Drowned Folk were there, too. One vessel, which immediately began sinking the moment they realized Seve was coming their way. But when they realized it was a Courier and they knew him, the ship resurfaced.
“Courier. Fancy seeing you here. We were just stopping at this deserted island.”
The [Captain] was very wary as he greeted Seve. The Hundredfriends Courier made a show of looking around.
“Deserted? It’s full of Humans. With green skin.”
That provoked an uproar of laughter from the ‘Humans’ around him, and the Drowned Captain’s strained smile turned into a slightly more genuine one.
“True enough. Humans. Half-Elves. I can’t tell landfolk apart, can you? Green skin, green scales…”
“Absolutely.”
The Goblins always found the excuses of the people who visited them amusing. Not that many people landed on their island. But some did.
As Wailant Strongheart had once told Numbtongue, the laws of the sea were not that of land. Seve had dealt with Goblins before and fought them only once at sea. He’d traded with them or just nodded at them before—and even traded goods with Demons, too.
It was very dangerous to be caught associating with Demons. Same with Goblins, but the rewards were worth it.
“What are you buying?”
“Feathers. Roc feathers, Flashwing—there’s enough alchemical goods and feathers to make me a fortune. And all they want is sugar. This…fell off a boat from Baleros.”
That probably meant the Drowned Captain had acquired a bunch of sugar from a ship that his people had raided. He didn’t look like a [Pirate] himself, but [Pirates] had to sell their hauls somewhere. This kind of bouncing from ship-to-ship was why Drowned Vessels were often all painted with the same brush of piracy.
“Are you headed to Zeres next?”
“Yep. The moment I saw the island I realized I was going to have the most profitable week in my life. Drakes would never be caught dead here.”
So the Drowned Man and his crew were about to make a fortune selling rare feathers into the Zeresian markets. And all they had to do was keep their mouths shut about where the feathers came from.
Not bad at all.
Seve met the Goblins on a simple beach that looked like it had seen fighting recently. He wondered if the Minotaurs had been attacking and if so—it explained a lot of what they wanted to trade for.
“Is ballista. You want? Put one on your boat.”
The ballista was bigger than his entire ship. The Drowned Folk were mightily interested in it, despite the waterlogged state of the weapon.
“Er…what will you take for it? I have lots to trade.”
The Goblin laughed.
“Trade’s good! Trade is great! Gold is stupid. I wipe my butt with it. Whatchu got?”
Everything Seve had was on offer, but his main goods for Nanette made the Goblins gather around. They liked the flashlight for the novelty, and they were respectful in handling it and shining it in each other’s faces. The Stones of the Elements were also curios the little Goblins loved, and they had to be caught before they ran off with them.
Unfortunately, the Goblins weren’t impressed enough. When Seve pointed out the unique construction of the flashlight, one of their [Shamans] laughed.
“Is just light. You want me to do it? [Cone of Brilliance].”
She pointed a finger up—and the Drowned Captain and Seve saw a vast cone of light shooting up over the Isle of Goblins like a lighthouse.
“Dead gods, stop! Do you want to tell everyone we’re here?”
“Oops. Sorry.”
The [Shaman]’s demonstration proved that Goblin magic was too powerful for the flashlight. Seve tried the Stones of the Elements, but again, the magical expert didn’t really care.
“Is just a fancy stone. Pure so it goes earth, goes water, goes air, even. Is okay. Our Goblin Lord can do better.”
She pointed towards a figure that Seve had taken to be a rock sitting on a hill, flanked by two boulders. Only then did Seve realize that it was a Goblin sitting there, covered in moss, flanked by two Hobs.
He felt a chill and realized that the Isle of Goblins didn’t have to fear being seen. If any one ship came at them with malice aforethought—it probably wouldn’t reach their island.
Damn. The scrolls of healing would probably be very useful here. Sighing, Seve realized he had nothing left to give—until Erek pulled out the tambourines.
Ratatatat! The clacking of the shells in the tamborine was tuned to be like firecrackers going off—that was how Aaron had described them. Unlike the usual ringing of a regular tambourine, this one sounded like a thousand gigantic beetles tap dancing.
The bored Goblins instantly turned and came crowding back around Erek. They, who had dismissed the magic without much interest, loved the unique instruments. In fact, the [Shaman] was dismayed that Seve didn’t have the guitar to trade.
“Is very nice music. Big nuts. We don’t have many trees like this. We want this!”
The novelty of the music was paying off a lot more than Seve could have imagined, and he thanked the Jungleclad clan as he rubbed his hands.
“Alright, what do you have for it? I’ll take the ballista.”
“Eh. They’re music things. So no ballista.”
“They’re nice tambourines.”
The Goblin [Shaman] gave him a level look.
“Yes. And that is a ballista. Not the same, funny Courier.”
Damn. Seve’s dream of sailing around with a gigantic ballista mounted to his tiny ship would never come true. And wasn’t that the dream of everyone? He sighed.
“Okay, but something better.”
“Yes, yes. Let me find things.”
For the next hour, little Goblins ran over holding things to trade with Seve and Erek, and the [Shamans] hunted around for something acceptable and not egregiously expensive. They were surprisingly adept bargainers and kept refusing to trade anything good.
“That is special sword. Too expensive.”
“Who made it?”
“Eh. Dunno. We pulled it up from shipwreck.”
A magnificent greatsword was on the shoulder of one of the Hobs training with it. Well, they were almost all damn Hobs. Seve was agog with the immaculate finish and engravings; it looked like a masterpiece from a Terandrian armory!
“Did you restore it or something?”
“No. Grey…beard did. With his fancy, stupid Skills.”
The [Shaman] stumbled over the name, and Seve saw a few Goblins turn and eye him. Erek nudged him in the side.
Seve decided to stop asking questions. The [Shaman] seemed keen on getting him out of there after that, so she hurried into her hut and finally shouted.
“Aha! What about this?”
She came out waving something at him, and Seve saw she had—
A pillow.
It was hand-stitched, obviously, and it had a stylized, big, green Goblin head with two crimson eyes and a toothy smile on it.
It was the [Shaman]’s personal pillow. She sighed as she patted it.
“Can make another. Goblin Lord herself helped make. Is good pillow. You take for tamborines. Is good trade. Swear on it by Greybeard’s beard.”
She looked serious as she offered it to him. Seve was used to weird trades by now, and he decided that for the tambourines, it might serve as a good trade.
“Deal. Thank you.”
He set off from the island within ten minutes of handing the four tambourines over. The racket the Goblins were making was annoying some of the ones used to peace and quiet, and one threw a rock at him as he left. But they seemed happy, and Seve hoped a Goblin pillow was worth something.
But he’d mainly left because he’d sensed eyes on him after the [Shaman] had said ‘Greybeard’ and the merry Goblins were now watching him. As if he’d heard something he shouldn’t have. Erek sensed it too and busied himself with the ship.
“Ook.”
“Yep. Bad news. Let’s get out of here, Erek. Want to try the pillow?”
The Goblins let them go, and Seve and Erek relaxed once they were well away from the island and it was a speck once more. They were incredibly dangerous, Goblins, Demons, but most were fair. Just…unpredictable at times.
Some of Seve’s bird-friends might have liked the island, but since he couldn’t be sure it was safe and they had left so fast, they contented themselves with waiting. Seve always wanted to be sure his friends were safe, and half were hankering for Khelt, anyways. Some of his friends were exceptionally picky, like Kithru, who fancied himself as a prime candidate for some aristocrat’s mansion despite being a touchy tomcat from the streets. So no harbor here, for Seve or them.
Seve still thought it was worth the trip, even if the pillow was a bit of an odd trade.
Erek fluffed it up a bit and lay down, sighing, as Seve headed off. He fell asleep surprisingly quickly and claimed he had a strange dream. So it was probably a good pillow.
 
——
 
Zeres was a bust for trades. The Serpentine Matriarch had no interest in Seve’s game, and he checked out the bazaar without much interest before collecting as much work as he could and heading out.
Seve didn’t go north directly. Instead, he cut into the Great Plains. He had to see the Meeting of Tribes after everything that had gone down.
It was not an easy path, but being Human, a Courier, and having Erek all helped. Twice, Seve was stopped by small bands of Gnolls who looked dispirited—but dangerous.
Az’muzarre, a disgraced tribe, almost turned him back both times until Seve brought up the Yellow Rivers journey and the fact that he was no direct friend to the Drakes.
Ironically, helping rescue Tyrion Veltras’ son gave him the most credit because the Gnolls reasoned that anyone who helped the enemy of the Drakes probably wasn’t on their side.
When he got to the Meeting of Tribes, the semi-permanent camp that might never disband, Seve saw the destruction had largely been healed.
Oh, he saw the hill where the Earth Elemental had died, and they warned him about the undead spawning in the place the battlefield had been—but most of the tribes had left.
Seve wasn’t allowed anywhere near the huge tent he heard called the ‘Earth Tent’ for some reason, a plain name for what he suspected to be a [Shaman]’s ritual area. Nor was there as much trade as the Meeting of Tribes had before.
In truth, that was fine with Seve. Now that he was on Izril, he was bearish on further trades. It seemed to him that most things that Nanette might want were not from Izril. Still, you could change his mind.
The Gnolls were fairly interested in the flashlight. When he showed it around, a metal Gnoll, a Chieftain called Adetr, came running. But he just inspected it from all angles, then called a Human, Rose, to inspect it.
She brought a suspicious rectangle all around the flashlight and then said that was good enough and she had a ‘recording’. Seve was not highly impressed by that, and the Gnolls apologized.
“We do not particularly wish to trade for something expensive, no, Courier. Perhaps something else?”
The Stones of the Elements were far too expensive for them, and the Gnolls waved them off. But the pillow?
“Ooh. It’s a nice pillow. Is that a Goblin on the front?”
“Yes…it’s a good pillow. Any takers?”
The Gnolls didn’t really seem to want it, but the Steelfur Chieftain was so embarrassed by whatever he’d done that he growled.
“Let’s see if we can trade for it.”
They went off and came back with another tribe’s [Shaman], who held up something.
“We’re Gaarh Marsh. If it helps Chieftain Adetr—I would be willing to trade for the pillow. How about…a Whistle of Friendship?”
“Say what now?”
Seve grew interested at once. The [Shaman] obligingly blew the whistle—and instantly, three birds fluttered over. They looked attentive, and when the [Shaman] tried to pet them on the head, one pecked his finger and flew off.
“Ow! You see, it gets their attention, but you’d better have a good reason or feed. We are in touch with nature. Poop on my yurt and I’ll feed you to a cat!”
The [Shaman] wasn’t the most convincing, but the little whistle definitely did something. The pillow? He accepted it with a smile, and Seve suspected the trade was there to apologize.
