Pewerthe’s smile grew wider. She read the note, which Nanette had addressed to Fetohep.
 
Your Eternal Majesty,
Here is a Faerie Flower from The Wandering Inn. It is a small gift, but I hope you will enjoy it as you have done so much for Erin and everyone here. 
If it pleases you, I have hired a Courier to take a delivery back to me at their own time. They have instructions to stop at every big nation or city along the way and trade. Please send a small gift back, and they will trade it with everyone they meet who has something better to offer.
I should be very delighted to see what I receive. Thank you for indulging me,
—Nanette Weishart
 
“Trade? And only something better?”
“It is an old story.”
Fetohep’s eyes were glinting with real delight, firstly because he had the flower, and secondly because this piqued all of his interests as a king who enjoyed the world on these sort of terms.
The naked ambition of Nanette wasn’t lost on either he or Pewerthe, though. Fetohep crooked a finger as he opened his vaults slightly. One of the servants stumbled as a glowing diamond, pale yellow and as fat as Fetohep’s hand, gleamed into life, and the king carelessly caught it.
“This would be a simple enough gift. But I think—lazy of me. It is perhaps what Nanette Weishart wants. She may well receive a valuable item if this was the first exchange. Or perhaps she thinks I shall be so glad to be gifted the Faerie Flower that Khelt’s largesse might be a relic. An Amulet of Greater Flameward, for instance?”
He lifted a dangling locket, and a gem flashed like a thousand burning flames were contained within the stone, all hung about literal water bound into the chain and locket. Pewerthe, used to such displays, only smiled.
“I’m sure she would be delighted, Your Majesty. But if I may make a suggestion?”
“Proceed.”
He was smiling. He was definitely smiling. Pewerthe indicated the flower being fussed over.
“Your Majesty, that flower is exceedingly rare, but if you describe the inn correctly, Nanette dug it out of the garden, and there are plenty there.”
“True. So this gift is not worth a great diamond. Should we answer her in kind?”
Now he was laughing, his ancient mouth opening, exposing his withered throat, skin preserved by sand, and yellowed teeth. Pewerthe’s eyes twinkled.
“What if you told her we’ll send her something appropriate? I suggest—a pot. From my shop.”
“How valuable are they?”
“I make them well. I would charge a single fancy for the fanciest pot I can make.”
That might have been because Pewerthe had no real notion of value for living in Khelt—they were a barter economy. But that was also why Fetohep chuckled.
“Excellent. I shall write to my correspondent, Mrsha, and inform her that Nanette shall receive a fine pot from a street vendor in return. With respect to you, I shall downplay the gift.”
Pewerthe had to cover her own smile and laugh. Then she set out to find a nice, lovely blue pot made with clay she’d dug herself from around an oasis. It had a yellow handle, and the amphora benefited from her Skills, but it was—well.
Just a pot.
When she returned to the palace, Pewerthe walked through the streets of Koirezune, looking around at the precious heart of Khelt. Like every other part of her kingdom she had toured for His Majesty, it was no less glorious than it had ever been.
Sandstone, mundane unpainted sandstone, was rarer to see than colorful murals, lifelike statues, or great gardens. The ‘vendors’ still hawked beautiful creations for favors, and there were a pair of aspiring [Duelists] on the streets; another group heading to play ‘tennis’.
It felt as if the Kheltians were moving with more passion than before. A good thing. But Pewerthe also saw some Commended Volunteers cleaning up a beetle nest with clear disgust. Some took to it, but another citizen tired of sweeping and just put the broom aside and walked off.
She was encouraged that they were trying. Worried that this fad would pass. Did only she notice the lack of undead? The creeping signs of a few insects, a bit less sand swept from the walkways?
It had never seemed more beautiful despite that. The city hummed with purpose, and it was in the King of Khelt, too.
He sat upon his throne less often and was often seen striding about. The bored indulgence and wit had sharpened itself into intent. Fetohep was still, often, regal majesty. But even here, in the cavernous palace, his intent was making itself manifest.
He was, at this moment, striding about a room where several [Sculptors] that Pewerthe had personally recommended were finishing their touches on two new cities.
One for Gnolls, one for Centaurs. With him were all three [Chieftains], the Herdmistress Geraeri, and the King of Khelt was consulting with a young man as he spoke. He was slyly consulting from a scroll, whereupon he glanced up and spoke with great care.
“Prazer, Mateus. I correct myself again. Muito prazer. Esse cidade é…”
He checked his notes.
“…linda. However! What word do I seek? ‘Insufficient’.”
The young man was following along, and Fetohep turned to a [Mage], who spoke without bothering to try another language.
“[Translation]. His Majesty of Khelt is looking for the word for ‘insufficient’.”
“And any corrections to my address.”
Fetohep consulted with the grinning Mateus, who was pleased to talk to the King of Khelt and correct him on his command of Portuguese. He seemed more happy that anyone wanted to learn his language.
No one, not even Flos Reimarch or Orthenon, had the time to converse. Even Wistram had just uncovered a [Translation] spell.
But the King of Khelt insisted on trying. He had a command of Drathian that let him converse more-or-less fluently with another Earther in his care. He nodded and gestured at the city.
“Linda, mas pouco ambiciosa. Translator. We have limited numbers of undead still capable of construction, and most are dedicated to Jecrass. It is my intent to build this city with as much art from each culture as can be instilled. Doubtless, the city will be upgraded in time, but search for any other great marvels of your homeland.”
He seemed happy. For a second, Pewerthe watched as the King of Khelt returned to his conversation, then switched into perfect Drathian to address a nervous girl holding a broken plate, afraid of being scolded.
It smelled like change in Khelt, wild and glorious. But she feared the wind might soon bring something else as well.
 
——
 
When Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier, bowed before Fetohep, the King of Khelt offered him the pot, much to his and Nanette’s dismay.
“You have a challenge ahead of you, Courier.”
“I—confess it may be harder than I thought. Is it a—great pot of magic, Your Majesty?”
“Pewerthe?”
She bowed innocently.
“It has [Shatterproof] and [Deeper Container] baked into the clay, Courier. Oh, and the pot cools whatever liquid or object is within it. As if it were in shade. No better. I am a Level 30 [Potter]. But I did not put all my Skills into it. I think it was a day’s work for fun.”
“Oh.”
Seve’s face fell, and Fetohep laughed again.
“Your task is simple, Courier. Exchange it for something better. You are displeased.”
“No, Your Majesty…”
Seve stood in front of Khelt’s monarch, an audience he had never had before, and he was well flattered by the chance. He had been excited to visit Khelt, but he couldn’t hide the dismay that Fetohep saw on him.
To pass beyond the borders of Khelt and have a week’s stay in the city—he’d been touring and eating for free at the finest shops, telling people stories, and being gifted food, and that was a wonderful time. But this…
“Ook.”
Someone ooked in an aggressive manner, and Seve elbowed a furry, orange, glowing Orangutan next to him.
“Shut up, Erek! I am sorry, Your Majesty. Erek wanted to see, but I apologize for his—”
The Hundredfriends’ companion was a summoned being, a glowing tattoo on his arm. Erek, the Orangutan, squatted on his long limbs, staring around Khelt’s palace with great entertainment. But even he sensed Seve’s dismay and ooked aggressively at Fetohep.
“I take no offense to the…monkey. What species is he?”
“Erek is an Orangutan. From Baleros. I met him there.”
“Ah, I had heard your countless companions were delighting my city. You have my thanks for that. Servant—tender the Hundredfriends Courier a small gift of Khelt’s regard. A pristine bag of holding, perhaps. One capable of a wagonload of goods.”
“At once, Your Majesty.”
Erek and Seve turned their heads as a man with bright yellow hair—dyed yellow, not just blonde—hurried off.
“Your Majesty is too kind!”
Seve ducked his head lower as he knelt, and Erek prostrated himself. Fetohep raised his brows. But both Erek and Seve knew that a bag of holding that valuable was worth thousands of gold pieces. And it would double the Courier’s own personal bag.
That was the kind of largesse that Khelt was known for. Which, of course, made the pot all the weirder.
“That is mere gratitude, Hundredfriends Courier. Servant. Bring the Orangutan his preferred treat. Which would be…?”
“Fruits, Your Majesty? Or—Erek loves bananas, and he’s been long from home.”
“Fetch a bushel for him to snack upon.”
Erek clapped his hands in delight, but Seve returned to his conversation with Fetohep.
“The pot, then, Your Majesty?”
“I understand your dismay, Hundredfriends Courier. You have, no doubt, come here expecting me to send you with a chest of treasures to Izril and to make mighty trades of increasing value. Perhaps you thought to return with a Djinni’s bottle or a suit of mithril chainmail before even leaving Chandrar’s shores.”
The thought—had occurred to Seve, and he had to confess, he had wanted to go home.
A’ctelios Salash called him. Tombhome. The Carven City. He had been away from home for years, and only the novelty of this job had made him consider adjusting his plans. However, Fetohep’s gaze was direct.
“I have warred with A’ctelios Salash of late. You, doubtless, know of it. Have you thoughts?”
Then, Seve felt a chill, because the King of Khelt’s regard on him was colder, and Pewerthe shivered. The Shield Kingdom of A’ctelios had changed of late. Seve had heard rumors, but he had wanted to see it himself.
As for the attack—an Ash Giant and multiple Jaws of Zeikhal had fallen while attacking Tombhome. Armies had entered Tombhome, even the famous Scourgeriders of Emrist. They had put the Carven City to sleep once more. At great cost.
Seve had been born in A’ctelios Salash. He had eaten of its flesh. He was one of them.
To look at him, he looked like most Chandrarians, if a Courier. Thus his brown skin was tanned, and he was amazingly fit for a Courier who traveled both land and sea. He was often bare-chested to show off the glowing tattoos of countless animals he had befriended.
That was his power, to summon them to fight with him. From great beasts of the sea to friendly birds to Erek—his friends were with him, and so were the people he had met. He had friends in every continent, among every people.
Odd, for the Courier of the most feared and reviled city to be so loved. But that was also, perhaps, because he was a citizen of A’ctelios Salash.
He did not tire easily, he bled less quickly, and he healed from great wounds at alarming speed. He was stronger, quicker, and the one drawback was that he had to eat the Carven City’s flesh. Or he would be driven back in madness to his home.
A citizen of A’ctelios Salash. A man who might be…like that city now was. Did he hear a heart beating in the vast being that lay buried in the sands? Did those eyes, ringed and hollowed out, stare through his blue gaze?
Seve’s head rose, and he met the golden gaze of another kind of monster to much of the world. A Revenant. An undead king, who ruled this land with death magic.
The Hundredfriends Courier’s smile looked like that burning flame in Fetohep’s eye sockets. It had little mercy. It was bright. It made Pewerthe shiver.
It looked like a dagger. It reminded Pewerthe of the [Bandits] who had held her captive when they had been tricked into murdering each other in one night of bloodshed. They had smiled like that.
“I have heard of that, on the day that mysteries struck this world, Your Majesty. And I did think to ask whether my friends or family lay dead. The Scourge of Emrist burned its way into my city. They, doubtless, destroyed much of my home.”
“Yes.”
Fetohep never moved. Seve paused, and his voice deepened.
“If A’ctelios was stirring, if they heard a heartbeat from those dark depths—then, Your Majesty, I bear you and Khelt no ill will. For that is our pact. If I were there, and if any would trust me in that hour, I would have claimed a torch and thrown it down those sacral veins. If the heart beats, we are the blade that should devour it, stab it until it bursts.”
He stopped again, and Erek paused in unpeeling his fourth banana.
“…And if we have failed our charge, the Scourge is the least of what we deserve. If Tombhome is corrupt, if it is craven, bring poison. Bring plagues. Bring the nightmares of Chandrar until it is filled only with true intent. My family, my friends, honored the laws of A’ctelios Salash. I can only wonder what has changed. I wanted to see it.”
He looked up, and the King of Khelt only moved then to lift a hand.
“Well said, Seve-Alrelious. To my knowledge, the main city is the one that seems—altered. The former leader is dead. I was told he was dead.”
He hesitated then, and his golden gaze flickered. Seve was confused.
“Baosar?”
Another pause.
“Yes. His son inherited his position. Baosar is dead. But my understanding of Tombhome is incomplete, and the Scourgeriders of Emrist sacrificed themselves to the last to silence it. I am disturbed. Tell me what you know of Tombhome. Given recent events—is it lost?”
He leaned forwards, and Seve spread his hands as he bowed. This meeting with Fetohep was adjusting his own intentions towards home, and he replied honestly.
“If Tombhome was stirring…I felt a great call towards home at sea, which is why I have come back, Your Majesty. Yet it faded on the day you mentioned. You ask me if A’ctelios is lost. To that, I can only say that it is not one thing. There are multiple eyes, multiple components of the Cities of the Mind, Your Majesty. Multiple…districts is the best way I can describe it. I was born elsewhere and never lived long in what you would know as the main city.”
Even Fetohep paused in his intent listening at this. He murmured.
“Intriguing. I did not realize there were other communities beside the Carven City alone.”
“Is Khelt one city, Your Majesty? With greatest respect.”
