This was one of the most inevitable, inescapable tales in the world. One of the oldest. It started with a mischievous, sometimes silly, rambunctious, brave, kind, and occasionally annoying girl with a future ahead of her.
She lived in The Wandering Inn, and she had come here to make this place, these people, her new family and home. She would never forget where she had come from, but for now, here was ‘home’. And she, in this place, worked a bit of the magic she sometimes saw floating around her.
It was not Mrsha. The furry cub with a round head of white fur who had looked sometimes like a miniature wolf had grown up into a girl. In doing so, she’d become less of a feral Gnoll girl unable to communicate and more of a cute kid. She’d stride around with her kilt and her fancy new wand, waving her notecards self-importantly.
She was growing fast. But she was a kid. There was still a world between her and the knowing glint in Nanette Weishart’s eyes. They were both brown, but Nanette’s sometimes seemed like they were staring at what could be, rather than what was. Both were shooting up in height, but Nanette was getting—stretched. Changing from the innocent, round-cheeked girl full of simple happiness to someone who had sat in the rain, a weary lost soul.
Now—she looked like she was free of a great burden, and her hatless head hung higher. She looked like she was searching for something, and it evoked a great curiosity in how she talked. Mrsha, sometimes, blathered. She talked and talked, demanding to be heard, even if the ‘talking’ was eloquent essays.
Nanette asked. She was not a full teen yet, but she was getting close. And she had no hat, it was true. But a witch was always a Witch.
Today was the day Nanette undid her pigtails. She appeared, hair bound up behind her in a ponytail like Ryoka’s, and Lyonette threw a fit.
“Nanette! Your hair!”
“I thought it was a nice time for a change, Miss Lyonette. I haven’t changed my hair since I was a girl. Do you like it?”
Nanette gave Lyonette an innocent look, and the [Princess], who had just been tugging at her own over-long hair, hesitated.
“It’s—certainly striking, Nanette! But that style. It’s so…rugged. You should really have it properly styled. Dame Ushar isn’t one to use scissors, but Ser Lormel and Ser Sest both have rudimentary hair care experience. But neither is an actual [Hairdresser], and you need more than that. Not that you don’t look fetching in your own way! But the entire ensemble is…”
Lyonette’s main objection seemed to be that Nanette looked like Ryoka. She had even changed her blue robes for baggy trousers and a long-sleeved shirt, an oddly modern look.
“Where did you get that clothing, Nanette?”
“Miss Bezale gave it to me to show off. It’s from a new store in Invrisil. Worldview Fashion.”
“A—a new store?”
Lyonette was so taken aback by all these new things that she was almost facing the other way. Nanette gave Lyonette an innocent smile.
“I think she hopes it will get Miss Erin’s attention without bothering her.”
“It’s gotten my attention. Nanette, my dear, I hate to criticize—”
“It’s the pants, isn’t it? They feel a bit silly, but I didn’t know what to wear since I always just had my robes and hair.”
“All the time? Your mother never told you how to dress up…?”
“No. We wore travel clothes. Could you show me some fashion, Miss Lyonette? I do like your hair styles.”
The [Princess] paused a second, and her own hair, which she brushed and took care of, unlike Erin and Mrsha, was long enough to be put in a ponytail as well. But Lyonette would have rather run to Celum and back than copy Ryoka’s ‘look’.
“This? Oh, well. I was thinking I should do something fancier now I’m not waiting the tables all the time. You know, a ribbon or some color intertwined throughout? It’s a complicated look I never pulled off, but Aielef, my older sister, used to take the courts by storm with it. Not that I think it needs to be this long. I’ve actually been considering a trip to Invrisil. I respect Drakes and Gnolls! But, uh—not their [Barbers].”
Gnollish barbers had one technique, which was to use primitive clippers to take off too-long clumps of hair. Even Erin had decided to self-barber rather than have one of them shave her head short.
Nanette’s interested look made Lyonette hurry to her calendar.
“I think I could take time off. Why—yes, what about tonight? Yelroan’s new calendar says…I have time off. Time off? What am I going to do with these other days? More Mrsha lessons? But she’s scheduled in too…”
“You’ll have to find a hobby, Miss Lyonette. I’d be delighted if you helped me manage my hair and clothes. I think I could manage with what I’ve been gifted, but…”
The young girl scuffed her foot in the second floor’s hallway, looking a bit lost. Lyonette had to take her hand.
“Nanette, I shall absolutely do this for you. Ser Sest!”
He appeared, stepping out of a room and bowing like an instant-butler-knight. Sest’s own immaculately trimmed mustache bobbed as he smiled.
“Shall I reconnoiter fashion and any barbarism in the City of Adventurers, Princess?”
Lyonette rolled her eyes at the pun.
“Aha. Yes, but also take a look to Pallass for fashion.”
He did a double-take at that.
“Pallass, Your Highness…?”
“We are living in a Drake city, Sest. Pallass, Invrisil, and ask Krshia if the Silverfangs have any styles for us to take a look at. But we’ll trust hair to humanity.”
“I shall send Dalimont to replace me. At once, Princess Lyonette!”
And he was off. But before he managed to clatter down the stairs towards the noisy inn below, where Mrsha was banging on some drums for Kevin’s ‘music jam night’—Lyonette was notedly above, despite her love of her daughter—Nanette raised a shy hand.
“Miss Lyonette? I hate to be a bother, but I have a teensy request. W-would it be fine for me to do something a bit interesting? I should like to pay for something fun, but I don’t know if I have the coins or permission, especially because it’s about Miss Erin’s garden.”
“What now? Of course! If you have a project…”
Lyonette was envisioning a grand time, especially if she could pull someone else with hair and a need to improve their looks along. She had in mind…Montressa, if the [Aegiscaster] was around. She was a [Lady]. Or perhaps Viceria, a Wistram-mage with more than a hint of her style. Or perhaps even Riverfarm? Come to it…Riverfarm?
Erin and Ryoka were out. And Lyonette was only too keen to humor Nanette finding her way, so when the girl asked…
“What’s the project?”
“I should like to hire a Courier, Miss Lyonette. For ten gold coins. But I can’t afford it…”
Ten gold coins? The number made Ser Dalimont’s brows shoot up as he headed up the stairs. That wasn’t a small amount of money. But for a Courier—it was.
“Are you sending something to a nearby city, Miss Nanette?”
That was his best guess. Nanette might be able to buy Hawk’s services to a city not close via teleportation…but even then, that was about half-price. Honestly, it was really low for Courier-fees.
Lyonette agreed, biting her lip hesitantly.
“That’s a bit—steep, Nanette. For us. For a Courier, it’s also cheap. You could hire a City Runner to run a hundred miles for every ten a Courier charges. Unless it’s to, what…Esthelm? Hawk wouldn’t even think of it. And we have the door.”
“I know. But may I still try? I want to do something fun. The Courier might want more…but if they’re the right ones, they’ll only ask ten gold.”
Nanette looked excited. Lyonette chewed on her lip.
“What is it?”
She had no conception of how any Courier would work for nothing like that unless Nanette wanted to rely on a Courier that was friends with the inn, which wasn’t something Lyonette thought was appropriate. But Nanette had a plan.
“I just need ten gold pieces, please, Miss Lyonette? I already have twelve saved. And Miss Ryoka’s agreed to deliver the goods as close to Oteslia as she can manage and have them shipped the rest of the way.”
“Twelve? Wait, what are the twelve for?”
Now, Lyonette was all turned around. Nanette explained patiently.
“The twelve are for me to send the package overseas via normal ships and City Runners. It’ll take a month or two, especially with the seas churned up. But it’ll be a Runner’s Guild delivery, and the ten gold coins will go into the Merchant’s Guild, so they’ll pay the Courier at their destination.”
“…I don’t follow. So you’re sending something overseas, and the Courier picks it up? No, I see. You’re hiring a Courier to pick up the delivery at your destination. But what is it?”
“I don’t know. It will depend on what I get. This is what I want to ship. To Khelt. I think it’s fine, especially because it’s Khelt. Few people want to bother King Fetohep. He puts bounties on anyone who steals from him.”
Nanette showed Lyonette what she wanted to send, and the [Princess] did a double-take.
“I truly don’t know about this, Nanette…”
“Please? I’ll ask Miss Erin, but I wanted to ask you about the money, Miss Lyonette. If it’s too much…”
Nanette’s head hung, and the [Princess] looked at her attempt at reinventing her look and thought of what Nanette had really asked for so far. She put a hand over her heart—
“Oh, of course. It’s your little experiment and—why, of course. Yelroan has his budget, and we do have the coin. Let me just—”
She began to fuss about with Ser Dalimont. Nanette’s head rose, and her eyes twinkled. But only Dalimont caught that, and he hesitated. The witch peeked at him, and he decided the better part of valor was not to make an enemy here.
Thusly, Nanette got her wish. And the most interesting of bounties was posted in the Runner’s Guild of…Chandrar.
 
Courier wanted. 10 Gold Coins. Delivery within two months. Route free. Courier with negotiation Skills preferred. Non-priority. Non-secret. 
Preferably a Sea Courier. 
 
The request was put into the Guild’s systems and languished, unclaimed, for about three and a half days.
A short amount of time for seemingly such a nebulous request. But the little witch knew how to tickle fancy. Any Courier who eyed the low price—yet it was backed by Ryoka Griffin, a Courier of Izril—and saw such odd requirements would, of course, ask what the heck it was about.
In fact, two Couriers from Izril and one from Baleros expressed interest, but they were too far from Chandrar or Khelt to take it. The first Courier to pick the delivery was, in fact, a Sea Courier.
His name was Seve-Alrelious. The Hundredfriends Courier of A’ctelios Salash. He accepted Nanette’s request instantly and informed the girl he would take it—she might get to see him in two months, or three, if that was acceptable.
She agreed, and he adjusted his course from his planned route towards his home. He stopped in the paradise of Khelt just in time for Nanette’s paid delivery to get there.
 
——
 
This was all months ago, before the winter had even begun. This is how the old story began and a little witch’s cunning plan.
This was what Nanette sent to King Fetohep of Khelt: a carefully wrapped box with air-holes and packed with water-absorbant soil that a certain Drake [Druid] had helped her make.
It contained a single, slightly battered yellow flower. Yellow as a coin of gold, which the oblivious Couriers and [Captains] shipped overseas without realizing the value of.
A faerie’s flower.
It sat in the palm of King Fetohep of Khelt, Eternal King of Khelt, Protector of Jecrass, King of the Rising Sands, His Majesty of Undying Will, and so on—as his golden eyes winked with amusement and indulgence at the little witch’s plan.
But he played along. He read the note out with urbane amusement to Pewerthe, his potter.
“Observe, Pewerthe, a child’s cunning like your own. I correct myself; a young witch’s cunning. They are talented as any [Bard] in the art of words. Perhaps more because they bargain thusly, not just flatter and entertain. I have wondered if one would be a match for your tongue.”
He turned his head, and the flush upon Pewerthe’s own dusky cheeks made her duck her head.
“I am not silver-tongued, Your Majesty. Nor have I heard of the cunning of [Witches].”
“No? Then perhaps I say, ‘all witches’ in error. I should give this one more credit. The few still upon Chandrar’s soil have not impressed me overmuch within my short span of ruling Khelt. Records show the cunning ones did dance upon the sands. The Witch of Waves made a great pact with Serept…”
Because she loved her king, and he was teaching her how to rule if no one replaced her, Pewerthe often listened to King Fetohep’s tales of past monarchs. But because her feet hurt and she didn’t want to stand for two hours, or even sit, she ducked her head.
“Your Majesty, the seedling might need water and planting. It is ephemeral—and one-of-a-kind outside of the inn and Oteslia, I understand.”
Fetohep hesitated. His glowing gaze swung to the plant, and he noted its somewhat bedraggled form from being in the box so long.
“Ah, yes. I forget how frail flowers can be. They bloom in moments and fade so quickly. Rather like trees. One cannot but scatter seeds without suddenly having a forest sprout behind them.”
So said the monarch who forgot how years worked, sometimes. He quickly rang a bell, and a servant raced forwards. Fetohep leaned forwards.
“Summon Farmer Colovt. Summon to me any [Druids] in our capital and the royal gardener. I have a seedling that must not die.”
Pewerthe exhaled in relief as Fetohep held the precious gift aloft. He was distracted by the novelty of the Faerie Flower that Nanette had sent. He didn’t want it for the alchemical value or the wonders it could create.
Oh, no. He wanted it because no one else had it, aside from a few gardens in Oteslia and The Wandering Inn. Few things made Fetohep happier than, in a decade’s time, taking a foreign dignitary for a stroll in his garden and having them pass by ten thousand Faerie Flowers in bloom while the world was squabbling over owning a dozen.
In that way, though, Pewerthe was rather skilled herself, because the [Potter] didn’t have to listen to a four-hour tale about the Witch of Waves and King Serept. Indeed, she even received the missive that Nanette had sent with her flower gift. Her eyebrows rose—and she smiled so hugely when she read the polite note that Fetohep turned from exhorting his servants to find him a suitable pot.
“Ah. You see?”
“It’s very clever.”
“Too clever, perhaps. I am minded to play the same trick—or just perhaps to answer Nanette with the spirit of her message. I shall deliberate. Unless you have a thought?”
