Roshal was not so obvious as other nations. Their seal, that of Lailight Scintillation, was of a market city intertwined with flowers, coins, a horse, and other goods arching above the city in a complex pattern, to represent what you might buy there.
Only when you looked closely did you realize the flowers and other goods looked like…chains, draped over the city.
The warship was far less subtle. The crew stood at the ready in the thousands, and only a great navy could boast one of similar make. It ran heavy, with sixteen Magic Throwers on deck and more below, concealed via hatches.
Though they had less room for the weapons thanks to the long rows of cages beneath, some ensorcelled to dampen both magic and Skills. Silenced. 
The above decks held mostly the crew, half of whom were [Slaves], the other half lesser workers in Roshal. Seve wished he could point to something to say that the ship was noticeably different than any other, but they still tended to the rigging and cleaned the decks like any other ship. Perhaps it was the militancy that stood out to him.
Unlike a Drake ship, which was full of military doctrine, or Wellfar, or even [Storm Sailors], Roshal did not seem like it was wary of an attack. Rather, it seemed like it was waiting to see whether it was attacked or would be the aggressors. There were a lot of soldiers of every species, and Seve wondered whether all Roshal’s ‘trade’ ships had so many soldiers.
It was one of the richest nations in the world, even if a lot of lists excluded them. Many harbors would let them dock, if not trade. But Seve disliked being on the ship even long enough to rest after his battle with the Crelers.
A’ctelios and Roshal had a history, but one that had its fair share of strife. Roshal had, like all things, tried a dalliance at control of Tombhome. Only to find that some things couldn’t be enslaved.
Even so, Iert, the Gnoll who appeared to be in charge of this ship, was knowledgeable enough about Seve not to be surprised when, the next day, Seve appeared with half his ear regrown.
“So you really can regrow body parts.”
“Yes. I fear little.”
Seve was curt. He did not like his saviors, but that they had saved his life meant he gave them the time of day. But they were headed in opposite directions, so he planned on jumping ship.
“We’re closer to Baleros than Izril.”
“Hrr. True. That damn storm blew us all around. I’m bound for Izril, but if you wish to leave…we’ve cast [Repair] on your vessel enough. Can I tempt you with any more meals? My master is a fan of Couriers like you.”
“I’m grateful, but no.”
The Emir Yazdil himself was Iert’s master, and so Seve was trying not to offend. Iert seemed to sense his displeasure.
“It’s the [Slaves], isn’t it?”
Erek was recovering from his fighting, but even if he was here—Seve scowled. He glanced belowdecks.
“You seem happy enough. I can’t say the same for anyone else here.”
“Flip of the coin. Bad master, bad time.”
The Gnoll shrugged, and Seve resisted the urge to spit on the decks. This was a warship, one of the nasty ones that Roshal ran to acquire ‘cargo’. As far as he knew, they didn’t go to Izril.
They usually sail Baleros or Rhir at most. What’s going on?
He had to go. Seve itched to say something that would get him in serious trouble on this ship with thousands of crew, and his dislike was all over his face.
Iert was calm, but the ship’s [Captain], a slave trader himself, looked displeased.
“Some gratitude for us would be appropriate, Courier. Or does a son of Chandrar dislike Roshal that much?”
“I run deliveries all over. I just dislike seeing people in chains. Besides—of all the sons of Chandrar, you had better ask that to someone in Jecrass, Reim, Medain, Nerrhavia—anyone but me. Roshal has warred with A’ctelios before. We never forgot.”
Seve shot back. The [Slaver Captain] laughed.
“Jecrass doesn’t fit that list as well. Belchan and Jecrass were straying from civility. We mark our friends and allies. It’s not like you’d be put in irons for existing.”
“No. But again, Roshal tried. Until they found out that Tombhome is louder than any chains. And that we need to go home, even if you bury us ten thousand feet underground and encase us in metal. Do you know those stories?”
Seve smiled, and the [Slaver Captain] hesitated, then turned on his heel.
“Iert, your guest is free to leave as he wills. It is the Naga’s will, after all.”
He scowled at the [Slave] who seemed to be able to give him orders, and Iert snorted.
“Good job unnerving him. Not enough low-level masters remember the rules are there for a reason.”
“A’ctelios is against the rules?”
Few of Tombhome left, so the odds of them being put into slavery because they were in debt or committed crimes was low. Iert hesitated.
“To most. Same with Goblins. A very few species are off-limits except if you have dispensation. I quite admired your fighting below, Hundredfriends Courier. The Emir certainly liked the tale. And he’s heard of your delivery.”
“Of course he has. I’m not interested in trading. The young lady—”
“You aren’t going to her directly. A trade is a trade. Humor the Emir. He likes to be part of things he thinks matters. He can certainly best your current offer. What is it?”
Iert interrupted, and there was a firm note in his voice. And then Seve remembered the scrolls in his bag of holding and had a desire not to show Iert what he carried for another reason.
“…I got a pair of earrings from Medain. But the casket of gems was ‘acquired’ by a certain Prophet.”
Iert sighed.
“Nasty. But—oh, those are nice earrings. Expensive. Let me swap them for something. We have sweets. Hey! Get me one of the gift sets. The finest stuff. Marzipan, that Turkish Delight stuff—the damned chocolates, the entire set. How would this do?”
He came back with six boxes of assorted sweets. Seve grudgingly tasted them, and he found they were a variety of new, sugary products.
“Interesting. What is this, Terandrian? Everyone’s figuring out gelato.”
He had done a lot of food-runs for the money until he got sick of rushing ice cream across the ocean for people. But this…Iert nibbled at a chocolate-covered sugar cookie.
“Nope. We’re making it. We’ve got all the recipes. It’s six boxes of various kinds of sugar. That’s sixty-four snacks per box.”
So over three hundred pastries? Seve sighed.
“…That’s better than the earrings. Alright. Trade them over. Want some meat in return?”
Half the crew listening in blanched. Iert just snorted lightly.
“Be on your way, Courier. The Naga’s friendly to anyone who’s not his enemy directly. And even to most of them.”
“I know he is. The King of Destruction smiles and laughs a lot too. What’s your point?”
The Gnoll grinned at that silently. Seve-Alrelious was only too glad to get back to his ship and sail onwards. That was his encounter with Roshal. But he had some cause to regret departing from them and not enduring a voyage to Izril; the storm that broke during the fight with the Crelers came back with a vengeance after a day.
It hammered him straight into the water. Seve, proof against Crelers, last remembered seeing Erek lunging at him as a forty-foot wave tossed them free of Arveil’s harness. Then?
Blackness.
 
——
 
As the wave bore down, Erek saw Seve gripping as hard as he could to the mast of the ship. However, the wave was high—so high it would have been a vast cliff on land.
Too high to swing over even with the longest of vines. And his friend, the man who wore Erek’s life in glowing ink on his skin, was weakened, healing from his fight with the Crelers.
The churning waters rose higher, and Erek, looking around wildly, thought he smelled and saw something familiar in the sea. Then, he wondered how far the storm had blown them. Days at sea. If—
He swung himself up higher, towards the mast, gripping onto it with his feet pads and his strength. Then, he cupped his hands together for one second and screamed into the night.
Sound fact: monkey and ape-calls were able to echo for miles in the forest. In this storm? Perhaps it was futile. But Erek screamed—then dove at Seve as the water hit. He grabbed his Human friend in his hands as they went down, and the water, like needles, shredded his magical skin. He tried to swim ‘up’, but then he felt the magic in him vanishing as Arveil dove towards them.
Seve passed out—and Erek vanished. Then he was staring out of Seve’s tattoos, in the water, surrounded by the rest of the Courier’s friends.
Was this it? In these deeps, was this where their great journey ended? 
Erek ‘held’ Kithru in his arms, the closest the tattoos could get in the quasi-world they inhabited between being called to reality. If they appeared in the ocean, Arveil would pull as many as she could to safety.
The world spun and tumbled, and Erek closed his eyes, wondering if the flesh of Tombhome let Seve survive without air. The glowing light of Seve’s tattoos shone in the dark waters like a beacon, but he was unconscious.
Yet the waters still broke, and Erek looked up as a figure leapt into the ocean. For a second, he wondered if it was the dangerous Iert, who smelled like death.
No. The figure who dove in swam in an ungainly breaststroke. He was huge and made for Seve, and Erek’s heart leapt as he saw a familiar face. Mottled green fur, wide, staring eyes that took in Seve’s tattooed body.
The Gorilla grabbed Seve. And then hauled him up as two more figures leapt into the ocean. Then—Erek knew they were safe.
He was close to Baleros’ heartland jungles.
Home.
 
——
 
When Seve woke up, he wasn’t sure how he was alive. The last thing he remembered was a storm and losing his connection to his friends.
He thought he’d washed up, at first—then quickly realized he was lying in a bed. He sat up, scattering leaves and—strangely—feathers and cotton.
“How—? Erek?”
His first thought was for his closest friend, who sometimes wandered off without him. He sensed Erek outside the odd hut he was in and guessed Erek must have appeared a few minutes before he woke. Seve swung himself out of bed and then heard the hooting.
Not like owls, but a deep grunt from inside your chest. A familiar—no, deeper, exhalation. It sounded like…
“Apes?”
That was how he found himself in the clan of the Jungleclad Gorillas. Erek was in the center of a huge gathering of dozens of them, little Gorillas staring shyly at him from behind huge members of their species, who sat with their hands supporting their broad-chested bodies, green fur making them blend with parts of the forest.
Gorillas? They were listening as Erek ooked excitedly, dancing around, making gestures with his hands, occasionally pulling something out of Seve’s bag of holding. The glowing ape was at the center of the tribe—and when Seve emerged, the rest of the Jungleclad ape clan set up a furor.
“Dead gods. Another tribe. Erek! Did you know your people were here?”
The Orangutan proudly slapped his chest, then leapt over to make introductions. Seve met a huge leader of their society.
“Hmm.”
He was actually shorter than Seve, just under six feet tall, but he was far, far wider across and heavier. He peered up at Seve, eyes bright with curiosity.
“Thank you for saving me.”
Seve spoke, and the Jungleclad leader hrmed harder, tilting his head left and right. Seve remembered the first time he’d met Erek’s tribe.
This one didn’t seem to understand speech. Or maybe…
He tried something and did the same thing Erek had once done to him. Seve touched his chest.
“Thank. You.”
Then he handed the leader some of his travel rations, salted cod from Medain. The huge figure delicately took the morsel, nibbled at it, and then, to Seve’s relief, smiled. He turned to Erek, and the two began hooting at each other. Seve just stood there as the clan gathered around him, now curious and wanting to know who they had saved.
 
——
 
Baleros. The ape clans were only common here. He had to be near the great jungles in the mainland. Luck had saved his life—and his connection with Erek.
This was a coastal tribe, far from civilization. When they had heard Erek, they had headed out to sea. On a ship!
Okay, not a ship. They had a fishing raft and crude nets, but Seve was blown away when he saw them trying to repair it. It was a huge construction, made of trees chopped in two to form a base that could hold up to six of their clan without issue.
“Erek, they’re seafaring!”
The Orangutan rolled his eyes at Seve’s amazement. Seve knew he shouldn’t be that surprised. Erek understood multiple languages, and he could steer a ship, write, and use weapons or tools. But a vehicle just—stood out.
Then again, Erek’s own clan used weapons. So did the Jungleclad Gorillas.
They were armed, Seve noted, with axes to better let them move around without snagging a spear on branches or brush. Some had just old, stone-age axeheads, but their leader, who seemed to go by Hrmrhr, at least how he spoke, had an actual steel one.
It was clear they salvaged both shipwrecks and had some contact with other species because their arboreal tree-village, connected by simple bridges to the more dangerous ground, was filled with salvaged goods.
Pillow fabric, metal used for nails, even a rainwater collector. The huts had roofs, and while nothing looked like structures from home—Seve had always known the Beastkin and monkey and ape clans had strong ties, and he had even heard of them being employed in mercenary companies like the Forgotten Wing.
But it was another thing to realize just how intelligent they were. From fishing to village-building, the Jungleclad clan seemed very self-sufficient. They were not agriculturalists; they clearly went out to hunt for food.
It did seem like they had trouble where food was concerned. Despite Hrmrhr’s very polite acceptance of Seve’s fish offering, seafood and meat in general was low on their dietary list. It seemed like they had learned to fish to supplement the need to scavenge for food, especially come winter.
Getting food in a jungle filled with damn monsters and other hazards was tough. Seve wasn’t the only injured person in their village, and unlike other societies, the one thing that the Jungleclad clan didn’t have was magic or Skills.
A particularly badly hurt ape was lying on his back, whimpering as their doctor used some crude tweezers to yank out nearly a hundred quills from his front. He must have run into nasty, quill-laden animals.
“Here. What about this?”
Seve offered the doctor a healing potion and wondered if they’d know wh—
