“Never, my love.” I didn’t think she’d be here to see us off. Hopping off of Mafu, I lift her into my arms and laugh as she melts in my embrace. “I’ll be counting the days until we meet again.”

Pinching my sides, my freckled, fiery betrothed rests her head on my shoulder. “It won’t be long. I’ll finish your weapon then Papa and I will catch up as quickly as possible.”

“You don’t have to do this, you know? I don’t need another weapon, you can just leave with us now.” Besides, I’m not too thrilled about her travelling with an unbound Spiritual Weapon in her possession, not to mention me walking around with one.

Sensing my concern, Mila snorts and rolls her eyes. “You worry too much. I’ll be perfectly safe with Papa and an army of Sentinels at my side. It’s better for you to leave first, we can’t all travel together and you can’t afford to be late. You were summoned by the Emperor himself while I wasn’t even invited.”

“Don’t be jealous.” Kissing her on the cheek, I add, “Once the Grand Conference begins, the world will finally know your worth. I look forward to seeing Captain Sumila take her place as the undisputed number one talent in the Empire.”

“Hmph. Flattery will get you nowhere.” Experience has taught me otherwise, but a smart man doesn’t argue with women. There’s no winning, even if you're right. Especially if you're right. Squeezing me tight, Mila buries her face in my chest and Sends, “Stay safe and don’t do anything stupid, okay?”

I’m so happy she learned to control her volume. “Yes, my love.”

“And if you see Yan before I arrive, tell her even though she didn’t send a reply, I meant what I said in my letters.”

Yea, Yan didn't reply to my letters either, but it's okay. From what I hear, she's been busy. “Okay, but why so cryptic? What’d you say?”

Blushing furiously, Mila punches my arm lightly. “None of your business, just remember to tell her.”

All too soon, it’s time for us to separate and it hurts to see her go, but before I can process my emotions, Yuzhen's voice sounds out for all to hear, booming over the bustle of the crowd. “Heroes of the Empire,” she begins, wholly in her element as Marshal of the North. Filled with vapid platitudes and trivial accolades, her speech is tailored to inspire devotion and adoration for said ‘heroes’ while not forgetting to thank the common people for their ‘vital support’. Her flowery praise makes it sound like we’re marching to put an end to the Father himself, yet she never mentions how we’re leaving the North vulnerable to attack. According to her, we’ll march to Central where the Defiled will be defeated in open battle, neat, tidy, and wholly unbelievable. As her speech comes to an end, she closes with, “These are trying times we live in. United we stand, but divided we fall. To this end, I bid you all to forget school or faction, clan or sect, city or province. We are all citizens of the Azure Empire, and together, we will drive the Defiled scum back from whence they came!”

While the city erupts into cheers, I can’t help but laugh at her words. United we stand, but divided we fall? If that’s the case, then there’s no point going to Central. We’re all doomed. Asking the various factions of the Empire to work together is like asking a pig not to fart, both absurd and impossible.

Okay, this isn't helping. What I need is a positive mental attitude. Who knows? Maybe I'm in for a pleasant surprise. Maybe, under the growing threat of Defiled, the numerous factions of the Empire will come together and set aside their grudges and self-interests. Led by the Emperor, nobles, officers, and common soldiers alike will forge new bonds and work in harmony to overcome the odds against us, repelling the murderous Enemy from our borders and wiping out the Defiled threat once and for all. Our victory will usher in a new age of peace and prosperity, an age where we strive for equality and freedom for all.

And maybe Mafu will sprout wings and fly.

I mean, crazier things have happened.

Chapter Meme
