“I'd already explained about you to her, you see.” Ren said. “She knows all about how you used to manipulate people.”

Gloria looked at Ren with wide eyes.

“I've always held a part of myself back because of that promise, so that I never quite gave you everything.” Ren said.

“But... but you love me...” Gloria tried to hold her tears back.

“Of course I do.” Ren said.

“But... but...”

“You've felt how I felt in the game.” Ren said. “Do you really need me to say those three words out loud?”

Gloria looked at him, with a little desperation mixed with the tears in her eyes. “Y-yes.”

Ren let her hand go, and her face gained a little more desperation. “I can't tell you those words in the game, because Nathalia would never forgive me.” He said and smiled. “But we're not in the game right now, are we?”

Her eyes widened in surprise as he leaned in close.

“I love you, Elerlyth.” Ren said, and kissed her. It was only for a brief moment, then he broke the kiss and leaned back. He took his free hand and gently stroked the shaved part of the left side of her head. She closed her eyes as she concentrated on the sensation of his hand touching her skin. He traced the hairline all the way to the back, then let his hand fall away.

“I've wanted to touch you like that ever since I met you.” Ren said.

“Most men would want to grab my breasts or my ass.” Gloria chuckled as she opened her eyes and looked at him.

“Exactly.” Ren said, and she blinked her eyes at him several times. “How many men have had the privilege of touching you like that?”

Gloria's face flushed a little bit red, and Ren smiled.

“You're pretty irresistible, you know.”

“I don't think so.” She said. “Most people just stare at me.”

“That's because they don't know what to make of you.” Ren said. “You know they're thinking to themselves, 'she's drop dead gorgeous, why does she do all of that to herself?'.”

“And what do you think?” Gloria asked.

“I think you could be covered in tattoos and have a large bull ring pierced through your nose, and you'd still be gorgeous.”

Gloria looked at him in surprise. “You really think that?”

Ren nodded. “It's not how you look, it's how you feel about yourself that matters.”

“Oh, Ren!” Gloria said, and kissed him. A moment later, it was like she was startled by something and then broke the kiss. She leaned back and stared at Ren, with a surprised look on her face.

“No.” Gloria whispered. “We can't. I...” She looked like a deer caught in headlights. “Only... only in the game.”

Ren nodded, and then there was a knock on the bathroom door.

“Knock, knock.” Stella said. “We don't have all day to waste, you know.”

“We were just finishing up.” Ren said as he looked at Gloria. “I think everything on our end is settled.”

“That's great.” Stella said. “Now pull your pants up and get out here.”

Ren laughed and Gloria blushed.

“Don't mind her.” He said. “She's always teasing me like that.”

“You're kidding!”

Ren shook his head. “Nope.”

She looked at him with wide eyes.

“Come on.” Ren said and stood up. “We can't keep the boss waiting.” He opened the bathroom door and went back into the room, then climbed into bed. Gloria peered out through the doorway, and looked at Stella; who grinned at her.

“We weren't doing anything like that.” Gloria said as she stepped out of the bathroom.

“I know that.” Stella said. “It was just a joke.”

“It wasn't funny.”

“Really?” Stella looked at Ren. “I could have sworn I heard someone laugh.”

“That was me, obviously.” Ren said. “Gloria hasn't experienced your taste in humor yet.”

“We'll be seeing each other once a week in real life, so she should pick it up fast.” Stella said, and turned to Gloria. “One day a week in real life. Saturday or Sunday. I'll give you my schedule so you'll know when I'm working here, and when I'll be home doing testing and will need your expertise.”

“Sounds good.” Gloria said as she sat on the end of the bed. “What about virtual time?”

“Ren and I discussed it, and we want you to set up a VPN on the micro-server there.” Stella said, and pointed to where it was mounted behind the television. “I've got a similar setup at home, and you'll need to bridge the two systems together.”

“Not a problem.” Gloria said. “What else?”

“We want you available for testing, for one game day a week.” Ren said. “That's one real life week, not a game week.”

“That's a relief.” Gloria said. “I don't think I could handle logging in every 2 days.”

“I know.” Ren said. “That's why we're setting it up this way.”

“What?” Gloria asked. “Why?”

“You only get 2 days off a week, and you're going to school and working.” Stella said. “I know what the garage is like, and I won't take any more of your free time than is absolutely necessary.”

“That's... really nice of you.” Gloria said. “Both of you.”

“We also discussed your salary.” Stella said. “After a lot of research, and finding out just what hiring you would entail...” She smiled. “...we've settled on an amount that we hope won't insult you.”

“It must be pretty bad if you're worried about insulting me.” Gloria said, and braced herself. “Let me have it, then.”

Stella handed her a small folded piece of paper, and Gloria took it. She opened it, and stared at the numbers.

“You have got to be kidding me!” Gloria said. “I tried to not get my hopes up. I tried to not get excited about this... but... yes, I'm insulted.” She crumpled up the piece of paper. “This would barely cover my groceries for the month!”

“The month?” Stella frowned. “That's not your salary per month. That's per week.”

“It's per WHAT?!?” Gloria asked, surprised.

“The average student researcher makes about 18 dollars an hour.” Stella said. “We need a 12 hour work day from you, once a week in real life.”

“But...”

“It was Ren's idea to include the virtual day of 12 hours as well.”

“But... but...”

“We know $432 dollars a week isn't much.” Ren said. “And we're fudging the numbers a little by including the virtual work...” He smiled. “...and yes, it will all be documented and the proper taxes will be paid. The thing is, I know you'll be working on this in your spare time for us, too. Once you pick this up, you're going to run with it.”

“Ren, I...”

“You don't have to accept right away.” Stella said. “Both Ren and I agreed about that. Take your time, and think about it.”

Gloria shook her head. “I don't have to think about anything.” She said and reached out a hand. “I accept.”

Stella shook her hand, and then so did Ren.

“Welcome aboard.”
