“He caught me off-guard.”

“He caught us all off-guard.” Lylyth smiled and she could feel that every single spider, no matter their size, were also feeding to their hearts content.

“That's quite the display.” Grimlow said, and Ren could feel him trying to feed and keep his guard up at the same time.

“Is that enough for you?” Ren smiled. “No? Perhaps you'd like another boost?”

“Wh-what?” Grimlow asked.

Ren activated the second ring. “How's that?” He asked as he felt everyone shudder.

People were still feeding on the ones lost to the Terror; but, they were trembling themselves now.

“Not enough? How about another boost?” Ren asked and activated the next ring as he stepped forward. “Still not enough?” He activated the next ring, and then the next. “No, you want it all. As much as I can make, right?”

Ren activated the rest of the rings and pushed all 8 Ultimate Terror enchantments through his Fear Aura. Even Lylyth, worshipped by tens of thousands of people, froze stiff from feeling a 4,000% chance of being afraid and fleeing from Ren's enchanted Terror.

Ren stopped walking in front of Grimlow, who had slowly lowered himself to his knees as each ring activated. He could see Grimlow was desperately trying to feed from him.

“Shall I put the icing on the cake?” Ren asked him, and Grimlow was too afraid to speak. “I'll take that as a yes.” He said, and activated his Controlled Berserk Rage.

“AHHHHHH!!!” Grimlow screamed as Ren's eyes burned blood red and bored into his. Ren's tremendous Rage merged with the Terror he had produced and made it that much more effective. He reached a hand out and Grimlow couldn't move or block it. Ren placed his hand on the dark elf's chest and felt Grimlow's ability as it struggled to try and consume such overpowering emotions.

“This Is Mine!” Ren said.

Notice!

You have invoked your ability 'This Is Mine!'. You have claimed sovereignty over another person's ability 'Emotion Siphon'. Due to the unusual nature of this claim, it can only be used in this capacity once.

Do you still wish to claim this ability as your own? Yes / No

“Yes, I want it.” Ren said. It's the only way I can win this fight.

“NOOOOOO!!!” Grimlow screamed again as his ability disengaged, since it had been the only thing that was keeping him safe from feeling the full effect of the Terror that Ren had produced. Grimlow's dark skin turned an ashen color when his ability completely disappeared.

Notice!

You have gained a restricted ability: Emotion Siphon Level 1 (Beginner 0%). This ability allows you to consume emotions as if they were food. As with food, the more you eat, the healthier you are.

“Great Vasalor.” Lylyth said as she fought through the sea of Terror and Rage. How is he doing that?!?

Ren ended the Controlled Berserk Rage and used the Energize wand around his neck to restore his Stamina so he wouldn't collapse, then slowly deactivated each of the rings of Ultimate Terror. When he was down to only three, he distinctly felt the change in the audience; but he didn't feel it through his link to Lylyth. He could feel it directly himself.

That's really weird. Ren thought.

“What did you do?!?” Grimlow asked and grabbed Ren by the shoulders. “Give it back! GIVE IT BACK!”

Ren felt Grimlow's desperation and his new ability gave him a pang of hunger. “I told you. It's mine now.” He said and with his hand on Grimlow's chest, he opened his new ability as far as it could go, and started to consume everything Grimlow felt.

“N-n-no! No!” Grimlow said and tried to back away; but since he was kneeling, he fell back onto the floor and dragged Ren with him. “No! Stop!”

“You were going to do this to me.” Ren said as he drained everything Grimlow had. “How does payback feel?”

“No... no... nooooo...” Grimlow's words became softer and softer, and then he collapsed into unconsciousness.

Ren stood up and took several deep breaths. Hey, I didn't get a fight completion notification or anything. He thought. Maybe it didn't count as an actual fight? I wonder what the game rules are to class things as actual fights.

“Ren!” Lylyth walked over to him, and knelt to put her face down closer to his. “You did it.” She smiled, and he felt how happy she was that she had been wrong. “Somehow, you did it.”

The healer and the Queen's attendant came over to them as well.

“Ren, you look horrible.” The healer said. “How do you feel?”

Ren's face went pale. “I'm going to be sick!” He said and turned to the side away from them, and threw up. “Bllaaaaaahhhhhhh!”

“Oh... oh my...” The healer said as a huge stream of an oily black substance spewed out of Ren's mouth and onto the floor of the throne room. This happened over and over for several minutes, until Ren started to dry heave and had expelled all the negative emotions he had consumed from Grimlow.

“Ugh, that felt just as bad coming back up.” Ren said and wiped his mouth off with a piece of cloth. “I didn't even get any XP to level the ability.” He said and changed one of his raised platform rings enchantment with a single water rune and rinsed his mouth, then stored the cloth. “I guess it's because I didn't want to keep the things I drank.”

“What did you say?” Lylyth asked. When she reached out to touch him, she stopped before making skin contact because his ability had triggered. “What is...?”

“I took it from Grimlow.” Ren said.

“How?”

“I claimed it as my own; but, it was a 'do this once only' thing.” Ren said and sighed. “I won't be able to claim any other abilities.”

“So, it... it's yours now.” Lylyth said, and her hand hovered over his hand. “You're going to be hungry from now on.”

Ren smiled. “Not if I can get some help.”

“You have bested an opponent in a combat you had no chance in.” Lylyth smiled. “You have won the right to be by my side.”

Ren looked at her with wide eyes, and she chuckled.

“It's in name only, dearest.” Lylyth said and cupped the side of his face; but because her hand was so large, it cupped the side of his head instead. “The people wouldn't stand to have a halfling married to their Queen.”

“By the gods!” Ren said and fake gasped, then looked at the Dark Elves in the throne room. “You're prejudiced against halflings!”

Everyone could feel his mocking feelings, and several of them laughed. Ren looked up at Lylyth.

“Well, actually I think I'm a quarterling compared to the Queen.” Ren said, and a few more elves laughed.

“She's going to be so disappointed tonight.” Someone whispered, and Ren turned to look at the woman who spoke.

“I may be a halfling, but my hearing is just as good as yours.” Ren said, and felt the woman's deep embarrassment. “If the Queen is dissatisfied with my performance, I will willingly submit to 10 lashes in this very throne room.”

“REN!” Lylyth exclaimed, but it was too late.

“Spoken and recorded.” Someone in the crowd said. “The Queen will report her satisfaction, with emotional proof if necessary, in the morning.”

The entire group of Dark Elves, all 300 of them, walked out of the throne room and felt Lylyth's mixed feelings about what was about to happen. Two of the elves reached down and picked up Grimlow on their way out. He was still unconscious and probably would be for a while.

“I will have the chamber ready in a few minutes.” The Queen's attendant said and started to walk away, grabbed the healer's arm and dragged her out of the throne room, apparently against her will.
