Tala considered for a moment, deciding to try one more time. “What is something that is impossible that, if it happened, would cause you to come to our aid?”

Roarthac chuckled. “That is a wise question. There are three things. First, if the Black Legion were to assault us once more due to no fault of or interference from you or those aligned with you.”

She grimaced but nodded. Yeah, we can’t gamble on them making that mistake twice.

-Indeed.-

“Second, if you and those in the western cities completely gave up on your use of gate-derived power and shut all of them for good.” He chuckled. “But in that case, the Black Legion would consider their job done and depart in one manner or other regardless.”

“And the final way?”

“If you were to prove that helping you would be less costly than staying out of the fight.”

She sighed and nodded. “And for that, I would have to prove that our victory was significantly beneficial to you and that helping us both would be needed and wouldn’t cost more than the gained benefit.”

He nodded. “Just so.”

She gave another bow, exactly as was required by their relative ranks. “Thank you for answering my question.”

“Of course. There is little more sacred than a genuine question.” He clapped his hands, and a side door swung open admitting a young looking dwarf. Roarthac momentarily allowed himself to be heard by others. “Take Mistress Tala and Eskau Meallain to the south-central chamber.”

The dwarf’s eyes widened, but he bowed nonetheless, offering no argument or verbal counterpoint. “As you command.”

The seven enthroned dwarves stood as one, causing every guard to stiffen in surprise. Roarthac explained, his voice still hidden by the working of authority. “You have given us a permanent boon whether you realize it or not, and we would balance the scales.” He gave a wry smile. “As we cannot predict if there will be opportunity for such in the future, we will do so now.”

Tala began to frown, when the seven gave very slight bows in her direction, the female dwarf speaking on their behalf yet again. “We see your mastery of your self and your expanded spaces, of your iron and your magic. We declare no contest in those realms of authority.”

The human Eskau staggered as authority fell upon her like a mantle. It might have driven her to her knees, but she did not wish to fall. As such, she did not fall.

Instead, she recovered almost immediately, feeling a bolstering of the nebulous power within her.

It did not advance her toward Ascended, but she felt like she might be a bit more Hallowed now. If only there were an easy way to tell…

“I accept your acknowledgement with gratitude and contentment at the truth of it.” The power settled more fully upon her shoulders, seeping into her very being. “While we may not part as allies, I state we do not part in opposition or with unresolved debts.”

The seven sat and intoned in chorus. “No opposition, no debts.”

There was a relaxing of the restrictions of authority around her, but she kept her threefold sight contained. Their earlier reprimand had been fair and true. She had no right to look in on all the secrets of this fastness.

Without another word, she and Eskau Meallain gave appropriate nods and departed, following the young dwarf toward a magic-engine.
