My right hand on Peace, I ready myself to draw in an instant, not wanting to make any unnecessary movements, the tense atmosphere raising my blood pressure to unreasonable heights, my brain processing each sensation with surprising clarity, the cool path of a single bead of sweat, making its way down my neck, the musky scent of rotten meat, emanating from the cat's mouth, the taste of blood from where I bit the side of my mouth. My heart beats a single time, the thumping echoing in my ears and the silence that follows is almost deafening, an emptiness that yearns to be filled.

I sense the pounce before anything else, no clue about its intentions besides a gut feeling, and I explode into motion, taking a single step diagonally, forward and to the right. The cat's outstretched paws lead the way as it pounces towards Huu like a bolt of lightning, its mouth opened wide and ready to kill, the primal creature choosing to attack what it deemed was an easy kill. Peace reverberates as it cuts through the air, chiming from the vibrations left in its wake, biting deep into the wildcats shoulder as it passes by. With every ounce of strength I can muster, I follow through with the strike, the impact exploding with power as I push forward, the yowl turning into a shrieking wail as its body sails to the right of its intended target, swatted away mid-air to crash into the dirt only centimeters from Huu.

My heart beats a second time before time resumes its normal course, a hammering chorus as it threatens to leap out of my chest, the world closing in around me as I pant for breath. Huu rolls away from the frenzied clawing of the wildcat and leaps to his feet, loosing arrow after arrow from point-blank range, firing without thinking as it tries to get up to strike again, continuing long after the creature stops moving, its corpse pincushioned by a half-dozen arrows, Huu still reaching for more. The world is silent except for my heavy panting and the twang of Huu's bowstring as he continues to fire away, too shocked to do anything else until his arrows run out. Peace is still held horizontally in my grip, blood dripping from the blade, Huu's bow still pointed at the corpse while his other hand sits inside his quiver, both of us taking the time to contemplate just how close we came to dying while staring at the almost pitiful remains of our would-be killer.

There's no way I can last a year without almost dying, not unless I really decide to become a hermit.

“Well then, I think we learned something today.” Huu turns towards my voice with a blank expression on his face, and I can't help but stare at his wolf ears. “Cats really fucking hate you.”

His slack-jawed face stares at me while I stare at his ears, the silver-furred tufts slightly bent, making him look like a friendly dog and not wolf, and I can't help but chuckle at the thought. Cats and dogs. After a few seconds, the both of us begin roaring in laughter, giddy as the unspent adrenaline makes it way through our system, happy to be alive.

Still chuckling beneath my breath, I unpack my kit and start treating a few small lacerations on Huu's arm, the fly by pounce managing to nick him. “That was incredible Rain, you moved so quickly I barely even realized what was going on until the cat landed beside me. You saved my life twice in as many seconds, and here I was talking about watching your back, when you're the one who is watching mine.” He lets out a self-depreciating chuckle as he shakes his head. “I should have noticed the cat, it isn't normal for deer to be running full tilt like that.”

“Hey, I know you have my back and I have yours. No need to keep score and nothing to worry about, we're both still in one piece.” His arm bandaged, we grab a few sturdy branches and begin lashing the animals to them in preparation to carry them back to camp, letting them bleed out while we travel. It may attract more predators that way, but there's too much meat for Jaga to carry. I need to buy a new quin soon, this is getting ridiculous. I wonder if the wagon quins are cheaper, they aren't trained to fight but most of my squad is riding them anyways, because there just aren't enough battle-trained quins available. I'm fucking terrible fighting on quinback anyways, it's easier to fight on foot.

Our kills secured, we steadily march back to camp, Huu leading the way while we carry four large carcasses between us, over 1000kg in weight in total. Salivating at the thought of deer steaks and grimacing at the thought of cat stew, I walk in silence, our first day of travel at an end.

I don't know what we're going to do when we reach the Bridge, but I'm going to try to enjoy the time we have until then.

I have a feeling that once shit goes down, there won't be many good times to be had for a while.

A rustle in the bushes causes us to drop the carcasses, our weapons drawn in an instant, both of us on high alert. A trio of fearsome creatures burst out from the undergrowth, mewling ferociously as they claw the air, my unmanly squeal ringing out through the forest.

“Kitties!”

Chapter Meme
