“We’ve met before.”
 
“We have?”
 
“Briefly. You might not recall. You met many of my sisters and gave them titles they rejoice over. But I met you alone. In the city.”
 
Memory strikes me. I gasp.
“You’re Ivolethe!”
The fae woman nods.
 
“Aye.”
 
“But I thought—where’s Ryoka? And why are you still blue? Is this your true form?”
Ivolethe pauses.
 
“True? Form? What would you like me to say? As for where Ryoka Griffin is—you would know better than I. I have not seen her since my punishment began. This is the first time I have come to this world since. I know naught.”
 
“Punishment?”
 
“Yes. Punishment. I am forbidden from returning to this world. Yon guardian is proof of my King’s ire with me. He is here to ensure I do not flee.”
 
Ivolethe flicked a bit of food at the silent warrior standing behind her. He doesn’t move. But I don’t see the specks of food land on his armor. I observe Ivolethe, unsure of what to say.
“Can I ask why you were punished?”
 
“You can.”
 
I pause.
“Will you tell me?”
She grins for the first time.
 
“Nae.”
 
I’m starting to remember her more now. Ivolethe pauses as she drinks from a wine glass she was not holding a second ago.
 
“‘Tis not my decision to withhold the truth. You need not know what happened, save that I broke the rules of my kind. I interfered with what would be and for that, was punished.”
 
“By exile from this world?”
 
“Aye. A harsh punishment. I may go where I please, do what I please. But of this world I am banned from returning save for this one moment.”
 
“That doesn’t seem harsh.”
Ivolethe’s glare is palpable on my skin, like a blast of winter air.
 
“You think so? Here is where my friend lives, mortal. Here she lives and here she will die. I am banned from entering this world until her death. Understand? That is my punishment. To know my friend lives and to not see her triumphs and failures. To live until she is gone and chase memories. That is pain! That is how I suffer!”
 
Her voice rises. I feel the air chill further, and for a second, a cold wind blows through the meadow, cutting off conversation and turning heads. Then the chill fades. Someone laughs, and the moment is lost. The warm magic of the spring fae overwhelms Ivolethe’s cold fury. I stand with her, silent.
“I don’t know what to say. I’m sorry.”
 
“Sorry. Hah!”
 
Bitterly, Ivolethe drinks deeply. Then she shakes her head.
 
“Save your tears, mortal. ‘Twas a fitting punishment by my King. How else would you punish the fae? Our hearts are hurt only by those we give them to. I broke the rules and so, I suffer. No more, no less.”
 
“Is there anything I can do?”
She looks at me blankly then grins.
 
“Do? What arrogance of mortals! There is nothing to do, Laken Godart. Nothing you could say would change the fae. Do not mistake your influence.”
 
“Sorry.”
She stares at me. Then hesitates.
 
“Well, there is something.”
 
“What?”
 
“Could you—could you tell Ryoka Griffin that I live? That I did not die when my form was broken? Tell her I am punished, nothing more. And—”
 
For the first time the armored warrior stirs behind Ivolethe. She breaks off sharply and huffs. I warily face the armored figure. His armor is dark in my mind. His figure hazy. I don’t know what he is—another kind of the fae?—only that he scares me. Ivolethe says nothing for a moment.
 
“Naught else. Tell her that if you meet her again, Laken Godart.”
 
“If I meet her? Do you know if I will?”
Ivolethe shakes her head.
 
“I see perhapses and maybes and what could be. I see the lines of if and when. But the future changes. If you meet her, Laken Godart. Remember me.”
 
“I will.”
 
“Good. Then we have little else to discuss. Yon food is quite good. I would tell you to eat as much of it as possible, before my kin devour the rest.”
 
Ivolethe returns to eating from her plate. I inhale, surprised by the sudden change in conversation. The frost fae regards me.
 
“What?”
 
“I have a thousand questions.”
 
“Do ye? I have a thousand answers: no. I am not permitted to speak. Go back to your dream, mortal child. Enjoy the presence of my kind, for thou shalt soon wake from the dream. And be wary, lest it become nightmare.”
 
Ivolethe glares at me. She gestures to the spring fae again, and I turn my head.
“Nightmare?”
I start as I sense Ivolethe baring her teeth behind me. They’re pointed. She grins at me.
 
“Aye. Or did you really think you could invite the fae to dine with you without dangers?”
 
I turn back to her. Then I hear the buzzing begin. The night has taken over the meadow, and the braziers are burning low. I see shadows shifting across the table. And then I see the fae shapes beginning to move.
They creep across the ground, laughing, dragging the Human nobles into shadows, eating, growing more and more excited as they drink further. The fae enter a frenzy as the pitch of their laughter changes. They seem to grow as the shadows deepen. I see Oswalt, enthralled, follow three giggling fae into a shadow. He disappears.
“Oh no.”
 
“Indeed.”
 
Ivolethe grins at me as my heart begins to race. I see Durene surrounded by fae, Lady Rie speaking in a trance to one who smiles at her. I can’t tell how many there are, only that they’re moving faster, and…humming.
There’s a buzzing, a thrum in the air. It was a distant sound when I first met the fae. Now it’s growing louder, like the thundering of insect wings. Where did Oswalt go? Where’s Gamel?
“Ivolethe, what are your kin doing?”
 
“What we always do. You know the legends, don’t you? You summoned the Spring Court, Laken Godart. What did you think they would do?”
 
I turn to her, desperately.
“What do I do?”
She tilts her head towards me.
 
“Have you any bells?”
 
“Bells? I don’t know!”
She nods.
 
“Then I would find out. Quickly.”
 
—-
 
Rael knew he was dreaming. He didn’t care. He reached out to one of the beautiful women as the buzzing grew louder. She laughed and let him try to touch her breasts, her face, her arms, always ducking back or stepping just out of reach. He followed her, grateful that Pattin wasn’t anywhere to stop him. But some part of Rael wanted Pattin to stop him.
The fae woman was beckoning to him, telling him to follow her where the lights weren’t so bright in the meadow. Rael stumbled after her. He saw movement in the shadows. Frenzied, urgent, violent. He didn’t know if it was what he thought or—
There was a humming in his ears. Rael stared at the fae woman. She was beautiful. He couldn’t say how or why she was beautiful, only that she was. More beautiful than Cimeca could ever be. Rael was dimly aware of grabbing for the laughing woman’s hands, of telling her something.
Everything.
There was something wrong. He was drawing further away from the meadow and he recalled that being unwise. But he couldn’t stop. The fae woman’s face seemed to change the further she got from the light. Her features melted until her eyes were dark. They looked almost insectile. But she was still beautiful. Staggering, Rael saw other young men and women following him. He saw Cimeca leaning into a handsome man—or was it a woman?—and heard the distant buzzing grow louder.
 
“Come. Touch me. You want to.”
 
The woman taunted him. Rael reached out and touched her. She felt—
Quick as a flash, the woman tilted her head down and bit. Rael cried out in pain and pulled his hand back. Part of the flesh on his forearm was missing. The fae woman laughed as blood dripped from her mouth. She beckoned him.
 
“Come. Join me. Just a bit further.”
 
She shifted her dress. Rael stared. His body flushed, and he took a step after her. Just a few more steps and they’d be out of the meadow. He saw someone lying on the ground just a little bit away, being dragged onwards. Oswalt? Rael heard buzzing in his ears—
And then he heard a bell ringing. It was faint, but the hum faltered as it rang, clear and piercing through the night. Rael stopped stumbling forwards and looked around. The fae woman looked up.
Again the bell rang. And again. It was chiming loudly. It was a hand bell, and the humming sounded as if it might overwhelm the noise. Then another bell chimed, and another.
The humming faded, grew less urgent. The flush in Rael’s body continued, but he could think around the tightness of his pants. He became aware of the blood leaking from his arm and stared at the fae woman.
“You bit me.”
She shrugged. The frenzied light in her eyes had dimmed. The bells continued to ring, and Rael turned to see the [Emperor] ringing a bell with a number of his servants. They spread out around the meadow, and the dim braziers and faded [Light] spells brightened. The world came back into focus. Rael backed away from the fae woman as she smiled.
 
“Leaving? You will never know what waits beyond yon boundary.”
 
She indicated a space just past the meadow. Rael stared and smelled spring, the scent of pollen in the air. And blood. He backed away. He would never forget the sight of the fae woman stepping back and the urgency in his blood. And the fear. He turned and ran back towards the banquet as the bells continued to ring.
 
—-
 
I ring the bell as loudly as I can in my hands. The sound it makes is loud and high—it’s a sheep bell, designed to be heard by shepherding dogs. I ring it again and see Gamel ringing a cowbell. He looks disoriented, but as the sounds of the bells carry, the confusion fades.
The humming from the fae dies down. I see the excitement fade from the spring fae around me, and the Humans in the meadow start and shake their heads as if waking from a dream. Those who left the banquet table, the young men and women mainly, stumble back. Not all of them are the same as the ones who left.
I sense Rael returning, covering his arm. One of the young women’s clothing is mussed. Another has a sprained wrist. But the worst is Oswalt. Three of the fae were standing around him. I sense him get up, make an incoherent sound, and stumble away.
Bloody. As he approaches, I hear Rie gasp. I keep my voice steady.
“Gamel, get a healing potion.”
Oswalt is in one piece. He’s alive. But he’s covered in blood. His arms, his neck, and places hidden by his tunic are dark with blood. He’s been bitten or…scratched. Part of his ear is missing.
“Oswalt!”
A [Lady] runs over to him, pale-faced. His mother. She pushes a fae woman back, and the fae retreats, laughing softly. I sense the fae draw back, and the buzzing grows softer as the bells continue to ring.
 
“Well done.”
 
A voice speaks in my ear. I whirl and sense Ivolethe standing in front of me. Her silent warrior guardian is right behind her. She nods to Oswalt as Gamel rushes over with a healing potion.
 
“Almost too slow. But not quite. Yon fool will live, although he will remember.”
 
She grins at me, and I shudder. The memory of the fae creeping about, pulling their victims out of the meadow—
“What would have happened if he’d left the meadow?”
 
“Oh, he would have been outside the laws of hospitality. Perhaps he would have gone for a trip and come back older. Or perhaps he would have woken up naked a few miles yonder. Or perhaps…”
 
Ivolethe shrugged. There are a thousand things her shrugs hints at. I turn my head away.
“This was a mistake. I thought your kind would obey the rules of hospitality!”
Ivolethe’s eyes glint.
 
“And why would you think that would make you safe? The summer court is not like the winter. You were lucky that you only invited my kin, not…others.”
 
“And are we safe now? What if others come?”
The frost fae considers my question. She nods.
 
“I would draw a circle of salt around your village or, at the very least, the houses. Put an iron horseshoe on each door if ye must. But do not fear; those of us who would play mischief are fewer now than we were.”
 
“Not reassuring.”
 
“Is it? You know the myths. You invited us anyways. Will you complain and say you weren’t warned?”
 
“No, but they might.”
A voice interrupts my argument with Ivolethe. I sense Lady Rie come forwards. She seems pale, but unaffected by her experience. Of course—those who weren’t lured away by the fae were merely charmed. Durene is shaking her head and saying she feels like throwing up, but the nobles wise enough to stay put are just shaken. It’s their outrage that bothers me.
“How dare you! You’d assault a [Lord] of Izril?”
A man is shouting. Oswalt’s father, I think. He has a sword in hand as he faces one of the female fae. She laughs in his face, and I see two [Lords] trying to hold Lord Tourant back.
 
“Did ye fear for your son? You were warned, mortal man! What passes is not your choice but his!”
 
She points at the silent Oswalt. His wounds are healed, and save for the tip of his ear, he’s fine. But he’s pale and shaking. Lord Tourant trembles with fury as he steps towards the fae woman.
“If you were not a woman, I would cut you down—”
He raises his blade, and the fae woman leaps forwards. Before he can react, she grabs the steel blade—with her bare hands. There’s a cry of shock, and Lord Tourant nearly drops his blade. The fae laughs as her hand bleeds crimson onto the blade. She holds it, her blood coating the metal, without pain or fear.
 
“Steel? Hah! If you’d duel us, bring cold iron and star metal! Bring blades forged of magic and legend! And if you thrust, do it with your heart in your hands, for we’ll pluck it out if you miss!”
“Yes, come!”
“Come and dance the dance of blades!”
“Bare your sword, lordling of men! Shed blood and life like wine on this night!”
“Come.”
 
More of the fae spring forwards and surround Lord Tourant. The excitement in them isn’t completely suppressed by the bells. Tourant backs up as the fae woman offers the bloody blade to him, hilt-first. He hesitates, and then another [Lord] curses and reaches for his sword.
“Damn these outsiders. Tourant! Let’s teach them a lesson!”
He nearly has his sword unsheathed when a voice rises.
“Stop.”
Both men turn. I sense Lady Bethal striding forwards. Her eyes are ablaze with passion, and she seems—her dress is very rumpled. I don’t think a fae did it either, because Sir Thomast follows her, adjusting his doublet. Lady Bethal interposes herself between the two lords and the fae.
“You were warned, Lord Tourant. As was your son. Emperor Godart told you the perils of following them. I won’t see you or anyone else dead over this quarrel, and Thomast assures me it would not be our mysterious guests who perish should it come to blows.”
