And then the forest rustled. The air opened. Green figures began descending, walking out of the darkness, dancing down like birds from above. Wild folk, dressed in wild clothing with eyes that shone. Proud folk, that put the assembled company of nobles from Izril to shame. Fair folk, the fairest and most beautiful folk Rael had ever seen.
Fae folk.
 
—-
 
This is how they came. I stand, stunned, as the fae come out of the skies and shadows of dusk. They weren’t so large before! And these fae are full of life and motion, bearing the aspect, the very essence of spring itself. The Frost Faeries I knew were small winged creatures full of mischief and laughter.
At least the laughter is the same here. The fae come forwards, laughing, showing off. Yes, that’s what they’re doing. Showing off. Each one is the center of attention, a one-person performance that demands all the attention in the world. They dance into the meadow, shining stars that glow in my mind’s eye.
The fae.
Dancing and laughing, appearing out of the air like spirits. Called by my voice. The fae descend on my gathering, brightening the dusk with their presence. They walk or run or leap about, dressed in wild clothing that’s both rich and free. Their garments shimmer with beauty, almost as much as the fae themselves.
Or so I imagine. I, Laken Godart, can’t see. But I can listen. I heard the nobles and people of Riverfarm around me gasp with the beauty of the fae. I can only sense them as shapes in my mind for all their voices are like magic to my ears. But there is a difference. And what I sense is that difference without the allure of their physical forms.
The fae are tall. Thin and lithe, their bodies are different than Human ones. Their arms and legs are actually a bit too long for normal. And their faces are more angular than Human ones. I can’t sense what their eyes look like, but I can tell their ears are pointed. Each fae is different, but I sense some with wings.
Insect’s wings. Perhaps I’m the only one who notices them at first. The others are spellbound. I am too, to be honest. But I can’t see the fae, so their effect is muted on me. The fae come out of the forest, at least thirty of them. Perhaps more. I can’t tell—they don’t seem to stand still in my mind. But they stop on the opposite side of the banquet table, laughing, and then fall silent as one speaks.
 
“So you call us, Emperor of Men! You invite us to your feast, you who gave us the titles of your empire. Do you offer us the hospitality of your lands? Do you open your doors to us?”
 
I start, surprised to be addressed. The magic of the moment breaks, and I remember who I am. Laken Godart, [Emperor]. And I have a job to do. I have to remember. I planned for this. I wasn’t sure they would come, but now they’re here. So I choose my words carefully.
The fae. The fair folk from my world. Not all legends about them are wonderful. In fact, the further back you go, the more sinister they appear. I remember reading of Wechselkind or Changelings, children replaced by faeries. So I answer carefully.
“I offer you the hospitality of this banquet, lords and ladies of my realm. Food I offer you, and company within this meadow. Feast and revel to your heart’s content here, but nowhere else I ask of you.”
 
“Ah, a wise host!”
 
The speaker laughs at me. Which of the fae is it? I can’t tell. None of them step forwards. And the voice isn’t distinctly male or female. Neither are the fae.
Strange. I could have sworn the Frost Faeries were female, all of them. But these fae—I can’t tell exactly, but some give me the impression of masculinity. Others are clearly feminine—but the lines are blurred. I can’t tell what they are, only that they’re here. The fae mill about.
 
“There is iron here! Cold metal in the tables! Does he give offense, this leader of men?”
“In the tables, the nails! Is it a slight or oversight?”
“Not much iron. And we are outdoors. Food is offered. A feast in our honor! We have not seen such in millennia. Sisters, brothers, do we accept?”
“Within the meadow, aye! For a night, aye! Such are the terms!”
“Then we accept! The deal is struck!”
 
They speak all at once, in a rush. And then they move all at once, making the Humans in the meadow start. The fae descend on the table and snatch up the filled glasses and plates, filling their plates, beginning to eat without so much as waiting for anyone else. They call out to my diners.
 
“So then, mortals! Join us!”
“Yes, come and revel! Come, sit.”
“Join us!”
 
Every eye is on me. By my side Lady Rie is trembling. I hear Durene’s voice.
“Laken, who are they?”
“The nobles of my court.”
I turn from Durene and address the stunned nobility.
“[Lords] and [Ladies] of Izril, I present to you my guests. Those you see here are the nobles of my court. The fair folk.”
“The fair folk?”
One of the [Ladies] speaks. Bevia, the older noblewoman. She stares at the fae and at me.
“I have never heard of their kind, Emperor Laken. These guests of yours, are they Human or—or something else? Please tell me. From what land do they hail?”
To her credit, Lady Bevia’s voice barely trembles although I know she must be as shaken as I am to be in the presence of the fae. At her words, a few of the shining folk laugh and call out.
 
“Avalon, mortal woman! That land beyond lands! The eternal realm!”
“Shh! They don’t know where that is!”
“Hark, the Emperor speaks! Let him explain!”
 
I nod. How can I explain them?
“As they say Lady Bevia. They come from lands far distant. And they are not Human. They are the fair folk. They have come here in honor of the banquet you have brought with you. They will dine with you. But before we sit, I have a few words of caution.”
I hold up my hand and speak loudly, over the laughter in the table in front of me. I can see the nobles staring at the fae, entranced. But this has to be said. Caution hums in my veins now that the first moment of wonder is gone. Remember the legends.
“I caution you. The fair folk are neither enemies nor friends. Make them no promises, and speak no untruths to them. Stay within the meadow, and if they ask you to leave with them, politely refuse. They are nobles, but they are not mine. I was honored to give them titles. But they do not answer to me.”
I hear laughter from the fae.
 
“Well said!”
“The Emperor understands!”
“No man, no gods! No ruler save for ourselves!”
 
They cheer and raise glasses, already drinking their third refill, some of them. I gesture towards the table.
“Please sit or stand and eat at your leisure. Tonight is a night for talk and entertainment. We will have a magical display, and I believe, a demonstration later. But for now, enjoy yourselves.”
It’s abrupt, and not that refined, but it’s all I can do. Lady Rie isn’t helping—she’s staring like the rest. I have to nudge her before she starts and begins ordering people about.
“Mister Prost, let us break out more wine for our—our guests. And please, let us find a seat for you, Lady Bevia. Lady Bethal, will you sit or stand? Emperor Laken, may I offer you a seat?”
I shake my head. Bethal hurries off, and Durene steps over to me. I sense her bending down as the confused nobles hesitantly approach the table with the merry diners. It feels like a dream.
“Laken? I didn’t understand that.”
“I’d be surprised if you did. Durene, remember the Frost Faeries?”
“Them? I remember. What about them?”
“These are the Frost Faeries. Or some version of them.”
“What?”
“It’s something from my world, Durene. There are…legends about them.”
“What legends?”
Lady Rie is coming up behind me. I turn.
“Lady Rie?”
“Emperor Laken, the nobles are dining with your other guests. Hesitantly. Would you explain to me exactly what they are?”
There’s a note of panic and fear in her voice. I understand. The fae are brilliant, magical—clearly otherworldly. They entrance just by existing, and unlike the limited magic I’ve experienced in this world, there is something off about them.
They touch this world lightly. I shiver. Awe and wonder can easily become terror at the unknown. I turn to Lady Rie and realize I haven’t prepared her at all for the fae. I didn’t know if they’d come. It felt like a long shot. But now they’re here. I sense Prost approaching, and Wiskeria.
“I should explain. All of you—step over here.”
We move back a few steps so we’re still in the meadow. The sunlight is fading, and I can tell the illumination in the meadow comes mainly from the magelights and braziers now. We stand near one, and I speak as clearly as I can to Durene, Prost, Rie, and Wiskeria.
“Those are fae. Fair folk. I don’t know if there are legends about them where you all come from, but in my homeland, we have tales of them. They are…well, I suppose the best word for them is spirits.”
“Ghosts?”
Lady Rie’s voice trembles. I smile, hearing the fae’s unearthly laughter.
“Not quite. They’re more like magical beings. Very powerful, very mysterious. They’re spirits of nature. They play pranks on mortals, they live deep in forests and in mounds. It’s said there are portals to their world scattered in ours.”
“Dead gods. This sounds like a children’s tale! And they’re real?”
“Reality is stranger than fiction, Lady Rie. Much stranger, apparently. But what you need to know is that the fair folk have rules. After a fashion. They obey bargains, and they don’t lie—but they twist the truth. If you don’t try to deceive them and don’t try to make deals or follow them, they’re harmless. Probably. And don’t threaten them either.”
“How would you hurt one of them? Hypothetically speaking.”
Wiskeria turns her head to stare at the fae. I hesitate.
“Cold iron. That means pure iron. Or horseshoes. I think they don’t like bells either. I don’t know—I’m not an expert on the folklore. But they’re masters of illusion. If they offer you gold—don’t take it. It’s probably just flowers.”
“Flowers?”
Lady Rie’s voice is high-pitched. I can sense the nobles looking at us uncertainly. I turn to her.
“Lady Rie, please calm down.”
“You didn’t tell me anything about this! Where did you meet these—these fair folk? Am I to believe they’ve been hiding here all this time? What do they mean, calling us ‘mortals’? Are they?”
“Lady Rie, calm down.”
She quiets. I take a deep breath and then another for good measure.
“I’m sorry I didn’t warn you. I didn’t know if they’d come. I didn’t expect this. But they are here. And the danger is…acceptable.”
“So long as we don’t make deals or follow them. What about the village?”
I turn my head to Wiskeria.
“They’re supposed to stay in the meadow. That’s the deal. But…it might be best if you keep an eye on the children, Mister Prost. And you, Wiskeria. Don’t ride patrols. Just make sure everything’s lit and keep an eye on everyone. If you see anything moving—tell me.”
“We can do that.”
To my relief, Prost sounds far more stable than Lady Rie. He turns to Wiskeria.
“I’ll head into the village and tell everyone not to stray. We’ve food set out, and we can make an early night of it.”
“I’ll tell everyone else. And find some horseshoes and iron weapons.”
They hurry out of the meadow. I look at Lady Rie. She’s breathing hard, but she does seem to have calmed down a bit.
“I’m sorry, Lady Rie. Are you feeling alright?”
“No. But I suppose this is what an [Emperor] does, isn’t it?”
She looks at me, and I half-smile. Lady Rie shakes her head. She turns back towards the nobility sitting and standing around the banquet table.
“We’ve been speaking too long. We are worrying our guests. Emperor Laken, I believe it is time to socialize. I can only hope that you know what you have summoned to this gathering, Your Majesty.”
“I wish I knew. Durene?”
I reach out and touch her. Durene stares at the fae.
“They’re beautiful. Frightening and beautiful.”
“I know. I can only hear them. But…I know. Do you want to go to the village?”
She pauses. One of her hands finds mine.
“No. I want to meet them. But stay by me?”
“Of course.”
We walk forwards, following Lady Rie. And at some point I find myself dreaming, or something close to it. I hear a humming as I walk towards the fae. Their laughter engulfs me, and there’s a buzzing in the air, just below the surface. And I feel color.
Color. I have never seen color before in my life. I have no idea what it might be. But the fae represent more than just the idea of spring. They are spring incarnate, and when they speak, when I feel them moving about the meadow, I am struck by flashes of—of something that I can’t explain.
Vision. Is this what it’s like? The experience is disorienting. Frightening, even. But I think it’s a color. It can’t be anything else. It speaks to me, I, who know no color. They speak, and I hear green.
The fae laugh and eat merrily, talking amongst themselves while we mortals move like we’re underwater, watching, listening, talking more quietly. At first I’m overwhelmed, and then I find myself back in the world. And then I’m dreaming again.
The young nobles are clustered around the fae, trying to keep up, staring in awe at these wondrous guests. The fae are caught between genders, some of them. I know they’re the same Frost Faeries I met, but some are decidedly masculine. They flirt with both genders unashamedly, attracting the young nobles—and the young men and women on serving duty—around them like flies. I don’t focus on them for the moment and instead turn my attention to the older nobility.
The wiser ones are nervous as well as entranced. The rest are just awestruck. I sense Lady Bethal chatting to one of the fae while her husband, Thomast, keeps a wary hand near his rapier. Sacra sits far back, her eyes wide in her face.
“Your Majesty?”
A voice interrupts me as Durene stares at a male-ish fae laughing and eating a slice of roast beef with his fingers. I turn and sense Lady Bevia.
“Emperor Laken? I was wondering if I might have a word. I am Lady Bevia—we spoke briefly when we first met.”
“I recall. Greetings, Lady Bevia. Let us sit. There are some private tables. Durene? Would you care to join us with some food?”
“Oh! Right!”
I move back with Lady Bevia to one of the newly-made tables made for intimate diners. Each one is decorated with a fine tablecloth and candles—a necessary expense according to Lady Rie. She spent lavishly on the banquet even without the need for food. I don’t know if it was worth it, but I’m at least grateful for the silver cutlery. Would the fae have come if we had spoons and forks made of iron instead?
