“I also hear he commands beasts. He’s got a half-Giant for a bodyguard and a [Witch] for a [General].”
“No!”
“Yes, and—get this—he’s also able to protect his people from harm. He can magically sense when they’re in danger.”
“That has to be false. Unless there’s really a Skill like that?”
“I’m just reporting on what’s said! But apparently there’s a rumor that when he first appeared, he went to Invrisil and bought supplies for his village with gems and gold! People say he’s an exile from Chandrar—”
“I heard it was Terandria!”
“Terandria? Are you mad? They don’t have [Emperors] there. Unless he’s of some old lineage.”
“Hey, what’s that? Someone’s coming this way!”
The noisy gossip broke off as Lady Ellia pointed. Rael looked ahead and saw a group of mounted warriors galloping towards them. He stared in fascination as they slowed, and then jerked in surprise as the mounted [Guards] and [Warriors] escorting the party moved forwards, protectively encircling the young nobles. Rael gripped at his new longsword, irritated. He wanted to declare that he could handle himself, but he never got the chance.
Cimeca stared as the lead rider approached the group. The head of the [Guards] rode forwards to meet them, and they conversed. The rider nodded and then kicked his mount forwards. Rael stared at him in appreciation. He was wearing heavy mail armor, and his horse was covered in scale barding. He looked like a seasoned veteran, and the [Guard Captain] was clearly wary of him.
“My Lords and Ladies of Izril, I am Beniar, a [Cataphract] and [Captain] in service to His Majesty, Laken Godart. I have been tasked with escorting you safely through his lands. I bear you my liege’s compliments and his gratitude for your long journey.”
Beniar bowed in his saddle to the older nobles and then flashed the young women a smile that made Haviet and Ellia blush and fan at their faces. Rael saw Cimeca’s cheeks were slightly red as well and scowled at Beniar. There was a pause as the nobles conferred, then Bevia raised her voice.
“Sir Beniar, we are grateful for your escort. We eagerly await meeting His Majesty soon. Tell me, are we close to Riverfarm?”
“Indeed, my lady. We are less than an hour’s ride away.”
Beniar bowed again, and the procession, heartened by the news, began moving again. Beniar and his escort fell in line with the nobles and their guards. Soon he was the center of attention as nobles—not just the young women—surrounded him. Rael had to grudgingly admit that Beniar was a good emissary. Not only was he a former Silver-rank adventurer, but he was a [Cataphract], a class unknown to everyone in the group. Rael tried not to be impressed as Beniar described fighting for Laken Godart against Hobgoblins.
“You said the village is just up ahead? Can we ride to it safely? I’d bet my mount could give yours a run for its money with or without armor!”
Andres looked eager to race his horse against Beniar. The former adventurer only smiled politely.
“It is up ahead. I’m afraid I must stay with the procession, but if you wish to go ahead, feel free. My Emperor has assured me the roads are clear.”
“And does that mean they are?”
Rael challenged Beniar and was infuriated when the other young man chuckled in reply.
“If Emperor Laken says the roads are safe, then they undoubtedly are, Lord Rael. Nothing moves in or enters his domain without his knowledge.”
There was an impressed pause as everyone considered Beniar’s words. Rael considered scoffing, but he didn’t quite dare. Andres laughed at last.
“Good enough for me! Anyone coming? Pattin? Andres? Cimeca?”
“I’ll go.”
“And I!”
The young nobles hurriedly chimed in, all save for Emile and Haviet who were asking Beniar about a scar on his cheek. The five nobles raced ahead, laughing, and Rael spurred his mare hard, trying to catch Andres’ stallion. He lost, much to his disgust. Though he managed to make his mare beat Oswalt, he was outdone by Andres, Cimeca, and to his absolute disgust, Pattin. The poor lord might have had an old horse, but she was quick, and he rode flawlessly in the saddle, nearly catching Andres as they raced into the village.
“Good sport!”
Oswalt laughed, not at all put out by his loss. Rael stared dismissively around the village. Now that he was up close, he could see the houses under construction and the milling people at work. It looked just as pathetic as he’d thought! Still, he held his tongue and turned his panting mount as he heard a woman’s voice calling out.
“Lord Andres, Lady Cimeca, Lord Pattin, welcome to Riverfarm!”
A [Lady] was standing in the center of the street, dressed as if she were ready to go to a ball. The laughing young nobles straightened and tried to wipe sweat off their foreheads as Lady Rie Valerund swept forwards. She was a beautiful woman, and Rael couldn’t keep his eyes off her neckline. That was, until he saw the giant bear walking down the street.
“Mossbear!”
Pattin cried out in alarm, and Andres and Oswalt paled. Rael fumbled for his sword, but before anyone could act, they realized the bear had a saddle. And someone was riding it.
“Please do not be alarmed. My young Lords and Ladies of Izril, may I present His Majesty, Emperor Laken Godart.”
Lady Rie bowed slightly as the bear stepped forwards. Rael gaped. There was a young man riding the bear! He was only a few years older than Rael, and his eyes were closed. He turned his head to the nobles as their horses shied away, smiling.
“Good evening. I am Laken Godart, Emperor of Riverfarm. I thank you for coming all this way. Please, be at ease. Bismarck is not dangerous.”
He gently patted the green bear’s head, and it made a whuffing sound. Rael’s heart raced. He stared at the [Emperor] as the young man turned his head unerringly to look straight at him. His eyes were closed, but somehow he knew where Rael was!
“Lady Rie, will you introduce me?”
“Of course. This is Rael Veniford. His lands are a good bit southeast of Invrisil, and he is the sole male heir of his family. Lord Rael, may I presume Lady Bevia is riding with you?”
“Aunt? Ah, yes—she’s on her way here. Greetings, Your Majesty.”
Fumbling, Rael bowed in his saddle and saw the [Emperor] nod in return. He felt off-guard and unsure what to do but was relieved to see his companions were little better off. Lady Rie smiled.
“You are no doubt exhausted from the trip. Please, allow our [Handlers] to care for your mounts. We have refreshments ready, and I am sure you would enjoy touring Riverfarm on foot while we wait for the rest of the nobles to arrive.”
She whisked the young nobles away as Laken Godart remained seated on his bear, patiently awaiting the arrival of the other nobles. Soon, Rael found himself greeting Laken Godart all over again as the other nobles arrived. He was relieved to see they were equally dumbfounded to be greeted by the [Emperor] riding a bear, but they concealed their surprise well. His aunt only blinked once before gracefully bowing in her saddle.
“Emperor Laken, I am Lady Bevia Veniford. I am delighted to make your acquaintance. You do live up to the rumors, Your Majesty.”
“Oh? There are rumors about me?”
Laken Godart smiled as if he was unaware of the speculation and gossip that had followed his every move for the last two months. Lady Bevia smiled.
“Merely a handful, Your Majesty. And please, allow me to be the first to apologize for intruding on you at this busy time. I understand Riverfarm is undergoing extensive construction and Lady Reinhart’s gathering was something of a surprise.”
“Ah, well, I am told Lady Magnolia Reinhart enjoys such surprises. And it would hardly do for an [Emperor] to refuse an audience, would it not? I am delighted by your presence, Lady Bevia. I only trust that my hospitality shall not disappoint.”
“I cannot imagine that it would.”
Bevia nudged Rael, and he bowed, stammering another greeting. They withdrew as another noble drew forwards to greet the Emperor. As they moved away, Bevia whispered.
“Unexpected.”
“What is?”
Rael looked at her uncertainly. His aunt blinked, and he realized the comment must not have been aimed at him.
“That was a true [Emperor], Rael. He has poise—and a sense for drama! Greeting us on a bear of all things. And he called this an audience? Lady Magnolia was right to draw attention to him.”
“Why?”
Bevia squinted at Rael as if to tell whether he was trying to be deliberately obtuse.
“Because it will benefit her to be the one to introduce Emperor Laken to Izril’s high society, of course! And because he is a true [Emperor]. Leaving him alone would be dangerous and risky. Acknowledging him is a safe maneuver.”
“But she hasn’t come herself. Isn’t that a slight?”
“She sent Lady Bethal, a close friend, and her maid.”
Bevia pointed back to where a maid was standing politely on the outskirts. She was attracting glances from the local peasants, who’d probably never seen anyone wearing a maid’s uniform before. Rael shook his head.
“A maid?”
“Her spy. Don’t try and woo her. Keep up, and try not to fall over yourself bowing next time!”
Soon, all the nobles were dismounted and led to a small clearing out in the open. Rael wrinkled his nose at the outdoor setting, but he had to admit that the banquet was certainly impressive. Each noble had brought a variety of foods, and as such, the tables were heaped with delights. Bevia nodded appreciatively.
“And without spending a copper coin he has us host ourselves. Clever.”
Rael stared at the [Emperor] as he slowly walked forwards to the head of the table. He needed no guide despite walking without opening his eyes. He was flanked by a giant half-Troll…female, in a suit, and Lady Rie on his other side. Rael wrinkled his nose as he eyed the half-Troll.
“Clever or not, he’s made us come all the way here. And he only controls this village, Aunt. This is the least he should do for nobles of Izril.”
He’d gotten over his shock of meeting Laken Godart on the bear and was determined to treat this outsider with more scorn than the other nobles fawning over him. Bevia gave him an irritated glance, and Rael saw Cimeca look over. He smiled to himself as he realized the other nobles around him were giving him speculative looks. Cimeca leaned over, keeping her voice low.
“You’re not impressed, Rael?”
“What, by the bear? That was a trick. What else has this [Emperor] got besides a monster for a pet? We are still [Lords] and [Ladies] when all is said and done. We come from powerful houses—this [Emperor] is wise to greet us as equals. He must win our respect.”
Rael saw a few other nobles nodding in agreement, older men and women. He puffed up with pride as Bevia stared at him.
“Be quiet.”
She nodded to Laken Godart. The young man waited for silence and began to speak.
“[Lords] and [Ladies] of Izril, I greet you. I am Laken Godart.”
Rael sensed a stir among the crowd. He nodded to himself. The [Emperor] wasn’t using his title. He was being humble. He shot his aunt a triumphant look, but her focus wasn’t on him. Laken Godart continued.
“I am aware that you are here at Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s request. I was unaware of this gathering until she arranged it in my honor, and I am grateful for her aid in doing so. For your enjoyment, my people have created a small setting in which we may mingle and talk. I look forwards to meeting each one of you in person. But before that—”
He paused for a second, and Rael frowned. He was already hungry. What did he want, an official greeting? Entertainment?
“—But before that, I believe there are a few more guests I have yet to invite.”
There was murmuring. Rael frowned. Someone else was coming to the gathering? Who? It had better not be the staring peasants. He leaned over.
“Aunt, who is he talking about?”
“Quiet!”
“I greet the nobility of this land before me. I offer them the warmth of my hearths and the bounty of my lands. I would be remiss if I did not extend the same invitation to my own vassals.”
Laken Godart looked up towards the darkening sky, his eyes still closed. He gestured as if inviting someone from above.
“My lords and ladies of the court? I invite you to share this banquet at your discretion. My lands are open to all those of my empire on this day. Come, if thou would.”
For a few seconds there was stunned silence. Rael looked around and then couldn’t help it. He laughed.
“What was that?”
Bevia’s head whipped around. She glared at her nephew, but Rael was busy watching Cimeca and the other young nobles. He saw her giggle, covering the motion, and heard chuckles around him. Bevia’s fingers dug into his arm, and Rael suppressed a yelp. His aunt gave him a look that deflated Rael’s good spirits. It promised trouble.
The [Emperor] seemed not to have noticed Rael’s comment. He looked towards an older man standing to one side, dressed in a suit.
“Mister Prost? We may have visitors this night. Keep a place at the tables open should guests arrive. Now, I believe we are ready to be seated?”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
The man bowed and began leading nobles to the tables. Rael was about to walk forwards and find himself a seat away from his angry aunt when he paused. He heard something. A laugh from high above. It was faint, but unmistakable. It cut through the voices, the sound of wind, the chirping of insects—a giggling laughter. You couldn’t not hear it. It was as if it was the one true sound in the world and everything else Rael had heard over his lifetime was fake noise. He looked up in bewilderment and felt a breeze blow.
It was fresh and warm, filled with life. It stirred his hair and heart. Rael inhaled and caught a scent in the air, like morning dew, like the fresh air of forests, like spring. He heard more laughter and looked around. The breeze blew. The forest around the meadow stirred. And then he saw a glow of green, a figure dancing among the trees. By his side, Cimeca gasped, and Rael heard someone inhale sharply.
A woman stepped out of the forests, laughing. She was dressed in wild green and red clothing, and her skin was tinted green. Her eyes danced, and the air brightened around her. She walked forwards, spinning, her steps light on the ground. Rael stared at her. She was the most incredible thing he had ever seen in his life. It wasn’t her appearance that caught him like a fish on the hook, but her otherworldly nature, the depths of her eyes, the way she moved.
