“I’m grateful that you accepted the presence of my other guests so readily, Lady Bevia. I do apologize for their sudden arrival, but my court is…fickle at best.”
“I see. I was unaware of the presence of so many nobles. Tell me, do they live on Izril? Are they part of your new empire, Your Majesty?”
Awestruck or not, Bevia’s voice is sharp as she sits, and Durene hurries over with plates heaped with food. She hovers around the table timidly. I cough and realize that Lady Bevia is eying Durene with some surprise.
“Lady Bevia? May I introduce my consort, Durene?”
Durene squeaks when she realizes I’m talking about her. I sense Bevia blink, but once again she reacts with nothing but grace.
“My word, I had no idea Your Majesty was married. Do forgive me. Lady Durene, was it?”
“Hello. I’m—I’m not a lady! I’m not married. Laken and I are just—”
Durene stammers as Bevia gets up. She actually retreats a step. I interject again.
“Durene saved my life when we first met, Lady Bevia. I was quite lost and helpless. Blind as I was, I met Durene and we quickly grew close.”
“I see. I am charmed to meet such a forthright young woman. Tell me, Miss Durene, are you the famed warrior I have heard so much about? I have heard of an imposing hero who slew a score of Hobs by himself in service to Emperor Laken, but the rumors neglected to mention your lovely appearance.”
“Me?”
I can sense Durene is blushing even if I can’t see it. Lady Bevia smiles, and I’m grateful for her extreme tact.
“I would be honored if you would sit with us.”
“Oh. Okay—I’ll just sit on the ground—”
Durene sits down awkwardly. I smile at her and pat her arm underneath the table. Then I turn back to Lady Bevia.
“I thank you, Lady Bevia. Where were we? Ah, yes. To answer your question—no. The fair folk do not live on Izril. Nor are they part of my empire in truth. My gift of titles was just that—a gift in exchange for a service they rendered to me. They owe me nothing, and in truth, I believe they would not come at my behest no matter the situation. This is a…special occasion.”
“A feast. I understand. Do pardon me if I admit to some relief. Your court is intimidating, to say the least.”
“I imagine so. But so are Izril’s nobility.”
I sense Bevia smiling.
“Ah, yes. This little gathering was organized by Lady Reinhart. I understand it was something of a surprise. I apologize if we have caused you any inconvenience.”
“Very little.”
I lie through my teeth and sense Bevia knows it. She delicately spears a sautéed mushroom on a fork and nibbles at it as Durene tries to eat as much meat as possible while appearing polite. The rich food is a treat to her and the villagers, I have no doubt. I can barely touch my plate for nerves.
“Ah, this food is quite well done if I might say so myself. I believe Lord Imral provided the mushrooms, and Lady Fel the beef Miss Durene is enjoying so much. Tell me, Emperor Laken, have you ever met Magnolia Reinhart in person?”
“No. I would like to at some point. However, I have interacted with her servants.”
“I see. Well, I would hate to color your impression of her before you two meet in person. She is an impressive [Lady], and a credit to my class. If difficult to work with on occasion.”
I raise my eyebrows.
“By all means, Lady Bevia. Color my impression as much as you would like—sight is hardly an issue when it comes to meeting new people for me.”
Bevia’s startled laughter makes a few heads turn, and Durene nearly drops her drink.
“Hah! You are quick, aren’t you, young man? Well, I don’t think I can say anything Lady Rie has not. However, I would ask that you think of her kindly. She has held together the squabbling nobility for far too long. This is her being kind, if you can imagine that. She was far more direct in her youth.”
“Really? And may I ask if you were more direct when you were younger, Lady Bevia?”
“Oh, slightly.”
She twinkles at me. I smile back and find the appetite to have a roll of mustard and beef. It’s actually quite good, and I find I have an appetite after all.
“Lady Bevia, I am an unsophisticated [Emperor] with little in the way of subterfuge.”
“I appreciate the lie, Your Majesty.”
“No, truly. I prefer straightforward conversation. That’s why I fell in love with Durene, after all.”
I hear a choking noise to my right and ignore it.
“You may well imagine this gathering was somewhat difficult to set up, but now that you are here, I would be delighted to talk openly and frankly about the possibility of friendship between my empire and yours.”
“Indeed? Well, well. It is refreshing to be straightforward. I did come here in hopes of making friendships, Your Majesty. However, I have some slight reservations…”
Lady Bevia delicately pats a cloth napkin to her lips. She pauses, and I sense her bite her lip ever so slightly. She might not know I can sense her movements. Or is she doing that on purpose? I remind myself to be careful—Bevia seems a lot more intelligent than her nephew. What’s his name? Rael?
After a pause, Lady Bevia cuts to the heart of the conversation I was expecting.
“Forging friendships is all very well, Emperor Laken, but I would imagine any noble would be concerned about your empire. Monarchy is an alien concept to Izril. We have done without [Kings] and [Emperors]. It is why our ancestors fled Terandria. To have an [Emperor] appear so suddenly would panic some of the nobility. They might fear you would annex their lands in time.”
“Quite understandable. What if I told you I had no intentions to govern more than Riverfarm? That other towns and cities came to me asking for protection?”
“I would not be surprised. The question is what would occur if a city under the domain of, say, Magnolia Reinhart were to ask you for similar protections?”
“I suppose I would decline. I have no intentions of taking land or making war, Lady Bevia. I realize that’s a poor reassurance.”
“Ah, from an [Emperor]? I would not doubt your word, Your Majesty. When a monarch speaks, I would assume it was true.”
“What if I could swear it was true? On a truth gem? That I have no intention of taking over your lands or any other? That I am willing to work peacefully in hand with the nobles of Izril?”
Bevia pauses. She narrows her eyes slightly. Then she smiles.
“Well now, I believe that I might assume a bit more if that were the case. Tell me Emperor, where were you raised? And may I offer you a stuffed egg? They are quite excellent and come from my [Chef]’s kitchens, by the way.”
“I should be delighted, Lady Bevia. Now, Lady Rie tells me your estates import a good deal of food crops. I don’t know if I can interest you, but I do expect to expand Riverfarm’s farms twenty-fold, and I was wondering if you were interested at all in produce…”
 
—-
 
My conversation with Lady Bevia is short. Short, for a wide-ranging discussion on everything from agriculture, to trade, to monster incursions and the need for security across Izril. We part after Durene’s finished her third plate, and I get up, feeling as though someone’s hit me with a few footballs in the face. For an old [Lady], Bevia is sharp.
“How did it go?”
Lady Rie appears at my side as Lady Bevia moves back to a small cluster of nobles, laughing lightly. I nod and lower my voice. One of the things Lady Rie warned me about was the Skills of [Ladies] and sometimes [Lords]. They can listen to a conversation across a noisy banquet hall if not guarded against. Still, all that I’m saying should be fine to hear.
“Good. You were right—she sought me out straight away. Do you think she’ll relay my words to the others?”
“Without a doubt. Lady Bevia could be considered an emissary of sorts. The others will probably approach you after considering what she tells them.”
“I’ll meet them as they come, then. How are the fae doing?”
I sense the laughing folk at my tables. By now, the fae have eaten a good portion of the food the nobles brought—and they brought enough for four times our number! At this point they’re drinking and talking with the nobles. Most of the older ones continue to stay back, but the young ones are completely engaged.
I sense some of them clustered around a young man with a cup in one hand. Laughing, they surround the young [Lord], laying hands on his body, touching him, flitting away. They provoke him and lead the young man on like a game, and I sense his face flush. He reaches for a female fae, and she spins away, laughing. The young man pursues her and nearly lunges until he’s caught by another young man. The second [Lord] says something to the drunk one, and I hear a loud, slurred voice.
“Keep off, Pattin! No one wants your opinion. Damn you and your poor house!”
His voice is a bit too loud. Not that the fae care. They ooh and laugh as the young [Lord] named Pattin flushes. He replies as I slowly move closer, on the pretext of asking Gamel if he’s got enough wine to go around.
“They outrank you, Lord Rael. It’s not seemly to pursue them like that.”
“Rank? We’re all [Lords] here, you daft idiot!”
The young lord Rael shakes Pattin’s grip off. I remember him now. He’s the one who laughed after I invited the fae. He doesn’t strike me as hugely bright. Pattin, on the other hand, interests me. Lady Rie appears like a fae herself and whispers in my ear.
“Do you want me to stop them?”
“No, let them talk. Remind me where Lord Pattin comes from?”
“Vaunt. A small city with a few villages. Very small holding, but they make excellent cheese. Unfortunately, they can’t produce a large amount owing to sickness among their cattle six years back. They have yet to replenish their herds and have fallen on hard times. Young Lord Pattin is considered a very intelligent [Lord] though, and I believe that when he replaces his father, Vaunt will prosper.”
“I see.”
I sense Rael staggering forwards until he’s intercepted by his aunt. I can’t hear what she whispers to him, but it sobers him up fast. She bows to the fae lady that Rael was pursuing.
“I do apologize for my nephew’s rudeness. May I inquire as to your name, Lady…?”
The fae woman draws herself up, and I don’t have to see the mischief in her eyes. I can hear it in her voice.
 
“I am a Baron, foolish mortal! Kneel before me!”
 
“A Baron? Do you mean a Baroness?”
Bevia sounds startled. The fae woman laughs at her.
 
“Why would I be a Baroness? I asked to be Baron and so I am! Will ye not kneel?”
 
“I’m afraid [Ladies] do not kneel to [Barons].”
 
“Truly? Pity!”
 
The fae woman loses interest instantly. She dances away, and I hear her begin to bother someone else. The fae call out to me as I pass by their table.
 
“Come sit, Emperor!”
“Drink with us!”
“Eat with us!”
“Dance! Dance with our kind! Come!”
 
I decline as best I can as they whirl around me, laughing, snatching at my robe. Durene moves forwards protectively.
“Hey, keep away! You can’t just—”
 
“Ooh, the half-child is angry!”
“Come, daughter of Trolls! Dance with us!”
“Walk the woodlands with us!”
“Eat and drink, half-child! It has been too long since we have eaten with your kind!”
 
“Wait, what? I’m not—I should—hey, Laken!”
Durene yelps as the fae press drinks and food into her hands. I turn back, but Durene’s objections are quickly muted as the fae cheer her on. She sits with them and begins a drinking contest with one fae. I don’t think she’s in danger, so I move on.
“Emperor Laken? A pleasure to meet you. I am Lord Tourant—”
“Your Majesty? Might I have a word? I am, humbly, Lady Fel of—”
“Do you have a moment, sire? I was hoping to have a quick conversation about—”
The nobles of Izril converge on me, the one person they understand in the sea of strange folk around them. I fend off invitations to sit as best I can and greet everyone I can remember by name. But I move on, breaking out into the edge of the gathering as the fae begin luring more and more [Lords] and [Ladies] to sit and dine with them. They eat and drink with the nobles, talking quietly, listening to the Humans, and laughing.
I don’t know what’s said but I have a feeling those who sit with the fae would tell them anything and everything. Ah, well. I walk on, until I’m standing by a brazier that’s gone out, on the far side of the meadow. I stand there and concentrate. It was just a dim feeling before, but now that I’m closer, I’m certain.
There’s someone here. I have another guest, one I’ve overlooked. She stands at the far end of the meadow with another silent figure. Another fae. Only these two are different from all the rest. They’re nearly invisible to my [Emperor] senses—more like vague shapes than anything specific. I don’t know if they’re visible to anyone else. I walk forwards slowly.
It’s colder here. The heat of the other braziers doesn’t reach this far. And as I move forwards I sense one of my guests is eating something. The other is quite, quite still.
And armed. My hazy impression of the two changes. One is female, standing alone, greedily devouring a plate full of food. The other is silent. A tall, armored warrior standing by the side of the fae woman. He—and it is definitely a he—makes no move as I approach, but I can tell he watches me. So does she. And as I draw closer, she speaks.
 
“Emperor of the Unseen. I was not invited to your banquet. I am not one of your court, nor do I wish to be. Yet my kin come, and I was permitted to join them. Will ye cast me out or give me the hospitality of your hearth?”
 
I start as I hear her voice. Blue! The word springs to mind along with the color. This fae is different from her kin. The air around her is cold, and I feel like her body is different from the other fae. This fae seems surly, almost annoyed at being spotted.
She stands out from the rest of her lively kin. They shine with life and laughter, the embodiment of spring itself. But she stands alone, dour and silent, eating while the silent warrior stands to one side. Watching her.
“I would be only too glad to offer you the hospitality of the banquet. But not of my hearth. What lies in the meadow—”
 
“Yes, yes. Well then, I shall eat and drink. ‘Twould be uncharitable if I did not offer you my gratitude. So. There.”
 
I wait until I realize that was it. I cough.
“May I ask why you’re standing here alone? And why I didn’t notice you before? Who is your companion?”
 
“Yon silent statue? Take no notice. He is here for me, not you.”
 
There’s a grimace in the fae woman’s voice. She picks up an egg and eats it carefully. Again, that’s surprising—her kin eat and drink with reckless abandon, but this fae is deliberate, mannered. I wonder—
 
