“What a pathetic little province. Aunt, are you sure an [Emperor] lives here of all places?”
Lord Rael of Veniford twisted in his saddle to speak to the older lady riding next to him. He stared down the dirt road, at the shabby signpost at the crossroads and the houses in the distance. He could see small shapes working as the evening light turned the world orange. Peasants building more houses, by the looks of it. He wrinkled his nose in distaste.
The woman riding next to him gave Rael a sharp look. Like him, she was dressed in fine riding clothes, attired as befit her station. Her dress was impeccable, but it stung Lord Rael’s pride that it was the same dress she’d owned a year ago. His family, the Venifords, could not afford to dress in the latest fashions, so they repaired their clothing rather than replace them at year’s end. Rael was acutely aware of the stitching down the left side of his pant leg—practically unnoticeable, unless you cared for good cloth.
And it was presumable that everyone in the small procession cared about such matters. They were all members of the nobility of Izril. The Human nobility, that was. Rael wouldn’t have ridden with a Drake—if they did know how to ride at all—for any amount of money. He was a [Lord], an owner of a large province of land bordering Invrisil. Unfortunately, said land was not nearly as profitable as, say, Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s holdings, and their family had fallen on harder times since his birth.
If the Venifords had one treasure, it was their matriarch and Rael’s aunt, Lady Bevia Veniford. She was an old warhammer of a woman in Rael’s opinion. She’d survived two husbands and both Antinium Wars, and she was a high-level [Lady], adept at social graces. Her ties had brought income to Veniford in the form of trade and so on, but it made Rael angry thinking of how his aunt lowered herself to make deals with [Merchants].
He had been raised to be proud of his class by his father, Lord Willam Veniford, until his demise during a hunting session at the horn of an angry Corusdeer. It was just another item in the litany of Veniford’s woes. And this—being forced to attend a social gathering in the middle of nowhere at Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s request—was just another injustice Rael intended to correct when he assumed control of the family. Unfortunately, his indignation did not seem to impress his aunt. She leaned over and quietly spoke in a cutting tone.
“You will keep your remarks to yourself, Rael. We are in the lands of Emperor Laken, and while we are here, you will behave properly, or I will put you over my saddle and spank you myself.”
Rael jerked, and his cheeks flamed. His head swiveled quickly, but none of the other riders were close enough to have heard. He glared at his aunt.
“This is beneath us! We are nobility—why is there no escort? And look at that village! It can’t hold more than a thousand peasants!”
“It can. Riverfarm has expanded of late. And they are putting up new houses quite quickly. I had heard they were in the middle of rebuilding not a week ago, with barely more than half a dozen homes standing. There must be four times as many houses. Quite impressive of this young [Emperor].”
Lady Bevia straightened in her saddle, giving the town an appraising look. Rael fumed, trying to see what she did in this rundown countryside. Bevia shook her head slightly as she regarded her nephew with disapproval.
“You have too much of your father in you, Rael. Look beyond appearances. Lady Reinhart herself has taken the time to organize this gathering—at a time when the Goblin Lord is marching through her lands! This [Emperor] is the first of his kind to appear on Izril in over a thousand years.”
“He might not be a true [Emperor]. Why would one appear here?”
Rael muttered sulkily as he brushed at his hair. It was wet, conditioned with an [Alchemist]’s tonic he’d bought at half-price while in Invrisil a month ago. It felt too slick—perhaps the mixture was going bad? He cursed to himself as he impatiently adjusted his posture on his mare. He should have been riding a stallion at the head of this band of nobles!
Laughter came from the fore of their procession. Rael scowled at the young [Lords] and [Ladies] pressing their mounts ahead. Not everyone invited to the gathering was as old and tiresome as his aunt. A number of young nobles had come with their families. Rael itched to join them, but he was worried about his hair. And the stitches on his pant leg. He tried to tell himself that no one would care.
Bevia eyed Rael as she drew her mount around a fresh pile of horse dung dropped by a rider in front. She cast her eyes back to the wagons filled with foods following their group at a good pace.
“I do not believe Magnolia Reinhart would make mistakes. Nor do I believe Lady Rie Valerund would pledge her loyalty to a charlatan. This Laken Godart is an [Emperor], I have no doubt. So if he appears before us in rags, you will bow and address him with respect.”
“I wouldn’t be surprised.”
Rael grumbled. Bevia sighed through her nose.
“Rael, you are beginning to test my patience. I brought you on this outing because Lady Magnolia requested I bring you, and I agreed against my better judgment.”
“Lady Magnolia asked for me specifically?”
Rael’s heart jumped in his chest. Bevia shook her head.
“She had a list. Do not let it get to your head. Now, if you wish to ride with the younger men and women, do not let me stop you. But remember—respect. Hold your tongue, Rael.”
She raised a finger. Rael nodded absently. Magnolia Reinhart knew his name! He kicked his mare forwards eagerly, riding past the other older nobles.
“Rael! It’s about time! What, were you going to hang back with your aunt until we got to the village?”
A young man called out as Rael trotted his mount forwards. Lord Andres of Lelk turned his stallion and rode back as Rael slowed. A group of six young nobles turned to him and Rael recognized all of them. Three were young men and three young women. They were all local nobles, none from exceptionally large houses. Of the six, Lord Andres probably had the wealthiest lands, although Lady Cimeca of House Tellis probably had more holdings.
Rael would have been placed at the lower rung in terms of both wealth and size of his lands, right above Lord Pattin of Vaunt. Rael was glad to see him and smiled arrogantly at Pattin. The young [Lordling] was heir to a small city and a few villages that produced cheese and little else.
“I decided to keep my aunt company. She’s getting on in years, and I didn’t want to abandon her until I was certain she could do without me, Andres. Cimeca, you look well.”
Andres laughed as the young woman with red hair turned her head to look back at him. Rael’s heart skipped a beat as Cimeca politely smiled his way. He urged his mare forwards, and he was soon part of the group. The young nobles laughed as their older counterparts hung back, talking quietly. Soon, Rael was repeating his comments about the landscape to the laughing crowd, heedless of his aunt’s warnings.
“Aye, it’s a poor province. Riverfarm and the surrounding area earn a pittance compared to lands managed by proper [Lords]. I heard all of this was once Valerund land until the family lost all of its members during the Second Antinium War.”
Andres nodded around the countryside, shaking his head at evidence of unused cropland long abandoned. Rael nodded, but Lord Pattin cut in.
“First Antinium War, actually, Andres.”
“What? The Antinium didn’t invade our lands during the First Antinium War! Pattin, are you sure?”
Haviet Meliope turned her head, her emerald earrings sparkling as she looked at Pattin. She was dressed well, although she was no beauty in Rael’s eyes. Still, her clothing was a far cry from Pattin’s worn riding clothes and sad mare. Pattin nodded, undeterred by her skepticism and his poor fortunes. He twisted a ring on his finger as he talked absently.
“We were never invaded, it’s true, but Lord Quail Valerund was one of the first to pledge his forces to Lady Magnolia when she led our armies to fight the Antinium at Liscor. He perished in the battle—one of the only nobles who fell. He was Lady Rie’s grandfather, and a powerful [Lord]—he was succeeded by his daughter and her husband, of course, but the loss of such a high-level [Lord] hurt the family, and they never quite recovered. Then, of course, the Second Antinium War happened, and they lost control of almost all the rest of their lands along with their garrisons. That was why Riverfarm and the surrounding areas are so poor—”
“Argh, enough talk of history!”
Rael burst out, annoyed by Pattin’s lecturing tone. He spurred his mare, and his horse trotted forwards a few steps as Rael raised his voice.
“No one cares why this place is so poor, Pattin. But why an [Emperor] of all people would deign to live here is beyond me. I wouldn’t let a Drake [Lord] live here—if they’d ever come out of hiding behind their Walled Cities, that is!”
He smirked as one of the young women laughed and Andres chuckled. However, Haviet smiled nastily at Rael. She and he had hated each other ever since he’d made an ill-advised comment about her appearance to a few of his male friends a year back. She’d heard and never forgiven him for it.
“I wouldn’t speak so loudly, Rael. If your aunt Bevia hears of it, she’ll put you over the saddle right here and now.”
Rael turned beet red as Andres, Pattin, and Oswalt howled with laughter. The other ladies laughed too. He glared at her.
“How did—”
“Haviet just learned the [Long Ear] Skill, Rael. Haven’t you heard?”
Andres grinned as the others kept chuckling. Haviet smiled at Rael, and he glared at her. He was a low-level [Lord], as was she and the rest of their company. He didn’t know their exact levels, but they couldn’t be much higher than he was, a Level 13 [Lord] and Level 4 [Warrior]. He glared at Haviet and came up with the most cutting response he could.
“[Long Ears], eh? Well, it can’t hurt Haviet’s looks even if she started looking like a half-Elf. Who knows? It might even be an improvement!”
His words made Haviet flush beet red and provoked another laugh from Oswalt and an unwilling one from Andres. Pattin didn’t laugh though, giving Rael a troubled glance. Rael cared not one whit for his opinion. Cimeca gave him a frosty look, however, which wasn’t part of his plan.
“I think any Skill is to be commended, Lord Rael. Besides which, Emperor Laken Godart has invited us into his domain and that merits a certain degree of respect from all of us.”
She swept her gaze past Andres and Oswalt who immediately stopped laughing and cleared their throats awkwardly. Rael turned his head away, face flushed with anger and shame. After a pause in which all seven nobles trotted forwards, it was Oswalt who spoke.
“I say, there are a number of nobles I don’t quite recognize. I know all of our families, but who’s the woman riding with that man in the doublet with the rapier behind us? Is he her bodyguard, or is she single?”
He nodded covertly, and everyone turned in their saddle to look. Ellia Cantras, third daughter of the Cantras family, known for their beekeeping, peach orchards, and small population of [Mages], glared at Oswalt. She and he had been in an unofficial relationship for two years until it came out that Oswalt had been cheating on her with local peasant girls and visiting brothels.
“That’s Lady Bethal Walchaís, Oswalt. And if you have half a brain, you’ll keep away from her if you don’t want her husband to run you through. Sir Thomast is a [Chevalier] and ten times better with a rapier than anyone here.”
All the young men turned to stare at Sir Thomast. Andres whistled.
“That’s him? I thought he’d be bigger! And that’s Lady Bethal? I heard she’s a firebrand.”
“In bed or out of it?”
Haviet and Ellia rolled their eyes at Oswalt’s joke. Cimeca frowned.
“Don’t offend her, whatever you do, Oswalt. And don’t touch her without her consent.”
“Why?”
“Because you could lose your hand.”
“What?”
Rael stared at Cimeca. She hesitated and lowered her voice. The other nobles moved their horses closer to hear.
“She’s got a Skill that makes anyone who raises a hand against her suffer. She learned it during the Second Antinium War. The rumor is that she provoked Lord Elmha at a ball six years ago, and he slapped her. Apparently, he tore half the flesh off his hand and that was before Lady Bethal demanded he duel her husband for the insult. Lord Elmha took three cuts to his right shoulder and apparently hasn’t been able to move his arm or hand since.”
Andres shuddered, and Rael found himself glancing backward in alarm. That was Lady Bethal? He knew she was a very influential [Lady] with a powerful estate, but that? Lady Bethal was laughing as she turned in her saddle to talk to Bevia, who’d ridden up behind them.
“You’re quite lucky, Rael.”
Pattin was the first to break the thoughtful silence. Rael jumped and stared at him.
“How?”
The impoverished young lord gestured to his aunt.
“Lady Bevia is quite good at making deals. She’s made connections with everyone in this party except Lady Bethal, and if anyone might negotiate a favorable deal with this Emperor, it’s her. I don’t expect Vaunt to come away with much, but if Laken Godart is offering anything, I’m sure Lady Bevia will secure a piece of it.”
Andres sighed.
“If he has anything to offer. I still don’t know why Magnolia Reinhart herself went to the trouble of arranging the meeting. I’m just here for the outing, but I’ll be damned if I know why my father sent both me and my elder sister all the way here at her request. Why would she want to help him?”
Oswalt snorted.
“Why not? He’s an [Emperor], and she’s the highest-level [Lady] in the realm.”
“That’s not a good reason! She’s hardly pledged herself to him. And this isn’t exactly helpful—it could be a ploy to embarrass him, my mother says.”
Haviet leaned forwards. Andres rolled his eyes.
“With a social gathering?”
“If his village really is poor—”
“I thought he owned the lands around here? Anyone know if he owns the local cities?”
“I don’t know much. Only that he calls himself ruler of the Unseen Empire.”
“Unseen?”
“He’s blind.”
“What?”
Rael turned to stare at Haviet. She nodded.
“Hadn’t you heard? He’s blind, but apparently he sees everything. Somehow. Don’t ask me, but apparently his army has slain every Goblin, [Bandit], and monster in the area for the last few months! The roads are completely safe, which is why my father wants a trade deal with him.”
Andres leaned forwards conspiratorially.
