Lord Tourant pales, but his face is still red with anger over his son. He points to the stricken Oswalt with a trembling finger.
“He was bewitched! That was magic!”
Lady Bethal folds her arms.
“If it was, it was no magic I’ve encountered. It was passion. Quite enjoyable passion, but passion nonetheless. You controlled yourself, as did your wife. If young Oswalt had the sense not to chase skirts, he would not have injured himself. As it is, he has lost part of an ear—hardly a disfiguring mark. Indeed, a lost ear due to passion is quite attractive to some.”
Sir Tourant stares at Lady Bethal. He hesitates.
“My son—”
“Sit down, Lord Tourant. You are in Emperor Godart’s presence.”
Lady Bethal turns, and all the nobles seem to start and recall I’m here. The man next to Tourant hesitates.
“With respect, Lady Bethal, this is hardly a matter for you to—”
“Sit down, Lord Melbore.”
“I—”
“Sit.”
He nearly sits down, right then and there. The two men back down and sit at the banquet table. Lady Bethal turns. She smiles widely at me.
“That was a most enjoyable interlude, Emperor Laken. May I ask if you have more delights planned for the night? Your strange guests are most entertaining.”
I hear laughter from the fae. One steps forwards and kisses Bethal on the cheek.
 
“Yon mortal could be one of us!”
“Almost!”
“A pity she loves only one! Lucky mortal man!”
“Unlucky mortal man! Hah!”
 
Slowly, the mood returns to something like normal. The fae resume feasting and laughing, but this time the nobles sit across from them at their own table. I find Lady Rie again.
“How bad do you think this was?”
She purses her lips.
“Honestly? I have no idea. Your fair folk certainly frightened the nobles, but whether they’ll hold a grudge against you is different. But watch yourself—she’s going to speak with you next.”
She nods, and before I can turn around, I feel thorns. I turn, and Lady Bethal is right in front of me with her silent husband.
“Ah, Emperor Godart! We didn’t have a chance to talk. May I have the privilege of a few short words?”
“Of course, Lady Bethal. Are you thirsty? Gamel, could you fetch us some drinks?”
The cups of wine are practically all empty, but Gamel hurries off, promising to find some. Lady Bethal laughs lightly as she watches him go.
“Most impressive how many devoted servants you have, Emperor Laken. Am I correct in understanding that young man is a [Knight]?”
“You are, Lady Bethal.”
“Fascinating. You know, I have a small order of [Knights] whom I fund. They are quite energetic. And decent fighters, although of course not as adept as my Thomast. You’ve met him. Say hello, Thomast.”
She waves her husband forwards. He bows slightly and murmurs a word, but, I note, keeps his attention firmly focused on Ivolethe. No—not her, the warrior standing behind her. I’m impressed he can even see the two fae—they’re being ignored by practically everyone else in the meadow. Wait—I think Bethal and Bevia can see them too.
“I’m honored by your presence, Lady Bethal. I understand you’re a close friend of Magnolia Reinhart?”
“Close? Well yes, we did grow up as friends, and I do occasionally help her out with small matters. But you know, Magnolia does have her obsessions. And while I understand her, it does grow tiresome worrying about everything, doesn’t it? I prefer to simply act and face the consequences later.”
“Hm. I can admire that way of thinking. I fear that I take the opposite approach. Acting without caution is slightly dangerous when you can’t see.”
Bethal laughs.
“Oh, forgive me! It must be different. I am simply referring to…well, let’s just say I enjoyed myself immensely tonight. I came here expecting to simply eat and dine and chat, which is frankly dull, but this was well worth the trip! I won’t forget tonight. You know, your visitors are enchanting. Who did you say they were? Fair folk? They certainly have wonderful complexions! Do you know if I could visit them?”
I try to fend off her questions, smiling politely, and feel Gamel heading towards us at speed. He has a wineglass in each hand, and I’m not ashamed to admit that I plan to use him as a conversation topic to steer Bethal away from questions about the fae. He’s nearly upon us and I sense him offering a cup to me when a hand shoots out and knocks the cup away.
 
“Stop!”
 
One of the spring fae shouts, his voice drowning out all sound. He seems enraged, and Gamel staggers back, surprised. I whirl as the fae leaps forwards and snatches the cup from Gamel’s hand. Several of the Human [Lords] leap to their feet with a hand of their weapons, but the fae are faster. The one with the cup raises it above his head and shouts.
 
“Treachery! A poisoned cup!”
 
The other fae shout in outrage. Their good spirits change to fury in a moment.
 
“What?”
“Who dares break the law of hospitality?”
“Who offers violence?”
“Find them! Hound them! Tear them apart!”
 
They begin shouting all at once, their beautiful faces suddenly twisted with rage. I hear buzzing again, loud and furious. Gamel backs away, and the nobles of Izril freeze in fear as the fae turn, their faces masks of anger. A buzzing fills the air, a loud, low drone that makes the tableware rumble and the air shake. I raise a hand and shout.
“Stop!”
The fae halt. They turn towards me. I look at the cup the fae is holding.
“Are you sure it’s poisoned?”
 
“Yes! ‘Twas not yon servant who poisoned it, but death runs through this cup! A treachery, a breach of sacred hospitality!”
 
I don’t doubt the fae. I turn to Gamel. He’s pale as every eye fixes on him.
“Gamel, what happened to the cup?”
He trembles, spreading his hands, his face white.
“Your Majesty, I swear I put down both cups for a moment to find an untapped keg of wine. When I turned back—it must have been then! Only, I don’t know who might have touched it!”
He points to a place where the wine cups were standing. I try and sense whether there are clues or any sign of who might be there. But the nobles all could have gotten up and walked over, and no one’s left a handy bracelet on the ground or an incriminating sock. I shake my head.
“So you have no idea who might have put poison in the drink?”
“None, sire.”
“And it is poisoned? For transparency, let us test it. Good folk, please.”
Lady Rie walks forwards, her face pale. She takes the wine glass from the fae and places something in it. A fork. I have no idea why she’s doing that until I recall—all the silverware is made of silver.
After a moment Lady Rie takes the fork out. I can’t tell if there’s a difference, but the nobles all gasp as one, so I suspect the silver’s changed somehow. Apparently, it reacts to many poisons. Rie nods slowly.
“Someone was trying to kill Emperor Laken. Someone in this gathering.”
The meadow goes silent. All the nobles face each other, solemn. My people surround me protectively, as if that could save me from the invisible assassin. One of the [Lords], Tourant, speaks hoarsely.
“Surely you don’t suspect us, Lady Rie? We never touched the cup!”
“Indeed, how could it be us? What about a servant?”
“Anyone could have touched the cup! Why, it could be these strange folk—”
The [Lady] who speaks breaks off as the fae closest to her hiss in outrage.
 
“You dare question our honor?”
“Kill her!”
 
The buzzing begins again, loud and fierce. The nobles shrink in their seats, and once again I raise my voice.
“Peace, fair folk! Please, peace!”
They subside, looking at me. I take a few deep breaths. Poison. I never sensed it. And it was coming to me? Why now? Was it—where’s Sacra? I speak as calmly as I can, sensing for her. She’s…wait, she’s in the village. Because she’s not a noble, that’s right! But could she have…? I try to focus, speaking to the crowd in the meadow as calmly as I can.
“Peace. I understand and appreciate your outrage, fair folk. However, no harm was done. This is a time of feasting, and I would not besmirch the honor of my guests with accusations without fact. I ask you to sit and eat, lords and ladies of the fae.”
They hesitate. At last, one of them shrugs.
 
“So long as hospitality is not broken entirely and the host agrees, we abide. But a second breach and we will hunt. Honor demands it!”
 
I nod.
“I would expect nothing less.”
Satisfied, the fae sit. Soon, they begin laughing as if nothing’s happened, but the nobles of Izril are well and truly frightened. They stare at me, grateful to be saved from the wrath of the fae. I sense Ivolethe moving through the crowd. She plucks the offending cup of poison and sniffs at it.
 
“You have enemies, Laken Godart. Take care you survive to meet Ryoka Griffin.”
 
She takes the half-full cup from the serving tray and downs the liquid inside before I can stop her. Bethal gasps audibly, but Ivolethe just laughs.
 
“Fear not, mortals. ‘Twas not the danger to us that offended my kin, but the insult to hospitality. There are few poisons in any world that we fear.”
 
She tosses the cup down and turns away. Bethal breathes out slowly.
“I see. Well I, for one, am glad of that. Emperor Laken, I am appalled at this assault on your life—at your own gathering, no less! Please rest assured that I will investigate this matter personally. And please be assured that Magnolia was not responsible for this heinous attack.”
I’m breathing hard. Durene is right behind me, and I know her fists are clenched, ready to hit something.
“You seem very sure of that, Lady Bethal.”
She doesn’t move, and her voice is steady.
“I am. Magnolia does not employ poisons. She is far more direct. If she wanted you dead without a shadow of a doubt, well, I realize that is hardly a comfort, but there it is. She intended this gathering as a way to test you, Emperor Godart.”
“And did I pass her test?”
I snap and sense Thomast shift ever so slightly. Lady Bethal nods slowly.
“I would say you did. Please do not mistake Magnolia’s actions for hostility. She must be sure of her friends and enemies. I would elaborate, but I think Sacra is tasked with explaining the rest of Magnolia’s thoughts.”
“I will see her directly then. Lady Bethal, I apologize for the abruptness, but—”
“I understand completely.”
Lady Bethal smiles, bows slightly, and retreats. I turn. Ivolethe is standing behind me.
“What?”
 
“It seems this banquet is at an end. The food is nearly eaten, and the wine is almost gone at any rate. I believe my kin are leaving.”
 
Sure enough, the fae are gathering. I hesitate as they laugh and call out farewells to the nobles of Izril. Only Bethal waves and calls in return.
“Are they offended by the poison?”
Ivolethe grins her pointed grin.
 
“Only in your name. In truth, I think they rather liked it. A banquet is not complete without bloodshed and intrigue, after all. I thank you on their behalf since they will not, arrogant fools that they be.”
 
“So you’re going? Just like that?”
She nods. I have a thousand things to ask her, but I sense the warrior behind her and know I won’t get an answer to any of them.
“There’s so much I need to know. Will your kind return if I host another banquet?”
 
“Most likely not. This was special, Laken Godart. You know that. If it happened twice, would it be as special? Nae, do not look for wonders twice in the same place. We are not permitted to interfere in this world.”
 
I frown at Ivolethe.
“But you did. That was poison meant for me.”
 
“Aye. But we were allowed to come here.”
 
I pause.
“That makes no sense.”
She laughs.
 
“You are like Ryoka. Foolish. Don’t you see? The rules we have against interfering are not rules set in stone or engraved on the world’s heart. They are just rules. Made by our King. He thinks we should not interfere, so we do not, out of respect to him. But there is no reason why we cannot.”
 
“But then why is he…?”
Ivolethe shakes her head.
 
“Caution, Laken Godart. Caution and memory. Our King does not wish our deaths. He fears that to interfere would mean the end of one of us, and that is a cost far too high.”
 
“He fears for you so much?”
The winter fae nods. Her voice grows tired, older, even as her spring cousins laugh and dance about, making the most of their last moments on earth.
 
“If one of our kind should perish every thousand years, it would be far too many, emperor of men. We are old.”
 
“How old?”
I feel a frozen finger jab me in the throat and flinch.
 
“Must you mortals ask a question of everything? Old, fool! When your kind was learning to build with stone and wood, we were already ancient. In ages past, we danced with gods and demons and made war and peace across worlds.”
 
She pauses.
 
“Once, our courts were filled with the fae, and we filled the forests with laughter. We are fewer now. Far fewer.”
 
“But you are immortals. Aren’t you?”
She just sighs.
 
“All things die, Laken Godart. All things. So our King forbids us to do more than spread winter on this world. And that is a boon based out of obligation. But he let us attend this banquet because it was special.”
 
“Why? If you don’t mind me asking.”
She just sighs.
 
“For the memory of such things, I think. Our King desires not to interfere in this world’s doings, but he remembers. We all remember what was and what might be again, and we long for these gatherings. We love acknowledgement, and for that, the Faerie King would bend his own rules to allow us a few moments to dance and make merry. For this kindness, you were granted a wonder. If the world changes because of it, well, such is fate. And we enjoyed ourselves, so that’s all that matters.”
 
She smiles wickedly. I find myself smiling too, but it’s bittersweet.
“I wish—”
She cuts me off. I feel a kiss on my cheek, a sweet kiss like a snowflake, like frost. Ivolethe dances back from me, elegant, mischievous, as Durene gasps.
 
“Hah! If wishes were so easily granted! Take your gifts, Laken Godart. I do not think we will ever meet again.”
 
I rub at my cheek.
“Don’t you know?”
She shakes her head.
 
“If we knew everything, what would be the point of anything? Go well, Laken Godart.”
 
She laughs, a bright, cold sound, and bows. I bow back, and Ivolethe turns. In a moment, she and the strange warrior are gone. The other fae dance forwards. One steps forwards and bows to me, mockingly.
 
“‘Twas well done and cleverly played. You asked for naught but our presence, and the boon is granted. So we go.”
 
I bow again.
“That is all I wished for. You have already done me a grand favor, fair folk. I would say that I am in your debt, but I am told that is unwise.”
 
“True!”
