Right then, Shiv finished infusing Chronomancy, Gravitic Wrestler, Vitality Drain, and Inertial Overdrive within his new golem. He sent it out to crash into the Chronomantic sphere from the other side. At the same time, the Vulteg Chronomancer made a gesture, and an invisible blade manifested, slashing through the golem's chest.

Yet the golem didn't split in half, even as a blast of razor-sharp wind passed through it. Only the faintest scratch lined the golem's torso compared to the wounds the Hydromancer was inflicting. And before the Hydromancer could capitalize, it reached out, seizing the Chronomancer by the wrist. Vitality flared within the golem, and the Chronomancer let out a gasp of pain as he was drained. His Chronomancy sphere flickered, and just then, the other vitality golem slammed into it, tearing the field from the other side as well.

The Chronomancer let out a shriek of agony. Shiv's eyes narrowed. And that confirmed something for him. Shiv’s Chronomancy worked differently from other Chronomancers. His shattered and regrew fast. It only had ten seconds of use at baseline, but it didn’t hurt or strain him like it did other Chronomancers. Meanwhile, they used their field like a limb. They could keep using it, but it hurt them when it broke.

Must be some time dragon shit, Shiv thought.

"Spike yourselves! Explode!" Shiv called out to his golems. Both of them responded without hesitation. Their gravitic fields pulsed violently, and their inertial sheaths responded in kind. A shroud of rippling violence built as the last fragments of their temporal shells finally broke away.

The first golem discharged, and a cleaving flash of light swept through the world. A blast of fire consumed the inner sphere created by the Vulteg Chronomancer. The trio of Vultegs vanished into the light. And then came a shockwave of force that flung the three Vultegs out from the flames.

The second golem's detonation followed, and that shattered the Chronomantic sphere entirely.

Strider of the Unbending Path 135 > 136

Inerital Overdrive 113 > 115

Vitaemancy 59 > 61

Vitality Drain 54 > 55

Shiv felt his time armor nearly crumble, and he dismissed his Chronomancy before he lost his magic entirely. He did it just as the massive blast swept through the area. The Geomancer Vulteg was flung back through the dimensional chasm, splattering some of his allies as he crashed through them. The Chronomancer was nowhere to be seen, but a second later, a leg slammed into Shiv's chest—a smoking leg glistening with gold.

Poor bastard, Shiv thought to himself. Needed more Toughness—

A spear of water slashed wide across the air. He barely dodged in time, ducking his head as it split clean through the top of his helmet.

Dodge 14 > 15

The Hydromancer dove out from the jet of water, uninjured but furious. She let out a snarl as she shaped a Hydromancy spell, drawing all the moisture in her surroundings to her. Her field was vast. Her magic was powerful.

He felt the moisture in the air condense—felt her pulling at the very water within his body. And he heard her scream and shudder as he broke the spell forming in her hand with a punch from his Magebreaker. As the spell exploded, the Hydromancer's back arched. And as she screamed, Shiv reached out and gripped her by the neck before he slammed his Skysplitter into her gut and dragged it up. He got two centimeters before she seized his grip with both her hands. Blood sprayed from her mouth. She collapsed against him as they struggled.

In the backdrop, more spells crashed down on her allies, and a massive tentacle exploded out from the gateway, reaching high into the air.

Shiv ignored that for now. Instead, he grasped the Hydromancer by the back of her head-tentacles with his free hand, trying to pull her up. As the Vulteg looked up at him, she let out a rasping groan, then breathed hissing poison in his face. A rush of toxins flooded Shiv's body, and she continued spewing corrosive acid at him. Shiv blinked in surprise at first. He felt some of his skin itch and burn from the substance. His insides tingled as well. It was like he was shedding the flesh on his face.

Then, his Plaguefueled triggered, and Shiv's armor began to break around him as he grew larger and larger. Soon, he loomed three meters tall, holding the Vulteg Hydromancer as if she were a doll in his hands. His armor hung off him in tatters. Shiv just grinned, indifferent to the broken pieces falling from his body. The Vulteg’s eye widened. She looked on in abject horror as Shiv began drawing out pieces of bone from within his cape to rebuild the parts of his armor that had just broken.

"Now that was an unfortunate mistake," Shiv muttered to the Hydromancer. "But I do thank you for feeding me. Got any more?"

“I—you—” The Hydromancer tried to shape another spell, but Shiv ripped his knife out from her. She shrieked. But before she could finish, he grabbed her by her legs and pulled in two directions. “NO—”

Those were her final words as her body came apart along her midsection.

Dread Aura 94 > 96

A rush of terror washed into him. His Dread Aura rose by two levels just as he noticed how all the surviving Vultegs were stumbling back, flinching away from him in fear. Their formations were battered but holding. They had created their own barricades to advance, and now they were hiding behind them, gawking at the Corpse Shedder’s brutality. But before they could even consider retreating, a huge, looming eye rose behind them. A purple eye. An eye that glistened with Psychomancy and baleful ire. The angular head of a Jealousy pushed free from the gate, and the rest of its body materialized in a pulse of psionic energy.

"Corpse Shredder," the Jealousy cried. Its voice was deeper than the jealousy Shiv had killed before. "Come for you. Come for Adam Arrow. Lord Scorn will be pleased. Lord Scorn reward Mrpegia.”

Shiv just laughed as he magnified the size of his Skysplitter in response. "Oh, look. The meat’s starting to deliver itself!”
