The Deathless's grip tightened, and he pulled Merrielmel in closer. “Because I don't think we're going to like spending time with each other. Again, this isn't a threat. I'm just guessing from how I feel right now. You seem like a nervous man, Hero-Enchanter. I'm not a nervous man. I try to be decent, but sometimes, when the situation really, really pushes me here, I get kind of violent. Don't let me get violent.”

Merrielmel stuttered for a few moments before he quickly nodded. “Of course, but wait, let me see that.” He reached out and snatched the two pieces from Shiv's hand. Immediately, he placed them together, and he narrowed his eyes. “This? This is a Heroic-Tier piece. Perfect semblance. Very, very remarkable. Wait, did someone build this for you? No, no, it's too, too convenient. I haven't seen a Perfect Semblance enchantment naturally created in the past, I don't know, 100 years? 120? Perhaps. That's hard to tell. Need to wait for Concelhaunt to get here, get here. And then—”

“Get here and what?” a loud, booming voice sounded. And from the direction of said voice, a stout-looking man approached, but not an ordinary person. Instead, it appeared to be a goblin piloting what looked to be the chassis of an automaton. Hissing steam sprayed out from its sides, and the chrome-colored machinery of the chassis sang with every step. It resembled a skeleton wrapped in interlocking rings, and on its hip swayed a large hammer, while there was an anvil magnetized to its back.

“So these are our volunteers? Holy fuck!” Hero-Smith Concelhaunt cried aloud. “Irons, what the fuck are you doing here?”

“Being disappointed,” Irons muttered coolly. “Him, I understand. You. Why?”

“Ah.” Concelhaunt swallowed. “Well. Uh. Oh, shit, Adam! You’re here too.”

The Gate Lord just folded his arms. “Hero-Professor. Funny meeting you here. How’s your daughter? Does she know about this?”

“Yeah. Funny.” Concelhaunt sighed. “Fuck. Uh. Merri. Show me that there, uh, mask thing. Say we need to fix that first, right? So, uh, let’s do that first.”
