“Fuck.” Ranthia hissed as she tried to tamp down on that instant of instinctive panic. She wasn’t going to ever get used to her sight being so abruptly taken from her. It was jarring—almost haunting—to go from admiring the eyes of the woman she loved—so full of mirth and energy—to a world of darkness in an instant.

“My love…? What is… Oh! I had not realized so much time had slipped by already.” Avyna’s words came from so close by—just where she should have been.

Ranthia took a deep breath to steady herself. She could still feel the slender woman in her arms. She was safe—they were together and there was no menace hanging over them. Deflection was protecting the base, and it wasn’t like she needed to be able to see to continue to share words with Avyna. She knew her own Skills and listening would be the important thing once she was done.

“Yeah…” Ranthia wasn’t quite sure of what else to say, but she didn’t want to leave Avyna unanswered.

“I am unsure if you are aware of this, but when your sight leaves you, your eyes rapidly move around until you settle—at which point your eyes lose focus, as though you were consulting your System. The effect might be less notable to those unfamiliar with your eyes, and I am well aware that most people never get to see your eyes, but it is worth learning to master that. Please, continue to act as if you are looking at me.” Avyna gently instructed.

“Gods and goddesses, you really are perfect, aren’t you? A single look and you already find ways I can hide my curse that I had never even thought of.” Ranthia smiled and tried to follow Avyna’s advice.

“Of course.” Avyna shamelessly preened before she continued. “But your hearing is better than that, my love, so use your ears to direct your eyes. Yes, that is much better. You should do this even when you wear your mistweave; it only takes one person with a sight Skill like your own to ruin your greatest secret.”

Ranthia practiced under Avyna’s supervision for a little longer before the woman began to speak again.

“You adapt swiftly, which will serve you well among immortals. But your curse must remain a secret. Even elves take… dramatic measures to ensure that our racial curse is never known. I wish that I could share mine in the spirit of your own trust, but it would spell the end of us both.” Avyna’s words were serious and—no matter how she boasted about her privacy wards—were so near to truly being silent that even Ranthia struggled to hear them clearly.

Ranthia nodded seriously. If Avyna was being that paranoid, the wisest thing she could do was to accept it. She was curious, but her curiosity stopped far, far away from endangering the woman she loved.

Not that she could stop herself from forming theories. Could ‘perfection’ in and of itself be a curse? She had certainly seen Avyna suffering as she strived to equal her peers…

“Well, let’s move on to my other six General Skills. Next up is [Sentinel’s War Supremacy]—and I think I’ll leave off my explanation. Night might just show up to personally murder me if I explain any further.” Ranthia could only hope that she was joking, but continuing the Skill share was probably safer than her own thoughts were.

Not that she wanted to dwell on thoughts of a vengeful, scary vampire while she couldn’t see, either!

“[Submind]! My utility skill that lets me do maaaagical things with my first class.” Ranthia rushed forward with her next Skill.

And was gratified when Avyna yelped in surprise.

A second Ranthia had appeared behind Avyna and—assuming Ranthia remembered positions and distances accurately—had leaned over the other arm of their ‘bench’ to massage her shoulders. A few heartbeats later, a third Ranthia appeared, seated on the floor. Assuming that any part of those instructions worked out—it wasn’t like Ranthia could get tactile feedback from her uninhabited images—the newest image gently seized Avyna’s feet and started rubbing them.

“Oh! Oh my. You have been holding out on me, my love!” Avyna crooned as she subtly adjusted her position to cover for the mistakes that Ranthia made.

“I consider [Submind] my secret weapon. Basically, I can unload any task I know how to do into the Skill, and it takes care of it for me without me having to expend conscious effort multitasking. It works great to help with my control over my images, or at least it did once I got used to how to balance the Skill versus my input.” Ranthia explained, even as she shamelessly spoiled her lover with the physical attention of three of herself.

Okay, so her explanation was awful enough to be borderline misleading, but instructing [Submind] was hard to explain. Once she got used to it, it felt far more automatic than it truly was.

“[Combat Awareness] helps keep me alive. Basically, it combines my senses to help me be more aware of incoming attacks or other hostile actions within a limited zone of heightened awareness. Usually, I even instinctively know the direction and, at least to some extent, the danger that it poses.

“[Fast Learner] boosts the rate I gain experience and helps me pick up new things, based on my personal creed of adapt or die. It was one of my initial skill offerings—and is another example of alarming skills for an 8-year-old to already have as soon as she unlocked.

“[Image Recall] I’ve kind of already mentioned—it’s how I solved the problem caused by [Distorted Likeness]. It lets me store and instantly retrieve a number of images. I can basically tether it into my first class when I make images.

“Then, of course, there is my legendary appearance skill, [Sexy]. It is what makes me irresistible to gorgeous women, even the utter perfection that I embrace as we speak.” Ranthia concluded.

Avyna rewarded her shameless flirting with a kiss. Ranthia was content to just focus on Avyna for a time as her affectionate sentimentality blurred with blissful comfort. And, at some point, Ranthia subconsciously redirected her two images into kissing the back of Avyna’s neck and shoulders and her legs as she lost herself in the moment.

Finally, a lightly flushed Avyna pulled away and swatted at Ranthia and her images.

“Oh prisms, too much more of that and we would never get around to my turn to share!” The elf warned breathlessly.

…Okay, yes, she was tempted. But Ranthia forced herself to take a deep breath and tried to refocus. They still had much to discuss, and the skill swap was no less important just because Ranthia had shared her grand revelations. It was her turn to be a good listener. She could do that much.

Ranthia dismissed her images.

“I still can’t believe that you already knew I was immortal.” Ranthia mock-grumbled in an effort to get them back on track.

“You are terrible at secrets, my love. But we can work on that.” Avyna promised.

That… sounded nice, Ranthia decided. She wasn’t really offended; she had already realized that she could be too relaxed at times. She had gotten far too used to life in the Unbreakable Image, where everyone already knew too much. It was yet another thing that she still struggled with, just the same as any of her fears.

“But to be fair, I doubt any other elf would have realized it. Few have spent over a thousand and twenty-four years travelling Pallos while paying proper attention to mortals and truly seeing the effects that the passage of time has on different people.” Avyna reassured her.

“Wait… what?!” Ranthia all but screamed. She was being far too loud for their proximity, but…

Over a thousand and twenty-four years?!

“What do you… oh!” Avyna laughed. “My love, you know well that I am—”

The elf fell silent.

“Oh, by the spires, I would have sworn that I had told you…!” She hissed several moments later.

“I… Are you really…? I… I had known you had likely lived for at least four hundred years, perhaps six, but…” Ranthia’s words felt hopelessly clumsy.

But she had no idea how to even process any of it. She had thought that the shocking revelations were done! Yet the woman she loved was… unfathomably ancient?!

“My daughter is nearing two hundred and fifty-six herself, and I am not one of the impatient youths that rush through life and do reckless things like bearing a child before they are truly ready.” Avyna retorted.

Ranthia wisely decided to keep her mouth shut and not point out just how impulsive and fast-moving her lover seemed to be. Not that she could even really appreciate the irony.

Over a thousand and twenty-four years.

“Are you bothered, my love? I had not meant to keep this from you, I had always meant to bring it up when we discussed cycling, to tell you that I was on my sixth cycle.” No matter how distracted Ranthia was, it was impossible to miss the concern—and pain—that was creeping into Avyna’s voice.

“I… Sorry, it’s just a lot to take in. I mean I knew we had a massive age gap, but. …How old, exactly, are you?” Ranthia had to know.

No more secrets.

“One thousand, four hundred and forty-seven. Forty-eight come winter.” Avyna answered readily. Quite possibly desperately.

“…I’m thirty-two. I won’t be thirty-three until next Spring!” A note of hysteria slipped into Ranthia’s words.

Gods and goddesses, her entire lifetime was practically a rounding error for Avyna’s—likely both of her lifetimes in total still were. It felt like an impossibility. How could Avyna have even been willing to accept her?!

“Never forget that I chose you, my love. I knew what it meant to get involved with you. I never meant to hold this information from you. And I know that you have not had the time to come to terms with your own comfort with relationships as an immortal, but please, allow me to share my own thoughts.

“I understand death well, my love. Even better than mortal races do. It is a constant companion to the life of every immortal. Pets, bonds, and other animals are unable to stay with us. Friends we make among the mortals grow old and succumb to White Dove or Black Crow. Even the very trees of our familiar forests die off eventually and are replaced.

“And yes, elves and other immortals die too, I know that better than most. For all some of my kind act as if they are invincible and eternal, elven blood can be spilled in a moment of sudden terror the same as any mortal.

“I do not wish to forever be tied to only those that have survived for as long as I have. Young immortals can be overly sure of themselves, but many of my peers are just as impossible to suffer. I wish to spend my time with whomever I choose and do so freely. I wish to learn of mortals that are destined to disappear. And I choose to share myself with any immortal—young or old—that properly catches my attention. It is one thing if I knew you when you were young, but you are no child—no matter what the difference in our age might suggest.

“I have already learned much from you my love, and I wish to continue to do so. But…” Avyna trailed off.

Ranthia knew what Avyna had left unsaid—Ranthia could still break their relationship off if this was too much for her. And it was a lot, but the rational pieces of her understood the elf’s words. It was all but impossible for her to twist her mind into such an alien frame of reference, but she tried to put herself into Avyna’s mindset.

Would she truly want to be consigned to relationships only with immortals her own age if she somehow lived for so long? And while their respective ages felt like an impossible eternity of difference… the difference became all but meaningless if they had met after another nine thousand, six hundred, and thirty-eight years.

…It was a struggle to even imagine—the number wasn’t arbitrary, it was literally twice the age of the world. But she was immortal. Pallos would continue to exist as time marched on. And—with enough care and luck—so would she.

As would Avyna.

Heh, gods and goddesses, who was she kidding? Care and luck weren’t going to be enough to ensure her survival, but… Well, she needed to adapt to an immortal mindset, and this was a damned important moment to do her best to do so. Avyna was the greatest thing that had happened to her since… well, since her fathers. Was an unexpectedly large number seriously even remotely as important as that?

“I…” Ranthia tried to form words she didn’t have yet with a predictable degree of success.

May Xaoc smite that thrice-cursed bird that dared to associate itself with the divine—Ranthia would have traded almost anything just to be able to look into Avyna’s eyes! She had rarely hated her curse with such intensity—not since she last suffered through the sounds of battle and death while consigned to that horrible, filthy tent.

Ranthia took a deep breath and tried to settle her mind before she accidentally actually prayed for Xaoc to strike down Thanatos’ chosen avatars. He wouldn’t do it—not for her—but she needed to keep her blasphemy to herself.

Besides, she didn’t need to see; she had other senses.

Ranthia had withdrawn her embrace from Avyna without ever even realizing it, but she was ready to carefully seek the elf’s delicate hands and hold them in her own. She felt their warmth and the complex textures of the woman’s skin. Every breath she took was infused with Avyna’s delicate, intoxicatingly familiar scent. And she didn’t miss the hopeful catch in Avyna’s breath.

Ranthia needed to focus through her jumbled thoughts. In truth, nothing had changed. She had always known that Avyna had a greater wealth of worldly experience—even back when she had consigned herself to accepting that she could never be more than friends with the woman she was falling for. If she really thought about it, that wealth was just a little greater than she had expected. Nothing more had changed.

Avyna was still Avyna.

And Ranthia still loved her.

She still wasn’t sure what to say, but her heart knew what to do. She pulled the elf back into her embrace and sought her lips. The time that they had lived might be different, but a good kiss was its own eternity—a time that existed only with and for the two of them. It was a kiss of reaffirmation—a promise that nothing had changed between them. Ranthia had just come to know the woman that she loved a little bit better than before.

And that could only be a good thing, no matter how unexpected the knowledge was.

Besides, she had always had a thing for older women, hadn’t she?

“I’m sorry I worried you. If you’re still willing, I’m ready to learn about your Skills, my love.” Ranthia whispered when bodily needs for air finally forced their lips to part ways for a short while.

