She could only hope that adopting Avyna’s affectation meant as much to the elf as each and every ‘my love’ meant to her.

“Thank you.” Avyna’s voice was rich with naked sentimentality.

Not that Ranthia blamed her, she had shed more than a few tears herself. But she was happy to give her lover all the time that she needed to regain her composure. Ranthia didn’t even bother—she immersed herself in her emotions while she waited.

“I am so near the completion of my sixth cycle, so do bear that in mind as I share. My Skills may have depth beyond your expectations. My stats favor my magic stats: magic power, followed by mana regeneration, then mana, then magic control. My physical stats are a lesser focus for me, but I prioritize them at vitality, dexterity, strength, with speed being my lowest priority.

“My first class is [Multifaceted Merchant – Gemstones]. It has been a somewhat consistent companion for me across my cycles for my level 256 class, though its stats have steadily improved.” Avyna’s mood audibly improved as she started to share.

Which made sense, Ranthia could hardly imagine spending so many years refining and honing her own classes. She was already fairly certain that she wouldn’t—and likely couldn’t—cycle, but Avyna had spent over forty-eight of Ranthia’s lifetimes improving, rather than progressing. There had to be more than a little pride in that, there was no way Avyna could have kept going without it.

“I possess [Gemstones Authority]. I do not believe I need to get into discussion of it, you are familiar with the breadth of the Affinity Skills.

“My first true Skill is one of my favorites: [Emerald Eyes of the Trader]. It allows me to see—so long as I have sufficient familiarity with the materials—exactly what an item is made out of. This is useful for seeing false goods and even lets me know the purity of purportedly valuable materials. And, of course, I am also fond of the effect it has on my eyes. The passive can be toggled, but in practice I rarely turn it off; I have sufficient mana that I rarely am bothered by the amount the Skill requires.” Avyna’s tone was bordering on outright bragging.

“Wait, your green eyes are a Skill? What’s your natural eye color?” Ranthia could scarcely imagine her lover with different eyes—they felt just as intrinsic to Avyna as her horns!

“You recall my daughter’s pale blue eyes? She inherited them from me.” Avyna playfully replied before she kissed the tip of Ranthia’s nose.

“My next Skill can be summarized as [Calculation by Sight or Weight]. This allows me to more accurately tally things that I see or hold. It is mostly useful when someone gives me a handful of gems, so I do not waste both of our time counting them out to ensure the payment was adequate. When combined with my eyes, I am difficult to scam.

“[Negotiation Without Barriers] is my variation of the standard [Merchant] Skill. …You do not have any idea what that means, do you, my love? Very well, in short, it is a Skill to enable smoother communication with other merchants. It works best when I interact with another [Merchant] with a similar Skill, but in essence, it helps to prevent unwanted misunderstandings during negotiations. It can even allow trade when there is no shared language. It also has merged effects from other social-focused Skills to assist with negotiating.

“[Merchandise Monitoring] is an anti-theft Skill. It grants me greater awareness of my merchandise and gives me a fighting chance to notice thieves even through their own Skills. It also helps to preserve produce, making my goods resistant to spoilage and damage from transit.

“[Gleaming Gems] is a broad Skill that enables me to—over time—purify and clarify gemstones by removing occlusions, prepare them to be charged, and it also assists my second class with cutting them. I may take an aura Skill on my next cycle that could potentially make this a passive effect while it also cleans gemstones within range.

“[Mercantile Might] gives me a strength boost when I move my own merchandise. It is useful when I load up a cart or wagon, though I hope the Skill will eventually outlive its usefulness. By level or by class quality, I aim to no longer need the boost in the future.

“[Universal Body Language] lets me understand and—in situations where my familiarity would be insufficient—match the body language of cultures outside of my own. It is a large part of why I came to Coalition City, not only for the opportunities that the Skill provides, but to raise it. It is my hope that, eventually, it will merge into [Negotiation Without Barriers].

“Oh, I should have noted this for you, my love: once Skills merge during one cycle, it becomes easier for them to merge in the future. After a few cycles, I find that both Skills will start to have similar, broader effects. This is the case for many of my Skills.

“And that concludes the current state of my first class.” At least she could hear the smile in Avyna’s voice, even if she couldn’t see it.

Ranthia was no expert, but…

“It sounds like it’s already a great class, one worthy of Pallos’ greatest [Merchant].” Ranthia gave her enthusiastic appraisal.

“You are sweet, but I am not the greatest. There are those I must overcome, but I work diligently to do so. I shall make the current God of [Merchants] regret claiming that domain—even if it was before my time—before I ascend.” Avyna promised.

“You aim for ascension, then?” Ranthia asked.

“Of course, my love. I am all too aware of the danger involved, but I believe that I have a true chance to achieve it.” Avyna answered, as if it were something so obvious that she was surprised by the question.

Level 4096 wasn’t the impossibility it had once been, but Ranthia still had no intention of becoming a goddess. She served Xaoc and existed for His sake first and foremost. She loved Avyna—deeply, it seemed—but that wasn’t enough to change the core of who she was. As nice as it sounded to ascend side-by-side with the woman she loved…

Her fate was to remain on Pallos for as long as she could manage, until the day that she finally died. Only then would she discover if she had served Him enough to finally be worthy of becoming an angel at His beck and call.

Still, it wasn’t worth raising that at the moment—it wasn’t worth derailing their conversation any further for a far-off concern. Ranthia sorely doubted that it was even possible to ascend in less than four thousand years from the point they were at, even if elves leveled faster than humans did.

…Wait, how did—

Avyna resumed speaking, which pulled Ranthia’s attention back from her own runaway thoughts.

“My next class is [Enchanter, Engraver, Shaper – Arcanite]. I am… admittedly hesitant to cycle this one again, lest I lose [Arcanite Mastery]. I am unlikely to get an opportunity to work with such an impressive arcanite core again. But I am getting distracted.

“[Arcanite Mastery] for this class, as I mentioned.

“[Enchanting Enchanter] allows me to create useful enchantments. This Skill has already merged with my error detection Skill and—as of this cycle—the Skill that tied into my memory Skill. I can also power the enchantment directly while I create it, though it is usually best to create a connection to arcanite once it is complete.

“[Arcanite Engraver] allows me to shape and form energy around my arcanite engraving tool. This allows me to easily engrave enchantments into wood, stone, crystal, or metal. In a pinch, I can even use this Skill using my own fingers, though a purpose-made tool is plainly preferable. I can also cut gems with it.

“[Entwined Enchantments] allows me to connect and combine separate enchantments, which allows me to layer additional effects. This is still a complex and extremely advanced process—many [Enchanters] choose not to bother with it. But I believe that it will prove to be a valuable talent, once I truly master it.

“[Arcanite Manipulation] is a bit misleading at this point, but it is the best translation I have. I can combine separate pieces of arcanite into a larger stone, reshape it—though not as finely as I would prefer as of yet—and even use my own mana to recharge it.

“[Jewel of the Market] is my latest social Skill that I seek to merge. It makes it easier to entice potential customers to approach and assists me when I need to approach someone.

“[Power Shunt] is a safety Skill. If an enchantment is damaged or proves unstable, I should be able to remove the mana from it before things… get messy.

“[Crystalline Clarity] is the last Skill, and I hope to merge it into [Enchanting Enchanter] in the future. It allows me to clearly visualize and understand even the most complex enchantments and grasp—at least to some extent—just how different enchantments would affect one another with [Entwined Enchantments]. It also improves my focus while I work on inscriptions, at least a little. Though I fear that it could still be circumvented by a determined woman.”

Avyna paused, presumably to eye Ranthia warily. At least that explained some of why Avyna chased her off every time she engaged in serious enchanting. Avyna was wise—not that Ranthia was going to feel guilty about it. Instead, she used the pause to steal another quick kiss and offered her lover an impish grin.

Avyna huffed theatrically.

“Sorry if this is a stupid question, but why weren’t you working as an [Enchanter] instead of a fruit [Merchant]? It sounds to me like it would have been more lucrative.” Ranthia asked before Avyna could resume.

“Ah, there are… a few reasons.” Avyna sounded reticent, but she still continued to explain. “The first is that I, as I said, enjoy the breadth of contact that working as a [Merchant] grants me with other cultures. Coalition City was a rare opportunity for this. The second is that being a [Merchant] affords me more levels for my third class. As for the third… Well, I was not planning to hide the Skills from you, so I shall come out and say it: many of the enchantments that I know are stolen from other [Enchanters]. Selling enchantments to non-elves would have had me under quite a bit of… scrutiny, I believe is the word. Few [Enchanters] share what they have learned freely, and it would take every gemstone I have ever earned to acquire even half of my enchantments legitimately.”

There was no pride in those words, they were as vulnerable as any Ranthia had ever heard from the elf.

They truly were holding nothing back.

Ranthia squeezed Avyna gently to reassure her that she wasn’t judging her or upset by this. Ranthia had never held a dim view of theft, at least so long as there was no better way and so long as it did not lead to someone suffering. Given that neither applied to her lover’s situation, her morality was just fine with Avyna doing what she had to. If anything, there was a certain admirable bit of chaos in taking from those that tried to restrain the flow of knowledge!

Ranthia wasn’t biased, she was just in love. There was a difference.

“My third class is titled [Protecting my Assets – Spatial]. Hm, the actual name is a bit… less direct than that. It is good enough. As the name suggests, this class is all about preserving my belongings and myself.” A note of annoyance crept into Avyna’s voice.

Forced to truly listen and focus on her ears, Ranthia had to confront just how much of a struggle the language barrier was for the woman she loved. Subtle shifts in tone and in Avyna’s breathing denoted every last moment that the elf accelerated her perception to try to construct an acceptable sentence or translation. And the subtle hints of annoyance or exasperation that colored her words when she was displeased with the result after she began to speak it.

The guilt was intense enough that Ranthia kept having to dismiss General Skill offerings for Skills to help her translate or rapidly learn languages—the idea was appreciated, but there was nothing she could spare in her current Skills!

“I have [Spatial Authority] for this class.

“[Spatial Safe Box] allows me to store precious items and the currency that I keep on-hand, so that no one can access them. I can store items with physical contact and retrieve them, but only so long as there is adequate room. The space is smaller than I would like—and worsened by another Skill—but it is atypically… resilient to others that might try to access it.

“[Spatial Movement]. This Skill has little practical utility, it simply allows me to move objects without touching them, to varying effectiveness. When I am manning my stall or travelling, I often use this Skill to train the class. The experience it provides is minimal, but it adds up over time.

“[Catch] allows me to capture a small incoming attack, such as an arrow or many types of spells. This Skill has its own spatial storage, though it requires both focus and mana to hold. This grants me a few seconds to either release the attack harmlessly away from my body or to use its companion Skill. I am less than fond that I must see the attack coming and wait until it is close to my body to even use the Skill though! It is highly unnerving, but it has saved me from harm more than once.

“[Return] is the companion Skill to [Catch]. It automatically returns the attack that I captured back along the same path that it came to me from. Wait, no, that is incorrect—I got an upgrade this cycle that allows me to track the target and adjust its aim, so long as I can see them. It does not impart any more… momentum behind the attack, however, so it may not strike true.

“[Hidden Hideaway] is my emergency Skill. It allows me to warp myself into a hidden pocket of reality—specifically my safe box. It is deeply unpleasant to spend time trapped in there, but it is a better option than being torn apart by beasts. This greatly limits the storage I can use for [Spatial Safe Box] since I must leave space for myself or I lose access to this Skill. Another flaw is that I am unable to see our world from within the box, thus I must use my own judgment for when to return. Another issue is that this Skill as of yet does not allow me to bring any objects with me that are not on my person. The prior cycle’s iteration of this Skill did not even include my clothing and personal effects—I am thankful that problem was resolved!”

Ranthia inwardly pouted, though she kept it off her face. She had missed the time when there was a [And Suddenly Naked Avyna] Skill! But no matter how confident Ranthia was in keeping the pout internal—Avyna knew her too well.

The elf gently bopped Ranthia with the side of a horn.

