“You run with bare feet? Don’t you get thorns or rocks in your soles?”
The [Lady] wrinkled her nose as she pointed at Ryoka’s feet. The City Runner stared at her.
“I, uh, have calluses. Lady Bethal.”
The [Lady] stared at her.
“And those help? What about nails?”
“I try to avoid those.”
“Ah. Tell me, Miss Ryoka Griffin. Are you fast? How many movement Skills do you have?”
“Uh—I have three. But none of them help me run faster. Just longer. My speed’s at a City Runner’s level.”
“I see. And how about your defenses? Could you outrun, say, [Bandits] on horseback?”
Ryoka’s pulse picked up. She tried to answer carefully.
“No. But I could deter them. Or lose them. I have Tripvine Bags, potions, and these—”
She reached into her bag of holding. Welca tensed, and Bethal held up a hand.
“Show me.”
Ryoka pulled out a caltrop. Bethal eyed it.
“That is a nasty weapon. Do you throw it?”
“Sometimes. But I can drop them, and they’ll slow horses. I’m banned from using them unless my life is in danger. And they are a hazard.”
“You could certainly inconvenience a road with them. And they’re fairly pointy. Ouch.”
Bethal poked her finger idly on the caltrop. She shook her head.
“What about [Mages]? High-level enemies?”
“I…have a wind Skill that I can use to blow a dust cloud, Lady Bethal. I’ve outrun [Bandits] before and survived an ambush on one occasion.”
“Hmm. Can you block lightning?”
Ryoka gulped.
“I…haven’t had to deal with that. There was a Lich that I managed to avoid one time.”
“I see. I see…Thomast?”
Bethal glanced up. The [Chevalier] was frowning. His arms were folded. He was glancing at Alime. The [Receptionist] was half-hiding behind her counter, staring at the noble guests with wide eyes; besides Ryoka, Lady Bethal’s entourage, and Alime, the Runner’s Guild had been cleared out. Ryoka could see some of her fellow Runners furtively peeking in from outside.
“I don’t think she’s fit for the job, Bethal.”
Thomast answered at last. Ryoka’s stomach sank. The [Chevalier] eyed her.
“With respect to Miss Griffin—she’s no Courier. It would be dangerous to risk a City Runner. She could lose her life, and if she’s intercepted, the message could be disastrous for us.”
“That was my thought. Alas, we’ve wasted a few minutes. We’ll have to go back on horseback. Oh well. Mister Lupp can’t be full of good ideas all the time, it seems.”
Bethal clicked her fingers exasperatedly. Ryoka stared at her. Did she just say Lupp? No, that had to be a coincidence. The young woman saw Bethal turn, and realized her opportunity was slipping away. She raised her voice hurriedly.
“I can do it.”
“Excuse me?”
Bethal turned back to Ryoka skeptically. The Asian girl took a deep breath.
“I’m sorry. I don’t know what the request is. But if you’re looking for a qualified City Runner—I might not have the speed of a Courier, but I have never failed a delivery. And I have outrun monsters. I’ve run the High Passes before.”
Thomast’s head turned back to Ryoka. Bethal blinked.
“You have? How far in?”
“Not far. But I completed my delivery. And I’ve done emergency deliveries for adventuring teams.”
“What rank?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“Silver. I’ve never been requested at Gold-rank or higher.”
Bethal exchanged a look with her husband. He frowned and gave her a covert shake of the head. Lady Walchaís sighed.
“If it were just your life, I might give you a chance Miss Griffin. But this message must be delivered without fail. I’d risk the consequences of it arriving too late, rather than having my words subverted. And if you are caught? You will most likely be killed, and the damage will spread to my lands.”
She spread her hands. Ryoka’s heart sank. She nodded slowly.
“I understand.”
“Very well. Welca? The horses. We’ll press onwards as Thomast sees fit.”
Bethal sighed and waved a hand. The female [Knight] tromped towards the doors. As she opened them, Ryoka heard some excited shouts. Which surprised her; the City Runners and people of Reizmelt were already backing up from the fearsome Lady Bethal. But someone was calling out with an excited voice.
“Miss [Knight]! Miss [Knight]!”
“Did you kill any [Assassins]? Is it true they have a Guild?”
“Is [Lady] Bethal a real lady? Is she really going to cut off the heads of other nobles?”
“Are you going to hire the Wind Runner?”
Welca stopped, looking affronted. Bethal’s head turned towards the door. And Ryoka recognized the voices as she saw the tiny bodies hopping up and down.
Children. They were as immune to the fear of Lady Bethal’s class as they were to Welca’s scowl. The [Knight] ushered them back from the horses. Lady Bethal walked outside. The children stared at her. They oohed as Thomast followed her. He blinked at them. One of the children pointed at his side.
“Did you kill them all with your rapier?”
He didn’t respond. Bethal smiled as she accepted the reins of her mare. Ryoka walked out of the guild, sheepish. To her great chagrin, the children grew even more excited when they saw her than when Bethal had come out.
“Wind Runner! Wind Runner!”
“Are you going to deliver a message?”
“Blow us about! Conjure the wind, Miss Ryoka!”
They swarmed her. Ryoka turned red as Bethal glanced down from horseback. The [Lady] pursed her lips and called down to Ryoka.
“The Wind Runner? The [Farmer] said the same thing. What does that mean?”
“I can call the wind, Lady Bethal. It helps me out. It’s…just a nickname.”
Ryoka coughed and shuffled her feet. The children piped up.
“She can do more than that! She nearly blew me off my feet!”
“She’s fast!”
“And she killed Wailer Frogs with the wind!”
Intrigued, Bethal looked down as Ryoka tried to hush the children. She glanced at her husband. Thomast sighed.
“Bethal…”
“If she can do that, maybe, Thomast. Miss Ryoka. Show me. Prove it.”
Bethal turned back to Ryoka. The young woman blinked up at her.
“Show you what? The wind?”
The [Lady] raised a delicate eyebrow.
“At the very least. Show me your Skill. Or magic, or whatever it may be. I won’t send a City Runner to her death. But if you can do something out of the ordinary…”
She glanced around the windless, empty street skeptically. Ryoka stared at her. And then she shrugged.
“What kind of wind would you like?”
“If you have to conjure it. Anything, Miss Griffin. I just want to see something, even if it only ruffles my hair—”
Bethal’s voice cut off. She frowned at her hair, blowing across her face. She stared at Ryoka.
“Well. I suppose that is possible. But can you make a larger breeze? Something—”
She blinked. Now her riding dress was ruffling. Bethal smoothed the dress as the children around her laughed and clapped their hands.
“And is that it?”
Ryoka wiped at her forehead.
“It’s something. That’s control, Miss Walchaís. If you want a gust, I can do something stronger. But I’d have to include more than just you.”
“More than just me? What do you—”
Bethal looked around. And then she saw it. The wind was blowing her hair and her dress. Her horse’s mane blew in the wind. But Sir Thomast, standing next to her, was unruffled. His clothes didn’t move an inch. And neither did Welca. The children on the street were running about, begging Ryoka for a breeze.
And on the street, the air was silent. The Runners and people of Reizmelt looked up. Lady Bethal sat in a small cyclone of wind. She looked through it at Ryoka. The City Runner’s eyebrow was raised. Ryoka grinned.
Uh oh. She’s going to kill me.
She waited for Bethal to explode in fury like before. But the [Lady] just blinked at the wind. And then she laughed. And her laughter was carried away on the breeze.
“Well! Can you show me a gust, then, Wind Runner?”
The air quieted. And then the wind blew harder. The children laughed, and some sailed down the street with their cloth sails. The adults shielded their faces, and the horses tossed their heads. Bethal blinked as a gust swept towards her. The wind blew past Bethal and Thomast, whipping at her hair. The [Chevalier] looked up and shifted, sheltering his wife from the breeze. The wind blew harder still. Lady Bethal shielded her face. One of the Runners lost his balance and slipped, catching himself in the wind.
And Ryoka held still in the street. The air howled around her, but she called on it. She dared the wind to blow, to whip Bethal’s hair across her face. She dared because not daring would have been pathetic. She had one chance. And when she saw Bethal raise a palm, Ryoka asked the wind to stop.
And it was still. Reizmelt’s street was eerily silent in the sudden absence of the wind. Bethal looked at Thomast. He raised his brows. The [Lady] turned to Ryoka. She nodded.
“Give it to her, Thomast.”
“You’re sure?”
The woman gave Thomast a flat look.
“Today I met a [Farmer] and tasted the best corn of my life. Today I was called a coward by my peers. One more chance seems worthwhile. Do it, please. It’s not as if you don’t have another.”
Thomast sighed. But he dismounted and walked over to Ryoka. She stared up at him. He bent.
“Miss Griffin. This is your proof. Do not lose it. Your destination is the grandmaster of the Knights of the Petal. Sir Nathald. And here is your message.”
He bent his head to whisper. The world went silent around Ryoka for a second. Sound returned as Thomast stepped back. Ryoka blinked, wide-eyed. Then she schooled her face.
“I have it word-for-word.”
Lady Bethal laughed.
“In that case, your destination is west. We’re heading there ourselves. But each hour you gain on us is another hour that may matter. So.”
She pointed towards Reizmelt’s western gates as Thomast mounted up. Lady Bethal pointed. And her voice rang across the street.
“Go! Show me what you can do, Wind Runner! Run and let no one stop you.”
She gestured. Ryoka bowed. She bent and adopted a sprinter’s crouch. But she didn’t take off. As Lady Bethal frowned, the wind blew again. The [Lady] looked up and then down. Ryoka was reaching for her belt pouch. She drew something small and blue, a faint statue, and grasped it in her right hand.
“Well. I’m no expert. But you said it just happens. So here I go, Ivolethe.”
The young woman looked up at the sky. The ice was cold in her hand. Ryoka took a deep breath, and then another. The wind picked up and blew harder as Bethal urged her mount back. She leaned against her husband, who drew a riding cloak around her. Ryoka held still, staring upwards.
She would never have another chance like this. Maybe there would be more important deliveries. Maybe riskier ones. But this was the first run of this kind she had done. One where people might stop her, where important decisions rested on her shoulders. She had run before, to save lives. And this was different from that.
But no less important. Ryoka looked at Bethal. The client wanted her to be as fast and as true as possible. So Ryoka clutched the ice until it felt like the cold was burning her skin. She stared up at the sky as the wind blew harder. Runners shaded their faces, and the children shouted and clutched at pieces of cloth, blowing down the street.
The [Guards] on the gates of Reizmelt held their ground, swearing, and the citizens covered their faces and retreated to the shelter of stone as the wind whipped at them, sending grit and debris into the air. And still, Ryoka waited.
“Come on. Is that all? Blow, winds. Let’s show them what magic means.”
And the winds blew. They picked up, stronger and stronger. Bethal shielded her face, laughing with delight. Ryoka stared up, as the wind grabbed at her, pushing at her back, urging her to run. But she held her ground. Waiting. Waiting until she could fly.
Then she felt it. And she took off. Racing past the startled horses as Lady Bethal’s mare reared. Past the children, sailing across the street and calling her name. Past Runners who took off, trying to race her and falling behind. Faster, faster—
 
——
 
They were waiting for her. A group of [Mercenaries]. And a band of adventurers. And they were led by one very upset, very unprofessional [Assassin]. But they were still here, waiting to fall upon the City Runner when she emerged from the city.
No one was happy about it. Not the [Mercenaries], who swore up and down that they wouldn’t risk a confrontation with House Walchaís or her Knights of the Petal—just the City Runner. Not the [Assassin], whose only goal was vengeance and to strike a blow against Bethal Walchaís and her husband, however small. And least of all the adventurers.
One of them edged closer to her leader. Tally, the [Ranger], hissed at their Captain, a [Fire Mage] who’d been all too quick to take the black-clad stranger’s gold, in her opinion. She’d done shady things as an adventurer, but this crossed a line. She soothed the team’s war hound by scratching the dog behind the ears while she hissed at him.
“Levil, this is insane. Are you completely mad? We’re going to sully our name, taking this contract. And what if it’s someone we know?”
“Tally, shush.”
The [Fire Mage] rubbed his hands, absently sending a few sparks falling to the ground. He was nervous. But Tally wouldn’t shut up.
“Have you seen our employer? This isn’t a contract, Levil. I’m not even sure if that shady fellow’s legitimate. His gold’s real, but is he really an [Assassin] from the Assassin’s Guild or a faker?”
She nodded at the shrouded figure arguing with the [Mercenary Captain] opposite them. Levil turned and sighed. Then he hissed at Tally.
“Would you shut up? I know what I’m doing! Just watch the gates, will you?”
“I won’t! We’re the Pithfire Hounds, not mercs or murderers! Either pull out of the deal or I’m walking and so’s the team! We’re not killing an innocent City Runner, no matter if it is Lady Bethal Walchaís or whatever who’s sending the message! That’s politics! We’re not for the Reinharts or against them or anything!”
Tally’s stomach twisted at the thought. They weren’t nearly high level enough to play at politics in Izril. Levil just glared at her.
“Are you deaf? Didn’t you hear what that [Assassin] said? Lady Bethal’s at the Runner’s Guild. So she wants to send a message fast. By Runner, since [Message] spells can be faked or intercepted.”
“So?”
Tally gave Levil a blank look. The [Pyromancer] growled, and their war dog, Makki, growled as well.
“So she’s going to hire the best Runner in the city. And Reizmelt has no Couriers. Who’s the best City Runner in Reizmelt, then?”
The [Ranger]’s eyes widened.
“You don’t mean—oh. But why are we—”
