Bethal rode furiously, but even in her fury, she couldn’t bring herself to harm her horse, so before the animal could tire or risk a fall or injury, she slowed the mad gallop. When she did, Thomast caught up. Breathing heavily, she glared at her husband.
“Go away.”
“I can’t do that, Bethal. You’re unprotected by yourself.”
“Get Kerrig, then. And Welca.”
“They’re investigating the origin of the roses—”
“Leaving you with no choice to follow me, is that it?”
Thomast quietly slowed his panting stallion. He looked at Bethal and shook his head.
“There’s no place I’d rather be.”
She glared at him. The glare bounced off Thomast. After a second, Bethal lightly moved her reins. The mare trotted forwards, down the road.
“I’m not going back to Reizmelt. I’m going for a ride. An hour, you said? I’m going to ride for an hour. Unless you have a problem with that?”
The look in her eyes dared Thomast to say anything. He only nodded.
“A ride is as good as a walk.”
Bethal turned her head and made a disgusted sound. She rode on, and Thomast followed her.
South, down the road. There were too many people for Bethal’s taste, so at the first juncture, she took the road less travelled by. Further away from eyes. The first few minutes were just streaming fury on her side and Thomast quietly waiting. His stallion snorted and kept edging closer to the mare, who wanted to walk closer to the stallion. Bethal, on the other hand, kept moving their horses apart, but animal magnetism drew them together again and again.
After the umpteenth time she’d moved her mare back, Bethal spoke abruptly.
“I know they sent them. All of them. Sir Kerrig will find that out. It’s obvious they were the ones who sent the roses. It wasn’t a ruse.”
“You are most likely correct.”
Her eyes flashed at him.
“I am correct. And when I meet them, I will cut off their heads. Each and every one of them. How dare they, Thomast? How dare they?”
He didn’t reply. She glared at him.
“Don’t you think they deserve it? Don’t you? They called me a coward! When my family, my brother and father and mother all died there! Where were they, Thomast? Where were they?”
She screamed the words, scaring a passing traveller nearly off his horse. Thomast didn’t reply. Bethal cursed and turned down another road, going further away from a larger settlement.
“I’m going to kill them. And you won’t stop me. I won’t calm down. An hour? You can make me wait a year and I won’t forgive them. Ever. They’re going to die.”
“Of course, Bethal.”
She turned her head.
“You can’t trick me. I am going to pick up that axe and do it myself. Do you hear me?”
“Yes. I do.”
His calm reply only incensed Bethal even more. She screamed at him, her hands tight on the reins.
“Are you even listening?”
Her mare stopped, alarmed. Bethal glared at her mount and kicked it to make it move. Thomast patiently soothed his stallion as the horse rolled its eyes back at its master. When Bethal had gotten her mare to keep moving, Thomast cast a glance at the sky. Clear weather and gentle winds. It was at odds with Bethal’s screams. But there were fewer travellers. He cast a glance on the road behind him, frowning for a second. Then he turned to Bethal.
“I’m listening. Don’t forget the children.”
“What?”
Bethal was breathing hard. Thomast fingered his mustache.
“When you cut off their heads with the axe yourself. Don’t forget the children.”
That brought her up short. Bethal turned to glare at Thomast. She opened her mouth, made a fist, and turned her head.
“Only the adults, then. Only their damned parents.”
“Of course. We can ensure the children find another home. They can grow up by themselves.”
Bethal flinched for a second. She bit her lip hard enough to draw blood. She spat it out after a moment.
“Don’t talk me out of it.”
Thomast nodded. He rode along in silence as Bethal healed her lip with a healing potion. Then she spoke up.
“Someone put them up to it. Who? I’m going to kill that person. I will.”
He waited. Bethal glanced at him. She was breathing less heavily now, and her cheeks were less flushed.
“I know what you’ll say! You’ll say this is a trap to make me attack them! Or—or to lose my temper! I am completely calm! But would you stand by while your family’s name was insulted? While you—you’re not a [Lord]. You have no idea what kind of an insult this was!”
“I do not.”
Thomast steadily met Bethal’s glare. She turned her head. Her mare accelerated as the [Lady] urged her to go faster. Thomast caught up after a second. Bethal was breathing hard once more.
“I didn’t mean that. I just meant—they died there! They died, and these ungrateful leeches are accusing me of—of—”
Bethal made an inarticulate noise. She hit the saddle horn in front of her, shouting raging. Her mare again stopped in alarm. Thomast reached over, but Bethal yanked away from him.
“I won’t forgive them! I won’t ever forgive them!”
He nodded. Bethal urged her mare forwards. He never lost her. After her outburst, she was furious. And then, a minute later, crying.
“I still dream about it, Thomast! They were there. And after that Goblin Lord—how dare they? How could they? Mother and Father. I was right there. And then the Goblins were—”
She pointed a trembling finger at spaces and at a time only she could see. Thomast waited. He listened as Bethal’s voice changed to horror. Pain. Fear. And then fury once more. He listened as she vowed fury and bloodshed.
After half an hour, she was crying again. In ten more minutes, she was raging. Furious. The horses continued down the winding trail, halting and stopping. And Thomast listened. Sometimes he spoke, but not to say much. He just waited, as Bethal’s swings between fury and grief grew less and less. He looked at his wife and saw both emotions taking their toll, tiring her.
Was it madness? Insanity, as some called it? The fragile female ego overloaded by grief and past trauma? Thomast had heard it all said, usually behind Bethal’s back. And even then, never to his face. Not anymore. Some were afraid of the last daughter of House Walchaís. But she had never been terrifying to Thomast.
She was, and had always been, just Bethal. And she was weeping again, so he dismounted and offered her a hand. They had gone a long ways, and the road had become completely empty around them. They were in the proximity of a rural village, having passed around it twenty minutes back.
“Come on down. Let’s walk and give the horses a chance to rest.”
Bethal hesitated, but dismounted. She was crying now. And now Thomast let her slide down. He held her for a second.
“Thomast. Do you think they’re right?”
He looked down at her. Bethal blinked up at him, her face a mess of tears and snot. Thomast gripped her arms.
“They are wrong.”
She paused. Now she was looking at him. Now that she was, now that she was listening, Thomast hugged her. She buried her face in his tunic.
“They’re wrong, Bethal. You know that.”
She gripped him tightly, crying into his shoulder.
“I’m sorry I hit you. I’m sorry. But the flowers.”
“You have every right to be angry. You just can’t kill them. It’s a trap. You know that.”
“I know. But—”
That was all she said. But. Thomast squeezed her harder. And she clung to him as if they were the only people left in the world. If only that were true. The [Chevalier] looked around, speaking quietly to Bethal.
“They’re wrong. They weren’t there. And they will never know what it was like. I don’t. You don’t have to forgive them. Just don’t let them trap you.”
“Why the black rose? Why that, Thomast?”
Bethal’s voice broke. Thomast shifted, feeling his rapier moving at his side. He glanced around.
There was no one about. They’d come far, and a little farm was the only thing nearby. A field of crops, a scarecrow at rest…the air was still as Thomast turned to face Bethal. She stepped back a tiny bit and stared up at him. She’d wiped her face onto his damp shoulder. Now she looked even more beautiful. He felt his heart squeeze. He let go of her with one hand and put his hand at his side.
“Someone must have asked them to send it.”
Bethal nodded. She sniffed hard, and her voice took on a hint of normalcy. For the first time, she frowned as she thought. A few residual tears squeezed themselves out of her eyes, but she was done crying.
“Not Tyrion. But who? The Circle of Thorns? Damn them. And damn Magnolia for pulling us into it. She plays her games and she always gets what she wants. This is her fault.”
“You agreed to help her.”
“Because the alternative was war with the Drakes! You heard her!”
Thomast stepped back as Bethal glared. He put a hand on the hilt of his rapier.
“I think it was the correct decision. But you knew there would be consequences.”
Thomast turned his head as he spoke. He stared backwards, at a distant stand of trees, and then eyed the trail around them. Bethal sniffed again.
“But this? Am I supposed to lie down and take this? Really, Thomast?”
“No.”
The man raised his voice. He looked around and then turned to his wife.
“Bethal Walchaís. I love you.”
She stopped. And stared at him. Thomast spoke only to her as he slowly drew the rapier on his right side. He stepped closer to her, and his voice was steady.
“I am not much of a man for words. I don’t know anything else but how to fence. And I am no master at that, just a student. But I do love you. If you go to war, I will be your sword. If you seek the stars, I will learn to fly. That is what I’ve always pledged.”
She looked at him, wide-eyed. She reached out, but Thomast held up a hand. He turned his head.
“Step back, Bethal. You six, come out.”
The [Lady] turned as he pointed with his rapier. The shadows on the road shifted. Six shapes appeared. One stood up, having crawled for a hundred feet in the grass. Another had slipped from shadow to shadow until he’d lain by the road’s side. Two more appeared, their enchantment broken. The last two were lying in the brushes, dozens of feet away. They rose as Thomast looked at them.
“Assassins.”
“Amateurs. Experts wouldn’t have revealed themselves. But they did wait until we were alone. It was my mistake. Stay behind me, Bethal.”
Thomast stepped in front of Bethal, facing the six [Assassins]. His rapier was held in one hand. The [Assassin] who’d crawled close spat. Two flint-colored eyes glared at Bethal and Thomast from a face wrapped by black cloth. He was dressed like an ordinary citizen, a traveller with worn clothes. But his face was wrapped. His identity concealed. The man’s voice was muffled as he glared at Thomast.
“Take him. He’s only a [Fencer] without a bell. He doesn’t—”
He gasped. The [Assassin] next to him leapt back with a shout. The first [Assassin] stumbled and stared down at the rapier that had run him through the chest. Thomast yanked the blade free and stepped back. He’d stepped six feet in a second, lunging forwards in a [Fencer]’s classic strike. He stepped backwards as the other five [Assassins] learned one of the cardinal rules of their craft: don’t make speeches.
Thomast flicked his blade, and a flicker of wind blew along the enchanted metal. He calmly flicked the tip, and the [Assassin] nearest him dodged the slash of air that cut towards her head with a curse. He nodded at the remaining five.
“The [Fencer]’s bell? You must have heard incorrectly. I don’t have one because it makes too much noise. My lady wife despises the sound. Now—”
He leapt again. But this time, his thrust missed the second [Assassin], who screamed as she retreated.
“[Flawless Dodge]!”
Thomast broke off the lunge mid-strike and turned. Two arrows and three darts flickered at Bethal. She turned, lurching left, too slow. Thomast appeared in front of her. He slashed four times, so fast that she couldn’t see his blade move. But the wind and his sword cut down all five missiles mid-flight. Thomast slapped the mare’s flanks and then the stallion’s as the [Assassins] repositioned, shouting at each other.
“Circle them!”
“Deploy the spells!”
“Someone get in here! I can’t get close without—”
“Thomast!”
Bethal cried out. One of the [Assassins] was pointing a wand. Thomast flicked his rapier. Wind cut across the distance between them at the same time the [Assassin] fired the spell from her wand. Lightning shot across the air and exploded in the air as it struck the blade of wind Thomast had created. The [Assassin] cursed, reeling back—
“—Lunge.]”
This time, the blade spearing her through the chest withdrew in an instant. Thomast leapt backwards, rushing towards Bethal across the odd forty feet his Skill had taken him in a moment. The remaining four [Assassins] drew back silently. They looked at each other. One nodded slowly.
“We can do it. Stay back. Force him to use his Skills. Be ready to d—”
He ducked as a blade of wind passed over his head. The other three began throwing spells and weapons. Thomast whirled, cutting them down. And Lady Bethal watched.
This was the final scene. The drama in the middle of the road in the middle of nowhere. Four black killers, a [Chevalier], and a [Lady]. And while two had fallen, the rest refused to die as simply.
Four versus Thomast, and he had to guard Bethal at the same time. And these weren’t bandits, a horde of Goblins, or inexperienced enemies. They were [Assassins], fighting with poisoned darts, blowpipes, and magical items as well as their shortswords and daggers.
And they kept a distance. Thomast might have struck them down even so or closed the distance in a moment, but they bombarded him with spells and weapons. He was a blur, cutting down arrows, slashing the air to make spells explode around Bethal. He couldn’t reach them without abandoning her; the wind slashes he could make were all too easy to dodge.
And all Bethal could do was watch. Her hands were white-knuckled at her sides as she kept very still, at the center of the fighting, watching Thomast parry and pivot around her. She kept her aura up, but the [Aura of Thorns] only worked if someone struck at her. It penetrated flesh and blood. Not steel. Thomast struck down two more poisoned darts as he calmly stepped around her, guarding her from every side.
“Thomast—”
Bethal could see sweat running down the [Fencer]’s brow. He refused to slow, but she knew how hard it had to be. He was a [Fencer], trained to duel, to solo battles, not to defend! And it was ten times harder to protect her and himself. Bethal wanted to tell him to break the stalemate, even if it meant risking her injury. But she dared not disturb his concentration.
