“Mister Lupp, you may not have much interest in a profit. But that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t avoid turning one. What if when you harvested this field, you agreed to sell your very delightful corn to me?”
“You, Lady Bethal? But would it be too much? Even supposing you fed your entire household…I suppose there might be hundreds in your service, come to think of it.”
Lupp eyed Bethal. She flashed him another smile.
“There are indeed. But I think I’d only keep some. The rest I’d put in storage and offer to a [Merchant] who caters to [Chefs] and other experts of cooking and good taste. I think I could get a silver piece for the corn. If not an entire piece, then certainly at least seven copper coins per ear or something equally pleasing. This is the best corn I have ever had. Would you let me take care of that?”
The [Farmer] stared at Bethal. He expected her to laugh, or tell him it was a joke, but she looked serious. Worse, she was holding a hand out.
“One harvest, Mister Lupp. And we can negotiate how much I take. But even if I took half, which I would not, you would be ahead…”
She broke off as Thomast put a hand on her shoulder. The [Chevalier] glanced at Lupp and shook his head.
“You’re disturbing him, Bethal.”
“Am I?”
Bethal blinked. Then she saw how pale Lupp had gotten. She stood up abruptly.
“Why?”
Lupp made a strangled sound.
“Why? Miss, no, [Lady]. It’s one thing for me to chase off a few [Assassins]. But you can walk into my farm and tell me I could earn twice, three times what I’ve ever earned? And you want me to sell to you? A [Lady]? Just like that?”
He stared up at Bethal. She looked uncomprehendingly at Thomast.
“Of course. Why would that be an issue?”
“Life isn’t that simple, Miss. Good fortune doesn’t just ride down like that.”
Lupp informed Bethal with all the authority he could muster. Bethal raised an eyebrow.
“In your experience, Mister Lupp?”
That silenced him. Thomast shook his head. He took Bethal’s shoulder.
“I think Mister Lupp needs a moment.”
“But Thomast—”
“Away, Bethal.”
He firmly pulled her back. Leaving Lupp together with his thoughts. He stared at Bethal and Thomast as they walked away. The [Lady] hissed at her husband.
“I nearly had talked him into it!”
“He was about to kick us both off his farm. Or run himself.”
Thomast gently chastised Bethal. She heard the tone in his voice and glared.
“Oh? And you think leaving him to sell his wonderful corn for a pittance is fair? Isn’t that the best corn you’ve had?”
“It is good. He must either be Level 30 or have a very specialized number of Skills. Probably both. And that’s probably why he has such a small field.”
Thomast picked some corn out from his teeth. Bethal tossed her head.
“Obviously. So why stop me?”
“Because you frightened him. This isn’t like the horses, Bethal. You can’t order him to give you all the corn he produces and make him rich.”
“Richer. Hardly rich.”
“Even so. It’s terrifying for him. And how could he trust you? He may have never seen a [Lady] before in his life. And you come into his life after leaving four people dead in front of his farm and make him the best offer of his life. Isn’t that frightening?”
Bethal thought about this. She hesitated and stared towards the road.
“I see your point. But his corn is delicious. And I’ve discovered him. Why shouldn’t I make him an offer that benefits both of us? That’s what the nobility does, Thomast.”
He didn’t reply. Bethal scowled.
“Oh, we fight. And send each other black roses. But our duty is to our lands. So we spend our gold and time and even our soldiers to benefit ourselves and our people. If a [Lady] is poor, she enriches only herself. But I don’t. And what I focus on prospers. Or is House Walchaís’ famous stock of horses not proof of that?”
“You told me you spent a fortune on horses on a whim when you were younger. It took you two decades to turn it into a profit.”
“Well, it worked, didn’t it?”
Thomast sighed.
“Go slowly, Bethal.”
“I can be slow. I just think that—”
“Your ladyship?”
The couple turned. [Farmer] Lupp had approached them, hat in hands. Deferentially, he bowed. Bethal scowled.
“Stop that. Don’t bow. I told you, call me Bethal.”
He stared at her. Then he awkwardly ducked his head.
“I beg your pardon, Bethal. But if you were serious, I would take you up on your offer. It sounds like a dream, but…seven copper pieces for an ear of corn? I’d be a rich man. And even if I don’t use it, I do have my old age to think about. I’m nearly there myself. And my daughter’s a [Shoemaker]. Not high-level. But if she had the right materials and a bigger shop, she might make something big of herself. So if you’d be willing, I’d take any deal you’d offer me. I can have this corn all harvested in two days. One if need be.”
Bethal cast a triumphant glance at her husband. He looked resigned as she turned back to Lupp with a huge smile.
“No need to hurry, Mister Lupp. We have to return to Reizmelt, and then our estates, I fear. But I promise you I will send a Runner in…say, three days? And I will have a contract with the Merchant’s Guild at that time.”
“I would be greatly honored if you did that, Miss Bethal.”
Lupp ducked his head, looking relieved. Shocked, still; you could see it on his face. Bethal had happily overturned his life in a second. And both she and Thomast saw it.
A moment of regret passed between the two. Bethal’s smile faded. She looked around at the quiet farm and the bodies on the road. She stared at them and shook her head. Then, quietly, she turned back to Lupp.
“I am sorry for disturbing your farm, Mister Lupp. But I keep my word. And if nothing else, your corn was the best I ever tasted. And my word is on that.”
She smiled. And Lupp managed one of his own.
“That’s all I wanted to hear, Bethal.”
She laughed in delight. And then she dug in her belt pouch.
“Fields of gold indeed. Well, let’s call this an advance. I expect to earn it back. So you can take this—”
Lupp glanced down. His eyes went round. He stared at the small pile of gold winking up at him. Actual gold, not corn. He looked at Bethal.
“—and you can use it to hire someone to help you if need be. Or at least hunt down those wretched crows. And if you were to expand your field, I could—Mister Lupp? Mister Lupp?”
The [Farmer] quietly, and without a word, toppled over. Thomast caught him before he hit the ground. He checked Lupp’s breathing, and then stared at his wife. Bethal had the grace to blush.
 
——
 
The pair of [Knights] in pink armor who galloped into Lupp’s farm found Bethal offering the man a stamina potion as he sat weakly on his porch. They galloped up the incline, weapons drawn, scanning for enemies. Lupp stared at the two [Knights] in their pink, pink armor and nearly fainted again. Bethal scowled at Sir Kerrig and Lady Welca.
“Enough of that! Can’t you see you’re scaring [Farmer] Lupp? Have the decency to show some decorum. The [Assassins] are long gone regardless.”
Lupp stared as the two sheepish [Knights] dismounted. Sir Kerrig immediately knelt.
“Lady Walchaís, I regret not being here myself—”
“Thomast was. And Mister Lupp. They were quite enough, and I raced off. You did your job. Stop apologizing and help Thomast get rid of the bodies.”
Bethal ushered the two [Knights] towards the road. Lupp stared at the pair as he sat back.
“They—they’re pink.”
“I thought it was an underused color in [Knight] heraldry. Those are my Knights of the Petal. I have very few of them compared to some [Knight] orders, but I am pleased to say they fall behind few on Izril.”
Bethal informed the [Farmer] pleasantly. He stared at her. Then he went back to staring at his corn. He tried to focus on his field and ignore the [Knights] digging some shallow graves with the [Chevalier] across the road.
“Lady Bethal?”
A quiet voice eventually made both Bethal and Mister Lupp look up. A somewhat dirty young woman in pink armor bowed to Lady Bethal. The [Lady] stood up.
“Welca. Did you find out who sent the roses?”
Welca looked nervous and unhappy.
“Yes, milady. They all came from their senders. The Guild confirmed it. One of the Runners was even approached by a [Knight] on the road. All of them are genuine.”
Bethal’s smile faded a bit. Her eyes flashed as she recalled the very reason she’d come out this far.
“I see. In that case, I think some action is appropriate, don’t you?”
She caught the look in Welca’s eye and sighed.
“No beheadings. Thomast was very clear on that. And I have to agree. I splendidly walked into one trap.”
She indicated the road, now clear of bodies. Thomast and Sir Kerrig trotted up the slope, and the impromptu war council was joined in front of Farmer Lupp’s porch. No one wanted more corn; the grave dirt somewhat cut down on Kerrig and Welca’s appetite.
“So, they are genuine. I knew it. And I told you, Thomast.”
“You did. But you needed to be calm to hear it, Bethal.”
Thomast calmly sat next to his wife. Bethal sighed, vexed.
“I suppose so. But it doesn’t change my feelings. They will pay. An insult must be repaid, whether to a [Lady] or [Farmer]. Don’t you agree, Mister Lupp?”
“I—I—ergh.”
Thomast smoothed his mustache as he interjected a quiet comment.
“The first thing we should do is inform Magnolia. The other [Ladies] of her circle might be in danger as well.”
Bethal sighed.
“If they were attacked, it is far too late for that. Magnolia knows by now, I’m sure.”
Lupp leaned over to Sir Kerrig and whispered.
“Is that Lady Magnolia Reinhart that Miss Bethal’s talking about? The Magnolia?”
The [Knight] nodded, watching Bethal and Thomast. Lupp had to take a walk to calm down. Bethal frowned.
“I don’t care about Magnolia’s game. Let her sort it out. If one of us is dead, there will be blood, Thomast. I’m only concerned with what I am going to do. And my estates. They should be warned.”
The [Chevalier] nodded.
“True. A [Message] spell would be swiftest.”
“Not if I want to mobilize the Knights of the Petal. They won’t answer to [Messages]. And rightly so, if this is some kind of intrigue with [Assassins]. I suppose we must hurry to Invrisil or pray there’s a Courier capable of delivering my message. Reizmelt doesn’t have a Courier, do they?”
Bethal looked hopelessly at her [Knights], both of whom shook their heads. Welca raised an armored hand.
“Lady Bethal, give me leave and I will deliver the [Message] to my peers myself. I can make the ride.”
“And leave Lady Walchaís undefended a second time?”
Sir Kerrig glanced at Welca. She flushed and lowered her hand. Bethal studied Welca thoughtfully.
“I only need one [Knight]. Plus Thomast. As long as one of you shields me, Thomast can kill anyone quite easily. We could send Welca. What do you think, Thomast? Thomast?”
The [Chevalier] was studying the skies. He looked down.
“I would rather send Sir Kerrig to fulfill a task, Bethal. We can ride back ourselves. It will take an hour or two, but we won’t lose much time either way.”
“Really? What do you want Sir Kerrig to do?”
Bethal frowned. Thomast raised an eyebrow.
“Send a message himself. I’ll tell you on the road. But we should be moving if we intend to return to Walchaís lands before dark.”
“Very well. So much for a vacation.”
Bethal stood up in disgust. The two Rose Knights were already on their feet and fetching the horses. Bethal and Thomast said goodbye to Lupp as he stood by his field of corn. The [Farmer] gripped Bethal’s hand lightly, sure that this was all some sort of dream. But her smile told him it was real.
“Goodbye, Mister Lupp. I’m afraid we must fly. Tell me, do you know if Reizmelt has a Courier? Otherwise we’ll be riding west as fast as we can.”
Thomast was talking to Sir Kerrig. The [Knight] nodded and mounted up. He galloped east as Welca held the reins of Bethal’s mare. Lupp blinked at Bethal.
“Reizmelt? No Couriers there, Miss. Some pass by of course, but unless you call for one, there won’t be any.”
“A pity. I won’t wait hours when we could be back quicker ourselves. We’ll be slower. Far slower if we need to avoid any more [Assassins] on the road. It might not matter.”
Bethal sighed exasperatedly. Lupp blinked at Bethal. Then his eyes widened.
“If it’s speed you need, Miss Bethal—I do know of one City Runner who might fit.”
“Really? Are they good?”
The [Lady] raised her brows. The [Farmer] ducked his head.
“I don’t know, Miss. I’ve never seen her run, except for a few seconds as she left. But they do call her the Wind Runner…”
And thus the play came full circle.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin held still. Very still, to control the beating of her heart as she stood in front of Lady Bethal Walchaís. She was taller than the woman, but Lady Bethal somehow felt at equal or greater height. The woman peered at Ryoka and frowned.
“So this is Reizmelt’s best City Runner?”
She stared at Ryoka’s feet. The young woman was instantly embarrassed. She stared at the young woman in pink armor standing behind Bethal instead. Lady Welca Caveis? So she was a [Lady] and a [Knight]? There was also the silent [Chevalier], Sir Thomast, who was giving Ryoka an inspection as well. But the older [Knight], Sir Kerrig, was gone.
Ryoka didn’t know what had happened, but she could piece together the clues. Sir Kerrig and Lady Welca had taken the Runners back to the guild and interrogated the [Receptionist] at length about the origin of the black roses. She had just confirmed that all of them were indeed sent by each group that had been represented—an arduous process that had taken nearly an hour in itself and left the Runners cooling their heels and talking anxiously—when news had come in like thunder.
From the [Mage]’s Guild. There had been multiple attacks by [Assassins] on a number of [Ladies]. All in public, and all affiliated with Lady Magnolia. That had been enough to make everyone in the Runner’s Guild wonder if there was a war starting between the nobility. But the two Rose Knights had taken off like bolts of lightning once Sir Kerrig got a [Message] spell on the little scroll he carried. No guesses why.
Neither Welca nor Sir Thomast looked like they’d just killed someone. Okay, maybe Welca did. But Ryoka couldn’t help but feel a prickle as she stared at Thomast’s blade. Why else would the [Knights] have rushed off? And where was Sir Kerrig?
And why had Lady Bethal immediately gone to the Runner’s Guild on returning to Reizmelt, nearly an hour later, and demanded to see Ryoka of all people? It was a mystery. But Ryoka thought at least one piece was about to be unraveled now. If only Bethal would stop staring.
