“We’re aiming left. Wait for my signal. Why do you think everyone else isn’t giving me grief? They’ve figured it out!”
Levil hissed back. Tally turned bright red. She looked at her teammates. Keima rolled her eyes. Lamont, Bram, Ullica…they were checking their weapons. Levil met their eyes and nodded.
As one, the Pithfire Hounds looked left. The [Mercenary] band glanced up. One of them eyed the war dog uneasily from his mount.
“You lot ready? We need to hit whoever’s coming out fast.”
“Don’t worry about us. We’re fast. And we’re ready.”
Levil conjured an orb of fire. The [Mercenary] nodded shortly. He glanced up at the Pithfire Hounds as the adventurers casually glanced at the city. Now Tally was picking out a target. Levil nudged her.
“Stop being obvious.”
“I’m sorry, do you want me to help or not?”
“If you weren’t so bad at hiding things, I wouldn’t have to keep anything from you. Which is rich, because you’re our [Ranger]!”
“Bite him, Makki.”
The dog sniffed the air. Then she howled. The [Mercenaries], Pithfire Hounds, and lone [Assassin] looked. Up. Levil stared at Reizmelt. Then he glanced up.
“The wind’s gone flat.”
“What is that?”
The [Fire Mage]’s head snapped back down. His eyes widened. Someone was coming out of the gates of the city.
“That’s her.”
“That’s the City Runner! Get her!”
The [Assassin]’s voice cracked with fury. The [Mercenaries] mounted up in an instant. Three were on horseback, four on foot. Two [Mages]. Just like the Pithfire Hounds. Levil held up a hand as his team tensed.
“Wait for it—”
The three [Mercenaries] on horseback came down the slope with shouts. One had a bow. Levil began to swing his hand down. Then he saw the figure racing out of Reizmelt’s gates disappear. Something billowed up around her. Levil stared as the [Mercenaries] pulled up their horses uncertainly. Tally blinked.
“Sand?”
It was sand. Dirt and sand, being picked up from the road. From Ryoka’s bag. It blew upwards. And Levil saw a familiar shape emerge.
A billowing dust cloud, a hundred paces high, blew across the road. It raced across the earth, a vortex of sand and dust and debris. It whirled, a miniature twister. Just like the one that had saved his team. But as the [Fire Mage] watched, he noticed one key difference.
“She’s in it.”
The whirlwind blew down the road. But the City Runner did not emerge from it, or run behind it. She was in the vortex. And the [Mercenaries] on horseback drew up, reluctant to even go near the dust.
“It’s just sand! Get in there! Kill the Runner!”
The [Assassin] bellowed, losing his cool. The [Mercenary Captain] shook his head. He pointed a staff towards the whirlwind.
“We’ll never catch her with horses. They’ll go blind a hundred paces out. Net spells. I’ll throw a fireball straight down the tornado. You, adventurers, help us—”
“Now.”
Levil turned. He pointed a wand left and spoke a word.
“[Fireball].”
The [Mercenary Captain]’s eyes widened in horror. He raised his staff, but it was too late. The bloom of fire blasted towards Levil, and he felt the rush of heat. Makki raced forwards, barking, and the three [Mercenaries] on horseback turned.
“Pithfire Hounds, forwards! Take them out!”
Keima, Lamont, and Ullica charged. The [Assassin] leapt out of the ashes, cursing. He raised a trembling shortsword.
“You dirty adv—”
Tally’s arrow sprouted from his stomach. He grabbed the arrow, and Levil blasted him with fire. The [Assassin] fell backwards, and Levil turned. The dust cloud was racing west. He saluted it, then joined his team.
“Past favor repaid. But mostly profit. Good luck, Wind Runner.”
The Pithfire Hounds closed on the remaining [Mercenaries]. The wind blew west. At her desk, Alime, the [Receptionist], stared at the cloud over the roofs of the city. She could see it, even through the window. Shakily, she looked around. Then she snapped at one of the other [Receptionists] on duty.
“Time it. Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner, left Reizmelt at half past noon. Tell the Runner’s Guild in Walta to time her arrival. This run’s going to define her. Tell them to expect her. And tell them—here comes Reizmelt’s Wind Runner.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t a simple run. And it wasn’t quick, either. Each step was blowing wind. As the dust picked up, Ryoka ran through a cloud of sand and grit. She could see ahead of her—barely ten feet. So she followed the road. She followed her instincts. And the whirling dust around her cleared and shifted as the first minute became an hour.
Her lungs burned. Her arms pumped. And Ryoka ran. She didn’t pace herself. She didn’t slow down. She just kept the same, furious pace she’d started with. As if she could keep it up forever. And for the first hour, she could. The blowing wind, the urgency of her task, Lady Bethal’s daring, it kept her going.
But then she faltered. Ryoka slowed, going from signpost to signpost. The dust dropped out of the air. She looked around wildly as the wind slowed. Pursuers? Ambushes?
She had no idea. She couldn’t slow. But an hour in and Ryoka had blown through her reserves. If this was a marathon or a race—and it was—she was overtaxed. In her world, she would have been a fool.
“In my world.”
Ryoka spat as she checked the signpost again. She grabbed a potion from her belt and downed it as she ran left, down the main road for Walta. The stamina potion burned its way down her throat. And suddenly, Ryoka felt more energy burning from her legs. She took a breath and ran.
The wind picked back up. A procession of wagons on the road halted, and the drivers cursed. But the dust cloud had emerged once again, and nothing could stop Ryoka. She ran. But her reinvigorated body could only go so far. After ten minutes, she began to flag.
Healing potion. This time her aching bare feet healed after a single mouthful. Her legs felt strong again. Ryoka picked up her pace. And time stretched on.
 
——
 
No pacing. No slowing from that mad run. Stamina potion again, the instant Ryoka felt her pace slow. And then another healing potion. The shots of energy and relief ran through her like the strongest energy drink. So much concentrated energy it felt like poison.
Which it was.
The second hour was no better than the first. The third hurt worst of all. By the fourth, Ryoka had stopped processing the trauma. Her body was healing, refilling itself with energy. Now she felt like more machine than person. She drank down the last drop of her stamina potion.
She was running as fast as she could, in the center of the vortex of sand. It had blown out twice, but the winds faithfully picked up the grit Ryoka poured out of her bag of holding. And Ryoka was still running.
 
——
 
Sprinting, racing across the ground. As fast as she had ever run.
The fourth empty bottle hit the ground as Ryoka dropped it, heedless of littering. She felt the rush of energy pour through her limbs, and she picked up the pace again, as if she had just begun running, not started four hours ago. And she was getting close.
“Clear winds.”
Ryoka gasped. The sand cleared from the wind, allowing her to see ahead of herself. She knew where to go. The signs told her she was getting closer to Walta. But she still had far to go.
And she was flagging. The third stamina bottle shook in Ryoka’s grip. Her entire body was shaking. And when she finally forced the liquid down her throat, it burned and hurt. Ryoka felt sick. But she couldn’t stop. If she stopped, she’d collapse.
 
——
 
The potions hurt now. As bad as mana potion sickness. But she was closer. Ryoka could feel it. The winds were at her back, propelling her forwards. She didn’t have the strength for the dust cloud. Or—or was it that the winds sensed her weakening spirit? Either way, they had slackened.
But they still blew. And she still ran. Her feet were cut up. Ryoka took a mouthful of healing potion and threw up as she ran. Too many potions. She gulped down one last mouthful and ran. Fast—as fast as—
If you can’t run faster, even with magic, what’s the point?
A laughing, running demon was urging her onwards. He was a black shadow against the tunnel of Ryoka’s vision. She chased him across a field, across roads, around large wagons and shouting voices. Hands dragged at her. Horses raced past her. They wanted to drag her down. But the wind blew, and no one touched her.
Fast. Faster. So many potions. Ryoka threw one behind her. She didn’t know if she’d drunk it or not. Or if she’d even opened it. Had it been full? She staggered.
The ground was harder. Not dirt anymore. Ryoka looked around. Something—a bright blue shape beckoned her right. And ahead. Ryoka ran after it, as fast as she could.
The tunnel was getting longer. The darkness more profound. Ryoka paused to throw up on a rock. The rock moved, shouted, and kicked at her. She staggered.
“Sorry.”
“What the hell are you—what kind of trash Street Runner are you?”
The rock turned into a person. A staring Centaur. A Centaur. Ryoka focused on her as she wiped her mouth. The Centaur was standing and pointing at her filthy leg. Ryoka leaned on her.
“Sorry. Where am I?”
“Walta’s Runner’s Guild! You just came in here and—hey! HEY!”
Ryoka pushed past the Centaur Runner. Centaur Runner? The desk swam in front of her. She saw a woman rising behind it.
“Ryoka Griffin?”
“That’s me. I haven’t run in a circle, have I? Alime?”
Ryoka glanced around. The guild looked so familiar. The [Receptionist] shook her head.
“I’m not Alime. You’ve been running for hours. You outran three ambush parties.”
“I did? I didn’t even notice them. I—I have a delivery. For the Grandmaster of the Petal Knights. Sir Nathald.”
“I know. He’s on his way. You’re sick. Miss Griffin. How many potions did you take?”
“Six? Eight?”
Ryoka heard a mutter. The woman turned to a patch of darkness on Ryoka’s left, and then to her.
“Healing and stamina?”
“Maybe.”
“Help her throw up.”
“I’m fine. I did—”
Ryoka felt an unfriendly finger in her throat. She gagged. And then she did throw up. The world hazed out, and then stopped being so dark. Someone was offering her something. Ryoka tasted water. The [Receptionist] was bending over her when Ryoka looked up.
“The [Knights] are here for you, Miss Griffin.”
The young woman just wanted to lie on the ground. But somehow, that got her up. She clutched her side, the bag of holding she’d refused to let anyone touch.
“Okay. I have it right here. I’m—”
She got up with someone’s help. The [Receptionist] pulled Ryoka to her feet with the angry Centaur. She pushed Ryoka to a group of pink people.
“One more thing. Miss Griffin. You just ran seventy-nine miles in less than five and a half hours. And that’s as the bird flies. You’ve passed the qualifying speed for a Courier.”
“Oh?”
Ryoka blinked at the woman. She turned and staggered past her.
“I had help. The wind’s with me.”
The arm holding her snorted. The half-horse girl dragged Ryoka forwards, her hooves clopping on the ground.
“Centaurs are faster. This one’s half-dead.”
“She outran three ambush parties. The first is wiped out. The other two never even caught her—”
“I never even saw…”
Ryoka blinked and stopped. Her vision swam clearer. A group of pink…[Knights] were assembled in front of her. Three dozen. A man with a grey beard and hair removed his helmet.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin?”
“That’s me. Who’re you?”
“Sir Nathald. We were told to expect you. You have a [Message] of utmost importance for us. Do you have proof of Lady Walchaís’ authority?”
“I do.”
Ryoka blinked. She nodded her head and nearly fell over. Sir Nathald and the Centaur girl caught her. She stared hard at the [Knight].
“Do—do you have proof you’re all Rose Knights?”
The pink-armored [Knights] glanced at each other, bemused and amused. The Centaur snorted. Sir Nathald didn’t laugh. He reached out and offered Ryoka something.
“Here. Will this suffice?”
It was a seal. Custom-made. Ryoka studied it. It was a match of the seal that Bethal had shown her. The unique rose-quartz melded with the crimson wood would be very hard to forge. She nodded.
“Pretty good. Got more proof?”
“The Runner’s Guild vouches for them. Show them your proof, Miss Griffin.”
The [Receptionist] appeared in Ryoka’s view. The Runner gave up. She reached for her bag of holding and pulled something out. It was tiny and cold in her hand. It chimed softly as she held it out.
“Here’s mine.”
A silver bell. It was much worn, scratched on the side. The [Knight] peered at it close, noting two of the scratches. He nodded after a second.
“Sir Thomast’s. He would never give it up. And it’s genuine.”
“You’re sure, sir?”
“A [Fencer]’s bell. I’m sure. Pardon me, [Receptionist] Clavine. Please clear your Guild. What is your message, Miss Griffin?”
Ryoka felt people moving around her. She blinked up at Sir Nathald.
“Password. Thomast told me…Bethal says that Sir Tipel’s favorite steed is a warhorse. But a Griffin would be much more desirable if he had the courage to tame it. But Lady Walchaís has always wanted to ride—”
“A Kraken.”
Sir Nathald’s voice was amused. Ryoka nodded.
“Double authentication complete. Here’s the message. Thomast sent it. Bethal’s been sent black roses. People tried to kill her.”
Amid the gasps of the Rose Knights, Ryoka leaned forwards. She tried very, very hard not to throw up into Sir Nathald’s ear as she whispered.
“And this is what he wants you to do…”
She looked up at him. Sir Nathald’s face didn’t change one bit.
“Of course. We’ll lock down the border at once. You five, secure the estate. Eighteen will ride to escort Lady Walchaís and Sir Thomast home. The rest of you—with me.”
 
——
 
“They’ve received Ryoka Griffin’s message and confirmed it. An escort is riding towards us now.”
Thomast announced as he checked the [Message] scroll. Bethal sighed, slightly relieved as she checked the forest road ahead of her.
“Good.”
“We need a more secure way of communicating, Bethal. Something that can’t be blocked. Or else next time the Order of the Petal might not be able to trust our communications.”
Thomast rolled up the magical scroll. Bethal smiled crookedly.
“That City Runner seemed to do the job. But I agree. In a world where we can watch what’s happening in Baleros, we still can’t trust [Message] spells. Couriers and Runners are still more reliable. I’ll ask if Magnolia has some artifact stashed away. Or else we’ll simply have more [Knights] do the delivering of messages.”
“Agreed. But for now, you and I will ride with at least an escort of six at all times.”
Thomast turned to Bethal. She sighed.
