Slowly, Bethal stared down at her right hand. She had a priceless ring, one of the treasures of House Walchaís, on her index finger. It was far plainer than the wedding band on her ring finger, but it could deflect a number of attacks that came at her. But poison? Thomast had healing potions, and so did she. But some poisons could overwhelm even the best potion. So she hesitated. And then, within less than five minutes of the battle starting, it came to its finale.
“[Daggerhail].”
“[Power Shot].”
“[Flash Cut]!”
Three of the [Assassins] stopped and shouted. Dozens of daggers filled the air as, from the other side, the [Assassin] with the bow shot one arrow. The third [Assassin] charged in, her shortsword flashing at Thomast’s chest. The [Chevalier] paused. And then he vanished.
Bethal heard a ringing sound. She saw the daggers flying at her, and then she saw Thomast. Striking down a dagger in front of her, parrying the charging [Assassin], running them through, knocking down a dagger to the side, slashing the arrow in half, turning with the force of the impact—in a dozen places at once! Teleporting from spot to spot, each time striking, in a moment—
[Flicker Onslaught]. A Skill for a Skill. The daggers crashed out of the sky and the [Assassin] screamed and died and the arrow meant for Bethal exploded in the air as time resumed. Thomast stopped, panting and whirled. Because he had been counting. So had Bethal. She saw the fourth [Assassin] appear in her shadow.
“[Shadow Leap].”
He was close. Too close. Thomast’s last step had carried him away. Now he lunged, but slow, too slow. The [Assassin] raised a dagger, mouth opened wide to scream a Skill—
And the scarecrow shot him through the head.
The man’s knees buckled. He collapsed as Thomast’s blade ran him through and the [Fencer] dove, blocking a blow meant for Bethal. But it never came. As the [Assassin] collapsed, the two remaining [Assassins], Bethal, and Thomast looked around, trying to figure out what had happened. Then they saw the scarecrow.
There he was, standing in front of his field of corn. With a bow. The fake scarecrow raised his bow and put a second arrow into the air. The [Assassins] dodged out of reflex, and Thomast got to his feet. The remaining two stared at the [Farmer]. One raised his hands, dropping his blade.
“No. Mercy. Please?”
He looked at the [Chevalier] turning to him with bloody blade in hand. Both he and his companion fled. They ran, one leaping from shadow to shadow, the other running as fast as any City Runner, his figure blurring.
“Go!”
Bethal shouted. Thomast leapt after both. She saw all three vanish for the second and heard a scream. Bethal stared at the two dead figures around her and stepped back. The one with an arrow in his head still held his poisoned dagger.
“Miss! Miss! Are you alright?”
Bethal turned. The scarecrow was waving at her. Bemused, she saw him run over. Then she saw how the [Farmer] had disguised himself and laughed. He wasn’t laughing. The man put an arrow in all four bodies on the ground as he checked the road. Only Bethal and Thomast’s horses were moving, trotting back and snorting, eyes wide. The scarecrow archer looked around.
“What—what were they? [Bandits]?”
“[Assassins]. Thank you for your help, sir.”
Bethal curtsied in her riding dress. The [Farmer] looked at her with wide eyes. Then he cursed and raised his bow. Someone was leaping towards them down the road. It was Thomast. His steps blurred him forwards, much like the [Flash Step] spell. The [Fencer] stopped, eying the [Farmer]. The scarecrow put down his bow.
“Thomast. Did you get them?”
The [Chevalier] shook his head.
“I caught one. The other one would have taken me too long. There might be more about.”
He reached for his side and wiped his blade on a handkerchief, then tossed it aside as he stared at the [Farmer]. The man stared at him, with awe as much as fear. Then at Bethal. The [Lady] was frowning, and in his opinion, far, far too composed after what had just happened.
“Do you think there might be more on the road back?”
“Or around us, waiting for me to lower my guard.”
Thomast nodded. He looked around warily. The [Farmer] hesitated, and then broke in, waving one hand.
“Not on my farm, sir. No one enters my fields, animal or person without my knowing it. Them six were the only ones about. And you two.”
Both Bethal and Thomast looked at him. Uncertainly, the [Farmer] waved at his farm.
“You’ll be safe there. At least, I’ll know when someone comes closer. Even a Level 40 [Thief] can’t hide on my lands. So long as we’re right on them. Come on. We can hide there, and I can call for some help. Blow a horn, maybe—”
He was beckoning them towards his fields, eyes wide with fright. Bethal looked at Thomast. He raised his brows. Bethal looked the scarecrow archer, and then eyed his field of corn. She clapped her hands.
“Very well. What did you say your name was, sir [Farmer]?”
The man hesitated.
“Who? Me, Miss? Lupp.”
 
——
 
“So this is your farm? And you live here alone?”
Around fifteen minutes later, Lady Bethal was sitting on Lupp’s porch, eying his fields and home with interest. Thomast was silently staring at the one cow. Lupp was still shaking.
“That’s right, uh, uh, Lady Bethal. I live by myself. I’m a simple man, so forgive my rudeness.”
“You may call me Bethal. And I owe you a debt of gratitude, sir. Thomast might have been badly hurt, charms or not. You helped us, and I will not forget that.”
The [Lady] gave Lupp a bright, beautiful smile. She was out of place in his normal, regular farm. But her presence was also soothing, so Lupp began to stop hyperventilating. He gestured at the black bodies lying on the road.
“You’re awfully calm, Lady—Miss Bethal. Is being attacked that normal to you?”
“More than you might think, sir. Assassins? Rare. But I’ve seen worse.”
The [Lady] turned her head to regard her husband. The [Farmer] licked his lips.
“I’ve seen worse too. But I’ve never actually seen an [Assassin] before. You hear stories—but sometimes I think they’re just stories. The Assassin’s Guild isn’t real, though, is it?”
“All too real. And all too mundane, I’m afraid. Thomast, stop bothering that cow. What do you think they were?”
Thomast turned his head. The two horses were calmly grazing nearby. The [Chevalier] sighed.
“They were amateurs. Good ones, but rookies. Probably the first tier or rank of recruits the Assassin’s Guild calls their own. They were well-armed, though, which means they were paid in advance. And quite a bit. They wouldn’t have been a problem if Sir Kerrig or Lady Welca were here.”
Bethal’s eyes narrowed.
“But I raced off. And if you hadn’t followed me, I would be dead. So someone planned this. The roses and [Assassins].”
Lupp stared from Bethal to Thomast with open mouth. This was all far, far too momentous for him. His head was spinning, and he needed a lie down. He clutched his bow to his side as he stared at Thomast’s expensive rapier, which probably could have bought and sold his farm four times over.
“Begging your pardon, miss. But who are you? And who’s your, uh, husband?”
He was rewarded for his guess with another smile from Bethal.
“I am Lady Bethal, Mister Lupp. As I said. And this is Thomast. Sir Thomast, if you like. But we’re just travellers. I regret disturbing your lovely farm. You said you manage it alone? And you grow corn?”
She pointed down at the field. Lupp nodded a few times.
“That’s right. Nonsfru’s best corn. Best corn for miles, really. Not that I’m biased, mind. I’ve never tasted better. But I’d say my field’s the finest. I have all these Skills, you see. But about those [Assassins]—”
“Really? The best around? Why don’t you sell to a city, then?”
Distracted, Lupp wrinkled his nose.
“And have to cart my corn in? Or hire someone to do the selling? When my wife was around, we’d do it sometimes. But it’s hard selling corn, even the best corn. These days I don’t bother. And the village loves my corn. Why not sell it to them?”
“Fair point. I want some. I’m hungry. Thomast, do you want corn?”
“I’m sending a signal to our [Knights], Bethal. They’re riding towards us as fast as they can, but they’ll be at least thirty minutes.”
The man replied calmly as he wrote on a little scroll he’d pulled out of his bag of holding. Lupp stared at the bag of holding. Bethal got to her feet.
“Well then. I’m having some.”
She walked down the hill from the house. Absently, as if he didn’t notice what he was doing, Thomast followed her, still writing. So Lupp did too. The cow and horses came along as well for solidarity.
“What huge plants!”
Bethal exclaimed as she stared up at the corn, which towered above her. Lupp decided to explain, because corn was the only thing in this world that made sense at the moment.
“Ah, that’s because of my Skill, Miss Bethal. I can control the quality of my plants. And I choose the best seeds. I don’t grow them any higher because the damn birds love them. But I’ve seen corn tall as sixty feet.”
Bethal turned to stare at Lupp.
“You must be joking, sir.”
He grinned, taking off his scarecrow’s hat.
“No, Miss. I’ve seen it myself. And corn can grow monstrously tall, even without a Skill helping it. To be fair, once they get any taller than these, they need scaffolding to hold them up. Or a bit of wind blows them right over. But that’s just for size. My corn’s got taste too!”
“So I see. Would you mind if I took this one?”
Bethal reached up. Lupp nodded, and she plucked an ear off the stalk. She blinked at the weight and size of the corn, husked it, and sniffed.
“It smells good. Thomast, do you want a bite?”
He was still writing. Bethal sighed and took a bite. Her brows raised, and she began chewing. Lupp stared at her.
“How good is it?”
He had confidence in his corn. But she was a [Lady]. Lupp waited. He got no response. Bethal slowly, methodically, and unapologetically cleaned the corn until there was not a single kernel left. Then she smiled.
“That was the finest corn I have ever eaten, I think! Thomast, you must try some. Mister Lupp wasn’t exaggerating!”
The [Farmer] looked delighted. Thomast looked up.
“Really?”
“Yes. Have some! Mister Lupp, how much for some corn?”
“Oh, oh, for free, of course. If it’s just an ear or two—”
Lupp found himself holding another ear of corn. And somehow, he found himself sitting back on his porch, chewing his favorite meal while Bethal and Thomast bit into theirs. The two sat together. Lupp kept staring at them, but Bethal was apparently ravenous, never mind that some corn got on her expensive riding dress. Thomast ate more slowly, but he left nothing behind either, save for the cob, which he offered to his stallion. The horse gave him an affronted look, but ate it anyways.
“Delicious.”
Lady Bethal closed her eyes. Lupp still couldn’t take his eyes off the bodies in the road. He looked at Bethal and wondered what kind of a person could see death and not blink like that. And he saw her open her eyes and give him much the same look.
“So you grow your corn here, Mister Lupp. Every day of the year you can. And you take this wonderful corn and you sell it to the local village. For what? A copper coin per ear of corn?”
“I couldn’t charge them that!”
The [Farmer] was horrified at the idea. He stared at the field and imagined what would happen if he charged that rate.
“That’s prices for the winter. It’s a copper for two and a deal of one for three if they buy in bulk. That field’ll earn me…let’s see. Three or four per stalk. And I plant around six hundred. And I harvest twice a season. Sometimes three if I’m quick. So, er, this field’ll earn me…”
He tried to do the math, his brow furrowing. Thomast’s lips moved. Bethal stared at the field.
“Six hundred crops of corn works out to six hundred pieces of copper if they all have three ears and you sell at your cheapest rate, Mister Lupp. At your best, if you assume half of your corn has three ears and half has four, seven hundred ears sold, half at two per copper and half at three per copper, earns you exactly eight hundred and seventy five copper coins.”
Lupp stared at Bethal. She went on, counting on her fingers.
“Let’s see. A silver coin is ten copper. And gold is twenty silver. So this field is, in fact, worth around four gold coins, seven silver, and five copper. Does that sound right to you, Mister Lupp?”
The [Farmer] stared at Bethal. He frowned, bit his lip, and nodded.
“That’s…almost what I earned from last harvest. Of course, it goes up closer to winter. Down in the summer and fall with the other harvests…”
He flinched at the look in Bethal’s eye.
“You sell your corn for less than five gold coins, Mister Lupp?”
“I can live off five gold coins for months, Miss. Even with repairs and buying other things, it’s usually more than enough.”
The [Farmer] mumbled as he played with his hat. He was thinking of how much he actually spent. Arrows were expensive. A lot more expensive than corn, but it took work to make the shafts and tip them with iron. Bethal shook her head. She looked at her husband.
“Maybe it’s Reizmelt. The area is flatland, and the soil is good. Farms were common. And Blaiseford has very rich soil thanks to the swamps. Even so. Mister Lupp, if you took your harvest into Reizmelt, you could and should charge two copper coins per ear of corn. For this quality, people might pay three. And if you put this before a [Lord] who had the appetite for corn—and many do enjoy it—you could sell an ear of corn for a silver coin apiece.”
Lupp choked on his own spit. Bethal patted him on the back. When the man had his voice back, he spluttered.
“I’d never have the—the stones to do that, Miss Bethal! Never. I don’t even go down to the village most weeks. Having to go to a city and charge prices like that—”
His stomach churned at the thought. Bethal nodded.
“Which is why the stomachs of the good folk of Nonsfru have profited immensely. As have any [Traders] who come by your farm. But you could be earning more, Mister Lupp.”
“I don’t need that much coin, Lady Bethal.”
“No. You don’t. But you might. If you fall sick. If you’d like to hire someone to help you harvest the crops. Or, perhaps, if you simply wanted to hire a [Hunter] to eradicate your crows.”
Bethal waved a hand at the fields. Sure enough, Lupp saw a flock circling. He cursed, but he was out of costume. Thomast glanced up and unsheathed his rapier. He thrust once, and after a second, a crow fell out of the sky in two pieces. The rest of the flock flew away. Lupp gaped at the man. Bethal smiled.
