War. Was it just her, or was there too much war? Both in her world and here. Not a day passed when Ryoka didn’t hear about the King of Destruction in Chandrar or about some conflict in Baleros between companies. A spat in Terandria between kingdoms.
Battles at sea. Dead gods or living ones, wasn’t there enough with just monsters? But then again—
There she stood. Tears still ran down her cheeks. She was still weeping. But she had promised war and death. With a smile, no less. She had commanded her [Knights] to war just like that. And she was like Ryoka. That was what the young woman felt.
Lady Bethal Walchaís. She stood in the middle of the street, the solo actor in a play where everyone was the audience. And Ryoka had a terrible, hideous urge to laugh at that moment, while Bethal’s words were still ringing in her ears.
Not because Ryoka didn’t believe Bethal was serious. Or because she couldn’t fathom what Lady Bethal was talking about. She had forced a street to kneel with her presence alone. As she had spoken about the Sacrifice of Roses, Ryoka had felt the pain and loss as if it had happened to herself. A fragment of the agony Bethal was giving off.
It was like heat. Yes, like heat. If Bethal was the center, then the heat was radiating off her. But instead of heat it was pain. That was what her aura felt like to Ryoka. Pure, concentrated emotion. And still, Ryoka wanted to laugh.
Because it wasn’t funny. Not really. Not at all. The black roses lay on the ground, amid the blood dripping from Bethal’s hand. And the tears. That wasn’t funny at all. But if Ryoka didn’t laugh, what else could she do? She had not been there.
Bethal turned, her face a mask of tragedy underneath that polite, eerily cheerful smile she’d adopted. Her [Knights] looked at each other. And Ryoka waited for blood and carnage, perhaps starting with the petrified runners standing in front of Lady Bethal. But at that moment, a second actor strode onto the scene. Stage…center. He came out of the mansion behind Bethal.
“Thomast. There you are. Where were you?”
Bethal turned to him. Ryoka saw a man dressed in a light red coat and long, black breeches. His hair was yet unmarked by gray; it was a warm black, and he had decided a mustache would be his only nod to facial hair. His eyes were a mix of yellow and green, and he walked with a long, unbroken stride. Cat-like, one might say, but Ryoka had seen cats wipe out spectacularly. This man walked as if he knew where each step would go exactly. And he carried a sword, a long and thin duelist’s blade, at his side.
“Bethal. My apologies. I was seeing to our luggage. What happened?”
His voice was quiet. Lady Bethal turned to him. Her smile trembled on her lips.
“Thomast. Did you hear me? I said, I need an axe. And I want to summon all my Knights of the Petal. We’ll ride on the nearest house. Which is it? Never mind. We’ll start with House Averin and work our way down. I want to kill at least six of my peers by midnight—”
The man looked at her. And then at her hand. He reached out and caught Bethal’s wrist.
“You’ve cut yourself. Lady Welca, a healing potion.”
The female [Knight] started and fumbled at her belt. Sir Kerrig, the older man, was faster and handed Thomast an opened vial. He poured some of the liquid on Bethal’s hand. Three drops, and the deep cuts left by the thorns were gone. Bethal stared up at Thomast.
“Did you hear me? I said—”
“Black roses. I heard your voice. So that’s why.”
Thomast studied the ground. His eyes passed over the Runners, and they flinched, but Thomast had none of the fire coming off of Bethal. The [Lady] glared.
“Yes! They sent them to me. To me, Thomast. Do you see it? Do you see what they dared to do?”
“I see it.”
“Well? What are you going to do? I know what I shall do. You, [Butler]. An axe. This mansion has one, doesn’t it?”
Bethal clicked her free hand at the [Butler] hiding behind the door of the mansion. He jumped and stammered.
“An—an—”
“I rented this mansion for the week. If it does not have an axe, I will burn it to the ground. I want one in front of me. Axe. Now.”
Bethal’s voice snapped as she lost the last veneer of patience. And this time, the snap in her voice was like a whip. The [Butler] jumped, then ran into the house. Ryoka felt a prickle down her spine. So that was a [Lady]’s ability to command. It was eerily similar to Magnolia’s charm Skill, only more direct. For a second, Ryoka had been about to run and find an axe herself. No, this wasn’t Magnolia’s charm, in fact. It was closer to Teriarch.
“Good, good. Now, I want my Knights of the Petal armed. Sir Kerrig, grab that battleaxe. Lady Welca—”
“Bethal. Wait.”
Thomast captured Bethal’s other hand as she pointed at her [Knights]. The woman halted and glared up at him.
“Are you still catching up, Thomast? I said—”
“I heard you. And I’m afraid I must object.”
“Object?”
Now Ryoka felt a prickling sensation in the air. Bethal looked up at her husband, and the air around her felt like thorns. It was so real that Ryoka and Todel, who were closest to her, shifted back. Thomast, who was right next to his wife, nodded.
“You’re not thinking straight, Bethal. You can’t repay this with blood.”
“I can and will. Don’t try to talk me out of it—”
“Give me one hour. At least to prove these were sent by everyone who named themselves.”
“You want to prove it? Why? No one else would dare appropriate so many names, not even Magnolia herself! And I will question my peers when I meet them face-to-face. Politely. And if they lie…let go of my hands, Thomast.”
The thorns were growing stronger. Thomast, however, was undeterred.
“Not until you promise to wait for one hour.”
“Why? So I can cool down? I won’t. Let go of me, Thomast. I won’t warn you twice.”
Bethal tugged at Thomast’s hands. He didn’t budge.
“No. I insist, Bethal. An hour’s all I ask. We’ll go for a…walk.”
“A walk?”
She hissed at him. Suddenly, the thorns in the air around her became real. Ryoka shouted in pain, and Todel howled. Both stumbled back. Ryoka stared at her legs and grabbed at the thorns that were buried there. She saw nothing—until blood started running from several holes in her legs. Long, deep cuts. Todel was clutching at his arm. The shoulder he’d turned towards Bethal was running with blood. From sharp cuts much like Ryoka’s own.
The other Runners stared at the two in horror. They drew back fast. Bethal turned to glare at them, and Thomast, who hadn’t moved, sighed.
“You’re injuring them, Bethal. Pull back your aura.”
The woman glared. But the thorny feeling around her faded just a tad so the thorns were imaginary instead of simply invisible. Ryoka grabbed a potion and splashed it on Todel’s arm and then her legs. To her relief, the wounds healed at once.
“They deserve it. They sent the roses.”
Lady Bethal’s voice was still furious, but a slight tone of guilt was layered underneath. Ryoka saw Thomast’s eyes flicker as he glanced at her and Todel.
“I imagine they had no idea what they meant. Bethal, a walk.”
“You won’t let go of me until I agree?”
Bethal stared up at her husband. He nodded.
“Then I agree. Let me go.”
“Promise.”
“I promise.”
He sighed.
“Promise me on our wedding vows.”
Bethal’s cheeks flamed. She turned her head; the [Butler] was running back with a wood chopping axe. He came to a halt, panting madly.
“You don’t trust me?”
“I trust you implicitly. Your word, not one bit. Swear to me on our wedding vows, or on House Walchaís’ name.”
Bethal glared at her husband.
“And if I don’t want to swear? I can stand like this all day, you know.”
She kicked her husband, disproving her statement instantly. Thomast didn’t move. He bent his head.
“Bethal.”
“I won’t. Choose something else, Thomast.”
Another kick. He nodded slowly.
“Then swear it by the Sacrifice of Roses. By their honor, an hour’s time. Or you will do disgrace to their honor.”
Lady Bethal went white. Her hands trembled in Thomast’s grip. She spoke slowly, and so quietly and deliberately, Ryoka instantly looked up in alarm.
“I swear. Will that do?”
Thomast nodded silently. Ryoka opened her mouth to tell the man not to let go of Bethal for any reason, but it was too late. The fool let go of Bethal. Instantly, she raised a hand and slapped Thomast across the face.
Crack. The audience on the street winced, and Thomast’s head turned slightly with the blow. He didn’t move, though. He looked down at Bethal.
“An hour, Bethal. And a walk. Or at least come inside. This isn’t the right spot.”
He gestured towards the mansion. The [Butler] backed off with the axe as Lady Bethal turned her head. She was breathing hard. She raised a hand again, glared at Thomast, and then whirled.
“Fine.”
She strode into the house without a second word. Ryoka was impressed; Thomast didn’t even rub his cheek as he turned to the [Knight] on his right. The man bowed to him slightly.
“Sir Thomast, I regret my inaction.”
The man shrugged slightly. He touched the handprint on his cheek ruefully. So he had felt that.
“She is your [Lady]. And my wife. Nevertheless. I understand the black roses. I take it these Runners delivered them?”
He glanced at the Runners outside the gates. Sir Kerrig nodded slowly. The shorter young woman also dressed in pink armor glared at Ryoka and the others. Her hand tightened on a longsword at her side.
“Sir Thomast, your orders?”
“I’ll attend to Bethal. In the meantime, Sir Kerrig, take Lady Welca and conduct an investigation of Reizmelt’s Runner’s Guild. Ensure that these flowers were indeed sent by those named. I’ll try to persuade Bethal to wait until—”
Ryoka heard a clatter of hooves and turned left just in time to see Lady Bethal riding around the side of the mansion. She was mounted on a speckled, pale grey and white mare, already saddled. Thomast looked up at her. Bethal stared down at him innocently.
“A walk, Bethal.”
“I only promised to wait an hour. And I’ll be having my walk on my own, Thomast. My [Knights] are free to accompany me.”
“Lady Walchaís, wait!”
Sir Kerrig and Welca instantly turned towards the stables. Bethal ignored them and began to trot off. Thomast made an exasperated sound for the first time. He turned to Sir Kerrig.
“The Runners. I’ll follow her.”
“You will not!”
Bethal glared. But Thomast had already disappeared. One, two, three—each step carried him twice as far as a normal man’s stride! He was around the side of a house in a second. Ryoka blinked. That was quick! And in a moment, he was on horseback and riding at Bethal.
“Bethal—”
“I don’t want to hear it!”
Bethal turned and wheeled her mare around. She dug her heels into her horse’s sides, and the mare took off. Bethal galloped past Ryoka and the Runners, who sprang out of the way. Thomast was hot on her heels. Ryoka heard him call at Bethal to slow down. The [Lady] replied with a curse Ryoka had heard Relc shout once.
They were out of sight in a moment. The pink [Knights], the [Butler], still holding the axe, and the citizens of Reizmelt watched them go. Ryoka stared around, and then looked at Todel’s white face.
“Who was that?”
He grinned at her, the blood still drying on his arm. Sir Kerrig, the [Knight] in the pink armor, turned back to Ryoka. His expression suggested chagrin. Welca’s suggested violence.
“That was Lady Bethal Walchaís, Miss. Last of her line. All of you remain here. I have some questions to ask you. And I believe I will need directions to your Runner’s Guild.”
He didn’t put a hand on the huge battleaxe strapped to his back, and the young woman didn’t actually draw her sword. But no one decided to run away. Ryoka stared at the place where Lady Bethal had been, and then at the blood and the black roses on the ground.
Lady Bethal. The last few minutes said it all, really.
 
——
 
Six people on the street weren’t part of the scene, the drama, as it unfolded. Or rather, if they were, they weren’t members of the audience, but the supporting cast. They watched as participants, not as observers. And they spoke quickly in the moments after Lady Bethal had galloped away.
“Damn. How’d she get mounted that fast?”
“They just arrived. Why couldn’t they have timed it later?”
“Never mind that. I had a clear shot at her. Why did you block me? The order was to make it public.”
One of the six hissed at the other. A distinctly female voice replied to him, although all six were hooded. And it had to be said, six hooded figures were usually the opposite of invisible—unless they were standing at the back of the crowd that had watched Lady Bethal’s speech. They were getting a lot of looks. One of the six shifted, distinctly aware of how unprofessional all this was.
“I blocked you because it was a bad shot. She was moving. And even if you’d hit, her husband and those bodyguards would be on us in seconds. You think we could take them?”
“There are six of us.”
The angry one was now sulky. The female glared out of her hood.
“Against two [Knights]? Are you mad? Wait until they’re alone. We’re getting paid for the attempt, but the bounty on either one is a hundred times that.”
“Fine. Looks like the [Knights] want those Runners, anyways. Suits me.”
Four of the hoods nodded. One of them was less sure.
“There’s still the husband. He’s a known duelist, isn’t he? The [Chevalier] Thomast. I know he has an enchanted blade. And he’s probably got other equipment.”
“So? There are six of us. One of him. And he may be a [Fencer], but he has no bell. He’s just good for a [Lord]. We can do it.”
The other five nodded. They slipped backwards, again, attracting a number of looks. They weren’t very professional. They were, in fact, rookies. But they were still [Assassins]. Which meant that they were somewhat good at their jobs. They followed the horses out of the city. After stopping to rent six of their own.
It really was unprofessional.
 
——
 
Lady Bethal rode south out of Reizmelt like an arrow. She didn’t stop at the gate, and she didn’t bother avoiding the people on the road. They avoided her. Bethal furiously urged her mare forwards, taking to the main road and sticking to it. And she was being pursued.
Thomast Veniral, [Chevalier] and husband to Lady Bethal, rode his stallion after her with dogged determination. She had a few seconds on him, but both their horses were excellent. And while she was the better rider of the two, he was dogged and neither had riding Skills. So she failed to lose him in the first, frantic ten minutes.
