She thought it was an unmoving, uninspiring story. But Yisame blew her nose. When her head rose, her eyes were shining with more than just tears. A golden drop ran down one painted cheek, around a smile.
“Yvlon Byres. When you leave, we may not meet again. I know you have pressing business. I could not ask it of you.”
“I will surely not forget this, Your Majesty—”
Yisame raised a hand, and Yvlon halted. The [Queen] smiled at her. The [Reader] wiped at her nose delicately and went on.
“No. You have your own missions, I know this. I tell you this—do not concern yourself with me. I am a [Queen] of a great kingdom. But as a [Reader]…I will read and know many stories, especially in this new time where stories are shown rather than writ down. You, though…”
She reached out and delicately tapped Yvlon on the chest.
“You will be my hero. For I have met you, and I admire you all the more because of what I know. I hope you will continue to inspire me—and those like me.”
She looked at Yvlon Byres, and the [Lady], the [Armsmistress] and adventurer…was lost for words. Beet red with embarrassment and gratification.
Yisame would remember that look forever. Then Yvlon ducked her head, and her golden blonde hair fell around her.
“May I say that I do not know you well either, but I have profound gratitude for this meeting, Yisame?”
“Thank you, Yvlon. May we be friends?”
The [Queen]’s eyes shone with nervousness, until Yvlon’s blue gaze rose and the warrior woman smiled.
“…I think we already are.”
 
——
 
Neither Yisame nor Yvlon had a proper exit to the sentimental moment, so there was a good amount of aheming and scattered talk involving—‘what a beautiful cushion’, ‘oh, you like it? I received it from a [Sultana], do you want it?’…and so on.
However, Yisame was conscious of Yvlon’s time—more than Yvlon herself. Regretfully, after only six hours of talking and eating through brunch and lunch with Nerrhavia’s finest delicacies, she was reminded Yvlon had to make preparations to go.
Yvlon was entirely willing to hop on a horse and gallop after the army, which would already be at least two cities away thanks to all their movement Skills, but Yisame was more coordinated than even Yvlon.
Yvlon kept the Horns running like a good helper to Ceria. But that was only insofar as she would poke Pisces and ask if he’d repaired the bone chariot, or tell Ksmvr not to make all their travel rations eggs and oatmeal because that’s what he had found the best deal on in the market.
Yisame? She made plans.
“I sent General Thelican to head the army. Politics. However, he is a good [General]…not highly imaginative, but he succeeded in Tiqr where others might have failed. Consider him an exemplar of the standard Nerrhavian [General]. Prince Zenol will know what that means. He shouldn’t bother you aside from feasting you every day on the road. The army will find your friends, even if it must besiege Savere.”
Yvlon nodded, head spinning a bit. Yisame said that so casually.
“I will bear it in mind. Uh—what is Thelican like? He must be an impressive man, to be one of Nerrhavia’s greatest [Generals].”
“Not like you.”
Yisame looked at Yvlon. The woman felt this was unfair.
“He might not be an adventurer, but surely he has some qualities outside his levels?”
The [Queen]’s face was exceedingly blank, but she finally dredged up one fact about the man.
“…Patter songs.”
“Excuse me?”
Yisame shrugged.
“He is the 6th best [Competitive Singer] for patter-songs in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I believe he goes to every competition he can make.”
“There are competitions for—I’m sorry, I think I know, but what’s a patter song?”
Yisame laughed.
“Silly little rhythm songs. Thelican is apparently obsessed with them. You know? I am a mighty, magical [General]…I will conquer and level again, just as my name is General Thelican…”
She didn’t actually know his songs, but there was Yvlon’s tidbit. Somehow, it reminded Yisame that she had never asked Thelican about it.
How curious. Still, the man was there to support Yvlon. He was the side character, just like Yisame, to the real heroine of her story.
Zenol? Well…Yisame would content herself with one person of note, even if Yvlon had to leave. She said her farewells to Yvlon, which surprised the adventuress.
“The day isn’t over.”
“No, but I fear we might not be able to meet. You and I will have a dinner—but I have sent for an aide to you. Nerrhavia’s Great Sage is a friend of my family. She is trustworthy…and few are. However, she is not…”
“…Socially acceptable for a [Queen] to be around?”
Yvlon suggested. Yisame glanced at her and shook her head.
“No. Enjoyable to be around when she is working. I would rather not have something thrown at my head if I interrupt her. You must go to her now if you want your relics appraised; she is not sure if she can tell what they do even now, and she will not head on the road with you for any favors. [Servant]! Take Miss Yvlon to the Great Sage at once! I will see you later.”
That was how Yvlon Byres found herself walking through the corridors of the palace, eyed by other dignitaries and [Servants]. Many people wanted a word, but a line of [Palace Guards] kept them at bay, marching Yvlon along like she was a valuable dignitary. Like she was the best friend of the [Queen] or something.
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was waiting for her. Yvlon stared up as a figure paced down the hallway.
“Yvlon Byres. So Her Majesty hath not forgotten our promise. It is well done.”
Even the other nobles and socialites stopped respectfully at the booming, deep voice. They looked up at a non-Stitch-folk member of the palace—but no wonder that they had risen to such acclaim.
This Garuda was a [Sage]. A class Yvlon had never personally encountered before. Yet this was a Garuda far different from Bevussa or anyone else.
They were nine feet tall. A vast, curved beak and piercing eyes gazed down at her from behind a hooded robe—which trailed across the ground. Some serpentine fabric with such a long tail that everyone near the Great Sage had to walk carefully, even twenty feet behind them.
This was the kind of legendary [Sage] that would fit even among the ranks of the dead stories of Chandrar. Yvlon gulped as the figure bent slightly. She was surprised to hear a female voice, albeit echoing and grand.
“Come in, Adventurer Byres.”
The [Palace Guard] bowed respectfully as the [Sage] raised an arm, and the robe moved aside like a curtain to expose a doorway made of some kind of magnificent, rosey wood, inlaid with arcane gems and sigils. Yvlon Byres bowed and entered.
[Sage]. No [Alchemist]. No [Scholar], and no [Mage], but a combination of all three and more. The wise class of those who learn all things. She half-turned as she walked into a surprisingly comfortable waiting room with a very small chair—meant for someone Yvlon’s size, a dressing mirror—no sign of a giant perch or chair for a nine-foot-tall Garuda. Multiple work-rooms, including a library, a laboratory, a mage’s workshop, and more splintered off from this room in an open-wall design, no hallways or walls to clutter someone moving around.
“Excuse me, Great Sage. Her Majesty didn’t inform me of your name. I hope I’m not troubling—”
Yvlon turned and saw a dead stare. She jumped back as the giant Garuda in those magnificent robes…stood there.
Limp, unmoving, that piercing gaze suddenly blank. Yvlon Byres didn’t think they were dead. But that look. What was going…?
“Hah. There we go. One second.”
Then something rustled, and the Garuda’s chest under the robes bulged. Yvlon leapt backwards with an oath as a furry face with two fox ears poked out of the robes.
A Fox Beastkin woman hopped out of the giant puppet and rubbed at her back. She stomped over to a chair and threw herself into it. Then she gestured.
“Sit down, sit down. We’re out of the public. Let’s get to work. Stop staring your eyes out; half the Court of Silks knows I’m a fox. The other half is too stupid, so it works out. Appearances must and all that. Yisame didn’t tell you? She was probably too busy sniffing your feet or something disgusting.”
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was actually a Fox Beastkin, fur going to silver, and short. As in, five feet tall and clearly very elderly.
She was also extremely no-nonsense, and chivvied Yvlon towards the chair next to her—by poking at her with a walking stick.
“Adventurers. Where are these relics I’m supposed to appraise? I’m not an [Enchanter], but Yisame needs someone she can trust. Well, we have one day. Don’t tell me you left them in your rooms?”
Yvlon hesitated. The Great Sage sighed.
“Wonderful.”
She leaned over, grabbed a speaking stone out of her bag of holding, and spoke into it. For a second, Yvlon heard a booming voice.
“The Great Sage Etrikah hath need of a City Runner or Courier beyond repute for a simple errand to the Coliseum of Monarchs.”
“Those are Relics—”
Yvlon protested. Etrikah raised her eyebrows.
“Then don’t tell them they’re Relics and they won’t notice. Do you think most Runners can tell if they’re carrying a cursed doomsday artifact or a simple lamp? They cannot. If you wish to hide in plain sight, do it mundanely. That’s wisdom for you. I’ll charge you for the next bit of advice.”
The first [Sage] Yvlon met turned out to be…completely indicative of her class. Which was to say, weird. Yvlon Byres was stunned, but Etrikah was settling in for a long chat. A cup of tea filled itself and floated over to her. She put her feet up, then stared at Yvlon.
She was finicky, crotchety, and probably other adjectives if you asked Yisame to describe her. She was indeed no powerful [Mage] who threw meteors around—nor the best [Alchemist], who could transform iron into gold and destabilize the economic systems of nations. She was the Great Sage of a kingdom in the waning world, with access to less information than the greats of old.
Even so…Etrikah proved she was a [Sage] in the first five minutes of meeting Yvlon. She took one look at the [Armsmistress] and narrowed her eyes.
“…What’s wrong with your arms?”
 
——
 
The City Runner arrived panting, and handed over the simple objects they’d collected to the [Palace Guards], who in turn knocked on the door. Yvlon went to collect the two rings and scrolls, and tried to keep her face straight. When she went to hand them to Etrikah, the [Sage] snapped at her.
“Don’t touch me. And don’t touch that! Go sit back down. Let me see. Burn that chair. Burn that foot table…put it on that foot table. The bad one.”
She kicked one over. Yvlon sat, gingerly, as the Fox-woman hopped around the room. She, like Vitte and Zirre, was unusual.
Gravity didn’t seem to touch her the same way, so she did a big bound across the room, snagged a giant piece of clear quartz, and continued grabbing objects and creating a magpie-like pile. Yvlon sat very still.
“Sage Etrikah, I don’t know what you’re talking about. My arms feel a bit off, but—”
“You said you’re snapping metal? Swords? Armor? Enchanted cuffs and collars?”
“Yes. I thought I might be taking the strength from the metals to repair my arms.”
Etrikah glanced up.
“And you didn’t test that theory. You just kept breaking steel swords in the Coliseum of Monarchs and put it down to a defect in the steel? How many times in a row? Six? Do you think the [Gladiators] would suffer that? They’d riot.”
Yvlon shifted uncomfortably. When you put it like that—
“I didn’t have much of a choice, Sage Etrikah.”
“I’m sure. The entire situation around your imprisonment was a classic Nerrhavian mess. Too large a space with not enough oversight. There are dedicated officials, but great nations are cumbersome. Do you know how much corruption the King of Destruction had to deal with when he conquered Chandrar? Half his forces were devoted to keeping all the places he subjugated in line. No wonder he quit.”
“Do you…study government?”
Yvlon shifted as Etrikah poured something into a basin of water. The Fox Beastkin glanced up.
“I study everything. I am a [Sage]. My class is devoted to understanding new things. Or recovering it, as the case may be. However, and before you ask, I am no [Scholar] or mere [Historian]. A [Sage] is supposed to be wise. Wisdom isn’t knowledge. It is in how you apply everything. And wisdom tells me that after having your arm ripped off by a giant plague monster, something might be wrong with all the metal you’re breaking. So. Don’t. Touch. Anything.”
It might be that [Sage] was, in fact, someone who applied common sense to most things. Then again…Etrikah frowned at Yvlon and shook her head.
“Hm. Hm. Rod of copper. Rod of silver…very well. Hold this bowl.”
She handed Yvlon a clay bowl with what looked like water slopping about inside. Yvlon held the bowl—then Etrikah placed two items inside.
A long rod of silver and one of copper; both looked like someone had been cutting from the ends. Supplies for alchemical reagents or something? She frowned at Yvlon.
“Now what do I do?”
“Now…we watch and wait. I may ask you to touch either rod—not yet! I want to see how far whatever this metallic effect is extends. If it’s just touch or anything else.”
Yvlon shifted. Etrikah had positioned what looked like a giant…monocle to stare at her from. It was a magnifying piece of enchanted glass, and Yvlon saw a vague, swimming outline of something around Etrikah. She had no idea what the [Sage] saw.
“How did you realize something was wrong?”
The [Sage] grunted.
“Your balance of mana is off. Your…vital essences. What do you Izrilians call it? Your humors. As if those exist. I can see something’s warping too much of your energy towards your arms. The right one makes sense—it’s regrowing.”
She nodded to Yvlon’s nearly-healed right arm.
“But your left? It looks exactly like when someone’s got a cold and is walking around the Court of Silks and I have to tell one of the [Palace Guard] to throw them out.”
“You can see that?”
Yvlon was amazed. Etrikah glanced up at her.
“The cultures and nations of this world have forgotten more techniques and methodologies than you can imagine, young woman. Of course we can see such things. But unless you unlock the Skill—which I did, and constructed these artifacts—it is a rare pair of eyes that can naturally see such things, and it requires extensive training. So…”
She swung herself left and fiddled with a cupboard. Yvlon waited for the next artifact as the [Sage] continued talking.
