“…why bother? And that, as I have told Yisame, is why we forget how to create Potions of Regeneration. Not just because some old [Alchemist] dies, but because we forget to maintain everything that enabled him to create it in the first place. Even our roads!”
Her head popped up and she glared at Yvlon.
“We use Djinni to maintain the roads because they remember how to make bricks that last. Do we need Djinni? No! Get them to teach someone and let layfolk do it. Instead, we have Nerrhavia’s famous roads from city to city—and common folk have to deal with dirt roads or poor-quality brickwork. Idiots.”
She returned to her armchair, which she’d moved far back from Yvlon, and sat down with her last important object—Yvlon eyed it.
“Uh. What is…?”
“Soican pig sausage caponata. I’m hungry. This might take a while. I’d offer you something, but I don’t really feel like ruining my silverware.”
The Fox Beastkin began to eat. Yvlon stared at her and saw her bushy tail waving idly back and forth. Etrikah glanced up at her, and the pair of half-moon spectacles she’d put on glinted.
Her entire set of rooms alternated between insane glassworks and the propensity for bubbling vats of alchemical or magical rituals and someone’s living room. She had pictures on the walls next to esoteric spellbooks. And—Yvlon glanced around—a huge, life-sized statue of an impressive Fox-man holding a staff blooming with vines and…
The woman slowed, sat up, and looked at him. He was walking amid growing flowers and other plants as he seemed to be tossing something from one paw. His clothes were not magnificent; they looked like casual traveler’s clothes, yet this was a statue, so whoever had once carved it had made him look half-princely. His eyes were bright, and though the statue was simply marble, Yvlon imagined his hair might be shining…
“Black. He had black fur. The faintest blue and white on the tips of his tail and paws. Handsome as you could imagine.”
Etrikah followed Yvlon’s gaze. The [Armsmistress] swung back to her.
“Is that—Tottenval? The Blooming Plague?”
The [Sage] stopped eating. She looked up.
“Yes. Never seen a statue of him before, have you?”
“No. Not even a picture.”
The woman went back to eating.
“It figures. The King’s Seven were never much beloved after his slumber, and Tottenval didn’t inspire the mind like Mars or Amerys. You understand, he means far more to his people. Before you leave Chandrar, try to find one of Tottenval’s Gardens. There are some in Nerrhavia still. Plants he created to live in arid climates and give food for the hungry. That is legacy and wisdom.”
“Did you…know him?”
Etrikah glanced up. She regarded Yvlon—then threw a piece of sausage at her.
Some of the water slopped out of the bowl as Yvlon ducked it. Etrikah glared.
“Did I know him? It was twenty years ago that Flos Reimarch went into his slumber! How old do I look? Of course I knew him! Children. Do you know how many little yipping cubs ask me that question? You young people have no perception of time. There are people—who aren’t even half-Elves—who lived through the Necromancer’s execution and remember Perril Chandler, the respected Archmage of Death. Not just that uppity half-Elf on the scrying orb.”
She glowered, then glanced at Yvlon’s bowl. Yvlon looked down too; the water was clear and the two rods were staying still.
“Should something be happening?”
The Fox-woman shrugged.
“Perhaps. I have no time frame for how long your effect lasts. Hold onto the copper rod. Just touch the silver one—yep. Now, don’t touch it. Leave them in the mixture, there. We’ll just talk.”
Yvlon obediently held onto the copper bar as Etrikah sighed.
“We’ll spend…thirty minutes waiting for a reaction, then I will try to appraise whatever those rings and scrolls are. But if they are Relics, I doubt I can do much.”
“I know a good [Enchanter] in Invrisil. It’s not essential.”
“Mm. And you won’t put them on until then, will you? Good girl. You have some sense. The rest of my people would try them on just to see what happened if they didn’t think they could get them appraised within a week. Senseless, the lot of them.”
“So Fox Beastkin are common in Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
The [Sage] put down her plate. She lifted up the cup of tea and drank. She looked at the statue again.
“We followed Tottenval. Beastkin live in villages in a certain part of Baleros, you know. But we don’t populate much—not with so much competition. So why not Chandrar? That was how we came here, and Tottenval…he shaped who we were until he died. His death shaped us too.”
Yvlon stirred. She half-lowered the bowl, then raised it as liquid threatened to slop over the edges.
“How, exactly? May I ask if it’s not…”
The Fox [Sage] glanced at Yvlon, then nodded. Briefly, she put her mostly-empty plate aside, and then drank down her tea. She snapped her fingers, and a pitcher floated over. Etrikah critically eyed the cup—then put it aside and found another one.
When she came back, it was with a transparent glass. She filled it with water up about halfway, and then put it down.
“There.”
Yvlon looked blankly at the piece of blown glass sitting next to Etrikah. The [Sage] indicated it with one paw.
“What would you say that glass is? Half-full? Half-empty? What? No, wait…I’m doing this wrong. Sorry. It’s been a while. What I do is…here.”
She pushed it towards Yvlon with one foot. It skittered across the floorboards and tipped over. Yvlon and Etrikah stared at the puddle of water. The [Sage] sighed. Yvlon tried to interject.
“Er…is this the adage about the glass of water being half full or empty? I know that one.”
The grumbling Fox-woman sat back down.
“That’s only partly it. What you’re supposed to do is hand someone a glass of half-full water and see what they make of it. It’s based on these Gnollish riddles. Fox-folk call it Life’s Riddle.”
“A…glass of water?”
The [Sage] fixed Yvlon with a piercing, orange-eyed stare.
“Good metaphors are easy to grasp. Let’s pretend that cup is in front of you. What do you make of it?”
“I…it’s half-full?”
Etrikah watched Yvlon’s face.
“Just that? What would you do with it?”
“Put it to one side? Drink it, I suppose.”
“Ah, practical. But let’s pretend the glass is a metaphor for life. What do you do with the glass?”
The Human woman just looked at Etrikah, completely stumped. The silver Fox-woman snorted.
“Don’t try too hard or you might turn that blonde hair white.”
Yvlon flushed a bit angrily.
“What do you mean, ‘what do I do with the glass’? What am I supposed to do?”
The [Sage] laughed, revealing pointed teeth.
“Ah, no one’s ever asked you that, have they? Children in our communities get asked that all the time. What do you do with the glass? What is the purpose of living?”
She looked pointedly at Yvlon, expecting an answer. The woman hesitated.
“Is there a purpose?”
“There’s an answer and a question. Is there, Miss Byres? Was your purpose to be an adventurer? Why did you become one?”
“To…help people. Because House Byres always has been.”
Yvlon replied, eyes flicking uncertainly to her arms. Etrikah raised her brows.
“Do you have to do what your family dictates? Is helping people important?”
“Yes, of course.”
“Why?”
The Gold-rank adventurer just stared at Etrikah. She tried to speak slowly. For some reason, it was hard, as if she had to explain the obvious.
“Because—people need help. Helping people is a just thing to do.”
“Who told you that? Where is the law that says that? Will they help you back? It sounds like something you were told.”
“I don’t need to be told to do the right thing!”
Yvlon snapped. She was getting a bit annoyed by Etrikah’s needling tone. Yet the [Sage] only smiled mirthlessly.
“You’re getting angry.”
“No, I’m…”
Yvlon took a deep breath. She smiled calmly at Etrikah, who raised her brows.
“I’m sorry, Sage Etrikah. I just don’t see the point behind your questioning.”
The [Sage]’s brows rose even higher.
“…That was quite incredible. I’ve heard the expression ‘swallow your temper’, but I’ve never seen it so literally done. You are fuming. Internally. No wonder you kept snapping in the arenas. Silver-Killer is an apt moniker.”
“That’s—!”
Etrikah’s orange eyes stared pointedly at Yvlon over her spectacles. The [Sage] tapped her glasses.
“Do me the courtesy of not lying to my face, Yvlon. And if those questions bother you—perhaps you had better ask why. Because Fox-folk ask. They ask what the purpose of anything is. You only get one life, sometimes very short. So what do you want to do? We all get handed a glass and come up with our own answer. Do you know what Tottenval, the Blooming Plague, did?”
Yvlon bit her tongue. Her mind was awhirl, but curiosity trumped any of the things Etrikah was hitting her with.
“What?”
Slowly, Etrikah took her cup of tea. She picked up the pitcher, filled it halfway. She placed it down.
“He looked at the glass, and filled it up. Then he handed it to someone who wanted a drink. Symbolism. This world is underwatered. He believed he could make it better. So his people decided his answer was the best. For a time, we were the King of Destruction’s allies and soldiers, people who saw the best in what he did. Tottenval inspired us.”
She lifted the teacup up, admired it—then tossed it down. Yvlon jumped as it shattered, spraying into pieces over the floor. Etrikah sat back down.
“Then he died. The King of Destruction’s empire fell to dust. Our people survived; we are resourceful and few pursued vengeance against us. But do you know what Vitte, Vitte Groundless of the Arena, did with her cup? It is the same answer many young Fox-children give. She takes the cup, and tosses it in someone’s face, or drinks it down.”
The pieces of broken pottery were slowly rolling to one side, collecting as some automated spell gathered them. Same with the water; it had begun to dry so fast Yvlon could see the puddle vanishing.
Without a word, she looked at Etrikah. The [Sage] waited, so Yvlon’s brows furrowed as she tried to work that one out.
“That would mean…the water, the world is for you? Or it’s useless.”
“Not bad. You do think. You just clearly don’t like to.”
Yvlon glared, and Etrikah snorted.
“You and Yisame must have gotten along. Prideful young women. You are right. To Vitte, to many in this new generation, the world is a joke. Good deeds don’t go rewarded. Great works collapse—so why care? You saw what she did to her sister.”
Yvlon slowly nodded. Even after all that had passed, and all the surprise good—it had been exceptionally cruel to Zirre to place her in danger, even if it would ‘only’ have been the feeling of being stabbed.
“That’s what she believes?”
The Great Sage looked tired.
“She and many. I think they laugh because they see what happened to Tottenval, the best of us. They pretend it did not affect them, but I truly believe it shattered parts of them, as much as I shattered that cup. He was our hero. Our shining star, and we are a few people, Yvlon Byres. When he died…it changed us all. That is the problem with people we love, who are good for this world.”
She looked at Yvlon, suddenly, and the [Armsmistress] saw something flicker in her gaze. She shifted, disturbed by all of this. These…were questions and conversations she had never talked about. She didn’t like thinking about them.
Perhaps that was why the [Sage] brought them up. For a moment, Etrikah sat there, then she clapped her paws, briskly.
“Enough. Let’s see those rings. And those scrolls. I can at least tell you if they’re activatable by reading, unrolling, or whatnot. I see two magical flows to those rings. One looks cursed—or malevolent. Maybe it just hurts something. The other’s beneficial.”
Yvlon blinked. She glanced down at her rings. One was a band of colorful stone—she even suspected jade—with a seam of some metal running like a deep blue river amidst it. The other? It looked…well, it was a ring, and solid, but it looked almost leathery. Or like scales—tiny scales—banded perhaps around a wooden core?
The Great Sage pointed at the scaled ring.
“Danger. The stone one’s beneficial.”
“You can tell that by looking?”
Etrikah tapped her glasses again.
“Intent. Like those scrolls. Neither one screams bursting at me—which suggests it’s a spell you must activate and read. Your [Martial Artist] friend, Mectail, can do much the same—but only with people. But you know how I can also tell one’s probably better than the other?”
“How?”
The Fox-woman produced a pair of tongs and lifted the scaled ring.
“This one’s made out of something that was alive. The other ring is jade, a friendly, protective, magical mineral. You figure out which one might be more hostile. Common sense. Although it is fascinating and worth you coming here. You see this scale-ring?”
“It looks like it was made of some kind of little creature’s hide.”
“Correct! And entirely wrong. That’s what they want you to think. But I suspect it’s a method old [Enchanters] based around high-monster regions used to employ. It’s just a theory, but you skin an entire Wyvern or some beast—then shrink their entire hide, wrap it around a ring, and you have all that power in one place. The question is—which hide? Hand me that magnifying glass. No, wait. Don’t touch it.”
She hopped over to investigate as Yvlon helplessly held the stupid bowl of water and copper rod. She glanced down at it, and even flexed the rod slightly. It didn’t break. Yvlon saw Etrikah glance back at her.
“Hm. Well, we’ll keep at it. I can’t cure what I don’t know, but I can recommend some generic cleansing spells and reagents. We could do worse than making you take a bath in purified water with soap and a few cleaning reagents. Put the bowl over there; we’re done with it.”
She casually nodded to a counter she’d cleared. Yvlon put the bowl down—
“Not there. To the left, the left.”
The Fox-woman was persnickety about organization. Yvlon shoved it left slightly, got a nod, and walked back over to sit down.
“Can I, ah, help in any way?”
“Yes. By not touching anything. Perhaps describe to me what this [Necromancer]’s lair was like. Who had the rings? Adventurers? What species? What were they wearing? Context clues. And do you know…who they were?”
Yvlon blinked.
“The Dullahan woman did say she was part of a team, but I had no idea—”
Etrikah whirled around.
“You met the adventurer who slew this [Necromancer]?”
