“The Putrid One. Yes, and his servant told us his name. But we had no idea who they were. I remember the [Paladin]’s name and group if that helps. The Radiance of Canopies. A Balerosian team.”
The [Sage] pinched at the bridge of her snout.
“…So, you know their names, their team, the name of this Putrid One, a famous [Necromancer] who was clearly a famous individual in his time, and his servant’s name. And you didn’t think to tell me that at once? Forget the appraisal. I’ll just look up their team. Kitsune’s tails, young woman. They probably have the artifacts listed if this Putrid One or this team was famous! Let’s find a book.”
She strode into her library, and, after a quick search, ascertained she only had a few books that might even tangentially relate to adventuring teams or famous [Necromancers]. However, you know what Nerrhavia’s Fallen, an ancient kingdom of surpassing size and history, had?
Libraries. The Hundred Thousand Tomes was an academy that had books in the name.
“If only you could stay longer. We will be researching this, I promise you, but let’s take a trip there.”
“What about my arms?”
The two women were getting ready to leave, rushing about since there was a time limit. The bars of copper and silver sat in the plain mixture of what looked like water in the basin.
For a high-level test by a [Sage], it certainly hadn’t done much. And now, the two were completely ignorant of the bowl as Etrikah began to reset her puppet. Their chatter in the background completely obscured the faint sounds as the copper bar began to move.
A little, crawling shape slowly detached itself, edging away from the dangerous water. It made a tiny clicking sound as it edged up the top of the bar.
Lots of expensive metals here. Not necessarily ones that…worked. But there was a good source of iron and…the bug cast around.
“Mm. A bath. I’d like to take a sample of your arms if that’s acceptable…”
“I think it won’t hurt. I can turn the pain off…”
“Disturbing.”
The beetle fanned its wings. It took off from the edge of the bowl, stealthily flying into the [Sage]’s laboratory—
And then slammed into the invisible barrier that shimmered to life around the bowl. The trap rune glowed and an alarm went off. A high-pitched ringing.
Yvlon Byres spun around in alarm. Etrikah looked up, calmly dropped the puppet, and strode over to the bowl.
“Keep back. Hands away from everything.”
The [Armsmistress] froze. Etrikah eyed the squirming metal beetle on the ground. She took one look at the water and murmured.
“Interesting. It’s definitely magical, then. Or the Fulfield Water would have shown me something living. And what are you? Very clever. So clever, you only reappear after no one’s watching.”
She squatted down, staring at the copper beetle, which flew into the magical barrier again and again. The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen looked at the beetle. She looked at Yvlon, who was staring at her arms in alarm. Etrikah removed her spectacles. She rubbed at her face as she thought of collars, gladiator arenas, and how long and where Yvlon had been. She came to a simple conclusion and voiced it instantly.
“We are in trouble.”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres lay on her front, butt-naked and red with embarrassment. Yisame tried not to stare. However, it was quite amazing that Etrikah and a bevy of her most trusted apprentices, [Mages], and other [Alchemists] were not staring.
Instead, one of Yvlon’s arms was outstretched, and the group ensconced in protective, shimmering barriers was watching as a [Hydromancer] produced a needle-thin ray of water and blasted Yvlon’s arms.
The concentration was so intense the water jet made Yvlon’s metal-skin ripple. Etrikah called out.
“Yvlon. Does it hurt?”
“No—I don’t think so. I can’t feel it.”
“Well, good. Because my second option is literally scraping two layers of your metal flesh off your body. How’s the other sample look?”
Someone was staring at a metal fingernail in a bowl of water.
“I think we cleaned it.”
“You sure? It can’t be that easy.”
“It can if it’s ‘Minor’. It says here that the Putrid One unleashed many plagues across metal, flesh, wood—dead gods, there are magical plagues. Cloth, too.”
A [Scholar] looked up from a book. The Stitch-folk in the room blanched, including Yisame. Etrikah was unphased.
“If it were a Great Plague, we’d be dead or have noticed already. This is either Plaguesteel, Omen Rust, or Gariepe’s Twisting. Given the symptoms, I am convinced it’s Plaguesteel. And it looks like we can remove it, Your Majesty.”
“You’re sure?”
Yisame stared at her Great Sage. Etrikah gestured at Yvlon’s arm.
“It’s not in her arms. Whomever this Tolveilouka was…from Yvlon’s account, it knew she was a ‘person of metal’, which implies her class has yet to evolve—but more practically, it knew how to fight her. By infecting her with a metal plague.”
“Is it…is it safe?”
Yvlon stared at the buzzing beetle and the silver one that had later emerged from the two rods. Etrikah gave her a curt nod.
“Here it is. Elsewhere? I need you to muster the Council of Steel and tell them our sewers might be infected. This…could be bad.”
Yvlon was pale. She looked at Yisame. The [Queen] stared at her Great Sage, lowered her voice, and took her aside.
“How bad?”
The Fox-woman glanced at Yvlon.
“Depending on how fast the plague moves? That beetle came out after less than forty minutes of direct contact with Yvlon. I hope…the offspring are slower when not close to the originator. Either way. It may be very bad.”
Yisame looked at Yvlon. Etrikah added.
“All the more reason she should leave as soon as possible so no one makes the direct connection.”
“Your Majesty. I’m sorry.”
Yvlon didn’t know what to say. Her skin crawled at the thought. She stared at the water blasting her arm, but she didn’t know what the plague was supposed to look like. Yisame drew herself up.
“I told you, Yvlon, I would spare you no expense. This is secret, by order of the crown. Sage Etrikah, you will receive anything you ask for.”
Etrikah nodded.
“I will ask for everything. Be warned. For now? I know how that undead got Yvlon. Her arms aren’t infected.”
“Are you sure?”
Yvlon stared at her arms. Etrikah snorted.
“Firstly, if they were infected, you would probably notice bugs crawling out your arms. Secondly, silver is a famously defensive and purifying metal. The fact that we can clean that fingernail proves it.”
She pointed at the metal.
“Let’s do a wash of her arm. What Yvlon has isn’t an infection in her blood. It’s on her arm. Like…slime. A thin, thin layer, I suspect. I think we can actually blast it off with enough water. But all the water here? This room?”
She gestured around. The mist of water rising around Yvlon from the water spray was being contained in a barrier, and a foot of water was already swishing around on the ground. Etrikah backed away, despite the multiple magical barriers of containment around her.
“We are going to vaporize it.”
Yisame looked blankly at Etrikah.
“You mean, incinerate.”
The [Sage] turned to her.
“If I mean vaporize, I mean vaporize. If I could cast [Disintegration], I would. No one leaves this room without being tested. Yvlon? Yvlon?”
The [Armsmistress] had frozen as she began to pour the cleansing liquids over her arms and body. She nearly dropped the bowl, and then shouted.
“[Condition – Plaguesteel]! It’s in my head. It was in my—”
She began scrubbing furiously. The Skill—no, the Condition—was burning in her head, but she felt it receding as she scrubbed at her arms. It was turning…
Blue?
[Condition – Plaguesteel (Minor) Removed!]
Yisame inhaled. Etrikah nodded as Yvlon kept scrubbing, determined to leave nothing to chance.
“You did it so quickly, Etrikah. You are the Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, truly.”
The Fox-woman eyed Yisame, and then tried to kick her in the shins. The [Queen] retreated.
“You fool. Treating it was never the hard part. It was catching it. I need you to think, Yvlon. How many people did you touch? How many pieces of metal did you touch? How many arenas…oh, dead gods. That fool, Thelican, shook your hand.”
Yisame went pale. Etrikah looked up. A Grand Army was on the move. Filled with metal objects. And Thelican?
 
——
 
The [General] was singing one of his famous patter-songs as he set down a golden cup. It was instantly whisked away by one of the [Servants] as he enjoyed a banquet in his honor in the second city. His aides were with him—except for the ones who had to coordinate the army bedding down, supply issues.
Normally it wasn’t hard, but [Soldiers] were complaining about shoddy tent poles and no less than fifteen axles had broken down in the chariots. The [Smiths] had clearly been mixing poor metal. They’d have to be taken to account.
Everything of lesser metal was in trouble. For now. The carrier was cured, but the rest of Nerrhavia’s Fallen?
Thelican’s touch would be dangerous for about three more hours. After which, now that the originating source was gone, the Plaguesteel creations would be unable to be rapidly spawned, and even these were smaller and weaker than that which Yvlon Byres touched. It was not her fault that Thelican liked to inspect chariots by touch or clap men and women in armor on the shoulders.
It was just insects. Metal insects that ate metal. Reproducing as fast as insects did. Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer would have readily admitted it wasn’t his best work. Just a parting gift.
It was only a bit of trouble.
 
——
 
“Fold.”
“Fold.”
“Call and raise two silvers.”
“Go fuck yourself. Fold.”
“Call.”
Cards were tossed into the center of the pool and coins were put in. The circle kept changing as people were kicked out or decided they’d lost too much. The circle paused…and someone coughed, but no one quite dared interrupt the half-Elf lost in thought.
Not Ceria. Omusc was happy enough to elbow her, but not Alchemist Irurx.
He was lost in thought, staring off into the distance. After a few seconds, Ceria coughed.
“Irurx? You in or out?”
He looked blankly at her, then tossed in three spell-cards, a winning hand or good enough.
“I…thought I felt something calling to me.”
That was his only explanation. The [Gamblers] looked at each other, then went back to playing. Ceria Springwalker raised her brows, but the Alchemist just shrugged.
“Perhaps this will be more enticing than I thought. You were telling us about the Village of the Dead?”
There was a reason he had ordered his ship to sail up one of Savere’s rivers. It could not follow them far, but he was accompanying the Siren for a while. And Ceria. His presence…bothered many, but Ceria had shown the others he could be a perfectly pleasant guest. The fact that she knew what lay below Shifthold’s decks did not change her assessment that he was a useful ally. A good [Alchemist] was always helpful.
Besides, if worst came to worst? Shifthold obeyed no powers, not even Roshal, if it didn’t want to.
And Irurx had a ship.
 
——
 
The point was, at last, they were all on the move. Pisces rode with Merr the Storm on a rampage across the trade roads.
Ceria played cards and ate food.
Ksmvr pondered the exigencies of [Monks] and their odd mating rituals as he petted Yinah.
Yvlon Byres scrubbed at her skin until her flesh was raw, despite being pronounced with a clean bill of health by Etrikah, who promised to send a number of safeguards with her.
It was looking up for the Horns of Hammerad, where it was looking very down. Even so, as Yvlon Byres sat down with Yisame and Etrikah for a small, intimate dinner, she picked at her food.
“You’re clean. Not that I can blame you for not being hungry. Believe me, you finding that hidden condition and removing it is the best assurance I can think of. Hidden Skills. Hidden conditions. Even hidden classes. What have we forgotten?”
The [Sage] sighed. She was reading at the table. So was Yisame, who had a book open in one hand, expertly flicking through the pages; she had found an old story in the famous Tales of Adventure and Woe collection about adventurers in the time of the Putrid One.
“So you were Yisame’s, ah, tutor when she was young?”
Etrikah glanced up.
“I was a lesser [Sage], yes. I rose with her. Not that I bet on Yisame for the throne. And here we are.”
“Thank you, Etrikah. She put me onto reading, you know.”
The two were rather comfortable, and Yvlon was relieved that Yisame had someone like that. Although they were distinctly different. Yisame had found an adventure story about teams in the Putrid One’s time from the library of Nerrhavia Fallen’s vast wealth of ancient tomes—so vast even someone constantly reading couldn’t find useful information amid all the dross without a hint like the Putrid One—while the Great Sage had pulled out a history book.
“I put Yisame onto reading to improve her mind. She decided she wanted [Barbarians] carrying off [Princesses] while wearing only loincloths. Do you know what we call that? Abduction. Kidnapping.”
“Leave me alone, Etrikah.”
The morally dubious ethics of scantily-clad [Barbarians] aside…Yvlon truly had lucked out. Zenol was here, and, somehow, Cognita of Wistram too, and she had met the Silver Swords. Yisame had a lead on Pisces, Ceria, and Ksmvr, and she had an army at her back.
Things were looking up.
Yet.
Not one of the Horns was smiling.
Oh, they smiled. They laughed at times, they celebrated the good and they had fought through the ill.
Now they were freed, though.
Now they had a chance to breathe.
They remembered why they were here.
So Yvlon Byres, the angriest of the Horns of Hammerad, the conscientious [Lady], the berserker with the metal arms, looked at Etrikah, the Great Sage, at Yisame, [Queen] of all she surveyed, even if she rode for a month in every direction—looked up.
Like Ceria Springwalker, about to reach for a card. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] looked at Etrikah, then spoke.
“There is one last thing you don’t know, Yisame. The real reason my team went to the Village of the Dead. How we all came together. If you want beautiful stories, there’s one you’ve never heard.”
The [Reader]’s head snapped up hungrily. Yvlon Byres put down her fork and pushed her plate away. She looked at Etrikah.
“The glass being half empty or half-full and what you do with it—I know someone who also decided to fill it up.”
The Fox [Sage] glanced up. Yvlon Byres fiddled with her napkin.
“She died. Or…she was hurt so badly she had to be frozen in ice. I’m not sure if you’ve ever heard of that.”
“Ice? Never. Stasis spells, yes. Ice…is actually intelligent if you had neither. You can preserve meat. But I would never dare it.”
