If you hadn’t heard of her, you weren’t from this continent.
Or you were deaf. Her songs were on every young person’s lips. They were played in royal courts and pubs.
They called her the Singer of Terandria. Her class was [Popstar].
Her name was Cara O’Sullivan.
She looked down from the moving, decorated stage upon which she stood—the top of a caravan wagon, a guardrail cleverly disguised behind illusion magic that made it seem like she stood on a far larger stage, a light shining on her, red curtains hanging out of dark skies.
There were fireworks and roaring flames. Magical light shows and a back up dance crew, who were entirely fictional. She walked under a rainbow and tossed a golden flower into a crowd of cheering fans, who fought for it with a savagery any [Street Fighter] would be appalled by.
Singer of Terandria. Cara, to her friends.
She had many names. But the truth was that few people knew her. She had a story of her own, but as she slowly rode into Ailendamus’ palace, singing, the focus of attention, amusement, disgust, and fascination by all—
Ryoka Griffin knew her. She looked up at the young woman who winked behind her colorful, dyed hair, the facade that came with glitz, glamor—a copy of the very same phenomenon from her world.
She knew Cara. What she didn’t know was that Cara knew her.
The Singer locked eyes with batman for one moment, then threw her head back with a spray of sparkling lights. Just for a moment—before she continued into her show-stopper, and her band picked up the beat once more.
Not Batman, the highly renowned, mentally unstable, fictional superhero who may or may not exist given the metaphysics of multiple realities—but ‘batman’. The handle of a user in a chat session that had influenced…everything that followed.
So she really is here.
That was what the Singer thought, in a clinically detached manner. Her body moved, walking her back behind a magical curtain.
Aaron was right.
Blackmage. She’d seen Ryoka—on Izril. Now she was here. Why? Why Ailendamus? Well, the location was answer enough. So, as the crowd grew silent, and the music fell low, Cara stared at her band. She tapped her clothing—and the illusion magic changed her. Cara, the Queen of Pop, the Baroness of the Beat, the Siren of Songs—
—‘Humble Actor’ as she was known to a few people in chat—
—Glanced up inquisitively. She met the eyes of her [Drummer], Thien. The young man raised his brows. He was actually playing. He was ready.
Greg was waving at the crowd. Rae, on the bass, glared. The [Performer], Greg, played as well as Cara did—and his part was covered by the music. But he needed to look the part. He started, looked at Cara guiltily, and flushed.
The rest of the band eyed Cara, and their tempo changed. They’d been playing straight, classic pop songs, the kind of stuff meant for huge crowds and concerts. It had been going well, despite this being a huge entry into a nation they’d never played in before.
Six stops, six shows. All paid for by the crown’s purse, and with exceptional comfort and the adoration of Ailendamus’ people—who hadn’t ever seen the Singer, only heard her song crystals.
They’d been asking her to perform in Ailendamus for months. Never ‘begging’—one didn’t beg. They insisted, offering Abebi, her [Manager], more and more.
Cara had never considered accepting.
She’d been surprised they even wanted her after her music video, but the people in charge must not have studied their recent history or missed her in it. However—
The times were a-changing. And with Cara’s new garb—it was time to change things up. She could keep playing the best of the yearly hits from Earth—after all, she had every song ever written to draw on as the Singer of Terandria.
But pop? The Singer sighed. This mattered. No matter what happened next, she was still the [Popstar] of Terandria.
She had to make an entrance. So she adjusted her hat. Straightened her blazer.
The hat was a fedora, incidentally. Cara glanced left, and one of the non-Earthers nodded. A half-Elf with dyed hair and a similar suit to hers checked himself, tapped his shoes together, and nodded.
Retihome was a real [Singer], a [Bard of the Voice]. He had two friends, who looked nervous—an apprentice and a female [Singer] who could adapt to Cara’s music—and had even sought Cara out.
I need better performers. Thien can barely keep up. Greg’s an idiot. Rae’s got no stage presence.
They were doing their best, but only the advent of lip-syncing and Cara’s own presence kept the performance from seeming artificial. That—and her habit of introducing a new music advent every month.
If you were going to steal every song and claim it as your own, you might as well do it right.
As the curtains rose, the audience—including no less than Queen Oiena, the Wind Runner, nobles, and several influential leaders of state—started when they saw Cara.
The cheering audience let out gasps of expectation and curiosity. Cara O’Sullivan almost forgot the last bit, but she worked it into her walk from behind the curtains. She fished out a pair of dark, wide glasses.
Spectacles. But the glass was colored wrong. It was dark brown, not clear. She put them over her eyes, smiling a pearly-white grin that oozed confidence. Her crew, Retihome, the two other [Singers], and a pair of [Performers] who were as musical as a sneeze in a bucket all followed her out.
They were all dressed the same way, in dark pants and colorful blazers. They also had the strange apparel on. And hats.
Cara strode out, singing Uptown Funk by Bruno Mars—with slightly adjusted lyrics. She blew a kiss to a half-Giant, whose mouth was so open it could have swallowed a pumpkin. Cara winked at a crowd of [Ladies] staring at the woman in a man’s suit—and began to dance.
 
——
 
Ailendamus went wild. With scandal. With shock!
They had never seen someone dance like this. No one—except perhaps the Lord of the Dance himself, Belchaus Meron, understood dancing could evolve.
That it could be solo, fast—performative. There were fast dances, there were plenty of performative dances—ballroom dancing in Terandria was an art.
This though…it was so many different ideas combined at once that it was like an alien performing.
Ryoka was trying to keep track of it all. The aspect of modern-day celebrities. Wild hair colors, a concert-like stage with illusions that even Earth lacked. Progressive dance. Hints—no, a distinctly flirtatious attitude that disregarded gender and clothing and the behavior of traditional Terandria.
Oh—and she could sing.
“What the f—”
Ryoka had no idea what was happening. She had just been outsmarted by Rhisveri, seen the object she had risked it all for going on auction—
And then here came the Singer of Terandria with the steel chair! Ryoka just gaped up at her. In that way, she fit right in with some of Cara’s audience.
She had the distinct impression the Singer was looking at her, but then—she was performing to everyone. Her caravan came to a stop and the [Singer] came down a ramp, dancing with her backup crew.
Then she stopped as the song ended, breathing hard, sweat beaded on her brow. Her hair was a light purple, waving after her every time she tossed her head. Under her hat, it was piled up, but now she took the hat off, skimmed it into the crowd—someone did a flying leap and caught it—and shook her hair out.
Her eyes glinted as she grabbed one of her props. Ryoka kept staring as Cara raised the microphone to her mouth. It was actually enchanted. The painted piece of wood magnified her voice.
“Ladies and gentlemen! Lovely people of Ailendamus and my shining stars—it is my honor to come to the Kingdom of Glass and Glory! I am Cara, known as the Singer of Terandria.”
She stopped, because the roar of delighted voices nearly drowned out all hearing. Young women and men, from [Servants] to commonfolk to—Ryoka noticed—some of the nobility, were crowding closer, blocked off by big security guard-types.
…Big, but not necessarily tall. A young man waving an autograph slip tried to jump at Cara and was checked at groin-height by a Dwarf’s arm. Half the shoving crowd—the male half—took one look at the Dwarf and the curled up ball of pain and decided to try and push past the other guards instead.
Cara went on, seemingly oblivious to that, but also looking around, meeting all eyes. She bowed low, in a stylistic bow like a [Courtier], one arm held wide. Ryoka started—
And realized Cara was staring straight at Queen Oiena. The [Queen], who was coincidentally standing right next to Ryoka Griffin.
“Your Majesty, it is my honor to stand in your presence. I hope I will not disturb the peace as I perform for the next two weeks across the capital. It has been a week beyond compare, touring through Ailendamus’ rich lands and happy people!”
Queen Oiena smiled and raised one hand, but didn’t speak. Cara’s words seemed perfectly calculated to gain the approval of even the people frowning at this singing raccoon with painted lips and dyed hair.
With a twinkle in her eyes, Cara stepped back and tapped her head with the microphone, like it was a wand.
A shimmer of what looked like someone’s idea of fairy dust, instead of the real thing—which was probably pepper spray if Ryoka knew Ivolethe—drifted down around her. Her clothing shimmered—then the suit turned into a long, flowing dress very much in the ruffles and layered ballgown style.
Cara wore the light green and rich purples of Ailendamus’ national colors. She took a deep breath—and, suddenly, the impish cheer in her face was gone. She was, in a second, no longer the cheerful, humble performer, but a dignified [Singer].
“It is now my pleasure to conclude our opening performance with an ode to Ailendamus, great kingdom of the world! I shall now, with all due respect, sing the national anthem.”
Her band struck up a subdued performance of trumpets and woodworks. Ryoka’s lips moved as Cara, straight-faced, looked up as a spotlight trained on her.
“Oh no. The anthem?”
Queen Oiena murmured. Even some of the guests who’d heard it multiple times hesitated. Because the anthem, glorious, fitting to Ailendamus—
Didn’t exactly fit with, uh…it was…
It was patriotic.
Yet Cara O’Sullivan began the first lyrics straight-faced, singing loud and clear and amazingly—Oiena’s jaw dropped next to Ryoka’s—
Sincerely.
“Let the lance-arrows fall from Ailendamus walls and guard the Kingdom of Glass and Glory/Until my dying breath, from sea to glorious sea—Ailendamus, the only Kingdom of Terandria for me~”
Ryoka’s face went through an amazing change any [Alchemist] would have been amazed to see as she listened to the words. Someone had written this. Someone—she suspected Rhisveri—had commissioned a song entirely in line with Terandrian ideals. And so it had just classic lines.
“…To protect crown and people, every [Knight] stands true. A [Soldier] I shall be, or if a [Farmer] be my calling, to my part I shall do~”
Terrible. Bearable if you were singing it in great concert or for formal occasions, but after a pop song and dance number?
Yet she sang it so well. With such sincerity, tears coming to stand in the corners of her eyes, that you might actually wonder if she had been born of Ailendamus and was coming home. Some of the older people watching made a gesture across their chests and stared up at the waving flag overhead.
Someone kill me.
Ryoka Griffin longed for death, yet the moment was made bearable by looking at Cara. Trying to figure out why she was here. Her music video. Her warning…Rhisveri had invoked Oberon, and Queen Oiena was angry about the [Knights].
It was looking like an average Ryoka week.
 
——
 
Cara O’Sullivan finished singing to wild applause. Not just for the singing or the nod to Ailendamus’ ego. You had to applaud someone with the courage to sing that with such genuine emotion.
She bowed, and her security swept around her, refusing autographs. There would be time, later, later! She was staying at least two weeks, after all! For now, the approving [Chamberlain] was very satisfied with the entrance and attention—which had been captured on a spell for playback across the nation.
Cara saw Abebi hurry forwards to get everyone settled, as Greg tried to reach past the security to grab a folded piece of parchment. She resisted the urge to kick him into the fans and kept her eyes ahead, bowing slightly to the [Queen], who walked forwards to speak to her.
She was good at her job. Which was her class. [Popstar]—but that was like [Singer]. A general class. All the details were Cara’s. And so was the other class, hidden by the ring on her finger.
You’d never know unless she told you about her other class.
[Thespian].
An actor’s class. She was so good, in fact, she had sung Ailendamus’ national song without seeming disingenuous. Cara never looked at Ryoka, but ‘batman’ had seen her, and that was enough for today.
She was so good that no one even suspected how much she hated this kingdom. Cara raised her head and thought of her friend. Trapped under siege.
Words she would never say here for the connection they’d bring. She stared up at that hated flag.
Her friend, and a place. Two places, but the first? Cara looked up and held them in her chest until she did what she had come here to do.
Seraphel.
Seraphel and Afiele.
 
——
 
“I hate her. You understand why, don’t you? Her—I have many enemies—but her I will hurt, in some way, some how. I will bring the Empress of Tiqr down to grovel in front of me, but this? This is even more personal. You can see what she’s done to me, can’t you?”
Ceria Springwalker sat in the palanquin rolling on a wave of water across Savere’s roads. She was chewing—predictably—on food.
Raider Rations, Savere’s specialty—which were misnamed because that implied they were bad. Some were, but Savere’s employed a delicate mince of crab meat mixed with sardines and other catch, flatbread crumb, sometimes stale, but in this case higher-quality, seasonings from the port, which imported any you could want, egg, and mustard, which was for some reason a top-level condiment here.
It was then sautéed in Ferfish oil, a plentiful oil that tasted a bit nutty when you fed the fish…nuts…in the fisheries. Ceria had eaten eight. Revine eyed her as the Ice Squirrel chomped down on more, reaching for a processed, little fish cake that was also enjoyed as a snack.
“I…don’t get it.”
Revine Zecrew glared. She pointed at the scrying orb.
“Her! Her! Don’t you see?”
Ceria eyed the Singer of Terandria.
“…Is it the hat?”
“No! Don’t you know what she calls herself?”
“The Singer of Terandria?”
Revine was practically frothing at the mouth.
