“The Siren of Songs! She took my name! Half the Mage’s Guilds ask if I am referring to the Siren of Songs rather than the Siren of Savere! I have had that title for—and she took it and she is claiming it! It isn’t even her main title!”
The palanquin, which was gold and styled with Savere’s heraldry, was really comfortable. Plush, silk pillows, a place to recline and cast magic from—
And it was enchanted against arrows and a lot of hostile spells. It wasn’t just a fancy conveyance; any chance ambush would quickly realize Revine could sit in it and blast you to bits with water while her army chopped you up.
Her army, incidentally, got to ride or march around it. [Rogues] and [Bandits] stared up enviously at the two riding along. The wave of water supported the massive vehicle and seamlessly carried them forwards.
Ceria chewed down her bite.
“I think I get it. Huh.”
Revine stared at her.
“You don’t share my opinion?”
“I don’t think she meant to anger you, Revine. Frankly—and I know this is going to sting—I don’t think she knows you exist.”
The Siren twitched. Ceria glanced up, fingers frozen on a pink fish cake.
“Uh—I only mean that in the sense of—”
For once her enhanced intelligence let her down. Because what Ceria saw and instantly placed in the camp of ‘Kevin-weirdness’ or ‘Erin-phenomena’…had made her forget her audience. Revine inhaled and spoke one trembling word.
“Out.”
 
——
 
Omusc, riding on a wagon and playing cards as she felt at her regrowing flesh, heard a whump, a shout—she turned her head in time to see a half-Elf go flying as a jet of water hit her. She flew like a screaming brick and landed flat on her back with a thump. Omusc saw Ceria stare up at the sky, then, dazedly, up at her as the [Pillager] rolled by. One of the [Bandits] eyed her.
“…You sure that’s the same person who wasted two dozen [Pirates] and [Raiders] last night?”
Omusc carefully stole a card from the top of the deck and hid her bad card in her armpit as she went to scratch it.
“Believe it. Someone haul her up. And hide the snacks. She’ll eat every fucking thing.”
 
——
 
They were moving. Savere’s ‘Army of Waves’ had returned to the capital—just long enough to see off some [Pirates]. They’d had to leave a garrison, but the port had been cleared.
Most importantly? The ships were out of the port. The Bloodtear Pirates had left. Not as cheerfully since they did leave, but with more rueful shrugs than gnashing of teeth.
They’d made a play and failed. They hadn’t paid much in blood, and they had still gotten to wipe out most of a land-gang. There had still been sixteen full crews—but with five at sea, the army inbound, the [Pirate Captains] had taken a look at Ceria and the Siren—
And the Alchemist, Irurx, who dined with the two the next day.
They came to a reluctant conclusion and shipped off. No fuss, no drama.
 
——
 
“You made an enemy of Ereiyne. She won’t forget that.”
Captain Aldrail had grinned down at Ceria as Gorry blew her a kiss. She looked up at him and Jiupe’s ship, which lingered at port. Behind them, the port gates were closing to a half-opening.
It changed the way the water flowed and lapped around Savere’s port. More importantly? Ships could come in and out, but only in single-file, and not as fast, because the currents were artificially slowed.
So, if you were an armada, you’d have a hard time sweeping into port suddenly. Most importantly—the gates could be shut, in which case you’d be trying to knock them down while Savere held out in a siege.
That was how they acted when the Siren left. Which freed her to march.
Where, though? Why now?
Well…
The Ice Squirrel was wet. She sat, dripping, on the wagon, as the other [Bandits] stared at the fuming Siren. Every now and then she’d blast the air with precious water.
“She’s still mad as a scorpion with its stinger up its own arse. What happened?”
“The Singer of Terandria’s on the news.”
“Oh.”
The [Enforcement Raider], Abelesque, winced and picked up a card. She scowled at it, then her face went blank. She glanced around and the other [Bandits] sighed. They were an unscrupulous lot, who liked to play cards because you could level if you swindled, cheated, or just stole each other’s cards. It was rare, but someone had once leveled twice from the most dastardly, underhanded theft of a 200 gold pot. It was a legend in Savere.
…Mind you, it had been a [Thug] who, after unsuccessfully trying to steal a few cards, had kicked her opponent and grabbed her cards in the dustup and hid them up her sleeve.
Even so, Abelesque, who had many important qualities as a leader and [Raider]…had no card face. So even Savere’s worst rogues felt playing with her was a bit…well, it felt wrong to take her money all day and night.
Like stealing from a baby. Who did that? If they were holding a diamond, sure, but candy? Buy some. You want something covered in saliva? Dead gods.
They were headed to battle. Ceria? Omusc murmured to her as she leaned over. The two were sitting together, and Ceria was being dealt in.
“So you’re working with us now, huh? You’re part of the crew. Technically, I guess you’re the boss. Want me to stop calling you Ice Squirrel?”
The half-Elf calmly shielded her cards from the friendly [Pillager]. They hadn’t spoken long about Ceria saving Omusc’s life. But they didn’t need to. All of Savere remembered. The other [Bandits] walking or riding along kept staring at Ceria, even the ones who were regular army veterans.
She looked like she wasn’t wearing the circlet. But who would believe that? Ceria brushed at her hair and smiled around. Her poker face was the stuff of legends. So bland…one of the [Bandits] saw her motion for the bowl of cheaper fish cakes and reluctantly passed it around.
“Nah. It’s temporary. The Siren and I have come to an arrangement. I help her—she helps find my friends. One of them is with a [Bandit Lady] she knows. We’re splitting work. Got a problem with that?”
Omusc grinned.
“You’re the boss’ best friend right now, boss. Just tell us who to stab and keep us rolling in gold.”
“Hah! How about coppers?”
The [Bandits] laughed. They watched Ceria. Damn, she really did have a poker face like—
The half-Elf reached up, detached her face—Abelesque went over the wagon’s side with a shout of horror as she sprang up—and removed the mask of ice. She grabbed a handful of fish cakes, popped them into her mouth, then fit the mask back over her face. Only then did she look around.
“What? I know you’re cheating. Fold.”
Only then did Omusc and a [Rogue] glance around and see the little mirror of ice reflecting the cards on the lip of the wagon. It melted as Omusc whistled. She leaned over the edge of the wagon.
“Hey! Get the gambling bitches up here! You know them! All the cheating bastards. We’re playing a high-level game!”
Savere’s army reformed as [Conwomen], card sharks with various high-level classes, [Gamblers], and so on walked out of the crowd. The kind of people who no one was willing to play with for money. Or even peanuts.
Of course, the rules were that if you got caught, you got the shit kicked out of you. But that was the fun. Savere moved with raucous laughter, chaos, and a rapidly-diminishing snack pool. The Siren fumed, but she looked ahead.
Nsiia. Nsiia and…well. Ceria’s friends. Not that Revine was a fool, but Ceria was amazingly practical, and the half-Elf was changed for all she had not. She aimed for Nsiia; Ceria’s team was secondary, but they’d meet if the Siren found Nsiia. As for what came next?
They’d negotiate when it came to that. After all—the Siren had an army.
 
——
 
The procession that left Tyrant’s Rest was the stuff of stories. One of Nerrhavia’s Grand Armies was forming, and that meant days of celebration.
Each city they traversed along the wide, well-kept, Djinni-maintained roads would throw open their gates and celebrate the passing of one of Nerrhavia’s greatest hordes.
Stitch-folk marched to the cheers of hundreds of thousands of admirers. Even the Hemp got their day in the sun, wearing burnished armor and bearing proud spears under the flag of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
It was not just patriotism; the riders on the chariots would toss coins, and trinkets from the capital would be given out. Food would be placed along the procession-ways, and it was like a festival.
Not that all of it gathered from Tyrant’s Rest alone, of course. A muster for a Grand Army meant that each city that was contributing a contingent to the army would have this kind of procession—speeches—and march to link up with the main horde.
It was masterful organization, even if you disagreed with the rest of it. Nerrhavia could raise many armies in this way, as they only drew from the garrisons or waiting soldiers of multiple cities lightly to form a giant force. Indeed, as the army passed by each city, it would do an incredible amount of business. Also, leave quite a lot of babies—broken stalls and furniture from fights—and a certain amount of chaos in its wake.
Nevertheless. It had begun. Ironically, at this moment, the very two people this Grand Army was meant to escort were not…with…the procession riding through the first city on their route.
General Thelican of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, appointed to this great task by the [Queen] herself, had set out on the day it had been announced. That was because an army—even an army boosted by multiple Skills marching down a paved road—was slower than those on horseback.
“[We March Under Friendly Skies]!”
“[Swift Infantry]!”
“[Maintain the Pace]!”
Multiple [Strategists] and experts in the simple art of getting to one place quickly—[March Commanders]—were hastening his army’s progress. Thelican rode, an arm raised as the people gazed up at one of the greatest figures in their kingdom with awe.
Internally, he was less sanguine. He was returning to Tiqr, which had not been a pleasant campaign in the least. Mind you, the elephants were dead…which was good, because the veterans of that campaign might well break and flee rather than fight a thousand rampaging Grand Elephants again, Nerrhavia Fallen’s honor or no.
Yet what really bothered Thelican wasn’t the location, but the decision itself. The thing was…he leaned over his saddle and murmured to one of his companions.
“[Tome Magus] Irwhil. Did you have a chance to ask Her Majesty’s inner court or anyone else on the Council of Steel about the formation of this army?”
The [Mage] riding next to him was the lead spellcaster attached to this army. In this case, he was also a figure of note instead of being just a [War Mage]; Yisame wanted no effort spared, so she had commanded one of the Tome Magi of the Hundred Thousand Tomes Academy to aid Thelican.
His exact rank was Spellcaster Selendia—a term that meant he had permission to cast magic in the royal palace. In practice? He was as important as a lesser [General], an important ally to have in the courts.
Especially for a man like Thelican, who had both ambition and need of magically-capable allies. Irwhil had been his first choice to share in any glory and as a trustworthy ally.
A Grand Army, for a grand occasion. But Irwhil’s face was as…confused…as Thelican’s as the two rode together. The [Mage] cast an illusion to make it seem like both were still waving and smiling.
“I did not. From what I saw, even the [Spymaster] was astonished. The [Chancellor of Coin]? Perhaps it was that bastard who…?”
“No, I talked with him briefly. Maybe it was the [First Diplomat]? The…I think it must be Queen Yisame herself who ordered it.”
The two exchanged a look of frank amazement. Nerrhavia Fallen’s courts were highly complex. Thelican tapped at his painted lips.
Why would she not only offend the powerful Quarein family, a royal family who was as close to the throne as any by supporting the poor Isphel house, let alone form a Grand Army and pledge it to save a few adventurers? No matter they were famous—
This was not how Yisame normally did things.
She was a clever woman. She had ascended in the bloodbath of a civil war and survived because she understood how to rule a nation like this. Which was by staying clear of political fallout.
Consider most wars. Obviously, the one with Flos was an exception, but despite individual defeats, the onus of failure did not usually fall on Yisame—nor for costly economic projects that failed.
Because she did not propose them. She was carefully neutral, and let those who clutched at ambition rise or fall. Thelican knew Yisame as a savvy, cunning leader with a viper’s reflexes—politically—who would strike at you if you bared your fangs. A generous ruler otherwise.
With peculiar tastes running towards sharp edges, or so he had heard. But what ruler didn’t have…interests? Thelican carefully collected such information and never used it since there was little point. No, he had high ambitions, but Yisame’s seat was too high, even for him. The throne was a precarious place to be.
So why did she pledge armies to Yvlon Byres? Irwhil was clearly wondering the same thing.
“It must be that someone petitioned her to do so and we do not know about it. Either that or…”
Or she is aware of something we are not. Thelican didn’t like that, but the [Queen] did have the [Spymaster] on her side. Mind you, the [Spymaster] had his own plans, but he was still subservient to the crown. Yet Yisame had her own networks…
Thelican snapped his fingers, eyes widening, as they passed by some giant peacocks whose radiant feathers were collected into massive fans. He ignored the proffered gift of one luxuriant feather.
“Of course!”
Irwhil looked at him. Thelican leaned over and whispered urgently.
“It’s obvious, Irwhil. Don’t think of this as a simple gesture to the adventurers. It’s so obvious I should have seen it at the time. Why would one form a Grand Army and send it west?”
The [Tome Magus] thought, then his eyes widened.
“You mean…?”
Thelican was nodding, smiling with relief as he saw Yisame’s grand plan.
“That fool got herself captured by Pomle. The [Martial Artists] are strong. I can well imagine they might put up a long fight against our garrisons, Nerrhavia’s might or no. Why would one want a costly, protracted war of humiliation? Not least—the Empress of Beasts has joined the damned [Monks]. She’s becoming more than a nuisance. Thanks to that insane Vizir. Did you hear he wiped out Scaied’s forces just because he hated scorpions?”
Irwhil shook his head.
“Khelt’s madness. I agree—the entire region has the potential to rapidly destabilize. Just today, I heard that Savere was moving. So Illivere and Savere are chasing after the Empress of Beasts…”
