“They way I look at it, necro-lad—”
“Don’t call me that.”
She slapped him on the shoulder.
“—Pisces my boy—is that we’re already being hunted. If they want to take us, we should make it as hard as possible. What do you say? Up for a good old-fashioned rampage?”
The [Necromancer] looked at Merr. He felt at his neck, glanced over his shoulder at the freed [Slaves] and undead. Pisces Jealnet’s eyes flickered. He stood up, slapped Merr on the shoulder, and swore and rubbed at his fragile [Mage]-hands as she laughed. But then he looked at Merr and bared his teeth.
“I thought you’d never ask.”
 
——
 
Plans were coming together. Intersecting. You had to play something by ear, but they were drawing to their perfect conclusion. Like a net. Like a tapestry. Like a spider’s web. There would be snags, complications…intersecting goals and dreams.
And yet. Yisame Beziin, Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Steward of the Sultanate of the Freed Cloths, Guardian of the Tyrant’s Grave, Threadchosen of the Kingdoms of Nerrha—that was the old name for Nerrhavia’s empire—Monarch of etc. etc…
Watched as a woman awkwardly signed the cardboard card with her silversteel left hand holding the quill. It wasn’t good penwomanship because she was using her wrong hand and she wasn’t used to autographs.
That just made it more valuable. 
Oh yes. It was all coming together. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] put the quill back in the holder and then hesitated, clearly wondering if you just…
“I will take it. Thank you, Adventurer Byres. I am much enamored by your exploits. Not just in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
The [Queen] accepted the autograph, and Yvlon ducked her head.
“You’re too kind, Your Majesty.”
“Not at all. You must call me Yisame, and I shall call you Yvlon. We only have a day…”
Yisame regretted that. She leaned over, and Yvlon leaned back. She seemed patently uncomfortable. Yisame tried not to look too excited.
“Do forgive me. I truly do admire your deeds in Izril.”
“I—I had no idea you even knew about them, Your Majesty. This is a high honor.”
Yvlon shuffled her feet. She grew more relaxed as Yisame clapped her hands.
“Servants! Leave the refreshments. I believe Yvlon and I will be best suited alone.”
“Your Majesty, with a Human from—?”
A [Servant] flinched as Yisame gave her a wide-eyed glare. They put down the refreshments, and Yisame turned to Yvlon.
“Drinks? Something to eat? I know it must seem—odd.”
After all, Prince Zenol was not here. Nor were the other [Gladiators]. It was just Yvlon. The Gold-rank adventurer had come in full of etiquette, not prepared for…
Well, Yisame knew she was smiling a bit too widely. She went to serve Yvlon a drink herself and the woman stood up.
“Your Majesty, allow me—”
“Yisame. Please!”
They stood, as Yvlon took one of the decanters and Yisame faced her. The [Queen] felt a lurch in her chest.
Oh no, this wasn’t going according to plan! They were supposed to be—no, wait.
She wasn’t blind. Yvlon was certainly a bit…weirded out. Off-put by Yisame’s demeanor. And the [Avid Reader] realized something.
In all her scheming to help Yvlon, to put her into a better position, then to salvage the disaster at the court—then her impulsive decision to throw it all to Rhir’s hells and help that brave adventurer and [Prince]—
She had never thought of what to do when she met Yvlon.
Suddenly, Yisame began to sweat. She was the ruler of the nation that had interred Yvlon. She had apologized, of course, and Yvlon accepted that, but did she mean it? What would they talk about?
“I—ah, I truly am a fan of yours, Miss Byres. I enjoy stories, you see.”
Wait, don’t lead with that! Yisame flushed slightly, and Yvlon slowly poured herself a drink.
“I see, Your Majesty?”
The [Queen] hurried on. Definitely don’t mention the writing! Or fan fiction. Sandquen—this was why you didn’t add yourself into your stories!
“I followed the entire raid on the Village of the Dead, you know. I know all of the Horns of Hammerad.”
“I see?”
Yisame’s desperate smile turned waxy.
What did I just say? I know all the—there are four of them! It isn’t like knowing the genealogy of a royal family! But her treacherous lips kept moving.
“T-that is, Pisces, Ceria, Ksmvr, and you.”
“That is the Horns of Hammerad, Your M—er…Yisame.”
Yvlon Byres looked like her teeth ached. The two stared at each other, realized they had locked gazes, and Yisame desperately opened a fan and began to wave it. She pretended to glance down at her cup. Yvlon Byres stared at her jagged wrist; her right arm was almost regrown.
This was a disaster. Yisame felt like she was going to cry. And if she started crying…
With every ounce of will, she suppressed her tear ducts. She saw Yvlon’s lips moving, perhaps trying to formulate some kind of nothing statement about the decor. Oh dead gods, what do I…
“Calruz of Hammerad too. Sostrom, Gerial, I believe there was a Marian and Hunt?”
Yvlon’s head snapped up. She blinked. Then her eyes widened.
“You know the original Horns of Hammerad too?”
Yisame breathed. She spoke faster.
“Of course. Once I looked into the Horns, I had to learn about them. The original team as formed by Calruz of the Beriad—I knew it had to be related to the House of Minos in some way, but I assumed one of you had been granted the right to use the name by the Minotaur King.”
“Oh, no. I—the Minotaur King?”
Yisame lifted her cup and drank. She began chatting, out of sheer nerves.
“The Minotaur King would grant you the right to use Hammerad’s name, as one of Minos’ regions. This Calruz—your previous Captain—must have been one of Minos’ citizens privileged enough to exit to the outside world. But—”
She bit her tongue.
“—He is currently imprisoned in Liscor. Sick silkworms, I am so sorry to bring—and your team, the Silver Spears—I apologize. I was only—”
She turned beet red. She’d done it. Mentioned the worst thing Yvlon Byres didn’t want to hear.
But rather than grow angry—Yvlon was just looking at Yisame.
“You…you do know about us. That’s incredible. Do you know my teammates’ names…?”
Yisame’s heart leapt. She closed her eyes, then used a Skill. [Re-read the Passage].
“Veronika, Dalia, Samite, and…Maisé. That’s all the entry said.”
Yvlon Byres sat back, eyes wide. An expression of pain flickered across her face, and Yisame’s heart sank. But then she nodded. She looked at Yisame and…smiled. She took a deep gulp of wine as she realized who Yisame was.
The Horns of Hammerad’s first, true, non-related fan. Someone who had never met them, but a fan. A fan who wanted autographs, who knew their story—at least, the accessible bits.
And who was definitely going to save that drinking cup. Yvlon took another deep sip and so did Yisame, in relief. They had completely forgotten they were not being served water, but wine.
 
——
 
Forty minutes later, Yisame was sitting on a couch next to Yvlon as the [Servant] came in and refilled the wine decanter and brought a lunch. The [Queen] leaned over as the [Servant] left.
“So you and Pisces truly aren’t, ah, romantic in any way…”
Yvlon half-recoiled.
“Pisces? Please. Never. I really do respect him. I hold him in high esteem, even if he gets on my nerves, truly—but as a partner? Never.”
“I knew it. I knew it, but some people think you and he—I am going to tell that goat-faced harridin—you wouldn’t mind putting out some kind of statement? Some kind of…”
Yvlon reached for the cup of wine.
“I’d make an announcement and post it in every Adventurer’s Guild.”
“Done! Send for my [Scribes]!”
Yisame half-rose, and Yvlon tugged her back. A [Servant] poked their head in and saw the two women, slightly red in the cheeks, laughing and arguing.
The [Queen] had made a friend. At first it had been terribly awkward, but when she proved she knew Yvlon’s story, wanted to hear the rest—the woman had begun to relax.
The wine definitely helped. But what also helped was Yisame’s confession. Yvlon looked at her as the door closed once more.
“So you’re really a [Reader]?”
“Books. I love them. It’s all so…adventurous. The world beyond the castle.”
“Is it? It’s a lot of dirt and grime and…”
“I know that. But you get—surely there are moments where you feel like you’ve done something else no one has. Triumph?”
Yvlon thought of Albez, of emerging with the treasure, of realizing they were alive and the Adult Creler dead, and of becoming a Gold-rank adventurer.
“Sometimes. Sometimes it’s terrible, but yes, sometimes.”
The [Queen] sighed.
“I long for that. I never wanted to be a [Queen], you know.”
She looked around guiltily. Yvlon was no fool. She looked at Yisame in astonishment, then lowered her voice.
“I never wanted to be a [Lady] either. But I am one. I can’t…not be one. I wish—I wish, sometimes, I didn’t have my older brother so I wouldn’t compare myself to him. But would I have made it without being born a Byres?”
Yisame was nodding, tears in her eyes. She went to hug Yvlon, impulsively. It was more physical than the Izrilian was used to, but that actually squared with Yisame as a [Queen].
“That is exactly how I feel. I wanted to go out—but I once got a magic sword, and I arranged to fight a Silver-rank monster…I couldn’t do it.”
Her face fell.
“I couldn’t. I can only read of things. I can’t change how I was raised.”
Yvlon tried to cheer her up.
“Most people freeze up, the first dozen times. I did—everyone has trouble with animals and monsters, let alone people.”
“Truly? That makes me feel better. I do love reading, you know. It’s just—I am [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I would rather have read about the King of Destruction. Even him coming back—you know, I was truly excited? Until I realized what it meant. Until my kingdom made war on his. The Empress of Beasts…”
She sighed. Yvlon looked at her.
“Can’t you…change things? Give orders?”
Yisame gave her a fragile smile.
“A [Queen] can—but in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, even a [Queen] is not a secure position. I would that I were higher-level, but there are many checks on the throne. Nerrhavia, the Tyrant of Cloth, shall never return, and that is good because she was a monster given flesh. But…I must be careful.”
She sat there, rather like some kind of wondrously-sewn doll trapped in her role. Yvlon felt for Yisame. She knew what that felt like, even in part.
“You helped me and Prince Zenol. I will repay that, Your Majesty.”
Yisame looked at Yvlon.
“Do so by continuing to do great things. Things of such great stories that I can read them and know I met you, helped you. And—and I will continue to do so. Your arm is nearly healed. But is it entirely well?”
Yvlon flexed her arm, frowning.
“It’s…it feels off, sometimes, but I am learning to control it far better.”
Yisame took a long gulp of goat’s milk and threw her head back.
“Well, we will not spend all this time together. I have made arrangements with an expert I can trust completely. She will see to you before you go. Appraise whatever you might have carried from the Village of the Dead too.”
Yvlon jumped.
“How did you—”
She was rewarded with an arch smile. Yisame’s eyes glittered.
“I may be a low-level [Queen], but I did read Ducaz’s reports. The rest of my Courts did not. Even falsified, he claimed he only sequestered your Gold-rank artifacts—I will have them returned, mark my words. But I could not imagine he would do all this if it were not for a Relic-class item. As one was never found on him when an inquiry was launched, my guess was that you had hidden it somewhere. I can retrieve it if it is buried—but I was sure you had at least one once I heard of Ksmvr. Adventurers don’t leave treasure behind.”
Yvlon Byres hesitated.
“I do have the Relics.”
“Really? Where did you hide them? Was it that the Relics were undetectable? Wait. You hid them in your arms! Of course!”
“I—absolutely. That’s exactly it.”
Yvlon Byres would never tell anyone, anyone, even her biggest fan, how she’d really hidden the scrolls and rings.
It was a strange feeling, though. Meeting someone who liked you, and didn’t really know you. It could, as Yisame had feared, be entirely disastrous. The reason it wasn’t was because Yisame was still…
[Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And once Yvlon saw past her delicately hand-sewn skin, the luxurious fabrics, the painted lips, makeup, and power behind the often-cruel, gigantic nation…
She found someone she liked, despite only having met her for these scant few hours. A bookworm sitting on a gilded throne, willing to move earth and sky for the sake of stories.
As for Yisame? She listened as Yvlon told her some of the real stories. She told Yvlon her small life, surviving the bloodbath of a civil war, figuring out how to stay in power…the [Armsmistress] made much of it, but Yisame was hardly the King of Duels, let alone a ruler who had won their crown by cunning or blood. She had just survived.
She didn’t seem to understand how much that counted for an adventurer. In the same way—as Yvlon told her story, she was surprised how it moved Yisame. The self-conscious woman touched her metal flesh as she sat there.
“The…the first time I actually damaged my arms, during the battle with the Fire Elemental? It was too fast. I was there, trying to kill it, and I didn’t think. That’s how it goes, usually. But afterwards? When I was fighting the Adult Creler, and other times before that? I knew I put myself in danger. When I thought we were all going to die, I charged it because…”
She hesitated. A confession came to her lips she’d never really told anyone.
“…I was glad if it was me.”
“Why?”
Yisame looked up at Yvlon. The Human woman smiled bleakly, remembering.
“At the time, I looked at my team, and each one was special. Pisces was a silver-bell duelist-trained [Necromancer]. Ceria? She was a half-Elf and growing in ice magic. Ksmvr was Antinium and…Ksmvr. They had room to grow. What did I have? Training, experience—but I’d just level up into [Knight] at best. I thought I was dragging them down. So I was reckless. I should have died.”
“Do you know why you didn’t?”
The woman stared into that memory of her shattering the Adult Creler’s brain, surviving losing her arms. All the rest.
“I…just kept fighting. I said to myself that I knew I’d die. But I’d die in the next five seconds. After the next blow. Somehow, the next five seconds never came. Or someone would save me. That’s how it happened. Now I have something. Silversteel arms. So I suppose…I can keep up with my team now. I hope so.”
