The [Sage]’s eyes glinted. Yvlon shook her head.
“Nor would I, but I wasn’t…there. She is a dear friend to many. She helped bring the Horns together after the crypt. She’s still there. It’s been…months. My team went to the Village of the Dead not for glory, not to use the relic we thought was there, but in order to gain it. To trade it for something that could cure her.”
“Truly?”
Yisame looked at Yvlon. She half-rose.
“What does she need? A Potion of Regeneration? A Scroll of [Restoration]? We have both, I think. Those are often used by rulers, but—”
Etrikah raised a paw and gripped Yisame’s arm, stopping the [Queen] in her excitement. She watched Yvlon’s face.
“It’s not that easy, or you wouldn’t have tried for a Relic-class object. Isn’t that so, Miss Byres?”
“No.”
Yvlon met her gaze. She closed her eyes, and looked up at the ceiling.
“No, it’s not that easy. Nor am I close to her. I don’t even have my team. But here I am. Before I go, Great Sage Etrikah, Queen Yisame. My friend. Her name is…”
 
——
 
“Erin Solstice.”
Ceria Springwalker put down her cards. The [Rogues] and [Bandits] were all staring at her. Even the Siren, just happening to be riding on her palanquin next to them, was listening.
“You went into the Village of the Dead on the chance you might find something to help your friend?”
“Yeah. That’s right. It’s like going up against the Bloodtear Pirates for someone you’ve never met. Shut up, Abelesque.”
Omusc glanced to her left at one of the audience, then looked at Ceria. The half-Elf smiled crookedly.
“Ice. I have experimented with that. There are creatures…who can survive freezing. I have never seen larger beings survive it.”
Irurx looked at Ceria. The half-Elf nodded.
“Maybe, though. Maybe. She needs many things. A cure to a poison. A way to unfreeze her—I don’t know the right spell. But maybe—”
She raised her hand and gripped the circlet on her head. Then she turned her head right and looked at Revine. Ceria half-rose. The dark [Alchemist] of Shifthold looked at her. The Siren of Savere raised her brows.
 
——
 
“…Do you have any ideas?”
Yisame held her breath. Sage Etrikah tapped her claws on the dining table.
“Again, you should tell me these things beforehand. I have mere hours before you leave. Research would take months. I can work on it—but you understand this is a crisis. Yes, though. I can certainly look into these things.”
Yvlon’s heart beat faster. Again, though, the [Sage] held up one paw.
“Intelligence. Wisdom, Yvlon Byres.”
“Yes, Sage Etrikah?”
The Fox-woman tapped the side of her head.
“…Why would I start from scratch? Who else is working on this? I assume someone must be.”
“Oh—Oteslia. Oteslia and I think—I don’t know.”
“Well, why don’t we look that up first and make contact? Then we can see. Speaking of which, have you told your mother you’re alive? Mothers do worry, you know.”
“Huh?”
Yvlon blinked. Etrikah sighed.
“That you didn’t die in the Village of the Dead. You were a [Gladiator]. I’ll stop shouting. Why don’t you send your family a [Message]?”
“Of course. [Servants]—”
Yisame clapped her hands and Etrikah slapped her hands down.
“It will not kill you to stand up for once. Come, come. We’ll use my [Scroll of Messages]. Tell your parents you’re alive, Miss Byres. I will inquire into this young woman’s cure if one can be arranged. You have my word.”
 
——
 
“Mine too. It is not a difficult thing to pledge. And it is quite…interesting.”
Irurx’s eyes glittered with the academic challenge. The Siren of Savere nodded too, however surreal it was to be on the same wavelength as he. Idly, she placed a finger to her brow and began to cast a few spells. Then frowned.
“…There is a substantial bounty on an ice spell in conjunction with an Oteslian multi-part cure project. Posted by Khelt. The reward is in the tens of thousands of gold pieces.”
“Really?”
Ceria blinked. She sat up, and the Siren reached out. At the same time, so did the Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Hands or paws, joining together, asking to be let in on a project backed across different continents. Strange experts from all walks of life.
A name.
Erin Solstice.
Just who was she? May you have time to find out. Almost, that was what they learned.
Almost. But for a missing piece here. Elegance lacking here. An ingredient, a spell unperfected.
It was so frustrating, and even with it all, it was just incomplete. Hovering on the boundary of being realized, and this was something that could not be left to chance.
Pieces like the [Princess] in Oteslia, pledged to find her daughter or die trying. Fate intertwined with Dragons.
A Goblin Chieftain hunted for kidnapping the great Healer of Tenbault. Guest of the Goblin [Witch].
The Grand Magus of Wistram, preparing to elevate himself to Archmage. Mindful of his promise—
To a young woman who was suffering from a panic attack while a [Popstar] paraded into the capital and a Wyrm gloated.
A half-Elf and a woman with metal arms far from home. An Ant and a Necro-lad on the run.
An angry Fraerling with a [Message] scroll and an army. Oh, and a bunch of Goblins, Antinium, and some weird others.
Even more. A Necromancer who made a mistake and watched a wall of his castle go screaming into the void. A silly little Gnoll with white fur trying not to throw up lobster through her nose.
An [Alchemist] who smiled, mindful of her promise.
The ghosts of Chandrar and an undead king.
More and more. Incomplete for all this talent. Pieces of a puzzle not completed.
Especially since something was missing. Something…one last piece that no one had penciled into the checklist.
It wasn’t her fault. She had been busy with being kidnapped. Reviving the dead was never something she had been taught.
Now, though, a [Doctor] dove deeper into the depths of her Mind. Taking a deal to save a life. She reached down and finally saw it.
 
——
 
“Oh.”
Geneva Scala whispered. In the Mind, she stopped and saw it. A glimpse on the edges of her understanding.
A final thread. She pulled at it, following it along its source. Straining for understanding. She would have taken longer, never grasped it, perhaps. But she was a mind among Minds. At last. She actually smiled. It was so simple when she realized it. That would work.
“That’s what I was missing.”
There it was. 
She found it at last.
