“Superior to a [Soldier] of the same level.”
Ksmvr scratched at the stubs of his antennae.
“…Broadly speaking?”
“Almost always.”
It didn’t sound like arrogance, but that was an incredible claim! Ksmvr eyed one of the female [Monks] walking along with a literal staff for a weapon.
“I believe we are being imprecise. I am not sure if I am ‘being laughed upon’. How strong is she, then?”
Shurein and the female [Monk] glanced up. The [Abbot] gave Ksmvr another polite, slight smile.
“Nothing is certain until the clash. You may be beyond us all, Ksmvr. I would not know from just looking. So…would you like to find out?”
 
——
 
Nsiia strode through the line of [Soldiers] watching, and pushed past people until she ran into that which could not be pushed.
Domehead. But the Golem politely stepped aside for her, and she saw Ksmvr fighting.
Not the female [Monk], but against [Abbot] Shurein himself. The [Monk]—and five others—were sitting, with bruises or, in one case, a split lip which they refused to treat with a potion, watching as the [Abbot] spun his halberd. He stepped left, then right, feinting with the halberd, a jab, a shallow cut—whirling the blade to threaten the right side, as Ksmvr’s swords shone.
[Silver Illusion]. A school of blade arts known for its incredible speed and deceptive cuts. The Antinium [Skirmisher] had inherited it. He still carried the twin shortswords Vasraf had given him.
On loan, much as the shining sword Nsiia carried was. The blades flashed together in a mesmerizing, glittering pattern that would distract you. Even if you sliced at Ksmvr, he might vanish.
The heights of his sword school were a mystery to even Nsiia and Vasraf. Yet it said much that someone had once walked down that long path.
Klbkch the Slayer. It sent a chill down her spine to think of it. Yet…Ksmvr’s delicate sword dance faltered. The Antinium stared at the [Abbot] as Shurein feinted, stepping left and right.
“I believe I am in trouble.”
He based that not on the pure technique of the [Abbot]’s handling of the halberd; they were just testing feints, inviting a slash, seeing if Ksmvr could tell they were fake. The Antinium, with his keen insight for battle and experience as an adventurer—
Mostly based it on the fact that the [Abbot] had afterimages.
He was moving so fast from left to right that Ksmvr saw two Shureins, and multiple halberds seemed to be flickering through the air. But while Ksmvr had a Skill and mastery of the two blades—
Shurein was just fast. He came in, hard, fast, and low, his halberd angled so the blunt edge would hit Ksmvr if he struck. Such a frail old man—who was about to hit Ksmvr like—
Shurein stopped. He put up his blade, and then smiled widely. Nsiia blinked. She watched as Ksmvr put up his swords and ran out of the circle of onlookers. He hopped over three people, ran—three arms waving—a good hundred feet, then turned to see if Shurein was chasing him.
“Ksmvr! I thought you were going to fight!”
Nsiia shouted. There was laughter as Ksmvr shouted back.
“I am an adventurer! I do not take fights where I will die. Mostly.”
The [Abbot] chuckled as he put up his halberd.
“That is a wise opponent. I see why Loquea Dree favors him. A [Skirmisher] who picks his battles.”
Ksmvr came back. He regarded Shurein, then copied his bow and placed his palms together.
“You are a very mighty warrior, Abbot Shurein. I believe I begin to understand why Sottheim is feared. Your [Monks] were very good opponents as well.”
Each one had been quick, strong, and proficient with their weapons. Not as much as Ksmvr, but they had adapted to his three arms and style fast—before he bonked them on the head with one of his swords. Ksmvr eyed the five [Monks] who bowed to him.
“What level are they? How many battles have they been through?”
Shurein scratched at his chin. He looked at the [Monks].
“No battles. These five came to Sottheim after the King of Destruction’s slumber; there are only a few hundred who lived past the end of the war. As to their levels? None here are over Level 30. Isn’t that so?”
“No, Abbot.”
They replied as one. Ksmvr tilted his head.
“They are very good. Very…good.”
Nsiia snorted. Ksmvr glanced at her, then Shurein’s small smile. He frowned, putting his mandibles together.
“I am being laughed upon. Everyone knows something I do not. What is it?”
It was Leka Thri who flew down and stood next to Ksmvr. He bent over and murmured.
“Sottheim’s [Monks] are not known for their levels, Ksmvr. Not weapons. Their Skills. Each [Monk] you could face has the same ones. Regardless of level.”
Ksmvr’s head snapped up.
“How? Skills are random.”
“Not necessarily. [Monks] are a different class from many. [Mages] differ. [Monks] differ. Those who master a weapon experience Skills differently. You know this.”
Shurein returned. He gestured at the [Monks], who bowed again.
“Each one of Sottheim’s [Monks] follows our class. Our class does not gain in strength simply by achieving great deeds, but how we live. We have taken [Vows]. For instance, I have taken a [Vow of Poverty]. I will never carry or use money. Should I try, it may slip from my grasp. Or my class shall become endangered.”
Ksmvr’s antennae stubs were waving rapidly. He looked at Shurein.
“I have never heard of this.”
“Few have the willpower to live their lives so. But that is what a [Monk] does. Each class has secrets. Some monasteries vow only one thing, or let their disciples choose. Sottheim? We have many vows. [Vow of Poverty]. [Vow of Privation]—we will not sleep or rest on luxury, we shall not eat rich foods. In exchange, we need less. Deprivation is strength, but it is a vow that will endure as long as we live. Or…we will lose our class.”
“A dire trade. I could not live so.”
Nsiia murmured. Shurein inclined his head at her. He gestured to the [Monks].
“Yet my people are free to come and go, Empress Nsiia. To renounce our class at any time. They do not, which tells me they find a reason to believe in Sottheim’s teachings. Someday—perhaps—there will be hundreds of thousands, millions of Sottheim’s people. Even if they take other classes, they will live under such vows.”
“Why would that be ideal?”
Ksmvr saw Shurein look at him.
“Because we fight wars over money, Ksmvr. Because many starve for want of food or water. Sottheim’s people will not. It is my dream, and the one the King of Destruction let me, and the [Abbots] before me, pursue to spread Sottheim’s teachings to those who will listen.”
“Ah.”
Another person who wanted something. Loquea Dree? Respect, a purpose. Sottheim?
Belief. To spread far and wide. Shurein gestured at one of the [Monks], who might be as young as fourteen. He bowed.
“Each [Monk] is given a trade for their vows. Each warrior you bested, Ksmvr, has the same Skills. That is why some claim Sottheim is mighty. Their Skills are these: [Lesser Strength]. [Lesser Toughness], [Lesser Dexterity], [Lesser Endurance]. Four vows. Four Skills. In time, they too will evolve.”
He smiled.
“Mine are greater.”
Ksmvr’s mandibles opened. He looked at the [Monks]. At Nsiia, who laughed at his expression. At the six thousand [Monks], all with…
“What. I am shocked. I am…”
He looked around for a way to express himself. How could he even convey—
“Aaaaaah! Aaaaaah!”
Ksmvr ran around in a circle, arms thrown high. Erin did it—it seemed effective at communicating his feelings.
People were laughing after a minute, so Ksmvr stopped.
Sottheim. Now, Ksmvr got it. He had only one last question.
“How did the [Monks] of Sottheim grow to such numbers? It seems you recruit and wish to create more monasteries.”
“Yes. Our particular monastery is new. But I believe we will grow over the course of this next war or campaign. Tiqr’s people, all people, will join us. But that is not why we will flourish.”
Shurein looked much amused at Ksmvr’s reactions.
“Two monasteries will grow twice as fast, regardless of whether the King of Destruction rises or falls. I hope for more, but, so long as Sottheim lives, we will grow. Time will tell if what we believe is right.”
He looked so calm and confident that Ksmvr was impressed. He also saw why no one bothered attacking the [Monks]: even at low-levels they were dangerous. A bunch of counter-leveling [Monks]? Even without weapons?
The funny ant-man was getting lots of laughs, and he nodded and bent down to pet Yinah. Ksmvr waited until Rémi Canada was focused on someone else. He wondered…
If Antinium could become [Monks].
Erin Solstice had taught him well indeed. Perhaps Shurein noticed, but the [Abbot] said nothing. After all. Sottheim’s beliefs were Sottheim’s, regardless of species. And wouldn’t it be interesting?
A slight smile that Leka Thri watched. Loquea Dree, the Executioners of the Sky, were feared. So was Sottheim. There were reasons they were equally feared.
“You truly believe you will convert that many people, then, Abbot Shurein? I admit, your monastery is very impressive. I wish you success and hope for your aid and our good companionship on our journey. Perhaps you may tell me more about your class later.”
They were moving out. Where to next? Nsiia had another destination, and now her army had a vanguard as powerful as any Grand Elephant. Shurein glanced at Ksmvr and bowed slightly.
“This is well. But I believe you make one mistake. I apologize for teasing you, Ksmvr of Chandrar. I did not take a vow against humor. So I shall clear it up. Recruits? We do not rely on that, for that is a dangerous thing to trust the future of our monastery to. Sottheim will grow faster than most monasteries.”
Ksmvr hesitated.
“…Why?”
Shurein pursed his lips. Then his eyes twinkled. He whispered to Ksmvr.
“Because, Ksmvr. We do not take vows of celibacy.”
The [Skirmisher] stared at Shurein. He looked around. His mandibles opened.
“Ew. Is that why you joined Nsiia’s army?”
The [Monks] were talking with the Tiqr [Soldiers]. Who were flirting. Ksmvr stared about. A [Monk] helping load a wagon. Was that flirting? Foreplay? How would you know? Was one of them talking and offering a drink from a water bottle flirting? Was kissing a [Soldier]—no, wait, that was definitely flirting.
He’d better be careful. Ksmvr wished he had the manual on reproduction that Belgrade and the others had helped him write. He turned to Shurein, but the [Abbot] was calm again.
“No, not for that. We joined Tiqr because Sottheim must be tested. Because I believe in Tiqr as a nation. That is selfish…but Sottheim does not court war with no chance at victory.”
He was serious again, and Ksmvr went still.
“Then you truly believe this war can be won?”
Shurein looked at him. The [Abbot] nodded and cast his gaze skywards.
“I do not know why Khelt intervened. My decision is my own, and the Empress of Beasts seems to be seeking out allies of Reim. That is one thing. But I have sources that have little to do with politics or current events. I believe Tiqr’s allies remain. And they are coming.”
He looked at Ksmvr. The Antinium looked around.
“Who…?”
The [Abbot] gave him a mysterious smile and walked off. Ksmvr followed him.
“No, who is it? Please stop smiling. Is it a secret? Who…?”
They were on the march without an answer before Ksmvr thought to ask where they were going. The Empress of Beasts answered him curtly.
“I know you seek your friends, Ksmvr, but Scaied will not let this go lightly. Nor can we wait with Illivere on our backs. They will not attack with Sottheim joining us—not lightly. However, I have word that Savere is marching on us from the south, and Nerrhavia stirs. I must find my people and retreat to the Kilalle Steppes. From there, we may conduct a longer war and locate your friends. First though, the last ally who might stand with us.”
“Which is where?”
Ksmvr saw Nsiia point northeast. Her eyes glittered.
“Word comes to me of a place where my people gather. Where a foe stands against even the great nation of Stitch-people. We march to Pomle.”
 
——
 
“Pomle. Truly? Not Savere?”
Pisces lowered his water flask. The water was sweet, drawn from some exceptionally clean well and purified further. Nothing like the gritty, brackish water of most desert wells.
Merr met his gaze stolidly.
“Pomle. Savere’s almost as close, but I hear Scaied’s all riled up with this damned Empress of Beasts.”
“Ah. The deposed ruler?”
Merr shrugged.
“Yes. No idea why. And we’re not risking being counter-scried, but the gangs say she’s on the run. Moreover—we’re not going through Scaied with Roshal on our backs. The entire kingdom is mercenary; we’d have to fight through all of them. But if we go along that route—”
She traced a road heading east.
“Pomle. Why Pomle?”
Pisces wondered. He knew the reputation of that small place. Merr glanced at him.
“No one fucks with Pomle, that’s why. They’re not at home with [Slavers], and Roshal never bothers them. If there was anywhere to lay low and rest—I hear there are refugees from Tiqr there. Pomle. We can strike towards Savere or Nerrhavia—or even head north along Zeikhal towards Reim depending on what it looks like from there.”
The [Necromancer] thought, but he didn’t have a better answer. He frowned as Merr pointed out their route.
“We are not staying on the Glass Straits any longer? Why not? This…this is a populated road. We will run into travelers. Even caravans.”
“Yep. [Slavers] too, I bet.”
Pisces eyed her. He opened his mouth to point out the obvious—then looked over his shoulder. Merr followed his gaze.
She stared pointedly at the remnants of her [Bandits], who were fighting over enchanted weapons pulled from the chests. The freed [Slaves]—no.
The [Rebels]. Including Bearig, who were armed with the dead [Slavers]’ weapons. The [Cook] was trying on a helmet as Rophir tried to jam it over his head.
Hundreds of freed [Slaves]. Not just a band of dozens. Pisces looked at Merr. Her eyes were on the map.
“The Death of Chains hit countless caravans and freed [Slaves]. I’ve never thought of it this way. But Bearig? He put the idea in my ear. Roshal’s probably dragging them to Lailight Scintillation as fast as they can. So there are huge caravans with [Slaves] on these roads. We can’t beat them all. But every caravan has [Slaves] too. Besides…we can take them. Without losing many people.”
She looked back up, and Pisces’ head turned once more. He looked back—and this time into the glowing gaze of…
A Zombie. They stood in ranks, denuded of armor and weapons. Some swayed, others opened and closed their jaws.
Zombies. Ghouls. Even Skeletons with their exploding chest traps. A force of undead.
“Both’ll grow the more we fight.”
“You want an army.”
Merr shrugged.
