“Father, can I ask… why do I have to do all of this?”

“All of what, Adam?”

“This… Just… things that have nothing to do with the art of war or combat. We're helping a farmer plant his fields, Father. He's not even one of our subjects. He's just some mad hermit living on his own, obsessed over his patch of mushrooms.”

“Ah. I was wondering when you were going to ask me this question. Your patience has surprised me. I expected your frustration to boil over much sooner.”

“I'm not frustrated, Father. I'm just confused. It's nice to help people. It's meaningful, I suppose. But I don't understand why we're doing this. We could have sent someone else. And—I don't mean to put laborers beneath me. I still remember the lessons Master Virgil taught. But I just don't see how this is a good use of our time. If I am to meet expectations at Phoenix Academy, shouldn’t I spend more time practicing my tactics, my bow, the blade—something combat-related?”

“You think growing mushrooms has nothing to do with combat?”

“I—Father, are you playing a joke on me?”

“Somewhat, my boy. But not really. Why do you think I had you do so many miscellaneous tasks over the past few months?”

“To… humble me? To remind me that my power and my skills are nothing without the tempering of honor and dignity.”

“A good side lesson, but not the main one. I want you to be creative, Adam. I want you to understand the world. I want you to broaden your mind and expand your skills, because all skills are connected. That's why skills can fuse. I know someone who has a Fusion between Sword Proficiency and Dancing. It's a very common Skill Fusion. Less common are Farming and Pyromancy Fusions. Do you know how to fight someone who can grow fireballs from the earth, or conjure trees of living flame that lash and ruin the land, turning everything to ash? Ash that can be used to cultivate and grow more fireballs?”

“That's possible?”

“Adam, you wouldn't believe how many things are possible. Not until you've seen them. I want you to have an appreciation for all skills, all Paths, no matter how meager or lowborn they seem. I've seen a great many Vanguards, Shadows, Assassins, and Mages turn their noses up at meager Farmers, Seamstresses, and Couriers. And then I have seen Vanguards die at the hands of a Heroic Seamstress who was devoid of any Combat Proficiency Skills and paltry of Toughness and Physicality.”

“What? How?”

“With a thread and some twine. She wove a substance so pure, pristine, and durable over her enemies that even a Master-Tier Vanguard could only suffocate within. I've also faced Dimensional Architects who created structures of such winding and confusing geometry that the layout left me lost for weeks. I would have never made it out of that if not for your mother. I want you to broaden your mind, Adam. Never limit your thinking. Never assume. And allow yourself every opportunity to surprise. Too many Pathbearers see power as a linear thing. They just think about getting stronger, faster, swinging their blade better, shooting their arrow further. Then they close their mind to everything else that could be. That's what kills a lot of Pathbearers. They don't imagine. They're not creative. They're narrow-minded. You cannot say, ‘But I didn’t know that was possible,’ when someone surprises you.”

“I think I understand… I’m not sure how much I want a Skill Fusion between Farming and Bow Proficiency.”

“Ha! You might be surprised, son. Perhaps in your hands, a carrot can be made the bane of individuals and monsters alike.”

“Ascendants guard me from vegetarians, I suppose…”

—Adam Arrow and Roland Arrow

335

Vestments

“Appetius, can you explain to me what the hells I'm looking at?”

“It's Ser Appetius to you, Deathless Knave.”

“Yeah, sure. Ser Appetius the Fragrant Dungeater. Whatever. What am I looking at?”

Shiv could feel the waves of baleful loathing ripple out from the Anointed Knight’s body. The Fae’s emotional core was on the verge of overload from how much hate he felt toward Shiv. Despite this, Shiv didn't see him as much of a threat. He'd taken Sir Appetius's narrative skill; on top of that, the power dynamic between them had shifted entirely since the moment they reached the Summer Court. Now, Shiv was Princess Plum Blossom's favorite companion, and the other Bread-Knights—long miserable under Ser Appetius' tyrannical leadership—had taken this opportunity to turn on him, partaking in his humiliation.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He will definitely make an attempt to recover his esteem in the eyes of his glorious lady, and to lay us low for the degradation we inflicted upon him. But he is no true threat. His emotions are volatile, his mental state unstable after what he was forced to endure. We simply need to keep an eye on him. Perhaps we can even turn one of his subordinates to our advantage. They might not think much of us for being a Patternist, but judging from their emotional cores, they despise their leader much more than they look down upon us.

His Psychology Skill’s suggestion went unnoticed by Shiv. His eyes were locked on a single thing in the chamber. It resembled a suit of armor, not so unlike that of the Bread-Knights. However, where it differed was that it wasn't simply made of yeast, wheat, and dairy. The armor prepared for Shiv was composed of foods that made for… a balanced and wholesome diet. The cape was made from strips of flowing bacon, crispy and pointed at the edges, but underneath was a lettuce overlay, sporting a hidden layer of health atop a glistening sheet of cholesterol. The gauntlets and greaves were no less eccentric, with the arms being made from fish heads and meatballs while the legs were made of crab shells and sprouted patches of broccoli from its articulations.

A girdle of barbecue ribs wrapped around the wearer’s mid-section, and the rest of the chest piece was sculpted from melons and other fruits with rivers of ice cream and enamel running between their well-carved lengths. Bits of cabbage formed the plumage at the top, while the rest were made from interstitched eggshells, all cracked and then reforged by a layer of creamy chocolate that dripped down from the sides. The headwear, meanwhile, resembled a mix between a knight’s great helm and a chef’s hat.

It looked ridiculous. It smelled delicious. It was Princess Plum Blossom's gift to Shiv for surviving and entertaining her after his attempt at making a pre-appetizer meal.

“What are you waiting for, Undying One?” Ser Appetius growled through clenched teeth. “Put on the gift. Honor Princess Plum Blossom. It was her request that you be given the Vestments of Edibility. Do you seek to offend her?”

“Just give me a second; I'm trying to take all this in, alright?” And he really was. After all his recent experiences, Shiv had thought he was beyond being surprised, but the Fairwoods had a habit of proving him wrong time and again.

He stared at the Vestments of Edibility, and the armor stared back through its blackened slits. The visor was devoid of awareness, yet something about it called him. It smelled great; it looked inviting, and silly as it might sound, Shiv kind of wanted to know what it might feel like to wear food. And then, The Chef Unwavering cast a layer of scintillation around the Vestments, and all of Shiv’s apprehensions evaporated.

This is gonna look so stupid on me… but I need something to wear. Can’t just use my Eldritch Physiology all the time. Also wanna figure out what the Summer Court is all about too. At least until I understand this place a bit better.

He came to a stop right before the Vestments of Edibility and let his Eldritch skills slip away. His flesh returned to normal. His layer of bone and lashing tissue melted back into him, reforging his mundane biology, leaving his physical body truly bare.

His Severed Shadow was far away, seeking the borders of the Summer Court, but even after hours of travel, the table hadn't ended. Countless dishes, bowls, and plates stretched toward the horizon. It looked like a porcelain metropolis filled with foods yet to be savored. The longer he went, the larger the meals got. Shiv suspected that he was probably well past the appetizer territory into the main dish section now, but that meant there were still other things like additional entrées, side dishes, desserts, and worse, supper. Using his atlas to spy on the attendants revealed that they were placing even more dishes on the other end of the table.

Broken Moon, Plum Blossom, you've got a helluva diet. I think I've thrown myself far enough that I've crossed the entire Republic twice over now. And since I came here, I think you've eaten enough to feed the entire Republic for a year, or five. Maybe even ten.

“Alright,” Shiv said. “Let’s see how it feels get a carrot lodged between my cheeks.”

He laid a hand upon the armor, and with that gesture, the glistening guidance bestowed by his cooking skill turned the Vestiments of Edibility from a candle to a beacon.

Congratulations, Deathless. You have assumed the Mantle of Harvest’s Herald. Bear this privilege with a smile on your face and unceasing strength in your spine, for now, you represent the youngest daughter of Summer and the glorious fecundity she soon will birth upon the land.

Shiv's face scrunched up in thought. “Fecundity?”

Blessing Gained: Hark! Princess Plum Blossom Calls to Ye! - So long as you wear the Vestments of Edibility, the Princess of the Harvest may call you to her side at any moment she pleases. Furthermore, as the Vestments represent an aspect of her power, you will also directly hear her voice whenever she chooses to speak and receive timely Quests she entrusts upon you, most favored companion, to make sure this feast's unending is the grandest of them all!

Not sure how I feel about being called to her side, but Narrative Quests… Wonder what else I can get here.

Shiv's train of thought was interrupted as a series of trumpets sounded in the air while strange, winged beasts descended from above. When Shiv craned his neck, he realized that the ceiling just kept going. It was like he was at the bottom of a long well. He and his accompanying Bread-Knights had descended from that direction a few minutes before, Princess Plum Blossom having welcomed him into her Keep of Delights and ordered her subjects to make Shiv presentable. And there was another absurd moment in Shiv's life: charming a Fae Princess the size of a small country so much that she anointed him as her personal companion. By personal residence, she meant the literal multi-starred fort-castle she wore like a pendant on her neck, which was where he currently was.

Though Shiv tried to pull his arm away from the Vestments, he found himself stuck to it, or more like fusing with it. His hand was melting into the chest piece. The rivers of cream and enamel were parting, expanding, unfurling. The armor blossomed like a flower, and its many pieces collapsed on the ground. A splattering of ingredients spilled across the floor, and for a beat, Shiv wondered if he'd accidentally committed some kind of inadvertent faux pas against Princess Plum Blossom for breaking her gift. But with the way the armor fell, how it scattered all around him, he guessed something else was at play.

The screaming of the trumpets was starting to claw at his ears. He glared at the twelve winged creatures fluttering to and fro, circling the air above him, casting forth a rain of baking soda and powder that drenched him like he was relaxing beneath an erupting volcano.

“Joyous day, joyous day! Princess Plum Blossom has found a companion on this most joyous day!” The Fae somehow sang while blowing the trumpets at the same time, and their arms and legs kicked about in manic glee. Mere meters away, Shiv saw that they were only the size of his torso, while they lacked torsos of their own. Instead, they were heads that were made of teeth: rotting teeth, glistening teeth, golden teeth, all manner of teeth. Their wings were made from circular coils of enamel as well. At the center of their body was a mouth filled with rows of even more teeth.

The aesthetic of their existence was uncanny—almost unnerving.

This feels like something Eldritch, not… Well, neither the Eldritch nor the Fairies follow the laws of biology.

There was a flatness to them as well, a feeling that they were illustrations escaped from a book. Shiv used his Analyze skill on them, and an explosive headache spiked deep into his brain stem.

Analyze 1 > 9

Felt like I just threw my consciousness against a brick wall. Is that because my Analyze skill is too weak? I did get quite a few levels from that.

In a blur of motion, all twelve of the creatures crashed down. They continued blowing into their trumpets, blasting him with deafening notes. But even as they played, they dipped their bare feet into the scattered Vestments of Edibility and began flinging it onto Shiv like how a dog might kick up dirt while burying a bone. And though their motions were wild and their movements erratic, each piece of the Vestments slapped into place. It was like they were rebuilding the armor around him, rather than fitting it onto his body.

“With the mantle borne, we come to serve, we the jolly, we are the starved, we, the fairies of teeth and mouths born of Her Hungriness’s great looming maw!”

Shiv stared at the horrific creatures in bafflement. “You guys are tooth fairies?”

