His question went unanswered as the fairies continued their work. A girdled cage made from well-sauced barbecue ribs folded around Shiv's midsection. Additional extensions of bone were slotted behind his spine, offering further support; however, along the inner layer was a softness he couldn't describe. It was like lying upon a perfectly steamed bun. The warmth, the softness, the texture all greeted his skin with a touch of pure love. An involuntary sigh slipped out from Shiv. “This feels better than I expected. Thought this would be all creamy and gross.”

Appetius scoffed with disdain. “That is because you are ignorant and foolish. Princess Plum Blossom would never allow one of her subjects to suffer meaningless discomfort.”

“Really?” Shiv asked with a smirk. “I'm glad you found eating my shit to be so purposeful.”

“You—”

The Anointed Knight's angry diatribe was cut off as the tooth fairies began yodeling in an incoherent chorus. Three of them cast their instruments aside and began using their hands alongside their feet, reconstructing his gauntlets and greaves, slipping fish heads and broccoli sprouts into place. At the same time, the glistening essence once infused within his armor spread out and nested itself as moats within the core of each tooth fairy. Shiv could feel them. There was a strange sympathetic connection that made him vaguely aware of where they were, how they were feeling, and what they were doing. He couldn't quite control them, nor could he pull on the sympathetic links as if they were chains of fear. But this felt like an attunement. A final ingredient to an eccentric new meal in the making.

“And now we are bound, our maws to your will, our hands to your labors, our feet by your call! As the Princess calls to you, you can call to us! As you reside within her keep, we will reside in you!”

“Reside in me? What? Guys, I don’t think there’s that much space in me.” Shiv looked at Appetius. “Wait, does this mean I'm getting my own minions?”

“They are not your minions, Deathless Knave. They belong to Princess Plum Blossom and the Summer Court. You are merely a guest granted to your own temporary servants. Nothing more.” Though he harrumphed with all his might, Shiv could see through him and into him. His emotional core was dense with frustration.

A part of him wanted to continue poking at Appetius. The wiser whole told him to hold back—that he had gone far enough for one day.

As the eggshell chef's helmet was reconstructed around Shiv's skull, he felt a tug at his neck, and he realized the cabbage-bacon cape was being fastened tight. “There, there, there, there!” Each of the two fairies cried out at a different pitch. The final pieces of his helmet came together, and Shiv found himself staring out through a narrow slit. Though his field of view was somewhat reduced, the shells that made up his helmet were cracked, and through the gaps he could catch glimpses of the outside, feel the light of the room beyond spill inward.

Not sure how much protection this thing's gonna offer me.

Without any further warning, all the trumpeteers stopped, and then one of the tooth fairies slammed themselves down atop Shiv's head. The egg cracked some more, fracturing down the middle as Shiv felt the crown wrap around his head. The suddenness of the impact caught him off guard. The cheer fizzed him further.

“Princess Plum Blossom's favored companion, can you hear us?” Suddenly, the two fairies weren't speaking to him from the outside anymore. It felt like they were screaming at him from deep inside his head.

“A bit too loud to be clear,” Shiv muttered.

The tooth fairies laughed. Their voices sounded like pebbles bouncing around inside a pot. “Your mind will learn to adjust. Through us, Princess Plum Blossom's word will reach you. Through us, your endeavors will be aided and enhanced. Through us, your every attempt at cookery and your many failures will be recorded for our Hungering Lady’s amusement. We will serve as your aides, squires, and guides in these lands. We will be yours to call upon, yours to change, and yours to instruct in all endeavors, except for the Princess's will, for her hunger comes paramount above all else.”

“May her appetite be filled,” Ser Appetius declared.

Shiv turned and regarded the Anointed Knight from the corner of his eye. “You can hear that too?”

Appetius just sneered. “Returned from your putrid lands, I am Anointed Captain of Her Ladyship's guards once more. Whatever she says emanates through me as well. I must warn you now, Deathless. The tooth fairies are meant to be your helpers, but they are not your slaves. You cannot mistreat them or abuse them at your whim. If you seek to take advantage of our Princess's affection and goodwill, then you will answer to me and my riders.”

Sage of the Enkindled: Do not taunt him. He is close to the edge. Leave him with some measure of pride. He's giving us valuable information anyway. If we are to perform any acts of sabotage or something offensive against the Summer Court, it's best to do it using stealth or as a revenant.

“Don't worry, I'm more of a slaver-killer than a slave-taker,” Shiv replied. “You got a mirror around here somewhere? I want to see how I look wearing this thing.”

Appetius scoffed. “Such a request is not meant for the Captain of the Guard. But now that you have been blessed with Her Ladyship's favor, you may levy the knowledge of your aides.”

Before Shiv could do that, a notification loaded.

Equipment Obtained: [Vestments of Edibility]

Special: Awakened/Pathbearing

Tier: Narrative/Initiate

Condition: Fine

Composition: Cabbage; Broccoli; Cream; Beef; Chicken; Turkey…(>+1000)

Path:

Food

Skills

Fairies of Teeth and Hunger Lend Thy Aide (Initiate) 1

This Fecund Bounty (Initiate) 1

This Armor My Pantry (Narrative)

Food Sense (Initiate) 1

Mealstrider (Initiate) 1

Shiv expected enchantments; he got something else entirely. Something much better. “Never heard of a Pathbearing armor before. Wait, does this mean that the armor's alive and something's separate aside from me? Are you guys like the spirits of this artwork? Is that why you showed up all of a sudden?”

“Correct!” The fairies blasted Shiv with noise. “Before you were granted Princess Plum Blossom's great favor and took on the responsibilities of the Herald of Harvest, we were dormant, sleeping in Her Hungriness’ deepest maw. But now we are here, ready to serve just as you are ready to serve her. And as we are further honed of purpose and power, more of us will join you in your endeavor until we become a legion of delectable bringers of delight!”

Two thoughts of varying importance sped through Shiv's mind. The first was that the System had to hate Can Hu. Shiv's Voidmantid armor already had the Penitent reacting like a jilted lover; the Vestments added another notch in the tally of cuckoldry. The second was an understanding that the Summer Court was likely using him. This piece of armor was both Narrative and also Initiate-Tier. Between being exposed to his System-favored nature and all the carnage that waited in his future, Shiv was about to do some leveling.

But he wasn't against that at all. If the Vestments of Edibility worked like how Shiv expected, this was practically like gaining a second Path. Of course, it wasn't his Path, and the court would likely try to take it from him the moment he went astray, but still, the fact that an item could gain a Path of its own offered incredible opportunities.

And on top of that, this new set of armor came with a host of twelve servants.

“Hey, tooth fairies? Hunger fairies? Whatever you are, you think you can help me find a mirror?” Shiv’s question resulted in a blast of trumpets going off inside his skull.

“Most certainly, Ser Deathless! Simply follow us, and we will guide you true!”

The trumpeting got even louder as eleven tooth fairies shot forward. They sailed past Shiv, their little wings rattling with every flutter, like teeth clicking together. The melody they played was delightful, upbeat, and frenzied. As their song rose, the insides of the keep shook, and Shiv's eyes widened as what he thought was a section of wall rolled to reveal a rounded door. Beyond that, he was struck by a blast of warm flavors and the unmistakable scent of something being roasted over a naked flame. The corridors were dripping and melting. The ceiling was made of caramel, while the walls were shaped from chocolate. The floor, meanwhile, was crusty like well-toasted bread. All of it called to Shiv, pulled at his soul in a strange way. There was something dimensional about the tug, something that defied space itself, if only he ate something…

Maybe that’s Mealstrider. Sounds like some kind of Movement Skill that needs me to eat something. Or have the Vestments eat something.

As Shiv followed his guides, he realized that one of their number was still missing. He felt at the crown fused around his head.

An explosive burst of giggles nearly gave him a concussion.

“Please refrain from rubbing us that way, Ser Deathless. It does tickle.”

Shiv coughed. “Yeah. Sorry. Just trying to keep track of all of you.”

He continued on, using his Shapeless Tides to carry himself across the hall without ruining any of the surrounding architecture. Shiv knew how heavy he was, and most ingredients didn’t make for very good building materials. The Fairwoods were a strange place, but he really didn’t want to risk damaging anything and falling through the floor or walls. Yet, Shiv wasn’t the only one trailing behind the fairies. A contingent of Bread-Knights lingered a few steps behind and then fused with the toasted floor in a blur of mingling substances.

Shiv halted mid-step as Ser Appetius fully submerged into the surrounding bread stuff. “Be on your way, Favored Companion,” his voice sounded. “Enjoy the Princess' gift and learn its skills as best you can. She will be calling you soon. And you, like me, will be made to serve. But only one of us will remain with the morrow’s coming. And it will not be you, Deathless. It will not be—”

“Yeah. Okay. Sure.” Shiv walked away, not even dignifying the Anointed Knight’s threats. The fool didn't know how right he was; with Evanescia flipping the story back to the beginning every time something went wrong, Shiv guessed he might be reliving this day a good number of times.

But… I kinda hope I get to finish a loop. Long enough to keep the Vestments or something. Wait, is that how it works? Do I get to keep my gains from one seasonal loop to another? Don’t think I can ask my fairies about that. Or can I? Better figure out what these enchantments can—Oh, godsdammit, I could have just created a pool of water and used that to look at myself. Well, nothing for it now. Better see where these strange critters lead.

And lead him they did. Through the winding interior of the keep. Down a set of rounded stairs that kept going for minutes and minutes and minutes more. Past a vast hall of portraits presenting different knights, such as Sir Cabbages the Pure and Sir Humpty the Cracked, along with a partially blacked-out picture that had a commemorative plaque dedicated to Sir Laxative, the Food Relieving.

“This place is something between a fever dream and a parody,” Shiv muttered to himself.

“This place is the dungeon of the Summer Court, where all the offerings of the last Season's harvest are devoted and made into the most wonderful of delicacies to nourish Her Hungriness!” the fairies bound to his new armor screeched in offense. “There is nothing parody-like about this at all! Give these halls your dignity and respect, Favored Guest! We implore you!”

Shiv could feel the sheer intensity in their emotions. They were beyond serious. And they wanted him to be beyond serious about how dedicated he was going to be to the Princess as well.

“Right. Of course. I meant all that in a good way. It’s like a… foodie’s wonderland. The kind of place that might put someone into a coma. Or give them diabetes. Someone weak, I mean. Someone who could never match the Princess’s appetite.”

A blaring of trumpets signaled the approval of his fairies. “Ah! We are almost here!”

“Huh? Where—” Shiv stopped mid-step.

“Just ahead, Ser Deathless. We are but moments away!”

Shiv wasn't listening. He was struck dead in his tracks by a sight he couldn't believe.

Just to his left hung a portrait of a man who wore a layer of gleaming armor. It was styled to look like a chef's dress, yet forged from steel. The buttons gleamed, opal gems infused with magical power. His eyes burned bright, leaking incandescence even from the paints that presented his likeness. A bit of Divinity lasted even now, within the artwork. But all that paled before the man himself. His dirty blonde hair. His puffy reddish face. His inflamed cheeks and tired eyes. The cigarette trapped between his lips.

“Ser Cuntus of Motherfuckland”, as denoted by his plaque, glared down at Shiv much the same way Georges did when things were going from bad to fucked. He did that because he was Georges. It wasn't just a similarity; they looked entirely the same, down to their favorite expressions, down to the cigarette brand.

Griffon Desperado. That was his favorite…

Speechless, Shiv leaned in, trying to drink in every detail—

“Alright, that’s enough bloody staring, you twat!” the Georges in the portrait snapped, speaking with his adoptive father's voice. “I swear, if you’re going to try and rub your bits on me, I’ll come up there myself and toss your shriveled cock in with the rest of the lot and see if it adds anything to the bull penis soup I’m trying to make right now!”

Shiv flinched backward and blinked rapidly. “I—uh—”

