“Don’t worry, I’ll keep my eyes peeled. You just focus on avoiding a repeat of last time. We’re all out of ice,” Ogras said while shaking his head. “Peak Hegemon in less than a hundred years. You might really be the reincarnation of the First Defier at the pace you’re going.”

“Let’s hope you’re wrong,” Zac smiled as he sent a message to his counterpart. “I’m planning on sticking around for a long time.”

------------------

Zac was walking through Citadel’s open market when the update came in. Disciples were sitting shoulder to shoulder with illusory hawkers, competing for the business of passers-by. The buyers were also a mix of real and conjured people.

Such things didn’t matter much in Mercurial Court with its blurred lines. If the item you bartered for was an illusion, you’d simply stuff it into your [Mercurial Sack]. The imaginary merchants had been one of Zac’s main sources of Core-forming materials since their wares weren’t limited to local produce. Meanwhile, the items sourced by real disciples were generally connected to the main peaks of Mercurial Court.

Zac wasn’t looking for anything specific this time. He was taking a break after months of running back and forth, having some fun by trying his luck like a dozen other sealbearers scouring the square. You never knew when a priceless artifact would come on sale for a ridiculously low price. Today’s hunt only yielded a few trinkets, and it was time to go. There was only one thing left on the itinerary. He flashed over to the other side of the square.

“You again?” an indolent-looking merchant glanced up from the scripture in her hands.

“Still chewing on that old thing?” Zac said with a smile as he placed a sealed box on the table.

“Still? It’s only been two decades. Its difficulty proves I picked a good one,” Limanta scoffed.

‘Takes a certain kind of person to take pride in failing to grasp an entry-level technique,’ Esmeralda snickered from her spot within the Shrine of Kanba.

Zac was happy to see her in such an excellent mood. Esmeralda hadn’t said anything, but it was clear that she had to divert more of her attention to suppress the [Timescape Loop]. She was becoming sensitive to the dense powers of the Continuum suffusing the Mercurial Court, opting to spend less and less time outside. On the flip side, she’d almost caught up to Zac’s cultivation, and more of her bloodline abilities had been unsealed.

“It’s done, then?” Limanta asked as she glanced at the box.

“The poor man wasn’t fated,” Zac grinned.

“Be careful, you’re starting to sound like one of them.”

“There are worse outcomes than that,” Zac said, nodding at the box.

The severed head of Trevokles Imsun, one of the two remaining bounties, was lying within.

“That’ll do,” Limanta nodded after taking a look inside. “You want the thing, then?”

“Why else would I run all over this place?” Zac said.

Truthfully, the whole thing could only be attributed to his extraordinary Luck. He’d stumbled onto one of the Imperial Magistrate’s bounties while pursuing the first fated encounter marked on his Disciple Token. That outing had yielded enough Peak D-grade illusions to keep his [Mercurial Sack] busy for a month, and it prompted Zac to put actual effort into looking for a second target.

Finding Trevokles was still a matter of luck and fate, as most things were in the Mercurial Court. They’d pinned down a general area of the Citadel, after which Esmeralda tracked the target down. The actual battle was over three weeks ago, but Zac hadn’t been in a hurry to return to the markets.

“Suit yourself. Not sure why you’d want this. It might work as a supplement for others, but someone who cultivates Death? You may as well buy a vial of poison and save yourself the trouble,” Limanta said, but she still brought out a small box.

The box didn’t emit so much as a whiff of energy, yet Zac’s Draugr heritage urged him to throw it far away. Inside, there was a golden egg covered in natural runes—a Life-attuned C-grade item and the final piece of the puzzle for his future attempt at monarchy. Like the set of items that later became his Core Nucleus, Zac finally had a full set of top-tier Early C-grade treasures.

“There’s still one at large. Too much time has passed, so the higher-ups increased the bounty,” Limanta said with a grin. “I commissioned a dream divination from an Inner Disciple of the Dreamwalker Society. For a fellow Magistrate, I’ll only charge 1,500 Potentiality for the scoop.”

“Pass. Who knows how many times you’ve sold that intel by now? Anyone capable of eluding capture this long has a knack for survival. Some greedy fool has probably spooked her already. Besides, I have better things to do,” Zac said. “I just came to pick this thing up and thank you for all your help.”

“The famed Everit Draom, scourge of both personnel and finance departments, thanking someone?” Limanta laughed. “Well, now I’ve seen everything.”
