“And what does that mean?” Shiv gasped, shivering. He was starting to shake. Weakness was rushing through him. Don’t have much more vitality to spend.

“I am uncertain,” Valor admitted. He noticed Shiv trembling. “Shiv. Enough. We continue when you regain your vitality. There is no point in overdoing this. Mastery is not to be rushed.”

“Yep,” Shiv grunted in agreement as he pulled his Vitaemancy back. He moved slowly, careful not to break anything, but as Shiv extracted his stream of white and red mana from the Penitent’s being, his Vitae merged with a vibrating presence, and each quiver that ran across the stream was followed by words being spoken.

“What is lost and regained feels like a blessing. What is beyond your grasp remains a curse.” Can Hu’s voice echoed from the streams of Vitae. Valor and Can Hu both turned to stare at the stream as it receded into Shiv.

“Can Hu,” Valor began. “Did you hear that?”

“Yes. Yes, I did, Legend Valor.”

Shiv did as well, and as he pulled his Vitae back behind his field, he felt something enter him and settle like sediment within his being. And thereafter, a notification appeared before his eyes.

Animated Skill Infusion Gained: Poetry — Lyrics Like Flowing Rivers 77 (Adept)

“Uh, Valor,” Shiv said. “Do you know what an Animated Skill Infusion is?”

The Legendary Pathbearer just stared at him. “No. I have never heard of such a thing. Why?”

“Well. I think I have some of Can Hu’s Poetry Skill inside me,” Shiv breathed. And from within his body, the muffled chorus of poetry continued. “And… it’s talking inside me.”

Valor stared at Shiv for a moment and nodded. “Stay here. I’m going to call Uva to connect my mind to yours. Do nothing to yourself. Do not even move.”

“I’m… I won’t explode, will I, Valor?” Shiv asked.

“I don’t know,” Valor said. And then he immediately shot out from the prison, leaving a stream of flame behind him. Can Hu and Shiv stared on.

“Can Hu,” Shiv said.

“Yes, Shiv?”

“I can hear my Vitae chanting poetry at me.”

“As can I.”

“It’s kind of scaring the shit out of me.”

“And I as well. Shiv?”

“Yeah?”

“Please do not self-destruct because you imbibed my poetry. Such a death will offend me greatly.”
