“They are!” said the jester. “To help you sell your act! Who ever heard of a poor Wagner?”

“Not me,” said the king.

“Right…” agreed Elise. “But will I be needing to use these tonight.”

“Maybe,” said the jester with a smile. “That’s up for you to decide. You are Lady Wagner, yes?”

“I guess. But this is a lot of gold. Is it really alright for me to take this?”

“I own a country,” said the king.

“This is nothing,” said the jester. “Pocket change.”

“We’re just paying our fee to watch the show!”

Elise was a bit skeptical, but resumed picking up the gold. She didn’t count each piece, since she was moving too quickly, but there had to be at least 20,000 of them. With what she knew about the value of gold, this was enough to buy a dozen castles. She could keep an entire town fed and clothed for decades with this much money.

More important than the amount though was the implication that she might be needing it that night. She had thought she would just be going to greet Franz Luger, and possibly spend a bit of time with him. She didn’t know what her actual relationship with the man was supposed to be, and Oberon refused to share, saying it would “ruin the surprise,” but she was starting to get worried.

“Why might I need this money tonight when I didn’t need it earlier?” she asked.

“You’ll see,” said the king with a smile.

“It’s a surprise.”

“Remember to always stay in character though,” said the king.

“Even if you need to spend all that money to do it.”

Okay, now I’m really nervous, thought Elise.

“How long until you’re off cooldown?” asked the king.

“A couple minutes,” said Elise.

“Excellent.”

A few minutes later, Oberon created two more clones, and the four of him helped Elise to fiddle with her outfit, and even apply some makeup. She looked quite different from her earlier casual outfit, now wearing an eye-catching red dress with her hair done in a tight braid. Once the makeup was applied, Oberon brought out a mirror so she could see her new look.

“I look like I’m about to order someone to be beheaded,” she commented immediately.

The makeup and dress had transformed her from an innocent-looking girl to a mafia leader. She didn’t dislike the look though. It actually looked pretty cool.

“Great!” said one of Oberon's newer clones. “Nice and intimidating.”

“Why do I need to look intimidating though?” asked Elise.

“You’ll see,” said the other new clone.

“Now, transform back. We’ll head out soon, but you’ll want your full four hours.”

Elise knew it was no use trying to pry more information out of him, so she just kept quiet and went along with what he said. While she waited for her transformation skill to be back off cooldown, she tried to mentally prepare herself for her role.

I am Eliza Wagner, she told herself. I am a noblewoman.

She wasn’t sure if it helped, but she repeated it like a mantra to herself while Oberon went through a few last-minute things and walked her out to her carriage. He was back in his maid and coachman forms, and when they got in the carriage, Elise had a sudden thought.

“Are you Franz Luger?”

“Hmm?” Oberon’s maid form asked. “Oh, no, he’s just someone I’ve had my eye on recently. He’s a very interesting man. I can’t wait for you to meet him.”

Elise didn’t entirely believe him, but it didn’t really matter in the end, so she went back to mentally preparing herself.

The carriage took her back to the teleportation circle where she and the Grays had first arrived, and when they arrived, she switched to her human form and stepped out. She felt the eyes of every single person around immediately fixate on her, and suppressed a nervous shudder as she tried to sink deeper into her character.

I am Eliza Wagner. I am a noblewoman.

She held her head high, not making eye contact with anyone around her, as though she saw them as beneath her. Which she did. She was a noblewoman after all. She didn’t consort with the riffraff.

This feels ridiculous.

She pushed the thought aside and maintained her poise, and about a minute later, the largest teleportation circle glowed, then flashed, and a man appeared. Elise almost smiled, but then had a different thought. She was a noblewoman who was out and about at ten in the evening waiting for her lover. Was she just going to fly into his arms like a little girl? She decided to maintain her haughty demeanor as he approached with a smile of his own.

“Ah, my love, you’re here.”

“You’re late,” said Elise.

“Forgive me, my dear,” he said with an exaggerated frown. “You know how the Vinians can be. I came as soon as I could.”

He approached, and took her hand and bowed down, kissing it. Elise used the opportunity to use {Inspect} on him, and almost let out an audible sigh when she saw what his class was.

[ International Con Artist, lvl ??? ]

Of course, she thought.

“But you’re right, my dear,” he said, straightening up, and holding out his arm to her. “We don’t have time to be dallying. We have an auction to attend!”
