Every second counted in a battle of attrition and every spear a welcome addition here in Meng Sha, but Mila was reluctant to join the fight until she was absolutely convinced Papa wasn’t going to charge headlong into the fight as soon as her back was turned.

While her fears might seem drastic to some, she knew her Papa was liable to do as he pleased, regardless of the consequences and repercussions. Li-Li was a sweet and trusting daughter who thought Papa was a saint who would do no wrong, but Mila knew better. He was a good man and a loving husband and father, but he was still a man. This meant he had his ‘manly’ pride, which for some reason meant he had to act out in the stupidest ways possible from time to time as a show of masculinity. Coming home drunk as a fish in a barrel of wine was one thing, but this was Papa’s life they were talking about, so Mila had to make sure he would behave. Having yet to wholly recover from his injuries, he was a prime target for the Enemy elites, and she could never live with herself if he died due to the wounds he took defending her.

That was the real reason Mila was so loath to join the fight, because she was afraid to put Papa in a position to risk his life again. He would do it in a heartbeat, trade his life for hers and call it a bargain well struck, a prospect which terrified Mila to no end. He thought it a heroic sacrifice, but it would be a nightmare come true for her, because she loved her Papa so and could never forgive herself if she was the cause of his death. He didn’t see things that way, so she had to make sure Papa would stay put, and she would do so by any means necessary. “If I hear about you taking part in the battle today,” she began, gazing up at him with the most threatening glare her tear-stained eyes would allow, “I’ll tell Mama what really happened to her prized Osmanthus tree.”

“Now now, let’s not be sayin’ anything yer gonna regret,” Papa whispered, his eyes going wide with panic as he leaned in and scanned the surroundings for eavesdroppers. “That was ages ago, ancient history even, so why dig all that up?”

“I’ll do it,” Mila replied, wishing she would stop crying so she could look him in the eyes and show him that she meant it. “And I’ll tell her about the hidden stash you keep under the floorboards of your forge too, and the flirty butcher who slips you fatty cuts of meat which you cook in the forge.”

“Flirty? Why I never. Little Chi is just a kind soul with a smile fer all her customers, one who understands that sometimes a man needs a little extra grease in his gullet.”

“Well, try me and we’ll let Mama be the judge of that.” Sniffling as she rubbed her eyes, Mila hiccuped and pushed Guai-Guai into Papa’s arms. “Here, hold him,” she said, smoothing out the red panda’s whiskers as he grunted in quiet protest. “He’s young and scared, so you need to keep him safe and away from all the noise and bloodshed. You can’t give him to anyone else either, because he’s shy and doesn’t like strangers.” He didn’t much like Papa either, seeing how he kept squirming about, but Mila wasn’t giving either of them much choice. “And don’t feed him any fruit or Spiritual Plants. He’s getting too fat and round from lying around all day.”

Sighing in defeat, Papa nodded like a chicken pecking grains and said, “Yes, yes, no fruit or Spiritual Plants. Just don’t tell yer Mama about the tree or fatty meats, yea?”

“So long as you stay put.” Doing her best to put on a brave face, Mila’s courage fled as she looked her tired, weary Papa in the eyes, and she threw herself into his embrace. “And stay safe, okay Papa?”

Wrapping her in a one armed hug, Papa squeezed her tight and just held her close for several seconds without speaking. Taking a deep breath before breaking the silence, he rumbled, “Sorry fer scarin’ ye lass. I just figured ye’d handle it fine and well, seein’ how at ease ye are with yer Mama fightin’ all the time.”

“But that’s Mama,” Mila whispered in reply, burying her face in Papa’s shoulder. “She’s the Chief Provost with all the heroic war stories. You’re Papa, the blacksmith who stays home to drink and play chess. You’re not supposed to go out and risk your life, especially not to save mine.”

“That’s where yer wrong, girlie.” Lifting her chin so she was looking him in the eye, Papa smiled and said, “It’s every father’s job to do everything they can to keep their daughters safe and sound.” Holding up a hand to forestall her arguments, he continued, “I know, I know. I’ll stay here where it’s safe and sound, don’t ye worry about a thing. You just be careful out there. Shield up and spear ready, got it?”

“Got it Papa.” Glancing over at her sleeping husband, Mila knew she’d wasted enough time as it was already, and yet she couldn’t help but wander over to bid him farewell. Both arms were resting on his belly and strapped down with padded restraints to keep them from flopping about, and it was the same with his feet, knees, shoulders, and head. A ridiculous sight to be sure, and yet all she could see was her handsome husband resting from his ordeals as she slipped her hand into his. Sweet Lin-Lin was right there with him, kneeling on the docks with her head resting on his chest as if trying to catch up on some much needed sleep, even though she’d been napping even more than usual of late. Mila thought it might be because she missed Rain more than she let on, but Lin-Lin hardly seemed put off when she was awake, and in fact seemed more lively and spirited than ever.

Coming to as Mila knelt down beside her, Lin-Lin hid a dainty yawn in Rain’s chest before flashing her charming smile, as sweet and innocent as always. “Hi Mi-Mi,” she chimed, without lifting her head from Rain’s chest, blinking sleepily until the sounds of battle pierced through the haze of lethargy and brought her back to reality. Furrowing her brow in concern, Lin-Lin sat up and absently gathered Tawny One into her arms, the sweet rabbit forlorn over having been separated from Blackjack nestled in between Lin-Lin’s ears. “Are you leaving to go fight?”

Mila nodded, and had nothing else to add, so she fell silent and leaned onto her best friend in search of solace and comfort. For several long seconds, Lin-Lin merely cuddled in close, and the two of them absently acknowledged the animals coming over to greet them. The bears, wildcats, and rabbits were all gathered in close, scared by the unfamiliar chaos and scent of blood in air, so Mila did her best to reassure them. There were a few exceptions who didn’t need any comforting, like Mama Bun, who was snoring fitfully at Rain’s side with her head pressed under his chin, or Blackjack perched between Lin-Lin’s ears as always. Then there was Rakky, seated proudly on the docks with an indifferent air as he watched the proceedings, though his lashing tail gave away his concern and agitation. Lastly was sweet and dutiful Ping Ping standing stoic guard over the rest, placing her body between the Defiled and her furry friends in what Rain liked to call ‘Siege mode’. Legs posted, neck stretched, and beak open while scanning her surroundings for threats, ready to fire off a water ball at a moment’s notice. Sweet and affable though she might be, Ping Ping knew how to defend herself against would-be hunters and assailants, but it pained Mila to think about how the gentle girl might’ve come by this hard-learned lesson.

Stretching over to pat her head, Mila whispered, “Don’t you worry about a thing, Ping Ping. Papa and the others will keep you safe.” So long as he didn’t go out looking for trouble at least, but Mila could hardly blame him for fighting if trouble came looking for him.

As she moved to stand and leave for battle, Mila felt a tug at her sleeve and turned to find Lin-Lin looking more sombre and serious than ever before seen. “...Do you have to go?” the sweet girl asked, and for a moment, Mila was at a loss for words. Though Lin-Lin was far from ignorant and knew well the dangers of war, she’d never shown any sign of fear or concern beyond the usual. It was almost as if she simply assumed the people she loved would always return unharmed, and truth be told, Mila had been the same way regarding Mama until just recently. Though she knew there was always a chance Mama might not return from battle, it’d always seemed like such a remote possibility that it wasn’t worth worrying about, like an inevitable earthquake or forest fire that might not come for years, decades, or even centuries later.

Except now, in light of Papa’s near death at the hands of the Exile Half-Demon, Mila had no choice but to accept that the death of her parents was a very real possibility, the very thought of which left her frozen with fear. It seemed like sweet Lin-Lin was facing those same fears, perhaps because Rain still had yet to wake. Reaching over to hug her sister-wife close, Mila held Lin-Lin tight and said, “Yes. I need to go.” And it was the truth, because she realized she was looking for an excuse to stay and keep an eye on Papa, because she was terrified he’d up and die if she ever took her eyes off him. There was also the fact that Papa wouldn’t send her away if he didn’t truly think her help was needed, which meant the situation was dire indeed, all of which needn’t be said because Lin-Lin already knew the answer before even asking her question.

“Okay Mi-Mi,” the half-hare replied, so wistful Mila wanted to stay just to cheer her up. Glancing around, she asked, “Did Yan-Yan and Li-Li leave too?” Mila nodded, though she was rather concerned given how this meant Lin-Lin had been sleeping the entire time, but this was a discussion which could wait, while the battle would not. Huffing a small sigh, Lin-Lin puffed her cheeks and hugged Mila tight before whispering, “Just remember. If things get too scary or difficult, all you need to do is survive. There will always be taller shoulders ready to hold up the Heavens, so don’t be too proud to run, ya?”

Smiling because she didn’t really have any answer, Mila simply nodded and hugged Lin-Lin back. The poor girl was so strong, having kept her chin up and spirits high all this time, but who knew how much of it was an act to conceal her inner struggles? They would talk more when she returned, but for now, Mila had to focus on the battle ahead, so she soon broke off the hug and bid Lin-Lin farewell. Finally ready to join the fight, she turned to Papa and asked, “So where do you think I should go?”

Unable to Scry on the battle herself, Mila only had a passing understanding of how the battle was playing out. There was no point trying to contact the commander, one OuYang Min Jun, since Papa’s last attempt to make contact with the command cadre had resulted in a personal Sending from the commander himself, asking if Papa had an army of Peak Experts hiding in the wings. After Papa told him the truth, that most of the People’s Peak Experts were in Shi Bei alongside the bulk of the Northern forces, Commander Min Jun cut off all communication and ignored any further Sendings. The man seemed woefully unqualified to hold Meng Sha, but Mama, Baatar, Rain, and Nian Zu had all been absent from harbour fort when the decision was made and didn’t know just how inept the old codger truly was. Then again, Mila didn’t figure it out until a week after returning to Meng Sha and seeing just how sloppy the shift changes and schedules were being handled, but she thought little of it given the circumstances at the time. The Enemy was going all out with their efforts to retake Shi Bei and Mama needed all the support she could get, so it didn’t seem prudent to send word asking her to dispatch someone useful to guard Meng Sha. Then again, Commander Min Jun couldn’t be faulted for wanting to know about all the troops at his disposal, and his silence might well stem from arrogance and an unwillingness to share his plans with a civilian. That being said, from what Mila could see, he wasn’t doing much commanding at all, but there also wasn’t much which needed doing. The Enemy was attacking in full force on all fronts, so the only thing the Imperial Army could do was throw everything they had into the fight and pray their defences were enough to weather the storm.

