“You should go where you’ll shine the brightest, lass.” Pointing at the southern front bordering the Azure Sea, Papa directed Mila’s attention to where the fighting was hottest. Although the fighting on top of the battlements was populated by armoured elites of the Mataram Clan, their disciplined assault paled in comparison to the unending waves of tribal Defiled surging in from both sides. The fortifications in Meng Sha were oddly designed, in that there were really only three sides to the fort with the back of the ‘fort’ left completely open and exposed, but the walls extended far enough into the water that one couldn’t simply stroll around the defences with impunity. That being said, the tribal Defiled cared nothing for the turbulent waves threatening to pull them down into the sea’s dark embrace or the hungry carnivorous creatures lurking within. Drunk in a haze of fury and bloodlust, they charged into the water with no regard for their personal safety and pressed on despite taking massive casualties from the Irregulars stationed upon the sea walls, the ships guarding the harbour, and inside the fortress itself. Even from so great a distance, Mila could see the Defiled dying in droves to the storm of bolts raining down on them from overhead, to say nothing of those lost to the sea itself, yet still they pushed on without fear. Less than a tenth of those attempting to swim around the sea wall were able to make it around to dry land, yet even that much was enough to sorely test the soldiers stationed there to defend the Irregulars.

Mila took in all this and more as she rode Zabu towards the battle with her escorts in tow, though she had no idea who they were. Unlike Tenjin and Tursinai who behaved more like friends and comrades, Yaruq treated her duty with the utmost gravity and preferred guarding from the shadows instead. There were benefits and downsides to both approaches, but Mila wasn’t one to tell Yaruq how to go about her business, even if she missed having Tursinai’s bright and cheery company. She wasn’t even sure if the silly woman was here by her side or off guarding Li-Li instead, but regardless of who her protectors might be, it didn’t matter so long as they were strong enough to make Papa keep his promise to stay out of the fight.

From an outsider’s perspective, Mila’s actions probably seemed foolish to the extreme, a single lone rider making her way towards the battlefield without orders or support, but even though Papa was no general, he knew his daughters better than anyone. Li-Li’s presence on the battlements would go a long way towards evening the odds, for she excelled as a duellist above all else. As for Mila, even though she was a fair duellist herself, her true strength lay in a different area, one that was less pleasant to the ear.

To put in it the simplest terms possible, Mila was best suited towards bullying the weak, meaning these crazed, tribal Defiled were the perfect specimens to showcase her skills.

Up close, the situation along the shoreline was even more dire than she’d expected, for commander Min Jun had yet to dispatch any reinforcements to help guard the Irregulars. A costly mistake if not for Mila’s timely arrival, for the Defiled were on the cusp of breaking through the Imperial lines where they would have free reign to wreak havoc on the crossbow-wielding commoners. A reactive commander then, one who solved problems as they presented themselves. Mama had a saying about these sorts of commanders, one she only shared because she thought Mila was out of earshot, but the long and short of it was that they were always one step short of disaster. A few minutes later and the entire southern front might well have been overrun, leaving Min Jun scrambling to recover before the Defiled tribesmen slaughtered the Irregulars to the last, but now that Mila had arrived, she alone would be enough to turn the tides. “This is Senior Captain Sumila, here to lend aid to the battle.” Seeing as she had no idea who was commanding here, she didn’t know who to Send to and couldn’t just ride up and seize command, but she didn’t want to waste time reporting for duty just to have some stuck up noble ignore her. Perhaps it was her own arrogance showing itself now, but at least she was deserving of her pride, a fact she would prove with her own actions shortly. “I humbly request your support in clearing the beach of the Defiled.”

Ignoring the multitude of Sendings demanding all sorts of nonsense she didn’t care to deal with, Mila holstered her spear and drew Paragon with a grin. It always gave her an immense sense of satisfaction to unfurl her greatest work, one only made possible by Divine Intervention. A flick of her wrist and a working of Chi made it go from innocuous metal wand to proper heavy cane, and then a second flick caused it to extend into a proper lance, one comprised of eight-hundred and eight individually crafted segments and measured a full two-hundred and twenty centimetres long in total. Keeping Papa’s advice in mind, Mila raised her shield and guided Zabu to approach the Defiled horde from the right, so that she could keep her shield between her body and the Enemy at all times, and then she was ready to unleash hell.

These actions took some time to describe, but Zabu was a king among quins and covered the distance in mere seconds as Mila waited until the last moment to act. Raising Paragon high into the air, she channelled a burst of Chi into her weapon and brought it around overhead, unveiling its fourth and final form as a long and sinuous bladed whip held together with the finest of metal threads. Immediately, she sensed that the Defiled had marked her as a Warrior to be wary of, but it was too little too late, for she was already upon them in a spray of blood. Paragon sang a song of steel and death as its Honed segments carved clean through flesh and bone with every pass, propelled by Reinforced muscle and Amplified flicks which required most of Mila’s concentration to pull off. Tribesmen screamed as they died in droves while Zabu brought her towards the thickest parts of the crowd, the clever quin already well used to Mila’s fighting style and adjusting his speed and actions accordingly. When Paragon swung low through the Enemy, Zabu pounced forward to ensure the weapon struck as many Defiled as possible, and when the chain sailed high overhead, he slowed to give Mila time to bring her weapon about. This was not the product of training or practice, but just something Zabu picked up on his own after carrying her into battle a handful of times. No doubt he noticed the timing of her attacks and adjusted accordingly to keep himself safe, but the fact that he was able to make decisions like this on his own without any input from Mila showcased just why he was a superior battle mount to affable Atir. Besides, the new quin mother was so enamoured with her pups and husband that she was always reluctant to part with them, so how could Mila bear to force them apart? On the other hand, while Zabu still groomed his adolescent pups whenever they met, he was all too happy to leave them with the safety of the pack, no doubt seeing battle duty as hunting and in no rush to teach his beloved pups the tricks of his dangerous trade just yet.

It remained to be seen if Zabu’s pups had these same killer instincts, but the ranking Officer on the southern front clearly did not. Mila’s single woman charge had come and gone, clearing the foremost ranks of Defiled from the beach aside from a few stragglers who somehow managed to avoid death, but the Imperial soldiers had yet to react in any meaningful manner. A shame she couldn’t just seize command by virtue of her heroics, but doing so could see her censured for breaking the chain of command which could only end in scandal for Mama and Rain both. Unfortunately, it was too risky for her to turn Zabu about and charge back along the same route without support. The first pass had taken the Enemy by surprise, but they would be ready the second time around, and they would be advancing upon her from the right so her shield would not be in position to defend her. If she were to circle around the back of the Imperials, she might well be waylaid by the commander or run headlong into a trap set by the Enemy, to say nothing of how she would be giving up all the momentum she’d built up for her allies, meaning there were no good options left to her.

Well, not entirely...

Hopping up to stand on Zabu’s back, turned to face the Enemy before going down to one knee. Not the best posture to fight in, but it was the best she could do, and with one foot hooked under the strap of Zabu’s harness, she figured it was a stable enough stance to fight in. Directing the fierce quin back the way they came, Mila set Paragon to singing once more as she struggled to keep her balance atop Zabu. Firing a bow from this stance was easy enough, because there were no variables to account for. She knew when to brace to draw the bow back and when to shift her weight to account for the recoil on release, the timings hammered home over the course of thousands upon thousands of repetitions, but in close combat, matters were not so simple. For every body Paragon’s Honed segments passed through, Mila had to exert that much more force to deal with the resistance and friction incurred, to say nothing of the more enterprising foes who tried to block, parry, or even trap her weapon with their own. From the outside, it seemed like she was swinging her whip-like weapon in circles overhead, but in reality, she was acting and reacting to countless minute changes and obstacles in her path.

All of which left her with the bare minimum of focus left to deal with unexpected surprises, which was why she preferred to do this with Tenjin and Tursinai in plain view. Not only could the latter clean up the stragglers Mila missed, Tenjin was like an ever-vigilant hawk standing guard with his twin blades and piercing daggers that rarely missed their targets. Bereft of their protection, or really any sort of support at all, she felt open and exposed as she charged the Enemy lines once again, but she did so regardless of the risks because the benefits outweighed the costs. Besides, the Imperial soldiers were so close by, they were sure to advance and support her once their commander got his head on right. Her efforts had given him a chance to retake the beach and drive the Enemy back into the Azure Sea, where they would be helpless to defend themselves from the storm of bolts still raining down from overhead, a win-win situation for everyone involved apart from the Defiled.

And thankfully, it only took a few seconds more before said commander figured this out as well and set his soldiers into motion, which really lent credence to the idiom, ‘One need not fear a powerful foe, only be wary of idiot allies’.

Upon hearing Imperial boots marching forwards in the sand, Mila allowed herself to relax ever so slightly at the prospect of allies supporting her flanks. In what was almost certainly a coincidence, the Enemy also chose this time to launch their counter-attack, which was fortuitous for them and near-disastrous for her. Three Wraiths appeared before her with daggers plunging towards exposed flesh, one targeting her head, another her left arm, and the last aiming at Zabu’s broad flank. Thankfully, the battle-trained quin was far more vigilant than his silly rider and immediately bolted towards his allies, which caught Wraith, Imperial, and rider alike completely off-guard. Chi raced through Mila’s body as she strove to Stabilize her footing and keep her from toppling over, her centre of balance shifting and swaying to match Zabu’s momentum and acceleration. The Imperials scattered before them, which was hardly ideal given the circumstances, but thankfully they weren’t so foolish as to lash out in surprise. As for the Wraiths, they recovered quickly enough and each threw a single obsidian dagger, the wicked weapons drinking in the sunlight as they lanced towards Zabu’s hindquarters, a desperate attempt from the would-be assassins to keep her from getting away.

A year ago, Mila had lacked the confidence to bring Paragon out in a spar, much less utilize it on the field of battle. Six months ago, she would have had no option but to watch as these projectiles hurled through the air and pray their aim was not true. Today, however, was a different story, for she had spent the last two years mastering how to best utilize her unique weapon and all its wondrous transformations, with help from some of the greatest sparring partners and teachers one could ask for. Mama, Papa, Alsantset, Rain, Tursinai, and Yaruq were the most notable contributors, but Mila could not overlook two people whose assistance was pivotal to her development, no matter how much she wished it were otherwise. Ryo Da’in and her mother Jeong Hyo Lynn had both spent a great deal of time sparring and guiding her in Paragon’s use, as the former saw it as an interesting diversion from the endless swordsmen she usually sparred with, while the latter treated it like an intellectual puzzle to solve for fun.

