Without them, Mila would’ve never realized just how versatile Paragon truly was, as she demonstrated now with a flick of her wrist and an exertion of Chi meant to retract the eight-hundred and eight segments back into the collapsible shaft. Reeling in faster than the daggers flew through the air, Mila waited until her weapon was half withdrawn before whipping her arm about in a circle, setting the remaining length of chain into a spiralling shield that Deflected the daggers aside. The Wraiths were not idle while all this took place however, charging headlong after Zabu without heed for their own safety, and to Mila’s surprise, they moved with a speed second only to Cloud-Stepping Peak Experts and covered the distance between them in the blink of an eye. Gathering their strength for one final jump, they pounced upon Mila with a single dagger each, their dark eyes glowing and smiles ugly to behold as they saw success well within reach. As a chain whip, Paragon was formidable indeed, but in the wake of her defensive maneuver, the bladed segments were wholly retracted and safely tucked away leaving it as little more than a cane. With her spear still holstered in Zabu’s harness, the Wraiths believed that only option left to Mila was to hide behind her shield, but how could she block three attacks at once?

She couldn’t, not spread out as they were, but the Wraiths had overlooked one vital detail. Even as a cane, Paragon was still a formidable weapon in Mila’s hand, else how could it be worthy of its name?

While it was true the bladed sections were all compressed and hidden away, this also meant the full weight of the weapon had been condensed into a length of metal exactly ninety centimetres long and about as thick as her thumb. Cane though it might be, it was heavier than most maces and easier to wield due to its slender shape, and Mila was happy to demonstrate this fact for the overconfident Wraiths before her. Brandishing the cane like a sword, she demonstrated Tiger Swipes the Rushes and broke the closest Wraith’s wrist with a most satisfying crack that set Paragon’s dense frame to humming. Small wonder Song favoured this Movement as she did, for it possessed speed, power, and lethality aplenty, but Mila was not yet done. Paragon’s pitch swelled as she followed through with Oriole’s Fluttering Raindrops, twirling it about in one hand just as she’d seen Papa do a thousand times before, a most impressive flourish that was functional to boot. Metal chimed as she smashed both remaining Wraith daggers aside, the first clean out of her opponent’s hand, but her second foe was made of sterner stuff. Leaping to one side to match the arc of her blow, the pale Defiled shadow grit his teeth and spun in place to avoid the full force of her counter, and she had to admit she was impressed with the speed and grace of his reaction.

That was it, however, for what came next had been forever ingrained into her memory so many years ago, when Papa lost his temper and killed a young Warrant Officer in Shen Huo for threatening to enslave and rape her.

Descending with a keening warble and the force of a hammer, Paragon pulped the Wraith’s head like a rotten melon as Mila executed Standing Fury, or as Rain liked to call it, the patented ‘Papa Smash’. The Wraith’s body collapsed under the weight of her attack, and she used the momentum to shift back into a seated position on Zabu’s back as the quin turned to face his foes. Yet another decision made by the clever beast, for he saw his pursuers had fallen behind and sensed Mila’s confidence to end this. Cheeks aching as she flashed a grin of pure delight, she gave Zabu’s midsection a light squeeze with her calves and set him to pouncing upon the closer of the two remaining Wraiths. Holding the cane out like a spear, she cackled as she activated Paragon once more to turn it from cane into bladed lance again, the segments shooting out faster than the eye could follow and piercing clean through her target’s heart before he could even blink, much less defend against her charge. This was the exact reason why she named her weapon so, for Paragon could be used at almost any range and in any position, so long as she possessed the requisite skill to wield it as she envisioned.

It would probably be years, or even decades before she felt confident enough to say that she’d mastered Paragon in all its forms, but it would be well worth the effort. Raw strength was meaningless without the skill and ability to properly utilize it, as evidenced by Mila’s inability to put up a fight against anyone even slightly stronger than she was. Paragon was the answer to a dilemma she hadn’t even known would plague her when she crafted it, for it forced her to do more than rely on brute strength to overcome her foes. That being said, when properly utilized alongside with her natural brawn, she would be all but unstoppable, hence why she named it so.

Others might think her arrogant, but as Mila so ably demonstrated here today, at least she had the qualifications to behave in so domineering a manner

Carving her way out of the second Wraith’s chest, she activated Paragon once again to transform it back into a chain whip, which she promptly sent whirling towards the last surviving Wraith in the same motion. So shocked by the sudden reversal of fortune, he was unable to muster a defence as the chain smashed clean through his chest and threw his corpse a dozen metres through the air, but Mila barely gave him a second glance as Zabu carried her into battle once again. With the Imperial soldiers supporting her, they pushed the Enemy back into the sea and raised a rousing cheer as they secured the beach, for now they could simply sit here and pick off the stragglers one by one as they emerged from the turbulent sea.

Having learned her lesson well, Mila did not let her guard down and set Zabu to patrolling up and down the shore line. The Enemy continued to stream into the fortress, but in drips and drabs that were no match for the ready and waiting soldiers, nor was she inclined to give the Enemy a chance to regain a foothold on the beach itself. Every now and then, she directed Zabu into the crowd of soldiers so as to keep her route from growing too predictable, weaving in and out of battle as she pleased and unleashing hell whenever a suitable target presented itself. As an added bonus, staying in constant motion gave her an excuse to avoid stopping to speak with the officer in command, who thankfully had decided it would be best to pretend he’d been working with her this whole time rather than publicly argue with the Warrior who pulled his ass out of the fire and won over the hearts of his soldiers.

Soon, the trickle of Defiled slowed to a crawl, though Mila could still hear the battle going in full force atop the wall. Oddly enough, she thought she could also hear the sound of Li-Li reciting the Classics of Poetry in her tranquil and emotionless manner, which was very different from Fung’s passionate renditions filled with waving arms and nonsensical gestures. Li-Li’s poetry readings were more formal and aloof, which lent weight to the words and lyrical rhythm of the prose itself, and Mila found that she much preferred her sister’s style to anything Fung presented. That being said, why would she be reciting poetry in battle again? Li-Li had done so before, supposedly to help clear her thoughts and focus her mind, so if she was doing it here and now, then there was a good chance she’d encountered a formidable foe indeed.

No matter though. Unlike Mila, Li-Li was fighting alongside soldiers trained by Rain himself, so while they were far from the finest Warriors in all the Empire, they would have her back and support her no matter how poorly the odds were stacked against them.

Something Mila couldn’t count on here, a thought which flashed through her mind as her world exploded into a searing blaze of heat and light. Raising her shield on reflex, she knew it would not be enough, because even though she was resilient enough to endure this attack, she knew poor Zabu would not make it out alive, which was absolutely unacceptable. Though Rain clearly favoured Mafu over the less affectionate Zabu, he still loved all his pets and would be inconsolable if one of them died, and Mila refused to be the reason for his sorrow. Had this been some fiery projectile launched by an Enemy war machine, there was little she could do besides accept her fate, but she knew without knowing how that she was not embroiled in a true blaze of fire and heat, but merely a working of Chi mimicking the properties of Earth’s Fire.

Which meant she could counter it with her own Blessing, for what blaze could ever hold a candle to the radiance of the Sun?

Before the sudden blaze could singe a hair on her head, an incandescent glow billowed out from Mila’s Core to negate heat and flame alike. Zabu’s panicked shriek stopped short as the clever quin realized he was no longer in danger, but he was still too spooked to act just yet. A good thing too, for this exchange was far from over as Mila intended to pay her foe back in full. Though his attack was formidable indeed, it was a short-lived conflagration meant to raise the temperature in the area to a staggering degree, but only for a fraction of a moment. In contrast, Mila’s response had been to unleash a steady and constant source of Radiant Chi, one which billowed out from her body and bombarded everyone and everything in her surroundings to strip away their Concealment and protections.

There he stood, so ugly and misshapen with his half-melted body and face frozen in a wretched cry for help, a twisted, molten remnant of what he once was yet still wholly unmistakable in presence as his wicked metallic talons glimmered in the light. Slouched and misshapen, the Demon that had once been Gen was unimpressive at first glance, a lanky, wounded creature that was easily overshadowed by the Father’s more monstrous miscreations, but a more discerning Warrior would note the power radiating from its wiry frame. Hopping off of Zabu’s back, Mila put Paragon away and drew her spear instead, for it was far more familiar in hand. The Imperial soldiers withdrew without need for orders once they saw they were outclassed, leaving Mila and the Demon Gen alone on the beach. Mila radiated luminescence as she advanced upon her foe, and Gen glimmered with a dark and unholy heat as he readied to unleash the power of his Blessing in a decisive blow.

Shield raised and spear readied, Mila took a moment to gaze upon the creature that caused her loved ones so much pain and anguish. It was Gen’s fault Rain returned from Sanshu a half-broken man. It was Gen who led the Firebrands to the city, which led to Huushal losing his Uncle Kalil in battle. It was Gen who turned Sanshu upside down in his foolish bid to prove himself better than Rain, ruining countless lives in the process. It was Gen who refused to die when Li-Li’s sabre struck him down, shattering her Core and causing her to suffer so much pain.

For these crimes and more, Gen was deserving of death, but in truth, Mila had a different reason to kill him today, one far more personal and petty. This was the man who burned half her face and ruined her hair in Sinuji, forcing her to show Rain an ugly, half-healed face for so many weeks until her skin and hair grew back. Though seemingly a minor crime in the grand scheme of things, Mila’s maidenly heart could never forget just how disgusting and self-conscious her wounded appearance made her feel at a time when she had yet to truly come into her own, so today, she would exact vengeance for his crimes with interest.

There were no words needed as she charged into the fray, for words were wasted on a Demon, but for some reason, as she marched into battle and delivered the first blow, Mila could not help but think back to Lin-Lin’s warning.

“If things get too scary or difficult, all you need to do is survive.”

The half-hare had always had her secrets, and considering everything Mila had learned in recent months, there was clearly more to Lin-Lin than meets the eye, but surely even she couldn’t have foreseen this encounter, could she?

A most distressing thought, one Mila could ill-afford at the moment, so she cleared her mind and gave herself over to the fight. Victory or defeat, only time would tell, but if she lost, it would not be because she didn’t give it her all.

Chapter Meme
