From the man’s face, she could tell it wasn’t the right answer.

“Oh, stranger, you butcher so much history with those simple words. My heart wilts to hear them. Shall I tell you about it?”

The fishermen all worked with the kind of pretense focus that she associated with amateur eavesdroppers. She was definitely in for a show.

“I would like to hear your tale, old man.”

“The Shadow Lands are a very old civilization. I am told you are bringing back the Old Empire from the graves of history. The Shadow Lands flourished at the same time, as well, but it fell earlier, and because of the betrayal of its favored son. Have you seen the murals near the palace’s entrance?”

“Yes.”

“Imagine that,” he said, eyes dreamy. “Imagine an archipelago. Imagine every island a jewel on the ocean’s necklace. Imagine a proud people of seafarers trading with Vizim as they were but infants. Imagine the Harrakan Empire at the height of its power, proud, hiding its fleets for fear of being smashed to smithereens. The Shadow Lands were often called the Shaded Lands then, because lush green trees hid its people from the sun. Our skin was tan, or pink, not the gray it is now.  It was a place of plenty, of much wealth, prestige, strength. Plenty of wondrous magic. Plenty of heroes! Plenty of villains too…”

Kif seemed to be pulled back to reality then. He gave Viv a wary glance, but she was just as absorbed as he was.

“My grandfather was a storyteller. He used to tell me tales of those times and when he did, I could… I could smell the heavy scent of wet forests. I could feel a kind sun filtered by canopies. The taste of fresh fruit on my lips. Peace… I am sorry for growing sentimental.”

“Please continue,” Lana whispered.

She had abandoned her study of enchantments. Her notebook lay discarded on a railing. Meanwhile, the fishermen and women worked slowly for those who worked at all. Kif chuckled. He hesitated, but his longing got the better of him.

“The story starts in Korrim, the Shaded Land’s most powerful city. Once, a council ruled the archipelago. Elders arbitrated disputes to stop my people from eating at themselves. Wars were few and they were codified. Honor wars, we called them. Only soldiers would participate, champions from every clan of a city. Those who lost were often offered mercy. The founding of the Korrimian League ushered in a golden age — although the opposing cities might have disagreed. It was then that the most favored son of Korrim came of age. Now, he is known as Kor the Baleful, but at that time, he was Kor the Honeyed-Tongue. Kor the Bright Child. Even just Friend Kor. It was said that he could sway men and women off their feet, and that once you had his attention, you felt like the most important person under the eyes of the gods. He would leave on expeditions with an army and return with two. He would turn enemies into allies, wars into marriages, and once he truly took to the field, none could match his fury.”

Lana gave Viv a very long side glance. Viv resented that. None of her own followers wanted any attention. In fact, most of them wanted to be left alone unless it was war or they needed something from her! What unfair accusations.

“Kor was so popular that when he offered the Korrimian Council of Elders to unite the islands under their rule, they offered him the command of all the troops at their disposal. For a while, the League trampled all opposition. They won every battle, bringing back much loot, prisoners, and beautiful princesses to adorn the league’s many harems. But it was not enough. It was never enough… Kor proposed that the League must take Vizim, for they, too, were a sea-faring people. They were misguided cousins who needed to be brought back into the fold. The scattered ports of Vizim allied with the remaining cities and those who, under the yoke of the league, refused the fate of slaves. It was a long war and there were not that many victories, for the survivors had learned to fight without honor.

Kor’s star still shone the brightest, yet he was troubled. Now some of his people no longer understood his vision of the future. Their dreams were not his dreams, and that was something he could not understand, and the longer the war drew, and the more fractures spread across the league. Kor disobeyed the council for he could do no wrong and commit no mistakes, and the more he disobeyed, the more he felt that he knew better than them. Any failure was their fault, any success, his. Once, Kor won a great victory by sacrificing Shahira the Swift. He rejoiced, but Shahira’s tribe wept for their daughter, and their other children whose bodies they could not even bury. Kor grew angry when the tribe left the league, for had he not brought everyone triumph? Was a sacrifice not a necessity of war? Bitter resentment filled Kor’s heart once those he had used as mere tools rebelled against their role. At the same time, his most ardent supporters resorted to more and more drastic acts for the glory of Kor was the glory of Korrim. They were one and the same. To turn against one was to betray the other, and the penalty for betrayal was death. Even the elders were afraid. Elders! Imagine that!”

By now, the fish was safely stacked, and the workers had gathered in a circle around the weeping figure of Kif, his eyes now vacant as he remembered a memory of a memory, what his people had lost, what they had forgotten they’d lost but still felt in their heart.

“Now Kor was no longer Friend Kor. If people were loyal, then they ought to sacrifice everything to his cause. Anything else was a betrayal of the city, for he was the city, and he loved it, and the people were like his children. In his madness, Kor wreaked more destruction than any dark god had managed in centuries for he could not understand that others may not obey and love him.

Eventually, one of the Elders gathered enough courage to oppose him. History has forgotten his name. We only remember that he was nicknamed the Stone. Some said he was Kor’s lover. Or his best captain. Or his mentor. All we know is that he rose against the tyranny of the Brightest Child and when he did so, he did unto his followers what they had done unto rebellious clans, and that the streets of Korrim ran with the blood of entire families. The purge was sudden, brutal, and it left Kor in a rage. Now, he was no longer the head of the League. Now, he was the one cornered, but Kor was crafty, and his followers were many for he had lost none of his charm.

For three years, three exhausting years, the two sides fought without mercy and without rules. It was a dark time for the Shaded Lands but still some hoped they would bring it to an end, a definitive end, for Kor could not live while Korrim did, and Korrim could not rest while Kor drew breath. The Stone finally managed to lead his side to victory through a series of decisive naval battles which left Kor trapped on the archipelago’s largest island: Old Red Light.”

Kif lifted both hands to the skies, voice loud and tremulous.

“Oh, Kor, oh, you monster, you hero, you villain, you madman! When Man braved the seas with their first ships, Old Red Light guided them in the darkest of nights, for the mountain was tall, and its maw ever bled the blood of the earth! Plumes of smoke drifted up even in the sunniest, windiest of days! Oh, Kor, you madman, you monster, we curse you. We curse you! We curse you a thousand times, for on the verge of defeat, Kor climbed the cliffs of Old Red Light. Messengers were sent back to Korrim to speak of the Stone’s triumph, for all expected the Bright Child to throw himself into the fire. He did not. Oh, Stone, you should have rushed after the madman and plunged an obsidian blade in his back heart. You should have tossed his corpse down the glassy cliffs, naked, and without honor. You should have left his broken body for the carrion eaters to feast on. He deserved no better! But you did not, and your destiny was ended. On the smoldering edge of the crater, Kor and his followers committed an unspeakable ritual. On that day, that fateful day, the Old Red Light awoke. It awoke and all of the world felt its wrath. It is said that in Harrak, the skies cried ash, and even the blue roses of the Imperial Ziggurat grew a coat of gray. Curse Kor. Curse his soul a thousand times, for he stirred the volcano from its slumber.”

Kif’s voice broke. His gaze grew distant, as if remembering the smell of sulfur.

“The Shaded Lands became the Shadow Lands. Old Red Light destroyed the archipelago. Waves as high as mountains drowned cities, leaving nothing but rubble and death in their wake. Entire forests lost all of their leaves, and then the fire turned the naked trunks into coal. The few survivors lost the sun. Those who could sailed to Korrim because due to a twist of fate, that city was the furthest off from the disaster, the only one that survived. The Azure Lady was just a mage then. She lived through this. Like many others, she fled, but the disaster hounded us in our very blood. The children of the faded land would be born with skin like the ash of Old Red Light forever more. Even today, many of the islands are dusty hells scoured by raiding tribes eking out a living from scarce sources of fresh water. Only Korrim survived, and even then as a shadow of its former self. It is a den of excess and cruelty, the face of a strong body torn apart by disaster, one that has healed crooked and painful. Perhaps one day it will recover, but that day has not yet arrived. No, it has not…”

Silence hung for a while. Curiously, Viv could almost smell dry, dusty air though they were still in the middle of the sea.

“Enough of this. Get the fish to the kitchen, children.”

The workers made their way out in silence, leaving Viv and Lana alone with the old man. He walked around the platform to check the enchantments.

“I used to be the harbor master in Korrim. It was up to me to make sure the ships and their contents were safe so the city’s wealthy could sate their appetites, but I left because the city’s corruption was too much. The Azure Lady offered me shelter. She has offered many people shelter. Her heart remains good after all those years. Perhaps a little too good…”

He looked ashamed to have said those words.

“Your palace is overcrowded,” Viv stated.

“That it is, that it is. There is a king in Korrim now, so much has changed. He has tried to bring hope to a doomed land, but the people are not interested in making things better. They do not even believe it is possible, so he brought order instead. That, too, the survivors do not understand. For them, order means a pecking order. For him, order means rules that everyone must respect. The walls of the city reek from the hanged corpses that adorn it. He has been very indiscriminate, but the news has come recently that he has succeeded where even Kor failed.”

“What do you mean?” Lana asked.

“He has united the Shadow Lands under one rule. One people, for better and for worse.”

“Wait, are you telling me someone just united one of the three great land masses?”

“Yes. You should know him too, Viviane of Harrak. After all, are you not also an outlander?”

A dark realization gripped Viv’s spine in an icy clutch.

“What did you say his name was?” she asked.

“Oleander. The hero.”

***

Oleander. He and the powerful mage Crest were the first to visit the Harrakan capital since the disaster. He had left the isolation circle Viv had used not to die of mana poisoning. She had heard about him off and on for ages, but now he was like a legend returning from the kingdom of books and back into the world of politics, and not in a good way. Mass executions never bode well. A brutal leader at the head of a sea-faring civilization was even worse. Try to trade with them and next thing you know, they’ve invaded half of the world, stolen their spices, and then had the gall to never even use them in their own damn food.

He had to be so damn powerful by now. Outlanders grew more quickly. They also came for reasons. Some of those reasons were idiot fucking gods, but others were skill, or fate, or their own power. Oleander visited Harrak almost a hundred years before. It meant he had a century over Viv in terms of development. Even if he were not progressing really fast, he had taken over an entire fucking continent while being a stranger there. Viv could go toe to toe with avatars and dragons. What was this fucker capable of now? Not to mention, he had Crest, and probably also a retinue. Damn.

He probably packed a punch.

His and Kor’s story made Viv realize why history and technology were so slow to develop here. It wasn’t just that people studied magic more readily than natural science, though that was a major part of it. It was also that at least two major civilizations had been virtually wiped out because of magic. Mana gave rulers insane individual power, and longevity as well. Even the most abject fucker could only actively harm people on Earth for sixty years or so. Here, they could keep going for hundreds of years. Then there were the powerful mages and their rituals. It was like distributing nuclear weapons to random individuals, and that was barely an exaggeration.

Immense individual power gave people immense capacity for evil. With enough casters around, the probability that one would pull volcano-level or deadland-level bullshit approached 1. It wasn’t just that humans were built to be assholes, it was also that everyone had their limits. What would have happened if someone managed to kill Arthur to spite her? What if she lost people again and again to enemies who hid behind treaties? What would she do if she were pushed beyond her limit?

A crater.

