A crater, or… She looked down, a black flame hovering over the palm of her hand. The flame twisted in strange shapes, sometimes a grotesque flower, sometimes grasping limbs.

Yeah.

Yeah, she would. To defend Harrak, she would use change against a person. The power of change, along with annihilation, could bypass a great many defenses by twisting them.

“Viv?” Lana asked in a soft voice.

“It’s nothing.”

Kif stood at an awkward distance, like he didn’t know how to react.

“You have heard of Oleander?”

“By reputation. He sounded like an adventurer. I am surprised he would suddenly become king.”

“I listened to his sermons, at first. He really seemed to believe. Unfortunately, the Shadow Lands have a way of twisting the best of intentions because nothing has gone well for a very long time. People have forgotten what it means to believe in something. At first, Oleander was patient, but as time went by, he would repeat his laws and cover the squares with the remains of those who had broken them. ‘It is simple’, he would say, ‘obey and live, disobey and die’. The people ignored his ultimatum. The same could not happen to them, because they were too crafty, or too unimportant, or they knew someone. But it did. It took a very, very long time for the city to return to civilization, and when that happened, it was on the bones of entire families. An adventurer, aye, I don’t know about that. I just… remember the tone in his voice. He sounded almost bored…”

Fed up, more like, Viv thought. Jaded.

“Did people rise against him?”

“There were assassination attempts. He would display the corpses on the main square every time. I saw him fight once…”

Now that was strategic information.

“Well, seeing is a stretch. He was on the sands of the arena surrounded by five champions, then there was a blur, and then blood. Just blood… and body parts. I never saw him draw his sword.”

Arcane blade master for sure. Viv would prepare just in case. She could spar with Solar. He was still a tough nut to crack.

“I feel like we are getting sidetracked, though I’d love to hear more about him later. You were going to tell me why this place is falling apart.”

“Ah! Yes, well, this was originally a haven for the Azure Lady’s relatives. They died some time ago,” he finished with an apologetic look.

The waters behind churned a little bit. Viv raised a brow.

“She can hear us everywhere,” Kif said with some embarrassment.

Kinky.

“Although I don’t think she is paying much attention. Mentions of her family tend to upset her.”

“So if I call her name, she will appear?”

“You could if it were important. Someone apparently made the mistake of wasting her time five years ago. She drowned.”

“I see.”

“So this place was never designed to host many guests, but with the recent rise of King Oleander, the population has increased. He does not trust mages, not even that pet of his. Many a family left out of fear.”

“He’s just jealous.”

“Ahem, well, perhaps. I was saying there are too many people. The last batch came with a ship. We turned the ship into houses… It’s a temporary measure. The folks are worried. They don’t know what to do.”

“Were you trading before?”

“Before yes, some ships would come and ask us to enchant pieces for the tribes. Korrim has guilds now, thanks to the king. I suppose he did some things right. Even then, ships fear his anger. No one is coming anymore.”

“Have you considered trading with Param?”

“With the Hallurians?” Kif asked with clear disbelief.”

“No, but Helock is close.”

“What would we sell them? Magic?”

He raised his hands to the air in a mocking gesture.

“What about fish?”

“Fish? They already have more fish than us. They live on the coast. We could sell them monster meat if, I don’t know, we had a ship that could carry it.”

“I could arrange that,” she offered.

“No you cannot. I heard the rumors. You are not welcome in Helock.”

“There are other cities.”

“And then Helock would ban us, not to mention we would need the Azure Lady’s active participation in the hunt. She is… as awake as can be, but…”

“She is contemplating the abyss.”

“Correct. This place isn’t meant to sustain a population.”

He gave her a glance.

“Perhaps some of the families would be interested in moving inland?” Viv offered.

“They fear oppression. They will not trust you.”

“They might trust me,” Lana said. “I know about oppression. I know their plight. I can offer a sincere hand.”

Viv pretended not to be offended. She was actually very sincere. More sincere than most rulers. But welcome assassins, wear a bone crown, and activate genocidal golems and suddenly everyone’s a critic.

“Well, I won’t go around making offers then. I assume Lana looks more trustworthy.”

Silence.

“Lana?”

“I… just saw someone. I will be back. Please, do not follow me.”

“What?”

“Do you trust me?” she suddenly asked.

“Of course, I trust you,” Viv lied.

She didn’t, really. The girl had issues.

“Then please let me handle this.”

And then she was off.

Viv shrugged. Was the Spark of Luck pushing other people into adventures now? How very mysterious.

“I’m going back to my room.”
