Chapter 682: Friend

As Derek followed Alex through his estate once more, he noticed that the servants were much more animated than they had been the previous day. They were rushing around—apologizing quickly when they occasionally stepped in the way—then rushing back to whatever tasks they were performing.

“Why are the servants acting like this, too?” Derek asked.

“It’s the protocol,” Alex replied. “Once it reaches Protocol 3, all the estates and branch houses of the Loomis Clan prepare to go into lockdown. If the protocol increases one more time, then the lockdown is initiated along with a pseudo-martial law in the city.”

“Why pseudo?” Derek asked.

“Because it is to protect those who cannot protect themselves, it is only initiated for those of a certain rank or lower,” Alex explained. “And, of course, it isn’t actual martial law, just more like a 24-hour curfew. A person isn’t going to be executed or punished severely for breaking it, but everyone in the clan knows that if we reach Protocol 4, it’s best to follow the protocol to avoid serious injury or death.”

“I see,” Derek said. “Would you be one of those under that ‘martial law’?”

“Previously, I would have,” Alex answered. “As of now, with my current standing in the clan...” he rubbed his chin as they walked. Then he shook his head. “I would have free rein to an extent. My strength isn’t up to snuff to not have to follow because of it, but my standing in the clan is.”

“I see,” Derek said. “So, basically... Ascendants or, like, level 500+ Mythical or higher users?”

“Level 500+ legendary, too,” Alex replied. “At that point, their potential is all but reached, so there is not much point for those users to be protected like the younger generation. Now, there is nothing wrong with having a legendary rarity class by the time you reach max level—many lesser noble clans, military members, and commoners dream of such a scenario—it’s just when you get to mid- to upper-class noble families in the System Universe, it becomes the bare minimum.”

“I see,” Derek said. “So, where does someone of that level and rarity stand in your clan?”

“Well, our clan would be considered mid-tier in the grand scheme of things since we do not have a proper Transcendent watching over us,” Alex explained as he led Derek through a door. “So, it depends on the person’s skills. Legendary crafters at that level still have great importance because, even though they can’t gear up the elites, they can still craft components and armor for the younger generations. Fighters usually have some kind of guard position. Others work as clerks and the like.”

“I understand,” Derek said. “So, no real importance when it comes to decision-making, but still vital for the clan to function.”

“Exactly,” Alex replied. “The clerk you met when visiting Hall Master Sheen is a prime example. She is respected because of the position she has, but her potential ended at Mythical-ranked. So, unlike those of legendary rank, she is the head clerk over the halls. It does not hurt to be on her good side.”

Derek nodded. Then Alex opened a door and led him into a sitting room that was already occupied. Inside, Rook, Tanya, one of the siblings who had joined them for dinner the night before, and a handful of people Derek had not met were all standing or sitting around the room talking to one another.

“Alex, you finally made it,” Tanya said as she turned away from her father to face her brother and Derek.

“It is good to see you this morning, Derek,” Rook said as he walked forward and shook Derek’s hand once again. “Derek, let me introduce you to a few more of my children and grandchildren.” He then introduced five people of different ages. There was Bailor, Emily, Innis, Michael, and Cassie. Of the five, Michael, Emily, and Bailor were his children, and Innis and Cassie were his grandchildren. However, Cassie was actually older than Innis.

The longer Derek thought about it and how long people tended to live, the dizzier he became. In the end, he made a mental note to try to remember their names, shook each of their hands, then put everything else out of his mind because it was entirely possible that the same thing would happen to him if he ever had children or grandchildren of his own.

“We are sorry for disturbing your rest, but something has come up,” Rook said as he gestured for Derek to take a seat on a cushioned couch. Once Derek sat, he continued. “Has Alex brought you up to speed?”

“He did,” Derek said.

“Well, what you choose to do is your decision,” Rook said. “My family has no intention of saying anything to anybody about you... of course, unless the patriarch or vice-patriarch of the clan asks themselves. If that happens, there is not much that I can do.”

“I understand,” Derek said. “And thanks for your support. But you don’t have to worry about any of that. I don’t have any problem letting everyone know that I killed that big worm. It’s what it deserved after getting that sticky shit all over my boots.” Derek wiggled his foot, and the star pattern on his Starfury Boots moved.

“Oh? A pair of boots crafted with materials from a Starfury Leonaris? How unique!” Michael stared at Derek’s boots, his eyes glowing as he used a skill.

“No, not crafted,” the man shook his head. “Created. Created by the Origin System as a reward. Remarkable. That is not something you see every day. They may not be high-level or ranked, but Starfury items are highly sought after by some, no matter their rank. Though... I would suggest you do not just casually wear them around like this, but I’m sure you already know that.”

“Yes,” Alex said with a nod, looking at Derek. “You don’t want to be marked by the Starfury beasts and hunted across the universe, after all. They don’t take kindly to their kin—especially their young—being used as materials for equipment. They are, after all, one of the few bestial species who gain access to the system at a certain stage and become system users themselves. Them, dragons, and a few others.”

“Oh, I was just wearing them because I’ve become so used to fighting in them and because of their durability. The way I fight and move doesn’t really mesh well with a lot of footwear,” Derek said as he quickly changed out his boots for a more basic pair. “Better?” he asked.

“You may do as you wish,” Michael said. “I just thought to warn you since you are a guest in our house. Starfury beasts still keep to themselves, and only a few interact with other system users, so the likelihood of seeing one without searching for one is very slim. Not to mention, it is a system reward. No Starfury beast was hurt in the creating of the boots, so I would imagine many of the beasts would be understanding if you were allowed a chance to explain it properly.”

“Well, thanks for the warning,” Derek said. “I’d hate to have someone hunting me across the universe because of something dumb like that.” When Derek finished, he saw Alex staring at him, shaking his head. Derek chuckled and shrugged.

“Yes, I am sure that would be quite annoying,” Michael didn’t see the interaction between the two as he spoke. “Would you by chance mind sharing what you accomplished to receive such a reward from the system?”

“Michael!” Rook half-shouted at his son. “That is not something you ask a guest. It is rude.” He turned to Derek and said, “Excuse my idiot son. While Alex is enamored with books and learning, Michael is the same, but with crafting and unique materials.”

“No need,” Derek said, waving him off. “It’s not a secret or anything. It was just a reward for a multi-stage dungeon I completed. Unfortunately, I have absolutely no idea where in the universe the planet I was on when I completed it is. I tend to get swept up and sent to various places by accident.”

“Ah, just like how you arrived on the training planet,” Rook said. “Well, those circumstances seem to have worked well for you thus far. Perhaps it’s time to speak with the council about a new training method for the youngsters.”

“Oh, yeah?” Derek asked. “And what would that method be?”

“Well, perhaps it is best for them to rip a teleportation scroll, then find their way back home by themselves,” Rook said. “I can certainly see how one would grow stronger at a much quicker pace if we did that. You are living proof of it, are you not?”

“Actually,” Derek said, then nodded. “That is a great idea. Though you would probably lose more heirs that way unless you figured out a way to watch over them. I guess you could send escorts with them still, but that would interfere with the main reason for the training.”

“It is worth considering,” Rook said. “There are other clans and organizations who do things somewhat similarly, so the idea isn’t exactly new. Those organizations and noble houses are usually quite strong as well. The Loomis Clan has not made much progress in growing our strength for some time, so a shake-up in the younger generation may just be what we need.”

“Well, you know most of my story,” Derek said. “I, at least, believe it is the best way to do things.”

“Indeed, it may be,” Rook said.

“Anyway,” Derek said. “I need to go speak to the hall master again and get this Protocol 3 stuff under control so I can get back to where I need to be. I have people waiting on me, after all.”

“Of course,” Rook said. “And Derek, feel free to come around whenever you wish. That badge you are wearing? That is yours, by the way. Any Loomis planet, city, or shop in the System Universe will recognize it and treat you as an honored guest. Once you have such a status, only the one who issued it or someone above him in rank can take it away. And I do not see many in the clan slighting Hall Master Sheen by doing so.”

“Oh, that’s good to know,” Derek said. “I’ll keep that in mind. Thank you. And if I don’t see you again today, it was nice meeting you all. But I’m sure I’ll see you again.”

After that, the two left the estate, and Alex walked Derek back toward the House of Records where Hall Master Sheen should be—inside the Hall of the Deceased. Alex was quiet on the way, but seemed like there was something he wanted to say.

“Spit it out,” Derek said about halfway into their walk.

“What?” Alex asked.

“Whatever it is that you are working your courage up to say... just spit it out,” Derek said.

“Oh... okay... um...” Alex hesitated, then finally said, “Can I go with you? To Origin City? On some of your adventures? I need that experience. I want to see what information Origin City may have for me to learn new things. I... I want proper friends.”

Suddenly, Derek stopped walking. He frowned, then sighed. “Honestly? I don’t know,” he finally said. “I normally wouldn’t have any problem with you joining us. I like you, after all. I consider you more than just a convenient acquaintance, at least. But I can only take ten people into Origin City with me.”

In his head, he did the mental math. He had Malorie, Brandi, Thomas, Edgar, Marrick, Stella, Bones, Ogre, and Roman that he was bringing in. That was nine users right there. Then, there was Silvi. She would need a position once they broke the bond, and she became a normal system user. But also, Amelia had really grown on him, and he didn’t just want to leave her out in the cold anymore either, so to speak.

“Oh... that’s right,” Alex said, deflated.

“You know that those close to me would likely become targets, and I have to have a way to keep them safe while I grow stronger,” Derek said. “Are you sure you would even want to be put in that position?”

“Of course I’m not sure,” Alex said. “But also, it beats the alternative, doesn’t it?”

“And what is the alternative?” Derek asked.

“Being bored out of my mind after tasting what it’s like to adventure with friends—or at least with people who are friends,” Alex replied.

“I can understand that,” Derek said.

“And I understand your situation, as well,” Alex said. “How about I travel with you up until the teleportation to Origin Planet, then you leave me in one of the cities there? That’s what many people with a guest pass do, and what most people whose time in Origin City has run out do. The planet isn’t as safe as the one that Origin City is on, but it is the safest planet in the whole of the System Universe besides it.”

“I could do that,” Derek said. “Would also be a good place to drop Nivara off at. Are there any good opportunities there?”

“Well, it’s a safer planet, and there aren’t any real wild areas as far as I know,” Alex said. “It has a good many dungeons on it. And most nobles are on their best behavior because of all the Transcendents being close by. It is one of the more famous merchant planets in the universe. It is good for crafting and materials and such.” He paused for a moment, then said, “There’s also Origin Planet itself. Practically a passive planet, but there’s no real growth for adventurers and the like there.”

“Interesting,” Derek muttered. “I’ll have to give it some thought,” he said. “Anyway, we’re here.”

Soon, the two were walking through the Hall of the Deceased again. Derek actually caught a glimpse of Captain Hawthorne engrossed in a memory crystal along the way—he didn’t disturb the guard, who was enjoying his reward from Hall Master Sheen.

Finally, they walked into the room in which they had originally met the hall master, and they were greeted with the same genuine smile as before—a smile that seemed a bit less genuine now that Derek knew more about the man behind it.

“Ah! Young Friend Derek, Young Alex, I was just thinking of the two of you,” he said as he greeted them.

“I thought you would be,” Derek said. “So I figured I’d make things easier on you.”

“That was very kind of you,” Hall Master Sheen said, his smile growing wider. “I was just about to come see you at House Spindle. Would you be up to displaying a portion of your strength for some of the clan?”