At least the physical projectiles had stopped. A few people were still throwing stones at Nathan, but the huge arrows and supersonic missiles hadn't reappeared, probably due to some combination of Sarah’s sniping and Khachi’s massive spell of blindness. Nathan was happy to have fewer distractions. It was time for the Heirs to finish the opening act of the battle.

Behind him, Stella fired off the first of her spells. She’d used the time since the battle started to cast thirteen of the magical constructs, reinforcing them with as much extra protective magic and wizardry as she could. Now they flew towards the Aleph Grid’s fortress like dumbfired rockets.

Nathan had been prepared for it and opened a tunnel through his antimagic, making sure not to clip the delicate spellwork as it sailed past him. A second one followed the first down the same tunnel, and then a third. The enemy seemed to recognize the magical constructs for what they were, and their attention shifted from Nathan to the spells coming their way. The antimagic caught almost a hundred counterspells, some simple disruptive workings of force and others deeply meaningful wizardly constructs that could command any spellwork to cease.

They didn’t work on his antimagic, and Stella’s spells flew onwards untouched. But with so many Questors on the field, there were other ways to disrupt magic, and the first of Stella’s spells died halfway to its target in a burst of shadow. Nathan traced it back to Amoh, standing atop one of the towers. In the next moment, he was struck by a spear of Khachi’s light, flinching and stumbling back. The next of Stella’s spells sputtered out under a shouted command from Evesor, who shimmered into view in front of the castle, looking regal and unbothered. Nathan disabled his shields and he took a bullet to the throat.

Nathan didn’t know why Stella’s third spell failed, or the fourth. Hundreds of Questors were focused on them, and if it wasn’t magic, his antimagic wouldn’t stop it. But the fifth spell got farther than the others, and then the sixth spell reached the distance two-thirds of the way towards the enemy castle.

It detonated in a flare of nuclear light, Stella’s new Insights letting her direct the force of the blast into an arc aimed towards the enemy. The explosion was still shielded by Nathan’s antimagic, but the purely physical energy flowed through without a care. Another emergency shield deployed over the castle, and Nathan promptly destroyed it to let the atomic blastwave strike the stone fortification. But the Aleph fortress had been built tough and reinforced with magic. Questors were blown off the walls, but the castle itself held.

The blast did serve to distract the Questors who’d been countering the remainder of Stella’s nuke spells, and Nathan shepherded them the rest of the way in. The seventh spell detonated a half-mile closer to the enemy than the previous spell had, and the eighth closer still. Nuclear explosions marched their way across the battlefield until the thirteenth spell spent itself in the center of the enemy starting zone, reducing what had once been a formidable castle to ground zero of a hellish firestorm.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 5

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 113939/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 7963/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 10

Inspiration 10

Impulse 7

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 9

The Truth of Magic 5

Evasion 4

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
