”I think I got it,” Jake muttered, having already turned around with a significantly worsened mood. ”And what do you mean I got scammed? I literally just traded a few legendary items, where only two of them weren’t going to blow up soon, and got a mythical one in return.”

”As I said, scammed,” the Viper grinned. ”The only reason you got a mythical rarity Bargaining Fragment is that your skill is only mythical rarity, so that was the limit, and unfortunately for you, I didn’t have the option of offering anything better.”

Jake stared at the god for a few moments before looking down at his fragment.

”I want a refund.”

”No refunds, sorry, sold as-is,” the snake god chuckled as he inspected the two relatively stable items Jake had offered. ”As a reminder, this is a bargain between the two of us. The value of all things is relative and decided by the people involved. I had nothing to use a damn Planetary Pylon for, but this… this is different.”

”I should have just eaten it for Palate,” Jake muttered sadly.

”Could have. Not sure how much it would have helped, and I wouldn’t want anything to blow up in there again, but you definitely could have,” the Viper said semi-jokingly before turning a lot more serious. ”In my hands, however, things are very different. Consider what you have proven yourself capable of doing with your Primeval Origin Energy, and now imagine what I’m capable of? The sheer potential of my Transcendent Skill and your energy.”

The Viper’s aura flared as he held up the bottle, and the entire lab got bathed in his presence as it subtly changed color. The snake god had an evil grin on his face as he turned to Jake with a sinister look. ”Of course, there is just one minor problem…”

With a flick of his wrist, the Viper took out the Lesser Primeval Red Lavender and subtly applied some energy.

”It won’t allow me to use it,” the Viper shrugged as his aura faded, and at the same time, the herb he’d only subtly tried to affect dispersed into pure energy. ”Which in itself raises some questions, wouldn’t you agree?”

Jake was about to answer as Villy held up a hand. ”To clarify, your agreement with my statement has no bearings on the fact that it is odd. Also, I would get into an entire conversation with you about this, but unfortunately for me, someone else has been waiting for over a year already to visit, and I have a feeling you wouldn’t have anything against her visit cutting mine a little short. Oh, and I’ll leave this here, should make you feel a little less scammed than before, though to be clear, you were still very much scammed.”

Before Jake had the time to say anything, the Viper was gone, and on the table next to the Bargain Fragment was an item that made Jake’s eyes open wide as he grinned. Yeah, alright, that definitely did make him feel a lot better about being scammed.
