The auras were similar, their essence lost in the rapid fluctuations. I couldn't fully exert either pressure, leaving Torix flailing on the ground. With each passing second, more of who he was faded. The chance of him coming back from mental disintegration lessened. As I peeled my mind apart to make something happen, I watched a friend die. I pushed harder. I flickered the auras with a rapidity that defied reason.

I stood still, pressing downward with temporal compression. I locked in and put all my psyches to work. Like an industrial factory, we took turns moving the auras back and forth. It was a mental tug of war, each Daniel pulling the aura in and out of existence. As the speed of the transition increased, a lag began forming.

Even if I bent my aura away from a particular spot, it still carried a residue of the effect. Like some lingering apparition, my dimensional wake was remembered wherever it had been. It was something I felt after awakening from Marcella's obliteration; my dimensional wakes had momentum.

That lingering pull was something that I had experimented with before, but my other auras would wash it away, wiping the effect clean. To get a full, powerful vestige of my aura, I needed to impart its full wrath. Instead of having my many psyches switch the aura, I split them into two camps, one for each of the wakes. They would focus with all their will, summoning each dimensional wake with absolute force. It arrived, and it was a salient, arresting sensation.

Even I experienced the ripples in space and time. I had never pushed onto reality with such force, and it pushed back. A cold fear leached into my chest, but I pushed past the desire to run. I mauled into my surroundings, having never surged onto the dimension around me to such an extent. In time, it began to respond to my will.

Something around us moved. It shifted. I couldn't put my finger on it, but it was a bending of something fundamental. I continued exerting the pressure, getting better at implanting my wake onto my surroundings. It pushed at the underpinnings of reality, and something began to break apart.

As it did, I left my own insignia on what remained. A piece of what I was at my core, it branded the area. It left it unwilling to return to its previous way of being as if I conquered space itself. With every passing second, I surged onto reality with greater and greater finality, turning the ineffable into the mundane. The secrets of a broader reality bent into something I understood. Something worldly.

Something that was mine.

Torix couldn't speak anymore, but I pressed on. I kept pushing down until my auras bled into the surroundings. They no longer left the space, becoming harbingers of my intent. My will. My want. I crushed the space until the laws of reality caved in. As they did, two of my auras melded into the subspace.

The immense pressure around me, something I had become used to, faded. I achieved a level of comfort I hadn't felt in years, if ever. I was not one with an alien universe. I was the universe itself, and it would bend to what I willed. In that space, my limitations ceased existing, and what I wanted would manifest.

I could break all laws of reality for I was the reality. I raised a hand, compelling the two auras to press onto Torix. What was impossible before became real. Wielding both wakes, I smothered the mana in the armor and magnified Torix. He breathed back in life, his will to live bolstered. At the same time, I culled the armor's mana until it was but a whimpering child.

My armor grinned, having covered my face during my focus. It held its hunger against the golem, and the golem raged. It cried. It caved. As it cowered away, Torix regained control of the body. He moved for a moment before turning to me.

"I..I'm back. What happened?"

I grunted, my voice strained.

"I have no fucking idea."

As I continued doing whatever it was that I was doing, Torix stood up, brushed himself off, and took a moment to think. After a second, he walked up to the pillars. He funneled the excess mana of the ritual into them, and after a few seconds, he achieved a pleasant and internal equity. Instead of wrestling for control, he had the armor's will funneled into the ritual.

There, it refined into a usable source of power. Like that, the matter of life and death became a resource.

The power of the ritual was finalized at that moment. Above us, the cavern's icy walls ripped away. Icy wind coursed over us, and the storms I felt were now seen across the horizons. Tornadoes of fire, lightning that cracked like stone, and wind that breathed life into the world, these elemental outpours overwhelmed.

For miles, the ice sheets cracked. The clouds parted, and the sun was seen again. Torix turned to me, his fire eyes a deep, navy blue. He gave me a nod.

"I have returned to the living, or so it would seem."

I trembled before collapsing onto the ground. Reality came back in full force, restoring its previous self. The rush carried a tangible anger, and my armor crushed over me. I bled from the wounds, but a bloody smile traced my lips. I shouted at the ether,

"Hah. I'm not as much of a roach now, am I?"

Torix peered at me as if I were mad. Maybe I was. I waved him off, my back against the ice.

"I've felt this before when we watched Lehesion and the Spatial Fortress fight. At that time, I was crushed utterly by some kind of spatial fluctuation. This was actually a stronger pulse, yet I'm still here. The Progress...It feels good."

Torix rolled his shoulders before staring at his free hand.

"Progress. It is quite an enjoyable feeling, isn't it?"

We rested for a while, soaking in the calm after the storm. I still lavished in my relief before Torix put his other hand on the barrier.

He nodded my way.

"For now, I'll need to remain within the ritual. Otherwise, I risk losing control of this overbearing mana once more. Once I'm gone, I'll have full faculties of the mana along with this bulky, physical form. In essence, I will remain a lich in class and title while gaining the body of a juggernaut."

I took a breath.

"I'm just glad you're still here."

Torix peered at the walls of ice in every direction, the entire cavern having been decimated by dispersing waves of energy and force.

"This was the closest to death I've ever come, and without your support, I wouldn't have been able to survive this. Thank you."

I lifted a thumbs up, still mentally exhausted.

"No problem."

Torix grasped a hand.

"It's still odd. This single fist could move mountains. It really is quite an incredible feeling of physical potency. The mana, while dangerous, is also overflowing. If channeled efficiently, I could generate world-changing rituals. I will do so once I've mastered my newfound potential. My disciple, what we have done here...It will be the impetus of great things."

I tried mustering up my aura, but it didn't respond with its normal fluidity. Instead, it gunked out like thick mud. I sat up before trying again. Once more, it responded like a drunken friend vomiting over a toilet. My aura was about as useful, the dimensional wake lacking the clear, crisp effect it normally carried.

I frowned.

"That's weird."

"Is it your aura? It does feel rather finicky at the moment, doesn't it?"

"I feel drunk. Like I'm...I don't know, eight shots deep?"

Torix laughed.

"It's a good thing I gained a moment of reprieve, then. It left me with enough awareness to come to the obvious answer on how to handle the armor - channel the energy outward. I tried upon my initial ascension, but I couldn't even think straight with all the chaotic intrusions. It felt like I was trapped in the mind of a schizophrenic, and the voices were screaming inside my ears louder than I could think."

I raised a hand, mana pooling in my palm.

"It does kind of have a mind of its own, doesn't it? It makes sense if you think about it. This isn't actually made by us. We're able to access it because of the Old Ones, and the better we are at controlling this energy, the more of it we can access."

Liquid energy writhed out of Torix's new hand and into the pillars of the ritual. The lich added.

"And the more mana we access, the more it invades us. I've dwelled on the implications of what you've said, and my conclusion is thus: in many ways, mana is a gambit. It allows us to evolve and fight on equal terms with the eldritch, but it is also very likely their origin. Anyone who experiences mana poisoning is, therefore, only being overtaken by the latent will of the Old One that sent them the energy. It's how they leave a mark on this realm."

Torix rolled a hand.

"Therefore, all manas carry their signature. I wonder which Old One has created dominion mana?"

I waved ascendent energy in my hand.

"I don't know, but this is definitely Baldowah's energy. It wants war, finality, and consequence. The best way Baldowah found for making that happen has been to imbue greed and hunger in people, which ascendant mana does well."

I shifted the mana into primordial energy.

"This is Eonoth's. He's trying to take control, probe, and learn about this world. However, he isn't actually curious at all. He just wants the world to be rewritten in his image."

I altered the energy into quintessence.

"That being said, I have no clue where this energy comes from. I've also seen one of Etorhma's avatars generate a seafoam-colored mana that seemed like liquified knowledge. I'd guess that's Etorhma's signature."

Torix let out a weak laugh before shaking his head.

"All of our efforts are built on the borrowed energy of cosmic beings. It makes us seem so small, doesn't it?"

I smiled, my grin fierce.

"Oh, it's the opposite. We're taking from beings far above us and harnessing their essence. Every second we fight, we make their power our own."

Torix shook his head.

"For all we know, they may take the mana away as easily as they give it."

I looked up at the open sky.

"I don't understand what the Old Ones are, but I do understand how desperate they are for meaning. That's why they need us. It's because we're born with limitations, and that gives us an intrinsic purpose - to rise above our weaknesses. The Old Ones lack that fragility, and now that they've tasted it, they're like fiending addicts. They can't stop. I can feel it."

Torix let his free hand flop against his side.

"How exactly, is that supposed to be motivating?"

"It's simple. Just now, you were in a life-and-death battle with mana. That is, in essence, one of those otherworldly entities. Guess what happened?"

Torix's eyes flared.

"I barely survived."

I raised a fist.

"No. Not at all."

I shook my hand.

"We won, and we'll win again."
