Ah wonder who Lara is? Clint thought. They're posted at th' same time, so ah recon they must know each othah. He smiled. Ah can' remember th' last time ah seen him. He thought. Ah think it's time ah saw what's in that there store o'his.

Clint typed up a few sentences and posted on the forums. But afore ah log in, he needs a comment congratulatin' him.

*

Ren, Stella, and Gloria finished the half hour of running and Ren stopped his run at the finish line and jogged in place. Stella and Gloria on the other hand, stumbled to a stop and collapsed on the ground.

“Oh, come on!” Ren laughed at their weak and exhausted state. “That wasn't hard at all!”

“What do you mean, it wasn't hard?” Gloria said between breaths. “We... we barely...” She looked up at the number of laps and the distance they had run for the 30 minutes. “We went... that far?”

Ren looked at the scoreboard and it said 3 miles. “Hey, that's pretty far.”

“Why aren't you exhausted?” Stella asked as she sat up. “You ran just as far as us!”

Ren shrugged. “I don't know if it's because I really like the fact that I have normal reactions in here, or that I've been so used to debilitating injuries that when I don't have to suffer the effects, I can do a lot more than a normal person would.”

“That's... a very interesting hypothesis.” Stella said, and opened the Administrator menu. She removed the Stamina requirement, and Gloria sighed in relief.

“Thank god!” Gloria said, and stood up.

“I can't imagine the serotonin levels the both of you are producing right now.” Stella said, and checked the stats in a popup window. “Ren you're... more than double Gloria and I.”

“What?!?” Gloria said, and opened the same window. “Good god, no wonder you're always so happy in the game!”

Ren chuckled. “I'm pretty sure my attitude has a huge bearing on how much serotonin my brain can produce.”

“I agree.” Stella said. “But, considering each affects the other...”

“We should move on to the actions and reactions stage.” Gloria suggested.

“Right.” Stella said, and had a medical table and chairs appear. “Hop up on this, Ren.”

Ren walked over and hopped up to sit on it, just like she asked. A table with all the little things a doctor used to perform a physical, appeared on a small tray and Stella picked one up.

“Just relax, Ren.” Stella said. “These are just standard tests. Absolutely nothing bad can happen.”

Ren nodded, and Stella did the knee and small hammer test. Ren's leg flicked out when she tapped the knee with the little hammer, and so did the other one. She did the elbows, and moved on to complete the physical. It took about 10 minutes to check everything, and then she looked at Gloria.

“Your turn, Gloria.” Stella said, and Ren slid off the table so that Gloria could take his place. Stella did all the same tests on her, and finished 10 minutes later.

“Okay, that's done. Let's move on to...”

“We didn't do you.” Ren said.

“We can't do me.” Stella said. “I'm the only registered medical practitioner between the three of us.”

Ren smiled. “I've seen you do the tests twice now. I can do the examination if you want.”

“I...”

“Hey, you don't have to use the data.” Ren said. “But if you don't do it, you'll always wonder how your stats compare to ours.”

“All right.” Stella said as she sat on the table. “Go ahead.”

Ren did all of the same examinations that she did, and adjusted for her larger body size in comparison to both him and Gloria. Stella was surprised that he did them so well; then a new set of data appeared on her popup window, and she grinned.

“Thank you, Ren.” Stella said. “It might not be admissible on the official report, but it'll give me something to compare to yours and Gloria's numbers.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “Now what else have you got?”

“I've got an early supper planned.” Stella said. “It would have been lunch, but I forgot to set the timer.”

Ren laughed. “Admit it, you've been having too much fun in here.”

“I'll admit no such thing.” Stella said, but she smiled as she saved all of the things they'd done. “Let's log out and get something to eat.”

“Great! I'm starving!” Gloria said. “What did you have in mind?”

Stella glanced at Ren. “Amazon Ji-”

“HA HA!” Ren yelled and grabbed one of each of the women's shoulders. “Don't just stand there! My Endless Stomach has a scheduled rematch with Endless Fries!” He shook them and grinned. “There's no time to waste!”

“Logout.” The three of them said at the same time.
