Following her Master's actions, Song loosed her arrow, along with every other Khishig present, the hiss of their barrage raining down upon the Enemy. Tightly packed and wearing patchwork armor, the Defiled died in the hundreds, if not the thousands. They rode around the peak as she continued to fire death down upon them, until the fortress was no longer in sight. She followed Master at a steady pace, and within a minute, they were turning out over the lip, the Enemy once again before them. The creatures they rode were a great boon in warfare, allowing for travel upon such a steep and high incline. The circular movement was necessary, the creatures unable to simple stand upon the slope, but it was an effective maneuver nonetheless.

As the Khishigs held the attentions of the Enemy, several groups replicating the same maneuver from several locations, firing down from different angles, the soldiers below marched steadily forward towards the fortress. Each pass Song took around the mountain peak saw the soldiers slowly closing upon the Enemy, until on her twelfth revolution, the soldiers roared and charged forward for combat. Master put away her bow, and Song followed suit, drawing her spear as her mount took a gut-wrenching dive down the mountain, her inner organs almost overturning within her. The furred monstrosity ran towards battle, making sounds of delight as it descended upon the enemy, eager for blood and flesh, the Khishigs around her somehow able to move into formation, a tight line of spears held forward. She grasped her spear tightly in her hand, readying herself for the great clash, expecting to be bogged down in melee, hacking and slashing into the seemingly endless horde.

She prepared herself, remembering the all-too-brief training she had received. Loosen the thighs, sit as if squatting, calves relaxed to absorb the impact of the charge. Master expected her to learn just from the description, without setting time for her to practice. Song had little of that lately, as Master was disinclined to set a schedule, and without one, how was Song to know what to do? She took a breath as she neared, the scowling and screaming faces of the enemy coming into vision at a breakneck pace. All too soon, the creature lunged and her weapon crashed into her foe, the ribs impacting upon the crossbar, the body thrown back. Battle was met, as she stabbed and swung at any who approached, the Enemy regretfully held back by the lengths of their spears. Her mount pressed forward, working in unison with her, leaping when she was ready to thrust, backing when an enemy approached, so agile it was as if it knew her thoughts and refused to obey them, teasing her with the lack of danger.

Dismayed by the skill of her mount, Song forgot to keep focus upon Master, almost falling from her seat as it turned away to follow its alpha, every other Khishig moving in unison as well. It was too soon, Song had yet to truly fight. Fear ran through her as she watched Master, looking for an indication of anger or displeasure at Song's mental defiance, fear coursing through her. They rode back, away from the hordes following them, their bows in hand, several riders turning to fire as they escaped. A quick clash, and now they would fade away, fleeing back up the mountainside as the Enemy attempted to close in upon them. She watched, too unskilled to join the others in firing as they retreated, looking around at the rest of Master's companions.

“Where is Rain?” Master noticed as well, and Song could do nothing but apologize.

“This slave has failed you, she is unaware. This slave is prepared for punishment at Master's convenience.” Song was largely ignored, thankfully. Master had yet to punish her, and while it was a blessing, at times Song was apprehensive, worried that her infractions were being remembered, and punishment delayed until the war effort over. She was a weapon, and Master was far too clever to break her weapons before battle. She followed Master up the incline, gnawing at her lip, unable to focus on the task at hand. Perhaps fortune would finally favor her, and Song could finally die in the next charge.
