Liren’s face stiffened at his counterpart’s casual attitude. “In the name of the Ashen Accord, we formally greet you as allies due proper respect and escort." Those words were very obviously aimed at his compatriot, not at the Heirs. "I would ask you to follow our guidance as we aid your travel to the Blinded Mountain.”

Vira turned around and sighed, tapping her foot impatiently.

Nathan relaxed and felt the Heirs do the same behind him. It didn’t seem like the two were here to kill him. In fact, up close, they were even less impressive than they’d first appeared. They both lacked the self-assured confidence of every other Questor that Nathan had met, though they were trying to ape it. He could estimate Liren’s mana pool, and it was large by Giantsrest standards but small by Questor standards. Most mages who weren’t absolute rookies picked up skills to increase the size of their mana pool, but even if Liren had a good one, he couldn’t be over level five hundred.

The moment quickly turned awkward as Liren stayed frozen, and Vira’s foot tapped louder. Nathan bowed himself, perfectly matching Liren’s movement. “We are the Heirs, and we would be glad to accompany you. We met Kaelis earlier, but we’re looking to find Sarya and the rest of her grid.”

“We will reach them in the Blinded Mountain,” Liren said, only then turning to follow Vira down the docks and towards the hanging staircases that connected to the floating mountain above. “We have some time to get there, and the journey is not long.”

“Then it's food and booze! Driftmere doesn’t have the finest, but it’s a caustic burn better than any other sim I’ve had,” Vira said. She winced after that, gazing up at some notification the rest of them couldn’t see.

“Vira,” Liren half-yelled, her slip causing his eyes to bug out. He threw out a hand towards Nathan and the others. “Not Questors!”

“They suspect already!" Vira protested. “Davrar says—“ she shut up, her mouth snapping shut as she looked back at the Heirs. Her face flushed with embarrassment, and she yelled at them. “But you know! You’re getting involved in a Questor War! If you don’t know, then what are you doing here?”

Nathan shared a look with his friends.

Definitely rookies, even if that looks a bit different for Questors than for Adventurers.

“We know,” Nathan confirmed. “But Davrar has a lot of silly rules, it seems. I’m a little bit less worried about those than about the Endings.”

“The Endings?” Vira said, eyebrows coming together in confusion. “What about them?”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 3

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 2

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 3

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 3
