She looked up at him and smiled. “When you didn't show up to help with breakfast, I thought something might be wrong. When I was done in the kitchen, I came down here to look for you.” She said and looked back down to his chest so Ren could only see the top of her head again. “When I saw you sleeping here, I came over to wake you... and I felt that same thing that you did during the duel.”

Ren's eyes widened at her words when she continued.

“I knew you would never hurt me, so I fought the feeling and stepped next to the bed. I felt so relieved... and suddenly exhausted.” Nathalia said. “You looked so peaceful, and the bed looked so soft and comfortable... I... I just couldn't help myself.”

Ren could feel her blush through his shirt.

“I think we should get up, don't you?” Ren said.

Nathalia nodded and sat up, dragging her braid across his chest. “R...R...” She took a quick breath. “Ren... what kind of fabric is this?” She asked and ran a hand over the cloth of his shirt sleeve.

“It's Spider Silk.”

“Spider Silk? Really?” She said, surprised. “I've only ever seen Royal clothing made from it, and the weave wasn't anywhere near this good.”

“I know a great tailor in Aurora that made the cloth for me.” Ren said. “Her name's Sally, of Sally's Tailor Shop.”

“Is she the one you're involved with?” Nathalia asked.

Ren laughed and shook his head. “No. She's just a nice old lady.”

“Oh.”

Ren sighed. “I can tell you all about Lucy, if you want.”

Nathalia shook her head. “I don't really want to know.” She said. “You have 2 years to sow your wild oats, then after the ceremony, you're all mine.”

“Nathalia...” Ren tried to speak.

“I don't want to hear it.” Nathalia shook her head again. “I've told you about how it all works. The both of us have commitments we have to fulfill now.” She said and sighed. “What is my mother going to say?”

“Your mother?”

Nathalia nodded. “After a few more years on the ship and I earned enough money, I was to return to her for a few years to work for the House, then I was to enter training for a year to prepare for courtship.”

“Really?” Ren asked.

She nodded again. “After that, each House would send a likely candidate for the trials. Once that was done, I would be matched up with the one who would best benefit my House.” She said. “I might have been able to avoid all of this if I'd been trained properly... but now? Now I have to leave the ship when we get to port and try to explain to Ma what's happened.”

Ren looked at her. “If you were so worried about that, why have you been cozying up to me the last couple of days?”

Nathalia dropped her head slightly and smiled sheepishly. “I wasn't worried about it at first. All the attention you were giving me was really flattering. The lavish and expensive gifts... it felt like I was being treated like royalty.” She said, then looked at Ren. “You're really handsome, and strong, and... and I... I wanted to pretend for a while.”

Ren stared at her with shock in his eyes.

“I know it was foolish!” Nathalia exclaimed. “But... it wasn't until after I taught you some of our culture last night that it started to hit me. I realized all of the things I was going to have to do, all the things that would have to change, now that you're my official courter and I didn't have 6 years to get ready first.”

Ren took her hand. “I've messed up your life with all of this, haven't I?” Ren said. “Nathalia, I'm really sorry.”

Nathalia squeezed his hand. “It's both of our faults for letting it get this far.” She said and sighed. “You'll have to petition the Dwarven Council as soon as we get to Dornrach.”

“Why?”

Nathalia rolled her eyes. “To register your House, of course.” She said and let his hand go.

Ren thought about it for a minute. “What if I don't register?”

“They'll send for you... and probably charge you for the crime of not petitioning them.”

“It's a crime?”

Nathalia nodded. “You've been using an unregistered House, and made claims on it's name.”

“I didn't!” Ren exclaimed.

She put a hand on his arm. “It doesn't matter how it happened. All that matters is that it did.”

Ren sighed. “Okay, so I register my House, then what?”

Nathlia shook her head. “No, you have to petition for the registration.”

“Oh.” Ren said. “What happens if they refuse?”

“Everything you've done in that House's name will be undone, and-”

Nathalia stopped speaking and looked at Ren. They both had shocked looks on their faces, then they both smiled.

“We'll be out of all of this!” They said together, and laughed.

For the next week, All Ren did was make meals, eat rolls, learn about dwarf culture, and take care of his mount. He was busy all the time as he and Nathalia tried to come up with ways to get his petition rejected. Using a different name, filling it in wrong, giving it to the wrong House, and Nathalia even suggested she talk to her mother, who knew one of the council members that might be able to get it rejected. No one bothered them as they worked. When they were seen together talking, everyone believed that they were preparing to get Ren's House in order. Surprisingly enough to both of them, they had a lot in common and enjoyed a lot of the same things.

The time flew by before either of them knew it, and Ren had increased his Cooking to Level 7, and Chop to Level 9. Dwarves ate lots of vegetables. The ship approached the bay where the main port was and Ren was up on deck with Teepo on his shoulder. They both stared at the mountain range that went as far as the eye could see.

Teepo... are you seeing what I'm seeing?

“I think so. Are you seeing more mountains than sky?” Teepo asked.

Yeah.

“Then I see it, too.” Teepo said. “It looks like it goes on forever.”

Ren nodded.

“It's something, isn't it?” The captain said.

“It sure is!” Ren said, then noticed something. The ship was sailing straight for the mountain range and wasn't slowing down. “Um... captain?”

“Yes?”

“I don't see an opening for the ship.”

“You don't?” The captain asked, surprised. “How have you been getting into the hold every day?”

Ren looked at the captain like he was crazy. “You've got to be kidding me!”

The captain laughed at his expression. Ren activated Enchanted Eyes and one of the mountains in the mountain range glowed. A whole damn mountain! Ren thought.

“Wow.”
