“Why would we want a death magic mushroom?” she asked. It sounded creepy. Actually, it looked creepy, too. It was black and misshapen, and surprisingly large.

“It’s used for a necrotic poison,” Basil explained. “Some archers and rogues prefer it to regular poisons because it acts faster. And here,” he carefully plucked a vibrant red and white spotted mushroom from the moss with a gloved hand. “This is a Forest Amanita – a poison affinity mushroom.” He wrapped it and placed it in a bag he had produced from his pack, taking care to avoid letting it touch his skin.

Well, somebody’s finally in his element. Teagan could not help but warm to his enthusiasm, even if it was over vile poisons.

“But the real find is this beauty,” Basil said, his voice dropping to an awed whisper as he gently gathered one of the golden glowing mushrooms. “This is a Common Glowcap, an arcane mushroom. Despite their name, they’re incredibly rare, found only near powerful sources of arcane magic. I have no idea how it’s growing down here.”

“What’s it for?” Teagan asked, surprised at how curious she was about the strangely beautiful mushroom.

“Arcane magic plants can be used to make mana potions. These are low-level so would only supply low-level potions, but they do go a long way. Eliyen is going to be over the moon to see these. The garrison mages guzzle them like kids with candy.”

“How many should we get?” Teagan asked, excited by the prospect that their first foray into the sewer was going to be extraordinarily useful.

“I think ten should about do it for now,” Basil answered. “I mean, if that’s ok – I know you guys might have to fight more of those slimes.”

“I’m game,” Braden announced, and Teagan knew the idea of earning a little coin from their job had made his day. “We did fine, nothing we can’t handle.”

“Says the guy who tanked a face-full of poison,” Willow chipped in from the side. “I’d like to try to get to level four,” she added, making it clear that she was voting to continue.

“Me too,” Teagan added, surprised to find her fear had vanished, replaced by an undercurrent of excitement.

After Basil had collected the mushrooms, they ventured down the mystically lit sewer tunnel in search of the next clump.

“Can you tame slimes?” Teagan asked, no longer feeling the need for absolute silence as she walked beside Willow.

“No, I need to find a beast, and slimes are not even intelligent,” her friend answered. Willow looked ahead and called out, “Hey, doofus, try avoiding the root traps this time. There’s a glow on the ground.”

“Not for me,” Braden answered over his shoulder. “I don’t have trap detection.”

“I’ll gladly help you fall into the next one.”

“Only falling for you, milady Willow,” he said, pressing the back of his hand to his forehead in a pretend swoon.

Willow and Braden’s banter continued to lighten the mood as they headed deeper into the sewer in search of mushrooms.

Once again, Ali wished the sewers didn’t smell quite so foul. She felt as if she had made a bit of a breakthrough discovery with her mushrooms, but with the Goblin siege and all the sudden work, she hadn’t had nearly enough time to claim the entire sewer yet, nor experiment with the effects she had noticed earlier.

Things in town seemed to be getting worse. She had paired up with Malika for her patrol this evening because Calen had taken a job shooting from the battlements. The sounds of Goblins screeching outside the walls had been unceasing, interrupted only by the periodic explosive reports of fireballs or lightning as the elite Goblins took potshots at the guards on the battlements.

Their patrol had been quiet, with almost everyone respecting the evening curfew. Only a few criminals braved the streets, and those had been weak enough that they had simply fled when she and Malika approached.

“I’m looking forward to some food and sleep,” Malika said as they walked the dark tunnels by the light of Ali’s occasional barriers.

“I still need to make some more arrows before bed,” Ali grumbled. The Guildmaster had personally asked her if she could make more. Apparently, the garrison was using them up at a furious pace, and it wasn’t like it would be easy to retrieve them from the Goblin horde camped outside the gates.

Her meandering thoughts were suddenly interrupted when she bumped into the back of Malika’s leg.

“Shh…” Malika hushed her before she could ask any questions.

In the silence, Ali heard muffled shouting and banging coming from up ahead. That sounds like fighting. Ali peered around Malika’s leg and the corner of the sewer tunnel. Panicked fighting.

A little way down the tunnel, a discarded torch flickered on the mossy ground where it lay. A brown-haired boy wearing a chain shirt at least three sizes too big for him waved his sword and shield, cursing as he struggled against the roots from one of Ali’s runic circles.

What is he doing? Her traps were for Goblins, not people.

On the far side of the channel, a blonde human girl wearing brown leather armor darted and weaved, jumping like an excited grasshopper across the channel while firing arrows at one of her Toxic Slimes. A second slime bore down on a red-haired girl who looked to be frozen in terror. She was barefoot and wore an impractically long, flowing forest-green dress with a hem stained from being dragged around in the sewers. A leather vest had been awkwardly strapped over the dress.

Hardly appropriate wear for a sewer.

Cowering behind a large pile of rotting trash, observing the debacle, was a fourth. A boy that Ali instantly recognized as the one she and Calen had rescued.

What’s Basil doing here? He doesn’t even have a class yet. Even she had not been that much of a liability in a fight – she hoped.

Hunter – Human – level 2Warrior – Human – level 2Shaman – Human – level 2 (Nature)Human

Low levels, no wonder they’re struggling. Ali tried to step past Malika, but she felt her friend’s hand settle on her shoulder.

“Wait,” Malika whispered.

“I have to tell my slimes to stop attacking them!” Ali replied with an urgent whisper.

“I recognize them. They’re newbie adventurers from the guild,” Malika said. “I think this might be their first solo fight.”

“My slimes are going to hurt them.” Ali trusted Malika, but right now she didn’t understand why the other girl was suddenly being so obtuse.

“I think they’ll be ok,” Malika insisted, her gaze intent on the unfolding scene. As if on cue, the boy, now freed of the roots by the presence of a strange wooden totem emitting vibrating nature magic, charged the slime and earned himself a face full of toxic spray. He screamed.

Ali glanced at Malika in concern.

“If we get involved, they won’t earn any experience,” Malika cautioned, apparently unmoved by his shrieks. “Watch, I think the redhead is a healer.”

The previously terrified, barefoot girl was now wielding her magic. Ali’s eyes widened in astonishment as the nature mana burst from the girl’s hand flowing out in a swirling streamer of brilliant green to connect her with the hurt boy desperately trying to stab a slime he clearly couldn’t see.

Healing magic, Ali immediately recognized it. While it was quite different in composition than the druidic restoration magic that she could create with her runes, it bore enough similarities that she could tell simply by looking.

She’s a lot like that Goblin shaman, Ali realized, seeing similarities in the fundamental class skills. Her mana was Nature, not Lightning, and the totem was wooden instead of metal, but the mechanism seemed similar. The girl threw totems, used healing beams instead of lightning bolts, and wielded a shield that glowed with nature magic. Is that some kind of healing buff?

And a few moments later, both slimes were dead.

The boy complained loudly about the lack of loot while the blonde girl excitedly shared that she had leveled up. Ali’s simple use of Identify confirmed that all of them except Basil had just leveled.

“They just got level three,” Ali whispered.

“Don’t they just remind you of us when we first got our classes?”

“Were we ever that scared?” Ali asked. She thought about some of the early fights she had had. “Actually, don’t answer that. I think I was way worse.”

Malika snickered lightly in response. “No, they take the prize.”

“Hey, he’s picking my mushrooms,” Ali complained. It had taken most of the day to plant everything and now Basil’s excited voice echoed through the tunnel as he uprooted her mushrooms and stored them in a bag.

“Listen,” Malika whispered. “He just explained that those two are good poisons.”

Ali concentrated on their conversation and caught them talking about how the Glowcap mushrooms could be used to make mana potions. Oh! My mushrooms might actually be valuable after all. Mana potions are always in demand.

“Perhaps you can sell some of those too,” Malika suggested.

“They’re going to search for more?” Ali asked incredulously as the party of four retrieved their discarded torches and packs and headed further down the tunnel.

“Looks that way.”

“What should we do?” Ali was still trying to unpack what had just happened. “They’re killing my slime sentries and stealing my mushrooms.”

“Let them continue? They’re level-three adventurers. This is probably their very first quest. I’m sure they’re just trying to help the town with some of the jobs and earn a little experience along the way. Besides, didn’t you say Basil is cute?”

“No!” Ali squeaked crossly. Cute as in a Bugbear would stomp him flat in one second? Ouch. Was I ever that bad? Hmm. Ali didn’t share Malika’s positivity, but she followed the other girl as they headed off in the opposite direction, unnoticed by the novice adventurers.

“You can just make some more later, right?” Malika asked. “Did you see how effective your Grasping Roots trap was? The slimes just ignored that warrior and went straight for the healer. If she hadn’t freed him, they might have been in some trouble. I like that redhead shaman – she seems sharp.”

I guess they really are just as hapless as we were, Ali thought. While it would be annoying to replant, it didn’t seem like too much of a chore. The guild and the herbalist would get some good materials, the town would get some mana potions, and the three adventurers had just grown a little stronger.

Perhaps it wasn’t such a bad outcome after all. The only downside is I don’t get paid for those mushrooms I made! Jolly thieves!
