Because the number of marks shown by Identify is far too coarse a measure for practical concerns, the Adventurers Guild has always used a finer-grain ranking system. This facilitates a more reliable way to pair jobs and quests with people who have the power and skills to survive them. Unclassed guild members, and non-combat classes, are typically not referred to as adventurers. Instead, most guilds assign them ‘recruit’ or ‘staff’ titles depending on their expected roles. Single-mark adventurers – the so-called ‘newbies’ or novices – are unranked and most guilds will not allow them to take jobs unsupervised. This is to mitigate the steep death toll over the first couple of levels where people are far too unfamiliar with classed combat and tend to make fatal mistakes. Upon achieving their tenth class level – and their second mark – adventurers earn the bronze rank and are considered experienced enough to join a team and take jobs unsupervised. Bronze-ranked teams make up the bulk of most guilds, handling most of the jobs. Still, there is an enormous range of risk between a level ten threat and a level twenty threat, and adventurers are advised to exercise appropriate caution when choosing jobs. Silver rank is earned at level thirty, and gold at sixty.Platinum rank is reserved for those few rare individuals who manage to survive the transition to level one hundred, and finally earn their third mark. - Excerpt from The Adventurer’s Guide, Third Edition

Teagan nervously readjusted her leather vest. It had been a gift from her grandmother when she had earned her class and she had been super excited when she first tried it on. But it chafed uncomfortably under her armpits, clearly not designed to be worn over a dress.

“I’ll go first,” Braden decided, securing his buckler to his belt before hauling the grate up off the hole in the ground. He lit his torch. It was just a rag tied to the end of a stick and dipped in cheap lamp oil – cheap enough that it made a sooty flame. “Follow me, everyone.”

“Don’t fall on your face, o mighty warrior,” Willow said, lighting her own torch and following him down into the hole, her blonde braid somehow never tangling with the bow slung across her back.

The ladder leading down into the sewer was nothing more than a set of rusty iron staples jutting from the stone wall. This is hardly safe. She reached out and stepped on the first one, holding her breath as she began her slow descent into the dark sewers. Well below her feet – entirely too far down – the light of the torches danced and bounced around as Braden and Willow reached the bottom.

Darkness closed in as her head passed below the street level, and immediately the muffled crashing and thumping of the Goblin siege weapons faded, leaving only the soft sounds of dripping water, and the clanking of Basil following her down the ladder, showering her with rust and dirt with every step. He acted even more timid than her. Not exactly setting the bar high, are we?

Teagan finally placed her bare foot on the cold, damp, and rather slimy brick of the sewer tunnel floor and stepped aside for the Herbalist’s apprentice, Basil. This ‘adventure’ had been his idea – apparently, someone had claimed to see mushrooms growing down in these sewers, and he had insisted on posting a job on the guild quest board.

Normally, the Guildmaster would have vetoed them taking the quest since they had only just reached level two before the Goblins had arrived – using the quest board required bronze rank – but there was nobody else. The garrison was so low on resources that Vivian Ross finally relented and asked them to escort Basil to collect whatever could be used for the defense of the town. In theory, they were still within the town down here, and it should be safe, but Vivian Ross had insisted they were to run if they found any monsters above their level.

Which is pretty much any monster at all.

Honestly, she had been excited just to be doing something – anything – that might be useful. Sitting around during a dungeon-break and doing nothing, even though you had unlocked a combat class, was beyond frustrating. But now, standing in the dank, smelly sewer and hearing the trickle of water in the darkness, she was suddenly not quite so sure of herself.

What if there are monsters? What if we can’t run fast enough?

“Come on, let’s go,” Braden announced and began walking down the sewer tunnel, holding his torch high above his head to light the way. The normally soft metallic clinking of his well-worn chainmail shirt sounded unnaturally loud down here.

Brown-haired, stocky Braden liked to play leader, but Teagan knew he would happily lead them into a forest without a map and get them hopelessly lost. It would be Willow that had the wits to remember the way back.

I hope she finds a good companion soon. Willow – a tall Human from Hickory Hollow, deep in the great southern forest – had been struggling with her Beast Tamer class. Nearly half her initial skills required her to form a bond with a companion beast, but she hadn’t found anything suitable yet. Maybe we can find something down here? But that would mean facing monsters. She shivered, then forced out a giggle. Monster slug? Sure, Willow, just what you always wanted.

She let Braden and Willow take the lead, keeping up the rear with Basil.

Healers at the back, she reminded herself, taking her place. At least, the Guildmaster had been more than thorough about drilling them on the basics of adventuring. She followed along in silence, choking back an urge to gag as the fetid odor of the sewer channel assaulted her nose. She glanced back to check on Basil, but he didn’t seem to be much of a conversationalist – certainly not like Willow and Braden. He followed along in silence, his eyes searching the surroundings constantly.

He's certainly putting on a brave face, she decided. He didn’t even have a class yet, and she had heard the rumor that he had faced a Goblin attack inside the town and got lucky enough to be saved by a patrol.

They had walked for quite a while before Teagan suddenly noticed something different. The tunnel was still dark, but she felt the crisp springiness of a mossy carpet under her bare feet, rather than the slimy, damp brick.

“The ground feels different here,” she announced, and everyone stopped to look.

Basil bent down to examine the mossy carpet while Willow held some light for him. “Verdant Moss,” he said, a pronouncement of surprising confidence from the previously quiet boy. “Somewhat unusual, but I don’t know of any important uses for it.”

He got up, and they continued, rounding the bend in the tunnel, and Teagan stopped and gasped. The sewer tunnel ahead of them was just like any other, dark, and filled with a central channel of filthy water. However, the floor was carpeted by a thick layer of moss, and receding into the distance, the tunnel was lit by a breathtaking sprinkling of mushrooms that sparkled and glowed with a soft golden light.

“Wow…” It’s beautiful. Weird, but beautiful.

Braden stepped forward raising his torch, shedding more light down the mystical tunnel. All along the sewage channel, mushrooms sprouted. Several varieties even, not all of them glowing. They all stepped carefully into the tunnel; their footsteps muffled by the soft springy cushion underfoot.

A swirling movement in the middle of the sewer channel caught her eye. With a bubbling, sloshing sound, two shapes flopped out of the muck and onto the moss, blobbing slowly across the carpet, dragging themselves along with protrusions and extensions rapidly extruded from their amorphous bodies, leaving a filthy trail of slime and sewage behind them.

“Slimes!” Willow shouted.

Teagan’s heart left the gate in a shot, racing as fast as she had ever experienced. Monsters! Run? What should I do? But the lessons the Guildmaster had drilled into them sprang into her head to save her from a mindless panic. She remembered to use her skills.

Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 1 x2

“Level one, do we run? Or kill them?” Willow asked, her tone rushed and urgent, clearly having identified the monsters, too.

Teagan’s panic abated, but only a little. They were still facing real monsters.

And we’re only level two.

“We got this,” Braden answered with a catch in his voice that betrayed his nervousness.

“Ok?” Teagan said. Why are they all looking at me?

Apparently, that was all Braden needed.

“Have at you, you foul beasts!” he yelled, brandishing his sword and shield at the monsters and charging forward.

He’s such an idiot sometimes. But Braden’s ridiculous shout had the surprising effect of calming her nerves. Braden had almost reached the two slimes when thick, gnarled plant roots burst from the ground, with the creaking and grinding of tortured wood, and wrapped themselves around his ankles, trapping him in the middle of the sewer tunnel.

The two slimes simply ignored his screams and flailing sword and continued by.

They’re coming for me! Help!

She froze, staring at the approaching monsters in horror, her mind suddenly blank and her legs trembling.

From her right, the twang of a bowstring snapped her out of her frozen panic and a wet thud echoed through the tunnel as Willow’s arrow buried itself up to the fletching in one of the slime monsters. Immediately, it changed direction, angling toward her with the arrow still sticking out of its amorphous body, but Willow executed a spectacular leap to the other side of the sewage channel and nocked another arrow.

All her practice and training at the guild came back to her in a rush. Quickly, Teagan summoned a Free-Action totem and dropped it near the furiously struggling Braden. It pulsed softly, and the roots binding his ankles loosened, releasing him. At the same time, she backed away from the menacing slime, remembering to enchant her shield with her softly glowing green magic.

Even though Braden was an idiot, he was always reliable. As soon as he was free, he charged the slime, smacking it with the flat of his shield. A dull, wet splat echoed through the tunnel. Clearly upset, the slime retaliated by spraying a foul-smelling green liquid into Braden’s face. He screamed in pain, swinging his sword blindly while clutching at his eyes, but still managing, somehow, to connect with the monster.

Teagan put two and two together.

Poison! And she had just the antidote. She cast Cure on Braden and followed immediately by channeling her mana into her Heal skill. The green beam of her healing spell connected her to him and immediately his screaming ceased, and he refocused on the slime, sword swishing through the air.

Teagan had only had her class for a few days, and she could still scarcely believe she had healing magic. The slime continued to strike at Braden with blobby appendages, but he seemed to be on good footing now, blocking the attacks with his shield as he yelled, “Take that, and that, you fiends!” Her heart filled with a burst of warmth and excitement at the sight of her magic banishing his pain.

She glanced over to see if Willow was ok, but she seemed to be leading the other slime on a merry chase around the sewer tunnel. She had a pattern – she leaped across the water to shoot the Toxic Slime with arrows until it crossed over, and then she repeated the leap back to the other side, making it chase after her. Willow had always been a quick learner, and Teagan could see how she was making certain to stay out of range of the toxic spit.

The Toxic Slime in front of her sprayed Braden again, but this time he caught the brunt of it on his shield, getting just a little splash down his chainmail shirt. His sword took on a ruddy glow as he used one of his warrior skills, and it blurred as the overhead strike cleaved the writhing blob in two. Teagan ignored the monster, simply healing Braden again to make sure he was in top shape before he rushed off after the slime that was chasing Willow.

“I have you now!” Braden yelled, his charge, and the solid impact of his shield, causing the blobby creature to explode in a wet spray, covering the mossy ground with a greenish-brown sludge that bubbled and frothed for a while before subsiding.

Willow nodded, “Nice work, Braden.”

In the silence that descended on the sewer, Teagan’s notification chime sounded. She sank to the ground, her legs trembling as the adrenaline rush began to fade. It had been even more terrifying than unlocking her class out in the forest with a group of five. Down here, it was just the three of them in the dark.

“Too bad it’s a slime. No loot,” Braden said, kicking the corpse of the monster. “Sorry about the, uh… near beheading there, Willow. I got carried away.”

“I don’t mind, I got to level three!” Willow answered, a wide smile wreathing her face.

She’s level three already? Jealously, Teagan confirmed the advance with Identify. Oh! I wonder… Her attention flickered inward to find the image of her totems and the notifications that hung glowing in the air among them.

Your group has defeated Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 1 x2.Restoration Shaman has reached level 3.+10 attribute points.Cure has reached level 2.Heal has reached level 3.Summon Totem has reached level 2.

“I’m level three, too!”

All her nervousness and shaking were suddenly worth it. She had leveled up!

A little movement from behind her drew her attention to Basil, who was still cowering behind the corner, and the reason they were down here in the first place.

“I think it’s safe to come out,” she told him, getting a nervous smile as he emerged from his hiding spot. To encourage him, she got up and walked with him to where Braden and Willow were still examining the dead slimes.

“Hey, there’s a dead Goblin here,” Willow called out. “It looks like it’s been half-eaten by the slimes.”

Basil made a gagging noise in his throat and averted his gaze. “Don’t touch it.”

“Does it have any gear?” Braden asked curiously.

“Nothing that’s still intact,” Willow answered, earning a muttered curse from Braden. She grinned at him. “I mean, you’d smell like a Goblin, too.”

“Fresh eau de corpse? Count me out,” he chuckled. “Besides, their stuff is too small for me, I was hoping to find something to sell.”

Teagan wasn’t particularly interested in dead Goblins unless she had to run away or fight them, so she turned back to find Basil on his knees examining the mushrooms.

“Oh wow! These are amazing!” he exclaimed, looking up with a beaming grin. “Three different kinds of mushroom, all magical. Look, this here is a Blackened Deathcap, a death affinity mushroom.”

