She pursed her lips, mulling over the options. A strong tanking buff, or a more versatile utility buff? In the end, it was Rezan’s advice about cultivating her bloodline that tipped the balance in favor of A Touch of Clarity.

She accepted the advancement, and immediately pulsed her Healing Mantra on herself. To her surprise, nothing happened. She glanced at the skill description, but nothing seemed amiss.

Healing Mantra – level 33Mana: The connection between your body and soul is strong. Instantly regenerate mortal wounds and restore health to anyone you touch. Your healing grants your target Clarity for 16.5 [skill / 2] seconds. Range: Touch.Soul, Melee, Healing, Wisdom

She puzzled over the conundrum for a bit, but then she had an idea. Retrieving an Essence of Inferno from her ring, she held it cupped in her palm for a few moments while her skin began to blister and burn. After she was down several health points, she healed herself again.

You have gained Clarity.The path to restoring your energy begins with a calm mind. +235% to mana and stamina regeneration.Buff – Duration: 16.5 seconds.

Sweet, she thought. Her new advancement worked on herself, and with a quick check, she verified that she was effectively doubling the bonus to regeneration she received from her Clarity skill. It was as if she had sat to meditate. But it requires actual healing. Casting the spell on someone at full health doesn’t work. The implication was clear – likely it would be less useful to Ali or Calen because, in a well-controlled fight, they shouldn’t be taking any damage. But for herself and Mato, it would be a completely different story. Although, down in the mines, everyone was taking damage all the time, so it was a moot point.

She stopped studying her skills as she approached Pretty Powerful Potions. This had been the place she had first truly experienced how different her life could be with her class – the day she and Ali had killed her tormenters, Adrik and Edrik, and saved Morwynne Fizzlebang’s life. It was hard to put them into context – at the time they had been unassailably powerful at level twenty-three.

I just reached fifty-three. The difference in her power was not even comparable.

Malika pushed open the door and entered Pretty Powerful Potions and instantly threw up her hands and caught several flying shards of glass as she was welcomed by an explosion instead of the normal door chime.

“Sorry!” Morwynne yelled as she untangled herself from a fallen stool and some unidentifiable apparatus of tubes and valves that had landed on top of the eccentric Gnome. She swore a few times while standing up and brushing herself off, but it sounded casual, like she was doing it more out of habit than anything else.

“Well, I guess that didn’t work…” Morwynne turned to Malika, “How can I help you today?”

Malika answered by pulling out an Essence of Inferno, balancing the intense flame on her hand while she healed herself against the moderate damage it was causing.

You have gained Clarity.

That’s not going to get old, she thought as her regeneration accelerated.

Even through the dark, bronze-rimmed goggles Morwynne was wearing, Malika could see her eyes growing round with surprise. She said one fancy-sounding word in a language Malika didn’t understand. Elvish maybe? Ali had a theory that the Gnome liked swearing in multiple languages, and she even had a rather complex and sophisticated table for what mood matched which language.

Morwynne ran over to examine the essence. “My goodness, there’s a thing!”

“You said you would be interested in any other puzzles like the quenching potion you made,” Malika started, but Morwynne didn’t let her finish.

“Of course, I will make one with this!” Morwynne was literally dancing on tiptoes. “Do you have any of those ice essences left?”

Malika retrieved one and handed both the essences to the pink-haired Gnome. I hope she doesn’t blow this one up.

Morwynne went over to tinker with a small device on a desk. “Do you think you can pop over to the Adventurers Guild and ask Serendipity Puddlecrash to come over for a few minutes while I set things up here? I’ll need her water magic for this.”

“Should I come back later?” Malika asked.

“No need, it will take twenty minutes to make, tops. Last time I needed a day because I had to track down that silly engineer to dismantle the gear. He’s a bit of a recluse, so he was hard to find.” While she babbled on, she pulled beakers and vials off shelves and out of cupboards with a frenzied energy. Malika was rather surprised to see how athletic she was; she quite happily leapt up onto the desk to find an ingredient that was high up on a shelf.

Flickers of strange light shone from her enchanted goggles while she worked, and Malika was surprised to see her even using a few stamina-based skills, the white wisps of energy flickering and shifting in fascinating patterns within her body. Crafter skills were unlike any combat skill she had ever observed with her Soul Sight, and she wondered exactly what it might be. Something protective, she decided, because the loud, soot-covered Gnome was handling the Essence of Inferno without any apparent damage.

Makes sense, she thought, recalling how many times she had seen Morwynne in the heart of an explosion, yet without injury. She left the busy Gnome to her tinkering and ran back to the Adventurers Guild to invite the cheerful, and now very much excited Water Mage to join them.

The door chime sounded this time as she re-entered the Alchemist’s laboratory with the blonde Gnome wearing stylish robes – Lydia’s work, if Malika was guessing correctly.

“Aah, there you are, Seri,” Morwynne said. “Come over here and help me with this, the same as last time, but maybe with a bit more… oomph? Bang? Pop?” Each statement was punctuated with progressively more expansive hand gestures.

Malika certainly hoped it was none of those sounds, they were all way too much like the normal explosions that graced this shop.

Serendipity nodded and ran over to where Morwynne was doing something unreasonably complicated with three different colored beakers, a funnel, and a floating stone that bobbed in the air above whatever contraption she was using. The mage immediately channeled a delicate flow of water from a flask sitting on the side of the desk labeled as ‘Mana-purified water – DO NOT DRINK!’ The two of them began a rapid-fire dialog in some incomprehensible jargon, which Malika barely identified as still Common. She watched fascinated as the two of them conducted an intricate show, combining magic, items, potent essences, and mundane ingredients.

“Don’t freeze it yet,” Morwynne instructed.

“I can…”

“Swirl the other way.”

“Ok, now!” Serendipity gasped.

“Got it.”

“Why don’t you…”

“Use the… thingy! NO! Not that one, the other thingy!”

“Essence…”

These were about the only things Malika understood as time flew by and an incomprehensible work of magic was wrought. Eventually, the two of them combined a self-pouring stream of water with a beaker encrusted with ice crystals and a clay pot that was glowing with heat into a single flask. The entire mixture boiled, froze, and swirled all at the same time while the Gnomes frantically adjusted flow rates and flames, and even turned the levitating stone a few times. Clockwise, because apparently, the other direction would be an unmitigated disaster of epic proportions.

The beaker glowed a deep blue color, lighting the table and all the apparatus and within its center, a brilliant yellow-white flame appeared, stubbornly refusing to go out.

“Yes!” Serendipity exclaimed.

Morwynne said something distinctly less polite but with the same expression of triumph.

“I leveled again,” Serendipity said.

“Me too, kid,” Morwynne answered. “Awesome work!” She turned to Malika again. “Only ten gold this time, I didn’t have to pay that annoying Gnome. Engineers are so frustrating to work with – I swear he’s a changeling, no Gnome could ever be that obnoxious.”

“You just don’t like that guy,” Serendipity said.

“He’s a…” and she finished with about thirty seconds of what sounded like dwarves having a drunken brawl in a bar.

Malika interrupted her with ready payment, and the swearing vanished instantly.

“Here’s yours,” Morwynne said, handing the other Gnome half the coins.

“That’s… too much, Morwynne.”

Morwynne just cocked an eyebrow at her and waggled her finger, before turning back to Malika. “Thanks for your business! This was a fun project, we should definitely do it again!” Then she handed over the concoction the two of them had crafted. Malika took note of how carefully she was handling it.

Distillate of Quenching – level 56 (Ice / Water / Fire)Apply: Quench a source of Inferno. Charges: 20Created by Morwynne Fizzlebang – “Do not shake!”Potion

Excellent! Now we can see what’s behind the second door! Malika surprised herself with a spontaneous giggle. Wait, am I turning into Calen?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
