“So, what do you all want to do?” Ali asked, hovering by the stairs as Mato shoved the heavy Adventurers Guild doors open. A delicious aroma wafted over from the food cart parked beside the guild and Ali waved at Sabri and Brena who were chatting amiably together. But her stomach tied itself into a knot when she caught sight of what they were served – roasted black and green sticks that looked suspiciously like Tunnel Weaver legs. The obvious relish with which they tucked in, and the gruesome crunching noises didn’t help settle her stomach in the slightest.

“I’m going to leave you here,” Malika said. “I want to go talk to Morwynne about these essences and see if she can craft us a new potion to unlock the Rune of Inferno.”

“Ok,” Ali said, grateful for the distraction.

“Me too,” Mato added. “I have a batch of fire flowers for Eliyen and Basil, and then I want to visit Thuli for some maintenance on my armor.”

“Don’t forget to get the job for those flowers from the board,” Calen reminded him.

“Got it already,” Mato said, waving a big hand. “See you later!”

Ali waved as Mato and Malika headed off and headed indoors with Calen, a little bummed that all her friends had things to do, and hers would require waiting. At least it was important work – they needed a steady supply of elixirs to ward off the ridiculous fire damage.

“Ok, see you in an hour,” Calen said and darted off toward the stairs and the raid strategy class he was scheduled to run.

“Bye,” Ali said, making her way over to the reception desk. She probably wouldn’t have even left the library, but for the fact that the Guildmaster had asked her to stop by and discuss details for another, smaller group she wanted to send to the shrine.

“Is Vivian available?” Ali asked.

“She’s waiting for you in her office,” Mieriel said, glancing up from her work momentarily.

She seems preoccupied. I wonder what’s going on?

“Thanks,” Ali said and headed off to her meeting.

***

Ali plopped herself down on a couch in the guild hall. It was getting much more crowded now, just as Vivian had observed, with many new faces. It really is growing. To her surprise, Vivian had credited Malika with much of the guild’s new success in recruiting – and her own performance at the Town Council meeting, and as she surveyed the gathered novices and recruits, Ali could see what the Guildmaster had meant. It wasn’t all of them, but many of the newest members were obviously from the poorer parts of town, just gauging from their appearances and the lack of new clothing.

Even among the adventurers with classes, the armor and weapons seemed scuffed and worn, hand-me-downs from those who had outgrown them, or items that had been bought and resold through the guild store several times. Well used.

Her meeting with the Guildmaster had gone smoothly – it hadn’t taken too long, and now Ali found herself with nothing to do until her friends returned. There was nothing of particular interest on the jobs board – or at least, nothing she hadn’t already seen several times.

Havok seemed to be enjoying a drink with his teammates and gave her a toothy grin. Ali waved, but she didn’t feel like intruding. I wonder where Seth is. She had been hoping to check in with him, but she hadn’t seen him yet. Perhaps he was doing a solo job somewhere, he had mentioned liking to do that.

Ali’s eyes dropped to the coffee table; her gaze caught by the sight of something she had not expected – a book. Curious, she reached over and picked it up, quirking an eyebrow at the roughly penned title ‘Dungeon Manual’.

She flipped it open to the first page and was greeted by an extended Identify, painstakingly copied down in the neat, compact handwriting of someone with a writing or calligraphy skill. Following the identification details was what seemed to be a detailed strategy guide.

Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 5Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: GroupMonster Type: OozeDamage: Physical, PoisonRespawn: 4 hours. First Kill: Belmar’s Team.The Toxic Slime boss is exceptionally difficult to avoid, even for those with good stealth skills, and substantially tougher than all the regular slimes in the sewer. Recommend tanking it between the wall and the water channel, giving enough room for the whole group to set up behind the boss. The tank should have anti-venom or antidote potions unless the team has a cure poison spell. At least one full-time healer is recommended because the boss will occasionally strike randomly and hit the melee damage classes. Loot: There are several decent low-level daggers, swords, and some arrows strewn around the chamber which all respawn with the boss.

Ali’s eyebrows arched in surprise. That’s my Toxic Slime boss! She flipped the page, only to find another, even more detailed description of her Tunnel Weaver boss. There were a few things that were not quite accurate, but the description seemed to be quite well written. The first kill credit was attributed to Brena’s team.

The Kobold Warrior boss was next, listed as a raid boss, with two pages of detailed strategy written out. Aiden and Teagan’s group were listed together as having achieved the first kill.

I didn’t realize they were so competitive.

Ali turned the page, discovering that her Forest Guardian was listed next. There were a few ideas for strategy listed, but they were presented more as ideas or observations than a coherent strategy. First kill credit was given to ‘Rezan’s Disciples.’

Whoever wrote this manual must not have had enough experience to formulate a plan. Perhaps they had not even seen the fight – the information had the feel of a collection of hearsay observations.

Ali turned the page, and her breath caught in her throat.

??? – Eldritch Tome – level ?Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: Unknown.Monster Type: Eldritch TomeDamage: Unknown.Respawn: Unknown.Nothing is currently known about this boss, other than it appears to be a book. It was observed driving an assassin into the Forest Guardian boss before vanishing. Identify appears to be glitched on this monster, showing an unidentifiable single mark. Assumed very dangerous. Do not engage.

Clarence?

Some of the guild adventurers must have seen Clarence at some point. It was the only explanation that made sense – but what had he been doing there? And why the mention of the assassin? She recalled a kill notification from her Forest Guardian related to some assassin, but she hadn’t known Clarence had been the instigator.

They think he’s a boss. Ali chuckled to herself. It made some sort of sense though, not even she could identify the Eldritch Tome’s level. It feels so odd to have a manual written about me.

The rest of the dungeon manual had several incomplete but relatively detailed maps of the Forest Cavern and the sewer, depicting the locations of the bosses along with discussions about how to handle Ali’s other monsters and which mushrooms and plants were worth harvesting.

She put the book back on the table and let the babble in the room wash over her. Then, on a whim, she summoned her Grimoire and copied the dungeon manual, storing it in her ring to give to Ryn later. It might be fun to have the manual in her library.

“Hi Ali, what’s that?” Calen said, approaching and sitting beside her, his eyes shifting curiously to the book.

“It’s a dungeon manual,” she answered, amused by his expression of surprise as he opened the manual and saw what was inside.

“This is your dungeon?” he asked, frowning at the map of the sewer, while tilting the book sideways.

“Yup.” Her dungeon was important enough, at least to a few people, that they had compiled a strategy guide for fighting it. It gave her an odd feeling of accomplishment. She would definitely have to resist the urge to meddle with the layout and monsters just to irk the writers of such manuals, she reflected. Mischief definitely called to her…

At least for the training areas, she amended. Keeping her most important protectors unpredictable seemed like a smart strategy.

“Ali, Mato and I are going to help the bronze adventurers do some scouting,” he said, replacing the book. “They caught sight of one of the Blighted Patchwork Horrors near the southern road and it’s blocking their quest to decontaminate it.”

“Can they kill it?” she asked, surprised that Calen and Mato would offer to join in.

“No, they’re all around sixteen and seventeen at this point, and the abomination spreading the blight is probably close to forty, it’s a bit too much even for a group,” Calen said.

“Do you want me to get Malika, and we all go?” Ali asked. While she recalled tackling some bosses at a severe level disadvantage, she knew even they had never attempted something that extreme. And, according to what Seth had said, those horrors had a deadly miasma.

“If you want to, but I don’t think it will be necessary for all of us to do it,” Calen answered, and then he glanced back at the dungeon manual before continuing. “Both Teagan and Aiden brought up a bit of a problem during our strategy discussion meeting today. They’re all too low-level to clear the abominations, but not many of the other zombies in the forest are high enough level to give them decent experience. Killing the wolves in your dungeon has slowed a lot for them too. They didn’t outright ask – but I was thinking – do you have enough mana to make a few higher-level challenges for them while we’re out? If they could level to about twenty-five, they can probably tackle everything in the blighted forest on their own.”

“Yes, I think so,” Ali answered, running through her menagerie of monsters mentally. She had just reached level fifty-nine, and they had been leveling really quickly down in the mines, but their progress was on the back of several substantial jumps that came from having a dungeon with bosses that were higher level than she was – and, most importantly, beatable with hard work, lots of crafter support, and planning.

Boosting two groups of guild adventurers above the level twenty threshold would be an incredible boon for the town – even beyond the urgent quest to open the southern road and cleanse the blight and undead from the forest. Vivian had complained that many more difficult jobs had been cropping up recently, but Ali and her friends simply didn’t have the time to take most of them.

I think I can afford to give them something to work on. And, as usual, it would serve double duty, defending her domain from incursions by random monsters, and even assassins. She had the perception enhancement, and several rather exciting ideas already.

I really need to go monster hunting soon, she thought. She had some great domain skills now, but she lacked higher level monsters, bigger monsters, flying monsters, and monsters with interesting affinities or useful skills to bolster to her repertoire. How do regular dungeons deal with this? If she were the type to just hunker down and wait for them to come to her, she would be limited to zombies, skeletons, kobolds, and perhaps a Toxic Slime.

***

“Come on, Clarence,” she said, trying to cajole the book to let her open it. It was being difficult again, bouncing around the table – playful, but not particularly cooperative. “I want to read the section on mana efficiency before I go create a boss.”

At that the book finally stopped bouncing around and turned toward her for a moment, with what Ali could swear was a curious glance. It’s a book, it doesn’t even have eyes! Then it scooted up to where she had been trying to drag it and popped open to the exact chapter. A broad red silk bookmark stitched into its spine popped out and laid itself down the gutter margins between the two open pages.

“Why, thank you for the fancy welcome,” Ali said, a little exasperated with the book, but she couldn’t very well ignore that it had finally understood her and would presumably allow her to read. She glanced about, but nobody was around to see her arguing with a book, so she settled in and slipped into her study trance, beginning to read the dense and heavily technical text.

The lights and the ambient space of the library slowly crept back into her awareness as she surfaced from the depths of her studies. She massaged her temples and the back of her neck, a futile attempt to ease the headache she had earned from her efforts to understand her mother’s work. Her left wing prickled with pins and needles – somehow having gotten squished up between her and the chair back while she studied. Nearly all her free mana had been gobbled up by Sage of Learning, and even with the bonus from being in the library, she still felt she was barely scratching the surface of what was written in this chapter. But it had given her a few ideas and she was eager to try them out.

“Would you like some tea, Aliandra?” Lira said, manifesting her body from within the thick branch of the library tree.

“No thanks,” Ali said. “I’m going to go out and try to make another boss.”

“Ok dear, have fun,” she said.

Ali scooped up Clarence and hopped onto her barrier and began to fly up and out of the library, but the unruly book writhed and wriggled in her grasp until it slipped out of her hands and fell. But it didn’t fall very far, and immediately banked around and flew circles around her as she levitated upward and into Lira’s Forest.

“Ok, I guess you don’t want to be carried,” she said, but the book dutifully followed along as she made her way through into the forest cavern, flying over the Grove with the patrolling Forest Guardian, and across the glowing blue lake until she finally reached the ravine that she had fashioned to funnel any zombies entering from outside. Littered about were several zombie corpses, a few broken bamboo crawlers, and a couple of wolf corpses that her trash collector Kobolds hadn’t cleaned up yet. It seemed like this area was a constant battleground of zombie and skeleton incursions, and she had an idea to solve several problems with one new boss.

First up, she summoned a level twenty-six Timber Wolf, studying the mana flow used to create it while trying to apply some of what she had learned from her mother’s book. She wasn’t quite sure if she succeeded at improving her mana efficiency at all, but the Timber Wolf appeared – taller at the shoulder than she was, with a shaggy black coat and gleaming intelligence in its green eyes.

Domain Respawn applied to Timber Wolf.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Timber Wolf.

