The Timber Wolf filled with a rush of mana, growing substantially in size and physical power with just the infusion from her domain. She planned to create a sentinel that could defend against most of the incursions that entered via this path and provide a barrier against assassins and stealth. At the same time, it should serve as an early warning system and be a reasonable challenge for the guild adventurers. Timber Wolves had great tracking, a potent sense of smell, and pretty good eyesight, so they would be able to easily find their prey. All she had to do was give it a bit of a boost.

Attribute Enhancement (Perception) applied.

For her second Domain Magic, she decided that a pack monster would best be suited by having several like-minded minions.

Select or create minions: 104 levels remaining.

She opened her Grimoire and created a pack of wolves for her newest boss, again studying the magic continuously and trying to make it more and more efficient by following some of the theories she had just studied, struggling a little to translate from the abstract into practical application. This time, she was certain that a couple of her summons cost a few points less than she had expected – at least the initial cost.

Timber Wolf – Wolf – level 17-25 x5

Minions assigned.

The magic formations swirled and built as she completed each step. Each time she updated and adjusted the formations, excited to be making even a little progress applying the principles from the book. She felt like she was doing something, but whether it would have a worthwhile effect on her mana usage remained to be seen. Even just a little mana saved is something.

For her final Domain Magic, her boss needed to provide a substantial challenge for the bronze-ranked adventurers – if they were to grow, at least. And she had just the thing for that.

Clone applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +714.

She frowned at the reservation notification – it was exactly the predicted value, and it seemed that none of her tweaks and adjustments had had any noticeable effect on the reserved cost. I guess there’s much more I need to learn. She could afford it now that she had leveled up, but it would put her back in the same place as before – struggling for mana all the time.

But she’s beautiful, she thought, looking at her powerful new boss, presiding over her pack. The Timber Wolf sat down on her haunches and howled, and the mana of her domain answered, surging through the monster like a torrent. Ali instantly recognized the ability from the formation, even though it was her domain this time and not the fire mana of the Emberforge Mines. There was a giant flash, and a second Timber Wolf appeared, followed immediately by an entire pack of its minions.

She cloned herself, and her minions! Phew! While Ali certainly recognized the formations of magic from the battle against the cloned Living Flames, she had never actually seen the spell in action, and it was another thing altogether. There was a vast gathering of mana in forms recognizable as related to her own Grimoire’s summoning magic. She had not exactly been certain about the minions, but it seemed her cloned boss cloned all its attributes, including the wolf pack she had created for it. Clarence darted out of the way, swooping above the pack she was suddenly surrounded by a crowd of ten powerful Timber Wolves.

But then the cloned Timber Wolf sat and howled, and the domain reacted a second time, surging with the vast summoning magic. Ali stepped back, and suddenly there were three bosses and fifteen lesser Timber Wolf minions.

Oh wow! While she had expected the raid version of the spell to make three copies instead of only the two – it was in the description of her Clone domain magic after all – seeing it in action was quite breathtaking.

Hmm, this might be a little hard, she thought, studying her new creation with a frown creasing her brow. It was becoming a habit for her – making bosses that seemed too strong and required her to run off to warn the guild before someone got seriously hurt. I wish I had the mana for a lower-level one, she thought. A bit of a ramp-up might be smoother.

It was a tough trade-off to make, but the wolves would certainly present a much more reliable defense of the lower entrance into the dungeon. She spent a while clearing out the area, forming a broad open depression in the rock wall for the wolves to use as a den, and then boosted the static defenses around the dungeon entrance by laying several powerful Arcane Blast runic circles, careful to keep the level of the traps approximately the same as the boss itself – strong enough to be effective against the intruding zombies, but not high enough to instant-kill a bronze-ranked adventurer. Unless they are idiots with their attributes. It was a delicate balancing act that she was certain most dungeons did not even put any thought into, and yet she felt the powerful satisfaction at the thought that she had found a way to use her feared class to help her friends at the guild grow stronger. Once they conquered this boss, and added a new first to the dungeon manual, they should be strong enough to manage the undead abominations without help.

“Needs a little… more, don’t you think?” Ali asked. Clarence bobbed up and down and swooped around a few times in response. “Some trees. Obviously.” Wielding her Grimoire like a weapon of mass summoning, she grew a grove of apple trees. Nearby she planted another, this time cherry trees, mostly because she loved the pretty blossoms, but they would serve as excellent cover for the wolves during a fight. She filled the back of the den, hidden among the rocks, with an assortment of Brown Stonecap mushrooms, and out among the trees she grew several patches of Mystic Bluebells, enjoying the act of beautifying the area with the pretty blue flowers – they shimmered creating quite an eye-catching effect, nestled among the trees.

I hope Basil likes this. Humming a happy tune to herself, she wove in several patches of Malika’s Peacebloom flowers, adding a simple white accent to the blue. And then finally, she created a small sliver of nature affinity magicite and put it in the den. At about the size of her pinky finger, it would likely be enough for two or three wands if sold to the Novaspark Academy artisans. It was a matter of a few seconds to imbue everything with her automatic respawn enchantment. That should be more than enough incentive, she decided. Just the magicite should encourage the adventurers to try their skills against the boss, but there were plenty of things for the herbalists to collect after defeating the wolves.

She had no idea how they were going to fight so many wolves with their racial benefits to pack tactics, but she trusted the bronze-ranked adventurers were experienced enough now that they wouldn’t attempt it without a solid plan or at least an escape route. My Kobold boss should have ensured that.

I wonder what they’ll write in their manual, she thought when her notification suddenly chimed. Oh, what’s this?

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 32.Domain Mastery has reached level 25 (+2).Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Clarence.Domain Mastery has reached at least level 25.Intelligence has reached at least 250.Synergy: Arcane Recall has reached at least level 10.Has made at least five bosses.Has made at least three raid bosses.Has reached 80% mana reserved for minions. Has studied advanced theory of magical efficiency.Has learned at least 10 Domain Magic spells.Has more than 100 minions supported by the Domain.Domain Mastery gains Mana Efficiency.(The mana reserved for domain-enhanced monsters is reduced by 3% per skill level.)Domain Mastery – level 25You can manipulate the structure and mana of your domain. All your magic within your domain is empowered by the domain itself. The mana reserved for domain-enhanced monsters is reduced by 53.3% [3% reduction per skill level].Mana: Adjust the shape and composition of any non-living material that is part of your domain. Range: Domain.Mana: Permanently attach anything you have made to your domain. Its mana signature is imprinted onto the domain allowing it to be automatically respawned when killed or destroyed. Domain-attached minions may not leave the area of attachment and may be further enhanced with Domain Magic. Range: Touch.Enhancements: Domain, Boss, Raid.Nature, Arcane, Mastery, Domain, Intelligence Accept this advancement?

Ali did not hesitate, immediately accepting the advancement. Not only was it her first mentor-influenced skill advancement, but she had studied specifically for something – anything – like this to relieve the pressure on the vast mana reservation cost to defend her domain. Although she hadn’t expected it to be quite so impressive. The instant she accepted the advancement, she felt the enormous amount of mana she had reserved to maintain her dungeon defenses halve. While it did not affect her Empowered Summoner reservation, nor the personal guard and the army she had created for exploring the Emberforge Mines, every single monster that had been domain enhanced with domain respawn suddenly received a drastic cost reduction – and the biggest among them were her bosses.

Maybe I can afford a few more! Yay!

Suddenly, the odd – make that downright suspicious – convenience of the advancement struck her afresh and she glanced accusingly at Clarence. The book bobbed innocently along, apparently examining one of Malika’s favorite peacebloom flowers.

“Oh, is that so?” she whispered.

Just how intelligent was Clarence? And what other secrets might her mom have hidden within those pages?

Malika was about to bypass the food cart right outside the Adventurers Guild, after all, she had seen the spider legs Tabitha had been serving, but the delicious smell of roasting boar meat made her stomach growl.

“Boar?” she asked.

“Aye, it is,” the old woman said. “With some new spices that Mato bought in the market. Nice boy, that one.”

“This isn’t the chef’s special, is it?” Malika asked, eyeing the sizzling skewers skeptically.

“Nope,” Tabitha answered, with a wicked grin. “You’re safe, this time!”

Malika didn’t bother haggling and handed over a few coins in exchange for two skewers. Not quite trusting the old crone, she sniffed at it and then bit tentatively. She let out a quiet moan as the exquisite blend of aromatic spices and succulent meat juice burst across her taste buds.

“Good, right?”

“Oh, yes! Thank you!” Malika dropped a few extra copper pieces into the tip jar and headed across the way to Morwynne’s Pretty Powerful Potions store, devouring her breakfast before she got even halfway there.

She had decided to hold on to all of the Essences of Inferno for now, but she had unloaded most of the other essences to Weldin, almost causing a riot among the crafters lined up and waiting at the guild store. Malika was half convinced some of them were camping in the guild hall just waiting for her to show up.

Apart from the terror of the Elemental Storm, Malika had rather enjoyed the fight against the giant elemental Inferno. But anything that did fire damage had suddenly become something of a sweet spot for her, due to her now-ridiculous magical defenses. If she couldn’t outright dodge the damage, her Soul Armor, hairpin, and the elixirs would cut it in half. So nice.

It didn’t hurt that she had been rewarded well for the difficult fight. Ali’s class level had pulled ahead during her convalescence in Kezda, and Malika was happy for her. But she never wanted to feel like she was holding the team back, and so she had been excited to see that her contribution to the fight – presumably because she was lower-level – had been worth five levels rather than the four Ali had earned.

Soul Monk has reached level 53 (+5).+50 attribute points.

Hmm… Fifty points could make a huge difference the next time they attempted the mines. With her advancement to Soul Armor, wisdom now served as a direct way to boost her resistances, so she started by allocating ten points there. She followed that with ten points in endurance, and sixteen for dexterity. With her primary attributes taken care of, she added six into vitality – essential now that she was tanking more. Five points went to perception to enhance her Soul Sight. The Nine Paths of Ahn Khen had confirmed Rezan’s advice, so she spent her remaining three points boosting her strength attribute. Yes. That should do it. She read on.

Martial Artist has reached level 27.Soul Strike has reached level 33 (+4).Healing Mantra has reached level 33.Perfect Body has reached level 20.Soul Armor has reached level 26.Second Wind has reached level 16 (+2).Clarity has reached level 13.Soul Sight has reached level 12 (+2).

She had almost exclusively used Soul Strike’s mana drain ability, and it had clearly had such an impact on the fight that it had leveled four times. But then she took in the next line and her heart skipped a little faster. Yes!

Requirements met for skill advancement. Inheritor of an awakened Ahn Khen bloodline.Mentor: Rezan Jin.Healing Mantra has surpassed level 30.Synergy: Clarity has surpassed level 10.Heal your allies through a fight lasting more than 30 minutes. Healing Mantra gains A Touch of Clarity.(Your healing grants your target Clarity for [skill / 2] seconds.)Mentor: Rezan Jin.Healing Mantra has surpassed level 30.Synergy: Enlightened Evasion has surpassed level 20.Heal your allies through a fight lasting more than 30 minutes. Healing Mantra gains A Breath of Enlightenment.(Your healing grants your target Enlightened Evasion for [skill / 3] seconds.)Choose one advancement.

Wow, not bad! She studied her advancements carefully. Her options seemed similar – an enhancement to Healing Mantra that would grant a temporary buff to the recipient. The second option – A Breath of Enlightenment – seemed clearly superior, at least for combat. A little more than ten seconds of enhanced evasion would be quite a nice boon – especially for a tank, giving them much-needed breathing space.

But… Clarity has a bloodline synergy. Rezan had explained a lot of things about developing her bloodline while she studied alongside Basir and Hala; among the many approaches, choosing bloodline synergies whenever offered was considered to be a highly effective way to develop the overall bloodline’s power, and something she couldn’t afford to ignore. It’ll be nice for Mato, she thought. He often runs out of mana when he tanks during long fights. Not as good as the dodge bonus, but it would help him maintain his healing spell. Clarity did have the additional benefit of being useful for non-tanks, so it had wider utility.

