Those that weren’t amused or merely indifferent were angry at Ryoka, who had caused this entire mess. Or angry at her for reasons beyond even that.
“There that…harlot is.”
A seething voice. Someone stormed forwards, ahead of Dame Chorisa. The Thirsting Veil [Knight] saw Ryoka right ahead of her and knew it behooved her to get close before Ryoka pulled some stunt and fled. But one did not push past the woman and her bodyguard ahead of her.
Queen Oiena of Ailendamus had heard about this morning. She did not stride at Ryoka, but she wanted to see the Courier. One did not acknowledge one’s foes because that gave them strength. But Oiena did make a point of observing…people…who might soon regret whatever they had done.
In this case, steering her children towards acting like tavern [Performers], slighting the royal presence, involving Ailendamus in a war with one of the Five Families, and attempted seduction of His Majesty.
Any one of these reasons would be enough for Oiena to consider taking matters into her own hands, since Itorin could not do anything and he could not do everything she could. But that last bit, compounded with what she had heard of this Courier—
It still hadn’t worried her when she’d heard of Itorin laughing or shaking her hand; so he’d taken to her. So what? She had not had reason to be paranoid, not since they were newly-wed, so she was confident.
…Right until she heard Itorin had made plans for a private dinner with absolutely no observers, even bodyguards, the next night. That…that was not normal.
Rhisveri’s guest or not, the [Queen] halted, watching the Wind Runner in this new debacle she had caused. Her eyes narrowed with instant dislike and she focused on Ryoka Griffin.
“Courier Griffin. I apologize for the chase. Allow me to make it up to you.”
Visophecin called out to the amusement of the hour. Queen Oiena stared at him, puzzled. He had never been one to participate in many games, only a few courtly diversions, and usually only with a specific bent. She looked at Ryoka, glaring…
Then looked twice. Ryoka Griffin was webbed in stasis spells, even light bindings, and she still had a smudge of ink on her cheek. She looked harried, and Oiena turned.
“What did you say she has been doing?”
“Running all over the palace, Your Majesty. Apparently the Viscount keeps popping up. Half the court is taken with the game. They were tossing lassos around her before they caught her.”
“Las…what?”
“Loops of cloth, Your Majesty. It’s been a game of catch-as-catch-can all morning and into the evening.”
Queen Oiena blinked.
“I have never known the Viscount to play a…a game?”
Her voice sounded doubtful. She turned, and her eyes fell on Dame Chorisa, who flinched.
“You were assigned to guard the Wind Runner. Is this true?”
Chorisa knelt.
“Your Majesty, I regret to say we failed to catch Ryoka Griffin. I am ashamed—”
“Yes, yes. But is it true?”
Chorisa exchanged a quick glance with the others. She hesitated, then nodded.
“The Wind Runner has been fleeing the Viscount all day. I have never heard why, but she has had little success. He…I believe it is a game?”
“A game.”
Queen Oiena gave Chorisa a sharp look. The [Knight] nodded slowly.
“So they say. I—did find the Wind Runner in her rooms. Briefly. She attempted to rest.”
“And why does that matter…?”
“The Viscount was apparently standing in the closet.”
Two of the [Queen]’s bodyguards snorted despite themselves. However, Queen Oiena gave the [Knight] a sharp look.
“Truly?”
“Upon my honor and Order, Your Majesty.”
Oiena’s head swung around. She saw the Viscount approaching, a flower in his hand. Some dark rose, from Noelictus by the shade. He was teasingly aiming to put it in her hair. He looked far more amused than Oiena had ever seen him.
It did matter on how you saw it. Like the Viscount, a grand game with the greatest of quarries. Or maybe as Visophecin, who revelled in the same thing Oiena saw.
Which was Ryoka’s expression, even frozen. She looked…afraid. Exhausted and helpless. Bound up like…
The [Queen] of Ailendamus had a moment of justifiable pique. Then…
“Gura-drat the man!”
She swore like a native of Taimaguros as she stalked forwards.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin stared up at the flower stem, as Viscount Visophecin delicately went to place it in her hair. She was almost about to cry.
This was…the Viscount was watching her, that unholy amusement in his eyes. Expectation, almost, that she was going to do something. But what? Blow him sky-high in front of Ailendamus’ courts, who thought this was a game?
Ryoka felt a bit of nausea rise. Viscount Visophecin bent down, smiling.
“I suppose that marks my victory, Ryoka Griffin. Perhaps now we can disc—”
“Viscount Visophecin!”
He turned, blinking. Even Ryoka didn’t see Queen Oiena coming until she strode over and slapped the Devil in his face with a glove.
Visophecin recoiled like a striking snake…that had been slapped in the face by a glove. He blinked, and his expression turned from pure enjoyment into outrage—
Until Queen Oiena shoved a finger into his face. Her bodyguard watched, half-resigned, half-appalled, mostly approving. Ryoka just gaped.
She had no background for this, but Queen Oiena was from Taimaguros. She had opinions about proper attire, proper conduct, and she had all the hallmarks of her homeland despite having left.
“I would have expected this from any rogue but you, Viscount Visophecin. Have you lost your gura-loving senses? This kind of behavior does not stand in Ailendamus. Guest of the state or not—who is restraining this young woman? Release her at once.”
The binding spells evaporated on Ryoka as the [Court Mages] suddenly found the [Queen] was here, the [Queen] was angry, and the [Queen] had a glove raised like a morningstar. Of course, her bodyguards had actual weapons they were only too happy to hit you with.
“Your Majesty, I beg your—”
“You beg my pardon, and this Courier’s, and you will all begone before I remember your faces.”
The [Mages] scattered. Queen Oiena turned like the wrath of Queen Oiena, and Ryoka saw her glance down. She did not look exactly friendly, but she saw Ryoka.
Ink smudged on the cheek, exhausted from running all day from someone who would not relent—she did see exactly what Ryoka was feeling. She glared at the [Mages] running for it—who were all male.
Fithea didn’t get it. She was a Dryad, and in this context, an old Dwarf woman. The other immortals? Well, Gilaw didn’t, or Menorkel. But Queen Oiena did.
She was brandishing her glove and Visophecin was staring at her, quite taken aback, when someone strode over.
“What is going on here?”
And here came the last player on any scene in Ailendamus. Duke Rhisveri walked forwards, scowling. He glared at Visophecin.
“You’re late. Oh, Your Majesty. Hello.”
He barely bothered to sketch a bow to Oiena. The [Queen] turned on Rhisveri.
“Duke Rhisveri. I have just found Viscount Visophecin behaving in the most unmannerly way possible. I hope you will take him to task as much as I.”
“What? Visophecin? Doing anything unmannerly? What’s going on—it’s you again. Why is it always you?”
Rhisveri saw Ryoka and pointed an accusatory finger at her. But for once, his wrath stopped as Oiena made to slap his hand with her glove. Rhisveri stared at her.
“What has gotten into you?”
“Me? Would you but listen to what Visophecin has done?”
The Viscount was listening, puzzlement turning to…he looked at Ryoka’s face, at Oiena, and blinked rapidly as if coming to…but Rhisveri was listening, and Fithea and the other immortals drew forwards while everyone else was ushered back.
It was not hard for Visophecin to give a somewhat embarrassed tale of his pursuit of Ryoka. However, halfway through he grew noticeably more hesitant.
“…I did pursue her in a lighthearted manner, Your Majesty, Duke. Which…coincided with attempts to surround Courier Griffin with pranks of my choosing.”
“He was in her closet. Appeared around corners! No matter where she went!”
The [Queen] was incandescent. Viscount Visophecin looked at her, then at Ryoka, and closed his eyes for a moment, tilting his head back. Rhisveri just blinked his eyes at Oiena, Ryoka, and Visophecin. Then he grinned.
“You did that? That’s hilarious. I don’t see the problem. I would have joined in if I—would you stop that?”
He leaned back from the wrath of gloves. Queen Oiena had two scarlet spots in her cheeks.
“It may be amusing to you, Duke Rhisveri, but His Majesty will not find it so amusing to have women pursued in such a manner! Or would you care to have your mother, your daughter, your niece followed about so?”
Rhisveri gave Oiena the blankest of looks.
“I would not particularly care. It sounds like a game. If this Th—Courier Griffin didn’t like it, she should just say so.”
The [Queen] was lost for words. She looked around, made a motion, and her bodyguards closed ranks, shielding them from view. Then she tried to stomp on Rhisveri’s foot with one of her heels.
He dodged, of course, and backed up.
“I do not see—”
“Duke Rhisveri. Her Majesty is, of course, wise. And I begin to realize just how improper I have been.”
Visophecin forestalled him with an arm. Rhisveri glared, but the Viscount abruptly bowed.
“Your Majesty, I beg your sincerest pardon, and to you as well, Courier Griffin. I will make sincere amends, but I believe the most prudent course now is…to remove myself completely. If you will allow me to withdraw?”
“There. At least one of you has sense. You may, Viscount, but I shall expect your finest behavior for the foreseeable future.”
“Absolutely, Your Majesty.”
He bowed, stepping back and tugging along Rhisveri. Ryoka saw him retreat, eyes on her. But his face no longer looked amused. It looked…well.
Guilty?
Queen Oiena was still breathing hard when she turned. Then she and Ryoka were alone, in a rapidly-emptying hallway. No one wanted to risk her wrath, but it seemed that the [Queen] was as unprepared for a face-to-face with Ryoka as the Wind Runner.
Ryoka still felt shaken. A true panic had taken over near the end there. Seeing herself in Visophecin’s arms or him just walking out of the closet when she’d begun to lie down…
The [Queen] understood.
“Thank you, Your Majesty. I, uh…thank you. I’m sorry for—for causing a scene.”
“I do believe, Courier Griffin, that this incident was not your fault. For once.”
The [Queen] stiffly added that last part, and nodded her head.
“You are pardoned, and Viscount Visophecin will make a full formal apology. Such actions…reflect poorly on Ailendamus. A rare incident, given the man has been such an exemplar. Even Rhisveri—well, he is not surprising. But the blindness! The gall!”
She fumed. Then looked at Ryoka.
“I suppose it comes with being a Courier.”
“I…what does, Your Majesty?”
“Pursuit. The way you are so…adventurous. A [Lady] is protected by her class and station, but you must have the worst of it.”
Ryoka didn’t know about that. She made a face.
“That—was unexpected, Your Majesty. I, uh, I should have said something. I just didn’t realize—thank you, again.”
Another stiff incline of the head. Queen Oiena gazed rather unfavorably at Ryoka and the Wind Runner didn’t know why. Until the [Queen] spoke next.
“I hope you will remember this in any future contexts, Courier Griffin. It would not do to be repaid with any trespasses. Of course, His Majesty is entitled to any…decisions on his own, but I trust you will remember who saved you today.”
Ryoka Griffin gave Oiena a blank look. The [Queen] frowned, then elaborated.
“I understand you are set to dine with His Majesty tomorrow.”
“I am?”
The Wind Runner recalled Itorin’s comments. Her eyes widened.
“I am! I didn’t know if…oh.”
“His Majesty has, apparently, cancelled a formal banquet with the ambassador of Noelictus.”
Queen Oiena pointedly tugged on a glove, avoiding looking at Ryoka. The Wind Runner stared at her, put the pieces together in rapid order, and then grinned.
“Oh. Oh. Your Majesty—you have nothing to fear. Believe me.”
Oiena furrowed her brows sharply. Her bodyguards, who were listening with huge ears while standing to perfect attention, saw the glove begin to come off again.
“You sound quite confident, Miss Griffin. I am told my husband found you exceptionally charming.”
“He and I—had a conversation, Your Majesty. I quite liked him. I, uh…”
Oiena twitched. Ryoka held up her hands, and then started to lower them. She gave Oiena a long look. Then just lowered her hands and spoke, a touch exasperatedly.
“I don’t know what you’ve heard, Your Majesty, but if I may be frank?”
“Why hold your tongue now?”
Ryoka ignored the acidic remark.
“I’ve…met with a number of people. But Your Majesty, I hardly go around seducing everyone I meet. Some people are interested in me for—other reasons. Including Viscount Visophecin. I think.”
She wasn’t actually sure about Visophecin. Queen Oiena narrowed her eyes again. Ryoka looked at her.
“I’m sure you know this, Queen Oiena. But…a man and a woman can have a conversation and like each other, without necessarily being attracted romantically or physically.”
Ryoka held her breath. She wasn’t sure if that direct comment was going to work or have her head rolling. Oiena searched her face, eyes roaming like a spotlight. Then, suddenly, she relaxed. She actually chuckled, a note of rueful melancholy in it, and looked at Ryoka with what almost looked like familiarity. Or even sympathy.
“I know that. We know that. But do they?”
Ryoka thought of Tyrion Veltras.
“How I wish. But I swear, Queen Oiena, King Itorin is purely interested in my travels.”
“I see. You know, I actually believe you. I wish I did not. It would be so easy to dislike you.”
Oiena tapped a finger against her other hand thoughtfully.
“Do not sell yourself short either, Courier Griffin. Very well. Very well. You are quite…better than I had expected. Do tell me if the Viscount troubles you. I shall also allow Oesca to keep learning her tumbling. Perhaps you and I shall have dinner as well.”
“Thank you—what?”
Queen Oiena looked around. She shook her head, and strode off, looking rather happier than before. Ryoka Griffin stood there.
She had a strange way of meeting people, but it did work.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri was annoyed by the whole thing. Visophecin had done nothing wrong. The Wind Runner and the Queen both got on his nerves, and he caught no less than His Majesty, Itorin II, as he came away from the war coucil.
