“No? I mean, not at all! How could I? I know one or two. Just in my job as a Courier! It’s not like I know them personally—it’s a coincidence. What are they…? Why is Kr—I don’t know them well. Or some of the rulers at all!”
“Which ones do you know?”
Prince Ivenius was looking at Ryoka with the awe he didn’t accord to Ailendamus’ [Generals] or great [Knights]. Ryoka’s lips moved.
“Well, obviously not him.”
She pointed at Fetohep. Then checked his name. Wait. Hadn’t he sent her a letter…?
Itorin II slowly raised his eyebrows. He had, in his possession, among utility items like his Ring of Appraisal and protective rings, a truth-telling enchantment. Ryoka’s lie hovered over her head.
“You know Fetohep of Khelt. How many others?”
“Not that many…”
Another huge lie. She knew at least half the Arbitration Council members on screen somehow! Five! It came out as Oesca and Ivenius pestered her. The Wind Runner tried to back up and stuttered.
“Do you know Grand Magus Eldavin? What about that Gnoll? That Gnoll? Do you know Drassi?”
“Not really—I uh—n—well, I—”
It was the most amazing display of lies and half-truths flickering over Itorin’s vision he’d ever seen. Jsse was making notes, and handed him a quick list. Oesca looked up and begged for it. Itorin II was feeling better, so he gave his daughter the list. She read it.
“You know Grand Magus Eldavin, Fetohep of Khelt, Krshia Silverfang, Drassi, and the Earl of the Rains!?”
The power of [Scholars]. Well…the power of anyone who could take notes and tell when Ryoka was lying and make a short list.
Ryoka turned pale, red, and then looked in silence at Itorin and his children, who were all staring at her with a mixture of amusement and fascination. She opened her mouth, realized there was nothing she could say that wouldn’t reveal her, and tried to run for it.
Two Thirsting Veil Knights checked her into the ground. Ryoka lay there, staring dazedly up at the sky. Itorin II blinked down at Ryoka Griffin.
It was a quintessential Wind Runner experience. He began to see why Oesca and Ivenius were such big fans of hers.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin was interesting. So interesting that Itorin II lingered outside the room where she was distractedly teaching Oesca how to do a handstand and Ivenius how to do a backflip while watching a replay of Ksmvr of Chandrar’s first documentary. He held court, answering questions, consulting with advisors…
Thinking.
Now Rhisveri’s fascination made more sense. Somehow, this Courier had met people across the world despite being so young. She looked and acted young. She grew flustered, she made mistakes—and he rather empathized with that and found her likeable.
But then she surprised him twice when he asked if she could somehow leverage her connections to get him a place on the Arbitration Council.
“I…don’t know this Feshi.”
“But you do know various members of the Council. If you said something…”
Ryoka Griffin looked at Itorin. Her eyes flickered to the bodyguards, and back at the children; and Oesca, who was trying to figure out how you backflipped in a dress.
“I don’t believe I should talk to…any members of the council, Your Majesty. Or rather, even if I thought I could ask them, I’m not an ally of Ailendamus right now. I am a…guest of Duke Rhisveri.”
Itorin stopped. He had almost forgotten that. The King regarded Ryoka gravely.
“Ah, yes. And House Veltras is involved with that issue. Sammial Veltras…Bodswen, is the young [Lord] around here?”
“In his rooms, Your Majesty.”
“Has he escaped?”
The [Royal Bodyguard] grimaced.
“Three times, I believe. I’ve personally made sure he will not again. He is…troublesome, I understand. He has an aura.”
“Has the Duke made any arrangements around him?”
“No, Your Majesty.”
Itorin II thought. It was just like Rhisveri. He saw Ryoka watching him and smiled.
“Then, summon him here and give him a freer reign of the palace. This…conflict with the Five Families only involves him incidentally.”
Ryoka started. She looked at Itorin. The man gazed at her and wondered how much Rhisveri had told her. Nothing important, surely. Then again…the Wind Runner had once driven him into a rage by juggling some colorful stones for some reason and he’d been told Rhisveri had stormed into the Court of Masks when she wandered in there.
But she didn’t know. That was inconceivable. Itorin II thought that, of the non-immortals, less than fifty people in all of Ailendamus knew, and all of them stood at the height of the kingdom. And of those who knew everything, it was just him.
And yet. Ryoka Griffin looked at him. Itorin hesitated and made an off-hand comment.
“Unless you think my uncle would object? I do stay out of his business unless it affects the realm. He is a touchy soul.”
She hesitated. The Wind Runner looked at Itorin, and spoke, slowly.
“I don’t think he even noticed Sammial. He was only focused on me. He’s…a strange man. Very possessive. Very arrogant. If I may say so, Your Majesty. I’d bet a Dragon would be more friendly.”
Itorin nearly jumped. Bodswen casually glanced over at Ryoka, and then her [King], and seemed to decide badmouthing the Duke was a-okay, especially since Itorin was talking with the Courier. She went back to watching Oesca try to do a handstand as her minders told her she could not because she was wearing a dress.
“Then I do not want a dress! Why can I not wear pants? Ivenius is! So is the Wind Runner!”
Oesca began to pitch a fit, one that Itorin was never going to jump into. Oiena had views on proper attire.
“Your Highness, we’ll spell the dress. Just give us ten minutes…”
The [Princess] glowered. Itorin couldn’t focus on her, though, because he was staring at Ryoka. Had she just implied what he thought she had? No. There was no way Rhisveri would take a thief, a foreign Courier, into his confidence. Unless she’d found out? But arrogant as he was, he’d never accidentally reveal anything and let her live.
Itorin slowly focused on something that was hovering around Ryoka’s wrist. A magical band of jade. A high-class restraining object. And Ryoka was just…staring at him.
Suddenly, Itorin had a thought. He glanced at Ryoka.
“You…I believe this is somewhat intrusive, but may I ask if you lack levels altogether, Miss Griffin? I did notice.”
She jumped. Ryoka opened her mouth, and mindful of his truth spells, replied slowly.
“I—don’t have them.”
“Really. That’s exceptionally rare.”
“Not too rare, surely? There are…people who don’t need levels. I do without, but you don’t need levels to cast magic. I’m sure Your Majesty has seen examples of that?”
Itorin nodded slowly.
“From time to time, one does meet individuals of exceptional ability. I have been privileged to meet the greatest spellcasters and minds in Ailendamus. You have met the Duke Rhisveri, my uncle, who is temperamental, but gifted.”
“Yes. Very gifted. I’ve also met other people in your kingdom, Your Majesty. Only a few, but they were quite striking.”
“Ah. Like…Baron Regalius? A fine man. I heard he had made your acquaintance.”
Ryoka smiled thinly.
“Yes, but he wasn’t who I met. Are you aware of a Fithea, a, um, Gilaw, Sophridel? Menorkel? I met them all. Especially Gilaw. And, uh—a Lady Paterghost and—”
“Nube.”
Itorin breathed. He stared at Ryoka. She knew. There was no way she mentioned all of them at random—not unless Rhisveri was somehow showing her around his association and she had no idea. But her comments. Her own powers and the reason why she wasn’t a pool of steaming acid already?
“They are all outstanding individuals. Ailendamus was founded on such talent and we do not lack for it. You have seen our flag, our heraldry?”
“Oh—the Hydra?”
That was their national animal. Itorin nodded, heart thundering as Bodswen turned and grimaced. A foreign aura assailed Itorin’s own force of will and bounced off, but it was amazing in such a small boy. Ryoka smiled, hearing a familiar loud voice.
“I think it’s quite suitable. The Duke reminds me of a Hydra, actually. Although he only has one head.”
“Indeed.”
Itorin managed. He looked at Ryoka Griffin and put it all together. Of course. How was he so blind?
She knew everyone. She was able to command the wind, but she had no classes and levels. She somehow had Rhisveri’s tolerance despite being a thief…
“You—are you Rhisveri’s guest, or a thief? Perhaps you have relatives in Ailendamus, or this is part of negotiations?”
This time it was Ryoka’s turn to look surprised. Itorin’s stomach lurched. But he did recall individuals joining Ailendamus, or entire groups. His father had told him of the day Viscount Visophecin had appeared…yet the Wind Runner’s eyes widened, and she smiled. She even chuckled.
“Oh—Your Majesty. I think you’ve misunderstood one thing.”
“Ah. And that would be?”
“I’m not—related to Rhisveri or any of the others. I’m just me. Human Ryoka. I don’t have classes because—I didn’t want any. I’ve been very lucky to survive this far. But I’m afraid that doesn’t make me…immortal.”
Truth. It shone clear in his magical eyesight, and Itorin recalled that one of the things about Rhisveri and his lot was that they were all protected from such spells. He looked at Ryoka Griffin. Wind Runner. Thief and friend to so many. Courier, classless.
Mortal.
Instantly, Itorin was taken by a feeling. Ryoka Griffin looked at him warily, a touch uncertainly, as Sammial Veltras tried to make for them and demand Itorin let them both go. Bodswen directed him into the private room. Oesca turned, smiling to Sammial, who brightened up when he saw Prince Ivenius doing handstands.
“You’re learning how to flip? Ryoka was showing me. Can you do a handstand?”
“I’m waiting for my dress to be enchanted so I can. Otherwise I might…”
Princess Oesca hesitated, blushed, and whispered to Sammial.
“Show my undergarments.”
He gave her a blank look, which completely fit his age. He stared at Oesca’s magnificent dress, like a green lily on water, hand-picked by Queen Oiena and gifted to Oesca as a birthday present, fine even by the standards of royalty. Sammial made a rude sound.
“That’s stupid. Girls wear trousers. Look at Ryoka. Dresses are stupid in battle, you know.”
He pointed. Oesca glanced at her nursemaids, who were glaring at Sammy but already catching wind of his aura.
“[Princesses] do not, nor the nobility.”
She sighed. Sammial looked at her like she was stupid.
“Yes they do. Every girl in House Veltras wears trousers when they go hunting. I’ve never seen Lady Buscrei wear a dress. Unless…no. Wait. That wasn’t a dress. That was just a bath towel.”
Oesca listened to House Veltras’ line of practical clothing options. Her head slowly turned to her nursemaids, and they braced themselves for the demand that came in the next second. However, the first chink in the armor of pleated skirts had been found and the war for pants was on.
Itorin II didn’t see it. And it was somewhat unfortunate because when his daughter demanded to be given a pair of pants, he just said, ‘yes, Oesca’, absentmindedly.
He was too busy shaking Ryoka’s hand.
“Truly?”
“I…well, yes. So you know?”
“One could not be in my position and not. Ah—don’t worry. I’ve deployed a small speaking dome.”
Even Bodswen was staring; Itorin II had activated an enchantment that he normally employed when speaking to his [Great Generals] or fellow heads of state, and he was shaking Ryoka’s hand! He almost looked like he wanted to hug the Wind Runner.
“Who do you know?”
“I—uh—Winter Sprites.”
“Winter Sprites? Truly?”
“Do you know them?”
“Of course! They used to stop by—I have no idea what they are, but they would sometimes say or do something to Fithea. They positively loathe Rhisveri, I think; we get so much snow we have to use [Pyromancers] because shovels could not shift enough. Even Cenidau’s diplomats think it’s unreasonably snowy. What are they like?”
“Uh—dangerous.”
Itorin nearly laughed.
“Of course they are. I meant…do they have personality?”
“I—y—”
She hesitated, and the King leaned in.
“It is not for secrets of state. I just wish to know.”
He looked at her, a fellow mortal who knew the great secret of this world. Ryoka Griffin hesitated, wary, but then she looked at him and seemed to come to a decision.
“They’re little sprites. Little people made of ice. All female, but they’re, um, visiting. They’re pranksters and tricksters, but one time they hit me with an avalanche. Twice, actually. Three times—but the last one was to help me.”
“Really. What do they want?”
“That’s so complicated I—so you know what Rhisveri’s up to?”
Itorin’s hesitation was an explanation in itself.
“I—am aware of much of it. But as you might expect, he guards his secrets well. You may think me a…puppet.”
“N…I just wondered…how much you know.”
“He leaves the management of the state to me, except in rare cases. You would be surprised, I think, but it is a beneficial relationship most of the time. I think of it as best for Ailendamus. Your situation—will he try to kill you?”
“I don’t think so. He got Sammial by accident and things have changed. How do you…was it all your life?”
Itorin laughed.
“Not at all. Only when I took the throne. I had hints, from my father, you see, but…no. No one but I knows as much, and—I cannot believe he trusted you with it.”
“He didn’t. It was close. I nearly got, uh…”
“Melted?”
Ryoka blanched.
“He does that?”
Itorin hesitated.
“…Never that I’ve seen, but I have heard stories. You should be wary around him, if that advice is not redundant. In truth, Miss Griffin, I fear you are in dire straits.”
He meant it seriously and saw she took it as such, but to his amazement, she smiled.
“It won’t be the first time. Not that I can tell you all of it, Your Majesty. But believe me—I’ve done this before. I think I can at least survive…but whether or not I’ll get what I want is a different matter.”
He stepped back, a smile of delight crossing his features. Wonder, even.
“You…‘get what you want’? Is that even possible?”
The Wind Runner’s smile had pride and a kind of joy of her own.
“It is. You just have to know how to talk to them. Play their game and don’t. Respect them and push back. Have something they need. They’re still people.”
“They…”
Itorin hesitated. He stroked his beard.
