“The Five Families are content to let House Veltras wage its battles alone, save for the aid we have given them, Your Majesty of Ailendamus. That may change, and I am gratified you have taken this moment to talk with House Terland. Your answer, I hope, will not aggravate this delicate situation.”
King Itorin had, among other things, a personal team who trimmed stray hairs, applied light makeup, checked his physical condition, and so on. They all stopped and withdrew instantly as Itorin lifted a hand and his [Diplomat] paled. King Itorin himself had to sit up slightly.
“That is a bold statement to make, Lady Ulva.”
Her voice lost any pretense of honey. It was not quite a snap, but now the edge was out.
“It is no less than the accusations levelled against Ailendamus. I ask you, on behalf of House Terland and the other Five Families who will hear your reply. Is Sammial Veltras in Ailendamus’ custody?”
That name again. Itorin’s fingers were doing a desperate tap-dance on the table. His [Diplomat] closed her eyes. And once again, it all went back to…
“I do not believe I understand the question, Lady Ulva.”
Itorin replied after a moment of desperate thinking, because truth spells and Skills worked many ways. Unfortunately, what you learned was that Skills and magic were all very well, but an incisive mind was more dangerous still.
“Your reply is my answer, Your Majesty. House Veltras lacked for proof, but we stand together in such matters. Is Sammial Veltras in your care?”
Itorin was silent. And of course—that was an answer. So Ulva Terland went on.
“The Five Families shall stay out of this war, King Itorin, upon one condition.”
Condition and answer. Terlands loved their logic-gated theories and ways of making contracts and alliances. It was an absolute with them, so Itorin listened.
“Is Sammial Veltras alive and unharmed?”
The [Diplomat] had three answers prepared. Itorin II took the one circled, underlined, and marked with exclamation marks.
“Yes. I can personally assure you of that, Ulva Terland.”
“Then, King Itorin, we will abide. You may view this as House Veltras’ war. However, I shall ask again.”
She did not immediately end the call, of course. They exchanged a few more lines, and King Itorin II dropped the speaking stone. Then he uttered a quiet oath and leaned his full weight onto his chin and thumbs. After a second, he opened his eyes and turned.
“Something sumptuous for breakfast. Add a pudding option for dessert. Lemon.”
There were many things he had to do. But the one thing he had control of…was lemon pudding. King Itorin II looked forwards to it as one servant raced off to amend the breakfast already waiting for him. Burning ships, Rhisveri’s damned problems, and no one had invited him to the Arbitration Council and somehow Ailendamus was not finding a way onto it, despite all the pressure they were trying to put on other groups.
It was one of those days. Think of the pudding.
 
——
 
King Itorin II stared at a light, yellow piece of custard, topped with a darker rind. Of course, you couldn’t have just pudding if it was fancy. It had delicate sprinkles of what might be some kind of candy-alchemical treat. Someone had added a perfectly cut flower on top—made of a strawberry.
He carefully flicked the flower off and was sure it would never reappear again. The [King] had a small spoon and removed a piece near the side. He took a bite.
Pudding. What a delicious thing. And someone had injected a bit of bitter along the top. But the sweetness—that was a wondrous thing.
“Is all well, dear?”
Oiena looked at Itorin II. He had been silent this morning after his call, and the [Queen] of Ailendamus knew very well that if he ordered pudding, he was expecting a difficult day.
And it was an interesting thing, because if Itorin II so much as said so, he could have a bath of pudding. He could fill an entire hallway with pudding, and drown his enemies in a vat of the stuff, which was a waste, but very stylistic.
He never did. In fact, Itorin II only ate pudding once in a blue moon, or in times like this. Which mystified anyone who didn’t understand what it meant to be a [King] who could send for armies with a single word.
Oiena understood. Their children—at least, the two sitting at the table, Prince Ivenius and his younger sister, Princess Oesca—did not. Itorin II had been born a [Prince] of the realm and he had learned the lessons they would. Oh—how would he teach them this?
They had lessons in riding, etiquette, swordplay, magic, politics, geography, mathematics, reasoning, history, military strategy, and every subject a ruler might need to know—which was almost anything. But how to explain this?
In the past, Itorin II had not loved pudding. A young man or boy had different tastes. He had trended towards a favorite food, which was Stelbore pork. An odd thing, but it was something about the tough boar’s equally tough meat that he just loved to sink his teeth into. Then, it had been a kind of half-Elven pastry called heidas bread that used very magical, natural ingredients. Amazingly good.
Stelbore pork, heidas bread, glowberries, a kind of fondue with six cheeses, various substances and drinks…any of the above were now never served to Itorin II. He had ruined each one for himself, possibly forever. When you could have your favorite meal every day you wanted, any time you wanted, it quickly stopped being your favorite.
To love something, you couldn’t have it. Hence the rule about eating it. In fact, the knowledge that King Itorin II liked pudding was close to a royal secret. The [Chef] was sworn to silence, in order to prevent people wishing to play to his interests from serving it to excess.
That was how you kept something special…special. King Itorin II suspected his advisors would be following the battle with the remnants of the fleet on land and speculating on how dangerous the Five Families might be if they went on the attack. They’d rightly want him to cede Sammial Veltras to the wrathful Tyrion to prevent his entry into the war, and order the Duke to cease his actions. And he’d have to deal with that because Rhisveri was a Wyrm, not a mere Duke, and no one commanded him.
Things a [King] could and could not do. He was happy, at least, to listen to his children, who had seemed far more energetic of late.
“Father. May we be excused from our morning lessons?”
“Why?”
Oesca hesitated and her mother sighed. Exasperated. Itorin II suspected they’d gone to her first, but Ivenius explained.
“The Wind Runner is showing everyone tricking.”
“Tricking? Tricking people?”
“No—”
“It’s a ridiculous [Tumbler]’s trick and you two will not disgrace yourselves in public.”
“…What about in private? Father, may we summon her to show us?”
King Itorin II stared at his half of a pudding. Careful now. You didn’t want to rush such things. He frowned.
The Wind Runner. That young woman who’d pulled the stunt on the roof and could fly about like a high-level [Mage]. Rhisveri hated her and wouldn’t say why.
“Hmm.”
“Dear!”
Queen Oiena had been Itorin’s wife for a long time, and was as much Ailendamus’ daughter as her home country’s—Taimaguros, another great power and Ailendamus’ strongest ally. She was canny, quite liked not having to manage the realm but only the pocket she chose to occupy herself with—a lot of it politics from home which she could influence with her husband’s blessing—and she did not hesitate to surround herself with what she loved. Although she understood the same lesson Itorin II knew about excess.
However, Oiena was also aware there was something—odd—about Itorin’s uncle, the only high-ranking member of court who was both genius and aggravating and got away with things. Slights, actions that no one else could. She was not blind. The Wind Runner was part of Rhisveri’s schemes and, therefore, she didn’t want her son or daughter fraternizing with the Courier.
Itorin II, reverse-sculpting the pudding piece by piece, completely missed all of that in the look she shot him. He murmured.
“Why not? Is she very entertaining, this Wind Runner? I thought you would have gotten tired of flying. Didn’t we send for a [Mage] capable of casting [Fly]?”
“Yes, Father, but she uses the wind. It’s different!”
“Really?”
“Yes. She knows all kinds of fun things. She can ask the wind to do whatever she wants, and she saved Sammial Veltras’ life. Would you like my pudding, Father?”
Oesca carefully offered him her dish. Of course, the servants hastened to offer as much pudding as Itorin wanted, which was the problem…he waved away the bribes and looked at Oesca. Suddenly, Itorin was worried again.
“Sammial Veltras? What do you mean by that?”
Oesca gave her father a blank look.
“Sammial Veltras? I see him in the palace, Father. He eats luncheon with us. Sometimes.”
“He has an aura. I thought I had to be sixteen before I started my aura training!”
Ivenius was on his second pudding. Itorin II bit his lip.
“—He just walks around the palace?”
“I think he escapes. He says he’s a prisoner. Father, are we keeping him prisoner?”
King Itorin II saw the way Oesca looked at him, with that too-careful look of someone who ‘understood’ when things happened. He looked at Oiena, who frowned, but had probably taught their daughter about ‘acceptable actions’ like that. Taimaguros…did not play nice. Itorin II felt a headache coming on. So he turned.
“Headache tonic. And a second helping of pudding. Make it something bitter.”
Then he amended his plans.
 
——
 
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt stood, her dark hair whipping around her despite the ponytail as the wind blew in a way it should never have: in a circular motion, a miniature tornado, and she stood in the center of it. Her audience watched as she put one bare foot down, callused, but wrapped in a bit of linen, then leapt upwards.
She rotated her body, spinning, and children pointed and shouted in awe. It was a good trick. She performed a complete rotation, then another, defying gravity, before landing in a spinning move that carried one foot around in a circle.
Wind plus athleticism. King Itorin II had seen better. But he understood why the Wind Runner was famous. She was a striking figure and had the power of wind on her side, but he didn’t see why the children loved her, aside from the wind, which was quite good. Her letting them fly about was a lure, but why this?
There were [Acrobats] who could leap twenty feet up or balance on one finger, or do such tricks with objects in the air that you were left breathless—and those were the ones without magic. Illusions could make anything real, and Oesca and Ivenius had seen both. So why the fascination?
“Alright. Who wants to try that? Or just that cartwheel? Not here! A mat, something soft…”
The Wind Runner was a surprisingly anxious person as children surged forwards to show her the results of their practice. Somehow she’d requisitioned a mattress and let a boy who might be a [Servant] climb onto it. Then Itorin figured it out. He saw the grinning boy test the mattress, ask Ryoka Griffin if it would be easier on the ground, and then, despite the added difficulty, do a standing backflip.
He nearly missed the landing and stumbled, but Ryoka caught him and he was cheered by the other children.
“You can do that without a Skill?”
He hadn’t used one and Itorin twisted one of his rings and saw no [Tumbler] class. Itorin saw Ryoka turn to another girl. A [Squire].
“Courier Griffin! I can do a cartwheel! All the instructors and the older [Squires] can even do it. Look!”
She broke into a running start, then did a perfect cartwheel across the ground six times. Ryoka and Itorin stared.
There was a lot of natural talent in Ailendamus, and the best were put into places where their natural talents shone even brighter. Someone with outstanding physical abilities was a natural candidate to become a [Knight] or superior class, so it wasn’t surprising they had that kind of coordination.
Even so. Itorin understood why his daughter and son were bouncing and looking at him to request a private lesson. And why Oiena didn’t want them to.
“Where is Scholar Jsse? Summon her.”
Itorin II went back to watching as a servant and bodyguard rushed off. Ah, this made sense. These tricks, from handstands to cartwheels to flips and the fascinating aerial tricks, were all things you could do without Skills. It was something that, in theory, any person in the world could do.
Fascinating. Itorin II had assumed Ryoka Griffin was some kind of Courier-[Thief]. Rhisveri had explained a bit of why he was so obsessed. But this…Itorin II kept twisting his ring and frowning.
Scholar Jsse was with him in less than five minutes. You didn’t keep the King of Ailendamus waiting, after all.
“Your Majesty? You have a question for me?”
She was part of the intelligence of Ailendamus. Not the ‘spymaster’ intelligence, but the literal intellect cultivated here. Another of Rhisveri’s initiatives. He wanted [Sages]; thus far they had [Scholars], [Historians], [Librarians], [Teachers], [Philosophers], and those were just the ones who were specialized, unlike say, a [Mage].
She was a bit absent-minded with her address and manners, but she had royal dispensation to be that way, and Itorin regarded her as his go-to expert on a lot of matters.
“Scholar Jsse. What would be the…danger of allowing the [Prince] and [Princess] to learn this tumbling? These acrobatic tricks? If they gained a class, what would it be?”
The [Scholar] instantly turned to regard Ryoka Griffin as Oesca and Ivenius looked up excitedly. She frowned at Ryoka, and poked two fingers into her eyes.
That wasn’t intentional. She kept forgetting they’d corrected her near-sightedness and that she no longer wore glasses.
“Interesting. It looks like tumbling, but it might be more utilitarian. This is the Courier who races about and jumps over all the hedges, isn’t she? They were placing bets on her this morning.”
“…She does what?”
“The hedge maze. She runs all over the gardens, Your Majesty. Sometimes with the…Thirsting Veil [Knights], I believe. And others. She has an amazing ability to navigate obstacles. I think there’s a request to incorporate that kind of movement into our training regimes. We need to hire a Courier or [Acrobat], and it would be for irregulars…”
She broke off outlining the experimentation. Itorin II was sure they’d look into it, hire experts, consult them and develop a training plan, and then field-test the [Knights] or whatever group who learned it and see how practical it was in field operations. He couldn’t imagine how useful it would be in battlefields, but maybe they’d put it into training [Guards]? Urban-city chases had a lot of that.
