Itorin was relieved, if not with the new developments with the war, but then in a day of hard work. He was even smiling—an expression which soured as soon as Rhisveri thrust one of the [Generals] out of the way to talk with him privately.
“Control your wife. The woman is absolutely nonsensical.”
“I shall do no such thing, Duke. You are my uncle, and she is not a fool. What did she allegedly do?”
“Interfere with Visophecin.”
Itorin stopped. Visophecin? He looked around and saw the Viscount trailing them.
“I—how, exactly?”
“The Wind Runner. Do not engage with her. She is a prisoner.”
Rhisveri snarled, but he was wise enough to keep his face at least blank. Itorin had a sudden premonition as Rhisveri gave the briefest of biased summaries.
He didn’t see what his wife did—not exactly—but he had an instant moment of sympathy for Ryoka Griffin. Immortals were difficult. And it seemed Rhisveri had her in his sights.
Yet—the [King] stopped as the Viscount, Duke, bodyguards, and gaggle of advisors, servants, and so on, were walking down one of the open promenades towards the war room. They looked up, and saw the subject of the hour standing there.
Ryoka Griffin. She had pulled a Visophecin, which meant she suddenly walked out from behind a statue of one of Ailendamus’ former rulers—of which there had only been four—and bowed.
“Your Majesty. Viscount Visophecin. Rhis. Might I have a moment of your time?”
All three turned, Rhisveri with sudden wrath. Itorin nodded.
“Of course, Courier Griffin. I understand there has been some…misunderstandings this morning?”
The Viscount was looking at Ryoka, puzzled. He bowed silently, and Ryoka Griffin smiled. She looked at Itorin, and they had that shared bond which Oiena had mistaken for attraction. No. Just a kinship.
I’m sorry. Itorin’s eyes flicked left to Rhisveri. Ryoka gave him a slight nod.
This is the shit you have to deal with every day? She grimaced.
Like you would never believe. His eyes betrayed an aeon of silent pain. Mostly due to Rhisveri’s shenanigans. He would have to tell her about the melted statues incident.
And yet—communal suffering was what he saw. Ryoka, though, looked at the two powerful immortals behind Itorin. She had something to show the [King].
“…I did let it get carried away. I should have directly asked Viscount Visophecin to relent, and that is my fault. Sometimes I have to be direct. Nor was I quite willing to play the Viscount’s game. Boys play silly games.”
The Devil and the Wyrm saw her pointedly glance at them. Ryoka Griffin met Itorin’s gaze. The [King], hugely amused but equally alarmed for her sake, raised an eyebrow.
“A bold claim, Wind Runner.”
“I know, Your Majesty. I just wanted to make it clear—I am a guest. I am playing by every rule of hospitality. I would rather like to be treated that way. Or else I am not a guest.”
“Is that a threat?”
Bodswen looked ready to punish it. Itorin held up a hand. Ryoka had no idea, but if she did actually threaten him, or Ailendamus, she would suffer for it. [Instant Retribution: Threat] was a terrible thing. Especially when the retribution was a spiked metal gauntlet to your face.
“Not at all, Your Majesty. Just…I hate games of hide-and-seek. If the Viscount wants to play tag, though. And if I am not a guest, I may oblige him.”
Ryoka Griffin waved an arm. Itorin saw the bangle on her wrist, the jade bracelet, gleaming. Rhisveri narrowed his eyes.
“Go to your quarters, Wind Runner. Guards, escort her there. I will—”
“Duke Rhisveri. But for this thing on my arm?”
Ryoka interrupted him. Rhisveri’s eyes bulged. She smiled at Itorin.
“—you’d never catch me. I’m quite boring when I’m cooped up. You can’t cage the wind.”
She spread her arms. And only now did Itorin II notice something. She’d changed out of her regular, guest clothing which had Ailendamus’ colors and symbols. She had something else on. A curious style of dress that was never going to catch on.
Who liked full-body…bodysuits? Not a suit, but some kind of all-covering fabric. With what looked like an odd cloth-webbing around her armpits, even between her legs. Like…a bat. Or flying squirrel.
Ryoka Griffin spread the wingsuit and the wind picked up. She met Itorin’s gaze as his eyes widened. Rhisveri blinked.
“Don’t you d—”
Visophecin felt the wind rise. But the explosion of air was more than even he was prepared for. The [Bodyguards] shielded Itorin, although the magic barriers already did that. The Devil craned his head back, blinking. He saw His Majesty of Ailendamus looking up, face delighted. Visophecin stared up at a dot in the sky.
“…She wasn’t even playing my game. I couldn’t catch that so easily.”
Itorin II just laughed in sheer amazement. He saw Rhisveri howl and leap forwards, staring up. And he understood what Ryoka meant.
They can mess around with you as much as they want. So you have to push back too. You have to have…
Something they lacked.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin flew. She flew. The wingsuit carried her up with the blast of air. But she had never flown this high before, this fast.
No, wait. During the typhoon. Once. She left her consciousness far below. Trusted to the wind to carry her up.
A hundred feet a second? Faster. 
Carry me up. Show them I won’t be scared. Far below her, the Devil was left far behind. There was nowhere to hide in the sunset sky, no corner to wait behind.
She flew. This was flying. Before, Ryoka had just flown as fast as she dared. Right now? She was playing immortal games. She had no internal speed limit.
The wind tore at her face, pulling at her skin with the speed of the ascent. Ryoka would have laughed, if she wasn’t concentrating so hard.
On her wrist, her jade bracelet was going insane. It was making sounds, flashing, trying to lock down her body and Skills and magic. But it couldn’t do that to the wind.
Go ahead. I dare you. Below her, Rhisveri could probably boil her blood in her veins, just like he said. Do it.
She called his bluff. Nothing happened. Ryoka shot upwards, until Ailendamus’ palace was a dot below her. Straight up into the sky.
She saw a figure flying after her, furious, squawking, as slower figures mounted Griffins, even a few Pegasi. [Mages] flew upwards, going after the prisoner.
Great Knight Gilaw was first into the air, riding a Griffin. Ryoka thought it must be an illusion—she saw the Griffin, magnificent black feathers streaked with silver, shriek at her. Ryoka Griffin waved.
She left Gilaw floundering in an instant. After all, the Griffin was only as fast as she could flap her wings. Ryoka was as fast as…
She saw a vast cloud high overhead. Countless miles in a stratosphere many times Earth’s. Ryoka headed straight up to it. She wondered what would happen. Would Rhisveri teleport her? Zap her? Would Itorin stop her? It didn’t matter. She had to show them…
“Not bad.”
A grudging voice boomed through the air. Ryoka twisted, her meteoric ascent slowing so she could see. What was that? It didn’t sound like it had come from the bracelet. Then—she saw the air ripple. She saw a giant, slitted eye appear.
Not the eye in the sky, the magical illusion. This time—it was real. Physical. Ryoka almost shot a [Flashbang] into it. But then she saw a second eye appear. She looked down and there he was.
Rhisveri. The Wyrm shot into the air. Ryoka Griffin stared down as a huge, hundreds of feet long Wyrm twisted into the sky. Like…a story. Eastern Dragons.
He flew. His coiled body undulated, striking upwards like a snake, but so fast!
He came out of the palace and blew past her in a gust of air. Circling around in the sky, so long that Ryoka saw his body flowing after the head, like a hypnotic serpent, but at lightning speed.
“You are an insufferable mortal. Did you think you were the only being that could fly?”
Rhisveri boomed. The Wyrm was under some kind of illusion that only she could see through, or the little fliers and people below her would be freaking out. Ryoka looked up at him as he made an infinity sign in the air, then circled her. She looked at him. Then laughed.
She went shooting straight up, then changed directions abruptly and dove in a corkscrew. Rhisveri’s head snapped after her, looking contemptuous. However he flew, it was like a giant serpent. He lunged through the air, and that momentum would slow unless he performed a second mid-air strike. He was faster than Ryoka—but he didn’t expect her to move like that.
She dove along his scales and he jerked, as if afraid he would strike her. She corkscrewed along his huge body, and performed a reverse-dive upwards. She turned and saw Rhisveri’s head snap around, then focus on her.
“—huh.”
He managed. The Wyrm dove after her.
“Not bad, but—you’re too slow. I could catch you like—”
The Wyrm struck. He hit only the laughing air, and did a double-take. How did she do that? He was faster! 
But she was small, agile, and the wind was her friend. More importantly, Rhisveri was a Wyrm. Every move he made had to telegraph itself as his body changed postures. Rhisveri craned his head back, forth, then twisted all the way around.
“Get off my scales!”
The Wind Runner was sliding down his neck! She was laughing, and leapt into the air. This time Rhisveri, infuriated, twisted, making an actual sphere around her with his constricting body. A perfect sphere.
Ryoka Griffin saw him poke his head into the capture orb at her. He looked around, swore.
“Where…?”
 
——
 
Gilaw was the only flier who had gotten even close to Ryoka. She saw a huge, invisible shape in the air uncurl and pursue a single figure who shot even higher. The Griffin stared up as the Wind Runner shot towards the giant cloud, with Rhisveri in hot pursuit. His curses were so loud Gilaw half heard them, even with the silencing spells.
 
——
 
That just made Ryoka laugh harder. She hit the cloud and it was wet. Also, charged. A furious Wyrm tore into it.
 
——
 
On the ground, Itorin II made a hasty decision.
“Rain. I require rain. For…proper ambiance. See it done.”
A [Weather Mage] cast a spell and rain began pouring down and more clouds gathered. Just in time, or else more people would have seen the holes appearing, or even the misty outline of something huge breaking through the nimbus cloud high overhead.
 
——
 
“Cyclops’ eyes! I think she’s evading him!”
Menorkel’s eyes were some of the best of the immortals. He and the others were staring up as the rain fell over them. Fithea stared up.
“The wind is her ally. Of course…but even Rhisveri?”
“He’s not using any spells.”
Visophecin saw the others turn to him. He sat under the rain, staring up at the sky as night fell. He couldn’t see perfectly that high, and Rhisveri had his own invisibility spells. But he thought—
 
——
 
—He was laughing. He kept trying to hide it. Glaring. But it was like when you were angry and struggling to stay angry, but you kept laughing.
Both furious and amused. And worse for Rhisveri’s temper—happy.
High above even the clouds, Ryoka stopped being able to breathe easily. She clawed at her mouth, trying to get the wind to push oxygen into her lungs. She gasped—and a bubble appeared around her head.
“You’d have to carry air from below. Amateur.”
Rhisveri appeared as Ryoka slowed. The Wyrm hovered in the air, able to sustain his position without moving. He was…panting a bit. He had been chasing Ryoka for only, say, sixteen minutes, but it had to be tiring. For once, he had to use his entire body to move like he did, and the sky was so vast even Rhisveri was small in it.
Yet he was smiling. He glared at Ryoka a second later.
“I should blast you to pieces and feed your melted remains into the sewers. Do that again and die. That bracelet tells me exactly where you are.”
He flicked a tongue at it. Ryoka raised her arm.
“I know. But a girl’s gotta fly.”
Rhisveri snorted.
“You cause trouble just by existing. I should kill you. But Visophecin has led me to believe you have some value. You’ll never get what you want, you know.”
“Can we talk it out? You’ve been avoiding me.”
“I’ve—been—busy!”
The Wyrm roared. He snapped through the air with each word, until he was right in front of her. His furious glare was a bit too furious, though. He looked at Ryoka, then cast around in the sky. The sight of well…everything seemed to calm him down.
Ryoka looked down too. Everything was so small. She saw huge mountains in the distance; the palace was a dot. The landscape was a darkening miniature world below her, little trees and grass like some perfect recreation, a toy.
“Is this what it means to be a Wyrm? It looks so…”
It was different than seeing it from a plane window. No—the scale in this world was off as well, such that Ryoka wondered if they were above a plane’s maximum cruising altitude. Yet still, almost able to breathe.
Rhisveri looked down.
“Small? You all take such pride in your palaces and edifices. This is what it looks like from above. So yes, this is what it means to be a Wyrm. Look. That cloud.”
He pointed with his head at the one they had gone through. It was so large that ten of Itorin’s palaces would have fit comfortably inside. Rhisveri’s look was wistful.
“There are larger clouds still. Permanent fixtures. When they gather, there are stormheads so vast you could fly through them…and there are beasts inside. Or were. You think you know Giants and Dragons? You have never seen half of it. They may all be dead. And there are other things hidden in the sky. Invisible. So high you cannot see them. Camouflaged. Hidden in clouds. Entire…”
Ryoka looked at him.
“Cities?”
Rhisveri’s head twisted around. He stared at Ryoka.
“…So you’ve heard of the same. Pah. It must be generic if you’re not surprised.”
Even so, his gaze was wistful. He looked up. Then glared at Ryoka.
“What a waste of time. Return to your quarters, Thief. If you try to do this again, I’ll fry you.”
He turned abruptly. Ryoka called out after him.
“Will you hear me out?”
A single baleful eye fixed her with a sudden force that arrested her momentum in the air. Rhisveri opened his mouth and a wisp of acrid vapor emerged…then he grunted.
“You’ll get your audience. You had better have something worthwhile to say.”
He dove without a word, leaving Ryoka up there. She smiled. Then she turned and looked up. So much more sky above, and beyond that…?
The world was so vast. She floated there a moment. Wishing this was all she had to worry about. But inevitably…
She had to return to earth.
 
——
 
They looked at her differently after that. They always did. She was in trouble, of course, but His Majesty’s—and Her Majesty’s— approval meant that it was muted.
