Chaldion of Pallass was a bastard. Not in the original meaning of the word, which had everything to do with genealogy and was such a Terandrian word.
Simply in the pure force of what it meant. There were other words that could be used. Chalk-assed, coal-hearted tunnel weasel were milder epithets. The really bad ones could literally singe your ears if someone with the right Skills said them.
However. Sometimes you needed the bastard around. The monster who saw the defenses overrun, heard something coming up—twenty thousand Crelers, maybe. He still had nightmares, and they weren’t about the Crelers.
Sometimes you needed someone who shut the gates in front of the people screaming to open them. Regardless, it had little to do with him.
Oh, perhaps he was a Chaldion-expert, in the sense that Chaldion had been one of the people to persuade him to move to Pallass. You could argue his longer lifespan meant he’d chronicled the Grand Strategist’s rise, and he remembered stories about that Drake when he was in his prime. And even then…Pelt had been old.
He was only half-watching the scrying orb, and he was annoyed at his apprentices for begging to watch it. But they were…getting decent, which meant they would rather miss anything than take their eyes off the steel. But they did listen.
Pelt, the Master Smith. Pelt, formerly of Deríthal-Vel, one of the greatest names alive to wield a hammer—well, among mortal smiths. A boast that only meant something if you forgot you would always be inferior, and rightly so.
But it had gotten to his head, once. Pelt. [Hammer of a Hundred Metals]. He looked old, now. His hair hadn’t turned white, only developed more grey than pepper. He was short, ‘only’ five feet tall; you could get shorter, so Dwarves were not exactly as diminutive as their names suggested.
Not anymore. He wore thick clothing, an apron over cloth. Plain colors darkened by soot, which was what he smelled of at all times. He didn’t care about his appearance, but the forge kept him at least smelling of that.
Mostly, though, Pelt sometimes saw himself in a mirror and saw what nigh on two and a half decades of drinking did. Even so—he remembered Chaldion, and that Drake had aged more poorly than he.
“Turn it off, apprentice.”
He barked at Emessa, his Drake apprentice. Pelt was no longer in the mood to listen. She hesitated.
“Something wrong, Master?”
One of the Gnolls glanced at Emessa and she avoided meeting the other woman’s eye. Pelt just grunted.
“I don’t want to hear it.”
Drakes had done a terrible thing to Gnolls. Or perhaps there had been traitors. Even now, the Arbitration Council was meeting for a second day, but the dramatic footage with Chaldion was playing again.
“It’s the same story. Damned treachery. Schemes. That Drake’s at the heart of it. You—girl. Stop swinging on the metal that hard.”
The Gnoll woman ducked her head, but for once Pelt didn’t threaten to kick her out and never let her take a turn in his forge again. The other apprentices went back to their stations as Pelt looked them over.
Some were masters of their own craft, over Level 30. They had begun coming from further north and south now. To meet Pelt and apprentice themselves for a time.
That was…unfamiliar. Pelt had never had apprentices like this. Which might surprise someone until you realized—he had been the best smith. The one who struck Adamantium and forged the greatest pieces, alongside the [Forgemaster]. Apprentices? They should have been so lucky.
Even now, he didn’t teach them what he could. He could have told them every secret of metal he had ever learned; no one would stop him. But pride did.
They were not worthy. Their steel wasn’t fine enough; they would disgrace greater metals, even if they copied the basic techniques.
Pelt though…he glanced at Emessa. Nevermore would he forge with his kind. Never would he retire in fame and fortune and glory in Deríthal-Vel. So, then…he had taught one apprentice the secret of Dwarfsteel, which one young man called ‘Titanium’ and Pelt had a different word for.
Kevin. Pelt glanced around and his mood soured abruptly. He stalked over to forge after forge, and began pointing fingers.
“Your hammer hold is weak. That finger. Move it. You with the idiot hat. You’re cooking the metal by a degree or two.”
“I—I’m sorry, Master Pelt. I can’t tell. It looks—”
“Don’t look. Feel the heat. Your eyes? I knew blind smiths who could tell when the metal was ready to strike!”
Pelt roared. The apprentices hunched over as he walked around. Pelt stomped left, right, and then grew tired.
Kevin was gone. Solar Cycles was running…but Kevin’s helpers were frantically taking over and Hedault had to help manage it. No word from him, only cryptic notes. Everyone in the forge dearly wished he would show up—if only because Pelt was less grumpy with Kevin’s ability to soothe him, and in his absence, he was taking it out on them.
Still. Pelt went back to the orb which Emessa had yet to actually turn off. She was staring at a map of possible sites for more of Fissival’s crystal network. Pelt snorted.
“Apprentice.”
“I’m sorry, Master—”
“It’s the same story. Turn that…volume thing lower, and put it in another room if you idiots have to watch. I’ve seen it.”
The other apprentices looked at Pelt as he stomped back to his station, where he was forging identical gears. It wasn’t hard; he waited for the rough shape, then cut perfect teeth into the gear. Kevin had said it was amazing that Pelt didn’t bother to use a mold, and he could work to the level of a machine’s precision despite hand-forging everything.
The Dwarf had told Kevin it wasn’t special. Just Skills. He was so fast, though, that his hammer would sing for mere minutes, then he’d put the gear in oil to cool and for finish-work, and continue watching his apprentices.
Now, he leaned against his anvil. At length, Emessa did dare to ask.
“You’ve seen the broadcast, Master Pelt? Or has this happened before?”
Pelt looked up. He glared…but glanced at the scrying orb and grunted.
“How old do you think I am? I haven’t seen that. But I’ve seen the same thing. Drakes and Gnolls. Humans and half-Elves. It’s not new.”
That was when he did feel tired. It was too nostalgic. Pelt scratched at his beard. He saw some of the others—Human, Drake, Gnoll, even a few Dullahans—all watching him. It was an odd mood that had taken him, but the Dwarf went on after a second.
“That bastard—”
“Chaldion?”
“—that’s what I said. He knows something. There’ll be blood before the month’s out, one way or another. I don’t have to watch to know what’s coming next.”
“But the Arbitration Council is coming to a ruling…”
“Phaw. They’re not Gnolls. They make a big show. They don’t speak for either species. It’s a waste of time. Nothing changes. The Meeting of Tribes…that’s where change’ll come. War or revelations. Not that.”
He pointed at the scrying orb. Some of his apprentices listened with keen ears. After all, Pelt was very high-level, and that apparently meant he was wise in all things.
What a joke. All Pelt knew was metal. But you had to give it to him…he frowned down at a side project.
“Hrmh. So what’s the auction at, apprentice? Are they done or am I still waiting?”
Emessa blinked at the change of subject, but hurried over to the ledger with the [Messages] she kept.
“…Two more days, Master. It’s narrowing down, but I can’t tell who’ll win.”
“And no one’s even damn well telling me what it’s going to be? Halberd? Sword? How many weapon masters are in it?”
Pelt had pulled out something that made the rest of the apprentices nearly miss their swings. They couldn’t help it. They stared at…a small amount of metal. Very small, really. You didn’t need much to make a sword if you didn’t burn or waste it; a blade should be light, not a block. However, this was no crucible of steel, even steel as pure as Pelt could make it. It was not Mithril, which in and of itself would be remarkable. Not even a rarer alloy like Truegold or Dwarfsteel or…
It was a deep red with fiery orange. It was, in fact, rather dull unless you polished it up, and even then, heavier than steel, and frankly less beautiful than many magical metals. The raw stuff was so plain people took it for cheap clay. But that was because regular people didn’t have an eye for metal.
To any one of Pelt’s apprentices, the metal he placed on his anvil and glared at was the stuff of stories. Rarer than diamonds. Tougher than almost any other substance in this world when forged right. The sign of true mastery.
Adamantium.
Most of that rare metal was used for relics, objects forged centuries or thousands of years ago that circulated very rarely. It was so rare that few ingots of the stuff ever appeared.
Yet due to a sudden discovery in Salazsar, Adamantium was back on the market and every famous [Smith] was buying it up. Whether they could forge it was a different matter. In fact, there were only two blocks of the stuff ready for the hammer in all of Izril.
One sat on that very anvil, a small block. The other? The other was in the possession of Maughin of Pallass, the famous [Armorer], and best smith in the city now that Pelt was gone. It was a challenge. A stepping stone to greatness.
“…I count at least one Named Adventurer famous for being a [Swordmaster], but the Iron Vanguard is arguing over it. The Seer of Steel or maybe one of their generals? And there are still several nobles from many nations who have a bid—and Rhir—and a dozen nations…”
“Not the Seer of Steel. That giant uses a hammer. I couldn’t make one out of this. Damn. Just outbid the others, already!”
Pelt had this piece up for auction, and he’d make a fortune on the commission when it got to him. In the meantime, though, he was unable to start working on it. In his pique, he took the Adamantium and tossed it across the forge.
“Master!”
Emessa and the other apprentices were horrified. Pelt snorted.
“It’s Adamantium. Stop looking horrified. If I could break it by tossing it, better it broke then!”
To prove his point, he kicked it into a corner. Then he turned. The scrying orb was still shining at him and his glare made Emessa watch his hand warily; Pelt could throw his hammer with pinpoint accuracy.
However, Pelt stopped as he caught sight of another Gnoll chieftain talking. He tugged at his beard.
“The Meeting of Tribes. Wait. Apprentice?”
“…Yes, Master?”
“Did that sample arrive yet? The one you managed to get in secret?”
Heads rose once more, and this time with more knowing. Emessa nodded eagerly.
“I did, Master. Do you want to see it?”
“Sure.”
Another part of smithing was…corporate espionage. And if you laughed, it was because you had never seen [Smiths] stealing each other’s techniques, metallurgical achievements, and so on.
Pelt normally didn’t bother, since everyone tried to steal from him. Yet he had let Emessa purchase one new metal he’d heard about. She brought him a wrapped bundle, and he weighed it in his palm without unwrapping it, critically.
“So this is Demas Metal, eh? From the…”
“Demas Metal tribe, Master.”
“Stupid name. They think they’ve come up with a new alloy. Well…Demas. Damned name. Feels lighter than steel. Balance is…a bit off.”
It was a dagger, but Pelt just lifted it, muttering, making an assessment by holding it. He was already angry.
“Damned name.”
“What’s wrong with it, Master? Is it a metal that’s existed before?”
“Demas Metal? No. Never heard of it!”
Pelt snapped, and Emessa nodded, not sure why it annoyed him so. Nor was Pelt willing to explain. He just held the dagger, already pre-disposed to disliking it.
If this is some mithril alloy with cobalt or something like that instead of an actual discovery…he was going to ruin that tribe. The Dwarf yanked the cloth off, took one look at the metal, and blinked.
“—the name of hairy hammers is—?”
His apprentices peeked up and saw him flipping the dagger. Running his fingers along it, sniffing it, even tasting it gingerly. It was a blue blade, set into a simple steel handle with a common guard. But the metal was a cloud-blue that shifted depending on the position of the moons. It was clearly magical, and Pelt’s look of pure ire instantly changed the moment he laid his eyes on it.
“Master?”
After ten minutes of scrutiny, Pelt looked up.
“…Orichalcum.”
“Just an alloy?”
“No. Orichalcum’s in it. Color-changing. Clearly magical. Did they say what this stuff does that’s special?”
His apprentices looked at each other. Never had one of them, even Emessa, heard Pelt ask what a metal did. She fumbled for her notes.
“It—it’s apparently able to take liquid if you dip it. Maybe even magic.”
“Huh.”
Pelt had to see it for himself. He dipped the dagger into the oil, stared at the second ‘layer’ of liquid running down the blade. He flicked his hand and saw it spray out, practically a razor of liquid that turned into a miniature arc of fire. His apprentices ducked, but Pelt just stared at the Demas Metal dagger.
“It’s like a Liquidtouch Enchantment. But it’s not enchanted. That’s for the alloy. Can’t tell what else is in here, but I’d bet Emessa it’s got…yeah. It has to have some kind of sea-stone in it. Coral? What’s the strength and flexibility like? I can snap it…”
He began testing the dagger, flexing it with his bare fingers, which was a sign of how strong he actually was. Emessa just watched him.
She had to ask.
“…Master. You don’t know what it is?”
Pelt looked at her. He looked at the metal on his anvil. At his apprentices. The [Master Smith] blinked once. Then shook his head.
“I don’t. It’s new to me.”
A current of shock and excitement ran through the smithy at that. New metal? Pelt hadn’t even pretended to know; nor would he. Yet Emessa was amazed.
“Then this is the discovery of a lifetime!”
“If it’s not got any flaws, and if it can be made…it is. Not sure how that liquid effect works in battle. Don’t know, don’t care. That’s for adventurers. We could make a small profit if we sold it to rich idiots who want a mantle piece, though. No—they’d want to show it off. Good money. What’s in this?”
He held it up, fascinated, now a puzzle-solver. It was actually fun, and Emessa saw him smile. But she was still at ‘Pelt the Smith doesn’t know what this is’.
“Master! It’s extraordinary, then! Do you want to meet the Chieftain who made this metal? He apparently invented it!”
Pelt glanced up. He looked at Emessa.
“Who’s that?”
“Mrell of Demas Metal.”
Again there was that name. Pelt frowned.
