“Demas Metal. It’s a stupid damn name, but this Gnoll’s got some talent if he made it. Demas. Demas. Why did he call it Demas? If he ever comes by Esthelm or Pallass, I’ll think about it. But I don’t need to beg to learn from him.”
“But it’s amazing, isn’t it?”
Pelt did not look like a man who had seen the advent of a new metal. He glanced up.
“It’s an achievement of a lifetime. Fine blade. Poor balance, but a fine discovery. I’ll wager he could improve the composition…I’m seeing flecks here…”
“Master! Please! Give him some credit for inventing a new metal!”
Emessa was dismayed. It wasn’t like Pelt to be that stingy with praise. Pelt glanced at her, eyebrows raised. And then put the dagger down.
“That Gnoll or whoever he is didn’t invent a new metal. He rediscovered one. And for some reason, he named it strangely. Where did you say he learned from?”
“Uh…he was a wanderer, and he apparently roamed a lot of Izril. He ended up along the coast, I think. I don’t know who he learned from, but people say he had a great master who helped him make the stuff.”
Pelt’s hand slipped. He nearly cut his palm open. Slowly, his head rose.
“…Anyone say who the Master was?”
Emessa was frowning. She was offended on Mrell’s behalf that Pelt was ignoring his abilities, but the Dwarf suddenly looked…very interested.
“No, Master. Let me check to see if anything I have says the name…”
“—Was it a Demastel? Demastel the [Smelter]?”
Emessa scanned the parchment. She shook her head. But suddenly, Pelt was staring at the blade like he suddenly saw something. He knew something.
“It has to be. Demas. Dem…he probably did stay there. That idiot liked seafood. Unlike Taxus. It makes too much sense. App—Emessa! Where’s that master now?”
The Drake was looking at Pelt, keenly. She was picking up too much from hints about Pelt’s past. She knew the name Taxus, of course. You’d have to have been living with your head in the sand to be a [Smith] and not know that name, even if it was beginning to be forgotten.
“I think he’s dead, Master. Chieftain Mrell’s never said…”
Pelt’s face became as bleak as could be. He sat down, abruptly.
“Master Pelt? Do you want me to…?”
“No. That would make sense too.”
The Dwarf sat there, looking even older. He held the dagger up to the light and stared at it as his apprentices abandoned their work—those that could do it safely. He looked at the blade. Like a letter from home, and sharp as a razor—it hit him in the heart.
 
——
 
“Demastel was a [Smelter]. Knew more about perfecting alloys than anyone. He’s dead.”
“He might not be—”
“He’s dead. He was dying twenty years ago. I don’t know how that Gnoll found him, but Demastel isn’t the kind of—wasn’t the kind of Dwarf you could pull out of a stupor with a stupid magic flame and some kind words. His crime weighed so heavily—he’s dead.”
Yet he had taken an apprentice of sorts, just like Pelt. And the product was here. Emessa looked at Pelt; she had sent someone to run and get a hot meal and drink—non-alcoholic—but the Dwarf was just staring at the blade.
“Could he have invented the metal? Is this Mrell taking credit?”
“Doubt it. It’s new to me, so it was new to Demastel. I don’t think he tried to improve his craft. Probably, the Gnoll learned a few tricks and came up with it. Rediscovered the metal and called it Demas. After Demastel.”
It was the kind of thing a [Smith] would do in honor of another. Yet Pelt kept saying it like that.
“But Master, if even you don’t know what kind of metal it is, surely that’s invention.”
“That means no one forged this metal before, Emessa.”
“Yes, Master. It sounds like it, doesn’t it? If you don’t know…”
The gentle logic from his Drake apprentice made Pelt laugh. He saw Emessa start, along with one of the other smiths bringing food over.
“Ah. I see what you mean. You’re right. I don’t know what this is. Never seen it before in my life. It’s an alloy of some things, and I can probably figure out how to make it in a month or two. But I don’t know it.”
“So…?”
“So it’s been made before. If it was a metal like Naq-Alrama steel. If it was a metal made out of meteorites and Adamantium. If an [Archmage] helped discover it, and it came shooting out of legends, rare ores never seen under the light of the sun—whenever a [Smith] makes it, they’re geniuses and damned lucky and it’ll be a grand thing. But they always, always rediscovered it. Understand?”
Pelt waved the blade at the apprentices. He turned, smelling a huge brisket, and found he had an appetite. He glared at the goat’s milk as Emessa followed him to his table.
“Then who made all the metals? Surely not every…?”
“Every. Single. One. If it was ever metal, even fusions of stone, it was made.”
“By who? Dragons?”
“Hah! You think they’re good at anything besides cooking things? Well, apparently a few were good once they shape-changed, or so the story goes. No, Emessa.”
Pelt sighed as he sat down in his small office. He spread the meal out and stared at the dagger, then pushed it away.
“No. The greatest smiths to ever walk this world made every metal conceivable. And you can laugh. You can think I’m talking on forge-fumes. But I am not wrong. I could take this dagger, and if I went to…I would be able to come back and tell you exactly what it does, how it’s made, and why it’s a piece of worthless metal because it was forged so poorly, and smelted with no understanding of it.”
Pelt lifted the dagger. He looked at Emessa and the apprentice saw it in his gaze. The Dwarf turned away.
“Don’t ask me. Just know, apprentice. You’re young.”
“…I’m nearly twenty eight, Master.”
“Huh. Then—two more decades. Three. Maybe four. Damn. You live shorter than Dwarves. How long until you’re at least capable?”
The Drake’s heart sank as Pelt gave a rough count on his fingers. She was about to slink off before he began to rant, but the Dwarf looked up.
“I might be dead, then. Probably.”
“Master.”
She turned around, horrified. She knew Dwarves could live longer. But Pelt was just looking at her, distantly.
“Yes. It’ll take longer, even after I die. Make it twenty years if you aren’t already…fifty. At least ten. Work harder, then, since I won’t be able to keep on after you. Then, someday, you’ll go on a trip. With your best pieces of work—which you’ll toss into the sea afterwards, or sell because you’ll be ashamed. But you’ll go. Then you can tell the one you meet that you were my apprentice. I can already imagine how embarrassing it’ll be, but I’ll be dead.”
The brisket cooled in front of him, but the Dwarf and Drake were just looking at each other, her with wide eyes. And Pelt did smile then.
“You will know everything I’ve said is true, then. Look forwards to that, you untalented apprentice. And be worthy of that day.”
Decades in the future. Emessa took a step back, because it was so fatalistic, so sad that she wished Kevin or that [Innkeeper] were here. At the same time…the Dwarf began to eat, munching on the food without another word. He wouldn’t bring it up, probably because he was embarrassed.
Yet Emessa had never heard him say anything like that before. Not to any other [Smith]. Pelt’s apprentice looked at him—then fled. Pelt watched her go, then grunted at the dagger he’d planted in the table.
“You had a good apprentice, Demastel. You knew, didn’t you? You found it…”
His hands trembled.
“Redemption.”
 
——
 
Legends of the old world. Of the last generation. Someday, they would forget every name. The old stars were already being eclipsed. Yet even the most famous names would one day fade.
That was truth. One day, someone would say ‘King of Destruction’, and even [Historians] would have to fetch a book to figure out what was meant.
Even those for whom time did not touch died. So, then, a thoughtful person might ask: what was the point? It was a question that had driven immortals to despair. Everyone had to come up with their own answer. Why do you live and work and struggle?
Or else that question would find them on their deathbeds, in their last moments. What a terrifying way to die.
Naturally, he had his answer. The Viscount paused a moment, to check his appearance in the mirror of one of the restrooms.
‘Restroom’ was, of course, such a poor term. Dressing room was still too un-posh. Boudoir…was generally only thought to apply to women, which was ridiculous, of course.
Rather than a mirror, the man stood in front of a vanity. Just to make sure he hadn’t grown dishevelled from the journey or walking through the palace. He carefully adjusted his hair, his suit, the cuffs on his slightly dark skin. Almost…greyish. Although you’d only notice that cast if you looked at him in the right light.
With the right eyes. One of his earrings was askew, so he fixed it with a tap of the finger. He was meticulous, but the impression was rather disinterested. As if to say, I am not doing this for me, but for you.
The effect was completely opposite the man next to him, who had also entered the semi-public space reserved for the nobility or those of sufficient rank. It wasn’t guarded per se, but it was elite. He dressed himself with clear delight. Fashion was a choice that benefited everyone.
The wind was stronger these days, and an unseasonable cold patch had entered the air, heralding fall. Summer was over.
Thus, the man standing next to the Viscount had donned a beautiful purple-and-green scarf, a long piece that added to his usually vivid red clothing style.
He was combing his hair, and turned to nod as the first man finished his inspection.
“Viscount Visophecin, if I may be so bold, you are an inspiration of class.”
The Viscount of Ailendamus, a seldom-seen visitor at court, but a good friend of some members of the palace, including even the infamously touchy Duke Rhisveri, turned his head. He gave Baron Regalius a polite smile.
“You, Baron Regalius, are more fittingly fashionable than I, I believe. You have enthusiasm towards the subject.”
“And you do not, Viscount?”
The Baron looked Visophecin up and down. The man had a suit and high-necked collar that flew in the face of the doublet-and-ruff fashion of the present, but there was a kind of timeless elegance to his dark clothing, embellished with just the barest hint of lighter colors. Magical cloth, obviously; they called it sadun-prei patterning. Such that the effect in one color was to show you other colors as the cloth moved together; variations of shadow in this case.
Very nuanced, very stylish; the previous Viscount had apparently worn much the same style in the few paintings of him. Visophecin smiled thinly.
“I do not find it tiring per se. Dignity must be maintained. Yet I envy your enthusiasm, Baron. Let us put it like that.”
“Of course, my lord.”
Regalius nodded and went back to his own mirror as Visophecin left the dressing rooms. He hadn’t lied; truth was easy. Yet he had to admit, it was rare for him to conduct a self-inspection in the middle of his day. He began walking through the palace once more. It just went to show he cared about tiny things. When you went about important errands, you left nothing to chance, even as minor as dress.
After all, if you heard a whisper at your shoulder in your darkest hour and turned to see someone like Visophecin standing there, he had better look the part. His shoes had a high cuff around them—no boots like any military commander wore—and clicked as he walked through Ailendamus’ palace.
Still—Visophecin did not stride along. His walk was not, to look at him, the fast, speedy pace you expected. In fact, Baron Regalius passed him, having finished his ablutions shortly thereafter. Visophecin did not exactly amble, but he walked with an unhurried pace such that you lost sight of him in the crowd. And when you turned your head?
He was gone.
 
——
 
It was not a good day in Ailendamus for King Itorin II. He woke up to ships burning.
Dozens of them. Their charred carcasses sunk to the ocean floor—then lodged, potential hazards as they drew closer to shore. They’d done their best to flee. If he could, a second armada of Ailendamus and Taimaguros’ ships could have joined them. But even with countless miles on their side, they were far too slow, and the [Admiral] couldn’t speed them north along the coast fast enough.
Faced with that choice, the [Admiral] had made a desperate stand. After losing half his fleet in two hours without even being able to break the enemy vessel’s magical shields, he’d changed strategies.
Ship after ship had grounded themselves onto the shoreline, some exploding as magical artillery blew wood and metal to bits. It was a suicidal move for the vessels; some would never return to sea, not with their keels smashed against the shore from the speed they ran aground. But it did mean thousands of [Sailors] and crew had disembarked. They were climbing to higher ground, but The Pride of the Wellfar was sailing in…
It was not the end of the world, as the diplomats and courtiers hastened to assure everyone. But you couldn’t hide that it was a blow.
And one Ailendamus need not have taken at all. King Itorin II himself spoke with a member of the Five Families that morning, before breakfast. Nothing else would do; the Five Families were a touchy lot and escalation was not to be desired.
“Your Majesty. House Veltras is the only member of the Five Families to declare war. Wellfar, Terland, and El stand with them, but we have not declared war.”
“The Pride of the Wellfar’s deployment would then count as assistance?”
King Itorin spoke with Ulva Terland. He could not help but inject the note of skepticism in his voice. His lead [Diplomat], who listened in on the calls, winced, but Itorin II was in no mood to sugarcoat anything.
“I quite understand how it must look. But I must remind Your Exalted Majesty that the Five Families render aid to one another whenever another House asks.”
Your Exalted Majesty was flattering. The woman’s tone…was not. Itorin was aware she was famously reclusive and paranoid, but she did not sound meek. Nor did he buy the line about the happy cooperation between the Five Families. So…why, then?
“We must regard this act of war with all due hostility, Lady Terland. I would not wish to make war on Izril’s north.”
Itorin remarked calmly. He scratched at his trimmed beard, imagining, calculating the cost of an offensive. They would have to win the sea, then invade; great kingdoms had failed. Yet it could be done. It was a frank warning and Ulva Terland…
