“…They are, aren’t they? Rhisveri is one thing, and I would caution you to beware of some of the others. I don’t know…everything. But I do know some are good…people. Sophridel is fair-minded. He runs the Court of Masks, as you know. Have you met him?”
“I found him by accident.”
“By accident? Then—you know Lady Fithea. She and he are two of the most reasonable, esteemed, I think. I would also say—Lady Paterghost.”
“Really?”
“She is a fine soul.”
“She kicked me when we met. I don’t think she likes me.”
Ryoka rubbed at her stomach. Itorin smiled.
“Ah. She’s quite kind. Even Oesca and Ivenius have met her, you know, though they only know her as one of the Great Knights in retirement. She is fond of the royal family; guarded above all others. But Rhisveri is completely beyond all the rest. You know why.”
“Yes. He is. But he’s not the biggest…snake…in the pond.”
Ryoka muttered. Itorin stepped back.
“You are extraordinary. Do you mean that?”
He grew nervous just at the idea. Ryoka looked at him. And it was a humanizing look, as well as one that had both wonder and distance to it. She had seen something, but her smile made him breathe again.
“Believe me, Your Majesty. He’s powerful and great, in his way. But believe me.”
 
——
 
Sammial Veltras met Prince Ivenius and Princess Oesca of Ailendamus and struck a blow against the patriarchy…which was actually the matriarchy in Queen Oiena…with the aid of King Itorin…
Oesca wore pants. And it was as much about family and culture as anything else, but Sammial Veltras was there, and he and Oesca, in the course of two mere hours, both learned how to do a backflip and became friends.
“We have otter-dogs.”
“What do they do?”
Ivenius and Oesca both wanted to know, even though Oesca’s older brother was usually aloof from younger kids, being a [Squire]. Sammial tried to explain.
“They have webbed skin on their feet, and they’re long. But really strong; they can pull water sleds.”
“Water sleds?”
“That’s nothing. Other parts of House Veltras have weird pets. Like Lord Swey.”
“Who’s he?”
“He lives on a big cliff place. He has a pet…buddy. It’s this giant, furry thing that looks like us. It’s called a monkey. He can climb up the cliffs. And he throws poop at bandits.”
“What?”
Oesca began giggling. Sammial was trying to recount to her the famous tale of when the monkey had killed a [Bandit Leader] scaling the cliffs by hitting him with feces, which led to the man falling to his doom.
But that was a sideshow as Itorin and Ryoka walked out of the bubble. Ryoka had an appointment with Fithea, and Itorin had work to do. But he stopped, and, in view of his inner cabinet, took her hand again.
“It was a true pleasure, Ryoka.”
“Thank you, Your Majesty.”
“Itorin. That…is something I should insist upon. I will hope for your success. But perhaps…hm. I have appointments all of today. Tomorrow? If no royal dinners are extant—or if they are, perhaps afterwards?”
“I—really?”
“It would greatly please me to continue our conversation and ask you what you are willing to share.”
Oesca, Sammial, Ivenius, and the court all saw Itorin give Ryoka a rare, genuine smile. Ryoka hesitated, then ducked her head.
“Of course. I’d be honored.”
Such a strange thing. What a strange power Ryoka Griffin had.
What a dangerous moment. Oesca’s nursemaids and several other people instantly had alarm bells go off in their heads. And not the tiny [Dangersense] ones that went dingalingaling. More like giant bells tolling across half the kingdom. Queen Oiena was going to hear about this. His Majesty had looked like he wanted to hug the Wind Runner. He’d almost gone in for it.
Why her? When he had met with foreign beauties and all kinds of…Oesca was concerned, and whispered to Sammial.
“I think father likes the Wind Runner.”
Sammial frowned at Itorin II, who’d he wanted to have words with. He folded his arms and announced, decisively.
“Well, it’s too bad because my father is Tyrion Veltras and he’s courting Ryoka. He proposed to her. Also, she’s not a slut, no matter what you hear.”
He informed Oesca, with the high-minded pride of a young boy who wanted to clear the air and make sure no one insulted Ryoka. One of the nursemaids stared at Sammial. From keeping the wretched boy away from Oesca, she now decided he should have a playdate where Sammial could tell more about this Wind Runner.
Oh yes, Oiena was going to hear about this.
 
——
 
Goddamnit.
Wait. Dead gods damnit, but that didn’t flow right. How about…
Dead-gods-with-a-pinecone-shoved-up-their-asses damnit. Why did Itorin have to do this to her? Ailendamus? In a larger, more meta sense, most of the people she’d met? Stop it.
Stop being likable. Because she had caught herself, mid-talk with Itorin about the shit you got into with immortals, laughing, wanting to pat the man on the back and say ‘it was going to be okay’, exchange stories about mishaps, trade tips.
She’d felt sorry for him. But he had looked her in the eye when she asked how bad Rhisveri was and said this:
“I won’t lie and tell you he is perfect, because he is anything but. Yet I regard him and his people as the thing my kingdom needs. It has been a trade that favors Ailendamus. I believe we are a kingdom out of kingdoms and we have just begun, Miss Griffin. So I will take him, even if you offered me a choice.”
He believed in Ailendamus. And Ryoka had seen it in Regalius, in the Court of Masks. She had seen good and bad, but she had seen good, and, in that moment, she had liked Itorin.
Only afterwards had she recalled—he was making war on the Dawn Concordat and his kingdom was known for wiping out other nations and they’d kidnapped her and Sammial and nearly killed them both.
Yet, like Tyrion, he just wasn’t one pure note of evil. And it made it hard to balance liking him and remembering why you shouldn’t. Or was that the problem? Like them, don’t like them.
But remember what they were.
…Incredibly sad.
Fithea’s gnarled hand traced the symbol on one of the obol stones. A glowing word in Ryoka’s eyes. The Stone Dryad finally spoke.
“It…it means earth, doesn’t it?”
And the word was magic. Her hand almost began to close, but it was Ryoka’s. And her look of longing…Ryoka gazed at the old woman.
Gnarled hands. And they were gnarled. They were like tree roots come to life. She herself looked like a being made out of bark and elements of a tree. Yet—she had turned to stone.
She was old. So old, Ryoka suspected she was far past a Dryad’s natural life cycle. How long did it take for wood to turn to stone? She thought the answer was millions of years.
Fithea laughed when she heard that. Her voice was cracked, rasping. Weary.
“I am not that old, Ryoka Griffin. Merely old. I…I have lost my forest. You understand what I am. You know what that means.”
Ryoka nodded slowly.
“I…I don’t know everything. But you are a Dryad, aren’t you?”
“Yes. The last of the great forests that I know of.”
“I thought there were Dryads still. I’ve heard of…people fighting them?”
Fithea shook her head. Sadly.
“They surely do. But what those who cut wood find is not…thinking. They come from young saplings. Hundreds of years old at most. Lesser trees. Not greatwood. Not from a proper tree. Only after countless years will something emerge that thinks. That…can be something. You understand? We are the oldest seeds, and grow slowest, but from every tree.”
Ryoka did see.
“And the forests that you came from, your kind…?”
She sat with Fithea in the sanctuary of wood and water, sunlight pouring in from above. In the Immortal’s Wing, as Ryoka thought of it. The old Dryad had tried to offer her food, but she was fixated on Ryoka’s stones.
On Ryoka, even on the wind that blew quietly through this place. Gently, as if it too wanted to respect Fithea.
Respect. Ryoka had that and more. The old Dryad deserved it. And she had vouched for Ryoka, such that not even Rhisveri had stopped her from coming here.
Indeed, some people were staring at Ryoka from behind a doorway. They hid when she looked up, but she saw them.
Gilaw, a mane of hair and a piercing glare from the tall woman, wordless as always, wearing armor as if it weighed nothing.
A wet face and dripping hair; ostensibly a youth she would have thought came from somewhere in South America in her world, but she had noticed he never stopped looking like he’d just come out of the water. And standing taller than both—Menorkel, a giant figure with orange skin, two heads, and four arms.
Titan. Merfolk. Griffin. Ryoka suspected there were more, and Fithea had offered to show her around later. But the Dryad was staring at the stone.
“May I hold it? Just hold it…”
“Of course.”
The old woman held the stone and closed her eyes. Her ‘eyes’ were glowing lights in her wooden sockets. Not fire; that would be nonsensical. Just…glowing magic itself. She did not weep tears, but it was in her voice.
“It feels like home! It feels like the Great Forests, before they died and the old protectors walked into the sea! It comes from a place where they have not died. It does, surely. That land. It has…does it have a forest?”
“The biggest forest I’ve ever seen.”
Ryoka answered, truthfully. Fithea looked hungrily at her.
“How tall were the trees?”
“…Beyond imagining. There was a representative who came here.”
“One of the old ones? The wood that walks?”
“Yes. He was named Silverpine.”
Fithea looked blankly at Ryoka.
“Silverpine? As in…the tree? That is not a name I would expect.”
The Wind Runner felt goosebumps on her arm even as she smiled. Because Fithea had seen mystery and came from a time of legends. But even she…
“No. That was his name. And I think—nature.”
The Dryad sat there, her mouth open slightly. Silverpine. She breathed, slowly.
“Then you are a representative of them. You’ve walked in the forests of legend. Here—take something. Eat. Are you hungry? These come from the half-Elves I work with. They live in small forests, and some know how to work with trees.”
She offered Ryoka what looked like, well, snowflakes made of sap. Beautiful patterns of pure maple sap or another tree’s sugar. Ryoka took a flake and it was delicious. It did melt on the tongue.
There were other treats; Fithea either had the impression Ryoka had the sweetest of teeth, or that was simply what she thought Humans liked. Which…fair.
“Is it okay to offer me this? I mean um—I’m sure it is. But why…?”
Ryoka lifted a chunk of honeycomb the size of her hand, trimmed of larvae and the waxy bits. Fithea looked at the honeycomb—meant for bees of a regular size, not Apista-bees—and shook her head.
“All these things harm nothing. The bees know it will be taken, so they simply make honeycomb like so. Like this.”
She offered Ryoka some cheese—still sweet, a hint of it, and deliciously savory.
“Some [Druids] think never to touch animals or trees. I am only custodian of the lands in Ailendamus. But I let them cut down trees. Herd animals.”
“…And burn trees in Gaiil-Drome?”
Ryoka hesitated before she said it, but she did say it. Fithea’s face twisted.
“They tell me it is necessary for war. So I tell them to do it since no old trees remain. They will ravage that place. Shed blood. And when they take that land, they will plant a new forest, which springs up after fire. Fire does ravage forests and they regrow. They will plant more forests and that will be my legacy. Rhisveri has promised me, upon his treasures. They will last. Maybe…maybe even one day grow so tall they produce Dryads again.”
She cradled the stone, not quite looking at Ryoka.
“Cows desire milking, the ones Humans have raised. Insects and animals can work with Humans. My kind would call me a traitor, metal-minded, stonefriend. And they would be right, you see? But they are dead and I…I care for a new forest. One that has no roots. There.”
She pointed and three heads ducked back. Well, four. Ryoka saw Fithea look at her. As if…as if Ryoka was some kind of judge and Fithea had to explain herself.
“I understand.”
“Thank you. Do you come on behalf of them? You opened a door. I found it. Shattered. It never opened before. Can you…lead us there?”
Her eyes were so longing. Ryoka had to duck her head.
“…Not now. Something—something bad has happened, Fithea. So the doors are shut. That was an exception.”
“An exception made for you.”
The Dryad pointed out. Ryoka nodded, hesitantly.
“I’m on a mission. I know Ailendamus has its own goals, and Rhisveri calls me a thief…rightly. But I would like to help, Fithea. I can offer you money, but I can’t promise to open a door. I just want to speak to Rhisveri.”
“He’s guarded. Wary of you. He thought you were a mere thief or an agent of…Dragons.”
Fithea hesitated, but the words spilled out of her amazingly fast. Ryoka felt like she was taking advantage of Fithea’s desires, and flushed. But the pile of obol sat in front of her, currency with inherent value.
“I’m…not able to say everything. But what are the odds I can get Rhisveri to hear me out?”
“Good. In time. He will ask you, but to get whatever it is you want? What is it you tried to steal? He would not tell us, but it must be a treasure beyond treasures.”
Ryoka hesitated.
“I don’t know.”
Fithea shot her a keen glance, looking up from the stone, but Ryoka genuinely didn’t know. The Dryad almost laughed.
“Those farthest travellers. I knew they played games. They play one with you, like days of old. When they danced under our boughs and brought strangers. You are in danger, Ryoka Griffin. Not from me—but from Rhisveri. He is a Wyrm and he killed his kin for his treasures.”
Ryoka’s skin prickled.
“He did? There were more Wyrms?”
“At least two. Now—one. He claims he is the last, at least in this world. You have this…currency. It has great power. Perhaps it is worth quite a lot. Would you…trade me for one? I have told you without lies or secrets what I know.”
Ryoka hesitated. She bit her tongue. She wanted to say ‘yes’, and earn Fithea’s goodwill. But she couldn’t.
“I’m sorry.”
The Dryad flinched. Ryoka went on.
“If you have something to offer—”
“I could teach you magic. Earth magic. I could…offer you many goods. I am rich. They gave me a royal position. Gold?”
Ryoka shook her head. She was tempted by the magic, but, in this moment, she wanted only one thing.
“I must speak to Rhisveri. And I need to have something he wants. Some way of convincing him.”
“I could arrange a meeting today!”
