The truth was that Ryoka did break rules and get away with it. It was the kind of privilege, well, a Courier got. The power of knowing people.
She only wished she had Erin’s strength, which was to move them. Ryoka did get to know people. Erin? Erin could lean.
Obol and a meeting with Rhisveri. Ryoka did worry because she didn’t know what she was bargaining for. She knew what it did—sort of—and she had money, and the Faerie King clearly believed she had enough.
But Ryoka hated uncertainty. Still…as days went, she had gotten Rhisveri to commit to a meeting before winter. So that was something. She was limping back to her room.
Her body hurt. Not from running all day, but from the stresses the wind placed on it. Her [Knights] saw her to her quarters and took up position. Ryoka was about to enter the guest suite when she stopped.
Her hand on the doorknob, she remembered this morning. Surely he wouldn’t…?
She swung the door open, stepped into the entry room, and looked around. Ryoka hastened into the living room, checked the window, swung around—
“Phew.”
No Devil. She relaxed. If he had been here, she might have screamed and then tried to actually stab him. She was so grateful for Oiena’s help…
Ryoka walked towards the last door to her actual bedroom and stopped. She backed up.
“What the fuck.”
She stood there for a second. Then stared at the huge piece of parchment. Attached to the front of her door.
 
Viscount Visophecin’s offer within.
 
It was so big that in order to open the door she had to pull it off the wall. Ryoka Griffin stared at it. She was half-tempted to run. But she put her hand on the handle. She was prepared…
But all she saw was what looked like an office meeting presentation piece on her table. Another piece of paper.
 
Magical ring of dispelling. One charge. Use to refuse.
 
That last part was underlined. It was very clear writing, not cursive or embellished. Ryoka turned her head as another big piece of paper on one of the walls caught her eye.
 
Enchanted doorway to place to converse. Enter to accept.
 
And below it was an arrow pointing to her closet door. Ryoka opened and closed her mouth. She looked at the Ring of Dispelling, and the doorway.
“Well, that’s simple enough. Are you listening, Duke Visophecin? I’m—oh.”
She spotted the last note on her bed.
 
I have enchanted only the closet and left the following notes. You are not under surveillance of any kind, nor have I left any other spells in place. Fithea, Sophridel, or Duke Rhisveri may vouch for this fact.
 
She stared at the piece of parchment. Ryoka ran her hand through her hair. She looked at the closet. The thing was—she appreciated this a bit? But the thing was…
Her stomach growled. Ryoka closed her eyes. She hadn’t had lunch and it was past dinner.
…She was so damn hungry.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin ate dried runner’s rations and drank stale water. Then she opened the door after taking a few deep breaths and thinking about it. She had no assurances she’d be safe—but she had a gut feeling and it was a funny change of pace.
The door was a portal. Ryoka stared at it. A literal portal that did not disclose her clothing, but a strange place beyond. Clearly out in the open. No…she spotted some kind of roof, but the wind told her it was out in the open on the other side somehow. And the floor was strange and glossy, reflecting a bit of light.
“Strange. Well, what’s the worst that can happen?”
Ryoka knocked on the side of the closet, then stepped through. She walked onto a flat ground, slippery under her bare feet, and stopped.
“Whoa.”
She stood in the ruins of a huge palace. A crumbling roof over her head. It showed starlight, the two moons high above. The walls were gutted, scorched, and nothing remained but stone.
Stone, and this curious basin. Almost closer to the bottom of some pond, but perfectly circular, slanting downwards at the edges. The floor was smooth. Smooth as marble. Ryoka bent down.
“What is this?”
She frowned as she touched the smooth, familiar substance and realized abruptly—it was glass.
A glass bowl, created by some intense heat, which had burned a circle in the middle of this—
Palace. A giant palace. Ryoka blinked around and something came to her.
Former palace. Ailendamus’ former…her eyes widened. She looked around for the figure she knew was there. Where would he be, in this suitably dramatic place? With the moonlight pouring down from the broken ceiling? Wh—
“Pft.”
Ryoka’s snort escaped her mouth. She looked around and spotted Viscount Visophecin. He sat in a huge chair, one of two, padded, dark wood, in front of a simple table with what looked like drinks and food.
But unlike every other time, he did not appear with a question. He was just there, sitting far across the glass floor, with plenty of time to spot him.
With…a giant flaming arrow pointing down at him, hovering in the air. Even a spotlight from an invisible light source, a beam of light illuminating him and the spot.
The Devil sat there, looking supremely uncomfortable, for all he contrived to be lounging in place. Ryoka walked forwards, trying not to laugh.
“…Is this some kind of new game?”
“I wish I could find it amusing. Courier Griffin, thank you for meeting with me despite this morning’s unpleasantness. I was not sure you would accept.”
Viscount Visophecin stood at once. He offered her a chair, but the Wind Runner just stood there. He looked…awkward. Not in how he acted or carried himself, but just in how she found him. She glanced up at the flaming arrow and it winked out of existence; the spotlight did not.
“I take it that’s not normal?”
His features took on a faintest wince.
“I am unaccustomed to announcing my presence. Nor do I find it enjoyable. However, to make amends…the invitation. I hope you believe that I would have respected your privacy had you refused, and attempted to contact you in three more days.”
Ryoka tilted her head at him. She had a sudden realization and tried not to laugh.
“Were you—when you appear behind me, you’re teleporting, aren’t you? Were you just sitting here and waiting for me to come through or dispel the door?”
The Viscount said nothing. Ryoka bit her lip. He looked at her, then went to sit back down. Visophecin sat with his back perfectly straight in the comfortable chair. After a second, Ryoka went to sit too. She saw he’d placed a bottle of wine, one of those spreadable cheeses, crackers, grapes, a number of snacks, all high-quality, before them.
She regretted her dried ration snacks since this looked far better. But Ryoka didn’t touch them. Visophecin spoke, slowly, looking her up and down.
“I am glad you find levity in the situation, Ryoka Griffin. I feared I had damaged any possible chance at conversation beyond all repair. Thank you. I must apologize again for my actions. I behaved in a boorish manner unbefitting me, and I did not realize my trespasses until Her Majesty corrected me. I will make formal amends.”
Ryoka was…surprised. He bowed very sincerely and then sat down again. She didn’t quite understand.
Rhisveri would never apologize. He was a Wyrm. Here was a Devil or…
Ah, misconceptions. Ryoka rested her arms on her legs. She wasn’t cold, though there was a night wind blowing through the palace. The air felt warmer here. And there was that smell of forge fires.
She couldn’t see his horns. But that grey cast to his skin…Ryoka squinted at Visophecin.
“Is this a formal meeting, or an apology, Viscount?”
“Visophecin is acceptable. It is a combination of both. You are free to leave at any time you wish. I can teleport you back to your rooms in a moment.”
“I…see.”
She thought he was growing less uncomfortable now she had sat down. Visophecin didn’t smile. Nor did he move much. He was no fidgeter. His features were not blank—but muted.
“If you would like me to do anything to further pay amends for my actions, please let me know what I can do.”
Ryoka looked at him quizzically.
“You’re sorry? I can accept you didn’t understand how it looked. You’re…an immortal, Viscount Visophecin. Aren’t you?”
“I am.”
He never blinked. His orange-yellow eyes were fixed on her. Square pupils. Ryoka hesitated.
“May I see your true appearance?”
“If you would like to. I shall oblige. It is rare I reveal myself. I hope my actions can prove my sincerity.”
He clicked his fingers. Visophecin sat back, and Ryoka stared.
He was the same person in height and shape, unlike Fithea, Gilaw, or the other immortals. However, now she saw a pair of fairly tall horns, curving up from his forehead. His skin was grey, not pale. He wore the exact same clothing.
And he had a tail. It hung under the seat. She looked down, wondering if he had cloven hooves, but all he had were shoes…
Shoes that looked a bit different. Longer, as if they held something within. A bit…different. With an arch?
Maybe claws? Visophecin watched Ryoka inspecting him. He was still slim. Still smelled like fire and metal. When he spoke, his teeth were noticeably sharper.
“I trust you do not find me unsettling. Inform me if you do, and I will revert back. However. I believe you are used to species foreign to this world.”
Her head snapped up. Visophecin saw the movement.
“I would prefer not to waste time, Ryoka Griffin. You and I are both aware of facts about the other. But I ask you again, before that. Will you forgive my actions?”
Her face wrinkled.
“You really are sorry? It—wasn’t that big a trespass, honestly. It was very unpleasant, but I’ve seen worse from…immortals.”
It was such a strange thing to say the word out loud. Visophecin hesitated. He looked at Ryoka. Then he slowly shook his head.
“I…am not sorry, Ryoka.”
“Oh. Well—”
“I cannot be. If I could, I believe I would be. But as you know, I am Lucifen. I am…Visophecin of House Shoel. I cannot be sorry. I cannot feel sorry for what I did. I am apologizing because that is the correct thing to do. But I am not remorseful.”
At first she thought he was just being insincere. For a second. Then Ryoka focused on how he said it.
“You can’t be?”
The Devil smiled.
“If I am honest? I quite enjoyed that, Ryoka. More than enjoyed that. I have not been so delighted in fourteen years. I would have continued. I was—enjoying myself. I am grateful to Queen Oiena. For I acted as though you and I were playing a…game. Believe me, if I had not come to my senses by your actions, Oiena’s, or my own, it would have escalated.”
Ryoka felt a ripple of goosebumps run down her arms. Visophecin looked at her.
“I cannot feel sorry for you. I recognized fully what you must have felt, once I stopped to consider the actions I took. But you are Human. And I? My people do not have such capability for emotions. For better or worse.”
Now there was an answer worthy of the horns. He sat there, eyes fixed on her. Seeing if she reacted. So sharp. Ryoka slowly nodded.
“I get it. And you’re…may I ask a question?”
“Naturally.”
“Can you feel happy? Sad? No—”
He lifted a hand.
“I can feel both. Anger, sadness, happiness—perhaps I have misphrased myself. It is not often I need to explain. I can feel the range of emotions any person of sentience does. I envy your kind’s ability to feel emotions so strongly. I seldom do. Another advantage of my species. Or weakness.”
He leaned forwards, pouring a glass of wine. He offered it to Ryoka, and she took it. Visophecin saw her inspecting the dark liquid without drinking it as he sat back. He sipped from his own cup.
“I certainly can feel any emotion I believe you might. I have checked. However. I do not feel emotions like sadness towards…you. Your people. If you bleed, if you suffer. Even what I did to you this day, I understand how you must feel. I understand it is wrong under law and how it will lead to further reactions. I cannot feel sorry for you.”
Ah. Ryoka had it.
“Sympathy. You don’t have…”
“No.”
No sympathy. No shadow, either, even under the spotlight. Reflexively, Ryoka took a drink of wine. She nearly spat it out, then relaxed.
“You wouldn’t poison the wine.”
“I would not. You are someone who must be negotiated with in good faith, Ryoka Griffin. You yourself are a Courier, and, as Rhisveri points out, an enemy of Ailendamus by your actions. Yet you represent powers we are aware of. Hence—my sincere regret for my actions.”
“Because of how you jeopardize our potential relationship.”
Ryoka had him figured out. Or so she thought. A Devil in truth; no sympathy. But a terribly sharp intellect and logic. Yet she was surprised again because Visophecin shook his head.
“Not only that. My actions reflect negatively on me. They ruin my reputation.”
“You care about something like that?”
Two eyebrows rose.
“Of course. Duke Rhisveri may be the individual you are used to, but his beliefs are not mine. I deeply care about my perception and favorability in court. I do not like to besmirch my House’s name. It behooves me to be liked.”
Ryoka’s lips quirked. He was so logical. Scary, but…she couldn’t help but quote Machiavelli.
Just to see what he’d say.
“Better to be feared than loved?”
Visophecin sat there. He sipped from his cup, regarding Ryoka as she reached for a piece of brie.
“Interesting. Why would you say that?”
Ryoka shrugged, spreading it on a cracker. She waited, but all Visophecin did was drink; he never reached for food.
“Just, uh, philosophy. If you had to choose between the two, it is better to be feared than loved, surely?”
“Why would I wish to be feared?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“Well, let’s say you were a tyrant or a ruler. If you were feared, then it’s better than being loved because in times of crisis, someone who’s feared has an edge on someone who’s loved. Obviously that’s if you had to choose. So that’s, um…what’s the quote…”
The Viscount was just watching her. Not blankly, but thinking. He smiled.
“Fascinating. You are quoting someone, but I have never heard that sentiment expressed exactly in such words. I do enjoy discussions of morality. Feared. Loved. Better to be feared? I would never wish that. Only loved, and even then…only vaguely. Admired, as I am now, rather. A respected Viscount. I would rather neither, even as a ruler.”
“Really. But why not either?”
Ryoka chewed down her food. She wondered if Machiavelli could explain better—most definitely. The Viscount gave her a faint smile.
