“Either assumes I desire direct power. Either assumes I am a [King] or ruler or someone in power, and assumes I must effect control through loyalty or fear. It is a simple statement. It has no bearing on me. I wish neither love nor fear. I am simply content to be largely invisible. Or have you not seen how Rhisveri and we manage Ailendamus? That is ideal, to me.”
“Ah. Right. Sorry. I was just, uh, quoting philosophy at random. Silly of me.”
Visophecin shook his head.
“Please continue to do so. Smalltalk is quite enjoyable. Yet I believe you and I have deeper matters to resolve. If you are willing to speak to me, and you understand my regret, perhaps we may discuss the reason you came here.”
Ryoka paused, a bit of wine and cheese in her mouth.
“You mean, Rhisveri’s…”
“Treasure. Yes. Which I believe somehow pertains to Erin Solstice. To Liscor. Why else would you have made attempts to heal her? With a Potion of Regeneration no less. It follows, then, that because it failed, you were made aware via your unique allies of something Rhisveri owns. His treasure, that you failed to steal and he hunted you at great cost to obtain.”
He knew. Ryoka realized she was giving everything away by her reactions, but she suspected that was inevitable. He already knew.
“Do you know what…?”
“No. Nor am I privy to Rhisveri’s thoughts. But you have come to Ailendamus on behalf of great powers. Your very presence has dragged House Veltras into this war. I am not as foolish as Rhisveri to think you should be killed. I believe that would make enemies of a number of unknown powers. And I do not make enemies lightly.”
His eyes glittered as he took another sip from his wine. Ryoka was silent. This was perfectly laid out, and made sense to her too.
“So…what is the point of this?”
He sighed.
“The reason I sought you out was to gauge your personality, your abilities. I have made a rare mistake in how I acted. Principally, I would have preferred to establish trust. A relationship of understanding which can be resolved lead to all parties’ benefit. I believe that will be—difficult.”
Ryoka had to agree.
“Aside from how we met, Visophecin. If I can be blunt—I’m not exactly safe with Rhisveri’s wrath hovering over me. I need what he, uh, has. And you’re part of Ailendamus. On the opposite side.”
“Interesting. What makes you believe we are opposed?”
Ryoka sat back.
“Well, you’ve kidnapped me and Sammial Veltras. Ailendamus is known for making war on other parties, and Rhisveri wants to kill me for trying to steal items.”
Visophecin nodded. He lifted a finger.
“It might be beneficial for all parties to release Sammial Veltras. Rhisveri’s grudge against you may well be settled. If so, neither you nor Sammial Veltras are hostages of Ailendamus. Your last point refers to Ailendamus’ national policy. Which nation do you support that places you against us?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“I—well, maybe Calanfer? I’m not part of any nation. But Ailendamus makes war and costs a lot of lives!”
“Is that unique to Ailendamus? I believe Tyrion Veltras nearly launched a war between Drakes and Humans. You regard him as an ally, and he was apparently close enough to propose to you.”
Ryoka’s ears turned red. She tried to think. Damn. She shouldn’t have had any wine.
“No. That’s not untrue. But I haven’t said I’m fine with Tyrion Veltras’ actions. I just find Ailendamus to be…a threat.”
Viscount Visophecin nodded.
“An existential one.”
“Sort of. Tyrannies and vast empires lead to terrible deeds. Warcrimes, corruption, slavery…”
Ryoka Griffin hesitated. Because she said that and it was true, historically. But she hadn’t seen that in Ailendamus. Visophecin saw the hesitation.
“You are speaking in general. Tell me, Ryoka. What do you see in Ailendamus that directly, visibly conflicts with your sense of morality? You spoke of evil. What in Ailendamus is evil?”
The Courier was silent for a long time. Mulling it over.
“…Your wars of aggression. I disagree with how I’ve been treated, even as a thief. The fact that Rhisveri is eager to kill, and that he nearly killed Sammial when we first appeared in front of him. The fact that he controls the throne, and you do, has bad historical precedents.”
Visophecin nodded to each point. He looked at the table, noticing how fast Ryoka had eaten all the cheese and crackers. He reached for something, and offered it to her.
“May I present you with a hanadrid salad? From the Hanadrid region. Note the dressing, if you are so inclined. I hope you will sample at least a bite.”
Ryoka blinked, but took some of the dish. She saw what looked like a kind of chickpea, mixed with your typical greens, but apparently the big lure of hanadrid salad was a big focus away from the sweets. The only one she counted were some pieces of apple; there was tomato, yellat, fresh cucumber…
The dressing was amazing. Delicious. Ryoka thought it was one of the top 5 dressings she’d ever had, including all the fancy ones. She blinked.
“This is so good. It’s got a bit of a spice to it, it’s tangy—it goes perfectly with all the salad ingredients.”
She looked up and saw Visophecin smile.
“I am glad you think so. Hanadrid is one of the regions House Shoel has an interest in. All the ingredients come from the farms and the salad is a staple across that region of Ailendamus’ kingdom. The variance comes from Veil Tomatoes, which were imported from Noelictus, yellats from Chandrar, and native crops to the region. You see, the diversification of vegetables and sundry dishes was a focus forty years back.”
Ryoka took another bite of salad, eyebrows raised. What was this apropos of? But she listened. Visophecin went on, like some food historian.
“The previous salads and staple meals served across Ailendamus were serviceable…but with our magical supplement program, the capital received complaints about the taste. Thus, it was my initiative to create a contest to create a staple salad and dressing. Over ten thousand participants competed, and the contest of creating new dishes Ailendamus can claim as its own goes on to this day.”
“That’s…impressive.”
Ryoka had to own it was a good salad. Not the best in the world. But Visophecin read her expression.
“Ryoka, I will inform you that I did not request a palace [Chef] to prepare that dish. I requested one from a local inn and I am gratified that a Courier finds it palatable.”
Ryoka looked down at the salad.
“Oh. That is good. So this, uh, was to improve cuisine across Ailendamus?”
The Devil nodded.
“And to disguise the alchemical supplements. The dressing is comprised in part of a powder sold across the nation, subsidized by the crown. It is, I am told, very edible. We were forced to improve the taste, as apparently the alchemical ingredients, such as insect shells, were notable in previous spice mixes.”
Ryoka choked on her salad.
“The what?”
“Insects. Among other alchemical ingredients. Ailendamus sells national spice packets that contain mana restoratives, physical supplements, and so on. The idea comes from Drath, although we cannot afford to copy their pills and tonics. Yet.”
Ryoka stared at her salad and pushed the plate back.
“—That’s what I meant. You’re a group of immortals controlling the kingdom. Doing whatever you want.”
“And that is the crux of why you find yourself opposed to us.”
“Yes.”
Visophecin nodded. He regarded Ryoka, like a puzzle. Ryoka stared at the salad. After a while, the Devil spoke. He sat back in the spotlight, taking a drink from his goblet.
“What bothers you about the fact that Ailendamus gives its populace alchemical supplements? They have no side-effects aside from improving the quality of health among the people.”
“You don’t tell them you’re doing it. Don’t the people have a right to know what they’re eating?”
Visophecin raised his brows.
“Do they have a right?”
“Surely everyone has a right to, oh, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, a right not to be attacked, shelter, food…”
“Naturally. That is the foundation of good governance. Nothing you have said contradicts Ailendamus’ own laws.”
“Yes, but—! They don’t know who’s really ruling them. They have no say in the decisions that get made.”
“The Court of Masks allows their opinions to be heard. A [Commoner] can rise to a position of office short of the crown on merit. I do not believe other kingdoms do the same. In fact, I know they do not. No nation in Terandria, and seldom elsewhere in the world, has as much opportunity to rise.”
“Except to the very top where immortals rule and never die.”
Visophecin shook his head.
“Of course not. I will not trust a mortal man or woman to make the right decisions alone. Itorin II is a capable ruler. He makes most of his decisions autonomously. However, Rhisveri is the Wyrm behind the throne. I am one of his peers, if advisor to Rhisveri. You disagree with this.”
“I’m only Human.”
The Devil laughed. He sat forwards, looking at Ryoka.
“But what else can you tell me is wrong with this nation, Ryoka? Show me what is evil besides the truth only you know. Forget that one secret. You have met Baron Regalius and the Order of the Hydra, which accepts commoners. Every nation decried that as a lessening of the authority of [Knights]. Rhisveri and I pushed for the change because we saw that it was not only equitable, it would make Ailendamus stronger.”
“I—yes. However…you crush other nations. It’s bloody and kills hundreds of thousands. At least tens of thousands. I only need to point to one action.”
Visophecin regarded her and sat back, frowning, as if he hadn’t thought of that.
“Ah. Of course. Empathy for people you have never met. That is fair.”
He shrugged.
“Alas, I do not think I can convince you Ailendamus is perfect.”
Ryoka narrowed her eyes at him.
“I know it isn’t. This nation is set up to support Rhisveri and you all. It may be…good in some ways. The people are not evil, some of the laws I like. However—it’s for you all. Rhisveri threatened to kill a child. I cannot believe he doesn’t kill more people whenever they get on his nerves.”
Visophecin sighed, vexed at the Wyrm.
“Rhisveri. Would it surprise you to learn that he rarely attacks anyone, even irate as he can be? He recognizes value in the palace’s staff, and if he detests someone, he makes a point of removing himself or them from interactions.”
Ryoka bit her lip.
“…So there’s nothing that immortals do that would bother me at all. You all just live in secret and none of you have any…unlawful activities? If you’d like to tell me that, Visophecin, I’d be happy to accept it. If you swear in the way I choose.”
The Devil sat there. He drummed his fingers on the armrest of his chair. He stared at Ryoka, and his lips moved.
“I would prefer to lie. However, I have already incurred your distrust. Moreover, given Rhisveri’s penchant, I cannot trust he will support any lie I tell. The truth is a risk. I choose to give it to you, in the hopes it will resolve your distrust. And the truth, Ryoka Griffin, is that there is one objectionable group to your sensibilities. Not all immortals were made to coexist with other species. Rhisveri eats, but he may eat meat of any kind. However. The Lucifen are…specific. You have noticed I do not eat, but drink. I may enjoy foods of all kinds. But I eat one thing.”
He looked at her and Ryoka went pale. Her hand slipped to her Faeblade. Visophecin watched her.
“Not you.”
“You eat people?”
He frowned.
“I thought you knew. Interesting. You knew me from the start. But you did not know…what do you know of my kind?”
Ryoka saw him lean forwards with genuine interest. She shook her head.
“You eat—what do you eat? Their souls?”
“Their…”
Visophecin looked at her, blankly. He shook his head.
“I eat their flesh. Their bones. It is not pleasant, I am told. Rhisveri does not eat Humans or half-Elves or Dwarves or any other species. I, and my people, do. But, Ryoka Griffin. We only consume once a month. And we eat murderers. We eat criminals. We eat predators and killers that Ailendamus judges worthy of death.”
Ryoka was edged so far back in her chair that she was in danger of tipping over.
“Why? For strength? Because you have to? That makes no sense!”
“I believe it has something to do with the nature of people. As for strength? Do you grow stronger if you eat an entire turkey? I wish it were that simple.”
Visophecin looked a bit offended. He looked at Ryoka.
“We eat what we must. Lucifen are predators of people. We are not the only ones.”
Ryoka thought of Vampires. And yet they only took blood! Even so…she shivered.
“And I’m supposed to be okay with that?”
He stood up.
“I thought you might understand. Courier Griffin, listen to my words again. Ailendamus struck a deal with House Shoel. I was there. In exchange for my position, our aid, we are given the people who are bound for the executioner’s block. Men and women of any species who do what you find abhorrent. Last month, I ate a woman who stabbed her husband and two children to death. Would you have rather she lived?”
His eyes glinted.
“There are worse people still. Such that even I felt I did the world a great service by eating them. Would you like me to list their crimes?”
He began to. Ryoka made him stop. Her stomach roiled.
“I understand that! But in any other society, they’d be locked up.”
“For the rest of their lives?”
“Yes! Or humanely executed. If you can’t prove beyond a shadow of a doubt they were criminals—”
Visophecin raised his eyebrows.
“…And if I could? If I personally inspected each one under my magic to ensure they were guilty, and they simply…fell asleep? If we simply disposed of the remains, would that still offend you?”
Ryoka couldn’t respond. Visophecin raised his eyebrows, and then stood. He turned to stare at the sky.
“Well. They do not fall asleep. They do not die peacefully. So you are welcome to your unease. I will not say Ailendamus is without dark deeds. And they are mine.”
He turned his head. And then he smiled, and Ryoka was reminded of the way he grinned at her terror. He spoke, seeming to revel in the look she gave him.
“They broke laws that are not difficult to abide by. Do not murder. Do not steal, or beat, or hurt each other. They did such things that I care not, but if it were done to my kind, I would hunt them down. So their victims know they die. And I feel nothing at all because I must eat. No. I relish that I end them in misery.”
He pointed at her.
“We have reached an impasse, Ryoka Griffin. You see all the secrets Ailendamus bears. I would have you accept them.”
“You, eating people? Rhisveri?”
