“Well…he’s second only to Rhisveri. That’s what Fithea says. He’s a magic-user. Without levels. No one knows how old he is. He wasn’t rescued; he showed up with his people.”
The Wind Runner stared out from under the bed like the world’s lamest boogeyman.
“And Rhisveri just let him in?”
“Not immediately. Visophecin’s smart. He advises Rhisveri. He struck a deal. He loves deals. He’s got contracts, too.”
“Oh shit.”
Menorkel went on, glancing at the door, a bit uneasy now, despite himself.
“The thing is…Fithea’s sort of right. I don’t know why you freaked out, but you don’t want to make Visophecin mad. I don’t know how you’d do that; he’s never angry. I once accidentally spilled paint all over his clothes and he just told me it was okay. He even helped me paint my room.”
“What did it cost you?”
“Nothing. Oh. I did a small favor for him, I think.”
The Titan scratched his head. He shrugged.
“He’s nice. But Fithea says don’t make him angry. Rhisveri did that once and apparently we had to evacuate our old hideout.”
“And where was that?”
“The previous palace. Um. Are you going to come out of…?”
Since Menorkel was so huge, his bed was actually quite spacious underneath. Ryoka thought she could live the rest of her life here. It wouldn’t be a bad life. He could bring her food and she could just lie here until she died.
“Okay. Okay. Listen, Menorkel. Maybe he’s not what I think he is. He just…really sounds like something I know. And that’s bad news.”
The Titan scratched at his head. But he had no context.
Okay. It was more than just religion. In fact, it was anti-religion, which was another kind of religion.
But let’s say you were Ryoka Griffin over the many years she had inflicted suffering onto her parents and the world at large before she came to this world. And that was Ryoka Griffin with a hundred different edges.
Ryoka Griffin who partied, who was a rebel, who was ‘batman’ as a little girl and scared her parents at night. She had okay phases she wasn’t completely ashamed of.
But there were other, uh…moments. Moments Ryoka would think of and spend the next hour with a pillow over her head or trying to smack the memory out of her skull. If you wanted to know who tagged walls and thought that changed the world? That was her.
If you wanted to know who stole cars and raced them? That was her. If you wanted to know who experimented with anything from the world of goths to punk?
That was her.
And let’s say there was a Ryoka at, oh, fifteen. Height of her rebellion. Who had gotten tossed out of the reform-camps. Once set a tent on fire…and you can’t pray away what she had. Her parents had tried, and gotten other people to try for them since they weren’t actually the most spiritual types.
Maybe. Maaaaybe Ryoka Griffin at 15, in response to all this well-meaning religiosity, decided she wasn’t just an atheist. God wasn’t just dead a la Nietzsche, but there was someone even better. And she just happened to…make an offering for her soul to the devil as a Satanist.
It was just a kid thing, but it was hitting her now. And the thing about ‘selling your soul’ was that you didn’t really get too bothered by it except on those days when you wondered ‘what if’, but you really thought about it when you came to a world where there were literal dead things who wanted to touch you around a fire.
When you learned that souls and ghosts existed, and you met a man with no shadow who smelled like hell and wanted to shake your hand.
Ryoka felt it was a bit understandable, even if she couldn’t convey that to Menorkel.
The Titan was rather understanding of it all. Ryoka had a view of the closed door. Menorkel went to check it.
“I can go see if Visophecin is gone.”
“Please. But close the—”
Too late. Menorkel was already outside and trotting off. Ryoka lay under the bed. She stared at the open door. But…this was stupid.
Visophecin was a Viscount, not some stupid amalgamation of all her weird childhood issues. Like Vampires, there was a nuance to how stories played out. She stared at the door, and around Menorkel’s rather plain room. But then—she happened to know he had a singing room where all his real possessions were stored.
So Ryoka climbed out from under the bed. She shook her head, sheepishly.
“I’m being an idiot. I’m just…he’s probably not the Devil. Just think of the stereotypes. Don’t shake his hand. Don’t promise anything. It’s not worse than Rhisveri, right? He’s not…necessarily…inherently evil.”
Ryoka inhaled, exhaled. She was calming down when someone spoke behind her.
“And what does ‘evil’ mean?”
The Wind Runner’s head turned.
There he sat. On Menorkel’s bed, adjusting one of his shoes. Visophecin glanced up.
“You have an interesting impression of me, Miss Ryoka Griffin. It makes me more interested in you. I don’t normally debate philosophy with people I’ve just met. But it could be a fascinating icebreaker.”
He looked at her horrified expression. Chuckled.
“I’m sorry. I tend to appear where I’m invited. I don’t bother with doors. Can we start—”
He watched as Ryoka didn’t so much as walk, or even shuffle, but slide over to the door and out of it. Visophecin blinked.
“That was incredible footwork. I have never seen someone shuffle their feet like that.”
The Viscount rubbed at his chin. He was smooth-shaven, incidentally. Not a hair to be seen, let alone stubble. Interesting. He stood up, slowly. Because there was something fascinating here.
Ryoka Griffin didn’t know it. But if he was conforming to a lot of her stereotypes by accident…she was conforming to some of his. It had been a long time…no.
“They told me once it was like this. She knows the old game. Is that what she’s playing?”
He smiled. His eyes lit up. Rarely had Visophecin ever said it. But he thought it now.
That might be fun.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin found the Knights of the Thirsting Veil waiting for her outside the Immortal’s Wing. They snapped to attention.
Two of them she knew well. Chorisa and Lacres. Their squad-leader, Chorisa, glared suspiciously at Ryoka.
“Have you caused any trouble, Miss Ryoka?”
That was a question that was entirely appropriate for anyone who knew anything about, er, Ryoka. The Wind Runner certainly looked guilty. She was wide-eyed, panting.
“I uh—no. I just left Fithea—”
“Lady Fithea.”
“Whatever. I left early. It’s all fine. I um—I’d like to be put in my room, please. No—no—”
Ryoka reconsidered instantly.
“Maybe somewhere with lots of people? No, somewhere in bright light? Is there running water anywhere? A stream? Can I buy some silver? Uh…”
Would making a cross help? Ryoka knew she was panicking, but on the other hand, if she made a cross out of silver and Visophecin said it made him feel uncomfortable?
That was when she was going to flip out for real. Ryoka glanced around. She was expecting Visophecin to appear at any moment.
“You haven’t offended anyone, have you?”
Chorisa was glaring at Ryoka. The Wind Runner hesitated. She had a kind of truce with the Thirsting Veil Knights. They didn’t get on her back, and she was at least honest.
“Maybe?”
They groaned, but looked at the Immortal’s Wing.
“We can’t enter…who did you offend?”
“No one! I mean, I didn’t offend him in any serious way. I just—Visophecin’s his name?”
Dame Chorisa had been eying Ryoka’s stomach and clearly wondering how much trouble you got into for beating prisoners, but at his name, she stiffened.
“You mean…Viscount Visophecin? Of House Shoel?”
“Oh come on! That’s not his House!”
The [Knights] exchanged a look. They conferred, quickly.
“The Viscount is…how did you offend him? We may have to issue an apology…”
“The Duke will hear of this. House Shoel? If they lodge a protest with our order…”
Ryoka was looking over her shoulder.
“What’s, uh—the Viscount’s a high rank. I just, uh—ran off from Viscount Visophecin.”
“Why?”
“I can’t say. What’s—what’s he like?”
“Extremely well-respected. I can’t believe he offered you a reason to be offended. He’s not impolite. Did he flirt with you?”
Dame Chorisa gave Ryoka a searching look. The Wind Runner colored.
“No! I just—look. I’m just going to walk away. It’s my problem.”
She began stalking forwards, looking back over her shoulder at the Immortal’s Wing. The Thirsting Veil Knights followed her.
“What is wrong with the Viscount?”
“I don’t know! You tell me!”
Chorisa looked at Ryoka.
“Do you have a fever, Miss Griffin?”
“Maybe? That would explain everything! I—”
The Thirsting Veil Knights tried to interrogate her, but Ryoka was being honest and it was hard for them to figure out why—the truth was she had just freaked out and refused to talk to Visophecin. They still interrogated her, but Ryoka was making tracks and they returned to crowded corridors soon enough.
Servants and guests were all looking at the Wind Runner who was the topic of this morning’s gossip. They eyed the young woman as she passed, and that only added to her paranoia.
Ryoka was picking up speed, but she saw a man striding towards her as she shot through the main palace. She relaxed, slightly, as the man raised his hand.
“Miss Ryoka! A fair day to you!”
A fixed figure in the palace’s courts, Baron Regalius, smiled, and got a weak one from the Wind Runner. Relieved, Ryoka slowed down.
“Baron Regalius.”
“Regalius to my friends. And I hope I can count to call you that.”
He flashed her a winning smile, which made Ryoka stop and follow. They strolled along a hallway with many windows as Ryoka wiped at her brow.
“Sorry. Thank you, and yes, Regalius! Um—I’m just a bit harried.”
“I can imagine, with this morning’s gossip. They say all kinds of things, but I hear His Majesty and the royal family were taken with your…what was it, tricking?”
“What? Oh, yes. That happened.”
The [Baron] smiled.
“Ah, well, children do love Couriers. I think that explains the rest. It should die down shortly; unsubstantiated rumor does that.”
Ryoka had no idea what he meant, but it seemed the Baron was supporting her…for something. He strode along proudly in a show of solidarity. She nodded.
“Thank you…?”
“And what is distressing you at this moment? An unfortunate encounter? Aforementioned rumors? You know, I think many of the Court of Masks realized who you were—you were a new mask. But they were taken with you, for all the hubbub you caused. Maybe you would like to meet them there, or even talk to some acquaintances of mine? They are fiercely interested in you…”
“I—”
This was not the time for Ryoka to consider politics. She kept looking over her shoulder.
“I’m sorry, Regalius. I just had a spook. I don’t know if—no, you might be the one to ask. Do you know a Viscount…Visophecin?”
Regalius’ brows snapped together.
“Viscount Visophecin? Naturally. Of one of the finest houses of Ailendamus—and I do mean that in the sense that we are a young kingdom. But he has roots that go back beyond living memory. His is an old house.”
He chuckled. Ryoka’s hair stood up on end.
“Right. I’m sure he does. Can you…tell me anything about him? I met him, but I think I, uh, offended him?”
Regalius waved that away.
“I am sure he takes no offense. Visophecin. I could tell you he is regarded as a keen mind, one of the most incisive. A threat on any floor, almost worthy of the Lord of the Dance. Finely spoken. He’s gone through the Court of Masks, but I think he doesn’t care for the anonymity. Mainly, though, he’s a famously sharp mercantile mind and—I cannot stress that this is no slight—he’s made deals to make even the best [Merchants] envious.”
“He—he has a lot of deals, huh?”
“A man of his word. Friends with Duke Rhisveri; he is not always at the palace, but I have nothing but good to say of him—though I personally am not close. I hope you are not bothered by anything he might have said or done. It’s quite a coincidence.”
“You’re telling me.”
Regalius adjusted his lapels.
“On many levels, Ryoka. I met the Viscount in a dressing room this morning—he does take care of his appearance. And then I was heading to my midday repast when he asked if I would apologize to you for any slights of his. I can’t imagine he did anything intentionally…”
Regalius stopped because Ryoka had walked right into one of the decorative pillars. She whirled around.
“He did what?”
“Just now. I passed him in the hallway and he seemed to know we’d meet.”
Baron Regalius turned innocently. He saw Ryoka’s wide-eyed look, and stopped.
“It was just a passing mention. Did you just meet with him? If I can smooth things over…he asked if you had any dinner plans? But I can see it might be more serious than I…Ryoka?”
The Thirsting Veil Knights were looking at each other. Baron Regalius had come from ahead of Ryoka a few minutes after she’d left that isolated wing. Still, there were any number of reasons Visophecin had been ahead of her. Ryoka looked at Regalius.
“I—it might be a misunderstanding? I just—I’m startled. Wary of him.”
“He does have a reputation for keenness. Great friend, mortal enemy. I can understand that, Miss Griffin, but the Viscount is a man to count if he is predisposed to you—and he seems to have taken a shine to you. Why don’t we discuss the issue?”
“I…”
“As a matter of fact, there he is! Viscount! The timing! Are you perhaps—”
Ryoka whirled. No way. No damn way. But there he was. The Viscount stepped out of a dressing room, tugging a glove up. He looked up, as if he had just spotted them, and smiled.
“Baron, you found her before me. What a happy coincidence. Miss Griffin?”
“I—I—”
He walked towards her, slowly, hand raising. Now—was there a glitter in his eyes. Eyes burning orange, like the hell she’d always sort of hoped existed? Regalius beamed.
“There now, Ryoka. May I reintroduce you t—”
Ryoka turned and went sprinting down the hallway. Dame Chorisa barked.
“Hey!”
People who had already been watching her out of the corners of their eyes turned. They saw the Wind Runner running down the corridor, dodging around servants, pursued by four Thirsting Veil Knights.
What was going on? Ryoka rounded the corner, nearly slammed into an older woman wheeling a cart forwards. The woman recoiled and nearly fell over backwards. Ryoka reached for her—
“Excuse me, Miss.”
Visophecin caught the servant. He smiled at Ryoka. The Wind Runner recoiled.
Dame Chorisa skidded to a stop and did a double-take when she saw the Viscount. The man carefully helped the servant back to her feet as she apologized. He looked at Ryoka. She stared at him.
