Fithea leapt to her feet with surprising speed, but Ryoka was convinced by her actions that it wasn’t worth a single obol. She shook her head and Fithea looked heartbroken.
“May I at least hold this? I feel…alive.”
“Of course.”
The Dryad held the stone. Ryoka felt wretched, but she pressed on.
“Can you—tell me about the other immortals here? Or is it all secret?”
“I can tell you. I will tell you, in hopes you will think kindly of me. I do not think this stone can change me, but…I will tell you everything I can. Gilaw! Gilaw, come here.”
The giant woman with dark skin stalked into the room at Fithea’s order. She looked like she was, oh, thirty, but she leaned over and sat next to Fithea, resting her weight on the Dryad’s shoulders.
Despite the size and apparent weight difference, Fithea never moved. She stroked Gilaw’s untidy hair.
“Gilaw is the newest of us. Youngest. She was wild, just a girl, when she came here. I raised her.”
“How old is she?”
“Sixty three years. Very young. She looks older because we had to change her shape. But most of that time was wild. She does not speak, either, but already they call her a ‘Great Knight’. She is strong, to them. Like half-Giants.”
Gilaw snuggled closer, reaching for the stone. Fithea stopped her, but Ryoka coughed.
“She can hold them. Just not…take them.”
Fithea nodded.
“Gilaw will give it back. She likes shiny things, though. Let her have only one. You will give it back, Gilaw.”
The woman made an odd calling sound in her throat. Ryoka stared, but she realized—Gilaw was trying to make a bird-sound with Human vocal cords. She inspected Ryoka’s pile, and plucked a single stone from it.
Air.
There was something simple about the way the two held the stones and found them out of all the others. They understood, even without Ryoka’s sight, what they held. Gilaw was more fascinated by the stone and writing. Fithea turned to her.
“Thank Ryoka Griffin. Apologize for kicking her so many times, Gilaw. She is a guest.”
The Great Knight turned her head, and made a noise of protest. Fithea glared.
“Apologize, Gilaw. Say, ‘thank you’.”
Like a mother and a child, Ryoka saw Gilaw abruptly turn and hop away. Fithea looked at her.
“Gilaw.”
About to spring away, Gilaw leapt and went splat—because a number of root-like tendrils had just snagged her. She thrashed, then twisted her head uncannily around. There was a crack and she winced. But she opened her mouth.
“thANK.”
It was more of a squawk than anything. Fithea didn’t wince, but Ryoka did. The Dryad released the Griffin and, sulkily, Gilaw sat cross-legged with them.
“Er…you’re welcome, Gilaw. It’s fine. You don’t have to apologize. You—”
You’re a Griffin, huh?
That was the stupidest thing Ryoka could have said, but what was immortal small-talk anyways? She thought carefully.
“Is it hard, being in a Human body?”
The Griffin looked up. She peered at Ryoka, then nodded. She squinted, screwed her face up, then opened her mouth and leaned over to Ryoka. The Wind Runner tilted her head and Gilaw screamed into it.
“Taw-kii-nn! Iii-zz. Hra-di!”
Each syllable sounded more like what a bird might conceivably scream. Ryoka was in no mood to appreciate the odd phonetic way Gilaw tried to speak.
Ryoka was deaf. Fithea herself patted Gilaw and offered her some honeycomb as a reward. Gilaw ate it messily.
“Gilaw is sharper than she seems to some, but she is young. I’m sorry she struck you. She did not like you.”
“Because I was a thief? I understand…”
“No. Because she thinks you’ve stolen your name.”
Ryoka Griffin hesitated until she saw Gilaw glare at her.
“Oh—I uh—I didn’t choose my family’s name, Gilaw. I’m sorry if it offended you, but we don’t have Griffins where I come from.”
Gilaw slapped her chest.
My name! It was rather like talking to Mrsha. Fithea looked exasperated. Gilaw hunted around and pulled up something. She offered it to Ryoka. Ryoka stared at…a blade of grass.
“You uh, want me to change my name to Ryoka Grass?”
Gilaw nodded. Ryoka didn’t know what to say.
“…I’m sorry, but I’ll keep my name.”
Gilaw glowered. Then you have chosen stomach-kicks. But, mindful of Fithea, she contented herself with eating.
“There are more groups in this place. Not all stay at the palace; few do, in fact. But there are not many of us. Some are found; others simply find us. Many stand out. You have met Menorkel and the Merfolk. Come here, you two.”
They did, meekly. Menorkel, nine feet tall in his shrunken form, grinned nervously at Ryoka. She recalled his singing and smiled at him.
“I did. I’m sorry about the Merfolk. Menorkel though—he has an amazing voice.”
“Thank you.”
“No, it’s—”
Two voices, both Menorkel’s, replied at the same time. Menorkel blushed as the Merboy, Nemed, introduced himself. Fithea’s look wasn’t entirely disapproving, just…warning.
“Menorkel. Rhisveri will not approve of you singing when you should have been practicing. You may do both, but you must practice.”
“I…hate learning to use a sword, Fithea. I don’t feel like becoming a Great Knight.”
Menorkel drew on the ground while his other hands picked up snacks. He was like the Antinium, but even they didn’t have his level of coordination. One of his heads looked at Fithea; the other kept looking at Ryoka, fascinated with her. Fithea was scolding him.
“You have natural talent. You must learn to defend yourself, even if you will not become a Great Knight. Menorkel is almost as young as Gilaw. Only two decades older. And unlike her, he grows far slower. He was a boy, but now he is growing.”
The Titan blushed, and Ryoka smiled at him. Then her smile faded.
“You do teach them how to fight?”
Fithea looked at Ryoka and nodded.
“If Ailendamus were to fall, or if we were uncovered—they must all learn. To defend themselves. We have seen sanctuaries die, the older of us. We are not fools. Rhisveri makes Ailendamus to find and keep us safe, but it is only one nation.”
“Then he is doing this for you all as well as for his ambitions?”
That was what Ryoka struggled with. It was so…charitable, for the Wyrm. Fithea smiled thinly.
“He is selfish. It is mainly for him. But he is no fool. Rather than fight with us, he works with us, although he must be the first among all. One last place for all of us.”
“But to do that he will make war on innocent kingdoms. Ailendamus has destroyed other kingdoms, Lady Fithea.”
Menorkel shifted and Gilaw opened one eye to glower at Ryoka. Fithea frowned.
“It…is true. But some kingdoms made war on Ailendamus. And this latest war is…”
“Ambitious. Is that a bad thing? Calanfer has a Dragonthrone. It would be a grand sanctuary for our kind, if Rhisveri thought merely in those terms. The truth is that he will one day try to take over all of Terandria. Overthrow every royal throne. Perhaps the world. Or perhaps only one continent. There is such a thing as overreaching, but Ryoka Griffin, that is merely the ambition of a tyrant. And Rhisveri is one of many. That does not mean we are without reason.”
A voice interrupted the Dryad. Ryoka Griffin, Menorkel, Nemed and Gilaw all looked up. Fithea frowned, and Gilaw hid behind Menorkel. Ryoka’s head snapped around and she saw him.
Her first impression of Viscount Visophecin was that Baron Regalius had a twin who liked dark colors. Not that they were alike in height. Visophecin was tall, even lean, and his skin had a darker cast than Regalius’.
His hair was almost jet black, but tinted the slightest bit blue. It was swept forwards, and he had a single earring on sharp features. His lips looked bloodless, but you barely noticed that because his eyes were an orange yellow, bright, both focused on Ryoka.
He was sitting with one leg hanging down from one of the boulders, long, dark clothing in that pattern based on shadows draped around him. Long-sleeved jacket and pants that covered every inch of his body, even dark gloves. He had the most modern dress Ryoka had seen, which still somehow contrived to be more reminiscent of old nobility crossed with a modern suit.
However, what struck her in that moment, as the immortal looked at her, were two things. The man was at first a handsome [Lord], some kind of reclusive eccentric, unlike Tyrion, who clearly was athletic.
…Until she saw a flicker behind the illusion. Until she smelled something odd.
Like the metal from forge-fires. Like steel, burning, crossed with a spice. A fragrance of its own, rather appealing—but only one part was from actual cologne. Ryoka stared at Visophecin and had a thought:
His pupils are square.
Of all the things to notice in that moment—that was one of the least consequential. But Ryoka had a thing about eyes. They might not be windows to the soul, but they were revealing. From Teriarch to Belavierr…she sat up and stared at him as Fithea turned.
“Visophecin. Why are you here?”
“To meet with Ryoka Griffin. It was past time I met Rhisveri’s thief. And you, Fithea, are too open with secrets.”
The man stood, straightening his coat. How long had he been here? Ryoka hadn’t even seen him come through the door. Instantly, she had Belavierr-vibes on her ‘how much trouble am I in this time’ scale. But she didn’t immediately get worried, although a subtle alarm bell had begun ringing in her head just from his appearance. It was so…clichéd.
But Ryoka didn’t get it yet. Not until Fithea stood.
“She is my guest. Make your greetings and deals later, Visophecin. Ryoka Griffin, be wary of this one. He stands second to Rhisveri in power. He is…cunning. He may not mean you harm, but you are as selfish as Rhisveri, Visophecin.”
Ryoka’s eyebrows rose. Something about the way Fithea worded that…Visophecin dipped his head.
“Is that wrong? I am upfront with my desires, Fithea. If you wish me gone, I will leave. I merely ask that Ryoka Griffin let me prevail on her later.”
He turned to her. Ryoka hesitated.
“I…of course?”
Visophecin strode over with two of his curiously languid strides. He held out a hand.
“Later, then. We have an agreement.”
She reached out, unthinking, to take his gloved hand. Then something went click in her head.
What is stereotypical in this world only looks that way because I’ve seen it in my world.
Like Fierre, who wore that Vampire-Goth aesthetic sometimes and had pointy teeth, red eyes, and whose mother could have fit into any Halloween group. But what would Visophecin…?
She focused on his odd eyes. Perfectly square. That smell was odd too. It was surprisingly nice. But who deliberately came up with a scent to remind people of a forge? Of…fire. Metal…
Then Ryoka’s eyes focused on his face. The slight grey tinge to his skin. But the kicker wasn’t that. It was that Visophecin was in the Immortal’s Wing. So he’d dropped a few of the safeguards he might normally employ. His smile was just a bit pointed, but nothing on a Vampire or Drake or Gnoll.
The real tell? The real tell was that as sunlight streamed into Fithea’s private rooms, filtering down around him and the others, Ryoka saw something. The motes of light shone down over Visophecin’s head, and they didn’t cause him to burst into flame or anything so dramatic. But she did see something; a shadow amidst the light. Ryoka stared up at Visophecin’s head. Then down. The man’s eyebrows rose.
“Well. That’s clever.”
Ryoka’s eyes jerked back up to the two small, but almost-invisible horns on his forehead. Then at the ground. And the way his shadow just completely failed to materialize.
Dark clothing. Horns on his head. Odd skin, odd eyes. Talking about ‘deals’. Smells like forgefire—which wasn’t quite brimstone, for brimstone smelled terrible. And…Ryoka eyed his posterior.
“Do you have a tail?”
Visophecin’s perfect eyebrows shot upwards.
“Incredible. Now how would you know that? I would love to talk lat—”
He reached for Ryoka’s hand. She realized she’d nearly taken his hand. His hand.
“Gyaaaaah!”
She snatched her hand back and did an amazing flying-sideways-leap-flop backwards. Menorkel nearly spat water out both his mouths as Ryoka landed, scrabbling backwards from Visophecin.
The Devil, the literal Devil, stopped, a fairly surprised look on his features. But…mild. As if true shock was beyond him. He blinked at Ryoka, as Fithea stared at the Wind Runner.
“Is something wrong?”
“Y-you’re—holy—you’re—”
Ryoka edged back as he walked over. The immortal-loving, immortophilliac, obsessed, #1 member in the immortal’s fanclub, Flamedaddy fan, Lichfather aficionado, Stitch-mom appreciating…
Ryoka Griffin, who had found something to respect in the Spider of Terandria, who was best friends with a Vampire, and on money-lending terms with the Faerie King, took one look at Viscount Visophecin. His hand.
His eyes and the shadow that wasn’t there. He stepped over.
“Can I offer you a hand up, Miss Griffin?”
He reached down and found only air. Ryoka Griffin was already sprinting towards the door. She hurtled out of it, finally an immortal too far.
Visophecin blinked. Even he hadn’t expected that. He recovered instantly, but Fithea, Menorkel, Nemed, all looked at Visophecin. Visophecin, who was still not Rhisveri, and Ryoka Griffin, who had repeatedly stood up to Rhisveri, even going as far as to tease and insult him.
…Now running for the hills. Even the immortals were stunned.
All except for Gilaw, who stared at Visophecin’s back. She thought Ryoka might deserve her name after all. The Human knew what was what.
 
——
 
It was hard to contextualize why Ryoka ran so hard. She knew in a world with Dragons and Liches and whatnot, it was not like she should have been surprised by anything.
Yet even she had her ‘this is too far’ moment. And that was right there. It was rooted in her mythos. Her mythos from Earth. Things as simple as…being told she had to go to church.
And there he was, in every story. Not Visophecin specifically. Maybe there were many of them.
“Not lots. But he’s their representative.”
“What?”
Menorkel found Ryoka hiding behind his door, demanding to know what Visophecin was. And she was really hoping it was just a coincidence. But Menorkel was not being reassuring.
“No, he’s not a Demon. He’s very specific about that. He’s one of…I don’t know. A few dozen?”
“A few dozen. And they all have horns and tails and…?”
Ryoka wondered if that made it better. She relaxed a bit. If he was one of many, he wasn’t the one. Menorkel nodded.
“Yep. I don’t know what a ‘Devil’ is.”
“Oh, good.”
“They call themselves Lucifen.”
Ryoka began to crawl under Menorkel’s bed. The Titan didn’t understand. Maybe they only had the appearance.
“So what does he do?”
