“Viscount. Is something the matter?”
“I believe Miss Griffin is simply wary of me, Dame Chorisa. I hope I can have a simple word? Miss Griffin. I do apologize for anything I have done or said!”
He held out his gloved hand, enunciating clearly for a breathless Regalius and the crowd. Ryoka stared at it.
Oh hell no. She looked up and saw Visophecin grin. Ryoka looked around, edged over, yanked a window open, and bailed out the third floor window. Dame Chorisa jumped for her and another Thirsting Veil Knight leapt…and shouted.
“Gaa—”
She dropped as she missed Ryoka, but the Wind Runner had leapt to safety and landed on the ground with the wind cushioning her fall.
“Escape! She’s escaping—”
Chorisa panicked. She whirled to ask Visophecin what was happening—she hadn’t thought Ryoka would escape like that, especially with the bracelet! But when she turned—
He was gone.
 
——
 
Ryoka raced with the wind behind her. She knew she couldn’t escape the palace, not without Rhisveri’s wrath or dying, but she shot towards a small forest in the palace grounds.
“Please don’t be here, please don’t be here—”
She stopped, panting, clutching at her chest, by a tree several dozen feet into the forest. She inhaled, and Visophecin stepped out from behind a tree.
“May I offer you a stamina draught, Miss Ryoka? Completely complimentary.”
He was there. Ryoka backed up. In the shadow of the trees, Visophecin stood. Eyes…glowing. Square pupils fixed on her. Smiling, a little glowing bottle held out.
“How are you doing that?”
“I tend to find my way around where I need to be. I’ve been told I’m impossible to outrun. But you may try. Please, Courier Griffin. A potion? You may need the energy. Absolutely free, with no obligations. What could be the harm?”
He nearly didn’t get that last part out. Ryoka turned and ran back towards the [Knights] chasing after her, glancing over her shoulder. Visophecin stood there in the shadow of the trees. Then he threw back his head and chuckled. She even got the references!
“This is too much fun.”
 
——
 
Ryoka stood in the middle of a courtyard plaza, slowly turning around. Sunlight streamed down around her and there were no hedges, ledges, statues, or anything else you could hide behind. She kept turning, not spinning, but turning in a complete circle.
Dame Chorisa looked at the other Thirsting Veil Knights standing and watching her. One of them muttered.
“…Is she alright?”
Dame Chorisa frowned.
“This is almost worse than normal.”
Ryoka relaxed after a few minutes. Okay. Okay. She had run towards this spot, after telling Dame Chorisa she was not trying to run out of the palace, just away from Visophecin. The [Knight] had debated knocking her out, and decided to humor her.
Empty plaza. Sunlight. No hiding spots. And no matter where she turned, she didn’t see him peeking out at her like some horror monster. Ryoka had heard of Facestealer and she had that thing in her nightmares, but no Visophecin.
She began to breathe. Right up until nearly four dozen people emerged from the palace and came towards her in a huge gaggle.
“There she is! Just where the Viscount said! Miss Courier? Miss Courier!”
Ryoka’s heart squeezed.
“Oh no. Hey! I’m, uh, busy! Don’t come near!”
The people didn’t understand. They were nobles, guests, walking out, opening parasols, calling her name.
“The Viscount would like a word! He’s deeply apologetic! Would you hear him out?”
“No—no thank you!”
Ryoka began jogging the other way. The group picked up the pace, but Ryoka was not above just running away from this fancy lot, and she doubted they could catch her. Still in the open, Ryoka breathed out—until she saw a second group of people striding towards her.
“Excuse me—”
A wide-eyed Wind Runner ran towards the hedge maze. She vaulted over the first wall, landed, took one look at the man smoking on a cigar and offering her one, and practically climbed back over to the other side.
She was scratching herself on branches of the hedge wall and halfway up when she heard him speak.
“How do you know me? Curious. There was a time when folk like you existed. I’m told they played glorious games.”
A glowing, red cigar tip. A smile. He looked at Ryoka. She said not a word, listening to the confused voices, the thundering footsteps of the [Knights]. She just looked at him.
How did you see him? The handsome, if enigmatic, Viscount? Ryoka saw something completely different. But she was good at perspectives. For a Human.
She thought this might be a game. It was certainly less subtle than she’d imagine the genuine article could pull off. He was smiling.
However, Ryoka’s part wasn’t imaginary. On paper, it was funny. But he truly did appear every time she turned her head. That was…one thing.
Yet what made her truly uneasy was his face. His glowing eyes danced in the shadowed hedge maze. Visophecin was smiling. With a kind of delight that surprised even himself.
“You play very well, Ryoka Griffin. I wonder though—how do you dance? I shall have to try harder.”
Ryoka hesitated. Visophecin stood up and strolled around the corner of the hedge maze. She cursed, leapt down, and strode after him.
“No, wait—”
Too late. He was gone, exposing only paved pathways, huge walls of green, decorated with flowers that bloomed amid the faint light. Ryoka cursed, stopping and looking around. This was going too—she was sweating. She wiped a bead from her brow and looked down.
A hole opened up under her feet, pitch black and whispering. Something reached up and grabbed Ryoka’s leg.
She screamed once and yanked her leg. A hand like oblivion dragged her into the hole in the ground.
There. That was true terror, before she vanished.
Someone stepped around a corner. He was still smoking the cigar. One did not waste a quality product.
“I thought she would dodge that. Pity.”
It was over too quickly. A good game was like that, though. Unpredictable. Visophecin touched his face.
He was smiling? He was. What a strange thing. He had heard stories of these grand games. The hunt. Scarcely given them credence. He supposed he should let her out of the—
“—volethe!”
Visophecin whirled. He saw a light, and dodged the glowing blade that cut a hole through the air. And half the hedge wall.
The Wind Runner came stumbling out of the Asphod Maze, wild-eyed, breathing heavily. She held that glowing artifact Rhisveri was so interested in. She slashed—the hedges disappeared, falling to bits. But that—she couldn’t have just cut her way out.
She’d escaped? That fast?
She whirled, took one look at him, and ran. This time, she truly ran. Terror. And—
Visophecin stood there. Now, he felt it. Stretching across his face, from ear to ear. He couldn’t remember a time when he had smiled like this.
A delighted expression ran across his face. What surprises! Even Sophridel could not find his way out of the maze so easily. Visophecin chuckled and put out the cigar. He knew it was a distraction, but he couldn’t help it.
The hunt was on.
 
——
 
Something was afoot in Ailendamus’ palace today. Not war. Not the Five Families’ threats, or even Itorin himself. For the people, for one Wind Runner, a second event was playing.
Word was out. Viscount Visophecin had somehow offended the Wind Runner, that mysterious Courier guest. Or perhaps she had taken offense? It was hard to imagine the Viscount erring that poorly, but he wished to make amends.
So if you saw Ryoka, wouldn’t you stop her? Intercede on his behalf? Of course, to win his favor. In fact, why not make a game of it? The Viscount was in rare form. So here was something amusing…
Ryoka had stopped even seeing the potential for humor in it after the hedge maze. She looked down the staircase at some of Visophecin’s allies. Which was apparently…everyone.
Even Sophridel. Because she could not imagine how else…
“Ryoka Griffin! Will you stop a moment?”
The Viscount called up at her. He tried to climb up the staircase, but was jostled by another Visophecin. No—someone wearing a mask that looked uncannily like his face.
More of the ‘hunters’ were following her. As well as the palace’s security, who had no reason to like Ryoka. Many were amused. Most were just annoyed. Why was she making such an event of this? Was this just the Wind Runner being incapable of living a single day without drama?
Which, yes, it was. But that was not why she was breathing so hard. Ryoka ran. And it got worse.
Library. The [Librarian] was ready to throw Ryoka out on her head again. But instead, she squinted at Ryoka and handed her something.
“The Viscount asked me to recommend this to you, Miss…Griffin.”
Ryoka stared down at the book. She blanched.
 
Rain and War: An Anthology of Memoirs by Liscor’s Generals.
 
She looked at the book. Glanced up as she almost reached for it.
The Viscount held the book out. He watched her recoil.
“Poor Erin Solstice. What would you do to save her?”
“How did yo—”
His smile never changed, but he did tilt his head.
“I make it my business to know. It’s quite a simple deduction. [Messages]. Cause and effect. It seems as though not many people can see a simple line if it zigs and zags. I can.”
She turned, whirling for the door. The Viscount opened it.
“A child abducted. All over Izril’s news. Mrsha. Who could help her? Who has such resource—to cure a mortal wound? And while you search, a child might die. What would you do to help her?”
“Don’t—”
Ryoka was getting angry. Visophecin smiled. His eyes fixed on her face.
“What would you do to save them? I am known for my deals, Courier Griffin. Everything can be bartered. Why don’t we discuss the matter? I have a suitable stage for discussion set up.”
He offered her a hand. Ryoka wanted to slap it down and then jump-kick him. But she knew better than to reach out. So she whirled. She was going to blast straight out the window and—
Ryoka took three steps and felt the hand on her shoulder. Restraining her. Her head turned.
“You can’t—”
“Touch you? I’m afraid, Miss Ryoka, that you don’t understand the rules. You are a criminal of Ailendamus. Have a seat.”
Now, she tried to move and felt that incredible strength, like an adult with a child. Like Fierre, only stronger. Ryoka looked at Visophecin and she was past Devils and silly pacts made as a child where they had no power.
She was not scared because of that. His smile made it worse. He was enjoying this.
“I do love a good opponent. But I never lose.”
She drew the Faeblade and slashed at his arm. He was suddenly no longer holding her. Visophecin watched as she ran for the window.
This was too fun. So he pointed as the Wind Runner looked back, aiming a finger as the wind blew ominously indoors.
“Before you leave, Miss Griffin. You might want to fetch a mirror. You have something on your face.”
She stared at him, wavered—then stared into the glass of the window, using it as a poor mirror. Her eyes opened wide. She saw the scrawl of ink on her cheek. She didn’t understand, for a second.
It was just an arch, like an upside-down smiley face. But instead of eyes, there were two little curved triangles sticking out. It was a simple, cute little design. But it looked…like…
Horns.
Visophecin stood there, laughing. Actually laughing. Glass shattered. He was enjoying this far too much. He saw her running, scrubbing at her cheek. What a glorious day. What a splendid game.
 
——
 
The palace was in uproar. By now, the nature of the pursuit had changed. Why, the Viscount had a grand game in play! He was teasing the Wind Runner.
So—if you were in the kitchens, you had new orders. Make some food like this…and if you were staffing the hallways, would you kindly put this portrait up? No, there was no telling how fast the Viscount got a portrait of himself; maybe it was in storage?
The Viscount was everywhere, or perhaps it was people posing as him. One thing was sure though—no one had ever seen him this amused.
Yet. The humor was going one way. Dame Chorisa, running around, threatened with punitive action by her superiors if she didn’t find her prisoner, saw Ryoka once. The Wind Runner bolted so fast Chorisa almost missed what she’d seen. But she didn’t miss Ryoka’s pale face.
She looked and saw Viscount Visophecin. He was so fast. He probably had a teleportation artifact or some speed spell, but Chorisa had to admit, she was astonished. Yet—when she saw him?
“Dead gods. Lance-arrows strike me, that’s going too far, Chorisa. Isn’t it?”
Knight Lacres muttered. Chorisa just heard laughter and saw people pointing. She hesitated, and didn’t disagree.
Viscount Visophecin had met Ryoka Griffin in one of the ballrooms. Mid-dance, as if she had caught him out by accident while he was engaged in completely social pursuits. As Baron Regalius had mentioned, he was a threat on the dance floor and his partner was practically off her feet. He had kissed her—that was to say—
Ryoka Griffin. Or someone who looked exactly like her. The Viscount stepped away as the actual Wind Runner fled, and the illusion faded to reveal a laughing young woman from the court. He bowed to his audience, largely to applause and laughter.
“I must say, that seems…unmannerly. The Viscount must truly find Ryoka Griffin to be quite something. I have never seen him get up to pranks.”
A voice remarked. The [Knights] saw Baron Regalius panting, clutching at a stitch in his side. He hadn’t missed it either. But he didn’t really see it.
And it could get worse. A lot worse, especially since there was no bottom.
 
——
 
When Ryoka Griffin stopped, she was shaking. Visophecin walked towards her in that slow, unhurried pace. Behind him was a crowd.
At this point, Fithea had emerged from her quarters to find Ryoka. She was joined by Gilaw, Menorkel, and a few others. The old Dryad glanced at Visophecin, and then Ryoka.
“We found her, Viscount!”
Dame Chorisa was no longer panting. But she was incredibly apprehensive. She followed along in a group of her own and saw the Wind Runner standing there. Ryoka Griffin held perfectly still. Chorisa didn’t understand why—until she saw nearly two dozen [Court Mages], laughing and waving the Viscount over.
“It took some doing, to stop a Courier dead. Protective artifacts—but we found her!”
Ryoka was enmeshed in [Stasis] spells. She saw the Viscount smiling at the [Mages]. He walked forwards, eyes on her. Wondering, clearly, if she would escape.
What a glorious game. Will you surprise me, before I win?
The Devil smiled. Ryoka was shaking, although she couldn’t quite move. No one quite noticed, at least the immortals. Fithea just looked confused, and why not? She had no perspective. Many of the staff or people in the palace were laughing or applauding the [Mages].
