“Yes. Because we are not perfect. But I reject the notion that we must be. I have entertained the debate—now I ask you this. If I eat the worst of this society, if Rhisveri makes war for his ambitions—what places us behind any other kingdom on this continent? Why are we your principal enemies? Are our people worse than any other? No. I take pride that they are not.”
“Pride? I thought you didn’t care about them.”
The Devil whirled around. Angry. He touched his chest and drew himself up, and he looked taller.
“I cannot feel for them. But I have made it a point of pride, as has Rhisveri and the crown, that no one will starve in Ailendamus. Not a traveller, not a child. Starvation is a sign of weakness. You asked me if I would rather be feared than loved? Happiness costs me nothing and gains me far more than fear. My people and I think of ways to improve the populace’s lives.”
“Because they benefit you and protect Ailendamus.”
“Yes. Why is my motivation what matters?”
His voice grew deeper. Ryoka saw Visophecin point at her.
“It is a mistake to think that we cannot both benefit, immortal and mortal. That is why I thought Rhisveri’s great ambition was a stroke of genius, and joined my people to his. We are the power behind the throne! Immortals. But I make no deals that cut those I deal with to the quick. I have given without taking. Because what I take is different. I asked you to take my hand. If you had, I would have gained something. If I traded you something you wanted, I would gain something. And that is simply this.”
He lifted his hand and Ryoka saw something open. A book. It flickered in his hands. Names and details.
“Contracts. What do they give you? A part of their…”
“Connections.”
Ryoka stopped, a finger raised. Visophecin held the book lovingly. He looked at it, and closed his eyes.
“I grow by the deals I make. Grand acts and small. My power is not from what I take or give, but only the magnitude of it. So I give the generosity of Ailendamus. I build this nation piece by piece. Because it is selfish. It all benefits me.”
He turned, and looked at Ryoka.
“In the past, my people hunted yours. Just like this morning. We struck mighty deals and gained power by suffering. We walked among Dragons and made deals with Giants and great immortals. But in time, we dwindled. And the very small people, the people who cry for each other, who care and suffer and live lives like candle flames, covered every land. How I envy your people’s power.”
He closed the book.
“So yes. Ailendamus is ruled by a selfish Wyrm. By his side stands one of the Lucifen, who consumes people. We are the last of our kind. Do you think we haven’t tried to be something else? We cannot. I am your people’s predator. And that…”
He indicated his gloved hand, and Ryoka thought it was a claw for a second.
“That would bother me, if I could but care.”
He looked at her and she was reminded of what a Vampire had once said. Ryoka stared at Visophecin as he walked back into the spotlight and into the air. On steps that glowed with magic, into the moonlight. And his eyes were alive. He stood, looking at Ryoka, a showman performing. A Devil walking under moonlight. He loved the moment of it.
Visophecin stood there, silhouetted in the light.
“We are selfish. And that is why we will make a land beyond all compare. Because we can be selfish in a way that elevates us all. Petty men and women cannot be selfish as we. They only take. I will build an empire more glorious than any before so it benefits me more. So I do not wish your enmity. Will you see Ailendamus like this, or do we stand apart? You, a mortal who has met Dragons?”
Ryoka jumped. The Devil laughed at her. She stood, slowly.
He had played his cards—more than she thought. But perhaps that was genius. The truth was the only thing that could convince her, and he had told her who he was. He ate people. And yet—she wanted to almost believe him.
The young woman’s head was bowed. She stood there, very still, and the Devil watched her, not without anticipation. When she raised her head, there was something in her green eyes.
Something beyond mere moonlight or wariness.
“You do it very well, Visophecin. Tempt me to believe you. You know—that fits in with the stories I know of you. Not your people; I didn’t know they were a people. But it makes me wary.”
“Really. Who told you those legends of Lucifen?”
Visophecin saw Ryoka smile and wag a finger.
“Not Lucifen. We call you devils. And there was never Lucifen. No—perhaps there were more than one. But I knew one. We called him Lucifer. Morningstar. The Devil, Satan himself who ruled over Hell. The place where sinners went when they died. And he was feared and loved, because he rebelled against Heaven. Against angels. Against…God.”
The Devil stood there, looking down at Ryoka. She did not have magical steps, or horns. But the Wind Runner still made the world echo with that last word. His ears…
“I have…never heard that name. What did you say he fought against? Angels? Agelum? And…”
She walked left. Skipping across the glass floor. The spotlight shifted to follow her. The Wind Runner turned. And she winked at him.
“It’s just a story. They tell another one, about Faust, a man who made a pact with a devil. Who sold his soul, and made a deal that cost him everything for great power. We have so many stories about deals.”
“Who is ‘we’?”
Visophecin descended the steps. Ryoka saw him hover in front of the spotlight. The word burned in his ears. He couldn’t even process it. She stepped back.
“People from another world, obviously. You know that.”
It occurred to the Lucifen. He had thought he knew the answer. Now—
Which world? But he was following Ryoka with his eyes.
“I don’t know if I can trust you, Visophecin. You’re too smart. Too dangerous.”
“Are we enemies?”
He walked along the edge of the light, eyes shining out of the shadows. The Wind Runner looked up at the false sunlight. She saw him slowly extend a hand. It hovered at the veil between light and darkness.
“I am able to speak to Rhisveri. I do not know what he hides, but I am no fool. He has always had secrets. It occurs to me that whatever you desire may be given without destabilizing Ailendamus. We both have things to gain.”
“Can I trust you? I could tell you something that would help Ailendamus. Many things. But you are a predator of Humans.”
She hesitated, looking at that hand. Visophecin shook his head. He spoke, slowly, trying to emphasize each word.
“I want you to trust me, knowing what I represent. Knowing who I am and what I do. Because that means you are willing to ally yourself with me despite knowing everything.”
“Why?”
He looked at her, and couldn’t help it.
“Because that would make you fascinating.”
She wavered.
“Can I trust you? You do terrible things.”
“I do. But that does not mean I cannot do things that lift Ailendamus up. No one is without flaw, and the flaws attract me. I am not like my fair cousins, who see only the best and cannot be stained. I am Ailendamus’ shadow, more than Rhisveri. And that is why this kingdom rises. Light needs darkness to shine.”
He felt a sudden desire to win her over, more than practicality. He stepped closer, and the light shone down around him. The Viscount put it all to the wind, and offered her a sweeping bow. His gloved hand rose, palm out. The Wind Runner saw him look up.
“Can you trust I am the hero of my story? We are all sinners. But can you believe me, Ryoka Griffin? Believe even a…devil has a soul?”
For a long moment, the Wind Runner didn’t reply. Seconds passed. Then a minute. Visophecin was lowering his hand when someone caught it.
Ryoka saw Visophecin blink in astonishment. He looked at her, surprised. She drew him up. And smiled. The wind blew around the glassy floor like a strange quartet playing on a surreal dance floor.
“Strange. I didn’t think you would believe me.”
He walked with her, feet sliding across the smooth floor and it looked like they were dancing under moonlight. Until they were. He saw the Wind Runner smile at him, eyes alight.
“I’m sure you do have a soul. Or else I wouldn’t be able to tempt you.”
That she-Devil, whispering of foreign worlds and Devils, laughed at his face. He was left without words for a moment. But then he snapped his fingers ruefully and an actual quartet began to play. He offered her a hand.
“Do you dance, Wind Runner?”
“A bit.”
Ryoka Griffin laughed with delight as she did the very thing that fifteen year-old Ryoka would have died for. She had forgotten that. Visophecin’s strange eyes followed her. She leaned forwards.
“You know. You’re very good at being a devil. But there’s one thing you didn’t count on.”
“And what would that be?”
Ryoka smiled.
“You talk a lot about your nature and how everything is selfish. But. If you’re actually a good man, then I think you’d hate anyone figuring that out.”
“Are you sure? I’m quite a deceiver, or so I’m told.”
She grinned.
“Yes, but when I arrived, I could tell you felt quite guilty about scaring me. You say a lot, but you know how much you lie. And the truth is, Visophecin, a bad man—a real devil—never apologizes.”
Her hand tightened on his.
“Besides. Even if you played me like a fiddle, and I’m being duped, there’s one thing I can believe.”
They stood very close together. Visophecin whispered.
“And that is…?”
The Wind Runner produced an obol. She pointed up at the stars.
“I’m your gateway to a stage you’ve never seen. With stakes you can’t even dream of, Visophecin. You know it too, so you need me. And I think we’re going to need a devil on our side.”
He looked at her, eyes wide. Then he laughed.
