“That’s all good. Except for the ships. And I can remember to do those last three things on my own. I promise.”

He unhooked his safety harness and reached behind him to dig into his box of chosen road food. After biting into a leathery nutrition block that tasted vaguely like cantaloupe, he examined Kibby more closely. It was impossible to tell how she was doing. He couldn’t even see her face without leaning over to peer into the hood.

“Are you all right?” he asked. “Seriously?”

She didn’t answer for a minute, and his stomach clenched.

Finally, she said, “I feel bad. But not so bad that we should stop the car.”

“I feel better than I expected. So if you want to, we can.”

“Not yet.”

“Regular sleep?” he asked. “I can watch the ground.”

“I’m not sleepy yet. But you watch for a while. Tell me if I need to do anything.”

Alden watched.

This was the reason they hadn’t left in the full dark. You had to be able to see the ground well enough to avoid the worst obstacles. But even now, in the dim light, there wasn’t much to it. He just stared straight ahead, reminded himself periodically not to lose focus, and made sure the car didn’t encounter something it couldn’t handle.

Kibby used the break he was giving her to crack open her last tin of canned meat and eat it with a spoon. He couldn’t help but notice that she wasn’t making the happy smacking sounds she usually did when she was eating the stuff.

Alden had been saving up one particular conversation topic for exactly this sort of situation.

“The Primary,” he said.

Kibby’s spoon stopped clinking against the can, and he smiled.

“What about the Primary?” she asked suspiciously.

“I know I’m always teasing you about the things he said to me when I met him at that party,” said Alden. “The truth is he didn’t say much. He certainly didn’t say I was amazing or any of the other stuff I told you. He mostly asked me questions about myself.”

“What questions?”

He kept his eyes on the landscape while he told her the whole story, not embellishing anything or leaving out a single detail. She was fascinated, delighted, baffled, and scandalized all at once.

She was completely uninterested in his traumatic confessions about his childhood pastime of staring at the dead body of someone he hated, and she was entirely too interested in examining his left hand.

“It’s been months. I don’t think you’re going to find the Primary’s—” huh, I still don’t know how to say DNA “—magic under my fingernails after this long.”

She finally let his hand go.

“I can’t believe he really liked you.”

“Ow.” Alden held the hand to his chest. “Also, I don’t think he liked me. It felt like…ah, he was okay, actually. Better than a lot of people at that party. And I don’t think he was trying to scare me even though he did. But it still felt like a slightly dangerous encounter.”

“He said he wouldn’t hurt you!”

“That’s a weird thing to say to someone. Also, he told me I should try to grow up well.”

“You should.”

“Well, yeah. That’s true, but it sounded kind of—”

“He liked you. You’re almost friends,” she said in a tone that would brook no argument. “And we are friends. So…it’s like the Primary and I are almost friends, too.”

“Logical.”

She nodded. “A lot of people on Moon Thegund wanted the Mother Planet to send a knight here. Not the Primary of course. But one of them. To guard against the corruption.”

“Did you want one to come? Is that why you’re so interested in them?”

Kibby shook her head. “No. I didn’t really want one here. Back then. We would have had to leave and go do research somewhere else, maybe somewhere more dangerous, if the Mother completely fixed the chaos problem here. It was the people who live in the cities on the other half of the moon that wanted it gone.”

I would think everyone would want that.

“The Grand Senate said the knights couldn’t spare anyone for permanent assignment in a place like Thegund. A few years ago, they offered people free ————  instead.”

“I don’t know that word.”

“Moving to a new home.”

Ah. Relocation.

“I just listened to all the news about the Primary and some of the other knights because it was exciting,” said Kibby. “Distinguished Master Ro-den got special reports on them that were supposed to be only for the most important wizards. But he didn’t mind if we all watched them, too.”

“What kinds of things do the knights do?”

“All different. But all good things. They fight chaos and demons a lot. Sometimes in places really far away.” She took another bite of her meat. “I saw the Primary slice a demon in half. Almost.”

“Almost?” Alden asked, taking a sip from a bottle of water and sparing a glance away from the windshield to examine her expression. She looked very thoughtful.

“I saw the demon in one piece, and then it was in two,” she clarified. “I couldn’t actually see the Primary.  He was too small.”

Could the guy shrink himself? It seemed like a strange choice for a fight, even if you were the Triplanets’ Number One Super Wizard.

“It was an image from one of our space telescopes,” Kibby said. “I asked Master Ro-den about it, and he said the demon was one-eleventh the size of Moon Thegund.”

Alden spat water all over the car’s control panel.

“What?!” he sputtered, choking and patting at his Hawaiian shirt. Like there was someone around to care if he was a little damp. “No!”

“No?”

“No! Demons can’t be that big!”

Kibby looked flummoxed. “But I saw it.”

“Uh…I mean. I don’t want demons to be that big. That’s really bad. I don’t like it at all.”

He also did not like it that he had engaged in conversation with a man who could chop something measured in fractions of moons in half. People like that shouldn’t hide behind potted plants with their sister at stupid college parties. They should stay in high budget fantasy movies. Where they belonged.

“I don’t like it either. Except for watching the Primary fix it. That was fun.” She tossed her empty can out of the car. “You can’t tell anyone. Master Ro-den isn’t supposed to share that kind of thing with his assistants.”

“Kibby, I could stand on top of a building and shout that to an entire city on Earth, and I promise nobody would believe me.”

***************

Kibby slept; Alden drove.

Kibby drove; Alden slept.

They ate and drank as much as they wanted. This was not the kind of trip where you rationed your supplies. They felt worse and worse. They started talking about imaginary futures for themselves.

They designed their matching tattoos.

More than forty hours in by her own estimation, Kibby said, “I didn’t think we’d make it this far. The car wasn’t even supposed to drive for this long when everything was normal.”

She had never once, in all their planning, told him that.

“I guess having the doors off helps a lot,” he said.

“Maybe I’ll forgive it,” said Kibby. “If it goes a little farther.”

It was full daylight now. They’d come a long way.

Alden forced himself to go to sleep again. He chained for peace of mind. It was his first time ever stacking them without paying back the debt. The gremlin was starting to grumble.

Give me time, he begged it. Please. I’ve never once failed to pay it off. I’ve never once cheated, and you know that. Just give me a little more time.

Kibby woke him up. He wasn’t sure how many hours it had been. The car was stopped.

There were huge dark circles under her eyes. Her whole body was shaking, and she was breathing too hard. “I got it wrong a little,” she said faintly. “I’m sorry.”

“It’s all right.”

He didn’t even know how she had messed up, but whatever it was, it was okay. This was the kind of situation where no mistake she made could be unacceptable. If she turned into a demon the size of a planet and destroyed the universe, Alden would look everyone in the eye when he got to the afterlife and tell them Kibby had done better than any of them could have in the same situation.

She showed him a patch of skin on the back of one small hand. It was cracked and bloody and blackening. “I got it wrong,” she said again. “I couldn’t push it away anymore.”

So that’s how it’s going to get us?

He had wondered what would happen when they were finally spent. If it would be similar to the swift deaths of the scientists. If they would just rot away, if they would mutate to death like some of the plants.

Guess it doesn’t matter.

“Not a problem,” said Alden, unlatching the safety harness. “This just means it’s my turn.”

He drank two bottles of water. He ate sickeningly sweet jam out of a pouch. He strapped on the pitifully small bag of supplies he’d allotted himself. Checked the lightweight sling they’d designed for the sprinklers. Finally, he took the lab coat from Kibby, put it on, and adjusted the straps around himself that would hold her in place if he stumbled.

He crouched down. She stared at him for a few seconds.

“You remember how my skill works, right?” he said with a grin. “You’re the boss. You’ve got to do the entrusting.”

She nodded and positioned herself on his back. He heard the clasps click shut around her. She threw her arms around him.

Alden activated the skill when he felt like she was in the position that would be the most balanced and least difficult for him.  Her breath, ragged and frightened in his ears, stopped.

He started to run.
