My hands gripped tightly on the fox’s fur as I stared at my father’s killer. High Regent Rin Zaoh stood alone before him as he steadily strode forward. The army remained behind us, waiting for their orders.

“You have something that belongs to me!” Valrok shouted. “Return them, and I will leave!”

At hearing those words, a growl rumbled in my small human throat.

We belong to him?! Why? What gives him the right to even think such a thing!?

Rin Zaoh responded with an even tone. “You mistake this land for your hunting grounds. Turn back.”

She wore gauntlets so thin they were more like metal gloves, or a second skin of interlocking plates that slid around each other as her fingers curled around the hilt of her katana. Her shoulders and thighs were protected by thicker plates of lacquered armor, but under this she wore clothing similar to Genzo’s, dominantly red, though much more regal with black and gold trim and a sash around her waist that snapped in the wind.

“I’ve chased those two Hell Hounds across the continent,” Valrok shouted.

“Yet they stand beneath the empire’s banners. Your claim is not recognized here. Do the Bloody Peaks wish to make the Verdant Empire its enemy?”

“I have reason to believe one of your people interfered with my hunt and aided in the deaths of my men!” Valrok continued, his spear snapped to his side, purple lightning crackling off the end. The crops nearest him bent low, as if the air were thickening around him as he continued his steady stride towards her.

Her posture tensed, lowering slightly, metal fingers firm around the hilt. Her free hand dropped behind her with a closed fist. My sharp ears picked up the shifting of armor around us… were they waiting for a signal?

“Regardless of whether your words hold any truth, I now have an interest in this strange group, and they are under my protection. You’ve assaulted our lands and have forfeited any right to negotiation. The only offer I make now is to leave in peace or face retaliation. Take another step, and we will strike.”

Valrok seemed to heed the warning, as he then stopped. His gaze shifted, and I felt the hollows of his mask focusing on me.

“Hell Hound!” he called. “It was you, wasn’t it? You planned everything out. You crept through the caves and killed my warriors!”

You’re damn right I did! I thought furiously, my jaw clenching. I wanted nothing more than to run at him and bite his throat open, just as I had done to so many of the other red masks.

I heard a murmuring from the army around us. No doubt it sounded ridiculous to them while I looked like a small girl. Even my teeth and nails probably looked more cute than threatening on such a pathetic body.

Then Valrok outstretched a hand, almost invitingly. “Your sister is growing well under our care. She’s becoming strong and has developed a deep bond with her new master.”

My eyes widened.

Iris!

The fox growled, I could feel the rumbling under me as much as hear it. “Don’t listen to him, pup. Whatever he’s trying, it’s a trick.”

“What do you think is there for you behind those walls?” Valrok continued. “You trade one leash for another. But you have talent. The Bloody Peaks recognizes strength, and we honor it!”

The rage bubbled within me to a point I couldn’t contain it. “You killed my father!” I screamed, jumping down from the fox and walking forward. “We didn’t do anything to you! You attack us for no reason, and you took everything from us!”

He shifted, taking my measure. “And amongst the Bloody Peaks, you might one day have your revenge. Join us, and I’ll offer you a duel at any time you wish.”

What the hell was this madman saying?

“Liar!” I screamed.

He raised an open hand. “I swear it under the Almighty Above. You would join our ranks with honor. You can’t beat me now, but one day, you might. When you believe you’re ready, I’ll face you. I’ll offer the same to Iris, and the other Hell Hound there.”

I hated that he said Iris’s name as if he knew her. It must be thanks to the System; it did recognize Lily as Lily, after all.

“In the meantime,” he continued, “the three of you could be together. You can train and hunt together under our tribe’s lands. Behind those walls, they would tell you where and when to hunt, if they ever even give you a chance! But I see what you are; you proved it in those caves. You’re a hunter! And you belong with a people who understand the hunt.”

For a single, treacherous heartbeat, I could see it. I didn’t trust him. Of course, I could never trust him! But Iris… I wouldn’t have to wait years to see her again. She was never one for snuggling, but I could give her a big wet lick whether she liked it or not! We might even get a chance to hunt together and plot how to take this bastard down. I could…

Then, pain shot through my tail, stopping me in place. I tried to pull away, and for just a moment, I remembered how my mom would do the same thing to stop me.

I whipped around to see the fox with my tail between her teeth. Face half bloodied. I hadn’t realized just how bad the Nightharrier had cut her. Her muzzle dripped blood steadily with a deep gash that traced all the way to her gouged eye.

“Why are you still listening to his words? You fool!”

An angry bark escaped me. “Rrrrough! Let me go!”

“Enough of this!” Rin yelled, reasserting her presence. “Valrok Wyrmscar, I gave you your choice. Turn back now.”

“What’s your answer, Hell Hound! Say it now!”

But before I could open my mouth, a crack of thunder drowned everything out. Rin hadn’t moved except for a single finger, and as the bolt shot at Valrok, he lifted his spear.

Purple and gold collided with a massive shockwave that nearly knocked me off my feet, even from my distance. Yet, those two were unaffected. Rin’s sash and hair simply snapped in the wind, while Valrok’s spear was only left with a trail of smoke rising off of it. But beneath his feet, the ground sank into a cracked crator.

“The girl stays with us,” Rin said.

Valrok laughed. “You see? Just another leash—”

Her fist raised, three fingers shot up, and three cracks of thunder followed.

This time, Valrok moved, quickly swinging his spear, sending an arc of energy to meet the first bolt. He then smashed his spear down on the second just as it would have hit him, and he used the resulting shockwave to propel himself backward as a third bolt slammed where he’d just been standing, leaving another crater.

Rin threw her open hand forward, and every ballista on the wall fired at once, reloaded, and fired again.

Valrok was running now, retreating, jumping in long, explosive strides as lightning burst from beneath his heels. Each impact shattered the earth, hurling clods of soil into the air as he launched himself farther away.

As another bolt neared, his spear arced back and sent purple energy to intercept it, the two forces colliding and exploding midair.

He spun with the motion, bringing the haft around in a powerful sweep that shattered a third bolt right in front of his face. A fourth flew right by his head, devastating a patch of farmland behind him. A fifth struck the ground to his side. And finally, the sixth hit his shoulder.

He was blown back from the impact, but when he hit the ground, it wasn’t as a corpse. It was controlled. He rolled across the ground and right back to his feet, though I could see the flesh beneath his broken armor, red, smoking, and raw. Yet, there was no sign that any strength had left him as he continued to run with his spear clenched in his fist.

Rin kept her hand forward, and the bolts continued at uneven intervals as the ballista reloaded and fired again and again. When he was finally near the boundary wall, a loud whistle broke through the cracks of thunder, and his dragon came to life.

With a powerful beat of its wings, it lifted and shot towards its master.

As a final bolt struck the ground at his heels, he jumped, grabbing his dragon’s legs, and then within seconds they were flying off.

Rin closed her fist, and the assault ceased immediately.

I was still standing there, frozen, the fox’s teeth around my tail as I watched my father’s killer fly away, dangling beneath the dragon.

When the fox finally let go of my tail, I fell to my hands and knees.

I heard the fox scoff as she said, “Kids… I swear.”

But I didn’t really hear her.

The man who killed my dad. He was there. He was right there! And he still has Iris!

My fingers dug into the dirt.

Then, a wet lick across my face finally snapped me out of it. I looked up to see Lily, ears pinned back, whining softly.

“Puppy okay?” Grick asked, standing beside her.

“I… I’m okay Grick, but…” I glanced back at the fox, seeing the damage to her face. “Grick, let me into your bag,” I said as I got up. He turned to let me dig into the side pocket with the potions in it. The rest of his bag was a mess, but he at least kept those in a safe spot. I popped the cork off, not even visiting my usual thought about how nice thumbs are, and I brought it to the fox.

She opened her mouth and let me pour it inside. Instantly, the wound around her damaged muzzle began to close. The flesh peeled back together, and her eye slowly opened as even her fur regrew.

I let out a relieved breath. I hadn’t had a moment to worry about her, but now that things had calmed, I felt guilty that she had been injured while trying to protect me… Even if it was only because a quest told her to.

But then, I heard the crunch of dirt under boots crack behind me.

“You four. Come with me,” came Rin’s authoritative voice.

My ears flattened as I looked up to see a pair of red eyes focused on me with a steady gaze.

Up close, she felt… heavier. Like the air around her carried weight. Her eyes then shifted over to the fox. “You fought well, Vulpyr.”

Her lips curled. “I prefer fights where I don’t lose an eye. But please, call me Fox.” Then she shifted her gaze over to me, and I was pretty sure the next words only I could hear. “A bit of advice—humans like it when you have a name.”

Rin continued to walk past us, and all of the soldiers moved out of the way, clearing a path to the gate. “Come. Now,” Rin said, not even looking back at us.

“Actually,” the fox said. “If it’s all the same, I’d like to be on my way. But please, keep these kids safe.”

Rin stopped. It felt like a long moment before she turned just enough for one red eye to stare back at us. “Perhaps in time, you may go with my blessing. For now, I have questions. And you will answer them.”

My heart sank at hearing those words, and my fist clenched at my side. It wasn’t like going with Valrok would be a better alternative, nor could we do without the safety from him that those walls would provide. Yet, I was realizing the truth within his lies—we were not free to go.

“Then I suppose I have no choice,” Fox said slyly as she began moving forward first. “Come along, kids.”

I did have a reason for being here, to ask for their help. But still, realizing leaving wasn’t my choice one way or another just… bothered me.

Walking between the rows of soldiers, Lily stuck close to my side, tail drooping and ears folding back. Grick stayed just as close to her other side as we looked around at the humans who towered along all sides of us.

I was glad that the fox was here, because without having her in our group, I knew I’d feel even smaller.

Watching High Regent Rin Zaoh’s back as she led the way, I used {Analyze}, fairly sure of what I would see. But… I ended up surprised.

Human Hellborne - Level ??

Human… Hellborne? Didn’t I have a hinted Path with that word in it? Hellborne Firewitch. Could it just be a coincidence?

And then, not too unsurprisingly at this point, the System dinged me with another message.

[New Evolution Hint Acquired!]
