“No?” The Commander smiled and picked up Ren's orders from the month before. “I think otherwise.”

Ren smiled. “They wouldn't tell me what they spend the 200 platinum on every year, knowing I owned the Garrison.” Ren said. “And they scammed me for the cost of the Armory.”

“They WHAT?”

Ren chuckled. “I sincerely hope you actually locked the crafting section down and stopped them from destroying anything, despite how you felt about my orders.”

The Commander nodded slightly. “I followed your orders.” He said. “I knew something fishy was going on; but, I didn't know they'd been overcharging for their services.” He shook his head. “It's difficult to keep civilians in check, even though they are working for the benefit of the army.”

Ren nodded slightly himself. “I'll be going through the section when I get back with Groggot.” He said. “If I don't see 200 platinum worth of research and development, they are going to have some tough questions to answer.”

The Commander smiled. “I'm glad to have someone in charge that understands these things.” He said. “I've had to skimp and save on other things, just to make sure everyone gets paid.”

“Is that why you haven't ordered new uniforms for the troops from House Neram?” Ren asked, and the Commander nodded slightly.

“I had a hard time justifying the extra cost of the 1000 uniforms you'd made.” The Commander said. “Once they saw the quality and Durability, though... they didn't say anything else about it.”

“You mean House Lodur.”

“Representatives of the House, yes.” He said. “Lord Lodur didn't care about the day to day things, only results.”

“I understand.” Ren said. “Have any of the House Lodur people been by lately?”

The Commander shook his head. “I think they realized something was up when none of them received a copy of the Deed to this place from the Hall Of Records.”

Ren smiled. “That's because I got it from Lord Lodur's loot.”

“He had it on him when he died?” The Commander asked, then laughed. “Oh, that's just wonderful!” He shook his head. “What if he'd been killed by someone in the street? Or if the loot was given to his illegitimate son?” He smiled. “Or better yet, left in the street after an accident.”

Ren looked at the Commander in surprise. “I... hadn't thought about it like that.”

“Neither did he, apparently.”

“I'll take steps to ensure the deed's safety.” Ren said. “I won't take it into combat with me.”

“Good.” The Commander said. “If that's all?”

Ren nodded slightly. “Have a good day, Commander.”

“You, too.” The Commander said, then saluted. “Sir!”

Ren saluted back, and left the office. He took Princess through the gates to the brig. Once there, he was greeted with yells and catcalls when the door to the brig's waiting area was opened. Ren waved and received a few pats on the back.

“Hey! Look who's come up in the world!” One of them said. It was Darohm, one of the dwarf Warriors that had come to pick him up that first time. “Please tell us you've got some of that great food with you.”

Ren chuckled. “If you don't mind it cold.”

“Hell, I'd eat it raw!” One of the others said. “My wife's a cook in the cafeteria, and she can't hold a candle to the food you brought us.”

Ren took out the large icebox, and handed everyone a plate of food.

“By the gods, you're carrying all of that around?” One of the other Warriors asked. “Why aren't you tired all of the time?”

Ren laughed. “I'm an Adventurer. I'm carrying a heck of a lot more than this.” He said, stored the icebox, and knocked on the inner door. It opened, and the guard there smiled.

“Hey, I thought I heard you out there.” He took in Ren's uniform. “Sir!” He said, and saluted.

“At ease.” Ren said as he saluted back, then handed the guard Croggart's release papers, and a plate of food.

“He's been moping in his cell since he got here.” The guard said, put the plate of food on his desk, and led Ren to Croggart's cell. He saw that Croggart had been standing up and holding onto the bars. Croggart stared at Ren.

“I thought Ereka was crazy when she said you were coming to get me.” Croggart said. “What the hell are you wearing?”

“It's nice to see you, too.” Ren said, and the guard opened the cell. “You look pretty bad yourself.”

Croggart laughed and tried to pick Ren up into a hug. He grunted and stopped trying, and Ren smiled.

Only Donna, Donan's sister, can pick me up. He thought. If I'd had to guess, I thought Croggart would have been the one to at least match her strength. Ren smiled. No wonder she sees all normal military men as weaklings.

“Come on!” Croggart said and started to walk rapidly towards the door to the brig. “Groggot's been waiting for me to come back!”

Ren thanked the guard and ran after Croggart. He was right. If they hurried, they might be able to get Groggot back by tomorrow.
