“Thank you,” Eron said in a neutral tone before getting to the reason why he was there. “I came to inform you that your assistants for the upcoming event have been selected, should it become relevant.”

“Is that truly necessary?” the young man asked with a sigh.

“Not my call,” Eron shrugged. “This is at the insistence of the higher-ups. They want to ensure you have the best possible circumstances should the event involve battle. I, too, hope it will not be necessary, but if it does, who else would you expect to face people like the Cerulean Demon Prince, Wintermaul, or any of those other so-called geniuses?”

The young monk let out another sigh as he looked out at the quiet valley below, simply enjoying nature. “I hope it doesn’t come down to needless conflict. Ideally, this World Wonder is one to be shared, not conquered.”

“That’s rarely how the system operates,” Eron shook his head, though he did find himself in agreement with that statement. “Alas, you must ready yourself should you face any of them. Speaking of, here.”

Eron waved his hand as a jade slip flew over towards the monk, who caught it while still keeping his back turned. He infused energy into it briefly before nodding.

“Quite a few notable figures. Several of them from your homeworld,” the monk said. “Including the Chosen of the Malefic Viper. Am I correct that he was the one who killed the one referring to himself as the Celestial Child?”

“That’s him,” Eron nodded. Jake’s name was indeed at the top of the list compiled, consisting of people to watch out for in the upcoming system event.

“I see,” the monk sighed. “I hope Ell’Hakan found rest in the end. A troubled soul, that one, but his death was surely necessary.”

“Few mourn him,” Eron agreed as he looked at the young man. “While that slip includes a lot of information, I will also add my personal warnings. Jake has shown himself to be hard to quantify many times before, so I doubt any dossier can fully enlighten you about his character. So be careful.”

The monk smiled a little as he looked down at the slip with a conflicted look. “I truly have no desire to fight him, nor anyone else on this list.”

“Yet you will probably have to,” Eron shook his head. “Now, I have my own matters to attend to. Study the information well, and prepare accordingly.”

“Thank you for your visit, my friend,” the monk said with a light smile as he looked up and cupped his hands once more. “May we meet again soon.”

“Let us,” Eron nodded as he turned to leave, descending the mountain once more. Behind him, the monk turned to look towards the horizon again before closing his eyes in meditation.

Eron still felt unsure about this monk who was meant to lead this generation of the sect. For him to face Jake, the Sword Saint, Sylphie, Vesperia, the Forest King, Carmen, and so many others, not to mention the factions backing them... it was difficult to imagine. Especially Jake, who always seemed to overcome his own limits whenever pushed into a corner. Always able to reach one layer deeper to grasp more power and come out victorious. His position at the top of the list of people to watch during the upcoming event was well-earned.

But... then again. This generation, Eron included, had never seen the true depths of the Eastbound Monk either.
