Chapter Eighteen - Going Back Up“To say that the world changed after the first incursion would be... not a lie, but an exaggeration. The day the first Antithesis set foot in Ohio, people in Florida were still cursing the sun, farmers in Europe were complaining about the sudden shifts in weather, the Asian stock market saw another downswing that had forecasters worried and another brush fire was started in Australia.“The literal alien invasion took over six hours to make it to international news, and even then, people were claiming it was a hoax and going on with their lives. What was a South African shop clerk supposed to do about aliens in America?“The world changes at its own pace, but it always changes.”--Excerpt from The Fall and Rise of Humanity***Simmons overlooked the distribution of ammo like a volunteer overlooking the handout of snacks. The analogy worked even better when I saw the eager looks on all the security guard’s faces.As it turned out, the way to a man’s heart did involve bullets.“Alright, what can you tell me?” I asked the chief. “What was your plan until now, other than to hold up here. Are the other shelters as great as the one above?”Simmon huffed. “This building is meant to be brand-new and state of the art, but corners were cut. The shelters were meant to be operational months ago, but they kept stalling. The money went into some fancy AA system on the roof.”“There’s a fancy AA system on the roof?” I asked. I imagine I would have heard something like that going off by then. “You sure cause I didn’t notice shit.”He nodded, then shook his head. “It’s there, it’s just inactive. If I could turn it on remotely, then I’d have gathered everyone here up and prepped a few busses to leave already. Let it distract any xenos while we make a run for it.”“I don’t like that look you’re giving me,” I told the man.There was a cold calculating gleam in his eyes. “We’re stuck here, unless you can clear the path out from here to wherever the front line the military has set up is. But, no offence, you look a little green for that.”I scrunched up my nose in distaste, but had to give it to him. “Alright. So that AA system?”“Look, it’s a hunch, an idea. But if you can get to it and turn it on, then come back, we can activate it from here and leave. It’s supposed to be damned effective. Lasers and rail cannons and all. Made by some Samurai down south.”“It’s an option,” I said. I had other ideas in mind, but I wasn’t about to do a fetch quest for a rent-a-cop. “I’m going to get the kids from upstairs. One way or another we’ll be leaving this place, so, you know, get people ready for that.”He nodded. “Fair enough. Want me to send some of my boys with you?”“No,” I said. A glance at the way the two stooges from before were fawning over their guns had me almost trembling in revulsion. “I’ll manage on my own. I think most of the aliens will be coming from below, so we should be alright.”Unauthorized usage: this tale is on Amazon without the author's consent. Report any sightings.He nodded. “Don’t die.”“Likewise,” I said. I rolled my eye in response to his salute and walked back towards the door I’d come from.A group of idiots were busy pushing a tipped-over hover car towards the door. A little sporty model, not too heavy, I guessed, but enough to make walking out a pain.“Hey!” I called out. “I need that door.”The group looked at each other, then elected a leader with their gazes, a familiar leader. Brand stepped up and gave me what he probably thought was a winning smile. “Sorry. Didn’t think you’d need it. Heading out again?” He didn’t do a good job of hiding his nerves with the last.“There’s a group of kids a few floors up. I’m going to bring them down here before we plot our escape,” I said.“Ah, can’t they take care of themselves?” he asked.I stared at him for a good long bit, wondering if he was a moron or just a heartless jackass.In the end I decided it didn’t matter. “You guys keep that door open or I’ll make a new door when I come back and then no one will be happy.”“Right, right,” he said. “Did you want anyone to go with you?”“I’d love company, but not from you,” I said as I stepped past him.The way he and the others backed up was... strange. No, not strange, I knew why they did it. For all the Samurai were practically worshipped, they were also pretty terrifying to the average nobody. No laws to hold them in place, most governments were willing to overlook a few broken skulls from a useful samurai, and most corps, arguably more powerful than some governments, would bend over backwards just to lick the soles of a samurai’s shoe in case it was made from some proprietary alien rubber mix.I worked my jaw as I stepped into the stairwell and started making my way up step-by-step.I was one of those, sorta. At least, on the first steps to it. People were already acting as if I was a whole lot more than just Catherine Leblanc, Orphan number 0501. It was kind of heady, and weird, and frankly disturbing.“Is it like this for every Samurai?” I asked.Perhaps. Most candidates are chosen because they have a temperament that would assist them through anything they might have to face as a Vanguard. If it helps any, know that you were chosen in part because we predicted that you would take well to the changes.“What’s take well mean?” I asked.There are currently no Vanguard world rulers. Those corporations and companies run by a Vanguard are generally those acting for the benefit of humanity. Once a person is a Vanguard our interference is light, beyond providing information, no AI will act to harm their host. So, you can at least trust that so far our criteria have picked out those who don’t let the power take them too far.I shifted my shoulders as I kept climbing. “That’s kind of reassuring, I guess.”If that isn’t enough to assist you through your broody mood, I can suggest some stimulants.I barked a laugh. “Fuck off Myalis.”
