“But the Songli Highland’s overarching plan remained the same, and now, we know what those ‘additional trades’ would be.” Kaffi said, “For the training you would receive, we don’t want you spreading around this cure for the Elixir to anyone else. And why would you want to, anyway? Have you been outside of the Songli Highlands? I know you have. At least for a few kilometers, anyway.

“And you were attacked! Instantly! By Hunters! That’s how it is everywhere in this damned shithole of a continent. Monsters in the Tribulations. Monsters in the form of people everywhere else. The Highlands seek to stabilize all of that. And yes, we use untoward means some of the time, but you have seen the kinds of enemies that surround us. I know you have. Not only were there Hunters, but you even saw the bandits that took Tadashi. Look at what they did to him!

“We work to lessen the wars of this continent by winning them when we can, but mostly by showing that there’s a better way to be.

“Most of the time, clans, or individuals, come into the Songli Highlands looking for a better life, and we give it to them! Stability. Prosperity. Safety! All of that. We just ask that they slot themselves into the roles we have allowed them to have. Most give up their Clan aspirations and become normal commoners. Those that seek a higher station are allowed to struggle for it, as long as they play by the rules, most of which you’ve barely discovered, but you’re on the right paths to do so.

“And this works.” Kaffi said, “My offer yesterday was true, by the way. You’re welcome to live and prosper in Eralis and learn so, so much from us, maybe even more than we can learn from you. You could even become a true Clan. All are welcome in Eralis. Come for the peace, stay for the prosperity.” She said, “And that’s the spiel. Like I was saying, my ability to lie really fucks up the relationships sometimes, but I don’t lie about the big stuff, and that was the big stuff. Do you have any questions before I turn off the privacy?”

Ezekiel had a suspicion, and so he asked, “Is there a real ‘Kaffi’?”

“Yes.” Kaffi was suddenly serious, seeming to become an entirely different person; the person Ezekiel had seen yesterday. “Kaffi is real. She is who I am. But who I am changes as I desire. You’ve heard of the original usage of [Polymorph], have you not? You’d experience a similar addition to your Familiar Form options if you kept up this ‘Ezekiel’ act for a few more weeks. Normally, the process takes years, but it’s quite a lot easier to literally become a whole new person when your new life is acknowledged by so many others.”

Ezekiel considered, then asked, “Are you really a member of High Clan Void Song?”

“Yes.” Kaffi said, “I can get you an invitation to Holorulo if you wish. Foreigners aren’t normally allowed in there, but we would make an exception for you.”

“Maybe some other time.” Ezekiel said, “Okay. Turn off the privacy. We’ll do some aura control training, and I’ll decide all the rest later.”

Still her serious self, Kaffi said, “I will need to have your true response to my proposal by the end of the week, but I would appreciate a smaller response right now.”

“So far I agree with the prosperity the Highlands has created, and of the evilness of the Elixir.” With a bit of quick thinking, he decided to say, “But if you allowed a few changes to your society then it would be much easier to agree with you.”

Kaffi’s eyebrows came together, as she frowned. “Like what?”

“The ability for commoners to speak out against the nobility. Or at least getting rid of the law that allows nobles to kill commoners without repercussions.”

“You’re popular with the Reformists in Holorulo, but the true politics of the Highlands are far beyond you. In the meantime, feel free to stop any such murders you see happening in any way you wish.” Kaffi said, “Normally, we wouldn’t trust a foreigner with such power, but you’re different than most foreigners.” She asked, “But tell me, please. Have you seen any murders, so far?”

“… I have not seen any murders or I would have stopped them, but everyone talks as though it could happen at any moment.” Ezekiel said, “They even spoke like this last night.”

Kaffi nodded. “They talk that way because it does happen sometimes, though rarely is it unjustified. But! Please keep a close eye on our society for us, Ezekiel. We have nothing to hide and everything to show.”

Kaffi pulled her power back and the world outside of the amphitheater reappeared to Ezekiel’s mana sense. Nothing had changed; there were no assassins waiting outside, Odin’s extra bodies were still out there, Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye came back. Everything seemed fine.

Ezekiel considered leaving.

The main reason he did not, was twofold.

He wanted this aura control training. He wanted to know more about the Songli Highlands. And he did approve of most of their society.

The other reason to stay was that if it turned out that Kaffi was lying about her aura control techniques, then that would show what kind of people they were more than anything else.

Ezekiel said to Kaffi, “I wish to amend our agreement. If I’m paying you that much, then I want more for my money.” He asked his people, “Any of you wish to learn some techniques, too?”

Paul was calm and collected; nonreactive. Julia stood ready for anything, while Tiffany was in a similar, near-predatory stance. Ezekiel’s question caught Julia and Tiffany off guard, causing a flinch. Kaffi, though, was ready for the question.

Like a woman who had experienced the same situation hundreds of times before, Kaffi instantly said, “They can listen and watch, but I will not be training them and they are not allowed to ask questions.”

Julia, half-incredulous, stared at Kaffi as she sent her father, ‘You’re still going through with this?’ She added, ‘And fuck no! I’m not learning from her! You shouldn’t either!’

‘I’m surprised we’re staying, too.’ Tiffany asked, ‘What about the threats we saw last night? This seems like we’re adding to the pile.’

‘While we will be watching how we sleep and how we walk around the city, there’s no need to be that paranoid. Everything she said seemed mostly true.’ Ezekiel sent, ‘Besides, if Kaffi lies to us about how to control and use the aura, we’ll find out soon enough, and that would prove what kind of Clan Void Song is more than anything else. I always knew it was going to be dangerous to come here. We all did. But now we know of the danger. We have nothing to lose and a great skill to gain.’

Julia and Tiffany glanced at Paul.

Paul sent, ‘I agree with Ezekiel’s assessment.’

Ezekiel added, ‘It’s a great opportunity.’

Julia said to Kaffi, “We’ll watch.”

Tiffany grunted her assent.

Paul remained as he was.

With her professional facade intact, Kaffi said, “Then if you three would all please take your seats elsewhere, Ezekiel and I shall begin.”
