Spider-Jane lifted up on her eight legs, playing to her strengths when it came to Treant, displaying her eight-legged body, and took a bow, saying, “I will tell them this, if you agree to give Yetta some true assistance in killing Planter. Perhaps some lesser boon?”

“… Sure.”

Jane hated to bargain for such a thing; Treant’s gifts were horrific things, but there’s no way that Treant wouldn’t interfere in the fight with Planter anyway. Her words had been personally chosen by Killzone, though, so maybe they were the right words.

Jane watched the tunnel ahead of her, with all eight of her eyes. The darkness was non-existent to her in this form, so she saw the unfortunate hostages well before they entered the light. They were corded through with fungi and dripping poison. They shambled. They made no noise.

The hostages were all dead.

The fungi inside of them was controlling their bodies; there was no magic where their brains were, like there was in any living person. Knowing this trap before she sprung it on the people back at the Command Center was one of the many reasons Jane had this job.

But she betrayed nothing of this knowledge, either through her words or her posture. As the hostages silently took their positions around Jane, each of the five taking hold of a leg, Jane pretended, “Don’t worry. You’re safe now. Here we go.”

She teleported the hostages into a clean room, nowhere near the Command Center, then teleported herself to another clean room, where she dismissed her armor and [Polymorph]ed into a flame slime.

Jane was fire and air, flickering and insubstantial, barely able to see her surroundings with a slime's primitive Mana Sight. With [Ultrasight], though, she was able to turn an impression of the world into something workable; she was in an insulated, stone room. Liquid had gotten this slime for Jane a week ago, in preparation for what she was doing right now: when dealing with Shades like Treant and Planter, it was necessary for Jane to be able to immolate herself, ridding her body of all the spores and parasites and other living things some Shades liked to inflict upon others, like the ones that had transformed Treant’s hostages into hosts.

Eating the slime’s core was not pleasant; it was on fire. But Jane had healers nearby for the experience, and she gained the first step on a long, long road to [Fire Body].

Flame Touch, touch, 1 MP

Burn a tiny part of your surroundings.

After getting the flame slime, and seeing the road to [Fire Body] lying ahead of her, Jane ramped up her acquisition of Shadow Essences for [Shadowalk]. She was still a few hundred short of that goal, but Jane was nothing if not persistent.

It took her days of uncomfortable, persistent eating, but two days ago, weeks after joining the Army, Jane finally finished consuming all the Shadow essences needed for [Shadowblend] to transform into [Shadowalk]. If she ever slurped the insides out of a shadowolf ever again, it would only be for pure survival purposes.

Shadowalk, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the night.

In the clean room, Jane turned on [Flaming Shrapnel Aura], burning everything around her, as she burned in her flame slime body; the room had been built expecting this kind of abuse. Jane felt the parasites inside of her ignite, as they whined, as they popped and flickered to ash, as they leapt from her slime into the rest of the room. That would not do. She turned on [Cleanse Aura] and the flames around her burned blue; twice as strong as before. Jane waited. When she was sure she was clean and the people watching gave her an 'all clear', she turned off her flame aura, leaving [Cleanse Aura] active for just a bit longer. She plopped and rolled down the room. Someone opened a wall, and she slipped through. The wall closed behind her.

She waited.

“All clear,” came a voice, like hearing someone underwater.

Jane [Polymorph]ed back into a person, conjuring her woven armor back onto her body, clipping her hair back up behind her head. She was standing in a room with a doctor and a priest, both of them behind a [Temperature Ward].

The doctor, wearing the white vest of his office, said, “None of the rescues were salvageable, but private Kiri and her people came back clean. You’re clean too, according to our scans.”

The priest, wearing the white robe of her office, said, “We’re not sure if the Champion and her people are in danger; the Bolt Shrooms didn’t appear until after they killed the Door Guardian. You will need to warn them.”

Jane nodded, saying, “Thank you for your hard work.”

Jane went back to the break room. She grabbed another mana potion and downed it, along with another two donuts. She needed one more level; she needed Polymage. If she had that, she would be able to use all of her monster abilities in all of her forms. That meant the [Eyes of Magic] of the shadowspider would always be available, at all times. But that was a mission for another day.

She refocused on the current mission.

And then she went to the Command Center.

When Jane rounded the corner, Liquid intercepted her with a little bag.

The grey metal dragonkin wrought said, “Take some of your father’s rings. The Champion ran into a cursed dungeon. Animated objects. They already burned through their first sets of rings. Since the three people we know who have [Fire Body] are not available, there will be no rescue on dungeon #4.”

Jane took the bag, slipping it into a pocket of her [Conjure Armor]. Liquid sent Jane an image of Yetta’s current location on a black bridge, and then sent another image several hundred meters away; Jane’s [Teleport] target.

Liquid said, “Go.”

Jane went.

- - - -

A blip of blue put Jane on a ragged, broken facet of a dark tower, in the lower middle reaches of Ar’Kendrithyst. A foot slipped, dislodging stone, but she quickly regained stability. Shards of kendrithyst crystal still clipped down the side of the tower, setting off a ringing, tinkling echo into the shadowy darkness all around.

Jane went still, waiting for the darkness to make a move.

The darkness seemed somewhat shy.

Jane almost became a spider, just so she could get a better look at her surroundings, but she was running [Hunter’s Instincts] right now, and that, alongside her own developing instincts, told her that becoming a spider right now would be a very bad idea. Yetta and her people were nearby, and they shunned all communication with anyone outside of their own party; if they saw a spider hanging around, for any reason at all, they would try to murder it with everything they had. Jane would have to do this as a human.

Jane decided: in for a penny, in for a pound.

She threw a bright [Special Ward], a twenty meter long fluorescent bulb turned up to spotlight bright white levels, down into the canyon of the middle reaches. She [Shadowalk]ed into the stone at her back, well before the fireworks could begin.

And begin they did.

Shadelings waited in ambush. They lifted out of the kendrithyst like bobbit worms sticking up from the sea floor, all around, on every tower, atop every bridge. Red fire and blue lightning crashed into where Jane had been standing, but she was already moving, [Shadowalk]ing, keeping to the very top surface layer of the kendrithyst tower, flowing down, from one bridge to the next. She reached the first set of three shadelings and conjured her sword to slash through all three skulls. Jane moved like a dancing assassin.

The shadelings were mindless; they had accepted someone’s command to kill whoever entered this territory, and Jane qualified. She chopped heads off of shoulders, dodging deadly magic, flowing into the dark crystal at her feet as needed, in and out again, [Shadowalk]ing from one side of the canyon to the other. Taking heads and leaving the bodies behind, [Hunter’s Instincts] guiding Jane’s actions. Sword and intent and every instinct Jane had, began to flow together, playing a song of surgical destruction alongside the thrumming beat of her heart.

In two minutes, the ambush was cleared; that’s when another ambush came.

A buzzsaw of Force crashed through where Jane was going to be, if she had not noticed the attack, if three of her handlers had not reinforced what she was sensing, four seconds before it happened.

Jane, for her part, merely let the buzzsaw pass by, then she flowed into the crystal at her feet and backed up, as a second Force buzzsaw, invisible this time and unnoticed by her handlers, zipped through where she had been standing. The invisible buzzsaw clipped through the crystal, her handlers going silent for a brief moment, then profusely sorry for having missed the invisible spell. Jane sent back feelings of brushing it all off; she was much too focused on her surroundings to take or give offense at a missed attack. Dodging and weaving and living on the battlefield was why she was out here, anyway. It was her job to see what other people could not.

Jane lifted from the dark bridge, like some magnanimous princess shedding robes made of shadow.

Yetta, Allan, Cyril, Basil, and Dorthy, were a hundred meters down the dark bridge.

Jane’s massive tube light illuminated every dark and shadowy thing for kilometers, like someone had brought the sun down into the lower layers of the Dead City, revealing that the crystals down here were full of ever-twisting darkness.

Yetta and her group walked toward Jane, as Yetta said, “Welcome back.”

Jane bowed, quick and done. “Thank you for clearing the Door Guardians. I’m being told that nineteen people have been rescued, so far.”

Basil demanded, “How the fuck did you manage to get a shadowspider! I’ve been looking for one this entire time!”

“A lot of luck. A lot of help. A bit of skill.” Jane asked, “Would you prefer I guide you as a spider?”

Yetta shook her head. “Then they’d send spiders after us, and we wouldn’t know which you were.”

“Well then she has to guide us as a spider, Yetta! I want one.” Basil turned to Jane. “Spider form, yes.”

Jane looked to Yetta. Their whole group stopped ten meters away from Jane. Jane was comfortable in all of her forms, but being a spider down here was a really, really good idea, if Allan could lay off of trying to murder her.

Yetta frowned, then said, “Spider form, then.”

“Yess!” Basil laughed. “I’m gonna get me one of those fuckers!”

“As you wish.” Jane nodded, saying, “And— One of the shadelings dropped these.”

Jane pulled out the ring pouch Liquid had given her. She lobbed it, underhanded, toward Yetta’s group. The ring pouch caught in midair, slowly descending toward Allan. He telekinetically opened the pouch when it came close enough. Several silver-diamond rings floated into the air.

Small laughter echoed through the otherwise silent city, originating from several of the dozens of [Scry] orbs hanging around Yetta. Smaller voices spoke of quest givers giving help in the middle of the quest. Some complained of too much help, too soon. Most of them were silent; watching.

Allan and Dorthy each took a ring. When they put them on, Jane saw the diamond rings smoke and sizzle, along with a bracelet wrapped around Dorthy’s left gauntlet, and a belt wrapped around Allan’s right leg. The belt and the bracelet turned to ash, while the silver diamond rings held steady.

Dorthy said, “Most appreciated.”

Jane nodded as she ditched her armor, [Polymorph]ed into her spider form, and coalesced her blue armor again, practically all at once.

Several shady voices gave small approvals.

Basil said, "Don't shoot the spider with the armor! That's easy enough to do." Basil nudged Allan. "Right, Allan?"

Allan said nothing.

Yetta nodded, then pointed down to a lower layer, practically in the Underworld. “The next one is there.”

To Jane’s [Eyes of Magic], the glow of the Dead City around her was like looking at a parade of lights, but down there, in the deep, actual darkness, there was no light. Jane knew who made the next dungeon, and she was worried.

She attempted to telepathically link to Yetta, but was rebuffed for a hundred damage.

Yetta glared at Jane.

Jane chose her next words carefully. “That dungeon number 2? That one was created by Treant, and though he left you with gifts, he would have given you a lot more if you had cleared his dungeon.”

Yetta threw a telepathic connection at Jane. ‘What the fuck does that mean?’

Jane sent all the most pertinent information as quickly as she could, ‘I said that to fulfill a promise to the Shade known as Treant to tell you about missing out on loot. You need to check yourselves for parasites. Treant is going to help kill Planter and you might not like his help. And the next dungeon is made of antirh—’

The crystal all around Jane and Yetta, vibrated. Damage ticked as Shades began to boo.

“We want banter!” “Too much [Telepathy]!” “Spider’s good, tho.”

Jane cut her connection with Yetta, saying, “Gotta give the audience what they want.” She pointed toward the next dungeon with one long, spidery leg, saying, “That’s going to be a dark time.”

“I love these little clues,” whispered a Shade.

Another Shade whispered, "She's quite good at this."

Yetta said, “Lead the way, then, guide,” as she sent some messages around her team.

Allan and Cyril began casting some sort of healing magics, and a few ‘tsk!’s echoed from a few [Scry] eyes.

Jane grabbed the edge of the dark bridge and set down thread, before she slipped off of the crystal highway, falling down into the illuminated depths, headed toward the darkness. When she touched the bridge below, she anchored her thread and moved aside. Dorthy came smashing down, one hand on the thread, two feet crashing into the bridge, giggling the whole way.

“This is better.” Dorthy looked up to see Allan and the other three descending on a [Force Platform]. Dorthy turned to Jane, saying, “Traveling like that makes me sick.”

Jane normally wouldn’t have noticed, but with eight eyes and [Hunter’s Instincts], she saw through the slits of Dorthy’s armor. Dorthy had winked at her.

Dorthy was playing the game, and she might have always been playing; misdirecting the Shades as much as she could. Maybe they all were? Well... Of course they were? Jane wasn’t so sure.

Jane would have smiled, but with the fangs that was a bit tough, so she just nodded her whole three-meter body, and began to lead the way, down the dark bridges of Ar’Kendrithyst, under the watchful eyes of every single Shade of the Dead city, further and further down, to where the lights of the Dead City died.

Hopefully, the Army’s part in all this was going as well as Jane’s.

