Jane would need to remind Yetta to not [Cleanse] near hostages. The Shades liked to grow cancers into important body parts; a [Cleanse] could kill someone if they didn’t immediately get a [Greater Treat Wounds]. These hostages here were certainly full of cancers, now that Jane was close enough to see them in all their horror. Wind instruments had been sewn directly into their faces. Alien biology had grafted drums onto their legs, and their stomachs. Arms had been turned into bones and strings. They did not look to be in as much pain as they should have been, but that was likely because they had organs grown into them that produced morphine, or something similar. A [Cleanse] would remove such organs, and likely kill them out of shock.

They stared at Jane like she was a savior.

Jane said, “I’m going to [Polymorph] into a shadowspider, with eight legs to teleport you all out of here, all at once. You’ve all been very strong to survive this long. Don’t panic; not now.”

Two of them started panicking, but they were adventurers cleared for Ar’Kendrithyst and they were probably drugged half out of their minds; they controlled their panic. Hopefully their torture had only been for the last few days. As they calmed, Jane nodded, dissolving her [Conjure Armor] clothing with a thought as she [Polymorph]ed into a shadowspider. The two panicked again, sending harsh notes scattering through the air, but they breathed strong, controlling themselves, their horrific musics tempering to something quieter.

Jane spoke with gravel in her voice. “We’ll be out of here, soon,” as she moved onto the tortured orchestra, carefully positioning one leg each, next to what remained of the hands of each person, saying, “It’s okay. It’s okay. Just relax. Grab my legs, just like that, yes. Prepare to accept the [Teleport]. We’re getting out of here. Don’t cry yet, we’re almost done. Hold it together.”

And then, with seven hands each grabbing a leg, Jane yelled out, “Please allow us to go, Fallopolis.”

Fallopolis had been talking with Yetta’s people, but at Jane’s voice, she turned, and said, “You look so much better as a spider, Jane. You should just stay like that.” She lifted her hand, and the tiny itch that Jane recognized as a [Teleport Lock], vanished. “See you lat—”

Blip!

Jane, and seven horrifically mutated hostages, fell into a prepared room of the Interfaith Church, back in Spur.

She [Polymorph]ed back to her original body, conjuring armor around her self as she cut all telepathic conversation, as others took over the tragedy she had dumped in their waiting room. Dozens of nurses, and priests, and a few doctors, swarmed the flailing, crying, mutated people, and that was it; Jane was done, for now.

They asked a few questions and Jane answered, and when they were done with her, Jane rushed out of there, careening down a stone corridor, into the break room beside the command center. Tears were already streaming down her face, anger ripping at her heart. She grabbed a pillow from the couch and crushed her face into the softness, just so she could scream out the pain of being forced to treat with Shades, and maybe the pain would go away. She wanted to break the world; she wanted to kill every single monster.

Jane breathed hard, harder. She was hyperventilating, and she knew she was. Breathing into her pillow helped, so she breathed into fabric. Eventually, she calmed enough for the tears to come. When those dried up, and her mana was above a thousand, she got up.

She prepared herself to see many, many more sights like what she had just witnessed, before the day was done.

She [Cleanse]d herself. She redid her [Conjure Armor] into battle-ready perfection. The break room had been outfitted with tea and desserts and mana potions, but if she wanted actual food, she would have to have someone order it for her; she was busy. She couldn’t wait for real food, anyway. Jane stuffed her face with a stuffed donut, eating her feelings. She downed a mana potion, multiplying her mana regeneration by a significant amount for a short while. Then she made herself some tea.

She rested for five minutes, sipping tea, recovering mana, eating another donut. Then she left the breakroom and turned right, heading to the Command Center.

The Command Center was one stone archway down the grey stone hallway. Voices trickled out of the room beyond that archway; people talking to each other about what they were seeing, and assigning resources where they needed to go. Jane entered the room.

A dozen large panes of magic, some specialized form of [Scry], showed off Yetta’s party from multiple angles, while a map of Ar’Kendrithyst in the back of the room showed Yetta’s position inside the city. Yetta had moved on from Fallopolis. They were walking across the broken bridges of the middle layer, headed toward the next nearest Daydropper, which was actually away from the Garden; away from Planter.

Below all those [Scry] panels and maps, were people, all around the room; soldiers and tacticians, mages and warriors. The room should have been loud, but it was not; all the major tactical information was flowing through telepathic channels, with only larger, overview-centric information being relayed through voice. The people in this room were organizing the rest of the Army, and even some forces from Frontier and Kal’Duresh. Almost everyone outside of this room was still on standby, though; waiting for the signal to dive into a dungeon, to rescue whoever they could.

Jane listened for a moment. According to the conversation floating through the room, Yetta was planning on killing the door guardians. That was good. Jane had said there were 350 missing people, but the tacticians put the real number at a thousand, or more. The Army only expected to rescue 350 people, and that was the highest estimate. The actual number floating around was 'maybe a hundred.'

Taking it all in, and then judging it, Jane felt like the Command Center was just a larger version of Forward Base’s daily operations.

Killzone, like usual, stood in the back, a black wrought in the shape of an orcol, always holding multiple telepathic conversations at once, but not enough to actually hamper the man’s ability to be present in the situation. He had seen Jane, and was walking toward her.

He spoke softly, “Good job. It’s only been 30 minutes; if you go back in then you will face repercussions from Fallopolis.”

“Send me somewhere else before I go back to Yetta's party.”

Killzone smiled wide, as his telepathic connections changed. ‘Telepathic connections reestablished.’

A flood of voices narrowed to three inside Jane’s head, apprising her of the situation inside Ar’Kendrithyst. Yetta’s team just cleared the entrance guardian for dungeon #2. They were currently headed toward the next nearest dungeon, still headed away from Planter. Door Guardian #2 had been a trio of Primal Shadowolves; instantly dispatched by Allan’s magic, some sort of [Force Beam Disc]. The Champion and her team did not linger at all.

Killzone asked, “Do you need any mana potions?”

“Already taken, and already full.” Jane asked, “Do I need to be worried about Allan? Does he know that he’s under the Curse of the Shadeling, now?”

“We think he knows.” Killzone said, “Archmage Quel of the Tower isn’t talking. We'll let you know if this changes.”

Jane waited for orders.

Killzone nodded, then paused, then said, “Yetta’s people are not accepting telepathic communication, so you’re going to have to appear to them, after you go and help the team entering dungeon #2. You’ve got thirty minutes to kill, and a lot of monsters besides.”

“Yes, sir.”

Killzone sent her an image. “That’s your destination; the team is already on site. [Teleport Lock] is negative. Go.”

The large wrought was already talking to someone else as Jane nodded, accepting her mission.

She blipped away—

—directly into a firefight.

- - - -

Glowing sea foam green Bolt Shrooms crowded the entrance and tunnel of Dungeon #2, like villi inside intestines; they were not there four seconds ago, in the image Killzone had sent Jane. These sprouted, all at once, dense inside the dungeon, but even outside, on the crystalline surfaces all around this part of the middle reaches.

Green Decay [Force Bolts] fired from each one, aiming at Jane, and the four people tagged for this dungeon. But Kiri had thrown up a [Force Wall] in all directions just as fast as the Bolt Shrooms appeared, blocking the bolts before they could reach.

Jane only recognized Kiri; she didn’t know the other three people. Orangescale, human, and bluescale; those designations would have to do.

Only three seconds had passed since Jane [Teleported] in.

Kiri’s [Force Wall] was holding, easily, in fact. The air was filled with ten thousand Decay [Force Bolts], but they were like rain, and Kiri was a mountain.

Jane asked, “Why haven’t you cleared them, yet, Kiri?”

Only three seconds had passed; of course Kiri hadn’t cleared them. Jane just liked to give her a hard time.

Kiri frowned at Jane as she stuck her hand through an opening in the [Force Wall]. Flames flew, coating the kendrithyst, instantly popping one tiny shroom as the fire flowed across hundreds, each of them exploding in turn, spreading the blaze even further. Kiri moved to another hole in the [Force Wall]. More fire blasted out of Kiri’s hand, impacting large groves of the shrooms, clearing almost all of the immediate danger. The tunnel into the dungeon was still full of Bolt Shrooms, but Kiri knew not to risk throwing fire into there.

Kiri said, “Do your thing inside that tunnel. I won’t risk the hostages.”

Jane smiled, then ‘did her thing’. She conjured a shield, see through blue, and a sword, super thin, yet super strong; almost invisible. She had long ago learned something very miraculous about [Conjure Weapon]; it wasn’t a revelation, really, or even unique, but it was exactly the sort of realization that elevated Jane’s [Conjure Armor] into something stronger than plate. Everyone made weapons that were normal, weighty things, meant to toss monsters away just as much as they were meant to injure, but Force was stronger than any natural material. Force could make a super thin blade, able to cleave through even the toughest monster’s bones. Jane just had to move fast enough to get away from the severed body parts; momentum was still a deadly event.

Jane had learned a lot more than that, though.

A month ago, she would have relied on [Ultrasight] and [Perfect Hearing] to scout her surroundings, to see what was inside the tunnel before she leapt. But then she bought [Scent Tracker], to try and combine them all into [Tracker’s Instincts], which she heard from the veterans was so much better than the individual parts. When all of her combinations got her shit like [Heightened Senses], she just straight up bought [Tracker’s Instincts]. And then she bought the combination of [Swift Movement] and [Silent Movement]; [Lightfoot].

The combination of all of that, [Hunter’s Instincts], was an easy buy; a failed tier 3 spell took a week of recovery to try again. Jane didn’t have that much time to waste on failure. With a bit of experimenting and playing around with [Hunter’s Instincts], Jane bought Precision, too; the Strength-centric version of Clarity. Applying Favored Ability to [Hunter's Instincts] was a no-brainer.

Precision X

Reduces HP costs by 50%

Requirements: 10 Vitality

Hunter’s Instincts, 10 HP per second ~{Favored Ability}~

You are the predator.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 49, Class: None

Exp: 777,874,204,900/1,258,626,902,500

Class: -/-

Points: 4

HP

1493/1500

1500 per day

MP

2867/3000

1500 per day

Strength

25

+0

25

Vitality

25

+0

25

Willpower

50

+0

30

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Turning on [Hunter’s Instincts] was like making the entire world make sense. She could see the ways monsters moved before they moved. She could feel the wind and understand there were monsters waiting around the corner. She could touch the stone and know every ambush lying in wait.

The effect was multiplied by ten when she was a spider. But she wasn’t a spider right now; she didn’t need it, because she saw everything inside that tunnel, and she knew she could handle it.

A blip of blue, and Jane stood in the throat of the dungeon. She activated two auras at once. Blue fire crashed out of her body, filling the tunnel, at the same time her [Cleanse Aura] kept the air clear of all toxins and smoke; the fresh oxygen of the transformative [Cleanse Aura] even ramped the fires of [Flaming Shrapnel Aura] up to eleven, while it kept the air easy to breathe. Hundreds of Bolt Shrooms had zero time to react to the new stimulus before they turned to ash, and that ash swept away on thick air.

Hidden snakes, hissing and fast, jumped out from the dying grove of Bolt Shrooms. Two were sliced apart instantly, as Jane’s [Hunter’s Instincts] revealed them well before they leapt. She gracefully slipped around another two, slicing them apart like one would draw a line through the air with a laser, holding her thin sword at exactly the right angle for maximum severance.

In moments, the tunnel was completely clear of threats, as debris and death turned into thick air. But beyond that tunnel, there was a very large threat, and because of the Bolt Shrooms and the vipers, Jane knew who this dungeon belonged to.

Jane cut her auras and stepped back from the tunnel.

A voice echoed in the hallway, “I demand you become a spider for the rest of this. They’re much prettier than you stupid bipeds.”

The voice belonged to Treant. He was likely some biped in the distant past, but he had transformed himself into a tree sometime far in the past, too.

Jane bowed to the darkness down the tunnel, and said, “Of course, Treant.”

She discarded her weapons and her armor with a thought, then became a spider. She remade her armor even before the blue mist in the air from her previous armor had had time to vanish back into the ambient mana.

“You’re so pretty like that.” Treant said, “This is enough, and I’m bored of your incursion. I’m sending up the hostages now. Be sure to taunt Yetta that she should have come down here herself. I was prepared to greatly help her kill Planter.” Treant shouted, “That man would better serve the world as a compost pile! Cultivating Daydroppers! The nerve. The squirrels and the birds and the toads are perfectly acceptable meat sacks!”

Command Center whispered in Jane's mind that the Daydroppers in Fallopolis' and Treant's dungeons were now gone.

