The soldier swung his fist, "And it lit us up like you wouldn't believe. I ran in there, and we killed a whole slew of solar beetles and these abominable painting monsters. It really drove home that even if we were small, we could do a lot if we set our mind to it...That is until we saw Yawm."

His eyes darkened, "And that's when I felt hopeless again. He nearly blew us up in atomic fire. He was overwhelming, like a wrath-fueled god walking onto our planet to destroy us. We'd never have salvaged anything from that situation if it wasn't for you and your team."

I shook my head, "I'm the reason he arrived, to begin with."

"I've heard it from Torix. He explained it all to us, as did Althea. You did what you had to do to survive. You couldn't have known. Gosh, we've all done the same. And, and since then, look at all the good you've managed to do."

Thinking of all my mistakes, I crossed my arms, "I think there was more that I could've done."

The soldier stood up, his voice rising, "And that's just it. I can't sit by and watch you talk about yourself like that. Since we escaped Yawm, you've gone to other worlds, saved three species from being tools, and you made sure we were kept safe in the meantime."

"Three species?"

"Yeah. Us humans from Yawm, the gialgathens from Elysium, and the Vagni from the eldritch."

I never thought about it that way. The nameless soldier threw up his hand, "I'd never have done what you did, but that's because I wouldn't have bothered. You rose above, put yourself at the frontlines the whole time, and you stood up for what you believed in. You shouldn't feel ashamed about that."

I never thought of myself like this. It was surprising to hear anyone did. The soldier raised both his hands, reaching out, "I'm sure you've made some mistakes, sir, but we all have. You'd done a damn good job of making up for them, whatever they were. Spear spoke like he and Schema never made a mistake in their lives, but I can promise you-"

His voice cut sharp, fizzling out as he squeezed his hands. He shook as he spoke, "I can promise you they have. I lost my family because we weren't worth their time. Now they're asking us to keep giving until we have nothing. If it wasn't for this guild, we wouldn't have anything left to give. We'd all be dead or worse."

His eyes watered before he calmed himself down. He took a deep breath and nodded at me, "I just had to say that. Thank you for all that you've done for us. Thank you for giving me a home."

My eyes burned as he gave me a salute before walking off. I meant to catch his name, but he left before I processed what he said to me. Once away, he left behind a heaviness and lightness all the same. On the one hand, he showed me my actions carried consequences. On the other hand, not all those consequences were bad.

Many of them were good.

I found myself understanding his dilemma as well. He wallowed in guilt from surviving. From the outside looking in, he showed admirable grit and determination. I admired that drive to live, and he shouldn't have felt bad about what happened after Yawm landed. He did what he had to do, and in a way, I think he was trying to tell me the same.

It left me uplifted. Mistakes or not, I'd be able to help out my guild after killing Plazia. I stood tall while walking back into the celebration below. Passing Torix, I walked down the stairwell and found the party dying down. Obolis kept inspecting the goods, being the only one still doing so. The Emperor chatted away with a golem, keeping himself immersed in his fervent study of the items. Florence entertained guests with Hod, the both of them acting as a dynamic duo. That's why the party lingered at all. Other pockets still existed, however.

Amara spoke with the razor queens, discussing the merits of different meats. I paced up to several of the groups, walking back and forth between different cliques. Despite their rocky introduction, I preferred the razor queens to the albony royals. These aristocrats came across as haughty, entitled brats to me, though I decided against telling them that. However, I admit I cut them off on more than one occasion when they said something stupid, shortsighted, or entitled.

Ok, I might've even relished doing so. Sue me.

Either way, it was amazing how little a person could think when they came from wealth and privilege like that. Of course, not all of the albony acted like this. A few demonstrated determination and grit, going back and forth with me in conversation. I starred those people in my contacts, knowing how valuable certain people could be. Ophelia, Florence, and Helios acted as prime examples.

By comparison, the razor queens stuck out like a quirky, offbeat group of eldritch. This gave them an endearing weirdness, one that instilled in me more motivation to take out Plazia-Ruhl. At a bare minimum, I'd be helping out a group of lovable weirdos. They got me interested in their culture and home planet as well. It sounded like a desolate place, but it would be different at the very least.

These finishing talks made for a successful ending to the event. Florence wrapped it up with an announcement along with taking any offers for the merchandise someone might have. Florence sent me the list, which I sent to Torix, and he'd hand me the best offers of the bunch after doing research whenever he found the time.

All in all, I gained more from thinking during the party than the actual party itself. Counting my victories where I could, I helped Florence lead the albony and razor queens towards our warping pad at the center of the city. Quests or not, the AI still gave us this necessity, so I gave him some credit where it was due.

Before everyone departed, I tapped the Emperor on the shoulder before he stepped through his own portal. He turned to me, his gaze curious, "Ah, what do you need?"

"Do you mind having a quick chat?"

"Not at all."

He took his foot from the polished floor of his study before putting his boot back onto the sandy stone of Blegara. With my own guild busy and his having left, we stood in a courtyard where my soldiers darted around for various tasks. In that throng of activity, I raised a hand,

"I just wanted to touch on my conversation earlier."

His eyes widened, "Ah, the one with Phillip. I'll ensure he understands the full repercussions of what occurred. I can assure you of that."

"I can talk with him in private if I need to. I'm more concerned with the skeptilian I spoke with, Tera."

"So you weren't saving his life when you spoke of him being an old friend then? The galaxy is smaller than it appears at times. I didn't hear the rest of your conversation or its initial parts, as your presence dissipated entirely afterward. Magic, I assume."

"You're right. I spoke with him about being contracted under the Empire. I wanted to buy out the contract, along with his village. What's your price?"

A sly grin cropped up on the Emperor's scarred face, "Oh, Tera? He's not for sale."
