“The perpetrators of what happened are defeated, and we are clearing out the void monsters. It will take time, but we will go on,” Aki said. “Up to a few weeks in the shelter. There are plenty of supplies. Centurions will start collecting requests and questions. Our goal is to prevent a panic and infighting.”

Dale nodded. He had his own questions that remained, but at least it seemed the main threat was gone. He wondered how much the Accords had left after all this, but with Aki and their teleportation gates alone, they would have a chance. He couldn’t fight the monsters out there, nightmares brought unto their world by strange beings from another realm. But he knew crowds and their danger, especially those desperate and angry. And he could talk to the people here, the people he knew and had sworn to protect all those years ago. He could prevent more of them dying. And for that, he needed to let go of his own fears and anger.

“There will be no panic,” Alistair spoke. “We will make sure of that,” he said and looked to the officers. “Tonight, be with your families, and be with your people. We will meet again in the morning.”

Dale soon left the now silent gathering, glances and quiet gestures exchanged before he went back to his family. He hugged Abby, and sobbed.

__________________________

Cless sighed, crossing her arms as she locked eyes with her mom. “You’re so stubborn,” she said.

“I am,” her mother said.

They were in a temporary shelter in the Haven, walls set up to provide privacy, a few bedrolls in the corners of the room and a candle burning on a small table at the center. She had not hung up any of her paintings, knowing they would be out of here in a matter of days.

“Why?” Cless hissed.

“You are a teenager, that’s why. And I’m worried,” Jennifer said and walked closer. “Why do you even want to go now? I thought you weren’t interested in fighting monsters?”

“They destroyed so much! And we’re retaking our lands, I want to take part in that!” Cless said.

Jennifer sighed. “I just want you to be patient, at least wait until more information is available.”

“Ilea defeated the baddies,” she said, raising her brows. “All that remains are mindless monsters. I can teleport away, and the levels are really really good! This is an incredible opportunity! All the Sentinels are talking about it.”

She didn’t really care all that much about the levels and all that, but she just didn’t want to stay here when everyone went out to fight.

Jennifer took in a deep breath. “Alright. Alright. As soon as the first Sentinels ten levels or more below yours leave to hunt those monsters… officially, and approved by their faculty, you can go.”

Cless smiled.

“With a team,” Jennifer said.

Cless groaned.

The door opened and Torben glanced inside. “There is a barbecue of hunted Haven monsters. Thought I’d ask you two to join? It smells delicious.”

“Dad, shouldn’t I be allowed to leave and fight monsters immediately?” Cless exclaimed.

“You should listen to your mother. I’m a wanted criminal,” Torben said.

Cless looked at him, then smiled, more so when she saw her mother roll her eyes.

“Can you stop with that? We’re experiencing a global cataclysm,” Jennifer said.

“Yeah, but there’s a barbecue,” Torben said and walked inside.

“You were freaking out about magic just a few weeks ago,” Jennifer murmured.

Torben smiled at each of them in turn. “I was. But now, I’m just glad to be here, with the both of you.” He grabbed each of their hands before he pulled them outside into the sunlight of the Haven.

Birds chirped nearby, music and singing resounding through the forested area. Cless saw the high reaching farms busy as always with hundreds of vegetation mages. She heard the sound of teleportation gates activating beyond the row of shelters. A baby screamed.

She could’ve easily pulled free from the weak grip of her dad. A low level human. And yet she didn’t. She didn’t really know why, but she supposed a barbecue didn’t sound too bad after all, even with all the chaos out there, and the Sentinels and Shadows already leaving to fight.
