“Mrs Tilden, I do not care about this planet. It is a place of petty value in a desolate corner of the cosmos. The only relevance it holds comes from the powers paying attention to it. That will not change unless Mr Asano chooses to change it. I do not care about your interests, Mrs Tilden, or those of this planet’s other inhabitants. This world, its people and its fate are of no concern to me, beyond that they are of concern to Mr Asano. My preference would be to take those few we care about and leave this place to its own devices. Something that many on Earth would welcome, not least the army of vampires still holding most of Europe. It would also remove most of the issues you are faced with, although I acknowledge it was Mr Asano who brought you into this. Even so, I will not allow those issues to interrupt the time Mr Asano has wisely set aside to maintain his mental equilibrium. An equilibrium I should think that you can see the value in, given his behaviour when he loses it. Something that is an acute threat, given what Miss Farrah has been uncovering during this same time.”

“You truly don’t care what happens to a planet full of people?”

Shade form slowly became indistinct, the neat form that left him looking like a shadowy butler breaking apart. In its place was something alien, primal and ancient. An embodiment of what lurked in dark corners; of what children feared under the bed. Anna suddenly felt like a primitive human, huddled by a fire against the encroaching dark. When Shade spoke again, it wasn’t in the crisp, clear tones of a British aristocrat. It was an unearthly sound, the inhuman whisper of something unseen, seeking to lure travellers into the dark.

“Do not mistake me for what I present to the world, Mrs Tilden. I am the child of death itself, older than the world that birthed you. I have seen people die without reason or purpose, in numbers so large that your culture hasn’t named them yet. You have met fewer people than I have seen planets fall, and I will see this world dead as well. There will be a day, billions from years from now, when Mr Asano and I visit the charred rock that was once his home. A cinder, drifting around the white star your sun has become. We will be the only living things on it.”

Anna gulped.

“Does Asano know about the meeting Claire had with the president?” she asked, forcing her voice to almost normalcy. Shade shifted back to his more familiar appearance.

“He will. Once his attention turns back to Earth and its concerns.”

“Will you at least let me through the portal?”

“I think not, Mrs Tilden. Not today.”
