They're like tiny bubbles popping off the enormous ritual domains. The majority of them that swarm in the thousands are only a few billion kilometers wide. These are the exact strength levels many of the Outer Guards held.

Occasionally, large masses of primordial aura cast invisible shadows over the swarming troops, with an aura spanning a few hundred trillion kilometers. They share a similar strength to the First Blood we just fought.

They aren't in range of my mana-based senses, only the outer reaches of my mind, so nothing shows up in my system yet.

Maria and I don't change our course at all and head toward the closest ritual domain nearby.

There are small popping sensations that ripple in the forest below, as more and more Outer Guard squads are torn apart and killed by the pressure of our auras.

The 90 or so that got caught up in our initial wave have all perished, and now the further we travel, another dozen or so get into range every second we stay in the air.

I feel the constant flow of High Quality ether in the air streaming upward. There are visible tendrils of white energy, like reverse twisters, pulling up all of the ambient ether from below into both mine and Maria's pools.

Along with the natural clouds of ether, and with the purple and black essence from the Outer Guards that flows up our auras into my corruption, there are trillions of fractured glyphs per millisecond that are digested by Maria's source resin.

Upon closer inspection, they're mostly from the Ascended demons, whose kill count is well into the millions now. They do not stand a chance, and don't even struggle like the Outer Guards, they just explode into white glyphs and mist.

By the time we're floating high above the next ritual domain, I'm certain we've killed over two hundred Outer Guards. When I open a hole in the top of this domain's dome with ease, and our aura pours in, even more demons instantly die on the spot.

We pinpoint the ritual site and fly downward without bothering to look anywhere else.

Every single Primordial Tree in this domain basks in our Primordial Aura like we're saviors, and another billion or so worlds link to my World Wide Connectivity system.

The exponential change in our power from moments ago is almost unbelievable.

When we touch down, as a red half demon and blue sparkling angel in the center of another bright white temple, the inheritance ritual begins to automatically start up again. There isn't a single living demon left in this domain, so there are no other witnesses but the trees to see the pillar of leftover Primordial Aura from the Dryads that is released from this ritual site as well.

When all of the leftover Demonic Glyphs pulse into us at once, our souls are strong enough to withstand the impact this time. There is some cracking, but our consciousness does not leave our bodies to another dark plane of existence to cope with the intensity. There are no visions or special events this time either.

The ceremony is over in just a few seconds. I feel more glyphs rising to the surface of my soul, my vibrations strengthening, and my Primordial Aura's depth and range increasing. However, there is no astronomical shift like last time.

I only feel that our power has been increased and saturated slightly more, and moved up within our current potential. Our comprehension and maturity of glyphs have increased a lot, but I feel as though sitting and cycling ether for a few days in isolation could have produced the same result.

"Every bit of extra strength counts... Hitting every domain site will be far more impactful than just absorbing ether from the air..." Maria remarks out loud, as she can hear my thoughts and feelings of dissatisfaction from the underwhelming second ritual.

I nod, and both of us jump upward out of the crumbling domain site of now black and empty pillars.

When we leave through the same hole we left in the roof, countless white strands of ether connect us to the domain inside, as we're still absorbing all of the ambient ether in the air; making sure to leave some behind for the trees.

We stop just above the top of the dome, leaving an opening to finish the job, and my mind races as the seconds pass.

It feels like an eternity as I can feel thousands of Primordial Auras flying our way from many directions.

It also gives me a moment to realize something about the ritual domains. They give off a similar aura to the First Bloods... in that they're significantly stronger than the others around them.

I was far more conscious to feel the pillar of aura released by the ritual site this time, and couldn't help but feel a wave of guilt mixed with relief pouring out of it once it flowed into us.

My best interpretation for this feeling is that the consciousness behind the ritual sites never wanted the demons to hold them all for themselves, or be stolen and used in this fashion. The relief must be a mixture of being freed from its curse, but also the fact that holders of the Creator's Legacy found it.

This is a similar feeling I get when touching all Dryad Glyphs in general.

Though, I can tell that each of the trees in this domain all hold a single entity in each of them. It is one ancient Dryad per tree. In that wave of aura from the ritual site, it was still hard to tell if it was many or one.

The longer I think about it, the more a visual comes to mind, of thousands of Dryads standing together, and one that is much older and stronger than all the rest holding them together as one. They sacrifice themselves through a much different process than the trees, one that is far more intense and irreversible.

As this wave of realization hits me, knowing that the unnatural increase in our Primordial Aura is from this sacrifice, Maria's words snap me out of it. "More First Bloods. Incoming."

She pulls out her soul sword, and at the same time we close the opening in the domain below us.

Now flying at us from the direction of the next ritual domain that we were going to travel to, the first major wave of demons comes at us.

Four enormous demons with the same invisible armor hugging the edges of their demonic forms tight. High Noble Vibrations pour out of them, and nearly four hundred Outer Guards trail behind them.

They're close enough that system messages pop up in my mind, showing that each of them is over level 1 million just like the one we faced alone. Their armor is just as strong, they have buffs and skills at the Primordial Grade too. Each one of them is just as strong as the First Blood we had to put every drop of our power into defeating less than a minute ago.

However, there isn't a single bit of fear in our auras.

Instead, there is indifference, like they are just another opponent to cut down. I activate my two newest abilities. First, Primordial Defense, pulling in all of the excess aura in the atmosphere to create a rippling mirror-like barrier around my soul. It is paper thin, but holds the same amount of aura that was just covering a 30 quadrillion kilometer diameter moments ago.

Second, I raise my right hand and activate my Primordial Grade Demonic Energy manipulation. The Demonic Essence inside my coiling corruption becomes stimulated, and saturated with Primordial aura bound just as tight as the defensive technique wrapped around my soul.

Maria allows a constant flow of High Quality ether to pour out of her pool, and it stimulates source resin in her wings and sword. The entire forest around us lights up with a rainbow-colored glow, and drops in temperature as blue glyphs form all around her.

We both step off the air behind us, and close the gap between us and the First Blood faster than they can even react.

My whole body beneath the Primordial Defense glows red hot with fire and invigorated glyphs. The only off-color is in my fist, as it's covered with a large portion of the corruption from the demon's core.

I quickly find out that the abilities I activated were absolutely overkill.

On impact, the Primordial Aura surrounding the First Blood I hit is vaporized, like popping a fragile bubble. When my fist makes contact with its actual demonic form, all of its vibrations are instantly overwhelmed and dominated. Tendrils of Primordial Corruption burst outward and seep into every cell of its being.

The demon is blind and paralyzed by the shock before my fist even hits its cores.

When they shatter to pieces, it's far too late for it to react.

The First Blood explodes into countless pieces, and my fist keeps moving forward to slam into the First Blood's chest behind it.

This one's eyes at least widen, and it tries to summon a counterattack, but it's killed just as fast.

To my side, I watch an enormous blue angel slice through two First Bloods with her diamond blade. There is no resistance at all in her strike. She swings her blade upward to follow through like this is a leisurely practice swing.

The shockwaves of this massacre kills every single Outer Guard that followed their leaders into battle.

Streaks of red and blue keep moving forward toward the next ritual domain as notifications ring in our ears. At the same time, the vague outlines of similar groups of forces converge on us from other domains further away, unaware they are marching toward certain death.
