“She’s been nothing but helpful, Barnethei. Maybe she’s a Selphid? That would explain a lot of it.”
“I’ve met Selphids, and so have you. Viecel still needs to sleep and eat. I’ve seen her work all night without pause. Dead gods, she built our walls twice as thick. No one mortal could do that, not even a Terland Golem. You tell her something once and she gets it.”
Barnethei realized he was complimenting Toren and put down his cup, grimacing. One of the other members of staff was patching some of their now-faded clothing. Citra murmured as she brushed at her hair with a comb.
“She’s also kind to that slime and Illic. If she is a monster, she’s got a heart. I’m not saying I trust her, but let’s say she has levels and she’s a monster, Barnethei. What are we going to do about it? Chase her off? She wants to work. Plus, it’s not like the first time we’ve heard of an inn with monsters.”
He fixed her with an exasperated gaze as Navien chuckled.
“We’re not copying that inn.”
“Come off it, Barnethei. You like her as much as we do. Maybe she is a Goblin. Besides, what else could she be?”
No one had any real ideas. Barnethei had lots of adventurer stories from Larracel, but even the really nasty tales like Bogleraums didn’t have levelling monsters in them. That was the stuff of stories.
It was Yirr who snapped her fingers after a moment.
“My [Shaman] used to tell us haunt-tales about things that stole levels. Drained them out of you or ate them. Raskghar and Vampyres. Soul-suckers and the like. Or Revenants. Even Golems who wore people’s faces and pretended to be them while killing more and more to make Flesh Golems like them.”
That brought Barnethei up short. He wished Yirr hadn’t reminded him about Revenants, which were undead with the memories of the living in them. But then he frowned.
“Revenants are ghost and undead combined, according to Larra. She’s killed two. They don’t level up, just keep what they have. What kind of Revenant has a Skill that lets you wipe ink away like that?”
“A [Scribe]? Are we being followed around by an undead Revenant [Scribe]?”
Navien suggested, and Barnethei chuckled. Even Yirr snorted at that. The meeting broke up with the same conclusions as always: keep watching, keep being careful—
“Oh, and Yirr, can you teach Toren how to hunt and gut? It would be good to get more food if she has time.”
“Hrr. If she kills me, I’m coming back as a Revenant.”
“I’ll up your pay if you do.”
Barnethei had to admit, having Toren working for the inn was making life so much easier. Nerves of having her here aside, the [Boxhead Barmaid] was a tireless asset.
He just wondered what she got out of it.
 
——
 
What made Barnethei understand Toren was when they were watching the scrying orb between guests. By now, The Explorer’s Haven had clients.
People would come in, ask to send a [Message], trade for food or news—or put down items as a bartering currency. Barnethei needed a lot since the inn had been ransacked, so he’d take in valuable objects and try to parley them into needed supplies.
Thankfully, a lot of caravans had supplies, and not every expedition was going catastrophically. In fact…the first treasures started appearing at last.
“We need food. But see here—this is gold. I’ll give you this one for three hundred bats.”
The prolific bats were a food source, given how it was hard to actually deplete their numbers. But even then—the rather hungry-looking Human man placed a tiny object on the counter, and Barnethei nearly blew the pearl off the counter when he inspected it.
“Pearls?”
“Yep. We found some ground-oysters. Not saying where, it’s our claim. But look at this. They’re nothing like regular pearls, eh?”
Indeed not. Regular pearls were usually pale white, but these were a lustrous brown or even green. Barnethei thought they were worth something, but the pea-sized pearl…
“That’s not worth that much food, sir.”
“Come on, they’re bats.”
“We’ve all got to eat. Tell you what—I’ll give you three hundred bat patties if you can give me enough pearls to make it worth my while. No crunch, no bones—and they go down fairly fine. We mixed them with some flour, and we’ve got vegetables. How about a burger?”
“You do?”
The suddenly watery-mouthed man wavered and ended up parting with six pearls of decent size for, well, a lot of bat patties. Barnethei traded each pearl for a sack of something later on, and like that, he kept ahead of the game.
First pearls, then other animal parts, valuable or not. When the first lump of iron ore crossed his bar counter, Barnethei blinked.
“Is this smelted?”
It was a lump of iron, a nugget of slightly warped metal that looked very pure. The [Miner], a weary Drake, gave him a huge grin.
“Nope. I pulled it out of the ground like that. ‘Scompacted, see? No one was getting anything in the hills, so I had a think and chatted with a Drowned Man fellow. Think about it. They’re foothills to us—but this was all underwater. Not the same. Stone moves, so I went to lower altitudes and did some pit mining. They’re all compressed up! It’s because it’s so heavy and pressurized or something down there!”
“Dead gods. Will you trade for them? I have a pearl.”
The Drake’s eyes lit up, and he hefted a sack with one hand.
“I’ve got…a lot of iron. Mind you, I know it’s worth something right now, but let’s see this pearl.”
Information was valuable. Knowing there were minerals in the ground, not least in such a convenient form, made Barnethei pass that along…to friends of the inn. Captain Vons was one such Drake; when he’d heard about the bandit attack, he’d sent back some salt and oil, the only supplies his hungry colonists had, then all the seeds he had since they couldn’t plant any. In return, Barnethei made sure they got bats, fish, and information.
“It’s a damn shame we can’t figure out how to purify the ground.”
He complained to Navien, and she handed him something.
“Larra just sent word. She’s got the Haven to a safe place—look at this. Wistram’s created a ground-purification spell. She bought it and sent it to us!”
“They what?”
Barnethei saw instructions for a rather complex magical ritual, including, to his dismay, a stupid-looking dance. He got up to try and set it up, hoping his years as Larracel’s not-quite-apprentice had paid off, as Toren watched the scrying orb.
Even Torens needed a break. And even the news got tired of the New Lands.
 
——
 
Channel 2 was always more entertaining than Channel 1 with the stuffy Noass and Sir Relz. Barnethei loved the news, but everyone else liked Drassi.
Toren…didn’t remember Drassi. He’d heard she’d been at The Wandering Inn, but instead of rage and hurt, it was just a distant ache. He was watching as she gave an interview to her ‘Class of the Week’, a segment where she highlighted interesting classes.
Of all of them, it was Orjin of Pomle who spoke on the scrying orb. He had good presence, unlike Ser Normen. Or maybe it was the Drake who kept interjecting for him.
“Pomle is martial arts, [Reporter]. In any form, we come here to train. I cannot show you the definition of it, though I am Strongest.”
“Ahem, what the Strongest of Pomle, Orjin, means is that we represent countless fighting styles, and your view of [Martial Artist] only encompasses a certain frame of reference. A [Martial Artist] might use swords just like a [Warrior]—it’s a mentality and form of training more than any one image.”
Salii the [Secretary] looked about as wild and different from how she’d once been known as the Demonic Headhunter Secretary of Salazsar as Barnethei did. She tapped the scrying orb as Drassi smiled.
“Er—thank you, Secretary Salii? Aren’t you one of the most famous [Secretaries] in the world?”
“Absolutely. I came here for a change of venue from Salazsar, but let’s not interrupt the Strongest. He’s going to present his new style which makes him the [Fist of the Living World]. Hello? Are you paying attention? [Riveting Presentation]! Thank you! Support Pomle’s war against Nerrhavia’s Fallen and their unjustifiable war crimes!”
Her Skill hit her audience, which was so many people Drassi protested.
“Secretary—oh, fine. Strongest?”
He began performing a routine of slow punches and kicks, moving in a rhythm that built up speed until he was punching and striking so fast they had to slow down the scrying orb to show his blows. Then the ‘Fury of the Skies’ had a sparring match with him before Orjin went back to explaining how Pomle operated and the war—with Salii’s interjections.
None of this was too important to The Explorer’s Haven, of course. But the sight of Orjin punching dust upwards like a cloud had children like Illic doing the same, grinning. Even Healing Slime made a vague fist and punched the air excitedly.
When no one was watching, Barnethei stopped his stupid dance and tried to copy the move, which would have earned him mockery from Navien—except that Yirr was doing the same thing too.
But when he saw Toren get up from her table and throw a punch, Barnethei stopped grinning. Because the skeleton copied Orjin…perfectly.
She threw a punch, kicked upwards, foot straight and perfectly flexible—as if she had no problems bending her flesh any way she wanted—lowered her posture as she thrust a palm forwards, spun, and kicked upwards as she twisted her torso—one of the routines Orjin had just shown on screen.
“Toren!”
They were all agog. The skeleton continued the perfect mimicry of Orjin, and Barnethei fancied he could even see the moves cutting the air. But then…she slowed.
Her perfect emulation of his techniques seemed to please the [Barmaid]—at first. But the more effortlessly she copied his routine, the less…happy she was.
As if doing this so easily on the first try meant nothing to her. Barnethei had seen that expression on countless Named-ranks’ faces. The boredom of sheer talent, like Deniusth’s peerless music or Mihaela’s speed. Viecel’s madness that led him to gamble.
Talent.
In that way, Toren was like Larra. Barnethei felt a tinge of envy…before he saw how unhappy the skeleton was. Then—the skeleton, who had stopped, saw the scrying orb change.
“Hm.”
Orjin had interrupted Salii’s explanation of the war in Pomle. He held out a hand, and exasperated, she slowed. His head turned, and he frowned.
“I will perform one more routine. A harder one.”
“Er—you heard him.”
A bit irritated and confused, Salii stepped back, and Orjin produced something else. A bunch of…colored sand? He shook it out of a bag, and Barnethei’s breath caught as Orjin moved his arms slowly.
He was so deliberate and slow it shouldn’t have happened, but the sand moved as if invisible hands were passing through the air. He punched, every motion unhurried, his muscles rippling, and the sand billowed like a colorful storm of magic. This time…his eyes were focused on something far in the distance.
Toren copied the punch. Or tried to. But the [Barmaid], despite mimicking form, failed to copy the feeling of moving the world with her fist, like the [Fist of the Living World] was doing. Orjin stood on one foot, balancing on the balls of his feet, and spun. He leapt into the air in a kick, and she copied him.
Caught herself as she landed, stepping on the heel of her foot, hands raised in a guard, swivelled, and cut out with her palm—but it did not shear the world. The [Barmaid]’s head rose, and she tried to see what she was missing.
He stepped forwards, and the ground shook. Her foot was uncertain, and she wavered as he pivoted and slashed through the cloud of colors. Then—Orjin stood and tilted his head.
He closed his eyes as Drassi applauded, then seemed to listen.
“That is the martial arts I embody. I heard a new voice speaking. Or perhaps it was my imagination.”
He turned, and Drassi opened and closed her mouth. No one had any idea what the Strongest of Pomle meant, and Barnethei…he watched the frozen Toren, who stared at Orjin’s back.
That night and thereafter, he swore he saw Toren practicing the moves Orjin had demonstrated, but she ran off, waving her arms and pretending she was hunting for food, whenever she noticed him.
In the meantime, she did help him practice his stupid dance until Barnethei stood over a pile of potentially cleansed dirt. He then spread it out and put, well…desalinated dirt on sale at the inn.
Selling dirt; now there was a first, even for Barnethei.
 
[Vice Innkeeper of Spells Level 45!]
[Skill – Inn: Fecund Fishery obtained!]
 
——
 
Barnethei’s new Skill actually made the fisheries they’d dug line themselves with stone and appear so much more…official.
He was overjoyed about it, even if it wasn’t a ‘cool’ Skill. This was what everyone needed; Toren swore he saw the little fishies reproducing and making more before his eyes.
Gross.
But after two weeks, Toren had decided he liked it here. Not only was the inn doing well, but it was actually growing in size. Some people had come, either from failed expeditions or after seeing the inn was still standing, and asked to join.
To tend the farms or, in the case of the [Miner] named Rosst, to make this a base from which he could deposit ore with someone he could trust and organize mining expeditions from. Because there was no vein, it was more like going from spot to spot putting down pits and yanking up dirt.
Actually, Toren had an idea about digging…but he was just happy.
At some point, he’d dropped the act, and so had they. The skeleton didn’t take off the box on his head; he was worried what Illic would think. But he’d just go out without pretending to fall asleep, work all night, and then come back with a hare he’d caught for Illic.
He’d decided Illic was his…not pet. That other thing. Not friend, but the person his class was for.
[Carer]. The little Drake would never make it on his own, like Healing Slime, but there was a reason why someone needed to protect his helpless ways. He and Healing Slime ran around, begging Toren to bring them interesting things, and Barnethei gave Toren lessons about things the skeleton didn’t know. Toren was relieved, then, when the [Bandits] returned.
Because he was here.
 
——
 
They came, showering arrows, but this time, the trio of staff in the tower shot back. But they didn’t have enough mana to keep the [Bandits] at bay, and the frustrated warriors hit the walls, making the reinforced masonry tremble, but they were five feet thick and ten feet high.
“We’ll set fire to the inn! We want food! Ev—half of what you’ve got! You think a wall can stop us? We’ve got [Arced Shots]!”
Arrows were rattling off the inn’s roof, and Barnethei was counting.
