“Mihaela fought in the Antinium Wars. Orchestra never went south, nor did I. She ran half a continent while you were paying off mothers with blonde-haired babes. I came all this way to make sure you were still alive—”
Barnethei jumped into the conversation before it got truly ugly.
“Larra! Did you get word of what triggered our [Dangersenses] at the start of the month? And what changed…the moon?”
That distracted Deniusth. He stopped bristling and reaching for his bow-sword, and Larracel gave Barnethei a glower, but then a slight nod.
“The Wandering Inn again. Somehow, though rumors are still swirling. A Goblin King and some kind of high-level Goblin Lord appeared right around there. Destroyed an army of Pallass and fought Saliss, Elia, and every high-level person in the region to a standstill. I’m not sure what killed him, but they said there were Dragons and a giant Harpy sighted fighting him. As far as I can tell…it actually happened.”
Deniusth sat back as Barnethei blinked. He had to have heard some part of that wrong.
“I saw a pink comet coming from the High Passes, and I felt my [Dangersense] go off. The Goblin King? Impossible. It’s not been a decade and a half since the last one!”
“I’m just reporting the news. I sent a [Message] to Lyonette, but she was too busy to respond. I felt the magic in that comet from here. And from the moon.”
Larra got up, and a familiar, the imp-like creature made of mana, brought her some tea. Deniusth passed over it; he wanted a drink, and Barnethei poured him some cold ale.
“Goblin Kings. Elia Arcsinger was there? Dead gods. How many people died?”
“I don’t know. Less than there should have been. Liscor’s barely damaged, and the inn was still standing.”
It was rare for Larracel the Haven to have an expression like that on her face. That was, of someone who felt like she was on the outside of great events. Normally, everyone else wore that expression when watching her and her friends. Barnethei, in his new inn, felt a surge of envy, confusion, apprehension—
What had happened? Larra promised to keep asking, but no one knew. It was like the New Lands, he supposed. The earth shook, and the world was different, but you might not know the world was that changed until you went and saw it for yourself.
At length, Deniusth got up.
“If there is a Goblin King or that kind of trouble, I’m happy it’s all the way north. There’s no glory nor gold in fighting that kind of monster.”
“Have you found anything worth your chase, Deni?”
Larra glanced at him sidelong, and the Violinist hesitated. He smoothed at his yellow hair.
“We’ve stored it for safekeeping. Not that I don’t trust you, Larra, but when we realized we were in a mana drain, we had to place it somewhere else. We’ll see what it’s worth once I’ve hunted down the majority of the rats.”
He was being evasive. Which meant he hadn’t gotten much, or perhaps…Barnethei saw Larra open her mouth, then close it, frustrated. He himself just smiled at Deniusth and asked if he could get the man anything else for their team while they were here before Larra went on her supply run.
Barnethei was glad to be rid of the Violinist and his company. The next day, Larra headed off, and Orchestra went riding back to their hunt.
 
——
 
Barnethei got back to work with his new staff and buildings in tow. He only took one night after Deniusth was gone to have a drink with Navien, Citra, and a few of the old-guard staff. Members who’d been kids with him when Larra was just starting out.
“I swear he’s twice the bastard he was a decade ago. He’s not even talking to Larra like an equal, just like she’s an [Innkeeper] he tolerates because she’s an old friend.”
He bit off over drinks, and Navien exhaled.
“Larra’s retired. To the rest of them, they look at it like she’s lost her edge or she’s not working as hard. You know it’s been like that since we were kids.”
“If she only had some Golems or someone like Mihaela willing to stay with the inn—like Erin has with that Goblin. Someone she could trust to send out and check on them, so she wouldn’t have to do it herself.”
Barnethei slapped one thigh, and Citra gave him a side-long look.
“I thought that was you, Barnethei.”
He gave her a long shake of the head.
“I can’t keep up with any of them, even at Level 40. I tried once, to stop a brawl between Colth and Viecel. I needed a healing potion and twelve days in Larra’s best beds. How can she corral all those monsters if she even makes enough money to get them to retire?”
“A monster herding monsters. Poor Larra.”
Navien muttered. Someone else snorted.
“Poor us. They sweep in, sweep out—Deniusth will kiss you and try to leap into bed the moment anyone smiles at him. Eld’s alright, and Colth is still a lovely lad, but Viecel? Even polite ones like Caleis Berkesson are a bit crazy. Why doesn’t Larra just give up on them and find normal friends? [Mages] or anyone else?”
There were murmurs of agreement, but Barnethei just leaned on the counter, gazing into his cup.
“She’s buried too many of them. Far too many. She can’t talk to normal people about it, even me. Wistram Mages, even regular [Guards] or [Mercenaries], she calls soft. They’re crazy? She’s crazy. Our lovely [Innkeeper] would probably move to Rhir if all her friends weren’t here to try to protect.”
He slapped the table briskly. All the more reason to level up. Someone needed to ground the adventurers of the Haven. Navien helped him clean up and murmured, just for them.
“They didn’t use to be this bad. There was a time when they were more cautious. Deni was all but retired. Mihaela was raising her boy, and only Colth was super active. What changed?”
“They lost more friends. Remember? Raldred died drinking his liver to pieces. One dies, and they go back at it twice as hard. They’re ruined for normal lives. Come on, let’s not worry about it. Hopefully the New Lands reminds them how much they hate adventuring and makes Larra’s fortune.”
 
——
 
The flood abated slightly over the next few days, and Barnethei grew used to those bursts of people coming through. Mostly, though, he began to check the news more and more, isolated as they were from the rest of the world. He missed the Haven’s mobility and wondered, sometimes, if running a stationary inn here was really what he’d wanted.
Well, maybe he’d be able to get it to move if he levelled up. Speaking of which…
 
[Vice Innkeeper of Spells Level 43!]
[Skill – Mana Containment (Inn) obtained!]
 
There now, that made it all worth it, even if the Skill wasn’t ideal. He was levelling again. Barnethei slept well until all the damn bats hitting his window made him get up and close the shutters over the glass.
 
 
Year 24, Month 2, Day 21. Adjusting to new hires. A secret about one of them. Land and flags. The Minotaur King.
 
Illic was a good kid, though he didn’t seem to trust Barnethei or anyone else in The Explorer’s Haven quite yet. He’d wake up, sweep around the inn—or try to since Navien had that on lock—and then nervously stand in his Mage’s Guild, waiting for work.
He was able to do a Mage’s Guild job, from handling customers to writing down their [Messages], then sending them himself. He could even cast [Repair], but he tired quickly, and he had that nervous attitude that meant Barnethei or Navien or one of the veteran members of staff were always nearby in case he grew flustered.
He’d stare at his shoes and duck his head and go quiet if he didn’t know what to do, like a timid statue, and Barnethei kept trying to get the lad to open up. The [Vice Innkeeper] would have a plate of food put out for him or invite him to relax when there was a lull, but Illic seemed to regard these things like a trap.
Dead gods, the Mage’s Guild in Goisedall must have been a nightmare, or maybe he’s afraid we’ll kick him out. Yirr was no better, in a sense.
She’d go out hunting without a word to anyone, then come back with a corpse—from those weird lamprey-things to a Corusdeer—butcher the carcass, collect her pay—she wanted it on the spot—then go off again. At least it helped with food, especially because…nothing was growing.
Larracel hadn’t any idea why it wasn’t and had gotten some soil samples when it was clear the first sprouts weren’t coming up. She’d grumbled about more things to analyze and warned Barnethei about poisons in the soil. He’d checked the clams and the fish and everything else they’d collected, and he knew it wasn’t that.
All was decent, in short. Everyone wanted his [Message] services, and sometimes travellers would come riding back to recharge mana in the inn, often without wanting more than a drink, before heading back out.
Barnethei was slightly annoyed by that and had been considering charging for the mana, but so far, everyone liked the Haven. He just hadn’t heard of anyone coming back with a real haul of treasure yet.
“They’re probably still searching for it. If there’s magic in the ruins, they might find a piece of junk that’s actually a Relic, but they’ll never know until they leave the mana drain.”
He was watching television while waiting for more clients—a scrying orb, another luxury, that was broadcasting the news. Channel 1, Sir Relz and Noass.
Barnethei liked Noass. Everyone had their favorites, and he’d heard a lot of Drassi-support among the staff, but Barnethei liked the Drake despite his Drake-centric ways. It took something to live a life in this world with a name like ‘Noass’.
The duo on Channel 1 were covering the hottest news story, which was, what else? The New Lands. Every day there was some big group setting out, and Barnethei had seen Rhir’s disastrous colonial launch with the Death of Magic herself attacking them. He wondered just how many people might be coming here.
“We’ll have more people here than in the north, soon! I hope Larracel can get more magic; those damn yellow beetles keep getting in! Barnethei, can we spring for a bug-repelling spell?”
Navien was sweeping the bugs out irritably, and Barnethei grimaced.
“It’s an expense, and she’s not back for two weeks. Are they attracted to something?”
“The indoors! Wait, turn the orb up?”
He did, and Noass’s voice echoed through the inn as Illic peeked out of the Mage’s Room to listen.
“—territory. It’s all about putting down claims in the New Lands, it seems, Sir Relz. I say, is that how we should approach the New Lands?”
“Territory control is the standard of nations, Noass. Some might say it’s a Drake thing, but what nation doesn’t enforce its borders? Think of it like this: who owns the New Lands as they are?”
“Gnolls.”
Yirr muttered loudly and then scowled, hunched her shoulders, and flattened her ears, striding out the door as people glanced at her. Not even accusatorily; Barnethei thought it was a good point. Noass laughed.
“Well, some might say Gnolls, but, er—ah—well, it’s such a huge opportunity I don’t think that’s quite fair, Sir Relz!”
“Exactly, Noass. So it’s a scramble. No nation can claim the entirety of the New Lands. The Walled Cities couldn’t, despite their proximity, nor the Tribes…so it’s a bit of a ‘first-come-first-seated’ scenario. I think I’m using the expression right? Hence, flags.”
“Not every nation likes it, Sir Relz. I have a missive from several Terandrian nations decrying the motion. They point out that if someone just runs in, plants a flag, and runs out, it favors those who, well, live closest to the New Lands.”
Sir Relz grew a bit defensive as he adjusted his monocle.
“Well, it’s part of our continent, Noass. Besides, you have to get there to put a flag down.”
“Yes…but they’re asking for more representation of a claim, like an established colony.”
“Asking whom, Noass? Whom, dear viewers, very important diction. I’ve heard ‘who’ used improperly a lot…”
Noass cut Relz off on his rant.
“I think a general consensus. It is hard because there’s no body of nations to agree on it, but you have to admit, we’ve heard reports of new settlers finding flags just plopped down everywhere.”
“That’s an exaggeration of the issue, Noass. I’m all for flag-based control.”
“If you say so, Sir Relz. Ah! We have a [Message] coming in from—The House of Minos? My word! The Minotaur King hims—herself—is writing in. Let me read it now.”
The message flashed on screen as Noass read, and Barnethei blinked. The Minotaur King? Truly, even the most reclusive groups were interested in the New Lands.
“—If the New Lands is to be grabbed piecemeal by anyone with a flag, the fastest Courier could claim the entire place within the week. We are already fighting over Gnolls’ lands. The House of Minos shall not play a game of flags and only respect what we observe—I say, Sir Relz, this is rather aggressive! Can she do that?”
“Totally unprecedented, Noass. Minotaurian arrogance at its worst. Flags are such an elegant system. We use them on ships to communicate, and there’s nothing like seeing a waving flag to inspire patriotism—I think the Minotaur King is in for a rude awakening. She can do what she pleases, but the facts de jure, on the ground, will be what matters.”
Sir Relz was shaking his head. That caused a kerfuffle as far as Barnethei was aware; Minotaurs were not happy about his remarks, and there was a lot of arguing about this flag-based system. He thought the Minotaur King had a point. But that was where the matter rested; Noass and Sir Relz defended their points and talked for the next six hours on the subject, but Barnethei got back to work checking on the fields.
He was getting a bit concerned about them. Larracel could supply his inn, but they’d been counting on the farms. Was it this bad everywhere? They were near a river, which should mean good soil had washed up. And if it was this bad here…well, he had no evidence this issue was widespread.
Three days later, the Minotaur King came back with a response.
 
——
 
The Minotaur King, Inreza, was not a famous figure in the world, and the House of Minos was a small archipelago. She was grey-haired with a massive scar across her chest and seldom travelled anywhere; her wounds left her less active than Prince Khedal, who was often the face of the House of Minos.
Nor was the House of Minos the most active. They were considered a paradise, and while they let their warriors and armies go abroad, they had adopted a kind of patient reclusiveness. They contained the Isle of Goblins, they sent their brightest across the world, fought grand threats like the King of Destruction, and kept to themselves.
