De-escalated? The [Skeleton King of Terror] didn’t have time for this. It was going to kill—
“No.”
But they had all the power in the world! All the strength—the Skeleton King protested, and it realized that it didn’t understand. Or rather, Toren realized it didn’t understand.
It was just death magic. It had no scope. No vision. It was a newly-minted boss appointed to the leadership role in the company, who thought it had a mandate. But it wasn’t considering the employees. The real purpose was not the bottom line of more death magic. And Toren was sick of following stupid orders. Be it so stupid, this analogy, but Toren was done with this rat-race of undead jobs.
 
——
 
In the swirling vortex of mana, a skeleton raised its hands to its eyes. It pulled at the tiny bit of burning magic in its eye—and then jerked. It was…fighting something.
The Healing Slime was cowering against one of the dirt-covered walls as the skeleton reached into its eye sockets, and ripped the mineral out of its eyes. It was hard. The Slime could hear the skeleton screaming, three voices shouting at itself, but the loud, terrible one was weaker than the true owner of these bones.
The Healing Slime saw…something. The sheer magic was changing the air, reflecting a world of death linking the undead, and what it saw was some terrible avatar of death trying to enact the will it had been given. But it was up against a single skeleton with two personalities.
A Skeleton Knight versus a King of Death. Inconceivable! But as the undead watched, the skeleton wrestled the greater undead back. How? Why? Only a few of them got it, those who had once had flesh or understood it. Why?
Because he was Toren! Accept no substitutes! This imitator didn’t have his will. It had never lost anything, never cared for anything! It had the will to destroy the world.
So. What? Toren had the will to do that every time he stepped in manure. He’d rebuilt himself more times than a hundred undead. He ripped the magic out of his skull, and the being shrieked—and the magic collapsed in a thunderclap as the Healing Slime wobbled.
Toren?
When a figure finally pulled itself back together, he took a while to find his clothing, then came over and picked Healing Slime up. It flinched, but then peeked up at the grinning skull and the thumb which rose into the air.
Then the Healing Slime knew its hero, the greatest skeleton in the world, had beaten even a Skeleton King. Toren glanced around and groaned as he saw all the stuff he’d have to clean up. In the morning. Wearily, he opened his skeletal hand, and the Healing Slime saw a diminished bit of white in his palm. It tried to suck the slime’s mana out, but slowly, cautiously, Toren offered it to the slime.
How about you?
The Healing Slime recoiled. Me? It didn’t want to be a Skeleton King of Whatever, but the skeleton again offered it to the nervous slime.
It was really about what lay in your bones, no pun intended. Toren had a lot of deep issues, not just the entire ‘abandoned by Erin’ thing. He was undead. But Healing Slime?
Toren’s bones were drenched in sin. Misery. Lack of kindness, which had left him with nothing but his nature—and his nature was murder and death, an unthinking order to kill and maim and ruin. Even before he had come to life, he had been a corpse, a bitter dream that hurt and destroyed and had to learn why that was pointless.
In many ways, Healing Slime was the same. It was a monster, accidentally made, thrown out moments after it had been created, never given care nor consideration. Yet it persisted in…caring about things. It had weathered every attack, torment, and unkindness or betrayal and remained innocent and kind. Like Giants of ancient days, the insults that tore away at its mere body could not defeat the Healing Slime’s vast heart.
All it needed was…something to reveal the spirit that kept it so small and hungry.
Tentatively, the Healing Slime poked the bit of mineral. It was small, always hungry, and weak. It seemed to hesitate, then, like someone taking a huge breath, it rolled over the bit of white stuff, and the mineral floated inside Healing Slime.
The slime and Toren stared at the slowly-dissolving bit of mineral, and Healing Slime poked its own stomach. Then Toren shrugged.
Weird, but he’d better make sure everyone was okay. He marched off, already knowing they were going to have to debrief about this incident. But two things happened as the sun rose and The Explorer’s Haven found it had a new…crater they were going to have to do something about. Possibly fill with water and make a lake or use for something else?
The first was that the skeleton heard a rather pleased voice in its head, as if he’d passed a test beyond all expectations. It said:
 
[Conditions Met: Boxhead Barmaid → Mysterious Barmaid of Havens Class!]
[Mysterious Barmaid of Havens Level 20!]
[Class Lock: Female Toren required.]
[Class Consolidation: Sword Dancer Removed!]
[Class Consolidation: Tactician Removed!]
[Skill – Steel Head (Box) Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Dancing Obtained!]
[Skill – Minotaur Punch Obtained!]
[Skill – Hearty Serving: Rejuvenation Obtained!]
[Skill – Conjure: Drink of the Day Obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Skeleton Knight → Deathkindly Guardian Class!]
[Deathkindly Guardian Level 34!]
[Class Lock: Male Toren required.]
[Class Consolidation: Undead Leader Removed!]
[Class Consolidation: Carer Removed!]
[Skill – Nurturing Meal Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Lesser Strength → Enhanced Strength Obtained!]
[Skill – Wide Sweep Obtained!]
[Skill – Tremor Stomp Obtained!]
 
 
[Title – The Undead Who Refused The Will of Death assigned!]
[Title Skill – Immunity: Mental Alteration Obtained!]
 
Toren felt just a bit good about that.
 
——
 
The second notable thing that happened was that Barnethei, the [Vice Innkeeper] of Larracel’s Haven, had a visitor midway through trying to clean up the gigantic hole that Toren claimed she’d made.
He looked up and stopped sweeping stones, and Toren flinched. She froze as the little slime hid behind Illic’s back, and Larra the Haven stopped flying and floated down.
She looked tired. She had always claimed flying was stupid, but then—she was using a broom. The [Wizard] spoke, her eyes never leaving the [Barmaid].
“Barnethei. Sorry I’m late. Mihaela said I was out for three days.”
“Larra—you just missed something incredible happening.”
He began, and she nodded. Her eyes flicked around.
“I know. This inn…the mana’s regenerating. It’s being pulled around, but it’s recharging. I didn’t even need to fly here. Your mana well is replenishing from your mana. Fill me in, Barnethei.”
He did as Toren stood there, frozen. Larra glanced down at their new employee and then turned to the [Vice Innkeeper].
“Let’s have a drink, Barnethei. You’ve earned it.”
She never said [Appraisal] out loud. But she was staring at something, incredulous. As if she couldn’t believe what she was seeing.
 
——
 
The Mysterious Boxhead Barmaid, Toren.
 
Toren was very afraid of Larra the Haven, which, as it turned out, was common among a lot of the employees, even Navien. She actually marched Toren into the room where Larra and Barnethei debriefed him.
No, not ‘marched him in’, but marched with him, along with the other employees. Even Illic, holding Healing Slime.
Barnethei noticed that; Larra didn’t. She kept staring at Toren as Barnethei led the conversation.
“So, Toren. We never actually went over your contract with the inn. Every member of staff has one. It’s a matter of record; for your protection as well as ours.”
Toren sat there and felt completely confused. He didn’t get the [Siege Ultra Plus Fireball] he thought was coming. Larra just stared at him, then glared at Barnethei.
“Have you eaten something that’s gone to your head?”
“Well, Larra, if we’ve got magic—we’re back in business, aren’t we? And I clearly need capable help.”
“I’ll get you capable—Barnethei, you don’t need to just level.”
He shot back coolly.
“But I am, Larra. And unless you think classes or your magic are lying to you…I believe in hard work. But I’m also willing to believe in luck. Besides, who would you get me? Adventurers? Frankly, I’d rather take anyone right now.”
She was confused, stunned, and rather annoyed he was defying her, and she snapped back.
“Half the staff wants to go!”
“Half the staff gained at least five levels. The others hit capstones. Once they hear my new pitch for the inn, they’ll be back. And you’ll put magic down.”
“Why?”
He gave her one of those patient smiles that he’d told Toren to do on obstreperous clients. Obstreperous, wonderful word that.
“Well, if we think you’re correct—and you always think you’re correct—we have no choice, do we? The Haven is too magical. The Explorer’s Haven won’t attract trouble in the same way, but it still needs good staff.”
“Not a skeleton.”
Then Larra rose to her feet, pointed at Toren, and said the quiet part out loud. He flinched. She swept her gaze back towards him, and he realized she saw straight through his mask, his clothing. Larracel the Havens burned with magic, defying this barren landscape.
In fact, the tiny crystal of condensed magic that sucked everything out of the air? For all the power it had, all the accumulated weight of mana—it was still less powerful than she was. If Toren had truly become the Skeleton King, the monster it had tried to make him into…this was the woman who would have ended it.
The skeleton shifted as Larracel half-rose from her seat, and she was holding no wand aimed at him, but at his movement, the air rippled. Then, the skeleton realized there were several invisible figures around her.
“Larra. This isn’t helping. You’re scaring him…her. I can’t tell which Toren is. I think it shifts.”
“Barnethei, this is insane, even by my standards. Stop trying to get me to agree to hiring this thing and go for a walk. This won’t take long.”
Several figures materialized as Barnethei waved his hand, dispelling whatever cloaking magic Larracel had cast. But the [Arcane Familiars] holding wands aimed at Toren’s body just continued hovering in the air.
Larracel moved them back and took a longer breath as she inspected Toren once more.
“[Appraisal].”
Then she read something. His class. Perhaps…his name? Larra’s eyes darted to Barnethei, who made encouraging motions.
“Ask him something.”
“How many people have you murdered, skeleton?”
“Larra—”
“Eighty-four.”
The voice of the skeleton was quiet. It was the same voice that Barnethei had heard before, familiar. Erin’s voice, but changed. Larracel’s eyes narrowed as the [Vice Innkeeper]’s eyes slid between her and Toren. He was waiting for his moment to leap in, but Toren had to prove himself.
“That’s specific.”
“I remember them all. Esthelm. Goblins. Raskghar in the dungeons. Travellers on the roads. I am…a monster.”
The [Wizard] glanced past Toren. Her eyes unfocused, and she murmured.
“Only eighty-four. I’ve lost count. You’ve never fought in a war.”
“No. Eighty-four people. Lots of monsters.”
She went quiet again, then her voice turned harsh.
“Why did you protect Barnethei’s inn? What kept you there instead of murdering everyone?”
“Healing Slime.”
“The slime?”
Barnethei knew they were connected, but even that shocked him. Toren nodded.
“Slime was dying. This place was safe.”
“Aha. That’s funny. A skeleton that cares for a Healing Slime. What a joke. I should erase both of you and use you for magical ingredients.”
This time, Toren twitched, and Barnethei actually grabbed Larra’s arm and gave it a gentle squeeze.
“Larra, be charming, please. Stop riling Toren up on purpose. He hasn’t attacked us when he could have, and you can see his class.”
He turned to Toren.
“If she was going to blast you, she would have already. She’s thinking about it.”
The [Wizard]’s eyes narrowed, and she swung back to Barnethei.
“I’m trying to figure out if this is some trick. I can actually understand a skeleton caring about a slime. I’ve heard of dumber things, and any creation can gain quirks. What I don’t understand is how you earned its loyalty.”
“I’m a good boss.”
Barnethei polished his nails on his jacket, and she flicked her wand at him, messing up his combed hair. Larracel glanced at Toren and snorted again.
“There are two ways to tame a monster. Feed it or have sex with it. Which one did you do? Both?”
“Larra.”
This time, he flicked some water out of a cup at her. Barnethei growled.
“What about loyalty and respect?”
She rolled her eyes.
“What kind of a sentient monster wants to work for pay and people being nice to them?”
The skeleton thought it was a question for him and answered.
“One with low self-esteem?”
Barnethei spat out his drink, and Larracel blocked it with a shield. Then her lips twitched. Just once. She seemed so outraged by that she re-focused on Toren. Then she saw Barnethei glancing at her and sighed, loudly. Larracel got up and paced around a table, followed by several [Arcane Familiars]
“I’m not good at this. I never wanted to be a manager of people. It’s worse than having an adventuring team. I left that to Barnethei. I don’t care about staff in the same way as teammates. I don’t want them to quit their jobs, to have children, to take time off. I want to pay them and get quality work from them and not have to do anything else.”
From the way Barnethei sighed, this was a familiar refrain, but Toren appreciated the honesty. At least he knew where he stood with Larracel. Erin had people she loved and people she didn’t, and she cared about her guests.
But oh, it was a terrible thing to be one of the people she loved less. Larracel? She twirled her wand in a pattern across her fingers as she avoided looking at Toren.
“Let’s say I agree to Barnethei’s mad deal. I want a contract. A magical one; all the staff signs one. Everyone has a dream. Every worker of mine has a price. Name yours.”
They turned to Toren, and he was confused.
“What dream?”
Larra glanced at Barnethei, then jerked her head to the staff not-quite peeking through the windows.
“Navien wanted her appearance changed. Permanently; not some illusory magic. Roreen was sick beyond any [Healer]’s help. Barnethei wanted to learn magic. I offer more than gold. That’s how much I think each employee is worth, in money, in magic, in my effort. You won’t get what you want right away. Name your price.”
The way she said it was mercantile, but Toren sat there so long that Larra and Barnethei traded another glance. No one had ever asked him what he wanted. Not Nerrhavia, not Az’kerash, not Erin…
