He thought he had nothing to ask for, other than Healing Slime being okay, but then Toren realized that was a stupid thing to think. He had so much he wanted. A good sword, tools so he could make things better…clothing…
He stared at his hands and then spoke.
“I want…to touch things.”
The skeleton didn’t look at Larracel, just noticed she shifted slightly. He spoke on.
“I want to know what a cold breeze feels like, or someone holding my hand.”
The things he observed that mattered to people, that made no sense to the skeleton. Toren hesitated again, wondering if it was a stupid thing to request, but Larracel smiled.
“I like it.”
Toren’s eyes blazed in relief, and she added to Barnethei.
“That way, I can spell it so if he ever goes rogue, it turns off. And explodes.”
“Larra!”
She was a scary old woman. Barnethei scolded her, then turned to Toren.
“Don’t mind her. I want you to work for me.”
“Why?”
The [Vice Innkeeper]’s brows rose, as if it were an obvious question. He finger-combed his hair as he replied.
“Why? Well, aside from the fact that you saved our inn and did so much—I suppose it’s because you work hard.”
That was it. Larra and Toren waited for more, but Barnethei smiled. He gazed down at his callused hands.
“I believe in hard work. It doesn’t always mean anything. Sometimes you work hard, and it’s all damn luck. But I want to believe in it. So rather, I believe people who work hard deserve to be recognized. Even for a skeleton, I think you’re that sort of employee I want. And even if my boss doesn’t want to recognize it, no one’s blasting you to pieces.”
His chin rose, and he stared down Larracel, who folded her arms. But then Toren had a strange thought. If she tried to kill him, maybe, just maybe, the [Vice Innkeeper] would grab her wand-arm or block a spell. He’d probably fail, but he would try to protect Toren.
Even if Toren could usually put himself together again. And that…was also new. Barnethei nudged Larra.
“Come on, put together a contract, Larra. You’ll be happier with magical bindings, and we can trial Toren for a month.”
She scowled, argued, and complained, but ultimately, Larracel agreed. It took hours, and she wrote up one of the longest pieces of writing Toren had ever read; he read it once, then signed it, and she seemed incredulous, but the skeleton had seen the part about promotions for hard work, and he knew a good gig when he saw it.
Well, well, well. Barnethei stretched when this was over, and then he went to get a bottle for them.
“I know you don’t drink. But I think we need to have a chat about exactly…who you are, Toren. Larra’s suspicious, but she’s also an adventurer. Will you chat with me? And her?”
“Y-yes, boss.”
“It’s Barnethei. Come on.”
Then—well, Barnethei had the weirdest chat he’d ever had with an employee, about how Toren had gotten here to begin with.
At some point in their long conversation into the night, Larracel flew off and started blasting spells into the sky. Mostly—shouting unkind things about Erin, which actually endeared her to their new employee.
Barnethei just shook his head.
“Somehow, it always goes back to that woman.”
He looked envious and exasperated as the [Wizard] flew back down, panting. She fixed Toren with another vexed, magical stare.
“I have another reason to throw a [Fireball] at that woman. So that’s what you are, then. Just a cast-off child who never learned morality? Is that it?”
Is that what he was? Toren sat there as he thought about it. Was he a Golem badly programmed? An undead fighting his base instincts? A child unloved and unwanted?
“No. I’m just a thing that makes mistakes. Many, many mistakes.”
From Esthelm to now. For not asking her to see his intelligence. For choosing death when he had seen all the things he loved and agonized over in life. For not realizing boombark exploded…though that one was hard to know ahead of time.
Larracel drank a cup of water and then rose, whirling a magical cape around her shoulders as she whispered.
“Everyone’s a mistake. That doesn’t make you special. What makes you special is crawling up from the bottom of the well, broken and bloody-fingered. Perhaps this is a new age, Barnethei. You look tougher than the boy who left my inn a few weeks ago. The world’s changing again. I heard…Valceif’s alive.”
“Impossible.”
Barnethei whispered, and Larracel’s head turned to the north.
“Mihaela’s afraid to find the truth. I have to go back with her, or wherever he meets her. You, skeleton.”
She walked over and reached up to touch his jaw through the clothing and under the mask. He froze as Larracel’s fingers burned with magic, and her eyes locked him in place, those depths more terrifying than the purple flames in his eye sockets.
“You get one chance, again. One chance from me. If you lose it all, it’ll never come back again. Not the same way, not twice. Work harder. Understand?”
He nodded, and Barnethei let out a breath he’d been holding. The [Vice Innkeeper] watched as Toren bowed to Larracel, and she began snapping orders for things it should do.
“I want him—or her—dressed up in staff uniform, Barnethei. We have standards in my inn. I’ll be keeping an eye on this thing and I want daily check-ins with Roreen. Now you have magic, I expect more business.”
She was all grumpiness and business, then. But Larra did stay to help re-enchant everything and see what needed to be done. They wanted to start a town here actually, and she was going to insist on a lot of defenses which, frankly, Barnethei was behind.
That night…he heard a voice.
 
[Conditions Met: Vice Innkeeper of Spells → Innkeeper of the Magical Frontier Level 46!]
[Skill – Staff: Cross-trained Professionals Obtained!]
[Skill – Employee Skill Obtained!]
[Skill – Alcohol Brewing: Monstrous Draught Obtained!]
[Spell – Circle of Purification Learned!]
[Skill – Inn: Employee Benefits — (Legendary Healing Slime) Egglets of Happiness Obtained!]
 
He sat up in bed, and his eyes snapped open.
 
“What?”
 
——
 
The next day, Barnethei eyed the Healing Slime and commented.
“It’s twice as big as before.”
The Healing Slime hid behind Toren, seeming…shy. And intelligent? Navien elbowed Barnethei as Larracel stared at it.
“Don’t tease a lady about her weight!”
“Oh come on.”
He was arguing with her, laughing as he drank some coffee that Larra had brought with her, when the door burst open and someone screamed.
“Barnethei! M-my—!”
It turned out there were three important things that happened. Barnethei turned and had to execute a [Flamboyant Dive-roll] for his own mug. He came up without spilling a drop, staring at…
Illic. The [Message Apprentice], or rather [Magicfriend Mage] had received a new class. And a surprise. The Drake felt at his face where his huge green eye stared up in worry and delight at Barnethei, Toren, and the others. His one flesh-and-blood green eye…and in the other eye socket?
A beautiful, burning green flame. The [Innkeeper] of The Explorer’s Haven stared at the eye with all the wonders of an inn that was going to have trouble getting its feet. But he was there, the fourth [Innkeeper] of Izril that even an Immortal Tyrant would later admit in hindsight deserved a spot on the list.
If only because the third [Innkeeper] had helped. Or rather, his bones. But then, Barnethei was smiling, and he heard, for the first time, the sound of an undead skeleton crying. For it saw something beautiful that it had helped create.
That was how Toren came to the New Lands. It wasn’t the end of the story, not at all. Just a new beginning.
