The mana ‘leak’ from both of them being swallowed by the ground was killing the slime, but he thought it was bleeding less mana today than it had been days ago. Maybe it was halting the flow of mana outwards?
Toren had never been this incapacitated, ever. Before, he’d had the Archmage Nekhret’s bones in him, so he’d always healed from injuries. Az’kerash removing them meant he was stuck; his [Limited Regeneration] couldn’t replace entire limbs.
So, he was concentrating on the flow of mana in his body and sensing it for the first time. Focusing on it because, well, he had nothing else to do. It had taken him ages to notice the fine details like how the mana drain intensified or lessened and to realize the Healing Slime was avoiding it.
The slime was more knowledgeable about magic than Toren. It cuddled his head as he realized glumly how far behind he was. Then it tried to carry him up the hill.
It was having trouble keeping all his bones inside its body now it was a third smaller. Toren hoped they could find bones here. Certainly, he sensed the undead—but something was wrong.
 
——
 
They were all…collapsing. Each time they tried to rise, a new presence filled them, then cut off. They lived and died in this perpetual state of reincarnation that was horrific. If undead could be tortured—this was it.
However, what really unnerved Toren were the…spirits. He could sense them floating around the bodies. Mostly around the weird tower filled with magic going underground.
Bearing in mind what Nerrhavia had told him, Toren got it. Normally, an undead forced the ghost out of the body or might devour it; a piece of them was left behind. But because the mana drain was so intense, the ghosts never got ejected. They hung around the bodies, dead Drakes and, for some reason, Dullahans. Both sides really didn’t like each other, but they ignored the skeleton and Healing Slime as it rolled bravely towards the bodies.
This was where it got tricky, because Toren needed bones, but the undead here he didn’t know. Their vibes might not be good. They might fall to pieces fast, but if you were close enough, they could take a few swings at you. Healing Slime was no fighter, and Toren couldn’t. Even a few rattling bones could hurt the slime badly.
So they came with diplomacy. Tact. Hat in their hands, asking for a handout—hugely embarrassing for Toren, but he was willing to beg to help Healing Slime.
Rather to his surprise, the undead turned to him and seemed to think he was some kind of rockstar. Their eyes brightened, and a few took steps towards him.
Whoa, you? What happened to you? And how can we help, buddy? Friendo? Pal? This skeleton’s alright, even if he’s only a head and hands—and he’s got beautiful hands. Something about him makes me want to follow him.
Toren was…aware that some of his thoughts overlapped with how Erin thought, like the rockstar thing. He was rather flattered by the attention. Healing Slime relaxed as a few piles of bones energetically collapsed around him. He translated their dialogue, more thoughts and intentions reflecting off each other, much like this.
This entire bother? Purely temporary. They’d get themselves together sooner or later. That was how it worked, right? Just give them a few more…y’know, thousand years, and they were positive one of them would collect enough mana to put the rest of them together.
Damn shame, because they had to be killing the living, but you know how it was. How’d you lose your arms? Was that slime killable? No? Okay, they’d hold off on that for a bit.
How long had they been here? Well, you know. Forever. There had been fighting, a lot of bodies had been sadly washed away, but they’d been lying there until the waters vanished. No, they hadn’t been able to animate even with the water over them. All the magic kept being taken.
Annoying, that. Oh, the ghosts? They were new. Just before or around the time that woman had spoken in all their hearts, those charming three. Now those were a trio you could get behind, better than even a [Necromancer]. Charismatic—although nothing had ever come of it? Anyways, the ghosts had appeared but mostly just hung around, being confused and annoying. 
What happened to you, incidentally? Tyrants? Had your Relics stolen? What a terrible business! We’d love to murder these living things for you.
Spare a few bones? Absolutely, chum! For you, anything. Who had the best femurs here? Drake or Dullahan? Say, how did you get bones as pristine as his hands?
This was all rather convivial! Toren was hugely encouraged, and Healing Slime itself was doing its jiggly dance, bouncing around in a blob of excitement. He requested enough bones, if they could spare them, to rebuild his body.
Toren wasn’t picky. He was prepared, in fact, for the worst bones they’d offer him to get back on his feet…once someone gave him feet. After all, they were all hard-working undead, and he didn’t want to take too much from any one body.
However, at his request, all the undead instantly offered him the pick of the lot. Body and all! He was so astounded he floundered until they cleared up his misapprehension.
Bones? Take them! You can have me and my buddy over there! All our bones! Take all of us if it works! We don’t mind the merge.
Hold on…merge? Toren realized they were thinking he was going to do the classic undead thing and gather their bones into him and become a Bone Horror. Or some other undead. He knew how it went: you merged undead into greater ones, but that wasn’t his style.
He was Toren; yes, he took other bones, but he’d never really wanted to be in a polycule. He was sure he’d get along, but their personalities and his would mix, and he was pretty sure he’d go into the ‘let’s kill all living things’ mindset, which wasn’t a good one.
At this, the undead grew rather dismayed.
You don’t want to merge with us? We’re great! It’s a way out for all of us! Just merge up, and we’ll eat those ghosts over there if we can, maybe arm ourselves from the fortress—then start murdering! Come on, we’ll even throw in the slime if it can merge.
They began pressuring him, but he refused, and then it got a bit ugly. The undead bones began rolling at him, trying to start an orgy with him in the center, and Toren was not having it.
Neither was Healing Slime, who zipped him back in alarm. The undead rattled and clattered at Toren, who furiously shot back insults. He knew the other undead got up to stuff, but now Toren realized that all some of them wanted to do was kill the living, then get back and entangle bodies with the others!
Gross! He wasn’t a Crypt King or a Wailing Pit! Rather to his relief, the other undead finally got what he was putting down and decided to respect his personal boundaries. But they put their foot down.
No merging, no bones. Sorry, comrade. Not even one? We could do a great two-headed skeleton. No? Okay, okay. Listen. We’re all in a bind here, and we get you’re doing your own thing. We’ve got to support the effort of killing the living, even if you’re not doing things how we do it. 
So they gave him rights to scavenge any body that hadn’t fully formed an undead. Which was very reasonable! Toren felt bad about the entire no-merging thing, but he thanked them and wished them luck on the entire ‘rising despite the mana drain’ thing. He promised that if he got enough magic, he’d definitely come back and recruit a few into his horde, and he got the feeling they were rather cheering him on. Like some old undead seeing this down-on-his-luck newcomer appearing, but with great prospects.
Generosity. That’s the kind of thing undead had that Drakes and other living species lacked. True, it was only bits and bobs of bones…to his dismay, Toren found only pieces, and Healing Slime couldn’t dig; the mana drain grew worse the deeper it went.
So, after an entire night of rolling around the battlefield, Toren had just enough bones to stand on two misshapen feet. He wiggled his toes, flexed his new arms of shining Stellar Ivory…and stared at the Healing Slime.
They were about the same height. Toren had just enough bone fragments to create a body two feet tall, and he waddled around as his hands and forearm-bones now became arms.
The other undead were, uh…less complimentary about his new form. They tried to be enthusiastic, but he distinctly heard them opining that he should merge with them and get a better body.
Certainly—Toren could barely move around in this tiny form. He could waddle, and as for fighting—he had no weapons. He could huck a stone side-long, but he didn’t even have the arm bones to articulate a throwing motion.
This was terrible. He debated stealing some bones from the other undead, but they’d been so welcoming he couldn’t quite do it. Healing Slime rolled forwards uncertainly; it didn’t know what to do.
We have to find more bones for me. Let’s head back along the New Lands. Nerrhavia’s probably not still searching for us, and we have to get out of here.
It was getting too weak; even trying to dig down into the ground to find bones for Toren had reduced another inch of Healing Slime’s mass. But how to transport him?
He was now too big to carry and too slow to move beyond a waddle. After some thought, Toren had a solution.
 
——
 
The weirdest slime in the world rolled back the way it had come as the undead watched. It seemed like a slime—but a bunch of bones were floating inside of it, and a skull was riding on its head. And it had two feet and hands that were crawling on the ground, helping the slime move.
Wow. That was, uh…that was something. You heard of death slimes or bone slimes, but that? The undead were sort of relieved none of them had merged with Toren after all.
No accounting for taste, even if he seemed like he could lead a horde. They wished him well, though. They were all working towards the same goal, even if he hadn’t really ever gone ‘yeah, I’m killing everything I see!’
He’d be back or change his tune.
The slime that was helping him wouldn’t last two days. It might look only two-thirds as big, but it didn’t have the mana to sustain itself below a certain threshold. Thankfully, Toren generated more mana than not, so he’d be fine. The undead rose and fell, waiting for their lucky break.
 
——
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
Toren the Vengeful One.
Toren, Employee #1 of Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop.
In Service to the Immortal Tyrant: Toren.
A Head and Two Hands Carried by a Slime.
Toren the Helpless.
 
Suffering. He knew it well. He and suffering were old companions, the sharp misery of unhappiness, but also the long and deep agony of not knowing who you were, of being…nothing.
This was a new blade, just as Toren believed he was beyond anything that could be done. He’d lost Erin, if he’d ever had her. He’d lost his relics, Maviola, his class, even his body. Everything the world could take from him, but he’d forgotten you could always fall further. Drop to the ground and there was a dungeon beneath.
Fall in the dungeon and the wells carried you down. There was never a bottom. Now, suffering was going to take away the one thing he had left.
His friend.
Despite his best efforts and the stupid way he let Healing Slime carry him, Toren couldn’t drag them a tenth as fast as the Healing Slime could move. It burned magic, the Speed Slime racing back the way they’d come.
Toren had a map of the New Lands in his head; they’d come from the southeast, up from where Nerrhavia had made her camp, meandering towards the hills north. If the ridgeline that marked the New Lands was one long marker across the continent, the river was the other.
The river that flowed down from the foothills was a natural point of geography; using it, you could orient yourself towards the hills or the giant gorge where they had found the helpful undead, which was west of there. Or head further south; not that Toren needed the landmark. He had a perfect map of everywhere he’d been in his head, both via his undead memory and time in the dungeon’s confusing corridors.
Eastwards they went now, back towards the river and the end of the New Lands. They had to; Healing Slime was dying.
It already bled magic in the regular world, because it was so…so magical that unless it ate the right reagents, it couldn’t survive. Some slimes accumulated magic, but Healing Slime was no ordinary Water Slime or Sewer Slime. Its powers drained mana, and here—
It stopped after the first day. Stopped, and its purple body flecked with bits of shimmering gold turned to the prismatic color of its regular form. Then became dull, darkening until it was like faded glass, not the beautiful glow.
Then Toren dragged them onwards, desperate. And he knew…Healing Slime was running out of time. But they hadn’t even made it to the river.
Then he regretted not stealing the undeads’ bodies or risking merging. Then he cursed his pathetic body, his classes, Nerrhavia, everything that had led him here. He was Toren, a warrior, a [Barmaid], a…
He couldn’t protect one slime. His [Dangersense (Ward)] Skill was going off. It had been for days, but now it was like the dull tolling of funeral bells. The ringing of a morgue calling.
No.
 
[Carer Level 13!]
 
No Skills. No…[Convert Death Mana] Skill, [Transfer Mana (Ward)] Skill, or anything else. Toren had been thinking it could happen. That was his class!
Carer. What was the point of caring if you couldn’t save them? But he had never been good at his job. A good skeleton wouldn’t have let Healing Slime just follow him around and not found a home. A good skeleton wouldn’t have endangered Healing Slime and needed his help. He was no [Protector].
Just a fool who realized he had the wrong classes, levels too low, too late.
Eleven hours of dragging them forwards, agonizing foot by foot. Even for Toren, it was hard. The Healing Slime didn’t respond; it was just an orb of stickiness clinging to him, losing pieces of gel every hour. Toren crawled, kicking at the ground desperately, and the voice saw fit to speak again.
 
[Carer Level 14!]
[Skill – Nurture Intellect: Slimes obtained!]
 
A Skill. A useful Skill. A worthless Skill.
Then Toren began to curse the voice. He had never thought of whatever gave him levels before. Never wondered what the rules were.
But whether it was some vestige of Erin left in him, his own unique relationship with the system of levels as the first levelling undead—or just his desperate hatred, Toren began to curse it.
Give me levels to save Healing Slime. It’s all I want. All my classes…I’m not anything. I don’t know what I am, and neither do you, because how could you if I’m lost? But this matters.
This matters more than anything I’ve done. So help me. Please.
