“We’re down to three charges on our wands. Let them draw near…damn. We need a way to shoot past the walls!”
Another mistake in inn-defense. He’d made walls, but now realized they couldn’t use the arrow slits in the inn until the enemy took the wall. Toren sat, patting Illic on the head as the boy hugged the Healing Slime and hid under a table.
The skeleton was afraid. She didn’t know…if she could do this. There were a lot of them. But she saw Navien grimly covering the door.
“This time, they know we’re low on magic, Barnethei.”
“I know. I’ve sent a message to Larra, and I hope Vons is really watching us. No one loose a spell until they’re inside.”
They’d piled up a barricade by the door, and Toren had to hop over the tall scramble of furniture. She turned as Barnethei shouted.
“Toren—!”
Then she looked at him. He faltered, and the skeleton wiped at the ink on her face. He waited as she erased the smiling expression she’d been wearing, but she didn’t draw a new face there. Instead…she held out a hand.
“Boss. I need a sword.”
He had one. The [Vice Innkeeper] hesitated and gazed at her. Then at Navien, the others. Yirr snarled as she drew an arrow to her bow.
“Either give her one or let me get in that tower! They’re trying to break down the gates!”
So, Barnethei handed Toren a sword, and the [Sword Dancer] lifted it. That was who walked out of the inn, fear singing in her breast. She had a dagger in the off-hand—and as he watched, moving to the windows, he saw her do something strange.
Toren lifted the dagger…then stabbed herself in the head with it. Or rather, the box.
Two holes right where her eyes should be. He felt a chill run down his spine as she turned.
 
——
 
They were wary. The [Bandits] got through the walls with effort and had to enter on foot, swearing. They had a woman with a huge maul; she was probably the wallbreaker. Their leader had two swords; the rest had bows and were covering the inn.
“Get out here with the food! No one has to go with us—but if we go in there, someone’s dying. Got it?”
They were warier this time, seeing the inn’s defenses, and several were covering the tower, staring at the odd design. But when they saw the [Barmaid] with a box on her head step outside the inn, they still laughed.
“Who’s this? Drop it.”
A dozen bows rose instantly as Toren lifted the blade. She said nothing and drew the sword, admiring the enchantment still on it. Simple Keen Edge, of course. But it made the leader snarl.
“I said drop it or you’re dead!”
They didn’t want to kill her for multiple reasons, but when she made no sound, two of them fired at her legs. The arrows passed through her, punching into the cloth with tearing sounds. Amazingly, she kept standing with two arrows in her knees.
“Rhir’s hells…is she crazy?”
The [Barmaid] cast the sheath aside and drew a dagger in her off-hand. Something…was wrong with the stupid box on her head. There were two eye holes punched into it, and a purple glimmer shone from within. Her eyes?
It looked—wrong. Suddenly dry-mouthed, the former Silver-rank adventurer leading this ragtag group trying to stay alive and ahead of Deniusth and his bastards licked his lips.
“We’ll cut you to ribbons. Back off—”
She said nothing. But the purple glow in her eyes seemed to intensify.
“Magic! She’s casting—”
“Get her!”
They were adventurers, and the moment the [Fear] spell activated, they attacked, despite the numbing terror. But they still—flinched.
She dove at them like the [Sword Dancer] from Drath she had once learned from, the blade swinging through the air as she threw herself at the leader.
“[Pinpoint Stab]!”
He ran her through the chest, and there was a cry from the inn. The adventurer twisted his blade, grimacing, but he felt no…impact. No cry of agony.
There was no blood on his blade—
Then her dagger punched through his neck, and he realized she’d traded the blow to lure him in. The adventurer gurgled and saw into the holes in the box.
Sk—skelet—
Toren vanished as he tried to cry out, and the maul smashed down, hitting the adventurer. The Silver-ranker froze—and the [Mirage Cut] slashed through her unenchanted armor, straight through the belly. Toren turned and lifted her bloody blades.
 
——
 
She had never been more scared in a fight, even against Erin. Scared she’d fall and they’d get to the inn. But it was easy.
She killed one adventurer, wounded the other, and they began to run. Not just because they’d seen her take deathblows; Toren didn’t understand. Only after, when she kicked over the first adventurer she’d killed, did she see the ugly scar on his face when she tugged the bandana off.
“Infection. They must have been terrified you’d wound them without a good healing potion or [Healer] nearby. Dead gods.”
Barnethei emerged, and Toren understood. The adventurer she’d cut had screamed like a dying woman, even as she ran. That was the New Lands. A single cut and you could…die.
It was ludicrous, but the skeleton got it. If someone had hit Illic or Healing Slime, they were so fragile compared to her. Even Barnethei.
He stood there, staring down at the dead man’s corpse, then exhaled.
“We need to strip him, then bury him well away from the water. Someone might need his armor and weapons.”
This was the New Lands. Toren saw Navien holding her mouth as they did that, and her whisper reached Toren.
“I can’t wait to get to the Haven. Even if—”
Her eyes lingered on Toren, and the skeleton saw Barnethei breathing hard out his nose. And she realized…once again, a good thing was ending.
 
——
 
Of course they were going to go. The New Lands objectively sucked. Male Toren let female Toren soak up the accolades, then went for a walk that night.
Hands in his pockets. He had a new uniform now; Navien had given Toren a uniform of the Haven’s staff, that bright, semi-reflective material. It made Toren look pretty good, though they felt like they needed to upgrade the box a bit to keep up with their new apparel.
For as long as it lasted…which wouldn’t be long. The Explorer’s Haven might be finally getting valuable goods, but it was still—too hard.
Without magic. It was. Barnethei might tough it out, but the rest of the staff were surviving, not thriving. Healing Slime wasn’t thriving either, for all Illic was feeding it; it had stabilized at half its weight.
Only Toren was doing okay, and that was because he was so empty even a bit of teaching, a decent job, was enough to fill him up.
He knew this was no way to live in this damn…
Toren kicked at the ground as a little shape escaped out a window of The Explorer’s Haven and rolled after him. Healing Slime braved the outdoors to follow its buddy as Toren walked around in a widening gyre.
It was sad, because he was sad. They both understood this might end, and this was good. Differently good than Doren. They missed Maviola, but this…Toren was happier here than even in Doren’s shop. Because he was needed. Valuable.
If only they could do something. If only Healing Slime could do something. It sometimes healed the staff when they hit nails into their hands or got cuts. Yirr often came back for a quick heal, then fed Healing Slime random things she’d found.
Barnethei had begun giving Toren a cut of the wages he insisted on passing out, despite them having nothing to pay for. They were…changing. The Healing Slime longed to be bigger so it could protect Illic from shouty, bad clients.
So the skeleton wasn’t so alone. But what was Toren doing?
He was pacing around, in a circle. The Healing Slime knew circles. In fact, it thought Toren was pacing around in a huge circle around The Explorer’s Haven, mapping out something both had learned to spot.
The…mana drain. He was narrowing inwards, towards the locus of it, and Healing Slime stayed on the periphery because it hurt, squeaking anxiously. But Toren was all death mana, and he barely even noticed the drain after killing someone.
He had something on his shoulder. Not the sword. He’d given it back to Barnethei, much to the man’s surprise. Instead, Toren had something he’d taken from the supplies the new additions to this burgeoning settlement had left.
A shovel and pickaxe. He planted both in the center of this magical drain zone and began to dig. Healing Slime was astounded.
This was such a bad idea! Getting closer to the magic-sucking thing was terrible! But then, it hadn’t exactly known Toren as a purveyor of good ideas. It rolled back and forth, squeaking urgently, and Toren ignored it.
He worked for hours. He had to dig down deep, but he had the power of skeletons and good posture on his side thanks to Barnethei. In fact, though he’d started just after 9 PM, it was probably 7 AM by the time the skeleton came up, tossing out a shovel and having to leap up the walls of the pit he’d dug with something in hand.
Healing Slime recoiled as it felt the center of the mana pull come up and intensify with Toren. It backed away from him as he waved something in his hands at Healing Slime.
Oi! Look at this stupid thing! Toren thought funny. His voice, that he seldom used, had stopped sounding exactly like the [Magical Innkeeper] he and Healing Slime had once known. That mental and verbal tone had grown deeper, more echo-ey. More…him. Her.
There was something tiny in Toren’s hands. Actually, two tiny things; a speck of something rather bright and white. The skeleton seemed miffed at finding the source of all this trouble. He pulled at it, and Healing Slime squeaked.
Bad! Throw it away! It radiated magic—and Healing Slime wondered for a moment what it might taste like. But it was scary, so it backed away, moving towards the walls as Toren rolled his eye-flames. He ripped the first bit off, then raised it to his skull.
He gave it the old sniff test, just like Barnethei had shown him, but since he never got anything from it, the skeleton just scraped it against one cheek. Then he put one half of it in his teeth and masticated on it a bit.
Purely to make the Healing Slime more agitated. Toren laughed and dismissively threw the first piece into the distance. The fragments he’d torn off it trailed in the air, and—
 
——
 
The explosion blew in the entire north wall, and Barnethei was shouting at everyone to take cover as the ground rippled up and cascaded over that section of the Haven’s walls. He lay there, checking if everyone was alright.
“Slimey? I can’t find—”
“Where’s Toren?”
Navien had to shout that, and it took longer for the [Vice Innkeeper] to hear, let alone collect his senses. By the time Barnethei ran outside, sword in hand, it was too late.
 
——
 
—At least he’d missed the inn this time. Toren’s bones finally collected themselves together, and he lay on his back, staring up at the sky. What was it with him and explosions?
The Healing Slime raced over to him, squealing in worry, and he was so relieved it was alright.
Shakily, the skeleton crawled over to an object the Slime backed away from, and very, very gingerly, he picked up the second bit of…well, as far as he was concerned, destruction incarnate.
Holy shit, as Erin would say. What was this?
Then he realized the mana was all being sucked into…this thing. Not just here, but—were they all over the place?
One person sneezes wrong and all of the New Lands is going to explode. Frankly, he didn’t even think the destructive power he’d witnessed was the full potential of this stuff. Most of the magic had just vented rather than be channeled into the ‘boom’; it was being sucked down into other spots.
He felt great, though. Even Healing Slime seemed more animated by the sheer mana ambience temporarily around them, and it had a hard time digesting ambient mana.
Toren stared at the little piece of…mineral? And it triggered a sudden impulse in him. The Anguivess Host and the Crypt King. Something it had said made Toren’s eye-flames flicker.
As the Healing Slime watched, he slowly opened his jaws, but not to chomp on the stuff this time. Rather…he put it in his mouth, then realized that was stupid because that wasn’t how he digested things.
Slowly, he took the tiny speck of white stuff, barely half as big as his finger-bone, out and stared at it. Then…he inserted it into his left eye. The strange substance crawling with magic began to burn in his eye-flames.
Oh! Then Toren realized he’d underestimated how much mana was in here! It was so much. Oceans of it! So much compressed—he felt his bones rising. Like Deimos, the Skeleton Lich, but he felt like there was even more power than the Skeleton Warlock’s transformation.
Toren was flying, in fact. Rising upwards—and he was laughing.
Laughing? Oh, yes. Laughing in a huge gallery, a million voices cheering him on. Laughing with the voice to snuff out all that lived. He could sense them suddenly, coming closer, even the Necromancer, who recognized him. Even the dead coffin, whose passenger woke, the Mother of Graves, the Crypt King…
Everything. Bear witness.
Death magic roared out of his mouth like a cloud as the Healing Slime below fled a killing amount of mana that condensed as the voice roared. Now—once more!
 
[Conditions Met: Skeleton Knight → Skeleton King of Terror Obtained!]
[Title – 14th Herald of the Breathless Age, Skeleton King Toren Obtained!]
[Skeleton King of Terror Level 47!]
[Skill – Mass Greater Reanimation obtained!]
[Skill – The Bone Giant’s Sword obtained!]
[Skill —]
 
Ha. Haha. So this is how power felt. He was going to kill everything now. The skeleton was laughing as his bones reconfigured. He got the plan. The long plan, the words echoing in them from the dawn of things…
Kill the living. Who had given it? A voice whispering their role that they had fulfilled ever since the start. They were all on the same side, and he—he was going to lead them.
Kill them. Barnethei, all the settlers of the New Lands, all the people, and harvest this glorious power. This was enough to create the final horde, the final host! Of course, the Crypt King was smarter than he looked! But he, Toren, would be faster!
He’d make them into undead. Navien, Illic, Healing Slime, and then…
Wait.
What was that thought? Toren caught himself, and the raging part of him that was roaring death found itself confronted with something almost unique. Even in the long ages of undeath, few of them had ever been…multiple?
There were two other Torens. Male, female, both of whom had real problems with Skeleton King Toren’s outlined three-step plan for the future.
Well, of course it was going to kill them. The roaring death mana faltered as one of the Torens instantly objected. Not Healing Slime. In fact, there were better ways to deal with hostilities than violence. First, you used words. De-escalated.
