When he caught himself and saw the boxed head of the woman staring at him, he jumped and went to check on the racoons. Navien was making a face.
“Should we keep them?”
“Meat’s meat. How much do we have?”
Yirr had sampled the racoons and declared them perfectly edible, and Barnethei knew their stocks were low, so he sighed.
“See how they cook up, please, Navien. At this point, I’ll take bats. Just in case Larra’s a day or two late!”
He didn’t see Toren’s head rise in the distance just a fraction as Navien shuddered, and some of the staff asked how long until Larra got there. Barnethei went to bed, trading off with Navien for the night watch.
…The next morning, he found over a hundred bats in a net that Toren had used to catch them all. She’d then drowned them in the river before hauling them out. Oh, and the tower was done. It was twenty-four feet high and looked like it belonged to a fortress. Toren saluted Barnethei as he stared up at it, open-mouthed.
She seemed like she was having fun.
 
[Barmaid Level 15!]
[Skill – Enduring Tools obtained!]
[Skill – Reassuring Presence obtained!]
 
——
 
It was the first time since Liscor that Toren had levelled in her old class from working at an actual inn. It shocked her, truly. It shocked her because it felt…good. Like she had gone back to doing something unfinished. That she’d wanted to be good at, but never known how.
Silly, of course, to treasure that class more than [Relic Guardian]. But it gave Toren motivation to continue her task.
She was getting to work, digging a moat around the new walls she was tasked with making ten feet tall, and Toren knew they knew.
She wasn’t stupid. She’d just fallen for it the first two days. They didn’t trust her. Fair. She didn’t trust them. She just needed Healing Slime to get bigger so it could survive her carrying it out of the New Lands. And food—they needed food.
Healing Slime seemed to be getting bigger, actually. She wondered if the Drake kid was doing anything to it. Illic, Toren thought his name was, but he hid behind Navien or the others any time she got close, and they were so wary—
Well, the skeleton was digging a moat with a shovel you could definitely use to murder twenty people when she heard voices.
“There—there’s the inn. Dead gods, the wall looks bigger, and is that tower…? Hey! We need food!”
Toren’s head poked up, and the weary group coming their way slowed as there was a shout from the tower. There were no gates to the small area within; a [Wall of Stone] spell sealed the entrance.
“Stay where you are!”
Wands pointing down—Toren saw a disheveled group of Drakes raising their hands.
“It’s Captain Vons’ group! The Trisstral Alliance! We ate here! We can pay—we’re in need of anything you can spare!”
Barnethei appeared in the tower after a moment, and Toren watched as the Drakes eyed her. She could kill the entire group of twenty-some riders, but the [Innkeeper] was wary.
“Captain Vons’ group? Where is he?”
“Holding things together—he sent us to buy everything we could!”
“The Explorer’s Haven is closed. We were attacked by bandits, and we have nothing to eat.”
“Nothing? Ancestors!”
The news dismayed the Drakes, and Toren shook her head. Living people. So flawed. Barnethei stared down at Toren, then glanced over his shoulder.
“We have—some dead racoons we killed. Giant ones. And, uh—are bats edible?”
It was not a question the Drakes had entertained before, but after a whispered conversation, their leader called up.
“Frankly, [Innkeeper], we’re willing to eat anything!”
Barnethei hesitated, eyed Toren again, then let the Drakes in. He spoke to them as they tried to dissect and roast some bats, and Toren saw several Drakes giving her the side-eye. However, they didn’t comment, and she took a bucket to the well that had been dug, drew some water, and went back inside.
There was ice thanks to a freezing spell the inn ran, and she put the water in a pitcher and got cups. Navien was staring at her, and Toren hefted the tray. Navien blinked.
“Good?”
It sounded like a question, but Toren went out and handed drinks around to the Drakes, who blinked.
“Thank you, Miss…?”
“Toren.”
A Drake nodded and gulped the water down before glancing at the others. Barnethei watched Toren, then glanced at Navien. She held up seven fingers when she thought Toren’s back was turned, and he sighed for reasons unknown to Toren.
Toren was more amused by the roasting of bats than anything else. The Drakes ate cautiously from a fire, grimacing, but declared bats were edible, if only their bodies, not the wings or anything else.
They bought the lot; Barnethei didn’t have the heart to charge them for the bats, just the racoon meat, which he did think was good. They thanked him profusely, and only at the end did the Drake leader clear his throat.
“You’re a sight for sore eyes when a lot of groups are—less than lawful, Innkeeper. Rest assured, we’ll keep an eye out for bandits. There’s been nastiness already. Captain Vons is keeping an eye out, and we’ll convey our thanks to him and the Trisstral Alliance.”
Another Drake nodded, still chewing ravenously on the bat meat. She spoke around the crunching sounds.
“We might have to send word to them via you to do it. Are you going to be here next week?”
Barnethei hesitated.
“Doubtful, honestly.”
“Fair.”
The Drake grimaced. He glanced at Toren one last time as he turned his horse, then leaned down.
“I have to ask, Innkeeper. Is that, uh, young lady wearing a box on her head for any particular reason? I don’t remember her last time, but it was a while ago, or so it feels.”
“Who, Toren? She’s new. And the box is…cultural. To her.”
Barnethei smiled, and the Drake gave Toren an odd look. One of them muttered.
“Must be Chandrarian.”
He got a hefty nudge, and they set off without another word. Toren watched them go, and Barnethei weighed the coins in one palm, bemused. Then he shook his head.
“Good work with the, ah, bats, Toren. I suppose that would be a good thing to sell, though it’s dire. We’ve got the fisheries…damn, if those idiots hadn’t de-clammed the fields, we’d all be fine! Larra dropped us off animals last time she visited, but they stole both cows!”
Food was a problem. Toren remembered Erin always having to make it, and cleaning the outhouses. She nodded as he strode off, then put the shovel on her shoulders.
Digging time.
 
——
 
After the moat, Barnethei was starting to run out of things for Toren to do, but he contented himself with the knowledge Larracel was only four or five days away at most and driving towards them hard given the urgency. He’d told her, of course, about ‘Toren’, and she’d told him to continue putting the act up.
 
Might be a Djinni. Or I’ve heard Greater Mimics like to train on people. Golem, monster, if it’s not going after you, it wants something. Hold on, I’m coming.
 
The problem was, the thing seemed interested in what lay inside The Explorer’s Haven, and as a member of staff, they couldn’t just keep her out all day.
He noticed Toren staring at Illic as she was inside, taking a break, and his blood ran cold.
“Illic, you know Toren. Show her your slime.”
It was the only thing he could think of—the boy looked terrified, but Barnethei bade him put the slime on the table so he could hustle the boy back. The slime before a boy…but then the craziest thing happened.
The moment the slime oozed onto the table, it raced forwards and crawled over Toren, clinging to her and dancing around in joy. They…knew each other? Toren tossed the slime up and down, hugged it to her chest—then when she saw them watching, put the slime down, patted it a few times, and stood up.
“What a…mysterious slime. I should go back to work! Later!”
Her voice was still weird, that slightly fake, artificial sound. Barnethei stared at Illic, and his eyes focused on the slime, which wanted to race after Toren.
There was a mystery here. Did these two know each other? But why? How? Was Toren a…super-slime?
No, that was stupid. Barnethei was curious, though. He couldn’t help it! The rest of the staff treated Toren like a monster, justifiably, and the Drakes were so spooked half wanted to leave and find Captain Vons the next time he appeared.
It was Navien who shared Barnethei’s curiosity. She confessed to him on the fourth day that she’d been giving Toren more instructions.
“Just to see if she’d do them.”
“Navien! Are you mad? Larra said—”
“I know, but she’s not here, and if it’s going to murder us, I’d rather know now so we can run. She’s got a bit of a weird personality.”
Barnethei was going to say ‘she’ wasn’t even conclusively female, but frowned.
“How so?”
“Well, I thought she just enjoyed doing things, but when I asked her to clean the outhouses out, she wasn’t happy.”
“Maybe she’s got a nose after all.”
No one wanted to do that. Much less mix it with the good soil; Barnethei glanced at the farm and crops that were actually sprouting. Shame they wouldn’t be able to do anything with them…Navien nodded.
“I know, but then I thanked her, and she brightened up and did the rest twice as fast.”
“…So our resident mystery monster enjoys praise?”
That…seemed like the actual conclusion here. When Barnethei came out to remark on how the moat was going, Toren straightened. She was digging, he realized, a channel from the river to the moat.
“Oh! So it’s actually filled with water. That’d keep it from stagnating—that’s a brilliant idea! We could hang our nets from above, maybe even turn this into the fish hatchery.”
She did visibly perk up when he complimented her, which was so strange. Then scratched at her head.
“What is…stagnating, boss?”
Again, the odd voice, but that word, ‘stagnating’, came out differently, and he had the impression she’d never heard nor spoken it before.
“Ah, that means standing water. Mosquitos and the like lay eggs in it. I’m not an expert, but Colth and Valeterisa know a trick or two about farming, and Larra’s got her own farm. She had mosquitos for ages and couldn’t understand why.”
He began to explain about how that all worked and realized Toren was digging again. But her head kept rising when he spoke, and he had the distinct impression she was drinking all this in. Then Barnethei eyed the slopes of the moat and realized they’d cave in the walls.
“We need to shore this up before water hits it. Ever laid a foundation before?”
“No. I have failed. I am sorry, boss.”
She drooped, and he, reflexively, shrugged his coat off as he slid into the trench.
“You don’t fail if no one’s taught you how it’s supposed to be done. Here, give me the shovel and I’ll show you how you prevent that.”
He was, again, halfway through remaking the moat’s walls before it hit him once more what he was doing. But Toren was actually outstripping Barnethei, and after a moment’s hesitation, he activated a Skill.
[I Worked Like Three Men].
Toren, hauling dirt out of the moat, fell flat on her face as she saw three Barnetheis begin to work. He grinned at her, and the [Innkeeper] of hard work decided to prove to this strange monster he knew his stuff.
He beat Toren on the first thirty minutes his Skill was active, kept up with her pace-for-pace for the next two, but after seeing her work for six more, he flopped onto his back and massaged his hands as some of the staff stared.
“She’s definitely a rogue Golem. Has to be.”
“Oh, sure. You’ve just never found anyone who works harder than you do. Toren, you want a break?”
Navien called out, and Toren’s head rose. After a second, the figure waved and redoubled their efforts. And Barnethei was definitely not impressed. Definitely not.
He just respected hard work. And he got the impression Toren appreciated his lessons on how to shovel efficiently, build the walls up, and even on stagnated water. Barnethei was a decent teacher; he’d taught new staff all his life. He didn’t realize for a while that Toren had never had a teacher, let alone a good one.
 
——
 
The night of the fourth day, Barnethei woke up to a screaming alarm and drew his wand, cursing himself for a fool.
“I lowered my guard. Idiot. Idiot—”
He came out, wand aimed and prepared to fight and die, and there was no Toren. Instead…Illic raced out of the Mage’s Room.
“Innkeeper Barnethei! Innkeeper! The Adventurer’s Haven is under attack!”
“What?”
In shock, he leapt down the stairs and saw the unbelievable on a scrying orb. Larra had enchanted it herself, not trusting Wistram to do anything, and it must have been some linked [Communications] spell, because he saw an image of the Haven and heard her voice.
“—The Haven is under attack! All adventurers, the Haven is under assault! Named-rank threats! Named-r—”
It was coming from the scrying orb linked to her inn. Halfway down the stairs, Barnethei staggered. He felt words burning into his head, as frantic and loud as the voice. There was a flash from the notice board, and he saw it appear.
 
<Mythical Quest — Defend the Haven!>
 
At least two Named-rank monsters are attacking the Haven! Any adventurer within range, rally to—
 
He tore past the <Quest>, praying there was someone who was answering it. But his eyes were only for—
“Larra!”
He bellowed as everyone gathered around, but she couldn’t hear him. Even Toren appeared, a bag of bats on her back, and stared at the scene playing out.
The Adventurer’s Haven had come under assault in the New Lands. By what, you might ask? Well…anything seeking magic. Anything that looked around this wasteland of magic and hunted magic out. Her inn, even on low power, was like a beacon.
It looked like a swarm of…of…snakes at first. They hovered in the air, darting at the barriers of the inn, spitting magic at the shields as the Haven exchanged fire with the orb of…
Snakes? No—as the image cleared, Navien gasped.
“Fish?”
A school of fish were flying through the air, forming a bigger fish, which spat pieces of itself at the Haven. It changed as a flash of lightning streaked at it, reshaping into a reaching octopus.
“It’s a damn fish. Wait. What’s that?”
They were huge fish, at least five feet long on average, but there was one in the roiling mass of them that caught Barnethei’s eye. It was bright…pink? Pink and aglow with such magic that he felt sure it was empowering this swarm of fish.
They all had magical powers. They were coated in electricity and, even as he watched, absorbed another volley of lightning sent against them. They floated higher, becoming a screaming face, though it took him a second to realize it was a Drowned Person’s face, not Human—
“Take cover! Take—”
