Or I’ll kill you. I swear if Healing Slime dies, I will find a way to kill whatever you are and everything in this world. Everything.
If there were a presence listening to his voice, it said nothing.
It didn’t even acknowledge his vow, because he had not lost the slime.
Not yet.
 
——
 
They came to the river, and it was a blob now. So small he could hold it in one hand. Toren had to ford the river.
A river versus a skeleton, two feet tall, unable to articulate his joints, trying to keep the Healing Slime above his head, incapable of swimming to reach the other side. And how far…
It swept him down-river as he held the dying slime, tumbling, screaming, until he hit some nets. Nets—which he climbed out of and stumbled onto the bank. Healing Slime…
Something was ahead of them. But half of Toren was tangled in the nets. He tried to push the slime forwards, but it wouldn’t move.
The skeleton lay there, trying to rise, and he heard the bells falling silent. He prayed for something, anything. A miracle. He prayed, but no one was listening to skeletons.
The goddess who had presided over death had lost her powers. Toren lay as the slime rolled away from his hand and lay, a ball around a tiny mana core, on the grass.
If you go, I’ll go too. Toren heard humming now, not the bells. A lonely, distant humming.
He thought it was his imagination. Then he knew he’d never heard this song before. For he remembered them all. His purple eye-flames rose, and he had no expectation of anything. Just desperation. So, he, who had never deigned to give Nerrhavia a single word, the skeleton with a voice, shouted.
“Help! Please!”
The humming stopped, and Toren lay still. Then, the Gnollish [Huntress] humming Great Plains Sing stopped as she warily aimed her bow around. She stopped harvesting fish for bait in the river.
Yirr’s boots crunched through the grass, and she bent down and saw something strange. A skeletal hand reaching for a tiny…she almost recoiled or stepped on the tiny slime.
“A slime? But there’s no magic here. It’s shiny, yes?”
Carefully, she bent down. And, after a moment’s hesitation, found a jar and scooped it up. Then she trotted back towards the distant building shining with…magic.
When she came back to show Barnethei the bones she’d found—
They were gone.
 
 
Year 24, Month 3, Day 4. A strange pet. A raid not fought off. Strangers. The Haven…in trouble. Both Havens.
 
After the first raid on The Explorer’s Haven, Navien and half the staff had a meeting with Barnethei.
“We didn’t sign up for [Bandits], Barnethei. It was one thing when Larra was in charge, but you’re not her. We want out of this job. Sorry.”
He sat there and didn’t exactly get mad. He saw it. Instead, the [Vice Innkeeper] took off his hat and tried to undo some of the dents in it. They were still sweeping up glass, which meant that more bugs and weather could come through the windows.
He was tired. All the sparkle and jazz of the Haven had worn off, and he felt like the New Lands were miserable.
“What about Golems? If we could have them or [Guards]? I’m not sticking it out long either if we get more raids, Navien, I’m just asking what Larra would. She wants this to work. She’s put too much gold in to bail out.”
The [Head Cleaner] had to think.
“They’d better be Gold-rankers, Barnethei. But I—we—don’t want that. Can’t you talk to her? You’ve known her over twenty years!”
True. He’d known Navien since she was a kid too. Actually, he and Navien were some of the oldest. Barnethei glanced up at a girl he often thought of as a younger sister and saw how distressed she was.
They came here for me. The Haven’s staff were like family, but not like…The Wandering Inn. It was a weird comparison, but Ishkr, the [Server] of that inn, had never gone with Barnethei, and in hindsight, he never would. He’d sworn to die in that inn with Erin. Lyonette, those kids—that was a family.
Erin wasn’t a mother, but it was a family like that. This? This was more like…if Larracel was a grandmother, no, a great grandmother. Matriarch. She got her way, and Barnethei had sway, but it was sway, not the same closeness. They had employees who were loyal and good because the inn had been good.
They hadn’t fought and died together. That, Barnethei supposed darkly, was the difference. He sat there and realized he didn’t want that kind of family. He’d rather they pulled the stakes up. But Navien? He nodded at her.
“Larra’s a week or two away. Once she comes back, I’ll call for an all-staff meeting. We’ll talk it out.”
That was all he could offer; they weren’t going to leave this place while the Haven was on the road. Navien nodded tightly.
They got to cleaning up.
 
——
 
Two things happened before the Haven came back. One was the bad raid. The other, and this was inconsequential in comparison, was that Yirr brought back a weird monster. Only in hindsight, later, far later, would Barnethei put the two together as equally significant.
She trotted in and called for him.
“Barnethei? I found something just at the river. I swore someone was shouting for help but—either they washed away or it was something else.”
“Hm? What’ve you got?”
He was tired and moved more sluggishly, without that energy to work hard and see it pay off. He was sick of people not having money to pay, of having to turn them away when they begged for food, of the damn beetles. And the bats! This was a terrible location after all; that forest disgorged bats and, worse, big racoons that went after the Haven’s foods. More than once, a member of staff had had to blast the racoons away.
He found the weirdest of things in a glass jar Yirr showed him. It was a glowing…
“Slime? It’s tiny!”
It was smaller than the palm of his hand, and he swore it was dead. Slimes did that if they ran out of mana. This one had a tiny mana core, and he shook the jar as Yirr shrugged.
“I would have killed it for the mana core, but it’s not worth much, no. Plus…aren’t they magic?”
She knew her basic monsters and animals, and so did Barnethei.
“They are indeed. Slimes shouldn’t exist around here. Maybe that’s why this one looks like it’s dying. I’ve never seen this coloration, though…”
It looked rather special, even if it was faded. He swore it was glowing a bit and realized the ambient mana levels in The Explorer’s Haven might be keeping it alive. Still—slimes were a pest, and he was going to tell Yirr to toss it when he saw someone peeking at the slime.
Illic, the [Message Apprentice], must have never seen a slime before. He turned and began sweeping the bugs away, but Barnethei smiled wearily.
“Illic, come on over if you want to see the slime. Have you never seen one?”
“N-no, Innkeeper Barnethei.”
The timid Drake boy walked over and peered at the slime.
“Is it dead?”
“Dying, probably.”
The boy appeared so crestfallen as the little piece of jello rested a small limb against the jar that Barnethei bit his lip. But—to hells with it. He looked around.
“Navien? Do you have a bit of magical gemstone?”
They carried it as emergency supplies in case the mana well ran out, and to recharge artifacts faster. She tossed him a piece, and he gave it to Illic.
“Here, put the thing on the table and place the gem down and see if it likes it. They love mana, you know.”
Larra had done this with him as a boy, and they all watched as Illic did that. The slime lay on the table, and Barnethei thought it really was a goner, but then when it noticed the tiny citrine gem, glowing with magic, it rolled towards it. Slowly, it engulfed the gem, and instantly, the colors brightened.
“Oh!”
Illic’s good eye shone as he saw the gem in the slime’s center brighten and visibly grow. Barnethei chuckled.
“They’re all mana in the center. Give them a boost and they can rebuild. Now…let’s add a cup of water and see.”
He let Illic fetch some and sprinkle it over the slime, and it grew visibly bigger. It started rolling around now and seemed to realize it was being watched. Instantly, it tried to hide in the jar, despite it being glass.
“It’s so beautiful.”
The boy whispered, and Barnethei had to agree.
“It is, isn’t it? Maybe Larra would like it—ah, but not many slimes are worth something. We could let it go into the grass, Yirr?”
She shrugged.
“It’s not worth much even if you pull the mana core.”
At this, the slime almost seemed to hear her and trembled, and Illic looked so crestfallen the Gnoll harrumphed.
“I’m not doing it! Oh! Barnethei, I found old bones in the grass. Real old. A skeleton’s head.”
Barnethei blinked. Bones? That made him wary, but he assumed it was an undead that had made it this far then collapsed. He went out to find the bones, but scavengers must have grabbed it or the wind just blown it into the water because they couldn’t find them.
When they came back, he forgot about the little slime entirely and wrote to Larracel in careful language, asking her to come back sooner and that morale was low after the raid.
 
——
 
Two days later, a rather upset [Runner] was in the Mage’s Room as Barnethei poked his head in. She’d come running and asked to pay for [Message] spells.
She was unhappy about the added expense because Illic couldn’t cast much. She was unhappy about her job and snapping.
“Tell the Runner’s Guild I can’t do a delivery if their maps are wrong! I don’t know who these ‘Expeditious Enterprise’ people are—I’ve had three groups claiming they were the recipients of my packages, someone took a shot at me, and no one’s got a working map!”
“I—I’ll send that, Miss. B-but I don’t have enough [Messages] for—”
The Drake was pulling at his neck-spines when Barnethei smiled into the conversation.
“Excuse me, Miss, but Illic is our only [Mage]. What’s the problem?”
He took over, and she calmed, trying to explain the issue. Illic managed five [Messages] total, enough to get her to trot back to Goisedall, cursing, but he ran out of mana for any more.
Which was…odd. Because he was supposed to do nine. In fact, he’d levelled from his work, and Barnethei thought he could do up to sixteen in a day—still very low by [Mage] standards. In fact, the [Vice Innkeeper] took the rest of the magical spellcasting over since it was only a Tier 2 spell.
Illic went very silent when he felt like he was doing a bad job, so Barnethei told the boy not to worry, the Runner was just agitated and left it at that.
—The next day, when some travellers came by asking to let their families know they’d made it to the New Lands, he managed three [Messages] and ran out of mana.
At that point, Barnethei realized there was a rat. Or rather…
“Illic, you wouldn’t happen to have a pet of some kind, would you?”
The Drake boy was shaking like a leaf, and Barnethei got a glare from Navien. He’d even sat Illic down with some milk and everything, but the Drake was so panicked that the [Head Cleaner] knelt down. She brushed at her curled hair and smiled.
“Barnethei’s not mad at you, Illic. He just wants the truth.”
“I—I’m sorry!”
There was a squeak, then to Barnethei’s surprise, if not shock, the slime rolled up Illic’s arm, coming out of his belt pouches, and nearly onto Navien’s arm.
She almost tossed the slime through a window, but then held it. Incredulously, she eyed Barnethei, and he groaned.
Illic had a pet. A pet who ate mana. The boy knew it was affecting his job, and the slime…well, it had doubled in size! Barnethei thought carefully as Navien gave him a look that said if he broke Illic’s heart, she’d pour all the beetles she’d swept up into his bed.
“What if we fed it instead of Illic having to? It’s magical, and Larra might want to look at it.”
Not take it for processing, he hoped, given Illic’s affection for it. How expensive could a slime be, anyways?
 
——
 
It was the most expensive slime Barnethei had ever met. He thunked his head onto the table as Navien and the others played with it.
“It devours mana crystals! Gems and all! Dead gods damn it. And it wants potions?”
He knew slime biology, so he’d done the natural thing and put out a series of items, food, even stuff like mud, dirt, and dust to see what it went after. Then you knew how to feed it; he’d been to Onononononono, the Slime City, though he might have messed up how many ‘no’s were in there.
The slime had sucked up only the most expensive, magical objects, including a few drops of a healing potion. He hadn’t even believed it had wanted it until it had stuck to Navien’s belt and she’d offered it some.
“What kind of slime is this?”
“Can I keep it? Please? I’ll feed it only a bit of mana.”
Illic was pleading, and Navien looked so concerned that she kept nudging Barnethei. In fact, it was probably because Illic was talking to her. He’d been incredibly shy of even the friendly Navien, more so than Barnethei, and the [Vice Innkeeper] had finally guessed it might be because Navien had black skin; the first Human that Illic had ever met who wasn’t paler.
Right now, he was so worried that Barnethei sighed.
“You need to send ten [Messages] per day. I’m not feeding this thing anything expensive or Larra will turn me bald with magic. And it can’t get underfoot or cause trouble! Slimes can be dangerous!”
The boy burst into a smile, then promised to clean up after it, and like that, they had a pet. A surprisingly useful one, actually.
 
——
 
The Healing Slime liked yellow beetles. It’d roll around, vacuuming them up, then spit them out, wingless, in a pile for Navien. Barnethei supposed there was something in the wings it enjoyed.
That alone made it an asset; he only realized it had more powers one day when, after work, he saw Illic chasing it around.
“Got you! Got you!”
Then the slime, which was evading him around the room, turned purple and zipped around at four times the speed! Barnethei nearly spat out his drink!
“Magic? I’ve never seen a slime do that!”
He was fascinated—then wondered if this wasn’t some kind of valuable slime after all! In fact…what was its body made of?
He wanted to take a bit of the slime, which was as big as two hands, to see if it was any liquid he recognized, but it trembled so much that he stopped. Illic’s expression of horror made Barnethei throw his hands up.
“I’m not going to eat it! Gah, let’s let Larra handle it. Yirr, what’s this about a monster?”
The Gnoll shrugged as he turned back to her.
“I think it’s in the grass. I wouldn’t normally pay attention to it, but it’s around the inn. Small.”
“A rabbit?”
“Waisrabbit, maybe. It vanishes when I try to spot it. Could be nothing.”
