“I, uh—I know it’s been hard after the [Bandits]. Believe me, this isn’t normal. You want to quit? I get it. Larra’s Haven is coming back here, full speed, and we may just dismantle the inn entirely when she arrives. But we need to survive until then. Hold the line—that’s why we’re boarding the inn up, got it? If trouble comes, we have to be ready.”
He was changing where he stood, moving around the room, clapping shoulders, ushering people towards seats away from the strange woman. Turn a table over and you had cover. Barnethei swung around and gave Navien a look.
She gave him the raised knuckles, and he mouthed at her while his head was turned away from the strange—thing.
‘How high?’
He reached for his wand, and again, one of the staff with [Dangersense] tensed. Navien glanced down, saw something—fingers held up under the bar—and changed how many knuckles were touching the bar’s top.
Eight out of ten.
Barnethei felt a shiver run down his spine. He slowly took his hand away from the wand. Then turned with a desperate, beaming smile.
“—Which is why we’re a team. A team—and I want you all to share a drink with me. Navien, Master Fisher Reissz, Yirr, Illic, and, uh—”
He turned to the young woman, and she froze up. Her boxed head swivelled left and right, and then, like comedy in the middle of utter horror, she paused and held up two peace signs. Then traced a smile across the front of her box.
“T-the new girl! Right, Barnethei? What’s your name, rookie?”
Navien filled that dreadful silence as Yirr and Illic gave Barnethei a look like he was crazy. He was doing his utmost not to sweat, and the ‘rookie’ turned to Navien, hesitated, then bowed. She paused as everyone stared at her, and then a bright, chirpy voice came from behind the box. It—didn’t fit her. She said:
“Toren!”
No one but him could know why all the blood drained out of Barnethei’s face. He smiled and licked his lips.
“Toren! Of course! There are so many of the staff I forget new hires. Come on, everyone. Let’s have a drink and get back to work.”
He slowly poured shots for everyone, and they all had one—then he handed one to ‘Toren’. She took it, hesitated, then turned, tilted the box up, and the drink vanished. She handed the cup back.
“Thanks, boss!”
He patted her on the shoulder, and it felt wrong. Barnethei beamed.
“Alright, back to work. I’ll, uh, leave the windows to you. Navien! Let’s see what the damn [Bandits] left us. The rest of you, help tidy up inside, would you?”
Every head turned to follow him, and one of the Drakes opened their mouth, but Barnethei’s wide-eyed stare made them go silent. It was very, very quiet in The Explorer’s Haven.
 
——
 
“Every time you signalled us to attack, my [Dangersense] went off. Bad. I don’t know what it is, but it’s almost as bad as when the Bloodfeast Raiders attacked.”
Barnethei swallowed hard. That suggested that if he told them to shoot the strange creature, they were all dead, his Skills and magic aside. He glanced at Yirr, who was wide-eyed and terrified.
“I have no idea what that is, but I’ve heard stories about…mimics. Things that look like treasure chests or even people. Undead that do the same kind of thing. That voice—what else does she smell like, Yirr?”
The Gnoll woman was rubbing her nose, greatly disturbed.
“Nothing but death and corpses. I can’t smell anything else. I should—nothing she’s eaten, or pissed, or anything. That—did you see what she’s wearing?”
It took Barnethei a second to realize that her rags looked a lot like the clothing the [Bandits] had been wearing. He thought about the missing bones and gazed at the door.
“Barnethei—what do we do?”
Navien was terrified, and he spoke, voice tight.
“I don’t know. Don’t make it mad. I don’t know why it’s pretending to help.”
“If it attacks when we’re asleep—‘
“I know. But if Rena’s [Dangersense] is telling us not to attack now—is it going off now, Rena?”
She had [Advanced Dangersense] and shook her head.
“No! Only when you’re thinking of attacking it.”
That meant something. He had to believe the Skill, so Barnethei nodded tightly.
“Don’t provoke whatever-it-is. I think—I think we play it safe. Larracel’s got a story about doing this one time. Just act normal.”
“Are you mad?”
“Navien, I’m not attacking it. My instincts say it’s dangerous.”
He was sweating through his coat, and Barnethei mopped at his forehead with a soiled handkerchief. He lowered his voice as Yirr, unnerved, went to tell the others.
“Did you hear her voice?”
“She sounded normal. Toren. I don’t know if that means anything or—why?”
The [Vice Innkeeper] peeked over his shoulder and then lowered his voice further.
“I never miss a face or a guest that matters. Navien—her voice sounded exactly like The Wandering Inn’s [Innkeeper]. Erin.”
A dead copy. Maybe a bit younger? A tad bit—but so eerily similar it was like—a copy. As if Erin had once said those exact same words and they were being echoed by whatever was wearing that box over its head. Navien grew paler, and Barnethei took another shot of Firebreath Whiskey, the only thing the bandits had left behind.
That was the start of the most terrifying week of his life.
 
——
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
Toren the Vengeful One.
Toren, Employee #1 of Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop.
In Service to the Immortal Tyrant: Toren.
A Head and Two Hands Carried by a Slime.
Toren the Helpless.
The Mysterious Boxhead Barmaid, Toren.
 
Her genius plan worked! Those idiots didn’t suspect a thing. Toren repaired all the windows after the [Bandit] attack, practically humming to herself.
A few dead bodies for bones, clothing stuffed into all the gaps, and a few pieces of wood and some nails they’d left lying around and her disguise was back.
She’d just walked up and started working, and they’d mistaken her for someone else. Inn-folk really were as dumb as Erin. Then again, maybe this ‘Haven’ actually had staff with boxes on their heads?
…Maybe they were lulling her into a sense of security so they could strike. Toren’s hammer slowed a second before picking up the pace.
But she had to work here. Not just because this economy was so rough—frankly, she was now on board with fucking the economy if it meant she was happy and Healing Slime was okay. But as far as she was concerned, the inn had to stay standing because it was generating mana—and without it, Healing Slime was dead.
That [Innkeeper], Barnethei? He doubtless had Skills doing all this, or maybe it was the Drake kid. Toren had been spying on the inn, worried sick for Healing Slime. She’d shown her face so it knew she was well, but it was still tiny.
When the [Bandits] had attacked, Toren had been helpless; she’d debated using [Terror], but had worried they’d butcher everyone in their panic. The bodies had let her put her bones together, and now she was ready.
Ready…but still a skeleton. She needed a sword.
Theoretically, if Barnethei had been about to shoot her with that wand because he’d realized she didn’t belong here, like she’d sort of thought any ordinary person would do, she would have ripped it from his grasp, shot everyone but him and the Drake kid, and then played it from there.
She was strong enough for that. But amazingly, he was as dumb as Erin. She still didn’t quite believe they’d bought the act—until a Human with black skin came out, voice cheerful.
“Hi, Toren! It’s Navien, the [Head Cleaner]. How are you doing?”
She gave Toren a huge smile, and Toren paused before offering two thumbs up. Both she and Navien regarded each other as if trying to figure out if the other party was really buying this—but Navien shocked him.
She hugged Toren and then let go fast.
“Great! I was terrified, but you’re doing excellent work. Can you help rebuild the walls when you’re done here? Just let us know if you need a break, but half the girls are frazzled.”
Toren nodded rapidly and hesitated. Speak. She had to…
“I’m just great! Thanks…Navien!”
It wasn’t Toren’s voice, if he even had one unique to him that he cared to use all the time. It was bits and pieces of Erin’s voice patched together. Navien jumped, then nodded.
“Thanks!”
She hurried inside, and Toren couldn’t believe Navien hadn’t noticed she was all bones and cloth with the hug.
Highly suspicious. But work was work, and fortifying the inn made sense in case the skeleton had to defend it. Plus—weapons. Toren finished adjusting the windows, then stomped over to the wall of stones piled up and cemented together. It was cracked inwards in one place, and the skeleton squatted down, tsking mentally.
This was their wall? It wasn’t even that deep! No wonder someone had blown through it. Ten feet wide, twenty feet tall—that was a wall. She sighed as she adjusted her box. She didn’t have to have eyes to see through it; her undead senses weren’t exactly limited by mere wood.
Time to get to work. She’d check on the Healing Slime once she’d lowered their guards a bit. Every now and then, Toren glanced up towards the inn where people eventually began coming out and speaking in loud voices as they cleaned up.
Seriously. Was this actually working?
 
——
 
“[Convincing Act: False Sincerity]. I think it’s working on it—her—whatever it is. Navien?”
“That’s not a body under there. It felt like—I don’t know, it was too fast. So are we fooling her or is she fooling us?”
Barnethei didn’t know, but the Haven’s staff was very good at making guests think they were beloved, especially the nobility. It seemed to work, because the peeking at the inn slowed, and the masked box-barmaid started piling stones up and digging.
Therein became the strangest game of keeping up appearances in his life as both groups tried to fool the other into believing all was well. Toren came in for dinner after a full day of work, and Barnethei offered her a meal…which vanished when no one was looking. She went to her bed, which was one of the spare rooms as far to the edge of the inn as you could get.
No one slept a wink that night, and Barnethei had every wand and spell ready in case he heard so much as a peep from the room—he must have dozed off, because when Navien shook him awake, he jerked upright.
“Where—?”
“She’s building the wall. I think we’re safe.”
Thus, the first day passed, and with it, Barnethei got a shock. Whomever or whatever Toren was—the box-headed barmaid was a hard worker.
 
[Vice Innkeeper of Spells Level 44!]
 
“Dead gods.”
 
——
 
Toren finished rebuilding the wall and making it five feet wide in a day and a half. It wasn’t hard; she’d once dug up all the snow around The Wandering Inn overnight. While mixing cement took a bit more work, the stones could be dredged from the river and she was stronger, faster, and more coordinated than the old Toren.
They’d been so still that night she’d slipped out a window and gotten working while they didn’t notice. Healing Slime was delighted to see her, but Toren had put a finger to the box on her head to make it stop from rushing over.
Play it casual. Play it safe.
When Barnethei saw the rebuilt, reinforced wall, he scratched his head and regarded Toren for a long moment. Then he smiled.
“That’s, uh—incredible! Navien, the new girl is amazing at her job! Could you…work on the watchtower next?”
Toren scratched at her head. How so? When Barnethei explained the issue of how it had failed to stop the bandits, Toren got the idea and paced around the tower for a long while.
So if there were arrows aimed up at it, you’d want firing slits and to reinforce those supports. Probably armor to protect someone from a [Piercing Bolt]…she went off and grabbed a saw, then searched around for wood.
“We don’t have much wood, and the forest has this weird coral wood—”
Navien was the only person willing to talk to Toren; the Gnoll, Yirr, practically dashed out of the inn in the morning, and Toren knew she was hiding in the grass, staring at Toren. The skeleton paused, eyed Healing Slime who was peeking out of the Drake boy’s belt pouch. He was hiding in his rooms, watching her.
Play it cool. Be useful. Toren nodded and requested an axe.
Amazingly, they didn’t have one. Or a sword. Or a wand. Not one weapon. What a bummer. But the saw and nails were right there, so Toren sighed. She hefted the saw, picked up a hammer, and set off.
 
——
 
Four hours later, Toren came back with eight dead giant racoons, heads bashed in with a hammer, and Barnethei stared as she tossed their corpses down, then went back for the trees she’d been sawing down.
A handsaw wasn’t the greatest tool for taking out trees—but she had [Sharpened Edge], [Lesser Strength], and hands that wouldn’t get sore and arms that didn’t quit. Toren began making experimental plating for the tower as she nailed pieces of wood together—the result was horrendous.
The ‘armor’ on the tower fell off as she was trying to put it up, and someone laughed—until Toren, who’d fallen off with the cladding, picked herself up and her boxed head peered around. At this point, Barnethei had to say something.
“Er—Toren, I don’t think that’s going to work. We’re low on nails too, so we don’t have enough to make the, uh, armor for the watchtower.”
She seemed mad now. She stood before him, head bowed, and he got the impression she was waiting for a scolding. Instead, the [Vice Innkeeper] took the saw, amazed she hadn’t broken it with all the wood she’d cut, and made a few swift cuts.
“Here, try this. Larra’s a bit of a skinflint when it comes to coin, so she has me trial new rooms. You don’t need nails; this is a [Carpenter]’s trick.”
He made two grooves in the wood that would lock together, and Toren’s head rose as she saw him performing basic joinery. Barnethei was a bit of a jack-of-all-trades given how he’d levelled, and his association with Colthei meant he knew more than most.
Toren was…intelligent. She got how the joinery idea worked instantly and began experimenting with it. Barnethei saw how the chunky coral-wood was rather like blocks of wood. Softer than some, but Toren was creating a literal tower out of blocks. With a bit of joinery…
“It’d be thick as a half-Giant’s arm. I doubt even Moore the Green Mage could push it over if we made it this thick! Ah. If he hadn’t passed…”
Barnethei helped her assemble one leg of the tower, building it around the original scaffolding, and heaved at it with all his strength and saw it refuse to so much as budge. In fact, Barnethei had gotten so absorbed into the project he’d forgotten the silent Toren was working with him.
